Second Annual Report
of the

~IS. Securities

and, Exchange
Commission

'/

Fiscal Year Ended June 30, 1936

UNITED STATES
GOVERNMENT PRINTING OFFICE
WASHINGTON: 1936

Por 88le by the Sqperlntendent

or Doenmonts,

Wash1DlftDn. D. C. - • • - • - •

Price 15 c:eara

SECURITIES AND EXCHANGE COMMISSION
Office: 1778 Penjisylvanla Avenue NW.
- "1V:~on~
D. C.
.

_-

COMMISSIONERSM.

JAMES

LANDIS,

GEORGE

C.

ROBERT

E. HEALy

Ohairman

MATHEWS

J.D. Ross

WILLIAM O. Dou<JLAS
FRA.NCIB P. BRAS~OR, Secretary

Address All Communications
SECURITIES AND EXCHANGE COMMISSION

WASHINGTON,p.e.
rr

f;;fG-15!3.l.U5A3
J q'35~{,
~,2..

LETTER OF TRANSMITTAL
SECURITIESAND EXOHANGECOMMISSION,
W ashingt(}'(/" January 5, 1937.
Sm: I have the honor to transmit to you the Second Annual Report of the Securities and Exchange Commission, in compliance with
the provisions of Section 23 (b) of the Securities Exchange Act of
1934, approved June 6, 1934, and Section 23 of the Public Utility
Holding Company Act of 1935, approved August 26, 1935.
Respectfully,
JAMES M. LANDIS,
Ohairman.
The PREsIDENTOFTHE SENATE,
The SPEAKEROFTHE HOUSEOFREPRESENTATIVES,
Washington, D. O.
m

')

-l
~

~.

__.

CONTENTS

':.

.

%

Page

. ......................................... 
 1
Creation of the Comm~ss~on
Securities and Exchange Commission statutes ......................... 

Organization of the Commission ................................. I.--

...
Functions of the dlvlmons.. ........................................ 

Reeional offices.................................................... 

Conference of regional administrators- ............................... 

Amendment to the Securities Exchange Act of 1934.................... 


-

PARTI1
and interpretative assistance. ..............................

Advisory
Registration of exchanges a s national securities exchanges. .............
Exemption of exchanges from registration as national securities exchanges.
Detection of excessive trading and manipulative and deceptive prsctices on
exchanges ......................................................
Fomulat,ion of rules for the regulation of pegging, fixing, and stsrbilizing
operations both on exchanges and in the over-the-counter markets ....
Formulation of rules for the regulation of puts, calls, straddles, and other
options .......................................................
Cooperation with the Board of Governors of the Federal Reserve System
in supervision of its margin regulations ............................a


Formulation of rules relating to borrowings and solvency of, and hypothecation of customers' securities by exchange members, brokers, and
dealers .........................................................
Supervision and study of matters relating to unlisted trading privileges in
securities on exchanges ...........................................
Formulstion of rules relating to unissued warrants and unissued securities
for "when, as, and if issued" dealing on national securities exchanges..
Solicitation of proxies, consents, and authorizations in respect to securities
listed on a national securities exchange ............................. 

Regulation of over-the-oounter markets .............................. 

Over-the-counter trading. ...................................... 

Directory of brokers and dealers ................................. 

Statistics of over-the-counter brokers and dealers .................. 

Report on the feasibility and advisability of the complete segregation of
the functions of dealer and broker ..................................
Registration of securities on exchanges ......r ........................
Permanent registrations........................................
Confidential treatment of applications, reports, or documents..-. .-.
Statistics of securities registered or exempt from registration on
......
national securities exchanges. ...................
Reports of officers, directors, and principal stockholders ................
Withdrawal or striking from listing and registration of securities on nstional securities exchanges ........................................ 

v

VI

CONTENTS

Registration of securities under the Securities Act of 1933 .............. 

Securities
Aot farms, rules and regulations ........................ 

~~-~
Exsminetion of Securities Act registration statements ..............
Exemntions from registration requirements .......................
Statistics of securities registered under the Securities Act ...........
Statistios of private platings.. .................................. 

The Public Utility Holding Company Act of 1935 ..................... 

Rules, regulations, and forms dnder the Public Utility Holding 

Company Act of 1935........................................ 

Statistics of applications, declarations, and notifications under the 

Public Utility Holding Company Act of 1935 ...................
Registration of utility holding companies.............................
Exemntions under the Public Utility Holding Company Act of 1935 .....
~

......................
holding companies or their subsidiaries.. .
Statements requiredpursuant to Section 12 (i) of the Public Utility Holding
Act of 1935.....................................................
Rules regarding service, sales, and construction contracts ..............
Uniform system of accounts for mutual service companies and subsidiary
service companies ............................................... 

Study of investment trusts and investment companies ................. 

Complaints, informal and formal investigations ....................... 

............................
Hkarings ............................;
Litigation ........................................................
Litigation under Securities Act of 1933 and Securities Exchange Aot
of1934 ....................................................
Petitions for review in Circuit Courts of Appeals..................
References to the Attorney General for criminsl prosecution ........
Litigation under the Public Utility Holding Company Act of 1936.-.
Formd apiriions................................................... 

Securities x7iolationsfiles........................................... 

Report on the study and investigation of protective and reorganization 

committees..................................................... 

Public reference rooms ............................................. 

Publications ...................................................... 

Personnel ........................................................ 

Rules of Practice of the Commission................................ 

Admissions to practice ......................................... 

Fiscal affairs...................................................... 


.

PART111 A P P E N D I X ~ ~

.

APPENDIXI Rules of Practice......................................
APPENDIX
I1. Guide to Forms ................................... 74,
APPENDIX111 Securities Act registration statements as to which stop
orders, consent refusal orders, and withdrawal orders were issued July 1,
1935, to June 30, 1936 ...........................................
APFENDIX
I V List of publications available as of September 30, 1936 ....
APPENDIX V Statistiel~ltablea:
Table 1 Type classifioation, by month, of new securities included
in registration statements fully effective September 1, 1934, to
June 30, 1936 ...............................................
Table 2 Group claasifioation, by months, of issuers of new securities
fully effective July 1, 1935, to June 30, 1936....................

.

.
.
.

.

CONTENTS
..APPENDIX V. Statistical

tables--Continued.

vn
Page

Table 3. Reduction of estimated gross proceeds to net proceeds, by
months, of new securities registered for account of issuers and fully
effective, July 1, 1935, to June 30, 1936________________________ 101
Table 4. Proposed uses of net proceeds, by months, of new securities
registered for account of issuers and fully effective,July 1, 1935,to
June 30, 1936__
__
_
___ ___
102
Table 5. Statistics, by industries, of new securities fully effective under
the Securities Act of 1933 from July 1, 1935, to June 30, 1936_____ 104
Table 6. Channels of distribution of new securities registered for account of issuers and fully effective, July 1, 1935, to June 30, 1936_ 112
Table 7. Type classification, by months, of securities included in
registration statements for reorganization and exchange issues fully
effective, July 1, 1935, to June 30, 1936________________________ 113
Table 8. Industry group classification, by months, of securities included in registration statements for reorganization and exchange
issues fully effective, July 1, 1935, to June 30, 1936______________ 114
Table 9. Private plaeings of securities, January 1,1934 to June 30,1936_ 115
Table 10. Number, personnel and branch offices of brokers and
dealers registered on Form I-M, as of May 27, 1936, by form of
organization_________________________________________________
116
Table 11. Value and volume of sales on registered exchanges, by
months, July 1, 1935, to June 30, 1936:
Part 1. Total market value of all sales. Part 2. Market value
of stock sales. Part 3. Market value of bond sales. Part 4.
Volume of stock sales. Part 5. Principal amount of bond
sales~-------------------------------------------Facing 116
A.PPENDIX
VI. Litigation involving statutes administered by the Com- 117
~on_________________________________________________________

SECOND ANNUAL REPORT OF THE SECURITIES
AND EXCHANGE COMMISSION
WA.SHlNGTON, D. C.

PART I
CREATION OF mE

COMMISSION

The Securities and Exchange Commission was created pursuant to
Section 4 of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934 (48 Stat. 881,904).
The Commission is charged with the responsibility of administering
and enforcing the Securities Act of 1933, the Securities Exchange
Act of 1934, and the Public Utility Holding Company Act of 1935.
The first meeting of the Commission was held on July 2, 1934, at
which time the administration of the Securities Exchange Act was
started. On September 1, 1934, the administration of the Securities
Act of 1933 was transferred from the Federal Trade Commission
to the Securities and Exchange Commission. On August 26, 1935,
the President signed the Public Utility Act which charges the Securities and Exchange Commission with the administration and enforcement of the Public Utility Holding Company Act of 1935. 1
SECURITIES AND EXCHANGE COMMISSION STA.TUTES

The purposes of the Securities Act of 1933 as outlined in the
Report of the Committee on Banking and Currency are to prevent
exploitation of the public by the sale of unsound, fraudulent, and
worthless securities through misrepresentation; to place adequate
and true information before the investor; to protect honest enterprise, seeking capital by honest presentation, against the competition
afforded by dishonest securities offered to the public through crooked
promotion; to bring into productive channels of industry and development capital which has grown timid to the point of hoarding; and
to aid in providing employment and restoring buying and consuming
power .
.The objectives sought in the passage of the Securities Exchange
Act of 1934 were threefold, viz, to prevent the excessive use of credit
to finance speculation in' securities; to see to it that the market places
, 1The Public UtiUty Act is divided into 2 parts.
Title I, the PubUc Utility Holding
Company Act of 1935, is administered by the Securities and Exchange Commission. Title
n. the Federal rower Act,. is adminiatered by the Federal Power Commission.

1

2

SECURITIES AND EXCHANGE COMMISSION

in which securities are purchased and sold, such as the. stock exchanges and the so-called over-the-counter markets, are purged of
the abuses which had crept into them; and to make available to the
average investor honest and reliable information sufficiently complete
to acquaint him with the current business-conditions of the-company,
the securities of which he may desire to buy or sell.
_
.~
In general, the Public Utility Holdin.g Company' .Act of 1935 provides that gas and electric utility holding' company systems whose
activities involve interstate commerce shall be subject to regulation by the Securities and Exchange Commission. This regulation extends to the issuance and sale of securities; the acquisition
of securities, utility assets, and iuterests in other businessesj the
simplification and limitation of holding company systems'; intercompany transactions; service, sales, and construction contracts; and
the maintenance of accounts and submission of reports as required.
ORGANIZATION OF mE

COMMISSION

The Commission was organized on July 2, 1934. It is composed
of five Commissioners appointed by the President, by and with the
advice and consent of the Senate. The Act provides that' not more
than three of the Commissioners shall be members of the same
political party.
.
The present Commissioners are: James M. Landis, of Massachusetts, Chairman; George C. Mathews, of Wisconsin; Robert E. Healy;
of Vermont; J. D. Ross, of Washington; and William O. Douglas, Of
Connecticut.
.
Commissioner James M. Landis was appointed June 30, 1934, for
the term ending June 5, 1937. Upon the resignation of Joseph;P.
Kennedy as Chairman and Commissioner on September 23, 1~3p,.
Commissioner Landis was elected Chairman of the Commission," .. ,
Commissioner George C. Mathews was appointed June 30, 1934,.
for the term ending June 5, 1938.
.
Commissioner Robert E. Healy received his original appointment.
on ;June 30, 1934. On June 19, 1936, he was reappointed Commissioner for the term ending June 5, 1941.
Commissioner J. D. Ross was appointed .August 26, 1935, for
the term ending June 5,1940, vice Commissioner Ferdinand Pecora,
who resigned January 21, 1935.
Commissioner William O. Douglas was appointed January .21,
1936, for the term ending June 5, 1939, vice Commissioner Joseph
P. Kennedy who resigned September 23,1935.
The names of the officials in the departmental service who. are. in
charge of the divisions and offices into which the Commission- has
• Commissioner Landis was reelected Chairman of the Commission

011 JulY' 1, 1936:

SECOND ANNlJblr REPORT

3

been divided are as follows: Baldwin B. Bane, Director. of Registration Division; Carman G. Blougl~!Chief, Accountant; Francis P.
Brassor, Secretary of the Commission and Chief of the Adnlinistrative Division; John J. Burns, General CounsB1; William C. Gilman,
Director of Public Utilities Division; Paul P. Gourrich, Director
of Research Division; Harold H . Neff, Director of Forms and Regulations Division; Ward Perrott, Director of Employment Research;
David Saperstein, Director of Trading and Exchange Division;
E d a i n A. Sheridan, Supervisor of Information Research; and
Kemper Simpson, Economic adviser to the Commission. The. Protective Committee Study Division is under the direct superr~isionof
Commissioner Douklas.
The names of the administrators in charge of the regional ofices
are as follows: Oran H. Allred, Fort Worth Regional Office ; Ernest
Angell, New York Regional Office; James J. Caffrey, Boston Regional Ofice; Foster Cline, Denver Regional Office ; William Green,
Atlanta Regional Office; Howard A. Judy, San Francisco Regional
Office; Day Karr, Seattle Regional Office; and Thomas J. Lynch,
Chicago Regional Office.
FUNCTIONS OF THE DIYISIONS

During the year the Commission created new divisions and made
a number of changes in the functions and activities of d o s e in
existence. The functions and activities of the several divisions and
offices are as follows:
The Legal Division is responsible for (1) the rendering of opinions
and advice to the Commission on general questions of law arising in
connection with the administration and enforcement of the three
Acts over which the Securities and Exchange Commission has jurisdiction; (2) the rendering of opinions and the drafting of interpretative letters in response to inquiries regarding the interpretation of
the statutes administered and enforced by the Commission; (3) conducting hearings before the Commission, or an officer of the Commission, in all cases except those involving refusal or stop order proceedings under Sections 8 (b) and (d) of the Securities Act of 1933,
which are conducted by the Registration Division, and hearings relative to the continuance, extension, termination or suspension of unlisted trading privileges on national securities exchanges, which are
conducted by the Trading and Exchange Division; (4) supervising
the conduct of investigations of alleged violations of the Acts; (5)
representing the Commission in all judicial proceedings, including
proceedings to enjoin violations of law and proceedings for the review of orders of the commission (under existing legislation all civil
court actions, including actions for injunctions, proceedings for the
review of Commission orders and a variety of proceedings in which

4

SECURITIF,S AND EXCHANGE COMMISSION

the Commission or the members of the Commission are defendants,
are handled directly by the Commission's legal staff, whereas criminal
proceedings are referred to the Department of Justice) ; (6) preparing criminal cases for transmission to the Department of Justice
and to the Post Office Department for prosecution and the cooperation in the trial of such cases; and (7) collaboration with other divisions of the Commission in the preparation of reports to Congress
as required under the Securities Exchange Act of 1934 and the Public Utility Holding Company Act of ,1935.
T h e Registration Diuision is responsible for the examination of all
registration statements covering the proposed public offering of
securities in interstate commerce or through the mails, filed pursuant to the Securities Act of 1933; prospectuses and offering sheets
filed pursuant to the Commission's regulations providing a conditional exemption from registration under the foregoing Act; applications for registration of securities on national securities exchanges
pursuant to Section 12 of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934; rel ~ o r t sof security ownership and transactions as required of directors,
officers, and principal stockholders under Section 16 of ihe Securities
Exchange Act of 1934 and of directors and officers under Section 17
of the Pdblic Utility Holding Company Act of 1935; and applications for the confidential treatment of material contained in any
application, report, or document filed under the Securities Exchange
Act of 1934. This includes the examination not only of statements,
applications and reports proper, but also accompanying financial
stzstements, certificates of incorporation, appraisals, prospectuses, and
other documents, as well as periodical annual reports and amendments to the foregoing; the preparation of reports and letters of
deficiency; the making of field investigations by engineers and accountants; the conduct of hearings for the development of facts and
the verification of data sobmitted in registration statements and applications; and the conduct of hearings in refusal-order and stoporder proceedings under Sections 8 (b) and (d) and in examination
proceedings under Section 8 ( e ) of the Securities Act of 1933; the
preparation of recoinmendations to the Commission on the above
rnatters and, after the Comn~issionhas acted, the preparation of the
'Comnlission orders.
The Trading and E ~ c h a n g eDivisionis ~esponsiblefor (1) the examination o f registration statements filed by exchanges for registration as national securities'exchanges and the exemption of exchanges
,from registration; (2) the fprmulation of rules for the pgulation of
floor trading by members, fdr the prevention of .excessir-e trading bx
exchange members off the floor of exchanges, and for the limitation
of dealings by specialists and odd-lot dealers; (3) the detection of
excessive trading and unlamful practices on exchanges, including

SECOND ANNUAL REPORT

5

wash sales, matched orders, pool operations, the tipping of pool
operations, the dissemination of false and misleading information
concerning securities, and other manipulative or deceptive devices;
(4) the review of field investigations into trading activities; (5)
the formulation of rules for the regulation of pegging, fixing, and
stabilizing operations on exchanges and in over-the-counter markets; (6) the formulation of rules for the regulation of puts, calls,
straddles, and other options both on exchanges and over-the-counter ;
(7) the formulation of rules for the regulation of short selling and
stop-loss orders; (8) the study of the effect of Federal Reserve Margin Regulations on trading in securities; (9) the formulation of
rules relating to the borrowings of exchange members, brokers; and
dealers and relating to the hypothecation of customers' securities by
exchange members, brokers, and dealers; (10) the study of exchange
rules and the formulation of rules governing miscellaneous exchange
practices; (11) the formulation of rules with respect to "when and
if issued" trading; (12) the formulation of rules for the regulation
of over-the-counter markets, including rules providing for the registration of brokers and dealers in over-the-counter markets and for
the elimination of the unfit, rules regulating trading practices and
dealings in over-the-counter markets, rules to insure to investors in
over-the-counter markets protection comparable to that provided in
the case of national securities exchanges, rules for the regulation of
securities salesmen employed by over-the-counter houses and rules
for the regulation of investment counsel; (13) the formulation of
rules and regulations governing the continuance or extension of un..
listed trading privileges on national securities exchanges, of rules
governing the withdrawal and removal of securities from such unlisted trading privileges, and of rules governing the delisting from
national securities exchanges of securities fully listed and registered
thereon; (14) the examination of applications :for the continuance,
extension, withdrawal, or removal of securities from unlisted trading privileges and the examination of applications for the delisting
of securities listed and registered on national securities exchanges;
and (15) the conduct of hearings before the Commission or an officer
of the Commission held on such applications.
The Ser:retary is the chief administrative officer of the Commission. and as such is responsible for action on, signing, and service of
all Commission orders, actions, and certifications; preparation and
defense of the budget estimates before the Bureau of the Budget
and the appropriation committees of Congress; preparation of the
Commission's Annual Report to Congress; action on all allotments
and expenditures of appropriations; and assistance in the coordination of the many activities of the Commission. The Secretary also
has general supervision over (a) the Recording Secretary, who is

Ii

6

SECURITIES AND EXC~GE

COMMISSION

responsible for the preparation, maintenance, and indexing of official minutes of the Commission and the drafting of memoranda to
division heads and regional administrators indicating actions taken
on matters presented to the Commission, and (b) the Administrativ~
Division, the Innctions of which include: (1) all service activities
such as the establishment of field offices, the preparation of leases, the
preparation of contracts for miscellaneous services, all duplicating
activities, the purchase, storage, and issuance of supplies and equipment, the maintenance and distribution of forms, rules, regulations,
instructions, opinions, press releases, etc., the compilation of statistical information by means of card punching, sorting, and tabulating
machines, and the editorial and printing work; (2) the preparation
and maintenance of the dockets and records on all registration statements, applications, declarations, etc., filed with the Commission;
(3) the maintenance of the central files of the Commission; (4) the
maintenance of the Public Reference Room and the, dissemination
of information with respect to all public documents filed with the
Commission; (5) the maintenance of the Library, the central mail
room and the stenographic pool for servicing all divisions of the
Commission; (6) the maintenance of the Commission's appropriation
accounting records and the auditing of vouchers and pay rolls COVering expenditures; (7) the conduct of general correspondence not relating to technical subjects or matters; and (8) examination of and
action on all applications for admission to practice before, the
Commission as attorney or agent.
The Pwblia Utilities Division is, in general, charged with the administration of the Public Utility Holding Company Act of 1935.
Its financial, accounting, and engineering staffs .make studies of the
operations and financial structure of the registered holding company
systems and pass upon the declarations or applications filed by the
holding companies or their subsidiaries with respect to' matters requiring approval of the Commission, such as the issuance of securities, the acquisitions of securities or utility assets, reorganizations,
organization of service companies, and similar matters. The division
is also responsible Tor making studies' of holding company systems
with a view to determining the best methods of achieving .the mtegration of systems and the simplification .of their corporate structure
which the Act requires. It is the duty of the division to collabqrate
with other divisions in the preparation of rules and regulations with.
respect to various aspects of. holding company activities, such'; as
intercorporate loans, redemption of securities, declaration of. dividends, sales of assets, solicitation of';~oxies,., transactions ,:with
affiliates, the keeping of accounts, the filing of reports with, the -Oommission,' etc. »>
: "
,"
,.,;.
• _:,
'..
":.:
"

- -,

,7

,SECOND ANNUAL REPORT

.The Ohief Accountant of the Commission is responsible for the
rendering of advisory service to the Commission in connection with
accounting matters; for the conduct of studies, investigations, and
researches involving accounting theory, policy, and procedure; for
the conduct of conf-erences with accounting authorities and members
of the-staff regarding matters involved in the drafting and interpretation 'of accounting rules and regulations; for the supervision of
the 'accounting work of the Commission whenever unusual matters,
new procedure, or new policies are concerned; for supervision over
the promulgation and administration
of rules regarding uniform
classificetion of accounts; for drafting and establishing procedure to
be followed in the conduct of audits -
and accounting investigations;
for rendering advisory opinions and instructions to the accountants
assigned to the various divisions and regional offices of the Commission in connection with the disposition of highly technical auditing
and accounting questions; for the preparation of accounting briefs,
reports and memoranda regarding accounting matters under the juriSdiction of the Commission in connection with the administration
and enforcement of the Securities Act of 1933, the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, and the Public Utility Holding Company A-ct of
1935: '
'
: The Beeeoreh.Division is' responsible for the collection of information- hearing upon current developments in the securities market,
and. the, observation of the financial policies of corporations under 'the
jurisdiction of the Commission ; the maintenance of statistical and
~-alyti~al 'information on security markets, corporate earnings and
other subjects of interest to the Commission; the maintenance of
staiiStical records on the activities of the Commission; and the organization and presentation either for internal use by the Commission, "'for other governmental agencies, or for publication of the
statistical' material collected by the Commission in the exercise of
itS administrative functions. . It is further charged with advising
the Commission on current developments and problems in the above
fields and With drafting special reports on technical and economic
'aspects 'of the issuance of and the trading in securities. The division
8J.so engages in research on basic economic and financial problems
connected .with the administration
of the Public Utility Holding
'Company 4-ct of '~935 and advises the Commission thereon. A section' of the' division is at present' conducting the study of investment
trusts -and' 'investment companies authorized by Section 30 of the
-Publie 'Utility'Holding
Company Act of 1935 and by resolution of
. ~hE;CoIriiiiission: tinder Soc-ti'oll'lB of the same Act;
.'j!:!Tlie"FJcd~:'A'dvi8er."~O;
th~ Commission is charged with the
respb~b~ty;~
'conducting certain economic studies for use by the
-~;:fS

-.~.:.1_

4~

d :,;~.~f!1

"..'

•

!_";~:

.:-....: ..,~,

>

~

~

,~

g

SECURITIES AND EXCHANGE OOMMISSION

Commission in the establishment of general policies and with the
rendering of advice regarding the economic aspects of the problems
involved in the administration of the Securities Act of 1933 and the
Securities Exchange Act of 1934.
The Supervisor of Information Research is responsible for disseminating public information regarding the activities of the Commission by means of correspondence and releases. The legislation
under' which the Commission operates specifically directs that publicity be given to its rulings, regulations, opinions, and findings, as
well as to the filing of registration statements, the effective registrations, hearings held, and reports and statements filed with the Commission by security issuers, officers, directors, and principal stockholders. This information is made available to the public by the
Supervisor of Information Research through releases issued to the
press and through mailing lists established for the convenience of
those who wish to receive releases currently.
The Forms and Regulations D.ivision is responsible for (1) the
preparation for submission to the Commission, of rules, regulations,
and forms in collaboration, where appropriate, with other divisions
of the Commission; (2) the conduct of accounting.Iegal, and economic
researches for the purpose of developing facts, policies, and customs
regarding specific industries to be affected by the ,Promulgation of such
rules and regulations and forms; (3) the conduct of conferences and
interviews with representatives of accounting and legal societies and
associations, stock exchange officials, and others for the purpose of
securing suggestions concerning proposed forms and regulations and
in order to ascertain the reaction of these representatives to the
proposed forms and regulations, particularly with respect to burdens
that may be imposed upon industries as a result of their promulgation; (4) the conduct of studies in connection with forms and rules
and regulations now in existence to determine whether they should
be amended, revised, or modified; and (5) the preparation of legal
opinions and interpretations concerning those rules and regulations,
This work involves the ,Preparation of rules and regulations and
forms for use in connection with the regulation of stock exchanges
of the country, the flotation of new securities, and the registration of
.securities listed on exchanges by a great variety of security issuers.
The El1~ploymentResearch Division is charged with the responsibility of handling all personnel matters for the Commission. It includes the conduct of correspondence, the maintenance of personnel
records, the interviewing of applicants, and all administrative work
regarding appointments, pay rolls, transfers, reinstatements, service
records, promotions, demotions, separations, and classification work.
The Protective Oommittee Stud,!! Division is charged with the
responsibility of conducting investigations and hearings for the pur-

-SECOND ANNUAL REPORT

9

pose of assembling data and facts for use in the preparation of the
Report to Congress as required under Section 211 of the Securities
Exchange Act of 1934. The division is also charged with the actual
drafting of the report. The investigation relates to the work, activities, personnel, and functions of protective and reorganization
committees in connection with the reorganization, readjustment, rehabilitation, liquidation, or consolidation of corporate persons and
properties. Investigations terminated early in January 1936. Since
that time the division has been engaged in completing reports to
Congress on the subject.
REGIONAL OFFICES

The regional officesare charged with the responsibility of conducting trading, accounting, and legal investigations and hearings with
a view to the efficient enforcement of the Securities Act of 1933, the
Securities Exchange Act of 1934, and the Public Utility Holding
Company Act of 1935. Each regional office serves the general and
investing public within the zone over which it has jurisdiction, and
aids registrants and accounting, legal, and investment firms in complying with the statutes and the rules and regulations administered
and enforced by the Commission. Regional officesof the Commission are located in New York City, Boston, Atlanta, Chicago, Fort
Worth, Denver, San Francisco, Seattle, and Washington, D. C.
The addresses of the Regional Offices and the States comprising
the territory they serve are indicated below;
New York Regional Office, 120 Broad- New York, New Jersey,
way, New York, N. Y.
vania.

and Pennsyl-

Boston Regional- Office, 82 Devonshire
Street, Boston, Mass.

Massachusetts, Connecticut, Rhode Island, Vermont, New Hampshire, and
Maine.

Atlanta
Regional
Building, Atlanta,

Palmer

Tennessee,
North
Carolina,
South
Carolina, Georgia, Alabama, Mississippi, ~FlorIda, and that portion of
Loulslana east of the Atchafalaya
River.

Ohleago Regional Office, 105 West
Adams Street, Chicago, Ill.

MInnesota, Wisconsin, Michigan, Iowa,
Illinois, Indiana,
Ohio, MIssouri,
Kentucky, and Kansas City, Kans.

Fort Worth Regional Office, New Federal Building, Fort Worth, Tex.

Oklahoma, Arkansas, Texas, Kansas
(with exception of Kansas City) ,
and that portion of LouIsiana west
of the Atchafalaya River.

~ 101978-36--2

Office,

Ga.

10

SECURlTmS AND EXCH.ANGE~COMMISSION

Denver
Regional
Office,
BUilding, Denver, Colo.

Patterson

Wyoming, Colorado, New ,Mexico, Neb.aska, North Dakota, South Dakota, and Utah.
'-

San Ft.anclsco Regional Office, 625 Ollifomia,
Market Street, San Francisco, Calif.
Hawaii.

Nevada,

Arizona,

and

Seattle Regional Office, 1407 Exchange
Building,
821
Second
Avenue,
Seattle, Wash.

Washington, Oregon, Idaho, Montana,
and .Alaska.
'

Washington Field Office, 1778 Pennsylvania Avenue NW., Washington,
D. C.

Virginia, West. Virginia, :Maryland,
Delaware, and District of Columbia.

CONFERENCE OF REGIONAL ADMINISTRATORS

,

On March 9, 1936, a conference of Regional Administrators of the
Securities and Exehange Commission was called ill Washington,
D. C. The purposes of this conference were to acquaint the ~egional
Administrator,s more fully with matters of policy and, precedent; to
enable them personally to present their problems and difficulties; to
work out uniform methods of treatment for the various problems most
frequently encountered by all Regional Administrators;
to afford an
opportunity for the studying of common problems, and to formulate
uniform methods of treatment concerning them; and to adopt such
methods of procedure as would tend to improve the administration
and enforcement of the Acts through regional offices. The conference lasted from March 9, 1936, to March 13, 1936, inclusive.
-

,

AMENDMENT TO THE SECURITIES

EXCHANGE ACT :OF 1934

Public Act No. 621, Seventy-fourth
Congress, approved.rby the
President on May 27, 1936, amends the following sections-of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934: 12 (f), 15, 17 (a), 18 (a), 20 (c), _
21 (f), 23 (a), and 32.
.
_
'
Copies of Public Act No. 621, 'Seventy-fourth Congress, may~'be
secured from the Publications Unit of the Commission.

I

PART II
ADVISORY AND INTERPRETATIVE ASSISTANCE

During the past year the Commission continued its policy of
replying to letters of inquiry regarding the interpretation
of the
.Acts administered and the rules and regulations promulgated by it.
The highly- technical nature of the legislation administered by the
Commission and the complicated character of the problems arising
thereunder have made necessary a substantial measure of advisory
assistance to the general public.
To some degree, requests for opinions made to the Commission have
involved ingenious plans to circumvent the application of the law.
In dealing with these requests, as with other requests, the Commission, as a: matter of policy, has required statements of the names of
the persons or corporations concerned and of the amount involved.
To a more definite extent, however, the advisory assistance furnished
has been based on bona fide inquiries- and, to the end that sound
financing may not be impeded by doubt or delay, an endeavor has
been made to clarify promptly the problems raised.
Numerous communications with respect to the interpretation of the
ActS administered by the Commission were received and acted upon
during the year. In addition, many conferences concerning such
matters were held with .officers of Federal and State agencies and
members of the public.
, J;l.EGISTRATION OF EXCHANGES AS NATIONAL SECURITIES
EXCHANGES
<: On. ...
Tuly 1, 1935, 21 national securities exchanges were registered
with the Commission pursuant- to Section 6 of the Securities Exchange _.<\ctof 1934.
During'ilie ,year, the operations of several exchanges which had
been granted temporary exemption from registration as national
securities exchanges under 'Section 5 of the Securities Exchange Act
of 1934,-were studied :by the Commission for the purpose of determining whether _they should be 'permanently exempted or whether
they should be required to apply. for registration as national securities exehanges, , '
As a consequence, on October 1, 1935, the Standard Stock Exchange of Spokane;' on- November 1~'1935, the -
Chicago. Curb
Exchange; and on J une-L, 1936, the San Francisco Mining Exchange
~~e.
~gf,steI:e,ci.8:l;J national securities exchanges. The temporary
o! th~;e~changes
as national securities exchanges were
extended.
until
lhe'
date
of
registration.
~t

e~~riipftoqs
iiJ

~

J~~~~

't'

'--t_;:~

-••

"

,~-

-

•

~

11

12

SECURITIES AND EXCHANGE COMMISSION

An application for registration as a national securities exchange
was received from the Pacific Stock Exchange of Los Angeles. The
Commission conducted an investigation and, after hearings, denied
on October 9, 1935, the application since it appeared in its opinion
that no economic need existed for an additional exchange in Los
Angeles; that the existing stock market facilities in Los Angeles
were adequate; and that the exchange was not so organized as to
be able to comply with the provisions of the Securities Exchange
Act of 1934 and the rules and regulations promulgated thereunder.
Pursuant to the provisions of Section 6 (f) of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, which provides that an exchange mAY, upon
appropriate application in accordance with the rules and regulations
of the Commission, and upon such terms as the Commission may
deem necessary for the protection of investors, withdraw its registration, the Buffalo Stock Exchange and the Denver Stock Exchange
withdrew from registration as national securities exchanges on March
24, 1936, and April 15, 1936, respectively.
From time to time during the year, national securities exchanges
filed more than 300 amendments to their registration statements.
These amendments covered changes in membership, in exchange
trading rules, in securities admitted to listed or to unlisted trading
privileges, and in rules for the government of such exchanges. Each
amendment was subjected to thorough examination and analysis to
ascertain whether the exchanges were operating in compliance with
the provisions of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934 and the rules
and regulations promulgated thereunder.
The following 22 exchanges constitute the national securities exchanges as of June 30, 1936:
New York Real Estate Securities ExBaltimore Stock Exchange.
change, Inc.
Boston Stock Exchange.
Board of Trade of the City of Chicago. New York Stock Exchange.
Philadelphia Stock Exchange.
Chicago Curb Exchange Assn.
Pittsburgh Stock Exchange.
Chicago Stock Exchange.
St. Louis Stock Exchange.
Cincinnati Stock Exchange.
Salt Lake Stock Exchange.
Cleveland Stock Exchange.
San Francisco Curb Exchange.
Detroit Stock Exchange.
San Francisco Mining Exchange.~
Los Angeles Stock Exchange.
San Francisco Stock Exchange.
New Orleans Stock Exchange.
Standard Stock Exchange of Spokane.
New York Curb Exchange.
Washington (D. C.) Stock Exchange.

EXEMPTION

OF EXCHANGES FROM REGISTRATION
SECURITIES EXCHANGES

AS NATIONAL

At the beginning of the fiscal year, 15 exchanges had been granted
temporary exemption from registration as national securities exchanges pursuant to Section 5 of the Securities Exchange Act of

SECOND ANNUAL REPORT

13

1934. During the year covered by this report the changes indicated
below took place:
On July 30,1935, the Louisville Stock Exchange was dissolved.
On August 8, 1935,the Associated Stock Exchange of Manila, P. I.,
was dissolved.
On October 1, 1935, the Standard Stock Exchange of Spokane
became a registered exchange.
On November 1, 1935, the Chicago Curb Exchange became a reg.istered exchange.
On June 1, 1936, the San Francisco Mining Exchange became a
.registered exchange.
On November 2, 1935, the Commission denied the application of
the Reno Stock Exchange for exemption from registration as a
national securities exchange due to the fact that this exchange had
.suspended operations and ceased to function as a stock exchange.
The temporary exemption of this exchange was canceled at the
same time.
On October 1, 1935, the Seattle Mining Exchange was consolidated
with the Seattle Stock Exchange, which latter is an exempted exchange.
On December 1, 1935, the exemptions of the Honolulu Stock Exchange, the Milwaukee Grain and Stock Exchange, and the Minneapolis-St. Paul Stock Exchange became effective.
On December 15, 1935, the exemptions of the Richmond Stock
Exchange and the Wheeling Stock Exchange became effective.
On February 1, 1936,the exemption of the Colorado Springs Stock
Exchange became effective.
On May 1, 1936, the exemption of the Seattle Stock Exchange
became effective.
The exemption of the Manila Stock Exchange from registration
as a national securities exchange, which exchange was temporarily
exempted from registration until February 1, 1936, was not continued. The establishment of the Commonwealth of the Philippine
Islands, pursuant to the Philippine Independence Act, terminated
the Commission's jurisdiction over the exchange.
The Commission adopted Form 9-.A, together with the necessary
rules and regulations, providing for the submission of data needed
in order to keep current the information contained in the original
applications for exemption filed by exchanges.
The following 7 exchanges constitute the exchanges granted exemption from registration as national securities exchanges pursuant to
Section 5 of the Securities Exchange .Act of 1934, as of June 30, 1936:
Colorado Springs Stock Exchange.
Honolulu Stock Exchange.
:Milwaukee Grain and Stock Exchange.
Minneapolis-St. Paul Stock Exchange.

Richmond Stock Exchange,
Seattle Stock Exchange.
Wheeling Stock Exchange.

. SECURITIES 'cA:NJ).,EmHANGFiTOOMMISSION

DETECTION OF EXCESSIVE TRADING AND MANIPULATIVE AND.,
DECEPTIVE PRACTICES ON EXCHANGES '

For the purpose of detecting excessive trading and manipulative
and deceptive practices on exchanges, constant and vigilant observation has been maintained of trading activities of securities on all of
the larger exchanges.
In order to assist the Commission in detecting these operations, the
stock ticker tape quotations of the New York Stock Exchange and
the New York Curb Exchange were under continuous surveillance
and the exchanges were required to furnish the Commission with
complete lists of daily security transactions. Those transactions
which appeared to be manipulative in character were immediately
assigned for investigation.
.
. Transactions on the various exchanges were constantly scrutinized
to detect excessive trading in securities by. exchange members since.
such trading might be in contravention of the trading rules recommended by the Commission and adopted by the exchanges.
The Commission conducted numerous investigations in connection
with the detection of manipulative practices, 'such as wash sales,.
matched orders, pool operations, dissemination of false or misleading
information concerning securities and other manipulative and deceptive devices, in order to determine whether or not the provisions of
the Securities Exchange Act of 1934 had been violated.
On July 1, 1935, 18 preliminary and 3 formal trading investigations were in progress," During the year, preliminary investigations of stock market operations of 214 securities were made. Of
these, 42 were deemed to be of sufficient importance for the Commission to authorize formal investigations, which authorizations
permitted the examination of witnesses 'and the -taking 01 testimony. During the year, 89 preliminary and 20 formal investigations were closed. A number of these cases, which showed infractions of stock exchange rules, were referred to the various stock
• A preliminary trading investigation is conducted when there is .reason to believe
tbat any person bas :violated or is about to violate tbe provisions of Section 9 of the
Securities Exchange Act of 1934. Such an Investigation includes a rapid inspection of
records of the clearing house.asssoclation
of the exchange where the secp.rlty whic/1 is
the subject of such suspected violation is traded; an inspection of the records of the
specialists and principal brokers in such security 101' the purpose of determining' the
identity of the most substantial purchasers and sellers thereof; .and interviews with th~
officers of the issuer of such security and with other persons who may have knowledge
bearing upon the trading in sucb security.
A formal investigation is ordered when the prellmina.ry investigatio~ contlrms, the belief that the provisions of Section 9 of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934 have bee!1
or are about to be violated and when the person or persons responsible' therefor have
been to some extent Identified. It includes a complete examination of the books and
records of brokers imd spectatlsts found to have been active in' the Eecurlty In'questio!1 ;
thorough analyses of customers' accounts; exllIJlination of aU documentary evidence such
as order slips, blotters, correspondence ,lIles, ete., and the taking of statements under
oath trom persons who may have knowledge of the market. activity of the se.eurlt7rbl
question.

SECOND,:ANNU~

REPORT

15

exchange committees 'fQr action; Injunctive proceedings were instituted fn 10eases"ana 1 case was referred to the Department of
Justice for criminal prosecution.
On June 30, 1936, 54 preliminary
and '30 format investigations were in progress .
. For the purpose of aiding the Commission in detecting manipulative operations by corporate "insiders", analyses were made of
transactions of officers, directors, and beneficial holders of 171 securities. As a result of these analyses, 7 preliminary investigations were
.jnitiated. In' 5 cases, formal investigations were authorized as a
result of the information developed in the preliminary investigations.
FORMULATION OF RULES FOR THE REGULATION OF PEGGING, FIXING, AND STABILIZING OPERATIONS BOTH ON EXCHANGES AND
, I~ THE, OyER-THE-COUNTER MARKETS

. During the year, the Commission conducted a series of conferences
with representatives of various branches of the brokerage and investment banking business on the subject of pegging, fixing, and stabilizing operations,
Included among the groups which attended these
conferences was a committee which was formed to speak for the
Investment Bankers .Association of .America, the New York Stock
Exchange and the New York Curb Exchange, and a group of representatives from stock exchange firms and large underwriting houses
ill New York,
of whom had been requested to express their views
to the Commission on the subject of pegging, fixing, and stabilizing.
The voluminous material accumulated at these conferences and in
the course' of the' Commission's general study of the subject and a
summary of the views expressed by the conferees with respect to the
various aspects of the problems, including analyses of pegging, fixIDg~and ~taqiiizipgoperations
conducted in the past by many important underwriting.firms,
have been used in the preparation of a.
tentative draft of rules and regulations, pursuant to Section 9 (a)
(~) of the Securities Exchange .Act of 1934, which draft is nearing
completion,

all

FORMULATION' OF RULES FOR THE' REGULATION OF PUTS, CALLS~
,
STRADDLES, AND OTHER OPTIONS

Ghe
Commission has' for some time been engaged in careful study
and-analysis of the use of puts, calls, and similar options, with a view
to drafting' rules and regulations with respect thereto, under authority
of Sections 9 (b) and .(~) .of the Securities Exchange .Act of 1934. Tothat end, conferences have .been held with .put and call brokers, and
statistical surveys and economic studies of the operations of options
have been. made. ,The Commission is now making considerable use
.<?~.~s research .in the f~r.Dlulation and drafting of rules and regulations governing puts, calls, straddles, and other oPtio~

16

SECURITIES -AND EXCHANGE COMMISSION

COOPERATION WITH THE BOARD OF GOVERNORS OF THE FEDERAL
RESERVE SYSTEM IN SUPERVISION OF ITS MARGIN REGULATIONS

The Commission continued its close cooperation with the. Board of
Governors of the Federal Reserve System in the formulation of rules
under Section '7 of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934 governing
the extension and maintenance of credit on registered exchanges.
Frequent conferences were held between representatives of the
Board and of the Commission during the drafting of regulation U
which governs the extension of credit by banks for the purpose of
purchasing or carrying registered stocks and in the drafting of
:amendments to regulation T which governs the extension and maintenance of credit by brokers, dealers, and members of national seen:rities exchanges.
For the purpose of supplementing the work of the Board, personnel
was assigned to several of the regional offices to inspect margin accounts carried by members of national securities exchanges and brok-ers and dealers transacting business through such members to ascertain the extent of compliance with regulation T, and to study the
effect of such regulation on the amount of credit extended on registered
securities. During the year, the margin accounts of 165 firms were
inspected and the results of these inspections were made available to
the Board of Governors of the Federal Reserve System for the purpose of gaging the practicability and effectiveness of regulation T.
In other instances, the Commission referred reports describing the
manner of handling margin accounts by certain members of the New
York Stock Exchange to the Board of Governors for such action as
might be deemed appropriate.
FORMULATION OF RULES RELATING TO BORROWINGS AND SOLVENCY OF, AND HYPOTHECATION OF CUSTOMERS' SECURITIES, BY
EXCHANGE MEMBERS, BROKERS, AND DEALERS

After considerable research and study preparatory to the formulation of rules under Section 8 of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934,
which included the examination of members' financial statements submitted to national securities exchanges, there are in preparation tentative forms for statements of assets and liabilities and aggregate
indebtedness and net worth designed to reflect the financial condition
and operating ratios of aggregate indebtedness to net capital of
exchange members, brokers, and dealers. An instruction book to
assist brokers and dealers in the preparation of these statements is
also being prepared. Tentative rules are being drafted defining aggregate indebtedness and net capital and prescribing a tentative ratio
between the two.
Tentative rules are also being drafted pursuant to the provisions of
Sections 8 (c) and (d) of the Act concerning the hypothecation, commingling, and lending of customers' securities by brokers.
.

SECOND ANNUAL REPORT

17

SUPERVISION AND STUDY OF MATrERS RELATING TO UNLISTED
TRADING ,PRIVILEGES IN SECURITIES ON EXCHANGES

Section 12 (f) of the Securities Exchange .Act of 1934 directed the
Commission- to make a study of trading in unlisted securities on
exchanges and to report the results of its study and its recommendations to the Oongress on or before January 3, 1936.
Pursuant to this direction, the Commission made a thorough study
of trading in unlisted securities on exchanges and reported the results
of this study to the Congress on the date specified. The recommendations made by the Commission in this report were presented to the
Congress in the form of an amendment to the Securities Exchange.
.Act of 1934.
The Congress 'passed an .Act, which was approved by the President
on May 27, 1936, amending the Securities Exchange .Act of 1934 to
provide, among other things, for trading in unlisted securities on
national securities exchanges.
During the year, 194 applications for continuance or extension of
unlisted trading privileges on exchanges were filed with the Commission pursuant to. Section 12 (f) of the .Act and to the rules and
regulations of the Commission. Each application was examined for
the purpose of determining whether the subject security was eligible
for unlisted trading privileges on the applicant exchange. Before
any application was granted, it was necessary to determine that the
subject security had been admitted to unlisted trading privileges on
the applicant exchange prior to March 1, 1934, and that it was substantially equivalent to or represented such security. Of the applications filed with the Commission, 158 were granted and 36 denied.
On March 31, 1936,a composite list of securities admitted to unlisted
trading privileges on national securities exchanges was published and
made available to the public. This list is kept current by monthly
addenda.
FORMULATION OF RULES RELATING TO UNISSUED WARRANTS AND
UNISSUED SECuRITIES FOR "WIlEN, AS, AND IF ISSUED" DEALlNG' ON NATIONAL SECURITIES EXCHANGES

S-ection 12 (?>' of the Securities Exchange .Act of 1934 provides
.that an unissued security may be registered on a national securities
exchange only in accordance with SJIch rules and regulations as the
Commission may prescribe. This section further provides that such
rules and regulations shall Iimit the registration of an unissued
Security to cases where such security is a right or the subject of a
right to subscribe or otherwise acquire such security granted to holders of a previously registered security and where the primary purpose of such registration is to distribute such unissued security to
holders,

.mcl1

18

SECURITIES 'AND EXCHANGE' COMMISSION

.A thorough study was' made by the' Oommission coil~riiDg .the
registration of unissued' warrants and' unissued Securities Tor "wh.en
issued" dealing on national securities exchanges. Following.this
study, the Commission adopted rules and regulations governing
"when issued" trading on exchanges. The rules apply to securities
and warrants (rights) which, in anticipation of their issuance, are
traded on a "when, as, and if issued" basis. The purpose of the.rules
and regulations is to prevent indiscriminate listings of securities
:for "when issued" trading; to confine "when issued" trading.to those
instances and to those localities where a public interest in such a
market exists; to prevent 'premature trading on a "when issued"
basis; and to make available the same information on securities
traded on a "when issued" basis as is available on securities traded
on an issued basis. In the main, the rules operate in three ways:
1irst, they set the standards of eligibility for securities to be traded
"when issued"; second, they require the registration of "when issued"
securities; and third, they establish margin requirements for ''when
issued" trading.
Standards of eligibility include, first, the requirements that "when
issued" trading may be' carried on only in cases where "rights" to
acquire or subscribe to a security are involved. For example, a warrant must carry a right to acquire a security which is to be issued;
and similarly, a security must be the subject of a right. Second, only
the securities of exchange-seasoned companies are eligible for "when
issued" trading. That is, the privilege will be granted only after a
right is given to holders of a listed security, and only if the rights
apply to the securities of a listed company.
The terms "listed security" and "listed company" include securities "adinitted to unlisted traditig-privileges."
A further condition is that a warrant may not run for more than
~o days and "when issued" trading is limited to a 45-day period,
unless the Commission directs otherwise.
__
Before "when issued" trading 'may begin, there must be 'registra:
tion with the Commission either by the comptUlY.or):ly tb.~ exchange
and the company must take the preliminary steps necessary to assure
the public that there will be an exchange market for the security
when it is issued.
-
 . ,
'
..
, For the purpose of registration with the Commission, forIPS have
been devised and adopted by the Commission as ~ollows:'
:. ' .
I

o.-r

Form I-J is provided for the registration
an unissued
warrant or certificate. '
. ','
Form 2-J is provided for the registration of an unissued
:security.
.
.
.'
:'
:
":
. :'
Form 3-J IS provided for supplemental statement to] application for registration of unissued securities for "when~.i$.sued'~
dealing.
.

19

. '.'SECOND ANNUAL REPORT

-
 Form H is. provided for statement in respect of exemption
of-an issued warrant or certificate.
,Form 5-J is provided for supplemental statement to state. ment filed in respect of exemption of certain warrants.
During the fiscal year ended June 30, 1936, 84 applications for
"when issued" trading were filed. Of these, 65 became effective, 14
were .withdrawn, 2 were denied, and 3 were pending at the close of
the fiscal year.
SOLICITATION OF PROXIES, CONSENTS, AND AUTHORIZATIONS, IN
RESPECT TO SECURITIES LISTED ON A NATIONAL SECURITIES
. EXCHANGE

Pursuant to the provisions of Section 14 of the Securities Exchange
Act of 193'4, on September 24, 1935, the Commission adopted rules
and regulations governing the solicitation of proxies, consents, or
authorizations with respect to securities (other than exempted securities) registered on national securities exchanges. ' The purpose of
these regulations is to provide that security holders, whose proxies,
consents, or authorizations are solicited, shall be accorded at least a
minimum of' the information necessary to an intelligent exercise
of their right of election as to whether to give or withhold the proxy,
consent, or authorization requested.
- As of June 30, 1936, more than 1,200 proxies and more than 150
amendments to these proxies have been filed. These proxies were
examined for completeness and compliance with rules and regulations, and in many instances the corporations were required to issue
corrected proxies.
REGULATION OF OVER.mE-COUNTER

MARKETS

During the latter part of 1934 the Commission inaugurated a study
of appropriate measures for the Control of over-the-counter markets,
pursuant to Section 15 of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934. This
study embraced consideration of the two principal phases of regulation of over-the-counter markets specifically authorized by section 15:
(1) Consideration of the problem of registration of brokers
and dealers making or creatmg or enabling others to make or
create an over-the-counter market for both the purchase and sale
of securities by the USeof the mails or instruments of interstate
commerce...'
-.
, (2) Consideration of the problem of the registration of seeurities the market for which is an over-the-counter market.

.

-
 A~r several ~oiiths '~f- study, a program for the regulation of
brokers aild dealers transacting business in over-the-counter markets
was' inaugurated and certain rules with respect to registration and
tQf'fau-business practices.were adopted.
'
-'".:

;. ~

...~ t-:'

.l'

<

.r

,

i

,

20

<

SECURITIES AND EXCHANGE COMMISSION

The plan for registration of brokers and dealers was put into effecton January 1, 1936, and on and after that date it was unlawful for a.
broker or dealer, unless he was registered with the Commission, to'
employ the mails or any instruments of interstate commerce for the
purpose of making or creating or enabling another to make or create
an over-the-counter market for both the purchase and sale of any
security, other than exempted securities, or use any facility of any
such market.
The Commission by rules provided that registration might be refused if the applicant had misrepresented any material fact in his
registration statement or if the applicant had been convicted of any
felony or misdemeanor involving the purchase or sale of securities or
arising out of the conduct of a broker or dealer, or enjoined from engaging in or continuing any practices in connection with the purchase or sale of any securities.
Public Act No. 621, 74th Congress, approved by the President on
May 27, 1936, included an amendment to Section 15 of the Securities
Exchange Act of 1934. Sections 15 (a), (b), and (c) of the Act,
as amended, substantially embody the registration program inaugurated by the Commission under the former Section 15, except in the
following respects:

(1) The old concept underlying registration-that
is, the concept of making or creating a market for both the purchase and
sale of any security, other than exempted securities--was abandoned and the registration requirements now apply to brokers
and dealers who use the mails or instruments of interstate commerce to effect any transactions in or to induce the purchase or
sale of any securities, except such as are specifically exempted,
on an over-the-counter market.
(2) Under the former rules, an exemption was provided for
brokers and dealers whose transactions in securities were limited
to securities the market in which was predominantly intrastate.
The new Section 15 provides exemption for brokers and dealers
whose business is exclusively intrastate.
.
Thus, at present it is the scope of business of a broker or dealer
which determines whether he is entitled to exemption rather than
the character of the market for the securities in which he deals.
Under the former Section 15, the Commission had the power to
--'~.P!escribe such rules and regulations as were necessary and appropriate ill the public interest and to insure to investors protection
comparable to that provided by the Act in the case of national securities exchanges, even to the extent of providing for the regulation of
all transactions by brokers and dealers on any such market. .
Under Section 15 (c) as amended, brokers and dealers are prohibited from using the mails or any instruments of interstate commerce to effect any transaction in or to induce the purchase or sale

21

SECOND ANNUAL REPORT

of any security (other than commercial paper, bankers' acceptances,
or commercial bills) on an over-the-counter market by means of any
manipulative, deceptive, or otherwise fraudulent device or contrivance, and the Commission is-directed to define by rule or regulation
such devices or contrivances as are manipulative, deceptive, or-otherwise fraudulent.
The amendment preserved all registrations which were in effect
on the enactment date without the necessity of filing new applications
for registration on the part of those so registered.
OVER-THE-COUNTER

,

TRADING

A technique has been developed for maintaining a general surveillance _over the various types of trading activities in the over-thecounter market in both new and outstanding issues of securities for
the purpose of detecting violations of the law and of the rules of
the Commission, and for the purpose of accumulating data upon
which to base rules for the regulation of distribution and trading in
the over-the-counter market. Transactions which have appeared to
be in violation of the law or of the rules of the Commission have
been investigated in 34 securities during the year.
..
DIRECTORY

OF BROKERS

A1'U) DEALERS

On March 1, 1936, the Commission published a directory of all
brokers and dealers whose registration under Section 15 of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934 was effective as of January 31, 1936.
This directory includes the names and addresses of the brokers and
dealers registered with the Commission.
STATISTICS

OF OVER-THE-COUNTER

BROKERS

AND DEALERS

The following statement indicates the number of applications for
registration filed by over-the-counter brokers and dealers, as of June
30, 1936, and the actions taken thereon:
~ective
registrations
Effective registrations
Revocations
Suspensions

(net)
canceled

5,740
~__________
J __ :._________

391
2
6

Applications for registration
canceled_____________________
VVithdravvals_____________________________________________
DeniaLs'
~_____________________

264
34
17

Applications

pending______________________

217

1____________

6, 671

Total

for registratlon
applications

-for registrations

-filed

'Includes 1 appllcatton reOpened on petition of appUcant..
1 Includes applications
iiled on Form 1-1.1 in which applicant had not, as Of June 30,
1936, filed reQueSt that: the application be treated as an appUcation pursuant to See. 11
(b) of the Act, as amended.

22

SECURITIES AND' EXCHANGE COMMISSION

Table 10 in Appendix V presents a summary
broker and dealer statistics as of May 27,1936.

of the available

REPORT ON THE FEASIBILITY AND ADVISABILITY OF THE COMPLETE SEGREGATION OF THE FUNCTIONS OFD~LER
AND
BROKER
e:

Pursuant to Section 1'1 (e) of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934,
the Commission conducted a study of and prepared' a report to the
Congress on the feasibility and advisability of the complete segregation of the functions of dealer and broker.
The report presented the results of the Comnrission's study of the
broker and dealer. functions as exercised on exchanges; a survey of
the broker and dealer functions as exercised in over-the-counter markets; a survey of the power of the Commission under existing law
to deal with the problems arising from the combination of functions;
an appraisal of the economic implications of segregation; and a statement of conclusions and recommendations.
The complexity and magnitude of the problem required' original
and searching analyses of individual and collective transactions of
specialists, floor traders, and other exchange members. Through the '
medium of special report forms which the Commission devised for
the-purpose of this study, detailed analyses were made of the trading
activities of members and partners of members of the New York
Stock Exchange and the New York Curb Exchange during the period
from June 24, 1935 to December 21, 1935. Supplemental jnformation with respect to trading practices on other exchanges and the
broker and dealer functions as exercised in over-the-counter- markets
was derived from the examination of the applications filed by exchanges for registration as nationaLsecurities
exchanges or for exemption from registration and from the examination of the registration statements filed with the Commission by over-the-counter 'brokers ~
and dealers, In addition, much information of value to the .study
was gained through conferences with members of the investing public, over-the-counter brokers and dealers, investment bankers, exchange officials, exchange members, and other persons engaged or
interested in the secunities business. ~
~
~
.
In its report to the Congress, the Commission analyzed in detail
the extent and significance of dealer activities on exchanges. The
potentialities for abuse Inherent in the combination of the furictions
of broker and dealer were described and the fact that abuses exist
was also demonstrated.
The economic aspects of segregation were
carefully considered. This included the possible effects of prohibition against the combination of broker and -dealer activities in one
Person, the restricting of dealer activity upon exchanges, .the rela-

SECOND' ANNUAL

REPORT

23

tionship of dealer activities of exchange members to the liquidity
and' continuity of exchange markets and the probable consequences
of segregation in the over-the-counter markets.
It was clearly brought out that the report itself was preliminary
in. character. Emphasis was given to the necessity and desirability
of continued exploration and further study of the problem, not only
by the Government but by persons in the securities business and
'others. _.The Commission accordingly refrained from judgment upon
those aspects of the problem which in its opinion deserved further
study and limited itself to the conclusions and recommendations that
seemed called for by the data available. Plans for continuation and
'extension of the study are presently being made.
. These recommendations included no suggested legislation for the 1
present, since the Commission believed that to incorporate now into
statutory law the requirement of complete segregation would be to
.fail to 'utilize the potentialities for flexible control and evolutionary
dev-elopment afforded by the administrative mechanism which the
Congress had already provided. Its conclusion was, on the other
hand, tliat it should develop and initiate an>administrative program
directed toward those aspects of the problem which demand immediate concern, i. e., the conflict of interest implicit in the combination
of the broker and dealer. functions and the type of dealer activity
that exerts undue influence on prices. '
--'
, REGIS~TION

OF SECURITIES ON EXCHANGES

PERMANENT

REGISTRATIONS

'Section 12 of, the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, requires the
registration of all securities which are listed on national securities
exchanges, unless-such securities are exempted by the Act or the
rules and- regulations promulgated thereunder. The registration of
securities on national securities exchanges is accomplished by the
issuer filing, on the appropriate form, an application for the registration 'of securities' with the Commission and with the exchange.
Each of the forms of application provides for the submission of
data of the character called for in the Act in the detail necessary or
appropriate in the public interest or for the protection of investors.
, To~the basic set' of forms for the registration of securities on
national securities exchanges, have been added forms for the regis-

tration of!

(1) American certificates against foreign issues arid for the
underlying securities;
,' ,
(2) Securities of foreign private issuers, other than bonds;

and
(3) Bonds of foreign private issuers.

SECURITIES -.AND-EXCHANGE' COMMISSION

The problem of procuring registration of the numerous issues of
foreign securities which were already listed on national securities
exchanges when the Act became effective has thus been met.
The basic set of forms for registration of securities on national
securities exchanges has been further complemented by the publication of forms for additional securities of issuers having securities
already registered, and for securities of persons who have succeeded
to such issuers under certain circumstances. A number of improving
amendments have been made in the forms previously published-and
the Commission is now engaged in the complete revision of such forms
to adapt them for use by issuers which have not previously had securities registered and in the preparation of special forms for issuers
emerging from insolvency proceedings and for issuers succeeding to
other issuers,"
Pursuant to Section 13 of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the
Commission has adopted rules and regulations governing the submission of annual reports. These annual reports are designed to
keep up to date the information contained in the applications for
permanent registration of securities. As of the close of the fiscal
year, the Commission had adopted forms for the annual reports of the
following issuers having securities registered on national securities
exchanges: (1) Corporations in general; (2/ unincorporated issuers;
(3) railroads and communications companies, including those in
receivership or bankruptcy; (4) insurance companies; (5) protective
committees; (6) voting trustees;' (7) incorporated investment trusts;
and (8) unincorporated investment trusts.
The annual reports are required to be filed, on the appropriate
form, with the Commission and with the exchange on which -the
securities are registered.
Issuers of foreign securities registered on national securities exchanges are, until further action of the Commission, exempt from
the requirements of filing annual reports.
One of the major functions of the Commission is the examination
of applications for registration of securities on national securities
exchanges and annual reports subsequently filed. These applications
and annual reports are examined for the purpose of determining
whether they contain full and adequate disclosure of the information required by the Act and the rules -and regulations promulgated
thereunder. When the examination reveals deficiencies in such applications or reports, the applicants or issuers are so advised and
• On Sept. 23, 1936, the Commission promulgated Form 22, For Issuers ReorganiZed in
Insolvency Proceedings or Which Have Succeeded to a Person 1n_Insolvency ~roceedings.

25

SECOND ANNUAL REPORT

amendments are' requested. These amendments are examined and
analyzed in the same manner as the applications and reports.
The cooperation of the various national securities exchanges has
been of assistance to the Commission in procuring the necessary
amendments of deficient applications and annual reports.
CONFIDENTIAL

TREATMENT OF APPLICATIONS,
:QOCUMENTS

REPORTS,

OR

Section 24 (b) of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, provides
that any person filing an application, report, or document with the
Commission may make written objection to the public disclosure of
the information contained therein.
.
During the year, the rules governing objections to the public disclosure of inaterial filed with the Commission were amended for the
purpose of clarification. The rules, as amended, provide that persons wishing to object to the public disclosure of any application,
report, or document filed with the Commission under any provision
of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, may file the portion thereof
to the public disclosure of which objection is made, with the Ohairman of. the Commission, together with an application stating the
grounds upon which the objection is based.
In connection with applications for registration of securities on
national securities exchanges, objections to public disclosure of 966
items of information were made during the year by 631 issuers.
Confidential treatment -
was granted certain information involving
214 items filed by 162 issuers; and material filed by 370 issuers involving 577 items, was made public.
Objection to public disclosure of information filed in connection
with annual reports was made by 218 issuers. The applications of
63 such issuers for, confidential treatment were granted in whole or
in part ; the information filed by 30 issuers was made public; and 125
are pending.
The denial of these applications gave rise to litigation in 21 cases,"
Applications were made by 71 directors, officers, and beneficial
stockholders for the confidential treatment of 111 ownership reports
of equity securities relating to 23 issuers. Action was taken in the
cases of 68 such persons, involving 166 reports concerning 21 issuers,
in which the applications were denied and the reports were made
public.
During the year, 202 private hearings on applications for confidential treatment of material were held.
• See lIst of cases on page 139.
101973-86---8

26

SECURITIES AlfD EXCHANGE COMMISSION

STATISTICS OF SECURITIES REGISTERED OR EXEMPT FROM REGISTRATION ON NATIONAL SECURITIES EXCHANGES

As of the opening of trading on July 16, 1935, permanent registrations were in effect covering 3,345 securities of 1,841 issuers. These
registrations related to nearly 2,000,000,000 shares of stock and over
$16,000,000,000 in principal amount of bonds. In addition, there
were 1,048 securities of 601 issuers, representing more than 400,000,000 shares of stock and over $10,000,000,000 in principal amount
of bonds temporarily exempt (or, in a few cases, provisionally registered) pending filing on or promulgation of the required appropriate
forms.
Most issuers temporarily exempt, for whom appropriate forms
were available, made application for registration on such forms during the year, as indicated by the fact that, as of June 30,'1936, there
remain, in the class of temporarily exempt securities traded on
exchanges, 226 securities of 127 issuers.
Included in such classes of issuers' most recently registered securities, previously temporarily exempt, are 155 foreign issuers, who
registered 292 securities. Of the 36 foreign governments whose securities were previously temporarily exempt from registration, 33
applied for permanent registration; and of the 64 political subdivisions of foreign governments previously in such category, 53 made
application for permanent registration of their securities.
During the year, 141 issuers filed applications for registration of
additional securities. On June 30, 1936, a total of 4,185 securities
of 2,295 issuers were permanently registered. These registrations
covered nearly 2,700,000,000 shares of stock and approximately
$26,000,000,000 in principal amount of bonds.
During the year more than 1,500 issuers filed annual reports with
the Commission. These reports are now being examined.
Several thousand amendments to the applications for permanent
registration and annual reports have been received. More than 80
applications for registration of unissued securities on national securities exchanges have been filed.
The following table indicates the forms used by issuers in registering securities and the number of securities registered and issuers
involved as of June 30, 1936.

27

SECOND ANNUAL REPORT

Securities
registered

Form

10
11
12
"12-A
13
14
15
16
17
18
19
20
21

Corporations ________________________________________________________________
Unincorporated
issuers _______________________________________________________

Issuers
Involved

--2, 751
25

1,739
13

746

196

129
17
60
117
41

25
17
43

Companies making annual reports under Section 20 of the Interstete
Commerce
Act, as Amended, or under Section 219 of the Communications
Act
of 1934_____________________________________________________________________
Companies in receivership or bankruptcy
and making annual reports under
Section 20 of the Interstete
Commerce Act, as-Amended, or under Section
219 of the Communications
Act of 1934_____________________________________
Insurance companies other than life and title Insurance oompames ___________
Certificates of deposit Issued by a commlttee _________________________________
IncOrpoiated
Investment
eompenles __________________________________________
Voting trust certificates and underlying securities ____________________________
Unincorporated
issuers________________________________________________________
engaged primarily
In the business of investing or
trading In securitles

7
182
13
5
92

Foreign governments
and political subdivisions
thereoL _____________________
American certificates against forel~ Issues and for the underlying securities __
Secuntles other than bonds of foreign private Issuers _________________________
Bonds of foreign private Issuers ______________________________________________

ToteL _________________________________________________________________ --4,185

fj1

35
5

ff3
---

55

2,295

The following table indicates the total number of shares of stock
and principal amount of bonds and the issues listed and registered
or authorized for addition to list, and exempt from registration on
all national securities exchanges as of June 30, 1936, eliminating
duplications which occur because of the listing of the same security
on more than one exchange.
STOCKS

Number of
Issues

Classification

=~ii8iiy
regiStered=====
========:==::::::=::::
===: :
PartiBlly exempt
and partiBlly .: provlsionB1ly
registered ==::::
___________
Reglstered

______________________________________________________

ToteL ____________________________________________________

Number of
shares authorized for addition to list

Number of
shares listed

149
9
3
2,653

107,253,664
2,964, 235
5,178,429
2, 322, 630, 732

12, 969,435
1,093,465
7,381,554
220, 048, 486

2,814

2, 438, 027, 060

241, 492, 940

78
1
3
1,522

$868, 162, 412
1,225,000
77,731,000
23, 843, 208, 508

1,604

24, 790, 326, 920

BONDS

regiSteied=== ==================.: .: ==:= ========:= .:

~Jl~iiSiIy
PartlB1ly
exempt
and partiBlly pmvlslonB1ly.registered
___________
Reglstered
______________________________________________________
Total. __________________ ' _________________________________

BONDS
Registered __-- -- -- -- -- -- --- -- ---

IN

FRENCH

------ _-- --- _-BONDS

I, 189, 130, 734

FRANCS

---I

65,353, 000 1

-- -- -- _

IN POUNDS

$30, 840, 800

---------- -------i;i6S:il89;9i4

..

STERLING

RegIstered-- -. --- - -- -- ----- ----- - - -- - ---- - - - -- -- -- --- -- - - - -- --

--I

91

'36,601,820

1

.

The following table indicates the total number of issuers and
the total number of issues and the breakdown of these issues by

28

SECURI118S AND EXCHANGE 00MMISSION

stocks and bonds and by securities registered (R), exempt (X),
pro~~isionally
registered (P), or partially exempt and partially provisionally registered (Z), on national securities exchanges, as of
June 30, 1936.

Baltimore........................ 


Boston ........................... 

ChieseO Board ofTrads...........

Chicago Cwh Eiehanss ..........

chicsgo sto&Eaohang~......... 

Cincinnati........................ 

Cle~eland

Detroit
LOS *ngeles ...................... 

New or1esns.....................

New Y a k Curb..................

New York St& ................. 


Philadelphia..................... 

Pittsbwgh .......................

St. Louis.........................

Salt lake^ ........................

Ban Francisco Curb.............. 

S B F~~ a ~ d s Mining
co
............

San F T B O C IStock
S ~ ..............

Stan ard of Spokane.............

, , d i n g t o n ...................... 

1 voting trust mtifiaates and Amsrioan depositary recslpts for foreign stocb are induded h the classifme
tion ofstmks.
P c~rtseates
d depmit are included in the ciassihtion of bonds.

REPORTS OF OFFICERS, DIRECTORS, AND PRINCIPAL STOCKFlOLDERS

I n iddition to F o r m 4, 5, and 6; and the rules and regulations
regarding the submission of reports of officers, directors, and principal
stockholders under the Securities Exchange Act which were promulgated during the fiscal year ended Jime 30, 1935, the Commission during the last fiscal year promulgated rules and regulations
and forms U-17-1 and U-17-2 regarding the reporting of holdings of officers and directors under the Public Uti1it.y Holding Company Act of 1935. Form U-17-1 is to be filed by officers and
directors of holding companies registered under the Public Utility
Holding Company
of 1935 following the registration of such
companies or following appointment or election as officer or director
of such a company. Form U-17-2 is to be filed if there have been
any chaliges during last calendar month in ownership of officer or
director of a holding company registered under the Public Utility
Holding Conlpariy Act of 1935, with respect to securities of such
company or any subsidiary company thereof.
*Form 4 for reporting changes in o n m u s h i ~of eguity seemlties. P o r n 5 for renorting
ownership of equitr securities Form 6 for reports by persons who have Just become
o 5 e e r ~or directors or security holders of more tbas 10 percent of any class of equity
Seeority.

29

,SECOND ANNUAL REPORT

The following table indicates the number of original and amended
reports filed and examined for the fiscal years ended June 30, 1935,
and June .30, 1936.
Reports

Original reports-Securltles
Amended
reports-Securities
Original reports-Holding
Amended
reports-Holding

filed and examined

Exchange
Act_______________________________________
Exchange
AcL____________________________________
Company
Act________________________________________
Company
Act_______________________________________

Fiscal year
1935
10,114
2, 524

Fiscal year
1936
37,509
5,754
464
45

The Commission compiles and publishes a semimonthly summary
of security transactions and holdings of officers, directors, and principal stockholders as reported on Forms 4, 5, 6, U-17-1, and U-17-2.
During the fiscal year the Commission prepared for publication the
Official Summary of Holdings of Officers, Directors, and Principal
Stockholders. This summary reprinted the essential data, as of December 31, 1935, contained in the reports on Forms 4, 5, or 6 made to
the Commission pursuant to Section 16 (a) of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934 by the officers, directors, and principal stockholders of .about 1,750 corporations with equity securities listed on a
national securities exchange. .These corporations had at that date
slightly over 2,000,000,000shares of stock outstanding in the nearly
2,500 individual issues for which reports were received. Reports
were made by 15,277 persons and covered about 458,000,000 shares.
Of total reported holdings about 408,000,000 shares were owned
directly by the persons reporting, while about 50,000,000were owned
indirectly (i. e. through a partnership, a trust, personal holding
company, etc.) and represented duplications to a considerable degree. While it is not possible to ascertain definitely from the material available to the Commission the exact amount of duplication,
it is. estimated that total unduplicated holdings reported exceeded
430~000,000shares, or approx-imately 21 percent of the total number
of shares outstanding at the end' of 1935 in the issues covered by
the reports.
WITHDRAWAL OR STRIKING FROM LISTING AND REGISTRATION OF
.~:t.:ClJRITIES ON NATIONAL SECURITIES EXCHANGES

Upon application by the issuer or the exchange to the Commission, securities registered on a national securities exchange may be
withdrawn or stricken from registration or listing in accordance with
the rules of the exchange and upon such terms as the Commission
may deem necessary to impose for the protection of investors. The
Commission has adopted rules and regulations governing this subject.
During the year ended June 30, 1936, 63 such applications were
received and acted upon by the Commission, as compared with 95
for the fiscal year ended June 30~1935.

30

SECURITIES AND EXCHANGE COMMISSION

REGISTRATION OF SECURITIES UNDER THE SECURITIES ACT OF
1933
SECURITIES

ACT FORMS, RULES, AND REGULATIONS

During the past year a considerable number of improving amendments have been made to the basic forms for registration under the
Securities Act of 1933, as amended. These amendments are designed
to clarify the requirements of the several forms and to extend the
use of certain basic forms to additional classes of issuers upon the
furnishing of appropriate specialized information, such as for bank
holding companies and corporations resulting from consolidation.
Considerable progress has been made in the direction of subdividing the major forms in order to provide specialized forms for issuers
engaged in particular types of business and for issuers in various
stages of development. In line with this program, there has been
prepared a form for promotional mining companies which is designed to emphasize the peculiar problems of the mining industry
and the special problems incident to the promotion of new companies.
A companion form is also in process for securities of any company
which has not yet advanced beyond the promotional stage.
A series of new forms is being drafted to replace the present forms
for certificates of deposit, and for securities issued in the process of
reorganization. These forms will be specialized to provide separately
for each of the several situations which commonly occur. Other work
in various stages of completion includes registration forms for electric
and gas utilities, investment trusts, insurance companies, investment
contracts, foreign national governments, and foreign municipal
governments.
A comprehensive revision and reclassification of the general rules
and regulations under the Securities Act have been made. In "addition, numerous new rules and regulations have been promulgated.
These rules have dealt with the scope of exemptions of certain classes
of securities from the operation of the Act, and with the amendment
of many of the details of registration in order to perfect the mechanics
of registration.
EXAMINATION

OF SECURITIES

ACT REGISTRATION

STATEMENTS

The Securities Act of 1933, as amended, provides that, unless a
registration is in effect, it shall be unlawful to' publicly offer"for'sale
or sell securities, except exempt securities, in interstate commerce or
through the mails.
The registration of securities under this Act is accomplished by the
issuer filing, on the appropriate form, a registration statement with
the Commission. The law and the rules and regulations promulgated
thereunder require that these registration statements contain certain

31

SECOND ANNUAL REPORT

prescribed information about the securities, the company, the management, the purpose of the issue, together with financial statements,
options, contracts, and other data. A prospectus containing the more
important information contained in the registration statement must
also be filed with the Commission. The law further requires that a
copy of the prospectus be given to prospective purchasers of a registered security.
Upon receipt of a registration statement, it is examined for the purpose of determining if the statement appears to be misleading, inaccurate, or incomplete on its face. If the statement is not materially
deficient, the issuer is advised and permitted to correct it by amendment. If the statement is materially deficient, the Commission may
institute stop-order proceedings immediately. The Commission is
empowered to refuse registration in cases where the issuer fails to
supply the required data or where the information given is incomplete or misleading, or it may suspend registration if it develops
after registration has become effective that information is lacking or
misleading.
It must be emphasized that although the examination of a registration statement is concerned with the completeness of the information
required to be supplied by a registrant and the accuracy of the information furnished by it, such an examination is not to be considered
as a finding by the -Commission that the registration statement is true,
accurate, or complete.
EXEMPTIONS

FROM REGISTRATION

REQUIREMENTS

Prospectuses and oil royalty offering sheets are filed with the Commission pursuant to rules promulgated under Section 3 (b) of the
Securities Act of 1933, regarding exemptions. During the year
388 such prospectuses, which relate mostly to offerings of stock issues,
were received and examined. The aggregate offering amounted to
$32,122,081. There were also received and examined 2,069 offering
sheets which relate to the sale of fractional undivided interests in
oil, gas, or other mineral rights in the aggregate reported amount
of $7,610,000.
STATISTICS OF SECURITIES REGISTERED
SECURITIES ACT

UNDER THE

At the beginning of the fiscal year there were 1,533 registration
statements on file. Of these, 1,094 were effective, 91 were under stop
or refusal order, 225 had been withdrawn, and 123 were under examination or held pending the receipt of amendments.
During the period of July 1, 1935, to June 30, 1936, inclusive, 781
additional registration statements were filed. There were 735 regis-

SECURITIES AND EXCHANGE COMMISSION

tration statements which became effective during this period (of
which all but 54 were fully effective); a total of 1,751 statements
were effective at the end of the period, 72 of those effective at the
beginning or during the period either having been withdrawn or
placed under stop order.
The net number of registration statements withdrawn increased by
69, to a total of 294 on June 30, 1936. The net number of stop or
refusal orders increased during the period by ~6, a total of 129 of
such orders being in effect on June 30, 1936. As of June 30, 1936,
there were 134 registration statements in the process of examination
or awaiting amendments.
Appendix III contains a list of the registration statements as to
which stop orders, consent refusal orders, and withdrawal orders
were issued during the year.
, During the fiscal year ended June 30, 1936, securities with estimated gross proceeds of $4,835,049,000have become effectively registered comparing with $909,387,000during the 10-month period from
September 1, 1934, when the Securities and Exchange Commission
took over the administration of the Securities Act of 1933, to June
30, 1935. Of this amount $4,677,302,000represented new securities,
while $157,747,000 represented securities in reorganization, votingtrust certificates, certificates of deposit, and securities to be exchanged
for registrants' or predecessors' securities.
Of the $4,677,302,000of new securities effectively registered during
the past fiscal year, about $187,000,000were registered for the account
of persons other than the registrant, $244,900,000were reserved for
conversion, $91,000,000were reserved for subsequent issuance against
options and warrants, $23,100,000were reserved for other subsequent
issuance, $17,900,000 were to be issued for tangible and intangible
assets and claims, and $177,200,000were to be issued in exchange for
other securities. Thus, a total of $741,100,000of the new securities
effectively registered during the fiscal year were not intended to be
offered for cash by the issuers, leaving securities in an estimated
gross amount of $3,936,200,000to be so offered for ithe account of
the registrants.
Commissions and discounts to underwriters and
agents expected by the registrants to be incurred in connection with
the sale of such securities amount to $126,700,000,or 3.2 percent of
the gross amount to be offered while other selling and distributing
expenses were estimated at $27,400,000, or 0.7 percent,"
The estimated net proceeds from securities effectively registered during the
past year and intended to be offered for cash for the account of the
registrants thus amounted to $3,782,100,000.
'
"
.: .
Of the aggregate net proceeds, $2,805,400,OOO~"or
74.2 percent, were
intended for repayment of indebtedness; $213,400,000were' intended
• These figures are averages of widely varying ratios on individual issues.

SECOND ANNUAL REPORT

33,

for retirement of preferred stock; and $24,300,000for the reimbursement of loans used' for capital expenditures. Refunding and retirement operations thus accounted for a total of $3,043,100,000,or 80.5
percent of the total net proceeds. Of the remainder, $395,600,000
were to be used for the acquisition of securities, chiefly by investment companies; $120,500,000were intended to be used for the purchase of plant and equipment; $207,300,000were to be added to the
registrant's corporate funds, while $9,300,000 were scheduled to
defray organization and development expenses, and $6,200,000were
to be used for various other purposes,
Of total gross of new securities effectively registered during
the year ended June 30, 1936, $1,617,900,000, or 34.6 percent,
represented securities of manufacturing industries of which those
of the iron and steel and oil refining industries, amounting to $470,900,000 and $433,900,000,respectively, predominated. Electric light
and power, gas, and water companies registered securities with estimated gross proceeds of $1,617,900,000,or 34.6 percent of the total,
practically the same amount as that registered for all manufacturing
industries. Financial and investment companies registered $677,900,000,or 14.5 percent of the total; transportation and communication industries (excluding common carriers exempt under the Securities, Act of 1933) $291,600,000,or 6.2 percent; extractive industries,
$99,100,000,or 2.1 per cent; and all other registrants, including foreign governments, totaled $372,900,000,or 8.0 percent.
Detailed statistical tables showing number of issues, type of security, classification of issuers, gross proceeds, cost of distribution and
selling, channels of distribution, and proposed use of funds for the
securities registered with the Securities and Exchange Commission
are contained in Appendix V. In interpreting the tables, it should
be kept in mind that these statistics are based solely on the registration. statements as filed by. the registrants with the Securities and
Exchange Commission. All data, therefore, refer to registrants'
intentions and estimates as of the date of filing or of later amendments. They thus represent, in reality, statistics of intentions to sell
securities rather than statistics of actual sales of securities.
The Commission has no official knowledge as to which part of securities registered has actually been sold by the .registrant corporations, or bought by investors, However, in cases where securities
are underwritten by responsible banking houses, it is certain that the
issuing corporation has received the stipulated sales price. Of the
$2,170,600,000of new securities offered for cash sale during the first
half of the calendar year 1936, about $1,641,700,000,or 76 percent,
were intended to be sold to underwriters and may, therefore, be assumed to have netted the issuing corporation the contemplated
amount of funds. In order to determine the extent to which regis- '

34

SECURITIES AND EXCHANGE COMMISSION

tered securities which were not to be sold to underwriters were actually disposed of by the registrants, follow-up questionnaires were sent
to registrants, other than investment companies, who have registered
on Form A-1 and whose registrations had become effective before
November 30,1935. From the approximately 270 replies received to
the questionnaire up to August 10, 1936, it appeared that only about
20 percent of the total amount registered by this group of registrants,
which consisted with only few exceptions of unseasoned companies
disposing of their securities without the help of underwriters, has
actually been sold. About one-third of the registrants' replies to the
questionnaire reported no sales whatever of the registered securities,
while the remaining registrants reported sales amounting to about
one-third of the amounts registered.
STATISTICS OF PRIVATE PLACINGS

l

Registered securities, of course, constitute only a, part of all new
securities offered for sale to investors in the United States. The Commission has no authoritative knowledge of the offerings of securities
exempt under the Securities Act of 1933, the chief categories of which
are: securities issued or guaranteed by the United States Government; securities issued by any State or by any political subdivision
or any public instrumentality of any State; securities issued by any
banking institution; securities OT common or contract carriers the
issuance of which is subject to Section 20 (a) of the Interstate Commerce Act; securities of a noncommercial character issued by eleemosynary institutions; securities which are part of an issue sold only
to residents within a single State where the issuer is incorporated by
and doing business in such State; securities exchanged exclusively
with security holders of the issuer where no commission is paid for
soliciting the exchange; and securities sold to a small number of purchasers not involving a public offering (so-called private placings).
However, in view of the importance of private placings and of
their affinity to certain types of registered offerings, the Commission
has endeavored to keep a record of unregistered private placings
based on information published in the financial press and has supplemented this information by short questionnaires sent to the issuers
of securitIes reported as privately placed. The chief data derived
from the private-placings questionnaires sent out by the Commission and returned in completed form without exception by the issuers are given in table 9 of Appendix V. From January 1934
through June 1936, the Commission received information on unregistered private placings of 81 issues with total gross proceeds of
$485,300;000. During the- fiscal year ended June 30, 1936, 37 unregistered private placings aggregating $210,800,000 were reported.

I

35

SECOND ANNUAL REPORT

This is equivalent to approximately 5 percent of the securities effectively registered with the Commission during the same period.
mE

PUBLIC UTILITY HOLDING COMPANY ACT OF 1935

The Public Utility Act of 1935 was approved by the President and
became law on August 26, 1935. Title I of this Act constitutes the
Public Utility Holding Company Act of 1935. Title II consists of
amendments of the Federal Water Power Act, designed primarily
to expand the jurisdiction of the Federal Power Commission with
respect to electric utilities engaged in transmitting electric energy
in interstate commerce or selling electric energy at wholesale in
interstate commerce.
The responsibility for the administration of the Public Utility
Holding Company Act of 1935 is vested in the Securities and Exchange Commission. In general, this Act provides for registration'
with the Commission of gas and electric utility holding companies.
It has no reference to telephone, railroad, or industrial holding companies as such. After a holding company is registered, it is subject
to a number of statutory provisions and also to general rules and
regulations or specific orders of the Commission with respect to a
variety of aspects of its business. The Act also directs the Commission to exempt holding companies of certain specified types from the
previsions of the Act.
The general policy of the Commission in administering this legislation is to give full effect to the Congressional intent of preventing the
repetition of the abuses which led to the passage of the Act and to
make the administration of the law as workable as possible without
imposing restrictions of a kind which bear no relationship to the purposes to be achieved.
Among the first tasks which faced the Commission upon the passage
of this legislation were those of setting up the necessary administrative organization and the development of rules of procedure and the
necessary forms.
Another task undertaken by the Commission was to provide itself
with information adequate for the handling of current problems involving the registered companies. This task has been not only to
assemble all available information with regard to various registered
holding company systems but to undertake a thorough study of all
systems and the territory in which they operate.
RULES,

REGULATIONS, AND FORMS UNDER THE PUBLIC
HOLDING 'COMPANY ACT OF 1935

UTILITY

Under numerous sections of the Act, the Commission is authorized
to promulgate such rules, regulations, or orders as it may consider
necessary for the elimination of certain abuses which have been

36

SECURITIES

AND

EXCHANGE ~COMMISSION

deemed to characterize the activities of holding companies In the past:
Also, in certain instances, authority is given for the adoption of rules
and regulations in order to avoid statutory imposition of rigid standards which might involve considerable difficulty of application and
might lead to frustration of the purpose of some sections of the Act.
The preparation of rules and regulations has necessitated thorough
study and research and has required the services of several attorneys
and experts for many months. This matter will require continuing
attention and study, so that changes may be made, as experience is
gained,. to the end that all rules and regulations adopted may be
effective and practical of application without unduly burdening the
industry and without creating unwarranted difficulty and expense
of administration.
The principal rules and regulations adopted under this Act may be
classified as follows:
(1) Rules of general application containing definitions of
terms and general requirements with respect to filing and verification of documents.
(2) Rules of a temporary character, extending the time for
complying with or for making application for exemption from
certain provisions of the Act.
(3) Rules adopting forms for and specifying the information
to be submitted in connection with applications, notifications of
registration, declarations, and reports.
(4) Rules defining the status of particular classes of .companies as subject to or excluded from provisions of the Act.
(5) Rules authorizing certain limited types of acquisitions
and security issues without specific application to the Commission.
(6) Rules with respect to service, sales, and construction
contracts.
-_
(7) Rules pursuant to Section 17 concerning the eligibility
of persons having financial connections to be officers or directors
of registered holding companies.
Forms have been promulgated as follows:
(1) Form U-l, Notification of registration of public utility
holding company, pursuant to Section 5 (a) of the Public
Utility Holding Company Act of 1935.10
(2) Form U-2, Declaration and periodic report to be filed by
a subsidiary of a registered holding company for exemption
under Rule 3D-4.
(3) Form U-3A3-1, Quarterly statement to be filed by banks
claiming exemption from the provisions of the Public Utility
Holding Company Act of 1935.under Rule 3A3-1.
. r.
(4) Form U-7, Declaration pursuant to-Bection 7 of the
Public Utility Holding Company Act of 1935 regarding the
issuance or sale of securities or the exercise of a privilege or
1~ After
Nov. 1, 1936, a notification
adopted Oct. 2, 1936.

of registration

mus't be tiled on ""Form u--0-:4-

. 'SECO;ND ANNUAL

REPDRT-

37

-

-w -

right
alter- the priorisy, preference, voting" power, or other
rights of holders of outstanding securities.
(5) Form U-10-1, Application pursuant to Section 10 (a) (1)
of the Public Utility Holding Company Act of 1935, for approval of acquisition of securities.
(6) Form U-I0-2, Application pursuant to Section 10 (a) (2)
and 10 (a) (3) of the Public Utility Holding Companv Act of
1935, for approval of acquisition of utility assets of interest in
business.
(7) Form U-12 (i)-1, Statement required pursuant to Section
12 (i) of the Public Utility Holding Company Act of 1935 by
one or more persons employed or retained by a registered holding company or subsidiary thereof.
(8) Form U-13-1, Application for approval of mutual service companies, pursuant to Rule 13-22, or Declaration with respect to organization and conduct of business of subsidiary
service company pursuant to Rule 13-22.
(9) Form U-17-1, to be filed by officers and directors of holding companies registered under the Public Utility Holding Company Act of 1935, following the registration of such companies
or following appointment or election as officer or director of
such company.
(10) Form U-17-2, Statement to be filed if there have been
any changes during the last calendar month in ownership of
officers or directors of a holding company under the Public
Utility Holding Company Act of 1935, with respect to securities of such company or any subsidiary company thereof.
(11) Form U...-17-3, Statement to be filed by officers or directors with respect to whom exemption is claimed pursuant to
Rule 170-11 from the provisions of Section 17 (c) of the Public
Utility Holding Company Act of 1935.
Each form has presented a. separate problem in the light of the
particular provisions of the Act involved and the character of the
information which the Commission is required to take into consideration in connection with each provision. The Commission has attempted to make the forms simple, readily understandable and not
unnecessarily burdensome to the industry, yet at the same time,
comprehensive enough to bring out the requisite information.
Statistics of applicatiO'1l8,declarations, and Mtiflcations under the Public UtiUt1/
Holding Oompan1/Act of 1935
Filed

---------------------1--Applications for exemption and for declaration of status under sees. 2 and 3___
375
Application for discontinuance of holding-company status under sec. 5 (d)____
1
Applications for exemption of security issues under sec 6 (b)__________________ 17
.
7
Declarations under sec. 7 with respect to security issues
Applications for approval of acquisition of securities under sec. 10 (a) (1)-----16
Applications for approval of acquisition of assets under sec. 10 (a) (2)__________
4
Applications for approval as mutual service company under sec. 13___________
1
Applications for approval as subsidiary service company under sec. 13.
Application for exemption froJll provisfons of sec. 13by registered holding com-

N~~tioiiiii"ieiiiStrniions-Uiider sec~5~====================================
=: ----67I Including

2 withdrawn.

Disposed

Pending
June 30,

of

1936

--- --179

196

13
7
16

•
_

1

3

._
4
1
1

_

-
---'-67- :==: .; ::::

38

SECURITIES AND EXOHANGE COMMISSION

REGISTRATION OF UTILlTY HOLDlNG COMPANIES

The Public Utility Holding Company Act of 1935 called for
registration of holding companies not later than December 1, 1935.
Section 5 of the Act provides that any holding company or any
person proposing to become a holding company may register by filing
with the Commission a notification of registration, on such form as
the Commission may by rules or regulations prescribe as necessary or
appropriate in the public interest or for the protection of investors
or consumers .
.Section 5 of the Act also provides that it shall be the duty of
every registered holding company to file with the Commission, within
such reasonable time after registration as the Commission shall fix
by rules and regulations or order, a registration statement in such
form as the Commission shall by rules and regulations or order,
prescribe as necessary or appropriate in the public interest or for
the protection of investors or consumers.
The Commission adopted a form (Form U-1) for the notification
of registration of public utility holding companies pursuant to the
above-mentioned section of the Act. This form permitted companies
to register by filing a simple statement including little more than a
corporate chart, a schedule of securities outstanding, the names of
officers and directors, and maps showing the territories served. Upon
receipt of a notification of registration, the IQ.wprovides that the
registration shall become effective.
Sixty-five holding companies are now registered, including a number of subholding companies of registered systems. As of June 3G,
1936, the registered holding companies were as follows:
American Public Service Co.
British-American Utilities Corporation.
Brokaw-Dixon & McKee.
Central and South West Utilities Co.
Central States Edison, Inc.
Central States Power & Light Corporation, subsidiary of Central States Utilities
Corporation, a subsidiary of Utilities Power & Light Corporation.
Central States Utilities Corporation, a subsidiary of Utilities Power & Light
Corporation.
Citizens Public Service Co.
-Oltlzens Utilities Co.
Waiter Bachrach, trustee of the Commonwealth Light & Power Oo., debtor.
Community Power & Light Co.
Consumers Natural Gas Co.
Crescent Public Service Co.
East Coast Public Service Co.
Foster Petroleum Corporation.
Gary Electric & Gas Co.
The Gas Co. of New Mexico.
General Public Utilities, Inc.

SECOND ANNUAL REPORT

39

Luke C. Bradley, L. N. Boisen, D. P. Pardee, J. H. White, and H. S. Swan, as
votlng trustees under voting trust agreement dated OCtober 7, 1930, relating
to common stock of Georgia Natural Gas Corporation, a Delaware corporation.
Great Lakes Utilities Corporation.
Frank D. Comerford, Sidney St. F. Thaxter and Robert H. Montgomery, trustees
under agreement dated November 29, 1935, between International Hydro-Electric System, New England Power Association, Old Colony Trust Co., and said
trustees.
Indiana Southwestern Gas & Utilities Corporation.
Leonard S. Florsheim, trustee of Inland Power & Light Corporation, debtor.
Interstate Gas & Electric Co.
Interstate Power Oo., a subsidiary of Utilities Power & Light Corporation.
Iowa Public Service Co.
Lone Star .Gas Corporation.
The Middle West Corporation.
Hugh M. Morris and John N. Shannahan, trustees of the estate of Midland
Utilities Co.
Hugh M. Morris and John N. Shannahan, trustees of the estate of Midland
United Co.
The Mission Oil Co.
National Fuel Gas Co.
National Gas & Electric Corporation.
National Light, Heat & Power Co.
The Nevada-California Electric Corporation.
New England Power Association.
New England Public Service Co.
North American Gas & Electric Co.
North West Utilities Co.
Northern Paper Mills.
Penn Western Gas & Electric Co.
Pennsylvania Gas & Electric Corporation.
Hugh M. Morris and Harold S. Schutt, trustees, Peoples Light & Power Corporation.
Public Service Corporation of Texas.
Irwin T. Gilruth and Charles A. McDonald as trustees of Public Utilities Securities Corporation.
Republic Electric Power Corporation.
Republic Service Corporation.
Sandar Corporation.
Southeast Power & Light Co.
Southern Union Gas Co.
Southern United Gas Co.
Southwestern Development Co.
The Twin State Gas & Electric Co.
Union Electric Power Corporation.
United Cities Utilities Co.
United Public Service Corporation.
Lee Barroll, Henry A. Erhard, Gerald P. Kynett, Herbert L. Nichols, Herbert S.
Welsh, voting trustees under voting trust agreement dated January 1, 1935,
for class A common stock of United Public Utilities Corporation.
United Public Utilities Corporation.
Utilities Holding Corporation.
Utilities Power & Light Corporation.

40

SECURITIES AND EXCHANGE COMMISSION

Utilities Stock & Bond Corporation.
Washington & Suburban Cos.
Washington Gas & Electric Co.
White Mountain Power Co.

EXEMPTlONS UNDER THE PUB.{.IC UTILITY HOLDING.
COMPANY ACT QF 1935

The Commission is directed by the Public Utility Holding Company Act of 1935 to exempt by rule or order holding companies of
certain specified types from provisions of the Act unless and except
to the extent that it deems such action detrimental to the public
interest or the interest of investors or consumers.
In addition to this power to exempt holding companies; as such,
from the provisions of the Act, the Commission is also directed to
declare such companies as meet specified requirements not to be
"electric utility companies", "gas utility companies", "holding companies" or "subsidiary companies" as those terms are defined in the
Act. This power may be exercised by rule or by order upon
application.
The information required in an application for exemption of a
holding company is extremely elastic. The Commission adopted rules
specifying the information which was thought relevant in the ordinary situation, but left it up to the applicant to omit any information
which it might deem irrelevant in a particular case, reserving the
right on the part of the Commission to call for any other information
that might be necessary.
As of June 30, 1936,375 applications were received for exemption
of holding companies and for orders declaring companies not to be
holding companies or subsidiaries of holding companies or declaring
companies not to be electric or gas utilities. The Act provides that
applications for such orders shall, if filed in good faith, be automatically effective until the Commission has acted upon them. This
provision enabled the Commission to take the time necessary to
examine applications without subjecting the applicants in the meanwhile to regulations from which they might be entitled to immunity.
One hundred and seventy-nine of these applications have been
disposed of and 196 are pending.
SECURITY TRANSACTIONS BY REGISTERED
SUBSIDIARY COMPANIES

HOLDING AND

The Public Utility Holding Company Act of 1935 provides that
it shall be unlawful for any registered holding company or subsidiary
company thereof, by use of the mails or any means or instrumentality of interstate commerce, or otherwise, directly or indirectly, to
issue or sell any security of such company or to exercise any privilege

SECOND ANNUAL REPORT

.

.41

or right to alter the priority, preferences, voting power, or other
rights of the holders. of an outstanding security of such company,
unless a declaration with respect to the security has .been filed with
the Commission' and has become effective. The Act also provides
that the Commission shall not permit. a declaration to- become effective unless the security meets certain specified standards and the
terms and conditions of the issue or sale are not detrimental to the
public interest or the interest of investors or consumers..
A simple form has been prescribed for these declarations (Form
U-'l) and as of June 30, 1936, the Commission had received and
passed upon 'l such declarations with respect to security issues.
There are certain security issues which are exempt from the requirements of filing a declaration. Some of these, such as specified types
of short term paper,. are exempted automatically by the statute. In
other cases, exemption is to be obtained by rule or regulation or
by order of the Commission. So far, exemptions of this kind have
all been by order. These include issues by operating public utility
companies which have been expressly approved by a State commission. Owing to the variety of State laws and of practices of
State commissions with respect to authorizing security issues, there
are sometimes difficult questions of interpretation as to whether the
action of a particular State commission constitutes approval of the
issuance within the meaning of the Federal statute.
As of June 30, 1936, the Commission had received 1'l applications
for exemption of security issues. Of these, 13 were disposed of and
4 were pending.
ACQUISITION OF SECURITIES AND UTILITY ASSETS AND OTHER
INTERESTS BY REGISTERED HOLDING COMPANIES OR THEm
SUBSIDIARIES

Acquisitions by registered holding companies or their subsidiaries
of securities, utility assets, or any other interest in any other business
come within the jurisdiction of the Commission.
An application for approval of an acquisition is filed with the
Commission on a prescribed form (Form U-10-1, Application for
Approval of Acquisition of Securities; Form U-10-2, Application
for Approval of Acquisition of Utility Assets or Interest in Business). Among the standards by which the Commission must be
guided in approving acquisitions is a requirement that no acquisition shall be approved unless the Commission finds that it will serve
the public interest by tending towards the economical and efficient
development of an integrated public utility system. The Commission must also deny an application if it will tend toward interlocking relations or concentrated control of public utility companies in a
101973-3~

42

SECURITmS

AND EXCHANGE COMMISSION

"manner detrimental to 'the 'public interest-or the interest of investors
or consumers; if the consideration to be paid is not reasonable; if
the acquisition will unduly complicate the capital structure of the
system; or if it will otherwise be detrimental to the public interest
or the interest of investors or consumers or the proper functioning
of the system.
The exemptive power of the Commission with respect to acquisitions is somewhat different from that in the case of security issues.
Certain acquisitions expressly approved by State commissions are
automatically exempted by the statute, as are also acquisitions of
Government or municipal bonds. In addition, the Commission is
given a general power to exempt by rules and regulations acquisitions
of securities for investment of current funds or acquisitions made in
the ordinary course of business of the acquiring company. Acting
under this authority, the Commission has adopted rules providing a
number of exemptions. These include purchases of certain readily
marketable securities generally considered appropriate for investment of current funds and also certain short-term paper, acquisitions
which may be necessary to comply with conversion rights or sinking
fund obligations and similar obligations, acquisitions from wholly
owned subsidiaries, the receipt of stock dividends, the buying of limited amounts of securities issued by the acquiring company or its subsidiaries, and a number of other transactions where the Commission
felt that the public interest would not require the imposition of the
standards specified in the Act.
Supervision over the reorganization of holding companies presents
one of the most important duties of the Commission., Although, as
regards its most important aspects, the reorganization section of the
Act has not yet become effective, the policy expressed by it is one
which the Commission must constantly have in mind in passing on
any transactions involving further growth of the existing systems.
As of June 30,1936, the Commission had received and acted on 16
applications for approval of acquisition of securities and 4 applications for approval of acquisition of assets.
STATEMENTS REQUIRED PURSUANT TO SECTION 12 (i) OF THE
PUBLIC UTILITY HOLDING COMPANY ACT OF 1935 .

Pursuant to the provisions of Section 12 (i) of the Public Utility
Holding Company Act of 1935, any person employed or retained by
any registered holding company, or by any subsidiary company
thereof, who presents, advocates, or opposes any matter affecting any
registered holding company or any subsidiary company thereof before the Congress, or any Member or committee thereof, or before the
Securities and Exchange Commission or the Federal Power Commission or any member, officer, or employee of either such Commis-

SECOND ANNUAL REPORT

43

sionr is-required to' fi.ie~a'statement with-the Seenrrties-and-Exchange
Commission. The information required in this statement covers the
subject matter in respect to which a person is retained or employed,
the nature and character of his retainer or employment, and the
amount of compensation received or to be received, directly or indirectly, in connection therewith.
The Commission has adopted Form U-12 (i)-1 for use in filing
this information.
As of June 30, 1936, 11 such statements had been received and
examined.
.
RULES REGARDING SERVICE, SALES, AND CONSTRUCfION
CONTRACTS

Pursuant to Section 13 of the Public Utility Holding Company
Act, the Commission promulgated rules regarding service, sales, and
construction contracts and Form U-13-1 (Application for Approval
of Mutual Service Company or Declaration with Respect to Organization and Conduct of Business of Subsidiary Service Company
Pursuant to Rule 13-22).
The Act outlaws, subject to a limited exemptive power in the Commission, the performance of service, sales, or construction contracts
by registered holding companies for their public utility subsidiaries.
Such transactions, when performed by subsidiary companies for associate companies in the same system, must be in accordance with rules
and regulations or orders of the Commission.
These rules also provide, upon approval of the Commission, for the
organization of mutual service companies.
Only one application on Form U-13-1 had been filed up to the
close of the fiscal year.
UNIFORM SYSTEM OF ACCOUNTS FOR MUTUAL SERVICE COMPANIES
AND SU~IDIARY SERVICE COMPANIES

On May 12, 1936, the Commission adopted the "Uniform System
of Accounts" for mutual service companies and subsidiary service
companies. This system became effective August 1, 1936.
This uniform system of accounts is designed for use by:
(1) Any company operating, or organized to operate, as a
mutual service company under the provisions of Section 13 of
the Public Utility Holding Company Act of 1935; and
(2) Any subsidiary company whose organization and conduct
of business the Commission has found sufficient to meet the
requirements of Section 13 (b) of the Act with respect to the
performance of sales or construction work for, or the sale of
goods to, associate companies.
,
This represents the first step in the development of uniformity in
accounting in a field where quite diverse practices have prevailed.

SECU~IES

ANI!.

.E-XCHANGE <;lOMMISSION

_The Commission has endeavored to provide, a system eomprehensive enough to.eover the field, yet elastic enough to permit adaptation
to varying requirements; a system which, faithfully. applied, will
provide information essential in the administration of- Section 13 of
the Act, will be workable and reasonably simple from an operating
viewpoint, and free from unnecessary complexities or burdensome
requirements which might render it incompatible with the interests
of investors and consumers.
.
In the preparation of this system of accounts the Commission
invited the cooperation of accounting officers of public utility holding
companies and of the American Institute of Accountants. As a result the Commission 'was accorded the active cooperation of a committee of accounting officers of the industry and also of the Special
Committee on Public Utility Accounting of the American Institute
of Accountants. These committees met with representatives of the
Commission in conference, at which extended discussion was-had on
the various issues involved in this undertaking. Criticisms and suggestions were submitted also by members of the Committee on Statistics and Accounts of the National Association of Railroad and Utility
Commissioners, all of which were carefully considered.
STUDY OF INVESTMENT TRUS~S AND INVESTMENT COMPANIES

Section 30 of the Public Utility Holding Company Act of 1935
authorizes and directs the Commission to make a study of the
functions and activities of investment trusts and investment companies, the corporate structures, and investment policies of such
trusts and companies, the influence exerted by such trusts and companies upon companies in which they are interested, and the influence
exerted by interests affiliated with the managements of such trusts
and companies, upon their investment policies, and to report the
results of its study and recommendations to the Congress on or before
January 4, 1937.
In order to acquire adequate data and information to comply with
this Congressional mandate, the Commission prepared a questionnaire to be answered by each incorporated and unincorporated investment trusts and investment companies of the management type
which had, on December 31, 1935, total assets amounting to $500,000
or more and which either had at that time 100 or more stockholders,
or had at any time made a public offering of an issue of its securities.
This questionnaire covered substantially the period from January 1,
1927, to December 31, 1935.
The questionnaire required information relating to the history and
development of investment trusts and investment companies; their
corporate structures, including the issuance, sale and distribution

e.-SEC0ND

ANNUAL REPORT

45.

of securities and the indentures and agreements relating to such
securities; the nature, scope, and extent of their activities, including
participations in underwriting syndicates and trading accounts,
options, short sales and other related matters; their investment
policies, including contents of portfolio and volume of securities
transactions; their relationship with their officers, directors, principal stockholders and with companies or firms controlled by such
persons, including compensation and loans to and transactions with
such persons. Information was sought as to the method of acquisition of subsidiaries and affiliates; the control and influence exercised
by investment trusts over companies in which the trusts are interested; and the influence exercised by interests affiliated with the
management of investment trusts upon the policies and activities of
the trusts. In addition, annual balance sheets, profit and loss accounts and various supporting schedules covering the period from
1927 to 1935 were requested.
In connection with the formulation of this questionnaire, the
Commission received the cooperation of representatives of investment companies, accounting societies, and independent accountants.
The Commission also prepared a summary statement required to
be answered by such investment trusts and. investment companies of
the management type which did not have total assets of $500,000
or more than 100 stockholders as of December 31, 1935.
Similarly, the Commission prepared, with the cooperation of the
representatives of the industry and independent accountants, questionnaires for fixed and semi-fixed investment trusts; for investment plans with periodic, installment or partial payment, endowment, thrift, or insurance provisions; and for investment companies
issuing, offering, or selling guaranteed face amount of securities
with or without optional annuity provisions. These questionnaires
required information substantially similar to that required by the
questionnaire for management type investment companies.
As of June 30,1936.,the Commission had received replies from approximately 350 management investment companies with total assets
of a. market value of approximately $1,700,000,000at the end of 1935;
from approximately 200 fixed and semi-fixed trusts with total assets
of approximately $200,000,000; from 30 investment plan companies
with aggregate assets of over $10,000,000; and from 3 guaranteed
face amount certificates companies with total assets of $100,000,000.
It is estimated that there are approximately one and one-quarter
million shareholders of investment trusts and investment plans of
all types, without allowing for undeterminable duplications, of which
number..approximately 750,000 are record shareholders of management trusts and management-companies, .

46

SECURITIES AND EXCHANGE COMMISSION

The method of study by the Commission broadly has assumed three
phases.
First, an analysis and study of the material submitted by the trusts
and companies in response to the questionnaires formulated by the
Commission. This phase includes general and comparative statistical and corporate analysis of the data submitted by the trusts and\
companies, including the history and development of these trusts and
companies.
In addition, reports on individual companies which had at any
time assets of over $10,000,000 are being prepared and conferences
with representatives of these trusts have been held or scheduled.
At some subsequent date, public hearings will be held- with respect
to the affairs of these companies.
Second, the Commission is studying the economic, statistical, and
legal material which is available from sources other than the replies
to the questionnaires.
Third, the Commission is conducting field studies of those investment trusts and investment companies which, for various reasons,
were not susceptible to study and analysis through the medium of a
questionnaire. The affairs of some of these companies will be
examined at public hearings.
COMPLAINTS, INFORMAL AND FORMAL INVESTIGATIONS

During the fiscal year ended June 30, 1936, information of fraudulent and illegal activities in violation of the Securities Act of 1933,
as amended, and the Securities Exchange Act of 1934was received by
the Commission from the public, State Securities Commissions, State
and Federal officials, and voluntary agencies such as Better Business
Bureaus, Chambers of Commerce, etc. The Commission also obtained such information from its own surveillance of trading activities and examination of registration statements.
Where the information indicated a substantial possibility of a
violation, it was handled as a complaint case. During the past year,
1,708 complaint cases were docketed. Where the information failed
to indicate any substantial possibility of a violation, the communication transmitting it was handled as general correspondence. Approximately 15,000 such communications were received during the past
year. When the Commission's initial inquiry into a complaint disclosed sufficient probability of a violation to justify investigation the
metter-was-docketed and-investigated informally. During the year,
1,479 such cases were docketed.
The investigative powers of the Commission under Sections 19 and
20 of the Securities Act and Section 21 of the Securities Exchange
Act were invoked by formal Commission orders in 229 cases during

47

SECOND ANNUAL REPORT

the past year. A t the close of the preceding fiscal year, 116 such
investigations were pending. Of these 345 inrestigations, 165 are
pending and 160 were concluded as follows:
I n 20 cases, the Commission sued for injunction in the Federal
courts and also transmitted the evidence to the Attorney General
for criminal prosecution.
I n 38 cases, srits for injunction were brought by the Commission, but the evidence mas not referred for prosecution.
I n 19 cases, evidence of willful violation mas transmitted to
the Attorney General for criminal prosecution, but injunctive
relief was not sought.
I n 3 cases, the postal authorities were apprised of the evidence
discovered and the Commission's files were made available to
them.
By order of the Commission, 80 investigations were closed
without further action.
The statistics presented above with respect to formal investigations
apply only to cases in which investigations were ordered by the Commission. I n certain other cases, the Commission instituted suits for
injunction without first ordering formal investigations or referred
cases to the Attorney General for prosecution without resorting to
formal hearings or injunctive proceedings. Similarly, in 21 cases in
which no formal investigation had been instituted, the postal authorities were advised of evidence in the Commission's possession and
the files of the Commission were made available to them.
Report of complaints, informal investioations, and f o m a l investigatio
fiscal vear 1985

8

?

for

Cases
Cdaekated Totaloases Czsesolosed
cmss
pending July 1,1834, to hs ao- July 1,1834, ~endlmg
30r July 1, 1835
Sent 1,1934 to June 30, counted lor to
1935

J;gi

-----

I

2,Z141

1

Cases set up as m u l t of complaints....................
Informal investigations................................
Formal investigations.................................

2,330

............

116

............

1

............

2,330

2,214

116 


The Commission had not adapted any method of olosing oases as of July 1, 1935; therelore none were
shown closed st that d ~ a .

Report o f complaints, informal investigations, and formal inz;estigatims for
fiscal year 1986
Cases

docketed ~otalcasesCBFeso'osed
CB~BS
Ca+
Dendlng JUI I 1935 to be ao- JU1y1,1836,
30- ~ Dendlne
J ~ I I,Y1835 to f ~ 30: e counted lor to
o l I,
y 1836
1836

Jg

48

SECURITIES AND EXCHANGE COMMISSION

HEARINGS

Hearings are conducted"with respect to many phases of the work
of the Commission, including (1) hearings in connection with registration of securities under the Securities .Act of 1933, involving
stop order and refusal order proceedings; (2) hearings in connection
with the applications for the confidential treatment of material filed
with registrations; hearings in connection with the registrations of
brokers and dealers; hearings in connection with the withdrawal and
striking from listing of securities listed or registered with national
securities exchanges; hearings in connection with the suspension of
members of exchanges for manipulative practices-all
under the
Securities Exchange Act of 1934; and (3) hearings in connection
with the acquisition of assets and the acquisition of securities,
exemptions and other matters under the Public Utility Holding
Company Act of 1935.
The statistics given below indicate the number of orders entered
for public hearings and the number of public hearings held from
July 1, 1935 to June 30, 1936.
lIearings

Orders
of 1933____________________________________________________________
Securities Ex~e
Act
Securities
Act of 1934__________________________________________________
Public Utility Ho ding Company Act of 1935____________________________________
TotaL ___________________________________________________________________:_

1

Exclusive

of protective

committee

study

I

70
46
132

!i5
37
124

248

216

hearings.

LITIGATION
LITIGATION

UNDER SECURITIES ACT OF 1933 AND SECURITIES
EXCHANGE ACT OF 1934

Since its creation, the Commission has been involved in 102 civil
actions with respect to the enforcement of the Securities .Act of 1933
and the Securities Exchange .Act of 1934. Seventy-six of these
actions arose during the fiscal year ended June 30, 1936.
Statement

indicating
number of Zitigation
cases under Securities
Securities ElJJchange Act by types of cases

Act

InItiated
Total as
during
of June
fiscal year
30,1935 I:~~,
1936

Types of cases

and

Total as
of June
30,1936

--------------------1--------Snits
by Oomml
ssion to enjoin
of Securities Act and/or
Securities
Exchange
Act________
_ violations
_________________
________________
Snits
against Exchange
Commission
Securities
Act to enjoin enforcement

of Securities
•	

totals.

•	

41
_

Snits in which Oomrmsslon has appeared and petitioned for leave to appear
as-amlcm rome or intervenor In suits involving the Securities Act
Snits
to compel appearance
and testimony
of witnesses- before __
a trial
examiner
__
_
Comparative

25

Act and/or

_
1

_

26

66

4

4

20

.20.

11

12

76

102

-SECO~

ANNU~-REPOBX

49

As a result of the suits for injunction instituted by the Commiesion, 142 firms and individuals had been permanently enjoined from
the acts and practices complained of by June 30, 1936, and 110 of
such injunctions wer~ obtained during the past fiscal year.
The principal defendants in the suits for injunction filed by the
Commission during the past year, grouped according to the Federal
District Courts in which the suits were instituted, were as follows:
Colorado______________________________Amos Downs et al.
District of Columbia
. Direct Royalty Sales Corporation et at
Southern District of Florida
. W; E. Boyette et al.
Cultivated Oyster Farms Corporation
et a1.
Southern Illinois
. Upton & Co. et al,
Grinnell F. Oliver & Co. et al,
.Alexander RUdolph E!chlepp.
Universal Service Association et at
Western District of Kentucky
. Stanley B. Young & Co. et at
Collins-Moore & Co. et al,
Massachusetts
.:
. Robert Belmont.
E. E. Nazzaro & Co., Ine., et al,
Mendel Raffe.
AImarin Tr.owbridge.
Jack Pike.
Andrew Jensen, Jr.
George' A. Fernald.
Sam Meyers.
Sidney G. Vickers.
F. S. Bryant et at
Walter S. Thompson.,
Eastern District of Michigan__________ Benners, Owens & Co. et al,
Levett & Co. et a1.
Minnesota
..:_ H. P. Wickham et al, .
NortIiern

District

of MississippL

Jack R. Vale:
Harry W. Elliott et al,
Montana_____________________________ Goldfields, Consolidated Mines, Inc., et

at
New Jersey
Southern District

Whealton Co., Inc., et al.
of New York
-Glengarry Mining Co. et al.
Karpel & Oo., Inc., et al,
John M. Torr et at
Lawrence :A. Rose et al.
Knapp Milton & Oo., Inc., et al,
Louis Weingarten & Co. et aI.
Herbert W. Schmid et al.
Northern District of Ohio____________ Otis & Co.
Western District of South Carolina
Franklin Savings & Loan Co. of Spar-

,
Northern District of Texas
Southern District of Texas
Eastern District of Washington
Western District of Wisconsin

\

.

tanburg, S. C., et al.
Carl E. Krog et al,
Walter Terry Morgan.
. Edward BiIlberg et al.
. Crude Oil Corporation of .America et al.

50

SECURITIES AND EXCHANGE COMMISSION

The principal defendants in suits to enforce subpenas filed by the
Commission during the fiscal year ended June 30, 1936, grouped
according to the districts in which they were filed, were as follows:
District {If,Columbia
!I'he Krystal Chemical Oo., Inc., et al,
Western District of Kentucky
Collins-Moore & Co. et al,
Massachusetts_________________________National Short Term Securities Corporation et al,
New Mexico
. Royalty Bond & Share Corporation et
ai,

Southern District

of New York

J. Edward Jones.
Thomas Bracken et al,
Western District of Oklahoma
Verser Clay Co. et al.
Black Gold Exploration Trust et al,
Northern District of Tennessee________ J. Edward Mills et al,
Western Dlstri~t of Washington
Arthur E. Hussey.
American Rand Corporation.

The Commission also appeared as amicus curiae in 19 civil suits
brought under Section 12 of the Securities Act of 1933. and petitioned for leave to intervene in 1 case involving a corporate
reorganization under Section 77B of the Bankruptcy Act on the
ground that certain committees had engaged in or were about to
engage in acts and practices in violation of the Securities Act.
During the course of the hearing on the Commission's motion for
a temporary injunction in the matter of Robert Collier & Co., Inc.,
Robert Collier and Eurydice Gold Mining Co., in the United States
District Court for the Southern District of New York, the question
was raised as to the right of the Commission to appear and prosecute
injunction suits by its own attorneys, without being represented by
the Attorney General of the United States or the United States
Attorney for the District. In the District Court, the complaint was
dismissed on the ground that the Commission could not appear by
its own attorneys. On appeal to the United States Circuit Court of
Appeals for the Second Circuit, this rule was reversed and the right
of the Commission to prosecute injunction suits by its own attorneys
was sustained.
PETITIONS

FOR REVIEW. IN CIRCUIT COURTS OF APPEAL

During the fiscal year ended June 30, 1936, 21 petitions were filed
in 7 Circuit Courts of Appeal for review of determinations, made
by the Commission upon application for confidential treatment of
material filed with applications for registration of securities on
various national securities exchanges, that public disclosure of mate-

51

SECOND ANNUAL REPORT

rial filed with it was in the public interest.P As of June 30, 1936,
none of these petitions have been disposed of by the courts. Appendix VI includes a statement indicating the names of the companies, the dates the petitions were filed, and the circuits within which
filed.
REFERENCES

TO THE ATTORNEY GENERAL FOR CRIMINAL
PROSECUTION

During the fiscal year, 40 cases were referred to the Attorney General for criminal prosecution, bringing the total so referred to 70.
In 69 of these cases, the evidence indicated willful violations of the
Securities Act. In the remaining case, the evidence indicated a conspiracy to violate Section 9 of the Securities Exchange Act. Most
references followed formal investigations conducted by the Commission. In 20 of these cases, the Commission instituted injunctive proceedings in addition to referring the evidence to the Attorney General.
However, in the interest' of speedy justice, the' Commission, in 19
instances referred to the Attorney General evidence of criminal violations obtained in the course of investigations without instituting injunctive proceedings, and in one case without either suing for injunction or conducting a formal investigation.
Of the 70 cases so referred, indictments containing; counts charging violations of the Securities Act were returned in 32 cases. Thirty
of such indictments were returned during the past fiscal year. In the
case involving the Securities Exchange Act, an indictment was returned containing a count which charged conspiracy to violate Section
9 (a) (2) of that Act.
Eleven of the cases involving violations of the Securities Act have
been tried ana '47 individuals convicted. Two of these persons await
sentence, and 37 have been given sentences ranging from 10 days in
jail to 5 years in the Federal penitentiary and/or fines ranging from
$100
U

to $4,000.

Subsequent to 1une 30, 1936,the following additlonel companies flled similar petitions:
Name of company

Dateflled

Circuit Court of
Appeals

American Sumatra Tobacco Corporation
1uly 9,1936
District of Columbia.
The Diamond Match Co
1uly 3,1936_______
Do.
: • BriDclMatlllr8btDrIIIg'Co
1uly'18-21,'l936:_~_ '-Second.
General Mills, Inc
1uly 23,1936
District of Columbia.
New York Trap Rock Corporation
1uly 24,1936
Second.
The
International
Nickel Co. of Canede,
Ltd________________A
ug. 25,
1936______District
Pullman,
Inc
••
Sept,
4, 1936_______
Third. of Columbia.

52

SECURITIES AND EXCHANGE COMMISSION

LITIGATION

UNDER THE .PUBLIC UTILITY

HOLDING COMPANY ACT

Shortly after the passage of the Public Utility Holding Company
Act of 1935,numerous holding companies instituted suits in the courts
attacking the constitutionality of the Act. These suits were instituted notwithstanding the fact that the Commission, the Attorney
General, and the Postmaster General had publicly disclaimed any
intention to enforce the criminal penalties of the Act until the constitutionality of the law had been established by the Supreme Court
in a civil suit to be duly instituted by the Commission. Forty-five
suits (including stockholders' suits) were brought by or in behalf of
more than 100 companies in 13 different District Courts to enjoin the
enforcement of the Act.
Seven of these suits were brought in the District of Columbia. On
December 7,1935, the Attorney General and the General Counsel of
the Commission made a motion in the Supreme Court in the District
of Columbia to stay this pending litigation until the Supreme Court
of the United States had determined the validity of the Act, in the
case of the Securities and Ewchange Oommission v, Electric Bond and
Share Oompany. After oral argument and filing a brief, the Government's motion was granted by order of January 9, 1936. On special
appeal to the United States Court of Appeals for the District of
Columbia, the order of the trial court was reversed on June 22,1936,
on the ground that the Court was without power to grant the stay
.since the parties and issues. in the different suits were not identical.
Preparation of an appropriate request to the .Supreme Court for a
writ of certiorari is now in progress."
The suits brought outside the District of Columbia have been or
.are being dismissed against the Commissioners and the Attorney
General, and the Postmaster General, either on the ground that no
proper service has been .had or on the ground that the venue is
improper. So far as these cases have been instituted against local
United States Attorneys or local postmasters, the suits aee.not being
contested.
-
 ...
.
Five stockholders' suits were brought to enjoin the enforcement
of the Act. However, only one has been carried to a decision. In
that case, PUblic Utility InvestiJng Uorporozion. v. Utilities Power and
Light (Iorporation. (82 F. 2d. 21, C. C. A., 4th, 1936), the-Court refused to enjoin registration on the ground that registration would not
cause the company any irreparable injury.
.
On November 26, 1935, the Commission, pursuant to express authority under Section 18 of the Act, brought suit in the District
1ll

Since the writing of this report the writ of certiorari has been granted.

SECOND ~UKL

REPORT

53

Court for the Southern District of New York against the Electric
Bond and Share Company and its principal intermediate holding
companies. The Commission sought an order from the Court that
the 13 holding companies in the Bond and Share system, upon whom
the Act placed a duty to register, be required to register with the
Commission or to cease from performing such functions as under the
Act may be performed only by registered holding companies. A
stipulation of facts, worked out by a staff of attorneys for the Commission, representatives of the Attorney General's office, and counsel
for the defendants, was filed with the Court on June 30, 1936. This
proceeding will provide a fair and comprehensive test of the validity
of the Act,
On September 16, 1935, the trustees of the American States Public
Service Co., debtor, in reorganization under Section 77b of the Bankruptcy Act, filed a petition in the District Court for the District of
Maryland, praying that the court determine the Act to be unconstitutional and issue instructions accordingly. Two creditors of the insolvent company filed petitions with the Court, one supporting the trustees' petition, the other, Burco, Inc., opposing the petition and alleging that the Act was constitutional. In this case, Counsel for the
Commission, together with the special assistants to the Attorney General assigned to Holding Company Act litigation, appearing as amici
curiae, urged that the Court had no jurisdiction to determine the
validity of the Act in such a proceeding, on the ground that it was
nonadversary, premature and collusive, and was totally inadequate
as a vehicle for testing the validity of an important Act of Congress.
On November 7, 1935, the Court ruled against the Government and
held the act void in its entirety (12 F. Supp. 667). On appeal by
Burco, Inc., to the Circuit Court of Appeals for the Fourth Circuit,
Counsel for the Commission and for the United States again appeared
as amici curiae, and contested the jurisdiction of the trial court. On
February 22, 1936,the decision of the District Court was affirmed and
the Act was held invalid, only, however, as applied to the debtor (81
F. 2d 721)~ Burco, Inc., then petitioned the Supreme Court of the
, United States for writs of certiorari. The Government opposed certiorari in a statement filed with the Court on March 27, 1936, on the
grounds set forth above and on the additional grounds tha.t the validity of the Act would be determined on the basis of an adequate record
in the suit which the Commission had already commenced in the District Court for the Southern District of New York against the Electric Bond & Share Co. and its principal holding company subsidiaries.
The Supreme Court denied certiorari on March 30, 1936.

54

SECURITIES AND EXCHANGE COMMISSION

An additional attempt to test the constitutionality of the Act in a
proceeding of this type was made by the trustees of the Central West
Public Service Co., debtor, in reorganization under Section 7713in the
District Court for the District of Delaware. On November 29, 1935,
the trustees' petition for a decision on the constitutionality of the Act
was denied on the ground that this attempted method of raising constitutional questions "violates accepted canons of accepted legal
procedure" (13 F. Supp. 239).
FORMAL

OPINIONS

During the past year, the Commission issued 121 formal opinions
involving matters under the Securities Act of 1933, the Securities Exchange Act of 1934 and the Public Utility Holding Company Act of
1935. These opinions were issued in the following cases :
SECURITIES
FIXING

EFFECTIVE

DATE

OF

ACT OF 1933, AS AMENDED
AMENDMENTS

TO

REGISTRATION

STATEMENTS:

In the Matter of Cornucopia Gold Mines
REFUSAL

Mar. 28, 1936

ORDERS:

In the Matter of-

International Investors Fund System, Inc
Mineral Products, Inc
STOP

May 11,1936
May 22,1936

ORDERS:

In the Matter ofAmerican Credit Corporation
Dec.
Franco Mining Corporation
Feb.
La Luz Mining Corporation
~
Oct.
Lewis American Airways, Inc
Mar.
Mutual Industrial Bankers, Inc
Jan.
National Educators Mutual Association, Inc
Aug.
(Additional Findings "and 'Opinion of the Oommission,
Jan. 17, 1936-Petition of B. I. Dahlberg.)
Newman Dick Mining &: Developing Co
Apr.
Oil Ridge Oil &: Refining CO
Oct.
Santa Lucia Mining Co
Feb.
Snow Point Mining Co., Inc
Mar.
Wee Investors Royalty CO
July

2, 1935
1,1936
4,1935
27, 1936
4,1936
28,1935
24,1936
9,1935
11,1936
14,1936
3,1935'

55

SECOND ANNUAL REPORT

SECURITIES EXCHANGE ACT OF 1934
BROKER

AND DEALl!lR:

In the Matter ofHarry George Ames
Milton Berg Arnett
S. J. Barlett
~onnan Berry & Co
David M. BlackInan
Chester M. Burns
David H. Chapman
H. B. DufieL
Stanley J. Graham
Industrial Engineering Co
Donald Montague & Co., Inc
Gerald Owens
Ruth D. Reid
Howard M. Roberts Co
William W. Venner
Charles C. Willson

_
_
_
_
_
_
_
_
_
_
_
_
_
_
_
_

Dec.

26, 1935

Do.

5,1935
19, 1935
Dec.
12, 1935
Dec. 30,1935
Do.
Dec.
5,1935
Dec. 21, 1935
May 23, 1936
May 14,1936
Apr. 9,1936
Dec. 26,1935
Dec. 30,1935
May 5,1936
Apr. 2,1936
_
May 26,1936

Do

Dec.
Dec.

MANIPULATION:

In the Matter ofMichael J. Meehan ,
Charles C. Wright et al,

_ Dec.
6,1936
_ May 22,1936

PUBLIC UTILITY HOLDING
ACQUISITION

COMPANY

OF ASSETS:

In the Matter ofFall River Electric Light Co
Massachusetts Power & Light Associates
Montana-Dakota
Utilities Co
Nevada-California Electric Corporation
New England.Power AssQciAtion
ACQUISITION

ACT OF 1935

_
_
_
_
_

Do.
Mar. 13, 1936
Apr. 16, 1936
May 16,1936

OF SECURITIES:

In the Matter ofMassachusetts Lighting Cos
Massachusetts Utilities Assoelatea,
Do
The Middle West COrporation
Do
~
Public Service Co. of New Hampshire
North Boston Lighting Properties
lVashington Gas Light Co
DECLARING

May 16,1936

ApPLICANT

NOT

TO

BE

AN

Dec. 28,1935
Do.
Jan. 17,1936
Dec. 28,1935
June 16, 1936
May 28,1936
Dec. 28,1935
Apr. 11,1936
ELECTRIC

UTILITY

COMPANY:

In the Matter of Natrona

Light & Power Co

Apr.

4,1936

56

SECURITIES AND EXCHANGE

DECLARING

ApPLICANT

NOT TO BE A HOLDING

COMMISSION
COMPANY:

--

In the Matter of~
Clearfield Bituminous Coal Corporation
Irving Trust Co., Trustee in Bankruptcy ofNational Electric Power Co.,National Public Service
Corporation, Seaboard Public Service Co., and
Electric Management & Engineering Corporation,
Italian Superpower Corporation
The Lehigh Coal & Navigation Co
Montana-Dakota Utilities Co
DECLARING
SPECIFIED

ApPLICANT
HOLDING

NOT TO BE SUBSIDIARY

COMPANIES

Mar. 31, 1936

Jan.
Jan.
May
Mar.

10, 1936
29,1936
23,1936
27, 1936

OF A

COMPANY:

In the Matter ofCresson Electric Light Co., Gallitzin Electric Light Co.,
and Hastings Electrical Co
Mar. 31, 1936
EXEMPTION

OF SECURITY ISSUE

PURSUANT

TO SECTION

6 (b):

In the Matter ofConnecticut River Power Co
Feb. 12, 1936
East Missouri Power Co
Mar. 30, 1936
The Georgetown Gaslight Co
Apr. 11,1936
Do.
Georgetown Gaslight Co. of Montgomery County, Md.,.,
Prince George's Gas Corporation_____________________
Do.
Rosslyn Gas Co____________________________________ Do.
Jan. 17,1936
Southeastern Massachusetts Power & Electric Co
Washington Gas Light Co
Apr. 11,1936
Do.
Washington Gas Light Co. of Montgomery County, Md.,
EXEMPTION

FROM PROVISIONS

OF THE ACT:

In the Matter ofAltoona & Logan Valley Electric Railway Co
Mar. 31,1936
American Community Power Co
June 23,1936
(Protective Committee under Deposit Agreement
dated as of Jan. 15, 1932, for Secured Gold
Debentures, 5~% Series due 1953.)
Berwind-White Coal Mining Co
Apr. 4,1936
Central Indiana Power Co
Apr. 30,1936
The Columbus, Delaware & Marion Electric Co
June 23,1936
The Connecticut Power Co
Jan. 4,1936
- Consolidated Coal Co. Consol Power Co.
Apr. 24,1936
Consolidated Utilities Oorporatlon.. ,
Mar. 31, 1936
J. G. Curtis Leather Co
Mar. 27, 1936
Dominion Electric Power, Ltd
Apr. 4,1936
~
Electric Co. of Costa Rica
;Mar. 31; 1936
~-------Engineering Investors Corporation
Apr. 30,1936
~
Georgia Power & Light Co
June 23, 1936
Halsey, Stuart & Co., Inc
Mar. 27,1936
Holyoke Water Power Co
Mar. 31, 1936
Hydro Electric Securities Co
Mar. 27, 1936
The Indiana Natural Gas & Oil CO
May 16,1936
June 29,1936
Indianapolis Power & Light Co
International Public Service Corporation and AmericanYugoslav Electric Co
Apr. 30,1936
June 29,1936
The Islands Gas & Electric Co
Long Island Lighting Co
Mar. 27, 1936

57

SECOND ANNUAL REPORT
FROM PROVISIONS OF THE AC'J.'-{Jontinued.
In the Matter of-eontinued.
Louisville Gas & Electric Co
Lynn Gas & Electric Co. and trustees
The Narragansett Electric Co
, 'I'he Nashville, Chattanooga & St. Louis Railway Co __
Northeastern Utility Associates and South Shore Utilities Associates

ExEMPUON

June
Mar.
May
Mar.

29,1936
27, 1936
28,1936
27, 1936

June 23,1936

Northern Pennsylvania Power Co. and The Waverly
Electric Light & Power Co
June 29,1936
Northern States Power Co
June 23,1936
Oxford Paper Co
Mar. 31,1936
Pacific Lighting Corporation
Jan. 13,1936
Mar. 31, 1936
Pennsylvania Coal & Coke Corporation
Pennsylvania Water Service Co
July
1,1936
Philokla Gas Co. & Phillips Petroleum Co
May 23,1936
Planta Electrica, Inc
Mar. 31,1936
Rockland Light & Power Co
Mar. 27, 1936
St. Croix Falls Wisconsin Improvement Co
June 30,1936
Saugerties Gas Light Co
May 23,1936
Scranton-Spring Brook Water Service Co
June 29,1936
The Singer Manufacturing Co
Mar. 27,1936
Southern States Power Co
Apr. 14,1936
William R. Staats Co. and San Gorgonio Electric
poration

FIXING

Cor-

June 23, 1936

Standard Oil Co. (an Indiana corporation)
Stanollnd Oil & Gas Co. and The Shannon Gas & Electric Co
The Stark Electric Railroad Co
Stearns Coal & Lumber Co__________________________
The Texas Corporation
Union Pacific Railroad Co

Apr. 11,1936
May 23,1936
Mar. 31,1936
Do.
May 20,1936
Apr. 22,1936

United States Steel Corporation, American Sheet & Tin
Plate Co. ,Carnegie-Illinois Steel Corporation, Tennessee
Coal, Iron & Railroad Co., and Illinois Steel Co
West Indiana Utilities Co
Western Massachusetts Cos
Westmoreland Coal Co
J. G. White & Co
Wisconsin Power & Light Co
I>o
I>o

May
Apr.
Mar.
Mar.
Apr.
Mar.
May
June

23,1936
30,1936
27,1936
31,1936
30,1936
27,1936
29,1936
2~ 1936

Wisconsin Public Service Corporation

June

8,1936

DATE FOR DECLARATION TO BECOME EFFECTIVE:

In the Matter ofThe Middle West Corporation
Public Service Co. of Oklahoma
PERMITTING

DECLARATION TO BECOME

In the Matter of Southwestern

101973-36--5

Dec. 28,1935
Feb. 17,1936

EFFECTIYE:

Gas & Electric Co

Dec. 19,1935

58

SECURITmS

AND EXCHANGE COMMISSION

SECURITIES VIOLATIONS FILES

During the year, considerable progress was made in assembling and
compiling information for the securities violations files. As stated
in the last annual report, these files were established on May 1, 1935,
to provide a control index and clearing house for information relating
to securities frauds in the United States and Canada.
As of June 30, 1936, the Commission has assembled data regarding the records of 21,775 persons against whom State and Federal
action has been taken during the past 10 years in connection with
the sale of securities.
The Commission has continued negotiations with the Post Office
Department, the Federal Bureau of Investigation, State Securities
Commissions, State and Federal prosecuting officials, Better Business Bureaus, Chambers of Commerce, etc., with a view .to securing
records and information for the securities violations files and in order
to supply these agencies with information available in these files and
useful to such agencies.
A monthly confidential bulletin is published and sent to approximately 750 of the agencies engaged in the prevention and punishment
of securities frauds. The information published in these bulletins
has aided materially in the apprehension of persons wanted for securities violations.
REPORT ON THE STUDY AND INVESTIGATION OF PROTECTIVE AND
REORGANIZATION COMMITTEES

Pursuant to Section 211 of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934,
which authorized and directed the Commission to make a study and
investigation of the work, activities, personnel, and functions of protective and reorganization committees, the Commission made an intensive and thorough study and investigation of these committees.
The statute directed the Commission to report the result of its
studies and investigations and its recommendations to the Congress
on or before January 3, 1936. The magnitude of the task prevented
the completion of the investigation in time to compile and assemble
the voluminous factual material into a report within the time permitted by the mandate, although a strenuous endeavor was made to
do so. However, a preliminary report was submitted to the Congress
on January 3, 1936.'"
The Commission is preparing its final report in 7 parts. Three
parts have been completed and submitted to Congress as follows:
PARTIII which was transmitted to the Congress on June 3 193G,
pertains to the Committees for the Holders of Real Estate
Bonds.

SECOND ANNUAL REPORT

59

PARTIV which was transmitted to the Congress on May 2, 1936,
pertains to the Committees for the Holders of Municipal and
Quasi-Municipal Obligations.
PARTVI which was transmitted to the Congress on June 18, 1936,
pertains to Trustees under Indentures.
The other parts of the report in preparation deal with (1) Committees and other Agencies for holders of foreign governmental
issues; (2) the various techniques for effecting reorganizations; (3)
the problems of control and regulation of all reorganization and protective committees; and (4) suggestions for amendments to the Bankruptcy Act and for comprehensive reorganization legislation.
PUBLIC REFERENCE ROOMS

The three Acts administered by the Commission provide for the
furnishing to the public, under such regulations and at such reasonable cost as the Commission may prescribe, the information contained in registration statements, applications, reports, declarations"
and other public documents filed with the Commission.
During the past year more than 13,900 members of the public
visited the Public Reference 'Room of the Commission in Washington, D. C., for the purpose of seeking registered public information.
Many thousands of letters and telephone calls relating to public
information were received. Several thousand orders for photostatic copies of registered public information were also received.
These orders involved over 274,000pages.
In April 1936 the Commission established public reference rooms
in the Chicago and New York Regional Offices. In the public reference room of the Chicago Regional Office there will be available to
the public such copies of the applications for permanent registration
of securities registered on the New York Stock Exchange and the
New York Curb Exchange as have received final examination in the
Commission. In the public reference room of the New York Regional Officethere will be available to the public such copies of applications for permanent registration of securities on the Chicago Curb
Exchange, the Chicago Stock Exchange, and the Chicago Board of
Trade as have received final examination in the Commission.
The rules of the Commission provide that each issuer of a security
registered on a national securities exchange shall file an annual report
with the Commission. These annual reports are designed to keep up
to date the information filed in original applications for permanent
registration, and they are to be filed not more than 120 days after
the close of each fiscal year ending on or after December 31, 1935.
These reports will also be made available to the public in the public
reference rooms in the New York and Chicago Regional Officesin the

60

SECURITIES AND EXCHANGE COMMISSION

same manner- as the applications for permanent registration of
securities, as described in the preceding paragraph ..
Photostatic copies of registered public information may be obtained
from the officesof the Commission at Washington only.
PUBLICATIONS

Information concerning the activities of the Commission is made
available to the public through releases issued to the press and
through the medium of a mailing list established for the convenience
of those members of the public who wish to receive releases currently.
Releases are issued announcing rules, regulations, orders, opinions,
findings, filings of registration statements and applications, effectiveness of registration statements, public hearings, and reports and
:statements filed by security issuers, officers, directors, and principal
.stockholders, The releases of the Commission are classified according to subject, and members of the public may have their names
placed upon the mailing list, to receive any or all classes of releases.
During the year ended June 30, 1936, the Commission published
448 releases concerning its activities under the Securities Act of 1933,
450 releases under the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, and 268
releases under the Public Utility Holding Company Act of 1935.
Of the total 1,166 releases issued under the three Acts, 509 releases
were announcements concerning registration statements and applications filed with the Commission j 242 releases contained orders of the
Commission; 141 releases were announcements of rules, regulations,
and amendments; and 274 releases dealt with announcements of
public hearings, legal opinions, effective registrations, statistical
analyses, and a few miscellaneous announcements.
In addition to the above releases the following publications were
issued by the Commission during the year: 13
Official Summary of Stock Transactions and Holdings, issued
semimonthly, as well as a Base Summary showing the holdings
of Officers, Directors, and Principal Stockholders, as of December 31, 1935.
Directory of Over-the-Counter Brokers and Dealers registered
with the Securities and Exchange Commission, as of January
31,1936.
List of securities registered, exempt from registration, or admitted to unlisted trading privileges under the Securities Exchange Act, as of June 30, 1936.
Uniform System of Accounts for Mutual Service Companies
and Subsidiary Service Companies under the Public Utility
Holding Company Act of 1935.
Report to the Congress on Trading in Unlisted Securities
upon Exchanges.
11

For list of publications available as of Sept. 30, 1936, see Appendix IV.

61

SECOND ANNUAL REPORT

Report to the Congress on the Feasibility and Advisability of
the Complete Segregation of the Functions of Dealer and
Broker.
Preliminary Report to the Congress on the Study and Investigation of Protective and Reorganization Committees.
Report to the Congress on the Study and Investigation of the
Work, Activities, Personnel, and Functions of Protective and
Reorganization Committees:
PARTIII-Committees
for the Holders of Real Estate Bonds.
PART IV-Committees
for the Holders of Municipal and
Quasi-Municipal Obligations.
PART V-Trustees under Indenture.
PERSONNEL

The Commission and personnel, at the close of the fiscal year, consisted of 1,077 persons. This total comprised 5 Commissioners and
1,072 employees, 698 of whom were men and 374 were women.
Statistics
Commissiollers_____________________________________________
Dapartmental

:

Permanent
Temporary_____________________________________________
Regional offices:
Permanent_____________________________________________
Temporary_____________________________________________
Subject to retirement act;

5
816
36
209
11
593

RULES OF PRACTICE OF THE COMMISSION

During the year Rules of Practice were adopted governing appearance and practice before the Commission, hearings, evidence,
motions, depositions, filing of reports, exceptions, briefs, and other
papers. These rules became effective September 13, 1935.H
.ADMISSIONS

TO

PRACTICE

Rule II of the Rules of Practice, as amended, which contain the
provisions governing admissions to practice, provides that persons
whom the Commission finds, on consideration of their application, to
be of good moral character and to possess the requisite qualifications
to represent others may be admitted to practice as Attorney or Agent
before the Commission. The Commission adopted forms of application for admission to practice as Attorney and as Agent.
Effective November 1, 19B5, a register has been maintained in
which the names and addresses of all persons admitted to practice
before the Commission have been entered. The :following statistics
.. The Rules of Practice as amended Nov. 4, 1936, appear in Appendix I.

62

SECURITIES AND EXCHANGE COMMISSION

number of applications received, t h e number of persons
practice, and the number of applications pending as of
J u n e 30, 1936:
indicate the
admitted t o

Attorneys....................................................
Agent%......................................................

aa 

11


Total...................................................

1.357

47


FISCAL AFFAIRS
APPROPRIATIONS

The Congress appropriated $3,029,494 f o r the
the fiscal year 1936. This amount was derived

Colnmission during
f r o m the following

sources :

Independent Ofaces Appropriation Act, flscal year 1936
Salaries and expenses..---_.-_.---.--------.-$2,234,491 

Printing and binding------.-_.------------.-.30.000

/

$2,264,494
Supplemental Appropriation Act, fiscal year 1936
Salaries and expenses
$750,WO
Printing and binding---__-_--_-------.-.-15,000
765,000

.

Total--------.-------------..------.-_---.----_.-_---

3,029,494

EXPENDITURES AND OBLIGATIOKS

The expenditures and obligations for the fiscal year ended J u n e 30,
19SG, are as follows:

Salaries
Departmental
Permanent.
....................................... $1,928,040
Temporary----.-_----.-------------.-.--.----..-.-.
43,820
Field .
.................................................. 498,525 

Mileam and witness fees.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
. 25,093 

Supplies and materials.
.........................................104,2%3 

o a l n c a t l n i c e.
......................................... 47,132 

T r a ~ e lexpcnse.~.~~.~.~-~sese.sesesesesese.sesesesesesese..se........ 135,793 

Transportation of thugs .
........................................
1,741 

Reporting h a g.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
21,148 

H e i
t and power.
..........................................
2,320
Rents.----.-..----.----------a----.-------.---...
50,274
Repairs and alterations--..--.-----------------.-.---.-.---.---.9,549
Special and miscellaneous eapenscs-----..-----.-----.---1,897
Purchase of equiprnent_-..--~._---~~.-.----..-.--.------.-~91,Oq5
S

t. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 2,983,675 


63

SECOND ANNUAL REPORT
Printing and binding

_

Grand total obligations

342,699

-_______________________3,006,374

lJnobligated balance_____________________________________________
Available funds

23,120
3, 029,494

JdISCELLANEOlJS

RECEIPTS

The disposition of miscellaneous receipts for the fiscal year ended
June 30, 1936, is as follows: .

Character of receipts

Transferred
to General
Fund 01
Treasury
during fiscal
year

Deposit
Account at
end olfiscal
year

Fees:Copying fees________________
$12,590 72
$9,318.34
Registration of securities ____ 292, 024.37
Zl5,024.32
Registration of exchanges____ 434,050.33
10, 069.64
Donations to United States.. ____
196.53 - ... _ .... .... _----Total ____________________
738, 861. 95

Subtotal

In Special
Deposit Aoamount
count at begln- Net
in
nlng of fiscal collected
1936
fiscal
yesr (lsss reyesr
funds account
excessive fees)

$21,909.06
567,048.69
444,119.97
196.53

$1,016.45
70,197.80
61,659.86
------------- ... --

In Special

294, 412. 30

1, 033, Zl4. 25

132,874.11

$20,892.61
496,850.89
382,460.11
196.53
900,400.14

PART III
APPENDIX I

RULES OF PRACTICE AS AMENDED NOVEMBER 4, 19::6

RULE I
BUSINESS HOURS-REGIONAL

OFFICES

The principal office of the Commission at Washington, D. C., is
open on each business day, excepting Saturdays, from 9 a. m. to
4: 30 p. m., and on Saturdays from 9 a. m. to 1 p. m, Regional
officesare maintained at New York, Boston, Atlanta, Chicago, Fort
W 0: th, .Denver, San Francisco, and Seattle.

RULE II
APPE.ABANCE AND PRACTICE BEEORE THE COMMISSION 1

(a) An individual may appear in his own behalf, a member of a
partnership may represent the partnership, a bona-fide officer of
a corporation, trust, or association may represent the corporation,
trust, or association, and an officeror employee of a state commission
or of a department or political subdivision of a state may represent
the state commission or the department or political subdivision of
the state, in any proceeding.
(b) A person may be represented in any proceeding by an attorney
at law duly admitted to practice before the Commission.
(c) A person shall not be 1epresented at any hearing before the
Commission or a trial examiner except as stated in paragraphs (a)
and (b) of this rule.
(d) In all matters other than hearings before the Commission or
a trial examiner, a person may be represented by an agent who is
duly admitted to practice before the Commission.
(e) All persons appearing before or transacting business with the
Commission in a representative capacity may be required to file
powers of attorney with the Commission showing their authority to
act in such capacity.
(f) A register will be maintained by the Oommission in which will
he entered the names and addresses of all persons admitted to prac1Appearance and practice before the Commission nnder the Public Utility
HoldiDs
Company Act of 1935 is subject also to the requtrements of Sec. 12 (1) of that Act.

64

SECOND ANNUAL REPORT

tree before the Commission. Only individual members of firms will
be admitted.
(g) Subject to the provisions of paragraphs (e) and (I) of this
rule, the following classes of persons whom the Commission finds, on
consideration of their applications, to be of good moral character
and to possess the requisite qualifications to represent others, may be
admitted to practice before the Commission:
(1) Attorneys at law who are admitted to practice before any
court of the United States, or the highest court of any State or
Territory.
(2) Any person, not an attorney, to be designated as agent,
who is a citizen of the United States and who shall, in the opinion
of the Commission, possess the necessary education, training, experience, and technical qualifications which would enable him
properly to represent others before the Commission.
(h) An application for admission to practice shall be addressed
to the Securities and Exchange Commission, vVashington, D. C.,
stating under oath the name, residence address, and business address
of the applicant. In the case of an attorney, the time and place of
admission to the bar and 'whether the applicant has ever been suspended or disbarred as an attorney in any court or jurisdiction shall
be stated. In the case of an agent, the application shall state briefly
his education, training, experience, and technical qualifications.
(i) In the discretion of the Commission or trial examiner, an attorIley at law may be permitted to appear for the purpose of any proceeding, though not theretofore admitted to practice before the Commission in the way prescribed.
(j) All persons appearing in any proceeding shall conform to the
standards of conduct generally required of practitioners at law.
(k) The Commission may deny admission to, suspend, or disbar any
person who is found by the Commission not to possess the requisite
qualifications to represent others, or to be lacking in character, integrity, or proper professional conduct. A person who has been admitted to practice may be suspended '01' disbarred only after he has
been afforded an opportunity to be heard; 'but contemptuous conduct
at any hearing before the Commission or a trial examiner shall be
ground for exclusion from said hearing and for summary suspension
without a hearing for the duration of the proceeding.

RULE ITl
NOTICE OF HEARINGS IN CERTAIN PROCEEDINGS

(a) Whenever a hearing is ordered by the Commission in any
proceeding under Section 8 of the Securities Act of 1933,as amended,
notice of such hearing shall be given by the Secretary or other duly

66

SECURITIES AND EXCHANGE COMMISSION

designated officer of the Commission to the person designated in the
registration statement as being authorized to receive service and notice
of orders and notices issued by the Commission relating to such registration statement. Such notice shall state the time and place of hearing and shall include a statement of the items in the registration statement by number or name which appear to be incomplete or inaccurate
in any material respect or to include any untrue statement of a material fact or to omit a statement of any material fact required to be
stated therein or necessary to make the statements therein not misleading. Such notice shall be given either by personal service or by confirmed telegraphic notice a reasonable time in advance of the hearing.
The personal notice or the confirmation of the telegraphic notice shall
be accompanied by a short and simple statement of the matters to be
considered and determined.
(b) Whenever a hearing is ordered by the Commission in any
other proceeding, notice of such hearing shall be given by the Secretary or other duly designated officer of the Commission to the registrant, applicant, or other person Or persons entitled to receive the
same. Such notice shall state the time and place of hearing
and shall include a short and simple statement of the matters to be
considered and determined. Such notice shall be given by personal
service, registered mail, or confirmed telegraphic notice, a reasonable
time in advance of the hearing.
(c) Notice of any hearing before a trial examiner which may be
called on the question of postponement of the effective date of regis~
tration of a broker or dealer under Section 15 (b) of the Securities
Exchange Act of 1934, as amended, pending final determination
whether such registration shall be denied, shall state that no trial
examiner's report will be made on the question of postponement of
registration, and that such question of postponement will be considered and determined by the Commission on the transcript of the
testimony, and that prior to determination of such question of postponement the broker or dealer will be entitled to be heard before the
Commission on the transcript.

'RULE IV
REARIN08--EVIDENCE

(a) Hearings shall be held as ordered by the Commission.
(b) All hearings, except hearings, if ordered, on objections to
public disclosure of information pursuant to the provisions of Clause
30 of .Schedule A of the Securities Act of 1933, .as amended, or
Section 24 (b) of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended,
or Section 22 (b) of the Public Utility Holding Company' Act of
t935, shall be public, unless 'otherwise ordered by the Commission,

SECOND ANNUAL REPORT

67

and shall be held before the Commission, one or more of its members,
or a duly designated officer herein referred to as the trial examiner.
(0) Hearings shall be stenographically reported and a transcript
thereof shall be made which shall be a part of the record of the
proceeding. Transcripts will be supplied to the parties by the official
reporter at such rates as may be fixed by contract between the
Commission and the reporter.
(d) Objections to evidence before the Commission or trial exam
iner shall be in short form, stating the grounds of objections relied
upon, and the transcript shall not include argument or debate thereon
except as ordered by the Commission or the trial examiner. Rulings
by the Commission or trial examiner on such objections shall be a
part of the transcript,
(e) In any proceeding the Commission or the trial examiner may
call for the production of further evidence upon any issue.
RULE V
MOTIONS

(a) Motions before the Commission or the trial examiner shall state
briefly the purpose thereof and all supporting affidavits, records, and
other papers, except such as have been previously filed, shall be filed
with such motions and clearly referred to therein.
(b) _Motions in any proceeding before a trial examiner which relate
to the introduction or striking of evidence may be ruled on by the trial
examiner. Exception to any such ruling must be noted before the
trial examiner in order to be urged before the Commission. All othermotions in any proceeding before a trial examiner shall be reserved
and shall be ruled upon by the Commission.

RULE VI
:EXTENSIONS OF TlME-eoNTlNUANCES

AND ADJOURNMENTS

Except as otherwise expressly provided by law, the Commission for
cause shown may extend any time limits prescribed by these rules for
filing any papers, and may continue or adjourn any hearing. A hearing before a trial examiner shall begin at the time and place ordered
by the Commission, but thereafter may be adjourned from time to
time by the Commission or trial examiner.
RULE VII
DEPOSITIONS

(a) The Commission may, for cause shown, order testimony to be
taken by deposition.

68

i

I'

I,

11,;

I


' 1!'

1, 


.I


SECURITIES AND EXCHA~-GECOXMISSION

(b) Any party desiring to take a deposition shall make application
in writing, setting forth the reasons why such deposition should be
taken, the name and residence of the mitness, and the matters concerning which it is expected the witness will testify. Thereupon the Commission may, in its discretion, issue an order which will name the
witness whose deposition is to be taken and specify the time when, the
place where, and the designated officer before whom the mitness is to
testify. Such order shall be served upon all parties by the Secretary,
or other duly designated officer of tile Commission, a reasonable time
in advance of the time fixed for taking testimony.
(c) Witnesses ~rhosetestimony is taken by deposition shall bo
s \ ~ o r nor shall affirm before any questions are put to them. Ezch
question propounded shall be recorded and the answers shall be taken
down in the words of the witness.
(d) Objxtions to the form of questions or answers must be made
before the officer taking the deposition and if not so made, shall be
deemed waived.
( e ) The testimony shall be reduced to writing by the officer, or
nnder his direct,ion, after which the deposition shall be subscribed
by the witness and certifiad in usual form by the officer. The original fieposition and exhibits shall be forwarded under seal to the
Secretary of the Conlmission with such number of copies as may be
requested by the Secretary of the Commission. Upon receipt thereof
the Secretary shall file the original in the proceedings and shall
forvard a copy to each party or his attorney of record.
( f ) Such depositions shall conform to the specifications of
Rule XIV.
(g) Depositions not received in evidence at a hearing before the
Comlnission or a trial examiner shall not constitute a part of the
record in any proceedirig, unless the parties shall so agree, or the
Commission shall so order.
(h) Dapositions may also be taken and submitted on written interrogatories in substantially the same manner as depositions taken by
oral examination. The interrogat~oriesshall be filed with the application in triplicate, and copies thereof shall be served on all other
parties by the Secretary or other duly designated officer of the Commission. Within 5 days any other party may A l e witli the Sjcretary
his objxtions, if any, to such interrogatories, and may file such crossinterrogatories as he desires to submit. Cross-interrogatories shall
be filed in triplicate, pnd copies shall be served on all other parties,
who shall have 3 day6 thereafter to file their objections, if any, to
such cross-interrogato;ks. Objections to interrogatories or crassinterrogatories shall be .settled by the Commission or trial examiner.

SEOOND ANNUAL REPORT

69

Objections to interrogatories shall be made before the order for taking the deposition issuesaiid if not so made shall be deemed waived.
Wben a depwition is taken upon written interrogatories and crossinterrogatories, neither party shall be present or represented, and no
persol1 other than the witness, a stenographic reporter, and the officer shall be present a t the examination of the vitness, which fact
shall be certified by the officer, who shall propound the interrogatories
and cross-interrogatories to the witness in their order and reduce the
testimony to writing in the witness' own words.

RULE V I I I
mrnr. E~AXINER'S
REPORT

( a ) Following any h a r i n g before a trial examiner on the question
of postponement of the effective date of registration of a broker or
dealer under Section 15 (b) of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934,.
as amended, pending final determination whether such registration
shall be denied, the transcript of the testimony shall forthwith be
filed with the Secretary of the Commission.
(6) Following any hearing before a trial examiner relating to any
matter other than the question of postponen~entof the effective date
of registration of a broker or dealer under Section 15' (b) of the
Securities Exeha~lgeA4ct of 1931, as amended, pending final determination whether such registration shall be denied, the trial examiner shall, within 10 days after receipt of the transcript of the testimony, file with the Secretary of the Commission his report pontaining his findings of f a d .
( c ) Such report shall be adviso~yonly, and the findings of fact
therein contained shall not be bin2ing upon the Commission. The
initial page of the report shall contain a statenlent to such effect. I n
any proceeding in which, under the provisions of Rule XI1 (b) of
the Rules of Practice of the Commission, the report is first to be made
available to the public on the opening date of public hearing on the
lnerits before the Commission, the initial page of the report shall also
contain a statement to the effect that the report is confidential, shall
not be made public, and is for the use only of the Commission, the
respondent or respondents, and counsel; but copies of the report issued
on or after such opening date may omit such statement.
(d) A copy of such report shall be forthwith served on each party
by the Secretary or other duly designated officer of the Commission.
( e ) The trial examiner, in his discretion, may request from each
party or his attorney a statement in writing in terse outline setting
forth proposed findingz of fact. Such statements shall not be ex-

70

SECURITIES AND EXGHANGE COMMISSION

changed between counsel and shall not be argued before the trial
examiner. Any such statement shall be submitted within 5 days after
the transcript has been filed with the Secretary of the Commission.
(I) The provisions of this rule and of Rules IX, X, and XI shall
not be applicable to hearings pursuant to Clause 30 of Schedule A
of the Securities Act of 1933, as amended, or hearings pursuant to
Section 24 (b) of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended,
or hearings pursuant to Section 22 (b) of the Public Utility Holding
Company Act of 1935.

RULE IX
EXCEPTIONS

Any party may, within 5 days after receipt of a copy of the trial
examiner's report, file exceptions to the findings of the trial examiner
-or Ius failure to make findings, or to the admission or exclusion of
.evidence, A copy of such exceptions shall be forthwith served on
'each party by the Secretary or other duly designated officer of the
'Commission. Exceptions shall be argued only at the final hearing
on the merits before the Commission.
RULE X
BRmFS

(a) Any party to a proceeding may file a brief in support of his
contentions within 15 days from the date of service on such party
of a copy of the t~ial examiner's report, or in the case of hearings
before the Commission within 15 days from the time the transcript
of the testimony is filed with the Secretary of the Commission.
(b) All briefs shall be confined to the particular matters in issue.
Reply briefs shall be confined to matters in original briefs of opposing parties. Any scandalous or impertinent matter contained in any
brief may be stricken on order of the Commission.
(c) All briefs containing more than 10 pages shall include an
index and table' of cases. The date of each brief must appear on its
front cover or title page. If briefs are typewritten or mimeographed,
10 copies shall be filed; if printed, 20 copies. No briefs shall exceed
60 pages in length, except with the permission of the Commission.
(d) Copies of briefs shall be served by the Secretary or other duly
designated officerof the Commission on the opposing party or parties
and reply briefs may be filed within 5 days thereafter. Briefs not
filed on or before the time fixed in these rules will be received only
by special permission of the Commission.

71

SECOND ANNUAL REPORT.

RULE XI
HEARINGS ON REVIEW BEFORE THE COMMISSION

(a) Upon written request of any party, which must be made within
the time provided for filing the original briefs, the matter will be set
down for oral argument before the Commission.
(b) If oral argument before the Commission is not requested, the
matter will be considered without argument by the Commission on
the record of the .hearing before the Commission or trial examiner,
the trial examiner's report, exceptions thereto, and the respective
briefs submitted.
( c) No exception to a trial examiner's report need be considered by
the Commission unless such exception shall have been filed with the
Commission within the time prescribed in these rules. Exceptions
not briefed may be treated as waived.
(rl) If any party shall apply to the Commission for leave to adduce
additional evidence, and shall show to the satisfaction of the Commission that such additional evidence is material and that there were
reasonable grounds for failure to adduce such evidence at the hearing
before the Commission or the trial examiner, the Commission may
hear such additional evidence or may refer the proceeding to the trial
-examiner for the taking of such additional evidence.
RULE XII
FILING PAPER8-noCKE'I'--C01\IPUTATION

OF TIllIE

, (a) All reports, exceptions, briefs, and other papers required to
be filed with the Commission in any proceeding shall be filed with the
Secretary, except that all papers containing data as to which confidential treatment is sought pursuant to Rules 580, UB2 or 22B-l of the
Rules and Regulations of the Commission, together with applications
making objection to the disclosure thereof, shall be filed with the
Chairman. Any such papers may be sent by mail or express to the
-officer with whom they are directed to be filed, but must be received
by such officer at the officeof the Commission in ,:V ashington, D. C.,
within the time limit, if any, for such filing, except that in any case
where the hearing has been held in a district within which a regional
officehas been established, papers filed under Rules VIII (e), IX, X
and XI (a) may be filed with the Regional Administrator for the
District, within the times prescribed. The Regional Administrator
shall immediately transmit such papers to the Secretary or Chairman
-of the Commission, as the case may be in accordance with the provi.sions of this rule.

72

SECURITIES AND EXCHANGE COMMISSION

(0) All papers containing data as to which confidential treatment
is sought pursuant to Rules 580, UB2, or 22B-1 of the Rules and
Regulations of the Commission, together with applications making
objection to the disclosure thereof, shall be made available to the
public only in accordance with the applicable provisions of Rules
580 (h), UB2 (i), or 22B-l (b). All reports, exceptions, briefs, and
other papers filed in connection with any hearing pursuant to Section
15 (b) or Section 19 (a) (3) of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934,
as amended, shall first be made available to the public on the opening
date of public hearing on the merits before the Commissien,
(c) The Secretary shall maintain a docket of all proceedings, and
each proceeding shall be assigned a number.
(d) 'When the time prescribed by these rules or by the Commission
for doing any act expires on a Sunday or legal holiday, such time
shall be extended to include the next succeeding day that is not a
Sunday or a legal holiday, but Sundays and legal holidays shall be
included in computing the time allowed for doing any act.
(e ) Unless otherwise specifically provided in these rules, an original and eight copies of all papers shall be filed, unless the same be
printed, in which case 20 copies shall be filed.

RULE XIII
SERVICE OF REPORTS, EXCEPTIONS, BRIEFS, AND OTHER PAPERS

Except as otherwise specifically provided by law 01' by these rules,
all reports, exceptions, briefs, or other documents 01' papers required
by these rules to be served on any party to a proceeding shall be served
by the Secretary or other duly designated officerof the Commission as
follows:
(1) Service, except on counsel for the Commission, shall be
made by personal service on the party or his attorney of record
or by registered mail addressed to the party or his attorney of
record.
(2) Service on counsel for the Commission shall be made by
delivery to the head of the Division to which such counsel is
assigned.

RULE XIV
FORMAL REQUIREMENTS

AS TO PAPERS FILED IN PROCEEDINGS

(a) All papers filed lll1der these rules shall be typewritten, mimeographed, or printed, shall be plainly legible, shall be on one grade
of good unglazed white paper approximately 8 inches wide and 101;'2
inches long, with left-hand margin 1% inches wide, and shall be
bound at the upper left-hand corner. They shall be double-spaced,.

SECOND ANNUAL REPORT

73

except that quotations shall be single-spaced and indented. If
printed, they shall be in either 10- or 12-point type with doubleleaded text and single-leaded quotations.
(b) All papers must be signed by the party filing the same, or his
duly authorized attorney or agent, and must show the address of the
signer.
(c) All papers filed must include at the head thereof, or on a title
page, the name of the Commission, the names of the parties, and
the subject of the particular paper or pleading, and the docket
number assigned to the proceeding.

RULE XV
SIGNATURE

OF COJiIl\IISSION

ORDERS

All orders of the Commission shall be signed by the Secretary or
such other person as may be authorized by the Commission.

RULE XVI
NONAPPLICABILITY OF RULES TO INVESTIGATIONS

These Rules shall not be applicable to investigations conducted
by the Commission pursuant to Sections 8 (e), 19 (b), and 20 (a)
of the Securities Act of 1933,as amended; Sections 21 (a) and 21 (b)
of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended; or Sections
11 (a), 13 (g), 18 (a), 18 (b), 18 (c), and 30 of the Public Utility
Holding Company Act of 1935.

lO1ll73-86-11

APPENDIX II
Guide to Forms'
GUIDE TO FORMS ADOPTED UNDER THE SECURITIES
FORM A-I--GENERAL

ACT OF 1933

FORM

(a) GeneralRule.- This form is to be used for registration under
the Securities Act of 1933, as amended, of all securities for the
registration of which no other form is specifically prescribed.
(b) Special Rule.-Notwithstanding
the Rules for the Use of
Form A-2 for Corporations, Form A-I may be used by any incorporated investment trust for registration under the Securities Act
of 1933, as amended, of an additional block of securities of a class
part of which has previously been registered on Form A-I.
FORM A-2-FOR

CORPORATIONS

This form is to be used for registration statements, except such
statements as to which a special form is specifically prescribed,
under the Securities Act of 1933, as amended, by any corporation
which files profit and loss statements for 3 years and which meets
either one of the following conditions: (1) Such corporation has
made annually available to its security holders, for at least 10 years.
financial reports (which may be reports consolidating the reports of
the corporation and its subsidiaries) including at least a balance
sheet and a profit-and-loss or income statement, or (2) such corporation had a net income for any 2 fiscal years of the 5 fiscal years preceding the date of the latest balance sheet filed with the registration
statement. If such corporation has subsidiaries, such income shall
be determined on the basis of consolidated reports for such corporation and its subsidiaries. Notwithstanding what is hereinabove prescribed in this paragraph, however, this form shall not be used by
any corporation organized within 10 years, if the majority of the
capital stock thereof was issued to promoters of the corporation in
consideration of property or sen-ices, or if more than one-half of
the proceeds of the sale of securities of such corporation has been
used to purchase property acquired by the corporation from the
promoters of the corporation.
• This guide Is designed to aid In the selections of appropriate forms and Is revised
from time to time as circumstances require. Copies of the forms herein referred to will
be furnished without charge upon request.

74

75

SECOND ANNUAL REPORT

This form may also be used for registration statements (except
:such statements as to which a special form is specifically prescribed)
.by a corporation organized for the purpose of distributing to its
stockholders only, water, electricity, or gas, and prohibited from
paying any dividends to its stockholders except upon its dissolution
-or liquidation, provided that:
1. The corporation has been in existence at least 15 years prior
to the date of the filing of the registration statement;
2. There has been no default by the corporation upon any of its
funded indebtedness within the period of 15 years prior to the date
-of the filing of the registration statement;
3. The registrant will have a total indebtedness, upon the issuance
of the securities registered, not exceeding 50 percent of the amount,
less valuation reserves, at which the total assets of the registrant
are carried on the latest balance sheet of the registrant filed with
the registration statement, giving effect to the proceeds of the
.securities registered; and
4. Within the period of 10 years preceding the date of the filing
of the registration statement, the corporation shall not have failed
to levy and collect assessments in amounts sufficient to meet all current charges.
SPECIAL RULES AS TO THE USE OF FORM A-2

FOR CORPORATIONS

1. Notwithstanding that Form E-1 is specifically prescribed for
use in cases involving an exchange of securities by the issuer thereof
for others of its securities or a modification of the terms of securities
by agreement between the issuer and its security holders, a registrant
otherwise entitled to use Form A-2 may, at its option, use Form
A-2 in any such case if the registrant is not in reorganization pursuant to Section 77B of the Bankruptcy Act or in bankruptcy or
receivership and if no default exists on any outstanding funded
debt (other than a default in sinking fund payments which has been
waived by the holders of at least 80 percent in principal amount of
the issue outstanding). If Form A-2 is used pursuant to this Rule,
the fee payable for registration shall be calculated in accordance
with Instruction 7 in Form F.r-1, and the table setting forth the
calculation shall be prepared as prescribed in such Form.
2. Form A-2 may be used by a registrant if all the following
-conditions exist:
(a) The registrant was organized as the successor to a single
predecessor, or to a group of predecessors one of which, at the
time of succession, directly or indirectly owned substantially all
of the outstanding stock of all the other predecessors;
(b) The registrant acquired all of the assets and assumed all
of the liabilities of such predecessor or predecessors, and the

76

SECURITIES AND EXCHANGE COl\'lI\IISSION

capital structure of the registrant immediately following the
succession was substantially the same as the capital structure of
the single predecessor, or as the consolidated capital structure of
the group of predecessors, except for such changes as may have
resulted from the substitution of issuers incident to the succession
or from changes in capital stock liability per share; and
(0) The single predecessor, or the parent company in a group
of predecessors, could have used Form A.-2 if the succession pad
not taken place.
In determining whether such single predecessor or such parent
company in a group of predecessors could have used Form A.-2,
the record of the registrant in regard to income or annual reporting to security holders shall be considered a continuation of the
record of such single predecessor or such 'parent company. In
the case of a group of predecessor companies, the income of the
parent company of the group shall be determined on the basis
of consolidated reports for such parent company and its subsidiaries, the subsidiaries to be included in the consolidated
reports whether or not they were combined with the parent
company to form the registrant.
3. Notwithstanding the provisions of the last sentence of the rule
for the use of Form A.-2 for Corporations, that form may be used
by a corporation otherwise entitled to use the form, if the property
acquired from promoters under the circumstances stated in such last
sentence consisted principally of one or more going businesses, or of
securities representing directly or indirectly more than 50 percent of
the voting power controlling such businesses.
4. Notwithstanding the rules as to the use of Form E-1, or the
rule as to the use of Form A.-2 for Corporations, Form A.-2 mar
be used in the situation described below for registration statements,
except those for which a special form (other than Form E-1) is
specifically prescribed, by corporations which file profit and loss
statements of their own or of their predecessors for 3 years and which,
or the predecessors of which, have in the past 15 years paid dividends
upon any class of common stock for at least 2 consecutive years.
The situation in which Form A.-2 may thus be used is that of registration of securities issued or sold in the course of a "reorganization",
as defined in Rule 5 (1) as to the use of Form E-1, where the only
operation which brings the transaction within the definition is the
acquisition of assets of a subsidiary by the registrant in consideration
of securities of the registrant, or the exchange of securities of the
registrant for outstanding securities of a subsidiary."
5. Any corporation which was formed by the consolidation of two.
or more corporations may use Form A.-2, if each of the constituent
corporations which collectively brought in a majority of the assets,
• Rule 5 (1) defining the term "reorganization"
"FOIm E-1 For Securities in Reorganization."

is set forth below under the cal,ltiou-

77

SECOND ANNUAL REPORT

.as shown by the books of the constituent corporations prior to the
consolidation, could have used Form A-2 if the consolidation had
not taken place. In determining whether any such constituent corporation could have used Form A-2, the record of the registrant in
regard to income or annual reporting to security holders shall be
considered a continuation of such constituent corporation's record.
In this rule, all the corporations consolidated to form the registrant
.are called the "constituent corporations."
6. Form A-2 may be used by a registrant if all the following
-eonditions exist:
(a) The registrant was a wholly owned subsidiary of a
corporation which, either alone or with one or more of its other
wholly owned subsidiaries, was merged into the registrant;
(b) The registrant acquired all the assets and assumed all
the liabilities of the corporations merged into it; and
(0) The parent corporation could have used Form A-2 had
the merger not taken place. In determining whether such
parent corporation could have used Form A-2, the record
of the registrant subsequent to the merger, in regard to income or annual reporting to security holders, shall be considered a continuation of the record of such parent corporation.
FORM

A-R

FOR CORPORATE BONDS SECURED BY MORTGAGE INSURED
FEDERAL HOUSING

BY

ADMINISTRATION

This form is to be used for registration under the Securities Act
of 1933, as amended, of corporate bonds constituting part of an
issue secured by mortgage insured by Federal Housing Administration under the authority of Section 207 of the National Housing

Act.
FORM 0-1

FOR SECURITIES OF UNINCORPORATED INVESTMENT

TRUSTS

This form is to be used for registration under the Securities Act
of 1933, as amended, of securities of unincorporated investment
trusts of the fixed or restricted management type, having a depositor
or sponsor but not having a board of directors or persons performing
similar functions.
FORM 0-2

FOR CERTAIN TYPES OF CERTIFICATES OF INTEREST IN SECURITIES

This form is to be used for registration under the Securities Act of
1933 of certificates of interest in securities of a single class of a single
issuer, if the following conditions exist:
.
(1) The major part of the certificates are to be sold to 'the
public for cash;

78

SECURITIES AND EXCHANGE COMMISSION

(2) Under the terms of the deposit agreement the depositor(as defined below) has no rights or duties as depositor, subsequent to the deposit of the securities with the depositary;
(3) Under the terms of the deposit agreement the power tovote or give a consent with respect to the deposited securities
may be exercised only by, or pursuant to the instructions of, theholders of the certificates of interest, except a power, if any, to
vote to effect a split-up of deposited stock in such manner as to
cause no change in the aggregate capital stock liability of the
issuer of the deposited securities;
(4) The securities deposited by the depositor are registered
under the Securities Act of 1933 in connection with the sale of
the certificates of interest.
FORM D-1 FOR CERTIFICATES OF DEPOSIT (EXCEPT THOSE FOR WHICH FORM
D-1A IS SPECIFIED)

In registering certificates of deposit issued in anticipation of or
in connection with a plan of reorganization or readjustment, Form
D-1 shall be used. If a plan of reorganization or readjustment is
proposed at the time the call for deposits is to be made, parts I and II
of Form D-1 should be filed at the same time. If no such plan is
proposed at the time the call for deposits is to be made, part I may
be filed alone, and part II must then be filed before the plan is submitted to the security holders or deposits are solicited under the
plan. Part II is an amendment of part I and as such shall become
effective on such date as the Commission may determine, having due
regard to the public interest and the protection of investors.
In the event that a registrant is exempted from the necessity for
filing part I, he may nevertheless file part II.
Before the issuance of the securities provided in the plan of readjustment or reorganization, Form E-1 is to be filed by the-issuerof such securities, unless exempted from the necessity of such filing
by the Act.
FORM D-1A FOR CERTIFICATES OF DEPOSIT

This form is to be used only where the issuer of the certificates of
deposit is the original issuer of the securities called for deposit, and
only if the certificates of deposit are issued in connection with a plan
of reorganization or readjustment which involves the issue of new
securities to the holders of certificates of deposit.
FORM E-1

FOR SECURITIES IN REORGANIZATION

This form is to be used to register securities (including contracts
of guaranty but excepting voting trust certificates, certificates of
deposit, and certificates of interest or shares in unincorporated investment trusts of the fixed or restricted management type not having

79

SECOND ANNUAL REPORT

a board of directors or a board of persons performing similar functions, but having a depositor or sponsor) sold or modified in the
course of reorganization."
The "Rules and Instructions Accompanying Form E-l" contain
the following definition of the term "reorganization":
5. As used in these rules and the accompanying instructions:
(1) The term "reorganization" includes any transaction
involving:
(a) A readjustment by modification of the terms of securities by agreement; or
(b) A readjustment by the exchange of securities by the
issuer thereof for others of its securities; or
(a) The exchange of securities by the issuer thereof for
securities of another issuer; or
(d) The acquisition of assets of a person, directly or indirectly, partly or wholly, in consideration of securities distributed or to be distributed as part of the same transaction
directly or indirectly to holders of securities issued by such
person or secured by assets of such person; or
(e) A merger or consolidation.
In the case of any guarantee of, or assumption of liability on,
securities heretofore registered on Form D-2, registration of such
guarantee or assumption of liability may, at the option of the issuer,
be effected on Form D-2 or Form E-l.
FORM F-l

FOR VOTING TRUST CERTIFICATES

This form is to be used to register voting trust certificates issued
in the course of reorganization or otherwise.
FORM G-l

FOR FRACTIONAL UNDIVIDED GAS AND OIL ROYALTY INTEBE8T8

Form G-1 is to be used to register fractional undivided producing
oil and gas royalty interests.
The term "producing royalty interest" means any royalty interest
in a tract of land from which oil and gas was being produced in
commercial quantities within 7 days prior to the filing of the registration statement and from which the production of oil or gas had not
permanently ceased, to the knowledge of the issuer, on the date 011
which the statement became effective.
FORM G-2

FOR FRACTIONAL UNDIVIDED NONPRODUCING
ROYALTY INTERESTS

GAS AND OIL

Eorm G.,.2is to. be used to register fractional.nndivided.nonproducing oil and gas royalty interests .
• AttentIon Is called to the rutes as to the use of Form A-2 which permit the use of
that form In certain Instances for securities In reorganlza don,

80

SECURITffiS AND EXCHANGE COMMISSION

The term "nonproducing royalty interest" means any royalty interest not included in the definition of "producing royalty interest"
above,"
FORM 1-G FOR CONFIDENTIAL STATEMENT OF SALE OF OIL OR GAS INTEREST

This form is to be used for confidential statements of sales of oil
or gas interests.
FORM 2-G FOR REPORT OF SALE OF OIL OR GAS RIGHT

This form is to be used for reports of sale of oil or gas rights,
required to be filed by Rule 326.
INFORMATION

AND DOCUl\fENTS REQUIRED FOR EXEl\fPTION
SECURITIES UNDER SECTION 3 (B) OF THE ACT

OF CERTAIN

Certain issues of se~urities having an aggregate offering price to
the public not exceeding $100,000are exempted from the registration
provisions of the Act by regulations of the Commission pursuant to
Section 3 (b) of the Act upon compliance with certain conditions
provided in the regulations. The pertinent regulations are available
without charge upon request.
• Form A-1 shOUldbe used for overrIdIng royalties and
trom landowners' royalties for whIch Forms G-1 and G-2
~f overrfding royalties or workIng Interests, however, the
G-l 01' G-2 should be added to the statement on Form

mat~riaI.

working interests, as dIstinct
are appropriate. In the case
Information speclfled by Form
A-l by way of supplemental

SECOND ANNUAL

GroDE

'81

REPORT

TO FORMS ADOPTED UNDER THE SECURITIES

EXCHANGE

ACT OF 1934
FOR APPLICATIONS

FOR REGISTRATION OF SECURITIES
SECURITIES EXCHANGES

ON NATIONAL

F01'm 1. Application /01' registration or eeem-ption from registration as a National Securities Ewchange.-This
form shall be filed in
connection with the applications of securities exchanges for registration or exemption from registration.
Fo1"Jn7.-Where the form for permanent registration of any particular class of security has not yet been authorized, and for a period
of 90 days after the filing of applications on such form is authorized,
a provisional application for registration of a security of such class
may be filed on Form 7 pursuant to Rule JB2. (Rule JB2 sets forth
the requirements of an application filed on Form 7.)
Form 8. For emendmente to applications/or registration or amendmente to annual reports.-This
form shall be used for amendments
to applications for registration of securities pursuant to Section 1~
(b) and (c) of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934 or amendments
to annual reports pursuant to Section 13 of that Act.
'
Fo1"Jn 8-A. For additional securities.-This
form shall be used
for applications filed on or after March 7, 1936, for registration of
securities on an exchange on which other securities of the registrant,
whether of the same or a different class, are registered pursuant to
Section 12 (b) and (c) of the Act, if Form 10, 11,13,15, or 17 would
be the form appropriate for registration in case the registrant did
not have securities so previously registered.
Fo1"Jn8-B. For securities issued in certain cases upon the registrant's succession to an issuer or issuers of previously registerea
seewities.-This
form shall be used by an issuer, not having securities previously registered, for applications filed on and after March
12, 1936, for the registration of securities, if the conditions set forth
in the following paragraphs (a), (0), (c), and (d) exist:
(a) (1) The registrant, having no assets at the time other
than nominal assets, succeeded to a single predecessor which had
securities registered pursuant to Section 12 (b) and (c) of the
Act on the exchange or exchanges on which registration is.
applied for on this form; or
'
(2) The registrant was organized as the successor to, or, having no assets at the time other than nominal, assets, succeeded to,
a group of predecessors consisting of a parent which had securities so registered and one or more wholly owned subsidiaries 0,I
such parent; or
.
'.
(3) The registrant was a wholly owned subsidiary of a corporation having securities so registered, which corporation, either
alone or with one or more of its other wholly owned subsidiaries,
was merged into the registrant.

82

SECURITIES AND EXCHA...~GE COMMISSION

(b) Substantially all of the securities to be registered on this
form were or are to be issued in exchange for or otherwise in
respect of previously registered securities of one or more of the
predecessors, or are securities which, having been previously
registered, have become or are to become securities of the
registrant by operation of law or otherwise upon the succession.
(c) The registrant acquired all the assets and assumed all the
liabilities of its predecessor or predecessors.
(d) Except for such changes as may have resulted (A) from
the substitution of issuers incident to the succession, or (B) from
changes in capital stock liability per share, or (C) from the issuance of securities in satisfaction of dividends or interest in
arrears on securities of predecessors, the capital structure of the
registrant immediately following the succession was substantially
the same as the capital structure of the single predecessor or the
combined capital structure of the predecessors, or in a case falling within paragraph (a) (3) above, the combined capital structure of all the constituent corporations.
The term "wholly owned subsidiary" as used in this rule refers to
a subsidiary substantially all the outstanding stock of which is held,
directly or indirectly, by a single parent.
Form 9. Amendatory and/or supplementary statement to registration statement filed by an ewehang e.- This form shall be used for
filing amendatory and/or supplementary statements to registration
statements of national securities exchanges.
Form 9-A. Amendatory and/or supplementary statement to epplication. for etoem.ption. from registration statement filed by an eil!change.-This
form shall be used for filing amendatory and/or
supplementary statements to applications for exemption from registration of national securities exchanges.
Form 10. For eorpor.ations.-This form shall be used for applications for the permanent registration of securities of corporations,
filed on and after February 13, 1935,except the following: Securities
of companies making annual reports under Section 20 of the Interstate Commerce Act, as amended, or under Section 219 of the Communications Act of 1934; certificates of deposit; American certificates
against foreign issues, either Government or corporate; securities of
insurance companies, other than companies engaged primarily in the
title-insurance business; securities of banks and bank holding companies; securities of investment trusts; securities issued by -any.corporation organized under the laws of any foreign country other than
a North American country or Cuba; bonds issued by any corporation
organized under the laws of a North American country or Cuba,
which are guaranteed by any foreign government; securities issued
by any corporation, foreign or domestic, which is directly or indirectly
owned or controlled by any foreign government: Provided, however,
That this form shall not be used for applications for the permanent
registration of securities of any corporation for which, at the time

SECOND ANNUAL REPORT

83

the application is filed, Form 22 or 23 is prescribed. ..And provided
further, That this form shall not be used for applications for the
permanent registration of securities of any corporation, if, at the
time the application is filed, such corporation is in bankruptcy or
receivership or in the process of reorganization pursuant to Section
77 or 77B of the Bankruptcy Act, and (a) a trustee or receiver
appointed in such proceedings has title to or possession of a substantial portion of the assets of such corporation, or (b) such corporation is in possession of a substantial portion of its assets pursuant
to an order entered under subdivision (c), clause (2) of said Section 77
or subdivision (c), clause (1) of said Section 77B. Any foreign issuer
which by this paragraph is to file on Form 10 as to any class of securities other than bonds may also file on such form for such bonds; and
any issuer of bonds which is organized under the laws of any foreign
country may at its option file on Form 10until 90 days after the proper
form applicable to such foreign issuer shall have been published.
Form 11. For unincorporated issuers.-This
form shall be used
for applications filed on or after March 30, 1935, for the permanent
registration of securities of unincorporated issuers, except the following: Securities of companies making annual reports under Section
20 of the Interstate Commerce Act, as amended, or under Section
219 of the Communications Act of 1934; certificates of deposit; voting trusts certificates; American certificates against foreign issues,
either Government or private; securities of insurance companies;
securities of banks and bank-holding companies; securities of investments trusts; securities issued by a national of a foreign country
other than a North American country or Cuba; bonds issued by a
national of a North American country or Cuba, which are guaranteed by any foreign government; securities of any issuer, foreign or
domestic, which is directly or indirectly owned or controlled by any
foreign government: Provided, however, That this form shall not
be used for applications for the permanent registration of securities
of any issuer for which, at the time the application is filed, Form
22 or 23 is prescribed. ..And provided further, That this form shall
not be used for applications for the permanent registration of securities of any issuer, if, at the time the application is filed, such issuer
is-in- bankruptcy or r.eceivership or in the process of reorganization
pursuant to Section 77 or 77B of the Bankruptcy Act, and (a) a
trustee or receiver appointed in such proceedings has title to or possession of a substantial portion of the assets of such issuer, or (b)
such corporation is in possession of a substantial portion of its assets
pursuant to an order entered under subdivision (0), clause (2) of
said Section 77 or subdivision (c), clause (1) of said Section 77B.
-
 Form 1~.For companies making annual reports under Section
of the Interstate Oommerce ..Act, as amended, or under Section e19
of the Oommunication« ..Act of 1934.-This form shall be used for

eo

84

SECURITIES AND EXCHANGE COMMISSION

applications filed on or after April 10, 1935, for the permanent registration of securities of companies making annual reports under
Section 20 of the Interstate Commerce Act, as amended, or under
Section 219 of the Communications Act of 1934, except such companies in receivership or in process of reorganization pursuant to
Section 77 of the Bankruptcy Act.
Form l~-A. For companies in receivership 01' bankruptcy and
making annual reports under Section. ~o of the Interstate Commerce
Act, as amended, or under Section ~19of the Oommunications Act
of 1934.-This form shall be used for applications filed on or after
June 17, 1935, for the permanent registration of securities of companies making annual reports under Section 20 of the Interstate
Commerce Act, as amended, or under Section 219 of the Communications Act of 1934, and in receivership or in bankruptcy (including
proceedings under Sections 77 or 77B of the Bankruptcy Act).
Form 13. For insurance companies other than life and title insurance eompanies.-This form shall be used for applications filed on
or after May 7, 1935, for permanent registration of securities of corporations engaged, directly or through subsidiaries, primarily in
the insurance business, except corporations engaged primarily in
the life- or title-insurance business. This form shall not be used
by corporations engaged primarily in the business of guaranteeing
mortgages or mortgage-participation certificates.
Pending the authorization of a form for registration of securities
of corporations engaged primarily in the life-insurance business, and
for a period of 30 days after the filing of applications on such form
is authorized, such corporations may file application on Form 13 for
Insurance Companies other than life and title insurance companies.
Insofar as Form 13 may be inappropriate to the life-insurance
business, a corporation engaged in the life-insurance business filing
on Form 13, pursuant to this rule, shall furnish information comparable to that required by Form 13; and, in lieu of financial statements required under the Instructions as to Financial Statements
in the Instruction Book for Form 13, such corporation may file a
copy of its last annual statement filed with its State regulatory
authority.
.
Form 14. For certificates of deposit issued by a committee.-This
form shall be used for applications on or after May 10, 1935,for the permanent registration of certificates of deposit issued by a committee.
Form 151 For incorporated investment companies.-This
form
shall be used for applications filed on or after May 15, 1935, for the
permanent registration of securities of any corporation which is
engaged, either directly or through subsidiaries, primarily in the
business of investing and reinvesting, or trading in securities, for
the purpose of revenue and for profit, and not in general for the
purpose, or with the effect, of exercising control; except securities

SECOND ANNUAL REPORT

85

'Of such corporations in process of reorganization pursuant to Section 77B of the Bankruptcy Act or securities of such corporations
in bankruptcy or receivership.
Form 16. For voting trust certificates and underlying seeurities.This form shall be used for applications filed on or after May 18,
1935, for the permanent registration of voting trust certificates and
underlying securities.
Form 17. For unincorporated issuers engaged primarily in the
business of investing or trading in seeurities.-This form shall be used
for applications filed on or after May 31,1935, for the' permanent registration of securities of any unincorporated issuer which is engaged,
either directly or through subsidiaries, primarily in the business of
investing and reinvesting, or trading, in securities, for the purpose of
revenue and for profit, and not in general for the purpose, or with the
effect, of exercising control; except securities of such issuers in process
of reorganization pursuant to Section 77B of the Bankruptcy Act or
securities of such issuers in bankruptcy or receivership.
Form 18. For foreign governments and political subdivisions
thereof.-This
form shall be used for applications for the permanent
registration of securities of foreign governments and political subdivisions thereof, filed on or after July 1, 1935: Provided, however, That
any public corporation or other autonomous entity in the nature of a
political subdivision, except a state, province, county, or municipality
or similar body politic, may ,at its option, use Form 21 in lieu of this form.
Form 19. For American certificates against foreign issues and for
the underlying seeurities.- This form shall be used for applications
filed on or after July 15, 1935,for the permanent registration of American certificates (for example, so-called American Depositary Receipts
for foreign shares or American participation certificates in foreign
bonds or notes) issued against securities of foreign issuers deposited
with an American depositary (whether physically held by such depositary in America or abroad) and of the foreign securities so deposited.
Form '20. For securities other than bonds of foreign private iseuers.- This form shall be used for applications filed on or after July
15, 1935, for the permanent registration of securities other than bonds
or other evidences of indebtedness (1) issued by a national of a foreign
country other than a North American country or Cuba, or (2) issued
by any corporation or unincorporated association, foreign or domestic,
which is directly or indirectly owned or controlled by any foreign
government.
Form 21. For bonds of foreign private issuers.-This form shall be
used for applications filed on or after July 15, 1935, for the permanent
registration of bonds or other evidences of indebtedness (1) issued by
a national of a foreign country other than a North American country
or Cuba; (2) issued by a national of a North American country or

86

SECURITIES AND EXCHANGE COMMISSION

Cuba which are guaranteed by any foreign government; (3) issued by
any corporation or unincorporated association, foreign or domestic,
which is directly or indirectly owned or controlled by any foreign
government; or (4) issued by any public corporation or other autonomous entity in the nature of a political subdivision which shall at its
option elect to use this form in lieu of Form 18, except that this
form is not to be used by a state, province, county, or municipality
or similar body politic.
Form 22. Fo1' iseuers reorqanieed in insolverunJ proceedinqs 01'
whieh have succeeded to a person. in insolveney p1'oeeedings.-This
Form shall be used for applications for registration of securities of
any issuer which, pursuant to a plan(a) Has been or is being reorganized in insolvency proceedings; or
(b) Has acquired or is to acquire, directly or indirectly, substantially all of its business and assets (other than cash) from
a person in insolvency proceedings or from such person and one
or more of its subsidiaries, and is continuing or is to continue
the business so acquired; or
(e) Being a subsidiary of a person in insolvency proceedings, has acquired or is to acquire ..Erectly or indirectly substantially all of its assets (other than cash and other than assets
owned by it prior to such acquisition) from such person or from
such person and one or more of its subsidiaries:

if the securities are, or are to be, outstanding or issued pursuant to
the plan, or were or are to be issued after the consummation of the
plan; provided that this form shall not be used by issuers for which
Form 8-A, 12, or 12-A is prescribed, or for applications filed with the
exchange after the expiration of a full fiscal year of the issuer commencing on or after the date on which the transfer or opening of
accounts was made.
F01'm l-J.-This
form is to be used for applications for registration of unissued warrants or certificates pursuant to Section 12 (d)
of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934 for "when issued" dealing on
a national securities exchange.
Form 2-J.-This form is to be used for applications for registration of unissued securities, other than unissued warrants or certificates,
pursuant to Section 12 (d) of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934
for "when issued" dealing on a national securities exchange.
Form 3-J.-Form 3-J must be used to report any inaccuracy, omission, or other deficiency in the information contained in the application for registration on Form 1-J or Form 2-J or in any supplemental statement filed by an issuer or an exchange and to report
changes which have occurred since the filing of the application for
registration or the last supplemental statement and which render
no longer accurate the information contained therein.

SECOND ANNUAL REPORT

87

Form 4--J.-This form is to be used for statements in respect of
exemption of issued warrants or certificates pursuant to Section 3
(a) (12) of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934.
Form 5-J.-Form 5-J must be used to report any inaccuracy, omission, or other deficiency in the information contained in the statement filed on Form 4-J or in any supplemental statement filed by an
issuer or an exchange and to report changes which have occurred
since the filing of Form 4-J or the last supplemental statement and
which render no longer accurate the information contained therein.
FOR REPORTS TO BE FILED BY OFFICERS, DIRECTORS, AND SECURITY HOLDERS

Form 4-. For reporting changes in ownership of equity securities.Every person who at any time during any month has been directly
or indirectly the beneficial owner of more than 10 percent of any
class of any equity security (other than an exempted security) which
is listed on a national securities exchange, or a director or an officer
of the issuer of such security, shall, if there has been any change
during such month in his ownership of any equity security of such
issuer, whether registered or not, file with each exchange on which
any equity security of the issuer is listed and registered a statement
on Form 4 (and a single duplicate original thereof with the Commission) indicating his ownership at the close of the calendar month
and such changes in his ownership as have occurred during such
calendar month. Such statements must be received by the Commission and the exchange on or before the 10th day of the month
following that which they cover.
Form 5. For reporting ownership of equity securities.-In
the
case of an equity security (other than an exempted security) which
is listed subsequent to February 15, 1935, on a national securities
exchange, every person who at the time such registration becomes
effective is directly or indirectly the beneficial owner of more than 10
percent of any class of such security or a director or an officerof the
issue!' of such security, shall file with each exchange on which any
equity security of the issuer is listed and registered a statement on
Form 5 (and a single duplicate original thereof with the Commission) of the amount of all equity securities of such issuer, whether
registered or not, so beneficially owned by him at the time such
registration became effective. Such statement must be received by
the Commission and the exchange on or before the 10th day of the
following calendar month. If such person files a statement on Form
i for the same calendar month in respect of the same securities, he
need not file an additional statement pursuant to this paragraph.
Form 6. For reports by persons who have just become officers or
directors or security holders of more than 10 percent of any class of

88

SECU.RITms A;ND EXCHANGE COMMISSION

eguity seaurity.-Every person who becomes directly or indirectly
the beneficial owner of more than 10 percent of any class of any
equity security (other than an exempted security), which is listed on
a national securities exchange, or becomes a director or an officer of
the issuer of such security, shall file with each exchange on which
any equity security of the issuer is listed and registered a statement
on Form. 6 (and a single duplicate original thereof with the Commission) of the amount of all equity securities of such issuer, whether
registered or not, so beneficially owned by him immediately after
becoming such beneficial owner, director, or officer. Such statement
must be received by the Commission and the exchange on or before
the 10th day following the clay on which such person became such
beneficial owner, director, or officer. Such person need not file the
statement required by this paragraph, if prior to such 10th day and
during the calendar month in which he has become such beneficial
owner, director, or officer, there has been a change in his beneficial
ownership which will require him to file a statement on Form 4 with
respect to the same securities.
FOR REGISTRATION

OF BROKERS

AKD

DEALERS

OV.ER-THE-COUNTER

TRANSACTIKG

BUSINESS

ON

MARKETS

Form 3-M.-This form is to be used for applications filed on or after
.Tuly 1, 1936, for the registration of brokers and dealers pursuant to
Section 15 (b) of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934 as amended,
except applications for which Form 4-M is authorized to be used.
Form 4-M.-This form is to be used (a) for applications filed by a
registered partnership on or after July 1, 1936, pursuant to Section 15
(b) of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended, for the registration of a partnership to be formed as the successor to the applicant by the withdrawal or admission of one or more partners in the
applicant; and (b) for applications filed on or after October 10, 1936,
pursuant to said Section 15 (b) and Rule MB4, for the registration of
a partnership formed as the successor to a registered partnership
which has been dissolved by the death, withdrawal, or admission of
one or more partners, provided that the application is filed within 30
days after such dissolution.
Form 5-M.-This form is to be used by a broker or dealer in adopting as its own, pursuant to Section 15 (b) of the Securities Exchange
Act of 1934as amended, an application for registration previously filed
on Form 3-M or 4-M by a broker or dealer to which it is the successor.
Form 6-M.-This form is to be used for supplemental statements
reporting changes which render inac-curate information contained in
previously filed applications, adoptions or supplemental statements," ..

SECOND ANNUAL

BEPORT

89

FOR ANNUAL AND OTHER REPORTS OF ISSUERS HAVING SECURITIES
REGISTERED ON NATIONAL SECURITIES EXCHANGES

Form 8-K for Current Reports. Reports on this form are to be
filed in the first 10 days of the month following the month in which
there occurs any of the following events :
1. Material amendments of exhibits previously filed.
2. The execution of new voting trust agreements and certain other instruments.
3. Substantial restatements of the capital shares account.
4. The issuance of any new class of securities, or an increase
or decrease of more than 5 percent in the amount of any class:
of securities outstanding.
5. Under certain circumstances, the granting by the registrant of options to purchase any of its equity securities, or the
extension or exercise of such options.
6. A person's becoming or ceasing to be a parent or subsidiary of the registrant.
7. Substantial revaluations of the registrant's assets.
8. Substantial withdrawals or substitutions of property
securing any registered securities.
No reports of this type are called for unless at Ieast one of. the
above events occurs and has not already been reported to the Commission in a registration statement or an annual report under the
Securities Exchange Act of 1934. This form does not call for the
filing of interim financial statements.
If any of the above events has already occurred since the close of
the fiscal year covered by the registrant's first annual report (or in
the case of an issuer which had no securities registered on Dec. 31,
1935, if any such event has occurred since the date on which registration of any of its securities first became effective) and has not
been previously reported, such event, as well as any other of the
specified events which may occur on or before December 31, 1936,
must be reported on this form, 8-K, on or before January 10, 193'7.
Thereafter, a current report is to be filed within 10 days after the
close of any calendar month in which one or more of the events
occurred. A single report may be filed with respect to all events
occuring in anyone month. No report need be filed for any month
.during .w.hi~hnone of the enumerated events occurred.
Form 10-K. For corporation8.-';l'his form is to be used for the
annual reports of all corporations except those for which another
form is specifically prescribed.
Form ll-K. For unincorporatea u8U6r8.-This form is to be used
for the annual reports of all unincorporated issuers except those for
which another form is specifically prescribed.
101973-36-7

90

SECURITIES AND EXCHANGE COMMISSION

F01'm l~-K. For companies maJdng an1'lJU01
reports under Se.otion~O
of the Interstate (Iomaneroe Aot.ae amended'rol'wnder Se(Jtion~19 of the
Uomenunicaiions Act of 1934.-This form is to be used for the annual
reports of companies making annual reports under Section 20 of the
Interstate Commerce .Act, as amended, and of carriers making annual
reports under Section 219 of the Communications .Act of 1934, except
such companies in receivership or in bankruptcy, including proceedings
for reorganization pursuant to Section 77 or 77B of the Bankruptcy
.Act, at the close of the fiscal year for which the report is made.
Form 12A-K. For companies in receivership or bankruptcy at close
of fiscal year and making annual reports under Section 2fJ of the
Interstate Oommerce Act, as amended, 01' under Section 219 of the
Communications Act of 1934.-This form is to be used for the annual
reports of companies making annual reports under Section 20 of the
Interstate Commerce .Act, as amended, and of carriers making annual
reports under Section 219 of the Communications .Act of 1934, if such
companies were in receivership or in bankruptcy, including proceedings for reorganization pursuant to Section 77 or 77B of the Bankruptcy .Act, at the close of the fiscal year for which the report is made.
Form 13-K. For insurance companies other than life and title
insurance companies «r:This form is to be used for the annual reports
of corporations engaged, directly or through subsidiaries, primarily
in the insurance business, except corporations engaged primarily in
the life- or title-insurance business. This form is not to be used by
corporations engaged primarily in the business of guaranteeing
mortgages or mortgage-participation certificates.
Form 14-K. For certificates of deposit issued by a comanittee-s.This form is to be used for the annual report of issuers of certificates
of deposit issued by a committee.
Form 15-K. For incorporated investment cmnpanies.-This
form
is to be used for the annual reports of corporations engaged either
directly or through subsidiaries primarily in the business of investing
and reinvesting or trading -in securities for the purpose of revenue
and for profit, and not in general for the purpose or with the effect.
of exercising control.
Form 16-K. For voting trust certificates and underlying seourities.- This form is to be used for annual reports relating to securities
evidencing a participation in a voting trust agreement or a similar
agreement for the holding of securities for voting purposes and to
securities held subject to such agreements.
Form 17-K. For unincorporated issuers engaged primarily in the
business of investing or trading in securities ...:....Thisform is to be
used for the annual reports of unincorporated issuers engaged either
directly or through subsidiaries primarily in the business of investing
and reinvesting or trading in securities for the purpose of revenue
and for profit, and not in general for the purpose or with the effect
of exercising control.

SECOND ANNUAL REPORT

91

.GUIDE TO FORMS ADOPTED UNDER THE PUBLIC UTILITY HOLDING
COMPANY ACT OF 1935

Form U-1. Notification of registration.-A
notification of registration, pursuant to Section 5 (a), may be filed on this Form."
F01'1l'bU-2. Declaration and periodic rep01't.-This Form is to be
used by a subsidiary of a registered holding company primarily engaged in business as a broker or dealer, which claims exemption
under Rule 3D-4 and also for the quarterly reports to be filed by
such a company.
Form U-3A3-1. Quarterly statement filed by banks claiming ememption--: This Form is prescribed for quarterly reports to be filed
by banks claiming exemption from any provisions of the Act by
virtue of Rule 3A3-1.
Form U-'I. Declaration filed pursuant to Section 'I.-This Form
is to be used by a registered holding company or subsidiary company
thereof, either as a declaration in respect to the issue or sale of securities, or as a declaration in respect to the exercise by the declarant
of a privilege or right to alter the priorities, preferences, voting
power, or other rights of the holders of its outstanding securities.
Form U-1G-1. Application pursuant to Section 10 (a) (1).-This
Form is to be used for applications for the approval of the acquisition of securities by a registered holding company or a subsidiary
company thereof, or for approval of the acquisition of securities of
a public-utility company by a person who is an affiliate (as defined
in Clause A of Section 2 (a) (11) of the Act) of such company
and of any other public utility or holding company, or who will
become such an affiliate by virtue of such acquisition.
FQTm U-10-2. Application pursuant to Section 10 (a) (2) or
10 (a) (3).-This
Form is to be used for applications for the approval of the acquisition of utility assets or other interest in any
business by a registered holding company or a subsidiary company
thereof.
Form U-12 (i)-1. Statement required pursuant to Section 12
(i).-This Form is to be used for statements to be filed with the
Commission, pursuant to Section 12 (i), by any person employed or
retained by any registered holding company or by any subsidiary
company thereof, who presents, advocates, or opposes any matter
affecting any such company before the Congress or any member or
committee thereof, or before the Securities and Exchange Commission or the Federal Power Commission or any member, officer, or
employee of either Commission.
"After Nov. 1, 1936. a notification of registration
Oct. 2, 1936.

must be filed on Form U-5-A adopted

92

SECURITIES AND EXCHANGE COMMISSION

Form U-13-1. Application for approval of mutual service company or declaration with respect to O'l'ganization and conduct of business of subsidiary service company.-This
Form is to be used, pursuant to Rule 13-22, in filing an application for approval of a mutual
service company or in filing a declaration with respect to the organization and conduct of business of a subsidiary service company.
Form U-17-1.-This Form is to be used by each officer and director
of a registered holding company for the statement required by Section 11 (a) as to the securities of such company or any subsidiary
thereof of which he is the beneficial owner either at the time of the
registration of such company or within 10 days after his appointment or election to such position. A statement must be filed on such
form even though the officer or director owns no securities of such
companies.
Form U-17-93.-This Form is to be used by officersand directors of
registered holding companies in reporting monthly changes in their
beneficial ownership of securities of such holding companies or any
of their subsidiaries, as required by Section 17 (a).
Form U-17-3.-This Form is to be used for statements to be signed
by officers or directors with respect to whom exemption is claimed
pursuant to Rule 11G-ll, from the provisions of Section 11 (c) of
the Public Utility Holding Company Act of 1935.

APPENDIX IIl
SECURITIES ACT REGISTRATION STATEMENTS AS TO WHICH STOP
ORDERS, CONSENT REFUSAL ORDERS, AND WITHDRAWAL
ORDERS WERE ISSUED JULY 1, 1935, TO JUNE 30, 1936 1
Ddet
no. 


/

1-1'

I

I

Amount

k$&~:/
Dete

July 15,1936
Aug. W, 1936
Sept 27 1936
as 'of i p t .
17,1935
NUP.21,1935
May 11, 1936
D B ~23,1935
.
Dec. 21,1935

A & K Petroleum Co., Oklahoma Clty. Okla....

2-1910

%I708 Airway C a q o Rri rejs \\'lln,iooon. Dei........
~
i
0A I ~ I u~ e t r n ~ ~cmiom110n
urn
~ e ~au r kK.
. Y.
Almtn Hurrah G ~ l d.\llnRs, i r k . +ebtIla. IVah.
Alcol~l3flne9, i.td I'orOntO OntBlio C8u.d.
2-ea3
111.81 nrearog+ I,l.tlli,ng do.. loc. R,ookI,.".
N. Y ..........................................
2-1337 American Credit Corpomtion Los Angeles. Calif.
2-1930 AmeriGeneral c o r ~ r a t i < nJersey
,
City,Pj.L
2-17W Amsrimn Radio & Teievision C a p m t m n ,
New York, N. Y ..............................
2-1401 .....do...........................................
2-1664 Arkansm ~ o u l h e r nOil CO., EI ora ado, ~ r..k
...
21465 dnrooiatsd Petroleom Propertias, Tulsa, 0 a . .
2-1679 Automatic Guns, Inc.,Washington. D. C;......
2-1189 B B Y O DBold
~ B Oorporatim Bayonne N. J..
a-2157 The Black & neck- Men;faoturing bo.. TOWson Md .......................................
2-1696 Blacibburn-pattison Mines, Ltd., Taronto,
Ontario. Canads..............................
2-1392 Bonancs Consolidated Gold Mines,In~.,Detroit,

.

1
%lam

2-1444
2-1318

,

The Borden I n d ~ s t r i e Ioe.,
~ . Wsshingt0n;D. 
 C.F. M. Brawn Funeral Eames, Ltd.. bmhemt. 

Nova Swtia, Cmada .................. :
.......
Edward G. Budd Manufacturing Cn., PhUdelphla, Pa .......................................
..:-.do ............................................
Bullion Imports Ino. Nogales. Arie .............
;
00. Reno, ~ e u . .
Cdifornia A I ~ S ~Er&oration
CaliIip,:nla Oil & Land corparation: Lw Angeles,

2-1324
2-157.5
ZZlW
2-13
2-1886

Peb. 26,1936
Dec. Z 1935
~ p r 13,
. 1936

C a l p l a ~Corwratbn Eooston, T ~ .
X............
Capps Gold ~ i n e , ' Ltd., Toronto, Ontario,
Canada.
C W e Mining Corporation. YpsiLzng Mich..
central ~ a i n ~e o a s ~mgusta,
,
bcaineL ........
.....
...-do-. .................................
L.
Chlorl~ptusChemical Do.. Ino.. York, Pa .......
CoasVll Minemk DevdOPme.nt, Ion., New
Orleans. La.
Cdhzbia Cruds Corporation, Salt Lake City.

2-WSs
2-1668
saw1
2-1740
2-2088

2-1818

Cor~oratlonof America, WLI-

aaa om. W
3d W0.W
12i om. W

A-I
A-1
A-I
A-1
A-l
A-1

l8iW0.W
100 W0.W
4~:mo.m

A-1
D-A
E-l
A-l
A-1
A-1
A-l
A-I

I

I

A-l

w

173,W. M

1MI WO.W
105:W0.00
600,000.00
16 4+4 WO.W
9:9M11W0.W
1 7 4 ~ 9
7EQ.OW.m

A-l

1SO.W. W

A-1

30, W0. W

A-1

A-1
A-1
11-1
A-1
A-1
A-1
E-l
A-2
A-1
A-1
A-I
A-I

I

1 015 240. W
1:016:240.W
3W Mn.00
lW'0W.W
1,m:WO.W

A-2
A-l
A-1

A-a

I I/

/ Comsec Corwration, Jersey City, N. J ..........I

Nor. a,1935
July 17, lW
Nov. 26 1 9 s
SsDt 25:1935
d m 24 1936
~ ~ 21:b1938
.

W
SO
W
CROs
W

May 27,1936 


"U,,.

2-1683
2-107

2-1396

Form

I

W
W
W
80
SO
SO

(
I

on.

2419s

I July

13,1935


1

July 181935 

DO.

Jone 8,1936

July T1 1936
Mar. 7:1936
I

Mar. 9 1936
Peh. l
i1936

CRO Apr.
CRO a oct.
C R O i Apr.
.C~R O Q N ~ 

W
May

W

I Mar.

I./I _.II.D
W

251836
21 1935
2d1936 

W.1986
161938
%, 1936

Sept. 20.1936

......

NW. 14, lil-

7446W.W

sc. 12,1935 


1

I

LiOiO.
a-lW HasrlnmO'Brlen Less4 Butler. P s............
Footnotes st end of table.

03

94

SECURITIES AND EXCHANGE COMhIISSIOB

SECURITIES ACT REGISTRATION STATEMENTS AS TO WHICH STOP
ORDERS, CONSENT REFUSAL ORDERS, AND WITHDRAWAL
ORDERS WERE ISSUED JULY 1, 1935, TO JUNE 30, 1936-Continued
Docket

no. 


2-1918
2-1188
2-2103
%ISM
24112
2-l67l
2-1424 


Form

Issuer

Hepburn & MoTasish Ltd., Ino., Lo8 Aogeles,
A-1
CalU.
Bondhaldsr's Pmtsotise Oommlttse of Herald D-I (I)
8guare Realty Corpomtlon, New Yark, N. Y
Hes9 011 00. Kansas City Mo ..................
A-I
Earn1 slgnsi ~ a o u f a a t u : o g Co., New York, A-1
N.Y.
H o w Senator Corporation, San PRinolsco. CslU.
Imperial Citrus Co?perstive Amoclatlon, OrA-l
lando Fls.
1nwme'~statssof America, Ino., Phil~delphla, G I
Pa 


&

;{

,

..........

2-16.M Idakin Drilling Co., Lari Angelas. Call1

A-1

2-71 
 Insured lnueston. Inc. Kansas City Ma ....... A-I
2-1517 
 Internation+ ~nvartor<Fand8yndl&te. acran- A-l
ton Pa. 

2-1898 
 lnter&tlonsl Investms Fund Bystem. Inn..
C-1
8 m n t o n Pa. 

N. Y ...... A-I
2-1055 
 ~ i r c h . ~ r - b u u Corpora~an,
2-1745
 Ladede Power & Light Co. St. ~ o d Mo
s ...... A-2
a-lnz 
 L a L u Mining
~aotreai~
, u e b e o , A-I
Canada. 

2-2150 
 Lawrence WBrehouse CO.. 8an Francisco Calif..
A-a
HUSI 
 Lednew Caporation ~ e r s e c i t y N. J.L .......
A-I
2-lm2 
 k w i s American ~ i r k a y s%c ~ i n v e rCola..- A-I
2-1711 
 The Livingston Minios do., ~ ' m l d e r &lo
A-l
2-1868 
 London D e e Mines
~
Co. Lesdville bolo ....... A-l
2-lw 
,L ons Mld-Continent cbrporat1on:New York,

Y
..........................................
1
21955 
 Mansul Chemical Oo., Jecksonvllla, F l e r....... A-I
21980 
 Marlowe Pmducts Ino. Clifton N. I........... A-1
,
2-1778 
 May-Spiers aoldn'rind Ltd., ~ b r o n t oOntnrio,
Canada ........................................
A-1
2-831 
 MBCO&
Metah, Troy, M o ~ t~.:...

 ..........-... A-I
21081 
 MsUgren Mines Car~oration,Phoenix, Arie ..... A-1
21481 
 Metropolitan District New Homes Corporation,
Nepi York, N. Y ..............................
0-1
2-1588 
 Mld-Tyrrell Matechewan Gold, Ltd., Toronta, 

Ontario, Canad*.............................. A-1
2-1459 
 Mineral Products Inc..New York N. Y..: ..... A-1
2-1434 
 The Monitor ~ i d n Corporation,
g
benver, Coio. A-1
2-2148 
 Montana-Dakot* Utiiities Co., Minnea~aliS,

Minn ..........................................
A-2
22128 
 Motherlode Derelopment Corporation, Atlanta, 

as^ ...........................................
A-I
2-1277 
 Murwood Oald Mines, Ltd., Toronto, Ontario, 

a
d........................................
A
21291 
 Mutual Industrial Bsnkem In0 h-ewark K.J. A-1
2-1447 
 National Edurators ~ u t d ~l s ~ o e l a t i a n , ' ~ n c . , 

N h l lT
............................... A
21680 
 National Mushrwm Corporatian of America. 

Avandale, Pa .................................. A-1
21835 
 Navsjo Gold Mines Ino. Maaeos Cola ......... A-l
2-1837 
 Nswman Dick Mlning &beveloping 00..Kirkland Lake, Ontario, Canada ................... A-I
21837 
 ....do........................................... A-1
22215 
 New Park Mining Co. Salt Lake City Utah ... A-1
2-16W 
 New York Water Ser;iea ~ ~ r ~ o r s tW
i oWi B A d
haven, Long Idaod .....-..................... 

2-1732 
 The North Amerioan Oo., New York, N. Y ..... 0-2
2-1135 
 No. 2 Park Lane West Ino. New York N. Y
.
.
. D-l (D
21741 
 Oil Erplaration & ~P'uelo6me:m.nt
~ r u s t(F. E. 

U'i~~oup.
trustee) h'sn -4ngeio Ter ........... A-l
2-1576 
 oil ~ i d g Oii
e 61 ~ e f i n i n g00, i a r vems
A-I
2-177a 
 oil ~ u Purchase
n
Cor orattot ~ e r a cit;.,%:j:
y
A-1
21438 
 Or~Kr~nd+&i~co
a o ~ S M i i e sLeviston Idaho. A-i
2-1766 
 Committee for Alexander ~abtages.6r~t.mtmort- D-l
gage bonds Portland Crsg.~.....

2-lo?4 
 peninsular Afinilrg c d r w r a t i o ~T a m ~ aPla ... A-1
21833 
 The Pennsyivanl~Bridge Co. pjaw ~ o r N.
i Y. A-1
513W 
 Penn Valley Crude Oil C&wration, blean,

N. Y .......................................... A
21360 
 Petroleum, Ino., Forterville. Calif............... 8-1
%lass 
 Poulin Goid Mines, Ltd., Montreal, Quebec,
Canada .......................................
A-1
21213 
 Precious Metals, Ino.,Buffalo, N. Y ............ A-1
PWtnoteS st end of t a b l e

omo oration:

(n

Amouot

Data

W,WO.W

W

Mar. 8,1838

6U1,870.00

W

July 13.1935

O R 0 May 21835
CRO U w . 13,1038

289,WO.Cn
573,W.W

} 
 155,120.W

W
80

151, W0.m

O R 0 1 
 July 24,1935

l.SW,W.W
(W, WO. W

?SO, 0M.W
25,cW.W

June 11, 1938
Peb. 11.1936




{

W


Mnr.
May
June
8 0 
 Oot.
W 
 8ept.

. fij

21,1836 

15,1835 

15 1835 

1835 

24,1935 


6

18, m,m.W CRO 1 
 May 11,1838
144,m.W
9,OW, WO. M
IB.W.W
209.010.W

ZSO.OW.W

l,w7,85aw
474, w6.15
1,298.917.W

w 
~ u g . 3,1936

W

80


May 28,1936
oct. 4,1935

CRO 
 May 23,1838
6 0 
 Apr. z.1918
so: Mar. m,I916
CRO 
 Nov. 8 1936
S o 1 
 M u . 5:1838

I , ~ ~ , w o . wnr 
 J ~ I Y 12,aaa
U' 

May 14,1935
W,OW.w
9m.m. w CRO 8 
 Mar. 28,1936
75.OW.W O R 0 2 
 Dee. 14 1915 

July 3,1915 

100,~ 0 . 0 0 w

w W
 hog. 14,1936 

~W,OOO.
500,WO.W

U


J u l y 10,1935

37,XIO. W
6W.m w
312 625. w

W

SO

so 


Feb. 5.1938
July 9,1935
Oot. 24,1915

14,974, SO0.W

W


June 25,1936

472.SW.W

w


175,030.W
125,WO. W

SO 

SO 


750,m.W

8 0 
 Aug. 2% 1935

Do. 

July 81,1835 

Jan. 4,1836 


W 
 Nou. 28.1836 

30.WO.W
100,WO.W OR02 
 Ian. 14,1916 

2,OW.Wo.W
2, WO,WO.
w
2250.W. M
2,304000.00
48,750, m. w
118,656.W
OW.900. W

W O , w

~

m,w.M

36i.m. W
141,668.67
497.~0.w
4760,mO W
I.550,WRW
726,WO.M
eaqm. m
826. OW. W

SO8 
 Am. 24.1916
w 
 May 28,1936
June 18.1936
AUC 8,1935
W

OR0

w


W


Nov. 18,1835
July 23,1935

80 

SO 4 

W

80


Feb.
oot.
Deo.
Nov.
Feb.

w


Oet. 7,1935
May 26.1838

W

W


11.1835
8.1936
31,1835
zs, 1883
21,19a6

SO4 
 July 17 1935
8 0 
 AW. I : I P ~ S

W 
 Feb. 11, I886
CRO 
 July 20,1836

SECOND ANNUAL REPORT

95

I

SECURITIES ACT REGISTRATION STATEMENTS AS TO WHICH STOP
ORDERS, CONSENT REFUSAL ORDERS, AND WITHDRAWAL
ORDERS WERE ISSUED JULY 1, 1935, TO JUNE 30, 1936-Continued

21248

2-388
2731
2137
2lZX
2-1482
24x4

21940
21753
2-2057

/

Lssaer

Porn

j

-

Radlo City Amusement Corporation, New
York, N. Y.
Reinbow Mining & hIlUing Co.. Ltd., Dfedimont, Idaho. 

Earitan Petroleum Corporation Neumk N. J..
Redding Creek Pl-,
Ltd.,'San *r&dsco,
Cdil. ......................................... 

Region Mines, Ltd., Vancouver, British Colum- 

bis Cenads-.................................. 

RichReld Caribou Gold Mines, Ltd., Vencouver, British Columbia, Canada-..............
Robot-Hand Corparstlon Detroit Mioh ........
~orrhssterDistilling CO. '~nc. ~ & e ~ r e N
r Y.
S e o t ~ L u e i aMining ~o.:lno.,'~ilmingt<b.Dsl.
Sw~riti89 Investment Corpmarion, Omaha,

A-1

Amount

SO

Aug. 14,1935

75.m. W

w

NOT. 22,lwb

A-1
A-1

5W,WO. W
mi?,lW.W

W


June 8, lm
Jan. 18.1936

A-1
A-1
A-1
A-i

A-1

CRO

Mar. 14,1938

1,017,241.42
5W,OW.W

SO I
W

Aug. 2 I835
M a y 1:1936

270.M. W

OR0

DBD.13, 1835

4W WO. W

W

3W.WO.W

db.

mO.WO. W

A
A-1
A-1
A-1

818,893.W
100,WO. W
3 3 . M . 80
1,WO.WO.W

A-l

CBO' Sspt. 28,1835

1mOW.m

E-1

A

W

O R 0 July 
15 1 m
282.SM.W
1.375,WaW
CRO I p r . 18:1938

l , m a , 7 : ~ m CRO I 3 AD^. I, 1938
804 Feb. 1 1 1838
405,lW. W

325.0%. W

.........

Date

$250, Wa W

2-1M9

Van DUSBO
R iver Redwood Co., Wllmlngton,
Del ..........................................
VImy Oold & Metals. Ltd., Montreal, Quebe;. 

C . . . . . .
......................
21532 V i m City Mining 0 0 . Butts Mont .........
H I 7 7 Virginia City Mining GO.' BU~B:Maot
2-1897 Ur&shington O s l d e ~1 n c ' ~ a s h i n g t o nD . C....
%Q32 Washingtan 1ndust;isi l b a n Ca., Webhinztoo,
D . 0 ..........................................
2-1131 Waahlngtun Rallwsy & Electric Co.. 1Y8sbiwn . D 0 . . .................................
2-1070 Wssbinpton.Youree How, Company, Ino.,
8 h r ~ v e ~ rLB
t . ................................
2-1187 Weg In~astrnsRoyalt Co Tulsa Okla ........
slsn The Wehle ~ c e h p s *est ~ A e n Conn
,
....
2-1787 Wendigo Oald Mmes, i t d . , Toronto, Ontario,
Oanada--:.-~ .................................
2 1 ~ 7 0 zem zem Corporatior,, New ~ o r kN.
. Y ........
24970 .....do ..........................................

-

8-1

A-1

2-1834

jTZr,"]'

NOT.30,1836

f$i;:$

{

iz:

W

Aw. & 1836


80
8 04
SO
W

May 11930


NOT.18: 1936 

Do.


Am. 22,1930

2b0,WO. W

W

Apr. 23.1936

48.7m,WO.W

W

Nou. 18,1935


E-l
A-l
A-1

S M , W . W 
 C R O I Oct. 18,1936
1W.OM.W
80
July 3 1935 

178,WO.W
oot. 7:193s

A-1
A-I
A-1

31 250.W
W
ZSO:WO.W CRO a
W
2m.WO.m

w

Deo. 28 leas

Mar. 25:ig.v

~ p r,n,

. lsaa

'List includes 40 stop orders, 38 mnssnt refusal orders, and 77 raithdrawd orders. 17 stop orders and 21
mfu~d0rderswereljfteddUring theperiod, mmkinB Bnnt 1111eBseo f 3 8 7withd~~wnststementswemr~aIed,
maBin8 10 net ioreass in number ofstatements withdrawn.
W-Withdrawn.
CRO-Consent refusal order. SO--SW order.
~~~~~t refusd Ordw lifted. 

'Stop order lifted.
1 sto~ord81m consent refusal ardsr Ulted after June 30. 1938. 

1 Renled.
Wegistration statemeqt wltbdrawn.
~EBeoWve.
1 Pending amendment.

''

APPENDIX
List of publications

IV

available as of September

30, 1936

Copies of the material listed below may be procured from the
Publications Unit, Securities and Exchange Commission, Washington,

D.

c.

ACTS:
Securities Act of 1933. (As amended.)
Provisions of Federal Laws Relating to The Securities Act of 1933.
Securities Exchange Act of 1934.
Amendment to Securities Exchange Act of 1934 (Public, No. 621).
Public Utility Act of 1935.
GUIDES TO FORMS:
Guide to Forms Adopted under the Securities Act of 1933.
Guide to Forms Adopted under the Securities Exchange Act of 1934.
(NoTE.-These
guides describe only the most frequently used forms under
each Act.)
MISCELLANEOUS:
Addresses by Commissioners and members of the staff of the Commission.
Official Summary of Security Transactions and Holdings--issued
semimonthly, beginning with Volume 1, No.1 (April 1935).
Directory of Over-The-Counter
Brokers and Dealers Registered with the
Securities and Exchange Commission as of January 31, 1936.
Securities Registered, Exempt from Registration or Admitted to Unlisted
Trading Privileges under the Securities Exchange Act as of June 30,1936,
and monthly supplements.
Work of the Securities and Exchange Commission-a
pamphlet describing
briefly the duties and activities of the Commission.
RELEASES:
Releases are issued covering the Commission's official actions, orders, rulings,
opinions, etc., under the Securities Act of 1933, Securities Exchange Act
of 1934, and Public Utility Holding Company Act of 1935. An order
blank is provided for placing names on the mailing list--this blank gives
a brief description of the classes of releases under each Act so that a choice
may be made.
Compilation of Releases under the Securities Act of 1933, to and including
December 31, 1935.
Compilation of Releases under the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, to and
including December 31, 1935.
I Copies or the rollowlng publications may be obtained
Government Printing Otlice, Washington, D. C.
Decisions or the Securities and Exchange C'ommlssion
16 cents.
DeclsIons or the Securities and Exchange Commission
26 cents.
, Otlicla1Summary or Holdings or Otlicers, Directors, and
36 cents.

96

from the Superintendent

Volume I-No.
Volume I-No.2,

or Documents, U. S.

I, Issued Sept. 2t, 1936. Price
Issued Oct. 81, 1986. Price

Principal Stockholders lISor Dec. 31, 1935. Prioe

SECOND ANNUAL REPORT

97

REPORTS:
Securities and Exchange CommissionReports to the Congress of the United
States:
First Annual Report of the Securities and Exchange Commission.
Report on the Government of Securities Exchanges. (Published as House
of Representatives Document 85.)
Report on the Feasibility and Advisability of the Complete Segregation of
the Functions of Dealer and Broker.
Report on Trading in Unlisted Securities upon Exchanges.
Report on the Study and Investigation of the Work, Activities, Personnel,
and Functions of Protective and Reorganization Committees:
Part III-Committees for the Holders of Real Estate Bonds.
Part IV-Committees for the Holders of Municipal and QuasiMunicipal Obligations.
Part VI-Trustees under Indentures.
RULES AND REGULATIONS:
Regulation Regarding the Sale of Copies of Registered Information.
General Rules and Regulations Under the Securities Act of 1933.
Rules and Regulations under the Securities Exchange Act of 1934.
Rules of Practice.
Rules for the Regulation of Trading on Exchanges Recommended by the
Securities and Exchange Commission for Adoption by National Securities
Exchanges.
UNIFORM SYSTEMS OF ACCOUNTS:
Uniform System of Accounts for Mutual Service Companies and Subsidiary
Service Companies.
Uniform System of Accounts for Public Utility Holding Companies.

,

SECURITmS

.AND EXCHANGE COMMISSION

I 8S88
_-0000

I1ll0.L
SQ10ulUJaNJoqs
sa.tIlltlll<laa
spnoq pamoag

.ola

'UOllud!o!uud
jO ""luollllJOO
J(OOlSpaJJaj9J4
J(OOlSuommoo

I

....

~o.,

C'i~gj ,

I ~~ :~
I :ci~~
• 1'-""
<0

I

:

'Q:lOO~

t--

~coFi~

I

I

OCO_CD
1'-

.... ...teo:ioO_

SPUoq pamoag

f8~~~

~~~g
NO.

....;

J{0olS uourmorj

lUl0.L
Blllou lUJlll-uoqS
sa.tIlluaqaa

spnoq parnoeg
"ota
'UOnud!O!lJUd
jo
""lUOll!UaO
J{OOlspaJJajaJd
J(OOlBUOmmO;)

I

I
I

I

I
I
I

,.. .

,
, ,
, , ,, , ,
, ,
,

!::::
I

I

I

I

I

I

I

I

I

I

I

: >a l •

I

~~I: , :

.. e'5~ : :
a,f1:a.l;~!

;"O~~<::!!~

SECOND ANNUAL

Illl°.L
a9lOU1DJSl-poQS
semln9q9U
spnoq p9JnooS
"919

'nolllld!911J8d
10 QSl89gnJ90
'10018 P9JJ919JeI
:l\OO18nommoo

I
I
I
I

I

I

I

.000

QQ

_--

888888
............
--:

:

:~

l:~

I

:~

cqClQ('I)tCOCJ

oi~~~==eO

g~~::tli;;!
onQOC:O&OC":l

col~

OOOCOOIO

888888 8
.-f

"o:I'I.cq

...;

....

: . :'~_Io
......

~~~~~~I~
~;~g~glg

lC~~~~~

"IfI~_=O"l2l

......

99

REPORT

"col

ClO~~CO~QO

.. oi.o"':cioi

~

o lQC()l'-C;C'OI""
.eO~.,.l.
"di
_OOCtl

C"l

I""

=00

....;~~r..:o:i~

t-o=

~;~~~~I~

tCOO~C'OP"'Iae

~O)~eO~~

I

181°.L

salon 1DJ91-1JoQS

I

S9JtIlnaq9U

spnoq parnoeg

8lnSJJ8M.
pu s '189J91
-U! \1l!9g9naq
'UOnOO!9!lJlld
10 S9189lJ1P90

'19018

:f

..
U.,
..

P9D9J9JeI

"~

"".

~c:l~f8~~

:d

~~~g~~

?J

ee

~;!~~g~~

'10019 nommoo

~~ri~gfg ~

1810.L

j

S9JI\lnaq9U

o

spnoq P9JIlOO

-

i

I
S I

"919

'nO!1IldI911J8d
JO QSl89g11J90
:l\9°18 PaJJ9J9JeI
:l\90lS nommoo

I

I

S910nllI.l9NJoQS

I

I
I

.... :.-t

i

~:g1:5~1:5SiI~
~cq

~c:o~::rllll""lf'

cq:.-t

: ....

_1=

C"')1Qt-c;l)('I)~I"
........

-~LQ""IQ~I"":!:
....

_C'OI

....

_.............

ooQOC'I')t'oococo/O>

:::

.~~~~~I!!
1'l~~~~~I~
I
I

,
I

, ,, , ,,
, ,, , ,
,, , ,
t' : : : :
~co •
It'

I

I

I

I

,.

I

f

I

I

I

I

t

I

t

I

l

2e.l'l

, , •

E.g~~~
~,.,::g~~.::

100

SECURITIES

AND EXOHANGE OOMMISSION
000000

l~o.r.1
I~Qq~O
SQJD1ldmo~ ~~
-11& PD1l 'SIlll '~Q&od
PUll
~qllJl
~~~QI:il

I

,cq

I

... 00""00"' ... \""
r-tl""'t

llUlSJPUIl~~QW
sQID1ldmoo ~uQm
-~SQAiq PD1l (SJ~D1lUl.i
SQ~

-snpnt llUJ.ll1l~JUuIIW
QAn:lll.lPC:il

.,.-(

l,ee ee

... .-t.-t

OOJA.JllS

uonooJuummoo
PD1l uonllP~

'OC"t

I
I
I

~

100
...

......
i 1""

~~1Q-

: .....

CQ

,, ,.
'

I

:(f)(Ocqco

~~~~~:!!ll~

I

~Eq&;~g;~

I

::P__CQ=:::co

rJ~~~~~

I~
I~

:~I~
CO

~~~ :_eq
:~t-:I~
~ : 1~~~ .~~ ~.I""~
,~co
'"cl

;::tC"':)

c:::i

1'--

I

c:DCQcq,....
""

I'"

~

:~~
:!:;"lfI:

~;~~~

1t:11'--c:D_OOl"'oo

I

SQ~PUl

SQ~snpUl

~~~@@@
:~' :.~ t-:~

:~~~~
r-t

d:

:
I

~

O""_~O)(IO

~gc-:i~ ....oO
t-"IIiI'''''''''IIiI'.t-..,.

:

IOOe--OOIQ

"",..;

1C':li

"".

.... _aQfOOcq

cir-:06oioC'l:i
..........
co_

100

I'"
""

..
....

cqCOIQr-!CQCO,,,,

~~~~8i~

~~g~~~ ci

C'O-CO.t-ool:Q
dc;:i"';
.,..;~

~~--:~~~I':':
cq.....

""
~

....('1)_ ~

"'l!'~"g,

:e~~sgj$

8sH~~~~~ ~
i?!~tfg-~;t
~~~~~~ g
""ltIoooo.t-o
~~~~~~ ~~~~~f15
...

:~
,
,,
,

8 :~r:
:cro;
.... :"'''':

:cq

iQ

...;81

~~i8~~~~
~~g~~~i
~g~~~~~
..;

J'"
j
tl
o

SQ~snPUl

ooJA.JllS

I

UonOOJUUmmoo
PD1l uOnllPOdsnu.r,

SQJD1ldmoo ~uQm
-~SQAUIPD1l (IIJ~D1lIIJ.i

I' •

I

I

I

I

,

'I

I

I

l""'t:
_

I

I

I

I

I

I

I

I

I

I

I

I'

I
I

'I'

CO:

:.c~.o.8 ....t:o" ....
-

I
I

I
I

I

I
I

~ : :,~ ','J ...:
1

•

1"
I

I

I'll
1'1
I
I

I

:,

~:~:

I
I
I
I

I

I

I

I

I

:

: ~
:
.;30

a-e-5J; i f:04
b;'[S e ~ E,Q 1;;1: l:;l!l
':;~~&~A
~r:~~.:;
:~aQ)8~

'

I.

I

,g

~!~s:~~
~
",,-:"'''' :g fi
Q"

SQJUlldmo~ ~~
-11& PUll 'SIIll '~Q&od
PUll
~qllJl
~~~~Ql:il

i

SECOND ANNUAL
»",
'3'"

... ::l",

3:b!
8~

Ii~-

::lc>

~~

...

~
~	

"I

~~
~g

'"

~~
~~	

..
~~

»'"
.,

'2'"
p.CO
-<~
.=

~~

::.l~
»

li!",

881

,C_

r:

»

~~
~"

..

,8

S::5

co
5!f
co

..
:a
..~
8<tS

s~

'"

~

2

.....
0

..

,8 ..

.s~
0" ...

..
.!
S"

B81
p.aJ

..

!~
""c>

~ ...
~oo

'381
......

...
...

s

:!!

E~

.~

ee

..~~
~
~
..
~

'i

0	

,

0
0

;:

o


0

0
0

,
0

8

<tS

0
0
0

f8

..~1

oo

,,

..

~
gf

,

g

0
0
0

~

~
~
.,;

...
l8
<tS

~

.,;

:2

gf

.,;

1'1
ee

<tS

~

..'"

~


.
..

~

S

.,;

:8

0

o

fi

'"

~

.,;

:=

.,.

~
'"
~

~

~

.. g..
s

~

~ ~ ~
! t
t-

0

0

0
0

<tS

:2

,

0

0
0
0

S

;i

oo

8l

~

~

...

!!l

~

t
g
'"

~
~

<tS

'"

..

e-

oo

.. .....

E

i

0

.,;

<tS

~
~
~
:2 ~ g
.,.
.,.
...
<tS
0>
~
~ S S :::
~
~ ~ ~ ...
.,;
.,;
~
oo
'" Ie
1'1
~
..;
.,;
.,. ~
Ie
..:
~
oo
~ s := ~
.,;
8l ~ ~ ~
~ ~
~
...l'! ...c;j 18 ~
5!f ~
l8
.,;
<tS
~
~ !il ...
~ fi
co
..: ..:
:a l8 ~ g
05 ... ..:
~
«
oo
iii ~ ~ ~
g ~... ~
... ..; ~ ~
w .ii ~ L~ : s J 0 :

...S g

co
'"
0

--

...

C>

C>

...

~I

..
.. '"
00

c>

•
'"

..
..

...c>

0

i!!

~

f8

..:

-

i

0
0

.,;

..

•!il

:i
;1
..'" ...

~ co :a
~ ~ sf

8l

~

~

::l"

~
~

oo

c>

...

:e'"

<tS

g

gf

~ ~
Ii ~

e-

~

...

"'
Sf<;

~

~

5!f ..;1

.,;

-..

0

.,;

:::;

00

g

~
.,;
s
oo
~	
~


<tS

~I

0

'"
1'1

0

:i

S-

~ 5!f ~

..;
0;

£;

8

00

.,;

'"
~
~

::l

.,;

00

'"

..:

r-,

.. ....
- '" '"
~
:e ~

<>i

00

~
~

0

00

@

~

'"

0

..:

~

!8

'"
gf

:!

0
0
0

0

......'"

'"
'"
'"
..:

«

'"

. . ff
.,.
~
.
~
.

0

~:2

Ii

0
0

...~ ,

"'gf

~

~

~
.,.
~
<>i
~
..;

~ '" :!
;!.:
'"
~ := ...
..;
0>
~ l8 ~ .,.
..;
S~ ...
co
~ ~
oo
~ ~
~
~
~ ~

.,;

~
;;;
..,
~	
«

gj

0

~ @

~
...

'"
..:

•

co

<>i
ee

c:i
00

.. . ~'" s
.

8• ,

~

~I ss
~
~
~
~

c:>
~	

...-

0
0

IQ~
gfui

~	

i

~

..;

8~
~ot

~l

0

.. '"

~ ~

~!t
..;gf

81

.

~
~

:!! 8

S~

~

0

~ ~ ~
..:
~ ~

1ISr6

~

fi
0

0

~
'"
"'!.
'"
ee
:::
oo

!8

8

0>

~~
~~

-..

8

00

~:8
......
:=...4'

g

<tS

~
~ co
oo
gj"
~ gf
...

~8

~~
...;.,;

~

0
0

of :2

.,.'"

~
~

!

..

~

~

:gQi'

8l

t-

S
co

~g

!"J

",81
Z

1:8
00 ....

co

..
.!

SOO

C'f=
......

c>

oo
ee

0:

0

oo"

..

s..:

~
oo

~ ..
ee

"l.

........

.,;

<>i

~ ~
~ t lll"
",'

~

0

00

..- ...

~

...

I:

!8

~	 ~	

oo

oc>

:i

0
0

0
0
0

-

;;S~
gj'~

0

0
0
0
0

0

,

oo

..:
:::;

. ..
. .

it..: ...

c>'"

~
~

0
0

~
~
~ ~

~;:!

s~	

~
~
~

€~

A

o;eti

.,;

0

=~

.. 00
0'"

;;;

.

oo
oo

!ll

1'1

... g <tS....,
g ~
~
...
..:
oo

0'"
r:....

!il

"''''
"'''
......

oo
g ~

g18

;igf

101

REPORT

.. ..

.,

0

a

s- g i/<>i ~
~ ~...
~
12
«
~
...
,
I»ob
d
i
:'0
i~
:.:..s
:
~
~
:
='tS
i
~-.!.
:
b
:.2.c~g p::s t8 :~:2;4)
: -ee EO~
't:SS :'Olri 'Oi ~:
~ , :f:.:ti
oS
o. c i6
,lIDIi '.,:i
I k I ~
Z
~'i
G).9:S g: ~ ~ a :~ S : ~ :.s~ : ~	c:::s::s
::s.9
:"g s:1 Q!. ~ :
:a ~~;r :g~;.2 !£~~ :.2~ :'Oe : g.8~ is! ~ ~~ ~ce8.:~ 8 :
t;g~ ~ :~s':p' :~~G) h,- :8"': ,.:aB~o't1~-C:
~~n~~.!3=~oc .s i:
::l.2 : 8'O,!: co4l1t) ~ .2~~~bO
~,; ~~~	 ~~.s o:J.2-i
~~

~
~

..

.
0
0

-!
0:

....iei'

G)

a

~

:

..:

•

G)'C

•

Q)

tIC

G)

...

(I)

'C ~

bO

I

't:I

:m"
8~oUif,g'g~~~~r~i-rtl-:a:i-~~ -~~ ilm ~ !~:m~!.s E~
tlQ

8::::
ep.lllB e~.8 ~~~	 ii;i~ig..8~.8 colll.!!~~Bl! e£1l! ~;.; ~ ~-g lil~ ~b tl8
P.-g.sIll:Q .... C' ..
ll:1:':

i 4)..0
e;: oIIIo ""';'1:':
Cl
Ill~

~ ..

I:':

lllo'Oo:c:lo"
Eo<

Eo<

Eo<

Eo<

p.~",

..

lIIo

e~.s .e=aJ ~o
Cl
III 0 f

.. :5 ..
0

Eo<

I"l

102

SECURITIES

Al>."TJl
EXCHANGE

I'MOJ'Ht)O

00

COMMISSION

't:!

~&S~~~ ~ ~

~~~~g~ ~
...t~~~;:!

~

~

,oC'lI'" co
~~ :5i:~ 8 5'5
~ C:{~:~;:ilg ~
s
:r-~ """: cti
00

0

IQCXl

'"

I

('I')

:

_

"'fl

CQ

~

8£l~~~ ;:; !::
gf~~~~

~- ~

~

~

~ ~

:~g~~ a

~

!~~~~~ ~
!g g

s~-

f
~~II
~

~
~

.,

Co,
o

oa>:

1>'

"'.
"':

"':
~~

~g
~eQ

"',
_e:
...."'. ,

'"~ . .,,

0:
a:

...~ :~.

,

_"',""~:,

.d
~t3

-;;:

~g
~a
o

~~

"'
p:;

..

ee

..
~: :
~; ;
o : :
'

~~~
g.~t
cP~:S

p:; 0

~
ti
'"

SECOND ANNUAL

REPORT

103

104

SECURITIES

:!:

,
,,
,

A1o."'D
EXCHANGE COMMISSION

~~2
=...
....1t-='
lOg~
ri

:5

'"

:~
,

. ,.

,

I

~

::8

~ ~
~ ~

~g~

......

~g&i
... .",

ri

8~ 81

~"gg-

.,,'"

t.O~

...

, :8

:r-:

I

,
I

.

:~

."

:C")

I,:

8

~
:r:;r;

: ~

:~
,

....

'"

.,
~ ~ ~ ~
~ ~ ~ ~
~

sansst jo ~aqmnN

1 ... ' ' 11

S!!:

;f ~
...

~

~

SECOND ANNUAL REPORT

~ '"~
ee
~:~
~:~
~ , ...
lQ;.o

jl~11

::i.
. :, 8I

:

C'O

:II, I

...
Ie

,~
,

o

'"
~:

.

... ~i
.,;

...

8 ~:
~!:
..;
~ ~:

eQ ~ :
'"

,...; e-C'i; ,,

101973-36--8

105

106

SECURITIES AND EXCHANGE COMMISSION

~;~~II

O).-lOO

cici'...r

.-l

...
C'i

:~~l~
aolQ"ltl

1'00

0;

!~~8
~~~ ~

~~~ ~
~~~ ~
!,jc{~

~

...

SECOND ANNUAL REPORT

0>

!:;.

ci:
....

•

..

",

O!::

107

108

SECURITmS
.,

to....

i_~~
~QSB

c
&:l

.s ~

~
'"
~
~

=~~

.s
l<:>
&:l

...
~

...;:"

~

....
~
e
.;
&:l
&:l
0:>

...
'0'

~~
Eo<

!
.s
-e
.,
.c

"i...
oS

1

~

; '"

0

~

t/J
~"O
~Cl>

... ;:l
.,l:!

~.~
~.....

~8
",0
~I
<He

0

rll

'fl
!:I

2.. '"
'S

..
'S

.,G

t

'tl

.,.,

.~

....

S
.,

11

:c

~,Qi
....

~

.,

13

~

~G)n
CO""'"

e=
coS

~~

"'" ...

,=

.!'3'"
...
8
0'"

""'~
..
~;Si

oj~

0

'""

'gg

~

lao

S.

Z

:;[
ii:gt

i~
P:"ij

..
...

AND EXCHANGE COMMISSION

~ ti~~
,,; ....-gg
~ I::f;!""
~~
.. ...

.. ~
.
. ....~
,

ee
!8~ gg~
...s:... 18
~~
••• 5~~~!.i!~C!:
;::..~...
Clf";":
~'f;i'
~
f;i'lis11li~-~:8~g
~
....... "' ,,;...
coco
coo~~
,..r ...;" tOg:" ......:!:...,..; .......
.......~..co ~

0

,

..

0-

1

s~~?2
~~"gi~

..'"

.......

fD"dl"

~

:s~: ~


:~&f!
:N'"

I ~ I III

I

:609'

:

00

I

I gf""II

:

'000

~8
""'0

~~

~~

t-=(f)"

cO

:8
;-0..

~~

....

.
. ~~
.. :~:8. - .... ~ ~~
.. ..
....
.
~
.,... .. . .,. ..
,
. .
.... ,.:~.. .. ....... ,....
.. . . ,, ..
III . :... 1:11 ,,. ...
,..t

''0

N

ee

oN

ieF.l-

..
...

0

0

0

0

0
0

0

I~I
:j .

"",

0

.N

0

0

:I!S

&;;;~f2 10
~gg~ 1i S

Fl

~

s

'0

lO~<:"I<oQ'l

~

...
S'

_ ..cO

.

1C"41Q

I

I~_

I
I

• ao~

:ci~'"
:ocq

:

00'

...

10

.,;

....

....

"I

''0

0

0
0
0

0

0

0

0

~

•

'0'

f..
;l

...~~

"'

('Q

....

...r

0

o"'a$

~

:g

-<

Eo;

o

: ~:

.0

.
....
,.
.
...
..

....
,

,
,

o
o
o

,
,
,

,
,
,

-...

.,.
,.
•

0

IJ

~
.
I

e; ~c.:i

B ~8S~t

'3 '5g~:::t!
.s 1:0,.,;0 ....
tole
<r:<l

b

:

:
:Ill
-;e8 ..i~

=io
:~~.!:~sss

: ~J.E~~
:'C.E!.5!~
J as C"d-

li1 ='OI>oSl~S

ca "5~g~e:!i
b lJ'd cd r:a~A
Eo< 'E gog ~
s:t""'Eo<Itl

~

,
cl"

0

0

0

0

.. ~~~O~". ,••• ~8i;l;
~~ ~ ~~gQ';~~~~~;!S"g
......... ~
""0

N ...

~:g

..,os.,
:•• .as:t ...~e
••

::

~

Il:i

0

..

.;

riI

0

•

I

-s

tQ

•

:~
ra
:. ':a

;:"

.c

1

0

0
0

0

0

00

..,.. ..
.. .,.
... .,
...., ,..

0

0

~'"

.. .

I~~I~
:cl"

0

~

,

.......

0
0

0

.,~

..
.,

~"...4

0

,S>

S

~ .. ~ ..

0

~&:l

'e;l
.,..,

IQ"

• ee

",,-

I

!

~e~
~~t
.....~~""

~
..... . :8."" ... 1~ l~. .... .. .... ...
... . /11 !f;i' . jaf :i~ :: .. : ~
..... ,. . .
... ... .. .. ... ,... ....i~"
....: .., :~
~~
..
:..
.
.
.. . ~
.
.
, , . r-- , . i~
.
.
.
~
. .,. . . .
.. . .... ... .,. ... .,.. .,.. ... ,.. .. ,.,.. ...
.. ... .. ... .. .,. .. ... ,,. ... . .., .
.. .. ... ... ..., .. .. .. ~:
II III,,... ,.,., ... . .., .... ... ,... ,... ~I 1:11

8
....

00
: ....-

It--....-l

~ d' ~~ ..••
r:~...:•••
:~~~
"''''' ~~~8g~
~;;:; ~ ~2C~COs~ :~~~

....

""....

00

COLQCQ

IQ.....;-.:tl

lQ

I

JQ

CD

.0

ooac

0

, .... CO

:3

ICDCDCQ

t-'O:fl

i

..rc:o"'~

0-

. . . .... . ,. . ,..
:s
. - i~ . :~ . .. . ~
!~.. .!~- .. : l..-t . .,. .
.-t"~"

0

~r-4"

00

:0
.'0

:C")'" :eq'"

,,;

0

00

0

SECOND ANNUAL REPORT

...
i :~i!i

: :c:r :t:
•
I
I

UQ
, ....
I

"0
IIQ
, ..

i:... ;'0

. .
... ...... ....
.

... ..
..

!s
:0'

..

ij

~:g~go"".

~~

i..

~f! ~

:i Hi
~
:...:"

:

I

~ i:

i£

:~

i

1O

: II !II ' 11111111
I
I
I

.
I

1
f

I

I

I
I

I

I
I

I

I

...
..
.

I

i~

....... .
, ..
...,
...
,. ,.
..... ..,
.... .. ..
I

1:..-4

, ,

S

"'1~

~~~
..
•e-

..
I
,

I

I

I
I

I

t
I

t

I.

I

I

: :

t

t ~

I

I

.... .... .
.....
,
...
,

,
:

;cf

~
00
~

1

109

110

SECURITIES AND EXCHANGE COMMISSION

i~~
:es f2

8
I~

,
,

:~

:...,.

~

CQ

,,

. ,.

......

..

, ,

, ,

,

~~~

1

:

:

1'-~~

I

~

. ~o~:

ci"

...;

ci

le
I

I

~ ...

o

~
.,
e-,

:l!~I ....:~.'"
• ee

.

, :00

, ,
:

ee
'"

.
.

ii
;:; i'g

}i!l.,

~
'Z

l!j",,:J

'Osg

..!:\~ .9~'g

: bD~a
~
...

~~g

-"".~g~

g""'E<

~

"'"
:~

SECOND ANNUAL REPORT

III
-

,'" ~
:~

i~ g

1ft

E-

~,
!
~

:2~
:~~
,c.c.
: tOu:)

:

:

'"
.,.'"

:g ~

I

.000

,..;cO

,-...
:~

~ ~

ii~~

:! ~

I

....

.,. 'W>

P"'l..

~

o'S

:~

..

'

lC')

-......--'"

8gf~

i
U')

,
,

~
 ,
; !i
'g :fll
c= :-a

~:!,
.. 'e .
~i8fll

~~""~
o =.E ""
""~e
'g e,8 8
"'8 .. ""

~ tlO-S.E

~:&~f
.£oi5.!

.i~oO
&i

-

~

111

112

SECURITIES AND EXCHANGE COMMISSION

TABLE
6.-Channels 


of dislribulion of new securities regdslered for account of
and fully efleclive July 1, 1936-June 30, 1936 


issue~a

IEstimsted gmps proweds in dollsrs]
Seoudties offered for sale
Industry

TO

lnveLltor~~Direct B
mn 
 T Othmu
h
investom
underaiters by m ~ i s -

r$:z

and ageate

nprlcnaure.........................................................

Total

--trants

---

126, m0 ............
1% m0 

EitractiveindustriaE:
Coal mining-..
a, 146 315 603 OW ............ 3 140 316
WO, WO


M e tm
i .........................
3 8 8 9 2 
 37 %:4M
2,684',918
2% 7%
4(li64iOn
Oil and gas weus ...................... Z579 803 
 1 5 : ~ , % 5 2 1 0 5 . ~ 0 ........... zo:&ffia
Quarrying and nonmetal mining ...-.........
....
 5,657,358 ....................... 4 887,358
T o t a l e r h n o t i ~ eindustdla.
4 , W 7 2 l 
 Q038,341 6,287,918
234,785
74897,7~

........................

..........

:

:

---

-----P

,
Manufaotoring Industries:
Food and related ~ r o d n c t.
s............ 83,328, ,018 118,884,133 1 , ~4~

.
Toba~ooproducts .............................................. 
 188,825
B~mwgi:
Brewer!* .........................
5%340 

2 280,424
188, 062
DL3tiUeries.................................... 
 24,011,623
lagw

Total be-ges

.................

52.340 


P

2XI

............

183.m 815 

1883815 


............

1491 426 


............ ~030:6n 

27,151,047
324.882 ............
 27, 528,8,~9

-__-

Tsrtiler and their products ............ 332,585

2,W.226
............ 
 8 537 811
Lumber and lumber ~ r o d u c t.
s.................... 
 I, & l a m ...403,WO
.................... 
 I : M ~ W
Paper and p s r products ............. 5, m,101 
 9,089,761 ....................... 
 14ffi1.882
Printing, plnb%ing, m d allied isdusfTi88......
................................... 3 9ffi 450 ....................... 
 3,W8,4m
Chemioaln and allied roducta
18518,8W
1: 082: 740
412WO
702, m0
18, T86,340
Mineral oil refining t n d u d i n g distrl.
hution) .............................. 17,817,880 282 m7,WO 

60,231.5W 370,336,880
2
m
.
m
eath hex and leather manufactures................. 12:478,710 
 ....................... 12,479,710
Bulldin and rslated roduets......... 3 708 Oa0
 29 45'2,740
223,610 ............ 33 386 170
Iron a n f s t e e ~( s r c ~ u & ~ m a ~ h i n e r y ~ . .0:
a d 8 8 4 141
85,575 10, m z . 2 ~ 345:31$011
Nonferrous metals..................... 3,289,524
 6 4 , 7 2 5 : ~
134, wo
50, OW
68,798,524
Machinery and tooh (excluding
portstion ?quipm?nt) ............... 24,528,774
 18.ZB5.653
869,112
85,000 43 7 a mg
T-spofiatlm?
e~ulpment........... 17,081,808

5.142.127 2,479,350
254 080 U: g ~ 8385
:
Miscelianeous manufacturing industries.................................
19,444,574 
 2 1 8 4 4 , ...........
Q,W 41, ~ 5 2 %
Total mandachlring industries..-.
180,439, 232 934 527,493 6,183,238 72,179,713 1,194,4a.878

,


.........

--- .

---

Financial and investment wmpnies:
Investment and trading mmpanies:
General andlimited managemmt.. ............
 286,075,356 21, 298, 855 q 051,880
F h e d t r ~ t s.
. .................................
10,358,830 .......................

337,026,191

79,858,639
--Total Briestment sod trading
oomwnias. ................................ 375,533,985 n . m , 8 5 5 a0,~1,080 416,884,830
-0
.............................
OM .......................
 54,0W,

d
54%
[a0
Commsrciai aedlt, fioaoce, andmortgage mmpanbes ......................
773 044 
 48 121 731 1 734 150 ............ 
49 m 025
Industrial and personal loaneompanias. .......
3: I& 605 $222: 5W
M3.467
5: 919: 572
Insuranea omnranies .............................. 

164m
% m,350
l , m , wo
Other k o i a l and insestment $omPanies .........................................
.
1%152.531

 8 . ~ 52 , 1~5 4 ~ 0 q g m , ~ 1

:....


Totalflnanoialandinvestment

m m p m l.
~.....................
773, D44 40%886,862 
 31,693, 355 24,804 447 W ,
938,708
p


Merchandising ............................
6, OSZ,048 12,775 en0

253.815
647, 100
10.788.rn1
Rsal estate ............................................
1,514,MO
 ....................... 

4 , ~
Constmotion and allied industrlss .-...-............... 26'2,5W
 ....................... 
 I, 5 1 m


Trsmportstion snd oommuoilcation..
7,788 10U 27@708554 2 Ba? WO 3,3WWU 254,41l,g14
service industries.........................
21,e73:518 2:ffi1:407
2 , ~ 7 5 5 2 %891,861
Elsctrie light and pawer, gas, and water:
Holding w m anie3.2 ..................
102.383 22,301,600
 ...................... 
 2 1 403,881
o~erat!neho~d1ng,wmp~nies
...................... 
4w 394 478 .2,650
m0 ............ 501 94t 478 

Operatrng oom~anres
.................. 12, 5h?. 350 861:
702: 535 
 ......
I. 016, wo 975: WO: 885
Total e1eetrio light and power, gas,
and Water .........................12,445,093 1,481,398,513 2660,WO 1, W,WO 1,488.U9,a00
M i ~ ~ a I l a ndomestio
e ~ l ~ o m w n i e s ........
73aWO 73 288,060 
 ...........
2aWO 74,048 6 0
Foreign governmmta and subdiriisiom ................ 174:682.
........... 39,w~MX)
214,38$ em
orand total
213,570,838 3.621,647,219 
 W,387,823 144,2W,M7 3,938,210,577

.

:....

OW:^

:~...
--

---

.......................

em
--

113

SECOND ANNUAL REPORT

~ : :gi3

I

~:
o;::~:t~:
.. :

.:

::

,
,

.

"''''°'''°'''1_
~-_

~
!

o

J

:!:

.. .. -

r~;

00

,""'
, "'
,,,

,""~
,

,,
,,

..

fO:lt'-C'QlQ'ltI

.....-

1

&QO_l'
-~1QI'" '"
""

..,,, . . .
.
, .
~i . .
,
, ,
, ,, , ,
, , ,
,,,
,
,
I

I

I

I

I

I

I

I

,"_

I

'"'°"''''''''''''1(1;
f
I

I

I

I

I

I

I

I

I
I

I
I

'I
I

I

I

,
I

I

I

I

1'1

: !.... :

J

.
~"". !

i....l~

:: I:

I

; ~~i- j , ..
~ !"""" ... - i t"""'I~
...... ...
"'lgj
""OIQCD"d"

....

"'....
oo"'..
t

I

I

I

I

J

•

•

,

I

I

I

::::::
c

~~::::

! .~,e-~=~J
=~C1S~S=

~r-.::S<~~

•

S
~

114

SECURITIES AND EXCHANGE COMMISSION

:i~-I~

:11"'11":8 :I

,18f

J

J91U& PUll
'sllli
'JIl&od
'1qlln
"1J1oot:![

llU1SIPUllq"JIlJ\I

I

1UIlUIlSllA
-U! pna OOUllul,[

I

U0I1"tu1SU0:J

lIlIJ.111l"UJnUIlJ\I

IlAll"IlJl'::il

IlID1[Il"IJlly

M°J,
JoqlOI
J91IlM.pus
'sllli
'JIl&od
'1qll!l
"!JlOO!:il
OO!AJIlS

u0111l:>
-pmmmoo'ptra

:

0..

,,

:

...

ocqo_o_,_
C":I____

::!:

,
,

IllU1S1l 10011

uonllpodSullJJ,

I
I
I
I

:~

I

:~

I

I

~oo_
'co

I

:~:

I
I

I

:;

I

,
, ,
, ,

...

I

I

,

1;_ I
:<0 """

I

. .

;<0 ..

1l1U1S1l 10011

1

IlAll"llJl%:il
IlIDl£M!JllY

: 100
I

I

llU1IDloUJnUlIJ\I

-

QQ

I

UO!l"tu1SU0:J

lUIlUI1SllA
-UJ PUll OOUIlUJ,[

00
00

: i~
•

UO!lllpodSUllJJ,

llu!s!puuq"JIlJ\I

C'iI
f:l)

"0

••

, :I as""'"

I

I
I
I

-lunmm~~:

I
I

ur ~

I;"

I

I

I
I
I

I

l"-

I

I

I

I

:

:

I

:IQ~--rg;

I

, :I

i~ llQC'ilCQ I ~
C'H"i,IC'l

f~

:C'iI"I1'l

,-

I: :- : IN
,

:

115

SECOND ANNUAL BEPORT
TABLE

9.-Private

placings oj securities 1 January 1, 1934--June 30, 1936
Total

Year and month

Number of
issues

1934
1 anUary ________•• ____

1935
______________

ii'~r~::::::::::::
ApnL
________________
May. ________________
.1une _________________
July __________________
August _______________
September ___________
October ______________
November ___________
December ____________
_________

1936
January ______________
February ____________
March _______________

tfa~:::=

June _________________
=:= ===: =:= ===

I

1
1
1
1
2
1
2
6
3

5,076,000

5,076,000

97,840,708

93,901,000

7
2
1
4
3
7
4
7
4
4
4
1

45,805,000
38, 950,000
450,000
6,807,568
33,100,000
51,431,000
13, 40:r, 000
31,778,000
16, 180,000
24,600,000
30,800,000
3,500,000

45,805,000
38,950,000
450,000
5,750,000
33,100,000
51,431,000
13,403,000
31,778,000
16, 180,000
24,600,000
30,800,000
3,500,000

-----------3, 939,708

------------

------------

--i;757;568-----------------------

-----------------------

---------------------------------------------

2,086,000

2,900,000

53,625,200

43,775,508

453,000
1,950,000
450,000
3,807,568
13,100,000
21,181,000
10,403,000
24,378,000
1,550,000
21,600,000
14,800,000
3,500,000

22,602,000
37,000.000
-----------3,000,000
20,000,000
28,000,000
3,000,000
7,400,000
14,630,000
3,000,000
16,000,000
------------

117,352,568

154, 632, 000

36,050,000
8,650,000
23,100,000
7,000,000

----------------------1,185,600

35,000,000

------------

1,050,000
8,650,000
7,685,600
7,000,000

3
2
4
1
3

36,050,000
8,650.000
24, 285,600
7,000,000

13

plseings

----- .. ------ ------------

-i4~500;ooo- -i4~5OO~ooo- -----------------------

81 485,310,876

90,485,600

excluded.

16,600,000

of issuers

Industrial

1,757,568

Grand total ____
private

Public
utility

48 296, 984, 568 295,227,000

Total 6 months,

Registered

Stocks

classl1lcatlon

$12, 000, 000 ----~------- $12,000, 000 ------------------------2~ooo~OO(r ----------------------- -$2~OOO~OOO---2~OOO~OOO------------------------------------i;247;OOO- --i;247;OOO--i;247;OOO- ---------------654:200654,200
654,200
--6;500;000- ------------$6;500;0006,500,000
10,315,000 ------_ .. ---- --6;3i5~OOO- 4,000,000
10,315,000
10,000,000
10,000,000
10,000,000
--i;i45;5ii8--i;i45~5ii81,145,508
-48;763~OOO- 140,000 -ijj~323;OOO- 29,140,000
48,903,000

20

---

Total __________

TotaL

Bonds and
notes

Group

2 $12, 000, 000

ii'~~::::::::::::
AprlL
_______________
May ____________• ____
June ____________• ____
July _____________• ____
August ______________
September ___________
October ______________
November ___________
December ____________

January

Amount

Type of security

Other

------.----------- .. ---------------------._------ .....
--------------------._------------------ - -$440;000
-_ .. -------440,000
2?,760,OOO

----_ .._------------------------

----------2,250,000
---- ..----- ...
---_ .. ----- ...
---_ ..-----_ .. __ ... ---- ..
----------.

----------

....

25,000,000

__ .. _--------------_ ..
....

-----------

---------------------

--3,-000;000- -ii~5OO~OOO----------_.

89,300,000

1,185,600

54,600,000

35,885,600

478, 428, 000

6,882,876

225,577,768

234, 293, 108

----------25,440,000

116

SECURITIES

~
~~
.~
~

..

f'
e

~3is
f5<l'ES

8:300

'&

o!pr.o

~

E

~
-<
....
.... ~
t--~ ::!l
~ -<
~ r-.
0
~ ~
'& 8
ro~

\r,>
0)

e

COs

.<:I

~s

0

;:"
.0

0
II:

"
iii
...

III"

III

CO

a:-.

~:a

I....~~....I~ I~ O~OO""I~
I~~~.I~ I~ ~~~.I~
I~~....:I~ ~oo« I~
I II~ I~ ..... :I~
CIO~&3
00....

~~~

..
e

<
8

I

~

I=l

;-ril33!

CD

<l8"':-.

I-

e
IO:c
t:!

e

-e

Po<0lill>o

'"
lil

P

5

..:l

-<
8

0

Z
'" ....~Z

8'"
sa
a.,

I-

~'"
.~

8

'"

0
0

..
II-

~

'" 8....

"l:l
"l:l

t:!

e

olil

Z

Z
....
III

f:
co

~
a
~

'C
co
8

...

'is.

<l
co

j;:

a

a
Ol
00

CD

e ~0
~'" ....
r-.
()

..s

..

r-.

-eu

II:

e
I-

III

t:!

.0

"l:l

t:!

e

'';;

~

0
..:l

'& -<
Po<
u
'" ....
0
Z
~ ....
Po<

....

8
j;:
CD

8

;~
~~

Po<l;
lil'"

.c~

a'l'l

z'O

::!l

"i ....
II:
t:!
t:!
()

t~

..:
'"E

.0

~

I

0

....
rill
,;l

III

""I

~


r-.
..:l
..:l

-<

:€I....
..
8......
'"
ee

<I

0

..

;:
co

11~
0

"~
""'

.....

ci'

I~....",gl~
I~....
~ :i 1«
I~~~rI~
~ ~~ e
08°"1~
gf

,

S~~
""'gI~"
Il)O

~

,

ee

..

~

I ~~~~I~
~...

00

~~"'a:r

~..

00
;;

00 ....

...rr:t-:

r

t:tS'

- ~l:g.....

....'" 18
~~:g""I""
....

I
I

~

....

co

......

CQ

......... : 1 ~
::<8"
8~~ :
,
..

I

co

....

........:I a
~8~

.....

....
~

:
I

~

...

CQ

I ~~~~1«

12"'~a::::« : I'~"

I ~~~~I~

18....
0
..

8

oo...-.t

cQ~8i"

~

oco....

0)

g-

~ ..USo6'

.~~

~8;;~ ~
o'
•

.' ! ~

gIel':

....

00~"00100
l'--~~
~
....

1$~i:gl~
....
~
Is
~

00.0 :
Cf:lCO ....
Il)-tQ

Il)

........

s....

.. «1 .

~~~

fi

u:. : r:

~ .... ~

~i~

1
cC~;f

~e'C,g

.... ~8....
E Z
I

~1~

o~~

~
8

"'• ~'" ~ j:10~

~~

1 ..

K>~~

;:"

CD

OOMMISSION

....8:0

~is
"'-s

()

AND EXOHANGE

..... IQ...

:

.......

co

~

..

"'l!l~«I~
co..........

Il$

"";-og;

......

COIOOO
""ltt...

I
:

« .. '" :

....

...

....

~.OOOI"sr
eta
_

CQQ)_
eoC'O~

..1~"'co"

~~~~Ies
QIQC'01"'"i

0

ri'.r-:
........

ad'

~

00

~~

s: ~

r-tcq .. t:

:::
..

1~ !~~~Ii!
I~-~~'"
I~
.
.
..
.... ..
..
...
....
_.-5...S-fS...' .f••, :

...
,
,,

,

,

"

~~i :
CP ~

00

....

aQ

, ,
, ,,
,
,
,
,,

f

'"

....
0
0
8........
~
COCJOCO

('q.........

~

""'8

o"'elil
S'5o'5
~Po<oo

•

!

.. .
.... . ,.
. .. ..
.... .
.... .
.
_ ... .
,, ,

,, ,
,, ,
, ,
,
, ,
,,
,
, ,
,,
,, ,,,
,
l>o'

.d

,,,
,
,,
,
,
,,
,

•

c.s:= :

;-0
'
~.d::
f: fl •:
o!g,lS

.!l~ ....<:1

~Po<8o

,

!

...r...r

cwi

I
I

I
I

f
I

,
f

I
I

,
I
'-I

I
I

I

I

I

I

I

I

I

t

.......
.,. . ..
...
...., .
: :, :.
"". ..
,

I

I

I

f

It't
I I

I

,

f"

I

,,
,
,

,, ,
,, ,
,
,,
,
, ,

-'
.<:I ' •
.,""<1
lil- "

~1~~
Eo<

.!l~~5

~Po<oo

TABLE

H.-Value

and volume of sales on registered exchanges, by months, July 1, 1935-June 80,1986
PART

1. TOTAL

MARKE'!'
(Amounts

VAI,UE

OF .\.LL SAI,ES'

In dollars)

1935

1036
July 1, 11136to
JUDe 30, 1036

July
1,119,663
Baltimore Stock Exohange ••••••••••
15,872,027
Boston Btock Exchange •••••••••••••
170,832
Buffalo Btock Exch~e
••••••••••••
134, 604
Ohtoago :Board or T
e •••••••••••••
Ohicago Ourb Exchange I...•.......
Stock Exchange ••••••••••••
539,722
tl Stock Exchange •••••••••
Cle
d Stock Exchange ••.•••.•..
• 897, OW
107,680
Denver Stock Exchange ..•.•....••.
5,937,263
Detroit Stock Exchange .•.•••••....
6,776,380
Los Angeles Stock Exchange •••••••.
246,6116
New Orleans Stock Exchange •••••••
New York Curb Exebange •••.••••••
167,307,429
New York Real Estate Securities
6,900
Exchanges ••••••••••••••••••••
_'"
New York Stock Exchange •••••.•••
I, 188, 411, 994
Philadelphia
Btock Exchange •••••••
7,475,559
2,702,724
Plttshurgh
Stock Exchange_ ••••••••
Bt. Louis Rlock Exchange •••••••••••
264,672
Salt Lake City B.ock Exchange •••••
171,913
2,010,235
lin Francisco Curb Exchange ' •••••
an Francisco Mlnln~ Exchange 7 ••
Francisco Stock
xehange ••••••
Btandard
Btock Exchange 01 Bpo_•••••••••
_
kane ' •••••••••••••••••••
199,673
Washington
Btock Exchanlle ••••••••

"-ii;m;i7r

August
994,888
17,869,812
106,537
431,677

September

October
1,183,475
21,077,357
183,683
204,010

810,795
16,394,371
81,315
291,072

December

January

Februn'y

1,570,654
22, 205, 007
203,480
183,813
214,046
24,436,051
674,666
• I, 524, 26~
35,615
8,288,917
8,662,292
285,488
218, 284, 864

2,150,619
26,728,799
248,802
249,003
657,932
32,748,784
916,022
• 1,6:J3,1l65
20,189
10,765,166
12, 365,004
347,628
342, 229, 584

1,61\),007
26,407,666
201,788
279,130
693,938
83,046,098
8110,034
• 2,402,008
21,082
9,650,696
10,337,368
280,306
323, 622, 999

1,320,242
22,912,128
, 177,258
330,602
494,451
26,628,081
784,888
• 1,655,153
19,804
8,044,24fl
9,332, 327
273,497
303, 279, 932

7,413
1,977, 689, 239
10,054,750
3,636,212
339,612
274,217
1,902,156

8,477
2, 408, 258, 638
12,820,134
4,620,271
563,489
577,114
3,537,371

7,930
2, 445, 136, 288
13,270,033
6,903,737
653,630
486,250
4,070,342

1,375
2, 3f>3,860, 627
12,952,769
3,893,729
665,252
639,091
3,533,652

No~ember
1,528,747
25,137,801
206,313
303,244
106, 028
27,599,720
( 652,267
• 3, 047, SOU
62,843
8,196,449
11,262,826
265,786
253, 487, 973

'."i6;oos;i66" •••• i6;00i;9W. ""2ii;i63;2i7"
481,226
• 983,663
89,IlIS
5,834,694
6,951,288
280,640
216,839, 184

349,196
• 1,200,842
70,166
6,396,682
6,742,908
153,479
148,684, 104

646, '100
• 2,314,802
71,863
9,378,272
8,194,263
323,899
216,614,611

2,508
1,638,782,000
10,229,837
3,133,529
278.061
223,435
2,723,296

12, 712
1,459,201,833
8,489,137
2,753,627
215,728
179,366
2, 232,186

620
1,889, 332, 107
11,895,957
4,111,143
531,270
183,837
2,637,378

8,803
2, 170,028, 546
13,532, 127
4,514,288
643,400
316,808
4,271,970

April

March

May

1,057,081
23,856,791

June

709,214
15,700,373

755,837
14,400,983

123,99lI
12, 680, 438
351,220
• U5Z,349

13,766,076
796,939
• 783,017

5,027,632
100,676
132,919,204

7,970,367
155,071
150,lIS5,562

14,820,822
248, 622, 805
1,534,508
2, 846, 248
2, 963, 28Ii
271,041,640
7,820,936
19,322,934
516,919
86,845,563
101,030, 771
2,924,174
2, 083, 193, 207

720
I, 241, OM, lISl
7,731,477
1,883,712
565,748
315,594
1,319,345

26,050
1,233, 278, 192
6,674,939
2,303,568
lIS5,452
173,173
1,508,318
40,194
9,044,746

9O,68a
21,882,749,006
126, 655. 941
44,035,040
5,994,023
3,883,805
32, 368, 063
40,194
161,643, 009

248,434
259,474

1,089,9117
2,306,129

.. .... 225;40i. . •....• i02;52ii• .•..••. iio;563•
395,684
'2.1,620,180
578,0116
f, 1, SOO, 105
• 8,919
7,116,180
9,409.217
211,048
209, 137, 761
7,115
1,877, lt6,061
11,479,222
4.578,500
087,709
443,008
2,561,814

277,207

.... 'a;i2j; i9:j' ...._._-------4,113,865

.. "'ii~395~74i' ---.ii;333;83i. ..... ii~3iiii;835..... iii~22i;394---"ii~407~5ii8' .... i2~4ai~ii98.""21i;705;oi5' . ... i8~ii74;ii5i"'--'i5;i84;338' -'--i3;380;830' '-"'ii~473~5iii'
96,686
104,047
108,190
81,248
67,477
76,247
100,833
146,825
..._--_ .... ..~--------- .-------- - ...------ ---_Oo--

san

Total ell registered

exchanges.

I, 422, 593, 637

197,314

I, 933, 785, 104

112,971

214,363

117,904

1,677,967,783

2,214,478,595

PART

233,070

2, 546, 932, 404

2, 293, 246, 569

2. MARKET

VALUE

[Amounts

180,142

157,816

2,882, 509, 938

2,898,415, 545

OF BTOCK

280,433

231,248

2, 706, 186, 166

2, 188, 093, 022

121,721

1,432,064,012

1,447,926,967

25,704, 199, 792

SALES'

In dollars)

1935

1936
July I, 1935 to
JUDe 30, 1936

July

Total

all registered

November

October

September

February
1,593,265
26,394,300
201,788
279,130
693,938
33,538,604
848,114
2,442,152
21,082
9,650,696
10,337,308
77,128
233, 937, 367

2,053,354
26,679,718
248,822
249,603
657,932
32,737,163
006,004
1,007,247
29,189
10,765,166
12,365,004
134,632
238,378,215

"'900;280;739' T3ii2~iiiiii:490-"1;24i;475;22ii' .i; ii59;689;764' 'i;9~;074;ii7ii'

375
1, 738, 246, 762
10,011,055
3,625,975
334,709
274,217
1,887,530

375
2, 069, 563, 692
12,777,949
4,619,201
510,461
577,114
3,519,670

765,914
16,236,616
81,315
291,072

"--i4;79i;i3ii" -"'iii;oiii~802' -"'iii;004~02i" -- .. 29~i28;263'
547,663
864,072
107,680
5,937,263
5, 7i6, 380
96,600
82,800,150

7,444,071
2, 688, 059
262, 522
171,913
1,990,181

421,465
969,240
89,ll1S
5,834,694
6,948,350
62,492
139, 045, 831

10,201,284
3,129,331
273,285
223, 435
2,704,144

8,463,081
2,747,217
214,378
179,365
2, 228, 604

I ,564,555
_,507,866
• 630,155
4 316,808
,208,119

11,876,072
4, lOS, 217
526,979
183,837
2,608,759

March

April

1,287,156
22 867,551
1177,258
330,602
494,451
26,620,644
784,888
1,635,119
19,804
8,044,245
9,332,327
130,978
229, 162,801

900,699
23,089,583

May

June
081,644
14,361,163

626,232
15,731,844

.- ..... 225;40i. ""'--i02;529'
395,684
23,614,722
572,986
1,853,068
• 8, 919
7,116,180
9,409,217
66,280
155, 167, 725

• """iOii;ia5'

..•.•••. 07;~5 . """"59;ii3ii'
I, 406, 442, 223

277,207
13,755,942
794,962
775,698

""'4;iia;S05'

""'a;i2ii;i94'

7,979,367
62,399
98,299,773

5,026,284
46,366
88,531,829

13,251,877
5,002,667
633,059
486,250
4,055,783

12,872, 409
3,892,659
627,247
639,091
3,632,617

90,086
72,645

104,047
161,361

108,190
73,321

81,248
84,213

67,477
163,496

1,912, 200, 309

2, 250, 673, 833

1,979, 149, 400

2, 439, 219, 328

2, 503, 129, 081

2, 429, 959, 830

3. MARKET

VALUE

(Amounts

OF BOND

SALES

750
19, 036, 284, 664
126,277,615
43,982, 902
5, 796, 956
3,883,805
32,227,849
40,194
100, 631, 030

'i;i4O;083;900- "2;ii9i;3ii8;iii' T ii79~839~354' 'i;077~ii7i;770' 'i;002;iiiii;079'

100,833
61,602

PART

14,164,594
247,819,057
1,531,952
2, 841, 211
2,906,909
270, 914, 887
7,486,844
19,039,551
516,919
86,845,563
101,024, 107
1,046,539
I, 826, 595, 016

"'."'iio;563'

123,999
12,679,132
344,637
928,080

11,463,975
4,577,430
667,079
443,008
2,550,989

6,653,233
2,303,568
572,609
173,173
1,564,238
40,194
9,016,461

7,708,054
1,883,712
544,472
315,594
1,317,215

""-s;a08;743' ""iii;ia4;302' ....ii; 332;522' .... i2;33s;407. ..•. 2O;59ii;42ii..•.. is;634;4Oa. •..• i5;iiii8;79ii..... i3;329;882' .-- ••ii;457~ii7i.

-"'ii;~i;277'
1,510,330,142

624,181
2,274,051
71,863
9,378,272
8,193,211
134,456
144,658,344

344,186
1,180,064
70,166
6,396,632
5,741,482
38,674
95,615,779

""'s;ai2;i4ii'
1, 139, 413, 533

exchanges.

January

1,510,794
22,172,255
203,480
183,813
161,593
24,430,894
563,028
1,509,851
35,615
8,288,917
8,662,292
146,667
144, 190,813

957,137
17,806,728
100,067
431,677

1,138,539
20,984,544
183,210
204,010

Decemher

1,493,038
25,054,941
205,250
303,244
102,105
27,597,570
' 683,830
3,000,909
62,843
8,196,449
11,252,825
49,917
175,856, 380

1,097,832
15,839,639
169,782
129,567

Baltimore Stock Exchange ••••••••••
Boston Btock Exchange •••••••••••••
Buttalo Btock Exchanae ••••••••••••
Chicago Board or Tra e ••••••••••.•
Ohlcago Curb Exchange ••• _••••••••
Chicago Stock Exchange ••••••••••••
Clnc1nDatiStock
Exchange •••••••••
Cleveland Stock Exchange ••••••••••
Denver Stock Exchange ••••••••••••
Detroit Stock Exchange ••••••••••••
Los An~eles Stock Exchange ••••••••
New Or eans Stock Exchange •••••••
New York Ourb Exchange ••••.• _•••
New York Real Estate Securities
Exobange •••••••••••••••••••••••••
New York Stock Exchnnge •• _••••••
Philadelphia
Btock Exohange •• _••••
Pittsburgh
Btock Exchange •••••••••
Bt. LouIS Stock Exchange •••••••••••
Balt Lake Stock Exch~e
•..•••••••
Ban Francisco Curb Exc ange ' •••••
San Francisco Mlnln~EXOhange
7._
San Francisco Stock
xchange ••••••
Btandard
Stock Exchange
01 Spe.
kane ' ••••••••••••••••••••••••
_•••
Waablngton
Stock Exchange ••••••••

August

76,247
183,403
1,936,201,836

146,826
85,414

248,434
172, 920

1, 223, 443, 853

1, 164, 147, 432

1,089,987
1,321,401
21, 994, 370, 300

I.

In dollars)

1935

1936
July 1, 1935 to
lune 30, 1936

August

July
Baltimore Btock Exchange._ ••••• __
Boston Btoak Exchange ••••••••••••
Buftalo Btock ExOhan~e •• _•••••• _••
Ohicago Board 01 Tra e ••• _••••••••
Ohlcago Curb Exchange '_ ••••••••
Ohlcago Stock Exchange •••••••• _••
Olno1IiDatl Stock Exohange ••••••••
Oleveland Stook Exchange •••••••••
Los A~es
Btock Exchange •••••••
New Or 8ans Btock Exohange ••••••
New York Curb EXchan~ ••• _••• _.
New York Real Estate
ecnrltles
Exchange ••••••••••••••••••••••••
New York Stock Exchange •••••••••
Phlllldelphla'Stock
Exchange ••••••
Pittsburgh
Btock Exchange. ""'"

Bt. Louis Btock Exohange ••••••••••
Ban Francisco Ourb Exohange ' ••••

Ban Francisco Btock ExcbBDge •••••
Waab1Dgton Stock Exchange •••••••
Total all registered

21,831
32, 388
550
5,037

37,751
63,084
470

Beptember

November

October

35,709
82,950

44,936
92,813

44,881

January

December
59,860
83,342

February

97,265
49,081

April

March

25,752
13,300

42,086

May

96,982

June
74,193

83,982

665,228
803,748
2,556
5,087
56, 376
126.663
134,092

157,755
44,477
166,203
89,820
28,529
1,063 - .... - .... __ ..- ...... -- -_ .... -.................... - - ............. -_ ..............
_oo .. -----_
.. __ .. _ .. .............. _-- ..__ .... -- ..---_ ..... _ ....... _ ...
473
----_
..-...... _ ........
(')
..
.......
...
-_
.............
_
__
....
.....
--_
.......
....
..........................
...
-_
..
..
_
..............
.....
-_ ......... --..---_ ....
-- ..•..• "3;923. . ... -... 52~453".................... -......... - .............. -.............. -.. ...... -........................
---- ........ _-----. •...••. 24;954•
.••.•.•.. 7~40r •••••.•... 2;437"-"""5:4&8' """"'i:300'
.••. - •. -3:34i" .••• -. "5i~6ii3- ""-"""938'
•• """io;i34'
2, 150
5,157 """'-ii~62i'
22, 519
18,437
9,761
5,010
9,118
1,920 ............. _-- ..- .......
5,070
6,533
1,977
-_ ................... _ .... ......... -..--_11,638
-_ ............ __42,......059- ..
............. ---_ .._---_ ....... -... ................. - ...... _- -- ..-............ -...... _- -_ ....... _-- ...............

••.••• -i50:056"

exchanges.

••••••••• 2;"038-""""'i;426'

.• - ••.... i:052.

"""-2i5;S69' "" "'i38~82i" ••.••• -2i2;9iiii. •• -"-'203~i7S' ....... i42~5i9• .• '-'--i:44:7ii8'

••..••••• i;24ii. .. .................... ---- ••.•.....• ii;6iii
1,877,585
04,310 "".'--02;ii'72 •

84,507,270

218,148
76.893,353

114,805
53,268,325

189,443
71,056,267

77,631,593

74,094,051

103,851,369

89,635,632

74,117,131

53,070,036

44,337,375

52,285,789

6,900
198,181,255
31,488
14,665
2, 150
20,054
83, 595
93,638

2, 568
245, 921, 510
28,553
4,198
4,776
19,152
82, 555
100,059

12,712
217,726,105
26,056
6,410
1,860
3,532
82,002
63,335

620
229, 642, 348
19,885
5,926
4,291
28,619
87,092
56,302

8.803
217,953,870
17,572
6,422
13,245
3,851
75,046
141,718

7,038
239,442,477
43,695
10,237
4,903
14,626
92, 691
71,709

8,102
338, 694, 946
42,185
1,070
53,028
17,345
108, 945
106,821

7,930
305,052, 289
18,156
1,070
20,571
14,569
140,248
73,003

1,375
261,552, 516
80,300
1,070
38,005
1,035
115,539
67,762

7,115
197,276,707
25,247
1,070
20,630
10,825
50,948
97,030

720
163, 982, 811
23,423

26,050
231,088,113
21,706

283, 146, 177

323, 440, 539

271, 504, 782

302, 177, 635

296, 21~, 221

314,082,698

443, 263, 892

395, 265, 708

336, 206, 302

261,878,089

PART

/4. VOLUME

OF BTOCK

866, 598, 101

2,130
15,890
36,307

4,080
28,285
86,664

89,933
2, 846, 464, 942
378,326
52, 138
197,00ll
139,3lI8
962, 926
984,728

208, 595, 890

283,772, 216

3, 709, 046, 040

""-"'i2;"843'

'-"""2r27ii'

BALES'

[Sharesl

-

1935

1936
July 1, 1935 to
June 30, 1036

July

Baltimore Stock Exchange •••••••••
Boston Stock Exchange ••••••••••••
Bu1!ll10 Btock Exc=
••••••••••••
Ohlcago Board or Tra e ••••••••••••
Ohlcago Onrb Exchange I..........
Ohlcago Btock Exchange •••••••••••
OlnolDDatlStock
Exchange ••••••••
Oleveland Stock Exohange •••••••••
Denver Btock Exchange ••••••••••••
Detroit Btock Exchange ••••••••••••
Los An~eles Stock Exchange •••••••
New Or eans Stock Exchange ••••••
New York Curb Exchange •••••••••
New York Real Estate Becurltles
Exchange •••• _••••••••• _•••••••••
New York Btock Exchange ••.••••••
Philadelphia
Stook Exohange •• ""
Plttsburgb
Stock Exchange. """_
Bt. Louis Stock Exohange ••••••••••
Salt Lake Btock Exchan~e ••• """
San Franolsco Ourb Exo ange •••••
Ban Francisco MlnlnlExchange
7 ••
San Francisco Btock
xChanfe •••••
Standard
Stock Exchange 0 Spe.
kane ' ••••••••••••••••••••••••••••
Washington
Btock Exchange •••••••
Total all registered

exchanges.

August

September

November

October

January

83,579
' 767,030
20,920
27,229
69,270
1,822,343
" 23,271
114,370
1,200,475
755,493
~,056, 431
5,908
12,631,842

91,562
900,867
20,475
16,438
126,870
1,471,636
30,261
58,486
657,574
795,243
1,186,729
23,758
11,181,169

108,522
853,228
26,307
26,561
173,916
2,284,812
39,647
69,865
526,295
1,212,079
1,460,665
24, 697
20,624,667

.. --37;7si;9ai" ""50;37i;ii78' ''''4ii;53i;iOii' .. -- ii2;555;4io' "-'71;473;7i7'

100
63,344,305
443,024
263,798
17,041
672,329
300,871

100
87,502,328
688,139
367,185
24,462
1,036,021
770,937

53,448
423,261
16, 759
14,538

56,044
636,012
14,157
33,669

43,233
480,211
11,076
19,264

63,585
652,299
15,804
20,379

December

••••.•• s04;ii7'7'""'i;474;a83' ••.•. i;i02~505. ""'i;002;500'
18,137
36,324
1,238,700
523,802
533,157
13,157
5,638,372

309,277
171.175
14,056
457,796
144,281

16,750
44,448
1,285,085
517 622
605,389
9,592
11,591,837

581,847
260,265
14,992
617,220
241,396

18,572
48,lRa
1,171,123
567,241
698,169
5,035
6,769,133

379,535
174.960
10,242
653,584
242,769

24,912
67,838
1,633,700
944,202
669,365
17,612
9,909,804

558,157
248.841
18,583
377,005
206,937

. 676,500
312,513
' 22,027
. 532,690
442,353

February

April

March

86,195
797,546
22,219
24,745
265,500
2,766,479
37,830
83,944
355,928
949,118
1,480,636
12,241
24,337,592

63,339
600,844
'19,836
54,496
232, 503
1,618,438
32,137
65,464
456,484
787,238
1,146,537
22, 732
17,748,750

48,695,761

"""""2;50S'
79,180,163

. •...••.. i~i20.
59,433,330

357,636
1,085
81,106,287
PART

429,246
1,394
99, 863, lIS9

5. PRINCIPAL

138,954
1,398,867
26,987
60,090
, 220,271
546,019
1,046,529
13,492
13,969,932

776,700
405,115
26,412
745,818
1,135,985

628,957
232,457
31,410
1,005,803
558,413

49,300
743,325
12, 567
28,974

51,629
819,904
28,031
31,704
1,003,612
10,124
6, 137,526

636,601
10,414
6,143,508

253,340
133,788
23,734
lIS4,688
303,764
400,370
708,349

294,196
98,135
19,263
800,821
275,028

"""-ii3ii;iii4' ....... 3ii7;ooi.

388,781
1,585

296,810
1,929

354,261
2,365

82,870,142

119, 592, 488

120,963,085

101,922,766

78,136,598

SALES

36,234
351,174

. .••... 2iio~S57
. . """a7O;4i3'

466,163
239,361
29,820
826,454
507,042

672, 952
1,726

OF BOND

56,766
369,978

•• ..•.. 48;ii8ii• ..••.• -.24;004. .• •..••. 2O;43ii.

457,741
2,279

AMOUNT

(Amount

58,879
611,261

June

"-'S5;304;S42' ""75;532;269' "" 00;934;ii4r ••.. 35;042;52ii' ""3i;sii7;45i'

.••.••. 5ii;ii22. •••..•. Si5;069. ....... 50ii;27s. ..••.•. 900;574. ""'i;a94;93ii' . •..... 148;58ii- .• --"1;097;377. . ....•. 058;S14. """'725;870'
""'."T2iii'

May

669,519
2,494

621,374
1,462
46,756,223

43,937,284

801,386
7,503,711
167,553
339,347
1,107,012
18,299,808
309,102
709,687
8,645,635
8,229,377
11,523,820
10ll,812
146, lIS4, 192
200
721,172, 404
6,055,840
2,897,593
261,042
8,310,229
5,180,776
400,370
9,431,152
4,248,370
21,238

-----

962, 457, 716

I'

In dollars)

1935

1936
July 1, 1935 to
June 30, 1036

July

Baltimore Btock Exchange •••••••.•
Boston Stock Exchange ••••••••••.•
Buttalo Stock Exchan~e •••• __ .•••••
Chicago Board 01 Tra e ••••••••••••
Chicago Ourb Exchange I ..........
Ohlcago Btock Exchange •••••••••••
Cincinnati
Stock Exchange ••••••••
Cleveland Stock Exchange .••••••••
Los Angeles Stock Exchange •••••••
New Orleans Stock Exchange ••••••
New York Curb Exchange ••••.•. _.
New York Real Estate Securities
Exchange. _•••••.••••••••••••
"_'
New York Stock Exchange .•• __••••
Philadelphia
Stock Exchange ••••••
Pittsburgh
Stock Exchange ••••••• _
St. Louis Stock Exchange ••••..••••
San Francisco Curb Exchange ' ••••
San Franctsco Stock Exchange •••••
WlIShlngton Stock Exchange ••• _•••
Totalallreglstered

exobanges.,

August

September

October

53,700
98,750
1,000

148,310
204,625

157,100
126,450

100,237,700

215,100
106. 416, 200

115,100
69,798,200

188,100
95,191,500

10,000
256, 234, 800
76,600
14,000
9,000
25,000
83,000
95,100

3,000
306, 890, 325
71,700
4,000
6,000
21,500
70,500
98,200

24,000
262, 488, 875
74,100
6,000
5,000
3,500
83,000
51.700

363, 193, 350

414, 037, 975

333, 013, 310

136,600
52,550
1,000
8,000

November
180,400
107,850

Decemher
317,000
44,350

January

February

435,900
60,450

309,000
17,600

April

139,300
53,530

May

287,350
203,750

June
186,750
47,150

276,060
35,400

627, 400
1,052, 5M
2,

2,000
1,000
<J)
-- .... _--_ .... - ...... - _ .. -------- .. ---- - .. - .. - .... -------5,000
._- ..... ---------- .. _------------ --- .. - .... -------8,000
---_ .. _--------- ----- ----- ----- -._--_.- .. ------ ... """4; 000' ----.---------.. -.- .. ,5a;000' ------ .. -------- .oo-------- ..---- --------------- --_ .. _- .. -----.-- ---- .. _--------- _ .. ---_ .. ----_ .. _57,000
.•.......
4;000'
.........
a;ooo.
........ io;ooo. •... ... '77;000'
....•.. -2i; 000' ••. - ... 34;000' .... - .•. i7;000' ..•.. -. 'i9; 000.
.... "-'is; 000'
""""57;000'
9,600
11,000
280,600
23,000
18,000
48,000
10,000
5,500
12, 000
9,500
2,000
2,000 --------- ........ - ..
5,000
7,000
142,000
--- .... ------- ..-- •• •.•. •-. 2;000-.•..•..• "i;4oo. ..... ""i;ooo' ...... -_ .. ~.... --_ .. _- ------ -- .. ----_ .. --_ .... _------ .. _- --- .. -------- .. -- --------------- - ..... - .......... _-_ .. "-"""i;2iiii' ------.---_ .... . ... , ""'5;600
.....•. -92;250.
....... i52;000'
..... ,. i3ii:iioo'

. .. '--2i2:500' """'i40~2iiii'

""'-'200;000'

""-"i9ii;S75'

"""'i39;000'

100,040, 700

95.600,000

128,985.596

107, 596, 700

85.712,300

2,000
291, 123,470
90,111
5,000
16,000
29,500
84,000
56,500

21,000
304,218, 575
55,067
6,000
44,000
4,000
73,000
141,700

15,000
352, 057, 430
256,300
9,850
18,000
14,000
91,500
72,300

16,000
492,213, 750
214,700
1,000
104,000
16,500
100,000
110,800

11,000
402, 609, 500
84,400
1,000
52,100
14,000
117,000
76,400

323, 695, 000
384,550
1,000
107,500
1,000
88,000
67,500

18,000
236, 792, 345
120,000
1,000
53,000
11,000
45,000
106,200

387, 151, 731

405, 138, 392

448, 711, 930

622, 545, 196

511, 120, 575

410, 410, 3SO

301, 433, 445

Figures In this part and In pts. 2, 3t 4, and 5 differ In some cases Irom comparable figures in monthly releases due to revisions 01 data by exchanges.
Such clearances are usually effectca 2 days alter the trades.
a complete month.
Trading suspended Mar. 26, 1936.
, Exchange registration
elIeotlve Nov. I, 193; •
• Includes pass-boos trading, totaling $283,383 lor the 12.month period.
1 Not a complete month.
Trading suspended Apr. 13, 1936
, Data obtained (rom 01l\clal Exchange Record, not Irom summary or members' reports.
1 Exchange registration
effective Jnne I, 1936.
• Exchange registration
effectlvc Oct. 1, 1935.
• "Stock sales" Include sales or vottna-trust
eertlflcates, American deposItary receipts, certificates of stock deposit, warrunts, nnd ri~hts.
II Bond sales Include
mortgage certificates and certificates or deposlt.
I

March

5,000

These statistics

63.632, 800

are compiled

52,500
61,848,800

60,729,900

1,000
197,217,400
78, 500

38,000
271, 043, 926
65,000

1,848,225
1,071,788,396

2,000
15,000
36,000

4,000
27,000
00,500

164,000
3, 690, lIS5,395
1,571,028
48,850
550,100
146,000
877,000
1,002,900

249, 620, 350

332, 383, 475

4, 778, 700, 109

. "-"'-46;500'

on basis o( trades

""""39;000'

cleared during

the calendar

I Not

101078

.3G.

(Face

p, 110.)

months.

APPENDIX VI
LITIGATION INVOLVING STATUTES ADMINISTERED BY THE
COMMISSION

In tabulating the Court proceedings in which this Commission or
the Acts administered by it have been involved, a brief reference to
every case of possible importance has been included. Litigation which
has resulted in a reported opinion of the Court is described somewhat
fully under the heading of the statute primarily in issue in the particular case. Other cases which have resulted in a decision or which
remain pending as of June 30, 1936, are tabulated in alphabetical
order under the same classification. Although this appendix in general describes the status of litigation only as it existed as of June 30,
1936, several of the more important developments subsequent to that
date have been referred to.
L SECURITIES ACT OF 1933, AS AMENDED

Proceedings arising under this statute have usually resulted from
suits in equity commenced by the Commission pursuant to Section 20
(b) of the statute, seeking to enjoin violation of Section 17, the general prohibition against the fraudulent sale of securities, and violation of Section 5, requiring registration of securities.
J. Edward Jones, New York.-The most important litigation under this statute comprises two suits between the Commission and
J. Edward Jones. The Commission first brought suit in the District
Court for the Southern District of New York on February 4, 1935,
to enjoin violations of Sections 5 and 17 of the Securities Act of
1933 in connection with the sale of beneficial interests, and interim
receipts therefor, in oil royalty trusts sponsored by Jones. The
second case arose on an application made to the District Court for
the Southern District of New York on July 3, 1935, for an order
to compel Jones to comply with a subpena issued in a stop-order
hearing under Section 8 (d) of the Act,
, Dn February 4, 1935". the Securities and Exchange Commission
filed fl. bill in equity against J. Edward Jones and others in the
Southern District of New York, alleging that Jones had sold fractiona,1 undivided interests in oil properties, as well as trust certificates against such p.roperties; that he had misrepresented the value
of the oil interests comprising the trusts; that false and fraudulent
117

118

SECURITIES AND EXCHANGE COMMISSION

representations were employed in the sale of securities issued and
sold by him; that the course of business employed by Jones constituted a scheme and artifice to defraud, contrary to the Securities
Act of 1933; and that the mails and other instrumentalities of interstate commerce had been used. The bill sought to enjoin the defendants from using the mails and facilities of interstate commerce to
defraud the public in the sale of securities in violation of Section 17
of the .Act and to sell unregistered securities in violation of Section
5. The defendants consented in open court to the entry of a temporary injunction on February 8, 1935.
Subsequent to the temporary injunction referred to above, and
on May 4, 1935, Jones filed a registration statement under the .Act
in respect of beneficial interests in an oil royalty trust to be created
by him. .After examination, the Commission instituted stop-order
proceedings against the registration statement, and a hearing was
held on June 18,1935, at which Jones did not appear. His counsel
then moved to withdraw the registration statement, which was denied.
Thereafter a subpena was served upon Jones, requiring his appearance and testimony on June 27 at the adjourned hearing. Jones
again failed to appear, and the Commission applied to the District
Court for the Southern District of New York for an order requiring
his appearance, which was granted by Judge Caffey on August 12,
1935. In its "Opinion (reported at 12 F. Supp. 210), the District
Court held that the Securities .Act of 1933 was within the mail
and commerce powers of Congress, that there was no invalid delegation of powers to the Commission, and sustained the Commission's
action in denying Jones the right to withdraw his registration statement. This decision rebutted Jones' contention that the stop order
proceedings had lapsed upon withdrawal of the statement, thus
invalidating the subpena. .An appeal was taken to the Circuit
Court of .Appeals for the Second Circuit.
In the meantime, on June 28,1935, Jones had filed a petition in the
Circuit Court of .Appeals for the Second Circuit, seeking to review
the trial examiner's refusal to dismiss the stop-order proceedings and
to permit withdrawal of the registration statement then under inquiry. However, the Court on November 4, 1935,dismissed this petition for review (consolidated on appeal with Jones' appeal from the
District Court's order requiring compliance with the subpena), on
the ground that the orders denying withdrawal of the registration
statement were interlocutory and therefore not appealable under Section 9 of the .Act (79 F. (2d) 617).
On the same date, the Circuit Court of .Appeals, Judge Manton
rendering the opinion (79 F. (2d) 617), affirmed the order requiring
compliance with the subpena, and held that the powers of Congress

SECOND ANNU.4L BEPORT

119

mere sufficiently broad to prevent the use of the mails for the purpose
of the transmission of unregistered securities; that the powers of the
Commission as to the procedure of registration had been validly
delegated by Congress; that the action of the Commission refusing
the withdrawal of Jones' statement was proper; and that the Commission's authority t o subpenla Jones was clear. On February 3, 1936,
the Supreme Court granted certiorari t o the ruling which ordered
Jones to testify.
The case was argued for the Government by Stanley Reed, Solicitor General, and John J. Burns, General Counsel for the Commission; James Dl. Beck and Harry 0. Glasser appeared for Jones.
On April 6, 1936, the Court deliyered its opinion, reported a t 298
U. S. 1, Mr. Justice Sutherland writing the. majority opinion,
Justices Cardozo, Bmndeis, and Stone dissenting. Although the decision was adverse to the Commission, the Court did not consider the
constitutionality of the Securities Act of 1933. I n substance the
majority of the Court held that the commencement of stop-order
proceedings by the Commission had prevented Jones' registration
statement from ever becoming effective, and that, since none of the
securities sought to be registered had been offered or sold, there was
no publie interest which could be prejudiced by its withdrawal. On
this basis the Court held that the Commission erred in denying withdrawal of the statement. The right of withdrawal was considered
by the Court, at least in this case, to be unqualified. Consequently,
ihe Court held that the stop-order proceedings had lapsed and terminated when the motion to withdraw the statement was made: with
the result that the subpena, not having been issued in a properly
pending proceeding under the Act, was invalid and of no force. The
scope of the Court's decision in thus reversing the orders below is
apparently largely limited to the procedure which i t considered
proper for the Commission to employ in connection with stop-order
proceedings instituted under Section 8 of the Act.
The dissenting opinion written by Mr. Justice Cardozo stated
that the rule of the Commission was valid; that the Commission had
adequate reason f o r seeking to compel Jones to testify; and that
notice of the withdrawal of the statement should not affect the
power of the Commission to summon Jones.
One year after entry of the, temporary injunction by consent, and
subsequent to the decision of the Supreme Court holding that the
Commission's subpena against Jones was invalidly issued, the defendants on April 28, 1936, moved to vacate this consent injunction
and sought dismissal of the suit. On June 1, 1936, the Court (Patterson, J ) , in an opinion reported a t 15 F. Supp. 321, refused to dissolve the injunction, holding that Jones' consent precluded this sub-

I
I

120

SECURITIES AND EXCHANGE COMMISSION

sequent attack upon it, denied a motion for the return of certain
records, and refused to dismiss the bill, holding the Act constitutional
in the light of the Circuit Court of Appeals' previous decision in the
case of Jones v. Seouritie« and Emchange Oommiseion; 79 F. (2d) 617,
discussed supra. The Court further said:
It is further said that the 1933 Act is unconstitutional. But
it was ruled constitutional by the Circuit Court of Appeals of
this Circuit in Jones v. Seewrities ana Emchange Oommission,
79 F. (2d) 617, and the Supreme Court in reversing the result
did not reverse that ruling .
.An appeal by the defendants to the Circuit Court of Appeals for the
Second Circuit was allowed, and was argued on June 26,1936.1
Indictments were returned against Jones in the Southern District
of New York on May 8, 1936, containing 15 counts alleging violations
of the mail-fraud statute only. No date for trial has been set.
Robert Oollier & 00., Inc; Stock Market Finance, Inc.-Litigation
of importance second only to the different phases of the Jones case
is that resulting from suits for an injunction against violations of
the Act brought against Robert Collier & Co., Inc., et aI., and against
Stock Market Finance, Inc., et al. District Judge Caffey, on February 23, 1935, had dismissed both of these suits on the grounds that the
Commission was not entitled to appear except by the United States
Attorney or the Attorney General. The cases were consolidated for
argument on appeal. The Circuit Court of Appeals for the Second
Circuit, on November 26, 1935, in an opinion by Judge Learned Hand
reported in 76 F. (2d) 939, held that in injunction proceedings
brought under Section 20 (b) of the Securities Act of 1933 the Commission is entitled to appear by its own counsel. The Circuit Court,
in construing the authority vested in the Commission by Section
20 (b) of the Securities Act, gave much importance to the fact that
the original bills, H. R. 4314 and S. R. 875, accorded to the Attorney
General exclusive power not only to decide when to sue but necessarily to conduct the suit, but were subsequently amended in this
respect by the Congressional committees at the suggestion of Robert
E. Healy, then the Chief Counsel of the Federal Trade Commission.
Judge Hand in his opinion stated:
There cannot be the least question that * * * it was
intended to allow the Commission complete autonomy in civil
prosecutions.
1In a decls10n rendered July 14, 1936, and reported at 85 F. (2d) 17, the Court aftlnned
the judgment below and reiterated its position in the earlier case (79 F. (2d) 617) that
the Securities Act of 1933 was constitutional.
A petition for certiorari was denied by the
Supreme Court on Oct. 19, 1936, with the result that the case is now pending on the
marltB in the District Court.

SEOO:ND ANNUAL

REPORr

121

.Thereafter a temporary injunction was granted by District Judge
Hulbert, and on October 16, 1935, a permanent injunction was entered on consent of the respondents in the Robert Oollier case. Certiorari was sought in the Stock Market Finance case, but was denied
on March 2, 1936 (56 Sup. Ct. 589). Thereafter, on May 29, 1936,
the District Court denied a temporary injunction on the ground that
the, defendants were no longer engaged in the activities alleged to
violate the Act, and that there was no reason to anticipate a resumption thereof.
CASES INVOLVING THE DEFINITION OF THE TERM "SECURITY"
CONTAINED IN SECTION 2 (1) OF THE ACT

H. P. Wickham, doing bueinees as Minneapolis Stock Traders
decision of the
District Court for the District of Minnesota, Fourth Division, in
this case is also of major importance in that it involves the application of the Act to interests in a "trading pool" composed of investors'
funds and securities. Although the contract sold by the defendants
purported only to create an agency to invest and manage the funds
and securities of the principal, the Court, in addition to sustaining
the constitutionality of the Securities Act, held that participations in
such an enterprise were securities within the definition in the Act.
Although the Commission has obtained other injunctions against the
Sale of similar participating interests, the only definitive opinion
upon the status of such trading contracts under the Act is that of
Judge Nordbye in this case, reported at 12 F. Supp, 245.
The bill for an injunction, filed July 9, 1935, sought to restrain
the defendant from selling through the mails or in interstate commerce without registration being effective, contracts authorizing investment and speculation in his uncontrolled discretion with the purchasers' funds, the defendant retaining 40 percent of the profits as
his compensation. The defendant moved to dismiss the bill primarily
upon the ground that this contract did not constitute a "security"
within the meaning of Section 2 (1) of the Securities Act of 1933.
On September 17 the court granted the preliminary injunction sought
by the Commission.
The Court, in holding that this contract was a security, said:

Seroice, and The Grain Marketing Service.-The

Whether one invests money in the proverbial gold mine
where he receives a certificate evidencing his contributions and
resulting interest in the profits which are anticipated, or invests in a speculative venture by reason of the claimed skill
and experience of a wain and stock market manipulator to
make profits, the transactions cannot be rationally distinguished in determining the dealings which Congress intended
101973-36-9

122

SECURITIES

ANi> , EXCHANGE. COMMISSION

are

to regulate in using the term "investment contract." Both
investments that the law seeks to supervise and regulate tq
prevent abuses and afford the investing public some measure
of protection. Both entail the issuance of a security. In one
the investor expects profits by reason of the gold to be mined;
in the other by reason of the skill and experience of the defendant in the market. In both the opportunities for fraud
are notorious.
In any event, if resort must be made to any other portion
of the Act, the phrase "certificate of interest or participation
in any profit-sharing agreement" is amply inclusive to embrace
the contract in question. The Court does not consider Dame v.
Lee, 178 S. E. 752 (Ga.), cited by the defendant, as controlling.
Further, the Court is of tb,e opinion that the constitutionality
of the Securities Act of 1933 must be sustained, so far as that
question is before the court on this motion.
On February 11, 1936, a permanent injunction was entered upon the
consent of the defendants.
CASES INVOLVING DEFINITION OF "SECURITY"

Principal defendants

United States
dI8trIct court In
whlcb complaint

Date of filing
of bill

Violations
alleged

Disposition

1lled

Aldrich Blake __________District

of Co-

lumbla,

Colonial Trading Co.
(and 36 otber defendants).

District
vada,

Crude on Corporation
of America (and 3
other defendants).
Cultivated Oyster
Farms Oorporatlon.

Western Dlatrict
of Wisconsin.

of No-

Southern District
of Florida.

Sept. 7,1934

Sec. 5___________Temporary

injunction
granted Jan. 20, 1934.
Permanent
injunction
granted May 19, 1936.
Appeal dismissed Sept.
18,1936.
Sees.
5
and
17___
Apr. 11,1935
Permanent
Inlunetlons
granted May I, 1936. 11
defendants indicted July
____odo___________ 6,1935.
Apr. Zl,I936
Pending.
Jan. 10,1936

_____do___________
Temporary
Injunction
granted May 20, 1936.

"Sell and Switch" devices.-The Commission has litigated numerous cases involving the practice of first selling to customers seasoned
dividend-paying stocks listed on the major securities exchanges, and,
after gaining their confidence, "switching" them into a low-grade
speculative stock being distributed by the dealer and, of course,
highly recommended by him. This simple expedient for gaining and
subsequently abusing the customers' trust, which often involves use of
''tipster sheets" as well as misrepresentation of bid and asked prices
in a fictitious over-the-counter market, was involved in the following
court proceedings.

:SECOND

123

.ANNUAL -RE;PORT

l'rIncipal defendants

United States
dlstrict court
in which suit
was brougbt

Benners, Owens & Co.
et al.

Eastern Dlstrlct
of Michigan.

Carleton Saunders &
Co.
Oolllns-Moore & Co.
et al.

Dlstrlct of New
Jersey.
Western D~trict
of Kentucky.

DID & Co., Ine., Investors Tmding Corporation, Harold L.
McCormack, at al.

District of Massaehusetts,

Mar.

6, 1936 __•__do

Kerpel & Co., Ine.,
etal.
National Investment
Transcrlpt et al.

Sontbem Dlstrlct
of New York.
District of New
Jersey.

Nov.

2, 1936

Sept. 14,1934

do.

Lawrence
A. Rose
(Lawrence A. Rose
Co.).
Louis Weingarten &
00., Inc.

Soutbem Dlstrlct
of New York.

Feb.

3, 1936

do __•

May

7,1936

do

Datsoftlling

Violations

Disposition

alleged

May 16,1936 Bee.l7 __•__•

_ Temporary
injunctions
entered against 3 defend.
ants May 15, 1936. One
defendant bas lIJed an.
swer,
Pending.
Jone 26, 1934
do
._ Permanent injunction en.
tered Sept. 12, 1934.
Sept. 17,1936 Sees. Sand 17 _ Cased~~by~mntm
witbout prejudice Jan. 7.
1936.

do ••

._._._

_ Recei ver appointed
for
corporate
defendants
Mar. 11, 1935. Suit dis-m!ssed as to 1 defendant
Dec. 'J:1, 1936. Defendant McCormack consented to entry of pem1lIIIent
injunction Apr. 1, 1936.
_ Permanent injunction entered Feb. 21, 1936.
_ Permanent Injunction entered by consent Sept.
24, 1936. Twenty defendants indicted July
2, 1936. Pending.
•__ Permanent injunction en.
tered by consent Feb. 4.

Bee. 17_.

•

1936.

_ Permanent injunction entered by consent May ~
1936.

ACTIONS AGAINST BROKERS AND DEALERS OPERATING BUCKET
SHOPS

.Another situation often encountered involves the sale of securities
on margin or on a deferred-payment plan wherein the broker ordealer neither purchases the securities thus sold to his customers nor
makes other provision for acquiring securities with which to fulfill
his commitment to the customer. In the normal case this involves
"bucketing" orders, a fraudulent practice which is specifically defined
as a crime under the laws of most States. In many instances the
operators of bucket shops, in addition to failure to purchase the
security sold to customers, embezzle the partial payments made, or
the margin collateral deposited, by customers. The following cases
involve this type of fraudulent operation.

124

SECURITIES AND ExCHANGE

l'rlncipal defendants

eft Co.
{Frank J. Hill, John
Q. Nagel).

Orumpton

United States
district court
In whlch suit
was brought
District of Colnmbla.

Donegan eft Co. (J. J. _____do
Donegan).

xat~

eft

Co. (H.

T.xat~).

.Krog, Carl E. (Investment Sacuritles Oo.),

Eastern District
of Missouri.

Northern
District of Texas.

Harrison Knight eft Co., District of Miu-yland.
Ino.
(Harrison
KnIght, Edward A.
Snyder).
Roberts, Howard M. District of Colnmbla.
(Howard M. Roberts

Data of 1Iling
of bill

COMMISSION

Violations

May 14,1935 Sec. 17

Eastern District
of Louisiana.

_ Permanent

Injunction
Nagel
June 9, 1936. Other
fendants could not
tered

May

6, 1935 Sees. I) and 17 _

against

enon
debe

served.

Consent injunctIon granted May 6, 1936.
June 29,1935
do
_ Decrees pro C01l!U'O entered Aug. 26, 1935, but
set asIde on Sapt. 28,
1935. Kattelman
has
been Indicted In Circuit
Court of the City of St.
Louis for embezzlement;
trial set for Dec. 21, 1936.
Feb. 7, 1936 Sacs. 6 and 17 Permanent
injunction
granted on Feb. 11, 1936.
Securities Act,
and Sec. 8 of
the Securities
Exchange Act.
_
Sec. 17
Mar. 1,1935
Permanent
injunction
granted by consent on
May 17, 1935.
May

3,1935 Sacs.

Dec.

7,1934

I) and

oe,i,

Turivas eft Co., Inc.
(Louis Turivas et

Disposition

alleged

do

al.).

17 _ Temporary
Injunctions
granted May 14, 1935,
and May 17, 1935. 1
defendant obtained vacation of order as to him
May 16, 1935.
_ Principal defendants consented to entry of permanent Injunction on
Jan. 9, 1935. On -May
23, 1935, Indictments
were returned

against 20

defendants and are now
pending.

Upton eft Co. et al.
(Howard C. UPton).

Northern
Dtstrict of Illinois.

M. E. Wilcox, Inc.
(Vincent J. O'Brien,
Harry L. Reif).

Northern
Dlstrict of Indiana.

Zimmerman, Jack..

Northern
Dlstrict of Georgia.

July 31,1935 Sec. 17

_

Permanent
injunction
entered on consent Oct.
18,1935.
Feb. 14,1935 Sees. I) and 17 _ Permanent
injunction
entered on consent and
receivers appointed Feb.
14,1935.
Apr. 19,1935 Sec. 17
_ Permanent
Injunction
entered by consent Apr.
20, 1935. 2 defendants
indiCted June 17, 1936,
and trial set for October
1936. 1defendant pleaded
guIlty, receiving a 3-year
sentence.

SECOND ANNUAL

125

REPORT

MISCELLANEOUS INJUNCTIONS

Gri7l/l1.ellF. Oliver & 00. et al.-This
action was instituted on
March 16, 1936, in the District Court of the United States for the
Northern District of illinois, Eastern Division, to enjoin defendants
from violating the provisions of Section 5 and Section 17 in the sale
of Mid-Continent Income Shares, Inc., a purported investment trust
for oil royalties. Fraudulent practices in the sale of oil royalties
were asserted, as well as fraudulent commingling of the customers'
funds with the personal funds of the defendants, and misrepresentation as to "income" payments alleged to have been paid out of capital.
The complaint also alleged that sales of the shares in the investment
trust were made in violation of the registration and prospectus requirements of the Act. The Court, in an oral opinion not reported,
dismissed the complaint on the ground that the activities complained of had ceased, that there was no reason to believe that they
would be resumed, and that therefore the defendants could not be
enjoined since they were neither "engaged" nor "about to engage"
in violations of the Act.
Other miscellaneous cases are tabulated below:

Prlnclpal defendants

United Ststes
district court
in which 'llit
was brought

Billbarg,Edward,Allen
Eastern District
Gordon, Harry 1.
of Washington.
Greenwald.
Boyette, W. E_________ SouthernDisuict
of Florida.
Bryant, F. S. (F. S. District of Massachusetts.
Bryant &: Oo.),
Direct Royalty Sales
Corporation.
Durante, A. A. __•

Harry
Elliott,
10hn Buie.

EI Presidio
Guaranteed

oate.

District of Columbla.
Southern District
of New York.

Date of tiling
of bill

Violations
alleged

Disposition

injunction
1an. 29,1936 Sees. 5 and 17 _ Permanent
granted by consent 1an.
29,1936.
_ Temporary
Oct. 21,1935
do
injunction
granted Oct. 29, 1935.
_ Defendant consented to
Mar. 24,1936 Sec. 17
entry of permanent in.
junction Mar. 24, 1936.
Sept. 23,1935 Sees. 5 and 17 _ Case pending.
1une 24,1935 •

do

do

W.,

Southern District
of Mississippi.

Jan,

27,1936

Hotel
Sy.ndi.

Northern
Dis.
trict of Texas.

1une 28, 1935 _.

do

_ Temporary
injunction
granted as to Durante
1uly 13, 1935, as to defendant Goodwin Sept.
25, 1935. Answer tiled
and case pending.
•__ TemporarY
injunction
granted Mar. 3, 1936,permanent
injunction
granted May 18, 1936,
both on consent. 2 defendants indicted Nov.
8, 1936. Trial was held
in May 1936,1 defendant
convicted, 1 acqultted.
No appeal.
_ Permanent
injunctions
entered against 8 defendants Feb. 27, 1936.
Sult dismissed as to 1 defendant Feb. 27, 1936.

126

SEOUIUTIES AND EXCH:ANGE COMMISSION

PrIncipal defendants

Unfted States
district court
In which suit
was brought

_ District of Massacbusetts.
FranklIn
Savings &< Western District
Loan Co. et al, of
of South CaroSpartanburg,S.C.
lina.
Gallop, George (Gallop Eastern District
&< oe,i,
of Louisiana.
Fernald, George A

Glengarry Mfning Co.
et aI.

Southern District
of New York.

Goldfields
Consolldated Mines, tne.,
etaI.

District of Mon.
tana.

Date of ftllng
of bill

Violations
alleged

Mar.

6,1936 Bee. 17

Dee.

8, 1934

Disposition

_ Permanent
granted Mar.
Sept. 17,1936 Sees. 5 and 17 _ Permanent
granted Sept.
Sec. 17

fnjunction
6, 1936.
fnjunction
17, 1935.

_

Permanent
fnjunction
entered by consent Feb.
25,1936.
Dec. 18,1936
do
_ Permanent fnjunctions en
tered on consent as to all
defendants between Dec19, 1935and May 11,1936.
Nov. 2, 1935 Sees. 5 and 17 _ Motion to vacate order to
tlbow cause and to dismiss
amended complalntmade
on May '0, 1936. Pending.

_ Defendant consented to entry of permanent injunction on Mar. 11, 1936Sees. 5 and 17 _ Permanent
injunction
granted on consent and
entered Apr. 2, 1936.
Bec. 17
_ Temporary
injunctions
granted June 15,1936and
Sept. 12, 1936.
Sees. 5 and 17 _ Afteranswer andargument
permanent
injunction
granted June 8, 1936.
_ Permanent
Sec. 17
injunction
granted Apr. 1, 1936.
_ Permanent
do
injunction
consented to In open
court July 22, 1935
do
_ Permanent
injunction
entered by consent Feb.
20,1936.
Sees. 5 and 17 _ Preliminary
injunction
granted Aug. 8, 1936;permanent
injunction
granted June 3, 1936. Indictments
returned
against 6 persons Mar. 10
1936. Prosecution pend-

1«Isen, Andrew, Jr_____ District of Massachusetts.

Mar. 11,1936 Sec. 17

Knapp Milton &< Co.,
Ine., et al,

BouthernDlstrict
of New York.

Mar. 3,1936

.Levett &< Co. (Harry H. Eastern District
JLevett, M. A. Levett
of Michigan.
-et aI.).
:Morgan, WaIter Terry_ Southern District
of Texas.

lune 15,1936

Sept. 3, 1936

:Myers, Sam, et aI_____ District of Mas- Apr. 1,1936
sachusetts.
Nazzaro, Edmund E.,
do____________July 19,1936
eta!.
Plke,loel, et aL

do____________Feb. 20,1936

Plymouth
Consolidated Gold Mines,
Ltd., etaI.

District of Delaware.

lan

3,1936

Popular Finance, Ine.,
et a!.

District of Massachosetts.

Aug. 30,1934 Sec. 17

ing.

Raile, MandeD, et aI

Vanderpoel &<
Co., Ltd., et a!.

Secord,

_ Defendants consented to
entry of prellmlnary injunction Oct. I, 1934.
Pending.
do___________ Dec. 19,1936
do
_ Permanent
injunction
granted on consent Dec.
19,1936.
injunctions
Southern District lons 21,l936 Sees. 5 and 17.-_ Temporary
granted as to sevpra! sepof New York.
arate defendants between
July 15, 1945, and Dec.

Thompson, WaIter S___ District of Massachusetts.

May

2, 1936 Sec. 5

'0,1936.

_ Permanent
injunction
granted on consent May
2, 1936.

127

- SE<;JOJ;m ANNU~,~PO;RT

; PrIncipal defendants

United Ststes
district court
in which sult
was brought

Date of filing
of bill

Trowbridge, Almarin ••

District of Mas.
saehnsetts,

Jan.

Universal Service As.
sociation et al.

Northern
Dis.
trict of IllInois.

Mar.30,I936

Vale, Jack R •••••••••• _ Northern
District of Missis.
sippi.

Violations
alleged

Disposition

2,1936 Sec. 17••••••••••
Sees. 5 and 17. __

Nov. 12, 1936 Sec. 17•••••••• __

Sidney G. et
aL
Wall Street Security
Corporation et al.

District or Mas.
sachusetts.
Northern
Dis.
trict of IllInois.

Mar. 4, 1936 _•••• do._ ••_••

Whealton Co., Ine., et
aL

District of New

Oct. 14,1936 Sec. 17•••••• __••

Young'" Co. (Stanley
B. Young, R. M.
Prozan et al.)

Western District
of KentuckY.

Vickers,

Feb.27,1936

Sees. 5 and 17•• _

Jersey.

luly 17,1936 Sees. 5 and 17•••

Aug. 16,19351 _ •••

I

Amended BiIl1l1ed.

_

eee.

••

•

Permanent
Injunction
granted on consent Jan.
2, 1936.
Motion for preliminary In.
Junction made on Apr. II,
1936. Answer filed Apr.
28, 1936. Case pending.
Preliminary
injunction
granted Nov. 12, 1936.
Permanent
Injunction
Nov. 25, 1936. Indictment returned Nov. 8,
1935. Defendant con.
victed and sentenced for
1 year and 6 months on
Nov. 21, 1936.
Permanent
injunction
entered Mar. 30, 1936.
Temporary
Injunction
granted against further
violations and against
transfer of defendant's
assets on Feb. 28, 1936.
Indictment
returned
Aug. 9, 1936. ProsecU.
tlon pending.
On Nov. 6, 1936, action
dismissed
as to Joseph
S. Barr. Decree pro
confesso taken as to
other defendents Mar.
9, 1936. Indictments returned against 14 defendants June 23, 1936.
prosecution pending.
Permanent
Injunctions
entered by consent of
defendants July 31, 1936,
and Aug. 13, 1936.
Temporary
Injunction
as prayed for in amended
bill granted as to- 7 defendants Sept. 25, 1935,
which W88 made permanent Dec. 6, 1936. In.
dlctments
returned
against 17 defendants on
Feb. 12, 1936, trial hald
lune I, 1936. 2 defendants acquitted, indictment dropped 88 to 1
defendant, all oth era
convicted except 4 who
are fugitives from Justice.

128

SEOU1UTIES AND EXCHANGE COMMISSION

CASES INVOLVING VALIDITY OF SUBPENAS

In a number of instances the Commission, as authorized by Section
22 (b) of the Act, has had to resort to the Courts to enforce complinace with subpenas issued in connection with investigations of violations of its provisions. The most important case involving the
subpena power of the Commission is Securitie« and. Ewchall(le Oommission. v. Jones discussed above, where the subpena was issued in
the course of a stop-order proceeding under Section 8 (d) then pending. Although the Supreme Court refused enforcement of the subpena there in issue, it based its decision upon the premise that the
proceedings had lapsed and terminated because of the attempted
withdrawal of the registration statement prior to the issuance of the
'Subpena. The decision, therefore, although holding that particular
subpena to have been invalidly issued inasmuch as it was issued otherwise than in a lawfully pending proceeding, does not derogate from
the substantive subpena powers of the Commission under Section
19 (b).
The first application by the Commission to enforce a subpena was
that made to the District Court for the Northern District of Georgia,
Atlanta Division, in the American Bond and Share case on March 15,
1935. Although this application was fully argued before the Court,
it was continued indefinitely because the Commission had, prior to
decision, obtained the required evidence from other sources. Similar
disposition has likewise been made of a number of the following
tabulated cases.
Principal defendants

American Rand Corporation.
Collins-Moore &: Co.
et el,
Hussey, Arthur

E •••••••

The Krystel Ohemical
Co., Inc., et_a!.

District in which suit
was brought

Date of filing
of appllcation

Western District
Washington.
Western District
Kentucky.
Western District
Washington.

Application dismissed on motion of
Commission, luly 13, 1936.
II!ov. 11. 1935 Application dlsmissed on motion of
Commission, Nov. 14, 1935.
do
_ Application dismissed lune 16, 1936,
because of destruction of documents
prior to service of subpena.
Ian. 29,1936 Order granted by District Court,
Mar. 3D, 1936. Appeal taken and
argued In United States Court of
Appeals Oct. 9, 1936. Motion made
by Commission to remand case to
District Court for dismlssaI, Oct.

of
of
of

District of Columhia..

Disposition

June 8, 1936

13, 1936, pending.

Mills, 1. Edward, et a!••• Northern
Texas.
National Short Term
Securities Corporation
eta!.

District of

District of
cbusetts.

Massa.

Feb. 12,1936

1 an.

31,1936

Defendants on Feh. 28, 1936, moved to
dismiss application on ground that
Securities Act of 1933 is unconsti.
tutional. Motion pending.
Order entered Feb. 3, 1936. Defendant
on Feb. 11, 1936 moved to vacate on
various grounds, including procedure
and constitutionality
of Securities
Act of 1933. Case pending.

SECOND ANNUAL

:PrIncipal defendants

District in which suit
was brought

129

REPORT

Date ot 1IlIn't
ot application

Men-

Royalty
Bond 4< Share
District ot New
Corporation
et al.
00.
The Black Oold ExploraWestern District
ot
tion Trust et al.
Oklahoma.
- ______do ____________
oo., MidVerser-Clay
Continent
Crude on
Purchasing
Oo., and
E. C. Clay, President.

Disposition

Oct.

16, 1935

Order entered

Dec.

17,1935

Application

Dec.

16, 1935

Pending.

Oot. 19, 1935.
disIIllssed

IDly 21, 1936.

SUITS TO. ENJOIN ENFORCEMENT OF THE SECURITIES ACT
Principal

Abraham,
Crawford,
N atlona!
curities

plaintltls

Benjamin

Distriot in which suit
was brought

L _____ Eastern

ot

Date of1lling
ot blll

13,1935

Pending.

R. R ____________ Northern
Distrlot
of Aug. 8, 1935
Oklahoma.
District
ot
Columbia
____
Short Term SeFeb. 21,1936
Corporation.

Do.

Distriot

rune

Disposition

Pennsylvanle.

CRIMINAL PROSECUTIONS

denied
Preliminary
injunction
Mar. 6, 1936. Case is pending.

UNDER THE SECURITIES
AS AMENDED

ACT OF 1933,

The foregoing tabulation of injunction suits refers to the ensuing
indictments and prosecutions, if any. In many instances it has,
however, been found desirable to refer the results of the Commission's investigation directly to the Attorney General in the interest
of speedy prosecution without the delay encountered in contested
injunction suits. The most important prosecutions are briefly de..
scribed and others tabulated below.
Kopala-Quinn ill 00.
McOormick ill 00.
Gould ill 00.

Joseph R. Mendelson.
Leonard H. Suttermam;
Joseph N. Sherman.

The Commission spent over 18 months in investigating the activities of a vast interstate chain store of "bucket shop" security firms,
which sold securities from central offices in Chicago, Indianapolis,
Duluth, St. Paul, Minneapolis, Dallas, Wilmington, Baltimore,
Atlanta, Houston, New York City, Boston, Detroit, Milwaukee, and
Philadelphia.
Thereafter the Department of Justice, collaborating
with the Commission, secured the return of two indictments.
The first was returned in the Southern District of New York on
August 30, 1935, naming Mendelson, Sutterman, Sherman, and one
other person, the named individuals being the principals of the group,
and charging them in 10 separate counts with violations of Section 9
(a) (2) of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934 for their activities in

130

SECURITIES

~

EXQHANGE COMMISSION

connection with market manipulations in the stock-of the Stutz Motor
Car Co. of America on the New York Curb Exchange. This matter
has yet to be set for trial. Subsequently, on July 14, 1936, in the
Northern District of Georgia, Gainesville Division, indictments were
returned charging the above corporations and individuals, in addition
to 24 other defendants, with violations of both the mail fraud statutes
and the fraud provisions of the Securities Act. The indictment contains five counts alleging violations of Section 11 (a) (1), one count
alleging violation of Section 11 (a) (2), one count alleging violations
of Section 11 (a) (3), seven mail fraud counts and one conspiracy
count. All but two of the defendants named in the indictment have
been apprehended, and, with the exception of one of those apprehended, all have been unsuccessful in their attempts to resist removal.
Defendants are now at liberty under bond of $5,000 or less pending
trial, the date of which has not yet been set.
Briefly, the Georgia indictments alleged that the defendants and
their agents, operating through eight or more corporate entities, sold
securities to the public from offices located in many States through
high-pressure telephone solicitation methods. It is alleged that the
defendants sold stock on a- 50-percent partial-payment basis and
subsequently induced customers to switch from the conservative securities originally purchased to another stock in which the defendants were interested, the price of which the defendants had previously manipulated to inflated prices on a national securities exchange
where it was traded. Thereafter, before balances were due, it is
charged that the defendants, by ceasing their market operations,
would allow the price to fall to its natural level. The customers'
equities in their securities were thus alleged to have been appropriated through the guise of selling the collateral security for the customers' unpaid installments. Since, under the partial-payment plan
described, the defendants were able to refuse delivery of the securities purchased until the balances were paid, they were able to
"bucket" orders, and in this way it is alleged that they did in fact
many times actually oversell the capitalization of corporations in
the securities of which they dealt. It is estimated that the group
named in this indictment, which has been operating extensively since
1921, have defrauded the public of over 10 million dollars.
In connection with the grand jury presentation resulting in this
second indictment, a bill in equity was filed on behalf of McCormick
& Oo., one of the defendants, attempting to enjoin the United States
attorney and two representatives of the Securities and Exchange
Commission from presenting certain evidence to the grand jury
which had been obtained by officers of, the Commission in the course
of its investigation. Judge Underwood, United States Judge for

131
the Southern District of Georgia, refused to grant the temporary
injunction requested.
Polymet Manufacturing Oorporation.-Following investigation by
.the Commission, and with its cooperation, indictments were returned
in the District of Massachusetts on February 8, August 20, and September 9,1935, and in the Southern District of New York, charging
W. L. Jarvis and associated persons with violation of the mail fraud
statutes and Section 17 (a) of the Securities Act of 1933, as amended.
The indictments charged publication of a so-called investment service which was circulated from Boston and Springfield, Mass.
Through this financial publication, purportedly independent and
unbiased, but alleged to be operated in conjunction with a highpressure telephone sales campaign, Jarvis and his codefendants were
charged with selling Polymet Manufacturing Corporation stock to
the investing public at a market price which they had previously
inflated by manipulative transactions. Jarvis and his principal co-defendant, Gaines, as well as certain others, have been convicted and
sentenced, An appeal has been noted, but has not yet been heard or
decided.
Jarvis, Gaines, and two of his associates, were also indicted in the
Southern District of New York in connection with a manipulative
operation in the stock of the Atlas Tack Corporation, listed on the
New York Stock Exchange. Trial was held in October 1935. No
-eonvictions were had, owing to disagreement by the jury.
Arizona Oometook:Oorporation.-An indictment was returned on
September 14, 1934, in the Western District of Washington against
15 individuals. Three defendants were convicted on the Securities
.Act count and sentenced to terms ranging from 3 years to 18 months
with fines from $4,000 to $500.
.Ooloniallnvestment Syndicate.-Indictments
were obtained in the
District Court for the Western District of Tennessee on February 14,
April 13, April 14, and April 15, 1936. Trial has not been set. One
-defendant has pleaded guilty and received sentence.
Secwrity Service Oorporation, El Oro Mines Oo.-The results of
investigation were transmitted to the Department of Justice and
resulted in two indictments returned in the Northern District of
Texas on January 18, 1936, charging violations of Section 17 of the
"Act.
The first indictment was tried February 20, 1936. Four defendants
were acquitted, and the other three were found guilty of conspiracy
and the mail fraud violations. The three defendants convicted in the
first indictment were also named in the second indictment, and on
pleas of guilty, were given concurrent sentences under the second
indictment. Nine of the remaining defendants in the second indict-

132

SECURITIES AND EXCHANGE COMMISSION

ment also plead guilty and received fines or jail sentences. Charges
were dismissed with respect to all of the remaining defendants but
two, and these are still to be apprehended.
In an opinion reported sub nomine, U. 8. v. Alluan, 13 F. Supp.,
289, the District Court refused to quash the indictments, holding
that both mail fraud and Securities Act counts may be included in a
single indictment without duplicity.
The following prosecutions are described in tabular form:
NomName

United States district
court where Indict.
ments returned

Of case

Date of
Indictments

beror
defendants
named

Disposition

of

Nov. '0,1935

8

Pending.

of

Mar.
Mar.
Apr.
July

26,1935
'0,1935
17,1935
31,1935

3

Southern
District
of Dec.
Bankers
Service
Cor.
2, 1935
New York.
poratlon.
Norman Berry '" Co
_ Eastern
District
of Nov.
1,1935
Michigan.
BIg Wedge Gold MinDistrict of Columbia •• Jan.
6,1935
Ing Co.
Northern
District
of Jan. 22, 1936
EI Presidio Hotel GuarTexas.
anteed Syndicate.

11

2 defendants
convicted
and
sentenced
June 1936. The
principal defendant
pleaded
guilty Oct. 22, 1936, and was
sentenced
for 7 years Oct.
28, 1936.
Pending.

Acceptance '" Exchange
Co.
American Bond'" Share

Oorporatlon (B. R.
Bradiey,

R.

E.

Southern
District
California.
Northern
District
Georgia.

Lee,

et al.),

9

Do.

4

Do.

11

All defendants
pleaded guilty.
Sentences from 90 days to 1
Defendant pleaded nolo contendere. Sentenced for 2 years.
Appeal pending.
Pending.
Pending.
2 defendants pleaded
guilty and were sentenced for
3 years each.
Charges dlsmissed as to 3 defendsnts,
remaining
2 not yet apprehended.
Pending.

year.
Emhlem
Manufactur.
Ing '" Distributing
Co.
C. S. Goddard'"
Co
_
O. B. Kelley & Co., Inc..
IrwIn Kott et al •• _•• _••

Lory T. Gardner
Mid - West

Oorporatlon,

'"

ce.,

Mortgage

District

May

20,1936

1

District of Utah •• __.__ Oct.
District of Delaware __ Jan.
Southern
District
of May
Texas.

22,1935
8, 1936
11,1936

2
Ii
7

Western
Texas.
Northern
Texas.

of Nevada._..

District

of

May

6,1936

2

District

of

Jan.

17,1936

20

Mar.

9,1936

2

1 conviction,

June

5,1934

4

Jan.

15, 1936

1

All defendants
convicted
sentenced for 3 years
Pending.

Reported
sub nomine,
U. S. v. AUuan, 13 F.
Supp.289.
Oklahoma
City
on Western District of
Journal.
Oklahoma.
Pulliam & Co. __• ______• Northern
District
of
Texas.
Southern
States Re1Jn- N ortbern
District
of
Georgia.
ery Co.
Standard Royalty Co •• _ Western
District
of
Louislana.
Stroud.Kurtz
'" Co- ____ District of Columbla.._
Joseph WillIams ________ Southern
District
California.

of

Apr.

2, 1936

3

May

17,1936

1

Oct.

3,1935

2

Pending. 8 defendants pleaded
guilty and were sentenced.

1 acqulttal.
and

each:

Do.
Defendant
pleaded guilty and
was sentencedfrom
1to4 years.
Both defendants
acquitted.

I
SECOND ANNUAL REPORr

133

CIVIL LEGISLATION UNDER THE SECURITIES ~CT OF 1933,OF WHICH
THE COMMISSION IS INFOR,MED

P. J. Lisicky v. 0 ontinental Distillers ((; Importers Oorporation
et al.-Plaintiff purchased securities of the Continental Distillers
& Importers Corporation, which were then registered under the Act,
relying partly upon rePiesentations in a prospectus filed with the
Federal Trade Commission, which it is alleged was false and misleading. The Commission issued a stop order pursuant to Section
8 (d) on January 26,1935. On January 24,1936, Lisicky sued in the
District of Columbia under the Sections of the Act creating civil
remedies. The Commission obtained leave of Court to intervene as
amicus curiae in order to argue the constitutional issues. The defendants then withdrew their challenge of constitutionality and proceeded to a trial of the case upon its merits.
Eighteen other suits of identical nature have been brought in the
District of Columbia by other plaintiffs against the same defendants,
which by agreement have been stayed pending determination of a
single such action now before the United States Court of Appeals
for the District of Columbia.
On May 27, 1936, indictments were obtained in the District Court
for the District of Columbia following reference of the 'files to the
Department of Justice, naming four defendants. The single count
in the indictments is based upon alleged violations of Section 24 of
the Securities Act of 1933,which renders unlawful the willful making
of false or misleading statements in a registration statement filed
under the Act. Date for trial has not yet been set.

In the Matter of The United Telephone ((; Telegraph Oo.-On
April 10, 1936, the Commission petitioned the United States Court
for the District of Delaware for permission to intervene in the reorganization proceedings of The United. Telephone & Telegraph Co., a
debtor corporation, which were then pending under Section 77B of the
Bankruptcy Act. In support of the petition, the Commission filed
a memorandum stating that two reorganization committees for preferred stocks of the debtor had solicited deposits in violation of Section 5 of the Act, and that stocks so deposited in disobedience to an
order of the Court had not been returned to depositors. The Commission prayed that the petition of the reorganization committees
for approval of their plans of deposits be granted, if at all, only after
return of the securities unlawfully solicited.. No further action has
been taken by the Commission. .
Borland v, Oommoneoeaith. Subsidiatry Oorporation.-The
Commission, at the request of the litigants, has expressed a willingness
to appear as amicus curiae in this case which has been pending in
the District Court of the United States for the Northern District of

134

SECURITIES AND EXOHANGE OOMMISSION

Jllinois since the Fall of 1935. This litigation will apparently necessitate decision by the Court on very complicated, difficult, and novel
questions of the interpretation of Sections 3 (a) (1),3 (a) (9), and
2 (11) of the Securities Act of 1933, as amended. Essentially the
problem of statutory interpretations involved is whether the exemption from registration provided by Section 3 (a) (9) of the Act, as
amended, can apply to securities made thl subject of a secondary
distribution by a person in control of the issuing corporation, who
received such securities in the course of an earlier exchange of securities which fell within the literal language of Section 3 (a) (9). The
parties in the case have consulted with the Commission, and are keeping it informed of the progress of the cause, which may be reached
for argument within the next few months.
II. SECURITIES

EXCHANGE ACT OF 1934, AS AMENDED

John M. Torr et al.-The most important litigation under the
Securities Exchange Act of 1934 was that instituted by the Commission to enjoin transactions by Torr & Co., Ellery Mann, and other
associated individuals, engaged in effecting a secondary distribution
of Trans-Lux Daylight Picture Screen Co. stock, which is registered
and listed upon the New York Curb Exchange. The bill of complaint, which sought both temporary and permanent injunctions, and
was filed in the Southern District of New York on December 23, 1935,
alleged that Torr & Co. had employed persons in the security business
with wide financial acquaintanceship to recommend the purchase of
Trans-Lux stock and thus create public buying interest in order to
raise the market price of the stock to a point where Torr & Co. might
profitably distribute 47,000 shares of stock which it had under option
from Mann. The bill of complaint and supporting affidavits alleged
that the solicitation activities of the defendants carried on in many
States, including California, resulted in greatly increased market
activity and in steadily rising prices upon the New York Curb Exchange. The series of transactions at rising prices thus effected for
the purpose of inducing the general public to buy Trans-Lux stock,
which in turn further raised the price, were alleged to violate Section
9 (a) (2) of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934. The bill also
alleged that the failure' of the various tipsters employed by Torr &
Co. to disclose their adverse financial interest and their bias in thus
recommending the purchase of Trans-Lux stock constituted a violation of Section 17 of the Securities Act of 1933.
On February 18, 1936, District Judge Patterson heard oral argument upon the temporary injunction, which was granted on April 11,
1936. The opinion of the District Court, reported at 15 F. Supp.

SECOND ANNUAL REPORT

135~

315, is notable for the decisive language used in sustaining Section
9 of the Securities Exchange Act as a valid exercise of the Federal.
power over the mails and interstate commerce. The Court further
held that the New York Curb Exchange constituted a channel
through which passed a continuing stream of interstate commerce
in securities, and therefore Section 9 of the statute, regulating
manipulative transactions thereon, :fell squarely within the decisions
of the Supreme Court in Stafford v. Wallace, 258 U. S. 495, and
Ohicago Board of Trade v, Olsen, 262 U. S. 1. After discussing the.
scope of the decisions in these two cases, the Court said:
Both cases were decided on the ground that there was a
great interstate commerce in the commodities concerned and
that Congress had the power to subject to regulation local incidents that directly affected such commerce. It follows that
section 9 (a) of the Act in question, insofar as it purports
to prohibit manipulative transactions effected on national securities exchanges, is a valid exercise of Federal control over
interstate commerce.
In addition to upholding the validity of Section 9 of the Securities
Exchange Act, the Court also held that the practice of giving purportedly disinterested and friendly financial advice without disclosing the fees paid for making such recommendations and for procuring purchases on the market constituted a violation of Section
17 (a) of the Securities Act of 1933, again held valid on the basis
of the prior decision of the Second Circuit Court of Appeals in
Jones v. Seouritiee and EaJChange Oomaniesion, 79 F. (2d) 617,
(1935).
The defendants have appealed from this decision to the Circuit
Court of Appeals for the Second Circuit, where argument is expected
to be held in November or December 1936.
.Amos Doume et al.-On January 8, 1936, the Commission commenced action in the District Court of the United States for the
District of Colorado against Amos Downs and others, alleging the
sale of Alma Lincoln Mining Co. stock and other securities in violation of Section 17 of the Securities Act and of Section 9 (a) of the
Securities Exchange Act. The bill alleged that the defendants, in addition to other fraudulent representations, had published a "tipster
sheet" known as the "Mining Mirror", recommending purchase of
securities without disclosing their adverse interest. Other defendants
were alleged to have circulated a publication known as "Profit Pointers", containing further misrepresentations. The bill alleged "wash
sales" on the Denver Stock Exchange, a registered exchange, manipulating the price of Alma Lincoln stock. The defendants denied the
Commission's allegations and asserted that the acts complained of had

•


136

SECURITIES

AND EXCHANGE COMMISSION

ceased before the filing of the bill. District Judge Symes on February 12, 1936, in an oral opinion, not reported, held that since all
the acts complained of had occurred prior to June 29,1935, no necessity for an injunction was shown, and dismissed the bill without
prejudice, saying: "If these defendants or anyone else starts up
again after this hearing and all that has been disclosed, the Court
will at once grant an injunction."
The following cases are set forth in tabular form:
Principal
defend.
ants

Belmont,

Robert____

DI.ulct In which
suit was brought

Date of filing
of bill

District

July

16,1935

of Massa-

cbusetts.

EIcblepp, Alexander
Rudolph.

Northern District
of Dlinols.

Aug.

6,1935

Otis '" Co___________

Northern

District

Apr.

1,1935

Western
District
of
Pennsylvania.

May

20,1935

8cbmld,
Herbert
W., et aI. (H. W.
Schmid Oo.),

Southern District
of New York.

May

22, 1936

ce,

Western
District
of Pennsylvanla.

May 20, 1935

bf Ohio.

Sterling Investment
Corporation,
Pitt
Investment
Co. et

aI.

Todd, K. W.
Inc., et aI.

Alleged violations

Disposition

Sec. 17 of Securities
Permanent
injunction
Act of 1933, and Sec.
enterod July 16, 1935.
9 (a) (2) of Beenrtties Exchange Act of
1934.
Sec. 9 (a) (1) and (2) _ Permanent
injunction
enterod with consent
of defendant Aug. 6,
1936.
Sec. 17 of Securities
Pending.
Act of 1933, and Sec.
9 of Securities Exchange Act of 1934.
_ Permanent
Sec. 9 (a) (1)injunctions
entered with consent
of defendants
June
5,1935.
Sec. 17 of Securities
Permanent
injunctions
Act of 1933, and Sec.
entered
with
con9 (a) (I), (2), (3), and
sent
of defendants
May 25, 1936.
(4) of Securities Exchange Act of 1934.
Sees. 5 and 17 of
Defendants
consented
to entry of permscurities Act of 1933,
nent injunctions
on
and Sees. 7 (c) (2)
and 11 (d) (2) of the
June 14, 1935.
Securities Exchange
Act oflll34.

se-

CASES INVOLVING SUBPENA POWERS

Thomas Bracken, et al.- The defendants refused to testify unless
furnished with transcripts of their testimony. On February 19, 1936,
the Commission applied to the District Court in the Southern District
of New York to enforce these subpenas. This relief was granted,
and an appropriate order was entered (14 F. Supp. 417). An appeal
was taken from the order of the Court and heard before the United
States Circuit Court of Appeals for the Second Circuit, which affirmed the decision requiring compliance with the subpenas (84 F!
(2d) 316).

SECOND ANNUAL REPORT

137

The Circuit Court held that the witnesses were unjustified in
refusing to appear and testify upon the grounds that they would not
be furnished a copy of the testimony given by them. The Court said
(Manton, J.) :
An investigation is conducted in order to determine whether
the facts justify a determination by the Commission to hold
a ''hearing'' or to bring suit for injunctive relief. The investigation makes no determination or decision between the parties
for there are no parties * * * The character of the investigation as a preparatory matter looking to the enforcement
of the act, gives the basis for irefusal to grant copies of the
testimony. Grand jury proceedings are somewhat analogous
and their records are not open to defendants.
The court then entered into a discussion as to whether or not the
efforts of the Commission constituted a "fishing expedition", and said:
Moreover, the order for the investigation of Pirnie, Simons
& Co., Inc., is to ascertain the facts about any violation occurrin~ in trading in the specific stock mentioned, under Section
9 (a) (1), (2), (3'), (4) (5). These sections relate to the
manipulation of stocks. if the order were required to set out
more definite facts, it would make investigations available
only when superfluous.
.
From this decision the witnesses applied to the Supreme Court of
the United States for a writ of certiorari. This writ was pending as
of June 30, 1936.2
SUITS TO ENJOIN THE ENFORCEMENT OF THE SECURITIES
EXCHANGE ACT

The only action to enjoin application of the Act is that commenced
by J. Edward Jones in the Southern District Court of New York on
January 2, 1936. Jones sought to enjoin enforcement against him of
Section 15 of the Act pursuant to which the Commission by rules then
in force required registration of all brokers and dealers using the
mails or facilities of interstate commerce to make or to utilize an overthe-counter market in securities. Jones joined as parties defendant
the Securities and Exchange Commission, the Postmaster General and
the Attorney General, alleging threatened interference with the con• On Aug. 12, 1936, a bill to enjoin Plrnie, Simons & Co., Inc., and certain other parties
from further violations of Section 9 (a) of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934 was 1I1ed
In the United States District Court for the Southern District of New York. Whereupon
the Commission withdrew its subpenas and moved the Circuit Court of Appeals to dismiss
the appeal as the testimony was no longer needed. In opposition to the application for a
writ of certiorari, the Commission informed the Supreme Court of the United States that
the question presented on appeal was moot. The Supreme Cou~ on October 12, 1936,
granted certiorari and directed dismissal of the application on this ground.
101973--36----10

138

SECURITms

AND EXCHANGE

COMMISSION

duct of his business by requiring registration by him as ~
 broker or
dealer under Section 15 and asserting the unconstitutionality thereof
in that it represented an unlawful delegation of legislative power and
that the enforcement of the section threatened the destruction of his
business, A stipulation was entered into on January 3, 1936,in which
the defendants agreed to take no action against Jones until final hearing and determination of the case. The defendants filed an answer on
January 22, 1936, and the case is now awaiting argument and
determination.
APPEALS FROM DENIAL OF CONFIDENTIAL TREATMENT TO MATERIAL CONTAINED IN DOCUMENTS FILED UNDER THE SECURITIES
EXCHANGE ACT OF 1934

Section 24 of the Act permits any person filing any application
or report with the Commission to object to public disclosure of some
or all of the information contained therein. Under Section 25 (a)
of the Act provision is made for review of all orders of the Commission rendered in a proceeding under this Act, in the specified
United States Circuit Courts of Appeal or in the Court of Appeals
of the District of Columbia. More than 600 issuers of securities
seeking registration upon national securities exchanges filed, in connection with their application for registration, objections to disclosure of certain information, for the most part relating to sales and
itemized break-down of the cost of sales. In many other instances
objection was made to publication of salaries and other remuneration paid to officers and directors. At the request- of the issuers
concerned, the Commission, in private hearings, heard the objections
to public disclosure of the information for which confidential treatment was sought and the grounds urged by the various issuers. ,Almost 30 of the issuers who felt themselves aggrieved by the Commission's determination to make available to the public information
as to which confidential treatment had been requested, filed petitions
in the various Circuit Courts of Appeal to review the Commission's
action, purportedly relying upon the provisions of Section 25 (a)
of the Act. In nearly all instances these petitions challenge the
general constitutionality of the Securities Exchange- Act of 1934, as
well as the validity of the registration requirements of Section 12 of
the Act. Inasmuch.as the 'Circuit Courts of Appeal for the various
circuits in which such petitions have been filed have not as yet considered or made any disposition thereof, and since the problems
involved are substantially identical, the names of such corporations,
the date of the filWg of the petitions, and the circuit courts of appeal
in which such petitions are now pending are listed:

139

SECOND ANNUAL.REPORT
Companies FiZing Petition

for Review

Name ofpetltioner

Allled Chemical '" Dye Corpomtion___________________
American Can Co
•
Congoleum-NaIrn,
Inc __••
ElectrIc Auto-Lite Oo,
Evans Products Co __•
• __•
.______
General Baking Co
.___________________________
P. Lor!IIard Co.
•
•
•••
•• _.
•
•
Mathieson AlkalI Works, Inc
Moota Machine Co____________________________________
National Biscuit Co
.______________________
•
R. J. Reynolds Tobacco Co

Apr.
Dec.
Mar.
Feb.
Jan.
Mar.
Mar.
Apr.
Nov.
Mar.

4, 1936. __•• _•••• _ Second.
Z1, 1935
•
Third.
35, 1936
_
Do.
15, 1936
_
Sixth.
18, 1936 •
._._
Do.
Z1, 1936 __ ._._.
_
Second.
26, 1936
_
Third.
•
3, 1936
_ Second.
26, 1935
_ Third.
26, 1936.
_
Do.
Mar. 24, 1936__•
_ Fourth.

'rhe American TobBcco Co____________________________ Mar. 26, 1936
United States TobBCCO Co_____________________________ Mar. 24, 1936__._.
Sloss-SheflleId Steel '" Iron Co
Apr. 8, 1936

_ Second.
_
Do.
_ Third.
_ Second.
_
Ninth.
_ Seventh.

United States IndustrIal Alcohol Co___________________ Apr. 23, 1936
Oliver United FIlters, Inll....
•
•
May 23, 1936
A. Stein '" Co
June 4,1936
The Cuneo Press, Inc
June 3, 1~-.--------The Superheater
Co
•
._______ May 15, 1936.
J. J. Newberry Co __•
June 12, 1936
W. A. Sheaffer Pen Co
JUDe 35,1936.
AmerIcan Sumatm Tobacco
The Diamond Match Co
Brillo Manufacturing
Co

Corporatlon______________
July 9, 1936
.___________________ July 3, 1936
.__________ July 18-21, 1936

Genem! Mills, Inc_____________________________________
New York Trap Rock Corporatlon____________________
The International
Nickel Co. of Canada, Ltd._________
Pullman, Inc
•
.______

III. THE

PUBLIC

UTILITY

July
July
Aug.
Sept.

23, 1936
24, 1936
•
35, 1936
4, 1~6-----------

Do.

•

_
Second.
_
Do.
_
Eighth.
_ District of Columbia.
_
Do.
_
Second.
_ District of Columbia.
_ Second.
_ District of Columbia.
Third.

HOLDING. COMPANY ACT OF 1935

Electric Bond & Share 00. et al.-On December 1, 1935, the provisions of this Act became effective, requiring registration by substantially all of the major public utility holding companies. However, shortly before this date the Government was faced with a
multitude of injunction suits, actual or anticipated, on the part of
most 'of the larger holding companies. It was apparent that active
-litigation of all these suits involving substantially similar questions
would be wasteful as well as unduly expensive, inasmuch as a single
selected test case could litigate and determine all the important questions involved in the application of this Act. Consequently, the Commission, desiring to test the Act promptly, selected the Electric Bond
& Share System, which within itself presented a number of typical
'cases to which the Act by its terms applies. Accordingly, on November 26, 1935, the Commission brought a consolidated suit in the
Southern District of New York-against the Electric Bond & Share
Co. and its principal intermediate holding companies to enjoin activities unlawful under the Act in the absence of such registration.

- 140

SECURITIES AND EXCHANGE COMMISSION

Other defendants were subsequently added in order to bring before
the Court many typical situations to which the terms of the Act
apply.
To avoid protracted trial, a stipulation of facts approximately
2,000 pages in length was filed with the Court on June 30, 1936.
This case is now awaiting trial and consideration by the District
Court.
Thus, on a comprehensive record, there is before the Court one of
the most important public-utility holding company systems, which
comes into contact with the Act at more points than any other.
Since this action will involve every point of law which conceivably could be raised in the forty-odd suits brought against the Commission in a dozen Federal districts by various holding companies, in
what appears to have been a concerted attack, the Commission has not
seen fit, even if it had the facilities, to defend the latter suits, of
which the following is typical.
United Gas Improvement Oompany v. James M. Landis et 01.This public-utility holding company on November 20, 1935, brought
suit in the Eastern District of Pennsylvania against the members of
the Commission, the Attorney General, the Postmaster General, and
the local District Attorney and postmaster. The bill asked for a
declaration of the unconstitutionality of the Public Utility Holding
Company Act of 1935 on grounds of denial of due process of law,
unlawful delegation of Congressional power, and interference with
the power reserved to the States by the Constitution. The plaintiffs
sought injunctions, both temporary and permanent, against enforcement of the Act by the Commission or any of the defendants. Motions to dismiss have been made on grounds of lack of jurisdiction
a-nd improper venue on behalf of the various defendants. The case
is still pending. Other similar actions are tabulated.
Parties plalntlJl

Disposition

Oourt and date of filing suit

Public Service Co. of Colorado District of Colorado, Nov. 29, Pending.
et B1.
1935.
DelBwsre Electric Power Co____ District of DelBware, Nov. 21,
Do.
1935.
8usqueha.nns Utilities Co
do
._.
_
Do.
The CommonweB1th '" South- District of DelBwsre Nov. 23, Pending. Pro con/alo decree entered
sgsInst locB! U. 8. Attorney and
ern Corporation.
1935.
postmaster Jan. 30, 1936. Bill dlsmissed as to other defendants Apr. 22,
Eastern Texas Electric Co_______ District of DelBwsre, Nov. 26,
1935.
El PBSOElectric Co
Engineers Public Service

•__do
do.

1936.
Bill dIsmis8ed on June 25, 1936, as to B1l
but locB!defendants. Action against
the IBtter Is pending.

_ Pending.
:
Do.

141

SECOND ANNUAL REPORT
Parties

plaintiff

Court and date of 1lllng suit

Stone & Webster,

Ine;

Stone

Utilities

& Webster

Cor-

District of Delaware.
1935.
do

pomtion .
.American Gas & Power Co______ District of Delaware
1935.
Louisville Gas & Electric Co
do
Standard
Power & Light Cordo
pomtion.
-Cities Service Co. et
North

Continent

poratlon,
"The United

al__________

Utilities

Corpomtlon

Corat aL.

.Associated Gas & Electric
et 81.
H. M. Byllesby & Co

Co.

'The Byllesby Corporation
North American Edison Co
North American Light & Power

Nov. 26,

Service

.Siarm Pacific Electric
'The Western

Public

Nov. '0,
_
_

District of Delaware,
1935.
do

Nov. 29,

do
District of Delaware,
1935.
do

Power

Stales Power Co., et al,

<Jonso1idated
York.

'The United

Gas

Co. of New

Corporation

et al___

'Cities Service Co. et al
.Fllderal Light '" Tmctlon

aI.

Co. et

District of Maryland,
1935.
do

Do.
Do.
Do.

_

Do.

_

Do .

Do.

Nov. 30,
_

Do
_
Do.
_
Do.
_ On June 8, 1936. bill dismissed
but local defendants.
Dec. 4,
PendJng.

do
do
do

Northern
District
Nov. 30, 1935.

Do.

Do.

._

of Dllnols,

Co________ District
of Maine, Southern
Division, Nov. '0, 1935.
Service oo., District of Maryland, Nov. '0,
1935.

United
Stales Electric
Corpomtion.
West Penn Electric Co

Northern

Cor-

Pending.
_

Co.
Northeastern
Water & Electric
District of Delaware,
Corpomtion.
1935.
-Oommunitz
Gas & Power
_ District of Delaware

.American Utilities
poretion.

Disposition

Nov. 29,

District of Minnesota, Fourth
Division. Nov. 29, 1935.
Southern
District
of
York, Nov. 25,1935.

New

Southern
District
of
York, Nov. '0.1935.
Southern
District
of
York, Nov. 29, 1935.
.do

New
New

as to all

On Mar. 31, 1936, decree pro confesso
entered agalnst local United Stales
Attorney.
Bill dismissed as to all but locel defendants as to which pro confesso
decree entered Mar. 16, 1936.
Pending.
On Feb. 3, 1936, bill dismissed as to
other than local defendants.
Pro
confesso decree as to latter entered
Apr. 2, 1936.
Pending.

_ On Feb. 3, 1936, bill dismISSed as to
other than local defendants
against
whom pro confesso decrees entered
on Apr. 27, 1936.
On Feb. 10, 1936, bill dismissed as to
noniocal defendants.
Case still pendIng against local defendants.
On Jan 3,1936, bill dismissed as to nonlocal defendants.
The Court ruled
on Feb. 22. 1936, that the Attorney
General and Postmaster General were
not n8C8Sll8l"y parttes defendant
in
euits against the local postmasters
and United States Marshals.
(Reported sub nomine Cofuolidoltd GIU
Co. v. Hardll, 14 F. Bupp, 223.) Motions to dismiss by these parties were
therefore denied and
pro copfesso
decrees entered.
Same disposition
as in Consolidated
Gas Co. case.
Do.
_

Do.

142

SECURITIES

Parties plalntl1f
The Toledo Edison Co. et aI_____

.A:ND EXCHANGE,

COMMISSION

Disposition

Court and date of fiUng suit

Northern District of Ohio,
Western Division, Nov. 29,
1935.
The Columbns RaIlway, Power Southern District of Ohio,
ell Light Co.
Eastern Division.
Philadelphia Electric Co________ Eastern District of Pennsylvania, Nov. 21,1935.
East Tennessee Light ell Power Western District of Virginia,
Co. et aI.
Nov. 29, 1935.

Pendlng.

Pro confesso decrees entered as against
local defendants, Mar. 11, 1936.
Pending.
Bill dismissed as to nonlocal defendants
Feb. 2, 1936. Pending as to local defendants.

SUITS FILED AGAINST THE PUBLIC UTILITY ACT IN THE
DISTRICT OF COLUMBIA

Within the week following November 23, 1935,eight separate suits
by the following holding companies: American Water Works &
Electric Co., Ine.] The Commonwealth & Southern Corporation; The
North .American Co.; The United Light & Power Co.; Continental
Gas & Electric Corporation and Iowa-Nebraska Light & Power Oo.;
American Light & Traction Co. j The United Light & Railways Co.;
and The Tennessee Electric Power Co., were brought against the
Government in the District of Columbia. The bills were substantially similar to that filed by the United Gas Improvement Co.,
described above. The members of the Commission, the Attorney
General, and the Postmaster General were named as defendants:
On December 1,1935, a motion was made to stay all the suits pending a decision of the Supreme Court of the United States in the,
case of Seouritiee and Er»change Oommission v. Electric Bond and
Share, et al,
On special appeal by two of the plaintiffs, the Court of Appeals for
the District of Columbia on June 22,1936, reversed the stay order, one
judge dissenting, on the ground that the parties and issues were not
identical with those in the Electric Bond and Swe
case. This
opinion, not yet reported, is printed in the C. C. H. Securities Act
Service, p. 2886. On October 5, 1936, certiorari :was granted by
the Supreme Court.
On December 1, 1936, the Supreme Court reversed the decision
of the Circuit Court of Appeals for the District of Columbia,
vacated the order of the District Court, and remanded the cause
to the lower court for a reconsideration of the motion for a stay.
Mr. Justice Cardozo, speaking for a unanimous court (Mr. Justice
McReynolds concurring in result only), stated that although the
court did have the power to grant the stay, the stay was excessive
insofar as it was to continue in effect beyond the decision of the
District Court in the Electric Bond and Share case.
.

143

:SECOND ANNUAL REPORT

orasa

LITIGATION INVOLVING

mE

COMPANY

PUBLIC-UTILITY

HOLDING

ACT

One important case has arisen from reorganization proceedings of
a holding company under Section 71B of the Bankruptcy Act, in
which the trustees sought a declaration of the invalidity of the Act
and instructions as to complying with its provisions.
In the Matter of American States Public Seruioe Oo.-On September 16, 1935, the trustees of this holding company, in reorganization
under Section 71B of the Bankruptcy Act, filed a petition in the District Court for the District of Maryland, praying that the Court
determine the Act to be unconstitutional and issue instructions
accordingly. Two creditors also filed petitions with the Court, one
supporting the trustees' petition, the other, Burco, Inc., opposing the
petition and contending that the Act was constitutional. In this
case, counsel for the Commission, together with the Special Assistants
to the Attorney General assigned to Holding Company Act litigation, appearing as amici curiae, urged that the Court had no jurisdiction to determine the validity of the Act in such a proceeding,
on the ground that it was nonadversary, premature, and collusive,
and was totally inadequate as a vehicle for testing the validity of an
important Act of Congress. On November 7, 1935, the Court ruled
against the Government and held the Act void in its entirety (In re
American States Public Se1'1Jwe00.,12 F. SUPPa667). On February
22, 1936, the Circuit Court of Appeals for the Fourth Circuit affirmed the decision below, but held the Act invalid only as applied
to the debtor (reported sub nomine Burco, Ino., v, J. B. Whitworth,
$1 F. (2d) 721). Burco., Inc., then petitioned the Supreme Court
of United States for writs of certiorari. The Supreme Court denied
certiorari on March 30, 1936.
Similar litigation is tabulated below:
Na me of debtor holding
company

United States distrlct
court in which reorganizations are
pending

Date of trustees'
petition

Disposition

Central West Public Servo District of Delaware_ _ Nov. 29,1935____ Pending. No further action taken
so far as Commlsslon is aware.
lee Co.
National Public Utilities
do
_ About Dec. 11,
Do.
1935.
C011IOl8tion.
Midlend United Co
do
•• _•••• _ November 1935 __
Do.
Stendard Gas &: Electric
do
_ Nov. 'rT, 1935. _ Government oillcIals, Joined as
defendents, moved to dismiss on
00.
grounds of lack of Jurisdfction
and improper venue on Dec. 16,
1935. Pendfng.
North American Gas '" Sonthern District of lune 6, 1936.
_ Trustees' petition for Instructions
not pressed and still pending.
ElectrIc Co.
New York.
Commlsslon intervened May 7,
1936, and offered to report on
the proposed pIan of reorganizao
tion.
Lehigh Valley Transit Oo, Eastern District of Nov. 25, 1935 _ Pending. No further action taken
so far as Commlsslon Is aware.
PennsylvanIa.

144

SECURITIES AND EXCHANGE COMMISSION

STOCKHOLDERS' SUITS SEEKING A DECLARATION OF mE
UNCONSTITUTIONALITYOF mE ACT
United

Litigants

Charle8 B. BarllU
I

Date of commencement of
suit

States

district court

v. Ford,

et al.

District of Massachu-

Nov. 30,1935

setts.

}
'!'Modore Ca8e v. Columbia
Southern District
Ga8 &- Electric CorporaNew York.
atlon.
_____
do
•
.Alberl E. PIerce v, COUf/hlin, et al.

Albert E. PIerce v. Cemral
Public Ulilill/ Corporali01l,

of

Nov. 20,1935
Nov. 30,1935

District of Delaware__ Dec. 4,1935

et al.
Public UIUltI/ In~e8llng Corporation v. Utllttlt8 Power
&- Llghl
Corporal101l, et

Eastern DlstrictofVIrginia.

Dec. 5, 1935

al.

Disposition

_ Government officials made parties defendant moved to dismiss on Dec. 17, 1935,on proeednral grounds. Case Is stilI
pending.
_ No further proceedings have heen
had so far as the Commission
is informed .
_ Temporary restraining order dis.
missed as to 3 corporate defendants on Dec. 10, 1935. Plaintiff's motion for temporary injunction continued.
_ Temporary
restraining
order
entered Dec. 5, 1935. No further proceedings have been had
so far as Oommlssion Is informed.
_ Temporary injunction denied
Dec. 17,1935on ground of want
of equity. Circuit Court of
Appeals (Fourth Circuit) denied temporary restraining
order pending appeal on same
grounds on Feb. 22, 1936(82 F.
o

2d.,21).
Public UlilUI/ lme8ting Corpora/Ion V. UlIlille8 Power
&- Llqhl Corpora/Ion.

Southern District of
New York.

Nov. 30, 1935 _ No further proceedings have been
had so far as the Commission Is iniormed.

o

