EIGHTH

ANNUAL

REPORT

of the

SECURITIES

AND

EXCHANGE

COMMISSION

J

~ -f
- ~~

~~.SCAL

U.S. SEC LIBRARY
t

111\\\1111\111111\11111111111\1111111111\11\1111111111\11\\1\\11

50614000089745

/

YEAR

ENDED

JUNE

30. 19 ...2

TABLE OF CONTENTS

!!e
Administration

ot the Securities

Act ot 1933 •••••••••••••••••••••••

1

Adm1nj
stration

ot the Securities

Exchange Act of 1934

6

Administration

of the Public Utility

Holding CompanyAct of 1935 ...

19

Participation
ot the Commissionin Corporate Reorganizations under
Chapter X of the Bankruptcy Act, as amended ••••••••••••••••••••••

Z1

Adm1n1stration of the Trust Indenture Act of 1939 ••••••••••••••••••

30

Administration

of the Investment CompanyAct of 1940 •••••••••••••••

32

Administration

of the Investment Advisers Act of 1940 ••••••••••••••

35

other activities

of the Commissionunder the various

statutes:

Litigation ••••••••••••••••••••••••••••••••••••••••••••••••••••

37

Complaints and investigations

42

Interpretative
The field

•••••••••••••••••••••••••••••••••

and advisory service

of accounting and auditing

•••••••••••••••••••••••••••

..•.•..•..........•..••.•.

44

••••••••••••••••••••••••••

44
M>

principal security holders
persons ••••••••••••••••••••••••

46

Publications, •••••••••••••••••••••••••.••••••••••••••••••••••••

47

Inspection

48

Proxies,

consents and authorizations

Reports of officers, directors,
and certain other affiliated

of registered

information by the public

••••••••••••

Pu.bl1c hea!'1Dgs •••••••••••••••••••••••••••••••••••••••••••••••

49

PeraCl1ll81 ••••••••••••••••••••••.•••••••••••.••••••••••••••••.•

49

Fiscal affairs ••••••••••••••••••••••••••••••••••••••••••••••••

50

Appendix tables

LETTER OF TRANSMITTAL

SECURITIES AND EXCHANGE COMMISSION,
Phi lade lphta,

Pa.,

June 9. 1943.

Sir:
I have the honor to transmit to you the Eighth .Annual Report. of
the Securities and Exchange Commission, required by the prov1alO118or Seetion 23 (b) of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, approved June 6, 1934,
Section 23 of +he Public Utility Holding CompanyAct of 1935, approved
August 26, 1935, Section 46 (a) of the Investment CompanyAct or 1940,
approved August 22, 1940 and Section 216 of the Investment Advisers Act of
1940, approved August 22, 1940.
Because of war conditions, we are presenting the report in the
most concise and least expensive manner we can devise.
The statistical
tables have also been substantially
abridged. Data in statistical
tables
customarily shown in previous reports and now omitted are available on
request.
In March 1942, the Commissionwas movedto Philadelphia by direction of the Director of the Bureau of the Budget. It was the COIIIIDission's
hope that no issuer who was faced with a deadline in the marketing or securities would be subjected to any delay by the Commissionbecause of the moving.
Weare happy to report that our hope was realized.

Respectfully,

Ganson Purcell,
ChtJ i nJlan.

THE PRESIDENT OF THE SENATE
THE SPEAKER OF THE HOUSE OF REPRESENTATIVES

WtJshiniton, D. C.

S5320

SECURITIES AND EXCHANGE COMMISSION
Central Office
18th and Locust Streets
Philadelphia, Pa.

SECURITIES AND
EXCHANGE COMMISSION

COMMISSIONERS
Ganson
Robert
Sumne rEdmund
Robert

LIBRARY

Purcell, Chairman
E. Healy
T. Pike
Burke, Jr.
H. O'Brien

Orval

L. DuBois,

S~cr~tary

Class 's\ G\ 1-ss (Q
Book

.uSA::,

_

\~A 2., .
GPO

;'-

16-7866

LOCATION
Atlanta, Georgia
Baltimore, Maryland
Boston, Massachusetts
Chicago, Illinois
Cleveland, Ohio
Denver, Colorado
Fort Worth, Texas
New York, New York
San Francisco, California
Seattle, Washington

OF REGIONAL

OFFICES

Palmer Building (Room 415)
Baltimore Trust Building (Room 2410)
Shawmut Bank Building (Room 426)
Bankers Building (Room 630)
Standard Building (Room 1608)
Midland Savin~s Building (Room 822)
United States Courthouse
(Room 103)
Equitable Buildin~ (Room 2006)
625 Market street (Room 1301)
1411 Fourth Avenue Buildin~ (Room 810

PART I

ADMINISTRATION
OF THESECURITIES
ACTOF 1933
Registration

of Securities

under the Securities

Act of

1933

For information as to the general scope of the registration
provisions of the Securities Act o£ 1933, as amended, the registration and examination procedures, the power of
the Commissionto institute
stop-order proceedings to suspend the effectiveness of the
registration
statement, and the statutory amendmentauthorizing the Commissio~in its discretion to accelerate the effective date of registration
statements, reference is made to
the Sixth Annual Report of the Commission,pp. 117-119, inc., the Seventh Annual Report,
pp, 161-162, inc., and previous annual reports.
NewRules, Regulations,

and Forms for Registration

under the Securities

Act of 1933

Further Simplification o£ Registration Forms. In order £urther to simplify the
registration
process, the cOiiiDiissionadopted early in the year two new forms - Fol"Jlls-.2
and Form 5-3. Form S-2 is designed prima.r1ly for securities of small companies. Form S-3
is available for the registration
of shares of mining corporations (other than those in
the oil and gas field) in the promotional or the developlleotal stage.
In the case of both
.fOI'Dl8
simplification is secured principally by a provision which pemi ts the prospectus
to be .tiled &8 t~ basic part of the registration statement.
Further S
ication o.f Comllance with Similar Registration Requirements under
0 pro
e asp
proce ure .for
Differen S atutes.
Tess
on
op
e 5
registration
Wider the Securities Act of 1933 - ofsecurities
of open-end lIl8.I18gement
investment cClIIlpanies. The ru1e provides in ef£ect that any such COlllpany may register securities
statement filed under the
under the Securities Act by filing copies of its registration
Investment COIIIlP&Q1'
Act, together with copies of a prospectus containing the information
given in answer to certain designated items on FormN-8B-l and certain additional information not required by that form but deemedessential under the Securities Act.
A number o£ other changes of a minor nature were also made during the year in the
rules and regulations governing registration
of securities under the Securities Act.
Disclosures resulting

from examination

Through its examination procedure the CODIIDission
secured fair and accurate disclosure of material information required in registration
statements and prevented the
use in many of these documents of information which 11'&8 misleading and inaccurate.
In
some instances sales of securities were prohibited by the issuance of stop-orders follOlt'ing fonual public hearings.

Statistics

of securities

registered

The .following table iDdicates the disposition
the Securities Act o~ 1933:

under Securities
of registration

Act of 1933
statements filed under

- 2 Disposition

of Registration

Statements

: JIili 1, 1941

To
30,

June

Statements filed
Statements effective
Statements withdrawn - net
Stop or refusal orders - net
In proces s of examination or
awaiting amendments:
At close 01 year ended June 30, 1941
At close of year ended June 30, 1942

: to June 30,
:

1941

1942

3823

:

754
175

.

5025

:

4790

:

Total

4006

:

802

'iJ

182

:
:

:

38

: • • • • • ••

• • • ••

!I

••••••••

•••••••

Does not include 1 registration
statement re!'iled
who had withdrawn a statement previously filed.

35

during the year by" a registrant

'E/
this

Does not include 19 registration
statements effective at the beginning or during
period which were either withdrawn or placed under stop order.

21
rafiled

Does not include 1 registration
statement withdrawn prior to this period, 8Dd
and withdrawn during this period.

A total of 755 amendmentsto registration
during the past fiscal year.

statements

were

also filed

and examined

certain registrants under the Securities Act of 1933 alao filed during the year, parsuant to Section 15 (d) of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, a total of 324 annual
reports and 137 amendmentsthereto, all of which required 8X8III1nation.
fiscal
filing

In addition, the following supp1e11lmtalprospectus II&terial was filed
year under the Securities Act of 1933:

during the past

(l) 180 prospectuses were filed pursuant to Rule eoo (b) which requires the
of such information with1n 5 days after the cCIIIDenc8lll8Dt
of the public offering;

(2) 230 sets of supplemental prospectus II&terial were filed by registrants
shor material changes occurring atter the cClllD18ncement
of the offering; and

to

(3) 315 sets of so-caJ.led l3-taonth prospectuses were filed pursuant to
Section 10 (b) (1) of the Act.
Stop Orders, Consent Reh8al

Orders, And WithdranJ. Orders

Withdrawals amounted to 49 during the year IDd J1CID8 of the statellents inYo1Ted were
refiled to June 30, 1942. Stop orders nDIlbered 7, all of which were st1ll1D force at the
close of the year. No consent refusal orders were iSsued during the year.
securities

Effecting

Regiatered

Daring the f1sc~ year ended June 30, 1942, securities effectively regl.stered UDder
the securities Act of 1933 amounted to $2,003,000,000.
'!he i88088 averaged .7,l3O,000
in

size.

- 3 Of all registrations
effective
durin~ the fiscal year ended June 30, 1942,
$476,000,000 were not proposed for 8ale, ,,62,000,000 were registered for sale for the
account of others than the issuers,
and $1,465,000,000 consisted of securities intended
to be sold for the account of issuers.
Of the total proposed for sale for the account of issuers manufacturing companies
and commurrl.catd.oncompanies
accounted for $462,000,000 or 32 percent, transportation
$446,000,000 or 30 percent, and electric,
gas, and water utilities
$389,000,000 or :n
percent.
More than two-thirds of the total value of securities
registered
for cash sale by
issuers or $1,035,000,000 were fixed interest
bearing.
This included $338,000,000 of
secured bonds or 23 percent of the total,
and $697,000,000 of unsecured bonds or 48 percent of the total.
Commonstock amounted to $220,000,000 or 15 percent, followed by
preferred stock with $162,000,000 or 11 percent.
Certificates
of participation,
beneficial
interest,
face-amount installment
certificates,
etc., added up to ~48,OOO,OOO
or
3 ~rcent.
A breakdown by methods of issuance showed that $496,000,000 or 34 percent were
offered directly
by the issuers.
Securities
offered on an underwritten basis amounted
to $899,000,000 or 61 percent and those offered on a hest efforts basis aggregated
$70,000,000 or 5 percent.
Compensation to be paid to distributors
equalled ~23,000,000 or 1.6 percent of the
gross proceeds of the securities
proposed for sale for the account of issuers.
Expenses
amounted to
or 0.5 percent.
The cost of flotation,
therefore,
w?S eqUivalent
to 2.1 percent of the gross proceeds.
This cost was the lowest for any fiscal year since
the series was begun approximately 8 years ago.

ts,ooo,ooo

Net proceec18,. after all issuing and distributing
expenses, were estimated at
Ot these proceeds 51 percent was applied to repayment of indebtedness
and 2 percent to retirement of preferred stock.
Net proceeds to he used for the purchase
of securities
were $83,000,000 or 6 percent, including $67,000,000 used for the purchase of
far investment and $16,000,000 for affiliation.
Newmoney purposes accounted
securities
for $591,000,000 or 4l percent of the total net proceeds.
This included ~333,000,OOO or
23 percent for plant and equipnent and $243,000,000 or 17 percent for working capital.
The
41 percent for nelf money purposes was the greatest proportion of net proceeds for any
fiseal ,ear since the Securities
Act became effective.
The absolute amount intended for
new mone,. purposes was the largest amount to be applied from corporate securities
to fixed
and 'WOrkingcapital of any fiscal year since 1937.

$1,434,000,000.

Detailed statistics
of securities
registered
under the Securities
the fiscal year are presented in APpendix Tables 1 to 3.
Security

Act of 1933 during

Offerings

The securities
registered
under the Securities
Act of 1933 constitute
only part of
offered for cash.
Comprehensive statistics
of new cash offerings of securiare presented in Appendix Tables 4 and 5.

all new issues
ties

Exempt Issu~s Re1atine to 011 and Gas Interests

In connection with exempt issues relating to fractional undivided interests
in oil or
gas rigtits, covered by Regulation B, there were filed and examined during the year 965
offering sheets, and 876 necessary amendments to such offering sheets, involving securitie::
with an aggregate offering price of approximately $22,177 ,285.
The following table indicates

the action

taken with respect

to these filings:

-4Various actions on filings

under Regulation B

19'7

Temporary Suspension Orders (Rule 340 (a)')
II
II
II
(Rule 340 (b))
"

"

II

1
1

(Rule 340 (c))

Orders Terminating Proceeding After Amendment
Orders Consenting to Withdrawal of Offering Sheet and
Terminating Proceeding
Orders Terminating Effectiveness of Offering
Sheet (No Proceeding Pending)
Orders Consenting to Amendmentof Offering Sheet
(No Proceeding Pending)
Orders Consenting to Withdrawal of Offering Sheet
(No Proceeding Pending)

112
55

61
59'7
104

INVESTIGATIONS
OF OIL ANDGASSECURITIES
TRANSACTIONS
A tabular
follows:

sunnary , with respect to the Commission's oil and gas investigations,
Oil and Gas Investigations

Pending 6/30/41
Initiated
7/1/41 -

6/30/42
Total to be Accounted
For

Preliminary
Investigations

Informal

Formal

54

58

24

64

57

13

118

115

37

Changed to Informal
or Formal
Closed or Completed

9

17

62

45

5

Total Disposed of

71

62

5

Pending June 30, 1942

47

53

32

~fhere these investigations
show evidence of a violation of the criminal provisions of the Securities Act of 1933, the results are transmitted by the Commission
to the Department of Justice, and criminal proceedings are instituted
in the discretion of the Attorney General of the United States.
In the event such proceedings
are instituted,
the attorneys and engineers on the Commissionstaff who participated
in the investigation
leading up to the proceedings assist the United States Attorneys
in the preparation of the cases for presentation to the grand jury and for trial.
Propo~ed Amendmentsto the Securities Act
of 1933 and the Securities Exchange Act of 1934
During the past fiscal year extensive hearings were held before the Committee on
Interstate
and Foreign Commerceof the House of Representatives on various proposals
to amend the Securities Act of 1933 and the Securities Exchange Act of 1934.

- 5 Beginning in July 1940, the Comnissionand its staff conferred almost continuously with representatives of the securitieS' industry and other interested persons on a
large number- of proposals to amendvarious provisions of the 1933 and 1934 Acts. The
conferees consisted priw~ily of representatives of the Investment Bankers Association
of America, the National Association of Securities Dealers, Inc., the NewYork Curb
Exchange and the NewYork Stock Exchange, although both the Commission'sstaff and
member-s of the Corrunissionthemselves met also with representatives
of the regional
exchanges and other intere~ted persons. rne purpose of these conferences was to define the areas of agreement and disagreement on the various proposals. A substantial
area of agreement was found, although the Commissionfelt compelled to oppose certain
cf the securities industry's proposals.
On August 7, 1941. the Commissionsubmitted to the House Committeeon Interstate
and Foreign Com~erceand the Senate Committeeon Banking and Currene,ya 54-page report on the various proposals for amendmentof the 1933 and 1934 Acts. On July 30,
1941, a 2a7-page report had been submitted by the representatives of the four industry groupe above named. Beginning on October 28, 1941, the Committeeon Interstate
and Foreign Commerceof the House of Representatives held hearings on the various
proposals of the securities industry and of the .Commission. These proposals were
el'lbodied in a comparative CommitteePrint rather than a bill.

The hearings were also concerned with three bills which had been introduced independently of the Commission-industry conferences. H. R. 4344 had been introduced
by Repres entati ve Wadsworthof NewYork on April 14, 1941, to amendvarious provisions ot the Securities Act of 1933, the Securities ExchangeAct of 1934, the Trust
Indenture Act of 1939, the Invesbnent Company
Act of 1940 and the Investment Advisers
Act of 1940. H. R. 5065 had been introduced by Representative Paddock of Illinois on
June 16, 1941, to amendSection 2 (1) of the Securities Act of 1933-in order to exempt
from the de.fini tion of the term "security" interests in employees' investment plans.
H. R. 5g32 had been introduced by Representative Oliver of Maine on October 15, 1941,
to amend3ection 12 (f) of the Securities ExchangeAct of 1934 in order to prevent
national ~ecurities exchanges from extending unlisted trading privileges to any security not listed and registered on a national securities exchange.
These hear-ings continued until December5, 1941, and as a result of the declaration of war were interrupted until January 20, 1942. They were concluded on January Z7,
1942, and the transcript has been printed in five volumes plus an index volume.
No bills embodyingany of the proposals made by the securities industry or the
Commissionhave as yet been intiroduced. The Commissiondid not initiate the amendment
program, and it -eonrtned its PI'C?POSals
very largely to those which it deemednecessary
in the light o.f certain of the proposals o.f the securities industry.
Only a few additional proposals, of a corrective nature, were made by the Commission. Noneof the
Commission's proposals would enlarge the area of the Canmission's jurisdiction.
fiscal

This pr-ogramconstituted
year.

one of the Canmission's major tasks during the past

- 6 PART II
ArJ.mrrS'ffiATION
OF '!HESECURITIES
EXCHANGE
ACTOF1934
Registration

of Securities

on Exchanges

The general purpose and nature of registration of securities on exchanges end
the Commission's procedure in examining applications and reports for conpliance with
the requirements of Sections 12 and 13 of the Securities ExchangeAct of 1934, have
been described in the Sixth Annual Report of the Conmdssion, pp. 100-102, inc., and
previous annual reports.
HewRglea. ReguJ.ations, and Forms For Registration
of Securities on Exchanges
Disclosure Contravening Code of Wartime Practices.
The Commissionadopted Rule
x-6 providing tor the omission or confidential treatment of any information, filed
with the Commissionar any securities exchange pursuant to the Securities Exchange
Act of 1934.. which is inconsistent with the standards of the Code of Wartime Practices
promul.gatedby the Un! ted States Office of Clllnsorship. 11

ij

Action under the rule maybe taken either on i.h.eCommission
t s own motion or upon
application.
'!be COIIIIIlission
makes a preliminary examination of all applications and
reports tUed under Sections 12 and 13 in order to delete any such confidential information before these documents are made availAble for public inspection.
'Ihe securities
exchanges cooperate by temporarily withholding from public inspection the copies of
these documents tUed with them until the Commission's examination has been completed
and the exchanges have had an opportunity to delete from the fili."1es S'.1C~ informe.tion
88 is specif'ical1y directed or authorized by the Cotmd.ssion. Immediately therecl'ter
these applications and reports are made available for public inspection. y
tion of Substituted or Additional Securities.
Effective April 14,
1942, the Commissionrevised its Rule X-12A-5,
which provides temporary exemption
of certain securities from registration under Section 12 of the Act. The revision
broadens the scope of the rule and sets forth definite bases for termination of the
exemption.

Y

'!his rule became effective February 19, 1942. At the same time the Commission
adopted and made effective companionRules 171 under the Securities Act of 1933
and U-105 under the Public utility Holding CompanyAct of 1935 providing for corresponding wartime censorship of information fUed under these additional Acts.
Under these three rules procedure has been established whereby the Commission,in
cooperation with the Office of Censorship, will upon request render advance, informal opinions in cases where issuers, underwritars, or other persons are in
doubt 88 to the extent to which, or the manner in which, particular information
may be disclosed in a registration
statement, prospectus, report, or other document.

zj

furing the last three months of the fiscal year approximately 2,700 filings under
Sections 12 and 13 were examinedunder Rule x-s and made available for public
inspection.

J!

In this

system or designating rules, "Xli indicates that the rule is under the Securities and ExchangeAct, the "12A" that it is based on Section 12 (a) of that
Act, and the "5" that it is the fifth rule under that Section.

-7AdlIission 1;0 trWhenIssued- 1;r
of "&eor anization Rails".
The COIIIDission
adopted,
ptembar
~
 effective
J
941, certain amendment.s
to
tion
12l})relating to regist.raTh
tion of unissued securities for "whenissued" deaJ.ing on national securi'biu exchanges.
e
.,( amendments,which are principally contained in a newrule designated Rule X-12D3-l0, relaxed
I s "whenissued"
trading rules insofar as they apply to "rethe provisions of the CODIIlission
1organization rails, n that is, new securities issuable under a l:'lan of Reorganization for a
: railroad or other carrier required to make annual reports under Section 20 of the Inter"": st.a.te Commerce
Act, as amended. The principal effect of the amendmentsis to makethe new
. securities issuable under a Plan of Reorganization for a railroad eligible for admission to
.': "whenissued" trading as soon as the Plan of Reorganization has been finally confirmed b.Y
t the court in which the reorganization is pending and the time during which appeals from the
; order of final confirmation may be taken has elapsed and no such appeal is pending.
~
.t!
e Act and Investi ment
her step in its program 0 simp
g
ng requirements, t e
j "'omission adopted during the fiscal year a single annual report form and a single quarterly
i report form to be used by managementinvestment companiesunder both the Secori ties Exchange
Act of 1934 and the Investment CompanyAct of 1940.

i
~

Statistics

of Securities

Registered on Exchanges

<j

Up to and including June 30, 1942, 2,953 issuers had filed a total of 5,555 applicataons for registration of securities under Section 1.2 of the Securities ExchangeAct of
3 1934 and a total of 28,705 annual and current reports under Section 13 of that Act. As of
~ June 30, 1942, the registration of the securities of 2,299 of the issuers was in effect,
• and the registration of the securities of the remaining 654 issuers had ceased to he
effecti ve •
~

f

f,.

I

~

The numhers of applications, reports, and amendmentsfiled with the Commissionduring
~
the past year relating to the listing and registration of securities on national securities
~
exchanges and to the listing of securities on exempted exchanges are as follows:
~
T

e;

Numberof applications, reports, and amendmentsrelating to the listing
and registl'ation of securities on exchanges - Fiscal Year 1942
Applications for registration
•••••••••••••••••••••••••••••••.••••••
Applications for ~en issued" trading ••••••••••••••••••••••••••••••
li:xemptionstatements for issued warrants ••••••••••••••••••••••••••••
Annual and Current reports ••••••••••••••••••••••••••••••••••••••••••
Amendments
to applicatiODS, statements and reports ••••••••••••••••••
Annual reports of issuer. having securities listed on exempt.ed
exchanges ••••••••••••••••••••••••••••••••••••••••••••••••••••••

us

Withdrawal or Striking of Secori ties from Listing and
Registration on National securities EXChanges
During the year ended June 30, 1942, applications by issuers or exchanges involving
33 issues were filed with the Conmissionfor the withdrawal or striking of suoh 188U8S
from listing and registration on national securities exchanges. At the heg1nning of the
.)ear, applications involving 8 issues were pending and decision upon 1 application rema:1Ded
suspended b.Y the Commission. During the year, the COIIIlIlission
granted applications ,involving 32 issues and denied without prejudice an application invo1vinF;1 issue.
Applicati0D8
involving 9 issues were pending as of June 30, 1942.

-8DIlr1ng the year, registrations
on national securities exchanges of the securities
or 6 issuers were ordered nthdrawn, under Section 19 (a) (2), upon failure to fUe the
annual reports required under Section 13. Proceedings under this Section involving 3
issuers were pending as of June 30, 1942.
During the year,

ications
ot ~t,

or

the Commissionreceived fran national securities exchanges certifremoval involving 185 issues stricken from listing and registration
because
redemption, or retirement.
.

Applications tor the granting, extension and termination of unlisted
on National securIties EXchanges

trading privileges

On June 30, 1942, unlisted trading privileges
under clause (1) of Section 12 (f) ot
the Securities Exchange Act or 1934 continued in 1,341 stock and 192 bond issues.
This
is a reduction ot 32 stock and 29 boud issues !'rom the total as ot June 30, 1941.

On June 30, 1942, unlisted trading privileges under clauses (2) and (3) of Seetion 12 (t) existed nth respect to 255 stock and 34 boud issues, trading in odd lots
onlJ' being au:thorized with respect to 12 or the stock issues.
Except for 14 issues subsequentq removed, these issues represent the total extension by the COIIID:i.ssion
of unlisted trad1Dg privileges to the national securities exchanges under these two clauses
since va;, Z7, 1.936, when the clauses became effective.
Since Tar10us issues are admitted to unlisted trading privileges on more than one
exchange, the authorizations mentioned above involve substantial. duplication of issues ot
securities covered thereby.
On June 30, 1942, 1,596 stock and 226 bond trading authorizations were in effect UDderclauses (1), (2) and (3), covering 1,065 stock and 226 bond
issues counting each issue once onlJ'. The latter figures include 508 stock and 200 bond
issues which are admitted to unlisted trading privileges onlJ'; the remaining issues are
tully listed and registered (or, in a few cases, temporarily exempted trom registration)
on national. securities exchanges other than those having unlisted trading privileges
therein.
During the Past fiscal year, 26 applications were fUed with the Commissionby exchanges seekiDg a detemination that an altered or substituted security was substantially
equivalent to a security theretofore admitted to unlisted trading privileges.
Of these
applications, 22 were granted and 4 were denied.

Towardthe end or the past tiscal year the National Association or Securities Dealers, Inc. intervened in opposition to applications of the NewYork Curb Exchange tor the
extension of unlisted trading privileges in 3 bond issues pursuant to cl.ause (3) of Seetion 12 (f) and in 1 stock issue pursuant to clause (2) thereof.
The matter had not been
disposed or by the end or the year.

Exempted exchanges
The D1DIberor exempted exchanges permitting unlisted trading in secur.l.ties remained
at rour, aDd the totals of stock and bond issues admitted to unlisted trading thereon
were 75 aDd 4, respectiv~,
on June 30, 1942. Twoof the five stock issues admitted to
unlisted trading on the Wheeling Stock Exchange under Clause 2 or Section 12 (t) during
the 1940 fiscal. )'ear were removed' in 1941, by reason of exchange 1Dto another stock.

-9AJII8ndment

~

Rule X-l2F-S

Rul.e X-12F-5 was 8M71ded during the year to prOYide that transactions
in listed aDd
unlisted securities
mq be differentiated
either bT add1Jlg the letter "L" to ticker reports of quotations or transactions in listed securities
or bT adding the letter
to
ticker reports of quotations or transactions in securities
admitted to unlisted trading
privileges.

"U.

Special offering

plana

During the fiscal. year ~ three national. securities exchanges adopted plans which per-mit special. of"ferings of blocks of certain securities to be eff"ected on their respective
floors.
These plans provide that a special. offering JI87 be made when it is determined
that the auction market on the noor or the exchange cannot absorb a particular
block of
a security within a reasonable time and at a reasonable price.
111eplana permit a person making such an offering to pay a special. cOllllll1ss1on
to the brokers of the purchasing
customers and stiPUlate also that such brokers shall not receive arJ¥ cCllll,P911sation
b'<a
their awn customers. Provision al.so is made for the appropriate designation on the achange ticker tape of transactions
effected as part of a special offering and for appropriate confirmations to customers, describing the special. character of" the transaction.
In order to permit such plans to be instituted
on an exper1JaeD.tal basis, the Calmission, f"ollowing con£erences between its staff 8Ddbrokers and exchange of£icials,
amended its Rule X-1OB-2, which in general prohibits an:r person engaged in distributing
a security from compensating any other person tor solicUing or inducing a third person
to buy' on an exchange the di~tributed security or a:Jq other security o£ the same issuer.
111eeffect of the amendment, adopted February' 6, 1942, is to exapt tran the restrictions
at the rule transactions lIhich are effected pursuant to a special offering plan which haa
been declared effective bT the Camn1ssion. The exemption, however, was declared to be
only temporary, to expire on July 31, 1942.

Y

Pursuant to the terms of this 8X8111ption,
the CCllllllissiondeclared effective,
as of
February 14, 1942, a plan submitted ~
 the He- York Stock Exchange.
Similar act1011was
taken with respect to a plan of the San Francisco stock Ez.change (effective Aprill?,
1942), and with respect to a plan of the NewYork Curb Ez.chaDge(effective llq lS, 19.42).
Various modifications in the terms of these three pl.aDa have alao been deolared e.t.teotift
bT the COIIIIDission.Moreover" on April 16, 1942, -the CClIIIIIisaion
broadened the e:x:wptlicm
to Rule X-10B-2 to include specia1. offerings in oertain issues haring unlisted. trading
lipprivileges,
provided that in:tormation is ava:Uable nth respect to such securities
prax:lmating that available for listed securities.

.tour aDd one-hal1' aonths of the fiscal year, during which t:l.- the plaD
19 special. offerings were made on the liew York stock Exchange. Neither the
NewYork Curb Exchange nor the San Francisco stock Exchange had aunounced any special
offerings bT the close of the fiscal year.
In the last

was operative,

y

Jul1' 8, 1942, the ~tion
Act Release No. 32?0).

On

W8B

extended to January 31, 1943.

(Securities

Exchange

-
 10Aids to bookkeeping standards
During the past year the Commis
sion staff prepared a series of fifteen forms on
which the information necessary to comply with the requirements of Rule X-17A-3 (a)
could be conveniently recorded.
Such forms were furnished to all regional officeS fer
distribution
amongbrokers and dealers.
The use of the forms is optional.
They represent a conveniently uni.ft>Tm
manner of recording information required to be kept by the

rule.
Study of the Regional Exchanges
As a part of a general study of current developments in the securities markets, and
at the request of officials of various regional exchanges, representatives
of the Canmission during the fiscal year undertook field studies of the problems of the regional.
exchanges. By the close of the fiscal year, Camnission representatives had visited
Boston, Chicago, Cleveland, Detroit, Los Angeles, Pittsburgh, Salt Lake City, San Francisco, Seattle, and Spokane, to investigate the problems of the exchanges located in
those cities.
The study had not been canpleted at the close of the year.

study of over-the-counter

markets in exchange stocks

A study of the characteristics
of over-the-counter transactions in exchange stocks,
which was begun in the preceding fiscal year, was continued throughout the past year.
One phase of the study was completed during the year and the results were published on
February 5, 1942, under the title "RePOrt to the Caom1ssion by the Trading and Exchange
Division on Secondary Distributions of Exchange stocks".
'Ihis report dealt with the
nature, developnent, and magnitUde of over-the-counter offerings of outstanding blocks
of exchange stocks.
Substantial progress also was made in the second major phase of this study, dealing
with over-the-counter transactions in exchange stocks other than secondary distributions.
Approximately 250,000 transactions,
representing every such over-the-counter transaction
in every exchange stock reported by 4,700 brokers and deaJ.ers in the six months ending
February 28, 19411'l8r8 tabulated in various ways and subjected to a number of different
analyses.
At the end of the fiscal year, however, the results were not yet in form far
public release.
Saving study
The COIIlIDission
on April 15, 1942, inaugurated a series of quarterly releases on the
volume and canposition of saving by individuals in the United States.
These releases
show the aggregate volume of individuals'
savings; i.e., the increase in their assets
less the increase in their liabilities,
exclusive of gains or losses from revaluation of
assets; they show also the canponents contributing to this total, such as bank baJ.ances
and currency holdings, insurance, securities,
consumers' indebtedness, and consumers'
durable goods. Estimates of business or government saving are not included.
Rule for additional

protection

to investors

During the fiscal year the Commissionadopted Rule X-10B-5 as an additional protection to investors.
The new rule prohibits fraud by any person in connection with the
purchase of securities,
while the previously existing rules against fraud in the purchase
of securities applied only to brokers and dealers.

-11Market surveillance and trading investigations
The Commission's aim in its adninistration of the statutory prohibitions of the
Securities ExchangeAct of 1934 against stock market manipulation is a sufficient policing of the markets in order to accanplish the extinction of manipulation without interfering with the legitimate functioniDg of those markets. Its methods of market SUI'veillance and its investigatory procedure are set forth at pages 91 et seq. of the Sixth
Annual Report of this CaDmission.
A tabular SUDDJ8ry with respect to the Commission'strading investigations

follows:

Trading investigations

Flying
quizzes y

June 30, 1941 •••••••••••••••.••••••••••
Initiated July 1, 1941 to June 30, 1942 ••••••••
Total to be accounted for ••••••••••••••••••••••

Pending

Changedto preljminary or formal •••••••••••••••
Closed or completed ••••••••••••••••••••••••••••
Total disposed of ••••••••••••••••••••••••••••••

Pending

June 30, 1942 ••••••••••••••••••••••••••

18

PreliJDinary 10vestigationa

35

5r

3
3
b

9

-

38
7;'1

investigations
9
?

J:b

¥

6

Fonn:aI

-

..pi
12

4

!IA flying

quiz is a quick informal survey of the trading in a security to determine if'
add!tiona! investigation is warranted.

~ Includes reference of cases to the Department of Justice and to various national securities exchanges.
Criminal proceedings resulting from certain or these investigations are referred to
in Part VIn of this Report, under the sub-heading "Securities ExchangeAct of 1934" of
the principal beading "Criminal Proceedings".
Pegging, fixing,

and stabilizing

of securities

prices

During the fiscal year ended June 30, 1942, the COIIIIIIission
continued the administration of (a) Rul.eX-17A-2,which requires the filing of detailed rePOrts of all transactions incident to offerings in respect of which a registration statement has been filed
under the Securities Act of 1933 where any stabilizing operation is undertaken to facilitate the offering; and (b) Regulation X-9A6-1,governing stabilizing transactions in securities registered. on national securities exchanges effected to facilitate
oUerings of
securities so registered in lIhich the offering prices are represented to be "at the
market" or at prices related to market prices.
Out of a total of 235 registration
stateaents filed under the Securities Act of 1933
during the past .fiscal year, 129 contained a statement of intention to stabilize to facilitate the offerings covered by such registration statements. Because of the fact that a

-12statement in some cases covers more than one offering, there were a total of
in respect of which the statement required by Rule 827 of the
Rules and Regulations UDder the securities Act of 1933 was made to the effect that a
stabilizing
operation was intended to be undertaken. Stabilizing operations were actually
conducted to facilitate
91 of these offerings.
In the case of bonds, public offerings of
$311,192,300 principal amount were stabilized.
Offerings of stock issues aggregating
8,729,964 shares and having an aggregate estimated public offering price of $288,356,806
were also stabilized.
ot the 91 stabilizing operations eeemenced during the past fiscal
year, 80 had been c<:llIp1etedand notices of termination of sta,bilization filed with the
COIIIIDission
and the rema1"1ng II were still
in progress as of the close of the fiscal year.
registration

148 offerings of securities

Also during the past fiscal. year, 5 notices of intention to stabilize were filed with
the COIIIIIIission
on FozmX-9A6-l pursuant to the provisions of Rule X-9A6-3. The offerings
which stabilizing
operations were conducted, indescribed in these notices, to facilitate
volved one offering of bonds of $2,470,000 princiPal amount, and stock issues aggregating
211,900 shares and having an aggregate initial. public offering price of $8,310,675.
With a view toward simplifying the procedure for we reporting of transactions eff~cted by persons engaged in stabilizing
activities
the COIIIIDission
adopted on July 29, 1941
a new FozmX-17A-1, with instructions
therefor.
This new form was designed to be "selfproving" and to replace the three fozms required to be filed by those persons subject to
the provisions of Rule X-17A-2or Regulation X-9A6-1. An amendmentto Rule X-17A-2,
under the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, required by the adoption of the new form, was
also adopted on that date.

To simplify further the filing of stabilizing
reports, the Commissionadopted on
February 13, 1942 an amendmentto Rule X-17A-2, eliminating the necessity of filing reports in triplicate
and making it unnecessary, in most cases, for a stabilizer
to file a
report for any day on which his transactions are confined to retail sal.es of the offered
security at the fixed public offering price.
Certain other minor changes were made in
the rule for clarification.
The instructions for Form X-17A-l were also revised to conform
to the amendmentto the rule.

The COIIIIDission's
first proceeding under Section 19 (b) of the Securities Exchange
Act of 1934, which section empowersthe Commissionunder certain conditions to al.ter or
supplement the rules of an exchange in respect of certain matters if the exchange itself
refuses to make such changes, was closed by an order of the Commission. 5/ This order
which was entered after extended hearings and argument required that Section 8 of
Article XIV (formerly Article XVI) of the Constitution of the NewYork Stock Exchange be
amendedto contain the following proviso:

i/ Securities

Exchange Act Release No. 3053. See also Securities Exchange Act Release
No. 3033. section 8 of Article XIV (formerly Article XVI) was amendedby the NewYolk
Stock Exchange to contain the required proviso, effective October 6, 1941.

- 13 "**""nothingherein contained shall be construed to prohi bit any member, allied
memberor memberfirm from, or to penalize any such firm for, acting as an oddlot dealer or specialist or otherwise publicJy dealing- for his or its own account
(directly or indirectly through a joint account or other arrangement) on another
exchange located outside the City of NewYork (of which such member, allied
memberor memberfirm is a member)in securities listed or traded on such other
exchange."
No appeal was taken by the ~change from the order of the Conmission. Manyof the
smaller exchanges had protested vigorously against the rule as it stood and was 1nterpreted
by the .c:xchangeprior to the ordered amendment.
Exchanges Registered and Exemptedfrom Registration
During the past fiscal year there was no change in the number of exchanges registered
with the Conmission as national securities exchanges, nor did any change occur in the number of exchanges exempted from such registration.
OVER-THE-COUNTER

MARKETS

CommissionSupervision of Over-The-Coun'terBrokers and Dealers
In the year ended June JO, 19.42the Commissionreceived from its regional offices,
1,054 reports of inspections of registered brokers and dealers.
These inspections are
based on exam:!
Dation of books and records only and are designed to test compliance with
the statutes aand rules and regulations thereunder.
Prominent points covered are best
illustrated
by a brief summar.Y of the findings of these inspections.
In 368 inspections
there were found irregularities
which may be classified as follows: 112 instances of
unsatisfactory or precarious financial condition; 65 instances of improper use of customers:
funds or securities (only 18 of which involved firms whose financial condition was not
unsatisfactory);
161 instances of transactions at prices which tended to indicate that
sales had been made to customers at prices not reasonably related to the current market;
and 28 instances of secret profits, involving misrepresentations as to the prices at which
customers' orders had been executed. In many other cases involving the sale of oil royalty
interests it was found that sales to customers were at prices grossly in excess of the cost
to the dealer.
Administrative Remedies
PubJ.ic interest and protection of customers are factors which the Conmission must
weigh and consider prior to the application ot a statutory remedy upon consideration of
irregularities
ot the sort described above. In the course of our examination of the books
ot registered brokers and dealers cases are t'requentlyencountered involving unsatistactory financial condition or improper hypotheca'tion of customers'securities.
In many
cases, circumstances suggest that the violations are unintentional.
The inspection program being, in part, educational, it has been the Commission's policy, before considering
statutory remedies, to give opportunity to firms to correct such conditions.
In one case
a firm. had improperly pledged customers' fully paid for securities bllt officers whowere
aJ.so principal stockholders disclaimed knowledge of the situation and promptly contributed
more than $40,000 to the corporation, discharged. responsible employees and reorganized
the bua1neS8.
Subsequent surveiJ,J.ance failed 'to disclose further irregularities
by the
firm.

Y

In the case of Ver Hulst & Co., Inc. of Denver, Colorado,
the COlIIDission,on
information tending to show insolvency and improper use of customers' securities,

Y

Securities

Exchange Act Release No. 3204.

-14 ..
instituted
proceedings in February, 1.942 to determine whether the firm's registration
shouJ.d be revoked and whether it should be suspended or expelled from membership in the
N.A.S.D. SUbsequent1.y'the firm requested withdrmral .of its registration,
representing
that it had paid or arranged to pq $55,000 satisfying all creditors and protecting
customers .from the possibility
of 1.08S, that it was in the process of going out cJt rosiness
and contempl.ated disso1.ution, that it had resigned .from the N.A.S.D., and that the registrant's
President, George M. Ver Hu1.st, wouJ.dnot again enter the securities business.
Under these circumstances, the CODIDi.ssion
found that withdr8ll'al. wouJ.dnot be inconsist4tnt
with the public interest and the protection of investors and ordered, on April. 22, 1.942,
that the withdrawal. application be permitted to become effective.
In the case of Morrison Bond Co., Ltd., of Long Beach, California, 7/ a similar proceeding was instituted
by"the Commissionon information that the company
bad f'1l.ed a
petition under Chapter XI of the Bankruptcy Act to effect an arrangement .nth unsecured
creditors.
The companyproposed to continue its lroker-dealer business.
On April 8
registration
was revoked and the firm was expelled from the N.A.S.D. on findings of misleading representations and fraudulent omissions of material. facts in the sale of securities, wilful violations of the hypothecation ral.es and al.terations and faJ.se entries in
its books and records.
It was stated in the Commission's opinion that the Commissionwas
convinced that the false entries had been made "to awid discovery of the fact that it
(the firm) has violated the Commission's hypothecation rule."
As a result of information obtained in some inspections, civil suits were fUed and
permanent injunctions obtained, the defendants consenting, against Kimball, Ware & Co.,
Port1and, 1Ia:ine, Seybolt & Seybo1t,
Springfield, )(ass., John ll. WJatt & Co., n
Paso, Texas, and HartIumn Inc., Wheeling, W. Va. In twe1w instances facta relating to
serious financial. condition were referred tq the Attorney' General of the State of NewYork
who, after independent iJIquiry, obtained injunctions against ri1ne of the firms involved.
One injunction was later vacated. '!'he cap!.tal position of each of the three remai"i ng
firms 11'&8 adjusted aDd no action against th_ wu taken.

Inc.,

The most difficuJ.t current problem arising out of regulation of over-the-counter
lrokers and dealers stems from the practice of selling securities at prices which bear
In such cases extensive investigations
no reasonable relationship to current market.
tax to the
beyond the limits of books and records must be ma4ie. These investigations
utmost the limited staff of the Commissionnow available for such 'WOrk. They require the
cO!'1Pilation of voluminous price schedules and the reconstruction of market prices at the
time the transactions took place.
Customers must be interviewed to determine what
representations were made to induce the transactions and whether material facts were conceal.ed from t hem. In a number of investigations madE! during the Past year the evidence
disclosed a pattern of fraudulent conduct which resulted in the formal proceedings.
The
chief remedy'employed in such cases is the revOcation of the firm's registration,
coupled
with expul.s!on from the N.A.S.D. where the firm is a memberof that Association.

y

21 Securities
y

~hange

Act Release No.

3189.

In Jul:y 1942 the Trading and Exchange Division offered to the industry for cOlllDenta
proposed rule wbich would require the disclosure to the customer of the best available
market far a security before the canpletion of a transaction in that security.

- 15 In ten of the cases decided during the year 9/ revocation of re gistration was
ordered because of fraudulent over-reaching of the character just described.
Seven
of these finns were also expelled from membershipin the N.A.S.D. Of the ten cases
referred to above, two 10/ involved not only the sales of securities at prices inconsistent with prevai11iig market prices but also gross abuse of a relationship of
trust and confidence which the firms had established with their customers. Both
cases are of importance on the question of agency,
In its findings and opinion in the Allender case, the Camnission discussed the
legal principle that words alone on a "confirmation" to a custcaer do not establish
the relationship between the parties and held that "the words 'we have this day sold
to you' and 'bought fran you' do not of themselves contravene the existence of an
agency relationship between the respondent and its customers and do not justif,y respondent's failure to disclose its secret profits."
The canplete reliance of the customers on the firm's advise, the unequal circwnstances of the parties in the transaction, and complete trust and confidence in the firm were held to impose upon it the
duty to makefull and complete disclosure of all material facts.

In the Stelmack case the evidence showedthat the firm obtained lists of holdings
from certain customers and then sent to these customers analyses of their securities
with recommendationslisting securities to be retained, to be disposed of, and to be
acquired. The firm's order b.Lanka, which customers signed, stated "I hereby authorize
you as my agent, for my account and risk • • • to sell •••
buy," but also contained
language which authorized the firm, as principal, to "buy from or sell to me • • • at
prices to be fixed by you and I hereby ratify and confirm any transaction effected by
you pursuant hereto."
The eammissionheld that the conduct of the customers in soliciting the advice of the firm, their obvious expectation that it would act in their
best interests,
their reliance on its recommendations, and the conduct of the firm in
making its advice and services available to them and in soliciting their confidence,
pointed strongly to an agency relationship and that the very function of furnishing
investment counsel constitutes a fiduciary function.
As to the order form, the Canmission held that where the language of a documentor a course of conduct thereunder
create an agency, other provisions in the documentexplicitly negating the e.x1stence
of an agency are of no effect.
The Stelmack case in important in another respecc , One of the admitted charges
which the Connnissionfound to be in violation of the fraud provisions of the Securities
Act and the Securities ExchangeAct was that, while the corporation was engaged in
selling its own preferred stock, it failed to disclose to the purchasers thereof' that
it had submitted false and misleading financial reports to the Office of the Attorney
General in that State which in effect permitted the registrant to remain in business
only at the peril of discovery by the Attorney General.
Rules
To facilitate
sales of federal stamps and bonds and tax saving notes, registered
brokers and dealers and membersof exchanges were no longer required to keep records
or send written confirmations thereon by amendmentsto Rules X-17A-3and X-15Cl-4
effective January 21, 1942.

21
10/

In one case, In the Matter of W. K. Archer & Co., the Commission's order was
appealed. The eIrcUit court of Appeals (8th eircuit) affirmed the eonnnission's
findings and order, 133 Fed. (2) 795 (e.e.A.B), 1943.
In the !latter of Allendar Co., Inc. and In the Matter of William J. Stelmack
Corporation, respectively, Securities ExchangeAct Releases 2992 and 3254.

-
 16Rules X-15B-8 promulgated and effective June 9, 1942 provides that withdrawal of
registration
of a broker or dealer becomes effective on the thirtieth
d~ after the
filing of a notice, unless prior to its effective date the Camnission has instituted
a
proceeding to revoke or suspend registrar.ion or to impose terms and conditions on such
withdrawaJ.. If the Commissioninstitutes
such proceedin~ or if a notice of withdrawal.
is filed atter the Commissionhas ordered proceedings to revoke or suspend registration,
the withdrawal I during the pendency of such proceedings, becomes effective only at such
time and on such conditions as the Camnission m~ appropriately order.
The following table contains statistics
relating to administrative proceedings UDder
Section 15 (b) of the Securities Exchange Act, which section governs registration
of
brokers and dealers:
Revocation proceedings pending J~ 1, 1941 •••••••••••••••••••••••••.•••••
Denial proceedings pending July 1, 1941••••••••••••••••••••••••••••••••••••
Revocation proceedings ordered during year •••••••••••••••••••••••••••••••••
Denial proceedings ordered during year •••••••••••••••••••••••••••••••••••••

11

3
39
6

59
Revocation proceedings dismissed on withdrawal •••••••••••••••••••••••••••••
Revocation proceedings dismissed and not revoked •••••••••••••••••••••••••••
Denial proceedings dismissed on withdrawal •••••••••••••••••••••••••••••••••
Denial proceedings dismissed and registration
permitted ••••••••••••••••••••

Registration denied ••••••••••••••••••••••••••••••••••••••••••••••••••••••••
Registration revoked •••••••••••••••••••••••••••••••••••••••••••••••••••••••
Revocation pending, June 30, 1942••••••••••••••••••••••••••••••••••••••••••
Denial pending, JuDe 30. 1942•...••..••••••••••••••••••••••••••••••••••••••

4

2
5

1
2

29

15
1

59
Registrations
The CClIIIIIIission
t s experience during the year ended
June 30, 1.942with broker-dealer
registrations
is shown in the tabulations accanp~g
this report.
Briefly, there 1rU
a net decline of 508 registrants
to 5,557 as of the end of the period.
It is clear
that the war effort is a basic cause of at least part of this shrinkage.
The National Association

of Securities

Dealers,

Inc.

The CClIIIIIIission'
s efforts in regulating the over-the-counter industry have been
aided by the cooperation of National Association of Securities Dealers, Inc. (N.A.S.D)
pursuant -to Section l5A of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, otherwise known as the
Maloney Act. During the year under review N.A.S.D. continued as the onJ..y national securities association registered as such with the CClIIIIIIission.
Due largely to diversion of personnel of its membership into war activities,
membership in that Association suffered a 12.8% decline frClll 2,974 membersas of
July 1, 1941 to 2,593 as of June 30, 1942.
Examination progr_
As of June 30, 1942 the Association had cClllpleted, large~
through questionnaires,
its initial
exarnjnation of more than 2,200 members. Less than 700 membersthen remAined
uninspected.
These examinations, conducted by each of the fourteen District Business
Conduct Camnitteesi under the general supervision of the main office of the Association,

-
 17delve into the business practices of memberswith emphasis upon the compliance with the
Rules of Fair Practice.
Reports of examination which indicate violations of the
'. Association's rules result in the filing of either formal or informal complftints by the
appropriate District BUsiness Conduct Committee. The scope and results of these disciplinary actions are discussed subsequently.
Cases referred

by the COJJmlission
to the NASD

The Association's
examination program outlined above is not the only source of
disciplinary
action against members. The Commission.. as a matter of policy, frequently
refers to the Association information uncovered in its own inspection which appears to
, concern either unfair prices or other violations of the Association's rules.

¥~

On July 1, 1941 there were before the Association 11 cases which had previously
been referred to it by the Commissionand, in the ensuing year, 46 other cases were reIn that time the Association disposed of 46 cases and it held pending 11 cases
ferred.
on June 30, 1942. Of the cases disposed of 23 were handled informally and in the remaining cases 23 formal canplaints were filed which resulted in five expulsions, two
suspensions, three fines and censures, six fines, four censures" and no action or
penalty in three instances.
Disciplinary

proceedings by NASD

In disciplinary
matte"'s, minor or technical infractions
of the Association's rules
are generally handled ~

and usually result in no more than a formal censure,
but in more serious ma't'ters formal complaints are filed by the Association which may
have as their consequence expulsion" suspension, fine or censure or any combination of
those penalties.

On July 1, 1941 there were pending before the Association 19 formal canplaints and
132 additional canplaints were filed in the following year.
Of these 151 cases, 130 were
disposed of :in the year and 21 remained in proeess on June 30.. 1942.
Formal complaints were withdrawn or dismissed without penalty in 25 instances; 32
respondents were censured] 47 were fined .. :in amounts ranging from $25 to $2000; 12 were
suspended for periods of fran thirty days to one year; and 24 respondents were expelled.
Cases referred by the Commissionare included in this summary.
In 20 cases decisions of District Business Conduct Committees came before the
Board of Governors for review. The Board affirmed three decisions; dismissed one canplaint in which a BlUIiness Conduct Committeehad censured and imposed a $250 fine;
modified a decision of suspension, censure and $1500 fine to censure and $300 fine; and
modified a decision of "strong censure" and $100 fine to eliminate the censure.
One
appeal for review was withdrawn and 12 cases were Pending June 30, 1942.

Business Conduct CCllllIlitteedecision ot censure and $250 fine, affirmed
was brought by the respondent to the Camnission for review
but b;y June 30, 1942 no action had been taken.
A District

by the Board of Governors

Amendmentsto Rules
Uniform Practice Code. The CCIIlDlission
not disapproving, a Uniform Practice Code
cover1iig "Settlement of Contracts and Trading Practice in Dver-the-Coun'ter Transactions
in Securities" became effective August 1, 1941 after membership approval.
This code is
technical in substance and codifies on a national scale what was generally recognized
as sound practice in the securities business.

-18 -

Amendmentsto
-Laws and Rules of Fair Practice.
On June 15, 1942 the Association
forw
the membership for approval. or disapproval an elaborate revision of the ByLaws and Rules of Fair Practice after the Board of Governors on May 18 and 19, 1942 had
recommendedits adoption. IIan;T of the proposed changes only eliminated from the rules of
the Association reference to a predecessor organization or material which was of value
onJ.y in the original organization and registration
of the Association.
Other changes involved language or detail in which some ambiguity existed or in which experience indicated
the necessity for alteration to make the material consistent with the statutes or rules of
the Commission.
Of paramount importance was an amendmentwhich would require, as a condition to
membership, minimum net capital, exclusive of fixed assets of ssooo for "clearing firms"
or $2500 for "non-clearing firms." -gJ other changes included authority to assess a
disciplined membersome part of the cost of the proceedings in lrilich he was involved and
a requirement that membersshould diligent1y supervise the activities
of salesmen.
The following tabulation re1ates
of the Securities Exchange Act:

to broker-dealer

registration

under Section 15 (b)

Ju1y 1, 1941 - June 30, 1942
iffective registrations
at close of preceding fiscal year ••••••••••••••••••••••••••
Applications pending at close of preceding fiscal year ••• ~•••••••••••••••••••••••••
Applications filed during fiscal year ••••••••••••••••••••••••••••••••••••••••••••••

Total •••••••••••••••••••••••••••••••••••••••••••••••••••••••••••••••••••••••••

6,065
Yl

JE
6,674

Applications withdrawn during year •••••••••••••••••••••••••••••••••••••••••••••••••
Registrations wi~
during year ••••••••••••••••••••••••••••••••••••••••••••••••
Registrations cancelled during year ••••••••••••••••••••••••••••••••••••••••••••••••
Registrations denied during year •••••••••••••••••••••••••••••••••••••••••••••••••••
Registrations suspended during year ••••••••••••••••••••••••••••••••••••••••••••••••
Registrations revoked during year ••••••••••••••••••••••••••••••••••••••••••••••••••
Registrations made inactive during year (a) ••••••••••••••••••••••••••••••••••••••••
Registrations effective at end of year (except those put on inactive status as
exp1a1ned in footnote (a» ••••••••••••••••••••••••••••••••••••••••••••••••••••
Applications pending at end of year ••••••••••••••••••
! •••••••••••••••••••••••••••••

18

919
97
2
2
29
II

Total •••••••••••••••••••••••••••••••••••••••••••••••••••••••••••••••••••••••••
(a) The registration
of 11 brokers and dealers, whose whereabouts, despite careful inquiry,
could not be ascertained, have been placed on inactive status.

III

Balloting,

which resulted

in membership approval of these changes, was completed on

Jul3' 15, 1942. Subsequen1ily, in Securities

Exchange Act Release No. 3322, the COIIIDission, a1'ter extensive hearings and argument, disapproved the mjnjmnmnet capital
requi.reIIent.

-19 -


PART III
AI!!INIS'lRATION
Integration

OF '!HE PUBLIC UTILITY HOLDING COMPANYACT OF 1935

and Corporate Simpl1i'ication of Public Utility

HOldingCO!!l1?8l1Y
SY8tems

In the past fiscal year, the .major activities
of the C01IIII1ission
in its administration of the Public Utility Holding CompanyAct of 1935 revolved around the enforcement of the integration and simplification provisions of the Act. In several important cases we have entered orders prescribing most of the action which IIIl18t be t8ken
ultimately to comply with the requirements of Section 11, particularly Section 11 (b)
(1) •
 As to the remaining cases, a majority of the proceedings have reached the stage
where such orders may be expected in the near future.
In the course of these proceedings the Commissionhas had occasion to pass upon manyof the disputed questions of
interpretation
of the Act, and the lIllUUltements
of most of the holding cOlllpS.Dy
systems
are nOlI'either substantially advised 88 to, or 'in a position to judge the soope of,
the action which we will order to be taken to bring about compliance with Section ll.
A number of companies have appealed our orders to the courts and the csses nOlI'pending
in the courts should settle most of the legal questions still
in dispute.
Weare
therefore moving toward completion of the first stage of entering orders and getting
the legal form21ities behind us, especially with respect to procednre and interpretation. Whenthat stage is completed with respect to the various holding companysystems,
each will knOll' definitely where it stands in relation to the requirements of Section 11.
Howand when such orders shall be enforced, is a matter for future determine.tion in
most of the cases.

"fe have not proceeded as yet under Section 11 (d) for enforcement ot our Section
II (b) orders by the oourts.
A significant result ot the progress that we have made
in nearing the completion of the first stage ot the administration of Section 11 is
that manyof the major systelll8 have nOlI'evidenced a willingness to proceed with the
task of carrying out our orders.
To that end several of the systems have filed
voluntarJr plans and others are engaged in doing so and 1n_ discussing their proposals
with us. In fact, with few exceptions we are finding an increasiiigtendency on the
part of the holding companysystems to facilitate
either the entering of orders, or
the trial of cases instituted by us, or compliance with the Act. In view ot the
progress already made, or in prospect, the Commission's major adm:1nistrative concern
today relates to the tinal steps ~
 achieVing the objectives of the statute, namely,
the choice between the various alternative methods available under the Act for bringing about compliance with the requirements of Section 11 (b), and the determination
of what treatment of the various claims of security holders is fair and equitable.
IUring the 1942 fiscal year, the Commissioninstituted 26 new proceedings looking
to orders requiring registered public utility holding companies to complywith Section
II of the Act and at the close of the fiscal year, 48 such proceedings were pending.
'lhese 4S proceedings involve substantially 2ll of the public utility holding company
systems registered under the Act although they do not encompassall of the Section 11
problems existing in such systems. In this connection, it may be noted that as of
June 30, 1942, there were registered with the Commission134 public utility holding
companies, the total consolidated book assets of which amount to approximately
$16,000,000,000, or about 6S percent of the private electric and gas utility industry
of the United States.
'lhose 134 registered holding companies constitute 53 public
utility holding companysystems, which include 1,342 holding, subholding and operating
companies. HOlI'ever,about 14 of them control total consolidated assets ot
$12,195,000,000 and approximately 52':'€of the privately ownedelectric generating
capacity of the country. 'lhe holding companysystems involved in Section 11 proceedings as of June 30, 1942 had consolidated assets which aggregated $14,237,000,000.

-20Section 11 (b) (1) - Geographic Simplification
The past fiscal year has seen rapid strides toward ultimate compliance by all holding companysystems with the geographic integration provisions of the Act. As related
in last year's annual report, thE' previous year was chiefiy noted for the holding of
public hearings as to the major holding companysystems and the entry of initial
orders
as to SClllle of them. At the close of that year, however, the records in most of those
proceedings had not been completed, and there remained to be instituted
additional proceed1.np;sas to several systems constituting
a minor portion of the industry subject to
the Act.
The more significant
developments in the administration
Act in the past fisca1 year may be summarized as follows:

of Section 11 (b) (1) of the

(1)

Hearings were completed in most of the integration proceedings instituted
prior thereto and substantially
completed in all others, including a number
begun during the year. The Section 11 (b) (1) records were completed with'
reSPect to the following systems: Cities Service Power & Light Company,
Consolidated Electric and Gas Company,Engineers Public Service Company,
Great Lakes Utili ties Company,Lone star Gas Corppration, The Middle West
Corporation, North American Gas and Electric Company,Southern Union Gas
Company,Standard Gas and Electric Company,United Public Utilities
Corporation and Utilities
Stock & Bond Corporation.
The record in the Associated
Gas and Electric Corporation proceeding was completed on substantially
all
of the issues.

(2)

Important, far-reaching orders were entered by the Commissionprescribing
most of the steps which certain of the major systems must take to canply
with Section 11 (b) (1) •
 Attention is directed to the CommissionI e orders
in the following cases:
Holcting CompanyAct
Release No.
Engineers Public Service CClIIlJ>any
The North American Company
standard Gas and Electric C~
The Umted Gas Improvement Company
The United Light and Power Company
United Public Utilities
Corporation

(:n

2897, 3230
3405
2929
2913, 3511
2923, 3189, 3242
3368

Two of the largest

holding company systems, The United Gas Improvement
Companyand The North American Company,fUed petitions to review the
Commission's orders in United States Circuit Court of Appeals.

1:1

(4)

!IOn

Proceedings were instituted with respect to most of the holding company
systems as to which Section n (b) (1) cases were not already pending.
The new proceedings included the following:

December 24, 1942, without, waiting for a decision on its appeal, U.G.1. fUed a
plan for the divestment of its pr:lncipal assets (consisting of cOllDllon
stock of
Philadelphia Electric Companyand Public Service Corporation of NewJersey) by a
distribution
of such assets amongits stockholders.
We approved the plan on
March 18, 1943 (Holding CompanyAct Release No. 4173). A petition for review of our
order of approval has been fUed by stockholders of U.G.1. Our order in the North
American case was affirmed by the U.S. Circuit Court of Appeals, Second Circuit, on
January 12, 1943; 133F. (2d) 148.

-21Holding

COJIl.P8DY'Act

Release No.
Associated Gas and Electric Corporation
Consolidated Electric and Gas C~
Great Lakes Utilities
COJlI.P8DY
LoDe Star Gas Corporation
Republic Service Corporation
Southern Union Gas Company
United Public Utilities
Corporation
Utilities
Stock & Bond Corporation

2983
3225
3243
3370
3514
3586

3105
3566

(5)

A number of 1mponant interpretations
of the provisions of Section 11 (b) (1),
together with determinations of general policy as to its administration,
were
handed down by the COJIIJIlission
in PaSsing on specific questions raised in proceedings involving The North American Company(Holding CompanyAct Release
Nos. 3405 and 3630), Engineers Public Service C~
(Release No. 2897) and
The United Gas Improvement Company(Release Nos. 2913 and 3511).

( 6)

A number of transactions
proposed by registered holding companies or their
subsidiaries
pursuant to Section 11 (e) and other applicable sections, and
'tending to effectuate Partial or substantial
compliance with the requirements
of Section 11 (b) (1), were approved by the Commission. The fo11oring holding companies were among those affected:
Holding Com~ Act
Release No.
Associated Gas and Electric Corporation
Columbia Gas & Electric Corporation
Communi
ty P01I'erand Light Co~
Engineers Public Service Company
Great Lakes Uti11ties Compazl1'
Lene Star Gas Corporation
Midland Utilities
Company
The North American Company
National P01I'er& Light Company
The United Gas Improvement Comp8D1'
The Un!ted Light and Power Company

3353

3286

Y

3041, 3096

3230
3419, 3456
3589, 3591
3250, 3145
2950
3612

Y

3433
2991, 3189, 3242, 3316

Section 11 (b) (2) -
 Corporate Simplit1cation
This section of the Act makes it the dutY' of the COJIIIIIission
to require registered
holding companies and their subsidiaries
to take such steps "as the CClDDlissionshall fiDd.
necessary- to :insure that the corporate structure or continued existence of any Compazl1' in
the holding-eompa11Y"
qstem does not unduly or 'IDUlecess~
cOlllpl:LI:atethe structure,
C1r
unfairly or inequitably distribute
voting power among securitY' holders, of such holdingcompany SY'Stem." This section also provides that not more than three tiers of companies
may be penni tted in any holding company system and concludes with the proviso that IlExcept
for the purpose of fairly and equitably distributing
Toting power among the securitY'
holders of such company, nothing in this paragraph shall authorize the COJIIIIIission
to require any change in the corporate structure or existence of any COIIlP8DY' which is not a
holding company, 01' of any canpaD1'whose principal business is that of a public-utilit)company. II

y

Section 11 (e) plan.

- 22 fiscal

The important developments in the administration
year may be summarizedas follows:
(1)

of Section 11 (b) (2) in the past

Under this provision the Commissioninstituted
following companies:

proceedings against the
Holding CompanyAct
Release No.

The United Corporation
Fiorida Power & Light Company
International utilities
Corporation
Engineers Public Service Company
Pennsylvania Power & Light Company
Virginia Public Semce Company
Illinois Iowa Power Company
Columbia Gas & Electric Corporation
NewEngland Gas & Electric Association
NewYork Water Service Corporation
Pennsylvania Gas & Electric Corporation
Central. Illinois Public Service Company
North American Light & Power Company
Consolidated -Slectric & Gas Company
Michigan Gas & .c;lectric Company
Jacksonville Gas Company
Great Lakes Utilities
Company
Cities Service Company
RepUblic Service Corporation
Southern Union Gas Company
Central Public Utility Cornoration, V.T.
Northern States Power CompanyU~inn. & Del.)
(2)

2907
2874
2885
2698

2906

2933
2953
2963
3035
3~56
3251
3080
3168
3225
3408
3434
3243
3498
3514
3586
3615
3595

Section 11 (b) (2) hearings were held with respect to the following
holding

company systems:

File No.
Associated Gas and Electric Company
Central Public Utility Corporation
Cities Service Company
Columbia Gas and Electric Corporation
ComnUDityGas and Power Company
Electric Bond and Share Company
Engineers Public Service Comp8l]Y'
Federal Water Service Corporation
Great Lakes Utilities
Company
International Utilities Corporation
Middle West Corporation
The North American Company
Pennsylvania Gas and Electric Corporation
Republic Service Corporation
Southern Union Gas Company
Standard Power and Light Corporation
The United Corporation

59-30, 59-34
59-40, 59-49

59-46
59-33
59-43
59-26, 59-29
59-28
59-35
59-45
59-'Z7
59-'57, 59-41
59-31, 59-39
59-36
59-47

59-48
59-50, 59-51
59-25

-
 23(3)

Orders were entered by the COIIDnissionprescribing
action which
canpanies in some of the major holding-ccanpany systems must
take to canp~ with the simplification
requirements of Section 11 (b) (2), including those in the following cases:
Holding Compan;yAct
Release No.
The CCGIII1011W8alth
& Southern Corporation
The Middle West Corporation
National Power & Light Ccu.pan;y
North .American Light & Power Canpany
Standard Power and Light Corporation

(4)

3432
3580
2962
3233
3f:iJ7

A number of transactions
proposed by' registered
holding canpanies
or their subsidiaries
pursuant to Section II (e) and other applicable
sections,
and tending to effectuate
full or partial
canpliance with
the requirements of SeCllon 11 (b) (2), were approved by the COIIDIlission.
The following canpanies were among those affected:
Holding Canpany Act
Release No.
Associated GaS and Electric Corporation
Col'lDDbiaGas & Electric Corporation
Derby Gas & Electric Corporation
The Eastern Shore Public Service Canpany (Md.)
Federal Water Service Corporation
Gl"eat Lakes utilities
CanpSllY
Jacksonville
GaS Canpany
Michigan Gas and Electric Canpany
The Middle West Corporation
National Power & Light Company
Northern Indiana Public Service Company
North American Light & Power CanpSllY
North Shore Gas Canpany
The United Light and Power Company
United Public Service Corporation
Virginia Public Service Company
Wisconsin Electric Power Canpany

3137

3/

3286, J415
2875

3633
3023

3419
3570
3599

3580
3211

2/

2/

'JI

2/

3145, 3250
3658
3131 'J/ 3199
2886, 2991, 3140,
3189, 3198, 3242, 3345
3289
3562

2950

Section 11 (e) provides a means whereby holding canpanies and their subsidiaries
plans designed to bring about canpliance with Section 11 (b).
Twenty-nine
such plans were filed during the fiscal year.
Before a plan can be approved it must
be found fair and equitable to persons affected thereby.
An interesting
example of
the application
of the CCIIIIIlission'spowers under Section 11 (e) and Section 11 (b) (2)
Gas CompSllYcase.
Jacksonville
respecting an opers.t-ing cClllpanyis the Jacksonville
Gas" Companywas on the verge of bankruptcy but was able to file a voluntary reorganiza,tion plan pursuant to Section 11 (e) of the Act. In the space of a very short period
of the
a canplete reorganizatiOn was approved and was duly enforced at the company's
request in the United states District
court in Florida.

may file

!!/

if
!!/

Section

11 (e) plan.

For the CClIIIIII1ss;Lon's
op1Di.on see Holding Canpany Act Release No. 35'70.
The Court's op1nion approving the plan is reported, 46F. Supp. 852.

-24Public Utility

Financing

At the close of the last fiscal year, 65 applications and declarations pursuant to
Sections 6 and 7 were pending, and 199 were filed during the year ended June 30, 1942.
Of these, 164 were approved, 11 were withdrawn or dismissed, and 6 were denied, leaving
83 pending at the close of the fiscal year.
Of the 164 approved applications
ance and 40 to assumption of liability

and declarations,

and alteration

124 pertained to security issuof rights.

The issues covered by the 124 approved applications and declarations totaled
$631,661,484. They were of the following types and for the following purposes:
Bonds
Debentures
Notes
Preferred Stock
Common
Stock
Total

$383,172,000
14,000,000
97,914,390
70,377,900
66,197,194

60.7%

$631,661,484

100.0%

Refunding
Reorganization
Exchange for other securities
Acquisition of property
Newfinancing
Miscellaneous
Total

$409,141,721

64.8%

2.2%
15.5%
11.1%
10.5%

0.2%
9.0%

1,500,000
56,977,7:73
54,844,140
90,742,750
18,455,600

8.7%
14.'%

2.9%

$631,661,484

100.0%

Competitive Bidding
The past year has provided the first opportunity for scrutiny of the operation of
Rule U-50, which was adopted by the Commissionon April 7, 1941 5/ and becameeffective
May7, 1941. This rule prescribes public invitation of sealed bids in connection with
the sale of securities by registered publiC utility holding companies and their subsidiaries.
Fromthe effective date of the rule to June 30, 1942, twenty-three security
issues were sold at competitive bidding thereunder. The number of bids for the various
issues was as follows:
Bids
Per Issue

Bond
Issues

1

4
5
1

2

3
4
5
6
8
9

Stock
Preferred Common
1
2
1

1

T

T

2

1
1
2

Aggregates
$118,500,000
146,?79 ,006
35,900,000
65,393,000
20,000,000
15,000,000
18,927,000

2

TIS

y

9,600,000

$430, 099, 006

Twoof the bond issues, aggregatirl..g$39,243,000, were bid in by insurance companies,
and investment banking houses or groups thereof were the successful bidders for the remainder. Twoof the preferred stock issues were the subject of "basket bids" with bonds
of the same com~.!".ies. In a few cases, the successful bid was that of the traditional
underwriter.

9 For a discussion

Of the reasons leading to the adoption of the rule,
Seventh Annual Report, pp. 98-102.

Y

refer to

The aggregates include $391,170,000 face value of bonds, $31,000,000 par value of
preferred stocks and $71929,006 bid price for 590,57:7shares San Diego Gas & Electric
Co. commonstock. The Commission
I s publication
"Security Issues of Electric & Gas
Utilities 1935-42" may be referred to for data with respect to all of these iSSlles
except the common
stock which was a portfolio sale and not a new issue.

- 25 ~

1s
Prior to the adoption of' the competitive bidding rule, the COIIIIIl1ssicm.
statf'
had
made a stud;y' of underwriting spreads prevailing during the five-year period ending
January 1, 1940. It was fown that slight~
over one-hal! of the 159 utUitiy' mortgage
_~bond issues covered by the study were sold by underwriters on the basis ot a two-point
spread and that the spread fell below that level in only four cases.
'!he average spread
for the 159 issues sold under the traditional
method of private negotiation was 2.49
~ points ($2.49 per $100 bond) •

,-"1

•e
As mentioned in Part 1, under "Securities Effectively Registered", the cost of
:; flotation of corporate securities was the lowest during this fiscal year that it has been
in the approximately eight-year period over which the Cormnissionhas kept records thereof.
The decline in underwriting spreads has been most noticeable in the offerings under
Rule U-50. The spread in 6 of the 13 mortgage bond issues offered to the plblic
following bids made under this rule was less than one point per issue, a circumstance
not equalled in other recent corporate offerings except for a number of serial issues
(principa.lly railroad equipnent issues which are also required to be sold through competitive bidding).
The spread, in percent of dollar proceeds registered tor sale under
the Securities Act, averaged 1.12 for the 15 "bank quaJ.ity" bond issues offered to the
public following bids made under this rule, canpared with about 1.9 for 26 -bank
quall ty" bond issues registered under the securities Act and offered to the pablic between Yay 7, 1941 and June 30, 1942 but not subject to Rule U-50.

'1/

Exemption Cases
Generally speaking, Sections 2 and 3 o£ the Act contain definiticm.s aDd exemption
provisions pursuant to which the COIIIII1ssion
determines whether companies are subject to
the regulatory provisions of the Act.
In the past fiscal year the Commissiondisposed of applications filed by Moreau
Manufacturing Company,
Pacific Gas and Electric Company9/ and Public service Corporation of NewJersey
each of which sought t.o be declared not to be a subs1d1.ary of
specified companies. All of' these applications were denied because the COIIIIissioncould
not find that the applicants were not subject to the controlling influence defined in
Section 2 (a) (8) by the specified holding companies. Another case of :importance was
the application filed by Standard Oil Company(NewJersey) for exemption 88 a holding
companypursuant to paragraph 3 of Section 3 (a).
This application was also denied but
the operation of the Commission's order was suspended for a period of six .mUls because
of the problems arisi.ug from the applicant's interest in other businesses and its expressed willingness to cooperate with the Commissionin the solving of' its problems
under the Act. 11/

!£/

y

V

The 18 bond. issues for which bids were submitted under Rule U-50 included 15 mortgage
issues of which 2 were bid in by insurance companies, 2 collateral
trust issues, and
1 Debenture issue.
All of the 16 offerings to the public were rated "bank-qualitytl
except the Debenture issue.
All were offered within the fiscal year, except the 2
collateral trust issues which were offered just prior to the commencement
thereof.
One of the collateral
trust issues (a serial note issue) was also offered with a
spread of less than one point.

Y
2/

Holding CompanyAct Release No. 2868.

l2./

Holding CompanyAct Release No. 2988.
appeal; 1Z7 F. (2d) 378.

The Counnission's ruling was sustained on

Holding CompanyAct Release Nos. 2998 and 3058.
tained on appeal; 129 F. (2~) 899.

!!I Holding CompanyAct

Release Nos. 3312 and 3322.

The Commission's ruling was sus-

'I

\

- 26During the year the CCDIII1ssion
also granted or extended a number of exemptions
UDder Sections 3 (a) (4) ~ 3 (a) (5) and 3 (b) of the Act relating respective~
to temporar;y holding companies, foreign holding caupanies md foreign subsid:l.ar1.es.

W

Appendix Table 19 shows the number of applications
Sections 2 and 3 of the Act.

rJI

received

and disposed of under

Rules 8lId Regulations
There were cClllp8.1"ative~few changes in the Rules and Regulatic:ns under the Holding CCllJlP8ll1'
Act dur1Dg the past fiscal

year.

!!.tI

A change, in addition to that shown in the first tootnote under Part II, in the
rules to meet wart1me conditions wa4 an amendmentto Rule U-7 (b) ~ which defines an
electric util1.ty <:0JnP8I'1' for purposes of the Act. It exempts an industrial
or other
compalVwhich is not a subsidiar;y of a registered hoJ.djng company~ and 'Which was not
an electric util1.ty compan;fas of January l~ 1941~ from being classified
as an electric
by reason of any sales of surplus electric
energy at wholesale during
utility
cOJllP8!lY
the existence ot the mtional emergency, and for one year thereafter.

!iJ

During the year a new prorlsion was adopted to deal with the problem of equitable
allocation of taxes between various companies in a holding company system which may
join in filing a consolidated tax return. ~
There was also a change, largely of an
of security
administrative
character, in the Commission s Rules governing solicitation
holders I authorizations
regarding miscellaneous financial transactions.
Under the
amended rules, solicitations
regarding a transaction which is itself
the subject of
Commission regulation are scrutinized in connection with the examination of other aspects of the proposed transaction.
In cases where the solicitation
is not part of a
in connection with an
transaction
subject to regulation (for example, solicitations
election of directors) ~ the same rules are made applicable as have been adopted pursuant to the Securities Exchange Act for solicitation
of proxies in respect of securities
registered on a national securities
exchange.

!11

A number of minor changes were made by way of simplification
of the forms under the Holding CompanyAct. 18/

and clarification

---------------------------,
W See Holding Company-Act Release Nos. 3337, 3348, 3218, 3617,----------3101, 3263~ 2952,
2920~

W

W
W
W

3318 and 3263.

This table also dhows the number of applications
thereof ~ recetved and disposed of under sections
cussed Sections 6 and 7.

arxi declarations~ and the purpose
other than the previously dis-

Reference is made to the seventh Annual Report of the Commission (PP. 115-117)
tor a description of the general character of the rules adopted under the Holding
COJIlP8DY
Act~ and the relationship
of the Commissionls rule-maldng p<:JII'ersto the
administration
of the Act.
Holding CompanyAct Release No. 3506, effective

Kay 7 ~
1942.

Rule U-45 (F) (6)~ Holding Canpany Act Release No. 2902, effective July 23, 1941.
A later amendmentwas adopted to cover consolidated returns made under the Revenue
Act of 1942. See Holding CompanyAct Release No. 4167.

'!lJ Rules

u-61. and U-62~ effective July 15, 1941 and October 25~ 1941~ respectively.
Hold1ng Canpany Act Release Nos. 2836 and 3090.

W

See Holding CompanyAct Release Nos. 2899~ 3249 and 3257. After the close of the
year a substantial
reduction was made in the amount of information required in the Anm1s] Supplement to the Registration statement which registered
holding companies must fUe under the Holding CompanyAct.

past fiscal

-27PART IV

PARTICIPATION

OF THE COMMISSION IN CORPORATE RECEGANIZATIONS

UNDER CHAPTER f OF 11m BANKRUPTCY

Swmnary

ACT I

AS AllENDEn

of Activities

The C<m:dssion active~
participated
in 1.48 reorganisation
proceedings involving
the reorganization
of 177 companies (1.48 principal debtor corporations and 29 subsidiary debtors).!L
The aggregate stated assets of these 171 caupanies totaled approximatelY $2,044,933,000,
and their aggregate indebtedness 1188 approxim.ate~
$1,317,556,000.
For the first time the cases closed kept pace with the new cases in
1Ihi.ch the Camni.ssion filed a notice of appearance. there having been 34 of each during
the year.
The 1.l4 proceedings, in which the COIIIIIIission
was active~ participating
as
of June 30, 1942, inv01ved 137 corporations
(1.l4 principal. debtor corporations and 23
subsidiary debtors).
These debtors had aggregate stated assets ~
 appraxi.mate~
$1,"1'S3.306,ooo. and aggregate listed liabilities
of apprax1mate~ $1,116,6'70.000.
With respect to the 34 DeW cases in which the C<8m1.ssionparticipated
during the
year. its notice of appearance was filed at the request of the judge in 12 Foceedings.
entered its appearance upon the approval by'
whil.e in the remaining 22 the C<lDlDiBsion
the judge of the CCIIIDlission'
s motion to participate.
Of the 34 proceedings. 31 were
instituted
under Chapter X, and 3 undar Section TIB. 1he debtors iuvol.ved in these 34
proceedings had aggregate stated assets aDd ~gate
iDdebtedness of appro:d.mately
U28.389.000 and $92.423.000. respectively.

Y

The C<IEI1ssiOll

As A Party To Proceedings

There have been no significant
changes in the past fiscal. year in the policies
of the COIIIIII:issiOl1
in performing its tunctiOllS UDder Chapter X. which have
or practices
been described in previous ammal. reports.
However. four years of experience by' the
Commission. the f'ederal courts and the reorganisation
bar with the operation of
Chapter X have reduced the 8IIlOl1I1t of time required to be spent on purely procedural.
questions, and have permitted greater concentration of the CCllllllission's energies upon
substantive matters.
There now exl.sts a substantial. mDIber of precedents on nearly all
important procedural and interpretive
questions.
Plans Of' Reorganisation

Under Chapter X

The Camnission' s most important function under Chapter :x is to aid the courts in
effecting
cOIlSUDlD&'tion
of a f'air aDd feasibl.e plan of reorgazdzation.
After f'our years
of experience there has been S<D8 change in the nature of the problems with which the
Camnission has to deal..
With respect to the f'a.irness of pl.ans, certain basic 1egal princip1ell urged by' the
Camnission throughout its activities
under Chapter :x are now fiI;establi8hed
as a
resul.t of the Supreme Court decisions in the Los Angeles LUIIber3 and Consolidated Rock
Products
cases.
The problem of fairness has becaae 'to a cons
able extent one at
itUdiiiig 8Dd ~ing
the l.8Ir aDd facts of' particul.ar cases.

!!/

g AppendiX Table 33 contaIliS
the CCllBDissionparticipated

Y Under Section

a

cauptete l.ist Of reorganizaticm proceediJigs in
as a party during the year eaded JuDe 30" 19~.

1dilCh

265a at the Bank:ruptcy' Act, as 81118Dded,
the CCJIIIIlissionreceives copies
every petiticm f'or reorgaDi.zat1on f'i1ed UDder Chapter :x and copies of other
SPecified documents f'il.ed in the proceedingS.

or

y 308 U.S.

106.

!!l 31.2 U.S.

510.

-
 28-

Perhaps the outstanding developnent in the CCIDDlission'
s Chapter X work during the
fiscal year has been the increased importance and difficUlty of problems of feasibility
including such questions as the adequacy of working capital." the relationship of funded
debt or capital structure to property values, the adequacyof corporate earning power
in 'relation to interest and dividend charges" the effect of proposed new capital..isation
upon the c~'s
prospective credit, and the desirable objective that new securities
shaJ.l not by their terms or otherwise be deceptive to subsequent purchasers. Parties
are inclined to gear their proposed capital structures to inflated ~
 earnings, either
because they do not recognize the extent to which the earnings are inflq.ted or because
they hope that the abnormalearnings lfill continue long enoughto permit scaling down
of debt to manageableprOPortions. The element of tax liability is an added force in
the direction of excessive debt structures which provide interest deductions and SCIllatimes other tax advantages which assumeadded importance :in a period of high tax rates.
Although security holders' representatives f'requent1:yregard the fairness of the
plan as their principal. concern" the f'ull protection of their interests requires al.so
another
that the plan be feasible 80 that it will not hamperfuture operations or c<lllpEll
reorganization. The extent to which the difficulties of debtors now in reorganization
are attributable to previous non-feasible plans is apparent fran an examination of the
34 cases in lIhich a notice of appearance was filed by the CamJlissionduring the fiscal.
year.. 17 iDvolved caupanies lIhich had already undergonereorganization since 1930, most
of them under Section 77Bsince 1935. The Commission'sinsistence that plans shouJ.d
canp1:ywith reasonable standards of feasibility is designed to avoid a similar record
as to Chapter X cases five or ten years hence and its continuing efforts in this reSPect
constitute probab1:ythe most important phase of its present activities in connection
with plans.

Advisory Reports on Plans Of Reorganization
During th~ fiscal year the Commissionprepared formal advisory reports with respect
to plans of reorganization and supplemental reports with reference to amendmentsto such
plans in the proceedings involving Sayre & Fisher Brick Canpanyand Philadelphia and
Readin~Coal and Iron Company
and a1Soa: third supplementar report in the proceed1ngs
iiiVolnng Penn T11ilber
in which an advisory report and two supplemental reports
had previouslY

c~

seenrne:

AppealS

Al.thoughthe Commis
sion maynot appeal in a proceeding under Chapter X it participates in appeal.s taken 'by others. During the fiscal year the Commissiontook part in
appeals in six proceedings.
In In re' Ulen and CCIII.P~5/ the COJIIIlission
urged attorneys for debenture holders
were not entitled to canpensaion in a Chapter X proceedings for services rendered in a
prior Chapter XI proceedings which were not c<lllpElnsable
under the rules prevailing in
that type or proceeding. The District Court sustained this position and the Circuit
Court of Appeals for the SecondCircuit affirmed. In re R~OldS Investing ~

6/
involved the question whether a person 1Ihobad violated SeCion 249 of the B
pciY
Act by purchasing or selling claiJlls against or stock of the debtor while acting in a
representative capacity was barred fran aJ.lowanceof compensationfar services in a
different representative capacity which had been assumedafter the transactions in the
debtor's securities had termmated. The Circuit Court of Appeals beld" as urged by the
for any services Performed
Camn!ssion, that Section 249 barred aJ.lowanceof c<lllpElnsation
by the applicant.

2J

130 F. (2d) 303 (c.e.A. ze, August 3, 1942). Rehearing denied In re Ulan & Co.;
Walker & Austin et al. v. Tyler et aJ.. (C.C.A. zs, August 29" 1942).

Y

130 F. (2d) «J (C.C.A. 3d, August 3, 1942).

- 29 -

71

In Dana v. Securities and Exchanft Commission
the Circuit Court of Appeals tor the
SecOiid'Circu1t sustiiiie<i the pOS1on consistently taken by the CCIIIIlissionthat a
formal order of intervention is unnecessary to permit camnittees representing security
holders !io participate
f'ully in proceedings under Chapter X. In re Marine Harbor
Propertieh
Inc. involved the question of good faith in filing a petitIon hi a debtor
the property or Which was subject to a certificated
mortgage which had been reorganised
in the NewYork State Courts pursuant to the provisions of the Shackno Act (NewYork
Laws of 1933" C. 745) and the Mortgage Camnission Act (NewYork Laws of 1935" C. 19).
The Circuit Court of Appeals reversed the District court's order approving the debtor's
petition.
Certiorari was granted by the Supreme Court, which upheld the CCIIIIlission's
contention that the debtor I s participation
in state court proceedings under the Shackno
and Mortgage CommissionActs did not bar later resort to a proceeding under Chapter X"
but affirmed the decision of the Circuit Court of Appeals upon the ground that the
debtor had not sustained the burden of establishing its need for relief under Chapter X
(Section 130) and the existence of good faith in fUing the petition (Section 146).
In re Paloma Estates
Inc. 91 raised similar questions.
Sims v. Fidelity Assurance
ASsociation 10/ fiivo~ved the question whether the debtor was--aniriBurance compaDiY
eligible 'to me a petition under the Bankruptcy Act and questions as to whether the
The Ccmnission urged approval of the
debtor's petition had bean filed in good faith.
debtor's petition and its position was sustained by the District Court. However, upon
appeal the Circuit Court of Appeals reversed" holding that the debtor was an insurance
companynot eligible to seek relief under the provisions of the Bankruptcy Act and that
the petition,had
not been filed in good faith because the interests of creditors would
be best subserved in the receivership proceeding pending in West Virginia and other
states.
Certiorari was granted by the United States Supreme Court which, without deciding 'Whether the debtor was an insurance company"concluded ill that the petition had
not been filed in good faith upon the ground stated by the CirCUit Court of Appeals and
upon the additional ground that it was unreasonable to expect that a plan of reorganization could be effected.

y

i

'1/125 F. (2d) 296 (C.C.A.

za,

January- 10, 1942).

Y Marine Harbor Properties, Inc. v. Manufacturers Trust
2/ 126 F. (2d) 72 (C.C.A. 2d, February 21, 1942).
?!!/ 123 F. (2d) 89 (e.C.A. 4th" October 21, 1941), J29 F.
June

'EJ This

16, 19.42'.
was decided on April

S~ 1943.

Co.,

63 Sup. ct. 93.

(2d) 442 (C.C.A. 4th,

-30PART V
ADYINISmATION OF '!HE '!'RUSTINDENTUREACT OF 1939
Informat!.on regarding the genera1 purpose and scope of the requirements of the Trust
Indenture Act of 1939, and the Commission's procedure in examining applications for
qualification
of indentures end trustee statements of eligiblli ty and qualification
for
compliance with the statute,
was set forth in the Sixth Annual Report of the Commission,
pp. 133-135, inclusive.

11

Since then a rule has been adopted
permitting a prospective trustee to obtain a
declaratory rnllng of the COIIIIII1ssion
as to whether or not it is an affUiate
of a
specified underwriter.
'!his procedure is to enable complex questions of conflicting
interests
to be tried and decided in advance of any particular
security issue, to avoid
delaying seeur1ties transactions when they arise.
Under this rule J. P. Morgan& Co. Incorporated, a trust company, applied for a
ruling as to its status in relation to Morgan Stanl.ey & Co. Incorporated, an underwriting
firm. '!he CoDB1ssionheld that the two houses were under cOJlDllOn
control within the
meaning ot 'the Act, and that J. P. Morgan & Co. Incorporated was therefore ineligible
to
issued by any companyfor which Morgan Stanley & Co. Incoract 88 trustee of securities
porated 1f88 an underwriter.

?J

Statistics

II'

of Indentures

Qualified

'!he tollowing tables show the number of indentures fUed with the Commission for
qualification
under the Trust Indenture Act of 1939 together with the disposition thereof
and the 8IIlOUDts of indenture securi ties involved.
Indentures fUed in connection with Registration Statements
under the Seguri ties Act of 1933. sa amended
JulY'l.

1941 to June 30. 1942,

No.

6!1

Indentures pending 6/30/41
Indentures tUed
Indentures qualified
Indentures withdrmm
Retusal orders issued
Indentures pending 6/30/42

57 ~

46y

8y

o

8

Inclusive

Amountof Offering

$442,534,900
f178, 214,800
1,059,636,900

134,853,000

o

293,234,800

y

Refer to Seventh Annual Report, Page 182, for den vation of this figure
the record trom February 4, 1940 to June 30, 1941.

"gj

Includes 88,000,000 added by amendment; total filed
$882,097,800 and 56 indentures by amendments.

sf

Reduced to $1,021,636,900

9/

Reduced to $9,761,000 by amendments.

11
Y

Rule T-1.OB-J.
Trust Indenture

by amendments.

Act Release No. 15.

and for

subsequently reduced to

-31Applications f'Ued for gual1.f'ication of indentures covering
securities
not required to be registered under the Securities
Act of 1933. as amended
July 1. 1941 to June 30.

1942'

Inclusive

No,

ly

Applications pending 6/30/41
App1.ications filed
App1:1cations effective
App1:1cat1oD8withdrawn
Retasal orders issued
App1:1caUons pending 6/30/42

y

125JOOOJOOO

27

123J633J003
147J558J203

2?

o

o
o

o

1J074J8OO

1

Refer to Seventh Annual Report, Page 1S3, for derivation
record tram. February 4J 1940 to June 30, 1941.
Additional

Information

Relating

additional material
and examined for compliance with the appropriate

14 inden~
Utility

of this figure

end tor the

to Trust Indentures

Ibr:lng the year the following

filed

Amountof Offering

re12ting to trust indentures
standards and requirements:

exempt from the Trust Indenture Act of 1939 but subject
Holding CompanyAct of ;1.935.

was

to the Public

98 trustee

statements of el1gib1l1 ty and qualification
under the 1rust Indenture
Act of 1939 (90 on Form T-1 tor corporations,
and 9 on Form T~ for
individuals).

J!

statements at eligibility
"post effective").

1m I:lIIIeIldments
to trustee
etfect.1veJIf

and

a

and quslif'ication

54 Supplements 5-T, covering special
Curities

registered

items of information concerning indenture
under the Securities Act or 1933l/.

17 app1.1cations for findings

10

appU.cations,

131 8DDUal reports

JI

(99 .prese-

by the Commission pursuent to Sec. 310 (b) (1) (11).

on Form T-4, far exempt10n parsuant
of indenture

trustees

to Sec. 304 (c).

pursuant to Sec.

313.

JlJring the period from February 4, 1940 to June 30, 1942, 1nclus1V8t an aggregate ot
:nS trustee statements (232 for corporations and 43 for individuals) and l5~
Supp1.ements 5-T had been filed.

-32PART VI
ADlITNISTRATION OF THE INVESTMENT COMPANY ACT OF 1940
I,

The. past fiscal year markedthe first full fi8Cal year in the adm1 n1 stration of the
Inve;:-,tlllent
Company
Act of 1940. During the year the CODJDission
concerned itself pr~
with (1) the registration of companiessubject to the Act; (2) the disposition of applications filed pursuant to the provisions of the Act seeking a determination of whether or
not. certain companiesare investment companieswithin the meaningof the Act and applications requesting exemption from specific provisions of the Act; (.3) the promulgation of
rules prescribing the type of information and periodic reports to be filed with the Commission and the type of information and reports required to be transmitted to security
arising under the
holders; and (4) the disposition of general admin1 strative pE"Oblems
various sections of the Act.
Registration of Investllent CQRpenies
The first step in the reguJ.ation of investment cODlp8D1es
provided by the Investment
Compan:y
Act of 1940 is the requirement that all investment companieslIllat register with
the Commission. Registration is acocmplished by filing a simple notification of registration with the Commissionpursuant to Section 8 (a) of the Act. Kost companiesregistered
UDder the Act during the fiscal year ended.June .30, 1941. However,17 com.pa.lnes
fUed
Two of these 17 companieswere
notifications of registration during the past fiscal;rear.
organized ciur:f.Jlg t.he fiscal ,ear and t.he others bad not. registered previously, either because they claimed an exemption frOJll the provisions of the Act.or for someother reason.
The next step in the registration process involves the filing wit.b th~ Conmissionby
every registered investment companyof a detailed registration statement pursuant to Section 8 (b) of the Act. These registration statement.s are filed in accordance with ruJ.es,
regul.ations and forms promulgated by the Commissionwhich are specifically designed for
investment companies.
In addition to FormN-8B-l, which relates to managementcompanies and was promulga'tied
during the fiscal year ended June .30, 1941, the Commissionhas promulgated two new forms
to be used for filing detailed registration statement.s. These forms are designated Form
N-8B-2and FormN-8:?-.3. FormN-8B-2is designed for use by unit investment trusts which
are currently issuing securities, and FormN-8B-.3is designed for uee by unincorporated
managementcompaniescurrently issuing periodic pa;ymentplan certificates.
The detailed registration statements contain comple'tieinformation regarding each
company,including certified financial statements, information regarding 'the organization
of the comp8ll1',managementpersonnel and affiliated persons, compensation to o1"1"icers,
directors and certain employees, capital structure, nature of asse~s, distribution and
redemption of securities, information regarding the trustee and sponsor of the compaIlY
and
a recital of the policies of the cOIIlp8.Dy'
with respect to certain speci1'ied subjects.
In connection with the adoption of forms to be used for filing registration statements
under the Investment COIIIp8ll1'
Act, the Commissionalso adopted rules which permit investment campanies to file copies of information a1re~ filed under other Acts administ9J:'ed
by" the CClIDIII1sSion
in lieu of registration statements under the Investment CClIIlpa.DY'
Act, and
thereb7 gave effect to the d1recti ve of the Congress a8 set. forth in Section 8 (c) of thE'
Act.. These rules are designed to facW.tat8 registration by ccapanies which are subject
to one ar more or the other Acts adm1 n1 stered by the COJIIII1ssion.Several companieshave
availed themselves of the privilege accorded b:r t.hese rules. -

Two hundred forty-five registered investment companies fil~~ detailed registration
st.atements under 'the Act during the past fiscal year. Of these 245 registration st.atements, 89 were filed by managementopen-end diversified companies, 8 by managementopenend non-diversified companies, 62 by managementclosed-end diversified companies, 76 by
managementclosed-end. non-diversified companies, and 10 by unit investment trusts.

- 33 Every registration
mission's staff.
Periodic

statement filed

under the Act is carefully

examined

by

the Com-

Reports to the Commissionand to Security Holders

Section 30 (a)
of the Investment CompanyAct provides that registered investment
companies must file with the Commission such information, documents and reports as companies having securities
registere~ on a national sec~rities exchange are required to tile
with the Commission pursuant to Section 13 (a) of the Securities Exchange Ac~ 9f 1934.
Section 30 (b) of the Investment CompanyAct authorizes the Commission to require registered investment companies to file reports on a semi-annual or quarterly basis so as to
keep reasona~ly current the information contained in th~ registration
statements of such
companies. The Commission promulgated two periodic report forms applicable to manag8lll8Dt
investment companies during the past fiscal year. The periodic report forms for the other
classes of investment companies had not been promulgated at the close of the fiscal year.
All registered managementinvestment companies which filed detailed registration
statements on Form N-8B-1 are required to file annual reports on Form N-JOA-l within 120
days after the close of- each fiscal year.
'!be annual report form is designed to bx"ing
up to date as of the close of each fiscal year of the registrant,
the information
originally furnished by the registrant
in its detailed registration
statement.
Form
N-30A-l is designed for use under both the Securities Exchange Act of 1934 and the Investment CompanyAct of 1940, and duplicate filings under these Acts are thereby eliminated.
All registered managementinvestment companies which filed detailed registration
statements on Form N-8B-l are required to file quarterly reports on Form N-30B-l within .30 dqs
after t.he close of each fiscal quarter.
The quarterly report form requires only the minimum
information necessar)" to be kept current to aid the Commissionin the admin; stration of the
Act. This form is also designed for use under both the Securities :bbtchangeAct of 1934 and
the Investment CompanyAct of 1940, and supplants Form 8-K, the current report form under
the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, insofar as it is applicable to managementinvestment
companies having securities
listed and registered on a national securities
exchange.
One hundred ninety-six companies filed annual reports
year ended June 30, 1942 and a like number filed quarterly

on Form N-30A-l during the fiscal
reports on Fora N-30B-1.

Section 30 (d) of the Act provides that every registered investment COlllpany' shall
transmit
to its stockholders, and file with the Commission, at least semi-annually,
reports containing certain prescribed information and financial statements.
Doring the
fiscal year ended June 30, 1942, 633 periodic reports to security holders 1P3refiled with
the Commission.
!pplications

for Exemptions or Exceptions

A lications under Section 3 (b) (2) of the Act. A cOlll~ which comes within the
0
an investment eoapan
as contained in Section 3 (aJ (3) of
quantitative
definition
the Act may apply to the Commission for an order pursuant to Section 3 (b) (2) ~f the Act,
declaring it to be primari1yengaged in a business other than that of an investment company.
Such other business may be conducted either directly or through majority-owned subsidiaries
or controlled companies conducting similar types of businesses.
During the past fiscal ~ar
two such applications were denied, two other applications were denied under Section 3 (b)
(2) although exemptions were granted under other sections of' the Act, and four such applications were withdrawn. The Commission granted five applications pursuant to this section
during the fiscal year, and at June 30, 1942, fourteen applications were pending.
other Applications for Exemptions. Section 6 (c) of the Act confers upon the Commission general exemptive powers if and to the extent that such exemption is necessary or
appropriate in the public interest
and consistent with the protection of investors and
the pUrposes fairly intended by the policy and provisions of this title.

-34E1ght,..cme

app11caticla8 UDder this

section were penMng

be1'ore the ee.dssion

duriDg

the last fiscal,ear. Of theae 81 applications, 49 were ft1ec1 daring the last fiscal. ,ear
and 70 were disposed of by the ec.m.ss1.on during that period.
Sect.ion 6 (d) of the .Ac't an1iliorizes the COIIIIl1ssionto e:uiapt .all c1osed-end investment ccnpames trCllll. arty aDd all provisions of the Act i1" t.be securities o£ such cCIRpB"ies
are not 801d outside the states of incorporation and pronded the exemption is not ccmtrary
toO the pub1ic interest or inconsistent nth the protection of iJrfeBtors.

Five applications under this section were pending 'before the Commissionduring the
past fiscal year. Of' these 5 applications, one 'WasfUed dDriDg the year and 4 were
disposed of by the COIEissionduring that period.
Wi.threspeC't to the 4 applications
which ere disposed of, one was withdrawn and 3 were granted to a limited extent.
Dissolution of Investment Companiesand Withdrawal of Registration Statements
_i

Approximately44 registered investment companiesfUed applications with the COIIIIl1ssion during the fiscal year seeking orders of the Commissi.on
declaring that such ccmpan:ies
:
had ceased to be investment companieswithin the meaningof the Act. These applications
ere fil8d pursuant to Section B (f) of the Act which provides that wheneverthe COIIIIlission:
_
on its awn motion or upon application, finds that a registered :iInestment companyhas
ceased to' be an investment companY', it shall so declare by order, and upon the taking effec', -;
of such order the registration of such cOlllp8llY'
shall cease to be in effect.
The Commissionpassed upon approximately 38 Section 8 (f) applicati.ons during the
fiscal. year. Of these 3S applications, 34 were granted, 2 were dismissed and 2 were denied
The applications that were granted iu!olved companieswb:ichhad formally dissolved and.
distribl1ted all of their assets to their security holders, eoaapanies'Whichhad mergedwith
other cClIII.pwesand transferred all of their assets to SIlchother companies, and cnmpanies
nose outst81'ld1
ng securities were ownedby less than 100 persons and which were not making
and did. not present17 propose to make a pabllc offering of their securities.
The last
category ot companies men1;j.cmed 1s excepted tram. the detiniti.ClIl or "investment cCJlllP8lJT'
by
the pl"ovisions of Section :3 (c) (1) of t.he Act.
Affiliated Persons of Investment CtMpani es
Transactions BetweenInvestment C
Section 17 of
the Ac
s
or artY
a: e person, promoter or
e
underwriter for
a registered investment cCllllp8DY'
to sell to, or purchase securities or other property, or
borrOlf 1IOD8Y' or other prQpertY' from, the investment companyor 8DTcompanycontrolled by it
However,authority is given to the COIIIIlies1on
to exempt, by order" any proposed transaction if evidence establishes that the terms of such transaction" including the consideration to be paid or received, are reasonable and fair and do nat involve overreaching by an:
person concerned, and that it is consistent with the policies of the investment canpaD;J'
as
recited in its registration statement and with the general. purposes of the Act.
For the fiscal year ending JUDe30" 1942, there were 16 applications fUed to exempt
proposed transactions between affiliated persons and investment cexnpan1es,or companies
disposed of 5 of such applications after hearings; 4
controlled bY' them. The COIIIIlission
ere lIithdran without hearing, 1 was withdrawn after heariDg and 6 are still pending.
While the applications ostensibly sought exemption of a proposed transaction involving the
purchase and sale of securities, the disposition of such applications often included such
matters &8 reorganizations and recapitalizations of 1nvestmeat ccwpan1es"as well as
affW.a.ted non-investment companies.

- 35 ..
PART VII
ADI1INISTRATION OF THE INVESTl'1ENT ADVISERS ACT OF 1940
Registration

Statistics

As of June 30, 1941.there were registered with the Commissionpursuant to the provisions of the Investment Advisers Act of 1940 753 investment advisers, consisting of
~O sole proprietors,
123 partnerships and 210 corporations.
On June 30, 1942 there
were 732 registered investment advisers consisting of 4ll sole proprietors,
123 partnerships and 19S corporations.
The following table sets forth information with respect to the status
istration
of investment advisers under the Act as of the end of the fiscal
As of

Applications

6/30/42

filed

App. Pending
App.Withdrawn
Effective Registrations
Reg. Withdrawn
Reg. Cancelled
Denied
Revoked

of the re~year:

931
7

6
732
132

52
1
~


In order to maintain reasonably current the information contained in the applications for registration,
the Commissionrequires semi-annual reports to be filed by
all registered investment advisers.
These reports must be filed with the Commission
within ten days after June 30Jand December31, of each year.
Each registered investment adviser is required to disclose in the semi-annu8.l.report that after an examination of his original application for registration
he finds either that (1) no changes
have been effected in his business 50 that no amendmentsare required to the application for registration
or (2) that changes have been effected in his business so tha~
amendmentsare necessary for certain items in the original application for registration.
If changes have been effected in business, amendmentsto the items affected
arc: included in the semi-annual report.
Section 203 (d) of the Act empowersthe Commissionto deny, revoke or suspend
One of the
the registration
of an investment adviser if certain conditions exist.
grounds for denying, revoking or suspending the registration
of an investment a~ser
is the fact that such investment adviser within ten years prior to the registration
has been convicted of a crime in connection with securi. ties transactions or has been
enjoined by a court from acting as an investment adviser, undeiwriter, broker or
dealer.
In the exercise of its power under this section, the Commissionhas revoked the
registration
of one investment adviser.
In this case it was found that the investment
adviser in question had been enjoined by an order of the United States Distri ct Court
from engaging in certain conduct and practices in connection with the purchase and
sale of securities.
In addition to this it was found that the application for registration contained material misstatements.
It was also found that the investment adviser in question had converted to his o.m benefit certain moneys sent to him by
clients for the purchase of securities,
that he had purchased .securities contrary to
the authority of his clients and had converted the re"'laining balances to his 0I'm use.
Absence 01" 'Power to Inspect Books and Records of Inyestment Advisers
Section 209 (a) of the Act provides that whenever it appears to the Canmission
that the provisions of this Act have been or are about to be violated the Commission

-36can institute

a fo:nnal.investigation for the purpose or determining whether there has

been or is ".bout to be a violation of the Act. The Act# however#does not confer upon
the Commission
the authority or duty to makeperiodic inspections of the accounts and
by
records of registered investment advisers such as is conferred upon the Commission
Section 17 (a) of the Securities ExchangeAct of 19.34with respect to registered
broker-dealers. This anission leaves entirely unsupervised and unprotected a broad
field in the handling of investment flmds of the general public. Unfortunate situations
involving large losses to clients have occurred which might have been averted if the

Camnissionhad authority to makeregular periodic inspections of the accounts of registered investment advisers. The details or these situations and a further report to
the Congresswill be madeconcerning this matter.

-~-

I

PART VIII

I

ornER

ACTIVITIES

I
I
'01

OF mE COWISSION'

UNDER '1tIE VARIOUS STA'IUTES

LITIGATION
Civil Proceedings

11

J

At the beginning of the fiscal year ended June 30, 1942, 10
civil proceedings
instituted
by the Commissionwere pending; during the year, the Commissioninstituted
36 additional proceedings, including 33 injuncti.ve actions brought against 91 pers0D8
to restrain
them from fraudulent and otherwise illegal practices in the sale of securities.
or this total of 46 proceedings, 35 were disposed of during the fiscal year,
including 28 cases which resulted in the entry of injunctions against 61 persons.
11
civil proceedings were pending at the end of the year.

1
;~

Since its .inception, the CoJlllllissionhas instituted
a total of 440 civil proceedings and disposed of'429"
Permanent injunctions have been obtained against 940 fu-.
and individuals.

.~

~i
;;«

~
~

"Ht

j

l~

Data with respect to civil cases and appellate proceedings, including
description of all civil proceedings commencedor pending during the fiscal
j
....~
the status at the close of the year, are included amongAppendix Tables 20
Some
of the more important and interesting
of these eases are described in
-:'[

:1
,i'f
?o~

,.,

a brief
year and
to 31•
more de-.

tail below.

'.~

-fi

In.junctive Actions Instituted
by the Commission.
~~

~

,~
Typical of the ingenious schemes to secure public investment in business enter~ prises without complying with the registration
provisions of the Securities Act of
'71 1933 was that involved in Securities and Exchange CommisSionv, Bailey. YIn'
this
'~lcase the defendants were enjoined from selling investment contracts camounaged as
sales of land upon which tung trees were to be developed.

1

'f '

Mother unorthodox form of securities 19'aS involved in Securities and Exchange
Commissionv, George Washington Memorial Park Cemetery Association.
'!he defendants
~ in this case had acquired unimproved ruz:al land which they divided into cemetery lots
:~:and sold to purchasers in large quanti ties on an investment basis representing that
~ cemetery lots constituted a sound investment.
A large portion of the purchase price
1was to be used by the Association to make a number of contemplated improvements. To
facilitate
resale, the Association maintained a resale department through 1dlich pur.~ chasers might dispose of their lots.
'!he Commission took the position that the factor
J of setting aside a portion of the purchase price for improvements designed to ~ce
.11 the value of the land, coupled with the sale of multiple units and the resale pronsion,
.-~made the scheme merely a form of. investment contract.
~
.
.~
In Securities and Exchange Commissionv. HughB. Monjar, W the Conmdssion charged
_~ the defendants with selling securities
to members of the MantJ.eClub in excess of
$1,340,000 in connection with transactions described by the defendants as "personal

27

::t

l

,.

i

j --------------------------------

"

~1--.1IAdjusted figure.

ry

41 F. Snpp, 647 (S.D. na.

-~~:
11

D. N.J.

; !JJ

D. Uass.

1941).

Consent judgment against

Consent judgment entered January 26, 1942.
eight defendants entered April

Pending at close of fiscal

year.

a,

1942.

III!'
tli

-38loaneD to Hugh B. llonjar, organizer and head of the Club. The Commission contended
that among the securities
involved were "receiptsD issued to the Club members and
"subscription
cards" and other instruments solicited
fran the members in connection
with the "personlll loans.-

21

In the case of securities
and Eltchange Caamission v. S. W. Funk,
the Oaamiasion filed a complaili£ to eJijoin the we or prorit=Sharing
agreements relating
to oU
and gas leases.
The proceeds fran the sale of these securities,
which the defendants
tenned ftmutual escrow agreements, n were used to finance the drl1J ing of a test well
within the area embraced by the leases.
In the first civU case involving Section 12 (h) of the Public Utility Holding
Act, pertaining
to political
contributions,
the Camnission obtained a consent
judgment enjoining Utah Power & Light ComP8l11"
from further violating
that section.

Company

y

Appellate

Litigation

under the Holding CCII1PaDl
Act.

Be'tween Me,y 15 and June 6. 1942. several of the largest hoJ.diDg caJIP8llYsystems in
the country filed pe~itions to review orders of the COIIIIl1ssionreqtdr1ng either geographical. intelU"ation or corporate simpli.fication
or both under Sections 11 (b) (1) and 11
(b) (2) of the Pub.u.e UtUity 110~d1ng CCIDP8l11"
Act of 1935. 7/ These petitions
represented the first major challenge of the constitutionality
01 the H01cling Com~
Act
since the original. fiood of litigation
during the early' days of that statute,
lIhich
terminated when the 8upl'eme Court su1Jtained the constitutionality
of the registration
provisions in Electric Bond and Share Co. v. securities
and Exchange Commission, 305
of
U. S. 419 (1938).
ttter
the ciose or the fiscal year the Second CircUit
Appeal.s af'finned the CClllldssionI s integration
order against The North American canPaDl, ~
 and the Third Circuit Court affirmed the simplification
order against The
Camnon1iealth and Southern Corporation.
Many other companies have not BOught review,
but have complied with, or are in the process of complying with, COIIIldssion orders
under the integration
and simplification
sections.

court

21

Another group of cases during the year involved petitions
to review Canmission
orders d~
app1ications by public utUity
companies to be declared not subsidiaries of certain registered
h01ding companies.
Each of these orders was affirmed
either during the fiscal year or after its close.
In addition, the Supreme Court,

¥!I

21

S.D. Cal.

W

D. Utah.

']/

Columbia 011 & Gasoline Co. (C. C. A. 3d); Un:1ted Gas~rovement
Co. (C. C. A. 3d);
Camnonwaatth
southern c0it
(C. C. A. 3d); NorthrIcan
Co. (C. C. A. 2d);
Wash1iig1k)nRiliway
l!#18ct
Co. (App. D. C.) 1

y

21

Consent judg1nent entered

ana

2d, Jan. 12; 194j).

and Exchange COIIIIIliss:Lon,
133 F. (2d)

Ccmmonwea1thand Southern Corporation

!£/ Pacific

----

1941~

ana

North .American Co. v. Securities

F. (2d)

Sept.

v. securities

148 (C. C. A.

and. 'EEchange Commission,

(d.d. A. 3a;-MarCh31, 1943).

Gas and E1ectric Co. v. Securities
and Exchange Camnissic:P! 127 F. (2d)
L 9th, APr. 14, 1942); rehearIng granted and case Still. penditlg at
close of fiscal year; Hartford Gas. Co. v. Securities
and Exchange Commission,
l29 F. (2d) 794 (C. C. A. 2d, JUli 16, 1942); PUblic sei"Vice~rporab.on
or New
trsN
v. Securities
and Exchange CClIIIII1ssion,129 F. (2d) 899 (d.
A. 3d, Aug.
,
42); :&edcan Gas
Electric
v. Securities
and Exchange Commission,

178

_

(d.

c.

F. (2d) _

ana

co.

(APP. D. t., Feb. I, 1943).

c.

-39on October 13, 1941, denied a petiiiion ror a writ of certiorari
to rev;i- the preri.ou
year's judgment of the Sb;I;h Circuit sustaining the CaIIIl1ssionls order deD;yiDg a siIdlar pei;i tion by Detroit Edison Company. 11/
.
In NewYork Trust Co. v. Securities and Exchange CaDmission, l31 F. (2d) 'Z14 (C.
C. A. 2d, Nov. 12, 1942), which was pending at the close or 'the fi.8cal yeG', the court
subsequent4r affirmed a CCIIIDi8sionholding that the debenture ho1dera ot UDited Light
and Power Canpanywere-entitled to the face value of their debentures aDd not to a
redemption premiumwhen the debentures were retired PUrsuant to an order of the ee.-.
miss~on under the corporate simplification
requireDents of section 11 (b) (2).
In Morgan Stanley and Co. v. securities
and Exchm!e CCllllllissiall,126 F. (2d) 325
(C. c. A. 2d, Feb. 20, 1942), the court 81'fii'iiied the CiinisSiOii's ortler 1D the Dqton
Power and Light Canpan;y,case. 12/ Rule U-12F-2, now superseded by the competitive
bidding requiremeiits or RU:l.eu-3i1, prohi~1ted the payment of au;y 1nierwr1ter's rae on
security issues if the underwriter stood in such a relation with ~be issuer tba~ -there
is liable to be or to have been an absence of ann.'s-length bargaining with respect to
the transaction. II The Camnissionl s decision denied Morgan Stanley- a $100,500 underwriting fee which it would have received tran Dayton Power & Li.3ht it there had been
no viola1iion of the rule.
In Chenery Corporation v. securities
and Exchange ee:-.is~
128 F. (2d) 303
(App. D.
Apr. 27, 1942), the
reversed anord8r or tEtee-ission
holding that
preferred stock purchased by ce1'tain members of the JDanagElDent
ot Federal Water service
Corporation while they were engaged in formulating and presenting to the CclIIID1asion
plans of reorganization should not be allowed to participate
1D the reorganized eeeporation on a parity with other preferred stock. 13/ The Camniss:ioDhad .required those
members to surrender that stock to the reorganized companyat cost plus 4% interes1; •

.After the close of the fiscal year the Supreme Court of the United states aff1med the.
judgment of the Court of Appeals on the ground that. the Comiasionl s order had been
erroneously based on "general equitable principlesn apart .fran the statute.
The
Supreme Court directed that the case be remanded to the Cammi.ss1on
ror action Dot 1nconsistent with the Supl'8lll8 Court IS op'1n1on.

c.,

court

W

Crimi nal Proceedings
~e statutes administered by the COIIIII11ssion
provide that evideDce ot violations
be transnitted
to the Attorney General, who, in his discretion, -.;q institute
criminal proceedings.
It is the policy or the CClllllissionto make a thorough investigation of alleged violations of the Acts and to consider caretully whether the evidence obtained merits criminal prosecution.
If violations of the penal provisions are
indicated, the results of such investigation
and the supporting erldence are referred
to the Department of Justice.
Thereafter, if criminal proceedings are insti1iuted, the
members ot the CommissionI s staff who participated
in the investigation
assist the
United States Attorneys in the preparation of the cases tor presentation to the grand
jury, in the trials whi~h follow, and in the preparation of appellate briefs.
may'

Where evidence does not warrant prosecution under the Acts admin1 stered by the
Commission, but violations ot other statutes are indicated, the evidence is subnitted
to the appropriate state or federal agency. This results in the reference of quite a
few cases to the postal authorities,
to state commissions or other local en1"orcement
authorities.

W

Detroit Edison Co. v. Securities

W 8 S.
W

u. •

Comrlssion, 119 F~ (2d) 730 (C. C.

618.

E. C. 950, Holding Company Act Release No. 2693 (1941).

Holding Canpany Act Release No. 2635 (Sept. 24, 1941).

14/ Securities

-

and Exch;,e

A. 6'£h, May12, 19~), cert denIed, JU

1943).

and Exchange COIIIIIlission
v. Chenery Corporation,

f!fl L. Ed.

411 (Feb. 1,

- 40 Up to July 1" 1942" the Commission had referred to the Department of Justice 378
cases, including 49 cases wlrl.ch were referred during the past fiscal. year.
Since the
organization or the CCIIIIII1.ssion
a total. of 2,035 defendants have been indicted in 306
cases" including 'Zl cases which had been referred to the Post Office Department. During the past year 1nd1ct.-nts were returned against 183 defendants.
Convictions have
been obtained against 885 defendants in 216 cases, representing 91.3 percent of the 259
cases which have been disposed of as to principal. defendants since the inception of the
Commission. During the past fisca1 year 142 defendants named in 44 cases were convicted.
Eight defendants hae been convicted on indictments
Caum1ssian invest1gatiODS.
One defendant was acquitted.
The follOldng tab1e shOlrS the canparative statistics
ceedings in cases de'9'el.oped by the Commission:

Huaber of
cases
referred

'III""

Year ended June 30

to Depart-

Numberof
defendants
indicted

ment of
Justice

1934 ••••••••••••••
1935 ••••••••••••••
1936••••••••••••••
1937••••••••••••••
1938••••••••••••••

7
28

32
186

46

395

44

1939 .•.....•••••..

51

233
253
327
232
194
183

36

1940 ••••••••••••••

65

1941 •••••••....••.

52
49

1942••••••••••••••
Tota1 ••••••

W

Yl8

!I
!I

2035

charging perjury
with respect

!I

to criminal

Numberof defendants
convicted
As a resUlt
of plea of
By verguilty or
dict
nolo contendere
1
18

76
73

71
73

9? a/

SO!!:

103
592

if

4
4
29
50
24
35
52
52

arising out

or

pr0-

Total.

5

22

!I.
!I
!I.

105
123
95
108
149
132 a/

!I

.lily

146y

293

885

!IAdjusted figure.
EI In addition, there

were referred by the CODIIDission
to the Post Office Department 27
cases wlrl.ch resulted in the return of indictments included in the total number of
defendants ind1.cted.

Up to July 1" 1942" the Commission had caused to be instituted
proceedings against
19 defendants .for criminal contempt of court orders which had been obtained by the Commission.
Of this number 13 were .found guilty.
One of these cases is now awaiting decision
by the court.
A brief description of the criminal cases pending during the year ended June 30~ 1942,
showing their status on that date, is set forth in Appendix Tables 23, 24 and 27. A brief
discussion of saDe of the 1IIOreimportant cases follows:

,

.

SECURITIES
ACTOF 1933.-Schemes to defraUd uncovered in the en.torcement of this Act
are ot iDfiiiIte varIetj'.
Prosecutions during the year involved a 1arge-scal.e cemetery
pranotion in lIaine (U. S. v. Paul F. Cassidy et al); a pecan orchard enterprise in Southern

-41Louisiana (U. S. v. R. B. Broury et ano.); a popcorn vending maebine<DJJ.P8ZlY
in Ohio
(u, s. v. F. E. Backmeier et a:1 ; an automotive patent venture in Los Ange~e8 (u. S. v.
O~LundenU8
et ano.); an oil and gas lease promotion covering land in Texas'""'iiiir
Malians. (U. S. v. H. R. Edwards); a mining canp~ in Colorado (U. S. v. Amos Do1m8 et
al); and aii""'Iiiaustria:I pi&tit In Carrollton, Ohio (U. S. v. Z. A. GiI'Sirt et 81). EV8ii
TEe religious beliefs and social proclivities
of prospective iIivestors have been utUized as a basis for promotional ventures which were made the subject of prosecution.
For example, there is the Uriversal Order of P1enocrats in Chicago (n. S. v. C. F. Darts
et al); and the Mantle Club, centering in Wi1lIIingtonand fanning out-a!I"""over the country
(U. S. v. H. B. Monjar at al).

Brti:P

Many of these cases involved nation-ride
solicitation
of investments.
In the
case, in which convictions were obtained in Oklahomaand five-year prison sentences
posed, more than $700,000 had been obtained by the defendants from about 1,400 investors
residing in many different
states.
In the MOnt;ar case, involving the Mantle C~ub, a
socio-fraternal
organization,
investments had
en obtained from people residing from
Baltimore, Maryland to Portland, Oregon. In the Downs case, the stock of a mining CeDpany was sold in almost evwy state of the Union,a:B'Well as in the District of Columbia
and "in Canada. The defendants were tried and convicted in federal court at Denver.

T he current prosecutions ane.iuded a number invo~ving efforts to evade the prov1s1QD8
of the securities
laws by casting the enterprise into a form calculated to appear to be
something other than an investment in securities
as defined by the Act. For example, in
the Broom case it was made to appear that the investors were purchasing pecan orchard
acreage; an the Backmeier case that they were purchasing vending machines; in the Davis
case 'tn8't 'they were sUbscribing to membersh1.ps10 a <UrtneJ.y inSpired farm prOgram; aDCl
in the Monjar case that they were contributing to some transcendental program tor the
moral, as well. as the financial,
benefit of the members of the Mantle Club.
Also during the fiscal year a large number of convictions obtained in similar case8
were affirmed by the appellate courts.
These included the affirmance of convictions 1n
Seattle for fraud in the sale of oil and gas leases (J. F. S:i:monset a1 v. U. S.); convictions in Denver for fraud in the sale of stock of a cement comp~ (E. s:-Gites v.
stock of a
U. S.; C. S. Rice v. U. S.); a conviction in Detroit for fraud in the ~aIe
comp-any matCiiigbeer barrels (J. K. Edlin v. U. S.); convictions in California for the
sale of oil leases, and interests
therein, onproperties
in California CA. Atherton et al
v. U. S.); a conviction for fraud in the sale of notes and trade acceptances
hi a
whiskey rectifying
company in Florida (A. F. Fisher v. U. S.); a conviction for frauduS. Holmes v. U. S~); a conlent sale of securities
of a mortgage company in Nebraski'l't.
viction in NewMexico for the sale of stock in an insurance shares corporatIOii"TS. C.
Pandolfo v. U. S.); and the conviction in NewYork of a certified
public accountiii:E""?or
complicity ~

fraudulent sale of stock of an industrial
service canp~
(ll. H. White
: v. U. S.).
In many of these cases onl.v a few of the defendants appealed.
In 811 of these
: cases 'the cunvic'tions were affirmed trr 'the appella'te courts.

or

iSm

SECURITIES
EXCHANGE
ACTOF 1934. Of the more outstanding of 'tne prosecutions duri.ng
the past year Which arose from investigations
under the 1934 Act, three :involved stock
market manipulations.
In U. S. v. Ery KehO!ket ale convictions were obtained in NewYork
on charges of manipulating-nitlNew York Stoc EXChange market for the commonstock of
Standard Commercial Tobacco Companyin order to permit the defendants to unload large
blocks of the stock upon the unsuspecting public investors.
It was charged that this 'W8S
accanplished by means of the well mown manipulative devices of wash sales, matched orders,
, and "touting" of the stock.
Similar Ill8I1:ipulative activity,
this time on a regional stock
. exchange, was :involved in U. S. v. R~ond R. T~
where a prison sentence of approximately two years was impose<IOil TaylOFfor violS! ona involving the market on the Detroit
Stock Exchange for stock of Mid-West Abrasive Com:pany. In U. S. v. David Smart et
, the manipulation involved a well
publishing concern, E8<iUIre-coronet,
C<mv1e, tiona 1'1ereobtained in Chicago against executives of the publishing concern and securities

.
:
;
.
;
:

1

mown

me.

aJ..,

-42brokers of If... York City, all of whomwere charged with conspiring to raise artificiall.y the
price of the cClllpany'sstock on the NewYork Curb Exchangein order to unload at the manipulated prices 200,000 shares of stock belonging to two of the defendants.
Another extremel3' important case which arose under the 1934 Act was that of ~.
v.
Russell W. McDermott,a securities broker of Indianapolis, whowas convicted of violations
of the margin rUles, fraud in over-the-counter transactions in securities with his own
customers, and fraud perpetrated by means of excessive trading in a discretionar;y account.
During the ;year the conviction of G. A. Gantz, a securities broker of St. Louis, on charges
1Ib1chinvolved operation of bis blleiness 1Ibile insolvent and unauthorized 118e of customers'
money, was affirmed b;y the Circuit Court; of Appea1s.
OTHER
ACTS. Convictions were obtained during the year against UnionEl.ectric Com~
on charges of maJdngpolitical. contributions, madeun1aIrf'ul. by Section 12 (b)
of
of the Public Utility Holding ComP8lV' Act of 1935. Louis H. Egan, former president of the
cClllp8DT,
W'&8 found guiltY' of conspiracy to violate the same section, which makesit unlaIrtu1 for a holding coBrp&l\1
or subsidiary thereof to make political. contriwtions.
'!be comp8II1' wsa fined 180,000 and Eganwas 8EI1tencedto two years' imprisonment, in addition to
is a subsidiary of '!be North AmericanCanpany.
a fine of 110,000. UnionElectric ~
'!'he 1Dd1ctlleDtcharged the defendants with setting up a "slush fond" acCumul.atedthrough
kick-bBcka from legal. fees, pqaents to contractors and insurance agents, and the padding
of expense accounts.

Jl1~m

I-

The cCll1T.l.ction
of F);-ank J. Boehm, former vice president of Union Electric Company,on !.
dharges of perjury"was affirmed by the Circuit Court of Appeals, and the SupremeCourt
The conviction was based upon perjury cqmmitted by Boehm while testidenied certiorari.
fJ1ng before officers of the Coaaission in an investigation involving alleged violations of c
the anti-political.
contribution section of the 1935 Act.
l~
'!'be appeal. of HowardG. Hopson, former president of the Associated Gas & Electric Com-;)
.~
pany, was dismissed during the past year. He had been convictad of fraud in connection
with the operation of the huge Associated Gas & Electric System.
An indictment was returned against one of the largest of the investment companiesfor ;(
;'
an alleged fraud in the sale of 215,000 investment certificates in the face amountof
$600,000,000 through an organization which extended into at least twenty-nine states.
The ~
indictment alleged that the defendants made.use of deceptive financial statements, concealed artificial. -.rite-ups of securities values, manipUlatedtrust funds, engaged in
The indictment was returned in
stock market manip1l.ation, and operated while insolvent.
v; Fidelity Investment Association et al.)
Detroit.
(~.

An appeal during the year involved charges of defrauding an investment comp~ by a
controlling person, Wallace Groves, 'Whoseconviction 'Wasaffirmed by the SecondCircuit
Court of Appeals. The indictment had charged him. with defrauding the General Investment
CclmpaD;r in connection with sales to it of its own securities and paymentof fictitious
ca.missions on transactions pretended to be beneficial to the company. The conviction of
George S. Groves was reversed. The SupremeCourt denied certiorari to Wallace Groves.
COMPIAINTS AND INVESTIGATIONS
Doring the fiscal year ended June JQ.., +942. the COlIIDission
received approximatel3'
11,638 items of mail classified as .caapla1.n1i-8nforcemenT.it• The major part; of this mail
consisted of letters from the general public seeld.ng information, complaining of fraudulent
or other illegal practices, and seeld.ne various types of aid. The COlIIIlission
has carefully
considered and replied to every inquiry sent in by the public and investigated every
~

complaint over which it has jurisdiction.
:~
i

-
 43The complaint correspondence is a fruitful. source of information far the C<lIW1 es10DJ
it is mainly ftoClll this source that the C<lIIIIIissionobtains important 1.eads on securities
in the investment fie1.d are obtained b.1 the
vio1.ations.
other c1.ues to irregularities
Commission from. investigations
made by'its own staff ar from other governmental. or
vo1.untary agencies.
'!he following chart gives sane indication of the extent of the Coamission's investigatory
activities:

.

.

Investi:
: gations
: and 1.egal.
cases
pending
Jul;r 1.,
: 1.941

.
...

..
.
.

Investigations

..
..

:

Pre1.iminar;y

Docketed

!I

EI

Total.

.
..

Investigations
initiated
or or
docketed
July 1.,
1.941
to
June 30,
1.942

:

1.4.3
489

.
:
..

1.61.

J09

:

632

:

!I Investigations

.. Investi-

carried

470

Investigations and 1.ega1.
Pending as of
gations
cases,
and 1.egal
Ju];y 1., 1.942
cases
c1.osed (or:
Legal.
Total.
i changed to:
cases
(civil
docketed
Investicases)
gations
Investiand erim:. .Juq 1.,
1na1.) degaMons
and
Lega1
vel.oped
1.941
Cases
from into
vestigaJune 30,
: 1942
:
tions
:
:

.

,

..

.
.

.

..
.c
.
...
.

1.85

257

442

..

ll9

1.1.9

380 g/
499

161.

.

d/

161

54J.
660

on through correspondence and limited field work.

W Investigations assigned to field investigators.
£I Inc1.udes 243 informal. and 137 formal docketed investigations.
21 Includes 37 informal. and 124 formal. docketed investigations.
Through these investigations,
and with the helpful assistance of such other agencies,
the Commission has compiled a very extensive Securities Vio1.ations File which serves as a
clearing house for information which is made available to those officials
and agencies
direct1y concerned with the eradication of illegal practices in the securities field.
As
of June 30, 1942, the Conmission had assembled data concerning 41.,065 persons and. corporations against whom. State or Fe_dera1action has been taken in connection with the sale of
securities.
During the past fiscal year approximately 5,170 items of info~tlon
pertaining to existing files and. 3,134 new names were added to those files.

-44INTERPRETATIVE

AND ADVISORY SERVICE

The Commission bas always recognized that the technical nature of the statutes it
adm; ni sters requires an interpretati va and advisory service by the Commissionto provide attorneys and the general public with prompt advice concerning problems arising
under these statutes.
Inquiries

are handled. by correspondence as well as personal

and telephone

cont'erences •
The jtn"isdiction ot the Commissiondoes not extend to private disputes of a civil
nature arising under the securities
laws. Therefore, the Commission cannot advise
litigants
concerning the prosecution or defense in such cases. Where a civil suit between private parties has involved a disputed question of law under the Acts administered by the Commission, however, the Commission has on occasion tiled a brief with
the court as amicus curiae in order to advise the court of its interpretation
of the
law as the agency administering it.
A.CTIVITIES

OF THE COMMISSION IN THE FIELD OF ACCOUNTING AND AUDITING
i

Eftect

of the War Etfort

During the past year, accountants have been faced with many new and serious problems arising from the war effort and the earlier Nati\mal Defense program. The Commission likewise, because of the importance which it attaches to financial statements,
has had to give caref'ul consideration to these problems and to the need f'or all
appropriate adjustments.
The Commission, in commonwith the accounting profession,
has oeen especially" interested in the maintenance of appropriate auditing standards.
Fortunately, all concerned are agreed that the high standards of present practice should not be foregone.
has been the loss by most public accounting firms of' much
A principal difficulty
trained personnel to other phases of the war effort.
Furthermore, a similar loss of
accounting personnel by private business, coupled, in many instances, with a large new
volume of war work, has meant that internal accounting and auditing controls, upon
which the public accountant must rely in many respects, have in many instances suffered. and hence, with a smaller or less experienced starf,
the public accountant is
otten faced with the necessity of being even more painstaking in his audit.
Members ot the Commission's staft have cooperated with registrants
and public accountants in exploring 'Various means of meeting the situation.
As a result,
registrants have been encouraged to change their fiscal periods trClll a calendar year to a
"natural business" year in an eftort to lessen the year-end burden so as to utilize
the public accountant's services more etticiently.
In A.ccounting Series Release No• .30,
the CaIm1ssion outlined a special procedure and "1IIethodot disclosure to be tollowed
by registrants
and their accountants where the press ot war production prevented normal inventor,y-tak1ng.
It has also been indicated that lack at personnel could provide
a proper basis tor requesting an extension
tiJlle tor til1Dg amnaJ reports with this
OCIB1ssion. Study' ot these problems is being cont~
and informal conferences are
held as occasion warrants with individual accountants and with the appropriate caam1ttees ot professi~
societies.

or

The ('.anmission has also cooperate4 with various Federal war agencies through
sultation
and through utilisation
of its expert help for specialized work.
Cooperation with Professional

c0n-

Societies

The CoIaission has sought to cooperate with the accounting profession and to add
its tull influence to :that of the professional
societies
and others in a joint efrort
to maintain and raise accounting aDd auditing standards.
As heretorore,
the Gamlissian, in its praaul.gation ot mles or opinions on accounting atters,
has, wherever

- 45 practicable" invited the ecements or suggestions of other Federal and State agencies
interested in accounting, of committees of professional societies, and of other interested persons • Reciprocally, the Camnission has been invited to offer suggestions
or commentson proposed actions or bulletins of these organizations.
The past year
has produced much Bratifying evidence as to the effectiveness of these activities.
Professional

Conduct

While the Commissionhas cooperated with the accounting profession to secure a
commonobjective of high professional standards, yet it has, as it must, reserved to
itself the right to invoke sanctions against accountants who wilfully or carelessly
violate its rules.
During the past year the Commissionfor the first time found it
necessary to invoke against an accountant the sanctions found in Rule II (e) of its
Rules of Practice.
In In the Matter of AbrahamH. Puder, et al.
the Commission,
on the basis of stipulated facts, issued an order suspending Puder and the firm of
Puder and Puder from practice before the Commissionfor three months. In In the r1attar of Kenneth N. Logan
the accountant was denied the right to practice before
the Commissionfor sixty days.

W,

W,

Accountin:; and Auditing
Several opinions involving accounting or auditinG matters were issued by the
Commissionduring the year. Of these, the case of outstanding significance was In the
T:atter of Associated Gas and ~lectric Comoa
a delisting proceeding under Section 19 a
2 of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934. The findings and opinion in
this case contain an extensive criticism of various accounting practices followed in
the financial statements of the registrant and of certain aspects of the certificates
furnished by Haskins & Sells.

W,

Other opinions under the Securities Act of 1933 and the Securities Exchange Act
of 1934 dealt with the independence of the certifying accountant W'; the adequacy of
the representations
made in an accountant's certificate
and the failure of financial statements to conform to sound accounting principles.?:Q/
In addition, many
of the findings and opinions under other Acts administered by the Commission,particularly the Public utility
Holding CompanyAct of 1935, included discussion and decision
of varied accounting issues.

W;

Informal Consideration of ACCountin~ob1ems

!tused in the Case of IiidlV!duat

Re S£ran:ts

As in the past, the greatest part of the tiommission's accounting and auditing acti vi ties stems from the examination of financial statements filed by particular registrants.
Deficiency memoranda,issued against more than half of the financial

12/
W

Securities

121

Securities

Exchange Act of 1934, Release No. 3073 (1941).

Accounting Series Release No. 28 (1942).
Exchange Act

at

1934" Release No. 32S5A(1942).

W
12/

In the 11atter of Automatic Telephone Dialer( Inc.,
Securities Act of 1933, Release No. Z736 1941).

?:Q/ In the 11atter of Condor Gold Inning COmo
any, Securities

Exchange Act of 1934,
Release rIo. 3196 (1942); In the !'fatter of Canstock-Dexter 1'11nes,Inc.,
Securities Act of 1933, Release No. 2691 (1941).

-46statements currently filed, have continued to play an important role in securing satisfactory financial statements for investors.
Also, accounting am auditing problems
have been the subject
of innumerable informal conferences betw.een the Commission's
staff and representatives
of particular
registrants.
These conferences have proved to
be an expeditious means of resolving difficult
or unusual questions with respect to
which no specific rules have been issued or the application of existing rules is
uncertain.
SOLICITATION
OF PROXIES,CONSENTS
ANDAUTHORIZATIONS
The Congress, three times, bas in effect directed the COIIIIlissionto adopt rules
governing the solic! tation or proxies. 1J/ The C~ssion'
s proxy rules, which' are
contained in Regulation X-14, require certain information to be made available +.e
security holders whose proxies, consents or authorization
are solicited.
During the fiscal year the Commission examined both the preliminary and final
proxy material with respect to 1,655 solicitations
and in each case commentedon the
In many cases it ~ed
revised
material to the persons making the solicitation.
drafts of prelimin.ary material.
Aside from. the initial
material, 333 pieces ot: supplemental or "follow-up" soliciting
material
were received and examined.. In addition to the regular examination which is made of all proxy material filed, the Camnission continued its policy of furnishing every ass.istance to persons who desired to obtain intonnal opinions or suggestions in advance of the filing date.
REPORTS
OF OFFICERS,DIRECTORS,
PRINCIPALSECURITY
HOLDERS
and CERTAIN
OTHER.
AFFILIATED
PERSONS
The general purpose and scope of the ownership reporting requirements, prescribed
Section 16 (a) of the Securities
Exchange Act of 1934, 17 (a) of the Public Utilit.1
Holding CompanyAct of 1935 and 30 (f) of the Investment CompanyAct of 1940 and the
Commission's rules and regulations promulgated thereunder, as well as the Commission's
procedures for obtaining the filin~ of r8quired reports, examining them for compliance
with the statutes and the rules, obtaining amended reports where necessary and the
publication of information contained in the reports, have been described in the Sixth
Annual Report of the Commission, pp. 180, 182 and previous annual reports.

b.r

Numberof ownership reports of officers.
holders. and certain other affiliated
Description

directors,
Drincipal sewi tx
persons filed and examined.

of Report

Original rep orts-Securi ties Exchange Act
(4) 13,196, (5) 222, (6) 1,650
Amendedreports-Securities
Exchange Act
(4) 1~256, (5) 26, (6) 62
Original reports-Holding
CompanyAct
(U-:17-1) 155, (0-17-2) 517
Amendedreports-Holding
CompanyAct
(0-17-1) 10, (U-17-2) 60
Original reports-Investment
CompanyAct
(N-30F-1) 315, (U-30F-2) 1,019
Amendedreports-Investment
CompanyAct
(N-30F-l) 39, (N-30F-2) 73

Fiscal

Year 1942

15,068
1,344

Figures in parentheses are Form numbers, thus (4) is Form 4.
Figures for previous years are ShC7ifIl
in the Seventh Annual Report,
pp. 236-7.

kif

Section 14 (a) Securities
Exchange Act of 1934.
Section 12 (e) Public Utility Holding Company Act of 1935.
Section 20 (a) Investment CompanyAct of 1940.

fl72
70

- 47Form 4 is used tor report1Dg changes in ownership of equity secur1:t1es; Fona 5 for report1Dg ownersh1.p of equity secur:l ties at the t1me an issuer for the first t:iJle secures registration
ot any equl.ty secur1t7 on a national securities excbJmgeJ Form 6 for reporting
omersh1.p of equity securities
by additional persons who ~

otficers.
directors or
pr1nc1paJ. stockholders;
Fom. U-17-l tor reporting ovmership ot securities
at the time a
holding CCJIIIP8ZlT becomes registered
or an additional person becomes an officer or director;
Form U-17-2 tor reporting changes in ovmershJ.p of ut1l1ty secur1t1es; Fom N-30F-l for
reporting ownership of securities
at the time a closed-end mvestaent cOlllp8!V'
becomes
registered or an additional person assumes any or specified. rel.ationsh1.PSJ and Form N-30F-2
tor-reporting
changes in ownership or securities
ot closed-end investment companies.
PUBLICATIONS
Public Announcements
Under the various Acts it is the Commission's duty to publish its decisions and
generally to inform Congress and the public of its activities.
Its releases are classified into various categories so that a person may receive the material relating only to
those phases of the COJIIIIission's work in which he is interested.
The Ccmd.ssian has made
an exhaustive check ot its mailing lists to elim..lnate those no longer desiring specified.

material.
The announcements issued during the past fiscal year included 250 releases under the
Seeurit1es Act ot 1933; 320 under the Secur.i.ties Exchange Act of 1934; 780 under the Pub11.c Utility Holding Com~
Act of 1935; 153 under the Investment CompaDy'
Act of 1940;
and 13 under the Investment Advisers Act of 1940. In addition,
two releases concerned
the Commission's activities
in corporate reorganizations
and six were issued under the
Trust IDdenture Act ot 19.39.
The following

is a partial. classification

of the announcements by subject matter:

Opinions and orders

936

Reports on Court actions

III

Statistical

138

,data

SUrvey series

19

other Publications
Decisions

and Reports of the Camnission:

Buckram-Bound:
Volume 6--october I, 1939 to March 31, 1940
Volume 7-April
1, 1940 to August 31, 1940
Volume 8-September 1, 1940 to March 31, 1941
Report to Congress on the Study of Investment Trusts and InveBbDent Compan1 es:
Part Four, Chapter II:
Econauic Significance of Investment. eompmies
Part Five:
Concluld.ons aDd RecCllllDlendations
(The decisiaDB of the COJIIIIIission
and the reports to Congress on the
study of InvestmEllt Trusts and Investment Canpaldes are tor sa1e at the
GoverDlll8Dt. Printing Otfice, Washington. D. e., and a price list will be
fumished upoD request.)

-
 48Twenty-four semimonthly issues of the Official SummarT of stock
Transactions and Holdings of Officers, Directors and Principal.
Stockholders
List of Ovel'-the-Count.er Brokers am Dealers Regwith the CC8IisB1011as of August 31, 1941

An Alphabetical

istered

List of Secur1Ues Traded 011Exchanges UDder the Securities Exchange
Act of 1934, as of June 30, 1941, and as or December 31, 1941, together with the SUpplelDEl1tsthereto
Report on secondary"

Distributions

of Exchange Stocks

(A canp1ete l18t of the Caamissionls publicatiOl18, the Ru1es of
Practice or the Guide to Forms w:l.ll be sent upon request made to
the office of the CaamisB10nin Philadelphia,
PI..)
INSPECTION

OF REGISTERED INFOHMATION BY TIlE PUBLIC

Copies of all public information on fUe with the Ccmn:1ssion, appearing in registration statements, applications,
reports, declarations,
am other public documEnts, are
avaUab1e for inspection in the Pub11.cReference Roomof the CCIIIIII1ssion
at Philadelphia,
Pa, During the past fiscal year more than 8,667 JIISIIlbersof the public visited this
Public Reference Roomseeking su.ch information, and thousands of letters
and telephone
calls were received requesting registered
inf'ormation.
'lhe CClIIIIII1ssion,
through the facilities provided for the sale of public registered
information, filled more than 2,127
orders for photocopies of material, involving 1'57,084 pages.
Insofar as practicable,
the CaJlDission has sought to make some of the public regIn the NewYork
istered 1nf'01'Il&tionfiled 'With it available in its regional offices.
Regional Office at 120 Broadway, facilities
are provided for the inspection of certain
public information on file with the CCIIIIII1ssion.This inc1.udes copies of (1) "SUchapplications for permanent registration
of seeur1 Ues on al1 national securities
exchanges,
except the New York stock Exchange and the Nell'- York Curb Exchange, as have received final
examination in the CCIDIII1ssion,
together with copies of supplemental reports and amendments
thereto,
(2) anmls] reports filed pursuant to the provisicms of Section 15 (d) of the
registered
Securi ties Exchange Act of 1934, as amended, by issuers that have securities
UDder the Securities Act of" 1933, as amended. During the past fiscal Year 10,241 members
of the public visited the Hell' York Office Public Reference Roan, and more than 3,900 made
telephone calls to this office, seeking registered public information, forms, releases,
and other material.
In the Chicago Hegiona1. Of'1'1.ce,which is located at 105 West Adams street,
there are
available for public inspection copies of applications
for penaanent registration
of securities
on the Chicago exchanges, the HewYork Stock Excbange and the Hell' York Curb Exchange, which have received f'1na1 eVlJrdnation in the Com1ss1cm, together with copies of'
all supplemental reports and JlJ!M!!I'Idments thereto.
During the fiscal
year ended June 30,
1941, more than 3,230 members ot the public requested registered
information, forms, releases, md other .terial.
In each of the Commission's regional offices there are avaUahle for inspection
copies of prospectuses used in public ofterings of securities
ef'fective~
registered under the Securities Act of 1933, as amended. Duplicate copies of applications
for registration of brokers or dealers transacting
bo.siness on over-the-counter
markets, together
with supplemental statements thereto, fUed under the Securities Exchange Act or 1934,
are also available for public inspection in the regional office having jurisdiction
over
the zcne in which the principal. office of the broker or dealer is located.
Also, inasmuch as letters
of not1.tication under Regulation A exempting small issues of securities
from the registration
requirements of the Securities Act of 1933, as amended, mq be
tiled with the regional of'f'iceof the CClIIIIII1ssion
tor the regicm in which the issuer1s
principal. place of business is located, copies of such material are avai] able for inspection at the particular
regional office where it is filed.

-
 49-

I
fiscal ;rear dupli.cate copies of appli~tdc:ms tor registration
of
•
 together with supp1
ntal. statements thereto mad under the
Inves'bDent
Investment
:ri.sers Act of ~94O. have been II8de available tor pml1c 1nspectdon in the
regional off'!
baring jur.l.sd1.c'tiem onrr the scme in which the principal otf'ice of the
1.r:W'estmellt
ser is located.
DurlDg~s1;

There are an11 ah1.e tor 1nspectiem in the ee-dssiem IS san Francisco and C~evelmd
Regional Offices. in which are provided COBp1ete facUit1.es tar _ch registraticm
aDcl
qualifi.cation.
copies of regist.raticm stat.e.mts and appl.1catic:ms for qualiticaticm
of
indentures fiJ.ed at those reg1cma1. of:t1.ces.
Cop1.es of a11 appl.ica't:lc:ms far peDIBD8Il't regls1iraticm or secunties
em national.
securities
exchalJ&es are available for p1bU.c inspecticm at the respective exchmge upon
which the secor1 ties are registered.
PUBLIC HEARIlfGS
,I

The foiloring
statiet1.cs
indicate the mwber of public bear1Dgs held by the ee-1esion f'rClll ~
:J.. ~935 to JaDe 30. 19~:

7-1-35

7-1-40
6-30-'1

~)0-.40

Securities Act of 1933
Secnrities Exch8Dge Act of ~934
Public Ut111t7 Holding Cc.paD;y
Act of 1935
Trost Indenture Act of 1939
InvestmEllt Adrisers Act of 1940
Investment Cc.p&iIl1Act c4 1940
Total.s

m

II

7-1-41
~30-42

Tot&1.s

S
84

689

1'10

l387

355

5U1

98

1Ol8
0
0

199
5
5
84

5

m

10
217

1807

402

'HI

2666

3

0

8

PERSOIIHEL
COJIIII1.ssianerGanson Purcell was elected

Cha:1num of the Cc.d.ss1on

on Januar;y 20.

1942 for the term. expiring June 30. 1942. vice Cha1nIan Edward C. Eicher who resigned.
On June 6. 19~ he 1f8S reappointed
as ee--tssianer
tor the tem exp1r1ng on June 5, 1947.
Commissioner Purcell was reelected Chai.Iwan of the Commissionon June 5, 1942 for the
period ending JuDe 30. 1943.
Ecbmmd

Jr.,

Burke.
of NewYork. was appointed
June 5. 1944 vice Leon Henderson.

CoJmdssioner July 31, 19Q. for the

term expiring

Robert H. O'Brien, of Montana, 1IBS appointed Co1IIDiss1cmer
OIl FebruarT 3, 19~ tor
the term expiring June 5, 1945 vice Edward C. Eicher.
.
The COIIIIIIiss1oners,as of the close of the past fiscal.

year, were

&8

followsl

Purcel1, Ganson, Cha.:1naaD
Healy. Robert E.
Pike, s...er T.
Burke, EdJpnnd, Jr.
O'Brien, lbbert H.
As of the cl.ose of the past fiscal. J881" the personnel of the COIIIIIiss1onCOIlpr1sed
five COJIIIDissianersand 14'51 eJlP1oyees. of 1Ih1.ch
were assigned to the regional offices.
These figures do DOt 1Dc1.ude170 emp'l.oJee8 who bad entered the .uitar.f service and were
carried em the pqrolls :iD a :f'u.rlough sta'tuB.
(As of llIq 21. ~943, the mJaber of employees
in the militar,y service increased to )Q..)

m

-
 50FISCAL AFFAIRS
Unobligated

Ol!llgatians

Appropriations
.Amount

~
8al.ar1es

and Expenses

PriDting and BiDding

$5,380,000

$290,544
71

60,000

1296,621

$5,440,000
Receipts for the Fiscal Year 1942
Character of Fee
Fees for Registration of Secur:Lties
Fees 1D1derTrust Indenture Act
Fees frail Regl.stered Exchanges
Fees for the Sa1e of Photo duplicates
lI1sce1laneous
Total

APPENDIX TABLES FOLLOW

i ,

Balance

Amount

A-I
Table 1.-lIont~

registrations'effective

UDder the 5ecurities
{Aaounts in thousands

ill effecti

ve4

!I-Fiscal;,ear

Act of 1933

eDded JUDe 30,

1942

Y)

of dollars

registered

Proposed

for sale for account

or

iBlItIlIrB

Year aDd IIOnth
. 1Inmber

lumber of
stateMnta

~ror
.tatnents

Jaount

ot iSBU8S

llaIIber
or iB8\lAls

Do1mt.

1941
17

Z7
21
33
25
30
22

648,401
108,230
176,042
154,471
193,416
76,082

13
9
15
17
17
12

19
13
19
19
19
15

290,785
91,086
1.41,561
144,854
186,066

225,171

IIiQ'

13
11

25
13
41
15
13

June

l.4

16

59,259

11
8
16
11
9
12

16
9
36
11
10
13

166,062
52,109
65,271
1ll,647
96,957
57,516

193

281

150

199

J~
Auguat
Septea1ler

l.4
24

october
Noveaber

19
23
17

DeCllllber

61.,246

1942
13
10

Janvarr
hbruary

18

llarch
April

Total

tiacal

Table 2.-T,pe

or

~ar

1942

55,4ffl
86,215

123,059
97,601
2,003,421

_thoc1 ot distri1:lution
aDd group to .00. off'ered-Securi'ties
of securit7,
lssuers-EttectiV84
registered
under the Securities
Act or 1933-ll'1soal
(Amounts in thouaaDds

proposed tor aale tor the aocoant
year aDded June 30, 1942

of dollars)

ot

Type
Ilethoc1 of di.tribution
aDd group to wta. oUered

1,465,160

security
~n
stock

Other'JI
t,pes

161,816

219,63.3

48,374

109,468
52,221
127

41,9Q3
104,519
73,151

44,624

5,375

453,216
238,136
5,575

969,517

3.34,561

.361,858

l43,58O

90,273

39,244

aDd reaala

899,465

.334,561

360,624

137,316

66,964

To public
To BeCUrit)' holders
To .others.

801,060
92,456
5,949

329,186

359,f:$9

93,972
43,344

18,203
48,762

5,375

351
575
1,234

6,265

23,309

39,244

1,234

3,765
2,500

22,737
572

39,244

or

All methods

All
types

distribution

B7 purchase

On best

ef'f'orts

bankers

3.38,411

696,926

982,306
.394,876
87,978

.3.3.3,0.36

-

--

70,052

basis

To publlc
To Becur1 ty holders
To .others.

66,980

3,C!72

-

-

By- issuers
To public
To securit)'
To .others.

lJUBecured
boDd8

1,465,160

To public
To securi t7 holders
To .others.
Through investment

Secured
bollds

holders

Preferred
stock

-

-

-

-

3,750

-

--

-

-

--

-

-

495,643

3,850

335,068

18,236

129,.360

9,129

114,267
299,348
82,029

3,850

92,283
237,785
5,000

li,731
6,377
127

1,023
55,185
73,151

5,379

--

-

3,750

1/ All cla.ts are sho1rl1as of' the eff'ective date of registration
with the exception of issues subject to competitive
of the bidding were made kno1m to the COIIIIIlisslon
bidding, which are included in the period 4uring which the results
by post-eftective
8IIlendment.

'?:I

Rounding off

~

Includes

Mote.-For

figures

certif'icates

earlier

data

has resulted

in slight.

of participation,
see First

dilferences

face-aoount

bet....een the totals

certificates

and

the actual

SUllIS

of the cOIlIponents.

and warrants.

to Seventh .Annua1 Reports of the COIlIIIIission.

.i

A-2

I

:!l ~

'" ~Cl., ~Cl., {' '~~'
'"
~
'"

1

N

>Q

>Q

~
~

!i..

N"

'"
~

1

£'0

on

r:

I ~!'~ ~'"
'"
r: .,;

'".. ~~
~ :8
£'0

4

~

~

I~

-&l

1 '~

•

., ,.

~N •

II

i

j..-,
oj

i
...!

..
1
lil..
~

1: k~

i..

to

~ ~

a~n
8.•

~

co

~

1 ,

c-:."i.

d'"'1..

;;:
1

m~'"

;:t

~

N..

"'~

a~

~~

......

s !

'8&:\'

'"
N

i

~

r: i

"'N

'"

."'. (

'"~ l ~
 ~'"
'"
'" s:;
~ ::f ~

'" ~ ~~' '"
..;
'" i rJ~ '"
~
'" '"
ri

«

N

N

is..
N

~

lit

>Q

a

,

3~~'
.. .. ..
~ .... ~

~

~~'

~ ~

~~

s

1

&:\ ~
ri
ri

q ~g&
t-:.<t

.

, ,

s

~ri

N

N

~

~~i ~°

.0

~
~

~
i i~~~
....

g'"
N

... ~

1N

'"

0

~

...J..

-<

...:!:..

t-

J.l

~
~

II

tl.,

]
-;;
...t:

'011

]
~

..

0"

U

z:

<6""
'"
o- ~ ... !:t '~ ' ~
N

~

e- :i
'"

..
::i

...,

i...

~

0

~

'0

~

'"
£'0
'" '"

>Q"

$
"'. .,=' ~
N
£'0

8

o-

..;

....
ri

&
~.. i.
,

~$~'~'
...f

..;

$
~~
0:.
~ ~
..; ~
N

lit

'"
'"

1

..

~

~

00

co

'"

::l 00'"
0.. ~~
..;

'" '"

lit '"

c-'~

'"
~
'"

NC"\

N

J
!l

.. J
t:..
!

"t:

'"
£'0

00

o-

~


.............. .5
!l 1is

II

!
....
0

e

0

~ ~

'"

ri

'" °~

.........

]

....

$i'~"'~

i i~
,

••

I

I

ee

,

ri

••

g;
'" til

N

a

~ ~ ;:t
oCl.,
~ ~ ~ ~

~
ri

I

~

s

N

~

t

~
N

'"
'"

ll\g

~~

'" ~~
!:t

'"

~ ~ ~

""

00'"

ri

~~~*~~
...... .. i :i

~ ~S:~~~
N

ri

~

...'"

'"

~j

,to

~

1

~

ri

~

~
~

~
~ ~

e-

'"

j

~

B;

~

...

~
~
~

..;

~~
"'00
N

"'~B;....
't ~
~.;~

i $~a

~
~

ri

N

C"\~C"\I

~

l! iii

~

~

...'"
~

'"
q,

'"
'"
£'0

co

i

ri

~""~
~
'"

$ te'
'"
i i

':8

'" ''''~'"
ii.,='
~

'" '"
ri

~

::r

~"

~~
N

'"

g; ~ ~ ~

i

, ,,

N

, ,,,

g

i'"

~

I'

~

~~

~
oS
~ ~0
~ II

II

'"
~

,

I

I

I >Q

sN

I

I

....
0

-o
'" ....'" to~
~5!~~ ""e-'" $:l~
co
~
"'. ~"''''
..~.. "''''0:.
lit
iii
~ ...
'"
£'0
"' ...
00 '"

N"~~

e

....

1

0

e

~
....
~

....0

..
~

....

..
0

!
I.

'"

~
f.

1

Po

..

"
1

e

to

t:
to

....II

....

....0

0

f

""I .. -.. i.. 1i..
1 ..... l- ..
.... ..
i .. ~0

I

....

0

~
....
:l! ~

0

~

~
Z

g

0

~

:II

If

a..

i u

.::I

~

ii

.!

...!

z:

II

~.,
'i

.0

~t

::
a :::.::;
.0...
0 t:
.....

f:.....
... E
1t.<l Q"
~0
80~~~~
~
....0

......!- ...... ..

f

f

z:

0 ...

a

.::I
....

0

., ]~

~

Q

.::I

.... ~

,

!
....... ~f
-;;

t:

t
t..

...~

8
~

]

II

~

I, ,

e
!
..

..

'0

.....

.....: ;i.....
8II
'0

l!I
s::

0
0

III

e
0

.".

]

~N

00

0

....'"

...g

NN

.. j..
~ ~-

0

~~~~lJ --

~
'i

0

~0

z:

~

..
~
..

:;l

~

t:

~
~ .::Ia
~0 ....
.3

3
a

...
0

~ 1=
E'Eli
tl~ I
~
., l II
.,
II: ......
..
~ .... ~~
:l:l:l~~~
..~ ~t: ~.. ~.. 8.. 81
.. ..
-:.. .. 'O....l .!
0

II

ii

ii
II

II

~

..:l

~

e.,.,..

~

....
-;;

..
-fl
'"!~
-...2 It;r
-I
1i ~
..... u
....
...
:I
fl1c
1l

... .......If

~

f

.,

'l!i

a

II

l ll',g a

'0

!
~

i

i

~
0

~

!

i

:l

1l~
....

t:o

.. '"
~~E
- .. i.. !~
....

]
i:!Ul .... 'S .....'"
",~:l()
.B~.E
-;;

f' ..

] il

1:

....'""

'"

t:...,

0

....~ .,

~0

.......fl
~
3
.,

-:;I

...'"

....
0
II

'5

.e

~5
o l!I

~~

;~

jj

..

0

1
II

...~.,

..

8.

]
.<l

i>

..

'"3

..
.. ....
....

II

~ r;:
1:
e

'"

t:
....e

~
-c

~

11..

..

..
J
.... ...
.,
II

..

c.I
~
... i
:::. :l!

A-3
:8'"

...

0000"'..:::1

000

~ 0 ~


k

~

o

o

~ 0000

o

0

..••

co

..
8
'<l

...•
~

...:r
k

::
...
o

...o

+'

J

...

~
....•.. ...

i

...•
o

•.,
...il•
.,~
~~

......::

...
0

< ...
o

~~~~~~~~

~~~~:?f~~~

!:!~!~!~!

.s.s.s.s.s.s~.s
~33~3~33
~~~f;\~~g~
~~~:?f:?;~~~

~~~~k~~~

.s.s.s.s.s.s~.s

8'"
",S
~ "00

"''''

000000

A-4
8.w

11

0 ..

s

f

o

....

..
<;j

II>

..~.. --&
...
00

...

...o

~
.=:
.<I

~o
~

..~ i•.. ij
'¥.. ~ ..
~
•
~
t
'¥..
•
.... [
i

o

o

I

iii

~
•
~o

•

.i•.

<I

o

•
~

.....
...i
j

e..

..
g

H

~
..; .; .;

..

~
...

~

.!'l

...

...

; ;

000

llil!iii
SSS3S.3S.3
~~~f;\~g::s~

~~~~~~~~


I \

...

'" '"

..
~., ..

....'

~

oil! e
~'liLo",

l:

l!;l'tl

A-5
Ol'-"""~s
;f~~~

~~f;;:::?~~~~
O\....:t
..

...

-.()("'\V'\Of'\
...
oil. ..

..

..

<'11-4)"'0

~~S;

....'

~"N"r"('

;f&;"';Q~~'"

..... 0

s

e..
..
s
0

:z:

.,

~e1j8

CD

l:
Jl

!E~
f~"
~ g, i
s
f0

CD

eo ..

I~

'tl<!" ....

.!;~l!....
y a>
6
:z:
o

3 ..~

~

..
.,'"

.,
01

a>

..

~
.d
.,

..
l:I

0

...

a

"'"

....•

..~
0

.

~
~

'"

'"
I

d

....'"

icjiii~'

~''i'iiifi
....

~..

--t'8~~ l'-~

V\~/Il~~<1
~"~t:"i~"~

U'\V\N
O'J ~rl
.-t..o~C"--C"'"\C"'"\
(J'\NNIl'\Nr-i
rotN-

....

r-IIl'\NrtNNV'\l""'\

...o....:tNNOl(\

~..~~" ..~o ..

&i~ ..~o;.~&:~..

O.. N...""l(\OJ

....
N

.. -D

N

N~8;::j&\;Qf;<r~""l'-~""""O~

C""\MMN~r-t

g;~g;&;

~~~fi~~

~

ii-J'jii
le ""...

m"io~iN"i..c>"
l1it';.&i..~~;{Ul,at

o- '"

,.;'

....

::3
0

r-4"~tO"N"~r.ttii

I

:a

110

..."

..

.......

'"..o

&!

..'"
0

....

o'i~-c'~i
~Ul

~'"

N-

r-t"N"

N'"

t,

..
..
~

'".,
....,II
01

s

e
0

eo

.,-f;>
;l;l
,Q~

.i;p

0
0

....01

s.g.,
<:

H

~
~

d

~

{?

::::g""g~

~ooo~~

a!"'@NO@
....1R ::l~

....~~

;::j~~~"'~

eo-o

....

'"

00

~&;..~

~ ~"cj~rl"re"

....

O("\&l'\

U'\

~

co

.. .. .. .. .. ..

i.iii~-~-

.....("\"tr-iNC"'-

C"-NV'\...o"....U"\

&;~~~8~
0'...0"1
-----

-..tmlt\NO'>D
(9'\(1'.Nt--mm

0'0

..

o~::::8

~""';rl"rl"o"

"' ....

.......


~~~ce&;~

i~~~~i

NN~m$'"
~&; g",~
'" -'"

~li'.8~g;!t
NtO
.0'00'(""'\

-"

leS8~V\ ....
r-$
""""N-o",$CSr-

-"

-"

r-t'"

~-Ob::\O~~~
~$Ul"'~--t""Ul
-" '" '" '" '" '" -"'NO~"'$CS'"
~g~ r;\C"\r-t~
till

$

~~~~:::?~

~li'.$g~~~&\

..

""'gt'NCO...o

C'4C"'-NUlt"'\N

lI\f'l'\"'r-tOll'\~O

r-f'r-t--

..

..

..

..

.. ..
~~~~~;!

..

i~iii~

-"

r-f

M...:tMNr-i

r-tr-tr-f

..

~~f;\~~~~~

a

~

..
01

~

~~~~~~~~
:l!21~:l~~! .s
.s.s.s.s
33333333
~~~f;\~~~~

~~~~~~~~

kkkkkl:1kk

.s.s.s.s.s.s.s.s

....:.
.,

;,

....

..'" "k

....
~
~

.,,Q

l~.8

;;'~!31l!

.s~Jl8~~

~
~

...a.,.,

..
.. ,
~ 3
~

,e '"
(/)

.::i

,2;::lli'.le;;\::\
.. .. ~
r-Ulr-~"'UlO~
f;\8~
~~~O'
N."r..
r-t.. r-t...

..

.!'l
01

....e01
., 8.

lI'\O-D

-c~lR""""'"
~ Ul~~O

5~~~~~~~

__
__
'"
__
__
e<\
O"tf'\mc---O'o0'0

s...5
Ul

"...

o"~r-t"r:-.o"-.o"

....

....

CS&\~Ul:;:!.~~g
""t~o..1~~o .."'..

"'t

'"to'
0

""'C"\r"'4NNP\"""

~
!l

..-

.,

p.

0

~
~
~
~

::l
....

•
::s
.,
0
.d

...

H
0

l'-"'g""re~N""

CD

CD
'tl
<:

.,

..

'"a

~
3
,Q

s

..
0

.. ....
.. ...••
~
...
'"'".. ..
......'" $
..... '".,
.,'"

r-t- .....
-"":

~~~2~~

/Il~/Il~~&;

N-..tt"'--riP\N

~"jii~"'i~~
° OUl"""'~-c,.i

N-.D('I'\N-..;t<",,\...of'l"\

...'"

.d

0

a.,

0

I't

01

{?

....

...
o

~

..

....,'"

-o

-O"''''~~ ....
~l'::\$~!to~
~

N"i.~-.()"io"C:;C:;

....

~
~
....la

~

.,

Ul~<:

<!8'" ;
P

000000

........

~~~V\~&;~'"
.;t
""r- ....
"" &;

'""'

000000

..

..

.!~~

'",~01

"N1

~~~~l'-~~O
"''''''''''!t'''
... ... ... .. ......
~g$"":B~~

to'~
.. e.d ....

5~~-g,~~

o,ra.:oI-<:ll

3

<!
p

'"a ...0

:"1

,1

,

A-6

..

~~$~$~~~

50

~as ~~i

i

o~~~~~;tf.

f1J~

...c~N'"

ooooocg

000000

....

~

~~~~;i~

~

..il

000000

.. ~~ ..

~o~~~~

'"

z:

.........
0

.,

;!:l;:!
.i:=:>

..
tI
..
........ ~ ~....~
eo ..
... ...... ...""..
.... ""..., ""~
..... &... ~
..
~
... .. .."..
.....".. ""..
.....," .. ....

III

f...

III

0

Nl

....0

III

0

~~ 1;\ ~
..... '"
.....8
$
~.fp~CJ)"f:J"'iR.

..

..

.. ..

"'~N~~'"
~
c!NN~

gal

::1~~~""'~

t"\....:t

....

....
"'...c

~::1~
................

~-<'

... ...

'" ... ... ... .. ...
f($~~~~SS
........
('11('\
t'\N

}j.,

-;

$~l5!.lIl~""s~
~ ....
",$ g

('II

...

0

~~~

...

,o~

...•..
...

.. "" .. .. ...
F:~lit~$~i~

80"'
....
N;:t~1Il
r--~~~~'"
~

o~

~

~~

.. ..

o~~~~~
... ...

.....

"'~"'~~

...

0
0

0

CD

....,

g

.3

:l :l
0

CD

';:;)

III
0

~
...~

e
""t..

0
0

Po

..
0

U

....~ ~..
.,. ....
e
., ...... ""..
Po

0

.,

~i~~~~~*

CD

.. ""......

NN

U1

~
~

oc~ooo
"l

oooo~o

3

..Ill. ..

'"

f1JN'"

..

il

'"...0

.,

t

.,

'at:
;.8
"., "
.g31l
.:l

N

.. .. ..$..

~g:~",
...

~lX", ~

<i.~i~'4i

i~i~~~i'i

~!

"'[,-"'~~N

N~lt'''''gr--

'8.

~~~~~~~~

"' ....
e--r-- "t

..o..oC"'\""~
t'\N
t''I.O

It'\

...
CD

E4

f

o

e

Po

~

....
..5
..i
..
»..
....,..
....'"~
""
~~",...
...
..~~~~

s

3;
::1=1

.. .. .. .. .. .. ..

~ll'.~8\~~N~
...c",r--"'lIl~O
...

~aa~~~g:~

«;E~

~~~"'gf:\
0Nll'.....
N
c;i.~..'ir;ii

"'r--~~lIlN

.. .. .. ..

~g:

"'~$ ...

'oQNC"'\'l'\('I'\
C"\C"'\
t-'oD

:l
o

o

III

,0
III

.....

p p. c::a. PH
o ~ ••
o..:t..::t.::t
....

Cl4t1J

pr-trol

~~f:\l5!.~~~~

as

......

.'Hft.t'H
000

!!

CD ......

~~~~~~~~

~

3,S.s.s.s.s.s2

j

~~'P,f:\~~~~

k~~~k~~~

~~~~~

~""C\l1"l"\
11)
IJ t)

...~
~

• ..,.p ....

..
CD

~
~

....

..,,o]1l1l

~~~~S!'l~~~

I
I '

o

..

~~~~~~~~

:5

~~


....

og~~~
ro4~_~

~a!.s!

~~Jl8,g!

!

.,

..

"""'000

~r
......
~~ 5"[~~

...

::I«::ll

.,p" ... ,.a."

IJ

0 0 0

....~~~~
o
I)

..

6-

~::~
';:;)Nl~

A-?

:!

.;

...
o

•
•o
aI

..f" ...•
....•~ ......::'"..
..
.....~• . '"
....
......
llll

aI

00

......
,
1'1

0

..

'01

';:;)'"
~O

"""...
'"
......
... '"
0'"

..... ~
....s
o

o "

:f

~~
e

.=~

.... """
~ fa

OOO~O~OO~OO~~~OO~OO~Orl~NOOOOWO

.
...........

.!l'
-:i
o

..

g-

=~rl

~~rlW~~~~~~~~~~~~N~OOrl~rlru~~rl~~~N
~~~N

....'"..

~~rl~m~~~~~~~rl~~WN~W~W~~~~-rl~I~~N
Mm~N
AMrl
rl=rl~

....

fi~

N

....

N~
rl

....

~~~~rl~N~

N

~

N~

aI
..

.. ""..
...
....
.. ..
1!]

... 0

o

"'0

lS~

......."".
o

~rl~~rlNN~

o

II>

...
..0
..
II>

M~rl~
rl

»

Jl,o

""a"::...
..

......

....

""
aI
..0

..e•

11o

..

....

OOOrlOOOOooooooaooOOOOOOrl000000

...

,D

.........
o

o

...

......

~

,0

...o

II

0

..•

aI

..

~OO~~~Orl~~~~rl~ANrlOA~~WN~O~~(_~a

....

til'"

..»

,0

,g

..

II"
0"
III

OOO~OOrlOOOO~O~OOOO~NOrlOrlOOC~C~

°

01

llll

o

Eo

•..

..

~

$OO~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~S~~~~~~~~~~~~
~N~N~
=~NrlrlNrl~rlOO~
~
.:i
.:iN"';

...

~~~~~$~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~8~~~~

rl

.:l

i

~rlM

N

~rlrlrl
rl

i..

rl

rl~NN

~

=

rl

M

A

=
..

..
rl
,D

j

aI

.J

...

3

'".".
..
:o

.....

o

.

...:,..
"'~
......
0'"

......" '"
5<:
o

0 ....

o
~


.."
o
o

...

.".

'"

i1't

.

f

A-S

6 "'-5'

!......

0
J.
••

I

•
.....

...

0

t

••

U

o
....

!
...
....

.... ""
.°..

...... ....

-:~
...

WI ...

.. °
,
::~
o
"0

.....

..

I~

.;So

..
...
'"....
..
.......
go
..
.....

11;

NOON

...

Po

I

.,~

... 0

.0

Po"

~~

Rf

0

It'£ ~::: 0

r-~~\D

r4

0

O\~

to ~

"''''0

••

..

.

I

I ....

.. ......
°

.......

....

~~
~

...

..:

...

.;S

...

...

,'8l!!.
N

~

....
.;S

~

....

......

~~
N

N

~

...~...

""
....
0'"
N

N

~
N

'"

...

N~

.:k~O~"'~~~NO~~"'O""""""NO

~
,g'lR

eh

S ..

~
...

....
0

..°

';;l

0
Eo

lil~O$~""~""';so~~~o""~,,,,~o

~i
....
'"
~g...

......

Eo

jO.....Ii~:
I

';;l

.......

~

o ....
"'~o

~~ ~~S~~~
.... ....

ID

.0

s .;~

.,; J .;
~ .........6.-4 oast)'t044DO
Joe'tot
J.,.

.0

".

Q.t:S

p'p'-P

.....

,.C)lD

.0 ....

...~.. ..
"'0...
......
0'"

.. °

~~
If;;'"
0
,.:0

0';:'
....
N

$~~~~~~~~~;~~~~~~~""aj~

"'0

0;
....

0 o.p

..

'" •

...i•'"

~.;S
~N

~~~~~~~~~~~~~N~~~~~
..#'

,..,-t

N

N

~~
.......

....

....

...:f
~'S:l

..•

:l

.. 1.......
i"',p
00
..~:i~:

III"4"
• o,..~
00
...~~~

H ...
_

:f~

"'h

~:
"'0
h
o
..

M ......

."0
~O
.o~~
i" • ::r ~"'i!
..
&~
...
~oi~ii~~!a
..g~ ~...
.1 ~
.......
".
ggQ i e~~
"•••
...&
:...
~~8~~:~
...
~~~:~::;~
.. 0 U

o~

.....

od~

.. O.

•

d
~ ...

.. ;;

d

~d

0

go

......°..... ..••..
g..'" ..
:l
0
0

0

...

e
Po

""

. .....

...
e

...

~

0

0

..~ J.... ""li..
~ ••

~~

';;l

j

...

'";

e

.....
....
e
""
....• ..~
...
:;;
...
.. ...
......
....
i ......
....°
..•.. • .....
'"
""
""
~t
....
....•.. ..."° :a'"
..
~: .... •.. ..•
..... -I• ... ..
.....
....
.. ...
:&
~
N

':N

0

•• ...•

vi

.. Q
.. 0

Q
0

~
Q

~
.,;

,

~~::
j ..~li\

..

~

...

'"

~

$I!;.

i ....
N ...
~~
~ ~~~~

....
"'~.;S"' ...

s

1 ...hIf

0

.... ~

~oo""oo~oooooooO""O""O

Ii

...

~'"

0'"
IIlU

...... ...........•

~

~

N~

Ill"

.:

...'"

N

0000000000000000000

~~O~riO~ONO~~~ON~NIl'\O

s.
0 ..

,.:0

0

..

r-I

""g

..•
...
....

.0

';;l

~

""
....
....

~

0

..1

...

'B~
~
tUN

...
.;S

~~ri~~~~~~~2~~O~~~r4
N
....
rot....

....

........

""'"....
""

""

0

°h

....
O~O,...OO~riOONOOO

~~.:k~~r-~~~.:k@~~O~~"'~'"

.......

...... ...~ ...... .......
....
" ........
g .. ...b!og::b

,.. .....

.J

....

~:R~~N

~W~~&r-~~~~@~~o~~",~",

~0

..
...

...g~

i

to:

•

...

e

..

0
."

""t

..0

~N""~.:k

... ~
*ob~.
............
~.
~o.....~~
..

Po

..

..0 ,A

JiG.erie

0

"WI
~o

WI

* ...

IS

.....
i~..
""........

to

~0
~

...
N

........
00
$1.00
~

Po

...
...8
...

......

• e ..

'::i)",

..~6...°
j]
:»
::11
........""g;
....
:l~

$~
~t-:

::ro
... N ~...

0

!~~:
.. ~~
.......
J~...-5:t~::
, ....

0

~
~

~~O~~~=~~O~~~O~~~~O

s:I ~
•

.0

~~

i~

..:

.~

......
•
Po

~

~OO~NO~OOO~~~OOO~OO

Po

... I

:i
Po

...

an":
..:

""'-00
0
..p

.0

'"..

.....

....0 ...
'"

....

p.o

~
~

lil~

...

......

...
......
'"
........

~~N~2~~~~N~~~N~~"~O

~:i!
.......

J; Ii......~:
!o ........

•
~

......
NO

..
...•

~.

'c;

•

...~

~~"""''''' .... ~

~~""

~

$

..

* ...-51\:::
I .....

•°•

..

""

~o ...
,.a
III

'"
...
...N

"" ...

N ....
~N

•

k'HCt
00
OO..4~..a

...

O~~""f"'N""~.;Slt'\.;Z';sNO~"""'O

....

....
0

...
..Ii.:\
...
... ....
2~"'g~~~~~"'~~~~~!~~0

Po

.0

N ...

~

it 'c;.!.;J.;~
..... f"

l'1

0

o~o~~~~~~o~~~o~~o~o
Il'\
IC"\
.... (\1

,...

....

... &

..

~

.... Ct~
000

!o..........
o.,

"Nt

i

..

OIr4-rot

......

0

:f

"'h

k

0

~0

'!l

iii

~

WI

';;l

e

.If
~~

..0

0

....
0

~e

0

0

~~

o •
Q ..

0

Fl

~111

•

'::ii

;;e "Nt ~

A-9

table 7.-Market

ftlue

aDd yolWlleof .ale.

on all regi.tered

.ecur1 tie.

exchange.

(In thousands)

For 12 Months Ended J1U1e30, 1942
Total
IoIarket
Value
(Dollars)

Exchange

All Registered
Exchanges
Baltimore stock Exchange
Boston Stock Exchange
Chicago Board of Trade
Chicago stock Exchange
Cinc1llnati Stock Exchange
Cleveland Stock Exchange
Detroit Stock Exchanee
Los Angeles Stock Exchange
New Orleans Stock Exchange
New York Curb Exchange
NewYork Stock Exchange
Philade1phia
Stock Exchange
Pittsburgh
Stock Exchange
st. Louis Stock Exchange
Salt Lake Stock Exchange
San Francisco Mining Exchange
san Francisco Stock Exchange
Standard Stock Exch , of Spokane
Washington Stock Exchange

.

6,8'72,298
7,425
133,836
26
128,168
7,123
ll,340
18,0'76
35,942
398
555,396
5,846,935
51,725
11,591
2,928

906
164
58,522
168
1,629

Stocks
IoIarket
Value
(Dollars)

J:I

Bonds

NUDlber
of
Shares

5,583,945
6,334
132,667
26
127,874
6,991
ll,282

281,833

18,059

2,595
3,081

35,897
363
392,233
4,726,541
51,189
U,573
2,672
906
164
57,845

168
1,161

344
4,128
19
6,780
363

541

35,130
211,504
3,078
939
225
5,335
2,878
4,186
606
35

Breakdown of 12-month Totals

1,282,679
1,091
867
0
91
124
0

2,483,925
2,186
1,062
0
82
122
0

5,674

6,060

0

203
8
58
17
45

35
162,449
1,,116,494
363
2
251

34
211,139
2,267,240
336
2
514

714
3,900
173
16
5

448

785

229

-

464

-

-

423

-

302

-

-

-190
337
2
43
13
42

-

1,188
3,821

l42
24
20

-

-4

235

3

Months

28,855
20,648
24,325
22,788
26,478
62,081

116,272
87,766
105,508
125,159
88,348
134,712

222,973
160,891
171,029
209,219
161,048
277,038

367
2,777
269
1,738
81
152

218
1,439
356
1,936
158
595

January
February
March
April

638,247
385,857
478,233

125,744
89,449
137,004
99,0'75
91,838
81,804

256,089
178,409
306,812
202,862
179,690
151,865

1,170
43

357,447
355,083

27,189
14,149
16,329
13,585
12,585
12,821

213
23
18
15

~


512,290
296,385
341,211
272,874
265,598
273,269

1942

includes

"Bonds" inc:ludes

Note:

NumbElr
of
Units

611,097
412,311
512,481
492,022
508,960
1,085,447

July
August
September
October
November
December

"Stocks"

Market
Value
(Dollars)

727,736
502,854
618,258
618,919
597,389
1,220,.311

1941

37l,964

June

J:I
y

and warrants

Principal
Amount
(Dollars)

-

qy

Rights

Karket
Value
(Dollars)

-0

66

3./

voting
mortgage

trust

certificates,

certificates

American depository

and certificates

of deposit

receipts,

and certificates

II

10

of deposit

62
27
39
17

for stocks.

for bonds.

Value and volune of sales on registered
securities
exchanges are reported in cOMedion W1th fees paid under
Section 16 of the Securities
Exchange Act of 1934. For most exchanges the figures represent
transactions
Bul.letin
cleared during the calendar month. Fa.gures may differ from comparable figures an the Statistical
For earlier
data, see the seventh AIU1usl Report of the CoDrllission,
due to reVision of data qy exchanges.
pages 288-295; the Sixth Annual Report, pages 276-283; the Fifth Annual Report, pages 222-227; the Fourth
Annual Report, pages 166-171; the Third Annua1 Report, ansert, facmg page 156; the Second Annual Report,
insert
facing page 116; and the First AIU1ualReport, pages 87-91.

A-IO

ourltl •• --baDp.
1o.llo...•• inTobe4
..

lI..-Ila.lo t'o~
UM4 bJ' h .....
111nclaWr1Dc _rltl
•• GIl_tl_l
1lDd,t'or .ach 1'_, tbe m.ber of' .. owltl ..... p.t.red
IlD4
oJ..- llO, lMl, aDd JaDe llO, 19d

'fable

of'

Aa ot' J..- lD. lMl
howltl ..
1l.r;1aten4

Do.orlpUGIl

P-

rep.traUca tOl'1l. ••••••••••••••••••••••••••••••
o-ral eo:rpc8"&1;laaa •••••••••••••••••••••••••••••••••••••••
UD1Da~
l.aaera •••••••••••••••••••••••••••••••••••••
Ie.....
.all:1II& -..l
reporta WIll... 8eot1C11l
10 of' 1:M
Ill*eratate e-I'OO
Aot, .. ~,
01' WIll
... hot1cm &lll

T
10

Prorial~

11
11

at ~

~

IJnol-a

Ii

1.
11
18
lT
18
1lI
ZO

11
22
2a
U

-l.41.Dc

o~

Ii

21

1,711
11

Mil

lea

1ST

186

22

100

21

.lot.

..

11
U

8T
2T

"

M

86

8
ll1l1

Ii
82

10
1

2

8
1

80

.7

61

100

liZ

Ii'

8T

68

2,IIi8

1l.1l86

2,106

Ii

•y

21

II

"

.,oaa

~otal •••••••••••••••••••••••••••••••••••

111

11.
27
6T
21i

•

•••••••••••••••••••••••••••••••••••••••

IIlaludq • iuuor. bariJlc aeoariU .....
em I baa1. t'onu.

II

2,~

U

-..-ma.

Ba.Dk

Ienon

IIml1-a

l,T.II
1.

Act at 1111 ••••••••••••••••••••••••••••••••••••••••••••••
101
ot ..... thalll 111'. IlDdtit10 1IIauna ...
oa.paal ..................................................
16
cart1t'1oat.. of' d0p001t 1•• ued bJ' a oceee1ttee••••••••••••••
1Doorporate4 laYe.t.eat oa.paal ••••••••••••••••••••••••••••
92
28
yotbr; tnJat oert1t'1oat-. aDd 1IDlSorl,.uar; H01U'1tlo•••••••••
tlB1Daorpora1:ecl
1a_ ... eupp4 prDarl~
111the bual •••
ot taw.8t1ac or tradtac tD aeoarit! ••••••••••••••••••••••
8
Po... 1p ptrOJ -.ta aDd political nbell Yl.10ll8 the ..eor .....
200
~l_
oert1t'1oatee la.ued ar;a1Dat t'oralp •• 0111'11;1 ..
aDd tar the aaaer~
-.our1tie •••••••••••••••••••••••••
11
8eOUI'1Ue. otI>or thalIl boIId. or t'orelp prt_te I ...........
2
Boad8 at tare1la priYate 18.aer. •••••••••••••••••••••••••••
81
procee41!lp
8eoaritl •• of' 1_ ...... ol"pll1ud 1111DaolYOJ107
or tbeir .aooeaaora ••••••••••••••••••••••••••••••••••••••
101
lleow1tle. of' _oaa.or
1aaue... otbe.. thaJa tho.e auoooeclbr;
lDaol'Nllt l • .-ra•••••••••••••••••••••••••••••••••••••••• 811

11

10. lMI

8eowltl ••
Il.r;lat. ....

I

2,Ii8t

ca..ua1oat1aaa ~ot at li&l ••••••••••••••••••••••••

~.
la rooe1..... ah1p or ~
aDd ak1JIc .-l
nporta ......
Iootlem 10 ot' 1:M Illtentat.
C_I'OO
..
......
01' .....
Iootl_ IU of' tbe e:-1oatl_

1I-A

.... of' "..

I......

•Y

•

pat. ... d _ 2 baa10 t'onu UId 1 laaue .. hariJlc .. ouriti ••

... r;1atere4

!I

1'_.

IMl1l1le. II 1.-...
baYbc HOuritl •• rer;1aten4
rer;1atencI - I baa10

~1fl

llaoh1zllll7

I baalo 1'_ UId 1 l .. ue.. bn1.ar; .eourltle.

9.-elaaa1t'1oat101l. bJ' 1Dduetl'1e., of' l .. u...haYlar; .eour1.tle ... epetered
_tio_l
HOUI'lti .. exchanp ...
of' .r- 1lO. lMl UId oJ..- llO, ll1U

(railroad.,
telepb_,
etc.).............
otlaer
..'toola.......................
o~....................................................

rraz.portai:loa

MiIa:l..ac.

OIl

-.I

aDd

0~

..

t1....

etc.)
etc.)........
)II"OCl1lOt.a.................................................

rraz.portatl_
eqai ....
(aut:c.ab11e., a1J'orot't;. parte. aooo.. or1.. ,
MerohaDdJ.aiDC (obaiII. aton •• departaeat
eto.). •••••••••••••• ••••••
n-1al
aDd laweet.eat (ilmlet.eat
tnaat •• t'1re lu_oo.
Food aIIlIl rela'tecl
1Jt111V cpera1:1Jl&(electrio,
po aDd _i: ... )...............................
lI1acel1aDeoue
~ctUl"iDl
••••••••••••••••••••••••••••••••••••••••••••
~..
aDd. ..

nw...

Cl:ll

~11..........................................................

OOU~CIII.).....................
pro41Iota.............................................
prod:Dota...............................................
--.tDe!7')......................................
raee. (~
...
eto.}.................................
--.t
••
eto.)................
bo141a& (e1eotrio. caa ..a ~r).................................

Bul1dbr; UId ... lated.~.

(1Do1udq

lube

bu11d1J1&
_t.rlal.

aDd
~oa.la

&lid allJ.ecJ.
!ezt1lea &lid 'tbe1r
Iraa. aDd .'teel (ezalUll1llrc

....

Benio ••

d1ati1leri •••
(lDolUll1llrc adftrt:1d..Dc.

Ut1l1~

atl

ret1Dia&

1IGtela.

41atrlbat1Dc.............................................

aDd
aDd. JJe.per- ~...............
bbber iliad leather ~
Paper

Coal ~

a_I

••••••

("t1rw •••

hoe ••

'te..........

eta.)..........................
•••••

•••••

••••••••••••••••••••••••••••••••••••••••

•••••••••••••••••••

~......................

Z<nl
268
200

186
162

1211
100

88

76
76
72
6i
N

Tli
711

"

t8

t'
to
19
It
26

a3

rolJaooo

18

•••••••••••••••••••••

••••••••••

•••••••••••••••••••••••••

26

(electric.
!&8 aDd wa~er)....................... 18

M1acellaa.ouada.e.tio~a..........................................

11

Po ... lp

68

Cuban....................

prt_ta ie_..., ot:her than ea-d1an aDd
Pore1p low.. ..-a:at:.a &lid pollUoal euhc11d.10ll8......

!otla1......

••••••••••••••

...........•...

••• •••••

88

76
76

20

Pl"od1ao'te..

llOO

Z«
ll11i
166
168
126
119

80

Pr1utiDs. publ1ab1as aDd allied ~..................................
Acr1oultw......... ••••• ••••••••••••••••••••• ••••••• •••••• ••••••••••••••••

Ut111~ opera~ld1Dc

OIl

N
2.1&0

Ii6

lit

.11

"
"
III

17
It
16

za

U
10
111
111
1
Ii6
82

A-ll
!able 10.--BUliber ot .8OIII'1ti.....
paretoq tor etoob aDd boIId •• olaadtied aooordint: to be.ab tor
adm..don to d.dint:. OIl all achtulp ...
ot J_ 30. 1942. (!be m.ber ot abere. or
.took aDd the principal ..-t
or boa4. are .h ..... tor .ecuritie.
other thaD th ....
acbdtted to UDlhted tracliDc prirller;e.)

S!OCI8
Co1_
Beaia tor adId .. ion
to cleaUnr;

...................

~~~

r-porarllJ'
re~~lQB

I ....

Itaber or .hare.
authorized tar
addition to 1i.t

la •••

2.264.083.297

196.688.817

2,661

8,108.687
88.628,719

&lS,9a6
H2.7S7

166

Uate4

2.661

•••••••••••••••

•.•....•..•....•.••

~

!I

~y
122

•.......•..........
Total ••••••••••••

S,S70

!I

!I

or

ahare. li.ted

!I

~y

2.2M,06:l.291

~ber
or .......
authoriaed tor
addition to lin
196,688,817
&lB.9l16
l,222,Sl6

8.108.687
100.767,.92

---

-

----

--

--

Prinoi pal ....ount
authorbed tor
addition to 1i.t

Iuuea

Principal UIOunt
liated

Prinoipa1 -t
authorbed tor
addition to U.t

1992,640,010

l,S07

'22,ll96,886, 992

1992,640,010

:564,841,797
1•• 633,000

0
2.000.000

---

1.066

---

77

2,296,800.76$

191.876,649

66

II

w-ber

---

.91

AdUtted to 1mliate4 tradint:
priri1ep.
_ -.pted

~

Co1_

~orahuM

a-pted hca

Uatecl _ .-.ptecl excbanr;e••
AlIId:ttodto 1mliated tradiJlr;
pridUp.
on ... ti0Jlll1

Iy

BOIDS

Beai. tor adm1•• ion
to dealing
Ilepatered •••••••••••••••••••
TaporarU7 exelllp1;edtroa
reg1atratiOA •••••••••••••••
Uated OIl ex.-pted exohangea.
.&da11:ted
to 1mlbted tradiDg
prirlle,...
on nat10na1
exchang••••••••••••••••••••
.&da11:ted
to 1mlhted tradint:.
priTt leges on exeapted
exchang ••••••••••••••••••••

fota.l ••••••••••••

Prinoipal IlIIOUIIt
listed

I.sue.
1.S07

Y 122.S96.886.992

27Y
9

S&l.841.797
1.,6SS,OOO

0
2,000,000

27
9

Y
Y

200

----

----

226

---

•

-

---

•

---

------

----

----

--

1,647

Y '22,776,1l61,789

'994,640,010

Duplioationa in this oolumn have been eliminated both as to exohanges and haaes tor admls.ion
on more than one national aecurities exohanr;e, H.ted
on an exempted exohange and aho unl1ated on another 11IItional .. euritiea exohange, it 1a oOUJItedonly
once under -aer;iatered."
!hua, the totala tor this ooluan are the total. of seouritie. admitted to
tradint: on all exchanges at't,'r elimination ot .!!! duplications.
1/

to d_ll"nr;. e. g•• if a seourii:)" 1a registered

!I Duplioat1ona
listed

on _re

in thia oolumnhave been eliminated only as to exchanges, e. g•• if a seourii:)" is
than one exempted exchange, 1t ia counted 01117once under such atatus.

sl Include. 1 atock iaaue in pounda aterUDg in the ....ount of 8492,101 U.ted.
U01ud.cr hila the I1IIIIberot shares shownabove•

Thia ....ount 1a

•1 Ino1ude. 8 bond la ..... 1n pound•• w.-liJlr; and 2 bond i .. uea 1n French tranoa in the amount.
IIl5O.TM.~ and 66,S63,680 French tranc. listed.
!he.. _ounts are exo1uded frca the prinoipal
-.ouut in dollara ahOllD abov••

or

!I

IDo1ude. oerta1n .. ouritie. reaultint: tre-. -.cI1ticationa of previously listed .eouritie
0111'1t1 •• or certain baulaI ... nd .eouritie.
ot oertain isauers in ballkruptq or reoeherahip or in the proo ..
or reorpnbation under the Banlr:ruptq .lot. !he.. aeour1ties baTe been temporarily ex-pted traa the
operation of Beetion 12(a) or the Seourities Jb:obanr;e .lot of 19M upon .peoifi.d terM aDd oonditions
and for .toted periods pursuant to rulea aDd rep1ations
of the CClllllllis.1Cl1l.

•

A-12

Table

atook
II. bow
",l8tered
• an than ;.
uatioaal
11.--BUDber or aecuritie •• aeparately tor
to unlisted trad1n& prinl.,
•• on one. or aor.
o.
exohaDl;. U or JUDe W. 19'2

UId adll1tted
•• ouritie.

STOClS

---- --

1

~..ua1fioaUOIl

Tc'.!." .took 1.auea regi.tered •••••••••••••••••••
'h,;al atock l8auea adm1 tted to unll8ted trad1nr;
prinl.ge.
on uational .xchanr;••••••••••••

2.661

1.169

0

M6

0

262

1.066

0

'90

0

18

262

1,e

1.U6

0

1$6

0

26

0

0

0

200

0

0

26

0

0

0

BORD8

1.W?

Total bond i.aue. r.'iater.d
••••••••••••••••••••
Tetal boDdiaaue. adIIl1 tt.d to unll8ted tradinr;
prinl.,.a
on national .xchanr;••••••••••••

UDduplioat.d total of atook i.au •• r.gi.tered
unlisted tradinr; prinl.,
•• on national
UDduplioated total of stook iaaue. registered
unll8t.d trad1nr; prinl.ge.
on national
.. r. admitt.d to d.alinr;. on mor. than
UDduplioat.d. total or baDd isauea r.gister.d
unlisted. trad1D& priyil.g •• OIlnational
UDduplicated total or baDd is.ues r.gi.t.red
unlisted. tradin& prinl.,
•• OIlnational
_re adlll.tted. to d.al1nr;a 011 IIOr. than

a.,1atered 011 1 exchanr;. 0Dly
.Albd. tted. to unlisted trad1n& prinl.r;e.
Regiatered OIl _ra than 1 .xchang.

0

226

aDd admitt.d to
.xohanr;e....................
and admitt.d to
.xchanr;.a which
1 .uch .xohang...............
&lid ada1tt.d. to
.xobanr;.....................
aDd adla1tted to
.xchanr;•• which
1 .uch .xolanr;e..............

on 1 exaIw:I&.

Z.169
920 -- 29.0~

or

unduplicat.d

or

unduplicated total

total

1.601
162 -

10.1.

only

AdII1tted to unlisted. trad1nr; prinl.,
•• OIlIIIOrethan 1 .xoianr;.
R.gist.r.d
on 1 .xohanr;. UId adll1tt.d to unlisted trad1nr; prinl.,e.
on 1 exohanr;e
Re,ist.red on 1 exchanr;e UId admitted to unlisted trad1Dl; prinle,e.
on
than 1 exoianr;e
Reg18t."d on IIIOrethan 1 exehanr;eand acllD1
tted to unlist.d tradinr; pri nleg..
on 1 exchanr;e
Registered on IIIOrethan 1 exohanr;eand ada1tted to unl1ated trad1D&prinlege.
on IIOre thaD 1 exobaDp

Il1O"

Table 12.-Bllllber or is.uera hannr; .ecur1Uea ada1tted to dealiD&. em all exchange.
aa of JUDe W. 1942. o1aaaified acoord1D&to bed. for ada1aa1011of their
.eouritiea to deal1Dl;.
Buis

of adll1.a1011of .ecuritie.

eol_
I 1/
1fWIberof Ia81Jer.

to d-linr;

I •• uer. harlnr; .eouritie.

repa'tered •••••••••••••••••••••••••••••••••••

I •• uera baT1nr;a.curiti.a

temporarily .x_pted

bauera

haT1nr;s.ouriti •• l1ate4

I •• uer. hay1Dl;•• ouritie.
on Dat.lonal

OD

r.gistre.tion

2.299
•••••••

exeapted ezobanr;•••••••••••••••••••

adll1tted to unlisted

excha.D.pa •••••

fra

eol_
II 2/
wa.ber ot I •• uer.
2.299

Z6

f2

108

1f1

trad1nr; pr1nl.r;e.

1 ••••••••••••••••••••••••••••••••••••••

raauer. hayinr; .eouriti •• acIa1tted to unlisted. trad1nr; prinl.g ••
OD .x-pted
exobaDpa ••••••••••••••••••••••••••••••••••••••••••••

Total I••uer•••••••••••••••••••••••••

'21

1.002

"
2.818

DupUoations in this oolUIIID
baYSbeen .11lll1nated both a. to exohanr;•• UId ba ••• tor admi.a1on
ot the i •• u.r.' •• curitie. to d.alin,. e., •• it an i •• u.r baa •• ouriti •• r.gi.tered on aore
than on. national .xohange. U.ted on an exempted exobaD&e.and al.o adlll1tted.to unlisted tradinr;
priYilege. on oth.r .xohanr;••• the i •• uer i. cOUDt.donlJ onc. a. hayinr; •• ouriti •• rer;1.tered.
thUJI. the total of thi. collDlD18 the total nUlllb.r at iaau.r. haT1Dl;•• ourities
ada1tted to tradinr;
on .11 exolanr;•• aft.r .11lll1nation of all duplioations.

!I

Duplications in thi.",olUIIID baYSb•• n e11lll1natedonly as to .xchanr;e•••• , •• it an is.uer has .eouriti ••
on _.
than one .xohanr;e. the ie.ner 18 counted only eaee
admitted to unlist.d trad1nr; prinl.ge.

under

.uch

statue.

Sf

---

A-13
'fable 13.-~er
bonds.

~ hsuers
-riDe atocia .q. boDda onl;y. aDd both stoclta aDd
adIIitted to dealings OIl all exohanges .. ~ JUDe SO. 1M2

Iuaber

Clasa11'icatiOl1

2.172

74.66

on .xchange •••••••••

414

14.21

a27

11.2a

2.91S

100.00

2.499

86.79

741

26.44

Issuers haTing

onl;y stooa

2.

Issuers haTing

onl;y bonda adllli
tted to trading

S.

Iuuers haTing both stooks and bonds adlll1tted to trading on
exchange ••••••••••••••••••••••••••••••••••••••••••••••••••••••••
Total Is8uers •••••••••••••••••••••••••

4.

Iuuers

having

6. lasuers having

stooks admitted to trading on exohanges
(Classi1'ioation 1 plus a) •••••••••••••
bonds admitted

" 01' Total

on exohanges •••••••

1.

adllli
tted to ~ing

01' Issu.rs

to trading on exohanges
(Claaei1'1oat10n 2 plua a) •••••••••••••

Issuers

Table 14.-Iumber
01' issuers and seourities. basi. tor .dIIl1s.ion to dealings.
and the percentage 01' stooks aDd bonds. tor eaoh exohange. adDdtted
to dealings on one or more other exchanges ... ~ June SO, 1M2

..

J.

... 1l

.
S T 0 C
HIlIIIe
of Exohange

Ba1~re

Total
Issuers

••••••••••••••••

Total
Iesues'

R

y ..............

!f ...............

Y

BxeIIpted fre- registration

X

U

XL

XU

... ...
...
...
...
...
...
...
...
...
...
...
...
...
...
... ... ... ... ...
... ... ... ... ......
... ...
... ... ...
...
...
... ... ...
...... ...
...
... ......
... ...
... ...
... ... ...
...
... ... ...
...... ...
...
...
... ...... ... ... ...
... ... ...... ... ...

as a DatioDal

4

IS
1

211
214
5
20
6
18

16

1

68

1

69

58
18

16
5a8

1
1
2

391
60

M

6

4

161

19

11

22

seouritie.

Total

n

367
119
1134
95
99
15
168
52
110
200
2
20
17
1.00a
1,254
458
122
M
75
98
50
S1l2
16
116
32

12

5

J.

... .=

••

....
.... atJ

$0
r:l'<:l

S

0'<:1

69
lOS
44
438
15a
M6
Chioago Board of Trade ••• 36
40
34
Chioago Stock Bltohange ••• 276
SOl
3M
C1nolDllllti •••••••••••••••
102
88
67
CltrYelan4 ••••••••••••••••
100
81
85
Colorado Springs ~ ••••••
16
U
De'tro1t ••••••••••••••••••
158
168
109
Honolulu
96
121
Los ~ele •••••••••••••••179
2lS
lao
Minneapolis-st.
Paul ~ •• 16
20
lew Orleana ••••••••••••••
U
SO
1
Be. York Curb •••••••••••• 919 1,248
465
lIewYork stock ••••••••••• 202 2,4SO 1.25S
Philad.lphia ••••••••••••• 429
5a5
66
Pittsburgh ••••••••••••••• 107
124
60
R1c~nd
];f ••••••••••••••
26
116
st. Loui •••••••••••••••••
51
89
75
8&11: Lab ••••••••••••••••
98
92
96
Ban PranoisClO JIiniDg •••••
50
50
50
Ban Franoi.oo
stook •••••• 287
167
ll54
seattle
Sf
116
Spo~
••••••••••••••••••
SO
a2
21
wa.hiDiton. D. C••••••••• 3a
52
29
Wbeel1Dc~ •••••••••••••• 211
21
Bo8'to.a •••••••••••••••••••

J[

tr:l~

n
27

~~

o
o.

.. M

BOIDS

an exeapted

exohange

•..

i1l

.Wl

~~

..

.. .. a!

0'<:1

Ii

6O.f
2a
80.7
n
51.3
1
61.1
19
25.3
6
52.6
1
26.7
75.6
23.6
80.5
IS
66.0
17.8
10
25.3
32
61.2 1.158
95.2
76
72.1
2
14.7
22.7
14
9.2
12.0
68.4
21
60.0
5S.1
9.8
11
117.0

...
...
...
...

...
...
...

...
...
...

exohange

Il, rep.tered,
X. t..pcrarll;y ueapted
froa rep.tratioD,
11, ada1tted to UDliated trading priTilegea on a Dat1ona1 seouritiea exohange,
and XU, adIIIi1;tedto unlined
trading priTileges
XL. listed on an exeapted exobanp,
OIl

:'r:l~
.. 0

X

U

XL

XU

... ... ...
.....
...
...
.
......
... ...... ...
...
...... ...
...
.
..
...
...
...
...
...
...
...
...
...
...
...... ...
...
... ......
...
...
...
...
... ......
... ... ...
... ...
...
...
...
...
...... ... ......
...
...
.....
. ...
...
....
.. ...
...
...
...
.....
...
.
..
.
... ...
......
...
.
..
...
...
... ...... ......
... ...
9

11
1

7

a
213

18
1

1

1

1

Total

32

n

1
SO
7
1
0
0
4
11
III
0
III
245
,176
77
2
1
14
0
0
22
1
0
11
0

o.

46.9
e..8
00.0
40.0
85.7
00.0
00.0
00.0
00.0
M.6
00.0

SO.8
9.0
12.2
70.1
00.0
00.0
71.4
00.0
00.0

90.9
00.0
00.0
27.S
00.0

0

M

A-14

...:f
00000000000

"".... '"

o

Po

""
~~

OOOOOOOOONO

.s

OOOOOOONO""O

~


\0

• .:1

ooooooo~ooo

fi :1

00000001<'0\00

.!: =
0"
""p.;
• ...
:f ~
'"

~

"'......... a

OJ,

a::0 ~~...

.... ..

~'i ...
0"

......

0

__ odo

..........

..0 ..

......

ONOOOOl""\OlC\r40

0......

JIG!:!

0'"

...IIJ.~

N ... 0

o

g1

o:t
.....
o.

ONOOOOOOOOO

.!::

.. .0
o

o'""o";:tO
rot

...

"14"

....
.:t'OON&n

..
" !i ...
,.

A

..

~

... --

....

0 0

15

-

"'
"'::10
"'

•

...

--...

0

•


---od.

OtnOOOooo;tIOO

~~ ~

11

N'"

0 ..

o •

" .....
:14
'8.::
..c:,. ..
...

..
0

o

'"
......

..

t

~

..c:

II

o

..
...... --'"
-u

...""....

~~~
o

....

::!
ill

"'
...
"'::10
0

""0

CD'" ...

i""<l
.. lio

.........

o
N ...

....

....

0

c!

.1.......

\0

"'

0

c!Jf

~od~

:0:::8

N

!2
Ii.

...........

!l
Ii.

~ 'H

...

.......
.......
O:~il
O.

..•

~
""g

{l

..

0

i~

o ...

.

"'0'"

......~

~"''''g

eo ••
~~~

,

eo ••

...... 0

.

,

..

';!l

.....

...~..

~
~

50

0

&'"

:3

o Po.

o Po.

0

1:
.f~l
....
....

""

~
-;;

0

c!J~

I<'

'i=
"'...

i
f

Ood

......

.
•
j
..

\0

...

,. ii!

~

14

....

I
~

•

i

-------......,-----

!
CD

..

....,:

J

0

.sf

.....
0

03"

t
.r..
...

......""
...~
.....

0

.. N

O.

1'\0

~I

0 ..

......
.......

...

, ..
...
.....
:.""

..
..
... .-!i"~
... ....

..

::!
ill

:o: ... ~

...

_~.:J
...
-t ...

0......

....

!\i p"' ..
..

ft;:

1..

..0 •

•

.1 .......
.... ::1 :
0

...

.:r:!.1
"1415

0

Po

-tC:t::

...

':D

0\0000000"'00

...N

'"

i....

...i

.....
0

...lr

14

:0 ...

;

'5.::

""....

...

....

f

r-4~r-4

• 0,.

I<'

IU~

1

...

N

i~ '"

od

•

~

'"

..

0

:d1~

od

_

..

N

A

~

.... ..
....
~ ::::f
0"

o

.. 1415

c!J

~':i ...

l>o

c:.

.... :
-...... .. ..

.i..
o

...~..

"'OOOOO~OOO

.... .=o

0 ..
__
~J

~

......

od."

1:;
it!

""....
..::

... II

o

.
"'~.

\0

d

--

.£~

......
.....~


", ... if

..

0
PI

1'\

~


fi.1

""il..

•

~

il

I<'

:.""

...
0

l

'"

II

!

... '"

1~
.... i~ .....s
.a
.3
.. .. ..
11
....

~~~ON~"';O~
....

"'~
c

0

r--~OC"...;tNONN
N

8....

~

;:<

1e

11.0

0

... '"

~

0
E-<

k

8"'a-a"' ........
~~~~g~
~

~

_

_

_

_

ONO
ft
_

•

_

....
0

s::a~
6 ...... ;;;'Ri'!O,-.~::l'i

~~.g

....

.......

....~
'"

N
N

~O

.~

g

il~
....
.......

"t

-o

"'~
....
....
....~

... 0

....
'" "
s:: s::

k

~

........
00

N

....

.t'
",]

~No,OI('\r-t-'Or"\('<'"\O

o~O:''''OO~~NO~
s::
8 Il....
,
....
'"

s

,
CD
III
III

..

~

0
k
CD .... ",
11. 0

0

'"sc

..
~~~
is ......
eg.g

<:5~O ....
I

..,..

:;:j

8£~~~~~lX;::t~

r-4

r-4..

0

('I"\O~OO

~~~;omo ..;..; '"
~
\t'\("l'\

Nl"-O
r-tr-ir-l

C'"'\N-...t

C'"\

N

0

....~

,.0

''''

.....("1'\1("'\

R

.Pol

....
,..

I

....0 ....
s::g,

i

;E

..
..
...,
k

....:
",

o

t:

",

OJ

.g
s::
H

~Ie
CD

...<:

'0

i

...

o ~....

'0
<:

~
c,

!l.g;,

c

..~

.@t~.,
"'@,c

5
-a

13

e

a

II;

~ ~

....
s::
.s s
5~:;:
~
os::; c
f","£
.:.s~~ ;:l '"
.a;SO;::;:j.:l~k
a~~gj:E~8~ ~
k

Cd

C
0

bO

0

to

0.,

OJ
III

oS
~

..

o ..
...
p,.,

~l$

!ii

~
N

0
..
0

5>::1 ..

g{iij
........
CD
..Q\1I:"o
.a"

.. ,,'".,

....

!~S
'0....

~ss

~.""
...... gc'E

rl,.-l

r ...

\

..

.."

co

....

.
I '" i
I

'"

""
...,
0

~
if,
,
~
....
.... I

~t"'\NIo('\r--....;-..o(JNt""'\
....... M.....-.4

...... r-t""'J

..

;;.

I ..~"
rl

""

i

i

I

t
c,

~
N

0

e

...
....o
:5
~

II

....
.....

Q\

..

.,»

1
I

....

.s

...sa'"
..., ....
.,
.,
'. ~!:

I

I

~
~

--:
....

.s..

:Zl

" 0

Q)-d

~M.o~C'"\CV

0

-c
....

co

0

-o

~

f"\""

.!}

~

9 ::l

E-<

co

l'""\ 00 0
~'\'-...tC"'\r----0't""'i
r-4r-l

~

~

"

.. s::

g~~

~~~

r-

0

"'II:
CD

'"

",

0

~

....
~~

Cd

",'"

f\l

..

....s::

....

c: ~:a
'"

0

<:~.

'S.-a~~E~~a~~
<;::1 :~8l:~fj

",

.'-t."!.~~o:r;

N~l"!

-5

0

::l

<J)

"' ....

~
o ,c.,

C

0

.0

.......
......

...

t1.

~

.g

!~
....

Il
OJ
OJ
Cd

OJ

0

0

0'-

s
",

Sru::
o "
~Z'"

a ~

'"a

....a

.,

><.,

i

;::t
....

.-t~gf~t"'\~NC"'\-..t~

.....

.......
~

0

"

...

'0"

@

,ij

~

......

CD

0

~;;::lR1~~~"?aj3

-o ..
"~Q\

.....

...."'".,

"'-d

-e
<:
1['--1,...

:l

0
E-<

»

....00
c:;., :l

.aoS

rl~

....~

~

g!s
,-..-,

:l
.,

r-

~

WIt:

s

..~
C

.,
0

.t:l

0

Cd

-o

~
s
....

I

II: •

o

'"

"
{3

N

S0

..;

ll<l;:,

"

.t:l~

oa........

...8

........ '"

,.0

,.0

<:'
..

~
~....

O-d

.a.."

c:

11\"''''''
ciOr-t~~N"\cri~

NoDC'C\O\Q~

"

"0

0"
0"

k

~

....

Ii;::
....
.,A

..,

0

..

0»

.... ,.0

s:: ..

;:l
r-4~~

.,

0 ..

b-

.P

....
'"
~~

~~

~

.. 0
0f6

..

I

0

g

I

a:

..:a

~

s

,.0

"
.s
-0

~
:;l
~

-.."

'0

....

0

0

I

o

(]Oa-

_..

0

~

OJ

Q

sa.~~~
g 0 ~ '. -:;
. .. . .. . ~"'" ~~~
(J">.

g.s'g S'r- \(
...-1C\1-....t

:J'

0

g

~

g-g~8:~

G'O'(J"-g~'

~

I

I

QQQ

I

I

~

12'

J
I

~

g8oS-g ,~
Q

"'o6oo8~2:"~,
O
80<'0
Ula

5
.,c'
0

"s

'-"

'

\

0

I

~~
,...
~ ~~

or

0"

]i

....

.;
0

~~

••

f{
en 0 C
..
~Ov,o
...
-0".,
..-4f'llT\~C'c-\..;NIf'

~8

...1

:::<J'-'t

,

!

t.

I

A-16

"'"' .........

N'"

'" "' ...

... N

....

N

N

~
~

'8
...

o

Po

...

..

...

....:to

...

"'N

'""''''... '"....

.g

................

>->l(\ l(\

....

."

..~
II

o

."

....•
o

]

...i
o
:0

j

i
~

~o

...

..

!

i~

"'"
:::

....

~

d'
~o

..0

...e-.. .... ~.......". "'0
...
."...•
•" ::~ ... .....
~
,'"
....
.... ~1=
....=1
.......t
..
.. !..
~1 19j
.
"
~
~ .....
...
.":
...s

8-:0
0 ...

"ll

0"

o

Nil

"' ...
..
.:to

p ..
o

ll~

..

~\04

III

II

• .:1 :

II

..

"0
.......
.....

0

~
0 0

--...........
..

... .....
..
!i
....
..
..
!!,
.....

-::< .. ,
e
g ...

...

:

o -

...0

00

"'Po'"

"'''0
... lCo

::\

~

...

~og.

II

• ~O

....

ii
.. G'

..•....

.. .. .... ..
.:l
..~ ~..
"'0
,,,,
.. .. ..~ ..•..
t
~..
...
.
"':;.
..
"
..
~ ....... 1!
"
~ ..
...
.. "'".. .......
.....
....
~!-.4
~&
II

.. 0
00

o

II

8';;

0 ..

o

o

N"::

o

.:to .. II
p .. o

II

..0

; .... :1

II

tt::o~
",

..
110.0
0

..

"'''0
...
..
0
..
...
o -II

1t1 i

.. 0
0 ..

og
..
o •

.. Ie
110 ..

"'<4

•

;:It
0 ..

.. "

.
..
"'.
...
....
&::
'"-

.:to ..
I

II

1~
."

".d5

..........
....
(iii!
.....
.. .

N ..

~
...

......
sa ...

00

!i

• ••

A-I?

:r....~~

~:~o
~.I:I.~f'1
oca~.,

'"
...'"
'"
....o

••

:>

0

>.~

r-

-:;=~':2~~
0 U!=ll
.,

'"'"

i1)!
.. =~~::.-g~~
II"

&'

iO_l:0asG.O'

0

Quod

•••

N

;t

01

>..:t

Ii:::~::;

;t

'"

r-

h~

b:~:;'i:':::J~.,

....E
..

.:t

'"
'"

r-

....01
o

:f~ .. '<l ~Ji
"d\04

'" '" j

01

N

'"
""

01 I> I> '"
~.,

r--

.:t

'"
""

s s e s .::.-g~""
Eotop,

...

o

...

E-to..-t~~

....
I
II I> '<l:f~

N

'"'"
'"

~~~~~~~
Eotuup.
~
t

...

'"
'"
I>
01

.; ...

0

...
'"

'" '" ~

....

..... -::h

o

;t

.....i: :f'il .. '<l
01

o

~
0

E-4

s-

... ......

.,

'<l
...._C's.
cd

...

'"

E-top'

o
r-

....

.:
01

....

o

....o

'" 'fi

j
<>

0

... ...
j t::*~.5~~~':'i.
~=~:;~.::::g~.-t
'"
G)"
e-e

~

.:t

~

'-0

""

o .... .,p'd\-4

... ...

III

o

N

.....

o

'"

r-

'"'"

M

.......
~•

0

• '"
'iJ:~.,",.~

s

~~~:f0~~
E-t
""~

:
~

,.. • ..!.od ...

'"

••

..a.O

E-t0

...

.,pp"

>.:;1

'-0
'-0

"" '"
'"

'"

.,

..

0

'"

...;

~=:;;;::$;~

'"
~

... ... ...

01

..,

...g....
j
o

g

'cl

~

...•..

.........
II
..
'"

•
....

~

:

...
i
•

..

i
...II

.
i
o

!i
}til

~g

!!
.....
......
....
..
01

!
•

0

.. II

31
•
I

~

i

od
I>

.......
~
....

.. .. 1..
g~
:~
•.
It
...
:nf
.... ~ ..
...
......
~ .. "g ..
~
......
..
..
~ ... ]'.z i
~1 ..
...~
...... ...~.. ..~ ......
..
!l ....
....
..
.....
jl I;::
0

...•

I>

01

i

od

~

..

...

a

.:

I>

~

~•

I

c,

•

o~

...:

01

....•
3

....0

..

•

E

'c:lt0
:10

.. H

OM

....0
....
II
0

N

"'111

•

I>

,3::

}t

0 ...

P>

01"

00

0

..

I>

0

I>

gil

•
.r:~ P>o
• "''''

0"

:f
0
0

'"..

g
...~

... .....
.....gI
~9 .
0

01
0 ..

:oil:

$

0
E<

I>

0

~.x

.......~

...~

od
I>

~
C1

..
I

~

....

...::
~o

...D

...

l;

io

...s..

....o

<>

j

..•

1>

a
i!
o

01

i.

'l1
I>

I>

0

....

....

01 ..

o

i
i
...o

0

OIod

00

i

.<l

j

.... 0

...g..

f

01

....

1
.....

....01..
.
.....
..0'"

~01 ..
..0

o

01 ..
0.<1

~P>

..~
01

01 01
...0
0'"

s
g

......!
...::•


:0:

...

...
'"

A-IS

1

..

!

.•

•

o
o
£ : co•

...

~

:::

j

!!

....

::l

.. '" ..

'"

i

..

...

'"

..•.

.

u

j

f

A-19

::o•
'0

..

i
...
...
......'"'"
c

~

......

'"a . .e
~

...
~o..,

... '='<:1
.,
....<•.. ~.,~
..... ..
-e

•

-r4-.p
o

.

.-.~
.......
.

"''0'''<.,

•

o

ONOe»
<12

~

<12

...cJ:

... ... .......,
lf~ i
......
...... .... ....
..
II)

....
.....

...
...i

...
"I

"I

'"

"I

':I.

~t

.

~i
~
.......

.. +'

ON

•

" c
..e -<
..

'" '"

<12

.

..
.....

."...

0"

~<

'"

...cJ:'"

"I

...i cJ:...

...

,;

.
:

N

"I

! :i'

e-

'"
•

t•

...o

,g

...
't
...

.

..
.....
~ ..

110'"

~lI'iS

.,

., ...

.

..

...
H

•
...
it::
N

...

...

...

o

t

....... "
"' ...
" :ft
..."..,
........

is
f

....

..
......
....

e

:i
'll

0 ....
0

1;

""1

g

....
II

•

s

.....
.....

g

......

.. ..
....

~

i.
...

d:

.
~

~

I
...•
]

....

:;:l

....
~

~ ~

... "

... • 0
0'"
•

..........
o.~

~

I'!

...

o

•

...~~j"
..
'"

....
....

..

~
...

.....

.....
t

o

.e

......

1
<)

A-20

J

<)

.. .
~


:~
0'-

. ...

o

:

.",
.",

o

00>

,z'-

co

..
.....
00

"loci

....

...
:i
'"

N

e
1:1
.g ..
.8.

...
",i
il
1:.
",

N

.
-;:

......

N

...

...

N

CD

...

CC

......

1110"

.....
...

. ..;
j ..
C

fo

J

e-o

a

...

'"

A-21

........ i

.0

...
0

0

! ••

I

o

~

•• il!I

..•..
....
..,:s....
.,...

g

o •

0

0

0'"

A' A'~

0

El

El
•
0 ...

...... .....
...
0

0

g
':?
...

0"-

g~...
...,
El

.....

~~!

...:f

8~ ~ U

~cr ';

'<l

El

0 .....

If

llo

..
...'"

"'1::1

'"

~..,!
... ~

"'0

• ~ ~~~

g
.....
~ ~ '"
........ e
~'d~
...
...'" '"

.....
0

..

'<l

•
......•

U::;-'d ...
~ ~ ~~0
"'~
~~~~
~.10 ~'"
~ ... ~.......
.. ~ .. ~'a

'<l

..

~
~
~

~ ~

......

10

_.p_.p-o_ '.0
o 0 000

.,.~."'t)CD
'" .,

....- ....- ....:f'!\ ...
'" ...'" ...'".
......
~"......... .,; .; ...
-e

..

at

! ! ~...

.......

....0

.;

.;

! ... ...'a
~ ..... ...
~ ... = ..... .....
1:1: 'd ... .....
......
'"e '"
BlS ...... ~ae
..
• :s

0

"'0
..
0

0

0

0

.....

. ..~~S
.,
0

..

...

o

...

....

...

N

'"

"'~
.a.:...

!"a!

.....
u

11
....•

....•..

...•'":l

.#

i .
0

.1!.....

~t

; r,
•Q

.... !l

~

...•

•

... JElg ...J
J: ~l
.....
0

0

il:
i! ~

1

A-22

..

'"

"

.

04

.
'"

.

~


'"

"

A-23

.
!

I

A-24

s
~


f

I

v:i'
N

i

.-t

....

A-25

'EIII

.

8

1M

o

~


.

on

.

<1.1

~


.

g
a)

.:

.
... .
~

<"\0

g:! •

MCIl

0::>

2;~r

..

'"

i
....o

I

.

CIl

P

....

A-28

~
.-I..

~

G
1
:>:

jJ

~
~

~

0>

0>

P

P

.

..

A-29

l!

•o•

~ai

.

Eo<

..

..

•
'it

lI:l

~i

.

lI:l

A-30

..

o

J

(I)

(I)

d

P

~ ~
~ "..
..0

P\

,..;

j ~

...

I

]

I

A-31

j
01

..

01

01

d

~

A-32

A-33

.-l

.-l

..

(J)

::>

.-l

A-34

..
i

~o ~

II

1l

II
~

;)

.r:l~

-go

II

...3
0

l'l

.'"

<Il

....

8",';:1

]

~l

1.

:!

-O:<Il

....0

°•

.

'"~~

II rt
..

H ~~
'l:l~
~M

~


Eo<

~U)
'" ..

if
f'
it

~~

'a

SO)
0)

~i

il

• 11
:fl"
»'l:l

II!i

~II

.8

....~.Ei:i

..

•

..

'i"

~e5

"II

F4

..

5

n

...

"'~

.. ..

..'li~

.::l

s:l

...

'5

tt)

.104

0 ....

~

M~

ri"

~

...

O)tt)

~oG

.... ~

~ ..

~lo

0' .~
F4o:l

~i~ai

o~

c.~$
Oi'~~.

~ .... ~


o

..

as

'in;
!,",om
~..

l:!l

N

i..
0)

ij ~~

~~

~


..

11'1;
-::5

~E-l

..i!

i
0)

i~

N

~

~g;U)..

{ ...ri
0"
ri

1'!0i'~
O~E-l

0

e-

~


i
~

~~

...
0

i
~

mt'

I
Ji

~

~

!

.:f

i
~

~

'Ci

!

s

1
~
~

~~

ri ..

I
!

'l:l...

~i

•

.. ,""I:>

~


0)

1l_:lS~

U)..

~II

~I
~~

I !~

o ..

i

0 ~

~~
28

-0:

jl i
;~

]) J~i

~"
,!I!

C1'''

.::l

II II

tt) ~

....

0

<Il

'l:l

....:f

1::3

0

~

•

..~

~

~
F4

.:1-::

IJ
11

s:l"'i
iI»'i
s ....$ s:l
'i~ !fii.~
g; =

..~~<a ~ s ° Jl

s:l (ll

,

!:tIgl~itiil~jJi!~~t~li~.~I'iilfii!ill~i;;i!J~li~
!~~
iili~1
Ii
1$~ ~

~~
~"i

s:l"~
~j

~

ott)

00'

.. ::3
1l

u)..

1'i~il~li~;~~'l:lli.l~~"'';:Iiljailiuiiii~i~~11!~ii!il~$~~
j 'iI ..
Ii.i~m"'Ji..'l!tJ8 "~J li~..::~'i~U)"lI~il>o
..'i:5~
~~!~il~lall*8ii;iJ~~lil~*l
~ ...oj*i~l~r;$~~i;~~;~~lil

"0-

ii!
~• ..

~~ ..

! !ii;il~j;~lifi~i~ijtl;i,tjii:i!i~!;
.I.i'~!~I!ilifi

1~

R~

:

N

--:rt

<II

..~ '" Jl ~

j
lii11i~~~il~iiii~'1;~il~
......
-~
.
i
i~ ~ ;~ii~i1if1!~;11i~!
'i 1i ~
',;g fi.f
~'i
~~~i.. 'Ol"i~~ ::$A2m~
~'i0g~ -a.,tili-a :>:il1-1~ "i~~'

1
!

1

:i

"~[

:J ..'l~ J.

~~
1/)8

.......
I:>

t

~

~


t....
1~
.

f

Izi
5

t

~
~

.

I/)

I/)

~

~


I
..'l
..

s

I!
t

i
r-l

A-35

I
...
o

. . ~.

~

• '01

~~
~

A-36

.J 1 ia(~ ~ ~.i~a.~
i} J;lj~if~;]l
RJ ii;
1
~lll~
:! ~
CI)~ lilla~ja.~:la~~~tl~;~
1;~i~j8~~~~*aJiillo1
.<i}~~i~i~ ~~Jl~~~li~8i] i ~ ,11"I::j. !11= ,~11.I'cl01
.........
11.01~
...
""~
j !i...
.'...
j
11I~~lK~.o~.i
~lC1)
• a
i
.~"'I>~i.<'"
lt~'tI.~
lia jj~~I~~!i~li~~~
~jIJ Do;: i t ig!! ~11 i'tl :
d'}~ l1.Iil6iU~" "6~]~!1I",ii
a !i'(;1 j~i3,(; til" ,18 ;~i

a
...
. ~
11 .eO
..
l~iD}
11
~
•
]1I~~3~.1I~2
.B
~ .. 011'8.-~ ..,,,, , 0011>.
11 "',!!! , ., ~CI)la~ll~ '0'"
j31:f.<~ !,g::l'O'" 1 Ii" ~~..,p
I>..

'

p,~~

•
R

,

'g

!!I

'"

if

8

II

~

•
~~j~ii~!$llii:a~arnlall
a
i ..""
.2. .
° i
~O.~~ ~~~r
. J
~

.

i P..
::!l

~

~
~

'(;

....

~
~

......

(I)

g

0

•

cr.l

CI)

s,
01

~

g
11.1

•

-8

«

;f~ t
~

.

~
~
Io-g
o~

..,;;;t

E~
'(;

Po

l!N'
8~

ii !G~

i!

-4"

'"

~Ul!"'~~
i-f<"\o~o>
(1'\ 0

i-t

~.

<"\
C'\ ()

_~~.~Om~~
~CI)

'"

.. ~~,

...........

~O~~

~_U)

........

as.: .~.

~

..

....

on

as- ..........
< .~_

CI),!!\~

••

eo

~

CI),!!\

..

(I)

~~.~~go~~~~~.~!~
en
(1]..
-...... -g•
:'J .. -I
~::!l0" ...riIDS"'::!l.$'"
~:=t

,...

CI)

O\t:::>

•

111........ 0

~CD

I)
Ct)

CD

P~_Ol

..

0

Ul

CO

~
~

s ~..
..... :5l
Ul
<"\

:z:

<

~

i

~

'cl

....

...0

....

'cl

~

~

-g

t

~

~

I:

~

~

'f

i

i
°

~~

....,(1]

I1l

t

&~

C"\ ..

!.l.'cl~
1~::!lg!~~::!l
~!
Il~'" ~ ....
_~o._~ "".0) g 'cl~•

«'

a
03

~~~~ ~ ~i~~~
~~
~<~~(I)g~<~
C'\"1 e-

~
~
~

~

11.1'"

E"

~d
0 d t>~10
~~
i! ~.,..~
t:: .

0-

~
~

Ul

i~I

aI

CI)

);i

1Iil~i lit.~i~

O~ftl.';Olft .. 1 ~. i
!;c>~i
10K
~ .. a ..,~.II:!
i~!jIjfii{!f1f;
~1!3~i!ll~~i~~ial~i~!~~~~f
I 8~ 8~~lu~8't1l~~~3t~i
'tI

s

Ii

~It~i

.8

~..,

0

)1

;'.(1)

Ul

C>

.&

i

SCI)

'E

~~

I

.. ~...! ~'"

e,

M

0

G!! ai ti=
~~
ti ..
g! i~ ;iJ
Ii
ti~

I~

~

~

-<t

CI)

....

.

~
~

~.
i 11
'cl ...
<:I

J

~j.
~

•R

cr.l

•

~~<

~
~~

.. .

i!

<0

..

~a
.1;;

i~
~i
<o.m

~~

~ ,..
~

.

~
~

~

.. !~t l!..
!~ . 1 ~
,~
::;

~g

oJ
~~
vii
~~

!t ~

III 0

cr.l

it> "
~g
..

!

~

~

~i~
. . vi.
.- .
;

cr.l

11.1

b

p

~

~ *

A-J7

..

::f

.

'"

tO)

...o

..
.~

I> •
<:>

0)

:::>

•

o

..

0)

:::>

I

A-38

•

I
J

A-39

Il

i
'a

..;•

...•s

....

CD

j

<>

~
.,
'a

..

•
Il

..."
....
....o

E

~
.,

Il

J:
.,
""Il

.,'"

~o

....o

j

j

"..

........:

.."
o

........

o

l.'.'

...~

..

00

"" ...

...
Il

....

Il

...Ii
....o

....

Il

6
()

.z
Il

....

A""
Il Il

.,a

..
A

~Z

""Il
A"

...

~

....~
....'"
o

..
Il

;
~

0

.od
o
~

•
I0

'" '"

!l

.:

... ..:...

(\/
00

'd-d

....
...

"" .....
o

00

"" ...

x

....o

.,c

....,..

..

i':1

.,~
....
•
A

...

......

...

...

CD
I
I

....
II

..;

.,

•

•

A-40
~


ii
:~
...
:..:

3

...~
i-:

j

0011

-

.....
•
:

..;;: ~
o • .:l

....

~!d:

......
........ '".
~
........
.. ..~
"' ........-

~!

.

....
...
t
~A.-t

.

•• 1I
~8 ..
......
~
...

J
11

ilJ

4:

:
::
'8

•

1

N

...~

......-

...:
...

i...

.;

.
j
N

:
....

:
...
...-

..9

...i
......-

.....
~

J
o

d
~

t .i

...!
..
J

.

...•.
~

~

e
1
...

!

4

I

~8
......
....

i

!

u
I~

C)

8

•

~


I

A-4l

.......

2

I......

..~ c

It
......
.......

.

~

.•.•..
o

...a

...~
..
"'... ..
....'" ..
....

..•..

..

o

'0

'g

2~

...
.., ....

........

,0

....

..~

...... i.
'"
'"
II •

e

II

~'"

..

8'0 ....

:ft
]...

11<>'

..~J
.. ..,

<l.

..
.....,

~i

~~

i

go...

N

:
....

0'0

l!~

'"
-
 to

u
C\I

~

!~~
.~s
.."
... ..

.. .......
6'0

~ '" ...
...

•l::"¥i:•

'0 ~ ...

:t~

... '"
~.....
..... !
.;."

"''-4 ••

e

.......

6

....
.
rJ
.. .
.
0 ..

.. .

• e

<l

......
......

0'"

....

go

.....

Cl

d ...
0 ..

:;~

'tl

e o

...

..,

........

'ON

•

..
..,.
d Cl

~

'tl

ii..
..
... e
...,.. .....

...

t

~~

8. •
'"
g:

<l

~~..1

~~:I:
118~.p

......
;ril:...
.....
.+)

-gg

,

.....0

.............
~~

.....

o •

~
~..,~
e

:

~~

..••


....

~


...

s:

i~
....... ..
...»
;~
"' ...
o

0

o

j

.:I ..

"::1
:~
.....

.......
';1
......
...~'a
"Ii

~'"

.

:
...

lie

'"

...

6

Ji
.so
......
.0.. -;

....
!

....
...

......

N

.

'"....

.
....
CD

...

...:

.

...

t

III

1~
io

...•

io

.:

1
..
o

...

....
s

i

...
~

i
o

•
N

~

.......

~

II

•....
o

~

II

j

..•..
o

'0

... :
...
!~
-;:
o

.. .. ..

:: .. m
~oo

,:;1:

.
.

:

...i
~

N

:
...

N

N

...:.
...

..

~

•

.i..
:3
'6

io
cZ

......

.-.
i:~
•.. .
~~
.oo

J"
...!

or-

io

.:

a

.

i

.....

:

u

1..
&

.oo

..-0 ..

~~
CD

..
o

.....

b

i

t

1

i

o

........

~


]

t.
......
'lI.
P::

&•

fl
,

A-4.3

~

i
~

s~

...~

....
i

o
o

....

.d

...
o

•
~

i..

..

..g..
o

... ........ ....'"
i .... ...
... ..... ...a
"
i
..• .. ..
.....
..s
...
o
o

:i
....
'"

:1.= ~

~~

....
eo

~

~~Po

o

:l

g
j....

.....

~

..

~ ,.til
.. 0

~~ ~
...

O~

1'100
... 0

..........

... 0>-

a

~0

"'ll

gil::

O~

~!::o

......
......
............

•II I.~
.... g

II:

0

CDO~
•
~

.. II

1=0

'.

.!l
~

P

..

...II

....... ..
....... •
..:
II

....

..
........
Po

...~

"q

11
0

.3
N

.
.."
.;
0

0

III

0 ..

~<tJI~,O

"f

.0
N

~

.. I> ..

0

fo

e-

o
o

1

.....
!

i..
e

o
<>

..;

..

.;

...s

A-44

.
.....
.....
0"
..u".'"...
I

;:"":i
.l1.f<7\

~i!~
•

.

"0"'1

o

...

.

Ol

i ..:~ <7\"-=
...
......
...........
"""'
o

.

S ...

..Ol."".. ..
..

~:o:

~

."

0

...

D"~

.:.1<7\
"o to ...•

....

"'''0
.0'"

i~~

0"":0:
o

.....

o

'"

....
f

......
o

•

~

..

...o

i•

j

~

U>

..
..
s
~
Ol

i..
~

It!
......
:
.......... ..:...

.",

............... .....
:
...o

..
.....
:~
..
.. ..•
...
""....." fog
....
...
...........
.....
~A ..
e

..
0

A.

0.-

III

......

..Ol",
<7\

*-:
.. '".
..0"
.••""

.

.0

o

~

Ol:I

...

....
...
~J
Si
.....
....
o

~

,20

...".
......
•
•
:~
.....
..... .....
.."0 .......
...~.:..• ""....."..... ""..•.. gU.. ......
...'"
:~
...
..0"..
"11
fi •
o
0:;

!:.L ..
.. A,I:>
A.I)
."0
..
0

~~

U

...

•

..

0 ...

...

I

l:>A

~o.,a

l/'~

0

..i!

N

...

A"

f~

o

...

Ol U

o

:~
If

00

~lt

..t~""
Ol"

...

Ol"
0 ..

::;:

1~

.."

'i1
...
Ol

;:

'"

.:

j

...
o

U>

~

..s..
........
......••
......

'"

...........
.....

...........
•
.....
....
......
.....
..ge!

.....
.....
..;

.

o

o

g

..

111

~

.....

:;~

:0:

o

;~
.3'"

...o

...........

...

..

.

A"

e~...

......
t:~
00

III

......

.....

..•

A-45

:
8

....o

..

...'"

~

."

..
OD

~

....o

•o

;
~

~I
~I
..

~"
~

."

!

......

ti

I>.

'0

..

al

o

[

..
.... .
.. '"

......
I>

'd

~~

..

"ill
...
o " ..

.......
.. ..,

" .......

OD'd"

...
a

~~

.....

....

0"0

.,.,a '"
....

i

..

1>.0

\D

'd

al ..

:1::
...
".., ..........
.....
~!3

~

...... ""

o
.,.,""

..
..
....

... .."
al

~ " ~~
0"
'"

...

...

Oal

S ...

~

....o

....
0"

..........

1:

II

...
...
...R.. ...
~

lJ
..,.. '"
,,'"'"

o

I<

..~

0 ....

... o

"

g ..
1<0

...

..

~l
g.

~~

it
.s~
:
~
I
I

i

.., ....
~::
..,~.....
g
..... "
..,

....

~

=•"

g

a~
....
OD

=


..

."

C"

o

1'0

.....
~~

~~

"0

~


• g

"0
"'0

'"

~<1

....o

....

.!:'.
......
..,... ..

... .

.~

~i

<I'"
B

"'0

..
....
...-~..
........lS~'".
....

....

...
...

,,"0

:E~
~.:l

.....

A-46
.:;J'"

..~

l•
......
.... ~

0::

i..

.. ::s

.. ...
... ..
Ol

~

0'

::s ..

•..

001

1'1

~

.•.

..

...

~e

....o

•

li ....
1j!

8

o

...o

"'a-.
cl ....

!~
.....
..g

.." '".. ..'"
.......

..s~

....
N

o

'"

•

.....

.......
'[

"4

0"""

.. ..
..

""'0

0

s
'"."...

Ol ....
.. 0. cl

"" 0. ..
"

01 ..

...

.: .. g"ll:;'
000.

..
9

o.t>cl

~

R

B

..

.....
rn

..

£

s

rn

~

....
....
....

0-

...o

..
~
....
..~..
o

-<

..

!

..

i

..:l
•

..i
i'"
....

....o

e
01

......
0"'"
....

0"
....
.. 0

....
....

~
....o

"Ol

o

e ..

CD~

e
o

~

..

!
:
i

o

!~.
......
....

o

o

...."
~~

....

•.0

~!
....
....... ,,;
.......
....

'"

...
...

~

,;r
er»

..
......
"'....
.. ...........
..... ....
.....
ig

~~

'"

1Il0

....o

....o

:~o..
010

.::..

e

~

.."' .. ~......
"'....
... e~
...

"0

~~

N
N

ll"...gil:~

'"

...o

.. ...::....
.....
.. " ..

..
....

......

Gl

...

Gl

d

"'''
e'S

ll~
.....
......
00
II:

o
e ..

....

:l II

Allo

~R

....
.::

",""

a

.....
.....
g~

~

..

.

fo
eo

..

o

~


•

o

...

e

j
~


..fJ

"e

R

f.#

z::

o

..

s..

j

u

...

.0

!
al..

..
'\'
o

o

'.

~


A-47

~
il
.1

A-48
~~~~~~

~~~~~~~~~g~~~~~~~~

~~~~~~

"~~~~~ "~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~

~~i~~~~~~~
~~
~~"~~~~"~~ ~~

~i~~i~.~~i~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~.i~~~i~.~~~~~iwi~i.~g
.
a
a
. a
. a

li!jjj ~jliij!jjjijiijj~!~jjlji j!i~ijjlj~ij

A-49

~~~~~~~~~ i~~~~~~~~ ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~
~~~"~~~~~~~!~~~~"
""""""

"""

"~~~~

~~M

~

~~~~~~..i~~..~wi~~.~~~~~~it~i~~i~~~~~~~~~~.
88

88

8.~

~jjj~j ]ji jjgi~!il
...

t

.o...

....

~


.e .

8

1 l!ij~ilijjj~l~jj~

A-50

1

t~

'I~~'"
J:

PH
M

a

~

t...

'i

~

~
~

i

0

~
l?f

0'

I

"

!

I
l

!
1

~

'i

'i

~

a

""

~

f

'i

i~

1

!
D

'i

,;
~

I,

1• 1
l

j

u

•

i

oj

Ja

::i
.<:
~
~

0

D

f

I

!
i

'S

f

~

j

l;

J

