19 7 1
For the Fiscal Year
Ended June 30th

SECURITIES AND EXCHANGE COMMISSION
Headquarters Office
500 North Capitol Street
Washington, D.C. 20549
COMMISSIONERS
WILLIAM J. CASEY, Chairman
HUGH F. OWENS
JAMES J. NEEDHAM
A. SYDNEY HERLoNG, JR.
PHILIP A. LoOMIS, JR.
RONALD

F. HUNT, Secreliolry

For sale by the Superintendent
of Documents. U.S. Government
Washington. D.C. 20402 - Price $1 (paper cover)
Stock Number 4600-0083

Printing

OfBce

LETTER OF TRANSMITTAL
SECURITIES AND EXCHANGE COMMISSION

Washington, D.C.
Sirs: On behalf of the Securities and Exchange Commission, I
have the honor to transmit to you the Thirty-Seventh Annual
Report of the Commission covering the fiscal year July 1, 1970 to
June 30, 1971, in accordance with the provisions of Section 23(b)
of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended; Section 23 of
the Public Utility Holding Company Act of 1935; Section 46(a)
of the Investment Company Act of 1940; Section 216 of the Investment Advisers Act of 1940; Section 3 of the Act of June 29,
1949, amending the Bretton Woods Agreement Act; Section 11(b)
of the Inter-American Development Bank Act; and Section 11(b)
of the Asian Development Bank Act.
Respectfully,
WILLIAM J. CASEY,
Chairman
THE PRESIDENT OF THE SENATE
THE SPEAKER OF THE HOUSE OF REPRESENTATIVES,

Washington, D.C.

m

COMMISSIONERS

AND PRINCIPAL

STAFF

OFFICERS

(As of December 1, 1971)
Term

expires

Commissioners

June 5

WILLIAM J. CASEY of New York, Chairman
HUGH F. OWENS of Oklahoma
JAMES J. NEEDHAM of New York
A. SYDNEY HERLONG, JR. of Florida
PHILIP A. LOOMIS, JR. of California

1974

1975
1973
1976
1972

Secretary: RONALD F. HUNT
Executive Assistant to the Chairman: CHARLES S. WHITMAN, III
Principal

Staff Officers

A. JONES YORKE, Executive Director
ALAN B. LEVENSON, Director, Division of Corporation
Finance
THOMAS N. HOLLOWAY,Associate Director
RALPH C. HOCKER, Associate Director
SOLOMONFREEDMAN, Director, Division of Corporate Regulation
AARON LEVY, Associate Director
ALLAN S. MOSToFF, Associate Director
IRVING M. POLLACK, Director, Division of Trading and Markets
SHELDON RAPPAPORT, Associate Director
STANLEY SPORKIN, Associate Director
G. BRADFORDCOOK, JR., General Counsel
DAVID FERBER, Solicitor
WALTER P. NORTH, Associate General Counsel
ANDREW BARR, Chief Accountant
A. CLARENCE SAMPSON, JR., Associate Chief Accountant
GENE L. FINN, Chief Economist, Office of Policy Research
LEONARDHELFENSTEIN, Director, Office of Opinions and Review
W. VICTOR RODIN, Associate Director
ALFRED LETZLER, Associate Director
WARREN E. BLAIR, Chief Hearing Examiner
WILLIAM E. BECKER, Chief Management
Analyst
FRANK J. DONATY, Comptroller
ERNEST L. DESSECKER, Records and Service Officer
HARRY POLLACK, Director of Personnel
RALPH L. BELL, EDP Manager

v

REGIONAL AND BRANCH OFFICES
Regional Officesand Regional Administrators
Region 1. New York, New Jersey.-Kevin Thomas Duffy, 26 Federal
Plaza, New York, New York 10007.
Region 2. Massachusetts, Connecticut, Rhode Island, Vermont, New
Hampshire, Maine.-Floyd H. Gilbert, Suite 2203, John F. Kennedy
Federal Bldg., Government Center, Boston, Mass. 02203.
Region 3. Tennessee, Virgin Islands, Puerto Rico, North Carolina, South
Carolina, Georgia, Alabama, Mississippi, Florida, that part of Louisiana lying east of the Atchafalaya River.-Jule B. Greene, Suite 138,
1371 Peachtree Street, N. E., Atlanta, Georgia 30809.
Region 4. Illinois, Indiana, Iowa, Kansas City (Kansas), Kentucky,
Michigan, Minnesota, Missouri, Ohio, Wisconsin.-John I. Mayer,
Room 1708, Everett McKinley Dirksen Bldg., 219 South Dearborn
Street, Chicago, Illinois 60604.
Region 5. Oklahoma, Arkansas, Texas, that part of Louisiana lying west
of the Atchafalaya River, and Kansas (except Kansas City).-Gerald
E. Boltz, 503 U.S. Court House, 10th & Lamar Streets, Fort Worth,
Texas 76102.
Region 6. Wyoming, Colorado, New Mexico, Nebraska, North Dakota,
South Dakota, Utah.-Donald J. Stocking, 7224 Federal Bldg., 1961
Stout Street, Denver, Colorado80202.
Region 7. California, Nevada, Arizona, Hawaii, Guam.-Arthur
E.
Pennekamp, 450 Golden Gate Avenue, Box 36042, San Franeiseo,
California 94102.
Region 8. Washington, Oregon, Idaho, Montana, Alaska.--James E.
Newton, 900 Hoge Bldg., Seattle, Washington 98104.
Region 9. Pennsylvania, Maryland, Virginia, West Virginia, Delaware,
District of Columbia.-Alexander J. Brown, Jr., Room 300, Ballston
Center Tower #3, 4015 Wilson Boulevard, Arlington, Va. 22208.
Branch Offices
Cleveland, Ohio 44199.-Room 899, Federal OfficeBldg., 1240 E. 9th at
Lakeside.
Detroit, Michigan 48226.-1044 Federal Bldg.
Houston, Texas 77022.-Room 2606 Federal Office& Courts Bldg., 515
Rusk Ave.
Los Angeles, California 90012.-Room 1043, U.S. Courthouse, 312 North
Spring Street.
Miami, Florida 38130.-Room 1504, Federal OfficeBldg., 51 S.W., First
Ave.
St. Louis, Missouri 63101.-Room 1452, 210 North Twelfth Street.
Salt Lake City, Utah 84111.-Room 6004, Federal Reserve Bank Bldg.,
120 South State Street.

VI

COMMISSIONERS
William

J.

Casey, Chairman

Chairman Casey was born in Elmhurst, New York, on March
13, 1913. He received a B.A. degree from Fordham University in
1934 and an LL.B. degree from St. John's University in 1937. At
the time of his appointment to the Commission, he was a partner
in the New York law finn of Hall, Casey, Dickler & Howley and
the Washington law firm of Scribner, Hall, Casey, Thornburg &
Thompson. Mr. Casey has authored and edited a broad spectrum
of publications on legal, tax, financial and economic subjects, and
has served as Chairman of the Board of Editors of the Research
Institute of America and Chairman of the Board of Editors of the
Institute for Business Planning, a subsidiary of Prentice-Hall.
During World War II, he served as Chief of the Secretariat at the
European headquarters of the Office of Strategic Services and,
subsequently, Chief of O.S.S. intelligence operations in the European Theatre. In 1948,he served on the legal staff of the European
headquarters of the Marshall Plan. Subsequently, he served as
special tax counsel for the Senate Small Business Committee. He
has served as a member of the General Advisory Committee on
Arms Control and as a member of the Presidential Task Force
on International Development. He has also been President of the
International Rescue Committee and of the Long Island Association. He has served as Trustee of Fordham University, of Good
Counsel College and of Catholic Charities in the Long Island
Diocese. Mr. Casey was sworn in as Chairman of the Securities
and Exchange Commission on April 14, 1971.
Hugh F. Owens

Commissioner Owens was born in Muskogee, Oklahoma, on
October 15, 1909, and moved to Oklahoma City in 1918. He
graduated from Georgetown Preparatory School, Washington,
D.C., in 1927,and received his A.B. degree from the University of
Illinois in 1931. In 1934, he received his LL.B. degree from the
University of Oklahoma College of Law, and became associated
with a Chicago law firm specializing in securities law. He returned to Oklahoma City in January 1936, to become associated
VII

with the firm of Rainey, Flynn, Green and Anderson. From 1940
to 1941, he was vice president of the United States Junior Chamber of Commerce. During World War II he attained the rank of
Lieutenant Commander, U.S.N.R., and served as Executive Officer
of a Pacific Fleet destroyer. In 1948, he became a partner in the
firm of Hervey, May and Owens. From 1951 to 1953, he served
as counsel for the Superior Oil Company in Midland, Texas, and
thereafter returned to Oklahoma City, where he engaged in the
general practice of law under his own name. He also served as a
part-time faculty member of the School of Law of Oklahoma City
University. In October 1959, he was appointed Administrator of
the then newly enacted Oklahoma Securities Act and was active
in the work of the North American Securities Administrators,
serving as vice president and a member of the executive committee of that Association. He took office as a member of the
Securities and Exchange Commission on March 23, 1964, for the
term expiring June 5, 1965, and was reappointed for the terms
expiring June 5, 1970 and 1975. Since June 1964, he has served
on the executive committee of the National Association of Regulatory Utility Commissioners.
James J. Needham

Commissioner Needham was born in Woodhaven, New York, on
August 18, 1926. He received a B.B.A. in 1951 from St. John's
University. During 1944-46, he was in the Naval V-5 Program at
Cornell University. At the time of his appointment to the Commission, Commissioner Needham, a Certified Public Accountant,
was associated with A. M. Pullen & Company, based in Greensboro, North Carolina, serving as partner in charge of its New
York office, and as a member of the firm's Executive Committee.
Previously, he was associated with Raymond T. Hyer & Company
and with Price, Waterhouse & Co. Commissioner Needham has
been active in professional and business organizations, including
the American Institute of Certified Public Accountants (as a member of Council) ; the New York State Society of Certified Public
Accountants (including service as Treasurer and as a member of
its Board of Directors and Executive Committee) ; the New York
Chamber of Commerce; and the Accountants Club of America,
Inc. He also has participated actively in many community organizations. Prior to assuming office on July 10, 1969, for the term
expiring June 5, 1973, he resided in Plainview, New York.

VIII

A. Sydney Herlong, Jr.

Commissioner Herlong was born in Manistee, Alabama, on
February 14, 1909, and in 1912 moved to Sumter County, Florida,
and later to Lake County, Florida, where he attended public
schools. He received an LL.B. degree from the University of
Florida, Gainesville, Florida, in 1930, and commenced practicing
law in his home town of Leesburg, Florida. Commissioner Herlong
continued practicing law until 1937 when he was elected County
Judge of Lake County, Florida. He continued serving as County
Judge until 1948 when he was elected to the U.S. House of
Representatives, in which body he served until January 1969,
when he voluntarily retired. While serving in Congress, Mr.
Herlong was a member of the Post Office and Civil Service Committee, the Agriculture Committee, and, for the last seven terms,
the Ways and Means Committee. Upon retirement from Congress,
he became a consultant to the Association of Southeastern Railroads. He is a past president of the Florida County Judges Association, the University of Florida Alumni Association and the
Florida State Baseball League. Mr. Herlong received the Good
Government Award from the Florida Junior Chamber of Commerce and the Distinguished Alumni Award from the University
of Florida. He took office as a member of the Securities and Exchange Commission on October 29, 1969, for the term of office
expiring June 5, 1971, and was reappointed for the term expiring
June 5, 1976.
Philip A. Loomis, Jr.

Commissioner Loomis was born in Colorado Springs, Colorado,
on June 11,1915. He received an A.B. degree, with highest honors,
from Princeton University in 1938 and an LL.B. degree, cum
laude, from Yale Law School in 1941, where he was a Law
Journal editor. Prior to joining the staff of the Securities and
Exchange Commission, Commissioner Loomis practiced law with
the :firm of O'Melveny and Myers in Los Angeles, California, except for the period from 1942 to 1944, when he served as an
attorney with the Office of Price Administration, and the period
from 1944 to 1946, when he was Associate Counsel to Northrop
Aircraft, Inc. Commissioner Loomis joined the Commission's
staff as a consultant in 1954, and the following year he was
appointed Associate Director and then Director of the Division
of Trading and Exchanges. In 1963, Commissioner Loomis was

IX

appointed General Counsel to the Commission and served in that
capacity until his appointment as a member of the Commission.
Commissioner Loomis is a member of the American Bar Association, the American Law Institute, the Federal Bar Association, the State Bar of California, and the Los Angeles Bar
Association. He received the Career Service Award of the National Civil Service League in 1964, the Securities and Exchange
CommissionDistinguished Service Award in 1966, and the Justice
Tom C. Clark Award of the Federal Bar Association in 1971. He
took office as a member of the Securities and Exchange Commission on August 13, 1971, for the term of officeexpiring June
5,1972.

x

TABLE OF CONTENTS
Page

Commissioners and principal staff officers
Regional and branch offices
Biographies of Commissioners

V
VI
VII

PART I
IMPORTANT RECENT DEVELOPMENTS
Investor protection; market structure
Structure and level of commission rates
Public ownership of broker-dealers
Securities quotations without specified information
NASD automated over-the-counter quotations system
(NASDAQ)
Institutional investor study
Reform of the Investment Company Act
Investment advisory fees
Sales charges
The front-end load on contractual plans
Fund holding companies
Performance fee advisory contracts
Expanded Commission enforcement authority
Banks and insurance companies
Oil and gas funds
Implementation of Investment Company Act amendments
Explanatory releases
Adoption of rules under amended Section 27
Revision of annual report form
Study of the potential economic impact of the repeal of
Section 22(d) of the Investment Company Act
Proposed rules regarding resales of restricted securities
Disclosure by defense contractors
Offering of securities as substitute or supplement for savings
account deposits and certificates of deposit
Proposed fee schedule
Enforcement action charging misuse of pension funds

1
1
5
6
8
8
10
13
14
15
15
16
17
17
18
19
19
19
20
20
20
21
23
24
24
25

PART II
FULL DISCLOSURE OF INFORMATION ABOUT THE ISSUERS OF SECURITIES
Disclosure in connection with public offerings
Type of information included in registration statement ---

27
27
28

XI

Page

FULL DISCLOSURE
OF INFORMATION
ABOUT THE ISSUERS OF SECURITIES-Continued
Disclosure in connection with public offerings-Continued
New registration guides
Adoption of new or revised registration forms
Improving the readability of prospectuses
Disposition of abandoned registration statements
New rules relating to publication of information and delivery of prospectus by broker-dealers prior to or after
the filing of a registration statement
Staff examination of registration statements
Time required to complete registration
Statistics regarding registration statements filed
Statistics regarding securities registered
Reports of sales and use of proceeds
Examinations and investigations
Stop order proceedings
Exemption from registration of small issues
Exempt offerings under Regulation A
Reports of sales
Suspension of exemption
Exempt offerings under Regulation B
Reports of sales
Exempt offerings under Regulation F
Continuing disclosure requirements
Registration of securities on exchanges
Registration of over-the-counter securities
New rule regarding registration by successor issuers __
Exemptions from registration
Periodic reports
New rules relating to companies reporting pursuant to
Section 15(d) ------------------_____________________
Proposed amendments of reporting forms
Timely disclosure of material corporate developments
Proceedings to obtain compliance with Exchange Act registration or reporting requirements
Administrative actions ---__________________________
Civil actions ----------____________________________
Proxy solicitations ----- -_______________________________
Scope and nature of proxy regulation
Statistics relating to proxy and information statements
Stockholders' proposals ------------------__________
Proxy contests --__________________________________
Litigation relating to proxy rules
Disclosure in connection with takeover bids and other large
acquisitions
Insiders' security holdings and transactions
Ownership reports --_______________________________
Recovery of short-swing trading profits
Investigations with respect to reporting and proxy provisions ------_______________________________________

XII

28
29
31
31

32
32
33
34
35
39
40
40
42
43
44
44
45
45
45
46
46
47
47
48
48
49
50
50
50
50
52
52
52
5'3
53
54
54
55
56
57
57
57

Page

FULL DISCLOSURE
OF INFORMATION
ABOUT THE ISSUERS OF SECURITIES-Continued
Accounting and auditing matters--Continued
Summary suspension of trading
_
_
Accounting and auditing matters
_
Relations with the accounting profession and the public
The work of the Accounting Principles Board and com_
mittees of the AICPA
_
Other current developments
_
Exemptions for securities of international banks
International Bank for Reconstruction and Development __
_
Inter-American
Development Bank
_
Asian Development Bank
_
Trust Indenture Act of 1939
PART

59
61
62
64
66

66
68

69
70

III

REGULATION OF SECURITIES
MARKETS
Regulation of exchanges
Registration and exemption of exchanges
Review of exchange rules and procedures
Litigation relating to review of exchange rules
Inspections of exchanges
Delisting of securities from exchanges
Litigation relating to deli sting
Statistics relating to securities traded on exchanges
Number of issuers and securities
Market value of securities available for trading
Volume of securities traded
Foreign stocks on exchanges _
Comparative exchange statistics
Block distributions reported by exchanges
Unlisted trading privileges on exchanges
Supervision of activities of National Association of Securities
Dealer~ Inc.
Review of NASD rules and policies
NASD rule abrogation proceeding
Inspections of the NASD
Over-the-counter trading
'rork Stock Exchange

58

in common stocks listed on the New

Regulation of broker-dealers and investment advisers
Registration
~_______________________
Financial reports of broker-dealers
Broker-dealer income and expense reports
Regulation of broker-dealers who are not members of a
registered securities association
Statistical studies
Issues registered under the Securities Act of 1933
New securities offerings
Private noninsured pension funds
Stock transactions of financial institutions

73
73
73
74
75
76
77
78
79
79
79
80
81
82
84
85
86
87
89
90
90
91
91
92
92
93
95
95
95
96
96
XIII

Page

REGULATION OF SECURITIES
MARKETS-Continued
Statistical Studies-Continued
Financial position of corporations
Plant and equipment expenditures
Directory of registered companies
Stock market data

PART

_
_
_
_

99
99
99
100
101
102

Enforcement of investigative subpoenas
Enforcement and remedial action
Administrative
proceedings
Judicial review of administrative decisions
Civil proceedings
Participation as amicus curiae
Criminal proceedings
Organized crime program
Proposed Swiss treaty
Disciplinary action by self-regulatory
Exchanges
NASD

organizations

103
104
104
115
117
123
125
128
128
----------

Commission review of NASD disciplinary action ----Commission review of NASD action on membership -_
Cooperation with other enforcement agencies
Section of Securities Violations
Enforcement problems with respect to foreign securities
Disqualification from practice before Commission

129
129
129
130
13.2
133
134
135
138

V

REGULATION OF INVESTMENT
COMPANIES
Companies registered under the Act
Investment company assets
Investment company filings, other than applications
Developments with respect to particular
types of investment
companies
Investment company sponsored by a public accounting firm _
Minority enterprise small business investment companies __
Mutual fund for labor union members and pension funds __
Shareholders' proposals in investment company proxy material
Selection of a new investment
company

XIV

97
97

IV

CONTROL OF IMPROPER PRACTICES
Detection of improper practices
Public complaints and inquiries
Inspections
Market surveillance
Investigations

PART

96
97

adviser

by an investment

141
142
145
145
145
145
146
147
147
148

Page

REGULATION OF INVESTMENT COMPANIES-Continued
Revisions of rules and forms; policy statements
Adoption of Rule 18f-l and Form N-18F-l
Amendment of Rule 22d-l
Revision of annual report Form N-IR
Valuation of securities
Position with respect to dilution of net asset value and
inappropriate extensions of credit on sales, redemptions
and repurchases of fund shares
Applications for Commission action
Control of improper practices
Inspection and investigation program
Civil and administrative proceedings
PART

148
149
149
150
151

152
152
156
156
157

VI

REGULATION OF PUBLIC.UTILITY HOLDING COMPANIES
Composition of registered holding-company systems
Section 11 matters in registered holding-company systems
Proceedings with respect to acquisitions, sales, and other
matters
Financing of active registered public-utility holding companies
and their subsidiaries

167
167
168
168
173

PART VII

PARTICIPATION IN CORPORATE REORGANIZATIONS
Summary of activities
Jurisdictional, procedural, and administrative matters
Trustee's investigation
Reports on plans of reorganization
Activities with regard to allowances
Intervention in Chapter XI proceedings

177
178
179
183
183
191
195

PART VIII

SUPPORTING ACTIVITIES
Public information services
Dissemination of information
.__
Publications
AvailabilitY of information for public inspection
Litigation involving public information provisions of the
Administrative Procedure Act
Electronic Data Processing
Extension of application of automation techniques
Assistance to state and federal agencies
Sharing of EDP facilities
EDP training
Personnel and financial management
Personnel program
Personnel strength; financial management

205
205
205
206
207
209
211
211
212
212
212
212
212
214

xv

Page
PART

IX

APPENDIX-STATISTICAL

TABLES

Table 1. Securities registrations effective under the Securities
of 1933-fiscal years 1935-1971
Table 2. Registrations effective under the Securities
fiscal year ended June 30, 1971
Part 1. Distribution by months

Act
217

Act of 1933,
218
218

Part 2. Purpose of registration and type of security
Table 3. Brokers and dealers registered under the Securities Exchange Act of 1934-effective
registrations
as of June
30, 1971, classified by type of organization and by location of principal office

218

Table 4. Number of security issues and issuers on exchanges -____
Part 1. Unduplicated count as of June 30, 1971 of the number
of stock and bond issues admitted to trading on
exchanges, and the number of issuers involved
Part 2. Number of stock and bond issues on each exchange as
of June 30, 1971, classified by trading status, and
number of issuers involved
Table 5. Value of stocks on exchanges
Table 6. Dollar volume and share volume of sales effected on securities exchanges in the calendar year 1970 and the
6-month period ended June 30, 1971 --________________
Part 1. 12 months ended December 31, 1970
Part 2. 6 months ended June 30, 1971

220

Table 7. Comparative share sales and dollar volumes on exchanges;
Table 8. Block distributions of stocks reported by exchanges
Table 9. Unlisted stocks on exchanges
Part
Part

1. Number of stocks on the exchanges as of June 30, 1971_
2. Unlisted share volume on the exchanges-calendar
year
1970

Table 10. Summary of cases instituted in the courts by the Commission under the Securities Act of 1933, the Securities
Exchange Act of 1934, the Public Utility Holding
Company Act of 1935, the Investment Company Act of
1940, and the Investment Advisers Act of 1940
Table 11. A 38-year summary of all injunction cases instituted by
the Commission-1934
to June 30, 1971, by calendar
year

219

'220

220
221

222
222
222
223
224
224
224
225

225

226

Table 12. Summary of cases instituted against the Commission,
cases involving petitions for review of Commission orders, cases in which the Commission participated as intervenor or amicus curiae, and reorganization cases on
appeal under Ch. X in which the Commission participated

227

Table 13. A 38-year summary
Commission-1934

228

XVI

of criminal cases developed by the
through 1971, by fiscal year

Page

Table 14. A 38-year summary classifying all defendants in criminal
cases developed by the Commission-1934 to June 30,
1971
Table 15. Summary of criminal cases developed by the Commission
which were pending at June 30, 1971
Table 16. Reorganization
proceedings under Chapter X of the
Bankruptcy Act in which the Commission participated
during fiscal year 1971

450-484 0 - 72 - 2

230
230

231

XVII

PART I
IMPORTANT RECENT DEVELOPMENTS
INVESTOR PROTECTION; MARKET STRUCTURE

Major efforts were launched in 1971 to provide additional investor protection and to review on a comprehensive basis the
structure and functioning of our securities markets. Among other
things, the Commission adopted or proposed new rules designed
to strengthen the financial and operational responsibility of
brokerage firms, and it commenced broad-based public hearings
to examine the structure and functioning of the markets. The
re-examination which is in progress was occasionedin large part
by the substantial operational and financial problems that the
securities industry experienced during the period from 1968
through 1970.
Large, unanticipated increases in trading volume occurred in
the exchange and over-the-counter markets during the middle
1960's. Existing systems for processing securities transactions
proved inadequate at individual brokerage firms and at the industry-wide level. Many firms were unable to maintain recordkeeping control and lost physical control over stock certificates.
In the resulting confusion, a significant number of securities were
either lost or stolen. Errors and delays in executing and settling
trades were widespread, and customers frequently found it difficult to obtain delivery of securities they had paid for.
Although a decrease in trading volume in 1969 eased the operational problems somewhat, it brought with it lower income
for the industry. A financial squeeze ensued, and the industry's
overall capital base shrank under the impact of operating losses
and a significant drop in market value of trading and investment
accounts.
As a result, a number of firms, including some of the industry's
largest, were forced into liquidation, and many others were
merged out of existence. Hundreds of thousands of customers
were saved from major loss by having their accounts transferred
to stronger firms or through the injection of stock exchange trust
1

2

SECURITIES AND EXCHANGE COMMISSION

fund monies. In all, the industry expended about $130 million in
its rescue efforts.
In order to restore public confidence in the safety of the markets, Congress passed the Securities Investor Protection Act of
1970.1 This legislation, the most important in the securities field
in 30 years, established the Securities Investor Protection Corporation to provide insurance for customer accounts. Customers are
now insured up to $50,000 per account (of which no more than
$20,000 can be in cash). To minimize the exposure of the SIPC
fund, which is backed by a billion dollars in taxpayers' monies,
Congress ordered the Commission to study and report on the
unsafe and unsound practices of brokerage firms, and on the need
for additional legislation to correct such practices.
Some of the operational problem areas scheduled to be examined
in the Commission's study of brokerage practices were: physical
facilities for effecting and processing securities transactions;
automation and record-keeping systems; order entry and execution systems; trade comparisons and settlements; transfer and
custody of securities; relationships of banks to brokers; internal
controls maintained at brokerage firms; customer accounts; and
needed expansion programs. In the financial area the major
problem areas to be covered are: permanence and adequacy of
the industry's capitalization; reliance upon customers' funds and
securities; lack of internal controls over financial condition;
faulty handling of customer accounts ; and stock record differences.
The experiences of recent years, the various Congressional
hearings of 1970 and 1971, and the SIPC Study all point up the
need for additional investor protection measures. Of those already
implemented or under consideration, the most significant are
those dealing with the establishment of reserves against customer
free credit balances and the segregation of customers' securities.
Authority to pass rules in these areas was explicitly granted to
the Commission by the Securities Investor Protection Act.
Following consideration of various proposals, the Commission
on November 8, 1971 issued proposed new Rules 15c3-3 and
15c3--4 and proposed amended Rules 8c-1 and 15c2-1 under the
Securities Exchange Act of 1934.2 Proposed Rule 15c3-3 requires
the complete separation of customer funds from firm funds and
provides for reserves designed to protect customer funds held by
1 See 36th Annual Report, pp. 3-5, for a discussion of the history and
major provisions of this legislation.
2 Securities Exchange Act Release No. 9388.

THIRTY-SEVENTH ANNUAL REPORT

3

broker-dealers. Proposed Rule 15c3-4, concerned with customer
protection in the area of custody and use of customers' securities,
requires that the broker-dealer promptly obtain physical possession or control of customer securities and contains provisions
for reserves against securities of customers which should be but
are not in the physical possession or control of a broker-dealer.
Supplementing proposed Rule 15c3-4 are proposed amendments to
Rules 8c-l and 15c2-1 (the hypothecation rules) which would,
as regards securities carried for the accounts of customers which
are loaned or borrowed by a broker-dealer, provide the same
protections as are currently provided for by rules of the selfregulatory organizations with regard to the lending of securities
as well as by the hypothecation rules with regard to rehypothecated securities.
In addition to acting to protect customers' funds and securities
on deposit with brokers, the Commission has taken steps to improve procedures for detecting and monitoring financial and operational problems at firms. On September 15, 1971, Rule 17a-ll
under the Securities Exchange Act went into effect." It requires
the giving of immediate notice by a broker-dealer who is in
violation of a net capital rule or whose books and records are not
being maintained in a current manner. Where a firm's financial
condition is deteriorating, although it is not in violation of a net
capital rule, it must tile detailed financial and operational information on a monthly basis. Reports under the rule are to be sent
both to the Commission and to all self-regulatory organizations
of which the troubled firm is a member, so as to permit early
consideration of problems and assistance to the firm on a coordinated basis.
Another rule recently promulgated by the Commission under
the Securities Exchange Act, Rule 17a-13,4 requires firms to count
their "box" at least once each calendar quarter. During the
1968-1970 period when some firms lost control of their back
offices, sizeable differences sprang up between records reflecting
stock ownership and the inventory of securities actually on hand
(or at identifiable outside locations, such as transfer agents).
Some firms had substantial amounts of securities on hand whose
ownership they could not identify and were missing large amounts
of other securities which their records reflected as being owned by
customers. Because these differences were in many cases not
discovered, researched and resolved promptly, customers whose
3
4

Securities Exchange Act Release No. 9268 (July 30, 1971).
Securities Exchange Act Release No. 9376 (November 8, 1971).

4

SECURITIES

AND EXCHANGE COMMISSION

securities were in "street name" were at considerable risk. The
"box count rule" will focus the attention of firms and their
auditors on this problem area as a routine practice, thereby
lessening the chance that operational errors wilI cause serious
financial exposure to the firms and their customers.
Rule 15c3-1 under the Exchange Act, commonlyknown as the
Commission's "net capital rule", imposes minimum net capital
requirements on brokers and dealers and limits the amount of
indebtedness which may be incurred by a broker-dealer by providing that a broker-dealer's "aggregate indebtedness" (as defined
in the rule) may not exceed 20 times the amount of its "net
capital" (as computed under the rule). As such, the rule provides
safeguards for the protection of customers of broker-dealers by
requiring that at all times broker-dealers have sufficient liquid
assets available to meet their current obligations.
The Commissionrecently took action to raise the standards for
entry into the broker-dealer business, through proposed amendments to Rule 15c3-1.5 Under these, a firm would be required to
have net capital of at least $25,000,instead of $5,000as at present,
and during the first year of its existence, a firm would be required to maintain an aggregate indebtedness to net capital ratio
not exceeding 8 :1, rather than the 20:1 ratio otherwise acceptable
for firms subject to the Commission's net capital rule.
During the past 2 years the Commission has conducted inspections of the administration and interpretation of the New
York Stock Exchange's net capital rule, the primary test of
financial responsibility for member firms, and a series of conferences has been held between the two organizations. As a result
the Exchange moved in August 1971 to strengthen the rule. It
dropped the maximum permissible ratio of aggregate indebtedness to net capital from 20:1 to 15:1, and it made mandatory a
charge against capital for short stock record differences 45 days
after their discovery. Among the other amendments was one
requiring the contraction or liquidation of a firm when its net
capital ratio exceeds 12:1. Various parts of the revision are
already in effect, and by August 1972,the new capital rule will be
largely in force.
At the same time that the Commission was proposing and implementing measures for investor protection, it was engaged in
studying the basic structure and functioning of the markets. Public hearings began on October 12, 1971 to help determine what
changes are needed in the rules under which stock exchanges and
I)

Securities Exchange Act Release No. 9288 (August 13, 1971).

THIRTY-SEVENTH ANNUAL REPORT

5

other market institutions operate. In a statement accompanying
the announcement of the hearings, Chairman Casey noted that
there had been a tendency for some of the most critical questions
to be resolved, not as a duly deliberated matter of broad public
policy, but as an expedient to effect short-run savings or to settle
or avoid private law suits. Mr. Casey said the Commission would
determine what the public interest requires in the way of rules
governing the operations of various markets, the relationship
between these markets, and the disclosure of quotations, prices
and trading volume in these markets.
In a related area, the Commission held a conference with industry spokesmen in June 1971 on the subject of the stock
certificate. Discussion centered on methods of improving the
efficiency of securities handling systems. Presentations were made
by proponents of different programs for evolving a satisfactory
standardized, nationwide method of handling securities, including
a presentation favoring the elimination of stock certificates altogether. Chairman Casey pointed out the need to develop a sound
industry-wide operational system satisfying the need for the
prompt consummation of securities transactions and resolving the
diverse settlement practices of the various securities markets.
Participants were requested to submit additional ideas for consideration by the Commission in its role of coordinating and
furthering industry attempts to implement operational systems
able to handle existing and foreseeable levels of trading.
STRUCTURE AND LEVEL OF COMMISSIONRATES

As discussed in last year's report," the New York Stock Exchange submitted a new commission rate schedule to the Commission on June 30, 1970. Following extended public hearings,
the Commission announced on October 22, 1970 that with certain
modifications the new schedule would not be objected to. On
February 11, 1971, the Commission announced that it would
not object to the Exchange's commencing competitive rates on
portions of orders above a level not higher than $500,000.7 These
competitive rates became effective on most exchanges on April 5,
1971. Intra-member rates for floor brokerage and clearance on
portions of orders above $500,000 also became subject to negotiation at the same time."
6 See 36th Annual Report, pp. 5-8. See also 35th Annual Report, pp. ~7,
and 34th Annual Report, pp. 1-2.
7 Securities Exchange Act Releases Nos. 9079 (February 11, 1971) and
9105 (March 11, 1971).
S Securities Exchange Act Release No. 9069 (March 4, 1971).

6

SECURITIES

AND EXCHANGE

COMMISSION

The Commission also requested the Exchange to present on or
before June 30, 1971, a new rate structure based on a percentage
scale of the money involved in an order, a proposed revision of
the intra-member charges for floor brokerage and clearance, and
a proposal for reasonable non-member access.
On June 28, 1971, the Exchange presented a new commission
rate structure, a proposed revision of intra-member rates for floor
brokerage and clearance, and a proposal for a 30 percent discount
from the public commission rate for certain broker-dealers who
are not Exchange members. In accordance with the Commission's
announcement on August 31, 1970, a temporary commission rate
surcharge was continued until such time as circumstances warranted its termination."
On September 24, 1971, the Commission informed the New
York Stock Exchange that it would not object to implementation
of the Exchange's proposed new minimum commission rate schedule subject to a number of conditions, including compliance with
the President's restrictions on price Increases."? Other conditions
included; the elimination of the commission surcharge; an increase to 40 percent in the discount for broker-dealers who are
not Exchange members; a requirement of continued unrestricted
service to small investors in the case of firms which traditionally
have served such investors; the development of uniform reporting
by member firms of income and expenses; the adoption of rules
permitting member firms to enter into cooperative executing and
clearing arrangements; re-examination by the Exchange of the
necessity for fixed intra-member commission rates; and an adjustment of the rate schedule to eliminate a pricing anomaly that
would have required investors to pay more for execution of odd-lot
purchases than for the next higher round-lot purchase.
PUBLIC OWNERSHIP

OF BROKER-DEALERS

In March 1970, the New York Stock Exchange amended its
rules to permit the public ownership of member firms provided
Securities Exchange Act Release No. 8969 (August 31, 1970).
Securities Exchange Act Release No. 9351.
11 See 36th Annual Report, p. 67. In commenting upon this rule change,
the Commission reserved its comment on the "primary purpose" limitation.
In a September 24, 1971 letter to the Exchange dealing with the commission
rate schedule, the Commission stated that it was reserving its determination
regarding the "primary purpose" limitation until after the market structure
hearings scheduled to begin October 12, 1971. See Securities Exchange Act
Release No. 9351.
9

10

THIRTY-SEVENTH

ANNUAL REPORT

7

the member and any parent are primarily engaged in business
as brokers or dealers in securities.'! Since then, the National
Association of Securities Dealers, Inc., after reviewing the recommendations of a specially formed subcommittee on self-underwritings, abandoned its position that members could not participate
in distributions of their own securities and published proposed
regulations and procedures to govern such distributions. Pending
the adoption of these regulations, the Association determined to
review, on a case by case basis, proposals by its members to
participate in distributions of their own or an affiliate's securities.12 These actions by the Exchange and the NASD cleared the
way for Merrill Lynch, Pierce, Fenner & Smith to register
with the Commission and distribute primarily to its customers a
$112,000,000 offering of its securities. Subsequently, several other
NYSE members filed registration statements with the Commission, which became effective, covering public offerings of their
equity securities.
Generally, under the NASD proposals, which were submitted
to the Commission in September 1971, an Association member
would be permitted to "go public" if: (1) specified financial
statements were submitted with the registration statement; (2)
no more than 25 percent of the equity interest of the owners
of the member was offered as a part of the issue; (3) the amount
of the offering did not exceed three times the member's net worth;
and (4) the member's aggregate indebtedness to net capital ratio,
as computed under Rule 15c3-1, would not exceed 10:1 at the
termination of the offering. Additionally, a member would be
prohibited from making a subsequent public offering for at least
one year and would be required to send to each of its shareholders
a quarterly statement of its operations and an annual independently audited and certified financial statement. FinaIIy, in addition
to the above requirements, if the member participated in the
distribution of its own securities or those of an affiliate, it would
have to obtain two independent underwriters with at least 5 years
experience in the underwriting business, three of which were
profitable, to certify to the fairness of the offering price. These
seasoning and profitability requirements would apply to the
member-issuer as well. If the member recommended the securities
to a customer it would have to have reasonable grounds to believe
that the recommendation was suitable and would also have to
maintain a record in its files showing the basis upon which it
12 For the previous two years such participation
hibited by the NASD.

had generally been pro-

8

SECURITIES AND EXCHANGE COMMISSION

reached its suitability determination. As of the end of October,
the Commission had these proposals under consideration.
SECURITIES QUOTATIONS WITHOUT SPECIFIED INFORMATION

The Commission has always been concerned with the problem
of brokers and dealers publishing quotations for a security when
there is no current information available to them or to the public
concerning the issuer of the security. IS The publication of quotations for such securities subjects the investing public to a
situation having a great potential for fraud and manipulation.
In order to protect public investors, the Commission adopted Rule
15c2-11 under the Exchange Act.14
With certain exceptions, the rule prohibits brokers or dealers
from submitting or publishing quotations respecting a security in
the absence of publicly available information concerning the issuer
and the security. In general, the rule prohibits a broker or dealer
from submitting any quotation for a security to a quotation medium unless (1) there had been a recent public offering pursuant
to a registration statement or a notification under the Regulation
A exemption from registration, or (2) the issuer is subject to
certain reporting requirements of the securities laws and the
broker or dealer has no reason to believe that such reporting
requirements are not being complied with, or (3) the broker or
dealer has specified information concerning the issuer reasonably
believed to be correct and reliable, which must be made available
to any person interested in a transaction in the security with the
broker or dealer. The rule does not prohibit quotations for a
security which had been the subject of quotations at least twelve
days within the previous thirty calendar days, or for a security
which is listed on an exchange and has been traded on the same
day or on the day before the submission of the quotation.
NASD AUTOMATED OVER-THE-eOUNTER QUOTATIONS SYSTEM
(NASDAQ)

On February 8, 1971, the National Association of Securities
Dealers, Inc. (NASD) formally commenced public operations of
the NASDAQ automated quotations system with approximately
2300 over-the-counter securities. The system, which is operated
by Bunker-Ramo Corporation for the NASD, has three levels of
operating service. Level I service provides a current representative
See Securities Exchange Act Release No. 8909 (June 24, 1970).
Securities Exchange Act Release No. 9310 (September 13, 1971). See
the discussion of the rule as proposed in 36th Annual Report, pp.. 86-87.
IS

14

THIRTY-SEVENTH ANNUAL REPORT

9

inter-dealer bid and ask quotation for any security registered in
the system for the information of registered representatives and
customers of retail firms. Level II is designed to supply upon
request of trading rooms a list of market makers and their
respective current bid and ask quotations for any such security.
Finally, Level III service is similar to Level II but also has input
facilities allowing authorized NASDAQ market makers to enter,
change or update their bid and ask quotations.
By the end of the fiscal year the number of securities quoted
on the system had reached approximately 2700 with a total
market value of over $110 billion, and there were about 475
registered NASDAQmarket makers. The NASD began developing
a "stock watch" surveillance program for the new system and
has been cooperating with the Commission's surveillance staff in
looking into unusual market activity in NASDAQ securities.
During the fiscal year the Association also began a special test
plan with respect to quoting securities which are traded both
over the counter and on one or more national exchanges. The
plan, which began on April 5, 1971, included 32 securities of
which 29 were listed on the New York Stock Exchange, 2 on the
American Stock Exchange and 1 on the Midwest Stock Exchange.
On September 21, 1971, the NASD announced its intention to
continue the test plan for an additional 3 months and to expand
it to include all listed securities which meet the qualification
standards for quotation on the system. During the year the
NASD also began to compileprice indices for NASDAQ securities
and to release them to the news media for public information. To
assist the Association in compiling these indices the Commission
adopted Rules 13a-17 and 15d-17 under the Securities Exchange
Act and a new reporting Form 10-C to require the submission
of certain information to the Commission and to the NASD by
issuers of securities quoted on NASDAQ with respect to any
aggregate net change of 5 percent or greater in a class of securities quoted on the system.15
During the fiscal year the Commission reviewed and made
effective a NASDAQ rule change which provides access to Level
II quotations to nonmembers of the Association. Under this
change nonmembers, for an additional charge, would be able to
obtain on a real-time basis quotations of over-the-counter market
makers for securities quoted on the system. Shortly after the end
of the fiscal year, the Association announced its plans to expand
the system so as to allow subscribing brokerage firms to report
15

Securities Exchange Act Release No. 9255 (August 2, 1971)

10

SECURITIES AND EXCHANGE COMMISSION

the details of each securities trade to the NASDAQ central computer. The proposed trade reporting system, which will probably
take about two years to put into effect, would make it possible
for traders to verify each trade within seconds of its execution
and to detect immediately any errors. It is expected that such a
reporting system will provide more information to investors and
will speed up the clearing and settling of over-the-counter transactions.
INSTITUTIONAL INVESTOR STlJiDY

On March 10, 1971, the Commission transmitted to the Congress
the Institutional Investor Study Report.!" together with its initial
conclusions and recommendations. The Report consists of 15 chapters organized into four major parts. Part One, in addition to
introductory material, contains a summary of the Background
Report on Institutional Investors and Corporate Stock prepared
for the Study by the National Bureau of Economic Research, a
pioneer in the development of flow of funds statistics and the
system of national accounts. The substantive analyses in Part
One were designed to place in historical perspective detailed
studies in Part Two of the recent behavior of financial institutions
as equity investors. Part Three was designed to assess the impact
of institutional investing upon the stability of prices in the secondary equity markets, upon the structure of those markets and
upon the securities industry that services the markets. Part Four
analyzes certain aspects of the impact of institutional investors
on portfolio companies: institutional participation in primary
equity financing and institutional economic power and influence
over companies whose equity securities are held by institutions
or held for the benefit of persons whose investments are managed
by institutions.
Among the Commission's initial conclusions and recommendations were the following:
1. Although institutions have increased their share of outstanding equity securities (relative to non-institutional holders),
the increase has been relatively slow-paced over time. Institutions
have tended to concentrate their purchases and holdings in the
more stable securities of larger corporations while individual investors have sought and obtained higher returns on more risky
securities. Thus, the status of institutions as net purchasers of
16 H. Doc. No. 92-64 (92<1Cong., 1st Sess.). The Study was authorized by
Public Law 90-438. See 35th Annual Report, pp, 9-12; 36th Annual Report,
pp.8-9.

THIRTY-SEVENTH

ANNUAL REPORT

11

corporate stock from individuals over most of the post-World
War II period has not resulted in a perceptible increase in their
share of the value of all equity securities during the last decade.
Since the past and likely future growth of institutional investors
in the equity markets makes essential the collection and analysis
of timely information about institutional holdings and activity
in securities, the Commission recommended amendment of the
Securities Exchange Act of 1.934to provide the Commission with
general authority to require reports and disclosures of institutional securities holdings and transactions. Such authorization
would permit the Commission to obtain continuing data for
public disclosure and for the production of statistical data or
aggregates. In order to utilize fully the data so collected, theCommission recommended that its economic research capability
be expanded through additional budgetary and personnel resources and that appropriate steps be taken to make such data
available to persons outside the Commission for analytical purposes.
2. Competitive pressures on institutional portfolio managers for
improved investment performance have led to the rapid growth
of relatively exotic, aggressively managed investment vehiclessuch as certain types of registered investment companies, hedge
funds and offshore funds-and
to increased willingness on the
part of many institutions to adopt more aggressive investment
strategies and trading practices. Since these pressures have encouraged investment managers to assume higher levels of investment risk, the Commission concluded that improved disclosure
of investment returns, portfolio volatility and short-term trading
is needed from the managers of most types of professionally
managed portfolios. In addition, the Commission suggested that
where incentive or performance fees are utilized, penalties should
be structured for sub-standard investment performance, as is
currently the case for registered investment companies.
The Commission made specific recommendations for dealing
with hedge funds and offshore funds that would subject those
institutions to needed regulation while preserving their tax advantages.
3. Noting the accelerating trend during the last half of the
1960's toward the integration or diversification of institutions
into multi-purpose financial service organizations, the Commission
discussed several possible solutions to problems of conflicts of
interest, competition and economic power that are generated by
such structures: unbundling of certain services currently pro-

12

SECURITIES

AND EXCHANGE COMMISSION

vided in combination with others at fixed rates; lower cost distribution systems for the mutual fund industry; and institutional
membership on stock exchanges. Although no definitive conclusions were reached as to these matters, the Commission emphasized the importance of its prior determination that fixed
commission rates on portions of orders in excess of $500,000
executed on securities exchanges could not be justified.
4. The Study's data indicated that institutional trading was
associated with relatively few of the large price changes that
occur in the securities markets. Thus, the Study did not discover
any basis in terms of price stability for imposing generalized
limitations on the volume of institutional trading or on the size
of institutional transactions. At the same time, rapid and significant changes in the securities markets SUggestthe need for
restructuring those markets. Although the Commission stated
that it was neither feasible nor desirable for any government
agency to predetermine and require a particular market structure,
certain goals and principles were set forth. Its objective, the
Commission stated, was "to see a strong central market created
to which all investors have access, in which all qualified brokerdealers and existing market institutions may participate in accordance with their respective capabilities, and which is controlled
not only by appropriate regulation but also by forces of competition. We propose, in consultation with all interested persons,
to seek the furtherance of these general objectives as we perform our reviewing function over proposed changes in market
structure."
5. Institutional purchases of equity securities from issuers,
including restricted securities required to be registered under
the Securities Act of 1933 upon subsequent resale, provide companies with additional capital and are thus of particular economic
significance. In order to alleviate some of the problems that are
associated with restricted securities, the Commission stated its
view that the principles for valuing such securities at their
current fair value, as set forth in releases under the Investment
Company Act of 1940, should be observed by all types of institutions and persons managing securities portfolios. The Commission
also noted that proposed rules relating to the resale of restricted
securities 17 might, if adopted, result in a reduction in the cost
to issuers of obtaining financing through the sale of restricted
securities since the price of such securities when privately placed
17

See pp. 21-23, infra.

THIRTY-SEVENTH

ANNUAL REPORT

13

is usually substantially lower than the market price of similar
securities that are freely tradeable.
6. Although it appears that limited numbers of institutions,
particularly banks, have the potential economic power, were they
to act together, to exercise control or influence over a number of
portfolio companies, the Study found that except in the case of
transfers of corporate control (that is, takeover situations),
where the expectation of benefits to institutions or their managers
is relatively clear, institutions generally report that they do not
participate in corporate decision-making. However, institutional
influence, when exercised-as in the case of transfers of controlcan be of decisive importance. The Commission concluded that
additional disclosures should be required from all types of institutions, both as to the size and types of securities they hold
and manage and as to matters bearing on their involvement in
corporate affairs: voting authority, policies towards corporate
management, participation in transfers of corporate control and
policies regarding business relationships, personnel relationships
and informal consultation with management. In the takeover area,
the Commission recognized the need to consider additional rules
to deal with the misuse of undisclosed information concerning
transfers of control.

* * * * *
The Commission has been considering various means of implementing its initial recommendations and of developing further
conclusions that may lead to additional proposals for legislative
or administrative action.
REFORM OF THE INVESTMENT COMPANY ACT

Efforts to obtain much-needed reform of the Investment Company Act of 1940 were finally brought to a successful conclusion
on December 14, 1970 when the Investment Company Amendments Act of 197018 (1970 Act) became law. As described in
previous annual reports," antecedents of this legislation, representing proposals of the Commission, were first introduced in May
1967. The principal Commission proposals involved the reduction
of sales loads imposed on the acquisition of mutual fund shares,
the elimination of the so-called "front-end load," and establishment of a means to test the fairness of management fees. The
proposals also dealt with a number of other areas which in the
Public Law 91-547.
See 36th Annual Report, pp. 13-19; 35th Annual Report, pp. 12-18;
34th Annual Report, pp. 4-6; and 33rd Annual Report, pp. 1-6.
18

19

14

SECURITIES

AND EXCHANGE COMMISSION

Commission's opinion required legislative action.
In proposing mutual fund legislation in 1967, the Commission
recognized that most of the specific abuses aimed at in the Investment Company Act had been substantially eliminated. However,
the dramatic growth of the industry and accompanying changes
created new situations which were not anticipated in 1940. While
the industry accepted or even welcomed many of the changes
proposed by the Commission, it took exception to the principal
recommendations of the Commission, and as a result these were
modified in the legislation passed by Congress. The most significant aspects of that legislation, which also included certain
amendments of the Investment Advisers Act of 1940, are described below.
INVESTMENT ADVISORY FEES

The 1970 Act amends the Investment Company Act by adding
a new Section 36(b) (effective June 14, 1972) which specifies
that the investment adviser of a registered investment company'
has a fiduciary duty with respect to the receipt of compensation
for services or payments of a material nature paid by such
company or its shareholders to the adviser or an affiliate of the
adviser. An action for breach of this duty may be brought in a
Federal court by the Commission or by a shareholder on behalf
of the company. It may be brought only against the recipient of
the compensation or payments, and damages are limited to the
actual damages resulting from the breach of fiduciary duty and
may not exceed the amount of compensation or payments received. Section 36 (b) further provides that the court is to give
such consideration as it deems appropriate to approval of the
compensation or payments in question by the board of directors
and to approval or ratification by the shareholders.
An earlier House bill would have imposed on the plaintiff in a
Section 36 (b) action the burden of proving a breach of fiduciary
duty by "clear and convincing evidence." The House and Senate
conferees rejected this standard of proof, which the Commission
urged was inappropriate in a civil action, in favor of the approach
taken by the Senate and finally adopted, which specifies merely
that the plaintiff has the burden of proving such breach. The
Report of the Senate Committee on Banking and Currency indicates that the normal standard of proof, under which a plaintiff
must establish his case by a preponderance of the evidence, is to
apply.
While the Commission had originally recommended adoption

THIRTY-SEVENTH

ANNUAL

REPORT

15

of a standard of "reasonable" management compensation, it considered the fiduciary standard finally agreed upon and adopted
as equivalent in substance. Clearly, the new provision represents
a significant improvement over the prior standards of "corporate
waste" and "gross abuse of trust" applicable under state and
federal law, respectively.
SALES CHARGES

In the area of sales charges imposed on investors in mutual
fund shares, the 1970 Act amended Section 22 (b) of the Investment Company Act to provide that the National Association of
Securities Dealers, Inc. (N ASD) may by rule prohibit its members from offering such shares at a price which includes an
"excessive sales load but shall allow for reasonable compensation
for sales personnel, broker-dealers, and underwriters, and for
reasonable sales loads to investors." Previously, the NASD was
authorized only to prohibit an "unconscionable or grossly excessive sales load." The 1970 Act also provides that at any time
after 18 months from the date of its enactment, or after the
NASD has adopted rules under amended Section 22 (b), the Commission may alter or supplement the rules of the NASD. The
NASD is presently engaged in a study of sales loads to provide
a basis for the adoption of appropriate rules.
THE FRONT-END

LOAD ON CONTRACTUAL

PLANS

Other significant amendments of the 1940 Act relate to the
so-called "front-end load" on periodic payment plan certificates
(i.e., certificates issued in connection with contractual plans for
the accumulation of fund shares on an installment basis). Formerly, there was no right to a refund for an investor who did not
want or was unable to continue payments to the end of the plan
under which as much as 50 percent of the payments made during
the first year could be deducted for sales charges. Thus, planholders who did not complete their payments were disadvantaged
in terms of the portion of their payments actually invested in
shares.
The 1970 Act, through amendment of Section 27 of the 1940
Act, provides a desirable improvement in investor protection in
this area. Under the new provisions, sales charges on contractual
plans may be imposed under either of two alternative methods.
Under the so-called "spread load" alternative (which must be
elected by written notice to the Commission), the sales load is
restricted to not more than 20 percent of any payment and not
more than an average of 16 percent over the first 4 years of the
450-484 0 - 72 - 3

16

SECURITIES

AND EXCHANGE COMMISSION

plan. Under the other alternative, periodic payment plan certificates may still be sold with a 50 percent front-end load, but
plan sponsors must refund, to any investor surrendering his
certificate within the first 18 months of the plan, that portion
of the sales charges which exceeds 15 percent of the gross payments made, as well as paying him the value of his account. The
1970 Act further provides that, regardless of the alternative
followed, an investor is entitled to a full refund of the value of
his account plus all sales charges if he cancels his plan within
45 days from the mailing by the custodian bank of notice of the
charges to be deducted and of his cancellation right. Such a
notice must be mailed within 60 days after issuance of his certificate. The Commission is authorized to make rules requiring
contractual plan sponsors to maintain specified reserves to meet
refund obligations and specifying the notice to be given to investors regarding their refund rights."?
FUND HOLDING COMPANIES

Provisions of the Investment Company Act relating to fund
holding companies (i.e., investment companies whose portfolios
consist either entirely or largely of the securities of other investment companies) were also amended, so as to limit the creation of
new fund holding companies and the further enlargement of
existing companies. Concern with such companies has centered on
the fact that they result in "layering" of sales charges and administrative and other expenses to investors and may have a
disruptive effect on the funds whose securities are held in their
portfolios. Section 12 (d) (1) of the 1940 Act formerly prohibited
a registered investment company, subject to certain exceptions,
from purchasing more than 3 percent of the outstanding voting
stock of another investment company unless it already owned at
least 25 percent. This limitation was inadequate, since it applied
only to purchases by registered investment companies. Hence, a
foreign-based fund holding company not subject to registration
under the Act could make unlimited investments in registered
investment companies.
Under the 1970 amendments, no investment company may have
more than 10 percent of the value of its assets invested in securities of other investment companies. However, that limitation is
made inapplicable to a registered investment company if certain
conditions are met, principally that: (1) not more than 3 percent
20 Rules adopted by the
discussed at p. 20, infra.

Commission to implement

these

provisions

are

THIRTY-SEVENTH

ANNUAL REPORT

17

of the outstanding stock of anyone investment company is owned
by the holding company, and (2) the sales load of the holding
company cannot exceed 11hpercent. In addition, the portfolio fund
is not obligated to redeem its securities held by the holding company in an amount exceeding one percent of its outstanding
securities in any period of less than 30 days.
PERFORMANCE FEE ADVISORY CONTRACTS

The 1970 Act, in accordance with the Commission's recommendation, amended the Investment Advisers Act by deleting the
exemption from the coverage of its provisions formerly provided
for an investment adviser whose only clients are registered investment companies. The Advisers Act was further amended so
as to prohibit an investment adviser from performing or entering
into an advisory contract with a registered investment company
providing for certain types of "performance fees," i.e., compensation based on the realized or unrealized appreciation of the investment company's portfolio.
The Commission had originally recommended a flat prohibition
of performance fee arrangements between investment advisers
and registered investment companies. It considered that such
arrangements give advisers incentives to take undue' risks and
noted that many fee arrangements were unfair or so complex
that it was virtually impossible to understand them. However,
after discussion with industry representatives, the Commission
agreed to an exception for certain limited types of performance
fees. The amendments as adopted exempt from the prohibition
against performance fee compensation an arrangement based on
a percentage of a registered investment company's net asset value
averaged over a specified period, which provides for proportionate
increases and decreases in compensation on the basis of investment performance of the company as measured against an appropriate index of securities prices or such other measure of
investment performance as the Commission may specify.
EXPANDED COMMISSION ENFORCEMENT AUTHORITY

The 1970 Act added a new subsection (b) to Section 9 of the
Investment Company Act to provide additional grounds for disqualification of persons from affiliation with an investment company. Formerly only persons subject to certain convictions or
injunctions were so disqualified. The new provision parallels
comparable provisions in the Securities Exchange and Investment
Advisers Acts providing for remedial action through administrative proceedings. It empowers the Commission, after notice and

18

SECURITIES

AND EXCHANGE COMMISSION

opportunity for hearing, to prohibit any person, either permanently or for such time as may be appropriate, from serving a
registered investment company in the capacities of employee,
officer, director, member of an advisory board, investment adviser,
depositor or principal underwriter or as an affiliated person of
its investment adviser, depositor, or principal underwriter. The
Commission may take such action if it finds (1) that such person
has willfully violated, or willfully aided and abetted violations by
another, of any provision of the Securities Act, Securities Exchange Act, Investment Company Act, or Investment Advisers
Act, or any rule or regulation thereunder, or has willfully made
or caused to be made a materially false or misleading statement
in any registration statement, application or report filed under
the Investment Company Act, and (2) that such action is in the
public interest.
BANKS AND INSURANCE COMPANIES

While the amendments of the 1940 Act were under consideration by the Congress, the question of whether banking laws permitted banks to operate so-called commingled managing agency
accounts was pending before the Supreme Court, in Investment
Company Institute v. Camp. A Senate bill would have expressly
permitted banks and savings and loan associations to operate
such accounts (which are investment companies), subject to
specified restrictions, and would have made it clear that no other
provision of law shall be deemed to prohibit such activities. A
House bill would have provided that if no other provision of state
or federal law prohibited operation by a bank or savings and loan
association of an investment company, such investment company
could be operated, subject to substantially the same restrictions
specified in the Senate bill.
The 1970 Act, as finally adopted, does not contain either of
these provisions. Subsequent to its enactment, the Supreme Court
issued its decision in the Camp case," holding that the national
banking laws do not permit banks to operate commingled managing agency accounts.s"
In another area the 1970 Act clarifies the status of certain
bank collective funds and insurance company separate accounts
under the Investment Company Act and the other federal securities laws. These amendments codify certain administrative in21401

U.S. 617 (1971).
See p, 156, infra; 36th Annual Report, p. 149; 35th Annual Report,
p. 136; and 32nd Annual Report, pp. 104-105, for a description of this case
and its companion case, N.A.S.D. v, S.E.C., 401 U.S. 617 (1971).
22

THIRTY-SEVENTH

ANNUAL REPORT

19

terpretations by the Commission with respect to bank collective
trust funds which are used as funding media for pension and
profit sharing plans qualified for favorable treatment under the
Internal Revenue Code. The amendments also provide treatment
more equal to that of bank trusts for separate accounts maintained by insurance companies as funding vehicles for such plans.
OIL AND GAS FUNDS

In the area of oil and gas funds, the Senate bill would have
deleted the existing exclusion from the Investment Company Act
of such funds if they issued redeemable securities or periodic
payment plan certificates, but would have left the exclusion intact
for those oil and gas funds in which investors make only a single
investment. The House version would not have altered the existing
exclusion of oil and gas funds.
The Commission recommended adoption of the House approach.
In the course of the hearings on the mutual fund legislation, the
oil and gas industry had argued that regulation under the Investment Company Act would involve difficulty in accommodating the
structure contemplated by the Act with the structure adopted by
the industry in order to secure favorable tax treatment for oil
and gas investors. The Commission took the position that a satisfactory solution could be achieved by enactment of a regulatory
statute which would provide safeguards parallelling those provided by the Investment Company Act, but which would be
specifically tailored to the practices, problems and operating
methods of the oil and gas funds.
The House and Senate conferees determined to retain the
exclusion, with the same understanding. They directed the Commission to submit a legislative proposal in this area, hopefully to
be worked out in cooperation with the oil and gas industry, within
eighteen months of enactment of the 1970 Act.
IMPLEMENTATION OF INVESTMENT COMPANY
ACT AMENDMENTS

Following passage of the 1970 Act, the Commission took steps
to adopt rules implementing the new provisions, rescind existing
rules which had become obsolete because of the legislation, and
issue explanatory releases.
EXPLANATORY RELEASES

Beginning in February 1971, the Commission published a series
of explanatory and interpretive releases dealing with the changes
effected in the Investment Company and Investment Advisers

20

SECURITIES

AND EXCHANGE COMMISSION

Acts by the 1970 AcU3 The releases explained the effects of
various of these changes, called the attention of registered investment companies and their counsel to actions which needed to be
taken in order to comply with the new provisions, and rescinded
certain rules and a form superseded by the amendments.
ADOPTION OF RULES UNDER AMENDED SECTION 27

As described above, the 1970 Act added to Section 27 of the
Investment Company Act certain rights of withdrawal and refund
in connection with the sale of periodic payment plan certificates.
Shortly after these amendments became effective on June 14,
1971,the Commission adopted a series of rules and related forms
to implement them.> Among other things, the rules require principal underwriters and depositors to establish and maintain funds
in a segregated trust account in order to assure their ability to
meet refund obligations and specify the method, form and contents of the notices required to inform certificate holders of their
refund rights.
REVISION OF ANNUAL REPORT FORM

In May 1971, the Commission published notice of a proposal
to revise Form N-1R, the annual report form for most management investment companies." and in October 1971 it adopted the
The revision effected
proposal, with certain modifications.:"
changes in the items of the form consistent with the 1970 amendments. In addition, since annual reports for the fiscal year which
includes December 14, 1971, will involve the reporting, in certain
items, of information relating to requirements of the Investment
Company Act both before and after the effective date of amendments, the form was also revised to provide a means of reporting
information for the fiscal year within which the amendments
become effective.
STUDY OF THE POTENTIAL ECONOMIC IMPACT OF THE REPEAL OF
SECTION 22(d) OF THE INVESTMF;NT COMPANY ACT

The Committee on Banking and Currency of the United States
Senate requested in its Report Accompanying the Investment
Company Amendments Act of 196927 that the Commissionreview
23 Investment Company Act Releases Nos. 6336 (February
2, 1971); 6392
(March 19, 1971); 6430 (April 2, 1971); 6440 (April 6, 1971); 6506 (May 5,
1971); and 6568 (June 11, 1971).
24 Investment
Company Act Release No. 6600 (July 2, 1971).
25 Investment Company Act Release No. 6522 (May 14,1971).
26 Investment Company Act Release No. 6748 (October 7, 1971).
27 S. Rep. No. 91-184, p, 8 (May 21, 1969).

THIRTY-SEVENTH

ANNUAL REPORT

21

the potential consequences to the investing public and to the
mutual fund sales organizations of a repeal of the "retail price
maintenance" provision of Section 22 (d) of the Investment Company Act and report its findings to the Committee. Section 22(d)
precludes the sale to public investors of redeemable investment
company securities which are being currently offered to the public
by or through an underwriter except at a current public offering
price described in the prospectus.
In the spring of 1971, approximately 600 selected brokerdealers, investment companies and their principal underwriters
were surveyed through questionnaires developed to elicit the information necessary to analyze the potential impact of the repeal
of Section 22 (d). The completed analysis will cover the potential
impact on the funds themselves, principal underwriters, retail
sales organizations and their salesmen, the investing public and
the stock market.
PROPOSED RULES REGARDING RESALES OF RESTRICTED
SECURITIES

The Commission has taken further steps in its efforts to bring
greater clarity and certainty into one of the most difficult areas of
securities law: the application of the registration provisions of
the Securities Act of 1933 to the resale of securities acquired
from issuers in transactions not involving public offerings (Hre_
stricted securities") and securities held by persons in a control
relationship with an issuer.
As discussed in the last annual report," the Commission published a proposed Rule 144 dealing with those matters in September 1970. A large number of comments was received in response
to this proposal and a still earlier one. In light of the comments
and a further re-examination by the Commission of its interpreta.tions in this area, the Commission, in September 1971, published
a revised draft of proposed Rule 144 for comment as part of a
package of proposed rules.29
The proposed rule is designed to implement the disclosure objective of the Securities Act and would also operate to inhibit
the creation of public markets in securities of issuers concerning
which adequate current information is not available to the public.
In essence, the rule would permit holders of restricted securities
and persons in a control relationship with the issuer to sell,
after a two-year holding period designed to assure that the seller
2836th Annual Report, pp. 9-10.
29 Securities Act Release No. 5186 (September 10, 1971).

22

SECURITIES

AND EXCHANGE

COMMISSION

has held the securities at risk, limited amounts of securities
through brokers without registration, provided adequate public
information about the issuer is available. Sellers of the securities
will benefit from the greater certainty of clear-cut objective
standards-a
2-year holding period and the availability of public
information-which
will replace the subjective "state of mind"
and "change in circumstances" tests presently in effect. The
adequate information condition is deemed to be met if the issuer
is subject to the reporting requirements of Section 13 or 15 (d)
of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934 and has filed all reports
due within the past 90 days. Under a companion proposal to
amend the annual and quarterly report forms.t? issuers filing
such reports would be required to state whether all required filings
within the preceding 90 days had been made, so that sellers will
know whether Rule 144 is available for their use. If an issuer is
not subject to these reporting requirements, there must be publicly available specified information concerning the issuer.
In order to prevent substantial blocks from coming into the
market at one time which may result in wide swings in the market
price, the revised rule would permit the sale of a maximum of 1
percent of the outstanding stock of an issuer in any six-month
period. The securities must be sold in "brokers' transactions"
within the meaning of Section 4(4) of the Securities Act. There
can be no solicitation of buy orders by the broker or the seller
of the securities, and the broker can receive only the usual and
customary broker's commission.
When the securities to be sold will exceed 500 shares. or other
units or the aggregate sale price will exceed $10,000, a notice of
the proposed sale must be filed with the Commission at least 10
days prior to the sale. If the securities are not sold within 90
days after the notice is filed, an amended notice must be filed
before any further sales are made.
In a related action, the Commission invited comment on a
proposed new Rule 237 providing certain exemptions from registration under the Securities Act.31 The proposal reflects the
Commission's recognition that noncontroIling persons owning
restricted securities of issuers which do not satisfy all of the
conditions of proposed Rule 144 might have difficulty in seIling
those securities due to circumstances beyond their control. Rule
237 is designed to avoid unduly restricting the liquidity of such
investments.
30
31

Securities Exchange Act Release No. 9331 (September 10, 1971).
Securities Act Release No. 5187 (September 10,1971).

THIRTY-SEVENTH

ANNUAL REPORT

23

Under the proposed rule any person satisfying the conditions
of the rule would be permitted to offer securities up to one percent
of the amount of the class outstanding or $50,000, whichever is
less, during any twelve-month period, reduced by the amount of
any other sales pursuant to an exemption under Section 3 (b) of
the Act or Rule 144 during the period. The conditions would
include the following: The seller has owned and fully paid for
the securities for at least five years; the issuer is a domestic
organization which has been actively engaged in business as a
going concern for at least 5 years; the securities are sold in
negotiated transactions otherwise than through a broker or
dealer; and the seller must file a notice of intention to sell securities under the rule.
Another related proposal is to amend Regulation A so as to
allow noncontrolling shareholders to sell limited amounts under
that Regulation without having such offerings counted against
the $500,000 maximum available to the issuer.v
DISCLOSURE BY 'DEFENSE CONTRACTORS

In May 1970, the Commission received from its staff a report
of an extensive private investigation authorized to determine if
Lockheed Aircraft Corp. and certain of its officers and directors
had made inadequate disclosures and engaged in illegal insider
trading in connection with the cost history of Lockheed's C-5A
contract. Based on this report and other evidence which the staff
presented to the Commission, it was decided that enforcement
action would not be taken against Lockheed. The Commission
instead determined that a broader inquiry should be made into
the entire area of defense contracting so that specific industrywide financial disclosure standards might be established. Accordingly, on June 4, 1970, the Commission ordered a public
inquiry, pursuant to Section 21 (a) of the Securities Exchange
Act of 1934, into the disclosure practices of defense contractors.
As a part of this public investigation of disclosure practices,
50 of the nation's largest defense contractors received a written
questionnaire directed to their current accounting and financial
reporting practices. The staff also took on the record testimony
from representatives of certain companies and their independent
auditors.
It is anticipated that the facts adduced in this inquiry will
provide a basis for improving disclosure by defense contractors,
through the issuance of specific guidelines to registration under
32

Securities

Act Release No. 5188 (September

10, 1971).

24

SECURITIES

AND EXCHANGE COMMISSION

the Securities Act or a requirement of new items or additional
instructions to existing items to be reported pursuant to the
regular reporting requirements of the Securities Exchange Act.
OFFERING OF SECURITIES AS SUBSTITUTE OR SUPPLEMENT FOR
SAVINGS ACCOUNT DEPOSITS AND CERTIFICATES OF DEPOSIT

During the fiscal year the Commission issued a release announcing its concern regarding recent proposals for public offerings of a novel type of security with characteristics which appear
to invite unwarranted comparisons with bank savings accounts,
savings and loan association accounts, and bank time deposit
certificates." Such securities may be presented to the public as a
satisfactory investment medium to serve as a supplement, or even
a preferable alternative, to such savings accounts and certificates
of deposit.
The security in question is customarily an unsecured debt
security bearing interest at a rate lower than those prevailing
for long term corporate debt, but somewhat higher than the prevailing rates for savings accounts and certificates of deposit.
When the security does not have a relatively short maturity, it
usually has a so-called redemption, presentment, tender or repurchase feature respecting principal and accrued interest which
may lead the investor to believe that his security would have
liquidity comparable with that of conventional savings accounts
and bank certificates of deposit.
The Commission's release noted that investors in such securities
would not have the safeguards resulting from state and federal
supervision of financial institutions or the benefits of federally
created insurance protections. It also pointed out that the so-called
redemption or similar feature of these securities may be illusory
because the issuers of the securities are in general not subject to
any regulation or law with respect to the maintenance of reserves.
Accordingly, the Commission cautioned members of the public
to examine carefully the risk factors associated with securities
they are invited to purchase and reminded persons engaged in
the offering and sale of the securities described in the release
of their obligations under antifraud provisions of the federal securities laws to consider and disclose the risk and other pertinent
factors.
PROPOSED FEE SCHEDULE

Over the past few years, Congress has expressed concern that
33

Securities Exchange Act Release No. 9143 (April 12, 1971).

THIRTY-SEVENTH

ANNUAL

REPORT

25

the Federal Government is not receiving sufficient returns for
the services it renders, and it has been suggested that agencies
review their schedules of fees and charges with a view to making
increases or adjustments to offset the- increasing needs for direct
appropriations for agency operating costs.
Consistent with this suggestion, the Commission, in September
1971, published for comment a proposed fee schedule covering
fees for certain filings and services under the Securities Act of
1933, the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the Public Utility
Holding Company Act of 1935, the Investment Advisers Act of
1940 and the Investment Company Act of 1940.34
Under the proposed schedule, fees would be charged for certain
filings and services under these acts where no charges have
previously been made and there would be no refund of any fees
paid. Consistent with that approach, the Commission also proposed to amend Rule 457 under the Securities Act, which now
provides for partial refunds of Securities Act registration fees
under certain circumstances, so as to provide that no refund will
be made once a registration statement has been filed.
The authorization to establish fees is found in Title V of the
Independent OfficeAppropriations Act of 1952 which is applicable
to all Federal independent agencies.
ENFORCEMENT

ACTION CHARGING MISUSE OF PENSION

FUNDS

In S.E.C. v, Victor Posner, et al.,35 the Commission for the first
time brought enforcement proceedings involving the alleged misuse of corporate pension funds in connection with the purchase
or sale of securities. In May 1971, an injunctive action was
instituted against six defendants, who after a takeover of Sharon
Steel Corporation allegedly engaged in a fraudulent scheme to use
the assets of Sharon's two pension funds to assist in takeovers
and consolidation efforts. According to the complaint, the defendants accomplished the scheme by, among other things, causing
the pension funds to liquidate a portion of their security holdings
and to reinvest the proceeds in securities issued by certain of the
defendant companies and other companies, all of them controlled
by Posner.

34
35

Securities Act Release No. 5190 (September
S.D.N.Y., 71 Civ. Action No. 2256.

13, 1971).

PART II
FULL DISCLOSURE OF INFORMATION
ISSUERS OF SECURITIES

ABOUT THE

A basic purpose of the Federal securities laws administered by
the Commission, in particular the Securities Act of 1933 and the
Securities Exchange Act of 1934, is to provide disclosure of
material financial and other information about companies seeking
to raise capital through the public offering of their securities and
those companies whose securities are already publicly held, so as
to enable investors to evaluate the securities of these companies
on an informed and realistic basis.
To this end, the Securities Act, generally speaking, requires
that before securities may be offered to the public by an issuing
company or a person in a control relationship to such company,
a registration statement must be filed with the Commission disclosing prescribed categories of financial and other information,
and that in connection with the sale of the securities investors be
furnished a prospectus containing the most significant of that
information.
The Securities Exchange Act, which deals in large part with
securities already outstanding, requires the registration of securities listed on a national securities exchange and over-the-counter
securities in which there is a substantial public interest. Issuers
of registered securities must file annual and other periodic reports
which are designed to provide a public file of current material
information. The Exchange Act also requires disclosure of material information to holders of registered securities in connection
with the solicitation of proxies for the election of directors or
the' approval of corporate action at a stockholders' meeting, and
in connection with attempts to acquire control of a company
through a tender offer or other planned stock acquisition, and
it provides that "insiders" of companies whose equity securities
are registered must report their holdings of and transactions in
all equity securities of the company with which they are affiliated.
DISCLOSURE

IN CONNECTION

WITH PUBLIC OFFERINGS

The basic concept underlying the Securities Act's registration
requirements is full disclosure. The Commission has no authority
27

28

SECURITIES AND EXCHANGE COMMISSION

to pass on the merits of the securities to be offered or the fairness
of the terms of distribution. If adequate and accurate disclosure

is made, it cannot deny registration. The Act makes it unlawful
to represent to investors that the Commission has approved or
otherwise passed on the merits of registered securities.
TYPE OF INFORMATION INCLUDED IN REGISTRATION STATEMENT

While the Securities Act enumerates the categories of information to be included in a registration statement, the Commission
has the authority to prescribe appropriate forms, and to increase,
or in certain instances vary or diminish, the particular items of
information required to be disclosed. To facilitate the registration
of securities by different types of issuers, the Commission has
adopted special registration forms which vary in their disclosure
requirements so as to provide maximum disclosure of the essential
facts pertinent in a given type of offering while at the same time
minimizing the burden and expense of compliance with the law.
In recent years it has adopted certain short forms, notably Form
8-7, which do not require disclosure of matters covered in reports
and proxy material filed or distributed under provisions of the
Securities Exchange Act.
In general, the registration statement of an issuer other than
a foreign government must disclose such matters as the names of
persons who participate in the management or control of the
issuer's business; the security holdings and remuneration of such
persons; the general character of the business, its capital structure, past history and earnings; underwriters' commissions; payments to promoters made within 2 years or intended to be made;
the interest of directors, officers and llrindpal stockbolders in
material transactions witb tb.e issuer; llfCndinglegal proceedings ;
and the purposes to which the proceeds of the offering are to be
applied, and it must include financial statements certified by an
independent public accountant. The registration statement of a
foreign government must contain information concerning the
purposes for which the proceeds of the offering are to be used,
the natural and industrial resources of the issuer, its revenues,
obligations and expenses, the underwriting and distribution of the
securities being registered, and other material matters, but need
not contain certified financial statements.
NEW REGISTRATION GUIDES

From time to time in recent years, the Commission has authorized the publication of guides reflecting policies of the Di-

THIRTY-SEVENTH

ANNUAL REPORT

29

VISIOnof Corporation Finance regarding disclosure and other
matters relating to the registration of securities.
During the fiscal year the Commission authorized the publication of a guide relating to disclosure of the interests of counsel
named in a prospectus as having passed on the legality of the
securities being registered or on other legal matters in connection
with the registration or offering of the securities.' The guide calls
for disclosure of any interest in the issuer presently held or to be
acquired by named counsel in connection with the registration or
offering of the securities. The theory underlying the requirement
is that potential investors should be told of any interests which
such counsel may have in the issuer or the offering to enable them
to judge for themselves counsel's independence and objectivity.
Another guide which was published requires disclosure in the
prospectus of the registrant's business address and telephone
number.s Complaints had been received from time to time that
investors and state regulatory agencies had been unable to communicate conveniently with registrants because that information
had not been given.
In August 1970, a proposed guide to the preparation of registration statements relating to so-called "equity funding" programs
was published for comrnent." The accompanying release pointed
out that in recent months numerous registration statements had
been filed for such programs which involve the offering of securities, usually mutual fund shares, and the use of such shares as
collateral for a loan the proceeds of which are then used to pay a
premium on a life insurance policy sold to the customer at or
about the same time. The Commission has taken the position that
such a program involves an investment contract which is a
security under the Securities Act. Among other things, the proposed guide indicates the manner in which the risk factors involved in an equity funding program should be disclosed.
ADOPTION OF NEW OR REVISED REGISTRATION FORMS

During the year the Commission adopted Form 8-16, a new
short form for registration statements, for use in connection with
certain types of offermgs.' The form may be used by any issuer
which at the time of filing the registration statement would be
entitled to use Form S-7, i.e., a company which has an established
1 Securities

Act Release
Securities Act Release
3 Securities Act Release
4 Securities
Act Release
2

No.
No.
No.
No.

5094
5102
5075
5117

(October 21, 1970).
(November 12, 1970).
(August 3, 1970).
(December 23, 1970).

30

SECURITIES

AND EXCHANGE COMMISSION

record of earnings and stability of management and business and
has complied with reporting and proxy requirements of the Securities Exchange Act for at least 3 years." Form 8-16 may be
used for registering securities to be sold in the following types
of offerings: Securities offered by persons other than the registrant in the regular way on a national securities exchange if
securities of the same class are registered on the same or another
such exchange; securities to be offered by an issuer to holders
of convertible securities of an affiliate of the issuer which are
convertible into securities of the issuer, where no commission or
other remuneration is paid or payable by anyone for soliciting
such conversion; and securities to be issued upon the exercise of
outstanding publicly-held warrants where no commission or other
remuneration is paid for soliciting the exercise of the warrants.
The Form S-16 prospectus consists in large part of the latest
annual and other report and proxy or information statement filed
by the issuer which are incorporated in the prospectus by reference. The prospectus must disclose where the documents incorporated by reference may be inspected or copies obtained. Any
material adverse changes in the registrant's affairs subsequent
to the date of the latest certified financial statements must also
be disclosed. Like Forms S-7, S-8 and S-9 which also take into
consideration information otherwise filed with the Commission,
Form 8-16 is in the nature of an experiment. The Commission
intends to observe its operation in conjunction with the recently
revised registration and reporting requirements under the 1934
Act 6 to determine whether the omission of information from the
prospectus is consistent with the objectives of the 1933 Act.
The Commission also adopted certain amendments to Forms
8-1, S-9 and 8-11.7 Form 8-1, the general form for registration
of securities, was amended to require a source and application of
funds statement for each fiscal year or other period for which
a profit and loss statement is required. This amendment conforms
the requirements of Form S-1 to those of revised Forms 10 and
10-K under the Securities Exchange Act.
The amendments to Form 8-9, an optional form for registration
of non-convertible, fixed interest, debt securities, and Form 8-11,
which is used for registration of securities of certain real estate
5 Amendments to Form S-7 adopted during the fiscal year which broadened
its availability were discussed in the 36th Annual Report, at pp, 12-18.
6 See 36th Annual Report, pp. 10-12.
7 Securities Act Release No. 5135 (February
26, 1971).

THIRTY-SEVENTH

ANNUAL REPORT

31

companies, also relate to the nature of the financial information
to be furnished.
IMPROVING THE READABILITY OF PROSPECTUSES

Over the years the Commission has taken various measures to
make prospectuses and other documents filed with it and furnished
to the investing public more understandable to the average investor. Nevertheless, many prospectuses are still lengthy and complex. While they may be accurate and complete and useful for
financial analysts and sophisticated investors, they may be unintelligible to the average investor and thus fail to achieve their
statutory purpose of providing full and fair disclosure to investors. Accordingly, the Commission during the fiscal year invited
comments and suggestions from interested persons with respect
to reasonable measures which might be taken to improve the
readability and informativeness of prospectuses and other documents the purpose of which is to inform investors or security
holders." Many helpful responses were received, and shortly after
the end of the fiscal year the Commission invited comments on
certain specific proposals designed as the first in a series of steps
to be taken toward this objective," Among the proposed measures
is the required use in prospectuses of "pie-charts" to show the
intended use of the proceeds of the offering and the dilution of
the investor's equity in the enterprise.
In a related action, the Commission amended certain rules
under the Securities Act and the Securities Exchange Act so as
to require that notes to financial statements and other tabular
data in prospectuses, proxy statements and other documents filed
with the Commission or sent to security holders be set forth in a
larger size type than was previously required."? These notes often
contain information of material importance to investors not found
elsewhere in the documents.
DISPOSITION OF ABANDONED REGISTRATION STATEMENTS

During the fiscal year the Commission adopted a new Rule 479
which provides a procedure whereby the Commission may determine whether a registration statement or post-effective amendment to such a statement, which has not become effective, has
been abandoned and remove such statement or amendment from
consideration as a pending matter." The rule provides that when
Securities Act Release
Securities Act Release
10 Securities Act Release
11 Securities Act Release
8

!J

450.484

0 - 72  4

No. 5119 (December 16, 1970).
No. 5164 (July 16, 1971).
No. 5145 (April 30, 1971).
No. 5148 (May 14, 1971).

32

SECURITIES AND EXCHANGE COMMISSION

a statement or amendment has becomeout of date by the passage
of 9 months from the filing date, or the filing of the latest
substantive amendment, and the registrant has not furnished a
satisfactory explanation as to why it has not amended or withdrawn the registration statement, the Commission may, in its
discretion, give notice to the registrant and if the registration
statement or amendment is not thereafter amended or withdrawn
declare the statement or amendment abandoned. The rule also
provides that the abandoned statement or amendment shall be
suitably marked and remain in the files of the Commission.
NEW RULES RELATING TO PUBLICATION OF INFORMATION AND
DELIVERY OF PROSPECTUS BY BROKER-DEALERS PRIOR TO OR
AFTER THE FILING OF A REGISTRATION STATEMENT

During the year the Commission adopted rules designed to
establish standards for determining circumstances under which
broker-dealers may publish certain information about an issuer
which proposes to or has registered securities under the Securities
Act and to clarify a dealer's obligation to deliver prospectuses
under Section 4(3) of that Act and the anti-fraud provisions of
the Securities Exchange Act.I2 Information, opinions or recommendations by a broker-dealer about securities of an issuer proposing to register securities under the Securities Act for a public
offering or having securities so registered may constitute an offer
to sell such securities within the meaning of that Act, particularly
when the broker-dealer is participating in the distribution as an
underwriter or selling group member. Publishing such information may result in a violation of Section 5 of the Act. The purpose
of the rules is to provide guidance to broker-dealers and to alleviate such requirements where it appears that the purposes and
policies of the Act will not be prejudiced, while assuring that
persons engaged in a distribution of a registered offering and
their customers will be supplied with the disclosure afforded by
the statutory prospectus.
STAFF EXAMINATION OF REGISTRATION STATEMENTS

Registration statements filed with the Commission are examined by its staff for compliancewith the standards of adequate
and accurate disclosure. This examination is primarily the responsibility of the Division of Corporation F'inance.P Generally
Securities Act Release No. 5101 (November 19, 1970).
Statements :filed by investment companies registered under the Investment Company Act of 1940 are examined by the Division of Corporate
Regulation. See Part V for further discussion of the processing of investment
company registration statements.
12
IS

THIRTY-SEVENTH

ANNUAL REPORT

33

speaking, if it appears that a statement fails to conform, in
material respects, with the applicable requirements, the issuing
company is notified by a letter of comment and is afforded an
opportunity to file correcting or clarifying amendments.> The
Commission also has the power, after notice and opportunity for
hearing, to issue a "stop-order" suspending the effectiveness of
a registration statement if it finds that material representations
are misleading, inaccurate or incomplete. In certain instances,
such as where the deficiencies in a registration statement appear
to stem from careless disregard of applicable requirements or
from a deliberate attempt to conceal or mislead, a letter of comment is not sent and the Commission either conducts an investigation to determine whether "stop-order" proceedings should be
instituted or immediately institutes such proceedings. The exercise
of the "stop-order" power during fiscal year 1971 is discussed on
pages 40-42.
TIME REQUIRED TO COMPLETE REGISTRATION

The Commission's staff endeavors to complete its examination
of registration statements in as short a time as possible. The
Act provides that a registration statement shall become effective
on the 20th day after it is filed (or on the 20th day after the
filing of any amendment thereto). Since most registration statements require one or more amendments, they usually do not
become effective until some time after the original 20-day period.
The period between filing and effective date is intended to afford
investors an opportunity to become familiar with the proposed
offering through the dissemination of the preliminary form of
prospectus. The Commission can accelerate the effective date so
as to shorten the 20-day waiting period, taking into account,
among other things, the adequacy of the information respecting
the issuer theretofore available to the public and the facility with
which the facts about the offering can be understood.
During the fiscal year, 2,985 'registration statements became
effective. Of these, 226 were amendments filed by investment
companies pursuant to Section 24(e) of the Investment Company
Act of 1940, which provides for the registration of additional
securities through amendment to an effective registration statement rather than the filing of a new registration statement. With
respect to the remaining 2,759 statements, the median number of
14 Expedited
review procedures first adopted in November 1968 to cope
with the volume of registration statements filed were described on pages
11-12 of the 34th Annual Report.

34

SECURITIES

AND EXCHANGE COMMISSION

calendar days which elapsed from the date of the original filing
to the effective date was 52, representing a substantial reduction
over the comparable figures for the two preceding years." As a
matter of fact, during the last few months of the fiscal year
the processing time was substantially below the figure for the
year as a whole.
The following table shows by months during the 1971 fiscal
year the number of registration statements which became effective, and the number of calendar days elapsed during the registration process for the median registration statement.
Time in Registration

Under the Securities Act of 1988 by Months During the
Fiscal Year Ended June 80,1971
NUMBER OF CALENDAR DAYS

Months

Number of
registration statements
effective 

1970
July
August-========:
September _____
October ________
November
December ______

226
178
215
230
195
251

Fiscal 1971
median
effectIve
statement ____

2,759

Totalnumber of days
in registration

59
60

54
54
54
44

Months

Number of
registration statements
effective'

1971
anuary ________
\i~bruary
-----arch _________
i'a~l ___________
===========
.Tune

158
160
217
296
281
352

Totalnumberofdays
in registration

52
51
39
33
38
46

52

figure excludes 226 amendments filed by investment
Section 24(e) of the Investment Company Act of 1940.
 ThIS

companies

pursuant

to

STATISTICS REGAR'DING REGISTRATION STATEMENTS FILED

During the 1971 fiscal year, 3,404 registration statements were
filed for offerings of securities aggregating $70.0 billion, as compared with 4,314 registration statements filed during the 1970
fiscal year for offerings amounting to $66.9 billion. This represents a decrease of 21.0 percent in the number of statements filed
and an increase of 4.6 percent in the dollar amount involved.
Of the 3,404 registration statements filed in the 1971 fiscal
year, 997, or 29 percent, were filed by companies that had not
previously filed registration statements under the Securities Act.
Comparable figures for the 1970 and 1969 fiscal years were 2,.071,
or 48 percent, and 2,350, or 50 percent, respectively.
Particulars regarding the disposition of all registration statements filed from the effective date of the Act to June 30, 1971, are
summarized in the following table:
15 Those figures were 70 days for 3,121 registration
year 1970 and 65 days for 3,316 registration statements

statements in fiscal
in fiscal year 1969.

35

THIRTY-SEVENTH ANNUAL REPORT
Number and Dispositia o f Registration Statements Filed
Prior to
July 1, 1970
Re
d

July 1, 1970
to June 30,
1911

tration statements:

............................

40,881

Disposition:
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
34,480
Effective (net) .
Under stop or refusal order .
.
.
.
235
Withdrawn .
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
4,120
Pending a t June 30, 1070 .......
2,046
Pending at June S. 1971 ............

(a) 3,404

( b ) 2.929
2
869

.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.

Total
June 30. 1971
44285 

( c ) 31,341

237 

4,889

.
.
.
.
.

1.712 


T o t .
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.

40.881

.
.
.
.
.

44.285 


Aggregate +Uar amount:
As filed (m billions) .
.
As effective (in billions) -------

$552.8
531.2

$70.0
69.5

$622.8
600.7

(a) Ineludes 219 registration statements covering proposed offerings totalling
$7288 182817 filed by investment companxes undgr Sectlon 24(e) (1) of the Investment
com6any' Act o f 1940 which permits registratron by amendment to a previously
effective registratlon statement.
( b ) Excludes 56 registration statements that became effective during the year but
were subsequently withdrawn; these 56 statements are included in the 869 statements
withdrawn during the year.
( c ) Excludes 62 registration statements effective prior to July 1, 1910, which were
withdrawn during the year: these 62 statements are effected under w~thdrawn.

The reasons assigned by registrants for requesting withdrawal
of the 869 registration statements withdrawn' during the 1971
fiscal year are shown in the following table:
Reaspn for registrant's withdrawal request

statements

Percent
of total

.-1. Withdrawal requested after receipt of the

.
.
..
..
.L
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.


staff's comments ...............
2. Change in financing plan? .
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.

3. Change in market condlhons .
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.

4. Registrant was unable t o negotiate

acceptable agreement with underwriter ........


.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.

5. Will file on proper form .
6. Will file new registration statement .
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.


.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.

7. Exemptions available .
8. After investigation under Sec. ate) and 20(a) .
...
Total .
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.

......
869

100.0 


STATISTICS REGARDING SECURITIES REGISTERED

During the fiscal year ended June 30, 1971, a total of 2,989
registrations of securities in the amount of $69.6 billion became
effective under the Securities Act l6 Although the number of statements declined, the dollar amount effectively registered increased
18 percent from fiscal year 1970, reflecting a sharp rise in the
volume of large security issues registered. The chart on page 36
shows the number and dollar amounts of effective registrations
for the period 1935 to 1971.
18 For a reconciliation of the figures as to effective registration statements
referred to above and on pp. 33 and 35, see Appendix Table 2.

36

SECURITIES

SECURITIES
Dollars

AND EXCHANGE COMMISSION

EFFECTIVELY

REGISTERED

WITH S.E.C.

1935.1971

Billions

90

75

1935

40

45

55

50
(Fiscal

60

65

70

Yeors)

The figures for 1971 cover all effective registrations including
secondary distributions and securities registered for other than
cash sale, such as issues exchanged for other securities and securi-

THIRTY-SEVENTH

ANNUAL REPORT

37

ties reserved for conversion. Of the dollar amount of securities
registered in 1971, 84 percent was for the account of the issuer
for cash sale, 10 percent for the account of the issuer for other
than cash sale, and 6 percent for the account of others, as shown
in the table below.
Account For Which Securities Were Registered Under the Securities Act of
1933: Fiscal Years 1969-1971
(Milhons

Account of issuer, cash sale _________
Account
of __________________________
issuer. other than
cash sale
Account of other than issuer ________
Total------------------------

of dollars)

1971

1970

1969

58,452

48,198

52.039

7,043
4,066
69.561

7,355
3,563
59.116

29,577
4,481
86,456

e These figures exclude lease obligations relating to industrial
in 1971; $21 rrullron in 1970; and $354 million m 1969.

bonds of $400 thousand

The amount of securities offered for cash sale for the account
of issuer in 1971 amounted to a record $58.5 billion, an increase
of $10.3 billion over the preceding fiscal year and $6.4 billion
more than the previous record established in fiscal year 1969. This
increase was primarily due to the large volume of debt securities
issued; $27.6 billion of bonds, debentures and notes were registered for the account of the issuer for cash sale as compared to
$18.4 billion and $11.7 billion in fiscal years 1970 and 1969, respectively. Securities registered for the account of the issuer for
other than cash sale declined slightly in 1971, with the volume of
securities registered for purposes of exchange amounting to $1.5
billion compared to $2.0 billion during fiscal year 1970. Registrations of secondary offerings (for account of other than issuer)
aggregated $4.1 billion, $500 million more than in the preceding
fiscal year. Appendix Table 1 shows the number of statements
which became effective and total dollar amounts registered for
each of the fiscal years 1935-1971. Issues, classified by security
type, offered for cash sale for the account of issuer are also included for those years. More detailed information for 1971 may be
found in Table 2.
As shown in the table below, corporate issues effectively registered for immediate cash sale totaled a record $38.2 billion in
1971, an increase of $12.2 billion or 47 percent over the preceding
year. New corporate bonds, notes and debentures were up sharply,
aggregating $27.1 billion compared to the previous high of $17.8
billion registered in fiscal year 1970. New common stock flotations
totaled $7.7 billion and showed a moderate increase from 1970
levels. New issues of preferred stock amounted to $3.3 bilIion, a

38

SECURITIES

AND EXCHANGE COMMISSION

record high for this type of securities financing. Almost one-half
of these senior equities were offered to securities holders through
subscription rights whereas virtually all of the preferred stock
registered in 1970 and 1969 was issued to the general public.
Securities

Registered for the Account of the Issuer for Cash Sale Under the
Securities Act of 1933: Fiscal Years 1969-1971
(Milhons

of dollars)
1969

1970

1971

Issues offered for immediate sale:
Bonds, notes and debentures ______
27,139
Preferred stock
3,340
Common stock _::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::7,722

17,825
768
7,382

10,818
515
5,949

Total -- ---- -------- ------------Foreign government -----------------

38,201
1,493

25,975
495

17,282
711

Total for immediate sale ______
Issues offered over an extended
period -----------------------------

39,694

26,470

17,993

18,758

21,728

34,046

58.452

48,198

52.039

Total for cash sale for
account of issuer ____________

The following chart shows the amounts of debt issues, common
and preferred stock offered for immediate cash sale in each of
the past ten fiscal years. It points up the precipitous growth in
the demand for capital funds during that period. Thus, the security financing total in 1971 represented a six-fold increase from
the $6.3 billion registered in 1962.

GROSS PROCEEDS
DOLL. ... RS BILLiONS

NEW CORPORATE SECURITIES EFFECTIVELY REGISTERED
WITH SEC FOR IMMEDIATE CASH SALE (1962 - 1971)

40
::::::

COMMON

::::::

STOCK

30

PREFERREO
STOCK

20

10

o
1962

63

64

65

66

67

68

69

70

1971
DS-49liU5

The following table shows the volume of issues registered to
be offered continuously over an extended period. Most of these

THIRTY-SEVENTH

ANNUAL REPORT

39

issues were common stock offerings, including investment company issues, employee stock purchase plans and stock reserved
for warrants and options. Registrations of extended offerings
amounted to $18.7 billion in fiscal year 1971, a decline of $3.0
billion from 1970 and down sharply from the $34.0 billion registered in 1969.
Securities Registered to be Offered Over an Extended Period Under the
Securities Act of 1933: Fiscal Years 1969-1971
(Mtlltons
1971

Investment company issues:
Management open-end
Management closed-end
Unit investment trust
Face-amount certificates

_
_
_
_

Total investment companies __
Employee saving plan certificates __
SecuntIes for employee stock
option plans
_
Other, including stock for
warrants and options
_
Total
_

of dollars)
1970

8,281
258
1,721

1969

I

11,090
131
2,274
116

647

16,129
594
2,279
126

10,907
1,400

13,611
1,677

19,128
1,850

3,300

3,103

5,610

3,151

3,337

7.458

18,758

21,728

34,046

The chart below shows dollar amounts of registrations of issues
offered over an extended period for the fiscal years 1962-1971.
It also reflects the close parallel that has existed between the
total volume of such registrations and investment company issues.
DOLLARS
BILLIONS

SECURITIES EFFECTIVELY
REGISTERED TO BE OFFERED FOR SALE
OVER AN EXTENDED PERIOD OF TIME (1962 - 1911)

40

30

20

.........._

10


_........

".....

............ ..

ltlVESTMENT

...............
COMPANIES

o
05-4997

REPORTS OF SALES AND USE OF PROCEEDS

The Commission adopted a new rule and form requiring issuers

40

SECURITIES

AND EXCHANGE COMMISSION

registering securities under the Securities Act for the first time
to file reports of sales of such securities and the application of
the proceeds from such sales.F The first report must be filed 3
months after the effective date of the registration statement and
subsequent reports at 6-month intervals during the period of the
offering and until the proceeds have been applied by the registrant. A final report is required upon completion of the offering
and application of the proceeds. Information as to the progress
of an offering of registered securities will enable the Commission
to know whether the registrant is required to file and use an updated prospectus and whether dealers effecting transactions in the
securities must furnish a copy of the prospectus to purchasers.
Information concerning the actual use of the proceeds will indicate whether the statements in the prospectus with respect to such
use are borne out by the registrant's subsequent actions.
EXAMINATIONS AND INVESTIGATIONS

The Commission is authorized by Section 8 (e) of the Securities
Act to make an examination in order to determine whether a stop
order proceeding should be instituted under Section 8 (d) and in
connection therewith is empowered to examine witnesses and require the production of pertinent documents. Failure of the issuer
or underwriter to cooperate in or obstruction of an examination
constitutes grounds for issuance of a stop order. In addition,
investigations into the adequacy and accuracy of registration
statements may be conducted pursuant to Section 20 (a) of the
Act which authorizes the Commission to conduct an investigation
to determine whether any provision of the Act or any rule or
regulation prescribed thereunder has been or is about to be
violated. The following tabulation shows the number of examinations and investigations relating to registration statements which
were in progress during the year:
Pending at beginning of fiscal year
Initiated during fiscal year

51
15

Closed during fiscal year

66
37

Pending at close of fiscal year

29

STOP ORDER PROCEEDINGS

Section 8(d) of the Securities Act gives the Commission the
power, after notice and opportunity for hearing, to issue a stop
order "suspending" the effectiveness of a registration statement
17

Securities Act Release No. 5141 (April 19, 1971).

THIRTY-SEVENTH

ANNUAL REPORT

41

which includes an untrue statement of a material fact or omits to
state any material fact required to be stated therein or necessary
to make the statements therein not misleading. The effect of a
stop order, which may be issued even after the sale of securities
has begun, is to bar distribution of the securities so long as the
order remains in effect. Although the order does not have the
effect of restoring losses which may already have been suffered
by investors, the Commission's decision and the evidence on which
it is based may serve to put them on notice of their rights and aid
in their private recovery suits. As provided by the Act, a stop
order is lifted when the registration statement has been amended
to correct the deficiencies.
At the beginning of the fiscal year two stop order proceedings
were pending and during the year two additional proceedings
were instituted. Two of the proceedings were terminated through
the issuance of stop orders, and the others were pending as of the
end of the year. One of these was terminated through issuance
of a stop order shortly after the end of the fiscal year.
In Blimpie Corporation of America,18 the Commission had authorized an examination and investigation to determine whether
a registration statement filed by Blimpie contained false or misleading statements concerning the identity of persons in control
of the company, the background of its board of directors and
transactions by and between its officers and directors. However,
the persons listed in the registration statement as officers, directors and stockholders refused to testify when subpoenaed by the
staff. The Commission held that such refusal constituted a failure
by Blimpie to cooperate in the examination, which, pursuant to
Section 8 (e), constituted a ground for issuance of a stop order.
In Auoion-Umipolar Corporation.I" decided shortly after the
close of the fiscal year, the Commission found that the registration
statement filed by the issuer, a newly organized research and
development corporation, was materially deficient in describing
the intended use of the proceeds of the offering and certain
inventions on which the issuer's business was dependent and in
failing to disclose the possibility of adverse claims to those
inventions and that the issuer's licensee did not have the financial
capacity to honor potential multi-million dollar contractual commitments described in the registration statement. The Commission
also found that the issuer had failed to cooperate in an examinaSecurities Act Release No. 5146 (May 6, 1971).
Securities Act Release No. 5161 (July 5, 1971), app. pending, C.A. 2,
No. 71-1677.
18

19

42

SECURITIES

AND EXCHANGE COMMISSION

tion conducted by its staff pursuant to Section 8(e) of the Securities Act, in that the issuer's president, claiming his privilege
against self-incrimination, had refused to answer a staff member's
question, and the issuer had failed to respond to a subponea
duces tecum calling for the production of corporate books and
records. The Commission rejected contentions that no examination could be conducted pursuant to Section 8 (e) prior to the
formal institution of stop-order proceedings under Section 8 (d),
and that the president's claim of the privilege excused the issuer's
failure to cooperate.
In view of the material deficiencies in the registration statement and the issuer's failure to cooperate, the Commission determined that a stop order suspending the effectiveness of the
registration statement should issue. It rejected the argument that
Section 8 (c) of the Securities Act required it to declare the
issuer's post-effective amendments effective and to dismiss the
proceedings. The Commission noted that its consideration of such
amendments after the institution of stop-order proceedings was
discretionary. It pointed out that even if the post-effective amendments were fully curative of the deficiencies which it had found
in the registration statement, the information which the issuer
and its officers had refused to furnish during the staff's examination might have disclosed further material deficiencies, and that
consideration of the post-effective amendments would therefore
be inconsistent with the public interest and the protection of
investors.
EXEMPTION FROM REGISTRATION OF SMALL ISSUES

The Commission is authorized under Section 3 (b) of the Securities Act to exempt, by its rules and regulations and subject to
such terms and conditions as it may prescribe therein, any class
of securities from registration under the Act, if it finds that the
enforcement of the registration provisions of the Act with respect
to such securities is not necessary in the public interest and for
the protection of investors by reason of the small amount involved
or the limited character of the public offering. The statute imposes
a maximum limitation of $500,000 upon the size of the issues
which may be exempted by the Commission in the exercise of
this power.20
20

Public Law 91-565, effective December 19, 1970, raised the ceiling from

$300,000 to $500,000.

THIRTY-SEVENTH ANNUAL REPORT

43

Acting under this authority, the Commission has adopted the
following exemptive rules and regulations:
Regulation A:

General exemption for U.S. and Canadian issues up to
$500,000.21
Regulation B: Exemption for fractional undivided interests in oil or
gas rights up to $100,000.
Regulation F: Exemption for assessments on assessable stock and for
assessable stock offered or sold to realize the amount
of assessment thereon up to $300,000.
Rules 234-236: Exemptions, up to limited amounts, of first lien notes,
securities of cooperative housing corporations, and
shares offered in connection with certain transactions.

Under Section 3 (c) of the Securities Act, the Commission is
authorized to exempt securities issued by a small business investment company subject to the Small Business Investment Act.
Acting pursuant to this authority the Commission has adopted
Regulation E, which exempts such securities up to a maximum
offering price of $500,000.22
Exemption from registration under Section 3 (b) or 3 (c) of
the Act does not carry any exemption from the provisions of the
Act prohibiting fraudulent conduct in the offer or sale of securities and imposing civil liability or criminal responsibility for
such conduct.
EXEMPT OFFERINGS UNDER REGULATIONA

Regulation A permits a company to obtain needed capital not in
excess of $500,000 (including underwriting commissions) in any
one year from a public offering of its securities without registration, provided specified conditions are met. These include the
filing of a notification supplying basic information about the
company with the appropriate Regional Officeof the Commission,
and the filing, and use in the offering, of an offering circular.
However, an offering circular need not be filed or used in connection with an offering not in excess of $50,000 by a company
with earnings in one of the last 2 years.
During the 1971 fiscal year, 836 notifications were filed under
Regulation A, covering proposed offerings of $254,220,725,compared with 1104 notifications covering proposed offerings of
$293,666,784in the 1970 fiscal year. The table below sets forth
21 Implementing the statutory change, the Commission, effective January
7, 1971, increased the maximum amount of the offering permitted under
Regulation A from $300,000to $500,000.Securities Act Release No. 5125.
22 The ceiling was raised during the fiscal year from the previous maximum
of $300,000.Securities Act Release No. 5134 (March 26, 1971).

44

SECURITIES

AND EXCHANGE

COMMISSION

various features of the Regulation A offerings during the past 3
fiscal years:
Offerings Under Regulation A

1971
SIZE:
$100,000 or less
$100,000-$200,000
$2OO,ooG-$300,ooo
$300,000-$400,000
$4OO,~,OOO
Total

---

_
_
_
_
_
_

54

116
429
114

Fiscal year
1970
90

92
922

1969
90

114
839

123
836

1,104

_
_

370
466

510

594

585

OFFERORS:
Issuing companies
_
Stockholders
_
Issuers and stockholders jointly __

822

1,101
2
1

1,021

UNDERWRITERS:
Used
Not Used

11
3

1,043

458

15
7

Reports of Sales.-Regulation A requires the filing of periodic
sales reports during the pendency of the offering and a final
report upon its completion or termination. During the fiscal year
1971, 1036 reports of sales were filed reporting aggregate sales
of $67,629,044.
Suspension of Exemption.- The Commission may suspend an
exemption under Regulation A where, in general, the exemption
is sought for securities for which the regulation provides no
exemption or where the offering is not made in accordance with
the terms and conditions of the regulation or in compliance with
the prescribed disclosure standards. Following the issuance of a
temporary suspension order by the Commission, the respondents
may request a hearing to determine whether the temporary
suspension should be vacated or made permanent. If no hearing
is requested within 30 days after the entry of the temporary
suspension order and none is ordered by the Commission on its
own motion, the temporary suspension order becomes permanent.
During the 1971 fiscal year, temporary suspension orders were
issued in 23 cases. Added to the 19 cases pending at the beginning
of the fiscal year, this resulted in a total of 42 cases for disposition. Of these, the temporary suspension order was vacated
in 1 case and became permanent in 28 cases: in 14 by lapse of
time, in 8 by withdrawal of the request for hearing, and in 6
by final determination by the Commission (including 5 based on
offers of settlement). Thirteen cases were pending at the end of
the fiscal year.

THIRTY-SEVENTH

ANNUAL REPORT

45

EXEMPT OFFERINGS UNDER REGULATION B

During the fiscal year ended June 30, 1971, 941 offering sheets
and 917 amendments thereto were filed pursuant to Regulation B
and were examined by the Oil and Gas Section of the Commission's Division of Corporation Finance. During the 1970 and 1969
fiscal years, 749 and 613 offering sheets, respectively, were filed.
The following table indicates the nature and number of Commission orders issued in connection with such filings during the
fiscal years 1969-71. The balance of the offering sheets filed became effective without order.
Action Taken on Offering Sheets Filed Under Regulation B
Fiscal years
1971

1970

Temporary suspension orders (under Rule 340(a _____
0
Orders terminating proceeding after amendment _______
0
Orders terrrunattng effectiveness of offering sheet ______
2
Orders fixing effective date of amendment
______________________________657
(no proceedmg pending)
Orders consentmg to withdrawal of offering sheet
(no proceeding pending) ______________________________
29
Total number of orders ___________________________
688

1969

1
0

3
3
0

470

376

4

10

7
389

485

Reports of Sales.-The following table shows the number of
sales reports filed under Regulation B during the past 3 fiscal
years and the aggregate dollar amount of sales during each such
year.
Reports of Sales Under Regulation B
1971
Number of sales reports filed _______
11,773
Aggregate
amount of sales
reported dollar
___________________________
$15,712,891.51

1970
8,136
$11,757,060.32

1969
9,012
$11,221,563.80

EXEMPT OFFERINGS UNDER REGULATION F

Regulation F provides an exemption for assessments levied
upon assessable stock and for' delinquent assessment sales in
amounts not exceeding $300,000 in anyone year. It requires the
filing of a simple notification giving brief information with respect to the issuer, its management, principal security holders,
recent and proposed assessments and other security issues. The
regulation requires a company to send to its stockholders, or
otherwise publish, a statement of the purposes for which the
proceeds of the assessment are proposed to be used. Copies of any
other sales literature used in connection with the assessment must
be filed. Like Regulation A, Regulation F provides for the suspension of an exemption thereunder where the regulation provides

46

SECURITIES

AND EXCHANGE COMMISSION

no exemption or where the offering is not made in accordance
with the terms and conditions of the regulation or in accordance
with the prescribed disclosure standards.
During the 1971 fiscal year, 19 notifications were filed under
Regulation F, covering assessments of $407,719, compared with
19 notifications covering assessments of $498,220 in the prior
year.
CONTINUING !DISCLOSURE REQUIREMENTS

The Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended, contains a
number of significant disclosure provisions with respect to securities traded in the securities markets. These provisions, applicable
in general to issuers of securities listed on exchanges and issuers
of securities traded over the counter which meet minimum asset
and number of stockholder tests, include requirements for the
registration of securities with the Commission and for periodic
reports, as well as for appropriate disclosure in connection with
the exercise of stockholders' voting rights, takeover bids and insiders' securities transactions.
REGISTRATION OF SECURITIES ON EXCHANGES

Unless a security is registered on a national securities exchange
under Section 12(b) of the Exchange Act or is exempt from
registration, it is unlawful for a member of such exchange or any
broker or dealer to effect any transaction in the security on the
exchange. In general, the Act exempts from registration obligations issued or guaranteed by a State or the Federal Government
or by certain subdivisions or agencies thereof and authorizes the
Commissionto adopt rules and regulations exempting such other
securities as the Commission may find necessary or appropriate
to exempt in the public interest or for the protection of investors.
Under this authority the Commission has exempted securities of
certain banks, certain securities secured by property or leasehold
interests, certain warrants and, on a temporary basis, certain securities issued in substitution for or in addition to listed securities.
Pursuant to Section 12(b) of the Exchange Act, an issuer may,
if it meets the requirements of the exchange, register a class of
securities on an exchange by filing with the Commission and
the exchange an application which discloses pertinent information concerning the issuer and its affairs. Information must be
furnished regarding the issuer's business, its capital structure,
the terms of its securities, the persons who manage or control
its affairs, the remuneration paid to its officersand directors, and
the allotment of options, bonuses and profit-sharing plans. Finan-

THIRTY-SEVENTH

ANNUAL REPORT

47

cial statements certified by an independent accountant must be
filed as part of the application.
Form 10 is the form used for registration by most commercial
and industrial companies." There are specialized forms for
certain types of securities, such as voting trust certificates, certificates of deposit and securities of foreign governments.
Statistics regarding securities traded on exchanges may be
found in Part III of this Report and in Appendix Tables 4-9.
REGISTRATION OF OVER-THE-COUNTER SECURITIES

Section 12 (g) of the Exchange Act requires a company with
total assets exceeding $1 million and a class of equity securities
held of record by 500 or more persons to register those securities
with the Commission, unless one of the exemptions set forth in
that section is available, or the Commission issues an exemptive
order under Section 12 (h). The same Form 10 referred to above
is the general form for registration pursuant to Section 12 (g).
During the fiscal year, 714 registration statements were filed
under Section 12 (g). This makes a total, from the enactment of
Section 12 (g) in 1964, through June 30, 1971, of 5,690 registration statements filed. Eleven of these statements were withdrawn
before they had become effective upon determination that they
were not required to be filed under the Act.
Of the 714 registration statements filed under Section 12 (g) in
fiscal year 1971, 420 were filed by issuers already subject to the
reporting requirements of Section 13 or 15 (d) of the Act. The
latter figure includes 19 registration statements filed by issuers
with another security registered on a national securities exchange,
and 401 filed by issuers subject to the reporting requirements of
Section 15 (d) because they had registered securities under the
Securities Act. These latter companies, however, had not been
subject to the proxy solicitation and other disclosure and insider
trading provisions of Sections 14 and 16 of the Exchange Act.
The remaining 294 issuers which filed registration statements had
not been subject to any of the disclosure or insider trading provisions and became subject to them through registration.
New Rule Regarding Registration by Successor Issuers.-It
has
been the Commission's position that an issuer which succeeds by
merger, consolidation, exchange of securities or acquisition of assets, to another issuer which had securities registered pursuant
to Section 12 (g), or securities which would have been required to
23 Last year's report discussed revisions
1970. See 36th Annual Report, pp, 10-11.
450-484 0 - 72 - 5

of Form 10 adopted in October

48

SECURITIES AND EXCHANGE COMMISSION

be registered but for the succession, assumes the duty to provide
for such security holders a continuation of the benefits provided,
or which would have been provided, by registration of the predecessor, unless upon consummation of the succession the securities are exempt from registration or all securities of the class are
held of record by less than 300 persons. A new Rule 12g-3 adopted
by the Commission, designed to avoid a hiatus in registration and
reporting, provides that where an issuer which has no securities
registered pursuant to Section 12 of the Act has issued equity
securities to holders of equity securities of a predecessor which
were rezistered under Section 12 (g) and there are at least 300
holders of the class so issued, such class shall be deemed registered
pursuant to that section." It further provides that where the
predecessor was required to register securities pursuant to that
section but had not yet done so, the successor shall file a registration statement within the period of time the predecessor would
have been required to file one, or within such extended period as
the Commission may authorize.
Exemptions From Registration.-Section
12 (h) of the Act authorizes the Commission, either by rules and regulations or by
order upon application of an interested person, to grant a complete or partial exemption from the provisions of Sections 12 (g),
13, 14, 15 (d), or 16 if the Commission finds that because of the
number of public investors, the amount of trading interest in the
securities, the nature and extent of the activities of the issuer, the
income or assets of the issuer, or otherwise, the exemption is not
inconsistent with the public interest or the protection of investors.
At the beginning of the fiscal year 9 applications for exemption
orders were pending and 6 applications were filed during the year.
Of these 15 applications, 3 were withdrawn and 3 were granted,
and the remaining 9 applications were pending at the end of the
fiscal year.
PERIODIC REPORTS

Section 13 of the Exchange Act requires issuers of securities
registered pursuant to Section 12 (b) or 12 (g) to file periodic
reports keeping current the information contained in the registration statement. During the fiscal year the content and nature
of the reports to be filed were substantially revised. Thus, Form
10-K, the principal annual report form, was revised so as to
provide on an annual basis information which, together with
that contained in the proxy or information statement sent to
24

Securities Exchange Act Release No. 9072 (February 10, 1971).

THIRTY-SEVENTH

ANNUAL

49

REPORT

securityholders, will give a reasonably complete and up-to-date
statement of the registrant's business and operations." The semiannual report on Form 9-K was replaced by a new quarterly
report on Form 10-Q calling for summarized financial information.26 As heretofore, current reports on Form 8-K were required
to be filed for each month in which any of certain specified events
of immediate interest to investors occurred. A report on this form
deals with matters such as changes in control of the registrant,
important acquisitions or dispositions of assets, the institution or
termination of important legal proceedings and important changes
in the issuer's securities. Certain real estate companies are required to file quarterly reports on Form 7-Q, which replaced Form
7_K.27 Section 15 (d) of the Exchange Act, generally speaking,
requires issuers which have registered securities under the Securities Act of 1933 and which have no securities registered under
Section 12 to file the reports described above.
The following table shows the number of reports filed during
the fiscal year pursuant to Sections 13 and 15 (d) of the Exchange
Act. As of June 30, 1971, 3,130 issuers had securities listed on
a national securities exchange and registered under Section 12 (b)
of the Act, 4,797 issuers had securities registered under Section
12 (g), and 2,482 additional issuers were subject to the reporting
requirements of Section 15 (d) of the Act.
Number of Annual and Other Periodic Reports Filed by Issuers Under the
Securities Exchange Act of 1934 During the Fiscal Year Ended June 90,1971
Type of reports

Number of reports

Annual reports

8,319

~~;;r~~~J;~~~--===========================================
1~:~~
Quarterly reports
6,790
j~ __

Total reports filed

NEW RULES RELATING
SECTION 15(d)

TO COMPANIES

REPORTING

32_,_90_8

PURSUANT

_

TO

. A new Rule 15d-5 provides that where an issuer which is not
required to file reports pursuant to Section 15 (d) of the Act
succeeds to an issuer which is required to file such reports, the
successor is deemed to have assumed the duty to file such reports,
and shall file the reports required by that section and the rules
25 Securities
further details,
26 Securities
further details,
27 Securities

Exchange Act Release No. 9000 (October 21, 1970).
see 36th Annual Report, p. 11.
Exchange Act Release No. 9004 (October 28, 1970).
see 36th Annual Report, pp, 11-12.
Exchange Act Itelease No. 9005 (November 2, 1970).

For
For

50

SECURITIES AND EXCHANGE COMMISSION

and regulations thereunder, unless it is exempt therefrom or the
duty to file reports is suspended under the provisions of that
section.w
Under Section 15 (d), if the number of record holders of securities of each class registered is reduced to less than 300 persons
at the beginning of any fiscal year, the duty to file reports is
suspended for that year. To enable the Commission to know
whether an issuer's failure to file reports is due to delinquency
or to a suspension of the duty to file, the Commission adopted a
new Rule 15d-6 which requires notice to the Commission whenever the duty to file has been suspended."
PROPOSED AMENDMENTS OF REPORTING FORMS

The Commission gave notice of a proposal to amend Forms
10-K and 10-Q to require information regarding recent transactions by the issuer in all unregistered securities." This information will be of material assistance in the administration of the
so-called private offering exemption contained in Section 4 (2) of
the Securities Act and in the administration of the securities laws
by the staff and the Commission.
Certain amendments to Form 8-K relating to accounting matters are discussed in the accounting section below.
TIMELY DISCLOSURE OF MATERIAL CORPORATE DEVELOPMENTS

In a release issued during the year, the Commission reiterated
the need for publicly held companies to make prompt and accurate
disclosure of material developments, both favorable and unfavorable, to security holders and the investing public, so that investor
confidence can be maintained in an orderly and effective securities
market." It reminded companies subject to the reporting requirements of the Exchange Act of their obligation to file reports on
time. The Commission further pointed out that even though a
company complies with the reporting requirements, it still has an
obligation to make full and prompt announcements of material
facts regarding its financial condition.
PROCEEDINGS TO OBTAIN COMPLIANCE WITH EXCHANGE ACT
REGISTRATION OR REPORTING REQUIREMENTS

Administrative Actions.-Section
15(c) (4) of the Exchange
Act empowers the Commission to find, after notice and oppor28
29

30
31

Securities
Securities
Securities
Securities

Exchange Act Release No. 9072 (February 10, 1971).
Exchange Act Release No. 9100 (March 15, 1971).
Exchange Act Release No. 9126 (April 15,1971).
Act Release No. 5092 (October 15, 1970).

THIRTY-SEVENTH

ANNUAL

REPORT

51

tunity for hearing, that any person subject to the provisions of
Section 12, 13 or 15 (d) of the Act or the rules thereunder has
failed in any material respect to comply with any of those provisions. It thus provides an administrative procedure for apprising investors of materially misleading filings and for the
resolution of accounting and other complex and technical questions involving the disclosure provisions of the Act. Under Section
15(c) (4) the Commission can publish its findings and issue an
order requiring compliance and, when the circumstances of a
particular case so warrant, apply to a U.S. district court for
enforcement of its order.
At the beginning of the fiscal year, one proceeding pursuant to
Section 15(c) (4) was pending, and during the year three additional proceedings were instituted. The Commission issued decisions in two of the proceedings during the year,32 and the other
two were pending at the end of the year.
Major Realty Corporation 33 involved the adequacy of disclosures contained in annual reports filed by Major for its 1968
and 1969 fiscal years in connection with an agreement for the
sale of a parcel of land. Major entered into a contract to sell the
parcel of land which provided, among other terms, that Major
had the right to rescind the contract, subsequent to closing, under
certain conditions, and no interest or principal payments were
to be made until after the right to rescind was no longer extant.
Major received a down payment of $25,000 representing less than
1 percent of the purchase price and a non-recourse note for the
remainder of $3,475,000 from a subsidiary of the buyer which
had assumed the buyer's obligation and only had nominal assets.
Major reflected $3,152,170 as income derived from this transaction and the note of $3,475,000 as an asset in its 1968 annual
report on Form 10-K.
The Commission found that Major improperly treated the land
transaction as a reportable sale and thereby overstated its net
income and understated its deficit in retained earnings on its
1968 Form 10-K and continued the understatement of its deficit
in retained earnings on its 1969 Form 10-K. The Commission
concluded that the proper accounting treatment, following the
substance rather than the form of the transaction, should have
recognized that Major obtained nothing more than a small de32 One of these decisions (The Susquehanna Corporation, Securities Exchange Act Release No. 8933), issued near the beginning of the year, was
described in the 36th Annual Report, at p. 44.
33 Securities Exchange Act Release No. 9137 (April 8, 1971).

52

SECURITIES AND EXCHANGE COMMISSION

posit in exchange for an option to purchase. Pursant to Major's
offer of settlement in which it consented to findings that the
annual reports were deficient, the Commission ordered Major to
file correcting amendments and to send copies of the Commission's
Findings, Opinion and Order to all of its stockholders.
Civil Actions.-The
Exchange Act empowers the Commission
to bring civil actions in Federal district courts to enjoin violations
of the provisions of Sections 12, 13 or 15 (d) of that Act or to
compel affirmative compliance with those provisions. During the
fiscal year 12 actions to compel such compliance were instituted.
In one case a default judgment was entered against the issuer,34
and the others were pending as of the end of the year.
PROXY SOLICITATIONS

Scope and Nature of Proxy Regulation.-Regulation
14A under
the Exchange Act, implementing Section 14(a) of that Act,
governs the manner in which proxies or other authorizations may
be solicited from the holders of securities registered under Section
12 of that Act, whether for the election of directors, approval of
other corporate action, or some other purpose." It requires that
in any such solicitation, whether by the management or minority
groups, disclosure must be made of all material facts concerning
the matters on which security holders are asked to vote, and they
must be afforded an opportunity to vote "yes" or "no" on each
matter other than elections. The regulation also provides, among
other things, that where the management is soliciting proxies, a
security holder desiring to communicate with other security
holders may require the management to furnish him with a list
of all security holders or to mail his communication to security
holders for him. A security holder may also, subject to certain
limitations, require the management to include in its proxy material any appropriate proposal which he wants to submit to a
vote of security holders. Any security holder or group of security
holders may at any time make an independent proxy solicitation
upon compliance with the proxy rules, whether or not the management is making a solicitation. Certain additional provisions of
the regulation apply where a contest for control of the management of an issuer or representation on the board is involved.
Copies of proposed proxy material must be filed with the ComSEC v. Continental Travel, Inc., D.C.D.C., Civil Action No. 468-71.
This regulation also applies to security holders of registered publicutility holding companies, their subsidiaries and registered investment companies.
34

35

THIRTY-SEVENTH

ANNUAL REPORT

53

mISSIOnin preliminary form prior to the date of the proposed
solicitation. Where preliminary material fails to meet the prescribed disclosure standards, the management or other group
responsible for its preparation is notified informally and given
an opportunity to correct the deficiencies in the preparation of
the definitive proxy material to be furnished to security holders.
Under Section 14 (c) of the Act, issuers of securities registered
under Section 12 must, in accordance with rules and regulations
prescribed by the Commission, transmit information comparable
to proxy material to security holders from whom proxies are not
solicited with respect to a stockholders' meeting. Regulation 14C
implements this provision by setting forth the requirements for
"information statements."
Statistics Relating to Proxy and Information Statements.During the 1971 fiscal year, 6,152 proxy statements in definitive
form were filed, 6,132 by management and 20 by nonmanagement
groups or individual stockholders. In addition, 126 information
statements were filed. The proxy and information statements
related to 5,942 companies, some 316 of which had a second
solicitation during the year, generally for a special meeting not
involving the election of directors.
There were 5,864 solicitations of proxies for the election of
directors, 383 for special meetings not involving the election of
directors, and 25 for assents and authorizations.
The votes of security holders were solicited with respect to the
following types of matters, other than the election of directors:
Mergers, consolidations, acquisitions of businesses, purchases and
sales of property, and dissolution of companies
530
Authorizations of new or additional securities, modifications of
existing securities, and recapitalization plans (other than mergers, consolidations, etc.)
1,698
Employee pension and retirement plans (including amendments to
existing plans)

58

Bonus or profit-sharing and deferred compensations arrangements
(including amendments to existing plans and arrangements)
__
153
Stock option plans (including amendments to existing plans) -___
882
Stockholder approval of the selection by management of independent auditors
2,439
Miscellaneous amendments to charters and by-laws, and miscellaneous other matters (excluding those listed above)
2,419

Stockholders' Proposals.-During
the 1971 fiscal year, 489
proposals submitted by 46 stockholders were included in the proxy
statements of 204 companies under Rule 14a-8 of Regulation 14A.
Typical of such stockholder proposals submitted to a vote of

54

SECURITIES

AND EXCHANGE

COMMISSION

security holders were resolutions relating to amendments to
charters or by-laws to provide for cumulative voting for the
election of directors, preemptive rights, limitations on the grant
of stock options to and their exercise by key employees and management groups, the sending of a post-meeting report to all stockholders, and limitations on charitable contributions.
A total of 113 additional proposals submitted by 28 stockholders
was omitted from the proxy statements of 48 companies in
accordance with Rule 14a-8. The principal reasons for such omissions and the number of times each such reason was involved
(counting only one reason for omission for each proposal even
though it may have been omitted under more than one provision
of Rule 14a-8) were as follows:
Reason for Omission of Proposals
Number

Concerned a personal grievance against
VVithdra~ by proponent

the company

Not a proper subject matter under State law
Related to the ordinary conduct of the company's business
Outside scope of rules
Not timely submitted
Insufficient vote at prior meetings

29
26
6
25
8
10
9

Proxy Contests.-During
the 1971 fiscal year, 31 companies
were involved in proxy contests for the election of' directora. A
total of 720 persons, both management and non-management, filed
detailed statements as participants under the requirements of
Rule 14a-11. Proxy statements in 22 cases involved contests for
control of the board of directors and those in 9 cases involved
contests for representation on the board.
Management retained control in 13 of the 22 contests for control of the board of directors, five were settled by negotiation,
non-management persons won two, and two were pending as of
June 30, 1971. Of the nine cases where representation on the
board of directors was involved, management retained all places
on the board in four contests, opposition won places on the board
in three cases, one was settled by negotiation and one was pending
as of June 30, 1971.
Litigation Relating to Proxy Rules.-In Medical Committee for
Human Rights v. S.E.C.,36 as previously reported.s? the Commission petitioned the Supreme Court for a writ of certiorari to
review a decision of the Court of Appeals for the District of
36432 F. 2d 659 (C.A. D.C., 1970), petition
U.S. 973 (1971).
37 36th Annual Report, pp. 49-50.

for certiorari

granted,

401

THIRTY-SEVENTH

ANNUAL REPORT

55

Columbia Circuit which had held that a refusal of the Commission
to advise a company that the Commission was of the view that
a stockholder proposal should be included in the company's proxy
soliciting material was reviewable. The Dow Chemical Company
had refused to include in its proxy statement for the company's
annual meeting a proposal submitted to it by one of its shareholders,
the Medical Committee for Human Rights. The Commission, in
indicating that it would not institute an enforcement action
against Dow, had not expressed any view with respect to the
reasons given by Dow for its refusal to include the proposal.
The petition was granted on March 22, 1971,38In its brief on
the merits in the Supreme Court the Commission urged that its
determination not to take enforcement action against Dow was
not an "order" within the meaning of the relevant jurisdictional
statute, Section 25 (a) of the Securities Exchange Act, and that
its "no-action" determination was without legal effect or impact.
DISCLOSURE IN CONNECTION WITH TAKEOVER BIDS AND OTHER
LARGE ACQUISITIONS

Sections 13(d) and (e) and 14(d), (e) and (f) oftheSecurities Exchange Act, which were enacted in July 1968, as implemented by rules and regulations adopted by the Commission,
provide among other things for appropriate disclosure in connection with cash tender offers and other large stock acquisitions.
These provisions were designed to close gaps in the full disclosure
provisions of the securities laws and to safeguard the interests of
persons who tender their securities in response to a tender offer.
In December 1970 the statutory provisions were amended, so as
to improve their effectiveness in light of the Commission's experience gained in administering them." The most significant of
the amendments requires the filing of information with respect
to acquisitions of securities by persons who own more than 5
percent of the class, or the making of tender offers or requests for
tenders of equity securities if after consummation thereof the
persons making the tender offer or solicitation would be the
beneficial owner of more than 5 percent of the class. Previously
the percentages were 10 percent in both cases. The amendments
also extended the coverage of Sections 13(d) and 14(d) to insurance companies and made the provisions of Section 14 (d)
applicable to tender offers made by means of a registration statement under the Securities Act. To implement the amendments,
38
39

401 U.S. 973 (1971).
Public Law 91-567.

56

SECURITIES AND EXCHANGE COMMISSION

the Commission adopted a new rule under the Securities Act and
amended its rules and regulations under Sections 13(d) and
14(d).40
Rule 13d-1 under the Act now requires the filing with the
Commissionof a Schedule 13D report by a person or group which
acquires any of a class of equity securities registered pursuant to
Section 12 of the Act, or issued by an insurance company which
would have been required to be so registered except for the exemptions contained in Section 12(g) of the Act, or issued by
a closed-endinvestment company registered under the Investment
Company Act of 1940, if such acquisition results in the ownership
by such person or group of more than five percent of such class
of securities, and the acquisitions by such person or group in the
past twelve months exceed 2 percent of such class. During the
1971 fiscal year 514 Schedule 13D acquisition reports were filed.
Rule 14d-l requires the filing of a Schedule 13D report by a person or group making a tender offer, including an exchange offer
pursuant to a registration statement under the Securities Act,
which, if successful, would result in such person or group owning
more than 5 percent of any class of equity securities subject to
Section 14(d). Forty-three Schedule 13D tender offer notices
were filed during the fiscal year.
In addition, 21 Schedule 14D reports were filed pursuant to
Rule 14d-4 involving solicitations or recommendations in connection with a tender offer by a person other than the maker of
the offer, and 15 statements were filed pursuant to Rule 14f-l.
The latter relate to the replacement of a majority of the board
of directors (otherwise than by stockholder vote) pursuant to an
arrangement or understanding with the person or persons acquiring securities in a transaction subject to Section 13(d) or 14(d)
of the Act. One statement was filed pursuant to Rule 13e-l relating to corporate reacquisitions of securities while the issuer is the
target of a cash tender offer.
INSIDERS' SECURITY HOLDINGS AND TRANSACTIONS

Section 16 of the Securities Exchange Act and corresponding
provisions in the Public Utility Holding Company Act of 1935
and the Investment Company Act of 1940 are designed to provide
other stockholders and investors generally with information as to
insiders' securities transactions and holdings, and to prevent the
unfair use of confidential information by insiders to profit from
short-term trading in a company's securities.
40

Securities Act Release No. 5126 (January 18,1971).

THIRTY-SEVENTH

ANNUAL REPORT

57

Ownership Reports.-Section
16(a) of the Exchange Act requires every person who beneficially owns, directly or indirectly,
more than 10 percent of any class of equity security which is
registered under Section 12, or who is a director or an officer of
the issuer of any such security, to file statements with the Commission disclosing the amount of all equity securities of the issuer
of which he is the beneficial owner and changes in such ownership.
Copies of such statements must be filed with exchanges on which
securities are listed. Similar provisions applicable to insiders of
registered public-utility holding companies and registered closedend investment companies are contained in the Holding Company
Act and Investment Company Act.
During the fiscal year, 94,961 ownership reports (20,666 initial
statements of ownership on Form 3 and 74,295 statements of
changes in ownership on Form 4) were filed with the Commission.
By comparison, during fiscal year 1970, 95,952 such reports were
filed (21,337 initial statements and 74,615 statements of changes).
All ownership reports are made available for public inspection
as soon as they are filed at the Commission's office in Washington
and at the exchanges where copies are filed. In addition, the
information contained in reports filed with the Commission is
summarized and published in the monthly "Official Summary of
Security Transactions and Holdings", which is distributed by the
Government Printing Office to about 10,000 subscribers.
Recovery of Short-Swing Trading Profits.-In order to prevent
insiders from making unfair use of information which they may
have obtained by reason of their relationship with a company,
Section 16(b) of the Exchange Act and corresponding provisions
in the Holding Company Act and Investment Company Act provide for the recovery by or on behalf of the issuer of any profit
realized by insiders (in the categories listed above) from certain
purchases and sales, or sales and purchases, of securities of the
company within any period of less than 6 months. The Commission at times participates as amicus curiae in actions to recover
such profits when it deems it important to present its views regarding the interpretation of the statutory provisions or of the
exemptive rules adopted by the Commission thereunder.
INVESTIGATIONS
PROVISIONS

WITH

RESPECT

TO REPORTING

AND

PROXY

Section 21 (a) of the Exchange Act authorizes the Commission

to make such investigations as it deems necessary to determine
whether any person has violated or is about to violate any pro-

58

SECURITIES

AND EXCHANGE

COMMISSION

vision of the Act or any rule or regulation thereunder. The
following investigations were undertaken pursuant to Section
21 (a) in connection with the enforcement of the provisions of
Sections 12, 13, 14 and 15 (d) of the Act and the rules thereunder,
particularly those provisions relating to the filing of annual and
other periodic reports and proxy material:
Pending at beginning of fiscal year
Initiated during fiscal year

44
17

Closed during

28

61
fiscal year

Pending at close of fiscal year
SUMMARY SUSPENSION

33

OF TRADING

Section 19(a) (4) of the Exchange Act authorizes the Commission summarily to suspend trading in a security listed on a
national securities exchange for up to 10 days if in its opinion the
public interest so requires. Under Section 15 (c) (5) of that Act
the Commission may summarily suspend over-the-counter trading
in any non-exempt security for up to 10 days if it believes that
such action is required in the public interest and for the protection
of investors.
During the 1971 fiscal year, the Commission temporarily
suspended trading in 26 securities, compared to 55 in fiscal 1970
and 33 in fiscal 1969. In four instances exchange-traded securities
were involved and the Commission acted under both Section
19(a)(4)
and Section 15(c) (5).41 In each of these cases, the
exchange on which the securities were listed had previously halted
or suspended trading.
In most instances the Commission ordered suspension of trading because adequate information concerning the company was
not available or the Commission learned of information not generally known to the securities community and investors which
indicated the existence of substantial questions concerning the
financial condition or business operations of the company or the
purchase or sale of its securities.
The suspensions involved a wide variety of factual circumstances, as illustrated by the cases described below. In the case
of Rolls-Royce, Ltd.,42 trading in the company's common stock
41 Securities
Exchange Act Releases Nos. 9104 (March 10, 1971), 9111
(March 17,1971), 9188 (May 26, 1971) and 9193 (May 27, 1971).
42 Securities Exchange Act Release No. 9104 (March 10, 1971).

THIRTY-SEVENTH

ANNUAL

REPORT

59

and American Depositary Receipts (ADRs) had been halted by
the American Stock Exchange about a month previously, pending
the release of additional information relating to the company's
financial condition and plans, and the company had announced
that it was going into receivership. Thereafter an active over-thecounter market had developed in Rolls-Royce ADRs. The suspension was ordered after it appeared that the English transfer
registrar and the American depositary for ADRs would close
their books. Once the books were closed, American citizens would
be unable to transfer ADR certificates and to convert ADRs into
common stock or common stock into ADRs.
In the case of Canadian Javelin Limited," the suspension was
ordered because of the unavailability of adequate and accurate
information concerning the extent, quality and commercial feasibility of possible mineral deposits within a mining concession in
Panama owned by a company in which Canadian Javelin owned
an interest and had options to acquire the remaining interest.
Widespread rumors had circulated concerning the concession, and
the prices of Canadian Javelin's securities had increased on a
comparatively high trading volume.
The temporary suspension of trading in the securities of Ecological Science Corporation was ordered because facts coming to
the attention of the Commission indicated that information then
public concerning the company and its financial condition may
have been inaccurate.v' Thereafter, as a result of an action
brought by the Commission, the company, pursuant to court order,
filed a restated annual report for 1969 which indicated substantially lower earnings than previously reported."
Commission releases announcing the terminations of trading
suspensions frequently carry a warning to investors to exercise
care in transactions involving the securities in question, and
remind brokers and dealers of their responsibility under the Federal securities laws for full disclosure of material facts in connection with the solicitation of purchases.
ACCOUNTING

AND AUDITING

MATTERS

The several Acts administered by the Commission reflect a
recognition by Congress that dependable financial statements of
a company are indispensable to an informed investment decision
regarding its securities. The value of such statements is directly
Securities Exchange Act Release No. 9111 (March 17, 1971).
Securities Exchange Act Release No. 9188 (May 26, 1971).
45 SEe Securities Exchange Act Release No. 9274 (August 3, 1971).
43

44

60

SECURITIES

AND EXCHANGE COMMISSION

dependent on the soundness of the judgment exercised in applying
accounting principles and practices in their preparation, and on
the adequacy and reliability of the work done by public accountants who certify the statements. A major objective of the Commission has been to improve accounting and auditing standards
and to assist in the establishment and maintenance of high stanards of professional conduct by certifying accountants. The
primary responsibility for this program rests with the Chief
Accountant of the Commission.
Pursuant to the Commission's broad rulemaking power regarding the preparation and presentation of financial information, it
has adopted a basic accounting regulation (Regulation S-X)
which, together with opinions on accounting principles published
as "Accounting Series Releases," governs the form and content
of financial statements filed under the statutes administered by
the Commission. The Commission has also formulated rules with
respect to accounting for and auditing of brokers and dealers and
has prescribed uniform systems of accounts for companies subject
to the Public Utility Holding Company Act of 1935. The accounting rules and opinions of the Commission and its decisions in
particular cases have contributed to clarification and wider acceptance of the accounting principles and practices and auditing
standards developed by the profession and generally followed in
the preparation of financial statements.
However, the accounting rules and regulations-except
for the
uniform systems of accounts which are regulatory reportsprescribe accounting principles to be followed only in certain
limited areas. In the large area of financial reporting not covered
by its rules, the Commission's principal means of protecting investors from inadequate or improper financial reporting is by
requiring a certificate of an independent public accountant, based
on an audit performed in accordance with generally accepted
auditing standards, which expresses an opinion whether the
financial statements are presented fairly in conformity with accounting principles and practices that are recognized as sound
and have attained general acceptance. The requirement that the
opinion be rendered by an independent accountant is designed to
secure for the benefit of public investors the detached objectivity
of a knowledgeable professional person not connected with the
management.
The accounting staff examines the financial statements filed
with the Commission to insure that the required standards are
observed and that the accounting and auditing procedures do not

THIRTY-SEVENTH

ANNUAL REPORT

61

remain static in the face of changes and new developments in
financial and economic conditions. New methods of doing business,
the formation of new types of business, the large number of
combinations of old businesses, the use of more sophisticated
securities, and other innovations, create accounting problems
which require a constant reappraisal of the procedures.
RELATIONS
PUBLIC

WITH

THE

ACCOUNTING PROFESSION

AND THE

In order to keep abreast of changing conditions and in recognition of the need for a continuous exchange of views and information between the Commission's staff and outside accountants
regarding appropriate accounting and auditing policies, procedures and practices for the protection of investors, the staff
maintains continuing contact with individual accountants, other
government agencies, and various professional organizations.
These include the American Accounting Association, the American Institute of Certified Public Accountants (AICP A) , the
American Petroleum Institute, the Financial Analysts Federation,
the Financial Executives Institute, the National Association of
Accountants, and the National Association of Railroad and Utilities Commissioners. Since the AICP A is one of the principal
professional organizations involved in the development and improvement of accounting and auditing standards and practices,
regular liaison is maintained with it through its Committee on
Relations with Securities and Exchange Commission and Stock
Exchanges. Conferences are held with this committee from time
to time at which problems of mutual interest are discussed and
the staff is briefed on the work being done by the Institute's
Committees on Ethics and Auditing Procedures and by its Accounting Principles Board. The Commission's accounting staff
also meets with the Committee on Corporate Reporting of the
Financial Executives Institute to discuss possible improvements
of accounting standards and practices.
As part of the Commission's effort to maintain a continuing
exchange of views with the accounting profession, members of
the Commission and accounting staff members from time to time
address, or participate in panel discussions at, professional society
meetings. In this way the Commission can indicate problem areas
in accounting where it believes the profession can aid in developing solutions. The Chief Accountant also accepts engagements to
discuss the work of the Commission as it relates to accounting at
colleges and universities throughout the country.
Because of its many foreign registrants and the vast and in-

62

SECURITIES

AND EXCHANGE COMMISSION

creasing foreign operations of American companies, the Commission has an interest in the improvement of accounting and
auditing principles and procedures on an international basis. To
promote such improvement the Chief Accountant corresponds
with foreign accountants, meets with many who visit this country,
and, on occasion, participates in foreign accounting conferences
or writes for foreign professional journals. For example, in
September 1970 he presented a paper at the First Annual Conference of the British Accounting and Finance Association in
Edinburgh, Scotland.
THE WORK OF THE ACCOUNTING PRINCIPLES
COMMITTEES OF THE AICPA

BOARD AND

The Accounting Principles Board sponsors research studies of
problem areas in accounting and formulates formal opinions and
advisory statements for the improvement of accounting standards
and practices. The Board submits drafts of these studies, opinions
and statements to the Chief Accountant for review and comment
prior to their publication, and representatives of the Board confer
with him on projects in progress or under consideration. Standing
committees of the AICP A develop statements on auditing standards and procedures for the guidance of the profession in much
the same manner that Board opinions are developed.
In connection with the development of opinions in major problem areas in accounting, the Board conducts symposiums or formal
hearings in order to obtain the views of representatives of professional groups and governmental organizations, including the
SEC, and other persons concerned with the particular accounting
problems. The Board also maintains liaison with other important
professional associations for coordination of their efforts with
respect to its projects.
Early in the fiscal year the Board published opinions on "Business Combinations" and "Intangible Assets" which deal with
difficult and long-standing problems relating to the accounting
for business combinations and for the intangible assets that are
created in many acquisitions. The Chairman and the Chief Accountant had urged the profession to restudy the principles
applicable to these areas of accounting in order to develop criteria
which would curb abuses that had arisen because of inadequate
restrictions on the choice between the alternatives of purchase or
pooling-of-interests accounting to be accorded business combinations and assure an adequate program of amortization of the
intangible assets or "goodwill" resulting from some of these
transactions.

THIRTY-SEVENTH

ANNUAL

REPORT

63

The Board issued two other opinions during the fiscal year and
two additional opinions under consideration during the year were
issued in August 1971. One opinion extends the application of the
equity method of accounting for investments in common stocks
to situations in which the investor's interest in the investee may
in general be as low as 20 percent instead of the prior minimum
of 50 percent. Another opinion provides detailed rules for accounting for changes in accounting principles, accounting estimates
and reporting entities, and specifies that an entity should demonstrate that changes which are made in accounting principles will
provide more useful financial information than the prior method
of accounting.
The third opinion, on "Interest on Receivables and Payables,"
provides needed guides for the determination of the effective rates
of interest and the amounts of discount or premium involved when
notes of certain types which are received or issued do not bear
interest or bear an interest rate differing materially from the
prevailing interest rates for comparable notes.
The fourth opinion establishes a requirement for the presentation, as a basic financial statement to be covered in the independent auditor's opinion, of a statement summarizing changes in
financial position when balance sheets and statements of income
and retained earnings are presented, and provides guides for
preparation of the statement. Comparable requirements were also
adopted by the Commission during the year by an amendment to
Regulation S-X, to include a section which specifies the content of
a statement of source and application of funds.v' and by amendments to registration and annual report forms under the securities
acts to require the inclusion of such statements."
The Board has plans to develop and issue ten more opinions by
June 30, 1972 on the following subjects: marketable equity securities, leases, tax allocation on unremitted earnings of subsidiaries,
stock compensation plans, repurchase of debt instruments at large
discounts, noncash transactions,
diversified companies, extraordinary items, components of a business enterprise, and accounting policies. Other topics on which the Board or its subcommittees
are working with a view to issuing opinions are the following:
interim financial statements, common stock equivalents, accountAccounting Series Release No. 117 (October 14,1970).
Securities Act Release Nos. 5100 (November 12, 1970) and 5135 (February 26, 1971); Securities Exchange Act Release Nos. 8996 (October 14,
1970) and 9000 (October 21, 1970).
46
47

450-484 0 - 72 - 6

64

SECURITIES AND EXCHANGE COMMISSION

ing for land development companies, public utilities, and extractive industries;"
Accounting research studies are in progress on the subjects of
intercorporate investments, research and development, foreign
operations, stockholders' equity, concept of materiality, inventory
pricing, depreciation methods, working capital, asset and liability
valuation, and worldwide financial reporting.
A Statement of the Board on "Basic Concepts and Accounting
Principles Underlying Financial Statements of Business Enterprises," published in October 1970, is intended to provide a basis
for enhanced understanding of the broad fundamentals of financial accounting and for guiding its future development.
The AICP A Committee on Auditing Procedure issued during
the fiscal year Statements on Auditing Procedure on "Confirmation of Receivables and Observation of Inventories" (a revision
of an earlier statement) and "Reports Following a Pooling of
Interests," and in July 1971 issued Statements on "Piecemeal
Opinions" and "Using the Work and Reports of Other Auditors."
This committee is also developing Statements relating to the
short-form report, internal control, comfort letters, and subsequent event procedures, and reporting on Article 5A companies,
i.e., commercial, industrial and mining companies in the promotional, exploratory or development stage that present financial
statements included in filings with the SEC in conformity with
Article 5A of Regulation S-X. The committee is also considering
Statements on the subjects of negative assurance, degrees of
qualification, reporting on price-level financial information, transactions with affiliates, reporting on forecasts, and reliance upon
experts.
Committees of the AICP A are also developing or revising Audit
Guides for the following types of organizations whose financial
statements may be filed with the SEC: stock brokers and dealers,
finance companies, life insurance companies and savings and loan
associations.
OTHER CURRENT DEVELOPMENTS

During the fiscal year the Commission issued three Accounting
Series Releases. One of these, as noted above, added a new section
to Regulation S-X governing the content of statements of source
and application of funds. Funds statements are now required to
48 An Accounting Research Study, "Financial Reporting in the Extractive
Industries," was published in November 1969.

THIRTY-SEVENTH

ANNUAL

REPORT

65

be included in registration and reporting forms under the Securities Act and Securities Exchange Act.
Another release provided an interpretation regarding the computation of the ratio of earnings to fixed charges which is required
to be shown in certain registration forms under the Securities
Act and is permitted to be shown in certain registration and
report forms under the Securities Exchange Act.49 An additional
interpretation on the subject was issued in August 1971.50
The third release dealt with the accounting for investment
securities by registered investment companies. 51 This and another
release issued shortly after the end of the fiscal year which
amended annual report Form N-1R for management investment
companies 52 are discussed in greater detail in Part V of this
report.P
In May 1971 the Commission invited public comment on a
proposal to amend certain registration and reporting forms and
Regulation S-X to remove the exemption from certification of
financial statements of banks filed under the Securities Act and
the Securities Exchange Act and statements of life insurance
companies filed under the Securities Exchange Act.54 After consideration of the comments received, the Commission, shortly
after the end of the year, adopted amendments which removed
the exemption from certification of financial statements of banks
for fiscal periods ending after November 30, 1971.55 However, the
Commission determined to retain at this time the exemption with
respect to life insurance companies. This will permit the accounting profession in collaboration with the life insurance industry
to complete work now underway to develop and promulgate accounting guidelines for life insurance companies which will enable
the financial statements of such companies to be certified in accordance with generally accepted accounting principles.
In May 1971 the Commission also issued for comment a proposal
to amend certain reporting forms to require registrants to furnish
additional information regarding any unusual material charges or
credits to income; to report a change in the certifying accountants
and the reasons for the change and to request the replaced accountant to furnish a letter to the Commission discussing the
Accounting Series Release No. 119 (June 15, 1971).
Accounting Series Release No. 122 (August 10, 1971).
51 Accounting Series Release No. 118 (December 23, 1970).
52 Accounting Series Release No. 120 (July 15, 1971).
53 See pp. 150-151, infra.
54 Securities Act Release No. 5149 (May 17,1971).
55 Securities Act Release No. 5172 (July 19, 1971).
49

50

66

SECURITIES

AND EXCHANGE COMMISSION

reasons; and to report changes in accounting principles and
practices materially affecting the financial statements together
with a letter from the independent accountants regarding the
changes.P" With some modifications, the proposed amendments
were adopted by the Commission in September 1971.57
In August 1971 the Commission issued for public comment a
proposal to revise Articles 1, 2, 3, 4, 5, 9 and 11 and Rules 12-01
to 16 (exclusive of 12-06A), and to omit Rules 12-17 and 12-32,
of Regulation S-X.58 These proposed general revisions, the first
since 1950, represent changes, additions and deletions that have
become necessary as a result of changing conditions over the
years. Committees of the AICP A and Financial Executives Institute submitted many helpful suggestions for the proposed
revisions. The Commission's Disclosure Study Group had also
recommended certain revisions, particularly with respect to the
schedules required under Rule 12. In connection with Article 9.
which pertains to bank holding companies and banks, representatives of the Federal bank regulatory agencies also submitted
suggestions for revisions.
EXEMPTIONS FOR SECURITIES OF INTERNATIONAL BANKS
INTERNATIONAL
MENT

BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION

AND DEVELOP-

Section 15 of the Bretton Woods Agreement Act, as amended,
exempts from registration under both the Securities Act and the
Securities Exchange Act securities issued, or guaranteed as to
both principal and interest, by the International Bank for Reconstruction and Development. The Bank is required to file with the
Commission such annual and other reports with respect to such
securities as the Commission determines to be appropriate in
view of the special character of the Bank and its operations, and
necessary in the public interest or for the protection of investors.
Pursuant to this authority, the Commission has adopted rules
requiring the Bank to file quarterly reports and also to file copies
of each annual report of the Bank to its Board of Governors. The
Bank is also required to file reports with the Commission in
advance of any distribution in the United States of its primary
obligations. The Commission, acting in consultation with the
National Advisory Board on International Monetary and FinanSecurities Exchange Act Release No. 9169 (May 6, 1971).
Securities Exchange Act Release No. 9344 (September 27, 1971).
58 Securities Act Release No. 5177 (August 20,1971).

56

57

THIRTY-SEVENTH

ANNUAL REPORT

67

cial Problems, is authorized to suspend the exemption at any
time as to any or all securities issued or guaranteed by the Bank
during the period of such suspension. The following summary
of the Bank's activities reflects information obtained from the
Bank.
During the year the Bank made 78 loans totaling $1,896 million
in 41 countries, compared with a total of $1,680 million the
previous year.
Net income for the year was $212 million, virtually unchanged
from the previous year. The Bank's Executive Directors recommended to the Board of Governors and the Board has subsequently
approved that $110 million be transferred as a grant to its affiliate, the International Development Association. The remaining
portion of the year's net earnings, amounting to approximately
$102 million, will be transferred to the Bank's Supplemental
Reserve, increasing it to $1,254 million. Total reserves of the
Bank, including the Special Reserve, will amount to $1,546 million.
Gross income for fiscal 1971 aggregated $578 million including
$187 million income from investments, $384 million income from
loans and $7 million income from other sources. Income from
investments was $38 million higher than in the prior year as a
result of both a higher level of investments and a continuing high
level of yields. Income from loans was $39 million higher primarily due to expansion of the Bank's loan portfolio. The interest
charged on new loans increased during the fiscal year from 7
percent to 71,4 percent.
Expenses in fiscal 1971 totaled $366 million compared with
$291 million the previous year. Interest on the Bank's own bonds
and other financial costs amounted to $309 million, an increase of
$63 million over fiscal 1970 reflecting both increased borrowings
and higher interest rates. Administrative expenses were $11 million higher at a total of $56 million, after deduction of $20.1
million in management fees charged to the International Development Association, and of $1.7 million of "Service and Support
Fees" charged to the affiliated International Finance Corporation.
The Bank increased its investments in liquid securities during
the year by $483 million to an aggregate of $2,203 million at
June 30, 1971. Other liquid investments held in the Bank's Special
Reserve, on the same date, amounted to $292 million, bringing its
liquid securities to a total of $2,495 million. This compares with
a total of $2,012 million in similar holdings at June 30, 1970.
Repayments of principal on loans received by the Bank during
the year amounted to $319 million, and a further $146 million

68

SECURITIES

AND EXCHANGE

COMMISSION

was repaid to purchasers of parts of loans. Total principal repayments to the Bank through June 30, 1971, aggregated $4,227
million, including $2,445 million repaid to the Bank and $1,782
million repaid to purchasers of borrowers' obligations sold by
the Bank.
Outstanding funded debt of the Bank was $5,424 million on
June 30, 1971. During the year the Bank borrowed $400 million
in the United States market; $375 million through the issuance
of 2-year U.S. dollar bonds to Central Banks and other governmental agencies in some 70 countries; DM 1,078 million (U.S.
$294.5 million) in Germany; 79 billion yen (U.S. $291 million)
from the Bank of Japan; f120 million (U.S. $33.2 million) in the
Netherlands; L10 million (U.S. $28 million) in Libya, the Bank's
first borrowing in that country; and SwF 75 million (U.S. $17.5
million) in Switzerland. The Bank also issued $43.5 million of
bonds that had been sold in a previous year under delayed delivery
contracts.
These borrowings, in part, refunded maturing issues amounting
to the equivalent of $490 million. After retirement of U.S. $58
million equivalent of obligations retired through sinking fund
and purchase fund operations, the Bank's outstanding funded
debt showed an increase of $856 million from the previous year.
During the fiscal year the Bank's authorized capital was increased by $3,000 million to $27,000 million to enable the Bank
to accept special increases in capital stock totaling up to $2,222
million by 75 member countries. To June 30, 1971, nine members
had taken up their special increases in subscriptions and a further
13 were taking the necessary steps to do so. On June 30, 1971,
aggregate subscribed capital of the Bank was $23,871 million of
which $2,387.1 million had been paid in to the Bank and the
remaining $21,483.9 million was subject to call only to meet the
obligations of the Bank.
INTER.AMERICAN

DEVELOPMENT BANK

The Inter-American Development Bank Act, which authorizes
the United States to participate in the Inter-American Development Bank, provides an exemption for certain securities which
may be issued or guaranteed by the Bank similar to that provided
for securities of the International Bank for Reconstruction and
Development. Acting pursuant to this authority, the Commission
adopted Regulation lA, which requires the Bank to file with the
Commission substantially the same information, documents and
reports as are required from the International Bank for Reconstruction and Development. The following summary of the Bank's

THIRTY-SEVENTH

ANNUAL REPORT

69

activities reflects information submitted by the Bank to the Commission.
During the year ended June 30, 1971, the Bank made 19 loans
totaling the equivalent of $230,510,000 from its Ordinary Capital
resources, bringing the net total of loan commitments outstanding,
after cancellations, to 212, aggregating $1,566,546,787. During
the year, the Bank sold or agreed to sell $2,280,875 in participations in the aforesaid loans, all such participations being without
the guarantee of the Bank. The loans from the Bank's Ordinary
Capital resources were made in Argentina, Brazil, Colombia,
Ecuador, Jamaica, Mexico, Peru, Uruguay and Venezuela.
During the year the Bank also made 37 loans totaling the
equivalent of $415,830,000 from its Fund for Special Operations,
bringing the gross total of loan commitments outstanding to 292,
aggregating $2,206,758,846. The Bank made no loans during the
year from the Social Progress Trust Fund, which it administers
under an agreement with the United States, leaving the gross
total of loan commitments outstanding from that Fund at 116,
aggregating $494,191,039.
On June 30, 1971, the outstanding funded debt of the Ordinary
Capital resources of the Bank was the equivalent of $948,641,000,
reflecting a net increase in the past year of the equivalent of
$174,079,000. During the year the funded debt was increased
through public bond issues in Austria, France, Germany, Netherlands, Switzerland and the United States totaling the equivalent
of $175,053,000 as well as private placements in Japan, Latin
America, Norway, Sweden and the United Kingdom totaling the
equivalent of $69,263,000. The revaluation of the Swiss franc and
Austrian schilling in May 1971 resulted in an increase in the
funded debt in the equivalent of $3,323,000. The funded debt was
decreased through the retirement of $43,350,000 of short-term
dollar bonds, SF 50,000,000 ($11,434,000) representing a shortterm loan in Switzerland and $1'8,776,000 through sinking fund
purchases and scheduled debt retirement.
The subscribed ordinary capital of the Bank on June 30, 1971
was the equivalent of $2,763,020,000 of which $2,374,540,000
represented callable capital.
ASIAN DEVELOPMENT BANK

The Asian Development Bank Act, adopted in March 1966,
authorized United States participation in the Asian Development
Bank and provides an exemption for certain securities which may
be issued or guaranteed by the Bank similar to the exemptions

70

SECURITIES

AND EXCHANGE COMMISSION

accorded the International Bank for Reconstruction and Development and the Inter-American Development Bank. Acting pursuant
to this authority the Commission has adopted Regulation AD
which requires the Bank to file with the Commission substantially
the same information, documents and reports as are required
from these banks. The Bank has 36 members, including 22 countries in the region and 14 nonregional developed countries with
subscriptions totaling $1,005 million. Of the $502.7 million of
paid-up shares subscribed, $490.3 million had matured by June
30, 1971.
As of June 30, 1971, Australia, Belgium, Canada, Denmark,
Germany, Italy, Japan, the Netherlands, and the United Kingdom
had contributed or pledged a total of $174,645,944 to the Bank's
Special Funds. In addition to the $14.575 million set aside from
Ordinary Capital in 1969 by the Board of Governors for Special
Funds purposes, another $9.935 million were set aside in April
1971, making a total of $24.510 million set aside. In addition, the
United States Congress is considering a proposal for a $100 million U.S. contribution to the Bank's Special Funds and there have
been indications from other countries of additional contributions
in 1971 and thereafter.
In November 1970, the Bank sold in Japan 6 billion yen
($16,667 million) 7.4 percent bonds. In April 1971, the Bank sold
$20 million U.S. bonds to regional central banks at 5.5 percent,
sold in Switzerland 40 million francs ($9.147 million U.S.) 7
percent bonds, and sold $25 million notes in the United States at
61;2 percent and $25 million bonds in the United States at 7%
percent.
As of June 30,1971, the Bank had made 45 loans from Ordinary
Capital resources totaling $341.035 million, and had approved 21
loans totaling $71.208 million from its Special Funds resources.
As of June 30, 1971, a number of technical assistance grants,
totaling $7,422,546, had been made or pledged to the Bank, by
Australia, Belgium, Canada, Ceylon, China, Denmark, Finland,
Germany, India, Japan, Korea, Netherlands, New Zealand, Pakistan, Switzerland, United Kingdom and the United States, including $1 million for the Southeast Asia Regional Transport Survey.
Norway has also indicated its intent to contribute. The Bank has
provided technical assistance to 15 countries through 53 projects
amounting to over $7 million, as well as contributing to important
regional projects.
TRUST INDENTURE ACT OF 1939

This Act requires that bonds, debentures,

notes, and similar

THIRTY-SEVENTH

71

ANNUAL REPORT

debt securities offered for public sale, except as specifically exempted, be issued under an indenture which meets the requirements of the Act and has been duly qualified with the Commission.
The provisions of the Act are closely integrated with the requirements of the Securities Act. Registration pursuant to the
Securities Act of securities to be issued under a trust indenture
subject to the Trust Indenture Act is not permitted to become
effective unless the indenture conforms to the requirements of
the latter Act designed to safeguard the rights and interests of
the purchasers. Moreover, specified information about the trustee
and the indenture must be included in the registration statement.
The Act was passed after studies by the Commission had
revealed the frequency with which trust indentures failed to
provide minimum protections for security holders and absolved
so-called trustees from minimum obligations in the discharge of
their trusts. It requires that the indenture trustee be free of
conflicting interests which might interfere with the faithful exercise of its duties in behalf of the purchasers of the securities.
It requires also that the trustee be a corporation with a minimum
combined capital and surplus; imposes high standards of conduct
and responsibility on the trustee; precludes preferential collection
of certain claims owing to the trustee by the issuer in the event
of default; provides for the issuer's supplying evidence to the
trustee of compliance with indenture terms and conditions such
as those relating to the release or substitution of mortgaged
property, issuance of new securities or satisfaction of the indenture; and provides for reports and notices by the trustee to
security holders. Other provisions of the Act prohibit impairment
of the security holders' right to sue individually for principal
and interest except under certain circumstances, and require the
maintenance of a list of security holders which may be used by
them to communicate with each other regarding their rights.
Number of Indentures Filed Under the Trust Indenture Act of 1939
Number
filed
Indentures
Indentures
Total
Disposition
Indentures
Indentures
Total

Aggregate
amount

pending
June 30, 1970
filed durrng the fiscal year

_
_

135
601

for

_

736

30,528,393,477

574

162

27,239,456,300
3,288,937,177

736

30,528,393,477

disposal

durmg fiscal year:
qualified
pending
June 30, 1971

_
_
- - -- - - - - - ----

$ 3,341,042,617
27,187,350,860

PART III
REGULATION

OF SECURITIES

MARKETS

In addition to the disclosure provisions discussed in Part II of
this report, the Securities Exchange Act of 1934 gives the Commission significant responsibilities with respect to the securities
markets and persons engaged in the securities business. Among
other things, it requires securities exchanges to register with the
Commission and provides for Commission supervision of the selfregulatory responsibilities conferred on registered exchanges. The
Act also provides for the registration and regulation of brokers
and dealers doing business in the over-the-counter markets, and
grants to registered associations of brokers or dealers self-regulatory functions under the Commission's supervision. In addition,
it contains provisions designed to prevent fraudulent, deceptive,
and manipulative acts and practices on the exchanges and in the
over-the-counter markets.
This and the next part of the report deal with developments
and actions taken in these areas during the 1971 fiscal year.
Statistical information concerning the securities markets is presented in this part. Certain recent developments of particular
significance are discussed in Part I.
REGULATION OF EXCHANGES
REGISTRATION AND EXEMPTION OF EXCHANGES

The Securities Exchange Act requires an exchange to be registered with the Commission as a national securities exchange
unless the Commission exempts it from registration because of
the limited volume of transactions effected. As of June 30, 1971,
the following 12 stock exchanges were registered:
American Stock Exchange
Boston Stock Exchange
Chicago Board of Trade1
Cincinnati Stock Exchange
Detroit Stock Exchange
Midwest Stock Exchange
National Stock Exchange

New York Stock Exchange
Pacific Coast Stock Exchange
Philadelphia-Baltimore-Washington
Stock Exchange
Salt Lake Stock Exchange
Spokane Stock Exchange

1 The Executive Committee of the Board of Trade of the City of Chicago
adopted a resolution on March 29, 1971 to close the Board's securities market.

73

74

SECURITIES

AND EXCHANGE COMMISSION

The Honolulu Stock Exchange and the Richmond Stock Exchange were exempt from registration during the fiscal year.
REVIEW OF EXCHANGE RULES AND PROCEDURES

A major aspect of the Commission's supervisory function with
respect to national securities exchanges is the continuous review
by its Division of Trading and Markets of the existing rules,
regulations, procedures, forms, and practices of all exchanges.
Such review is necessary in order to: (1) ascertain the effectiveness of the application and enforcement by the exchanges of their
rules; (2) determine the adequacy of exchange rules and of
related statutory provisions and rules administered by the Commission in light of changing market conditions; and (3) anticipate and define problem areas so that members of the
Commission's staff can meet with exchange representatives in an
effort to work out salutary procedures within the framework of
cooperative regulation. In addition, Rule 17a-8 under the Exchange Act provides that each national securities exchange must
file with the Commission a report of any proposed amendment or
repeal of, or addition to, its rules and practices not less than 3
weeks (or such shorter period as the Commission may authorize)
before taking any action to effectuate the change. These proposals
are submitted for review and comment to the Branch of Regulation and Inspections of the Division of Trading and Markets.
During the 1971 fiscal year, 163 changes in exchange rules and
practices were submitted to the Commission pursuant to Rule
17a-8. Among the more significant were:
1. A significant revision by the New York Stock Exchange
(NYSE) of its net capital rule. The new provisions are to be
implemented in phases over a period of a year. The revision
represents a strengthening of the financial responsibility required
of the Exchange's members.
2. An amendment to the Pacific Coast Stock Exchange's net
capital rule to reduce the allowable ratio of aggregate indebtedness to net capital from 20:1 to 15 :1.
3. An amendment to the constitution of the Boston Stock Exchange to increase the number of Governors of the Exchange
from sixteen to seventeen and provide that one Governor be an
officer or director of a company which has a class of stock listed
on the Exchange.
4. Revocation by the American Stock Exchange of its Special
Trust Fund. The Trustees of the Fund authorized payment of the

THIRTY-SEVENTH

ANNUAL REPORT

75

approximately $3,000,000 in the Fund to the Securities Investor
Protection Corporation for its initial flnancing.s
5. Amendments to the rules of the Detroit and PhiladelphiaBaltimore-Washington Stock Exchanges to facilitate the membership of broker-dealer firms which are market-makers in the "third
market."
The New York Stock Exchange incorporated in February 1971.
The Commission subsequently indicated to the Exchange that to
the extent that the chief purpose of incorporation was to end
the unlimited liability each member of the Exchange had for
acts and omissions of the Exchange, there is now a greater
burden on the Exchange to provide adequate resources for satisfying its responsibilities under the Exchange Act.
Litigation Relating to Review of Exchange Rules.-In Thill v.
The New York Stock Exchange,3 the Court of Appeals for the
Seventh Circuit held that New York Stock Exchange rules are
not immune from challenge under the federal antitrust laws by
reason of the Commission's power to review such rules pursuant
to Section 19 (b) of the Securities Exchange Act. The court ruled
that the Exchange must demonstrate that any rule having anticompetitive effects is necessary to the operation and effectiveness
of the Act. The case was remanded to the district court where it
is now pending. The Commission has intervened in the case,
pursuant to an order of the district court entered November 16,
1971.

In Independent

Broker-Dealers'

Trade Association v. S.E.C ..

a trade association of broker-dealers, none of which are members
of the New York Stock Exchang-e, filed suit against the Commission seeking declaratory and injunctive relief against what they
characterized as a Commission "direction or order" to the Exchange which resulted in the elimination of customer-directed
give-ups, a practice of splitting brokerage commissions that in
some cases benefited members of the Association. In May 1968,
as part of its review of various aspects of the commission rate
structures of national securities exchanges, the Commission made
a request, pursuant to Section 19 (b) of the Securities Exchange
Act, that the Exchange adopt an interim rate structure incorporating a volume discount or, in the alternative, that it eliminate
fixed rates of commission for certain large transactions.' The
Exchange in reply to this request made a counter-proposal which
2

See Part I of this report for a discussion of SIPC.

:1433 F.2d 264 (C.A. 7, 1970), certiorari denied, 401 U.S. 994 (1971).
4

See 35th Annual Report, pp. 6-8.

76

SECURITIES AND EXCHANGE COMMISSION

included the abolition of customer-directed give-ups. The Commission regarded this counter-proposal as acceptable, and the
proposals were adopted by the Exchange effective December 5,
1968.
The Association challenged the Commission's authority allegedly to have ordered the Exchange to abolish give-ups. The
district court dismissed the complaint for lack of jurisdiction,
holding that the Commission had entered no "order," but the
Court of Appeals for the District of Columbia Circuit reversed
in part," stating that the Commission had exerted "pressure"
on the Exchange to prohibit give-ups and that such pressure
constituted reviewable "agency action." On the merits, however,
the court rejected the Association's contention that the Commission had acted improperly and remanded the case to the district court with directions to enter summary judgment in favor
of the Commission.
INSPECTIONS OF EXCHANGES

Another aspect of the Commission's supervision of exchange
self-regulation is the program of regular inspections of various
phases of exchange activity conducted by the Branch of Regulation and Inspections in the Division of Trading and Markets.
These inspections enable the Commission to recommend, where
appropriate, improvements designed to increase the effectiveness
of self-regulation. In cases where it appears that revisions in
internal policies are desirable, the Commission's staff communicates its views to the particular exchange and discusses the
matters with exchange personnel in an effort to arrive at appropriate solutions.
In the 36th Annual Report, mention was made of an inspection
of the New York Stock Exchange relating to the enforcement and
interpretation of its net capital rule, and of inspections of the
New York and American Stock Exchanges relating to the activities of specialists including performance, capital and financing
arrangements. Follow-up conferences and correspondence continued into fiscal 1971. In the specialist area, the staff sent
recommendations for improvement to the NYSE. The inspection
of the American Stock Exchange resulted in general commendation although some recommendations for improvement were made
by the staff.
As a result of two major inspections relating to the enforcement
5442 F.2d 132 (C.A.D.C., 1971), certiorari denied,
12,1971).

4{)

U.S.L.W. 3162 (Oct.

THIRTY-SEVENTH

ANNUAL REPORT

77

and interpretation of the NYSE net capital rule, numerous meetings and a lengthy exchange of correspondence between the staff
of the Commission and the staff of the NYSE, the Exchange, as
noted above, adopted a more stringent net capital rule, which is
expected to enhance the financial strength of its members.
In fiscal 1971, the Branch of Regulation and Inspections conducted nine formal inspections. These included general inspections
of the Boston, Midwest, Cincinnati, Detroit and Pacific Coast
Exchanges, and inspections of the New York and American Stock
Exchanges limited to exchang-e activities in specific areas.
Recent inspections of the New York Stock Exchange centered
upon a comprehensive review of its surveillance and enforcement
programs. The staff inspected two divisions of the NYSE which
exercise disciplinary control over members and member firms,
the Conduct Division and the Advertising Department. The Conduct Division conducts investigations into alleged rule violations,
but does not exercise any surveillance over member firms. It investigates and develops disciplinary cases only when information
is disclosed or discovered by other sources. The Advertising Department reviews all member firm advertising prior to publication
for compliance with Exchange standards. Several of the recommendations based on the inspections, relating- primarily to enforcement activities, were adopted by the Exchange.
An inspection was also made of the disciplinary programs of
the American Stock Exchange, which are focused on the approximately forty members who are not also members of the NYSE
Generally speaking, the inspection team found an effective disciplinary program. Staff recommendations for certain improvements have been accepted.
DELISTING OF SECURITIES FROM EXCHANGES

Under Section 12 (d) of the Securities Exchang-e Act and the
Commission's Rule 12d2-2 thereunder, securities may be stricken
from listing and registration upon application by an exchang-e, or
withdrawn from listing and registration upon application by an
issuer, in accordance with the rules of the exchange and upon
such terms as the Commission may impose for the protection of
investors.
During the fiscal year ended June 30, 1971, the Commission
granted applications by exchanges for the removal of 62 stock
issues, representing- 56 issuers, and 58 bond issues from listing
and registration. The distribution of these removals among exchanges was as follows:

78

SECURITIES AND EXCHANGE COMMISSION
American Stock Exchange
Boston Stock Exchange
Cincinnati Stock Exchange
Detroit Stock Exchange
Midwest Stock Exchange
National Stock Exchange
New York Stock Exchange
Pacific Coast Stock Exchange
Philadelphia-Baltimore-Washington Stock Exchange;
Richmond Stock Exchange
Salt Lake Stock Exchange
Total

Stocks

20
1
1
4
4
6
13
7
1
2
3

62

Bonds

5

53

58

Delisting applications by exchanges are generally based on the
ground that continued listing is no longer appropriate because of
a reduced number of shares of the issue in public hands or an
insufficient number of shareholders (sometimes resulting from
acquisitions or mergers) ; the low market value of outstanding
shares; insufficient trading volume on the exchange; failure to
meet the exchange's requirements as to earnings or financial condition ; failure to file required reports with the exchange; cessation
of operations by the issuer; or a combination of these factors.
Seven applications by issuers to withdraw securities from listing and registration were granted during the year, resulting in
the removal of two securities each from the National and Philadelphia-Baltimore- Washington Stock Exchanges, and three securities from the Salt Lake Stock Exchange.
Litigation Relating to Delisting.-In
Winkleman v. New York
Stock Exchange, suit was brought by Scientific Resources Corporation and one of its shareholders to enjoin the New York
Stock Exchange from continuing to suspend trading of the company's stock and from initiating steps to delist the stock. The
district court denied plaintiffs' motion for preliminary injunction
and dismissed the complaint, concluding that the Commission had
exclusive jurisdiction over delisting procedures. On appeal to the
Court of Appeals for the Third Circuit plaintiffs argued that
the Exchange's delisting rules were applied arbitrarily and without opportunity for fair hearing, constituting a violation of the
federal antitrust laws. In a brief amicus curiae in support of the
lower court's action, the Commission urged that its procedures
on an application by an exchange for delisting are sufficient to
guarantee the company and its shareholders due process and a
forum for the consideration of any allegations of unfairness or
arbitrariness.

THIRTY-SEVENTH

ANNUAL REPORT

79

The court of appeals affirmed the denial of preliminary relief,
but remanded the case to the district court in order to afford
plaintiffs an adequate opportunity to be heard on the Exchange's
motion to dismiss."
STATISTICS RELATING TO SECURITIES TRADED ON EXCHANGES
NUMBER OF ISSUERS AND SECURITIES

As of June 30, 1971, 5781 stock and bond issues, representing
3220 issuers, were admitted to trading on securities exchanges in
the United States. Of these, 5650 securities issues (3623 stock
issues and 2027 bond issues), representing 3130 issuers, were
listed and registered on national securities exchanges, the balance
consisting primarily of securities admitted to unlisted trading
privileges and securities listed on exempted exchanges. The listed
and registered issues included 1915 stock issues (52.8 percent of
the total) and 1827 bond issues (90 percent), representing 1652
issuers (52.8 percent), which were listed and registered on the
New York Stock Exchange. Table 4 in the Appendix to this report
contains comprehensive statistics as to the number of securities
issues admitted to exchange trading and the number of issuers
involved.
During the 1971 fiscal year, 284 issuers listed and registered
securities on a national securities exchange for the first time,
while the registrations of all securities of 132 issuers were terminated. A total of 742 applications for registration of securities
on exchanges was filed.
MARKET VALUE OF SECURITIES AVAILABLE FOR TRADING

As of December 31, 1970, the market value of stocks and bonds
admitted to trading on U.S. stock exchanges was approximately
$796 billion. The tables below show various components of this
figure.
With reference to the tables, it should be noted that issues
traded on either the New York or American Stock Exchange are
not traded on the other of those two exchanges. Many of these
issues are, however, also traded on the so-called regional exchanges. The figures below for "other exchanges" show only the
number of issues traded solely on the regional exchanges. The
figures in the tables exclude issues suspended from trading and
a few inactively traded issues for which quotations were not
available.
6

445 F .2d 786 (C.A. 3, 1971).
450-484

0 - 72 - 7

80

SECURITIES

AND EXCHANGE COMMISSION
Market value
Dec. 31. 1970
(millions)

Number
of
issUes

Stocks:
New York Stock Exchange
Amencan Stock Exchange
Exclusively on other exchanges

_
_
_

Total stocks
Bonds'
New York Stock Exchange
Amencan Stock Exchange
ExclUsively on other exchanges
Total bonds
Total stocks and bonds

_

1.840
1,222
471

$636.380

39.536
4.754

3.533

680.670

_
_
_
_

1.729
169

112.622

_

24

2,045
287

1.922

114.954

5.455

795.624

The number and market value as of December 31, 1970 of preferred and common stocks separately were as follows:
Preferred

Number
New York Stock Exchange ______
American Stock Exchange _______
Exclusively on other
exchanges ---------------------Total

--- - - ------- -- -- -------

510
71

stocks
Market
value
(millions)
$25.455
1.094

Common stocks

Number
1.330
1.151

Market
value
(millions)
$610.925
38.442

121

244

350

4.510

702

26.793

2,831

653.877

The 3,533 common and preferred stock issues represented over
19.6 billion shares.
The New York Stock Exchange has reported aggregate market
value of all stocks listed thereon monthly since December 31, 1924,
when the figure was $27.1 billion. The American Stock Exchange
has reported totals as of December 31 annually since 1936. Aggregates for stocks exclusively on the remaining exchanges have been
compiled as of December 31 annually since 1948. The available
data since 1936 appear in Table 5 in the Appendix of this Annual
Report. It should be noted that changes in aggregate market value
over the years reflect not only changes in prices of stocks but also
such factors as new listings, mergers into listed companies, removals from listing and issuance of additional shares of a listed
security.
VOLUME OF SECURITIES TRADED

The number of shares traded on all exchanges in calendar 1970
(including stocks, rights and warrants) was over 4.8 billion, com.
pared to 5.1 billion shares traded in 1969. Dollar value of shares
traded was $132 billion in 1970, or 25 percent less than trading in
1969. Bonds with a principal amount of $6.3 billion were traded
in 1970.

THIRTY-SEVENTH

ANNUAL REPORT

81

During the first half of calendar 1971 trading accelerated
markedly-total dollar value of all exchange trading was over
$105 billion, considerably higher than during the same 1970
trading period.
The figures below show the volume and market value of securities traded on all registered and exempt stock exchanges during
calendar 1970 as well as the first six months of 1971. Refer to
Tables 6 and 7 of the Appendix for more comprehensive trading
statistics classified by exchanges.
Volume and Value of Trading on All Exchanges
(Amounts

in Thousands)
calendar
year 1970

Volume:
Stocks (shares)
Rights and Warrants
(units)
Bonds (principal amount in dollars)

s

Market
Value (dollars):
Stocks
Rights and Warrants
Bonds 4
Total
4

_
_

4,540.222

_

6,299,546

3,272,260
147,991
5,157,368

131,134.394
575.609

100,261,761
697.540

_
_
_

4

_

Does not include U.S. Government

Flrst 6 months
1971

294,207

4.763,242

4,374.887

136,473,445

105,334,188

Bonds.

FOREIGN STOCKS ON EXCHANGES

The estimated market value on December 31, 1970 of all shares
and certificates representing foreign stocks on U.S. stock exchanges was $20.5 billion, of which $16.3 billion represented
Canadian and $4.2 billion represented other foreign stocks.
Foreign Stocks on Exchanges
December
1970

Exchange:
New York ___
American ____
Others Only __
Total

------

Total

Other foreign

canadian

31,
Issues

Value

19
48
3

$ 8.830.867.000
7.345,741,718
73.495.027

14
19

70

$16,250,103.745

35

Issues

2

Value

Issues

Value

$3.476,547,000
762.767.930
6,405,294

33
67
5

$12,307,414,000
8.108,509.648
79,900,321

$4,245.720,224 105

$20,495,823,969

The total of 105 stock issues represents a decline of one issue
over the number a year earlier. There has been a steady decline
since 1960 when 173 foreign issues were being traded.
Trading in foreign stocks on the American Stock Exchange fell
from 10.70percent of aggregate share volume on that exchange in
1969 to 9.11 percent in 1970. Similarly, on the New York Stock
Exchange trading in foreign stocks in relation to aggregate share
volume declined from 3.4 percent in 1969 to 2.9 percent in 1970.

82

SECURITIES

AND EXCHANGE COMMISSION

COMPARATIVE EXCHANGE STATISTICS

The number of stocks listed on exchanges increased by four
percent during fiscal 1971 to total 3,740 issues. The number of
stocks on both the New York and American Stock Exchanges
increased, but stocks listed exclusively on other exchanges decreased. Refer to Appendix Table 4 for more detail on exchange
listings.
Net Number 0/ Stocks on E:r;changes
June

New York
Stock
Exchange

30

1940 _________________
1945 _________________
1950 _________________
1955 _________________
1960 _________________
1961 _________________
1962 _________________
1963 _________________
1964 _________________
1965 _________________
1966 _________________
1967 _________________
1968 _________________
1969 _________________
1970 _________________
1971 _________________

American
Stock
Exchange

1,242
1,293
1.484
1,543
1,532
1,546
1,565
1,579
1,613
1,627
1.656
1,693
1,764
1,781
1,819
1,925

Exclusively
on other
exchanges

1.079
895
779
815
931
977
1,033
1,025
1,023
1,044
1,054
1,072
1,097
1,168
1,194
1,292

1.289
951
775
686
555
519
493
476
463
440
429
415
405
435
566
523

Total stocks
on exchanges
3,610
3.139
3,038
3,044
3,018
3,042
3,091
3,080
3,099
3,111
3,139
3,180
3,266
3,384
3,579
3,740

The aggregate market value of shares listed on exchanges was
$680.7 billion at the end of calendar 1970. Of this amount, over
93 percent was the value of shares listed on the New York Stock
Exchange. While the value of NYSE listed stock as a proportion
of total listed stock increased in 1970, the percentages attributed
to AMEX listings and to stocks traded exclusively on other exchanges decreased. Appendix Table 5 carries historical data on
value of stocks on exchanges.
Value 0/ Shares Listed on E:r;changes, in Percentages
December

31

1950 ________________________
1955 ________________________
1960 ________________________
196L _______________________
1962 _______________________
1963 _______________________
1964 ________________________
1965 ________________________
1966 ________________________
1967 _______________________
1968 ________________________
1969 _______________________
1970 ________________________

New York
Stock
Exchange
84.50
86.98
91.56
91.02
92.41
93.12
93.59
93.77
93.81
92.82
91.15
92.22
93.49

American
Stock
Exchange
12.52
11.35
7.22
7.74
6.52
5.91
5.56
5.41
5.41
6.58
8.06
6.99
5.80

Exclusively
on other
exchanges
2.98
1.67
1.22
1.24

1.07
0.97
0.85
0.82
0.77
0.60
0.79
0.79
0.71

The total volume of all exchange transactions in stocks, rights
and warrants is broken down by exchanges in the following tables.
In 1970, share volume on the New York Stock Exchange amounted

THIRTY-SEVENTH

ANNUAL REPORT

83

to 3.4 billion shares, up moderately from the 3.2 billion of the
previous year. In terms of dollar value, 1970 New York Stock
Exchange transactions amounted to $103.3 billion, or 20 percent
less than 1969 dollar value. During the first six months of 1971,
however, both share and dollar value on the NYSE were up considerably over the first half of 1970.
On the American Stock Exchange 1970 share volume was 920
million shares or 35 percent below the previous year; AMEX
dollar volume was $14.6 billion, less than half that of the previous
year. In the first half of 1971, American Stock Exchange volume
-both
dollar and share volume--advanced from the first half
statistics of 1970. However, the increase was not as strong as
that on the NYSE.
Share and Dollar Volume on E~chang68
New York

Stock
Exchange

Calendar year

American

Stock
Exchange

All other

exchanges

Total

Share volume (thousands)
1940
1945
1950
1955
1960
1961
1962
1963
1964
1965
1966
1967
1968
1969
1970
1971 (First 6 months)

_
_
_
_
_
_
_
_
_
_
_
_
_
_
_
_

285,059
506,564
681,806
909,785
986,878
1,392,573
1,220,854
1,371,808
1,542,373
1,867,223
2,297,884
2,992,805
3,352,169
3,243,333
3,446,448
2,424,266

1940
1945
1950
1955
1960
1961
1962
1963
1964
1965
1966
1967
1968
1969
1970
1971 (First 6 months)

_
_
_
_
_
_
_
_
_
_
_
_
_
_
_
_

7,170,572
13,474,271
18,734,723
32,830,838
37,972,433
52,820,306
47,353,334
54,897,096
60,501,229
73,234,393
98,653,005
125,362,700
144,992,721
129,622,648
103,320,622
79,930,235

49,882
163,860
120,908
253,531
320,906
548,161
344,347
354,305
411,450
601,844
756,942
1,320,462
1,608,325
1,417,764
920,125
659,187
Dollar

42,957
98,595
90,606
158,084
133,263
201,790
146,744
154,686
172,551
201,944
257,558
333,258
448,244
473,898
467,856
336,798

377,898
769,019
893,320
1,321,401
1,441,048
2,142,523
1,711,945
1,880,798
2,126,374
2,671,012
3,312,383
4,646,525
5,408,737
5,134,995
4,834,430
3,420,251

volume (thousands)

646,146
1,759,899
1,493,706
2,657,016
4,235,686
6,863,110
3,736,619
4,844,912
6,127,236
8,874,875
14,647,166
23,491,312
35,479,186
31,036,896
14,636,528
10,234,796

603,065
1,020,382
1,579,855
2,551,253
3,098,484
4,388,207
3,765,941
4,696,065
5,833,285
7,439,825
10,366,272
13,335,199
16,646,050
15,730,215
13,753,053
10,794,270

8,419,783
16,254,552
21,808,284
38,039,107
45,306,603
64,071,623
54,855,894
64,488,073
72,461,750
89,549,093
123,666,443
162,189,211
197,117,957
176,389,759
131,710,203
100,959,301

The NYSE's percent of total exchange volume jumped appreciably in 1970 to 71 percent of share volume and 78 percent of
dollar volume. The gain was at the expense of AMEX volume
which dropped from 28 percent of all exchange share volume in
1969 to 19 percent in 1970 and from 18 to 11 percent of dollar
volume. Other exchange volume increased both as a percent of

84

SECURITIES AND EXCHANGE COMMISSION

share and dollar volume. Percentage data f o r the first six months
of 1971 are basically similar to the relationships tabulated for
calendar year 1970. See Appendix Table 7 for further detail.
Annual Sales of Stock on Ezlchnnges, in Percentages
Percent of dollar volume
Percent of share v o l m e
New York Amerlean All other New York American All other

Calendar year

1940.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
1945.
................
1950.
1955 .
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
IsBO.
.................
I
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
1962.
1963.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
1964.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
1965 .
...............
1966.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
1867.
................
1968.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
1969.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
1970.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
1971 (First 6 months)
I

75.44
65.87
76.32
68.85
68.48
64.99
71.32
72.94
72.54
69.91
69.37
64.41
61.98
53.16
71.29
70.88

I

13.20
21.31
13.54
19.19
~ 2 7
2558
20.12
18.64
19.35
22.53
22.85
28.42
29.74
27.81
19.03
19.27

11.82
10.14
11s
925
9.43
858
822
8.11
7.78
756
7.17

828

I

9.68
9.85

I

85.17
82.75
85.91
86.31
W.81
82.44
86.32
85.19
83.49
81.78
79.78
TT.30
73.56
73.49
78.45
79.17

7.68
10.81
6.85
6.98
9.35
10.71
6.81
7.52
8.46
991
11.84
14.48
18.00
I

lTS0
11.11

10.14

I

7.15 

6.44 

724 

6.71 

6.84 

6.85 

8.81 

729 

8.05 

8.31 

8.38

822 

8.44 

8.91 

10.44
10.89

BLOCK DISTRIBUTIONS REPORTED BY EXCHANGES

Special distribution methods are utilized when blocks are considered too large for the regular auction market on the floor of
the exchanges.
The most important of these methods is the secondary distribution which typically is utilized for larger blocks than other
block distribution methods. A secondary distribution takes place
off the floor of the exchange, usually after trading hours. The
block is offered by an exchange firm or a selling group of firms
formed for the distribution and a t a price usually below the last
transaction. In 1970, there were 72 secondary distributions involving stock valued a t $505 million, representing a considerable
reduction from 1969 levels. As the table below shows, the number
and value of secondary distributions rose dramatically in the first
half of 1971, totalling more than double the dollar value of such
distributions for the entire year 1970. This large jump in secondary distributions came a t the same time as the introduction
of negotiated commission rates on large transactions.
Under another method, the exchange distribution, a group of
member firms solicits buy orders sufficient to cross with the
block sell order. The transaction is then made on the floor and
announced on the tape. There were 35 exchange distributions in
1970, as against 32 in the previous year. The dollar value of
shares sold under exchange distributions was $48 million, compared to $52 million in 1969.
A third method of block distribution, special offerings, has not

THIRTY-SEVENTH

ANNUAL REPORT

85

been used in several years. In a special offering, a large block is
sold at a fixed price via an announcement on the tape seeking bids.
Block Distributions 0/ Stocks Reported by Exchanges
Value
(dollars)

Number
12 months

Special offerings
Exchange distnbutions
Secondary distributions

_
_
_

Special offerings
Exchange distributions
Secondary distributions

_
_
_

ended December

31, 1970

o

35
72

48,218,319
504.561,641
6 months

o

15
108

o

ended June 30, 1971

1,653,937
41,784,200

o

50,450,331
1,148,540,513

o

NOTE- Details of these distributions appear in the Commission's Statistical Bulletin
Data for prior years are shown in Appendix Table 8 of this Annual Report.

UNLISTED TRADING PRIVILEGES ON EXCHANGES

The number of stocks with unlisted trading privileges which
are not listed and registered on other exchanges further declined
during the fiscal year from 62 to 61. During the calendar year
1970, the reported volume of trading on the exchanges in stocks
with only unlisted trading privileges decreased to about 20,649,003
shares, or about 0.46 percent of the total share volume on all
exchanges, from about 47,958,150 shares, or about 0.97 percent
of the share volume during calendar year 1969. About 98 percent
of the 1970 volume was on the American Stock Exchange, while
two other exchanges contributed the remaining 2 percent. The
share volume in these stocks on the American Stock Exchange
represented 2.3 percent of total share volume on that exchange.
Unlisted trading privileges on exchanges in stocks listed and
registered on other exchanges numbered 2,397 as of June 30,
1971. The volume of trading in these stocks for the calendar year
1970 was reported at about 190,057,913 shares. About 98.5 percent of this volume was on regional exchanges in stocks listed on
the New York or American Stock Exchanges. The remaining
1.5 percent represented unlisted trading on the American Stock
Exchange in issues listed on regional exchanges. While the
190,057,913 shares amounted to only 4.2 percent of the total share
volume on all exchanges, it represented a substantial portion of
the share volume of most regional exchanges, as reflected in the
following approximate percentages: Cincinnati 87.8 percent; Boston 73.7 percent; Detroit 48.5 percent; Philadelphia-Baltimore-

86

SECURITIES

AND EXCHANGE COMMISSION

Washington 88.1 percent; Midwest 36.7 percent; and Pacific
Coast 27.0 percent,"
Applications by exchanges for unlisted trading privileges in
stocks listed on other exchanges, filed pursuant to Rule 12f-1 under Section 12(f) (1) (B) of the Securities Exchange Act, were
granted by the Commissionduring the fiscal year ended June 30,
1971, as follows:
Number
of stocks

Boston
Cincinnati
Detroit
Mid~est
Pacific Coast
Philadelphia-Baltimore-Washington
TOTAL

_
_
_
_
_
_
_

55
51
116
71
'1

91
891

SUPERVISION OF ACTIVITIES OF NATIONAL ASSOCIATION OF
SECURITIES DEALERS, INC.

Section 15A of the Exchange Act provides for registration with
the Commissionof national securities associations and establishes
standards and requirements for such associations. The National
Association of Securities Dealers, Inc. (NASD) is the only association registered under the Act. The Act contemplates that
such associations will serve as a medium for self-regulation by
over-the-counter brokers and dealers. Their rules must be designed to protect investors and the public interest, to promote
just and equitable principles of trade, and to meet other statutory
requirements. They are to operate under the general supervision
of the Commission, which is authorized to review disciplinary
actions taken by them," to disapprove changes in their rules, and
to alter or supplement their rules relating to specified matters.
Review of NASD rules is carried out for similar purposes as the
review of exchange rules described at page 74.
In adopting legislation permitting the formation and registration of national securities associations, Congress provided an
incentive to membership by permitting such associations to adopt
rules which preclude a member from dealing with a nonmember
broker or dealer except on the same terms and conditions as the
member affords the general public. The NASD has adopted such
rules. As a result, membership is necessary to profitable par7 The distribution of unlisted stocks among the exchanges and share volume
therein are shown in Appendix Table 9.
8 This aspect of the Commission's supervisory authority is discussed at

pp, 180-182, infra.

THIRTY-SEVENTH ANNUAL REPORT

87

ticipation in underwritings since members may properly grant
price concessions, discounts and similar allowances only to other
members.
At the close of the fiscal year the NASD had 4,390 members,
reflecting a net loss of 92 members during the year. This loss
was the net result of 439 admissions to and 531 terminations of
membership. At the end of the year NASD member firms had
7,028 branch offices, reflecting a net loss of 347 offices during the
year. This loss was the net result of the opening of 1,468 new
offices and the closing of 1,815 offices. During the year the number
of registered representatives and principals, which categories include all partners, officers, traders, salesmen and other persons
employed by or affiliated with member firms in capacities which
require registration, increased by 6,547 to stand at 199,917 as of
June 30, 1971. This increase was the net result of 26,100 initial
registrations, 33,087 re-registrations and 52,640 terminations of
registrations during the year.
During this period the NASD administered 59,025 qualification
examinations of which approximately 37,028 were for NASD
qualification and the balance for other agencies, including major
exchanges, the Commission and various States.
REVIEW OF NASD RULES AND POLICIES

Under Section 15A(j) of the Exchange Act, the NASD must
file for Commission review, 30 days in advance of their effectiveness, copies of any proposed rules or rule amendments. These may
be disapproved by the Commission if not consistent with the requirements of the Act. In practice, the Commission also normally
reviews in advance of publication general policy statements, directives, and interpretations proposed to be issued by the Association's Board of Governors pursuant to its powers to administer
and interpret NASD rules.
During the fiscal year, numerous changes in or additions to
NASD rules, policies and interpretations were submitted to the
Commission pursuant to these procedures. Among the significant
matters covered in such submissions were:
1. Amendments to Schedule "D" of the NASD by-laws
revising: (1) the minimum price criteria for securities included in the Association's NASDAQ quotation system; and
(2) the system's eligibility standards for foreign securities,
ADR's, rights and warrants."
9

See Part I of the report for a discussion of the NASDAQ system.

88

SECURITIES

AND EXCHANGE

COMMISSION

2. A revised interpretation of the Board of Governors
concerning "Free-Riding and Withholding" which is designed
to eliminate unfair and manipulative practices in underwritings of securities that sell in the "aftermarket" at a premium
over the initial public offering price.
3. Amendments of the Association's Uniform Practice
Code relating to: (1) the delivery of mutilated securities;
(2) the reclamation of securities which have been the subject
of an over-delivery, or other similar errors in delivery; and
(3) the closing out of open contracts with an Association
member where the member can not meet its obligations as
they becomedue.
4. An amendment to the Association's Code of Procedure
for Handling Trade Practice Complaints to provide specified
procedures for settlement of Association disciplinary actions.
5. Amendment to Schedule "C" of the NASD by-laws to
provide for the establishment of a new qualification examination for principals of NASD member firms.
In Harwell v. Growth Programs, Inc., reported previously.t"
the United States District Court for the Western District of
Texas, agreeing with positions urged by the Commission in its
amicus curiae brief filed with that court, upheld an "interpretation" promulgated by the Board of Governors of the NASD in
1966that the speculative use of the withdrawal-and-reinstatement
privilege contained in certain contractual plans for the accumulation of mutual fund shares was contrary to the public interest
and inconsistent with Article III, Section 1, of the NASD's Rules
of Fair Practice.t! That rule requires NASD members to conduct
their business in accordance with "high standards of commercial
honor and just and equitable principles of trade."
Plaintiffs, who were purchasers of single payment contractual
plans containing this "in-and-out" privilege, sued the mutual
fund's sponsor and its underwriter, as well as the NASD, seeking,
among other things, actual and exemplary damages (including
treble damages from all of the defendants for an alleged conspiracy in violation of the antitrust laws) and resumption of the
right to unlimited exercise of the in-and-out privilege.
Under the terms of the investment programs in question, the
investor had the right to liquidate into cash at any time, and as
often as he wished, up to 90 percent of his shares in the mutual
10 35th Annual Report, p. 105.
11315 F. Supp. 1184 (1970).

THIRTY-SEVENTH

ANNUAL REPORT

89

fund. He could later repurchase these shares with the proceeds of
his prior withdrawal, at the then market value, without the payment of any additional brokerage commission. Both the NASD and
the Commission decided that this speculative activity was detrimental to the interest of nonspeculating shareholders in the underlying funds, since it diluted their shares, and to the funds
themselves, since it imposed liquidity problems arising out of the
necessity to maintain relatively large cash positions to meet requests for redemptions. The district court granted the defendants'
motions for summary judgment, and the plaintiffs appealed to
the Court of Appeals for the Fifth Cireult.P The Commission filed
a brief with the court of appeals, amicus curiae, in which it urged
that the district court properly determined that the NASD interpretation was clearly within the power granted the NASD
under the Exchange Act; that the promulgation of such interpretation did not violate due process of law; and that, since
the interpretation was promulgated under close supervision of
the Commission, it did not constitute a violation of the antitrust
laws. The appeal was pending at the close of the fiscal year.
NASD RULE ABROGATION PROCEEDING

In April 1970 the Commission instituted a proceeding, pursuant
to Section 15A (k) of the Exchange Act, to determine whether, as
alleged by the Commission staff, the NASD had in specific situations improperly construed or applied the authority granted to
it under Section 15A (i) of the Exchange Act and Article III,
Section 25 of its Rules of Fair Practice. Section 15A (i) authorizes
the NASD to provide in its rules that no member may deal with
a nonmember broker-dealer except at the same prices and on the
same terms as it accords to the general public. Section 25 of the
NASD rules provides in pertinent part that NASD members may
not (1) grant to nonmember broker-dealers any selling concession, discount or other allowance not accorded to the general
public, or (2) join with any nonmember broker-dealer in the
distribution of an issue of securities to the public.
The principal issue in the proceeding relates to whether the
latter provision and the statute permit the Association to prohibit
its members from joining in a distribution of securities with a
nonmember broker-dealer where the concession or other special
price discount flows from the nonmember to the member. A
petition filed by Aetna Life and Casualty Company and its subsidiaries, Aetna Financial Services, Inc. and Participating An12

C.A. 5, No. 80501.

90

SECURITIES

AND EXCHANGE COMMISSION

nuity Life Insurance Company, had raised similar issues with
respect to the NASD's authority to restrict its members' dealings
with nonmember broker-dealers, and the Aetna companies were
admitted as parties to the proceeding.
During fiscal year 1971 an evidentiary hearing was held before
a hearing examiner. The examiner rendered an initial decision
in May 1971. Thereafter the Commission granted petitions for
review of the initial decision filed by the NASD, the Commission
staff and the Aetna companies, and at the end of the fiscal year
the matter was pending before the Commission.
INSPECTIONS OF THE NASD

Under the regulatory scheme of the Exchange Act the Commission, as noted, is charged with general oversight of national
securities associations in the performance of their self-regulatory
activities. With a view to insuring that the NASD is meeting its
responsibilities, the Commission's staff conducts periodic inspections of various phases of NASD activity. During the past fiscal
year, the staff inspected the overall operations of the Association's
district office in Boston, and reviewed the New York district
office's programs and procedures with respect to the monitoring
of the financial and operating conditions of NASD member firms.
OVER-THE-COUNTER TRADING IN COMMON STOCKS LISTED ON
THE NEW YORK STOCK EXCHANGE

During the calendar year 1970, total over-the-counter sales of
common stocks listed on the New York Stock Exchange (the soOver-the-Counter Volume in Common Stocks Li8ted on the New York
Stock Exchange
-

------

Over-the-counter
sales of common
stocks

New York Stock
Exchange
volume

Share volume

965________________________

1966_________________
,______
1
967________________________
1968________________________
1
969________________________
1970________________________
1
1971 (First 6 months)
----

2,500.416
2,872.660
4,151,917
5,983,041
7,127,834
8,020,839
6,464,273

(thousands)

1,809,351
2,204,761
2.885,748
3,298,665
3,173,564
3,213,069
2,345,973

48.361
58.198
85,081
119.730
155,437
210.067
153,858
Dollar

1965________________________
1966________________________
967________________________
1968________________________
1
969________________________
1
970________________________
1
1971 (FIrst 6 months)
----

Ratio of
over-the-counter
sales to New York
Stock Exchange
volume
(percent)

volume

2.7
2,6
2.9
3.6
4.9
6.5
6.6

(thousands)

73,199,997
98,565,294
125,329,106
144,978,416
129,603,420
103,063,237
79.792,140

3.4
2.9
3.3
4.2
5.5
7.8
8.1

THIRTY-SEVENTH

ANNUAL REPORT

91

called "third market") continued to increase both in share and
dollar volume as they have in every year since 1965, when reports
to the Commission regarding such transactions were first required. Third market sales in 1970 amounted to 210 million
shares, valued at $8,021 million. The increase in dollar volume
of third market sales contrasts with a decrease in dollar volume
on the NYSE in 1970. As a result, the value of trading over the
counter in NYSE comon stocks in relation to the value of an stock
trading on the Exchange reached a new high ratio of 7.8 percent.
In the first half of 1971, third market volume and NYSE volume
both increased sharply. Third market volume, in terms of dollars,
grew at a faster rate, however, reaching the equivalent of 8.1
percent of NYSE dollar volume.
REGULATION OF BROKER-DEALERS

AND INVESTMENT ADVISERS

REGISTRATION

The Securities Exchange Act requires brokers and dealers who
use the mails or the means of interstate commerce in the conduct
of an over-the-counter securities business to register with the
Commission. Investment advisers must register under the Investment Advisers Act of 1940, which establishes a pattern 'of regulation comparable to that established by the Exchange Act with
respect to brokers and dealers. Applicants for registration which
are subject to a statutory disqualification may be denied registration, and misconduct following registration may result in suspension or revocation of the registration.P
As of June 30, 1971, 4,940 broker-dealers and 3,485 investment
advisers were registered. The number of broker-dealers represented a decrease of 284 from the total a year earlier, attributable
principally to the withdrawal of a large number of registrations.
However, the number of investment advisers increased by 425
over that at the end of fiscal year 1970.
The following tabulation reflects various data with respect to
registrations of brokers and dealers and investment advisers during the 1971 fiscal year:
Broker-Dealers
Effective registrations at close of preceding year
Registration suspended, pending final determination
ings, at close of preceding year

5,224
of proceed1

IS For a discussion of the various types of disqualifications and of enforcement and remedial actions taken by the Commission and the self-regulatory
agencies with respect to broker-dealers and investment advisers, see Part IV
of this report.

92

SECURITIES AND EXCHANGE COMMISSION
Applications
Applications

pending at close of preceding year
filed during year

Total

5,893

Applications denied
Applications withdrawn
Registrations
withdrawn
Registrations canceled
Registrations
revoked
Registrations effective at end of year
Applications pending at end of year

3
14
828
22
39
4,940
47

Total

5,893
Investment

Advisers

Effective registrations at close of preceding year
Applications pending at close of preceding year
Applications filed during year
Total

65
603

_____

__

__

Registrations canceled or withdrawn
Registrations
revoked
Applications withdrawn
Registrations effective at end of year
Applications pending at end of year
Total

3,060
79
763
3,902
313
3
16
3,485
85
3,902

FINANCIAL REPORTS OF BROKER.DEALERS

Rule 17a-5 under the Exchange Act requires registered brokerdealers to file annual reports of financial condition with the Commission. These reports must be certified by a certified public accountant or public accountant who is in fact independent, with
certain limited exemptions applicable to situations where certification does not appear necessary for customer protection. During the fiscal year 4,481 reports were filed with the Commission.
These reports enable the Commission and the public to determine the financial position of broker-dealers. They provide one
means by which the staff of the Commission can determine
whether a broker-dealer is in compliance with the net capital
rule. Failure to file required reports may result in the institution
of administrative proceedings to determine whether the public
interest requires remedial action against the registrant, as well
as possible injunctive or criminal action.
BROKER.DEALER INCOME AND EXPENSE REPORTS

In order to obtain improved financial information concerning
the securities industry, the Commission, in June 1968, adopted

THIRTY-SEVENTH

ANNUAL

REPORT

93

Rule 17a-10 under the Securities Exchange Act, effective January
I, 1969.H This rule requires registered broker-dealers and exchange members to file income and expense reports for each
calendar year with the Commission or with a registered selfregulatory organization [an exchange or the National Association
of Securities Dealers, Inc. (NASD)] which has qualified a plan
pursuant to the rule. The self-regulatory organization is to transmit copies of such reports to the Commission. All reports are
submitted to the Commission on a confidential basis.
The Commission has approved the plans of the NASD, and
the American, Midwest, and Philadelphia-Baltimore-Washington
Stock Exchanges." In summary, these plans provide that the
self-regulatory organization will (1) adopt and implement appropriate internal procedures for review of the reports submitted
by members, (2) review all reports filed for reasonableness and
accuracy, (3) transmit edited reports to the Commission (excluding the names and addresses of the respective firms), and
(4) undertake certain other obligations.
The reports covering calendar year 1970 of SECO brokerdealers 16 and non-NASD members of those exchanges which have
not qualified a plan have been received and reviewed by the
Commission. The 1970 reports of all NASD members and of
non-NASD members of those exchanges which have qualified a
plan have been received by the Commission from the respective
self-regulatory organizations. The Commission will analyze the
reports, and it anticipates that it will publish aggregate information based on them for the calendar years 1969 and 1970.
REGULATION OF BROKERJDEALERS WHO ARE NOT MEMBERS OF
A REGISTERED SECURITIES ASSOCIATION

Under the Exchange Act, as amended in 1964, the Commission
has the responsibility for establishing and administering rules
relating to qualification standards and business conduct of broker14 Securities Exchange Act Release No. 8347 (June 28, 1968); also see 34th
Annual Report, pp. 14-15.
15 Securities Exchange Act Releases Nos. 8876 (April 30, 1970); 8896 (May
28, 1970); 8946 (July 28, 1970); and 8954 (August 11, 1970). The NASD
plan was amended on March 30, 1971 to make it clear that all NASD members will continue indefinitely to file annual income and expense reports with
the NASD and to delete a provision as to the deadline date for filing which
was only applicable to the 1969 reports. See Securities Exchange Act Release
No. 9130.
16 Those registered broker-dealers
which are not members of the NASD are
referred to as SECO broker-dealers.

94

SECURITIES

AND EXCHANGE

COMMISSION

dealers who are not members of the NASD 17 and persons associated with them, so as to provide regulation for these SECO
broker-dealers comparable to that provided by the NASD for
its members.P
During the fiscal year, the number of nonmember broker-dealers
decreased from 336 to 301 and the number of associated persons
of such firms (which includes principally partners, officers, directors, and employees not engaged in merely clerical or ministerial
functions) decreased from 19,504 to 16,060.19
Number of Nonmember Broker-Dealers by Principal Type of Business as of
June 90, 1971
Principal type of business
_
Exchange member primanly engaged m floor actIvities
Exchange member primarrly engaged m exchange commission business __
Broker or dealer In general securrtres busmess
_
Mutual fund underwriter and drstrrbutor
_
Broker or dealer selling variable annuitres
_
SOlicitor of savings and loan accounts
_
Real estate syndicator or mortgage broker or banker
_
_

Broker or dealer selhng oil and gas interests
_

Put and call broker or dealer or option writer
Broker or dealer selling securities of only one issuer or associated issuers
Broker or dealer sellmg church securities
_
Government bond dealer
_
Broker or dealer mother securrties business 
_
Inactive in securities business
_
Total

_

Number
437

 79
16
27
22

15
16
4
23
15

21

4

19
3
301

4 Includes
16 New York Stock Exchange members and 14 American Stock Exchange
members
 Includes 3 New York Stock Exchange members and 1 American Stock Exchange
member .
c Includes, among others, finders m mergers and acqutsrtrons, sellers of theatrical
partrcrpations, a private banker and appraisers of estates.

Various rules have been adopted by the Commission since 1964
in the development of its regulatory program for nonmember
broker-dealers.w
One of the requirements imposed by these rules
is that each associated person engaged in specified securities
activities successfully complete the Commission's General Securities Examination or an examination deemed by the Commission
to be a satisfactory alternative. Alternative examinations include
those given by the NASD, by certain of the national securities
exchanges and by many states. During the fiscal year the examina17 The Act does not specifically refer to the NASD, but to broker-dealers
who are not members of a registered "national securities association." However, the NASD is the only such association.
IS See pp. 86-88 for the discussion of NASD regulation.
19 Nonmember broker-dealers
must file a prescribed form (Form SECO-2)
with the Commission for each associated person.
20 See 31st Annual Report, pp. 11-13;
32nd Annual Report, pp, 16-18;
33rd Annual Report, pp. 15-18; 34th Annual Report, pp. 83-85; 35th Annual
Report, pp. 86-88.

THIRTY-SEVENTH ANNUAL REPORT

95

tion requirements of the various states were surveyed by the
Commission. The results of this survey are being studied to determine whether the list of acceptable alternative examining
jurisdictions and examinations should be further revised.
Rule 15b9-2 under the Act provides for an annual assessment
to be paid by nonmember broker-dealers to defray the cost of
regulation. It includes a base fee, a charge for each office, and
a charge for each associated person. The rule also provides that
the maximum amount payable by anyone SECO member is set
each year on the assessment form which must be filed by each
firm. The maximum for fiscal year 1971 was raised from $25,000
to $50,000.21
Pursuant to the inspection program for nonmember brokerdealers, 66 inspections were conducted during the fiscal year.22
These inspections were designed to determine compliance with
applicable Commission rules and to obtain information which will
prove helpful in the further development of the SECO program.
STATISTICAL STUDIES

The regular statistical activities of the Commission and its
participation in the overall Government statistical program under
the direction of the Office of Statistical Standards, Office of Management and Budget, were continued during fiscal 1971 in the
Commission's Office of Policy Research. The statistical series described below are published in the Commission's monthly Statistical Bulletin. In addition, current figures and analyses of data
are published quarterly on new securities offerings, stock transactions of financial institutions, the financial position of corporations, and plant and equipment expenditures.
ISSUES REGISTERED UNDER THE SECURITIES ACT OF 1933

Monthly statistics are compiled on the number and volume of
registered securities. Summary statistics for the years 1935-1971
are given in Appendix Table 1 and detailed statistics for the fiscal
year 1971 appear in Appendix Table 2.
NEW SECURITIES OFFERINGS

Monthly and quarterly data are compiled covering all new
corporate and noncorporate issues offered for cash sale in the
United States. The series includes not only issues publicly offered
Securities Exchange Act Release No. 9160 (April 30, 1971).
For further
discussion of Commission inspections of broker-dealers,
see pp. 10D-101, infra.
21

22

450-484 0 - 72 - 8

96

SECURITIES

AND EXCHANGE COMMISSION

but also issues privately placed, as well as other issues exempt
from registration under the Securities Act, such as intrastate
offerings and offerings of railroad securities. The offerings series
include only securities actually offered for cash sale, and only
issues offered for the account of issuers.
Estimates of the net cash flow through securities transactions
are prepared quarterly and are derived by deducting, from the
amount
01. e'2>t\.mated. grO'2>'2>-proceed.'2> received. b-y cor-poration'2>
through the sale of securities, the amount of estimated gross
payments by corporations to investors for securities retired. Data
on gross issues, retirements and net change in securities outstanding are presented for all corporations and for the principal
industry groups.
PRIVATE NONINSURED PENSION FUNDS

An annual survey is published of private pension funds other
than those administered by insurance companies, showing the
flow of money into these funds, the types of assets in which the
funds are invested and the principal items of income and expenditures. Quarterly data on assets of these funds are published
in the Statistical Bulletin.
STOCK TRANSACTIONS OF FINANCIAL INSTITUTIONS

A statistical series containing data on stock trading of four
principal types of financial institutions is published quarterly.
Information on purchases and sales of common stock by private
noninsured pension funds and nonlife insurance companies has
been collected on a quarterly basis by the Commission since 1964.
These data are combined with similar statistics prepared for
mutual funds by the Investment Company Institute and for life
insurance companies by the Institute of Life Insurance.
FINANCIAL POSITION OF CORPORATIONS

The series on the working capital position of all U.S. corporations, excluding banks, insurance companies, investment companies and savings and loan associations, shows the principal
components of current assets and liabilities, and also contains an
abbreviated analysis of the sources and uses of corporate funds.
During fiscal year 1971 the responsibility for compiling the
quarterly financial report of all U.S. manufacturing corporations,
previously shared by the Commission and the Federal Trade
Commission, was assigned to the latter agency. This report gives
complete balance sheet data and an abbreviated income account,
data being classified by industry and size of company. The Com-

THIRTY-SEVENTH

ANNUAL REPORT

97

mission's staff has been working with the FTC staff to assure an
orderly transfer of this data collection responsibility, which is to
be completed by the end of calendar year 1971.
PLANT AND EQUIPMENT EXPENDITURES

The Commission, together with the Department of Commerce,
conducts quarterly and annual surveys of actual and anticipated
plant and equipment expenditures of all U.S. business, exclusive
of agriculture. After the close of each quarter, data are released
on actual capital expenditures of that quarter and anticipated
expenditures for the next two quarters. In addition, a survey is
made at the beginning of each year of the plans for business
expansion during that year.
DIRECTORY OF REGISTERED COMPANIES

The Commission annually publishes a list of companies required
to file annual reports under the Securities Exchange Act of 1934.
In addition to an alphabetical listing, there is a listing of companies by industry group classified according to The Standard
Industrial Classification Manual.
STOCK MARKET DATA

The Commission regularly compiles statistics on the market
value and volume of sales on registered and exempted securities
exchanges, round-lot stock transactions on the New York and
American Stock Exchanges for account of members and nonmembers, odd-lot transactions in 100 selected stocks on the New
York Stock Exchange and block distributions of exchange stocks.
Since January 1965, the Commission has been compiling statistics
on volume of over-the-counter trading in common stocks listed on
national securities exchanges (the so-called "third market")
based on reports filed under the Securities Exchange Act.
Data on round-lot and odd-lot trading on the New York and
American Stock Exchanges are released weekly. The other stock
market data mentioned above, as well as these weekly series, are
published regularly in the Commission's Statistical Bulletin.

PART IV
CONTROL OF IMPROPER PRACTICES
One of the major areas of the Commission's work is its enforcement activities, which encompass the detection and investigation
of possible violations of the Federal securities laws and the taking
of appropriate action to curtail fraudulent and other unlawful
activities. The Commission's enforcement program is designed to
achieve a broad regulatory impact within the framework of its
limited resources. In addition to direct action by the Commission,
the various self-regulatory organizations have a responsibility
(subject to Commission oversight) to uncover and take appropriate action with respect to improper practices by their respective
members. Moreover, there is a significant degree of coordination
between the enforcement activities of the Commission, the selfregulatory agencies, the various states, and certain foreign securities agencies.
This part of the report deals with some of the more significant
aspects of these enforcement activities conducted during the fiscal
year 1 and with developments in litigation arising out of prior
enforcement actions. It also summarizes certain noteworthy cases
involving private litigation under the Federal securities laws in
which the Commission participated as amicus curiae.
DETECTION OF IMPROPER PRACTICES
PUBLIC COMPLAINTS AND INQUIRIES

The Commission receives many communications from the public, consisting predominantly of complaints against members of
the securities industry and requests for information about issuers.
These complaints and inquiries are given careful attention in
connection with the Commission's responsibility to enforce the
Federal securities laws. Within the scope of its authority, the
Commission endeavors to assist investors in obtaining the desired
information or resolving their complaints. Where violations of
1 For enforcement
matters related to disclosure requirements under the
Securities Act or Securities Exchange Act, see Part II, at pp. 40-42 and
50-52, supra. Enforcement activities related to investment companies are
discussedin Part V, at pp. 156-165,infra.

99

100

SECURITIES

AND EXCHANGE COMMISSION

the Federal securities laws are indicated, the matters are referred
to the enforcement officials of the Commission for appropriate
action. The Commission may also refer matters to the stock
exchanges or the National Association of Securities Dealers, Inc.
(NASD). Analysis of complaints and inquiries helps the Commission to recognize problems being experienced by a particular
firm or by the industry in general.
Indicated below are the approximate number of written and
telephoned complaints and inquiries relating specifically to brokerdealers which the Commission received from the public during
the last 4 fiscal years.
Fiscal year 1968 4,000
"
"1969
- 12,500
"
"1970
- 15,000
"
"1971
- 17,000
Approximately 80 percent of the complaints against brokerdealers involve back-office problems, such as the failure of firms
to deliver securities or funds promptly and the alleged improper
handling of accounts.
As a result of the inquiries the Commission makes of brokerage
firms upon receipt of complaints, thousands of investor complaints
have been resolved. The Commission's authority, however, does
not extend to arbitrating private disputes or controversies between brokerage firms and investors or to assisting investors in
the assertion of their private rights. The Commission generally
does not reveal the existence, progress, or results of any investigation it may undertake as a result of a particular complaint unless
and until these are made a matter of public record in proceedings
brought before the Commission or in the courts.
Other sources of information regarding possible securities law
violations include stock exchanges, the NASD, brokerage firms,
State and Canadian securities authorities, better business bureaus, and various law enforcement agencies.
INSPECTIONS

The program of surprise inspections of broker-dealers and investment advisers by the Commission's staff is another important
device for the detection of unlawful practices. During fiscal 1971,
the staff conducted 772 broker-dealer inspections (as compared
with 707 the previous year) and 121 inspections of investment
advisers (as compared to 96 during the previous year).
The table below shows the types of infractions indicated by the
inspections conducted during the fiscal year:

THIRTY-SEVENTH ANNUAL REPORT

101

Broker-Dealers
Number of
Broker-Dealers

Net Capital Deficiencies
180
Unlawful hypothecation -___________________________
6
Unreasonable prices in securities transactions
10
Noncompliance with Regulation T
39
180
Noncompliancewith confirmation or bookkeepingrules.,.,
Other --------_____________________________________ 227
Total indicated violations

642

Investment Advisers
Number of
Investment
Advisers

Books and records deficient
Registration application inaccurate
False, misleading, or otherwise prohibited advertising__
Improper "hedge clause".
Failure to provide for nonassignability in investment
_
advisory contract
_
Other
Total indicated violations

_

24
25
11
6
5
13
84

."Hedge clauses" used in literature distributed by investment advisers
generally state in substance that the information furnished is obtained from
sources believed to be reliable, but that no assurance can be given as to its
accuracy. A clause of this nature may be improper where the recipient may
be led to believe that he has waived any right of action against the investment adviser.
MARKET SURVEILLANCE

In order to enable the Commission to meet its responsibilities
for the surveillance of the securities markets, the market surveillance staff has devised a number of procedures to identify
possible manipulative activities. These include a program of staff
surveillance over listed securities, which is coordinated with the
stock watching operations of the New York, American and regional stock exchanges. The staff reviews the daily and periodic
stock watch reports prepared by these exchanges and, on the
basis of its analysis of the information developedby the exchanges
and other sources, determines matters of interest, possible violations of applicable law, and the appropriate action to be taken.
In addition, the market surveillance staff maintains a continuous ticker tape watch of transactions on the New York and
American Stock Exchanges, and monitors the sales and quotation
sheets of regional exchanges in order to detect any unusual or
unexplained price variations or market activity. The financial

102

SECURITIES

AND EXCHANGE COMMISSION

news ticker, leading newspapers and various financial publications and statistical services are also closely followed.
If any of these sources reveals possible violations, the market
surveillance staff conducts a preliminary inquiry into the matter.
These inquiries, some of which are conducted with the cooperation
of the exchange concerned, generally begin with the identification
of the brokerage firms which were active in the security. The
staff may communicate with principals or registered representatives of these firms, with customers, or with officials of the issuer
involved to determine the reasons for the activity or price change
in the securities in question and whether violations may have
occurred.
The Commission has also developed an over-the-counter surveillance program involving the use of automated equipment to
provide more efficient and comprehensive surveillance of stock
quotations distributed by the National Quotation Bureau and the
NASD's automated NASDAQ service. That equipment is programmed to identify, among other things, unlisted securities
whose price movement or dealer interest varies beyond specified
limits in a pre-established time period. When a security is so
identified, the automated system prints out current and historic
market information concerning it. This data, combined with other
available information, is collated and analyzed to select those
securities whose activity indicates the need for further inquiry
or referral to the Commission's enforcement staff.
INVESTIGATIONS

Each of the Acts administered by the Commission specifically
authorizes it to conduct investigations to determine whether violations of the Federal securities laws have occurred.
The nine regional offices of the Commission are chiefly responsible for the conduct of investigations. In addition, the Office of
Enforcement of the Division of Trading and Markets at the
Commission's headquarters office conducts investigations dealingwith matters of particular interest or urgency, either independently or with the assistance of the regional offices. The Office of
Enforcement exercises general supervision over and coordinates
the investigative activities of the regional offices and recommends
appropriate action to the Commission. Investigations are also
conducted by the Divisions of Corporation Finance and Corporate
Regulation in the areas under their respective jurisdictions.
It is the Commission's general policy to conduct its investigations on a confidential basis. Such a policy is necessary to effective

THIRTY-SEVENTH

ANNUAL

103

REPORT

law enforcement and to protect persons against whom unfounded
or unconfirmed charges might be made. The Commission investigates many complaints where no violation is ultimately found to
have occurred. To conduct such investigations publicly would
ordinarily result in hardship or embarrassment to many interested persons and might affect the market for the securities involved, resulting in injury to investors with no countervailing
public benefits. Moreover, members of the public would tend to
be reluctant to furnish information concerning violations if they
thought their personal affairs would be made public. Accordingly,
the Commission does not generally divulge the existence or findings of a nonpublic investigation unless they are made a matter
of public record in proceedings brought before the Commission or
in the courts.
When it appears from a preliminary investigation that a serious
violation of the Federal securities laws has occurred or is occurring, a full investigation is conducted. Under certain circumstances the Commission may issue a formal order of investigation
which designates members of its staff as officers authorized to
issue subpoenas, take testimony under oath, and require the
production of documents.
The following tables reflect in summarized form the Commission's investigative activities during fiscal year 1971:
Investigations

of Possible Violations of the Acts Administered
Commission
Pending June 30, 1970
Nevv Cases

by the
862
410

Total
Closed
Pending

June

1,272
447
825

30, 1971

Formal Orders of Investigation Issued by the Commission upon
Recommendation of the Staff Divisions Indicated
Division of Trading and Markets
Division of Corporation Finance
Division of Corporate Regulation
Total
ENFORCEMENT

OF INVESTIGATIVE

_
_
_
_

131
15
9

155

SUBPOENAS

In Vesco and International Controls Corp. v. S.E.C.,2 plaintiffs
sought to enjoin the Commission from requiring compliance with
investigative subpoenas. The Commission counterclaimed for enforcement of the subpoenas. The United States District Court for
2

D.N.J., Civ. No. 585-71.

104

SECURITIES AND EXCHANGE COMMISSION

the District of New Jersey granted the relief requested by the
Commission and dismissed plaintiffs' claims. The court rejected
the asserted bases for noncompliance-that disclosure of certain
information pursuant to the Commission's investigative order
would subject plaintiffs to criminal sanctions under Swiss laws
relating to secrecy in banking and commercial affairs, that the
Commissionhad access to the information sought in its investigation from sources other than plaintiffs, and that the Commission's
principal investigating officerwas "non-objective." The Court of
Appeals for the Third Circuit 3 and the Supreme Court (by Mr.
Justice Marshall) denied plaintiffs' request for a stay of the
district court order pending appeal.
ENFORCEMENT

AND REMEDIAL ACTION

When the Commission determines, based upon staff investigation, that enforcement action appears appropriate, it may authorize the staff to institute civil court proceedings for injunctive
relief, or, in particularly serious cases, it may refer the matter
to the Justice Department with a recommendation for criminal
prosecution. The Commission may also, on the basis of staff
allegations, initiate administrative proceedings which can result
in a Commissionorder imposing remedial sanctions on the persons
involved. In appropriate cases, the Commissionmay refer matters
to state or local enforcement agencies or to industry self-regulatory organizations.
A'DMINISTRATIVE PROCEEDINGS

4

Under the Securities Exchange Act, as amended in 1964, the
Commission has available to it a wide range of administrative
sanctions which it may impose against brokers, dealers and other
persons. The Commission may deny a broker-dealer's application
for registration. With respect to a broker-dealer already registered, it may impose sanctions ranging from censure to suspension or revocation of registration and may suspend or terminate
a broker-dealer's membership in a stock exchange or the NASD.
In addition, it may suspend or bar any person from association
with a broker-dealer, or censure him. Comparable sanctions may
be imposed under the Investment Advisers Act, as amended in
1970.
3 C.A.

3, Nos. 71-1711 and 71-1712.

For administrative enforcement proceedings under the Securities Act and
Securities Exchange Act disclosure provisions and under the Investment
Company Act, see Parts II and V, respectively.
4

THIRTY-SEVENTH

105

ANNUAL REPORT

Generally speaking, the Commission may impose a sanction
only if, after notice and opportunity for hearing, it finds (1) that
the respondent willfully violated, or aided and abetted violations
of any provision of the securities acts or the rules thereunder;
failed reasonably to supervise another person who committed
such violations; or is subject to certain disqualifications, such as
a conviction or injunction relating to specified types of law
violations; and (2) that a particular sanction is in the public
interest.
Broker-dealer and investment adviser proceedings are frequently disposed of without hearings where respondents waive
their right to a hearing and submit offers of settlement consenting
to the imposition of certain sanctions, which the Commission
accepts as an appropriate disposition of the proceedings. In those
instances where hearings are held, the hearing officer who presides renders an initial decision, including an appropriate order,
unless such decision is waived by the parties. If Commission
review is not sought, and if the case is not called up for review
on the Commission's own initiative, the initial decision becomes
the final decision of the Commission, and the examiner's order
becomes effective.
In those instances where it prepares its own decision upon
review or waiver of an initial decision, the Commission is generally assisted by the Office of Opinions and Review. This Office
is directly responsible to the Commission and is completely independent of the operating divisions of the Commission, consistent with the principle of separation of functions embodied
in the Administrative Procedure Act. Where the parties to a
proceeding waive their right to such separation, the operating
division which participated in the proceeding may assist in the
drafting of the Commission's decision. The Commission's opinions
are publicly released and are distributed to the press and to persons on the Commission's mailing list.
Set forth below are statistics regarding administrative proceedings with respect to brokers and dealers and investment advisers
pending during fiscal 1971.
Brokers and Dealers
Proceedings pending at beginning of fiscal year -------------------Proceedings instituted during fiscal year
Sub-total

_
_

Proceedings

_

closed during fiscal year

Proceedings pending at end of fiscal year -------------------------

97
167
264

106
158

--

106

SECURITIES

AND EXCHANGE

COMMISSION

Actions taken during fiscal year with respect to broker-dealers
individuals:
Registrations
revoked
Registrations revoked and firms expelled from NASD
Registration revoked and firm expelled from stock exchange
Registration revoked and firm expelled from NASD and stock
exchange

and

Registrations suspended for periods of time
Registrants censured

_
_
_
_

SO
5
1
1

_
_

40

Withdrawal of registration permitted and proceedings discontinued __
Nonregistered broker-dealer suspended
_
Registra tion cancelled
_
Registrations
denied
_
Individuals barred
_
Individuals suspended
_
_
Individuals censured

15

4
1

1
3
78

100
21
300

Total

Investment Advisers
Proceedings pending at beginning of fiscal year
Proceedings instituted during fiscal year
Sub-total

_
_
_

Proceedings

_

27
9

_

18

_
_

3
5
1

closed during fiscal year

Proceedings pending at end of fiscal year
Actions taken during fiscal year with respect to investment
Registrations
revoked
Registrations
suspended
Proceedings

5
22

advisers:

discontinued due to death of respondent

Total

_

9

Certain of the more noteworthy administrative proceedings
pending during the fiscal year and significant decisions rendered
by the Commission during the year or shortly thereafter are
described below:
In a decision of particular significance, Investors Management
Lynch case),
Co., Inc," (the so-called Douglas Aircraft-Merrill
the Commission addressed itself to the responsibility of "tippees",
i.e., persons other than corporate insiders who receive non-public
corporate information, under the antifraud provisions of the
Federal securities laws. Following the issuance of the hearing
examiner's initial decision, from which no appeal was taken to the
Commission by any of the parties, the Commission, sua sponte,
decided to review the legal issues and express its views on them
because of their significant implications for the securities industry
and the investing public.
5

Securities Exchange Act Release No. 9267 (July 29, 1971).

THIRTY-SEVENTH

ANNUAL

REPORT

107

The essential facts as found by the hearing examiner were that
from June 21 through June 23, 1966, institutional salesmen for
Merrill Lynch, Pierce, Fenner & Smith, Inc. conveyed to the
respondents (investment companies, investment advisers and
hedge funds) material non-public information, which Merrill
Lynch had received from Douglas Aircraft Co., in its capacity
as managing underwriter of a proposed offering of Douglas
securities, concerning substantially reduced earnings for the first
six months of 1966 and lowered earnings projections for 1966
and 1967. The respondents thereupon sold virtually their entire
holdings in Douglas stock (133,400 shares) and sold short 21,100
shares prior to the public release of the information on June 24,
for an aggregate price of more than $13.3 million. The examiner
held that 12 of the respondents had willfully violated the antifraud provisions of the Federal securities laws and should be
censured."
In its decision the Commission held that the antifraud proscriptions against the use of inside information apply not only to those
persons who occupy a special relationship to an issuer but also to
others who receive inside information," The recipient of material
non-public corporate information violates the antifraud provisions
when such information is a factor in his decision to effect a
securities transaction and he knows or has reason to know that
such information is non-public and "had been obtained improperly
by selective revelation or otherwise." The Commission noted that
its formulation would clearly attach responsibility in a situation
where the recipient knew or had reason to know the information
was obtained by industrial espionage, commercial bribery or the
like, and observed that there could be potential responsibility
where persons who innocently corne into possession of information
which they have reason to know is intended to be confidential use
that information.
In holding that the Douglas Aircraft adverse earnings information was material, the Commission indicated that it considered
6 The examiner dismissed the proceedings against one respondent who had
made no use of the information obtained from Merrill Lynch, and he discontinued the proceedings against two respondents who merely were in
control relationships to some of the violators, holding that no sanction was
warranted as to them.
7 With respect to the disposition of the proceedings against Merrill Lynch
and certain of its employees, see Securities Exchang-e Act Release No. 8459
(November 25, 1968), discussed in the 34th Annual Report, pp. 8-9. See also
City Associates, Securities Exchange Act Release No. 8509 (January 31,
1969).

108

SECURITIES

AND EXCHANGE COMMISSION

the following factors: the degree of specificity of the information;
the extent to which it differed from publicly available information; and its reliability in view of its nature, source and the
circumstances under which it was received. The Commission
further indicated that this information was of such an extraordinary nature that its significance was immediately clear, and
that it was not merely one link in a chain of analytical information. In determining that the earnings information was non-public,
the Commission, relying upon the test set forth in the Second
Circuit's decision in S.E.C. v. Texas Gul] Sulphur CO.,8held that
"information is non-public when it has not been disseminated
in a manner making it available to investors generally". Here
the earnings information did not become available to the investing
public until after the issuance of a press release by Douglas on
June 24.
In discussing the tippees' awareness of the fact that the information they obtained from Merrill Lynch was non-public, the
Commission noted that respondents knew that Merrill Lynch
was the prospective underwriter of an imminent Douglas Aircraft
debenture offering, and also knew that underwriters customarily
receive non-public information from issuers during the course of
the preparation of public offerings.
The Commission stated that it appreciated concerns which
had been expressed for the free flow of corporate information
throughout the financial community and the need to provide
public investors and their financial advisers with the most accurate and complete factual basis upon which to make investment
decisions. "In some cases, however, there may be valid corporate
reasons for the nondisclosure of material information." The Commission indicated that where such reasons exist, it would not
ordinarily consider it to be an antifraud violation for an issuer
to refrain from making public disclosure, but that it was necessary to ensure that there be no improper use of such undisclosed
information for non-corporate purposes.
In determining whether the information received was a factor
in respondents' investment decisions, the Commission stated that
where a securities transaction of the kind consistent with the
nature of the information (e.z., the sales and short sales by the
respondents after receiving the adverse information concerning
Douglas Aircraft's earnings) is effected by the recipient of inside
information prior to its public dissemination, an inference arises
8401 F.2d 833 (C.A. 2, 1968), eert. denied 394 U.S. 796 (1969).

THIRTY-SEVENTH ANNUAL REPORT

109

that the information was a factor, and that in this case respondents did not overcome that inference by countervailing evidence.
The Commission rejected respondents' argument that they had
a fiduciary duty to their clients to sell their Douglas stock upon
learning of the poor Douglas earnings, holding that the obligations
of a fiduciary do not include performing an illegal act.
The Commission affirmed the examiner's decision that each of
the respondents should be censured.
In a concurring opinion, former Commissioner Smith placed
emphasis upon the respondents' awareness of Merrill Lynch's
special relationship with Douglas Aircraft, and stated that he
would hold that tippees are liable when they know or have reason
to know that the inside information became available to them in
breach of a duty owed to the corporation not to disclose or use
the information for non-corporate purposes. Commissioner Smith
would have also required proof that the information substantially
contributed to the recipient's decision to buy or sell.
In another significant decision, the Commission addressed itself
to the responsibilities of banks in connection with the distribution
of unregistered securities. In Southern California First National
Bank of San Diego,9 the Commission for the first time instituted
administrative proceedings against a bank. The bank, without
admitting or denying the charges, consented to findings of violations of the Securities Act registration provisions as alleged in
the order for proceedings, and to an order censuring it.
The Commission found that the bank had participated in an
unlawful distribution of unregistered securities in 1968,by selling
20,000 shares of common stock of Mastercraft Electronics Corp.
through an account which it maintained with a brokerage firm.
The shares were sold purportedly for an employee of Mastercraft,
although he was apparently used as a nominee by persons engaged
in a large-scale distribution of unregistered Mastercraft stock.
Two sell orders for the employee's account, each covering 10,000
shares, were placed with the bank by a customer of the bank by
telephone from New York. Although the customer gave no information concerning the employee to the bank officialhandling the
transaction, who did not know the employee, the officialfailed to
inquire whether the employee was connected with Mastercraft or
into the circumstances of the transaction. The customer directed
the bank to make its checks for the proceeds of sales payable to
the employee, but to send them in part to an individual with the
same last name as the customer and in part to c/o an individual
9

Securities Exchange Act Release No. 9289 (August 16, 1971).

110

SECURITIES

AND EXCHANGE

COMMISSION

who was an officer and director of Mastercraft and its house
counsel.
The Commission noted that it appeared that the use of bank
brokerage accounts for transactions by bank customers or other
persons was widespread and that often the banks did not disclose
the seller's name to executing brokers, and it pointed out that
such practice may provide essentially unregulated channels of
distribution for securities. It stated that if banks wish to maintain
brokerage accounts for the convenience of their customers or
others, it is incumbent upon them to take precautions to avoid
the use of such accounts in connection with unlawful distributions
of unregistered securities. The Commission held that while the
nature of the inquiry to be undertaken by a bank varies with the
circumstances of particular cases,
"Generally speaking, it would seem that the bank would be expected
to follow procedures substantially equivalent to those which we have
required broker-dealers to establish and maintain ... We would consider
that, alternatively, a bank could meet its responsibilities by requesting
the broker-dealer with which it maintains its account to conduct the
necessary investigation of the circumstances surrounding a proposed
securities transaction, of course with the full cooperation of the bank."

The Commissionnoted that in this case not even the most elementary safeguards were observed, despite the presence of many
"red flags."
In Haight & Co., Inc.,1 the Commissionrevoked the respondent
firm's broker-dealer registration and barred nine of the ten individual respondents from being associated with any broker or
dealer for violations of the antifraud and other provisions of the
Federal securities laws.
The Commissionfound, among other things, that the respondents had engaged in a scheme to defraud customers by holding
themselves out as financial planners who would exercise their
talents to make the best choicesfor their clients from all available
securities, when in fact the firm had no research staff and the
respondents' efforts were directed at liquidating clients' portfolios and utilizing the proceeds and their clients' other assets to
purchase securities which would yield respondents the greatest
profits, in some instances in complete disregard of the clients'
stated investment objectives. This scheme was implemented by,
10

Securities

Exchange

Act Release No. 9082 (February 19, 1971), af!'d
denied. Petitions for

without opinion (C.A.D.C., June 30, 1971), rehearing
certiorari filed November 9 and 10, 1971.

THIRTY-SEVENTH

ANNUAL

111

REPORT

among other things, the firm's advertising and its training program for salesmen.
The firm created sales quotas and other inducements designed
to spur its salesmen to generate a greater volume of transactions
that would earn a high return for the firm. The sales staff was
taught by principals of the firm to utilize a variety of high pressure and fraudulent tactics to obtain financial planning clients
and then induce them to convert their assets into securities yielding respondents high profits. For example, salesmen were told to
appeal to the prospect's fears and greed, to give clients only such
facts as were necessary to support a sales presentation, and to
dominate the interview, dramatize the facts, appeal to the client's
sense of prestige and create a sense of urgency. The salesmen
were told that, in selling, emotion was more important than logic,
and that "an ounce of enthusiasm at the proper time is worth a
pound of knowledge."
In Quinn & Co., Inc.F" the Commission held that a brokerage
firm cannot avail itself of certain exemptions for brokers and
dealers from the securities registration provisions of the Securities Act of 1933 where it is aware of circumstances indicating
that a selling customer is engaged in a distribution of unregistered securities.
Based on stipulated facts, the Commission found that in 1968
the firm effected sales of 25,000 shares of unregistered stock of
Mountain States Development Co. for the account of a customer
who had received the stock in exchange for properties sold by
him to the issuer. The Commission stated that it was clear that
the customer intended to resell the shares on the open market as
soon as possible in order to obtain cash for the properties he had
sold. Thus, his acceptance of the stock and immediate resale for
cash did not differ in essence from an arrangement whereby the
issuer sold the stock to the public for cash and used the cash so
raised to buy the properties, an arrangement which clearly would
have required registration. Under the circumstances, the customer
was an "underwriter," regardless of whether, as claimed, he was
deceived by the issuer as to the saleability of the stock without
registration, and no exemption was available to the respondent
broker-dealer which was aware of the pertinent facts.
The Commission stated that respondent was not entitled to rely
on the absence of any restrictive or cautionary legends on the
Mountain certificates. While such a legend or instructions to trans11 Securities
Exchange Act Release
pending, C.A. 10, No. 71-1090.

450-484

0 - 72 - 9

No. 9062 (January

25, 1971),

app.

112

SECURITIES AND EXCHANGE COMMISSION

fer officesmay serve as useful devices by issuers to alert buyers
to the restricted character of unregistered securities and to prevent violations of the registration requirements, the failure of an
issuer to take such measures cannot relieve a broker-dealer from
his duty as a professional in the securities business to make a
reasonable inquiry into facts known to him indicating that he
is participating in an illegal sale of unregistered securities.
In view of certain mitigating factors, the Commission suspended the firm from NASD membership for 15 days and suspended a principal of the firm who had handled the transactions
from association with any broker or dealer for 20 days.
In a case involving "interpositioning," the Commission barred
Edward Sinclair, who was an order clerk in the over-the-counter
department of Filor, Bullard and Smyth, from association with
any broker-dealer.v' It also barred two individuals who held
similar positions with another firm.IS
According to the Commission's decision, Sinclair, in order to
increase business for Filor on which he would receive commissions, entered into a reciprocal arrangement with Holt, Rose &
Co., then a registered broker-dealer, under which Hoit directed
listed business to Filor, and Sinclair directed over-the-counter
business to Hoit, When he directed a transaction to Hoit, Sinclair
first would obtain quotations from at least three market-makers
in the stock, and, contrary to Filor's instructions, offer to deal
with Hoit at the best quotation obtained even though Hoit did not
make a market in the stock. The Commissionfound that in 1965
Hoit was interposed between Filor's customers and the best available market in 189 transactions, at a profit to itself which generally ranged from lis to 1h and reached a high of 51h, for a total
profit of about $8,500. The Commissionfurther found that in 90
percent of these transactions, Hoit executed the trade simultaneously or within 10 minutes with a market-maker, in many
instances one from whom Sinclair had obtained a quotation.
Stressing that it "cannot sanction any erosion of the broker's
obligation to secure the best execution for his customers," the
Commissionheld that "the short amount of time needed by Hoit
to better the so-called 'best price' obtained by Sinclair would seem
12 Securities Exchange Act Release No. 9115 (March 24, 1971), af!'d 444
F.2d 399 (C.A. 2, 1971). The court's decision on appeal is discussed at p.

116, infra.
13 For disposition of the proceedings against the brokerage firm respondents, see Securities Exchange Act Releases Nos. 8489 (January 8, 1969) and
8563 (April 7, 1969).

THIRTY-SEVENTH

ANNUAL REPORT

113

to indicate that the quotations recorded on the order tickets by
Sinclair were false, or that he did not negotiate with the dealers
from whom he obtained quotations, or that he did not negotiate in
good faith to ascertain the best price obtainable."
According to the decision, Sinclair, in order to conceal the
interpositioning from his supervisor, falsely listed on the order
ticket as the executing dealer a market-maker (usually one he
called for a quotation), while entering Hoit's name on the copy
of the ticket from which accounting entries were made and confirmations sent.
The two other respondents were found to have interposed Hoit
in 1,456 transactions between October 1963 and February 1966
pursuant to a secret arrangement under which Hoit paid them
25 percent of its gross profits on such business, or about $12,000
to each of them, and to have violated the Commission's recordkeeping requirements.
In a number of cases pending during the fiscal year, the alleged
misconduct included serious manipulations and other improper
activities inconsistent with the maintenance of fair and honest
securities markets. Among these cases were the following proceedings, all of which were disposed of during or shortly after
the fiscal year on the basis of settlement offers and consents.
In proceedings with respect to Nadel & Co., four other brokerdealer firms and 24 individuals, the Commission's order included
staff allegations charging the respondents variously with violations of the registration and/or antifraud provisions of the securities laws in the distribution of and manipulation of the market
for securities of Computer Counseling, Inc.
Computer Counseling made a purported public offering of
100,000shares of its common stock in reliance on the Regulation
A exemption from the registration provisions of the Securities
Act. In its offering circular, it represented that these shares
would be offered to the public without the use of an underwriter.
However, according to the Commission's decisions.t- certain of
the respondents underwrote at least 55,000 of the shares, and a
substantial portion of those shares was withheld and purchased
at the offering price by them or persons affiliated with them.
Thereafter, most of the withheld shares were sold at far higher
prices without disclosure of the profits realized. Certain respondents manipulated the market in Computer stock and made misrepresentations in connection with transactions in such stock.
14 The respondents consented to the Commission's findings, for the most
part without admitting or denying the charges against them.

114

SECURITIES

AND EXCHANGE

COMMISSION

The sanctions imposed by the Commission ranged from partial
suspension of operations for 5 days to revocation of registration
for the broker-dealer respondents and from censure to bar from
broker-dealer association for the individual respondenta.P
In Brand, Grumet & Seigel, Inc., the firm, two of its officers and
a registered representative were charged, among other things,
with manipulation of the market for the securities of L' Aiglon
Apparel, Inc. which were listed and traded on the American
Stock Exchange. The order charged that as part of the manipulative scheme, respondents effected transactions in L'Aiglon stock
which involved no change in beneficial ownership and which
raised the price of the stock and entered purchase and sale orders
for such stock with the knowledge that orders of substantially
the same size, at substantially the same time and price, for the
sale and purchase of that stock had been or would be entered.
It was alleged that respondents effected these and other transactions for the purpose of creating a false and misleading appearance of active trading in L'Aiglon stock and for the purpose of
inducing others to purchase such stock. Pursuant to respondents'
offer of settlement, in which they consented to findings of violations as charged without admitting or denying the allegations,
the Commission revoked the firm's registration, suspended the
individual respondents for periods of from 2 to 12 months and
imposed additional restrictions on those respondents."
The proceedings respecting J. H. Rapp Co. and its two principals involved among other things violations of registration and
antifraud provisions of the Federal securities laws arising out
of transactions in common stock of LesStuds Corporation (now
Trans-Southern Holding Corp.) . According to the Commission's
decision.!" shortly after LesStuds' incorporation in June 1969, one
of the respondents discussed with its president a method of making LesStuds a publicly-held corporation by having its shares
transferred to a publicly-held company which would then "spinoff" those shares to its stockholders. Thereafter, 75,000 LesStuds
shares were exchanged for shares of a wholly-owned subsidiary
15 See Securities Exchange Act Releases Nos. 8922 (July 2, 1970); 8963
(August 19, 1970) ; 8964 (August 19, 1970) ; 9018 (November 6, 1970); 9067
(January 27, 1971); 9106 (March 15, 1971); 9120 (March 30, 1971); and
9296 (August 19, 1971).
16 Securities Exchange Act Release No. 9106 (March 15, 1971).
17 Securities Exchange Act Releases Nos. 9209 (June 15, 1971) and 9343
(September 24,1971). Respondents consented to the findings and to sanctions
without admitting or denying the allegations in the order for proceedings.

THIRTY-SEVENTH

ANNUAL

REPORT

115

of Atomic Fuel Extraction Corp., to which the respondent had
referred the president of LesStuds. The subsidiary was formed
for the sole purpose of effecting this exchange. The LesStuds
shares were then distributed to the Atomic stockholders, and
active trading in the shares began with no information on LesStuds being available to the investing public. As part of its trading in such shares, the Rapp firm purchased from officers of
Atomic over 16,000 LesStuds shares received by them in the
"spin-off", and resold such shares to customers and other brokerdealers.
Beginning in July 1969, the Rapp firm entered quotations for
LesStuds stock in the pink sheets published by the National Quotation Bureau, Inc. at arbitrary prices which bore no reasonable
relationship to the actual value of the stock. Respondents purchased LesStuds stock from persons engaged in its illegal distribution at prices far below those which respondents artificially
maintained in the sheets, sold such stock and other shares of
such stock to customers of the firm and others at such inflated
levels, and used fictitious and nominee accounts to conceal the
identity of buyers and sellers. In addition, respondents made
materially false and misleading statements.
The Commission revoked the registration of the firm and barred
its principals from association with any broker or dealer.
Judicial Review of Administrative Decisions.-In Jaffee & Co.
and Wilton L. Jaffee, Jr. v. S.E.C.,18 the Court of Appeals for the
Second Circuit affirmed that part of the Commission's order 19
which imposed sanctions on Mr. Jaffee for violations of Rule
10b-6 under the Securities Exchange Act. The court rejected
Jaffee's contention that his purchases of Solitron Devices, Inc.
stock in the course of a registered secondary offering of such
stock held by him and other stockholders were not proscribed
because he had no present intent to sell his registered shares immediately and so had not engaged in a "distribution" within the
meaning of Rule 10b-6. The court held that Jaffee's "registration
of shares owned by him implied an intention to sell or distribute .... " The court also rejected his argument that no violation
of the rule had been established because manipulative intent or
fraudulent conduct had not been shown. It stated (446 F.2d at
391) :
"The Commission need not have shown that J affee actually intended to
defraud the marketplace through his purchases. The rule proscribes and
18446
19

F.2d 387 (C.A. 2, 1971).
See 36th Annual Report, pp, 101-102.

116

SECURITIES

AND EXCHANGE COMMISSION

clearly defines a practice. . . . Where the rule applies, its prohibition
absolute."

is

Reversing that part of the Commission's order which imposed
sanctions on Jaffee & Co., a registered broker-dealer in which
Jaffee's interest exceeded 90 percent but which had not been in
existence at the time of his violations, the court held that the
order instituting the Commission's proceedings had not afforded
Jaffee & Co. adequate notice that a sanction might be imposed
against the firm solely on the basis of Jaffee's conduct.
In Sinclair v. S.E.C.,2 the Court of Appeals for the Second
Circuit affirmed an order of the Commission 21 barring Edward
Sinclair, who was an order clerk in the over-the-counter trading
department of a registered broker-dealer, from further association
with any broker or dealer. The court held that substantial evidence in the record supported the Commission's findings that
Sinclair had violated the antifraud provisions of the federal
securities laws when he interposed another broker-dealer between
his firm's customers and the executing dealers, or market-makers,
in certain over-the-counter securities, thereby causing customers
to pay higher prices for securities purchased or to receive lower
prices for securities sold than had he dealt directly with those
dealers. The court also agreed with the Commission's holding
that Sinclair's falsification of the names of executing dealers on
order tickets was a violation of the recordkeeping requirements
of the Securities Exchange Act. The court found no merit in
Sinclair's contention that a commissioner had prejudged Sinclair's case by participating in an earlier Commission decision
to accept an offer of settlement submitted by another respondent
in the same administrative proceeding. The court noted that the
settlement was based upon facts "stipulated by the parties solely
for the particular settlement, just as is the practice in the negotiation of consent decrees" and that the Commission's decision
accepting the offer of settlement stated that it was not binding
on the other respondents.
In Levine v. S.E.C.,22 the Court of Appeals for the Second
Circuit affirmed the Commission's holding that a broker-dealer
firm, two of its officers and a salesman had violated antifraud
provisions of the securities laws as a result of the sale of certain
securities by material false representations including many contained in a brochure prepared by the issuer and distributed by
the broker-dealer to its customers. The court rejected petitioners'
20 444 F .2d 399 (C.A. 2, 1971).
21 See pp. 112-113, supra.
22436 F. 2d 88 (C.A. 2, 1971).

THIRTY-SEVENTH

ANNUAL REPORT

117

argument that they had a right to rely on statements made by
the management of the company concerning its business affairs,
noting that one of the principals of the broker-dealer had personal
knowledge of the company's financial affairs and indicating that
certain of the matters discussed in the brochure could have been
checked with others. The court also held that the hearing examiner had properly refused to allow petitioners to introduce the
testimony of numerous investors that certain misrepresentations
had not been made to them, stating that their testimony would
not have negated the testimony of other investors who had testified that misrepresentations had been made to them. The court
rejected a claim that the petitioners had been deprived of due
process because their books and records had been subpoenaed by
the New York State Attorney General and had been made available to the Commission's staff but not to the petitioners. It noted
that the records were never in the possession of or under the
control of the Commission and that the petitioners failed to show
that they could not have examined the records at the Attorney
General's Office.
In Stead v. S.E.C.,23 the Court of Appeals for the Tenth Circuit
affirmed an order of the Commission imposing sanctions upon
Stead, a securities salesman. The court sustained the Commission's finding that Stead had violated the registration provisions
of the Securities Act by selling unregistered securities for an
account controlled by the issuer. The fact that Stead called the
transfer agent and was advised that the securities were freely
tradeable was held to be "obviously not a sufficient inquiry." The
court also sustained the Commission's finding that Stead willfully
aided and abetted his firm's violations of the recordkeeping provisions of the Securities Exchange Act in connection with errors
in Stead's trading account with the firm, of which he was aware.
CIVIL PROCEEDINGS

Each of the several statutes administered by the Commission
authorizes the Commission to seek injunctions in the Federal
district courts against continuing or threatened violations of those
statutes or the Commission's rules thereunder. During the past
fiscal year the Commission instituted a total of 140 injunctive
actions." A substantial number of these actions were designed to
F.2d 713 (C.A. 10, 1971), petition for certiorari pending.
In addition, the Commission instituted eight subpoena enforcement actions and two civil contempt proceedings in the U. S. district courts. More
detailed statistics regarding the Commission's civil litigation activities are
contained in Appendix tables 10-12.
23444

24

118

SECURITIES

AND EXCHANGE

COMMISSION

restrain further violations of the registration or antifraud provisions of the Securities Act and Securities Exchange Act; others
sought injunctions against operation of broker-dealers in violation
of net capital or other investor protection requirements. In appropriate cases the Commission also sought ancillary relief, including the appointment of a receiver, or court orders requiring
that rescission be offered to securities purchasers or that profits
unlawfully obtained be disgorged.
The nature of some of the more noteworthy of these actions,
developments in actions instituted in prior years, and certain
appellate decisions in injunctive proceedings, are summarized below.
In S.E.C. v. Parvin Dohrmann Company,25 earlier aspects of
which were discussed in the last annual report.s" the United States
District Court for the Southern District of New York entered a
final judgment in December 1970 against eight of the defendants,
upon their consent, providing essentially all of the broad relief
sought in the Commission's complaint. That complaint had alleged, among other things, that those defendants who were part
of a group with Delbert W. Coleman 27 that controlled Parvin
Dohrmann." were to receive a cash premium for their shares of
the company's stock while the uninformed shareholders of the
company were to receive shares of Denny's Restaurants, Inc.
stock, worth substantially less.
The judgment required these defendants to disgorge virtually
all of the company's shares they had purchased through Coleman,
(and, as to defendant Edward Torres, who had not acquired his
shares through Coleman, to disgorge approximately 1;3 of his
shares-roughly
corresponding to the premium he was to have
received for the sale of his shares), such shares to be turned over
to a court-appointed trustee for ultimate distribution to those
beneficial shareholders of the company as of July 10, 1969 (the
date of the alleged unlawful preference) who had no connection
with Coleman, the other defendants, or any of the unlawful
schemes alleged in the Commission's complaint. These defendants
were permitted to keep an installment of the sale price they had
received from defendant Butler that was roughly equivalent to
25

S.D.N.Y., 69 Civ. 4543 (ELP).

2636th Annual Report, pp. 109-110.
27In October 1969, the court entered a final judgment of permanent injunction against Coleman, upon his consent, providing all the relief demanded
by the Commission against him in its complaint.
28 In 1970, the company's name was changed to Recrion Corporation.

THIRTY-SEVENTH

ANNUAL

REPORT

119

the cost to them of their shares plus interest. The court's order
further required these defendants to divest themselves, within 1
year, of their remaining holdings of the company's shares; to
refrain from any future purchase or acquisition of the stock of
the company, its assigns, successors or subsidiaries; to refrain
from holding any position or office in the company, its assigns,
subsidiaries and successors; and to relinquish any and all claims
of any nature that they had against the company. The decree also
enjoined the defendants from any future violations of those
provisions of the federal securities laws which they had allegedly
violated, with respect to any securities.
Consent judgments of permanent injunction were also entered
against four other defendants, providing essentially all the relief
demanded in the complaint as to them. Nathan Voloshen, one of
the non-consenting defendants, has died, and the case remains
open as to only one defendant, Albert Parvin.
In S.E.C. v. Texas Gulf Sulphur CompanY,29 the Court of Appeals for the Second Circuit affirmed (except as to one defendant)
the decision of the United States District Court for the Southern
District of New York,so which had found Texas Gulf to have
violated Section 10 (b) of the Securities Exchange Act and Rule
10b-5 thereunder in the release of a false and misleading press
release on April 12, 1964. The court also affirmed the district
court's order that certain officers and employees of the company
who had violated the antifraud provisions be required to disgorge
the profits they made from the purchase of Texas Gulf stock and
calls on such stock on the basis of material, non-public information about the company. The court of appeals emphasized:
"It would severely defeat the purposes of the Act if a violator of Rule
10b-5 were allowed to retain the profits from his violation."

A defendant who had given tips to others as well as purchasing
stock for himself was required to disgorge both his own profits
and those of his tippees. The court stated that,
"without such a remedy, insiders could easily evade their duty to refrain
from trading on the basis of inside information. Either the transactions
so traded could be concluded by a relative or an acquaintance of the
insider, or implied understandings could arise under which reciprocal tips
between insiders in different corporations could be given."

With respect to a defendant who had accepted a stock option
29446 F.2d 1301 (C.A. 2,1971),
certiorari denied, 40 U.S.L.W. 3288 (Dec.
14,1971).
so See 36th Annual Report, pp. 116-117.

120

SECURITIES AND EXCHANGE COMMISSION

while in the possession of inside information, the court of appeals,
confessing error as to its previous determination that the option
should be cancelled, remanded the matter to the district court for
a hearing on the question of appropriate remedy.
After a trustee had been appointed, as previously reported,
in S.E.C. v. Golconda Mining CO.,31he attempted to locate all
persons who had traded with the defendants during the period
of the alleged antifraud violations in order to pay such persons a
share of the fund provided by defendants and consisting of profits
which the Commission alleged resulted from the use of inside
information in violation of Rule 10b-5 under the Securities Exchange Act. On May 27, 1971, the district court ruled that to
the extent persons entitled to share in the fund could not be found,
any remaining moneys should be deposited in the registry of the
court and ultimately paid over to the Treasury of the United
States to be held pursuant to 28 U.S.C. ~~
2041 and 2042 for the
benefit of those persons. The court refused to permit the return
of any part of the fund to defendants, on the ground that this
would impair the deterrent impact of the court's judgment, even
though the judgment had been entered upon defendants' consent.
In S.E.C. v. Harwyn Industries, Inc.,32 the Commission alleged
that, in violation of the registration provisions of the Securities
Act, Harwyn had spun-off shares of stock of four subsidiary companies to its shareholders in consummation of arrangements
pursuant to which certain persons received controlling blocks of
stock in the spun-off companies in exchange for assets given to
these companies. Although the district court denied the Commission's motion for preliminary relief, it held that these transactions
violated Section 5 of the Securities Act since the unregistered
spin-off's were "sales" within the meaning of the Act. The court
found that the effect of each spin-off was to convert a Harwyn
subsidiary into a publicly-held company whose shares were then
actively traded in the over-the-counter market. The transactions
were sales or dispositions of a security for value, the defendants
realizing benefits in the form of a contribution of assets to each
subsidiary and the creation of a public market in the subsidiary's
shares. Harwyn, as the controlling company of each subsidiary,
was held to be an "underwriter" within the meaning of the Act
81327 F. Supp. 257 (S.D.N.Y., 1971). See 36th Annual Report, p, 113;
85th Annual Report, pp, 59-60; 32nd Annual Report, p. 123; 31st Annual
Report, p, 123.
32326 F. Supp.943 (S.D.N.Y., 1971).

THIRTY-SEVENTH

ANNUAL REPORT

121

and the other defendants were found to have participated in the
violations.
In S.E.C. v. Liberty Equities Corporation,83 the Commission
filed a complaint against 12 defendants to enjoin further violations of the antifraud, proxy, reporting and registration provisions of the federal securities laws. The defendants included
four officers and directors of Liberty Equities; Peat, Marwick,
Mitchell & Co., a national accounting firm; National Savings &
Trust Co., a national bank; and four broker-dealers. The Commission alleged, inter alia, that certain of the company's financial
statements certified by Peat, Marwick showed as current assets
non-negotiable, non-interest bearing certificates of deposit which
were purchased from National Savings with the proceeds of a
14-month 6 percent loan in the amount of the certificates, obtained
on the same day. The certificates of deposit in fact were pledged
as collateral for the loan, but the pledge was not disclosed in the
certified statements. The complaint alleged that the entire transaction was a sham, entered into only to lend the appearance of
bolstering the company's financial position. All of the defendants
except one-against whom the case is still pending-have consented to the entry of final judgments of permanent injunction
against further violations of the provisions involved. In addition,
Peat, Marwick withdrew its certification of the company's financial statements challenged by the Commission.
In S.E.C. v. Bangor Punta Corp.,84 the United States District
Court for the Southern District of New York on August 25, 1971
entered judgment after trial ordering Bangor Punta to make an
offer of rescission to shareholders of the Piper Aircraft Co. who
had exchanged their shares for a package of Bangor Punta securities pursuant to a registered exchange offer in July 1969. The
court found that Bangor Punta's registration statement and
prospectus covering the exchange offer were materially false and
misleading, in that the $18.4million carrying value which Bangor
Punta had assigned in its financial statements, included in the
prospectus, to its investment in the Bangor and Aroostook Railroad (based on an appraisal of 1965 fair market value) had
become "obsolete to the point of being misleading." The circumstances surrounding Bangor Punta's negotiations in May and
June 1969 for disposition of the railroad had indicated that the
83 D.D.C., No. 2351-70. See Litigation Releases Nos. 4709 (August 6, 1970),
4810 (November 16, 1970), 4811 (November 16, 1970) and 4999 (May 6,

1971).
84331

F. Supp.l154

(S.D.N.Y.. 1971).

122

SECURITIES

AND EXCHANGE

COMMISSION

only willing buyer would pay no more than $5 million. Concluding, however, that this deficiency was not purposeful, the court
denied the Commission's request for injunctive relief.
In S.E.C. v. Home-Stake 1970 Proqram. Operating Corporation,35 the Commission sought, and by consent obtained, injunctions against violations of the registration requirements of the
Securities Act and antifraud provisions of the Securities Exchange Act in the offer and sale of units of participation in a
program of oil and gas drilling projects. The defendants admitted
that, in violation of Section 5 of the Securities Act, promotional
sales literature was disseminated and sales of units of participation were made before a registration statement had become effective. No violation of the antifraud provisions was admitted. The
defendants did admit, however, that estimates of future recoverable oil reserves contained in the promotional sales literature,
other than reserves actually proven, were extremely uncertain
and speculative.
In accordance with the final judgment, the defendant corporation offered rescission to all persons who had purchased a participation in its "1970 Program," providing each purchaser a
prospectus that purported fully and accurately to describe the
oil and gas recovery projects that were to be included in the
Program. Thereafter, an order was entered directing that the
participants who elected to rescind be repaid an aggregate of
$5,609,000, including interest.
In S.E.C. v. Barraco & CO.,36 the Court of Appeals for the Tenth
Circuit reversed the judgment of the district court which had
dismissed the Commission's complaint for an injunction against
officers of a registered broker-dealer for aiding and abetting the
latter's violations of the Securities Exchange Act. The court
sustained the Commission's authority, pursuant to Section 21 (e)
of the Act, to obtain injunctions against those who participate in
or aid and abet violations of the securities laws. The case was
remanded to the district court for trial on the merits.
In S.E.C. v. Jam-Dol Oil & Gas, Inc.,37 a corporation and its
president had consented to the entry of a decree permanently
enjoining them from selling or offering to sell fractional undivided interests in oil, gas, and other mineral rights in violation
of the registration provisions of the Securities Act of 1933. About
8 months later, the defendants brought an action to dissolve the
D.D.C., No. 71-348, April 23, 1971.
F. 2d 97 (C.A. 10, 1971).
37433 F. 2d 304 (C.A. 10, 1970).

35

36438

THIRTY-SEVENTH

ANNUAL REPORT

123

consent decree, stating that they had complied with the securities
law and that the injunction was a continuing embarrassment to
them and might adversely affect the proposed sale of oil and gas
interests pursuant to a registration statement that they contemplated filing with the Commission. The district court set aside the
injunction. On appeal by the Commission, the Court of Appeals
for the Tenth Circuit remanded the case to the district court with
directions to vacate its order and to reinstate the injunction to
full force and effect. Reaffirming well-established judicial guidelines, the court pointed out that where modification or dissolution
of an injunctive decree is sought a strong showing is required that
there are no longer any substantial dangers and that the moving
party is exposed to severe hardships of extreme and unexpected
nature. The court stated that short-term compliance with the law
and a continuing embarrassment in present business relationships
because of an earlier dereliction were not enough.
Participation as Amicus Curiae.-The
Commission frequently
participates as amicus curiae in litigation between private parties
under the securities laws where it considers it important to present its views regarding the interpretation of the provisions involved. For the most part, such participation is in the appellate
courts. During fiscal 1971, the Commission filed amicus curiae
briefs in six cases.
In Chasins v. Smith, Ba1'ney & Co., Inc.,38 the Court of Appeals
for the Second Circuit held that the failure of a broker-dealer to
disclose its market-making activity in securities it recommended
in writing to a customer upon his request constituted a violation
of Section lO(b) of the Securities Exchange Act and Rule lOb-5
thereunder. On defendant's petition for rehearing, the Commission, as amicus curiae, noted its agreement with the result reached
by the court under the facts of the case, which established an
investment advisory relationship where the customer was relying
upon the broker's recommendations and hence should have been
advised of the broker's economic interest in the sale of securities
in which it was making a market. At the same time, the Commission expressed concern that the court's holding might be
construed broadly to hold a broker-dealer liable for its customers'
losses due to market declines solely because the broker had failed
to disclose that it was making a market in particular securities
the customers had purchased. The court of appeals denied the
petition for rehearing, but modified its initial opinion so as to
limit its holding to the facts in the case.
38438

F. 2d 1167 (C.A. 2, 1971).

124

SECURITIES

AND EXCHANGE

COMMISSION

In Superintendent

of Insurance v. Bankers Life & Casualty
the complaint had alleged that the named defendants had
engaged in a scheme whereby Manhattan Casualty Company, a
New York insurance company, was induced to sell nearly $5
million worth of its portfolio Treasury Bonds upon the misrepresentation that the proceeds of the sale would be invested for the
company in certificates of deposit. Instead, the complaint alleged,
the defendants intended to and in fact did misappropriate the
proceeds from the sale of these government bonds without disclosing this fact to Manhattan. The court of appeals, relying upon
its prior decision in Birnbaum v. Newport Steel Corp.,40 held that
"Rule 10b-5 was not intended to provide a remedy for schemes
amounting to no more than 'fraudulent mismanagement of corporate affairs.''' 41 The court of appeals further held that, although the creditors of Manhattan might have been defrauded by
the alleged scheme, the creditors would have to look to state law,
rather than Federal law, to ascertain whether any remedy was
available to them as a result of the alleged fraud. In its brief
amicus curiae in the Supreme Court, the Commission took the
position that the antifraud provisions of the Federal securities
laws were intended to cover all manipulative and deceptive devices
of whatever type if they were in connection with the purchase
or sale of securities and that the Superintendent of Insurance,
successor to all the rights of Manhattan, could maintain a suit
under the Federal securities laws on behalf of the company's
creditors.
In Levine v. Seilon,42 a former preferred shareholder of Seilon,
Inc. alleged that the company had violated Sections lOeb) and
14(e) of the Securities Exchange Act and Rule 10b-5 thereunder
by fraudulently inducing preferred shareholders to refrain from
selling their stock. Although allegedly leading such shareholders
to believe that Seilon would not redeem the preferred shares but
would instead make an offer to exchange the shares for common
stock, the company redeemed the preferred shares without making any exchange offer. On appeal from dismissal of the complaint,
the Commission as amicus curiae expressed the view that plaintiff had stated a claim of fraud "in connection with" the sale of
securities under Section 10 (b) and Rule 10b-5 because Seilon's
CO.,il9

39430 F. 2d 355 (C.A. 2, 1970), affirming 300 F. Supp. 1033 (S.D.N.Y.,
1969), petition for certiorari granted, 401 U.S. 973 (1971).
40193 F. 2d 461 (C.A. 2), certiorari denied, 343 U.S. 956 (1952).
41430
42439

F. 2d at 360.
F. 2d 328 (C.A. 2, 1971).

THIRTY-SEVENTH

ANNUAL REPORT

125

redemption resulted in a "forced sale" by the preferred shareholders and it had been alleged that the company's misrepresentations had affected plaintiff's investment judgment whether to sell
or hold the company's securities. The Commission also took the
position that a claim had been stated under Section 14 (e), governing tender offers, on the ground that this provision was not limited
in application to consummated tender offers but also included
fraudulent announcements of intent to make a tender offer, such
as the alleged representation in this case that Seilon would exchange its preferred shares for common stock.
The court of appeals, finding it unnecessary to consider either
of the Commission's positions, affirmed the dismissal of the complaint. It held that dismissal was proper because the complaint
did not assert any causal relation between the alleged fraud and
the raising of funds needed for redemption and because the complaint failed to allege recoverable damages in that it did not state
that the preferred shares had any investment value in excess of
their redemption price.
CRIMINAL PROCEEDINGS

The statutes administered by the Commission provide that the
Commission may transmit evidence of violations of any provisions
of these statutes to the Attorney General, who in turn may institute criminal proceedings. Where an investigation by the Commission's staff indicates that criminal prosecution is warranted,
a detailed report is prepared. After careful review by the Office of
Criminal Reference and Special Proceedings and the General
Counsel's Office, the report and the General Counsel's recommendations are considered by the Commission. If the Commission
believes criminal proceedings are warranted, the case is referred
to the Attorney General, who in turn refers the case to the appropriate U.S. Attorney. Commission employees familiar with
the case generally assist the U.S. Attorney in the presentation of
the facts to the grand jury, the preparation of legal memoranda
for use in the trial, the conduct of the trial, and the preparation
of briefs on appeal.
During the past fiscal year 22 cases were referred to the
Department of Justice for prosecution." As a result of these and
prior referrals, 16 indictments were returned against 83 defendants during the year. Convictions were obtained against 89 defendants in 32 cases. Convictions were affirmed in 5 cases, and
appeals were still pending in 9 other criminal cases at the close
of the year.
43

In addition, five criminal contempt actions were referred.

126

SECURITIES

AND EXCHANGE

COMMISSION

During the fiscal year, the Court of Appeals for the Seventh
Circuit, in U.S. v. Amick." affirmed among others the convictions
of Van C. Vollmer, former editor of an Indiana financial newspaper, and the Indiana Investor and Business News, Inc., its
publisher, for violating Section 17 (b) of the Securities Act by
publishing an article describing stock of Air and Space Underwriters, Inc. for consideration received from the issuer without
disclosing the receipt and amount of such consideration. The
court rejected the defendants' argument that Section 17 (b)
abridged the freedom of the press, contrary to the First Amendment, stating that, "The substantial interest of the investing
public in knowing whether an apparently objective statement
in the press concerning a security is motivated by promise of
payment is obvious. We see no significant abridgement of freedom
of the press in requiring disclosure of a promise of payment if
there has been one."
In another appellate decision;" the Court of Appeals for the
Eighth Circuit affirmed the convictions of and sentences of 35
and 25 years, respectively, imposed on Donald P. Smallwood and
Roy E. Lay. The defendants had been found guility of violations
of the antifraud and registration provisions of the Securities Act
of 1933 and the Mail Fraud Statute, in connection with the sale
of promissory notes of Diversified Brokers Company. In affirming
the sentences, the court stated :
"We recognize that the sentences ... are severe. But we are also mindful, as was the district court, that the hardship and suffering endured
by thousands of unsuspecting individuals, including many elderly persons,
as the result of the nefarious operations of Smallwood and Lay, was
also severe."

As reported in last year's annual report, Harry A. Lowther, Jr.
and three others were indicted for alleged violations of the Securities Act and the Securities Exchange Act in connection with the
offer and sale of common stock of Elkton Company, a corporate
shell which Lowther revived by causing it to acquire assets of
questionable value. During the fiscal year, Lowther, Wendell
Everett Lowry and Lowry Investments, Inc., a Colorado corporation, were convicted.v' These three convictions are presently on
appeal.
In a prosecution arising out of transactions in the securities of
Mooney Corporation, Hal Frances Rachal, an attorney, and Ed44
45
46

439 F.2d 351 (C.A. 7, 1971).
U.S. v. Smallwood, 443 F.2d 535 (C.A. 8, 1971).
D. Colorado.

THIRTY-SEVENTH

ANNUAL REPORT

127

ward B. Hunnicutt, an accountant, were convicted on each of 13
counts of an indictment charging violations and conspiracy to
violate the antifraud and registration provisions of the Securities
Act and the Mail Fraud Statute." Rachal sold stock of Mooney
Corporation by making false statements to the effect that the
issuer, a shell corporation, manufactured airplanes and was to be
listed on a stock exchange. Under the direction of Rachal and
Hunnicutt a false and misleading Form 10 and unaudited financial
statements were filed with the Commission. Rachal was sentenced
to five years in prison and fined $10,000, Hunnicut to three years
imprisonment and fined $5,000. Each was also assessed costs of
approximately $10,000.
Lengthy prison sentences were also meted out in a criminal case
involving the offer and sale of certificates of beneficial interest
in two Indiana real estate investment trusts, American National
Trust and Republic National Trust. Four defendants were convicted of violation of the Securities Act and the Mail Fraud
Statute. Calvin R. Mummert, who pled guilty to certain counts
during the course of the trial, received a ten-year suspended
sentence. Defendants Jack Aldridge, Samuel P. Good and James
J. Perrault were convicted by a jury and received prison sentences
of 40, 65 and 65 years, respectively." Kenneth A. Erickson and
Gordon William Schuetz were indicted during the fiscal year for
violations of the registration and antifraud provisions of the
Securities Act and the antifraud provisions of the Securities
Exchange Act in connection with the offer and sale of unregistered undivided fractional interests in oil and gas leases held
by Arch Creek Development Company.t" The indictment charges
that the sales promotion of these interests engaged in by Erickson, a gospel singer, and Schuetz, a traveling evangelist, was
surrounded by an aura of religion and was accomplished by means
of fraudulent misrepresentations. The Department of Justice is
presently seeking the extradition of Erickson who is a resident
of Canada.
The Commission has continued its efforts designed to assure
that injunctions which have been obtained by it are obeyed and
to have those who violate such injunctions held in contempt.
During the fiscal year, 11 persons were convicted of criminal
contempt for violating injunctions. Contempt proceedings with
respect to 12 others were pending at the end of the year. In one
D. Texas.
D. Indiana.
49 N.D. Ohio.

47

48

450-484 0 - 72 - 10

128

SECURITIES

AND EXCHANGE COMMISSION

case, a criminal contempt proceeding was filed during the :fiscal
year against Albert Silver, Vernon Brown and Turf Enterprises,
alleging violations of provisions of a permanent injunction entered in August 1969.50 It was alleged that subsequent to the
injunction, Silver and Brown continued to sell stock in Turf
Enterprises, using the proceeds to place wagers on horses at
various tracks in the United States and Canada. The court accepted a nolo contendere plea from Silver; the proceedings as to
Brown were pending as the year ended.
Organized Crime Program.-The Commission gives priority to
the investigation of cases where there is an indication that organized crime may be involved. Pursuant to Executive Order
11534,51 the Chairman of the Commissionwas designated in June
1970to be a member of the National Council on Organized Crime.
In that capacity, the Chairman and his designees have met with
other government officials to formulate a national strategy for
the elimination of organized crime. In this connection, members
of the staff have assisted in the development of plans regarding
better accounting and auditing procedures for gambling operations in the State of Nevada.
In fiscal 1970the Commission'sefforts with respect to organized
crime were intensified by the establishment of an organized crime
unit in its headquarters office to focus on the involvement of
organized crime in the securities markets. This unit acts as a
"back-up" unit to the various Justice Department "strike forces"
against organized crime and as an enforcement unit investigating
securities violations in which persons with organized crime associations are believed to be involved.
The Commission maintains close liaison with the organized
crime and racketeering section of the Department of Justice and
submits quarterly reports relating to organized crime investigations. During the 1971 fiscal year, the Commission had four enforcement staff members assigned to the New York Strike Force
against organized crime and one enforcement staff member assigned to Strike Force Number 18. Commission staff members,
including those assigned to the strike forces, played significant
roles in many cases involving persons reported to be associated
with organized crime.
Proposed Swiss Treaty.-Since approximately January 1969, a
representative of the Commissionhas participated with the State
50

D. Michigan.

5135

F.R. 8865, June 9, 1970.

THIRTY-SEVENTH

ANNUAL REPORT

129

Department and other agencies of the United States Government
in discussions looking toward a possible Treaty of Mutual Assistance in Criminal Matters between the United States and
Switzerland. It is believed that such a Treaty would be of assistance to the Commission in dealing with problems presented
by the use of Swiss financial institutions in connection with
securities transactions taking place in the United States.
The Commission's representative participated in a series of
informal discussions between U.S. and Swiss officials in Washington, D.C. and in Bern, Switzerland, which resulted in an informal
agreement by the working groups on an English text of it draft
treaty. Substantial further progress was made during the 1971
fiscal year. An additional round of informal discussions, looking
toward resolution of the remaining problems between the two
working groups, was scheduled for the fall of 1971.
DISCIPLINARY ACTION BY SELF.REGULATORY

ORGANIZATIONS

EXCHANGES

Although the Exchange Act does not provide for Commission
review of disciplinary action by exchanges, each national securities exchange reports to the Commission actions taken against
members and member firms and their associated persons for
violations of any rule of the exchange or of the Exchange Act or
of any rule or regulation under that Act.
During the fiscal year, seven exchanges reported 135 separate
actions, including impositions of fines in 90 cases ranging from
$10 to $50,000, with total fines aggregating $502,465; the revocation of 1 member firm and expulsion of 3 individuals; the suspension from membership of 7 member firms and 49 individuals; and
censure of 26 member firms. These exchanges also reported the
imposition of various other sanctions against 95 registered representatives and other employees of member firms.
NASD

The Commission receives from the NASD copies of its decisions
in all disciplinary actions against members and registered representatives. In general, such actions are based on allegations that
the respondents violated specified provisions of the NASD's Rules
of Fair Practice. Where violations are found, the NASD may
impose one or more sanctions upon a member, including expulsion, suspension, fine, or censure. If the violator is an individual, his registration as a representative may be suspended or
revoked, he may be suspended or barred from being associated
with any member, and he may be fined and/or censured. Under

130

SECURITIES

AND EXCHANGE

COMMISSION

Section 15A(b) (4) of the Exchange Act and the NASD's by-laws,
no broker-dealer may be admitted to or continued in NASD membership without Commission approval if he has been suspended
or expelled from membership in the NASD or a national securities
exchange; he is barred or suspended from association with a
broker or dealer, members of the NASD, or an exchange; his
registration as a broker-dealer has been denied, suspended, or
revoked; he has been found to be a cause of certain sanctions
imposed upon a broker-dealer by the Commission, the NASD, or
an exchange; or he has associated with him any person subject to
one of the above disqualifications.
During the past fiscal year the NASD reported to the Commission its final disposition of disciplinary complaints against 291
member firms and 206 individuals associated with member firms.
With respect to 24 members and 22 associated persons, complaints
were dismissed where the N ASD determined that the alleged
violations had not been established. In the remaining cases, violations were found and penalties were imposed on 267 members and
184 registered representatives or other individuals. The maximum
penalty of expulsion from membership was imposed against 16
members, and 26 members were suspended from membership for
periods ranging from 1 day to 5 years. In many of these cases,
substantial fines were also imposed. In another 209 cases, members were fined amounts ranging from $100 to $35,000. In 16
cases, the only sanction imposed was censure, although censure
was usually a secondary penalty where a more severe penalty was
also imposed.
A variety of penalties were also imposed on associated individuals found to have violated NASD rules. Seventeen individuals
were barred from association with any NASD member. The registrations of 27 registered representatives were revoked, and 48
representatives
had their registrations suspended for periods
ranging from 5 days to 2 years. Fines in various amounts were
also imposed against many revoked or suspended representatives.
In addition, 92 other representatives were censured and/or fined
amounts ranging from $100 to $10,000.
The number of final disciplinary actions reported to the Commission during the past fiscal year increased by approximately
37 percent over fiscal 1970. This increase is attributable in part
to the severe operational and financial conditions prevailing in
the securities industry during the past 2 years.
Commission Review of N ASD Disciplinary Action.-Section
15A (g) of the Exchange Act provides that disciplinary actions by

THIRTY-SEVENTH ANNUAL REPORT

131

the NASD are subject to review by the Commission on its own
motion or on the timely application of any aggrieved person. This
section also provides that upon application for or institution of
review by the Commission the effectiveness of any penalty imposed by the NASD is automatically stayed pending Commission
review, unless the Commission otherwise orders after notice and
opportunity for hearing. Section 15A (h) of the Act defines the
scope of the Commission's review. If the Commission finds that
the disciplined person committed the acts found by the NASD and
thereby violated the rules specified in the determination and that
such conduct was inconsistent with just and equitable principles
of trade, the Commission must sustain the NASD's action unless
it finds that the penalties imposed are excessive or oppressive, in
which case it must cancel or reduce them.
At the start of the fiscal year eight proceedings to review
NASD disciplinary decisions were pending before the Commission. During the year seven additional cases were brought up for
review. Seven cases were disposed of by the Commission. In one
of these cases the Commission sustained in full the disciplinary
action taken by the NASD.52 It dismissed the review proceedings
in two cases as having been abandoned, and permitted the withdrawal of three applications for review. With respect to the
remaining case, the Commission sustained most of the NASD's
findings of violations but reduced the penalty as to one of the
applicants. 53Eight cases were pending at the end of the year.
One of the review cases, May & Co., Inc.,54 involved the NASD's
interpretation respecting the fairness of underwriting compensation. The NASD found that May & Co. had violated the Association's rules of fair practice by entering into underwriting
arrangements with respect to an offering of common stock of
Fibers, Inc. which were unfair and unreasonable, and failing
promptly to file with the Association required documents in connection with such offering.
According to the Commission's decision, May & Co. acted as
managing underwriter in an offering of 147,500 shares of Fibers
common stock at $2 per share pursuant to Regulation A under
the Securities Act. Two months before the offering, Fibers had
sold 40,000 unregistered shares at $0.50 per share to an officer
of May & Co., and issued 5,000 shares for no cash consideration
Securities Exchange Act Release No. 8975 (September 8, 1970).
Securities Exchange Act Release No. 9149 (April 16, 1971).
54, Securities Exchange Act Release No. 8975 (September 8, 1970).

;;2

;;3

132

SECURITIES

AND EXCHANGE

COMMISSION

to another person who was a director and promoter of Fibers and
had served as a consultant to May & Co.
In its opinion, the Commission observed:
"The NASD very properly has been concerned with the arrangements
between issuers and underwriters in connection with the public offering
of securities of unseasoned companies. Its interpretation
that it is a
violation of ...
its Rules of Fair Practice for a member to act as an
underwriter in a public offering in which the underwriting arrangements are unfair or unreasonable is consistent with the Rule and beneficial in the exercise of its function of self-regulation in the securities
business. Thus it is important in the application of this Interpretation
that there be a strict standard which avoids even the appearance of
overreaching."

The NASD treated the stock issued to the two individuals as
stock issued to related parties of May & Co. in connection with
the offering for the purpose of computing the overall underwriting compensation. The Commission sustained the NASD's finding
that the stock issued to the officer was a part of the underwriting
compensation, particularly since the officer had signed the underwriting agreement and acquired his shares when it was known
that a public offering was contemplated in which his firm would
be managing underwriter. The Commission did not agree with
the NASD, however, that the evidence was sufficient to show that
the stock acquired by the promoter-consultant was issued in connection with the offering, but concluded that even with the exclusion of these shares the total underwriting
compensation,
including the direct underwriting commission and the anticipated
profit on the officer's shares, equalled 28.8 percent of the aggregate offering price and was unfair and unreasonable. The Commission also sustained the NASD's finding of a violation based
on the late filing, and it affirmed the sanctions imposed, consisting
of a 2-day suspension from membership and a $2,000 fine.
Commission Review of NASD Action on Membership.-As
previously noted, Section 15A(b) (4) of the Act and the bylaws of
the NASD provide that, except where the Commission finds it
appropriate in the public interest to approve or direct to the contrary, no broker or dealer may be admitted to or continued in
membership if he, or any person associated with him, is under any
of the several disabilities specified in the statute or the N ASD
by-laws. A Commission order approving or directing admission to
or continuance in Association membership, notwithstanding a disqualification under Section 15A(b) (4) of the Act or under an
effective Association rule adopted under that Section or Section

THIRTY-SEVENTH

ANNUAL REPORT

133

15A(b) (3), is generally entered only after the matter has been
submitted initially to the Association by the member or applicant
for membership. The Association in its discretion may then file
an application with the Commission on behalf of the petitioner.
If the Association refuses to sponsor such an application, the
broker or dealer may apply directly to the Commission for an
order directing the Association to admit or continue him in membership. At the beginning of the fiscal year, 5 applications for
approval of admission to or continuance in membership were
pending. During the year, 12 additional applications were filed,
and 8 were approved, leaving 9 applications pending at the year's
end.
COOPERATION WITH OTHER ENFORCEMENT AGENCIES

In recent years the Commission has given increased emphasis
to the coordination of its enforcement activities with those of
the various state and local authorities,
the self-regulatory
agencies, and foreign securities agencies. This program encompasses the referral to state or local authorities for investigation
and prosecution or other action of those cases where it appears
that the activities were confined largely to one state or local area
and that the matter will be dealt with promptly and effectively.
The Commission frequently provides manpower assistance to
these authorities in the development of such cases. In addition,
the Commission's regional offices have taken steps to improve the
coordination of inspections and other activities with state securities administrators and with the NASD in those areas where their
respective jurisdictions overlap. Staff members of the Commission
and of certain state authorities have conducted joint inspections
which have made the entire inspection program more effective.
In a case referred during the fiscal year to local enforcement
authorities, Phyllis C. Dempster was indicted by a citizens grand
jury in Detroit, Michigan for violation of the Michigan Uniform
Securities Law in connection with the offer and sale of high
interest promissory notes of Dempster Investment Co. Evidence
compiled by the Commission's staff during its investigation of
this matter was turned over to local authorities because almost all
of the allegedly defrauded investors were residents of Michigan.
During the fiscal year, the Commission continued its program
of cooperative regional enforcement conferences at each of its
regional offices. These conferences, during which Commission
personnel meet with personnel from state securities agencies, post
office inspectors, Federal, state, and local prosecutors and local

134

SECURITIES

AND EXCHANGE COMMISSION

representatives of self-regulatory agencies such as the NASD, are
designed to promote the exchange of information concerning
regional enforcement problems, the development of methods of
increasing cooperation and communication, and the elimination
of needless effort and waste of manpower and other resources in
the regulation of the securities markets. Although the Commission
served as the primary agency in establishing these cooperative
enforcement conferences, they have progressed to the point where
state securities agencies frequently serve as hosts of the programs.
During the previous 4 years the Commission each year held
enforcement training sessions at its headquarters office in Washington, D.C., to which it invited staff members of state and
foreign securities agencies and other law enforcement agencies
working in the securities area in addition to its own personnel. A
shortage of funds in 1971 and an accompanying reduction in new
employees resulted in a determination not to conduct a training
program in the past year.
SECTION OF SECURITIES VIOLATIONS

The Commission's Section of Securities Violations provides one
of the means for cooperation on a continuing basis with other
agencies having enforcement responsibilities. This Section acts as
a clearing house for information regarding enforcement actions
in securities matters taken by state and Canadian authorities, by
other governmental and self-regulatory agencies, and by the Commission. In addition to handling requests for specific information,
the Section publishes a periodic Bulletin which is sent to contributing agencies and to other enforcement and regulatory organizations. The Bulletin contains current information which is
a matter of public record regarding the institution and disposition
of remedial and enforcement proceedings.
Among other things, the data in the SV files (which are
maintained in a computer) constitute a valuable tool for screening
applicants for registration as securities or commodities brokers
or dealers as well as applicants for loans from such agencies as
the Small Business Administration and the Economic Development Administration of the Department of Commerce.
During the fiscal year, the Section received 4,704 letters either
providing or requesting information and sent out 3,051 communications to cooperating agencies. State and Canadian securities administrators reported 142 criminal actions, 11 injunctive
actions, 255 actions in the nature of cease and desist orders, and
169 other administrative orders, such as denials, suspensions, and
revocations of issuers, broker-dealer, and salesmen.

THIRTY-SEVENTH

ANNUAL REPORT

135

ENFORCEMENT PROBLEMS WITH RESPECT TO FOREIGN
SECURITIES

The past :fiscal year was again marked by extensive efforts by
various promoters and others to distribute foreign securities in
the United States without complying with the registration and
disclosure provisions of the Securities Act of 1933, and generally
in violation of the antifraud provisions of the federal securities
laws. In some instances companies which were represented as
having issued the securities were in fact non-existent. Known
securities laws violators, as well as individuals associated with
organized crime, appear to be connected with some of the more
flagrantly fraudulent offerings of foreign securities.
To alert brokers and dealers, :financial institutions, investors,
and others to possible unlawful distributions of foreign securities,
the Commission maintains and publicizes a Foreign Restricted
List. That list is comprised of the names of foreign companies
whose securities the Commission has reason to believe recently
have been, or currently are being, offered for public sale in the
United States in violation of the registration requirements of the
Securities Act. The number of companies on the list increased
from 46 on June 30, 1970 to 54 at the end of the 1971 :fiscalyear.
Most brokers and dealers refuse to effect transactions in securities
issued by companies on the list; however, this does not necessarily
prevent promoters from illegally offering such securities directly
to investors in the United States, either in person or by mail.
The following companies were added to the list during the year:
1. Allied Fund for Capital Appreciation, S.A., also known as
AFCA, S.A., purportedly a Panamanian
company." AFCA
claimed to have $37 million in assets in the custody of its depository, Midwest National Banking Corporation, in Panama City,
Panama. As a result of investigations by Panamanian and
Canadian authorities, it was reported that no such assets could
be located at the premises of Midwest, which consisted of one
office with no regular employees. Despite the apparent absence
of assets, loans have been made in the United States on the basis
of shares of AFCA used as collateral. Attempts to redeem the
shares upon default in payment of the loans were reported to
have been unsuccessful.
2. J. P. Morgan & Company, Ltd. of London, England (not to
be confused with J. P. Morgan & Co., Incorporated, New York) ;
Swiss Caribbean Development & Finance Corporation, Zurich,
;;5

Securities

Act Release No. 5078 (August

12, 19'10).

136

SECURITIES

AND EXCHANGE COMMISSION

Switzerland; and Trust Company of Jamaica, Ltd.56 Spurious
"bank money orders" bearing the J. P. Morgan name and exceeding $375,000 in amount were mailed to 31 savings and loan associations in California, as well as a bank in Minnesota, ostensibly
for the purpose of opening new accounts against which cash
withdrawals were attempted. In addition, instruments labeled
"Negotiable Certificate of Deposit" of "J. P. Morgan & Company,
Ltd." of London were distributed in the United States. With respect to the other two companies, advertisements were placed in
U. S. newspapers offering joint venture interests and certificates
of deposit, respectively. The same individual is believed to have
been behind all 3 offerings.
3. Unitrust Limited, of Dublin, Ireland." Through newspaper
advertisements in the United States, Unitrust offered securities
representing interests in Irish real estate properties.
4. Northern Survey of Montreal, Canada." This company,
through mail solicitation and advertisements in a magazine widely
distributed in the United States, offered three-year mineral leases
on designated locations in Canada for amounts ranging from
$100 for 10 acres to $650 for 160 acres. Upon expiration of a
lease, the purchaser would be entitled to renew it for another
three years by payment of the same amount. These offers were
accompanied by representations that the purchaser would profit
in the event that a rich strike of minerals were made near his
lease by another company, because in that event other large corporations would seek to acquire his lease at a substantial profit
to him. In addition, Northern Survey held itself out as willing
to advise and assist the investor in negotiating a profitable sale
of his lease. The cover page of the brochure used to solicit persons
to purchase these leases contained the following representations:
"DO NO MINING--YOU DO NO WORK
PAY NO TAXES-IMPROVE NO LAND
YOU MAY REALIZE A PROFIT ON
YOUR LEASE
WITHOUT EVER LEAVING HOME"

The Commission's staff determined that what was being offered
was an investment contract and as such a "security" as defined in
the Securities Act. Moreover, Canadian authorities had received
numerous complaints from investors in the United States that
they had transmitted funds to purchase leases offered and in
Securities Act Release No. 5086 (September 17,1970).
~. Securities Act Release No. 5109 (November 18, 1970).
~.,Securities Act Release No. 5123 (December 28, 1970).

fiB

THIRTY-SEVENTH ANNUAL REPORT

137

return each had received a document which Canadian officials
charged with the duty of recording transfers of land titles had
refused to accept and record because it was so poorly drawn that
the land described could not be located and because it was not
notarized.
5. Hebilla Mining Corporation and Cia. Rio Banano, S. A.69
Unregistered shares of these companies were offered to investors
in the United States by mail from Costa Rica. Information available to the Commission indicated that a Robert Colucci was an
officer of both companies. One Robert Colucci had been indicted
in 1969 by a federal grand jury in Peoria, Illinois in a 61-count
indictment charging him and five others with conspiring to violate
and violating the Federal securities laws and the Mail Fraud
Statute by fraudulently selling unregistered securities. The individual defendants have been fugitives from justice since that
time.
On June 30, 1971, the following companies were on the Foreign
Restricted List:
BAHAMIAN
American International Mining
Compressed Air Corporation Limited
Durman Ltd., formerly known as
Bankers International
Investment Corporation
BRITISH

First Liberty Fund Ltd.
San Salvador Savings and Loan Co.,
Ltd.
United Mining and Milling
Corporation
HONDURAN

Caribbean Empire Company, Ltd.
CANADIAN
Kokanee Moly Mines, Ltd.
Lynbar Mining Corporation, Ltd.
Norart Minerals, Ltd.
Northern Survey
Northland Minerals, Ltd.
Obsco Corporation, Ltd.
Pacific Northwest Developments,
Ltd.
Paulpic Gold Mines, Ltd.
Pyrotex Mining and Exploration
Company, Ltd.
Radio Hill Mines Company, Ltd.
RichwoodIndustries, Ltd.
Trihope Resources, Ltd.
Wee Gee Uranium Mines, Ltd.
Yukon Wolverine Mining Company

Allegheny Mining and Exploration
Company, Ltd.
Amalgamated Rare Earth Mines,
Ltd.
American Mobile Telephone and
Tape ce., Ltd.
Antoine Silver Mines, Ltd.
Briar Court Mines, Ltd.
Claw Lake Molybdenum Mines, Ltd.
Ethel Copper Mines, Ltd.
Golden Age Mines, Ltd.
Ironco Mining and Smelting
Company, Ltd.
Jupiter Explorations, Ltd.
Kenilworth Mines Ltd.
Klondike Yukon Mining Company
59

Ibid.

138

SECURITIES

AND EXCHANGE
COSTA

COMMISSION

RICAN

Cia. Rio Banano, S.A.
Hebilla Mining Corporation
EUROPEAN
Central and Southern
Corp.

Swiss Caribbean Development and
Finance Corporation

Industries
IRISH

Unitrust

Limited
PANAMANIAN

Allied Fund for Capital
Appreciation, S.A., also known as
AFCA, S.A.
British Overseas Mutual Fund
Corporation
Cerro Azul Coffee Plantation
Continental and Southern
Industries, S.A.
Crossroads Corporation, S.A.
UNITED

Darien Exploration Company, S.A.
DeVeers Consolidated Mining
Corporation, S.A.
Euroforeign Banking Corporation
Global Explorations, Inc.
Panamerican Bank and Trust
Company
Security Capital Fiscal and
Guaranty Corporation, S.A.
Victoria Oriente, Inc.
KINGDOM

Bank of Sark, of the Isle of Guernsey
J. P. Morgan & Company, Ltd.
WEST

INDIAN

California and Caracas
Trust Company of Jamaica
DISQUALIFICATION

FROM PRACTICE BEFORE COMMISSION

In Murray A. Kivitz,b the Commission suspended an attorney
from practice before it for a period of two years, pursuant to
Rule 2(e) of the Commission's Rules of Practice. The Commission
found that Kivitz had allowed a layman, Harold G. Quase, to
control and exploit Kivitz's privilege to practice before the Commission. Kivitz permitted Quase to represent to a prospective
corporate issuer that Quase had an "organization" which could,
through the use of political influence, obtain Commission clearance of a registration statement to be filed pursuant to the Securities Act; that part of the fee paid by the issuer would be used to
purchase such influence; and that accountants who would "stretch
a point" could be found to prepare the financial information re60 Securities Act Release No. 5163 (June 29, 1971), app, pending,
No. 71-1602.

C.A.D.C.,

THIRTY-SEVENTH

ANNUAL REPORT

139

quired for the prospectus. The Commission held that it had jurisdiction to discipline Kivitz under Rule 2 (e) for his participation
as an attorney in such a scheme, even though the prospective
client did not accept Kivitz's proposed retainer agreement and
Kivitz never made any filings in its behalf.
Recognizing the need for expeditious disqualification procedures
in appropriate cases, the Commission further amended Rule 2 (e)
of its Rules of Practice 61 to provide for the suspension from
appearing or practicing before it of any attorney, accountant or
other expert who by name (1) has been permanently enjoined by
any court of competent jurisdiction by reason of his misconduct
in an action brought by the Commission from violating or aiding
and abetting the violation of any provision of the federal securities laws, or (2) has been found by any court in an action brought
by the Commission to which he is a party, or by the Commission
in any administrative proceeding to which such person is a party,
to have violated or to have aided and abetted the violation of any
provision of the federal securities laws, unless the violation was
expressly found not to have been willful.w Under the amendment,
such a person may be temporarily suspended by the Commission,
the suspension becoming permanent after thirty days unless a
petition for hearing is filed within that time. Upon petition, the
Commission may lift the suspension or, after prompt opportunity
for hearing, may censure or discipline the practitioner. In any
hearing, after the Commission's staff has demonstrated that an
injunction has been entered or that findings of violation have been
made, the burden will be upon the practitioner to show why he
should not be disciplined, and he will not be permitted to litigate
factual questions that he litigated or, but for any consent to
injunction or findings, might have litigated in the earlier proceeding upon which the disqualification proceeding is based.

61 See 86th Annual
Report, pp. 131-182, for amendments of Rule 2(e)
dealing with persons disbarred by other authorities or convicted of criminal
violations.
62 Securities Act Release No. 5147 (May 10, 1971).

PART V
REGULATION OF INVESTMENT COMPANIES
In broad terms, an investment company is any arrangement by
which a group of persons invests funds in an entity that is itself
engaged in investing in securities. Investment companies are important vehicles for public participation in the securities markets.
They enable small as well as large investors to participate in a
professionally managed and diversified portfolio of securities.
The Investment Company Act of 1940 imposes various obligations and restrictions on investment companies and persons
affiliated with them and sets forth the Commission's responsibilities in protecting investors in such companies.' It provides a
comprehensive framework of regulation which, among other
things, prohibits changes in the nature of an investment company's business or in its investment policies without shareholder
approval, contains prohibitions against theft or conversion of
assets or breaches of fiduciary duty, and provides specific controls
to eliminate or mitigate inequitable capital structures. The Act
also requires that an investment company disclose its financial
condition and investment policies; requires that management contracts be submitted to shareholders for approval; prohibits underwriters, investment bankers, or brokers from constituting more
than a minority of an investment company's board of directors;
regulates the custody of investment company assets; and provides
specific controls designed to protect against unfair transactions
between investment companies and their affiliates.
In addition to complying with the requirements of the Investment Company Act, an investment company must comply with the
Securities Act of 1933 when offering its securities, and it is subject to certain provisions of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934,
including those relating to proxy and tender offer solicitations and
insider trading and reporting.
1 For a discussion of the Investment Company Amendments Act of 1970,
enacted during the fiscal year, which amended the 1940 Act in various
significant respects, see Part I of this report.

141

142

SECURITIES

AND EXCHANGE COMMISSION

COMPANIES REGISTERED UNDER THE ACT

As of June 30, 1971, there were 1,351 investment companies
registered under the Act, with assets having an aggregate market
value of approximately $78 billion. Compared with corresponding
totals at June 30, 1970, these figures represent an increase of 23,
or only 1.7 percent, in the number of registered companies, but
an increase of approximately $22 billion, or about 39 percent, in
the market value of assets. The $78 billion represents the highest
market value of assets of active companies as of the end of any
fiscal year since the Act was passed.
The following table shows the numbers and categories of registered companies and the approximate market value of the assets
in each category as of June 30, 1971.
Companies Registered Under the Investment

Company Act of 19,40as of

June 30, 1971

Number of registered

companies

Inactive.

Total

Approximate
market
value
of assets
of active
companies
(millions)

866

$59,814

Active
Management open-end
("Mutual Funds")

_

Funds having no load or load
not exceeding 3 percent of net
asset value
_
Vanable annuity-separate
accounts
_
Capital leverage compames
_
AIl other load funds
_
Management

closed-end

Small business investment
compames
_
Caprtal leverage companies

_
_

AIl other closed-end companies.
Umt investment

trusts

Vanable
accountsannuity-separate
All
other unit investment
trusts
Face-amount
compames certificate
Total

_
_
_

825

41

230

6,049

47
1
547

490
40
53,235

187

39

226

7,775

8

255
369

127

7,151

52

228

22

250

9,478

34

31

9,444

197

_

6

3

9

1.042

_

1246

105

1357

78,109

 "InactIve" refers to registered companies whIch as of June 30, 1971, were in the
process of berng Irquidated or merged, or have filed an apphcation pursuant to
Section 8(f) of the Act for deregrstration, or which have otherwise gone out of
existence and remain registered only untn such time as the Comrrussion Issues orders
under Section 8(f) termmating therr regrstrations.

The approximately $9.5 billion of assets of the registered unit
investment trusts includes approximately $8.1 billion of assets
of unit investment trusts which invest in securities of other

THIRTY-SEVENTH

ANNUAL REPORT

143

registered investment companies, substantially all of them mutual
funds.
The graph below shows the number of registered investment
companies, broken down into the various categories, over a 5-year
period.

REGISTERED

NUMaER

INVESTMENT

COMPANIES

1400

1200
Face Amount
Certificate
Companies

1000

800

Unit

Investment
Trusts

600
400
200

d

Management
Open-End
Mutual Funds"

o
( Fiscal year ended June 30)

os

5006

The following table on page 144 shows the number of investment companies which became registered during the fiscal year
and the number of registrations terminated.
As the table shows, 12, or approximately 10 percent, of the
newly registered companies were variable annuity separate accounts of insurance companies.> Including these companies, there
were 78 active variable annuity separate accounts registered at
June 30, 1971, consisting of 31 unit investment trusts and 47
management open-end investment companies. A significant part of
2 Typically, a variable annuity contract provides payments for life commencing on a selected date with the amounts of the payments varying with
the investment performance of equity securities which are set apart by the
insurance company in a separate account which is registered with the Commission as an investment company. The separate accounts now registered
are either open-end management companies or unit investment trusts.

450-484

0 -

72 -

11

144

SECURITIES

AND EXCHANGE COMMISSION

New Repisiratione, and Terminations 01 Registration, During the Fiscal Year
Ended June 80, 1971
Registered
during the
fiscal year
Management open-end ("Mutual Funds")
Funds having no load or load not exceeding
3 percent of net asset value ______________________
Vanable annuity-separate accounts _________________
All other load funds ________________________________

18
4
41
63

3
2
41

5
18
23

3
38
41

8
27

0
10

---------------------------------------

35

10

certificate companies ------------------------------------------------- ----- - -----

0

1

121

98

SUb-total

----------------------------------------

Management closed-end
Small business investment companies ______________
All other closed-end funds __________________________
SUb-total

----------------------------------------

Unit Investment trusts
Variable annuity-separate
All other unit investment
SUb-total
Face-amount
Total

Registration
terminated
during the
fiscal year

accounts ---------------trusts -------------------

46

the Commission's regulatory effort with respect to variable annuities has involved the application of the requirements of the
Number of companies

Fiscal year
ended June 30
1941_____________
1942_____________
1943_____________
1944 _____________

1945_____________
1946_____________
1947_____________
1948_____________
1949_____________
1950_____________
195L ____________
1952_____________
1963_____________
1954_____________
1955_____________
1956_____________
1957_____________
1958_____________
1959_____________
1960_____________
196L ____________
1962_____________
1963_____________
1964 _____________
1965_____________
1966 _____________
1967_____________
1966 _____________
1969 _____________
1970_____________
197L ____________
 The agfregate
preciation.

Registered
at beginning
otyear

Registered
during
year

0
436
407
390
371
366
361

450
17
14
8
14
13
12
18
12
26
12
13
17
20
37
46
49

352

359
358

366
368
367
369
384
387
399
432

42

453
512
570
663
727
727
731
727
775
842

70
67
118
97

967

222

1,167
1,328

48

52
50
78
108
167
187
121

Registration
terminated
during
year

Registered
at end of
year

14
46
31
27
19
18
21

390
371
366
361

11

436
407

352

359

13
18
10
14
15
5

369
384

34
34

399

16
21
11

9
25
33
48
48
54

30
41
42

22
26
98

assets reflect the sale of new securities

358

366
368
367

367

432

453
512
570
663

727
727

731
727
775
842
967
1.167
1.328
1,351

Estimated
aggregate
market
value
of assets at
end of year
(m millions).
$2.500

2,400
2.300
2,200
3,250
3.750
3.600
3.825
3,700
4.700
5,600
6.800
7.000
8.700
12.000
14,000
15.000
17,000
20.000
23.500

29,000
27.300
38.000
41,600
44.600

49,800
58.197
69,732
72.465
56,337
78.109

as well as capital ap-

THIRTY-SEVENTH

ANNUAL REPORT

145

Investment Company Act to the patterns and procedures which
have grown up in the insurance industry.
INVESTMENT COMPANY ASSETS

The table on the preceding page sets forth the number of investment companies registered under the Investment Company Act
and their estimated aggregate assets, in round amounts, at the end
of each fiscal year, 1941through 1971.
INVESTMENT COMPANY FILINGS, OTHER THAN APPLICATIONS

As previously noted, investment companies offering their shares
for sale to the public must register them under the Securities Act
of 1933. Registration statements filed by such companies are reviewed for compliance with that Act as well as with the Investment Company Act. Proxy soliciting material filed by investment
companies is reviewed for compliance with the Commission's
proxy rules. The number of registration statements and proxy
soliciting materials filed or processed during the fiscal year was
as follows:
Type of material

Pending
June 30,

Filed

Processed

Registration statements and post-effective
amendments under the Securities Act of
1933

Reglstratllin-statemeniS-undei-ihe--iilvest:ment Company Act of 1940 _______________
Proxy soliciting material ___________________

Pending
June 30,
1971

1970

308

1,326

167
115

154
871

1,358

127
928

267
194
58

Investment companies also filed 902 annual reports, 3,051
quarterly reports, 2,249 periodic reports to shareholders containing financial statements and 1,939 copies of sales literature.
DEVELOPMENTS WITH RESPECT TO PARTICULAR TYPES OF
INVESTMENT COMPANIES

During the fiscal year, a variety of novel investment companies
began operations and certain developments of particular interest
occurred with respect to operating investment companies.
INVESTMENT
FIRM

COMPANY SPONSORED BY A PUBLIC ACCOUNTING

Arthur Andersen & Co., a large international accounting firm,
established and registered the Fund A Partnership as a nondiversified, open-end, no-load investment company. The Fund, participation in which is limited to partners and persons holding
equivalent positions, is designed to provide a vehicle for investment by such persons in a manner consistent with the firm's

146

SECURITIES

AND EXCHANGE COMMISSION

interests. Thus, the Fund cannot invest in clients of the finn or
make investments of a type which the finn's partners are not
permitted to make as a matter of finn policy or which the Fund's
management committee or the finn determines to be adverse to
the independence, reputation or business of the firm. The committee, consisting of partners, may employ others to supply investment advisory or management services.
The Fund's structure is unique in several respects. To permit
operation of the Fund in a manner consistent with its intended
objectives, the Commissiongranted certain requested exemptions
from various provisions of the Investment Company Act, designed
principally to permit the firm to maintain control over the Fund
to insure that it will operate without conflicting with the independence and reputation of the firm."
MINORITY ENTERPRISE SMALL BUSINESS INVESTMENT
COMPANIES

On February 26, 1971, Southern California Minority Capital
Corporation, a closed-end,non-diversifiedmanagement investment
company, offered its shares to the public. The company proposes
to provide equity funds, long-term loans and management assistance to small business concerns owned by socially and economically disadvantaged persons. As a minority enterprise small
business investment company (MESBIC), the company has applied for a license to operate under the Small Business Investment
Act of 1958.
The company proposed to raise an initial $500,000through the
sale of 5,000 shares to be purchased for investment and not with
a view to distribution. If the shares were not sold and the license
granted by July 31, 1971, the offering would terminate and all
funds paid for shares would be returned without interest. As of
July 20, 1971, the $500,000had not been obtained, and the company was making tentative plans to extend the offering until
December 31, 1971.
Minority Investments, Inc., a registered closed-end,non-diversified investment company, which has applied for a license to operate as a MESBIC, filed an application for exemption from
Sections 16(a) and 18 (i) so that two classes of voting securities
could be issued and holders of less than one-half of the outstanding stock could elect more than one-half of the directors. Class A
stock, offered primarily to members of the minority community,
is entitled to elect 60 percent of the company's board of directors.
3

Investment Company Act Release No. 6393 (March 19, 1971).

THIRTY-SEVENTH

ANNUAL REPORT

147

Class B stock, entitled to elect 40 percent of Minority's board of
directors, will be offered only to business corporations with gross
assets of at least $750,000, trade associations, banks, trust companies, insurance companies, and tax-exempt organizations. The
requested exemptions were granted upon condition that if a
majority of Class A shares are no longer held by members of
minority groups, the differing voting rights will be eliminated and
the shares made identical. 4
MUTUAL FUND FOR LABOR UNION MEMBERS AND PENSION FUNDS

American Union Investment Fund, Inc., a no-load, diversified,
open-end investment company, began selling its shares in December 1970. Shares of the Fund are being offered only to members
of labor unions, jointly administered pension and welfare funds,
and other funds held for the benefit of labor union members.
Each member of the board of directors must be a current or
former labor union officer or a person who has served as trustee or
in some other capacity with respect to pension or welfare funds
of labor unions or for the benefit of labor union members. In
addition the Fund, as a fundamental policy, will not invest in the
security of any company which is involved in a major labor dispute. The Fund claims that it was established in response to the
generally limited investment opportunities for rank and file labor
union members resulting from unfamiliarity with existing funds
and other investment matters.
SHAREHOLDERS'
MATERIAL

PROPOSALS

IN INVESTMENT

COMPANY PROXY

Relying on the provisions of Rule 14a-8 under the Securities
Exchange Act concerning the inclusion of shareholder proposals
in proxy material, two shareholders of Fidelity Trend Fund, Inc.
submitted to the management of the Fund two proposals which
were included in the Fund's proxy material for the 1971 annual
meeting of shareholders.
The first proposal recommended that management consider
adoption of an investment policy requiring management to consider as part of its security analysis the activities of potential and
existing portfolio companies in regard to pollution, minority hiring, and the conduct of business in certain foreign nations. If
analysis of these activities revealed certain specified information
regarding the potential or present portfolio companies, such as
existence of a lawsuit brought by any governmental body for
4

Investment Company Act Release No. 6407 (April 19, 1971).

148

SECURITIES

AND EXCHANGE

COMMISSION

noncompliance with anti-pollution standards, the recommended
investment policy required the Fund either not to invest or retain
its investment in such companies, or, if an investment were made
or retained in such companies, to seek to change those activities
by taking certain actions as a shareholder. Such actions could
include exercise of its voting rights, making shareholder proposals
designed to improve deficient performance in the areas of concern,
or consulting with management of the portfolio companies with
respect to adoption of policies designed to improve such performance. The proposal also specified that the Fund's annual report
should include descriptions of all instances in which the Fund
had acted to further the "corporate responsibility" of portfolio
companies and that the proposed policy, if adopted, be disclosed
in the Fund's prospectus.
The second proposal recommended that the board of directors
justify the merits of the management fee payable to the Fund's
investment adviser in its next annual report, and include comparisons of the adviser's net income, Fund-related expenses, the
Fund's total net assets and the net asset value of shares held by
Fund shareholders.
Management included in the proxy statement its statement
in opposition to the proposals, in accordance with Rule 14a-8.
Shareholders of the Fund voted at their annual meeting not to
adopt either of the proposals.
SELECTION OF A NEW INVESTMENT ADVISER BY AN INVESTMENT
COMPANY

During the last year, the three funds managed by a subsidiary
of Hayden, Stone, Inc.-American DualVest, Tudor Hedge Fund
and Tudor Capital Fund-terminated their advisory contracts
with their investment adviser and invited other investment advisers to indicate upon what terms they would be willing to enter
into an advisory agreement. Among the offers received, and the
one accepted, was that of Weiss, Peck & Greer, a member firm of
the NYSE, which offered approximately $1,000,000directly to the
three funds if it were selectedas investment adviser. Weiss' decision
to negotiate directly with the three funds resulted in the funds
dividing the payment according to their respective net asset values.
REVISIONS OF RULES AND FORMS; POLICY STATEMENTS

In the course of fiscal year 1971, the Commission adopted or
revised various rules and forms under the Investment Company
Act and issued policy statements as to certain matters. II
5 Actions of this nature taken by way of implementing the 1970 amendments of the Act are discussed in Part I of the report.

THIRTY-SEVENTH ANNUAL REPORT

149

ADOPTION OF RULE 18f-l AND FORM N-18F-l

During the fiscal year the Commission adopted Rule 18f-1
which permits any registered open-end investment company to
waive partially the right to redeem in kind." The definition of
"redeemable security" in the Investment Company Act 7 has traditionally been interpreted as giving the issuer the option of
redeeming its securities in cash or in kind. The securities administrators of several states and some foreign countries now
require or are considering requiring, as a condition to doing
business in their respective jurisdictions, that open-end companies
which have the right to redeem in kind file an undertaking that
redemptions by residents of such jurisdictions will be effected in
cash only or that redemptions in kind will not be effected unless
specific approval is first obtained from the securities administrator. Such requirements involve priorities as to distribution of
assets and thus create senior securities within the meaning of
Section 18 of the Act, which are prohibited by that section.
Although redemptions in kind are extremely rare, the Commission believes that it is desirable for open-end companies to
retain the flexibility afforded by the opportunity to make such
redemptions, and it determined to adopt the rule in order to avoid
needless conflicts with state and foreign regulatory authorities.
Under the rule, any registered open-end investment company
which has the right to redeem in kind may file with the Commission, on new Form N-18F-l, a notification of election committing
itself to pay in cash all redemptions by any shareholder of record,
limited in amount during any 9o-day period to the lesser of
$250,000 or 1 percent of the net asset value of the fund at the
beginning of the 90-day period. Should redemptions by one shareholder during any 9o-day period exceed this limit, the fund would
have the option of redeeming the excess in cash or in kind.
AMENDMENTOF RULE 22d-l

During the fiscal year, the Commission amended paragraph
(h) of Rule 22d-l under the Act to restrict the categories of
Investment Company Act Release No. 6561 (June 14,1971).
Section 2(a) (32) (as renumbered by Public Law 91-547, December 14,
1970) defines the term as "any security, other than short-term paper, under
the terms of which the holder, upon its presentation to the issuer or to a
person designated by the issuer, is entitled (whether absolutely or only out
of surplus) to receive approximately his proportionate share of the issuer's
current net assets, or the cash equivalent thereof."
6
7

150

SECURITIES AND EXCHANGE COMMISSION

persons to whom mutual fund shares may be sold with a lower
sales load than that charged to the general public."
Section 22(d) of the Act prohibits a registered investment
company, its principal underwriter or a dealer in its redeemable
securities from selling such securities to "any person" except "at
a current public offering price described in the prospectus." Many
exemptions from these price maintenance provisions were granted
by the Commission to meet special circumstances and in 1958
the Commission codified its administrative interpretations by
adopting Rule 22d-1.
Paragraph (h) of that rule, in essence, permitted sales of
shares at a reduced sales load or none at all to directors, officers
or partners of the investment company, its investment adviser or
principal underwriter, and to full-time employees or sales representatives of any of the foregoing who had acted as such for not
less than 90 days.
Under the terms of that provision, many individuals who provided no services to the investment company could be favored.
For example, a life insurance company having possibly thousands
of employees, which was investment adviser or principal underwriter for an investment company, could offer shares of that
company to employees at a reduced sales load even though their
activities were completely unrelated to the advisory or underwriting functions. The Commission therefore determined that the
paragraph should be revised to limit the exemption to persons
associated directly with the investment company, and to those
associated with the adviser or underwriter only if more than half
their working time involved rendering investment advisory
services to the investment company, selling its shares, or supervising persons engaged in such activities.
REVISION OF ANNUAL REPORT FORM N-IR

Shortly after the end of the fiscal year, the Commission adopted
certain revisions of the Annual Report Form for Registered
Management Investment Companies (Form N-IR) to focus more
attention on the "back office" problems of investment companies,
and to place greater reliance upon the review and opinion of the
independent accountants in detecting and reporting such probIems." The revisions of Form N-IR require more explicit information with respect to the registration of investment company
shares; the processing of orders for sales, redemptions and re8
9

Investment Company Act Release No. 6347 (February 8, 1971).
Investment Company Act Release No. 6620 (July 15, 1971).

THIRTY-SEVENTH

ANNUAL REPORT

151

purchases of such shares; and investment company portfolio
transactions generally and in "restricted securities." Information
relating to the status of shareholder accounts and processing of
shareholder inquiries is also required. The opinion of the independent public accountant filed with the annual report on Form
N-1R is required to include comments upon any material inadequacies in the accounting system and the system of internal
accounting control of the investment company and any corrective
action taken or proposed.
VALUATION OF SECURITIES

The Commission published its views on some of the more important questions concerning the accounting for investment securities by registered investment companies. to The Commission
set forth some of the general factors which the directors should
consider in determining a valuation method for an individual
issue of securities if a market quotation is not readily available.
These include the fundamental analytical data relating to the
investment, the nature and duration of restrictions on disposition
of the securities and the forces which influence the market in
which the securities are purchased and sold.
As reported in the 36th Annual Report,!' during fiscal 1970 the
Commission issued a policy statement and a supplemental release
dealing with problems arising from the acquisition and holding
of "restricted" securities by registered investment companies.
During the last fiscal year, the Commission issued another release
dealing with valuation of such securities.'> It called attention to an
interpretive position taken by its staff concerning a possible
"shelf" registration by the issuer of the securities. It was the
staff's view that maintenance of an effective Securities Act registration statement for a specified period of time (a "shelf"
registration) was a factor which could properly be taken into
consideration by an investment company's board of directors in
valuing restricted securities, but that automatic valuation at the
market price on the basis of the shelf registration alone, without
considering all of the business and financial changes which might
occur with respect to the issuer after the filing of the registration
statement, would be improper.

Investment
Page 138.
12 Investment

10

Company Act Release No. 6295 (December 23, 1970).

11

Company Act Release No. 6121 (July 20, 1970).

152

SECURITIES

AND EXCHANGE COMMISSION

POSITION WITH RESPECT TO DILUTION OF NET ASSET VALUE
AND INAPPROPRIATE EXTENSIONS OF CREDIT ON SALES,
REDEMPTIONS AND REPURCHASES OF FUND SHARES

On March 5, 1971, the Commission published a release 13 in
which it observed that a number of open-end investment companies were not making prompt and diligent efforts to protect
their shareholders against the dilution of net asset value which
usually results when orders for the sale, repurchase or redemption
of fund shares are not honored by investors and the investment
companies merely cancel or reverse the transactions on their
records. The Commission noted that when, under these circumstances, investment companies fail to require prompt settlement
of the transactions in fund shares they are, in effect, extending
non-interest bearing loans at their own risk.
As to purchases of fund shares, the Commissionstated its view
that where a principal underwriter is involved it should be responsible for completing the transaction with the fund whether
or not the offsetting transactions with the customers are honored.
Where a fund distributes directly to investors rather than through
a principal underwriter and dealers, the fund should consider
refusing to accept orders for fund shares unless accompanied by
payment, except when a responsible person has indemnified the
fund against losses resulting from failure of investors to make
payment.
APPLICATIONS FOR COMMISSION ACTION

Under Section 6(c) of the Act, the Commission, by rules and
regulations upon its own motion or by order upon application,
may exempt any person, security, or transaction from any provision of the Act if and to the extent such exemption is necessary
or appropriate in the public interest and consistent with the protection of investors and the purposes fairly intended by the policy
and provisions of the Act. Other sections, such as 6(d), 9 (b) ,
10(f), 17(b), 17(d), and 23(c), contain specific provisions and
standards pursuant to which the Commissionmay grant exemptions from particular sections of the Act or may approve certain
types of transactions. Also, under certain provisions of Sections
2, 3, and 8, the Commissionmay determine the status of persons
and companies under the Act. One of the principal activities of
the Commissionin its regulation of investment companies is the
consideration of applications for orders under these sections.
During the fiscal year, 275 applications were filed under these
13

Investment Company Act Release No. 6866.

THIRTY-SEVENTH

153

ANNUAL REPORT

and other sections of the Act, and final action was taken on 361
applications. As of the end of the year, 221 applications were
pending. The table below contains a more detailed presentation
of these statistics.
Applications Filed With Or Acted Upon By Commission Under The
Investment Company Act During The Fiscal Year Ended June SO, 1971
Sections

Subject

Pending
.TulyI,
1970

2, 3, 6 ________ Status and exemption ______________
5 ------------- SUbclassification of investment comparries,
Registration
of investment
com7 ------------panies.
Termination of registration _________
8(f)
Regulation of affiliation of directors,
9, 10,
officers, employees, investment advisers, underwriters and others.
11, 25 -------- Regulation of securities exchange
offers and reorganization matters.
12, 14(a), 15 __ Regulation of functions and activities of investment companies.
17 ------------ Regulation of transactions with affiliated persons.
18. 22, 23 _____ Requirements as to capital structure.
loans, distributions and redemptions and related matters.
trusts,
circular
voting
20 ------------ Proxies,
ownership.
Periodic
payment
plans
_____________
21 -----------28 ------------ Regulation of face amount certificate
companies.
30, 45 _________ Other periodic reports _____________

-16-======

Total ___

FlIed

Closed

Pendmg
.Tune
30.
1971

84

32

60

56

1

0

1

0

2
61

2
77

1
100

38

15

11

17

9

3

6

5

4

3

15

17

18

14

47

57

59

45

71

55

81

45

0

3

0
8

0
8

3

3
2

2
8

4
7

1
3

307

275

361

221

0

Among the applications disposed of during the fiscal year, the
following were of particular interest:
The National Association of Small Business Investment Companies, an association of small business investment companies
(SBICs) licensed by the Small Business Administration (SBA)
pursuant to the Small Business Investment Act of 1958 (SBI
Act), had applied during fiscal 1969 for exemption of all SBICs
subject to registration under the Investment Company Act from
certain provisions of that Act.14
In May 1971,the Commission,with two Commissioners dissenting, granted limited exemptions from the statutory prohibitions
with respect to the issuance of stock options and, with two other
Commissioners dissenting, denied exemptions from provisions of
the Act requiring Commission approval of transactions between
investment companies and affiliated persons and prohibiting the
issuance of convertible securities."
The SBI Act's prime purpose is to establish a program to stim14
15

See 35th Annual Report, p. 135.
Investment Company Act Release No. 6523 (May 14, 1971).

154

SECURITIES

AND EXCHANGE COMMISSION

ulate and supplement the flow of private equity capital and long
term loan funds to small business concerns. For this purpose, the
SBA is authorized to license and lend money to SBICs which in
turn can provide the loans and equity type fundings to small
business concerns.
The Commissionpointed out that it is not an inadvertent result
that SBICs may be subject to regulation under both the Investment Company Act and the SBI Act. Congress was aware of this
situation at the time of the passage of the SBI Act in 1958 when
it concludedthat SBICs with a public investor interest should not
be exempted from the basic provisions of the Investment Company
Act, and as recently as 1967 it again recognized that SBICs were
subject to regulation both by the SBA and the Commission.
With particular reference to the requested exemption from Section 17 of the Investment Company Act, sometimes referred to
as the "self-dealing" section, the Commission stated that that section is intended, in general, to prevent abuses and unfair transactions by insiders of investment companies and, as such, is a
keystone in the statutory scheme enacted to protect investors.
SBA regulations against conflicts of interest have a coverage
narrower than that under the Investment Company Act. While
compliance with that Act entails some increased costs and inconvenience, such consequence, the Commission observed, is a
necessary incident to regulatory oversight and is not itself a
justification for a blanket exemption from any section of the Act
for an entire industry. The Commissionfurther pointed out that it
had by rule granted to SBICs specific exemptions from Section 17
in recognition of particular problems incident to SBIC activities.
With reference to stock options, the Commission concluded that
the issuance of "qualified" stock options under the Internal Revenue Code, subject to the adoption of SBA regulations satisfactory
to the Commission imposing appropriate limitations on employee
stock option plans, would not offend the policies and purposes of
the Act. The Commission noted that the adverse factors which
have been stated as resulting from the issuance of options are
not persuasive in the case of SBICs, and that restrictions placed
on "qualified" options under the Internal Revenue Code contain
a number of safeguards.
The hearing examiner's conclusion that no showing had been
made that it was necessary or appropriate in the public interest
that an exemption be granted from the restrictions on the issuance
of convertible securities was upheld by the Commission.

THIRTY-SEVENTH ANNUAL REPORT

155

In Ivy Fund, Inc.,t6 the Commission denied the application of
the Fund and its investment adviser for an order exempting from
the prohibition of Section 17 (a) of the Act the proposed grant by
the Fund to the adviser of a license to use the word "Ivy" in a
proposed new name for the adviser and in the names of other
investment companies advised by it, in consideration of a payment
of $2,000 by the adviser to the Fund. The denial was based on the
Commission's finding that the applicants had failed to prove that
the consideration proposed to be paid was reasonable and fair.
The Commission noted that while the Fund's board of directors
had discussed various relevant factors, it acted without the benefit
of independent expert assistance and had not made any effort to
place dollar values on any of such factors. The Commission stated
that although there was no specific precedent available to the
board which could serve as a basis for comparison, it seemed
likely that guidance could have been obtained from a consideration of analogous situations. Moreover, the Commission held,
"without such guidance the various uncertainties as to the use
which Adviser would make of the license, particularly the extent
to which it could make use of the Ivy name in connection with
other investment companies, precluded a reasonable determination by the board of directors of an appropriate consideration for
all such uses. Such uncertainties could have been narrowed by
appropriate limitations in the licensing agreement or a formula
provision for additional payments."
In an application filed pursuant to Section 6 (c), Small Business
Investment Company of New York, Inc. (SBICNY), a closed-end,
non-diversified investment company, sought exemption from Section 12 (d) (3) to permit it to invest in Daniels & Bell, Inc., a
proposed broker-dealer firm that was to be the first black-controlled member firm of the New York Stock Exchange. Section
12 (d) (3) prohibits a registered investment company from investing in a broker-dealer unless the investment company or a group
of registered investment companies will wholly-own the brokerdealer. The exemption requested was granted subject, however,
to conditions designed to reduce SBICNY's risk and to prevent
any conflicts of interest. IT
First American-Australian Investors Limited, an investment
company chartered under the laws of the Commonwealth of
Australia, applied for an order under Section 7 (d) of the Investment Company Act to permit the company to register as an in16
17

Investment Company Act Release No. 6509 (May 6, 1971).
Investment Company Act Release No. 6444 (April 6, 1971).

156

SECURITIES

AND EXCHANGE

COMMISSION

vestment company under the Act and make a public offering of
its securities in the United States. That section prohibits a foreign
investment company from seIling its securities to the public
through the mails or any means or instrumentalities of interstate
commerce unless the Commission, upon application, issues an
order permitting the company to register and make a public
offering.
The company was organized for the purpose of engaging in
business as a closed-end diversified management investment company investing principally in the securities of Australian companies. The Commission found that, in light of the company's
charter and by-law provisions and certain undertakings and
agreements contained in its application, it was both legally and
practically feasible to enforce effectively the provisions of the
Act against the company and that it was consistent with the
public interest and protection of investors to issue the requested
order.18
In N.A.S.D. v. S.E.C.,19 the Supreme Court vacated the Commission's order granting First National City Bank of New York
exemptions from certain provisions of the Investment Company
Act with respect to a CommingledInvestment Account which the
Bank established and registered under the Act,20because of the
Court's holding, in a companion case," that the establishment of
an investment company such as that created by First National
City Bank involves the bank in the underwriting, issuing, selling
and distributing of securities in violation of the Glass-Steagall
Act. The Commission had taken no position on the applicability
of the Glass-Steagall Act or any other provision of federal banking laws; however, the Court's determination that operation of
the investment company would violate those laws required that
the Commission'sexemptive order be vacated. Although the Court
did not decide whether the Commission's order was properly
granted, the two dissenting members of the Court (Justices
Harlan and Blackmun) stated that the Commission had not
abused its discretion in granting the exemptions.
CONTROL OF IMPROPER PRACTICES
INSPECTION AND INVESTIGATION

PROGRAM

During the fiscal year, the Commission's staff conducted 95
Investment Company Act Release No. 6517 (May 12, 1971).
401 U.S. 617 (1971).
::0 See 36th Annual Report, p, 149.
21 Investment Company Institute v, Camp, 401 U.S. 617 (1971).
til

19

THIRTY-SEVENTH

ANNUAL REPORT

157

investment company inspections. Many of these disclosed violations of the Investment Company Act and of other statutes administered by the Commission. Among the violations were failure
to obtain best execution on portfolio securities transactions resulting in unnecessary costs to investment companies, improper use
of investment company portfolio brokerage, inadequate disclosures concerning the activities of a company, participation by
investment companies in joint ventures with affiliated persons,
and various accounting and bookkeeping problems.
A number of situations were noted where investment advisers
of investment companies became insolvent and were unable to
discharge their obligations to the companies, with resultant losses
to them.
In most cases, deficiencies noted during inspections were
pointed out to the companies concerned, and corrective action was
immediately taken. Largely as an outgrowth of information obtained during inspections, a substantial number of private investigations were commenced during the fiscal year to develop
facts concerning what appeared to be serious violations. As a
result of the Commission's inspection and investigation program,
more than $3,600,000 was returned to investors either directly or
indirectly during the year. This brings to more than $11,700,000
the total amount returned to investors since the inception of the
inspection program in 1963.
CIVIL AND ADMINISTRATIVE

PROCEEDINGS

During the fiscal year, the Commission instituted a number of
civil and administrative proceedings involving investment companies, and various pending proceedings continued to progress or
were concluded.
The Commission brought an injunctive action in October 1970
in the United States District Court for the Central District of
California against All Ame1-icanFund, Inc., its investment adviser
and its principal underwriter, and the president of the Fund and
the advtser.> The complaint alleged that as of June 30, 1970, the
adviser was insolvent and was therefore unable to reimburse the
Fund for certain of the Fund's excess expenses, as it was obligated
to do by the terms of its investment advisory contract with the
Fund. The complaint further alleged that the adviser had received
unauthorized reimbursements from the Fund to cover the salaries
of certain employees of the adviser and had failed to account to
22 See Litigation
19, 1970).

Releases Nos. 4774 (October 7, 1970) and 4785 (October

158

SECURITIES

AND EXCHANGE COMMISSION

the Fund for rebates received from a broker who executed portfolio transactions. In addition, the complaint alleged that the
Fund's shares were overvalued to the extent that its net assets
included the amounts due from the insolvent adviser, that its
directors had not made a good faith valuation of such receivables
as required by the Investment Company Act, and that its shares
were being sold by means of a false and misleading prospectus
which failed to disclose the above matters. The defendants, without admitting the allegations of the Commission's complaint,
consented to the entry by the court of a final judgment permanently enjoining them from engaging in such violations of the
Investment Company Act and applicable antifraud provisions of
the securities laws.
In December 1970 the Commission instituted an injunctive
action in the U. S. District Court for the Northern District of
California against Investment/Indicators Fund and its investment
adviser'." The complaint alleged, among other things, that as of
October 20, 1970, the adviser was insolvent and unable to account
to and reimburse the Fund for certain expenses in accordance
with the terms of its advisory agreement with the Fund; that it
had converted to its own use moneys belonging to the Fund by
continuing to accept advisory fees from the Fund while insolvent
and indebted to the Fund; and that the Fund and the adviser
had sold Fund shares without complying with applicable state
securities laws with the result that substantial contingent liabilities had accrued arising from the rights of investors to rescind
their investments. The complaint also alleged that Fund shares
had been overvalued to the extent that its net assets included
amounts due from the insolvent adviser and that its directors
had not made a good faith effort to value such receivables. Finally,
the complaint alleged that Fund shares were being sold through
the use of a materially false and misleading prospectus which did
not disclose any of the above matters.
In July 1971 the U. S. District Court for the Northern District
of California preliminarily enjoined Golden Gate Fund, Inc., the
adviser to the Fund, and John B. Licata, president of the adviser,
from engaging in acts and practices in violation of the antifraud
provisions of the federal securities laws.>' The court also appointed an interim investment adviser for the Fund pending
determination by the Fund's board of directors as to proposals, if
any, to be submitted to shareholders concerning future manage23
:!4

See Litigation
See Litigation

Release No. 4862 (December 23, 1970).
Release No. 5100 (July 15, 1971).

THIRTY-SEVENTH

ANNUAL REPORT

159

ment of the Fund. The court found that the adviser was insolvent
and unable to meet its accruing obligation to reimburse excess
expenses of the Fund, as required by the terms of its advisory
agreement with the Fund, and that Licata had guaranteed the
adviser's indebtedness to the Fund, but was insolvent and unable
to fulfill his guarantee. The court further found that, in view of
the adviser's insolvency, the Fund's net assets had been overvalued by inclusion of the adviser's indebtedness as an asset of
the Fund, so that Fund shares had been redeemed at an inflated
value to the detriment of the Fund's shareholders, and that the
Fund's prospectus was materially false and misleading.
In administrative proceedings respecting Sierega & Co., Inc.,
a registered broker-dealer and investment adviser which had
acted as principal underwriter for Olympus Fund, Inc., its subsidiary which acted as the Fund's investment adviser, and two
principal officers of the corporate respondents, the Commission's
staff alleged that Sierega & Co. engaged in business while it was
insolvent and unable to meet its current obligations, that respondents induced the Fund to engage in transactions which were
excessive in size and frequency for their own benefit and not in
the interest of the Fund, and that the Fund paid expenses which
the adviser was obligated to but did not repay to the Fund.25
Among the issues raised in these proceedings is whether, pursuant
to new Section 9 (b) of the Investment Company Act,26 the respondents should be prohibited from affiliation with an investment
company in any of the various capacities enumerated in that
section.
In December 1970, an action by the Commission against American General Insurance Company and three affiliated investment
companies was settled. In its complaint the Commission had
alleged that the defendants had published a series of nine advertisements in The Wall Street Journal in September and October
1969, offering securities of the investment companies in violation
of the prospectus requirements of Section 5(b) (1) of the Securities Act and the sales literature filing provisions of Section 24 (b)
of the Investment Company Act.
Under the terms of the settlement, American General, without
admitting the violations charged, entered into an undertaking to
comply with the above statutory provisions. The undertaking was
incorporated in a court order, thus making American General
See Investment Company Act Release No. 6562 (June 15, 1971).
For a discussion of that provision, which was part of the 1970 amendments of the Investment Company Act, see pp, 17-18, swpra.
25

26

450-484 0 - 72 - 12

160

SECURITIES AND EXCHANGE COMMISSION

subject to the sanction of contempt in the event of future violations. As part of the settlement, the case was dismissed as to the
remaining defendants.
In August 1969 the Commission had instituted administrative
proceedings against Value Line Securities, Inc., a broker-dealer
which is principal underwriter for three investment companies,
its president, and the controlling shareholder of its parent company which is investment adviser to those companies. The proceedings were based on staff allegations that, among other things,
respondents offered and sold shares of the investment companies
by means of misleading prospectuses which failed to disclose a
lack of personnel and facilities necessary to service shareholders'
accounts properly. During the past fiscal year, respondents, without admitting the allegations, agreed not to contest certain findings of violations of antifraud and record-keeping provisions of
the Securities Exchange Act and a finding of failure of supervision. They also consented to suspensions ranging from 15 to
40 days and agreed that for nine months Value Line would submit
monthly reports on various aspects of its business.F
In S.E.C. v, Enterprise Fund, Inc.,28 the district court, in February 1970,had entered, upon consent, a final judgment of permanent injunction against Enterprise Fund, Inc. and an order
approving a stipulation and undertaking by Shareholders Management Company (''Management''), the fund's investment adviser and principal underwriter. The injunction and order had
prohibited the offer and sale of Enterprise shares until further
court order and had directed Enterprise and Management to take
steps necessary to make and keep current and accurate the records
of Enterprise in compliance with the requirements of the Investment Company Act.29 Subsequently, in October 1970, an order
was entered by the court, with the Commission's approval, permitting the resumption of sales of Enterprise shares and also
approving an agreement between Enterprise and Management
which provided for the payment of approximately $1.8 million
to Enterprise by Management and State Street Bank and Trust
Company, Enterprise's transfer agent.30 Enterprise's application
for authorization to resume sales of its shares followed compliance with certain provisions of the court's initial order, pur27
28

Securities Exchange Act Release No. 9183 (May 25, 1971).
C.D. CaI., Civ. Action No. 7o-22o-EC (1970); see 86th Annual Report,

pp, 155-156.
29
30

See Litigation Release No. 4547 (February 27, 1970).
See Litigation Release No. 4779 (October 15, 1970).

THIRTY-SEVENTH ANNUAL REPORT

161

suant to which Management filed with the Commission and the
court a report by an independent certified public accounting firm
retained by Management and an analysis prepared by Management of costs and expenses incurred by Enterprise and Management in connection with the maintenance of Enterprise's records.
That analysis formed the basis for the $1.8 million payment
referred to above. That payment, as well as more than $970,000
which Enterprise and its shareholders had already received from
State Street Bank and Bank of America, the former transfer
agent, are part of a total of over $5 million which Management
and the two banks have expended to bring Enterprise's records
into compliance.
A permanent injunction was entered by the U. S. District Court
for the Southern District of New York against Arnold Bernhard
& Co., Inc., a registered investment adviser, and certain affiliated
firms and individuals.v Bernhard & Co. publishes investment advisory publications under the name "Value Line" and acts as
investment adviser for several investment companies. The Commission's complaint alleged, among other things, that securities
analysts who did research for the publications and investment
companies failed to disclose their activities as finders of mergers,
acquisitions, and financing for companies they were reviewing,
and that certain of the defendants had accepted compensation
for the placement of investment company portfolio transactions.
The defendants consented to the injunction without admitting or
denying the allegations in the Commission's complaint.
Administrative proceedings were instituted under the Exchange
Act and the Investment Advisers Act with respect to Maxwell
Ohlman and several firms controlled by him, based on allegations
of the Commission's staff that respondents induced the investment
advisers and/or principal underwriters of several investment companies to direct allocations of brokerage and "give-ups" by their
affiliated investment companies to the Ohlman firms and certain
other persons, in exchange for undisclosed payments by the respondents to the advisers and/or underwriters of direct and indirect pecuniary benefits and other compensation.P The staff
further alleged that respondents failed to deal fairly with the
investment companies involved in that, having undertaken to act
in connection with the portfolio transactions of those companies,
they engaged in the acts and practices described above without
31
32

See Litigation Release No. 5017 (May 26,1971).
Securities Exchange Act Release No. 9061 (January 18, 1971).

162

SECURITIES

AND EXCHANGE

COMMISSION

disclosing them to the investment companies or their shareholders;"
On the basis of an offer of settlement submitted by the respondents, the Commission suspended, for 30 and 15 calendar days,
respectively, the broker-dealer and investment adviser registrations of Financial Programs, Inc., principal underwriter for and
adviser to three investment companies, and suspended Thomas J.
Herbert, former president of Programs and of the investment
companies, from association with any broker-dealer, investment
adviser or investment company for 30 business days.34 The Commission found, among other things, that during the years 1961-68
Programs caused the three funds to allocate brokerage and "giveups" to another broker-dealer or his designees, pursuant to an
arrangement whereby companies affiliated with such broker-dealer
in return paid certain expenses of Programs related to its distribution of the shares of the funds. The Commission held that these
and related activities by Programs, including the failure to make
proper disclosures thereof in the funds' prospectuses and in other
filings with the Commission, were violative of antifraud and other
provisions of the federal securities laws, and that Herbert aided
and abetted the violations and failed to exercise reasonable supervision of employees to prevent the violations. The respondents
consented to these findings and the sanctions without admitting
any violations.
The Commission filed a complaint in U. S. District Court for
the Central District of California, in June 1971, seeking to enjoin
Incentive Fund, Inc., its investment adviser, and the president
and director of both the Fund and the adviser. The complaint
alleges that defendants violated antifraud and other provisions
of the federal securities acts by causing the Fund to make excessive purchases and sales of its portfolio securities and by
failing to adhere to the Fund's investment policies as set forth
in its prospectus. On October 13, 1971, the court issued an injunction against the investment adviser and the president-e-director. However, it declined to enjoin the Fund, partly because
of a change of management subsequent to institution of the
proceedings.
33 Subsequent to the end of the fiscal year, the Commission, pursuant
to
an offer of settlement in which the respondents consented to findings as
alleged without admitting any violations, and to certain sanctions, imposed
sanctions on them, including a lBO-day suspension on Ohlman from association with any broker, dealer, investment adviser or investment company.
Securities Exchange Act Release No. 9370 (October 12, 1971).
34 Securities Exchange Act Release No. 9030 (November 30, 1970).

THIRTY-SEVENTH

ANNUAL

REPORT

163

The U. S. District Court for the Eastern District of Kentucky
entered a preliminary injunction on October 20, 1970 enjoining
Albert B. Chandler, Sr., J. Daniel Chandler and others from
violating various sections of the Investment Company Act, and
enjoining J. Daniel Chandler from violating Section lOeb) of
the Securities Exchange Act and Rule lOb-5 thereunder. This
action was taken pursuant to a complaint filed by the Commission
alleging, among other things, that defendants, officers of Commonwealth Security Investors, Inc., a registered investment company, had engaged in prohibited joint transactions with that
company and, acting as agents, had received compensation for
the purchase or sale of property to or for that company, in connection with a plan of reorganization under which the assets of
Commonwealth were exchanged for stock of Daniel Boone Fried
Chicken, Inc.35
Toward the end of the fiscal year, the Commission instituted
administrative proceedings involving Charles W. Steadman and
various companies bearing his name. Among the issues raised
was whether action should be taken against the respondents
pursuant to new Section 9 (b) of the Investment Company Act.
All respondents are alleged to be affiliates of a group of registered
investment companies (Funds) managed and advised by Steadman Security Corporation (SSC), one of the respondents, or its
subsidiaries. The staff alleged, among other things, that Steadman
and SSC and others caused transfers of securities between AmeriFund, an "off-shore" fund controlled by Steadman, and certain
of the registered companies in violation of certain provisions of
the Investment Company Act; that Steadman and SSC engaged in
prohibited joint arrangements with certain of the Funds by using
the assets of the Funds to obtain a loan for SSC; that SSC and
another respondent failed promptly to reimburse certain of the
Funds managed by SSC for excess expenses as they were required
to do by agreement with the Funds and with each other and
thereby effected a prohibited "borrowing" from the Funds; and
that respondents caused reports, proxy soliciting materials and
prospectuses to be filed with the Commission and transmitted to
shareholders which were false and misleading concerning the
above practices and transactions."
In S.E.C. v, Fifth Avenue Coach Lines, Inc.,37 the Court of
35 See Litigation Releases Nos. 4682 (July 13, 1970) and 4720 (August
1970).
36 Investment Company Act Release No. 6595 (June 29, 1971).
37435 F. 2d 510 (C.A. 2, 1970).

18,

164

SECURITIES

AND EXCHANGE COMMISSION

Appeals for the Second Circuit affirmed the judgment of the district court, previously reported." which appointed a trusteereceiver for Fifth Avenue Coach Lines, Inc. and enjoined certain
of the individual defendants from violating, with respect to transactions involving Fifth Avenue, Section 10(b) of the Securities
Exchange Act and Rule 10b-5 thereunder, and various provisions
of the Investment Company Act. The court of appeals sustained
the district court's finding that Fifth Avenue was an investment
company required to register as such with the Commission,ruling
that "there is nothing surprising about considering Fifth to be an
investment company," since the "transformation of an industrial
company into an investment company, which occurred with Fifth,
was anticipated by events preceding the enactment of the 1940
Act." In affirming the injunction that had been issued against
future violations of the Investment CompanyAct by the individual
defendants, the court adopted the view that an injunction may
be entered upon evidence of "a propensity to violate the Act in
the future."
The court further held that the lower court was justified in
granting an injunction for violations of Rule 10b-5 in connection
with the sale by Fifth Avenue of its stock in Gateway National
Bank to Gray Line Corp., another of the complex of companies
formerly controlled by the individual defendants. The court agreed
with the Commission's contention that the sale of Gateway stock
constituted a fraud upon Fifth Avenue, in that the defendants, as
"controIIing persons [of Fifth], without full disclosure to the
entire board of directors, caused their corporation to sell valuable
stock owned by it to another corporation known by the controlling
persons to be incapable of paying for the stock." In this connection
the court rejected the argument that the appointment of a receiver for the company precluded the issuance of an injunction
under the securities laws.
During the fiscalyear the Commissionalso prosecuted a related
injunctive action, S.E.C. v. Gray Line Corp.,aDto compelGray Line
to register as an investment company. In July 1970, Gray Line
consented to the entry of a permanent injunction and order which,
among other things, directed the company to file required reports
with the Commission under the Investment Company Act and to
conduct a shareholders meeting for the election of directors and
to vote upon whether Gray Line should be liquidated.
38
3D

See 34th Annual Report, pp. 117-118.
S.D.N.Y., No. 70 Civ. 2504.

THIRTY-SEVENTH

ANNUAL REPORT

165

Thereafter, the court, upon the Commission's application, entered an order appointing a trustee-receiver for Gray Line.40 In
January 1971, the Court of Appeals for the Second Circuit summarily affirmed the appointment of a receiver for Gray Line."
At fiscal year end the respective receivers of Fifth Avenue and
Gray Line had negotiated in principle a settlement, subject to
court approval, of litigation brought on behalf of Fifth Avenue
against Gray Line to recover an alleged indebtedness to Fifth of
about $3 mtllion.v The proposed settlement provides for the
elimination of the cross-ownership existing between the two investment companies, which had previously enabled the individual
defendants in the Commission's action against Fifth Avenue to
maintain control of both these companies.

CCH Fed. Sec. L. Rep. 1[92,887(December 17, 1970).
2, No. 71-1002 (January 13, 1971).
42 Gillespie v, Gray Line Corp., S.D.N.Y., No. 69 Civ. 4251.

40

41 C.A.

PART VI
REGULATION

OF PUBLIC. UTILITY HOLDING COMPANIES

Under the Public Utility Holding Company Act of 1935, the
Commission regulates interstate public-utility holding-company
systems engaged in the electric utility business and/or in the retail distribution of gas. The Commission's jurisdiction also extends to natural gas pipeline companies and other nonutility
companies which are subsidiary companies of registered holding
companies. There are three principal areas of regulation under
the Act. The first includes those provisions of the Act which require the physical integration of public-utility companies and
functionally related properties of holding-company systems and
the simplification of intercorporate relationships and financial
structures of such systems. The second covers the financing operations of registered holding companies and their subsidiary companies, the acquisition and disposition of securities and properties,
and certain accounting practices, servicing arrangements, and
intercompany transactions. The third area of regulation includes
the exemptive provisions of the Act, provisions relating to the
status under the Act of persons and companies, and provisions
regulating the right of persons affiliated with a public-utility
company to become affiliated with a second such company through
the acquisition of securities.
COMPOSITIONOF REGISTERED HOLDING.COMPANY SYSTEMS

At the close of the 1971 fiscal year, there were 23 holding companies registered under the Act. Of these, 20 are included in the
17 "active" registered holding-company systems, 3 of the 20 being
subholding utility operating companies in these systems. 1 The remaining 3 registered holding companies, which are relatively
small, are not considered part of "active" systems." In the 17
1 The three subholding companies are The Potomac Edison Company and
Monongahela Power Company, public-utility subsidiary companies of Allegheny Power System, Inc., and Southwestern Electric Power Company, a
public-utility subsidiary company of Central and South West Corporation.
2 These holding companies are British American Utilities
Corporation;
Kinzua Oil & Gas Corporation and its subholding company, Northwestern
Pennsylvania Gas Corporation; and Standard Gas & Electric Company,
which is in the process of dissolution.

167

168

SECURITIES AND EXCHANGE COMMISSION

active systems, there are 95 electric and/or gas utility subsidiaries, 49 nonutility subsidiaries, and 17 inactive companies, or a
total, including the parent holding companies and the subholding
companies, of 181 system companies. The table on page 169 shows
the number of active holding companies and the number of subsidiaries (classified as utility, nonutility, and inactive) in each of
the active systems as of June 30, 1971, and the aggregate assets
of these systems, less valuation reserves, as of December 31, 1970.
SECTION 11 MATTERS IN REGISTERED HOLDING-COMPANY
SYSTEMS

Washington Gas Light Company, which, pursuant to Section
3 (a) (2), had been granted an exemption from the Act except
Sections 11(b) (2), 11(d), and 11(e), filed a plan under Section
11(e) proposing the elimination of the 0.7 percent publicly-held
minority interest in the common stock of its gas utility subsidiary
company, Shenandoah Gas Company," After a hearing on the plan,
the Commission approved the plan," and, on application of the
Commission, the United States District Court ordered the plan
enforced.5
As reported previously," the Commission approved an amended
plan filed by Pennzoil United, Inc. for the divestiture of its interest in its gas utility subsidiary company, United Gas Corporation, pursuant to Section Il(e) of the Act. The divestments were
completed during this fiscal year.'
PROCEEDINGS WITH RESPECT TO ACQUISITIONS, SALES, AND
OTHER MATTERS

In American Electric Pourer Company, Inc. (AEP), discussed
previously," the reopened hearings continued during the fiscal year
with respect to AEP's proposal to acquire, in exchange for its
stock, the common stock of Columbus and Southern Ohio Electric
Company, a nonassociate electric utility company.
See 36th Annual Report, p, 160.
Holding Company Act Release No. 17053 (March 16, 1971).
5 Civil Action No.-289-71A, E.D. Va., April 23, 1971.
6 See 36th Annual Report, pp. 170-171; 35th Annual Report, p. 147; 34th
Annual Report, pp. 134-135; 33rd Annual Report, p. 121; 32nd Annual Report,
pp.77-78.
, Subsequent thereto, the Commission released jurisdiction over the related
fees and expenses (Pennzoil United, Inc., Holding Company Act Release No.
17272, September 14,1971).
8 See 36th Annual Report, p. 160; 35th Annual Report, p. 148; 34th Annual
Report, p. 188.
S
4

THIRTY-SEVENTH

ANNUAL REPORT

....
co
....

to-

'"....

"I
:> I

:g!

"':
.s!

I

II

't:l:
l::

"':
Sll

I

I
I

i!

..

fJ.1

~

Cl~

3~
0"
Eo<

169

170

SECURITIES AND EXCHANGE COMMISSION

In New England Electric System, reported previously," hearings were concluded during the fiscal year on the proposal for an
affiliation, through the creation of a new holding company to be
known as Eastern Electric Energy System, of New England
Electric System and Eastern Utilities Associates, both registered
holding companies, and Boston Edison Company, a nonaffiliated
electric utility company. The Division of Corporate Regulation
opposes approval on the grounds that (a) the anti-competitive
effects of the acquisition would be contrary to the standards of
Section 10(b) (1) and (b) it was not shown that, as required by
Section 10 (c) (2), significant economies would result from the
proposed affiliation. The United States Department of Justice and
39 Massachusetts Municipal electric systems also oppose the proposed affiliation.
American Electric Power Company, Inc., filed an application
seeking authorization for the issue and sale of $100 million principal amount of debentures. A hearing was ordered to determine
whether the proposal meets the standards of Section 7 of the
Act.10
In two separate orders, the Commission authorized Louisiana
Power & Light Company (LP&L), an electric utility subsidiary
company of Middle South Utilities, Inc., a registered holding company, to issue and sell first mortgage bonds and preferred stock
at competitive bidding and short-term notes to banks and to
dealers in commercial paper." The Cities of Lafayette and Plaquemine, Louisiana (Cities) sought to intervene as parties and
requested a hearing unless LP&L consented to the imposition of
conditions requiring cessation of activities alleged to be in violation of Federal antitrust laws. The Commission determined that
the facts alleged by the Cities did not present issues relevant to
Section 7 of the Act and that Section 7 (f) does not authorize the
Commission to impose terms and conditions to resolve collateral
and unrelated controversies in which a declarant may be engaged
with other parties. The Cities filed petitions for review from both
orders, oral argument was heard by the Court of Appeals, and, at
the end of the fiscal year, the matter was under advisement."
9 See 36th Annual Report, p. 160; 35th Annual Report, p, 149; 34th Annual
Report, p. 138.
10 Holding Company Act Release No. 17158 (June 9,1971).
11 Louisiana Power & Light Company, Holding Company Act Releases Nos.
16881 and 16955 (October 27, 1970, and December 29, 1970).
12 Cities of Lafayette
and Plaqueminp. T.ouisiana v. B.E.C., C.A.D.C., Nos.
24764 and 24963 (consolidated).

THIRTY-SEVENTH

ANNUAL

REPORT

171

In Middle South Utilities, Inc., the Commission rejected the
above Cities' intervention and request for reopening the hearing,
filed 15 months after the hearing, with respect to the proposal by
Middle South to acquire, in exchange for its common stock, the
outstanding common and preferred stocks of Arkansas-Missouri
Power Company, an unaffiliated company. The Cities' petition
reasserted the alleged violations of the Federal antitrust laws
charged in the proceedings relating to the proposed financing of
Louisiana Power & Light Company. The Commission concluded
that the rule permitting intervention by interested municipalities
"cannot be deemed to grant, nor does an orderly administration
of proceedings permit, an extension of the privilege for such a
long period of time beyond the time fixed in the public notice of
hearing for interested persons to request participation." 13 Subsequently, the Commission approved the proposed acquisition,
without ordering the hearing requested by the Cities." The Cities
have filed petitions for review with respect to both orders."
In Michigan Consolidated Gas Co. v. S.E.C.,16 the Court of
Appeals for the District of Columbia Circuit affirmed an order
of the Commission 17 denying an application by Michigan Consolidated and its subsidiary company for permission to provide
financing to the subsidiary company which, pursuant to the National Housing Act, proposed to construct in its service area two
housing projects for low and moderate income families. The
court agreed with the Commission's construction of the "other
business" clauses of Section 11 (b) (1) which govern the retainability of nonutility businesses.
Under that construction, the court pointed out, "the holding
company or its subsidiary must clear two hurdles. First, the
company must show that its 'other business' is 'reasonably incidental, or economically necessary or appropriate to the operations of such integrated public-utility system.' ... Once a company
has cleared this hurdle, the Commission then looks to see whether
the second sentence of Section 11 (b) (1) is adhered to, i.e.,
whether the retention of the 'other business' is 'necessary or
appropriate in the public interest.''' The court agreed that the

14

Holding Company Act Release No. 17081 (March 30, 1971).
Holding Company Act Release No. 17116 (May 5, 1971).

15

Cities of Lafayette and Plaque-mine, Louisiana v, S.E.C., C.A.D.C., No.

13

71-1337.
Ifi 444 F.2d 913 (C.A.D.C., 1971).
17 Holding
Company Act Release
Annual Report, pp, 161-162.

No. 16763 (June

22, 1970).

See 36th

172

SECURITIES AND EXCHANGE COMMISSION

operation of a low-rent housing project did not meet the functional relationship test and that it was therefore not necessary
for the Commissionto reach the "public interest" questfon.P
Legislation has been introduced in the 92nd Congress (H.R.
6711 and S. 1991) to provide an exemption from the Act to permit
registered holding companies to participate in low and moderate
income housing programs. The bills are identical to those introduced in the 91st Congress (See 36th Annual Report, p, 162).
In National Utilities & Industries Corporation,t9 a hearing has
been held on an application by National for an exemption as a
holding company under Section 3 (a) (1) of the Act. National,
which was organized in 1969, acquired all of the outstanding
common stock of Elizabethtown Gas Company in an exchange of
National stock for stock of Elizabethtown. National also has nonutility subsidiary companies which are engaged in such activities
as data processing and computer services, exploration for gas,
leasing an aircraft, and a travel agency business. The principal
question is whether under the "unless and except" clause of
Section 3 (a) the exemption should be denied in light of the fact
that National has become engaged in activities unrelated to the
retail gas utility business. At the conclusion of the hearing, the
Division announced that it would oppose granting of an exemption
to National. National and the Division waived an initial decision
by the hearing examiner, and, subsequent to the close of the fiscal
year, briefs were filedwith the Commission.
Union Electric Company, an exempt holding company and an
electric and gas utility company, filed an application relating to a
proposal to acquire, through an invitation for tenders, the outstanding shares of common stock of Missouri Utilities Company,
a nonassociate electric and gas utility company." A hearing commenced during the fiscal year to determine whether the proposed
acquisition meets the standards of Section 10 of the Act and
18 The court also affirmed orders of the Commission which had denied
motions for an "interim order" and "limited relief" filed subsequent to the
issuance of its order denying the main application. Holding Company Act
Release No. 16819 (August 26, 1970); Holding Company Act Release No.
16842 (September 22, 1970). These motions sought authorization to complete
construction and financing of the projects during the period required to
implement the divestiture order. The court noted that there had been no
showing that denial of this relief would render any substantial harm to
Michigan Consolidated, its investors, or any of its customers.
19 Holding Company Act Release No. 17062 (March 23,1971).
20 Holding Company Act Release No. 16815 (August 20,1970).

THIRTY~SEVENTH ANNUAL REPORT

173

whether Union Electric should be granted an exemption pursuant
to Section 3 (a) (2) thereof.
In Columbia Gas System, Inc.,21 a hearing was held on an application relating to the acquisition of the common stock of National
Gas & Oil Corporation by Columbia. At the conclusion of the
hearing, Columbia filed a brief in support of the acquisition.
Thereafter, National terminated the agreement with Columbia,
and Columbia's request to withdraw its application was granted.22
FINANCING OF ACTIVE REGISTERED PUBLIC-UTILITY HOLDING
COMPANIES AND THEIR SUBSIDIARIES

During fiscal 1971, 16 active registered holding-company systems issued and sold for cash a total of 72 issues of long-term debt
and capital stock, aggregating $2,496 million." pursuant to authorizations granted by the Commission under Sections 6 and 7
of the Act.24 All of these issues were sold for the purpose of raising new capital. The table on page 174 presents the amounts and
types of securities issued and sold by these holding-company
systems."
The financing highlight of fiscal 1971 was the record volume of
external financing by registered holding companies and their subsidiary eompanies, The total of $2,4735 million of new securities
publicly issued and sold for cash by these companies, as shown
in the preceding table, represents the greatest volume of external
financing by companies subject to the Act for any year since
passage of the Act and is almost 1.5 times the volume of securities
issued and sold the previous year. The amount of preferred stock
issued in 1971 was 2.7 times the amount issued in 1970.
All of the senior securities were sold at competitive bidding
except a $58,000,000 debenture issue of GPU, with an interest
See 36th Annual Report, p. 164.
Holding Company Act Release No. 17058 (March 19, 1971).
23 Debt securities are computed at their principal amount, preferred stock
at the offering price, and common stock at the offering or subscription price.
24 The active system which did not sell stock or long-term debt securities
to the public was Philadelphia Electric Power Company.
25 The table does not include securities issued and sold by subsidiaries to
their parent holding companies, short-term notes sold to banks, portfolio
sales by any of the system companies, or securities issued for stock or assets
of nonaffiliated companies. Transactions of this nature also require authorization by the Commission except, as provided by Section 6(b) of the Act, the
issuance of notes having a maturity of 9 months or less where the aggregate
amount does not exceed 5 percent of the principal amount and par value of
the other securities of the issuer then outstanding.
21
22

174

SECURITIES

AND EXCHANGE COMMISSION

Securities Issued and Sold for Cash to the Public and Financial Institutions
by Active Registered Holding Companies and Their Subsidiaries-FiBcal Year
1971 (In Millions of Dollars)

Holding-company

systems

Allegheny Power System, Inc.
Monongahela Power Co.
Potomac EdIson Co.
West Penn Power Co.
American Electric Power Co., Inc.
Appalachian Power Co.
Indiana & Michigan Electric Co.
Ohio Power Co.
Amencan Natural Gas Co.
Mlchlgan Wisconsin Pipe Line Co.
WIsconsin Gas Company
Central & South West Corporation
Central Power & Light Co.
Columbia Gas System Inc., The
Consolidated Natural Gas Co.
Delmarva Power & Light Co.
Eastern Utfhtres Associates
Blackstone Valley Electric Co.
General Public UtIlities Corp.
Jersey Central Power & Light Co.
Pennsylvania Electnc Co
Middle South Utilities, Inc.
Arkansas Power & Light Co.
Louisiana Power & Light Co.
Mississippr Power & LIght Co.
National Fuel Gas Co.
New England Electric System
Massachusetts Electnc Co.
Narragansett Electnc Co
New England Power Co.
Northeast Utllitles
Connecticut Light & Power Co.
Ohio Edison Company
Southern Company, The
Alabama Power Company
Georgia Power Company
Gulf Power Company
MississippI Power Company
Utah Power & Light Company
Maine Yankee Atomic Power Co.'
Vermont Yankee Nuclear Power Corp.'
Total
"Two issues.
"Three issues
c Statutory
utrlrty
System.

subsidiartes

Bonds
_
_
_
_
_
_
_
_
_
_
_
_
_
_
_
_
_
_
_
_
_
_
_
_
_
_
_
_
_
_
_
_
_
_
_
_
_
_
_
_

Debentllres

Preferred
stock

Common
stock
36.2

5.1
5.0

20
20
a 140

70
30
" 80
" 80

30.4
25.4

a

15

36

"125
"125
132

30

9.4

75
58
" 51
n

42

78.3
50.8

55

30

" 55
"45
17.5

"17.3

7.6

21
10.1
10.1
15.3

20
20

20.5

40
" 105

82.7

60
" 149.5
16
15
35

125

36

n

10_0
406

13.4
15

80

1,389.50

of Northeast

Utilities

389.00

and

274.80

New England

420.20

Electric

rate of 10-~ percent, which was sold pursuant to a rights offering
to its common stockholders at principal amount. All of the common stock was issued and sold at competitive bidding except for
597,909 shares issued by Delmarva Power & Light Company,
3,800,000 shares issued by The Southern Company, and 3,000,000
shares issued by GPU. These shares were sold pursuant to rights
offerings to common stockholders with the compensation to
standby underwriters determined by competitive bidding except
for GPU whose rights offering was not underwritten.
This unprecedented volume of :financing was accompanied by
continuing high interest and preferred dividend rates and the
deterioration of ratios of earnings coverages for interest and

THIRTY-SEVENTH

ANNUAL REPORT

175

preferred dividends. For the calendar year 1970, the 17 registered
electric and gas holding-company systems earned their income
deductions plus preferred dividend requirements an average 2.19
times (after taxes) as compared to 2.93 times in 1966 and 3.07
times in 1955.26

26 The ratios for 1966 and 1970 were computed from annual reports filed
With the Commission. The 1955 computation is for 16 holding-eompany
systems cited in Hearings Before the Subcommittee of the Committee on
Interstate and Foreign Commerce of the Senate, 84th Cong., 2nd Sess., S.
2643, p. 399 (1956).

450-484

0 - 72 - 13

PART VII
PARTICIPATION IN CORPORATE REORGANIZATIONS

The Commission'srole under Chapter X of the Bankruptcy Act,
which provides a procedure for reorganizing corporations in the
United States district courts, differs from that under the various
other statutes which it administers. The Commission does not
initiate Chapter X proceedings or hold its own hearings, and it
has no authority to determine any of the issues in such proceedings. The Commission participates in proceedings under Chapter
X in order to provide independent, expert assistance to the courts,
the participants, and investors in a highly complex area of corporate law and finance. It pays special attention to the interests of
public security holders who may not otherwise be represented
effectively.
Where the scheduled indebtedness of a debtor corporation exceeds $3 million, Section 172 of Chapter X requires the judge,
before approving any plan of reorganization, to submit it to the
Commission for its examination and report. If the indebtedness
does not exceed $3 million, the judge may, if he deems it advisable
to do so, submit the plan to the Commission before deciding
whether to approve it. When the Commissionfiles a report, copies
or a summary must be sent to all security holders and creditors
when they are asked to vote on the plan. The Commissionhas no
authority to veto a plan of reorganization or to require its
adoption.
The Commissionhas not considered it necessary or appropriate
to participate in every Chapter X case. Apart from the excessive
administrative burden, many of the cases involve only trade or
bank creditors and few public investors. The Commission seeks
to participate principally in those proceedings in which a substantial public investor interest is involved. However, the Commission may also participate because an unfair plan has been or
is about to be proposed, public security holders are not represented
adequately, the reorganization proceedings are being conducted in
violation of important provisions of the Act, the facts indicate
that the Commission can perform a useful service, or the judge
requests the Commission'sparticipation.
For purposes of carrying out its functions under Chapter X,
177

178

SECURITIES

AND EXCHANGE

COMMISSION

the Commission has divided the country into five geographic areas.
The New York, Chicago, San Francisco and Seattle regional
offices of the Commission each have responsibility for one of these
areas. Supervision and review of the regional offices' Chapter X
work is the responsibility of the Division of Corporate Regulation
of the Commission, which, through its Branch of Reorganization,
also serves as a field officefor the fifth area.
SUMMARY OF ACTIVITIES

In the fiscal year 1971, the Commission entered its appearance
in 19 new proceedings involving companies with aggregate stated
assets of approximately $373.4 million and aggregate indebtedness of approximately $267.4 million. The corporations involved
in these proceedings were engaged in a variety of businesses,
including, among others, those manufacturing such diverse items
as ice cream, furniture, education devices, soft drinks, data
processing equipment and shoes, as well as such businesses as
producing oil and gas, renting uniforms, refining beet sugar,
providing computer services, leasing trucks, operating an insurance holding company, a school, nursing homes, automobile race
tracks and helicopter and commercial airlines, and engaging in
commercial finance and real estate development.
Including the new proceedings, the Commission was a party
in a total of 114 reorganization proceedings during the year.' The
stated assets of the companies involved in these proceedings
totaled approximately $1.4 billion and their indebtedness totaled
approximately $1.1 billion. The proceedings were scattered among
district courts in 36 states and the District of Columbia as follows: 12 in California; 11 in New York; 9 in Arizona; 7 in
Pennsylvania; 6 in Texas; 5 each in Florida, Illinois, Indiana, and
New Jersey; 4 each in Louisiana and North Carolina; 3 in
Oklahoma; 2 each in Arkansas, Colorado, Hawaii, Kansas, Michigan, Nevada, Ohio, South Dakota, and Utah; 1 each in Connecticut, District of Columbia, Georgia, Iowa, Kentucky, Maine,
Maryland, Massachusetts, Minnesota, Montana, Missouri, North
Dakota, Tennessee, Virginia, West Virginia and Wisconsin.
During the year, 13 proceedings were closed. As of the end of
the fiscal year the Commission was a party in 101 reorganization
proceedings.
1 Appendix Table 16 lists reorganization proceedings in which the Commission participated during the year.

THIRTY-SEVENTH

ANNUAL REPORT

179

JURISDICTIONAL, PROCEDURAL, AND ADMINISTRATIVE MATTERS

In Chapter X proceedings in which it participates, the Commission seeks to have the courts apply the procedural and substantive
safeguards to which all parties are entitled. The Commission also
attempts to secure judicial uniformity in the construction of
Chapter X and the procedures thereunder.
In Bermec Corporation.' the district court approved the debtor's
petition over the opposition of several major creditors holding
claims secured by liens on the debtor's motor vehicles. These
creditors contended that the petition had not been filed in good
faith, principally on the ground that it was unreasonable to expect that a plan of reorganization could be effected. The court of
appeals, in accordance with the view urged by the Commission,
affirmed, stating: "In sum, we cannot find the prospect so hopeless as to require setting aside the order below . . . the expressed
intention of certain secured creditors to reject any plan that does
not provide full payment ... is not enough to defeat the petition.
Creditors have been known to change their minds when a plan
is actually put on the table." 3
In Maine Sugar Industries, Inc.i: an involuntary Chapter X
petition was filed against the debtor and one of its wholly-owned
subsidiaries by three unsecured creditors. As a result of a settlement with them, these creditors filed a motion to dismiss the
petition. The court granted the motion over the Commission's
objection that the motion papers failed to disclose adequately the
terms of the settlement.
In Federal Shopping Way, Inc.,5 previously reported," the court
of appeals affirmed the decision of the district court that debenture
holders were not disqualified from joining in a creditor's petition
for reorganization merely because they also held common stock
of the debtor." The court also agreed that the appointment of a
receiver pendente lite in an injunctive action filed by the Commission constituted the appointment of a receiver "in a pending
equity proceeding," within the meaning of Section 131 (2) of
Chapter X, and that one of the alternative requirements for an
involuntary petition had therefore been met.
S.D. N.Y., No. 71-B-291.
3445 F. 2d 367, 369 (C.A. 2, 1971).
4 D. Maine, No. Bk-70-435-ND.
5 W.D. Wash., No. 61609.
6 See 36th Annual Report, p. 177; 35th Annual Report, p. 161; and 34th
Annual Report, p. 145.
7433 F. 2d 144 (C.A. 9, 1970).
2

180

SECURITIES

AND EXCHANGE

COMMISSION

In Kelly Development Company,8 a case in which the Commission was not participating, a lawyer who was an officer and
stockholder of creditors of the debtor was appointed as general
counsel to the Chapter X trustee. The Commission advised the
attorney that he was not disinterested as required by Sections 157
and 158,and he resigned.
Four Seasons Nursing Centers of America, Inc., et al.,o includes
a group of associated companies jointly engaged in the construction and operation of nursing centers. At the time they entered
Chapter X, 45 centers were in operation and an equal number
were in various stages of construction. Ownership of the centers
was divided among a bewildering maze of partnerships and corporations, although their management was centralized in the
principal debtor.
The reorganization trustee for the parent corporation caused
a voluntary Chapter X petition to be filed in the same court for
Four Seasons Overseas, N. V., a wholly-owned subsidiary, which
had been organized abroad with $3 million of capital provided
by its parent. The subsidiary had issued and sold to European
investors $15 million of debentures guaranteed by its parent, lent
the $15 million proceeds to its parent and had $1,700,000 on
deposit in American banks. Over objections raised by Finimtrust,
S. A., a Luxembourg corporation (the indenture trustee under
the trust indenture pursuant to which the debentures were sold),
the reorganization court, as urged by the Commission, retained
jurisdiction over the proceeding for the subsidiary, approved its
petition for reorganization as filed in good faith and appointed
the Chapter X trustee for the parent as trustee for the subsidiary.
Finimtrust appealed from these rulings," and the Commission
filed a brief urging affirmance. After the close of the fiscal year
the matter was settled and the appeals dismissed.
In the same proceeding a bank attempted to set off funds
deposited by a subsidiary company in reorganization against the
unpaid balance on a loan owed to the bank by the parent corporation. The district court, on petition of the reorganization trustee, ruled against the bank, which appealed.'! The Commission
urged that the district court was correct in refusing to disregard
the separate corporate entities of the parent and the subsidiary
and in determining that it had summary jurisdiction to order the
8 S.D. W. Va., No. 70-422.
o W.D. Okla., BK 70-1008, 1008 A-D, 1129, 1129A.
10 C.A. 10, Nos. 602-70, 71-1259 and 71-1331.
11 C.A. 10, No. 603-70.

THIRTY-SEVENTH ANNUAL REPORT

181

bank to turn over to the trustee the amount the bank sought to
offset. The matter was settled by the parties prior to decision by
the court of appeals, and the appeal was dismissed by stipulation.
In this proceeding a number of disputes have arisen as to the
status of property titled in a partnership in which a debtor was a
general partner and operator but had outside partners. The court
ruled that a partnership interest is property of the debtor within
the meaning of Chapter X.12 In all cases but one, satisfactory
settlements have been made with the other partners.
Serious charges of fraud have been made against debtors in
various transactions and numerous class actions on behalf of
shareholders are pending against debtors and their officers, accountants and underwriters. Several claims under the Securities
Act, including one for $100 million, have been filed on behalf of
the shareholders, but have not been resolved.
In Landmark Inns of Durham, Inc.,13 previously reported.> the
Commissionopposed the petition of landlords asking the Chapter
X court to declare a forfeiture of a lease of real property on which
the debtor had constructed a motel, its principal asset. The Commission, citing In re Fleetwood Motel Corp.,15 had argued that it
would be inequitable to permit the landlords to obtain the debtor's
principal asset as a result of breaches of the lease which had been
remedied by the Chapter X trustee.
The referee in bankruptcy denied the landlords' petition. The
landlords filed a petition for review with the district judge who
upheld the referee's decision. The landlords have appealed.!" and
the Commissionfiled a brief supporting the district court's order.
The matter is pending on appeal.
In Los Angeles Land and Investments, Ltd.,n previously reported," after the close of the fiscal year the court of appeals,
as urged by the Commission,affirmed the decision of the district
court that, when an officer of the debtor filed proofs of interest
and claims, the reorganization court had summary jurisdiction to
allow a counterclaim filedby the reorganization trustee for breach
of fiduciary obligation and for violation of a permanent injunction
12 This is in accord with In the matter of Imperial '400' National, Inc., 429
F. 2d 671 (C.A. 3, 1970), discussed in the 36th Annual Report, pp. 176-177.
13 M.D.N.C., No. B-198-69.
14 36th Annual Report, p, 179.
15355 F. 2d 857 (C.A. 3, 1964).
16 C.A. 4, No. 71-1577.
17 D. Hawaii, No. Bk-67-352.
18 See 35th Annual Report, pp. 162-163; 34th Annual Report, p. 148.

182

SECURITIES

AND EXCHANGE

COMMISSION

entered on consent in a prior action by the Commission.P It held
that summary jurisdiction exists even where the counterclaim did
not arise in a strict sense from the same transaction, although it
found that the officer's claims were sufficiently related to the
trustee's counterclaim. The court of appeals stated that it was
unable to distinguish the present case from Alexander v. Hillman,
296 U.S. 222 (1935), an equity receivership proceeding.
In Manufacturers' Credit Corporation.P" previously reported.sthe debtors, consisting of the parent and 25 affiliated and subsidiary companies, were engaged primarily in the business of
operating bus lines in New Jersey and vicinity. Certain secured
creditors made a motion for an order to allow them to reclaim the
buses securing their claims. At the hearing before the referee
these creditors argued that the debtor could not be reorganized
within a reasonable time and that their security was being impaired in the meantime. The Commission urged that such drastic
action was premature and that the trustee should be granted more
time to explore various alternatives which might lead to some
form of reorganization.
The referee recommended in his report that (1) the secured
creditors be restrained from reclaiming their buses for at least
four months from the date of the court's order on the referee's
report, during which time they should be paid the sums set forth
in a previous order of the court; and (2) if a plan of reorganization could not be proposed within this time, the trustee be directed
to undertake thereafter the liquidation of the assets of the various
debtor corporations. The district court has scheduled a hearing on
the referee's report.
In Canandaigua Enterprises
Corporation,22 previously reported,23 the Commission objected to the trustee becoming president of the reorganized company on the ground that under Section
158 a trustee must be disinterested not only at the outset but also
during the proceeding and that to allow the trustee to assume the
presidency of the reorganized company gives him an interest in
the outcome of the reorganization not consistent with the policy
of Section 158. The district court overruled the Commission's
objections.
19447

F. 2d 1366 (C.A. 9, 1971).
D. N.J., No. B-1084-67.
21 36th Annual Report, pp. 177-178; 34th Annual Report, p. 160.
22 W.D. N.Y., No. BK-63-1954.
23 See 36th Annual Report, pp, 185-186;
35th Annual Report, pp, 166-167:
34th Annual Report, pp. 154-155.
20

THIRTY-SEVENTH

ANNUAL REPORT

183

TRUSTEE'S INVESTIGATION

A complete accounting for the stewardship of corporate affairs
by the prior management is a requisite under Chapter X. One of
the primary duties of the trustee is to make a thorough study of
the debtor to assure the discovery and collection of all assets of
the estate, including claims against officers, directors, or controlling persons who may have mismanaged the debtor's affairs. The staff of the Commission often aids the trustee in his
investigation.
In R. Hoe & Co., Ine.,24 the trustee, after conducting an extensive investigation into the affairs of the debtor, instituted suits
against former principals of the debtor and the debtor's former
independent public auditor alleging, among other things, mismanagement on the part of the principals, and negligent execution
of professional duties on the part of the accountants, leading to
the debtor's financial collapse. The trustee is seeking at least $40
million in damages from each of the defendants. The trustee also
instituted suit to set aside security interests granted a factor,
two banks, and two insurance companies, and to recover approximately $10 million transferred to them and a major supplier,
alleging that such conveyances were fraudulent and constituted
voidable preferences.
In Webb & Knapp, Ine.,25 previously reported." the court of
appeals en bane held that, because no property of the debtor or
"res" was involved, a Chapter X trustee does not have standing to
assert a class claim on behalf of public debenture holders of the
debtor against the indenture trustee for alleged misconduct or
gross negligence, either in the reorganization proceeding or in a
plenary actlon." The Chapter X trustee filed a petition for a writ
of certiorari;" which the Commission is supporting."
REPORTS ON PLANS OF REORGANIZATION

Generally, the Commission files a formal advisory report only
in a case which involves a substantial public investor interest
and presents significant problems. When no such formal report is
S.D.N.Y., No. 69-B-461.
S.D.N.Y., No. 65-B-365.
26 34th Annual Report, p. 150.
27 Caplin v, The Marine Midland Grace Trust Company of New York, 439
F.2d 118 (C.A. 2, 1971).
28 October Term, 1971, No. 70-220.
29 For settlements of investor claims in other proceedings incorporated in
plans of reorganization, see p. 186, infra.
24

25

184

SECURITIES AND EXCHANGE COMMISSION

filed the Commission may state its views briefly by letter, or
authorize its counsel to make an oral or written presentation.
During the fiscal year the Commission published no formal
advisory reports. However, its views on twelve plans of reorganization were transmitted to the court either orally or by written
memorandum.s?

In Sunset International Petroleum Corporation." the debtor
had interests in some 5,000 producing oil and gas wells recorded
on its books at a net of $40 million but valued for purposes of
reorganization at about $18 million. Liabilities exceeded $59
million, including over $25 million of debt due its parent, Commonwealth United Corporation, consisting of about $14.8 million
on an open account and about $10.8 million in debentures.
The Commission supported the trustee's plan of sale, under
which the open account was disallowed for lack of proof. The
Commission also supported the subordination of the Commonwealth debenture claims to the claims of other creditors, including
debenture holders. Commonwealthhad acquired control of Sunset
when it was insolvent and, as the Commission noted, did very
little during the three years after acquisition to relieve Sunset
from its excessive indebtedness. The Sunset acquisition was used
by Commonwealth for its own promotional ends, while keeping
Sunset just "two jumps ahead of the wolf".32
The Commission stated that the subordination of Commonwealth should not extend to notes of Sunset held by several banks.
These banks originally held unsecured notes of Sunset. To obtain
an extension of time, Commonwealthcaused Sunset to convert the
banks to a secured position. Subsequently the banks made substantial loans to Commonwealth,which, in turn, used part of the
proceeds of the loans to acquire the Sunset notes from the banks.
These notes, along with other assets, were then pledged to the
30 In re Arlington Discount Co., S.D. Ohio, No. 48421; In re Canandaigua
Enterprises Corp., W.D. N.Y., No. Bk-63-1964; In re Continental Vending
Machine Corp., E.D. N.Y., No. 63-B-663; In re Los Angeles Land & Investments, Ltd., D. Hawaii No. Bk-67-352; In re Peoples Loan & Investment Co.,
W.D. Ark., No. FS 68-B-15; In re John Rich Enterprises, Ine., D. Utah,
No. B-42-70; In re Riker Delaware Corp. (3 plans), D. N.J., No. B-597-67;
In re Standard Airways, Tnc., W.D. Wash., No. 65475; In re Sunset International Petroleum Corp., N.D. Texas, No. Bk-3-1640.
In Ozarke Paradise Village, Inc., W.D. Mo., No. 4339-6, a non-participating
case, the staff of the Commission, at the request of the court, assisted in
the formulation of the plan.
31 N.D. Tex., No. Bk-3-1640.
32 The quoted phrase is from Taylor v. Standard Gas & Electric Co., 306
U.S. 307, 310 (1939).

THIRTY-SEVENTH

ANNUAL REPORT

185

banks as security for the Commonwealth loans. The banks thus
became exclusively creditors of Commonwealth. As pledgees the
banks asserted claims against Sunset on the notes. In the Commission's opinion, the banks, in seeking to realize on the pledge
in the Sunset proceeding, were not entitled to the additional
benefit they would receive by subordinating Commonwealth's
other claims against Sunset to its claims as pledgor of the notes.
The banks' share of the estate should be determined without
regard to the Commonwealthsubordination.
The plan was amended in this and other respects in accordance
with the views of the Commission. As so amended, the plan was
approved and confirmed by the court.
In Riker Delaware Corporation,33 previously reported.s- the
Commission reported on three plans of reorganization, filed respectively by the trustees, the debtors, and stockholders. The
Commissionfound the trustees' plan neither fair and equitable nor
feasible. It urged that the other two plans would meet the statutory standards if amended in certain respects, and both plans were
amended accordingly. The Commission advised the court that
Sections 174 and 175 of Chapter X do allow the approval of more
than one plan, and permit security holders to decide by a vote
which plan they favor. The court approved and confirmedonly the
debtors' plan, as amended.
Under this plan, unsecured creditors would receive $250,000in
cash and 5 percent convertible debentures in the principal amount
of $2.25 million, representing the value of their interest in the
assets of the debtors. A secured creditor, the plan proponent,
would supply $500,000 in cash for 1,440,000 shares of capital
stock of the reorganized company. Preferred and common stockholders would receive 360,000shares of new common stock, or 20
percent of the total to be outstanding, although creditors were
not receiving full compensation for their claims.
The Commission stated that such stockholder participation in
an insolvent debtor was fair and equitable. The proponent was
entitled to all the common stock equity for the contribution of
fresh capital, and the allotment, presumably for tax reasons, of
20 percent of the common stock to the old stockholders was a
"gratuity" the proponent was free to grant since it was not at the
expense of the creditors.
In Arlington Discount CompanY,3Gthe debtor owned a large
D. N.J., No. B-597-67.
3435th Annual Report, pp. 160-161.
35 S.D. Ohio, No. 48421.
33

186

SECURITIES

AND EXCHANGE COMMISSION

quantity of heavily mortgaged marginal real estate. Cash flow
was about equal to the mortgage payments, plus a small amount
for overhead. It appeared that an appreciable equity above the
mortgage liabilities would be left if the properties were liquidated
over a period of time. The plan of reorganization, as originally
proposed, was based on an orderly liquidation by a reorganized
company, a waiver of past mortgage defaults, and issuance of
income debentures and common stock for the publicly held unsecured notes. The Commission objected to the plan because the
terms of the debentures were so contingent as to make them
illusory and deceptive. The plan was amended to provide for
issuance of common stock only, and as amended it was confirmed
and consummated.
In Bankers Trust, et al.,36 previously reported;" a plan of reorganization which has been consummated provided for consolidating eight affiliated debtors and many subsidiaries into a new
reorganized company, the payment of all debts except certain
mortgage obligations assumed by the new company, and distribution of shares of the new company and surplus cash to the public
certificate holders. The plan set aside assets sufficient to pay some
$2 million in disputed secured claims, and discharged the asserted
liens of the claimants on other assets considered surplus collateral.
One creditor appealed, contending that he had an absolute right
to retain all collateral until his claim was adjudicated. On the
eve of oral argument, this creditor's claim was settled and paid,
and the appeal became moot.
In Peoples Loan and Investment Company,38 a plan of reorganization, supported by the Commission, was approved and confirmed by the court. The plan incorporated a settlement of several
causes of action on terms favorable to the estate. These included
a elafm -against a bonding company based on dishonesty and mismanagement by former officers and directors which was settled
for $90,000, and a claim for legal malpractice against a former
attorney for the debtor which was settled for $75,000. The Chapter X proceeding resulted in a recovery of 57 percent to 60 percent
for the 3,000 depositors whose claims constituted substantially all
of the debtor's liabilities. According to the trustee's testimony, in
a bankruptcy liquidation the depositors would have realized only
about 5 percent of their claims.
S.D. Ind., No. IP-6&-B-2375.
35th Annual Report, p. 165.
38 W.D. Ark., No. FS 68-B-15.

36

37

THIRTY-SEVENTH

ANNUAL

REPORT

187

In Maryvale Community Hospital,39 the court first approved a
sale of the debtor's property for cash and thereafter approved a
plan under which the bondholders of the debtor, the only remaining creditors, would receive the total net proceeds of the sale
pursuant to the terms of the indenture, including principal, interest, interest on interest and a prepayment premium. The State
of Arizona and the Health Facilities Planning Counsel of Arizona
objected to the plan of distribution insofar as it provided for the
payment of interest on interest and a call premium. The Commission expressed the view that the plan was fair and equitable
except for the allowance of the call premium.:" On appeal the
Commission filed a brief in support of its position below.v The
appeal was pending at the end of the fiscal year.
In Los Angeles Land & Investments, Ltd.,42 previously reported," the trustee's plan offered the public creditors a choice of
selecting specific lots of California land owned by the debtor or
receiving both debt and equity securities of the liquidating company. The old common stock, held by the principal promoter, was
declared worthless.
The Commission urged in its report that since this was a
liquidation, the court should not approve the issuance of any
negotiable securities to the creditors but provide for the issuance
of transferable, non-negotiable liquidating certificates. The trustee
amended the plan to conform with the suggestions of the Commission, and the court approved and confirmed the plan as thus
amended.
John Rich Enterprises, Inc., et al.,H involved debtor companies
organized by their promoter for the purpose of developing and
exploiting two novel devices. One of these was an automobile
bumper that cushions the shock by means of a water release device. The other was a unit consisting of a chair, to which is affixed
a small television set and a coin box. The unit was designed for
installation in airports, railroad stations, bus terminals, etc. The
financing came from the public which had been induced to invest
over $5 million in these ventures.
Prior to the Chapter X proceeding the Commission had brought
an injunctive action seeking to restrain violations of the registration and antifraud provisions of the Federal securities statutes by
D. Ariz., No. B-9352-Phx.
40 See 35th Annual Report, pp. 165-166.
41 C.A. 9, Nos. 25586 and 25587.
42 D. Hawaii, No. Bk-67-352.
4334th Annual Report, p. 148; see also pp. 181-182 supra.
44 D. Utah, Nos. B-42-46-70, B-925-70.

39

188

SECURITIES AND EXCHANGE COMMISSION

the debtors and by their controlling persons and the appointment
of a receiver to conserve the debtors' assets. Without admitting or
denying the allegations against them, the defendants had consented to the entry of injunctive decrees, which provided that
the debtors would file Chapter X petitions.w
Sometime before the Chapter X proceedings the debtors'
managers converted the debtors into investment companies by
transferring substantially all of their assets to two unaffiliated
corporations in exchange for non-controlling stock interests in
those corporations. Concluding that it would be unwise to attempt
to rescind these conveyances, the trustee has endeavored to reorganize the debtors on the basis of their common stock interests
in those companies.
The trustee proposed a plan for the television chair operations.
It called for the merger of the company that was actually operating this business into one of the debtors, and for the issuance of
half of the stock in the reorganized company to the investors who
had entrusted their savings to the debtor. Since the company
would be in dire need of capital, the plan proposed to raise fresh
money by means of an offering of new stock to the old investors.
This offering was to be made without registration under the
Securities Act in reliance on Section 264a (2) of Chapter X, which
exempts "any transaction in any securities issued pursuant to a
plan in exchange for securities of or claims against the debtor or

partly in such exchange and partly for cash and/or property"
from the Securities Act's registration and prospectus-delivery
provisions ( emphasis added).
The Commission found this plan unfeasible. Its memorandum
pointed out that "the reorganized company will not only be engaging in a novel and an untested business, but will do so while it
staggers under a mountain of debt". Noting that the reorganized
company's capital structure was to consist of nine-tenths debt and
one-tenth equity, the Commission concluded that seldom, if ever,
could such a capital structure be squared with Chapter X standards and that "this kind of finance is especially objectionable
where, as here, the business that is to pay the debt has no earnings history at all and confronts a most uncertain future."
On the question of exemption from registration the Commission's memorandum stated:
"We do not suggest that the provisions of the Securities Act and
of the Bankruptcy Act which permit companies in Chapter X to raise
46 See Litigation Releases Nos. 4485 (November 25, 1969) and 4495
(December 9, 1969).

THIRTY.SEVENTH ANNUAL REPORT

189

new money from old stockholders and old creditors pursuant to plans of
reorganization are available only for securities of triple-A quality.
Debtors who resort to Chapter X are usually in poor health: That is
why they are there. It would be unreasonable to read Section 3 (a) (10)
of the Securities Act and Section 264a(2) of the Bankruptcy Act as
requiring a showing of top investment quality. But a showing of fairness and some credible evidence of intrinsic investment value is essentiaL"

Indeed, the Commission pointed out, the very exemption from
registration imposed upon the reorganization court a special responsibility to scrutinize the soundness of securities to be issued
under a plan. It was particularly essential to do so in the present
case in which the new stock was to be supported by an almost
nominal book equity in an enterprise with no earnings history.
The Commission also took issue with the fairness of the plan.
Fairness was questionable, the Commission thought, because a
half-interest in the reorganized chair business was to go to a
company that had never paid anything-and
that the plan did not
obligate to pay anything-for
that interest. This company's right
to that interest was founded on a pre-Chapter X contract between
it and the debtors by which it had undertaken to obtain financing
from others for the television chair venture. Since the trustee had
at first questioned the validity of this contract, the Commission
thought an evidentiary record was required to ascertain the reasons for his decision to abandon his objections to the contract. In
this connection the Commission directed the attention of the
parties and the court to the Supreme Court's holding in Protective
Committee v. Anderson, 390 U.S. 414, 424-425 (1968) that "The
requirements ... of Chapter X ... that plans of reorganization be
both 'fair and equitable' apply to compromises just as to other
aspects of reorganization."
Since the television chair business was still embryonic, the
Commission considered any attempt to reorganize it now as premature, suggesting that another year of operation would permit
a better-informed assessment of the situation. It observed that
the trustee could well use this breathing spell to explore simpler
plans than the rather involved merger scheme on which his present plan rested.
The trustee advised the court that he agreed with the tenor of
the Commission's comments and that he deemed it best to defer a
disposition of the debtors' interest in the television chair.
In Standard Airways, Inc.,46 a non-participating case, the
46

W.D. Wash,. No. 65745.

190

SECURITIES AND EXCHANGE COMMISSION

debtor's scheduled liabilities exceeded $3 million. Hence the plan
of reorganization was referred to the Commission as required by
Section 172 of the Bankruptcy Act. The proponent of the plan, a
substantial creditor, proposed to exchange its claim against the
debtor and additional cash and property for 80 percent of the
reorganized company's stock. The balance of the stock would be
distributed to several hundred trade creditors. The Commission's
sole concern with the plan was the status under the Securities
Act of the proponent's controlling stock interest in the reorganized company.
It was obvious that the proponent, a corporation, would control
the reorganized company and that it would therefore be subject to
the inhibitions that the Securities Act imposes on those who
control issuers. The Commission observed that the exemption
from registration in Section 264a(2) applied only to the immediate transaction between the debtor and the proponent, but
not to any transaction thereafter. Hence, if the proponent was
taking the stock directly from the issuer with a view to distribution, it was clearly an underwriter, and thus would be unable to
dispose of any securities of the reorganized company, unless some
exemption from registration were available at the time. If the
proponent were taking for investment and not with a view to
distribution, then the initial distribution should be treated as a
private offering to the proponent, which but for Section 264a (2)
would not be exempt under Section 4 (2) of the Securities Act
because of the simultaneous distribution to the trade creditors.
The Commission concluded that in either event a restrictive
legend on the securities to be issued to the proponent would be
appropriate.
The proponent agreed to the imposition of the restrictive legend.
Thereafter the plan was approved, confirmed and consummated.
In Hudson & Manhattan Railroad Company,47 the Commission
supported, and the court approved, a petition for authority to
make an initial liquidating distribution of about $41 million to
the debtor's Class A and Class B stockholders in accordance with
the plan of reorganization, which had been consummated years
ago.48 A total distribution of approximately $56 million will be
made pursuant to the plan of reorganization, representing the
proceeds of various condemnation awards and the interest
thereon.
Some security holders objected to the distribution, contending
47
48

S.D.N.Y., No. 90460.
See 38 S.E.C. 676 (1958); 39 S.E.C. 813 (1960).

THIRTY-SEVENTH

ANNUAL

REPORT

191

that the debtor should be given the opportunity to depart from
the reorganization plan for the purpose of exploring possible
mergers. The Commission took the position, with which the court
agreed, that since the plan had been substantially consummated,
the liquidating dividend should be made as contemplated by the
plan.w
ACTIVITIES WITH REGARD TO ALLOWANCES

Every reorganization case ultimately presents the difficult problem of determining the compensation to be paid to the various
parties for services rendered and for expenses incurred in the
proceeding. The Commission, which under Section 242 of the
Bankruptcy Act may not receive any allowance for the services
it renders, has sought to assist the courts in assuring economy of
administration and in allocating compensation equitably on the
basis of the claimants' contributions to the administration of
estates and the formulation of plans. During the fiscal year 223
applications for compensation totaling about $7 million were
reviewed.
In TMT Trailer Ferry, [nc.,50 previously reported," the Commission supported appeals by the Protective Committee for Independent Stockholders and its counsel from orders of the district
court (1) awarding Committee counsel $10,000 in interim compensation and $5,000 interim reimbursement of expenses for
services rendered over an H-year period and (2) denying motions
by the Committee and counsel (a) for a protective order against
certain depositions which the Chapter X trustee's general counsel
proposed to take of the individual members of the Committee and
their counsel and (b) for instructions as to the future role of the
Committee and its counsel in the Chapter X proceeding. The court
of appeals reversed the orders of the district court.52
It held, as urged by the Commission, that the amounts allowed
by the district court were "grossly inadequate," and adopted the
49 The Commission's 36th Annual Report
(p, 187) erroneously reported
that the Clute Corp. (D. Colo. No. 32895) plan had been approved. The
special master recommended that the plan should not be approved; objections
to his report were filed; and as of the close of this fiscal year the court had
not ruled on these objections.
50 S.D. Fla., No. 3659-M-Bk-WM.
51 See 36th Annual Report, pp. 179-180, 190-191; 35th Annual Report, p,
160; 34th Annual Report, p. 153; 33rd Annual Report, p. 135; 32nd Annual
Report, pp, 92-93; 31st Annual Report, p. 100; 30th Annual Report, p. 105;
and 29th Annual Report, pp. 91-92.
52 Protective Committee v, Kirkland, 434 F. 2d 804 (C.A. 5, 1970).

450-484 0 - 72 - 14

192

SECURITIES

AND EXCHANGE COMMISSION

recommendation of the Commission made in the district court
for $60,000 as interim compensation and an interim amount of
$10,000 for expenses. In order to prevent unduly burdensome
conditions which might prevent the Committee from utilizing the
allowance, the court of appeals also adopted the Commission's
suggestion that the amount allowed not be subject to vacation,
setting aside, reduction or modification except upon proof that
Committee counsel were legally disqualified to receive any allowance.
The court of appeals also held that the district court should
have issued a protective order in order to prevent "undue harassment" and that "in the future the District Court should, in the
firmest and most emphatic manner possible, state to the trustee
and its counsel the absolute need of cooperation and harmony
with the Protective Committee and its counsel to insure a proper
determination and final wind-up of this reorganization." The
court stated that "the Committee is entitled to participate fully
in these proceedings.... "
After the trustee's petition for writ of certiorari was denied/,3
the district court, upon remand, entered an order authorizing
further discovery proceedings directed against the Committee
and its counsel on grounds substantially identical to those which
trustee's counselhad raised on appeal. After the close of the fiscal
year, the Committee and its counsel petitioned the court of appeals for a writ of mandamus and prohibition directed to the
district judge to require compliancewith the previous decision of
the court of appeals.P The Commissionsupported this petition.
The district court awarded counselfor TMT's trustee compensation at a rate of $60 per hour for service rendered during the first
half of 1970. The court of appeals granted the Protective Committee leave to appeal from that award. While this appeal was
pending, the district court awarded interim compensation to the
trustee's general counsel for services rendered during the last six
months of 1970 and also granted interim compensation to the
trustee's special counsel, each at a rate of $60 an hour. By leave
of court, the Protective Committee appealed, and the two appeals
were consolidated.55
In its briefs the Commissionpointed out that since the appointment of trustee's present general counsel in January of 1969
there had been almost no progress in the reorganization proceed53402

U.S. 907 (1971).
C.A. 5, No. 71-2828.
55 C.A. 5, No. 71-1277.
54

THIRTY-SEVENTH

ANNUAL REPORT

193

ing, The Commission noted that despite this lack of progress the
district court had awarded such counsel approximately
$150,000
in interim compensation for services rendered during the twoyear period and urged that these awards were overly generous
and tended to encourage procrastination.
The Commission recommended that counsel be allowed interim compensation at a rate
not to exceed $35,000 per year and that this amount be allowed
only upon demonstration
of substantial progress towards the reorganization of the debtor. The Commission further recommended
that the special counsel receive interim compensation at a rate
not to exceed $40 per hour. The appeals were pending at the
close of the fiscal year.
The district court also entered an order ex parte, establishing a
procedure for valuation of the debtor's estate, and providing that,
in certain circumstances,
compensation for services rendered by
creditors and stockholders,
or their representatives,
would be
precluded regardless of any benefits which such services might
provide to the estate. The Commission urged deletion of this
provision, stating that it was contrary to the purposes of Chapter
X which provides for allowance of compensation to those who
render beneficial services as an incentive to active and useful
participation by all parties in the proceeding.
Another order issued ex parte authorized the trustee to bring
certain admiralty suits, appointed the trustee's general counsel as
special counsel to prosecute these suits, and fixed an hourly rate
of compensation
he was to receive as additional compensation
should his efforts prove succesful. The Commission pointed out
that one of the reasons for counsel's appointment
as general
counsel was his expertise in admiralty law and that it was his
duty to make that expertise available to the estate under his
general appointment.
The Commission also urged that a judicial
commitment in advance to an hourly rate of compensation was
not in accordance with the fee provisions of Chapter X which
contemplate
an allowance of compensation
after services are
rendered and then only on application and hearing upon proper
notice.
The district court amended both orders as requested by the
Commission.
In Webb & Knapp, Inc.,56 previously reported.s" counsel for the
trustee and the trustee applied for fourth interim allowances of
$200,000 and $25,000, respectively, for services rendered during
56
57

S.D.N.Y., No. 65-B-365.
36th Annual Report, pp, 193-194; 35th Annual Report, p. 170.

194

SECURITIES AND EXCHANGE COMMISSION

a 22-month period. The Commission urged deferral of the requests, pointing to the substantial prior interim awards which had
been allowed and the uncertainty as to the fate of the proceeds
from the estate's virtual liquidation because of a disputed $35
million claim asserted by the Internal Revenue Service. The
Commission also urged that, if the court decided to make any
award to trustee's counsel, it should not exceed $75,000, and that
no further interim award should be made to the trustee who had
not rendered such substantial services as to warrant an interim
award to alleviate economic hardship. The court allowed $20,000
to the trustee and $125,000 to counsel, noting that there was no
reason to believe that any further interim allowances would be
necessary.
In Riker Delaware Corporation, 58 previously reported." the
two trustees and their two attorneys sought second interim
awards aggregating $40,000 and $50,000, respectively, for services
rendered over a 3-year period. The Commission urged that, having received prior interim allowances for the earlier portion of
the 3-year period, the applicants could not receive additional
interim compensation for the same period, and that the pending
applications should be considered as requests for compensation
only for the last 15 months of the period. The Commission recommended that both trustees and one of their attorneys be denied
interim awards since the time spent in the latter period was
insubstantial. It recomended an interim award of $20,000 to the
second attorney who had spent about 40 percent of his time on
the estate. The district court granted interim awards to all
applicants, including a total of $17,500 to the two trustees, and
$2,500 to one attorney. The second attorney, who had sought
$30,000, was allowed $15,000.
In R. Hoe & Co., Inc.,60 the trustee and his counsel sought
"interim" compensation of $146,000 and $706,000, respectively,
for services rendered over a one-year period. The Commission
urged that the requests were excessive, because they reflected
rates charged private clients, and that applicants were really
seeking payment in full for services rendered during this period.
The Commission further urged that the trustee, although an
attorney, was not appointed to render legal services and any
interim allowances to him should reflect services he rendered in
his capacity as chief executive officer of the estate. The CommisD. N.J., No. B-597-67.
35th Annual Report, p, 170.
60 S.D. N.Y., No. 69-B-461.

5R

59

THIRTY-SEVENTH ANNUAL REPORT

195

sion recommended interim allowances of $40,000 and $185,000,
respectively.
An application for compensation in the amount of about
$235,000 was also filed by the accounting firm retained by the
trustee. Although rates of compensation for the accountant are
normally fixed in the order of retention, no rates were set in
this case. The Commission opposed the request since it appeared
that the average rate was far above that at which the same firm
was being paid for services in other large Chapter X proceedings
in the jurisdiction of this district court. The Commission recommended about $142,000 as a final allowance, or payment in full,
for the period covered by the application.
The district court awarded the following interim allowances
to the three applicants: $50,000 to the trustee; $350,000 to his
counsel; and $150,000 to the accountants.
In Canandaigua Enterprises Corporation,61 previously reported,62 the trustee requested a final allowance of $750,000, including prior interim awards, for services rendered by himself
and his law firm over a period of almost six years.63 The Commission contended that the request was excessive and urged that
the application be viewed as separate requests for final allowances
by the trustee and his law firm, since the services rendered were
by separate persons and distinguishable. It recommended final
allowances of $180,000 and $60,000 to the trustee and his law firm,
respectively, but the court granted a single award of $310,000,
including $200,000 previously awarded as interim compensation.
INTERVENTION IN CHAPTER XI PROCEEDINGS

Chapter XI of the Bankruptcy Act provides a procedure by
which debtors can effect arrangements with respect to their unsecured debts under court supervision. Where a proceeding is
brought under that chapter but the facts indicate that it should
have been brought under Chapter X, Section 328 of Chapter XI
authorizes the Commission or any other party in interest to
make application to the court to dismiss the Chapter XI proceeding unless the debtor's petition is amended to comply with
the requirements of Chapter X, or a creditors' petition under
Chapter X is filed.
W.D. N.Y., No. Bk-63-1954.
36th Annual Report, p. 191.
63 No attorney for the trustee was appointed during these proceedings. In
the interest of economy the court advised the trustee to act as his own
attorney, and, if necessary, to utilize the services of members of his firm.
61
62

196

SECURITIES

AND EXCHANGE

COMMISSION

In Viatron Computer Systems Corporation,64 the debtor was
engaged in the business of developing, manufacturing and selling
data processing and computer systems. It had outstanding nearly
$15 million in principal amount of convertible debentures held by
over 1,200 persons, and over 3.5 million shares of common stock
held by more than 7,500 persons. For its first three years of
operations ended October 31, 1970, the debtor sustained operating
losses of approximately $40 million on gross sales of about $3.2
million. At the time of the filing of the petition, the debtor had
a net asset deficit of about $23 million and no working capital.
After a default in interest payments, creditors filed a bankruptcy petition. The debtor filed a Chapter XI petition, which
stayed the bankruptcy proceeding. The proposed Chapter XI arrangement provided that all the outstanding unsecured debt of
approximately $25 million, including the publicly-held debentures,
would be converted into common stock at a prescribed ratio.
The Commission made a motion pursuant to Section 328, urging
that the financial condition of the debtor called for more than a
simple composition of unsecured debt, and that fairness to public
creditors, and the need for a disinterested investigation to account, among other things, for the dissipation of approximately
$35 million in public funds over a period of 11;2years, required
the broader scope and protections of Chapter X.
The debtor, the trade creditors' committee, and the debenture
holders' protective committee opposed the motion, but it was
granted by the district court. Creditors thereupon filed an involuntary Chapter X petition, which the debtor opposed and the
Commission supported. The court approved the petition and appointed a trustee.
In Federal Coal Company,65 previously reported.t" the debtor's
appeal from the district court's order granting the Commission's
Section 328 motion was withdrawn, and a voluntary Chapter X
petition was filed. After the close of the fiscal year, the debtor's
controlling persons moved for the dismissal of the Chapter X
proceeding on the ground that during the course of the proceeding
they had acquired virtually all of the claims against the company.
The Commission and the trustee opposed that motion, which is
pending.
In Fotochrome, Inc.,67 the debtor had outstanding 3,463,036
D. Mass., No. 71-218.
S.D. W. Va., No. 69-270.
66 See 36th Annual Report, pp. 194-195.
67 E.D.N.Y., No. 70-209.

64

65

THIRTY-SEVENTH

ANNUAL

REPORT

197

shares of common stock and $2,450,000 of debentures held by
approximately 11,000 and 500 members of the public, respectively.
The debtor proposed a Chapter XI arrangement which provided
for payment in full over a period of 7 years of the approximately
$2.5 million owed to trade creditors. The debenture holders were
offered common stock of the debtor for 50 percent of their claims
at a price of $3.33 per share. The remaining 50 percent would
be paid at the end of a ten-year period without interest, with a
right to convert into additional common stock at specified rates
ranging from $3.33 to $5.00 per share. The Commission moved
for dismissal pursuant to Section 328, urging that Chapter XI
did not permit such a radical adjustment of the rights of public
debenture holders.
The debtor amended the proposed arrangement so as to provide,
among other things, that the debtor would pay debenture holders
past due principal and interest upon confirmation of the arrangement and make all future payments when due. The Commission
thereupon withdrew its motion on condition that the amended
arrangement be confirmed by the court.
In Super Stores, Inc.,68 the Chapter XI debtor operated a chain
of small variety stores along the Gulf Coast from Alabama to
Louisiana. It had about $4 million in liabilities, including some
$1 million of publicly-held 61;2 percent debentures, due in 1981,
which were subordinated to all other unsecured debts. The debtor's
common stock was also publicly-held.
The proposed plan of arrangement provided that the non-public
unsecured creditors would receive 55 percent of their claims
payable in installments over a period of five years from confirmation. The claims of the debenture holders would also be reduced
to 55 percent of principal amount, but such reduced amount would
mature in 1981, with sinking fund obligations to commence five
years after confirmation. Interest on the debentures was to be
waived for five years and then to be payable at 3% percent on
the original principal sum.
Since the debtor proposed to effect a drastic revision in the
rights of its public creditors, the Commission, together with an
individual debenture holder, moved under Section 328 to dismiss
the debtor's Chapter XI petition unless the proceedings were
transferred to Chapter X. The motions were opposed by the
debtor and various creditors. After an evidentiary hearing and
oral argument, the district judge denied the motions and a motion
for rehearing, and the debenture holder appealed.
68

S.D. Ala., No. 30,812.

198

SECURITIES

AND EXCHANGE COMMISSION

While the appeal was pending the arrangement was amended to
provide that the claims of debenture holders would only be reduced to 75 percent of the principal amount. In addition, the
debenture holders would receive, immediately upon confirmation,
725 shares of common stock for each $1,000 principal amount of
debentures presently outstanding, thereby giving the debenture
holders a substantial amount of the common stock to be outstanding. Payment to other unsecured creditors was to remain at 55
percent as originally proposed.
The Commission, although somewhat doubtful about the feasibility of the arrangement, decided not to object to confirmation
of the amended arrangement, and the debenture holder withdrew
his appeal. The arrangement, as amended, was confirmed.
In Nationwide Investment Corporation,69 the Chapter XI debtor
had been in the securities business but left it after having been
enjoined from further violations of the Federal securities statutes.
Its principal creditors were the public investors with whom it had
dealt while in the securities business. The debtor's proposed plan
of arrangement called for the liquidation of its estate and for the
distribution of the proceeds to its creditors-except
for the sum
of $100,000 which was to be returned to the debtor's managers for
"investment" in whatever fashion they saw fit. The scheme rested
on the hope that these unspecified investments would prove productive enough to permit all creditors to be paid in full, leaving
a residue that would inure to the benefit of the debtor's stockholders. When the bankruptcy court asked for the Commission's
views, the Commission pointed out that nothing in Chapter XI
sanctioned a proposal of this character and that because of its
vagueness the plan did not meet that chapter's feasibility requirements, and it stated that in its view the debtor's public creditors
would be better off if the estate were liquidated in toto in ordinary
bankruptcy. The court refused to confirm the plan and adjudicated
the debtor a bankrupt.
As was noted in last year's annual report,"? attempts are sometimes made to misuse Chapter XI so as to deprive investors of the
protections which the Securities Act and the Securities Exchange
Act are designed to provide. When such cases come to the attention of the Commission's staff, it normally attempts to resolve the
problem by informal negotiations with the debtor's counsel. When
negotiations prove fruitless or there appears to be a deliberate
69

C.D. Calif., No. 76544.

70

36th Annual Report, p. 197.

THIRTY.SEVENTH ANNUAL REPORT

199

effort to evade these statutes, the Commission, in order to discharge its statutory responsibilities for protection of investors,
intervenes in the Chapter XI proceeding to assist in the development of an adequate record and to direct the court's attention to
the applicable provisions of the Federal securities laws and their
bearing on the particular case.11
In Transystems, Inc.,72 a publicly-held company caused one of
its wholly-owned subsidiaries to file a Chapter XI petition. The
proposed plan of arrangement called for the distribution, without
registration under the Securities Act, of the parent's stock to
the debtor-subsidiary's creditors, none of whom were public investors. One of these creditors moved to dismiss the Chapter
XI proceeding under Section 328. That same creditor also objected to the plan of arrangement on various grounds, one of
which was that the unregistered distribution of the parent's stock
called for by the plan violated the Securities Act because the
exemption under Section 393 a (2) of Chapter XI did not apply.
That section exempts from registration, among other things, "any
transaction in any security issued pursuant to an arrangement in
exchange for claims against the debtor." The Commission did not
intervene, but, at the request of the referee, commented as a
friend of the court on some of the issues presented.
Read literally, the exemption seems not to be limited to securities issued by the debtor. The Commission urged, however, that
the provision must be interpreted in the light of the statutory
policy, and that the exemption does not necessarily extend to
securities issued by a corporation other than the debtor, since
Chapter XI was designed primarily for simple compositions under
which securities of the debtor are issued in exchange for claims
against it.
The Commission pointed out that it was not necessary for the
bankruptcy court to resolve definitively all questions raised in a
Chapter XI proceeding regarding the application of the Securities
Act. It stated :
"When a close question regarding the registration requirements of the
Securities Act is presented in a particular Chapter XI proceeding, it is
sufficient if the Commissionassures the court that on the facts before it
the Commissionwill not seek to upset the contemplated transactions by
invoking the Securities Act."
11 The Commission also participated in Chapter XI proceedings involving
former members of the New York Exchange: Robinson & Co., Inc., E.D. Pa.,
No. 70-518; Blair & c; Inc., S.D.N.Y., No. 70-B-755; First Devonshire
Corporation, S.D.N.Y., No. 70-B-739.
72 S. D. Fla., No. 71-164-Bk-JE.

200

SECURITIES AND EXCHANGE COMMISSION

The Commission said that in this case it would raise no objection regarding the claimed exemption and that
"We believe this advisory determination sufficient to free the court
from any further concern with the impact of Section 5 of the Securities
Act on the debtor's proposal, which may thus be appraised solely on
its merits in terms of the Chapter XI requirements for confirmation."

The Commission took the position that the proposed arrangement was objectionable on three grounds: (1) the materials used
in soliciting the trade creditors' assent were misleading and inadequate; (2) the parent's stock on which the bankruptcy court
was being asked to place its stamp of approval was of a speculative character; and (3) the president of the debtor, who was also
a creditor, was to be accorded different treatment in that he was
to receive commonstock of the debtor rather than of its parent. 73
The referee refused to confirmthe arrangement. He rejected the
debtor's contention that approval was required because its parent's stock was selling on the market for "something", and held
that:
"While the bankruptcy court ordinarily does not directly supervise or
review the soliciting of acceptances in Chapter XI cases, this is true
primarily because the ordinary simple composition of debts involved in
such cases, for cash consideration, requires very little in the way of
additional disclosure beyond that given by the Court in the statutory
notice. However, when corporate stock is being distributed under the
plan, particularly when the stock is not that of the debtor itself, the
question of adequate disclosure of relevant information becomes more
pertinent. . . Accordingly, the bankruptcy court has a duty . . . to
prevent issuance of unsound or deceptive securities as a result of a
judicial proceeding.... 74 One way to facilitate meaningful scrutiny by
the Court is to require adequate disclosure of relevant facts to the
parties in interest-thereby assuring effective adversary hearings when
appropriate....
"While a Chapter XI solicitation letter involving a stock distribution
need not give the extensive detail that an SEC registration would, it
should give basic financial data concerning the corporation whose stock
is being issued under the plan-in order that the creditors may make an
informed judgment as to accepting or rejecting the plan, or objecting to
confirmationthereof." 75
73 The only justification offered for this differentiation was that his receipt
of an additional block of the parent's stock pursuant to the arrangement
would impede his ability to dispose of his already substantial holdings of
that security within the limits permitted by the Commission'sRule 154 under
the Securities Act.
74 Citing In re American Department Stores, 16 F. Supp. 977, 979-980
(D. Del., 1936); In re Barlum Corp., 62 F. Supp. 81, 88 (E.D. Mich., 1945).
75 The referee's order gave the debtor 20 days to file a new plan of arrangement. As this was not done, the debtor was adjudicated a bankrupt.

THIRTY-SEVENTH

ANNUAL REPORT

201

In Greater Western Home Manufacturers,76 the debtor had during the course of the Chapter XI proceeding acquired a substantial quantity of the stock of another corporation directly from
the issuer in a transaction that was not registered under the
Securities Act of 1933. At the time of the acquisition the debtor
represented that it was taking these shares for investment, and
the issuer and its counsel accordingly viewed the transaction as
one "not involving a public offering" and therefore exempt from
the Securities Act's registration requirements under Section 4 (2)
of that statute. Some months thereafter the debtor obtained an
order from the bankruptcy court authorizing it to sell the securities to the public through a broker. In that order the referee
found that there was no "practical need" for registration since
the security in question was listed on several exchanges and
abundant information with respect to it was available to the
public.
The Commission intervened in the Chapter XI proceeding for
the limited purpose of preventing the violation of the Securities
Act that the referee had purported to authorize. It pointed out
that the debtor was an "underwriter" of the securities that it
proposed to sell, within the meaning of the Securities Act, and
that public sales by it would require registration, and it urged
that there was no legal basis for the referee's "practical need"
rationale. The debtor thereupon arranged for a private sale, and
the referee vacated the order to which the Commission had
objected.
In Gibson Products Company of Lodi, California, Ino.," and
in Cable Car Burgers, Inc.,78 Chapter XI plans of arrangement
were proposed calling for issuance to creditors, without registration under the Securities Act, of large quantities of the stock of a
corporation (the proponent of the plans) that wished to acquire
both debtors. The debtors and the proponent considered that these
transactions would be exempt from the registration requirements
by reason of Section 393a(2).
Because the cases presented questions of moment under both
the registration and the antifraud provisions of the Federal
securities statutes, the Commission intervened in both proceedings. The Commission pointed out that since the stock which the
creditors would receive was to be issued by an entity other than
the debtors, the availability of the claimed exemption was highly
76
77
78

C.D. Calif., No. 217067.
E.D. Calif., No. BK8-13800.
N.D. Calif., No. B-70-3965.

202

SECURITIES

AND EXCHANGE COMMISSION

doubtful, and that it might therefore well be that both plans
would run afoul of the Securities Act. However, the Commission
did not choose to press this point. Instead, it stressed the character of the proponent's history and the deceptive nature of the
materials that had been used to solicit creditors' consents.
In Cable Car Burgers the bankruptcy court refused to confirm
the proposed plan and adjudicated the debtor a bankrupt. In
Gibson Products the plan was amended to provide for the issuance
of the debtor's own shares to its creditors. To that amended plan
the Commission raised no objection.
In Sveden House of Texas, Inc.,79 the court confirmed a Chapter
XI arrangement, its order reciting that the Sveden stock to be issued thereunder was to be issued pursuant to the Section 393a(2)
exemption. Pursuant to the arrangement, stock was issued to
creditors but one block of stock was sold for cash to a purchaser
who was not a creditor.
Subsequently, the debtor and that purchaser sought to enjoin
the Commission from interfering with any resale by him without
registration. The court agreed with the Commission that the
Commission was not bound by the order confirming the arrangement and declined to take jurisdiction to restrain the Commission
since, notwithstanding the recitals in the order, it appeared that
the exemption did not extend to the issue and sale of securities to
persons who were not creditors.
Meter Maid Industries, Inc.80 and Language Laboratories,
Inc.,81 involved publicly-held debtors that had dissipated almost
all of their assets and had ceased doing business in any real sense.
In each case a plan of arrangement was proposed calling for the
issuance of large quantities of new stock to the creditors in reliance upon the Section 393a (2) exemption.
The Commission suggested that the proposed securities would
be spurious and that their issuance without registration under
the Securities Act was precluded by the standards implicit in
Chapters X and XI of the Bankruptcy Act. Both debtors were
adjudicated bankrupt.
Studio Creative Crafts, Inc.82 and Universal Topics, Inc.,8s involved small, closely-held debtors. In the Studio case, the debtor's
assets consisted of an unsuccessful retail ceramic shop. In the
79

S.D. Texas, No. 69-H-135.

80

S.D. Fla., No. 70-327-BK-CA.

81

D. Md., No. 14004.

82

E.D. Va., No. 208-70-A.

83

D. Md., No. 14243.

THIRTY-SEVENTH

ANNUAL

REPORT

203

other the debtor had been formed for the purpose of publishing
one book which never saw the light of day.
In both cases the proposed plan of arrangement called for the
issuance of massive quantities of stock in each of several as yet
unformed corporations to the creditors and to the private "investment groups" which had undertaken to supply the modest
amounts of cash needed to payoff the priority creditors." These
private investors were to pay a small fraction of a cent per share
for their stock.
The Commission pointed out that after the consummation of
these plans of arrangement the debtors would be multilevel corporate shells, with public investors at all levels, and little in the
way of assets and business. It suggested that plans of arrangement of this type, motivated primarily by stock market considerations rather than by any serious desires to rehabilitate a business,
lacked the "good faith" required by Section 366 (4) of Chapter
XI. Neither plan was confirmed, and both debtors were adjudicated bankrupt.s"
84 The Commission pointed out that it was doubtful that the exemption
found in Section 393a (2) of Chapter XI applied to such an offering. See the
discussion of Transystems, Inc. at pp. 199-200, supra.
85 In both cases, the plan proponents included several of the same individuals and corporations involved in the Sveden House proceeding discussed
at p. 202, supra. The Commission has instituted proceedings under the
Federal securities laws against many of these individuals and corporations.
See Litigation Release No. 5118 (July 29, 1971).

PART VIII
SUPPORTING ACTIVITIES
PUBLIC INFORMATION SERVICES
DISSEMINATION

OF INFORMATION

As the discussion in prior sections of this Report indicates, most
large corporations in which there is a substantial public investor
interest have filed registration statements or registration applications under the Securities Act or the Securities Exchange Act
with the Commission and are required to file annual and other
periodic reports. Widespread public dissemination of the financial
and other data included in these documents is essential if public
investors generally are to benefit by the disclosure requirements
of the securities laws. This is accomplished in part by distribution
of the prospectus or offering circular in connection with new
offerings. Much of the data reflected therein and in the annual
and other periodic reports is also reprinted and receives general
circulation through the medium of securities manuals and other
financial publications, thus becoming available to broker-dealer
and investment adviser firms, trust departments and other financial institutions and, through them, to public investors generally.
The documents mentioned above are also available for public
inspection both at the officesof the Commission and at the exchanges on which particular securities may be listed.
Various activities of the Commission also facilitate public dissemination of information filed as well as other information.
Among these is the issuance of a daily UNews Digest" which
contains (1) a resume of each proposal for the public offering of
securities for which a Securities Act registration statement is
filed; (2) a list of issuers of securities traded over the counter
which have filed registration statements under the Securities
Exchange Act; (3) a list of companies which have filed periodic
reports disclosing significant corporate developments; (4) a summary of all notices of filings of applications and declarations, and
of all orders, decisions, rules and rule proposals issued by the
Commission; (5) announcements of the Commission's participation in corporate reorganization proceedings under Chapter X
of the Bankruptcy Act and of the filing of advisory reports of the
205

206

SECURITIES

AND EXCHANGE

COMMISSION

Commission on the fairness and feasibility of reorganization
plans; (6) a brief report regarding actions of courts in litigation
resulting from the Commission's law enforcement program; and
(7) a brief reference to each statistical report issued by the
Commission.
The News Digest is made immediately available to the press,
and it is also reprinted and distributed by the Government Printing Office, on a subscription basis, to some 5,000 investors, securities firms, practicing lawyers and others. In addition, the
Commission maintains mailing lists for the distribution of the
full text of its orders, decisions, rules and rule proposals.
These informational activities are supplemented by public discussions from time to time of legal, accounting and other problems
arising in the administration of the Federal securities laws.
During the year, members of the Commission and various staff
officers made speeches before a number of professional, business
and other groups interested in the Federal securities laws and
their administration and participated in panel discussions of like
nature. Participation in these discussions not only serves to keep
attorneys, accountants, corporate executives and others abreast
of developments in the administration of those laws, but it also
is of considerable value to the Commission in learning about the
problems experienced by those who seek to comply with those
laws. In order to facilitate such compliance, the Commission also
issues, from time to time, general interpretive releases and policy
statements explaining the operation of particular provisions of
the Federal securities laws and outlining policies and practices
of the Commission.
Publications.-In
addition to the daily News Digest, and releases concerning Commission action under the Acts administered
by it and litigation involving securities violations, the Commission
issues a number of other publications, including the following:
Weekly:
Weekly trading data on New York Exchanges: Round-lot and odd-lot
transactions effected on the New York and American Stock Exchanges
(information is also included in the Statistical Bulletin).
Monthly:
Statistical Bulletin .
Official Summary of Securities Transactions
Directors and Principal Stockholders .

and Holdings of Officers,

Quarterly:
Financial Report, U.S. Manufacturing
Corporations (jointly with the
Federal Trade Commission}." (Statistical Series Release summarizing
this report is available from the Publications Supply Unit.)

THIRTY-SEVENTH

ANNUAL

207

REPORT

Plant and Equipment Expenditures of U.S. Corporations
the Department of Commerce).
New Securities Offerings.
Working Capital of U.S. Corporations.
Stock Transactions of Financial Institutions.

(jointly

with

Annually:
Annual Report of the Commission .
Securities Traded on Exchanges under the Securities Exchange Act of
1934.
List of Companies Registered under the Investment Company Act of
1940.
Classification, Assets and Location of Registered Investment Companies
under the Investment Company Act of 1940.b
Private Noninsured Pension Funds (assets available quarterly in the
Statistical Bulletin).
Directory of Companies Filing Annual Reports with the Commission
under the Securities Exchange Act of 1934.
Other Publications:
Decisions and Reports of the Commission." (Out of print, available only
for reference purposes in SEC Washington, D. C. and Regional
Offices.)
Securities and Exchange Commission-The
Work of the Securities and
Exchange Commission.
Commission Report on Public Policy Implications of Investment Company
Growth .
Cost of Flotation of Registered Equity Issues, 1963-1965 .
Report of SEC Special Study of Securities Markets." (Out of print,
available only for reference purposes in SEC Washington, D. C. and
Regional Offices.)
Institutional
Investor Study Report of the Securities and Exchange
Commission (1971)-Eight
Parts, H. Doc. No. 64 (92nd Cong.)
Part 8 of the Institutional Investor Study Report, containing the text
of the Summary and Conclusions drawn from each of the fifteen
chapters of the report .
 Must be ordered from the Superintendent
of Documents, Government
Printing Office, Washington, D.C. 20402.
b This document
is available in photocopy form. Purchasers are billed by
the printing company which prepares the photocopies.
AVAILABILITY OF INFORMATION FOR PUBLIC INSPECTION

The many thousands of registration statements, applications,
declarations, and annual and periodic reports filed with the Commission each year are available for public inspection and copying
at the Commission's public reference room in its principal offices
in Washington, D.C. Also available at that location are other
documents contained in Commission files and indexes of Commission decisions.
The categories of materials which are available for public inspection and copying are specified in the Commission's rule

450-484

0 - 72 - 15

208

SECURITIES

AND EXCHANGE COMMISSION

concerning records and information, 17 CFR 200.80, as revised to
implement the provisions of the Public Information Amendment
to Section 3 of the Administrative Procedure Act which became
effective July 4, 1967.1 The rule also establishes a procedure to
be followed in requesting records or copies thereof, provides a
method of administrative appeal from the denial of access to any
record, and provides for the imposition of fees when more than
one-half man-hour of work is performed by members of the Commission's staff to locate and make available records requested.
The Commission has special public reference facilities in the
New York and Chicago Regional Offices and some facilities for
public use in other regional and branch offices. Each regional
office has available for public examination copies of prospectuses
used in recent offerings of securities registered under the Securities Act, registration statements and recent annual reports filed
pursuant to the Securities Exchange Act by companies having
their principal office in the region, recent annual reports and
quarterly reports filed pursuant to the Investment Company Act
by management investment companies having their principal
office in the region, broker-dealer and investment adviser applications originating in the region, letters of notification under Regulation A filed in the region, and indexes of Commission decisions.
Additional material is available in the New York and Chicago
regional offices.
Members of the public may make arrangements through the
Public Reference Section at the Commission's principal offices to
purchase copies of material in the Commission's public files. The
copies are produced by a commercial copying company which
supplies them to the public at prices established under a contract
with the Commission. Current prices begin at 12 cents per page
for pages not exceeding 8112" x 14" in size, with a $2 minimum
charge. Under the same contract, the company also makes microfiche and microfilm copies of Commission public documents available on a subscription or individual order basis to persons or
firms who have or can obtain viewing facilities. In microfiche
services, up to 60 images of document pages are contained on
4" x 6" pieces of film, referred to as "fiche." Annual microfiche
subscriptions are offered in a variety of packages covering all
public reports filed on Forms 10-K, 10-Q, 8-K, N-IQ and N-IR
1 As described in the 36th Annual Report, pp. 204-205, during the fiscal
year the Commission adopted a rule (17 CFR 200.81) making requests for noaction and interpretative letters submitted on or after December 31, 1970 and
responses thereto available for public inspection and copying.

THIRTY-SEVENTH

ANNUAL REPORT

209

under the Securities Exchange Act or the Investment Company
Act; annual reports to stockholders; proxy statements; new issue
registration statements; and final prospectuses for new issues.
The packages offered include various categories of these reports,
including those of companies whose securities are listed on the
New York Stock Exchange, the American Stock Exchange, or
regional stock exchanges or traded over the counter and standard
industry classifications (S.I.C.). Arrangements also may be made
to subscribe to reports of companies of one's own selection. Over
one hundred million pages (microimagery frames) annually are
being distributed to the user community. The subscription services
system may be extended to further groups of filings in the future
if demand warrants. The company also will supply, at reasonable
prices, copies in microfiche or microfilm form of other public
records of the Commission desired by a member of the public.
Microfiche readers and reader-printers
have been installed in
public reference areas in the Commission's headquarters office
and New York Regional Office, and sets of the microfiche are
available for inspection there.
Visitors to the public reference rooms of the Commission's
Washington, D.C., New York and Chicago offices also may make
immediate reproductions of material in those offices on coinoperated copying machines at a cost of 25 cents per 8th" x 14"
page. The charge for an attestation with the Commission seal is
$2. Detailed information concerning copying services available
and prices for the various types of service and copies may be
obtained from the Public Reference Section of the Commission.
Each year, many thousands of requests for copies of and information from the public files of the Commission are received
by the Public Reference Section in Washington, D.C. During the
1971 fiscal year, 12,435 persons examined material on file in
Washington and several thousand others examined files in New
York, Chicago, and other regional offices. More than 28,628
searches were made for information requested by individuals, and
approximately 3,667 letters were written with respect to information requested.
LITIGATION INVOLVING PUBLIC INFORMATION PROVISIONS OF
THE ADMINISTRATIVE PROCEDURE ACT

The public information provisions of the Administrative Procedure Act," among other things, require agencies, including the
Commission, to make records maintained by them available to
2

5 U .S.C. 552.

210

SECURITIES

AND EXCHANGE COMMISSION

members of the public. The Act contains various exemptions from
the general disclosure requirements, the meaning of certain of
which was the subject of litigation involving the Commission
during the fiscal year. In M. A. Schapiro & Co., Inc. v. S.E.C.,3
plaintiff asked that the Commission be required to make public
a staff study on Rule 394 of the New York Stock Exchange and
transcripts of testimony and other records obtained in the course
of an investigation of the rule. The Commission has taken the
position that these documents are exempt from disclosure under
various exemptive provisions, including those for "investigatory
files compiled for law enforcement purposes," matters that are
"contained in or related to examination, operating, or condition
reports prepared ... for the use of an agency responsible for the
regulation or supervision of financial institutions," information
"specifically exempted from disclosure by statute" 4 and "commercial or financial information [which is] privileged or confidential." In addition the Commission has urged that the staff
study is an intra-agency memorandum exempt from disclosure
under the Act. As of the end of the fiscal year, the plaintiff's
motion for a preliminary injunction was pending in the district
court.
In Frankel v. S.E.C.,5 plaintiffs seek access to the contents of an
investigatory file which was the basis of a civil enforcement
action resulting in injunctions against future violation of the
securities laws. The Commission has asserted that the documents
requested are exempt from the disclosure requirements of the
Act as investigatory files compiled for law enforcement purposes,
matters that are specifically exempted from disclosure by statute,
and commercial or financial information which is privileged and
confidential. Preliminary motions were pending before the court
at the end of the fiscal year.
In Commercial Envelope Mfg. Co., Inc. v. S.E.C.,6 a petition
was filed in the Court of Appeals for the Second Circuit to review
the Commission's refusal to make public a document obtained
from an informant relating to the completeness and accuracy of
a registration statement filed under the Securities Act. The Commission's motion to dismiss the petition for lack of jurisdiction
was denied without prejudice to renewal at the time of briefing
3

D.D.C., No. 2243-70.

418 U.S.C. 1905 prohibits officers and employees of the United States from
disclosing confidential information received in the course of their employment.
5
6

S.D.N.Y., 71 Civ. 2369.
C.A. 2, No. 71-1171.

THIRTY-SEVENTH

ANNUAL REPORT

211

on the merits. The Commission contends that the document is
exempt from disclosure as commercial or financial information
which is privileged and confidential and as part of an investigatory file compiled for law enforcement purposes. It further
contends that the district courts have exclusive jurisdiction over
public information cases.
ELECTRONIC DATA PROCESSING
EXTENSION OF APPLICATION

OF AUTOMATION TECHNIQUES

During the 1971 fiscal year the Commission continued the
improvement of existing EDP systems and progressed in the
development of planned systems described in previous annual
reports.
In a further extension of the use of automation for analysis
of data related to the financial structure of business and the
economics and practices of the securities industry, several new
EDP systems have been developed. One of these is a system for
assessing developments in corporate liquidity by analyzing liquid
asset holdings of approximately 850 large non-financial corporations registered with the Commission. Another new system related to a survey of factors influencing 1970 and 1971 business
investment. It provided statistical data on developments in the
years 1969-70 which may have resulted in changes in selected
companies' actual investment in 1970 and expected investment
in 1971.
The Commission also implemented a system involving statistical
data on issues registered under the Securities Act of 1933, private
placements, and issues of Federal, State and local governments
and other securities exempt from registration under the Securities Act. This system produces data for the Commission's Statistical Series releases and for special studies concerning the cost
of flotation of new issues, the yield structure of corporate debt
placed privately, the maturity distribution of debt securities, and
the seIling arrangements for new issues.
In addition, detailed systems design and computer programming
work was begun on an automated system which will provide data
for a study of the potential impact on the mutual fund industry
of the repeal of Section 22 (d) of the Investment Company Act,"
This project is being conducted in conjunction with a related
study being undertaken by the National Association of Securities
Dealers.
-7

See pp. 20-21, supra, for a descrrptron of this study.

212

SECURITIES

AND EXCHANGE COMMISSION

EDP applications currently under developmentinclude a system
for processing reports of security holdings and transactions of
corporate insiders and the automated preparation of the "Official
Summary" of insiders' transactions and holdings published by
the Commission.
As time and other resources permit, the use of EDP will be
extended to other areas of Commission activities.
ASSISTANCE TO STATE AND FEDERAL AGENCIES

The Commission continued during the past year to provide
certain information from its computer files to State authorities,
self-regulatory institutions and Federal agencies as described
in previous annual reports."
SHARING OF EDP FACILITIES

During the past fiscalyear the Commissionentered into sharing
arrangements with the General Accounting Officeand the National Weather Service. Under these arrangements the Commission provides a total of approximately 300 hours of computer
time per year at a significant savings to the Government as compared with the prevailing rates of commercial facilities.
EDP TRAINING

During the year the Commission continued its training programs geared to the specificneeds of its computer specialists and
operators. The program is designed to enable the Commission's
EDP staff to utilize more advanced hardware and software in the
development and implementation of new and revised computer
systems.
PERSONNEL AND FINANCIAL MANAGEMENT
PERSONNEL PROGRAM

In fiscal 1971 the Commission experienced a sharp decline in
its turnover rate, as a consequence of which recruiting activity
had to be halted or drastically reduced throughout most of the
year. However, in the face of this general curtailment of job
opportunities, the SEC continued its efforts to implement its
various special hiring programs, notably in the areas of equal
employment opportunity, and in utilizing the special authority
for making "Veterans Readjustment Appointments." The Commission was successful in attracting to its staff a number of
qualified minority individuals and women. In some instances,
these were first-time appointments of such persons for the posi8

See 34th Annual Report,

p,

168j 35th Annual Report,

p,

179.

THIRTY-SEVENTH

ANNUAL

REPORT

213

tions involved. Many of the Commission's clerical jobs were filled
by the appointment of veterans recently discharged after military
service in Vietnam.
With the cooperation of the law schools involved, the Officeof
Personnel arranged for the assignment of law students to the
SEC as uncompensated Student Observers, with a view to giving
them an opportunity to study first-hand the Commission's operations and activities. Under this program, the students spend 10 to
15 hours a week at the SEC. Some of them receive academic
credit for this activity as part of their law school education.
During the fiscal year, three of the law students who had served
as Student Observers were hired as permanent members of our
legal staff.
The Office of Personnel conducted an in-depth evaluation of
the Commission's EEO Action Plan which was designed to assess
past results and develop affirmative action for the future. Each
officeand division was asked for short and long-range objectives
in this area, and the Office of Personnel aided the operating
officials in establishing realistic and meaningful goals for equal
employment opportunities for present staff members and for
future recruitment needs and goals. A revised EEO Action Plan
has been prepared incorporating additional means for furthering
the aims of the EEO Program.
As a result of a special election, the Commission granted the
AFGE Local 2497 exclusive bargaining rights for all nonsupervisory general schedule and wage grade employees in the
Headquarters Office. The only other union local with exclusive
recognition in the Commission is located in the New York
Regional Office.
The Commission's Sixteenth Annual Service and Merit Awards
Ceremony was held in November 1970. Distinguished Service
Medals were awarded by the Commission to Nellye Thorsen, Assistant Secretary of the Commission; Alexander J. Brown, Jr.,
Regional Administrator of the Washington Regional Office; and
Aaron Levy, Associate Director of the Division of Corporate
Regulation. Ten employees were given 35-year pins for SEC
service and eight employees received pins for 30-year SEC
service; within-grade salary increases in recognition of high
quality performance were granted to 24 employees; and cash
awards totaling $8,875 were presented to 37 employees for
superior performance, special service or adopted suggestions.
The Commission is singularly proud of the special recognition
accorded Philip A. Loomis, Jr., General Counsel of the Commis-

214

SECURITIES

AND EXCHANGE

COMMISSION

sion (subsequently appointed Commissioner), by the District of
Columbia Chapter of the Federal Bar Association when it presented him with its Annual Justice Tom C. Clark Award. That
award is presented to one lawyer in Government service in recognition of superior and exceptional professional performance in
the career service. The award, which was signed by Chief Justice
Warren E. Burger, Attorney General John N. Mitchell, and other
members of the selection committee, stated in part:
"Your expert abilities in the highly specialized field of federal securities
law have been an invaluable assistance to the Securities and Exchange
Commission, where you are presently the General Counsel, in its important service to the public. Your distinguished accomplishments have
contributed to the preservation of confidence by the individual investor
in the integrity of the capital markets of the nation and have advanced
the cause of investor protection."

PERSONNEL STRENGTH; FINANCIAL MANAGEMENT

The following comparative table shows the personnel strength
of the Commission as of June 30, 1970 and 1971.
June 30, 1970
Comrntsstoners

June 30, 1971

5

5

Staff:
Headquarters Office --- -- - - - ----- --- ---------Regional Offices --- ------ --------- --- ---------

1,007
442

961
463

Total Staff ------------- --------- ------------

1,449

1,424

1,454

1,429

Grand

--------------------

~--------------

Total ------------------------------

--

The table on page 216 shows the status of the Commission's
budget estimate for the fiscal years 1967 to 1972, from the initial
submission to the Congress to final enactment of the annual appropriation.
The following table shows the Commission's appropriation,
total fees collected, percentage of fees collected to total appropriation, and the net cost to the taxpayers of Commission operations
for the fiscal years 1969, 1970 and 1971.

Year

1969 __________
1970 __________
197L _________

Fees
collected

Percentage of
fees collected
to total
appropriation
(percent)

Net cost
of
CQmmission
operations

$21,996,362
15,525,693
16,374,178

118
71
69

($3 ,372 ,362)
6,379,284
7,240,822

Appropriation

$18,624,000
21,904,977
23,615,000

The Commission is required by law to collect fees for (1)
registration of securities issued; (2) qualification of trust indentures; (3) registration of exchanges; (4) brokers and dealers

THIRTY-SEVENTH

ANNUAL

REPORT

215

who are registered with the Commission but who are not members
of a registered national securities association (the National Association of Securities Dealers (NASD) is the only such organization); and (5) certification of documents filed with the
Commission,"
9 Fees collected are derived principally
from categories (1), (3) and (4)
above. Rates for these are (1) 1/50 of 1 percent of the maximum aggregate
price of securities proposed to be offered, or 20<!per $1,000, with a minimum
fee of $100; (3) 1/500 of 1 percent of the aggregate dollar amount of the
sales of securities transacted on the exchanges; (4) for fiscal 1969: a basic
registration
fee of $100 for non-NASD broker-dealers
plus $5 for each
associated person, with a maximum payment of $20,000; $30 for each office
and $25 for each associated person for whom a nonmember broker or dealer
had not previously filed a personnel form; and an initial assessment fee of
$150. The maximum payment for all fees payable on the annual assessment
form was raised in fiscal 1970 to $25,000, and in fiscal 1971 to $5(J,000. The
associated persons fee was raised to $35 effective December 15, 1970.

216

SECURITIES

AND EXCHANGE

:~

',, '"
"

...

I,

I,I,

I
I

I
I

,

I

,, , ,
,, , "", ,
,
lS
'41
""
'" Ie
I,

:ii
i{ll

...41

:.s~

g:S gU
.... :-.
~,c
{Ilr::

e

OJ

<

"'0

;0:-'
;I,c

{Ilr::

e

OJ

<

COMMISSION

PART IX

APPENDIX
STATISTICAL TABLES
TABLE

l.-Securities

Registrations Effective Under the Securities Act of
19S5-Fiscal
(Amounts

Years 19S5-1971

in rmllions of dollars)
Cash sale for account

Fiscal year ended
.Tune 30
1935 ____________
1936_____________
1937_____________
1938_____________
1939_____________
1940_____________
1941-____________
1942_____________
1943_____________
1944_____________
1945_____________
1946_____________
1947_____________
1948_____________
1949_____________
1950_____________
1951-____________
1952_____________
1953_____________
1954_____________
1955_____________
1956_____________
1957_____________
1958_____________
1959_____________
1960_____________
1961-____________
1962_____________
1963_____________
1964_____________
1965_____________
1966_____________
1967_____________
1966_____________
1969_____________
1970_____________
197L ____________

Number
of
statements >
284
689
840

412
344
306
313
193
123
221
340
661
493
435
429

487
487
635
593
631
779
906

876
813
1.070
1.426
1,550
1,844
1,157
1,121
1,266
1.523
1,649
32,417
'3,645
53,389
"2,989

All registrations
913
4,835
4,851
2,101
2,579
1,787
2,611
2,003
659
1,760
3,225
7,073
6,732
6.405
5,333
5,307
6.459
9,500
7.507
9,174
10,960
13,096
14.624
16,490
15,657
14.367
19,070
19,547
14,790
16,860
19,437
30,109
34,218
354,076
'86,810
559,137
"69.562

$

Total
$

686

3,936
3.635
1,349
2,020
1,433
2,081
1,465
486
1,347
2,715
5,424
4,874
5,032
4,204
4,381
5,169
7,529
6,326
7,381
8,277
9,206
12.019
13,281
12,095
11.738
16,260
16,286
11,869
14,784
14,656
25,723
27,950
37,269
52,039
48,198
58,452

Bonds.
debentures.
and notes
$

Preferred
stock

490
3,153
2,426

$

666

1,593
1,112
1,721
1,041
316
732
1,851
3.102
2,937
2,817
2,795
2.127
2,838
3.346
3.093
4,240
3.951
4,123
5,689
6.857
5,265
4,224
6,162
4,512
4,372
4,554
3,710
7,061
12.309
14.036
11.874
18,438
27,637

I Statements
registering
American Depositary Receipts against
securities as provided by Form 5-12 are Included,
 For 10 montbs ended .Tune 30, 1935.
 InclUdes three statements registering lease obligations relating
bonds of $140 million.
, Includes eight statements registering lease obligations relating
bonds of $354 million.
registering lease obligations relating
 Includes four statements
bonds of $21 million.
"InclUdes one statement registering lease obligations relating
bonds of $400 thousand.

of issuers

I

28
252

Common
stock
$

802

209
109
110
164
162
32
343
407
991
787
537
326
468
427
851
424
531

474
318
210
196
263
137
272

462

539
472
427
443

253
248
253
270
224
307

!

I

I

168
531

406

444
558

1,140
751
823
3.360
outstanding

456

1,331
1,1110
1,878
1,083
1,786
1.904
3,332
2,808
2.610
3,864
4,544
5,858
5.998
6.387
7,260
9,8lIO
11,521
7;1.27
10,006
10,638
18,218
15,083
22,092
39,614
28,939
27,455
foreign

to industrial

revenue

to industrial

revenue

to industrial

revenue

to industrial

revenue

217

218

SECURITIES

TABLE

2.-Registrations

AND EXCHANGE

COMMISSION

Effective Under the Securities Act of
Year Ended June 80, 1971

Fiscal

1988,

[Amounts rounded to thousands of dollars and may not add to totals]
PART
1-Dlstnbution
by months
Proposed for cash sale for
account of issuers

All registratIons

Total
Year and
month

1970
July
_

August
_

September _

October
November
December __
1971
January
_

February
_

_

March
_

April
_

May
_

June
Total.
fiscal
year
19718

Number
of statements

Amount

199
263

263
214
252
274
235
301

$ 3,848,305
3,462,772
4,606,945
5,215,565
5,081,447

174
188
244
348
298
365

196
218
276
390
337
414

3,977,476
4,830,333
7,944,327
9,250,600
7,623,948
9,374,422

244
189
232
244

Corporate"

Number I

Number
of
issues 1

Amount

Number
of
issues 1

Amount

$3,440,789
3,287,777
4,269,675
4,597,156
4,537,608
3,686,680

102
95
120
152
134
135

$2,159,153
12'025'499
3,215,409
3,448.731
3,686,510
I 2,828,461

310

3,345,862
4,227,128
7,051,538
7,754,707
5,911,994
6,341,255

91
102
158
158
134
181

2,254,497
2,799.494
4,974,059
3,293.994
2,717,089
4,797,742

69,561,575 : 2,705

58,452,169

of

Issues

219
180
206
232
195
231

4,345,435

160
177
230

310
255

1

I
2,988
PART

~ 3,370

2 -Purpose

of registration

38,200,638

1,562

and types of security
Type of security

Purpose of registration

Total

Bonds,
debentures,
and
notes 

Preferred
stock

Common
stock 6

_ $69,561,575 $28,024,575 $3,716,884 $37,820,115
All regrstrations (estimated value)
58,452,169 27,637,284 3,359,836 27,455,048
For account of issuer for cash sale __
39,693,861 27,632,584 3,339,669 8,721,608
Immediate offering 2 ---------------Corporate
_
38,200.638 27,139,359 3,339,669 7,721,608
Offered
to:
General public
_
35,424,222 26,894,957 1,786,029 6,743,236
Security holders
_
232,262 1,553,640
2,754,285
968.383
12,140
Other special groups
/
22,128
Foreign governments
_
493,225
1,493,225
4,700
18,758,306
Extended cash sale and other issues
For account of issuer for other than I
cash sale
\
173,006
7,043,431
81,783\6,788,642
214,285
_
275,265
3,576,425
For account of other than issuer
4,065,975
1,207
2,007,167
100,099
1,905,861
213,078
175,166
1,670,585
2,058,809

I
I

11~:~:m

~==i~~i~~

Og~~h
_~~~_~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~::~~~~~~~==

1 Warrants
are excluded from the count of the number of issues although inclUded
in dollar amount.
2 Covers only Issues proposed
for sale immediately following effective registration.
3 The 2,988 effective
regtstration statements covered in this table differ from the
2,929 "net" effective statements shown in the text table "Number and disposition of
registration statements filed" as follows:
Included In effectives but excluded from net effectives:
Five registratrons effective In fiscal 1970 prior to receiving competitive bids. The
amendments disclosing the accepted terms were received in fiscal 1971.
Fifty-six rgtstrations effective In fiscal 1971 which were later withdrawn.
Excluded from effectIves but included in next effectives:
One registration effectIve prior to receiving competitive bids. The amendments
disclosing the accepted terms were not received in fiscal 1971.
One registration of lease obligatIons relating to industrial revenue bonds.
 Includes face amount certificates.
 Includes certificates of partfcrpation, warrants and voting trust certificates.

THIRTY.SEVENTH

ANNUAL REPORT

219

a.-Brokers and Dealers Regu;tered Under the Securities Exchange
Act of 1934 I-Effective Regu;trations as of June 30, 1971, Classified by
Type of Organization and by Location of Principal Office

TABLE

Number of registrants

Location of
principal office

Total

Alabama
Alaska
_
_
Arizona
Arkansas
_
_
California
Colorado
_
Connecticut
_
Delaware
_
District of Columbia _
Florida
_
Georgia
_
Hawaii
_
Idaho
_
Ilhnois
_
Indiana
_
Iowa
_
Kansas
_
Kentucky
_
_o

Louisrana

_

~~

_

Maine
_
Maryland
_
Massachusetts
_
Michigan
_
_
MInnesota
_
MISsissippi
_
MIssouri
Montana
.
_
_
Nebraska
_
Nevada
_
New Hampshire
_
New Jersey
New Mexico
New York (excludmg
_
New York City)
_
North Carolina
_
North Dakota
_
Ohio
_
Oklahoma
_
Oregon
_
Pennsylvania
_
Rhode Island
_
South Carolina
_
South Dakota
_
Tennessee
_
Texas
_
Utah
_
Vermont
_
Virginia
_
Washington
_
West Virginia
_
Wisconsin
Wyoming
_
Total (excluding
New York
City)
_
New York CIty _
Total
_

37
6
30
23
525
86
49
19
59
136
52
31
9
181
58
47
34
12

Sole
proprietorships

Partnerships

Corporatrons s

5

2

30
1
23
16
354
64
36
15
43
109
41
22
6
130
44
38
28
8
10

5
5
5
125
18
7
3

7
20
7
7
3

o

1

3
8
2
6
21
6
3

12

3
10
59
9
4
4

426
37
9
112
27
36
239
30
17
3

153

3,705
1,196
4,901

2
2
46
4
6
1
8
7
4
2
32
1

18
45
200
71
78
22
94
12
19
7
15
248
4

192
55
6
59
91
8
47
11

o

19
13
6
3

30

43

Number of proprietors,
partners, officers, etc 2 3

12

3
3

6
10

13
29
120
56
71
12

72

o
o
o
o
27
o

8
18
5
10
145
3

35
4

o

238
23
8
76
16
30
162
17
14
2

3
12
18
2
3
2

2
6
4
1
12
2
1
1
2

148
45
2
35
71
5
43
7

785
127
912

362
346
708

2,558
723
3,281

4
1
2
5

76
1

10
1
11
10
4
34
9
2
1
5
38

6

o

25
1
2
43
4
1

36

Sole
pro-

Total

150
9
108
102
2,601
476
327
136
432
510
269
112

prietorships

ShIPS

5
5

5

5

4
4
347
32
59
2
60
19
9
5

5
125
18
7
3
7

20

1,207
281

7
7
3
19
13

220

6

23

Partner-

o

o

37

78
9
99
116
86
6
16
141

95
47
160
935
330
466
58
680
30
133
15
35
567
19

o

1,038
213
34
774
76
176
1,387
76
101
11
199
1,167

153
10
1
11
10
4
34
9
2
1
5
38
6
3
12

116

18,207
10,758
28,965

o
o
o
o

70

19

o

267
2
5
248
25
2

o

19
21

13

2
3
2

4
60
4
5
39
4

785
127
912

2,292
3,640
5,932

18

20
203
181

1

190

99
93
2,129
426
261
131
365
471
253
100

26

3
1
12
3
10
59
9
4
4
12
4
1
2
5

22
296
421
27
354
30

140
4

222
2
11
11

195
64
185
59
269
1,110
425
476
78
833
34
134
17
40
713
20

76

Cor-

porations 

966

266

769
184
33
496
64
167
1,105
42
97
10
175
1,108

171
15
224

399
20
312
24
15,130
6,991
22,121

1Does not
Include 39 registrants whose prmcipal offices are located in foreign
countnes or other territorial JUrisdictIOns not listed.
2 Includes drrectors,
officers, trustees, and all other persons occupying sirmlar status
or performing SImilar functions.
3 Anocaucns
made on the baSIS of tocation of prmerpat offices of registrants, not
actual location of persons. InformatIon taken from latest reports filed prior to June
30,1971.
hi
 Includes all forms of organizations other than sole propnetorshIps and partners IpS

220

SECURITIES
TABLE

4.-Number

AND EXCHANGE

COMMISSION

0/ Security Issues and Issuers on E:x:ckanges

PARTl.-UNDUPLICATED COUNT AS OF JUNE 30, 1971 OF THE NUMBER OF
STOCK AND BOND ISSUES ADMITTED TO TRADING ON EXCHANGES, AND
THE NUMBER OF ISSUERS INVOLVED
Status under the Act

Total

Stocks

1

Registered
pursuant to Sections 12b), _

(c) and (d)
Temporarily exempted from registration by Commission rule
_

Admitted to unlisted trading privileges
on registered exchanges pursuant to
Section 12(f)
_
Listed on exempted exchanges under
exemption orders of the Commission __
Admitted to unlisted trading privileges
on exempted exchanges under exemption orders of the Commission
_

Total
_


Bonds

stocks

and bonds

2,027

3,623

Issuers
involved

5,650

3,130

13

5

18

9

55

4

59

44

41

5

46

29

o

8
3,740

8

8

5,781

2,041

3,220

1 Registered: A security may be registered
on a national securities exchange by the
Issuer filing an application with the exchange and with the Commission containing
certain types of specified information.
TempO'1'arilyexempted: These are securities such as short term warrants, or securities resulting from mergers, consolidations, etc., which the Commission has by published rules exempted from regrstration
under specified conditions and for stated
periods.
Admitted to unlisted trading privileges: This refers to securities which have been
admitted to tradmg on the initiative of exchanges without listing. Since July 1964,the
effective date of the 1964amendments to Section 12(f) of the Exchange Act, additional
securrties may be granted unlisted trading prrvileges on exchanges only if they are
listed and registered on another exchange.
Listed on exempted exchanges: Certam exchanges have been exempted from registration under Section 6 of the Act because of the limited volume of transactions
The Comrmssion's exemption orders specify in each case that securitIes which were
bsted on the exchange at the date of the order may continue to be listed thereon,
and that no additional securities may be listed except upon compliance with Sections
12(b), (c) and (d).
Unlisted on exempt exchanges: The Commission's exemption orders specify that
securities which were admitted to unlisted trading privileges at the date of the order
may continue such privileges, and that no additional securities may be adm.itted to
Unlisted trading privileges except upon compliance with Section 12(f).

PART2.-NUMBER OF STOCK AND BOND ISSUES ON EACH EXCHANGE AS OF
JUNE 30,1971, CLASSIFIED BY TRADING STATUS, AND NUMBER OF ISSUERS
INVOLVED
stocks
Issuers

Exchanges
American
_
Boston
_
ChIcago Bd. of Trade __
Cincinnati
_
Detroit

_

HonoluluMidwest
National
New York
Pacific Coast
PhIla.-Ba1t.-Wash
Richmond-

_
_
_
_
_
_
_

Spokane

_

salt

Lake

_

1,211

631
4

221
386
41

592
138
1,652
756

841
12
55
34

R

X

1,226
64
2

4
__
__

Bonds

U XL XU Total
__
__
__

1,292
653
4

28 __ 201 __ __

229

76
____
377
146

__
__
2
__

62
589
2
322
__
279

__
__
__
__
42
__
__

__
8
__
__

398
50
658
146

R

X

8

236

__

982

~

31

4
__

742
6

__

184
13

1 __ __

9

====16 .:__ .:__ -5
---5
__
16
7

__

1,915 10
__ __ 1,925 1,827 4
47 __
924
717 6 201 __ __

--52 .: --3 ~ .:

U XL !'rotal

177 3 4 __
13 __ __ __

55

__

__
__
__
2

__
7
__ 1,831
__
47
__
57
1
1

37

Symbols: R-registered;
X-temporarily
exempted; U-admitted
to unlisted
privileges; XIr-bsted on an exempted exchange; XU-admitted
to unlisted
privileges on an exempted exchange.
Note-Issues exempted under Section 3(a)(12) of the Exchange Act, such as
tions of the U. S. Government, the states, and cities, are not included in this
-Exempted exchanges.

trading
trading
obligatable.

THIRTY-SEVENTH
TABLE

5.-Value of Stocks on Ezchanges
[Billions

December

221

ANNUAL REPORT

New York
Stock
Exchange

31

1936______________________________
1937______________________________
1938______________________________
1939______________________________
1940______________________________
1941____________________________
1942______________________________
1943______________________________
1944_____________________________
1945______________________________
1946______________________________
1947______________________________
1948______________________________
1949______________________________
1950______________________________
1951______________________________
1952______________________________
1953______________________________
1954______________________________
1955______________________________
1956______________________________
1957______________________________
1958______________________________
1959______________________________
1960______________________________
1961______________________________
1962______________________________
1963______________________________
1964______________________________
1965______________________________
1968______________________________
1967______________________________
1968______________________________
1969______________________________
1970______________________________
1 Total
values 1936--47 inclusive
American Stock Exchange only

of dollars]

are

$59.9
38.9
47.5
46.5
41.9
35.3
38.8
47.6
55.5
73.8
68.6
68.3
67.0
76.3
93.8
109.5
120.5
117.3
189.1
207.7
219.2
195.6
276.7
307.7
307.0
387.8
3458
411.3
474.3
537.5
482.5
605.8
8923
629.5
636.4
for

the

American
Stock
Exchange

Exclusively
on other
Exchanges

$14.8
10.2
10.8
10.1
8.6
7.4
7.8
9.9
11.2
14.4
13.2
12.1
11.9
12.2
13.9
16.5
16.9
15.3
22.1
27.1
31.0
25.5
31.7
26.4
24.2
33.0
24.4
26.1
28.2
30.9
27.9
43.0
61.2
47.7
39.5
New York

-----

-----

--------

$3.0
3.1
3.3
3.2
3.1
2.8
3.6
4.0
3.8
3.1
4.3
4.2
4.1
5.3
4.0
4.3
4.3
4.7
4.0
3.9
6.0
5.4
4.8
Stock

Exchange

Totall
$'14.7
49.1
58.3
56.8
50.11
43.2
46.8
57.11
1I8.7
88.2
81.8
80.4
81.9
91.6
111.0
129.2
140.5
135.4
194.8
238.8
254.0
224.2
312.7
338.4
335.3
426.2
374.2
441.7

506.8
573.1
514.4
652.7
759.5
682.6
680.7
and

the

222

SECURITIES

AND EXCHANGE

COMMISSION

G.-Dollar Volume and Share Volume of Sales Effected on Securities
Exchanges in the Calendar Year 1970 and the 6-Month Period Ended June
30,1971

TABLE

[Amounts
PART 1.-12

in thousandal

MONTHS

ENDED

DEC. 31, 1970

Bonds
Total
dollar
volume

Exchanges
Registered
exchanges
American
______
Boston
_________
Chicago
Board
of Trade
_____
Cincinnati
Detroit
____=====
Midwest
------National
New York-=====
Pacific
Coast __
PhUa.-Balt
Washington
__
Salt Lake ___ . __
Spokane
------Exempted
exchanges
Honolulu
Richmond

-----~---

Prin-

cipal

Dollar
volume

Dollar
volume

amount

4,763,242

6,299,546

131,125,543

4,539,456

575,809

294,207

15,030,945
892,770

394,417
0

658,483

14,366,041
892,415

878,536
24,592

270,487
355

41,590
318

0
45,732
145,108
4,953.441
44,621
107,648,957
5,057,890

0
10
0
1,170
0
4,328,335
36,378

0
18
0
1,597
0
5,554,921
82.199

0
45,679
145,052
4,942,990
44,621
103,063.237
4,985,958

0
1,000
4,985
149,305
11,926
3,213,069
164,975

2,634,268
6,255
4,606

0

2,933
0 I"
0 :

American
______
Boston
_________
Chicago Board
of Trade
_____
Cincinnati
----Detroit
-------Midwest
----~National
New York-=====
Pacific
Coast
-PhiladelphiaBaltimoreWashington
__
Salt Lake ______
Spokane
-----Exempted
exchanges
Honolulu
-----Richmond
-----

0
0
43
118
56
266
9,282
3,504
0
0
257,385 ,233,379
35,553 112,989

I

2,328
0
0

2,628,687
6,255
4,606

76,932
5,800
8,337

2,648
0
0

2,044
0
0

8,852

0

0

8,852

766

0

0

8,590
262

0
0

0
0

8,590
262

759
7

0
0

0
0

MONTHS

ENDED

Bonds

Registered
exchanges

Share
volume

136,464,594

PART 2.-6

Exchanges

Rights and
warrants
Number of
Dollar
units
volume

Stocks

Total
dollar
volume

JUNE

30, 1971
Rights and
warrants

Stocks
Prin-

Dollar
volume

elpal
amoun

Dollar
volume

Share
volume

Dollar
volume

Number of
units

105,330,791

4,374,876

5,157,358

100,258,375

3,271,977

697,540

147,991

10,628,186
593,307

::93,390
0

522,742
0

9,745,102
592,290

608,944
13,938

489,693
1,017

50,242
41

0
49,459
153,884
3,936,268
29,504
83,861,634
3,900,047

0
23
0
281
0
3,931,399
47,513

0
39
0
173
0
4,544,642
84,853

0
49,434
153,854
3,928,062
29,504
79,792,140
3,798,082

0
1,045
4,149
113,429
7,625
2,345,973
110,898

0
2
30
7,925
0
138,095
54,452

44
1,346
0
78,293
14,740

2,173,665
3,118
1,720

2,269
0
0

4,908
0
0

2,165,070
3,118
1,720

58,535
3,846
3,596

6,326
0
0

3,279
0
0

3,397
3,397
0

11
11
0

10
10
0

3,386
3,386
0

283
283
0

g!

0

6

0
0
0

Note: Data on the value and volume
of securities
sales on the registered
exchanges
are reported
m connection
with fees paid under Section
31 of the Securities
Exchange
Act of 1934. Included
are all securities
sales, odd-lot
as well as round-lot
transactions,
effected
on exchanges
except
sales of bonds
of the U S. Government
which
are not
subject
to the fee. Comparable
data are also supplied
by the exempted
exchanges
Reports
of most exchanges
for a grven m.onth cover transactions
cleared
during the
calendar
month
Clearances
generally
occur
on the 5th business
day after
that
on
WhICh the trade was effected

THIRTY-SEVENTH ANNUAL REPORT

223

TABLE?.-Cornpa~ati~leShare Sales and DoEEar Volumes on Ezohangss
Year

I

Share sales

1935.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.

1940.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
377,896,512 

.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
789,018,138 

1945.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
893,320,458 

1950.
1955 .
.
.
.
.
.
.
.

1958 .
.
.
.
.
.
.
. 1,182,487,065 

1958.....
1959.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
1960.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
1961 .
1962.........

1.400,578.512 

1,699,696,619 

1,441,047,564 

2,142,523,490 

1,711,945,297 


19E4 .
.
.
.
.
.
.
. 2,128,373,821 

.
.
.
.
.
.
.
. 2,671,011,839 

1965.
1967 .
.
.
.
.
.
.
.

1968 .
.
.
.
.
.
.
. 5,408,731,347 

5,154,994,769 

3969 .........
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
. 4,834,429,514

1970.
SIX months

I
Dollar 

volume (in

thousands)


1935.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
. $ 15.396.139 

1'340.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
8,419,772 

1845.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
16,234,552 

1 9 s.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
21.808.284 

1955..
38,039,107

1956.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
35.143115 

1957.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
32,214,846 

1958.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
38.419.580 

1959.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
52 W1.255 

1 .
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
43:306,603 

1961.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
64,071,613

1962~
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
54,855.894 

1963.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
64.438.073 

1964~
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
72,461,150 

1965.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
89,549,093 

l9%6 .
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
123,668,443 

1967 .....
162,189,211 

1968 .
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
197,111,957 

196% .
.
.
.
.
.
.
. 116.3r9.759 

1970.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
. 131.710,203

Six months
to June 30.1
1971.
.
.
.
.
.
. 100,959.301 


Note.-Annual sales. including stocks, warrank and rights, as repprted by all U. S.
exchanger to the Commission. Figures for merged exchanger are included in those
of the exchanges into which they were merged. Details for all years prior to 1955
appear in Table 7 in the Appendix of the 32nd Annual Report.
SmD0Ir.-NYS New York Stock Exchange. AMS American Stock Exchange; MSE.
Midwest Stock ixehange. PCS Pacific co&t sto>k Exchange. PBS PhiladelphiaBaltirnore-Washington Stick ~ i e h a n g e ;BSE, Badon St&
~xihahangk DSE, Detmrt
Stock Exchange; CIN. Cincinnati Stoek Exchange.

224

SECURITIES AND EXCHANGE COMMISSION

T ~ L 8.-Block
E
Distributions of Stocks Reported by Exchanges

TABLEB.-Unlisted

Stock8 on Exchanges

PART
1.-NUMBER OF STOCKS ON THE EXCHANGES AS OF JUNE 30, 1971 1

Llsted end Registered on Another
Exchange
Exchanges

Unlisted Only 2

American .
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.

Boston

CindnnaU
.
.
.
Detmit .
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
Honolulu .
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
Midwest .
Pacific Coast
Phila-Balt-Wash .
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
%It Lake

Spokane .
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.

Totals .
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.

61 


! Admitted Prior to

/

March 1. 19348

Admitted Sine;
March 1. 1934

225

THIRTY-SEVENTH ANNUAL REPORT
PART2.-UNLISTED SHARE VOLUME ON THE EXCHANG-CALENDAR

YEAR 1970

LIsted and Registered on Another
Exchange
Unlisted Only *

Exchanges
.

American .
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
Bwton .
.
.
.
Chicago Board of Trade .-.
Cindnmti .
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
Detroit .
....................
H ~ n ~ l u l.
u.
................
Wdwest .
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
Paelfie Coast .
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
Phila-Balt-Wash .
..........
Salt Lake .
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
Spokane .
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
Totals .
..............

Admitted Prior to
March 1. 1934

0
0
0
383288

1,804,350
4.772.492
0
0
164.581
0
0
1,501,701
18222,371
0
2.131

20.649.M)3

28,287,808

20.eZl.OW
0
0
0
0
44,715
0

Admitted Sine:
March 1. 1934
953,059 

13,543,025 

0

877 800 

2.255:QQE 

0

53,409,050 

43.372,MQ 

49,591,393 

0

4,815 

183,790,507 


,Refer to text under heading "Unlisted Trading Privileges on Exchanger;' in Part
111 of this Report. Vol"mes are as reported by the exchanges or other repordng
agpncies and are exeluslve of those in short-term rights.
-Includes issues admitted under Clause 1 of Section 1 2 ( f ) as m effect prior to the
1964 amendments to the Exchange Act and two stocks a n the American Stock Exchange admitted under fonner Section U ( f ) . Clause 3.
a ~ h e s eissues were admitted under farmer Secbon 1 2 ( f ) . Clause 1. 

,These figures include issues admitted under former Section l Z ( f ) , Clauses 2 and 3 

(except the two stacks on the American Stock Exchange referred t o m footnote 2 ) .
and under new Sectlon 1 2 ( f ) (1) (B).
s ~uplicationof issues among exchanges brings the total figures to more than the
actual number of issues involved.

TABLE 10.-Summary of Cases Instituted i n the Cosrts by the Canlniaswn
U d e r the Securities Act of 198.9, the Securities Eschange Act of 1934, the
Public Utdity Holding Company Act of 1935, the Investment Company Act
of 1940, and the Investment Advisers Act of 1940

Type8 of cases

year

year 

Actions t o enjoin

violations of the 

Actions t o enforce
subpoenas under
the Securities Act
and the Securities
Actions to carry out
voluntary lane to
comply Wpm section l l ( b ) of the
Holding Company
Act 

Miscellaneous 

AEtlons
Total

2.359

226

SECURITIES
ll-A

TABLE

AND EXCHANGE

COMMISSION

38-Year Summary of All Injunction Cases Instituted by the
Commission-1934 to June 30, 1971, by Calendar Year

Calendar

Number
of cases instituted
by the Commission
and
the number of defendants
involved

Year

Defendants

Oases
1934
1935
1936
1937
1938
1939
1940
1941
1942
1943
1944
1945
1946
1947
1948
1949
1950
195L
1952
1953
1954
1955
1956
1957
1958
1959
1960
1961
1962
1963
1964
1965
1966
1967
1968
1969
1970
1971 (to .June

_
_
_
_
_
_
_
_
_
_
_
_
_
_
_
_
_
_
_
_
_
_
_
_
_
_
_
_
_
_
_
_
_
_
_
_
_
30) __

7
36
42
96
70
57
40
40
21
19
18
21
21
20
19
25
27
22
27
20
22
23
53
58
71
58
99
84
99
91
76
72
56
89
94
99
128
73
1,993

i

Number
of cases In which
mjunctions
were granted
and the number
of defendants
enjoined 1
Oases

Defendants

24
242
116
240
152
154
100
112
73
81
80
74
45
40
44
59
73
67
103
41
59
54
122
192
408
206
270
368
403
358
276
302
236
380
489
584
697
276

2
17
36
91
73
61
42
36
20
18
14
21
15
20
15
24
26
17
18
23
22
19
42
32
51
71
84
85
82
98
88
68
50
79
97
102
113
53

4
56
108
211
153
165
99
90
54
72
35
57

68
62
43
89
93
158
179
222
272
229
363
352
271
181
291
391
518
544
209

7,600

21,825

5,965

34
47
26
55
71
43

50

SUMMARY

Cases
Actions

mstltuted

Injunctrons

obtained

Actions
pending
Other
disposrnons s
Total

Defendants

1,993
1,797
60
136

7,600
5,965
"542
1,093

1,993

7,600

These columns
show dISPOSItion of cases by year of dISpOSItIOn and do not necessarily reflect the disposrtion of the cases shown as having been instituted
in the same
years.
2 Includes
28 cases whreh were counted
twice in this column
because
injunctions
agamst
differ-ent defendants
m the same cases were granted
in dIfferent
years.
3 Includes
37 defendants
m 7 cases in which injunctions
have been obtamed
as to 40
co-defendants
 Includes
(a) actions
disnussed (as to 957 defendants);
(b) actions
discontinued,
abated,
abandoned,
stipulated or settled
(as to 76 defendants);
(c) actions
in which
Judgment
was demed
(as to 56 defendants);
(d) actions
in which
prosecution
was
stayed on stipulation
to drscorrtinue
misconduct charged
(as to 4 defendants).
1

THIRTY-SEVENTH

ANNUAL REPORT

227

12.-Summary of Cases Instituted Against the Commission, Cases
Involving Petitions for Review of Commission Orders, Cases in Which the
Commission Participated as Intervenor or Amicus Curiae, and Reorganization Cases on Appeal under Ch. X in which the Commission Participated.

TABLE

Types of cases

Actions to enrom
enforcement of
Securities Act, Secunttes Exchange
Act or Public
Utihty Holdmg
Company Act
with the exception of subpoenas
issued by the
Comrmssion _______
Actions to enjoin
enforcement of
or compliance
with subpoenas
issued by the
Comrmssion _______
Petitions for review
of Commission's
orders by Courts
of Appeals under
the various Acts
admmistered by
the Commission
Miscellaneous actrons
against the Commission or officers
of the Commission
and cases in which
the Commission
participated as
intervenor or
amicus curiae ____
Appellate proceedIngs under Ch. X
in which the
Commission participated __________
Total

--------

Total
cases instituted
up to
end
of 1971
fiscal
year

Total
cases
closed
up to
end
of 1971
fiscal
year

Cases
pendmg
at end
of 1971
fiscal
year

Cases
pending
at end
of 1970
fiscal
year

Cases instatuted
durrng
1971

fiscal
year

Total
cases
pend-

Cases
closed
dunng

mg
durmg
1971

fiscal
year

1971

fiscal
year

II

2

7

9

4

19

0

0

2

2

2

3S6

341

IS

11

16

27

12

352

342

10

9

10

19

9

92

87

19

I

238

235

3

9

3

12

9

1,057

1,024

33

31

38

69

38

228

..

5~~~if
z '1:1:8

-.,
IS

~

QJ

;".
.0

~
~

lU

l! OS

.!l

j..,

'1:1

j!

e
.0

OJ
as
.ce
.... cas
;".

.0

"tJ

U'JC

'S CQI
.5'0
"'~.dc'3
ti
~
 ~~C'
ci ~ -8~
1;

....,J asQI.
'" '"
Q

.l!l
'1:1
C
III

~::

o~~R~R~~R~e~=~~~~~.~~o~~~~=~~~~~~~~m=o
i
...

.:1'1:1

t3l2i!
,QQI'I:I>
e.d .f...l::
::s+'
0
z -8"

~~~~~g!!~~'~~=~~~~~~~~~~~~~R~~gS~t~~~~...
~

....
.:Ic';,
o c- 3l
t as'l:l
as
.oil.!!"
elll~.d
::s....
'I:I..
z-8E;l

~~~:~~8~~~~;~~~~~~~R~~~~~~~~~~~;~~
"M~"~~"""
~""""ft""
l

~

-

.~

i
I-

...

II
II

~

~~"

~~~

...

..
.. ....

~ ~
....0'"
...
.~
 ~
to)
~

'0' ~
~

M

cO

~.., ~
'1:1
.sSl..., OS OSSl.d~f'l:l
.., 0c ,8J.t=t,)~cu4J
..:ae,Q.5
I::l +las s'5~tl~$
q:;
... OJ ~iilE~~.g

E:
~

i

Po

.

~
~
....
.ce
....

oooocooooooooooooooooooooo~~o~~~~~.R;~

C OJ
OS :lstcoos.!!
co CQl'l:l $ .
"'las.d-,8Q1l::00'"
't:J
>..
,Q.dl::~QlQI";l'l:l::::
~~~~~~i~~~~~~~=~~=M=~=~~~~~~~~~i~8
8l
~
~
~+'.e~tl>SO.!!<
"!.
~
Z '1:1QI:a e~.l!l
Sil
Po '1:1 ~

C>

~

I-

AND EXCHANGE COMMISSION

OS :IS 

~I~i~i

~
~

.ce

SECURITIES

M~~~R~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~=~~~~~~~~~~~~
~

....

OJSl::'c
"'co~S-~
.8 ~iEl gil f,
Z5 Po~ 3l~'I:I.c
OJ ~ ..
OS=~~s2

~
..."l.
~5~~a~~~!sm~=~~=~~~~=~~~~~i~~!~~~~
...

'"
tSl'l:l.,..tl;!
,Q .. ~Potl>.
5f3 .e~::s.d
~~
zOS ~~ ....
0.5

~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~=~~~~~~i~~~=:
~

111

~

II

t..

IS

~
00
~

I
I
I
I
I

I

1....
CQ

s
III

-<

Eo<

1

as
'"
f,
';

III

~

I

1

r

I
I
I
I
I

I
I
I
I
I
I
I
I
I
I
I
I
I

1

r

I
I
I

I
I

1
1
1

r
I
r
r
r
r

I

I

1

I
I
I

I

I
I
I
I
I
I
I
I
I
I
I
I
I
I
I
I
'I

r

:

1
I
I
I

,
I

I
I
I
I

r

I

I
I
I

I
I

I
I
I
I
I
I

I
I
I

I
I
I
I
I
I
I
I
I
I
I

I
I
I
I

1
I
I

1
1

I
I
I
I
I

I

1
I

1

I
I

1
1
I

r

1

I
I
I
I
I
I
I

I
I
I
I
I

I
I
I
I
I
I

I
I
I

'"loll

.~
"
.s

~

".
,
s
!
~~~~~~o~~~=n~~!~~~~~~~~~~~~~N~inli
I

1

I
I
I
I
I
I
I

r

I

1
I

,
r

,
I

r

1

I
I

I
I
I
I

1

I
I

,
I
I

I
I
I

r

I
I

,
I

I
I
I
I
I
I
I
I
I

,
I

1

r

1

I
I
I

I
I
I
I

I
I
I
I

:
,
I

I
I
I

1

I
I
I
I
I
I
I

:
I
I
I

,
1
'

:

I
I
I
I
I
I
I
I

I

r

I
I
I

1

I

1

I
I
I
I

, ,

I

I
I

I
I
I
I
I
I

r
I
r

I

r

I
I

I

I
I

~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ ~~~~~~~m~~~ ggm ~
S~
""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""

1
I

0

I

~
0
0

E:.

THIRTY-SEVENTH

ANNUAL REPORT

229

230

SECURITIES

TABLE

AND EXCHANGE

COMMISSION

14.-A 98-Year Summary Classifying All Defendants in Criminal
Cases Developed by the Commission-1994
to June 80, 1971
Number
Indicted

Number
Convicted

Number
Acqwtted

Number
as to
whom
cases were
dismissed
on motion
ofUmted
States
Attorneys

Number
as to
whom
cases
are
pending

416

55

184

48

189

31

122

51

76

362
731

9
176

1,399

284

Registered broker-dealers '
(Including principals of
703
such firms)
Employees
of--regi"steredbroker-dealers ___________
393
Persons In general securt- I
I
ties business but not as
registered broker-dealers
!
(includes principals and !
employees) ______________
:
885
,
All others 2 ________________
2,562

438
1,351

304

4,543

2,394

466

Total

----------------

Includes persons registered at or prior to time of indictment.
"The persons referred to In this column, while not engaged In a general business
111 securitres, were almost without exception prosecuted
for vrolations of law Involving
securrties transactions
I

TABLE

I5.-Summary

of Criminal Cases Developed by the Commission Which
Were Pending at June 30, 1971

Pending, referred to
Department of Jus- Cases
tice In the fiscal
year:

1959__________________
1960__________________
196L_________________
1962__________________
1963__________________
1964__________________
1965__________________
1966__________________
1967__________________
1968__________________
1969__________________
1970__________________
1971__________________
TotaL __________

Number
of defendants
in such
cases

Number L:umof such defendants
of such
as to whom cases are still
defendpending and reasons thereants asto
for
whom
Not yet
AwaitAwaitcases
ing
ing
have been apprecompleted hended
appeal'
trial

0
1
6
0
1
1
4
6
2
10
13
15
7

8
51
60
69
56

33
25
4

0
1
1
0
0
0
1
0
0
0
6
0
0

66

367

83

9

0
4
38
0
6
22
21

0
0
0
0
0
0
4
1
4

32

12

0
3
37
0
6
22
16
31
4
44
52

0
0
0
0
0
0
0
2
0
1
12
1
0

275

116

39

21

SUMMARY
Total cases pending 2
91
438
Total defendants 2
355
Total defendants as to whom cases are pending 2
'The figures In thrs column represent defendants who have been convicted and
whose appeals are pending, These defendants are also mcluded in the figUres in
column 3
2 As of the close of the fiscal year, md1ctments had not yet been returned
as to 71
proposed defendants in 25 cases referred to the Department of Justlce. These are
refiected only m the recaprtulatton of totals at the bottom of the table. The figure
for total cases pending includes 24 cases in a Suspense Category.

THIRTY-SEVENTH

ANNUAL REPORT

231

16.-RBorganization
Proceedings Under Chapter X of the Bankruptcy
Act in which the Commission Participated During Fiscal Year 1971

TABLE

Debtor

District

Alco Industries,
Inc.
Amerrcan
Assoeiatad
Systems,
American National
Trust

Court

Petition
filed

_ D. Ariz.
Sept 17, 1969
Dec 24, 1970
_ E.D. Ky.
S.D. Ind.
Feb 13, 1968
D Anz
.Jan 2, 1970
Arizona
HelIum Corp'
May II, 1964
Anzona
Lutheran
Hospital
_ D. Ariz
.July 3, 1967
Arlington
Discount
Co.
_ S D. Ohio
N.D. Ga.
.Jan 18, 1971
Atlanta
International
Raceway,
Inc.'
Bankers
Trust
_ S D. Ind
Oct 7, 1966
Bermec Corp.'
_ S D.N.Y
Apr 16, 1971
Aug 31, 1970
BUbble Up Delaware,
Inc.'
_ CD. Calif
N.D
III
Mar.
23, 1970
Burton's
In The Round, Inc.
_
E.D Pa.
.June 1, 1970
Business
Finance
Corp
D
Ariz
Oct
26,
1961
Cal-West
Aviation
Inc?
_
W D N Y. . __ ._ Dec 15, 1964
Canandataua
Enterpnses
Corp.
Feb. 26, 1942
Central
States Electric
Corp.'
_ S D.N.Y
Clute Corp
_ D Colo
Nov 5, 1962
Coast Investors.
Inc"
_ W.D
Wash. __ Apr. I, 1964
D.
Kans
.July
17, 1959
Coffeyville
Loan & Investment"
.
_
Pa.
Dec 4, 1967
Commonwealth
Financial
Corp. _ ..
_ ED
Apr 6, 1965
_ D. S.D.
Commonwealth
Investment
Corp?
Feb 24, 1970
Computer
Services
Corp
._._ S D. Iowa
.July 10, 1963
Contrnental
Vending Machine
Corp. __. E D.N Y
.July 22. 1963
Cosmo Capital Inc."
_ N D. III
Sept. 11, 1970
Cvbern Education.
Inc'
.
_ N.D III __.
Oct 22, 1958
& Marine"
.
_ S D N.Y. ._.
Dumont-AIrplane
EIchler Corp
.
.
._.
_ N D. CalIf .
Oct 11. 1967
.
Nov 25, 1958
EI-Tronics,
Inc."
.
.
.
_ ED. Pa
Equitable
Plan Co."
_ S D Calif. __ ._ Mar 17, 1958
ED
Va.
__
.
Dec 22, 1970
Farrington
ManUfactUring
Co'
_
Federal
Coal Co.'
_ S D. W Va __ .Jan 29, 1971
Federal
ShOPPIng Way, Inc.
_ W D. Wash. __ Nov. 13. 1967
Oct 7. 1969
First Holding
Corp"
._.
_ S D. Ind
. __ Mar 2 1970
First Research
Corp.
_ S D. Fla.
Sept 23, 1970
Flying W AIrways,
Inc.'
.
_ E.D Pa.
.July 28, 1959
Food Town, Inc" _
._._.
_ D. Md .. __..
Four Seasons Nursrng Centers
of America,
Inc.'
._.
W D Okla.
__ .June 26, 1970
General
Umted
Corp., Inc ..
D Kans
__.
May 22, 1964
Goebel Brewing
Co'
.
ED
MIch. .Jan 24, 1964
Gulf Aerospace
Corp"
S.D Tex
Apr 23, 1969
R Hoe & Co, Inc.
.
S D N.Y. _..
.July 7. 1969
Houston Educational
Foundation,
Inc.' __ S D
Tex
Feb 16, 1971
Hughes
Homes, Inc"
. D Mont
. __._ Sept 8, 1961
Human Relations
Res Foundation"
S D. Calif
---- .Jan 31 1964
Hydrocarbon
Chemicals,
Inc'
_. __.
D N.J.
. __ Mar 17, 1964
Imperial
'400' National
_.
.
D N.J
Feb 18. 1966
Irrdraria Bus. & Investment
Trust"
_. ___ S.D Ind
Oct 10, 1966
Investors
ASSOCIated, Inc'
_.
W D Wash. --- Mar 3 1965
.Jade 011 & Gas Co
._.
C.D. Calif
_ .Tune 28, 1967
Krrehofer- & Arnold"
.. _.
ED
N C
Nov 9. 1959
Ladco Corp
' N D. Calif
Nov 3 1967
Landmark
Inns of Durham,
Inc
M D N C
Sept 3. 1969
Lake Winnebago
Development
Co,
Inc'
.. __ ..
W D Mo.
_ Oct 14, 1970
Liberty
Baking
Corp?
S D N Y. -._
Sept 9, 1955
Little Missouri MInerals
Association,
_ D. N D
Inc.
__ .. .July 18, 1966
__ . Oct 24, 1967
Los Angeles Land & Investments,
Ltd _ D Hawaii
_ Oct 8. 1968
LOUIsiana Loan & Thrift Inc.
.
_ ED La
Lusk Corp.
_ D Ariz.
_ Oct 28 1965
F.: D Pa
_ .June 23, 1970
Dolly Madison Industries,
Inc'
Magnolia
FIInds, Inc.
._ ED. La...
_ Nov 18. 1968
Maine Sugar Industries,
Inc"
.
_ D. Me
Dec 10, 1970
_ C.D. Calif
Mammoth
Mountain
Inn Corp
_.
_ Sept. 16. 1969
._ Aug I, 1967
Manufacturers
Credit Corp.
_ D N ..J
_ Aug 1. 1963
Maryvale
Community
Hospital
.
_ D Ariz
Mayer Central
BuildIng"
.
_ D Ariz
_ .July 15, 1965
.July 30, 1968
Mid-CIty
Baptist Church
__
ED. La
_ Nov 9. 1959
Morehead
City ShIpbuilding'
_ ED. N C.
Natronal
VIdeo Corp.
_ N D III __. _ Feb 26, 1969
Nevada
Industrial
Guaranty'
.
_ D Nev
May 7 1963
Norman
Finance & Thnft
Corp. _._.
_ WD. Okla
Oct 10. 1969
Oil Field Drilling Co.'
_ N D. Okla.
_ Mar 27, 1970
Paramount
General
Corp. __.
_ CD. Calif
._._ Feb 18, 1969
Inc.'

==============

_=

=

==

S.E.C.
notice of
appearance
filed
.Jan 22, 1970
Feb 26, 1971
Mar 27, 1968
Mar. 26, 1970
May 25, 1964
.Tuly 10, 1967
Feb. 3, 1971
Nov 1. 1966
Apr. 19. 1971
Oct 19, 1970
Apr 1. 1970
Feb. 3 1971
Oct 26. 1961
Dec 15, 1964
Mar 11, 1942
.Jan 29 1963
.Tune 10, 1964
Aug 10, 1959
Dec 13, 1967
May 11. 1965
Mar 11, 1970
Aug 7. 1963
Apr 22 1963
Sept 25, 1970
Nov 10, 1958
Oct 11. 1967
.Tan 16. 1959
Mar 24, 1958
.Tan 14, 1971
.Jan. 29 1971
Nov 29, 1967
Dec 10. 196'1
Apr 14, 1970
Dec 15. 1970
Aug 10, 1959
.July 13, 1970
.July 16. 1'164
Feb. 12. 1964
.Tune 20. 1'169
.July 14, 1969
Mar 2. 1971
Oct 5 1961
Feb. 14. 1964
Mar 18, 1964
Feb 23, 196fl
Nov 4. 1966
Mar 17. 1965
Aug 16, 1967
Nov 12 1959
Feb 7 1968
Dec 10, 1969
Oct
Apr

26 1970
22, 1957

.Tan
Nov
Oct
Nov
.July
May
Mar
Feb.
.July
Sept
.Tan
Oct
Nov.
Mar.
.July
Oct
Apr
Apr

2'1. 1968
28, 1967
8 1968
15. 1965
6, 1970
26. 1969
24, 1'171
6. 1970
30 1968
11. 196:1
19. 1966
23 1968
12. 195'1
26 1969
2 1963
17 1969
14. 1970
10, 1969

232

SECURITIES

AND EXCHANGE

Parkwood, Inc.
Peoples Loan & Investment Co.
Phoemx Mortgage Co.
Polycast Corp .
Realsite. Inc.RIC International Industries. Inc.'
John Rich Enterprises. Inc.
Riker Delaware Corp.
Roberts Company
San Francisco & Oakland Helicopter
Atrnnes, Inc.'
Santa's Forest Corp.
Scranton Corp .
Edw. N. Siegler & Co.
Sierra Trading Corp.'
60 Minute Systems. Inc.'
Sire Plan, Inc.
Sire Plan Management Corp.
Sound Mortgage Co., Inc .
Southern Land Title Corp.
South Jersey Land Corp.Sunset International Petroleum Corp.__
Swan-Finch Oil Corp.
Tele-Tronics Co..
Texas Independent Coffee
Organization. Inc.
TMT Trailer Ferry, Inc.
Tower Credit Corp.
Tri-State Building Materials Co.Tri-State Petroleum Inc.Trustors' Corp .
Twentieth Century Foods Corp .
Union Investments. Inc.
Uniservices, Inc'
Viatron Computer Systems Corp.'
Vinco Corp.
WAC. Inc.Webb & Knapp, Inc.
H. R. Weissberg Corp.
Westec Corp.
Western Growth capital Corp.
Western National Investment Corp.
Whale, Inc.
Wonderbowl, Inc.
Yale Express System Inc.

COMMISSION

D. D.C.
W.D. Ark.
D. Ariz.
D. Conn.
S.D. Fla.
N.D. Tex.
D. Utah
D. N.J.
M.D. N. C.

June 13, 1966
May 13. 1969
Aug. 14. 1967
Sept. 6, 1966
July 5. 1963
Sept. 16. 1970
Jan. 16. 1970
Apr. 21. 1967
Feb. 12. 1970

June 17, 1966
May 21.1969
Apr. 17, 1968
Sept. 23. 1966
June 1. 1968
Sept. 23, 1970
Feb. 6, 1970
May 23,1967
Mar. 23, 1970

N.D. calif.
E.D. Wise.
M.D. Pa.
N.D. Ohio
D. Colo.
M.D. Fla.
S.D N.Y.
S.D.N.Y.
W D. Wash.
E.D. La.
D. N.J.
N.D. Tex.
S.D.N.Y.
E.D. Pa.

July 31. 1970
May 18. 1970
Apr. 3, 1959
May 23. 1966
July 7. 1970
JUly 17, 1970
Feb. 16, 1963
Mar. 4. 1963
July 27, 1965
Dec. 7, 1966
Feb. 23. 1965
May 27, 1970
Jan. 2. 1958
July 26. 1962

Aug. 11. 1970
June 15. 1970
Apr. 15, 1959
June 7. 1966
July 22. 1970
JUly 29. 1970
Feb. 18. 1963
Apr. 5.1963
Aug. 31, 1965
Dec. 31, 1966
Mar. 11. 1965
June 10. 1970
Jan. 23. 1958
Sept. 12, 1962

S.D. Tex.
S.D. Fla.
M.D. Fla.
D. S. D.
N.D. Nev.
C.D. Calif.
E.D. Ark.
D. Hawaii
S.D. Ind.
D. Mass.
E.D. Mich.
D. Minn.
S.D.N.Y.
N.D. Ill.
S.D. Tex.
D. Ariz.
D. Utah
M.D. Tenn.
C.D. calif.
S.D.N.Y.

Jan. 5, 1965
June 27, 1957
Apr. 13, 1966
July 13. 1965
June 17, 1963
Sept. 13. 1961
Oct. 30, 1961
Feb. 2. 1970
Dec. 4. 1970
Apr. 29. 1971
Mar. 29. 1963
Mar. 13, 1968
May 7. 1965
Mar. 5, 1968
Sept. 26. 1966
Feb. 10. 1967
Jan. 4. 1968
May 20, 1970
Mar. 10, 1967
May 24. 1965

Jan. 13. 1965
Nov. 22, 1957
Sept. 6, 1966
Aug. 30, 1965
Aug.
,1965
Oct. 9. 1961
Feb. 5. 1962
Mar. 12, 1970
Jan. 28, 1971
Apr. 29. 1971
Apr. 9, 1963
May 1. 1968
May 11, 1965
Apr. 3. 1968
Oct. 4. 1966
May 16.1968
Mar. 11, 1968
June 5,1970
June 7, 1967
May 28.1965

Commission filed notice of appearance in fiscal year 1971.
Reorganization proceedings closed during fiscal year 1971.
 Plan has been substantially consummated but no final decree has been entered
because of pending matters.
, Chapter X petition filed durrng course of fiscal year pursuant to grant of motion
under 1328.
1

a

U.S. GOVERNMENT
PRINTINGOl"""C, 1972 a-1l~1I4

