:

.

for the fiscal year
ended September 301977
and
the transition quarter July 1. 1976-September 30,1976

SECURITIES AND EXCHANGE COMMISSION
Headquarters
Office
500 North Capitol Street
Washington,
D.C. 20549

COMMISSIONERS
HAROLD M. WILLIAMS, CHAIRMAN
PHILIP A. LOOMIS, JR.
JOHN R. EVANS
IRVING M. POLLACK
ROBERTA S. KARMEL
GEORGE A. FITZSIMMINS,

SECRETARY

For sale by the Superintendent
of Documents
U.S. Government Printing Office
Washington, D.C. 20402
Stock No. 046-000-00118-4

ii

CHAIRMAN'S LETTER OF TRANSMITTAL

The Honorable Walter F. Mondale
President, U.S. Senate
Washington, D.C. 20510
The Honorable Thomas P. O'Neill, Jr.
Speaker, U.S. House of Representatives
Washington, D.C. 20515
Gentlemen:
I am pleased to transmit to Congress theAnnual Report of the United
States Securities and Exchange Commission forthe period July 1, 1976,
to September 30, 1977. Those 15 months were a time of virtually
unprecedented activity and accomplishment for the Commission, and
the Annual Report reflects that fact. Our report is comprehensive and
detailed and will, I am confident, be an important aid to Congress in
understanding the Commission's work.
The latter half of the period treated in this report coincided with
the first several months of my term as Chairman of the Commission.
For that reason, although the report itself is essentially a record of past
achievements, I believe its transmittal affords a valuable opportunity
for me to offer my perspective on the future. Accordingly, I have outlined
briefly below some of the major issues which I expect the Commission
will be addressing during the balance of my term as Chairman.
Investor Confidence and Capital Formation. Congress's fundamental
objective in enacting the federal securities laws was to promote
public confidence in the securities markets in order to foster the
vital process by which the capital is marshalled from the public and
channelled into growth of our economy. Accordingly, while the
Commission's primary responsibility is to protect investors, the
discharge of that responsibility results, in a broad sense, in stimulation
of investors' willingness to provide the new capital necessary to fuel our
private enterprise system. The interrelationship between investor
confidence and capital formation has several important consequences.
First, the Commission must be sensitive to the effects of its
iii

activities on the capital formation process and must ensure that
Commission regulation under the federal securities laws does not
inadvertantly impair capital formation. In that vein, for example,
the Commission recently announced a broad-scale re-examination
of the impact of its regulations on small businesses with an eye
toward easing that burden whenever possible, consistent with the
Commission's statutory responsibility. Similarly, we will strive to be
alert to other facets of the economic consequences of our regulatory
actions.
Second, the Commission also has a responsibility to understand
the forces that might distort or impair the efficiency with which the
market allocates capital to competing investment opportunities.
Whether those forces are directly under the Commission's jurisdiction
or arise in other areas-such as the federal tax system-the
Commission's familiarity with the dynamics of the securities markets
obligates us to analyze their impact. The Commission's views on these
matters can be of assistance to Congress and to other arms of the
federal government whose activities impact on capital formation.
Third, although the Commission is not charged with maintaining the
economic health of the securities industry, we have an obvious
responsibility to understand the industry's economic condition and to
endeavor to ensure that the Commission's discharge of its regulatory
responsibilities is not inconsistent with a financially strong and stable
industry. If the securities business were to become unprofitable and
unable to attract talent and capital, the injurious consequences
would be felt in every segment of the American economy.
Finally, the Commission's role in fostering efficient capital formation
turns on the effective utilization of its statutory powers in order
to assure the public confidence necessary for healthy securities
markets. Several components of that role are treated below.
Development of the National Market System. The first requisite
to public confidence is fair, efficient, and orderly securities markets. In
that connection, Congress, in the Securities Acts Amendments 1975,
directed that the Commission facilitate the development of a national
market system for securities. The national market system, when
fully implemented, will tie together a network of highly diverse and
complex individual market centers and will represent the most
significant restructuring of the United States securities markets
ever undertaken. During the next several years, the Commission will
complete the task, already well under way, of putting the components
ofthat system into place. Our philosophy has been to move deliberately,
In order to insure that the consequences of the Commission's actions
are those we anticipate and that the end product is consistent
with the objectives of the 1975 Amendments.
The Securities Exchange Act, as amended, characterizes the
securities markets as "an important national asset which must be
preserved and strengthened" and spells out Congress's goals in broad
terms. For example, Subsection lIA(a) states:
"The linking of all markets for qualified securities through
iv

communications and data processing facilities will foster
efficiency, enhance competition, increase the information
available to brokers, dealers, and investors, facilitate the
offsetting of investor orders, and contribute the best execution
of such orders."
Similarly, in the legislative history, Congress emphasized that
uri] vestors should be able to obtain the best, most economic
and fair execution of their orders and be assured that, because
of open competition among market makers, the total market
for each security is as liquid and orderly as the characteristics
of that security warrant."
Facilitating a national market system is among the most difficult
and challenging of the many tasks that Congress has assigned to the
Commission. The costs and consequences of change frequently
seem so substantial-and,
paradoxically, so difficult to quantify-that
the Commission must weigh carefully, in each instance and in advance,
the workability and feasibility of each proposed system change.
After the close of the period covered in this Annual Report, the
Commission issued a comprehensive policy statement setting forth
its views as to those initiatives necessary to facilitate the establishment
of a national market system. The Commission believes that this
blue-print provides the opportunity for the securities industry to
move ahead. The thrust of the plan is to provide a framework within
which the industry can marshall its own efforts, not to displace or
replace industry initiative. The Commission is, however, prepared to
act aggressively to fill any void.
Our capital markets are today the finest in the world. Nothing in
the restructuring that those markets are currently undergoing is
inconsistent with maintaining and enhancing that pre-eminence.
Indeed, the development of the national market system is an integral
part of assuring the continued strength of, and confidence in, our
securities industry and the private enterprise system it supports.
Our obligation-both
the industry's and the Commission's-is to get
on with the task of building a future for our securities markets which
will ensure that their strength, liquidity, vitality, and fairness endure.
Corporate Accountability. A second important element contributing
to confidence in our capital markets is public trust in the stewardship
which is exercised over publicly-owned enterprises. On April 28, 1977,
the Commission announced a broad re-examination of its rules relating
to shareholder communications and to shareholder participation in
the corporate electoral process and corporate governance generally.
In that proceeding, the Commission is studying such issues as the
role of disclosure in supporting a more effective accountability system,
the extent to which the Commission's authority under the federal
securities laws can be used to strengthen the corporate accountability
process, and whether it would be appropriate for the Commission
to recommend any additional legislation in this area.
In my view, the Commission's goal should be to foster an environment
v

in which corporate managers are subject to meaningful oversight,
by an independent board of directors, of the manner in which they
discharge their stewardship responsibilities. Our objective should be
to stimulate that scrutiny, not to draw lines which confine or restrain
it. The area does not readily lend itself to solution by prescription,
and the Commission's chief aim will be to encourage the private
sector to utilize the opportunities available to itto enhance and maintain
public trust.
Accounting Matters. The independent accountant is the
cornerstone of the financial reporting system and thus is a crucial
element in investor protection and in fostering confidence in the
fairness of the securities markets. Because of the role which
accountants play under the federal securities laws, the Commission,
in turn, has a special commitment to insuring that the Nation
continues to be served by a strong and independent accounting
profession.
The accounting profession is in the midst of fundamental and
far-reaching changes. For example, accountants are engaged in
creating a self-regulatory process designed to enhance public
confidence in auditor independence, in the integrity of the audit
process, and in the vehicles through which accounting and auditing
standards are promulgated. There is no pre-existing model which the
profession can emulate in working toward these goals. Thus, the
development of a self-regulatory structure and process is, by its nature,
experimental and will involve a certain amount of trial and error.
In my view, the SEC Practice Section has the potential to meet the
objectives Congress and the Commission share in this area. Whether
or not that experiment ultimately succeeds is one of the central
questions which must be answered during my term as Chairman.
Representatives of the private sector are working to address a broad
spectrum of issues touching on the theoretical underpinnings of
accounting and auditing. The Financial Accounting Standards Board's
conceptual framework project is a central focus of that effort. One area
which will prove to be especially important, and which has implications
in the corporate accountability area, is the role of "soft information"
in augmenting the traditional focus of financial statements. Accordingly,
the Commission intends to work closely with the profession as it seeks to
develop the conceptual framework for accounting.
Disclosure. In enacting the Securities Act of 1933 and the
Securities Exchange Act of 1934, Congress adopted the philosophy of
full disclosure as the lynch-pin of investor protection. The Commission
has traditionally been sensitive to the need periodically to re-evaluate
its rules, particularly in the dynamic and changing field of disclosure,
In order to insure that its requirements harmonize with the changing
realities of the market-place and impose no unnecessary burdens on
the capital formation process. Most recently, during 1976, the
Commission appointed an Advisory Committee on Corporate Disclosure
to examine the disclosure system and, on November 3, 1977, that

vi

committee concluded 21 months of intensive effort with thetransmittal
to the Commission of its final report. This report provides the
Commission with valuable insights and, because of the significance
of the Advisory Committee's work, the Commission will carefully
consider, and act as rapidly as possible, on the committee's
recommendations.
The Commission is also sensitive to the fact that its disclosure
requirements can serve to influence corporate conduct. This power
requires that the Commission be mindful of both the objectives
which Congress sought to attain in the federal securities laws and
of the public's expectations concerning corporate conduct. The
Commission will act judiciously in this area.
Investment Company Deregulation. Another goal which I have set
for the Commission to accomplish during my term as Chairman
is to revise the investment company regulatory structure to place
a fuller measure of responsibility on fund management while at the
same time insuring that management will be held responsible for the
consequences of its stewardship. With this objective in mind, the
Commission, after the close of the fiscal year, announced its intention
to undertake a systematic review of the Investment Company Act and
the rules, regulations and interpretative positions which have developed
under it over the years. The major objective of the study will be to
develop a system of rules which are consistent, comprehensive, and
designed to give reasonably clear guidance to prudent fiduciaries.
The result should be a regulatory system which relies primarily on funds
and their managers-rather than on the Commission-to discharge
their duties properly but which preserves a strong oversight function
for the Commission.
Options Trading. The burgeoning growth of trading in standardized
options has strained the Commission's ability to keep abreast of
developments in this new component of our securities markets. The
area is an especially difficult one since, on the whole, potential trading
strategies are more complex and investor sophistication less well
developed than in the traditional equity markets. As a result of rapid
developments in this field, during mid-1977 the Commission instituted
a moratorium on the further expansion of options trading and initiated
a comprehensive review extending to all aspects of the trading of
standardized options and the regulation of that trading. The
Commission's study includes an inquiry into the adequacy of existing
Commission and self-regulatory rules to govern trading and selling
practices and the surveillance capabilities to prevent and detect
fraudulent and manipulative acts and practices in connection with
options trading, and exploration of the relationship between the
development of standardized options markets and the development
of the national market system for securities.
The Commission has assembled a talented and diversified staff
from its various Offices and Divisions to conduct this study, and I
anticipate that their work will be concluded during fiscal 1979.
The intellectual and regulatory complexities inherent in overseeing
vii

large-scale options trading will, however, undoubtedly continue to
demand considerable Commission resources in the coming years.
Enforcement. The Commission is committed to maintaining the
vigor, effectiveness and credibility of its enforcement program. The
enforcement tools which Congress has conferred upon the Commission
are potent and can have profound effects both on those against whom
action is taken and on those who look to those actions to provide
an educative process concerning the Commission's conception of the
standards of corporate conduct which the federal securities laws
impose. Accordingly, while the Commission will continue aggressively
to investigate and prosecute all categories of violations of the federal
securities laws, we will also periodically channel a portion of our
enforcement effort into specific problem areas. The Commission's
experience has demonstrated that systematic enforcement attention
in a given area encourages voluntary compliance with the federal
securities laws and thus, in the long run, reduces the degree to which
the Commission must rely on enforcement efforts to accomplish its
investor protection goals.
My fellow Commissioners and I recognize that every authorization
of enforcement proceedings demands a careful exercise of our
judgrnent. We will continue to direct the development and
implementation of an enforcement program which serves the ends
embodied in the federal securities laws and which maintains a reasoned
balance between enforcement remedies and regulatory devices as the
means to those ends,
Resource Management. As this description of the Commission's
priorities illustrates, there has probably never been a period in the
Commission's history when its resources have been devoted to so
many demanding projects with far-reaching consequences. In order
to enhance the efficiency with which our resources are utilized, we
have undertaken several important efforts to strengthen the
Commission's internal management and data-handling capabilities.
For example, the Commission's personnel management program is
receiving increased attention. One of our most fundamental goals in
this area is to develop a comprehensive and meaningful performance
evaluation system for the Commission's staff. We are seeking to
develop objective criteria for evaluating the work of Commission
personnel and for apprising them of their strengths and of the
areas in which improvement is warranted. This is an especially
challenging task since attorneys comprise the bulk of the Commission's
professional staff, and there have been few attempts objectively
to evaluate attorney performance on which we can build. A
strengthened evaluation system should, however, pay significant
dividends, both in terms of more effective management capability and
reduced turnover.
In conjunction with the performance evaluation system, the
Commission intends to develop an expanded training program in order to
develop and foster the specific skills most closely related to the
Commission's work. Training which emphasizes both skills and overall
viii

management techniques can be of considerable benefit to our staff.
An expanded training program will also aid us in our upward mobility
program by which individuals in lower skill positions can become
qualified for more sophisticated and higher paying positions. Further,
a more coherent performance evaluation system will assist
recruiting efforts by permitting the Commission to identify the
abilities and attributes important in various phases of the Commission's
work. This, in turn, will contribute to a more meaningful and effective
affirmative action program.
Fundamentally, the Commission's stock-in-trade is information.
Accordingly, we have begun implementing a long-range program to
convert the existing and cumbersome paper record system to a
micrographics file. Ultimately, the micrographics file will incorporate
a computerized access and retrieval system and should yield significant
savings in both manpower and time. The Commission is also
significantly upgrading its computer facilities in order to keep pace with
the development of advanced market surveillance techniques, work
flow tracking systems, information retrieval, and other demands
inherent in effective regulation of the securities markets.

***
While the foregoing touches briefly on the highest priority matters
with which the Commission can anticipate dealing over the next few
years, it is, of course, impossible to outline in a brief letter all of the
important challenges facing the Commission or to predict the areas
in which new market developments will demand Commission attention.
I am, however, confident that the close and supportive relationship
which the Commission has enjoyed in the past with those Congressional
committees concerned with our work will continue. The Commission
stands ready to provide additional information concerning its
work to Congress whenever necessary to aid the legislative process.
Sincerely,

Harold M. Williams
Chairman

ix

COMMISSIONERS

AND PRINCIPAL STAFF OFFICERS

(As of April 1, 1978)

COMMISSIONERS

Term exprres
June 5

HAROLD M. WILLIAMS of Calif., Chairman
1982
PHILIP A. LOOMIS, JR., of Calif.
1979
1978
JOHN R. EVANS of Utah
IRVING M. POLLACK of New York
1980
ROBERTA S. KARMEL of New York
1981
Secretary:GEORGEA. FITZSIMMONS
ExecutiveAssistantto the Chairman:RALPH C. FERRARA
PRINCIPAL STAFF OFFICERS
BENJAMIN MILK, Executive Director
RICHARD H. ROWE, Director, Division of Corporation Finance
FRANCIS T. VINCENT, JR., Associate Director
WILLIAM C. WOOD, Associate Director
MARY E. T. BEACH, Associate Director
STANLEY SPORKIN, Director, Division of Enforcement
WALLACE L. TIMMENY, Deputy Director
IRWIN M. BOROWSKI, Associate Director
THEODORE SONDE, Associate Director
DAVID P. DOHERTY, Associate Director
THEODORE A. LEVINE, Associate Director
ANDREW M. KLEIN, Director, Division of Market Regulation
SHELDON RAPPAPORT, Deputy Director
LLOYD H. FELLER, Associate Director
KATHRYN B. MCGRATH, Associate Director
SYDNEY H. MENDELSOHN, Director, Division of Investment
Management
MARTI N C. LYBECKER, Associate Director
LEE B. SPENCER, Associate Director
AARON LEVY, Director, Division of Corporate Regulation
GRANT GUTHRIE, Associate Director
HARVEY Pin, General Counsel
PAUL GONSON, Associate General Counsel
DAVID FERBER, Solicitor to the Commission
xi

ANDREW L. ROTHMAN, Director, Office of Public Affairs
CHILES T. A. LARSON, Deputy Director
A. CLARENCE SAMPSON, Acting Chief Accountant
J. RICHARDZECHER, Directorof Economic and Policy Research
ROGERW. SPENCER, Deputy Director
(VACANT), Director, Office of Opinions and Review
WILLIAM S. STERN, Associate Director
HERBERT V. EFRON, Associate Director
WARREN E. BLAIR, Chief Administrative Law Judge
LAWRENCE H. HAYNES, Comptroller
RICHARD J. KANYAN, Service Officer
JAMES C. FOSTER, Director, Office of Personnel
(VACANT), Director, Office of Reports and Information Services
FRANKLIN E. STULTZ, Associate Director
JOHN D. ADKINS, Director, Office of Data Processing

xii

REGIONAL AND BRANCH OFFICES

REGIONAL OFFICES AND ADMINISTRATORS

Region 1. New York, New Jersey.-William D. Moran, 26 Federal
Plaza, New York, New York 10007.
Region 2. Massachusetts, Connecticut, Rhode Island, Vermont,
New Hampshire, Maine.-Michael J. Stewart, 150 Causeway
St., Boston, Massachusetts 02114.
Region 3. Tennessee, Virgin Islands, Puerto Rico, North Carolina,
South Carolina, Georgia, Alabama, Mississippi, Florida, part
of Louisiana.-Jule B. Greene, Suite 788, 1375 Peachtree
St., N.E., Atlanta, Georgia 30309.
Region4. Illinois, Indiana, Iowa, Kansas City (Kansas), Kentucky,
Michigan, Minnesota, Missouri, Ohio, Wisconsin.-William D.
Goldsberry, Room 1204, Everett McKinley Dirksen Bldg., 219
S. Dearborn st. Chicago, Illinois 60604.
Region 5. Oklahoma, Arkansas, Texas, part of Louisiana, Kansas
(except Kansas City).-Richard
M. Hewitt, 503 U.S. Court
House, 10th & Lamar Sts., Fort Worth, Texas 76102.
Region 6. North Dakota, South Dakota, Wyoming, Nebraska,
Colorado, New Mexico, Utah.-Robert
H. Davenport, Two
Park Central, Room 640, 1515 Arapahoe Street, Denver,
Colorado 80202.
Region 7. California, Nevada, Arizona, Hawaii, Guam.-Gerald
E. Boltz, Suite 1710, 10960 Wilshire Boulevard, Los Angeles,
California 90024.
Region 8. Washington, Oregon, Idaho, Montana, Alaska.-Jack
H. Boekey, 3040 Federal Building, 915 Second Ave., Seattle,
Washington 98174.
Region 9. Pennsylvania, Maryland, Virginia, West Virginia,
Delaware, District of Columbia.-Paul F. Leonard, Room 300,
Ballston Center Tower No.3, 4015 Wilson Boulevard, Arlington,
Virginia 22203.
BRANCH OFFICES

Cleveland, Ohio 44113.-1020
St.

Standard Bldg., 1370 Ontario

xiii

Detroit, Michigan 48226.-1044
Federal Bldg.
Houston, Texas 77002.-Room 5615, Federal Office & Courts
Bldg., 515 Rusk Ave.
Miami, Florida 33131.-Suite
1114 DuPont Plaza Center, 300
Biscayne Boulevard Way.
Philadelphia, Pennsylvania 19106.-Federal Bldg., Room 2204,
600 Arch St.
St. Louis, Missouri 63101.-Room 1452, 210 North Twelfth St.
Salt Lake City, Utah 84111.-3rd Floor, Federal Reserve Bank
Bldg., 120 South State St.
San Francisco, California 94102.-450 Golden Gate Ave., Box
36042.

xiv

COMMISSIONERS

HAROLD M. WILLIAMS, Chairman
Chairman Williams was born on January 5, 1928, in Philadelphia, Pennsylvania. He received his B.A. from UCLA in 1946,
graduating Phi Beta Kappa atthe age of 18. Three years later he
was awarded his J.D. degree from Harvard University Law
School. He joined a Los Angeles law firm in 1949 where he specialized in tax and corporation law and remained until 1955
except for an interruption to serve as a U.S. Army legal officer
during the Korean emergency. He joined Hunt Foods and Industries, Inc., in 1955 as Associate Tax Counsel. He subsequently
became Tax Counsel, Vice President-Finance and Executive
Vice President. In 1964, he became President of Hunt-Wesson
Foods, Inc. In 1968, he was elected President of Hunt Foods
and Industries, lnc., and with the formation of Norton Simon,
Inc., later that year-resulting from consolidation of Canada
Dry Corporation, Hunt Foods and Industries, Inc., and McCall
Corporation-he was named Chairman of the new company's
Finance Committee. In 1969, he assumed the additional post
of Chairman of the Board of Norton Simon, Inc. In July of
1970, Mr. Williams became the Dean and Professor of Management of the UCLA Graduate School of Management. During
his administration, the School achieved national ranking, including recognition as the leading graduate business school
in a public university. During the 1973 energy crisis, Mr.
Williams took leave to serve as full-time Energy Coordinator
for the City of Los Angeles. While at UCLA, Mr. Williams also
served as Director of Norton Simon, Inc., Phillips Petroleum
Company, ARA Services, Inc., CNA Financial Corporation,
Signal Companies, Inc., and Montgomery Street Income Securities, and as a Trustee of the Aerospace Corporation. In his
service to the community, Mr. Williams acted as Co-Chairman
for the Public Commission on Los Angeles County Government,
a subcommittee chairman of the Mayor's ad hoc Committee
on Los Angeles City Revenues, a member of the State of Calixv

fornia Commission for Economic Development and of the California Citizens Commission on Tort Reform, and a member of
the SEC Advisory Committee on Corporate Disclosure.
PHILIP A. LOOMIS, JR.
Commissioner Lommis was born in Colorado Springs Colorado, on June 11, 1915. He received an A.B. degree, with
highest honors, from Princeton University in 1938 and an LL. B.
degree, cum laude, from Yale Law School in 1941, where he was
a Law Journal editor. Prior to joining the staff of the Securities
and Exchange Commission, Commissioner Loomis practiced
law with the firm of O'Melveny and Myers in Los Angeles,
California. Commissioner Loomis joined the Commission's staff
as a consultant in 1954, and the following year he was
appointed Associate Director and then Director of the Division of
Trading and Exchanges. In 1963, Commissioner Loomis was
appointed General Counsel to the Commission and served in
that capacity until his appointment as a member of the Commission. Commissioner Loomis is a member of the American
Bar Association and the American Law Institute. He received
the Career Service Award of the National Civil Service League
in 1964, the Securities and Exchange Commission Distinguished Service Award in 1966, and the Justice Tom C. Clark
Award of the Federal Bar Association in 1971. He took office
as a member of the Securities and Exchange Commission August 13, 1971, and is now serving for the term of office expiring June 5, 1979.
JOHN R. EVANS
Commissioner Evans was born in Bisbee, Arizona, on June
1, 1932. He received his B.S. degree in Economics in 1957,
and his M.S. degree in Economics in 1959 from the University of Utah. He was a Research Assistant and later a Research
Analyst at the Bureau of Economics and Business Research at
the University of Utah, where he was also an instructor of
Economics during 1962 and 1963. He came to Washington in
February 1963, as Economics Assistant to Senator Wallace F.
Bennett of Utah. From July 1964 through June 1971
Commissioner Evans was minority staff director of the U.S.
Senate Committee on Banking, Housing and Urban Affairs and
served as a member of the professional staff from June 1971 to
March 1973. He took office as a member of the Securities and
Exchange Commission on March 3, 1973, and is now serving for
the term expiring June 5, 1978.
IRVING M. POLLACK
Commissioner Pollack was born in Brooklyn, New York,
on April 8, 1918. He received a B.A. degree, cum laude, from
Brooklyn College in 1938 and an LL.B. degree, magna cum
laude, from Brooklyn Law School in 1942. Prior to joining the
xi
xvi

Commission's staff he engaged in the practice of law in New
York City after serving nearly four years in the United States
Army, where he gained the rank of Captain. Mr. Pollack joined
the staff of the Commission's General Counsel in October 1946.
He was promoted from time to time to progressively more responsible positions in that office and in 1956 became an Assistant General Counsel. A career employee, Mr. Pollack became
Director of the Division of Enforcement in August 1972 when
the SEC's divisions were reorganized. He had been Director of
the Division of Trading and Markets since August 1965, and
previously served as Associate Director since October 1961.
In 1967 Mr. Pollack was awarded the SEC Distinguished
Service Award for Outstanding Career Service, and in 1968 he
was a co-recipient of the Rockefeller Public Service Award in
the field of law, legislation and regulation. Mr. Pollack took
the oath of office on February 13, 1974 as a member of the
Securities and Exchange Commission, and is now serving for
the term expiring June 5, 1980.
ROBERTA S. KARMEl
Commissioner Karmel was born May 4, 1937, In Chicago,
Illinois. She received a B.A. from Radcliffe College in 1959
and an LL.B. from New York University School of Law in 1962.
From 1962 to 1969, Mrs. Karmel worked in the New York Regional Office of the Securities and Exchange Commission as an
attorney, then attorney branch chief, then assistant regional administrator. From 1969 to 1972 she was an associate
with Willkie, Farr & Gallagher in New York. Mrs. Karmel was a
partner in Rogers & Wells from 1972 through September 1977,
and an adjunct professor at Brooklyn Law School from 1973
through 1977. She has been a member of the American Bar
Association Federal Regulation of Securities Committee since
1973. She has also served on the Association of the Bar of the
City of New York Committee on Securities Regulation, Committee on Administrative Law, and Committee on Professional
Responsibility. She is the author of numerous articles in legal
journals. Mrs. Karmel took the oath of office as a member of the
Securities and Exchange Commission on September 30, 1977,
for a term expiring on June 5, 1981.

xvii

ci

~


l

TABLE OF CONTENTS

Chairman's Transmittal Letter
Organizational chart
Commission and principal staff officers
Regional and branch offices
Biographies of Commissioners
PART 1
IMPORTANT DEVELOPMENTS
Market Regulation
Off-board trading rules
Composite quotation system
Composite limit order book
Consolidated transaction reporting system
Market linkage systems
National Market Advisory Board
Short sale regulation
Regulation of the options markets
The options moratorium
Unlisted trading in OTC securities
Trading by exchange members
Enforcement obligations of national securities
exchanges and associations
Allocation of regulatory responsibilities among
self-regulatory organizations
Regulation of securities information processors,
access to order-routing systems
Notices by self-regulatory organizations of disciplinary sanctions and other actions
Registration and regulation of clearing agencies
Transfer agent rules
Single denomination stock certificates
Form TA-l
Street Name Study
Proposed legislation to amend the Securities
Investor Protection Act

iii
x
xi
xiii
xv

3
3
3
7
9
9
10
11
12
12
14
15
16
17
18
19
20
21
23
24
24
24
26

xix

IMPORTANT DEVELOPMENTS -

Continued

NASD underwriting recapture rules
Independent audit committees
Confirmations
Lost and stolen securities
Fingerprinting of securities professionals
Commission rates
Proposed minimum qualifications rule
Section 31(b) review
Disclosure related matters
Advisory Committee on Corporate Disclosure _
Securities regulation and the capital-raising
ability of smaller businesses
Management disclosure and corporate governance

26
27
28
29
30
30
31
31
33
33

Corporate governance hearings
Management disclosure
14a-8 amendments
Perquisites
Beneficial ownership
Tender offers
Guide 61 - Banks
Proposed Form S -16 - Primary Offerings
Segments
Projections
Industry GUides - Rails
Industry Guides - Electric and Gas Utilities _
Repeal of Form 12-K, etc.
Investment companies
Bank study
Distribution costs
Variable life insurance
Brochure rule
E. I. Du Pont de Nemours & Co. et al. v. Collins
et al.
Enforcement

35
36
37
37
38
39
40
41
42
44
45
45
46
47
47
48
48
49

Significant cases Involving securities acts
Commission litigation
Staff report on transactions in securities of the
City of New York
PART 2
THE DISCLOSURE SYSTEM
Public offering: The 1933 Securities Act
Information provided
Reviewing process
Time for registration
Recent actions concerning the registration process

xx

34
35

49
50
50
59
79
91
91
91
92
92
92

THE DISCLOSURE SYSTEM -

Continued

Form S-8___________________________________ 93
Amendments to Forms S-7 and S-16 and
recission of Form S -9
93
Registration form for business combination
transactions
Rule 146

94
95

Proposed Rule 148 and amendments to Form
8-K

96

Status of securities
ESOP

96

aquired pursuant to an

Undertaking to provide financial information
added to Guide 60
Guide 42
Delegation of authority
Amendments to Rules 424 and 429
Recission of Rule 458
Office of Engineering
Small issue exemption
Regulation A
Regulation B
Regulation F

97
97
97
97
98
98
98
99
100
100

Continuing disclosure: The Securities Exchange AcL
Over-the-counter registration
Registration on exchanges
Exemptions

100
101
101
10 1

Exemptions - foreign private issuers under
Section 12(g)
Periodic reports

102
102

Amendments to certain periodic reports and
related rules

102

Withdrawal of proposed amendments to Forms
lO-K and lO-Q
Foreign private issuer registration and annual
report forms
Annual reports to security holders
Proxy solicitations
Takeover bids, large acquisitions
Insider reporting
Accounting and auditing standards
Relations with the accounting profession
The Audit function
Oversight
Auditor independence
The accounting function
FASB
Oil and gas accounting
Replacement cost disclosure
Establishment of accounting principles __
Disciplinary matters

104
104
105
105
107
108
109
110
111
111
111
112
112
114
114
114
115
xxi

THE DISCLOSURE SYSTEM -

Continued

Staff accounting bulletins
Exemptions for international banks
Trust Indenture Act of 1939
Information for public inspection; Freedom of Information Act
Freedom of Information Act litigation
PART 3
REGULATION OF SECURITIES MARKETS
Regulation of exchanges
Registration
Delisting
Unlisted trading privileges
Exchange disciplinary actions
Exchange rules
Exchange inspections
NYSE advertising inspection
NYSE specialist surveillance inspection
Midwest Stock Exchange inspection
American Stock Exchange options program
inspection
Chicago Board Option Exchange inspection __
Midwest Stock Exchange options program inspection
Pacific Stock Exchange options program inspection
Supervision of the NASD
NASD rules
NASD inspections
NASD disciplinary actions
Review of NASD disciplinary actions
Review of NASD membership action
Supervision of the Municipal Securities Rulemaking
Board

115
115
118
118
121

127
127
127
128
128
129
129
131
131
132
133
134
134
135
135
136
136
137
138
139
141
142

Revenues,expenses and operations of self-regulatory
organizations
142
Financial results of the NASD
143
NASD budget
144
American Stock Exchange, Midwest Stock Exchange, National Association of Securities
Dealers, and New York Stock Exchange
144
Boston Stock Exchange, Chicago Board Options
Exchange, Pacific Stock Exchange, and Philadelphia Stock Exchange
145
Cincinnati Stock Exchange, Spokane Stock Exchange, and Intermountain Stock Exchange _ 145
Expenses and operations of registered clearing
agencies
146
xxii

REGULATION OF SECURITIES MARKETS -

Continued

Municipal Securities Rulemaking Board
Broker-dealer regulation
Persons not deemed to be brokers ----______
Exemption from registration for certain financial
institutions
Financial responsibility requirements
Recordkeeping and preservation requirements
FOCUS reporting system
Broker-dealer examinations
Early warning and surveillance
Training program
Regulatory burdens on brokers and dealers __
Regulation of SECO broker-dealers
Clearance and settlement
Progress toward a national system for the clearance and settlement of securities transactions
Rule changes of registered clearing agencies
Securities Investor Protection Corporation
Liquidation proceedings
Litigation related to SIPC
By-law proposals submitted by SIPC to the
Commission
Exemptions

146
147
147
148
148
149
150
151
152
153
154
155
155

155
156
157
158
158
159
159

PART 4
ENFORCEMENT
Detection
Complaints
Market surveillance
Trading Suspensions
Enforcement proceedings
Investigations
Administrative Proceedings
Civil proceedings
Participation as amicus curiae
Litigation involving commission litigation
Subpoena enforcement actions
Delinquent reports program
Criminal proceedings
Organized Crime Program
Cooperation with other enforcement agencies
Foreign restricted list

167
167
167
167
168
169
170
170
177
208
212
212
214
215
224
225
226

PART 5
INVESTMENT COMPANIES AND ADVISERS
Number of registrants and inspections

233
233
xxiii

INVESTMENT

Rules

COMPANIES AND ADVISERS -

Continued

Rules concerning applications for orders filed
under Investment Advisers Act
Rule 15a-2
Rule 2a -5
Proposed Rule 8f-1
Proposed Rule 24f-2
ment to Rule 24f-1
Rule 206(3)-2
Applications
Other developments

and proposed amend-

234
234
234
235
235
235
236
236
238

PART 6
PUBLIC UTILITY HOLDING COMPANIES
Composition
Financing
Volume
Proceedings

243
243
243
243
244

PART 7
CORPORATE REORGANIZATIONS
Chapter IX of the Bankruptcy Act
Summary of activities - Chapter X
Administrative matters
Trustee's investigation and statements
Plans of reorganization
Activities with regard to allowances
Intervention in Chapter XI

249
250
250
251
254
255
262
264

PART 8
SEC MANAGEMENT OPERATIONS
Organizational changes
Personnel management
Information systems management
Financial management
Freedom of Information Act

273
273
275
276
277
278

PART 9
STATISTICS
The securities industry
Income, expenses and selected balance sheet
items
Table 1: Financial
dealers

xxiv

information

for broker-

281
281
281
282

Historical financial information
of brokerdealers with securities revenue of $500,000
or more

282

Table 2: Historical revenue and expenses for
broker-dealers with total revenue of $500,000
or more ----------________________________

283

STATISTICS -

Continued

Table 3: Historical consolidated balance sheet
for broker-dealers with total revenues of
$500,000 or more
284
Securities industry dollar
284
Chart: Securities industry dollar: 1976
285
Broker-dealers, branch offices, employees
286
Chart: Broker-dealers and branch offices
287
Table 4A: Brokers and dealers registered under
the Securities Exchange Act of 1934 - effective registrations as of September 30, 1976
classified by type of organization and by
location of principal offices
288
Table 4B: Brokers and dealers registered under
the Secu rities Exchange Act of 1934 - effective registrations as of September 30, 1977
classified by type of organization and by location of principal offices
289
SECO broker-dealers
290
Table 5: Principal business of SECO brokerdealers
290
Table 6A: Applications and registrations of
brokers and dealers - Transition Quarter
ending September 30, 1976
Table 6B: Applications and registrations of
brokers and dealers - Fiscal Year 1977
Table 7A: Applications and registrations of
municipal securities dealers and transfer
agents - Transition Quarter ending September, 30, 1977
Table 7B: Applications and registrations of
municipal securities dealers and transfer
agents - Fiscal Year 1977
Table 8: Consolidated revenues and expenses
of self-regulatory organizations
Table 9: Historical financial information for selfregulatory organizations
Table 10: Self-regulatory organizations - clearing agencies revenues and expenses - Fiscal
year 1976

291
292

293

294
295
298

300

Table 11: Municipal securities rulemaking board
statement of revenue and expenses and
changes in fund balance-October
1,1976September 30, 1977
Financial institutions
Stock transactions of selected financial institutions

301

Table 12: Common stock transactions and
activity rates of selected financial institutions

302

301
301

xxv

STATISTICS -

Continued

Stockholdings of institutional investors and others
Table 13: Market value of stockholdings of
Institutional investors and others
Number of registrants
Table 14A: Companies registered under the
Investment Company Act of 1940 as of
September 30, 1976
Table 14B: Companies registered under the
Investment Company Act of 1940 as of
September 30, 1977

303
303

304

304

Table 15A: Companies registered under the
Investment Company Act of 1940 - Quarter
ending September 30, 1976
Table 15B: Companies registered under the
Investment Company Act of 1940 - Fiscal
Years

305

Table 16: New investment company registrations

306

Table 17: Investment
terminated

306

company registrations

Private noninsured pension funds: assets
Table 18A: Assets of private noninsured pension
funds - Book value, end of year
Table 18B: Assets of private noninsured pension
funds - Market value, end of year
Private noninsured pension funds: receipts and
disbursements
Table 19: Receipts and disbursements of private
noninsured pension funds
Securities on exchanges
Exchange volume
Table 20: Exchange volume: 1976
Chart: Market value of securities traded on all
U.S. stock exchanges
NASDAQ volume
Table 21A: Share volume by exchanges
Table 21B: Dollar volume by exchanges
Special block distributions
Table 22: Special block distributions reported
by exchanges
Value and number
exchanges

of securities

listed

on

Table 23: Securities listed on exchanges
Table 24: Value of stocks listed on exchanges
Securities on exchanges
Table 25A: Securities traded on exchanges September 30, 1976

xxv,

302

305

307
307
307
308
308
308
308
309
310
311
311
311
312
312
313
313
314
314
315

STATISTICS -

Continued

Table 25B: Securities traded on exchanges September 30, 1977
Table 26A: Unduplicated count of securities on
exchanges - September 30, 1976
Table 26B: Unduplicated count of securities on
exchanges - September 30, 1977
1933 Act registrations
Effective registration statements filed
Purpose of registration
Table 27: Effective registrations
Chart: Securities effectively registered with
S.E.C. - 1935-1977
Table 28: Effective registrations by purpose and
type of security
Chart: Effective registrations cash sale for
account of issuers
Regulation A offerings
Table 29: Offerings under Regulation A
Enforcement
Types of proceedings
Table 30: Types of proceedings
Table 31: Investigations of possible violations of
the acts administered by the Commission _
Table 32: Administrative proceedings instituted
during fiscal year ending September 30, 1977
Injunctive actions 1976-1977
Table 33: Injunctive actions
Criminal proceedings
Table 34: Criminal cases
List of all foreign corporations on the foreign
restricted list
Public utility holding companies
Assets
Table 35: Public-utility
tems

holding company sys-

Table 36A: Financing of holding company systems - Transition Quarter
Table 36B: Financing of holding company systems - Fiscal Year 1977
Corporate reorganizations
Commission participation
Table 37: Reorganization proceedings under
Chapter X of the Bankruptcy Act in which the
Commission participated
SEC operations
Net cost

315
315
316
316
316
316
317
318
319
320
321
321
321
321
322
325
325
325
325
326
326
326
328
328
328
329
330
330
330

331
333
333

Chart: Appropriated funds vs fees collected _ 334
Table 38: Budget estimates and appropriation
335
xxvii

Part 1
Important
Developments

...at. •

Part 1
Important
Developments

MARKET REGULATION
During fiscal year 1977 and the
Transition Ouarter.' the Commission
undertook several actions of farreaching importance to the securities
industry, the securities markets and
the investing public. These Commission actions reflected primarily efforts
to implement the Securities Acts
Amendments of 1975 (1975 Amendmerits)." which significantly revised
and expanded the Securities Exchange
Act of 1934 (Exchange Act).
A major element of the 1975 Amendments was the Congressional direction
to the Commission to facilitate the establishment of a national market system for securities. The creation of a
national market system is a complex
task which involves the efforts of the
Commission, the self-regulatory organizations and the members of the securities industry. During the fiscal period, significant steps were taken in
certain areas toward the implementation of a national market system. The
Commission reviewed, and announced
a proceeding to consider amending
existing exchange rules which continue to limit or condition the ability
of members to effect transactions in
securities otherwise than on an exchange. The Commission also continued to consider proposals for implementation of certain contemplated

components of the national market
system in addition to the existing consolidated transaction reporting system, including a composite quotation
system and limit order protection and
market linkage systems.

Off-Board Trading Rules
Section 11A(c}(4} of the Exchange
Act, as amended by the 1975 Amendments, directs the Commission to review rules (off-board trading rules) of
all exchanges "which limit or condition
the ability of members to effect transactions in securities otherwise than on
such exchanges." That Section further
directs the Commission to report the
results of its review to the Congress
and to commence a proceeding, pursuant to Section 19(c} of the Exchange
Act, "to amend any such rule imposing
a burden on competition which does
not appear to the Commission to be
necessary or appropriate in furtherance
of the purposes of [the Exchange Act]."
On September 2, 1975, the Commission reported the results of its initial
review pursuant to Section 11A(c}(4}
to the Congress.P In that report, the
Commission stated that certain offboard trading rules impose burdens on
competition which the Commission
was not prepared to conclude were
necessary or appropriate in furtherance of the purpose of the Ex3

change Act. Accordingly, the Commission simultaneously issued a release
(September 1975 Release) instituting
a proceeding, pursuant to Section 19
(c), to determine whether to modify or
eliminate those off-board trading
rules."
The September 1975 Release proposed, and solicited comment on,
three alternative forms of a Commission rule amending (to various degrees) exchange rules imposing offboard trading restrictions on members
and announced that the proceeding
would seek to determine: (a) the extent to which existing off-board trading
rules engendered significant anti-competitive effects; (b) whether, if such
rules were anti-competitive,
there
were countervailing considerations
which outweighed the need to eliminate or revise such rules at that time;
and (c) whether such rules could appropriately be modified so as to further the purposes of the Exchange

Act."
The Commission held eight days of
public hearings concerning its proposals to amend off-board trading rules
during October 1975 and received
numerous written submissions concerning these proposals and related
issues from representatives of the securities industry, government agencies
and the public. On December 19,
1975, the Commission issued a release (December 1975 Release) announcing the adoption, effective March
31, 1976, of Exchange Act Rule
Rule 19c-1 reflected the
19c-1.6
Commission's determination that certain aspects of then existing off-board
trading rules imposed burdens on competition which could not be justified
in terms of the regulatory objectives
of the Exchange Act.
Rule 19c-1 amended exchange offboard trading rules in order to eliminate prohibitions that prevented ex4

change members from effecting overthe-counter agency transactions in
listed equity securities with third market makers and non-member block
positioners.7 The Commission determined that other off-board trading restrictions, which precluded members
from executing over-the-counter transactions in listed securities as principal, or as agent, in "in-house"
agency crosses or otherwise, had anticompetitive
effects. Although the
Commission believed those effects to
be significant, particularly in the case
of off-board principal restrictions, the
Commission determined to allow exchange rules imposing those restrictions to remain in effect pending further review." While the Commission
found that off-board principal restrictions deprive the markets of the benefits which could be derived from improved market maker competition, the
Commission concluded in the December 1975 Release that there was a
need, before amending or abrogating
those restrictions, for further study
concerning the timing of the elimination of those restrictions and concerning the implementation of additional regulatory and technological
changes to ensure that market maker
competition would develop in a fair and
orderly manner." The Commission stated, however, that it would reconsider
this decision in 1977 after it had had
the benefit of the conclusions and advice of the National Market Advisory
Board(NMAB) and had evaluated the
progress by that date toward a national
market system. The Commission further stated that if, at that time, it still
appeared appropriate, the Commission would establish a firm date for removal of off-board trading restrictions.10
As to remaining off-board agency restrictions, the December 1975 Release recognized that it remained for

the Commission to determine whether
those restrictions are anti-competitive in significant ways and what, if
any, action should be taken with respect to them." The Commission stated, however, that it would devote further study to the restrictions and solicited comment on them from the
NMAB.
In September 1976, the NMAB supplied its views to the Commission with
respect to remaining off-board agency
restrictions applicable to "in-house"
agency crosses." A majority of the
NMAB's members concluded that
existing restrictions on such transactions either do not impose a significant burden on competition, or, to
the extent that they do, that burden is
outweighed by countervailing policy
conslderations.ts Four members of the
NMAB concluded that those restrictions are anti-competitive and that the
alleged adverse consequences from
their removal are speculative and have
been exaggerated.tIn February 1977, the NMAB expressed its tentative conclusions with
respect to off-board trading restrictions.15 In its letter, the NMAB noted
that the Commission had found that
off-board trading restrictions are basically anti-competitive and concluded
that the purposes of the Exchange Act
do not justify the maintenance of such
restrictions generally and indefinitely
by the exchanges." The NMAB also
indicated that it favored removing
such restrictions gradually and with
caution.
In May 1977, the NMAB delivered to
the Commission a full statement of its
recommendations with respect to offboard trading restrictions, including
an extensive discussion of various
issues associated with their removal."
The NMAB affirmed its tentative conclusion that the purposes of the Exchange Act do not justify maintenance

of off-board trading restrictions generally and indefinitely. The NMAB also
expressed its belief, however, that removal of those restrictions might have
a profound effect on the manner in
which listed securities are traded and,
therefore,
that such restrictions
should be removed only after certain
additional facilities and rules are in
place.18 The NMAB noted that there
were divergent views among the
NMAB's members as to whether and
when particular restrictions should
be removed, and as to which facilities and rules must be in place before
such rernoval.tv
In particular, the NMAB identified
the following as appropriate collateral
steps in conjunction with the possible removal of off-board trading restrictions: (a) implementation
of a
composite quotation system; (b) consideration of the need to adopt rules and
develop facilities to enhance limit
order protection to the maximum practical extent; (c) examination of the
need to adopt rules to protect retail
customers in their transactions with
dealers; (d) revision of Commission
and self-regulatory rules to achieve
"equal regulation" of exchange specialists and off-board market makers;
(e) review of brokers' "best execution"
responsibilities; and (f) reconsideration of the current practice of reporting last sale prices in the consolidated
transaction reporting system without
giving effect to commissions, comission equivalents or ditterentials.s?
In June 1977, after considering the
views of the NMAB and progress toward a national market system since
adoption of Rule 19c-1, the Commission issued a release (June 1977
Release) announcing the commencement of a proceeding, pursuant to
Section 19(c), to consider (1) rulemaking to amend existing exchange
off-board trading rules and (2) in the
5

event off-board trading rules are
amended, rulemaking to govern overthe-counter transactions in listed securities between dealers and certain
categories of persons." In the June
1977 Release, the Commission reaffirmed its belief that exchange offboard trading restrictions impose burdens on competition and requested
persons believing that such restrictions should be retained to present
views, data and arguments for the
Commission's consideration.
In the June 1977 Release, the Commission published for comment proposed amendments to Exchange Act
Rule 19c-1 and proposed Rule 19c-2.
The proposed amendments to Rule
19c-1 would revise the existing rule
to permit an exchange member to effect over-the-counter agency transactions in listed equity securities with
any other person not also represented
as agent by that member ti.e., precluding only "in-house" agency cross
transactions). Proposed Rule 19c-2
would, after December 31, 1977, permit an exchange member to effect
over-the-counter principal and "inhouse" agency cross transactions In
listed equity securities reported in the
consolidated transaction reporting system ("reported securities").
To govern over-the-counter transactions in reported securities between
dealers and certain categories of persons in the event existing off-board
trading rules are amended, the Commission proposed alternative
Exchange Act Rules 15c5-l[A],
(8],
(C] and (D]. These rules are designed
to prevent exchange members from
dealing unfairly with customers with
respect to reported securities after
the removal of off-board principal
restrictions.
(a) Rule 15c5-1[A] would preclude
any dealer from effecting over-thecounter transactions in reported secu6

rities as principal with any person
other than a broker, dealer, or financial institution.
(b) Rule 15c5-1[8] would permit
any dealer effecting over-the-counter
transactions in reported securities
with any person other than a broker,
dealer, or financial institution to do so
only at a price at least as favorable to
such person as the highest bid (in
event the dealer is buying) or lowest
offer (in the event the dealer is seiling), in a size equal to or greater than
the transaction size reflected in a display of quotation information disseminated pursuant to proposed Exchange
Act Rule llAc1-1.
(c) Rule 15c5-1[C] would require
confirmation disclosure of the highest
bid and lowest offer made available to
quotation vendors in accordance with
proposed Rule llAc1-1 and displayed
on a terminal or other display device at
the time of any over-the-counter principal transaction in a reported security
with any person other than a broker,
dealer, or financial institution.
(d) Rule 15c5-1[D] would require
dealers effecting over-the-counter
transactions in reported securities
with any person other than a broker,
dealer, or financial institution to do so
at prices no less favorable to such persons than they know (or reasonably
should believe), under all the relevant
circumstances, could be obtained for
such persons if they were to act for
them in an agency capacity.
The Commission held nine days of
public hearings in August 1977 (August 1977 Hearings) on its proposed
rulemaking and received numerous
written submissions concerning these
proposals and related issues from
representatives of the securities industry, government agencies, members of the Congress and the public,
Persons appearing at the August 1977
Hearings, and other commentators on

the June 1977 Release, strongly urged
the Commission to take a more affirmative role in facilitating establishment of a national market system.
Many commentators also expressed
concern over removal of off-board
trading rules prior to implementation
of appropriate market linkage facilities. At the end of the fiscal period,
the Commission was engaged in studying the issues related to off-board
trading rules and market linkage facilities and in evaluating the responses
to the rule proposals announced in
the June 1977 Release.

Composite Quotation System
In both its 1972 Future Structure

Ststementr- and 1973 Policy Statement,23 the Commission indicated its
support for a composite quotation system (CaS) which would make quotations from all market makers universally available and its belief that a cas
would facilitate the development of a
national market system. The Commission initiated the development of a
CQSby proposing in 1972,24and reproposing in 1974,25 Exchange Act Rule
17a-14. As reproposed, that rule
would have required that quotations
be "reported" by self-regulatory organizations (and certain broker-dealers)
pursuant to a plan (similar to that required by Exchange Act Rule 17a -15
for the consolidated transaction reporting system), that would be filed
with and declared effective by the
Commission and would provide for the
availability of such quotations to vendors of market information on a realtime, current and continuing basis.
Following reconsideration of proposed Rule 17a -14, the Commission
determined to adopt a different approach to enhancing the availability of
quotation information and announced
that it had requested that all exchanges eliminate by May 11, 1975,

any of their rules or practices which
restricted access to or use of quotation
information disseminated to quotation
vendors.e In announcing that all exchanges had complied with its request, the Commission stated that
such compliance would facilitate the
development of a national market system.27
During 1976, however, it became increasingly apparent that the lack of reliable quotation Information from the
various markets was impeding private
and self-regulatory organization efforts to establish a cas, the absence
of which, in turn, was perceived as impeding the development of a national
market system. On July 29, 1976, the
Commission proposed for comment
Rule llAcl-l
under the Exchange
Act (July 1976 Proposal), which would
have required exchanges to collect
from their specialists, and the National
Association of Securities Dealers, Inc.
(NASD) to collect from third market
makers, quotations (with size if indicated) to be disseminated by those selfregulatory organizations to quotation
vendors.28 Although the proposed rule
neither specified the manner in which,
nor the frequency with which, the quotations were to be collected, processed,and made available, itwould have
required specialists and third market
makers to communicate their quotations promptly in accordance with procedures established by the particular
exchange or the NASD for timely dissemination to quotation vendors.
The proposed rule would have required, subject to certain exceptions,
that covered quotations be "firm."
In particular, any specialist or third
market maker who was presented with
an order for the purchase or sale of
any eligible security (other than an
odd-lot order) would have been required to stand ready to execute a transaction in that security in any amount
7

up to his published quotation size (or,
in the event no quotation size was disseminated, a normal unit of trading)
at a price at least as favorable to the
buyer or seller as his most recently
published bid or offer. That requirement would not have applied if, after
dissemination of his published quotation but before the specialist or third
market maker received an order, (1) a
transaction in that security was effected either on the floor of the particular exchange or by the third market
maker, or was reported in the consolidated transaction reporting system, or
(2) the specialist or third market maker
had communicated a superseding quotation. If, however, the specialist or
third market maker had not communicated his superseding quotation within
three minutes after a transaction or a
report of a transaction, he would have
been obligated to buy or sell that security in accordance with the general rule
as to firmness.
On June 14, 1977, the Commission
issued a release publishing a revised
version of proposed Rule !lAc 1-1. 29
Under the revised proposal, the basic
regulatory approach of the July 1976
Proposal would be retained. As reproposed, Rule llAc1-1
would require
that the exchanges and the NASD establish and maintain procedures for
collecting, processing and making available to quotation vendors quotation information relating to reported securities. Similarly, the proposed rule would
continue to require that brokers and
dealers subject to its provisions supply
quotations to their exchanges or the
NASD for dissemination to quotation
vendors (although dissemination of
size greater than a normal unit of trading would continue to be optional).
Finally, the proposed rule would retain
the requirement that quotations made
available to and displayed by quotation
vendors be firm up to the size dis8

played, subject to the same exceptions
contained in the July 1976 Proposal
ti.e., for revised quotations, intervening transactions and trade reports) and
a new exception intended to accommodate unusual market conditions.
The principal change in reproposed
Rule llAc1-1
from the July 1976
Proposal relates to the manner of collecting quotation information from exchanges. Under the revised proposal,
an exchange would be responsible for
making available a single quotation for
each reported security (with size if indicated) reflecting the highest bid and
lowest offer communicated at the location (or locations) designated for trading of that security on the exchange
floor. That quotation would not necessarily be the quotation of a specialist,
but would reflect the buying and seiling interest of all brokers and dealers
(responsible brokers and dealers) expressing their interest as bids or offers. If, for example, the single quotation made available by an exchange
reflected the bid of a specialist acting as agent for an order on his book
and the offer of a broker in the crowd,
the responsibility for that quotation
(in terms of the firmness requirements
of the Rule) would be shared - the
specialist would be responsible for
execution of orders to sell at his bid
and the broker in the crowd would be
responsible for orders to purchase at
his offer. The revised rule would not
make any significant change in the requirements for collection of quotations of third market makers, who
would be deemed to be "responsible
brokers or dealers" with respect to
their bids or offers for reported securities. Third market makers would be
responsible for their quotations in a
manner similar to responsible brokers
or dealers who were exchange members.
At the end of the fiscal period, the

Commission was analyzing comments
received regarding the revised proposal, as well as examining the national
market system issues associated with
the development of a cas.

Composite Limit Order Book

posite book, provided comprehensive
written comments on these issues to
the Commission in January 1977.31
At the time of its initial proposal, a composite book was perceived
primarily as a means of protecting public limit orders in a market environment
characterized by off-board trading by
exchange members. Since that time,
however, the composite book has come
to be viewed as capable of performing
a comprehensive order integration
function, thereby addressing certain
market fragmentation concerns associated with removing the remaining
off-board trading rules.32 Such a market linkage facility also would, in the
view of some commentators, enhance
market making competition.
Other
commentators believed that a composite book with certain characteristics
would lead to the eventual demise of
exchanges, thereby eliminating rather
than enhancing competition among
exchanges and between exchanges
and markets other than exchanges. As
the fiscal period ended, the Commission
was actively considering the issues associated with implementation of a composite book, particularly in the context of its consideration of the removal
of off-board trading rules.

In the December 1975 Release announcing the adoption of Rule 19c-l,
governing off-board trading by exchange
members, the Commission indicated
that it was considering steps to provide comprehensive limit order protection consistent with the public
interest. The Commission expressed
its belief that public limit orders and
the methods by which they are kept
play an important role in the securities markets. The Commission found,
however, that existing exchange mechanisms for the storage of limited
price orders are intrinsically unable
to provide full protection for those
orders and that regulatory devices
employed to ensure execution of limit
orders create certain adverse effects
which outweigh their laudable objectives. The Commission indicated that
the solution to these problems appeared to lie in the utilization
of
existing advanced technology to construct a computerized central limit
order repository (composite book) deConsolidated Transaction Reporting
signed to provide comprehensive limit
System
order protection to investors.
The Commission assisted in the
In March 1976, the Commission and
the NMAB jointly solicited public comimplementation of the consolidated
transaction reporting system (consoliment on these issues, including the
policy and technical questions associ- dated system), which became fully operational in 1976. As previously reated with certain specified characteristics of any composite book, and on ported,33 the consolidated system depossible alternative facilities to a com- veloped as a result of the Commission's
posite book.3D Extensive written com- adoption in 1972 of Exchange Act Rule
17a-15. The consolidated system dISments were received from numerous
seminates, over its Network A, last sale
individuals, firms and self-regulatory
organizations. In addition, the NMAB, reports of transactions executed in all
following extensive deliberations on reporting markets for securities listed on
the New York Stock Exchange (NYSE)
issues associated with the development of (and alternatives to) a com- and, over its Network B, reports or trans-

9

actions in all reporting markets for securities listed on the American Stock
Exchange (Arnex) and selected regional listings. Last sale reports in
both Network A and Network B securities are disseminated by means of a
high speed data transmission line
which enables investors and market
professionals to have such information available on a real-time basis regardless of any delays in the low speed
ticker network during periods of
heavy trading. During the fiscal period, the consolidated system operated smoothly, substantially free of reporting disruption due to system failure.
During the period since the enactment of the 1975 Amendments, the
Commission staff has met frequently
with securities information processors
who disseminate consolidated last sale
information and with the Consolidated Tape Association (CTAl, an association of self-regulatory organizations
which oversees the operation of the
consolidated system and is registered
under Section 11A(b) of the Exchange
Act as a securities information processor. Other developments include:
(a) The Commission's granting of
conditional exemptions to certain foreign securities information processors
from the display requirements of Rule
17a-15.34
(b) The Commission staff's continuing study of whether the existing
prohibition on retransmission by securities information processors of consolidated last sale information on a
continuous basis should be modified
or eliminated in light of the standards
now contained in Section 11A of the Exchange Act.
(c) The Commission staff's consideration of the related issues of whether
market identifiers should be displayed
on the low speed ticker network and
whether vendors should be required to
10

display consolidated last sale information, rather than last sale information
from any single market center, on interrogation devices by means of the
easiest access routine.
(d) The Commission staff's consideration of the continued appropriateness of exemptions from the general
reporting requirements applicable to
transactions in eligible securities.
(e) The CTA's studyofthe occasional problem of late reporting on the low
speed ticker network during periods of
unusually active trading.
(f) The CTA's study of new procedures to govern reporting by the consolidated system during regulatory trading halts in certain market centers.

Market Linkage Systems
During the August 1977 Hearings,
various commentators urged that offboard trading rules not be removed
without the establishment of an appropriate electronic linkage among existing market centers. In addition to evaluating the need for development of a
composite book,35 certain commentators suggested that the Commission
carefully consider existing industry
proposals to develop an intermarket
execution system (IME) or an automated regional market system (RMS). During the fiscal period, the Commission
also received a request from the Midwest Stock Exchange (MSE) for access
to the Common Message Switch (CMS),
which forms part of a communications
system linking the Amex and the NYSE
to their member firms.36 In addition,
the Commission has monitored the expansion of exchange automated order
routing and formula pricing services.
The IME proposal, first announced
by the National Market Association
and subsequently endorsed by the
NYSE,37 involves a communications
linkage which would permit orders to
be sent from one market center to

another. A broker in one market center
comment on the CMS access request
by the MSE.41On October 4, 1977, the
seeing a favorable quotation displayed
Commission by letter requested that
in the CQS would be able to use the
IME to send an order to the market
the MSE, the Amex, the NYSE and
center displaying the favorable quotaSIAC respond to specified policy and
tion. Each market center would process jurisdictional issues posed by the MSE
appucatlon.«
orders received through the IME in the
same manner as other orders originating outside of the market center. The National Market Advisory Board
The 1975 Amendments directed the
IME would also accommodate the exCommission to establish the NMAB, to
change of information among market
centers before the opening. At the
be comprised of fifteen members, a
August 1977 Hearings, the NYSE and majority of whom must be associated
Pacific Stock Exchange (PSE) an- with brokers and dealers. The initial
nounced an agreement in principle to membership of the NMAB was andevelop an IME, participation in which
nounced by the Commission in August
would be open to all market centers.
1975, and the NMAB has conducted
In addition to the IME proposal, cer- monthly public meetings since Septain regional exchanges advised the tember 1975. The initial terms of the
Commission during the August 1977 NMAB members would have expired on
September 3D, 1977, but the CommisHearings of their informal agreement
to develop the RMS, which would use, sion extended those terms until Dewith certain modifications, the WHAM cember 31, 1977.
The 1975 Amendments directed the
automated trading system operating
on the Cincinnati Stock Exchange.38 NMAB to furnish to the Commission
its views on significant regulatory proThe RMS would permit, but not require,
posals made by the Commission or any
limit orders for selected securities
to be entered into the system from any self-regulatory organization concernparticipating exchange and would per- ing the establishment, operation and
regulation of the securities markets.
mit automatic execution of such limit
The NMAB was also directed to recomorders through the system. At the
mend to the Commission the steps it
close of the fiscal period, the pilot
finds appropriate to facilitate the esphase of RMS operation was commenctablishment of a national market sysing.
In March 1977, as more fully dis- tem and to study the possible need for
modifying the Exchange Act's scheme
cussed below,39the MSE applied tothe
Commission under Section 11A(b)(5) of self-regulation so as to adapt it to a
of the Exchange Act for review of an national market system, including the
alleged denial of access to the CMS by possible need to establish a new selfSecurities Information Automation Cor- regulatory organization to administer
the national market system. The NMAB
poration (SIAC), which operates the
CMSfor the Amex and the NYSE.40The was directed to report, and did report,
CMS is a computer facility which pro- the results of its study on self-regulavides an interface between the order tion to the Congress by December 31,
routing systems of various brokerage
1976.43
In December 1975, in adopting Rule
firms and the trading and data pro19c-1 governing off-board trading by
cessing facilities of the Amex and the
members of national securities exNYSE. In May 1977, the Commission's
staff by letter requested that the NMAB changes, the Commission requested
11

the NMAB to study three specific problems: (1) in-house agency cross transactions, (2) off-board principal trading restrictions, and (3) the development of a composite book. The
NMAB furnished its views to the Commission on in-house agency crosses in
September 1976, on the development
of a composite book in January 1977,
and on off-board trading restrictions
in February and May 1977.44 Atthe end
of the fiscal period, the NMAB was engaged in developing final views on various issues related to the development of a national market system.

Short Sale Regulation
On December 21, 1976, the Commission announced that it had ordered
a public investigatory and rulemaking
proceeding to determine whether regulation of short sales of the type
currently provided by the Commission's
primary short sale rule, Exchange Act
Rule lOa-I, was needed in the current regulatory environment." In connection with that proceeding, the Commission published for comment three
versions of proposed temporary Exchange Act Rule lOa-3m
and proposed Exchange Act Rule 10b-11.
The alternative versions of proposed
Rule lOa -3(T} would partially suspend,
in varying degrees, the operation of the
"tick" test provisions of Rule lOa -I,
while proposed Rule lOb-l1 would establish explicit borrowing requirements
in connection with short sales. The
Commission at the same time published
for comment a revised version of proposed Exchange Act Rule 10b-21 (together with amendments to Rule 17a3},46 restricting short sales of securities before and during underwritten
public offerings of securities for cash
and establishing certain additional recordkeeping requirements with respect
to short sales. Proposed Rule 10b-21
is designed to prevent manipulative
12

short selling practices in connection
with underwritten public offerings of
securities of the same class as outstanding securities. The Commission
was at the close of the fiscal period,
reviewing comments on its various
short sale proposals and considering
whether any alteration of the present
regulatory scheme is appropriate.

RegUlation of the Options Markets
At the beginning of fiscal year 1977,
four national securities exchanges listed
standardized call options for trading
under pilot programs approved by the
Commission in prior years.47 The Chicago Board Options Exchange, (CBOE),
had initiated the listing of standardized
options for trading in April 1973; the
Amex and the Philadelphia Stock Exchange (Phlx), began listing options in
January and June 1975, respectively;
and the PSE began such listing in March
1976. During the fiscal year, all four
exchanges expanded their options programs to accommodate an enlarged trading volume indicative of increasing
public interest in this investment vehicle. In addition, the MSE began listing
options in December 1976, and the
Commission received formal rule change
proposals from the NASD and the
NYSE to initiate pilot programs for the
trading of standardized options through
their facilities by their members.v
In 1977, the Commission for the first
time allowed each of the five national
securities exchanges which list standardized call options under pilot programs (the Options Exchanges) to initiate carefully controlled and strictly limited pilot programs for the listing of
standardized put options49 on those exchanges.50 The put option proposals provided that put options would be traded
in the same manner, and subjected to
the same types of regutation and exchange surveillance, as call options. To
permit careful monitoring of the pilot

programs, however, put option trading
on each exchange was limited to five
option classes. 51Although each of the
Options Exchanges listed the maximum
number of five put option classes, no
exchange listed any put option classes
on underlying securities whose options
werealready listed on another exchange.
At the close of the fiscal year, the
CBOEhad 1,309 members trading listed
options on 95 underlying securities. Its
average daily trading volume reached
92,305 contracts (compared to 89,000
in the previous fiscal year).52 On the
Amex, 512 members had options trading privileges and listed options on 64
underlying stocks, with average daily
trading volume increasing to 39,332
contracts from approximately 35,000
contracts in fiscal year 1976.53 The
Phlx had 231 members authorized to
trade in options on 37 underlying securities. Its average daily trading volume
was 7,977 contracts (compared to 2,600
in the preceding fiscal year).54 In its
first year of operation, the PSE had
460 members qualified for options trading and its average daily trading
volume was 5,685 contracts on 33 underlying securities.
On December 8, 1976, the Commission approved a proposal by the MSE
to implement a pilot program for the
listing and trading of standardized option contracts. 55Trading on the MSE
options floor commenced on December
10, 1976, and, through the end of fiscal year 1977,304 members traded an
average daily volume of 1,850 contracts on 17 underlying securities.
During the fiscal year, the Commission approved proposals by the Options
Exchanges to revise the minimum
qualification standards relating to the
underlying securities for listed options
in light of experience with the listed options markets. The listing standards
contained in the MSE proposal to trade
options56 were substantively identical

to the revised standards proposed by
the other Options Exchanges.s? These
standards, which establish minimum
requirements for the initial and continued qualification of a stock as an
underlying security for listed options,
include requirements relating to the
issuer of the underlying security (regarding issuer deficits, net income,
defaults on certain payments, and
meeting of reporting requirements under the Federal securities laws) and to
the quality of the market for the underlying security (regarding volume of
trading, market price per share, number of publicly held shares and number
of public shareholders).
The MSE's option contracts, like
those of other Options Exchanges, are
made fungible through standardization
of such contract variables as the expiration date and striking price. The
MSE and other Options Exchanges are
participants in The Options Clearing
Corporation, which issues, guarantees
and files a registration statement (in
compliance with the Securities Act of
1933) for all exchange-traded options,
and which clears and settles all transactions in such options. The MSE reports transactions occurring on its options floor to the consolidated system
for reporting last sale information on
all listed options administered by the
Options Price Reporting Authority. In
an attempt to limit the number of transactions which do not result in completed contracts between the parties
to a trade because of disagreement as
to the terms of the execution, the MSE,
like the PSE and the Phlx, has instituted procedures permitting direct
floor comparison of order tickets by
the buyer and seller for each option
trade before the trade is given to the
MSE for clearance and settlement.
Option trading on the MSE IS conducted in a manner similar to trading
on the CBOE and the PSE. Thus, on
13

i"

the MSE the agent (broker) and principal (dealer) functions of the traditional unitary specialist are divided
between two categories of individuals:
(1) employees of the MSE called Order
Book Officials (agents), corresponding
to the CBOE's "Board Brokers," and
(2) competing market makers (dealers).58
During the fiscal year, there was a
significant increase in the number of
call option classes listed and traded on
more than one Options Exchange. (dually listed options).59 Currently, a dually
listed option class must have the same
expiration dates and exercise prices on
every exchange on which it is listed.60
Because of the other features of standardization, this permits trading of
such options on any exchange on which
they are listed, and provides brokers
with the opportunity to "shop markets"
to obtain the best available price.
The dual listing of option classes has
produced competition between the
Options Exchanges for public order
flow, and that competition may have
resulted in greater liquidity and narrower market quotations in those
classes. At the same time, however,
dual listing of options has given rise to
inappropriate trading behavior including trading activity by exchange members which is apparently designed
solely to inflate artificially the volume
of trading in a dually listed ctass.»
Such trading was designed to attract
to the exchange the order flow of
brokers whose selection between competing options markets on behalf of
their public customers is based largely
(if not solely) on the relative aggregate options trading volume of each
market. The Commission warned that
such trading by exchange members
may violate Sections 9 and 10 of the
Exchange Act. and cautioned brokers
against relying solely on aggregate
volume in making selections among
14

competing market centers. 62 The Commission also expressed its expectation
that affected
Options Exchanges
would take appropriate steps to discipline members responsible for such
trading and would institute improved
surveillance procedures to prevent its
recurrence.w In addition, the Commission inspected the Options Exchanges'
surveillance programs64 to determine
their adequacy to monitor questionable trading practices, and held three
conferences with surveillance personnel from the Options Exchanges to discuss surveillance related matters.65

The Options Moratorium
At the end of the fiscal year, there
were pending before the Commission
several proposed rule changes by the
Options Exchanges, the NASD and the
NYSE designed either to expand existing programs for the trading of options
or initiate new programs (the Expansion Proposals). For example, each Options Exchange requested the Commission's authorization both to expand
the maximum number of securities on
which it could list call options66 and to
include on its list of eligible underlying securities those which are listed
solely in the over-the-counter market.67
In addition, the NASD and the NYSE
formally proposed rule changes to initiate pilot programs for the trading of
standardized options.
While the Commission had approved
several previous proposals that expanded the trading of standardized options, circumstances indicating the
occurrence of abusive practices in the
trading of standardized options, and the
apparent inability of the existing selfregulatory programs to address the incidence of such abuses, caused the
Commission to become increasingly
concerned that existing self-regulatory
programs might be strained unacceptably if the Commission approved the

Expansion Proposals.w Accordingly,
on July 18, 1977, the Commission requested that the Options Exchanges
refrain from expanding their options
programs through the addition of new
classes of options not already listed
for trading, and announced that it had
determined to initiate an overall review of standardized trading since the
commencement of the first pilot program for such trading in 1973 on the
CBOE.69The Commission also stated
that it did not expect to approve any
of the Expansion Proposals until it had
completed the review.
In announcing its review, the Commission set forth several areas that it
would consider, including: (1) the implications and effects of option trading, (2) whether self-regulatory and
Commission oversight programs with
respect to those matters have kept
pace adequately with the dramatic expansion of standardized options trading, and (3) whether those programs
are adequate for the prevention of
fraudulent and manipulative acts and
practices, for the maintenance of fair
and orderly markets and for the protection of investors. 70
After a brief and preliminary review
of problems in the options markets,
the Commission reaffirmed its decision
to conduct a review of options trading
by announcing the commencement of
its investigation and study of the adequacy of options regulation." The
Commission also proposed Exchange
Act Rule 9b-1(T), which would defer
the expansion of existing options trading programs and the initiation of new
programs until the study is completedJ2 At the same time, the Commission announced the commencement
of consolidated disapproval proceedings with respect to the Expansion
ProposalsJ3 Although the Commission
had not completed its investigation
and study at the end of the fiscal per-

iod, it announced its intention to do so
as expeditiously as possible, and stated that it expected to require, and
would anticipate receiving, the cooperation of the affected self-regulatory
organizations in achieving that goal.74

Unlisted Trading in OTe Securities
The 1975 Amendments added Section 12(f)(1)(C) to the Exchange Act,
which permits exchanges, based upon
standards set forth in new Section 12
(f)(2) of the Act to obtain unlisted trading privileges in securities traded
solely over-the-counter (OTC).On March
25, 1977, the PSE submitted an application for unlisted trading privileges
in the common stock of Pacific Resources, Inc. (PRI),75the first such application to be considered by the Commission pursuant to Section 12(f)( 1)
(C). On June 22, 1977, the Commission
ordered a hearing by written submission on the PSE application." Submissions were received from the PSE, PRI
and the NASD.
The PSE argued in its submission
that there had not been any problems
arising from the dual market in PRI
stock. It provided evidence that a
grant of unlisted trading privileges to
the PSE, which would allow a continuation of the then current environment, would not have any adverse effect on the existing market for PRI
stock." The PSE suggested a denial
of the application could impair the
marketability of PRI stock by eliminating competition between markets.
Since it would allow a continuation of
mixed exchange and OTC trading in
PRI stock, the PSE further contended,
a grant of unlisted trading privileges
would be a step toward the development of a national market system. The
PSE also asserted that, if the application were to be approved, transactions in PRI stock should not be
exempted from the requirements of
15

Exchange Act Rule 17a-15 and the
Consolidated Tape Plan with respect to
last sale reporting.
The NASD and PRI contended, on
the other hand, that the PSE had failed
to meet the requirements of Section
12(f)( 1HC)of the Act or to demonstrate
that substantial progress has been
made toward a national market system.
They also asserted that the PSE's denial of direct access to the PSE floor
to non-member dealers constitutes an
unjustified barrier to competition since
it prevents a non-member dealer from
obtaining best execution when an opportunity for such execution existed on
the PSE. The lack of a composite quotation system, they further argued. is
a further reason for the Commission to
disapprove the application. The NASD
argued that if the application were
granted, the last sale reporting requirements should not apply to OTC transactions in PRI stock, because of (l) the
burden such requirements would impose upon OTC dealers; (2) the differences in pricing policies between the
exchange and OTCmarkets; and (3) the
impact such requirements would have
on market-making interest and the attendant depth and liquidity of the market in PRI stock.
At the end of fiscal year 1977, the
PSE application and the submissions
received during the hearing were under consideration by the Commission,
while trading in PRI stock continued
both over-the-counter and on the PSE.

Trading by Exchange Members
Section l1(a)(1) of the Exchange
Act prohibits, with certain specified
exceptions (such as market-making
activities), any member of a national
securities exchange from effecting any
transaction on that exchange for its
own account, the account of an associated person, or an account with respect to which it or any of its asso16

dated persons exercises investment
discretion. Under Section 11(a), the
Commission has broad authority, in
keeping with the overall Congressional
proposes, to fashion either more flexible or more restrictive standards in
light of changing conditions. Section
11(a)(3) provides that the prohibitions
in Section l1(a)(l) do not apply before
May 1, 1978, to transactions effected
on an exchange by those who were
members of that exchange on May I,
1975.
As the Commission reported in its
last annual report,78 the Commission
published a release in January 1976
adopting a temporary rule to implement the statutory exemption for certain proprietory transactions by members (Exchange Act Rule lla1-1(T),
proposing a rule exempting certain
transactions for members' associated
persons (proposed Exchange Act Rule
llal-2),
and raising several broad
policy questions.?" On March 18, 1977.
the Commission published a second
release on Section 11(a)80which (1) discussed the background concerning institutional membership and the development of Section l1(a), (2) proposed
three new rules under Section l1(a)
and other provisions of the Exchange
Act. and (3) summarized the comments received in response to its 1976
rule proposals and request for comments.
The rule proposals announced in
March 1977 would affect a significant amount of trading currently effected on the exchanges. Proposed
Exchange Act Rule 11a2-1 would
prohibit all proprietary trading by exchange members (other than odd-lot
dealers' transactions) unless, among
other things, such transactions yielded
priority on the basis of time of entry
to non-members' orders. Proposed Exchange Act Rule 11al-3
would, in
effect, exempt agency transactions by

an exchange member for a managed
institutional account if the member
did not charge that account any separate fee based on transactions. The
last proposal set forth in that release,
Exchange Act Rule lla2-2,
would
permit any member to effect transactions for an account that is subject
to the general prohibition under Section l1(a)(l) so long as an unaffiliated
member executed the transaction on
the exchange floor and neither the
member initiating the transaction nor
any of its associated persons participated in the execution of the transaction after the order had been transmitted to the exchange floor. Each
of the proposed rules published in
March would have required that, before any transaction could be effected
on an exchange under the terms of the
rule proposals, that exchange would
have to have filed and secured Commission approval of a plan for access
to the exchange. Such a plan would
address the availability of membership
and access to member and exchange
services as well as the scope of regulation over members' associated persons. At the end of the fiscal period,
the Commission was analyzing the
comments received in response to the
March release and formulating a final
determination on the rule proposals
pending under that provision, as well
as any legislative recommendations
that might be appropriate.s"

Enforcement Obligations of National
Securities Exchanges and
Associations
Section 19(9) of the Exchange Act
requires each self-regulatory organization to comply with the Act, the rules
and regulations thereunder and its
own rules, and, absent reasonable
justification
or excuse, to enforce
compliance therewith by its members
and persons associated with its mem-

bers. Section 19(9)(2) authorizes the
Commission to adopt rules relieving
any self-regulatory organization of its
enforcement obligations with respect
to specified provisions of the Exchange
Act or the rules and regulations thereunder. Following the guidance provided by the Congress in the legislative history of the 1975 Amendments,
the Commission published for comment on May 26, 1976,82proposed Exchange Act Rule 1992-1. That rule
set forth proposed standards for relieving national securities exchanges
and associations'" of certain enforcement responsibilities, primarily with
respect to persons associated with
members who are neither controlled by
those members nor engaged in securities transactions subject to the selfregulatory organization's direct surveillance.
On November 18, 1976, the Commission adopted Rule 1992 -1. 84 As
adopted, it establishes three classes
of persons "associated with" a member
and, depending upon the classification, relieves exchanges and associations from the obligation of taking
specified kinds of enforcement action
against them. For the most part, the
rule does not relieve exchanges and associations of their enforcement obligations with regard to members and
"securities persons," which are generally defined as general partners, officers (or persons occupying a similar
status or performing similar functions)
or employees of a member, or a registered broker-dealer which is associated
with a member, if such persons effect
transactions in securities through the
member by use of facilities supervised
or maintained by the exchange or association. Moreover, persons who control a member are similarly left within
the scope of exchange or association
enforcement obligations.f"
Rule 1992-1 does relieve exchanges
17

and associations of any enforcement
obligations under Sections 12 (other
than Sections 12(j) and 12(k)),13, 14
(other than Sections 14(b», 15(d) and
16 of the Exchange Act and the rules
thereunder, except for actions normally taken with respect to any person
who is not a member or associated with
a member. Similarly, under the rule,
exchanges and associations are relieved
of qualification, examination, report
filing, and routine inspection and examination requirements with respect to
all associated persons except securities persons whose functions are not
solely clerical or ministerial.

Allocation of Regulatory
Responsibilities Among SelfRegulatory Organizations
Section 17(d)(1) of the Exchange Act
authorizes the Commission to allocate
the regulatory responsibilities of selfregulatory organizations with respect
to members or participants of more
than one self-regulatory organization
(dual members). Allocation of regulatory responsibilities is intended to promote cooperation and coordination
among self-regulatory organizations
and to remove impediments to and
foster the development of a national
market system and a national system
for the clearance and settlement of
securities transactions.
On October 28, 1976, the Commission adopted Exchange Act Rule
17d-2,86 which establishes a procedure to promote an allocation of regulatory responsibilities based upon an
assessment by self-regulatory organizations of their own capabilities. The
rule permits any two or more selfregulatory
organizations to propose
jointly to the Commission a plan for
allocating specific duties for dual
members. Plans declared effective by
the Commission would relieve selfregulatory organizations of specific
18

responsibilities designated to another
party under the terms of the plan. If
the proposed plans filed with the Commission do not establish a comprehensive program of regulation, the Commission, on its own motion after due
consideration of the statutory criteria,
may designate a self-regulatory organization to bear specific responsibilities
with respect to dual members.
As of the close of the fiscal year, the
self-regulatory organizations had filed
21 plans with the Commission pursuant to Rule 17d-2. Of the plans received by the Commission, 15 embody
agreements between two exchanges
with respect to dual members. In general, these plans expand the responsibilities currently assigned to the exchange which is the designated examining authority (DEA) under Rule 17d-1
and Section 9(c) of the Securities Investor Protection Act of 1970.87 Under
the plans the DEA generally would review financial reports, inquiries, complaints, and public communications
and would conduct specified examinations, investigations and disciplinary
actions with respect to dual members,
except for those related to transactions in listed options and transactions
on the floor of the exchange.
In addition, the Commission received
proposed agreements executed by the
NASD with four national securities exchanges-the SSE, the CSE, the MSE
and the PSE. These plans would effect
a transfer of regulatory responsibility,
other than the regulation of floor and
options activities, from the regional exchanges to the NASD. Further, the
NASD's agreements with the PSE and
the MSE would assign to the NASD the
responsibility to enforce compliance
with rules related to options transactions.
The five Options Exchanges have
filed a single plan which would establish a mechanism for allocating the

enforcement responsibility relating to
options transactions. Any exchange
member qualified to conduct a nonmember business on more than one
Options Exchange would be assigned a
"primary regulator." Where an Options
Exchange has been designed as the
DEA, that exchange would be the primary regulator; where an Options Exchange has not been designated as the
DEA,the responsibilities of primary regulator would be assigned to Options
Exchanges on an annual basis.
Under the plan, customer inquiries
and complaints relating to more than
one marketplace would be reviewed by
the exchange initially receiving the
complaint. Investigations, including
those for terminations of registered
personnel for cause, concerning more
than one marketplace, would be conducted by the primary regulator unless
that responsibility were assigned to
another Options Exchange. The primary regulator also would conduct, at
a minimum, an annual sales practice
examination of each broker or dealer
for which it was responsible.
At the close of the fiscal period, the
Commission had not approved any of
the proposals for allocation but was
analyzing the provisions of the plans,
considering recommendations for their
amendment, reviewing comments received, and evaluating the manner in
which the plans might be integrated
into a comprehensive and effective
program of regulation.

Regulation of Securities Information
Processors,Access to Order-Routing
Systems
In fiscal year 1976, the Commission
commenced its regulatory program pursuant to Section 11A(b)of the Exchange
Act with respect to the operations of
exclusive securities information processors.se During fiscal year 1977, the
Commission granted the registration

of one additional exclusive securities
information processor and exempted
another such processor from registration. The additional registration was
granted to NASDAQ, Inc. (which temporarily had been exempted from registrationl.w The additional exemption
from registration was granted to Bradford National Clearing Corporation (Bradford).90 Bradford had entered into a
facilities management agreement with
P.C. Service Corporation (PCSC), a
wholly-owned subsidiary of the PSE,
pursuant to which Bradford undertook
to perform, among other functions, the
securities information processing services then performed by PCSC on an
exclusive basis for the PSE.91
As discussed above, in fiscal year
1977, the Commission received its
first request under Section llA(b)(5),
which was added to the Exchange Act
by the 1975 Amendments, to review a
limitation of access to the services of a
registered securities information processor.92 In that request, the MSE applied to the Commission for review of
an asserted denial of access by SIAC,
a registered securities information
processor jointly owned by the NYSE
and the Amex, to the Common Message
Switch (CMS).
The CMS is an automated data processing device which receives orders
from NYSE and Amex members' offices, "translates" these orders into
language acceptable to terminals on
the floor of either exchange, routes the
orders directly to specialists' post on
the NYSE or Amex, and, finally, transmits execution reports back to originating brokers. In its request to SIAC, the
MSE sought to link to the CMS to enable brokerage firm subscribers to designate orders for delivery to the MSE
floor, as an alternative to sending their
orders either to the NYSE or Amex
floor.93 In denying the MSE's request,
SIAC stated that in its operation of the
19

I'
I

CMS it was not acting as a "securities information processor" within the
meaning of Section 11A(b)(5) of the
Exchange Act and, in any event, lacked
contractual and proprietary authority
to provide the requested access to a
system owned by the NYSE and the
Amex.
In May 1977, the Commission's
staff, by letter, requested that the
NMAB comment on the CMS access request by the MSE.94In view of a number of threshold jurisdictional questions raised by the MSE application for
Commission review, the Commission,
on October 4, 1977, requested the
MSE, SIAC, the NYSE and the Amex to
submit their views on such questions.
At the same time, the Commission
noted that, under Section llA(c)(l)(E)
of the Exchange Act, it has plenary
rulemaking authority to ensure that
"exchange members, brokers and dealers direct orders ...in a manner consistent with the establishment and
operation of" a national market system. Accordingly, the Commission
also requested the parties to address
certain questions to assist the Commission in ascertaining whether the
linking of the MSE and other market centers to the CMS would help perfect the mechanism of a national market system. The Commission intends
to complete its review of the issues associated with the alleged denial of
access during the early part of fiscal
year 1978.

Notices by Self-Regulatory
Organizations of Disciplinary
Sanctions and Other Actions
Before adoption of the 1975 Amendments, the Commission's authority
under the Exchange Act regarding disciplinary sanctions imposed by a selfregulatory organization upon its members was limited to review by the Commission of disciplinary and certain
20

other adjudicatory actions taken by a
registered securities association, i.e.,
the NASD. The Commission lacked
comparable authority to review disciplinary actions taken by national securities exchanges. Nor did the Commission have authority, except as to the
NASD, to review other penalties imposed by a self-regulatory organization, including summary suspensions
or limitations of membership, participation or association with a member,
denials of membership or of association with a member, or prohibitions or
limitations of access to services.
The 1975 Amendments expanded
the Commission's jurisdiction to review
disciplinary sanctions and denials of
membership, participation, or association imposed by a self-regulatory organization (including clearing agencies for
which the Commission is the appropriate regulatory agency). Section 19(d)
of the Exchange Act requires a selfregulatory organization taking any such
action to file a notice with the Commission in such form as the Commission, by rule, may prescribe. Any action
requiring the filing of notice may be
reviewed either on the motion of the
appropriate regulatory agency (the
Commission, except with respect to
bank participants in bank clearing
agencies) or on the application of any
person aggrieved by such action. On
the other hand, appeals taken to the
Commission do not automatically stay
an action, as previously was the case
in appeals to the Commission from an
NASD action, although the Commission may grant stays where appropriate.
Finally, under the 1975 Amendments,
persons subject to a "statutory disqualification"
may be barred from
membership or participation in a selfregulatory organization. While a statutory disqualification does not necessarily bar a person from membership or

participation in a self-regulatory organization, it permits the self-regulatory organization to deny or condition
such a person's membership or participation or association with a member
and the Exchange Act requires the
self-regulatory organization to take
such action if the Commission so orders. A self-regulatory organization
proposing to admit to membership,
participation, or association a person
subject to a statutory disqualification
must give notice to the Commission 30
days before admission.
On July 8, 1977, the Commission
adopted several rules setting forth notice and application requirements for
self-regulatory organizations imposing
disciplinary sanctions.w Exchange Act
Rule 19d -1 prescribes the form and
content of notices that those selfregulatory organizations for which the
Commission is the appropriate regulatory agency must file with the Commission in connection with certain actions
ordered by the self-regulatory organization including all final disciplinary
actions, all denials of membership,
participation
or association with a
member, all prohibitions or limitations
of access to services, and all summary
suspensions or limitations of membership, participation, or association. Exchange Act Rule 19d -2 prescribes the
form and content of applications to the
Commission for stays of final disciplinary sanctions and summary actions
of self-regulatory organizations. Exchange Act Rule 19d -3 prescribes the
form and content of applications to the
Commission for review of final disciplinary sanctions, denials of membership, participation or association with
a member, and prohibitions or limitations of access to services imposed by
self-regulatory organizations. Finally,
Exchange Act Rule 19h -1 prescribes
the form and content of notices by selfregulatory organizations of proposed

admissions to or continuances in membership, participation or association of
any person subject to a statutory disqualification and applications to the
Commission for relief from a statutory
disqualification.

Registration and Regulation of
Clearing Agencies
Section 17A(b) of the Exchange Act,
which became effective on December
1, 1975, requires a clearing agency96
to register with the Commission if it
performs any clearing agency functions
for any security other than an exempted
security. The Commission must publish
notice of the filing of an application
for registration so that interested persons may comment on it and, within
specified periods, must either grant registration by order or institute proceedings to determine whether registration should be denied.
By December 1, 1975, 13 clearing
agencies had applied for registration.
The registrations were declared effective as of that date for a period of 18
months, after the Commission determined that the operations and rules of
those clearing agencies provided adequate safeguards for funds and securities in their custody or controlY
The approach to registration incorporated in Rule 17Ab2-1 was intended
to permit clearing agencies in operation before December 1, 1975, to be
registered on an interim basis upon a
finding that their operations were safe.
At the same time, that approach was
designed to afford the Commission
sufficient time to consider fully the
issues involved, particulary those pertinent to the establishment of a national clearance and settlement system, before making all the determinations called for by subparagraphs
(A) through (I) of Section 17A(b)(3).
On September 1, 1976, the Commission instituted proceedings to de21

termine whether to make permanent
the interim registrations previously
granted to the 13 clearing agencies.98
On June I, 1977, the Commission proposed for public comment standards
for making the determinations required
by the Exchange Act in connection
with the registration of clearing agencies.99 In general, the proposed standards pertain to: participation requirements; fair representation; capacity to
enforce rules; disciplinary actions and
fair procedures; safeguarding of securities and funds; obligations to participants; participant charges; equitable allocation of reasonable dues,
fees and other charges; and competitive consideration. These standards
are intended to facilitate the establishment of a national clearance and
settlement system by ensuring that all
clearing agencies registered under the
Exchange Act have the capacity, organization and rules necessary to participate in, and to advance the objectives of, that system. In response to
its request for public comments, the
Commission received letters commenting upon the proposed standards for
permanent registration and was reviewing those standards at the end of
the fiscal period.
Since December 1, 1975, four additional entities have applied to the
Commission for regrstratlon.tw One of
these is the New England Securities
Depository Trust Company (NESDTC).
On September 24, 1976, the Commission granted the application of NESDTC
for registration as a clearing agency
on the same basis as it granted registration to the 13 clearing agencies registered with the Commission on December I, 1975.101
Another entity which filed an application for registration as a clearing
agency was the National Securities
Clearing Corporation (NSCC), an entity
formed to combine the clearing opera-

22

tions conducted by three registered
clearing agencies in New York: the
Stock Clearing Corporation, the American Stock Exchange Clearing Corporation and the National Clearing Corporation. In order to determine whether
to grant or deny NSCC's application,
the Commission, during fiscal year
1976, sought and received comments
on many of the issues basic to the
establishment of a national clearing
system and the role of NSCC in that
system.
On June 16-18, 1976, the Commission held public hearings at which
representatives of the NASD, stock exchanges, brokerage firms, clearing
agencies and other interested persons
presented their views and responded
to questions of the Commision and its
staff. In addition, numerous letters of
comment and other materials were received in connection with the hearings.102
In November 1976, after reviewing
comment letters and the transcripts
of public hearings, the Commission
announced that it was considering approving, subject to four proposed conditions, the application of NSCC for
registration as a clearing agency and
requested public comment on the proposed condltions."w On January 13,
1977, the Commission granted NSCC's
registration subject to certain condltions.104
Bradford National Clearing Corporation and Bradford Securities Processing Services, Inc., have appealed
to the United States Court of Appeals
for the District of Columbia Circuit to
reverse the order granting registration
to NSCC. Those entities, the Commission and certain other parties have
filed briefs in the case, which was
pending before the Court at the end
of the fiscal year.105
Fourteen applications for exemption
from registration as a clearing agency

were pending at the end of the fiscal
period.106 Since these applications are
the first under the new clearing agency
regulatory program, they present novel
policy questions which will be resolved after the completion of the
clearing agency permanent registration proceedings.

Transfer Agent Rules
Section 17A(c) of the Exchange
Act, adopted as part of the 1975
Amendments, requires a transfer agent
to register with its appropriate regulatory agency if it acts as a transfer agent for any security registered
under Section 12 of that Act or for
any security which would be registered
but for the exemptions from registration for securities of registered investment companies (Section 12(g) (2) (8))
and for securities issued by insurance
companies (Section 12(g) (2) (G)).
At the beginning of the fiscal year,
the Commission's staff was evaluating
the comments received on a series of
transfer agent rules that had been proposed for comment pursuant to Section 17A(C).107 On the basis of the
review, the Commission published revised rules for public comment on
February 24, 1977.108 After evaluating the comments received, Exchange
Act Rules 17Ad-1 through -7 were
adopted on June 16, 1977.109
These rules, the first substantive
rules in the transfer agent regulatory
program, provide a comprehensive
structure for the transfer of securities
from one record owner to another. Rule
17Ad -2 treats most requests for the
transfer of securities as routine items
and requires registered transfer agents
to cancel 90 percent of the old certificates presented and to issue new
certificates within three business days.
The remaining ten percent must be
transferred promptly thereafter. Certain requests for transfer cannot be

treated as routine, however, since
they require special review, additional
documentation from the person making
the request, or an opinion of counsel before the securities can be transferred. Since the time required to accomplish most of these special steps
is beyond the transfer agent's control,
the rule does not set specific time
limits for completing these requests
but requires transfer agents to give
them diligent and continuous attention and to complete the transfer as
soon as possible.
Rules 17Ad-6 and -7 prescribe
various record keeping and record retention requirements which are necessary to enable registered transfer
agents to monitor their own activities,
construct their records, if necessary,
and to permit regulatory authorities to
determine compliance with the adopted
rules.
The Commission has continued to
coordinate its plans for a transfer
agent regulatory program with those
of the three Federal bank regulatory
agencies.t"? The Commission has also
adopted, for transfer agents registered
with the Commission, a rule and related form to be used for the withdrawal of registration.!'"
Rule 17Ad -3 provides that a registered transfer agent which repeatedly
falls below the minimum performance
level may not acquire new accounts or
expand its transfer agent activities
until it has demonstrated the ability to
handle its current transfer agent workload in a timely fashion. Furthermore,
a registered transfer agent may be
required to provide notice of its performance failures to its appropriate
Federal regulatory agency and to the
issuers of securities for which it acts.
Rule17Ad -5 sets time periods within
which registered transfer agents must
respond to inquiries from investors.
broker-dealers, or other persons con23

cerning the status of items presented
for transfer and the status of shareholders accounts. This rule is designed
to fulfill more completely the needs of
investors who deal with transfer
agents, to promote prompt identification of lost securities and to assist
broker-dealers undergoing examination or seeking to comply with requirements relating to control of customer securities and net capital.

Single Denomination Stock Certificates
On October 7, 1976, the Commission
approved a rule proposal of the NYSE
to permit its listed companies to use,
along with or in place of existing stock
certificates, a new single denomination stock certificate (SDSC).112The
three traditional forms of stock certificates include in the upper left and
right hand corners an engraving that
limits the share denomination represented by the certificate. An odd-lot
certificate is designated "less than
100 shares," a single round-lot certificate is designated "100 shares" and
the third type of certificate is designated "more than 100 shares."
The NYSE proposal permits companies to add a new SDSC that contains no corner denomination limitations. Instead, the SDSC must either
have an engraved punch-out panel,
with the share denomination indicated
by punching out numbers in the panel,
or must indicate the share denomination (1) in numbers in the share counter
(the small box area currently used), (2) in
numbers in a five-position matrix in the
"open throat" area, 113 and (3) in words
in the open throat area. All such share
information
must be printed with
penetrating ink on top of fine-line
intaglio engraving.
Proponents of the SDSC believe it
permits new certificates to be issued
more efficiently and inexpensively.
24

Issuers using the SDSC need not maintain inventories of three different
stock certificates and pay the cost of
three engraving plates; similarly, a
transfer agent using the SDSC does
not have to handle three different
types of certificates
to issue new
certificates of varying amounts. Moreover, because the SDSC can be fed
through a computer-controlled
highspeed printer, the proper number of
shares and other information for each
new certificate can be imprinted rapidly, and certificates of varying denominations can be printed without interruption.

Form TA-l
On March 21, 1977, the United
States Court of Appeals for the Second
Circuit upheld in Continental Stock
Transfer and Trust Company v. SECl14
the decision of the Commission to deny
confidential treatment to the information supplied on Schedule B of Form
TA-1 by a transfer agent when applying for registration. The issue presented was whether the exclusion from
disclosure under the Freedom of Information Actl15 of trade secrets,
commercial or financial information
and privileged or confidential information, covers the issuer lists contained on
Schedule B. The Court agreed with the
Commission that, although the list of
issues for which an applicant performs
transfer agent functions is commercial
information within the meaning of the
statute, such lists already are available
to the public and hence are not
confidential.
The Court held that
neither the Commission's demand for
the information nor the disclosure
thereof constituted an abuse of discretion.

Street Name Study
The 1975 Amendments required the
Commission to examine the practice of
recording the ownership of securities

in other than the name of the beneficial owner (commonly referred to as
"street" and "nominee" name registration) in order to determine whether
the practice is consistent with the
purposes of the Exchange Act and
whether issuer-shareholder communications could be improved while retaining the benefits of the practice. A
Preliminary Report was filed with Congress in December 1975, and a Final
Report in December 1976.116
In the Final Report, the Commission
examined the benefits of the practice
and concluded that the use of street
and nominee name registration is essential to the establishment of a national system for the clearance and
settlement of securities transactions
and the facilitation of securities processing generally. At the same time,
the Final Report, while recognizing
that the practice makes issuer-shareholder communications somewhat circuitous, concluded that the existing
system for transmitting communications from issuers to beneficial shareowners is, on the whole, effective. The
Final Report, however, recommended
several steps to improve the performance of the system, including (1)
requiring issuers to make more timely
inquiries concerning the number of
beneficial
owners broker-dealers
represent, (2) requiring broker-dealers
to respond promptly to those inquiries,
(3) requiring Issuers to supply requested proxy materials and annual
reports in a timely manner and, (4)
requiring broker-dealers to forward
those materials to their customers
promptly. The Commission recently
adopted Exchange Act Rule 14b-1
and amendments to Exchange Act
Rule 14a-3(d) to implement those
recornrnendations."!?
The Final Report also examined the
effects of the practice on the disclosure and dissemination of information

regarding beneficial owners of securities. It concluded that current approaches to disclosure may not satisfy
fully the objective of making publicly
available information identifying shareowners who potentially may influence
corporate management or affect the
market in an issuer's securities. In this
regard, the Final Report recommended
implementation of a more comprehensive system for gathering and disseminating this information and legislation
which would require those owners of
more than five percent of an issuer's
securities who are not covered currently
by the ownership reporting requirements of the Exchange Act to file with
the Commission a short statement
providing certain ownership information.
In March 1977, Senate Bill 305
(S.305) was amended to effect the
recommendations of the Final Report.
Under S.305, disclosure would be
required of, among other things, the
person's identity,
the number of
shares, the nature of the interest and
the time and manner of acquisition.
Another section of that bill would
require the Commission, within 30
months of enactment, to report to
Congress on the effectiveness of the
ownership reporting requirements and
on the desirability and feasibility of
reducing or otherwise modifying the
current reporting thresholds. S.305
was signed by the President on
December 20, 1977.118
Finally, the Report examined the
effect of the practice on jurisdictional
provisions of the Exchange Act which
are based, in part, on shareholder-ofrecord standards. It concluded that
the increased use of nominee and
street name registration has not had
the effect of excluding or removing
issuers from the jurisdiction of the
Exchange Act. The Final Report recognized, however, that the anticipated

25

increased registration of securities in
the name of nominees of securities
depositories might affect those jurisdictional standards in the future. To
prevent this possibility,
the Final
Report recommended that the Commission use its authority under Section
12(g)(5) of the Exchange Act to propose
a rule defining the term "held of
record" to mean, for the purposes of
the jurisdictional standards of subsection 12(g), that securities held by a
depository or its nominees be considered to be held of record by the
depositor of the securities. The Final
Report also recommended that Section
15(d) of the Exchange Act be amended
to clarify the Commission's authority
to define "held of record" for purposes
of that section. The recommended
amendment to Section 15(d) was
enacted into law as part of 5.305.

Proposed Legislation to Amend the
Securities Investor Protection Act
In July 1977, a bill to amend the Securities Investor Protection Act of
1970 (the SIPC Act)- H.R.8331, 95th
Cong., 1st Sess. - was introduced and
referred to the House Committee on
Interstate and Foreign Commerce.
Originally based on a 1974 Special
Task Force Report to the Board of
Directors of the Securities Investor
Protection Corporation (SIPC),119the
legislation was developed and refined
over several years120and would effect
important improvements in the SIPC
Act. H.R.8331 is designed principally
to afford public investors greater protection against the financial failure of
stock brokers and to provide SIPC and
the Federal courts with speedier and
more flexible procedures to deal with
difficulties created thereby.
In addition to raising the dollar limits
of protection afforded under the SIPC
Act, the bill would require that customer claims for securities be satisfied,

26

to the maximum extent practicable,
with securities rather than cash payments. To that end, a trustee would be
permitted to purchase securities, as
well as to reclaim securities pledged
by the broker-dealer. In appropriate
cases, the trustee could transfer all or
part of the customer accounts to other
SIPC members. To expedite the liquidation process, the bill would authorize
SIPC to designate itself or one of its
employees as trustee in particular
cases. In certain small cases, Sl PC
would be permitted to avoid the necessity of court-supervised proceedings
and to make payments directly to customers.
The Commission re-emphasized its
support for the legislation and offered
comments at hearings held by the
House Subcommittee on Consumer
Protection and Finance. By the end of
the fiscal period, H.R.8331 was reported out by the Committee on Interstate and Foreign Commerce and, on
November 1, 1977, it was passed by
the House of Representatives.

NASD Underwriting Recapture Rules
On June 24, 1976, Judge Frankel of
the Southern District of New York, in
Papilsky v. Berndt,121 held that underwriting recapture, a term which refers
to arrangements through which the
dealer distributing a new issue of securities arranges to return part of the
underwriting
"spread" to the purchaser, is available and legal, absent
a ruling from the NASD or the Commission to the contrary. Although the
court reached that conclusion after
consideration of Article III, Section 24
(Section 24), of the NASD's Rules of
Fair Practice, 122the NASD, in response
to requests from several brokerdealers, issued several opinions to the
effect that Section 24 does prohibit
underwriting recapture.
On February 17, 1977, the Commis-

l :

sion requested that the NASD submit
its interpretation of Section 24 to the
Commission as a "proposed
rule
change." The NASD responded on
April 1, 1977, by requesting that the
Commission reconsider its position
and by stating that its interpretation
of Section 24 was merely an expression
of the section as written. The NASD
also requested an opportunity to address the Commission regarding its
interpretation of Section 24, and a
meeting with the Commission was held
on May 26, 1977. In its statement
before the Commission at that meeting,
the NASD reasserted its prior position
and further urged the Commission not
to call into question Section 24 in order
to avoid creating confusion and uncertainty with respect to the distribution
of new issues of securities.
In a subsequent letter to the Commission dated June 13, 1977, the
NASD announced that, through an
ad hoc committee on Section 24, it was
charting a program for the consideration of various aspects of the underwriting and distribution process. The
NASD also stated at that time that the
committee's conclusions would be
expressed in the form of proposed rule
changes, new rules, or interpretations.
On September 23, 1977, the NASD
circulated
among its membership
proposed rule changes and interpretations concerning securities distribution practices. These proposals
generally reflect the determination by
the NASD that underwriting recapture
should be prohibited. The NASD projected that proposed rule changes
would be submitted to the Commission
during fiscal year 1978.

Independent Audit Committees
On March 9, 1977, the Commission,
pursuant to Section 19(b) of the Exchange Act and Rule 19b-4 thereunder, approved an NYSE rule proposal

that would require each domestic
company with common stock listed on
the NYSE, as a condition of initial and
continued listing on that exchange, to
establish not later than June 30, 1978,
and maintain thereafter, an independent audit cornmittee.tw The audit
committee is required to be comprised
solely of directors independent of
management and free from any relationship that, in the opinion of the
board of directors, would interfere with
the exercise of independent judgment
as a committee member. Any domestic
company not currently listed would be
required to comply with the independent audit committee requirement
upon listing.
The NYSE, the accounting profession, major corporations and others,
including the Commission, have for
many years recognized the advantages
of corporate audit committees. 124 Stronger support for audit committees independent of management developed
in the wake of recent revelations of
questionable and illegal corporate payments.125 In particular, the Commission
has urged strengthening of independence and vitality of corporate boards
of directors and has suggested that, at
least initially, those principles could be
implemented by amending the listing
requirements of the NYSE and other
self-regulatory organizations, rather
than by direct Commission action.126
Following preliminary study by the
NYSE staff, a proposal was submitted
to the NYSE Board of Directors in November 1976. The NYSE Board approved
the proposal in principle and circulated
it for comment by senior executives of
listed companies and other interested
parties. After revising the proposal in
response to the comments received, the
NYSE filed its rule as a proposed rule
change under Section 19(b)(1). In approving that proposed rule change, the
Commission requested the other national
27

!

securities exchanges and the NASD to
consider adopting a similar rule for issuerswhosesecurities are traded through
the facilities maintained by the other exchanges and the NASD.

Confirmations
On September 16, 1976, the Commission announced a proposal to adopt Exchange Act Rule lOb-lO to establish revised delivery and disclosure requirements for confirmation slips sent to
customers by brokers and dealers following the execution of a customer's
order to buy or sell a security.127
The announcement of proposed Rule
10b-1O represented the beginning of
an effort by the Commission to review
confirmation requirements which, in
large measure, had remained unchanged
since the 1930's when the Commission
adopted Exchange Act Rule 15cl-4.
In proposing Rule lOb-lO, the Commission pointed out that since the
costs of regulation designed to promote investor protection are in the final analysis paid for, in large part, by
the investor, it was seeking to adjust
regulatory requirements for which compliance costs appear to be disproportionate to the practical benefits of
investor protection thereby obtained.
The Commission observed that its review would focus not only on the impact of new regulations on traditional business practices but also on the
impact on emerging business practices
of regulations drawn for an earlier era.
Proposed Rule lOb-10 reflected a
number of changes, including (1) uniform application of the confirmation
requirements to all brokers and dealers regardless of the marketplace
where transactions are effected, (2) an
adjustment of confirmation delivery
requirements so that brokers and dealers could, under certain circumstances,
deliver monthly or quarterly statements
in lieu of confirmations sent imme28

diately following the execution of an
order, (3) the application of new disclosure requirements to dealers who
trade as principals with their customers and (4) the modification of disclosure requirements applicable to brokers who act as agents for their customers.
After considering the views of numerous commentators, the Commission,
on May 5, 1977, announced, effective
January 1, 1978, the adoption of Rule
lOb-1O.128 At the same time, the Commission announced that it would publish for comment shortly thereafter, as
proposed amendments to Rule lOb10, additional changes in confirmation
requirements.
In adopting Rule 10b-lO, the Commission provided that (1) the rule
would not apply to transactions in
municipal securities pending further
consideration by the Municipal Securities Rulemaking Board of possible
amendments of the Board's confirmation rule and (2) brokers could send
quarterly statements in lieu of immediate confirmation in connection with
transactions effected pursuant to certain periodic stock purchase plans.
The Commission also adopted various
revised disclosure requirements applicable to brokers who act as agents for
customers.
Subsequently, the Commission published for comment several new or revised amendments to Rule 10b-1O.129
Those proposed amendments included
(1) disclosure requirements, applicable
to all brokers and dealers, relating to
odd-lot differentials and the best bid
and offer entered in the NASDAQ quotation system at the time of the transaction, (2) revised disclosure requirements applicable only to dealers trading for their own account with customers, and (3) a procedure forthe use
of quarterly statements in lieu of immediate confirmations in connection

I
I

with certain transactions in securities
issued by investment companies. The
comment period for the proposed
amendments expired on September 9,
1977, and the Commission is considering the comments received.

Lost and Stolen Securities
Section 17(f)( 1) of the Exchange
Act, added by the 1975 Amendments,
directs the Commission to formulate a
program for the reporting of missing,
lost, counterfeit and stolen securities,
and to establish rules for making inquiry with respect to securities coming
into the possession or control of certain financial institutions, in order to
determine whether such securities have
been reported as missing, lost, counterfeit, or stolen.130 On December 6,
1976, the Commission adopted Exchange Act Rule 17f-1, establishing
reporting and inquiry requirements underthat section.131 Following the adoption of certain technical amendments,l32
and the proposal of further amendments to the section regarding the role
of transfer agents in the Lost and Stolen Securities Program,133 a final,
amended version of the rule was published on August 4, 1977.134
Section 17(f)(A) of the Exchange Act
requires that reports and inquiries regarding missing, lost, counterfeit, or
stolen securities be made to the Commission or a "person designated by the
Commission." In order to implement
the reporting and inquiry requirements
of Rule 17f-1 in an efficient manner,
the Commission instituted a pilot program, ending December 31, 1978, in
which a private entity would be designated to perform several functions under the Commission's direction. The
Commission published "Criteria for a
lost and Stolen Securities Reporting
and Inquiry System" and solicited submissions of proposed systems from entities interested in serving as the Com-

mission's designee during the pilot
program.135 After analysis of the submissions, the Commission designated
the Securities Information Center,lnc.
(SIC), a subsidiary of ITEl AutEx,
Inc. ,136to receive reports and respond
to inquiries on behalf of the Commission regarding all securities other than
United States Government or Agency
securltles.w At the conclusion of the
pilot program, the Commission will
evaluate the effectiveness of Rule
17f-1 and the SIC reporting and inquiry system.
The reporting and record keeping
provisions of Rule 17f-1(b) became
effective on October 3, 1977. That paragraph sets forth specific time periods
within which reports of thefts, losses,
suspected counterfeiting, or recoveries
of securities must be made. Reports
must be made to a registered transfer
agent for the issuer as well as to SIC
and, in cases where criminal misconduct is suspected, additional reports
must be made to the appropriate law
enforcement agency. All reports must
be made on Form X-17F-1A,
"Missing, lost, Stolen, Counterfeit Securities Report,"138 although preliminary
reports may be made by telephone or
telex.
The inquiry and other provisions, set
forth in Rule 17f-1, will become effective on January 2, 1978. The rule requires various financial institutions to
determine whether securities coming
into their possession or being held by
them under certain circumstances
have been reported as missing, lost,
counterfeit, or stolen. Exceptions to
the general inquiry requirements are
intended to make inquiry unnecessary
in most instances. In order to avoid
undue disruption of the normal course
of commercial transactions, inquiry is
required only in those circumstances
most likely to involve missing, lost,
counterfeit, or stolen securities. Cer-

29

II

! .

i'

i

l

tain additional exemptions are applicable during the pilot program. Inquiries that are not required may nevertheless be made at any time.
When an inquiry reveals that securities have been reported as missing,
lost, counterfeit, Or stolen, the Exchange Act and rules thereunder require
only that the inquiring institution be
provided with the name of the institution reporting the loss. The inquiring
institution is expected to follow current business practices in dealing further with securities known to be lost
or stolen.139

Fingerprinting of
Securities Professionals
In March 1976, the Commission
adopted Exchange Act Rule 17f-2140
to implement the Congressional intention that persons be fingerprinted if
they are engaged in the sale of securities, having access to securities, monies, or original books and records relating thereto, or supervising persons
engaged in such activities, and that
persons not so engaged be exempt. 141
The rule became effective on July I,
1976, for persons entering the securities industry after that date. Persons
already employed by or associated with
entities subject to the rule on that
date originally were exempted until
January I, 1977, although the Commission later extended that deadline
until January I, 1978, upon the condition that 25 percent of those persons
required to be fingerprinted under the
Rule were in fact fingerprinted during
each calendar quarter of 1977.142
The Rule requires a reporting organization to file a statement describing
those classes of persons meeting the
conditions for exemption and setting
forth the security measures which the
organization employs to ensure that
only fingerprinted persons handle or
process securities, monies, or original
30

books and records relating thereto. In
addition, fingerprint record retention
requirements have been incorporated
in Rule 17f-2{d), as well as in companion amendments to Exchange Act
Rules 17a-3 and 17a -4, the Commission's recordkeeping and preservation
requirements.
In order to avoid unnecessary regulatory duplication, Rule 17f-2{b) provides that persons whose fingerprints
are submitted to the Attorney General
for identification and appropriate processing pursuant to any other Federal,
state or agency law, rule, or regulation may satisfy the fingerprinting requirements by compliance with those
other requirements.
To facilitate the transmittal of fingerprint records, the Rule provides an
exemption for persons whose fingerprints are submitted to the Attorney
General through a self-regulatory organization pursuant to a plan filed by
the self-regulatory organization and
approved by the Commission. During
the last fiscal year, the Commission
approved fingerprinting processing plans
submitted by six national securities exchanges-the Amex, SSE, MSE, NYSE,
PSE, and Phlx-and the NASD. The
Amex, SSE, and NYSE plans also provide for processing of fingerprint cards
of transfer agents of exchange-listed
issues. The NASD plan provides for
transmittal of fingerprint records for
transfer agents of securities traded
over-the-counter and for members of
the CSOE.

Commission Rates
Section 23{b){4){H) of the 1975
Amendments requires the Commission
to include in its annual report to the
Congress for each fiscal year beginning
in 1975 and ending in 1980, a description of the effect of the absence
of any schedule or fixed rates of commissions, allowances, discounts, or

! .

other fees to be charged by members
for effecting transactions on a national
securities exchange on the maintenance
of fair and orderly markets, and on the
development of a national market system for securities. Five reports covering the first 20 months of commission price competition through December 31, 1976, were separately forwarded to Congress pursuant to Section 6(e)(3) of the Amendments, the
last report on May 26, 1977.
Analysis of commission rates if now
integrated into the Commission's ongoing monitoring of the financial condition of the industry. For the industry
as a whole, securities commissions
represented 45.8 percent of total revenue in 1976 and 42.9 percent during
the first three quarters of 1977
From May 1, 1975, the beginning of
negotiated commissions, to the end of
September 1977, individual investors'
commission rates have declined 12.3
percent. Institutional customers, reflecting their larger average order size
and greater bargaining power, have negotiated discounts averaging 47.7 percent. Individuals paid an average of
26.3 cents per share on their September 1977 orders, which averaged 340
shares in size. Institutional
orders
averaged 1,575 shares in size and
commissions averaged 13.6 cents per
share for these customers.
Broker-dealers were affected by the
elimination of fixed minimum commission rates more or less to the extent
they serve institutional investors. Some
firms which did a large portion of
their total business with institutions
have merged with more diversified
firms. Several new discount brokerdealers have entered the industry to
offer investors a reduced level of services at reduced commission rates.
Those adjustments are continuing.
The elimination of fixed rates has not
seriously affected the financial results

of regional and over-the-counter firms.
Market liquidity and the volatility of
securities prices also do not appear
to have been affected by the switch to
competitively determined commissions.

Proposed Minimum
Qualifications Rule
Section 15(b)(7) of the Exchange
Act, as amended by the 1975 Amendments, provides that every registered
broker and dealer and every person
associated with them must meet minimum standards of training,experience
and competence, and such other qualifications as the Commission finds
necessary or appropriate in the public
interest or for the protection of investors. Previously, only SECO brokerdealers143 were subject to such minimum standards set by the Commission.
On June 27, 1977, the Commission
published for comment proposed Exchange Act Rule 15b7 -1, which would
establish minimum qualification requirements for all registered brokers,
dealers and associated persons. 144 The
proposed rule would revise the presently applicable qualification standards
by establishing various categories of
principal and representative and by
providing qualification standards for
each category. Subject to certain
conditions, however, an exemption from
the proposed rule would be available
for any broker-dealer complying with a
comparable approved qualification rule
of the NASD or a national securities
exchange.

Section 31(b) Review
Section 3l(b) of the 1975 Amendments permits the Commission, at any
time within one year of the effective
date of any amendment made by the
1975 Amendments to the Exchange
Act, to notify any national securities
exchange or national securities assoelation if its organization or rules do
not comply with the Exchange Act, as
31

I

,

I:

!
,

amended. The Commission is authorized, on and after 180 days following
receipt of such notification, to suspend
the registration of any such exchange
or association, or to impose limitations
on its activities, functions, or operations if the Commission finds, after
notice and opportunity for hearing,
that its rules or organization still fail
to conform to the Exchange Act. Any
such suspension or limitation continues
in effect until the Commission, by
order, declares that such exchange or
association is in compliance with the
requirements of the Exchange Act.
Late in 1976, the Commission completed a review of those exchanges
rules not addressed in the first set of
notices provided to the exchanges in
early 1976.145This review required a
substantial effort by the Commission
and its staff and covered all phases of
the exchanges' and the NASD's regulatory programs as set forth in their
rules. On D icember I, 1976, the Commission provided notice to each exchange and to the NASD146that generally described the types of exchange
and NASD rules, and identified specific rules,147that appeared to be inconsistent with specified parts of the Exchange Act.
The December notice isolated over
1,000 rules of the exchanges and the
NASD, out of a total of several thousand, covering a broad range of regulatory matters. In its notice, the Commission discussed generally the relationship between several of those rules
and the specific standards of the Exchange Act. For example, a number of
exchange rules prohibit specialists from
dealing directly with institutions, and
may thus sanction unfair discrimination
between dealers or customers without
any corresponding justification in terms
of the purposes of the Act. Other
questioned rules relating to trading
practices appear to accord undue

32

preference, in the execution of orders,
to large orders and may unfairly discriminate among customers.
In addition, the Commission expanded
its inquiry with respect to rules governing membership and association
with member organizations. The Commission, for example, raised questions
with respect to (1) restrictions on access
to communications systems operated
by the exchanges and on access to the
NASDAQ system, which is owned and
managed by the NASD; (2) the extent
to which the composition of governing
boards and committees of the exchanges and the NASD complied with
the statutory standard of fair representation; and (3) the absence of
procedural safeguards in connection
with certain exchange and NASD proceedings.
In the December notice, the Commission also questioned exchange rules
which did not appear to foster cooperation and coordination with persons engaged in regulating, clearing,
settling and facilitating transactions in
securities and which may impose unwarranted burdens on competition.
The rules of several exchanges, for
example, tie contracts governing the
clearance and settlement of securities
transactions to the rules of clearing
agencies affiliated with those organizations, even though members of
such organizations might prefer to select other clearing agencies. In addition, the Commission cited rules affecting the processing of securities
transactions which appeared to contravene certain provisions of the Exchange Act, including a provision designed to foster competition among
brokers and dealers, clearing agencies
and transfer agents. These rules may
have impeded the development of efficient methods of clearance and settlement by discouraging technological
innovation.

The Commission requested and generally has received preliminary presentations by each exchange and the
NASD with respect to the rules questioned in the December notice.l48 In
those presentations, the exchanges
and the NASD addressed the extent to
which amendments to their rules have
been, or will be, filed pursuant to
Section 19(b) and Rule 19b-4 thereunder. The exchanges and the NASD
also indicated that certain questioned
rules are, in their opinion, consistent
with the Exchange Act or require further study. Following those presentations, the Commission's staff held discussions with the exchanges and the
NASD in order to explain in further
detail the bases on which rules were
questioned under Section 3l{b). The
exchanges and the NASD have responded, in a few instances, with proposed rule changes under Rule 19b-4.
On September 27, 1977, the Commission, in accordance with Section
3l{b), gave further notice and opportunity for hearing to the exchanges
and the NASD regarding the transaction completion rules cited in the
December notice.149 Pursuant to that
notice, the exchanges and the NASD
were requested to submit, within fortyfive days from the date of the notice,
proposed changes to the transaction
completion rules or written data, views
and arguments explaining why those
rules are in compliance with the Exchange Act.

DISCLOSURE RELATED MATTERS
Advisory Committee on
Corporate Disclosure
The Advisory Committee on Corporate Disclosure met for a total of 16
days during its nine meetings between
July 1976 and September 1977. It
conducted comprehensive questionnaire and interview studies of the
primary participants in the corporate

disclosure system including: publicly
held companies, financial analysts,
portfolio managers, registered representatives, information disseminators
and individual investors.
Briefly stated, the Committee arrived
at the following conclusions about the
operation of the corporate disclosure
system as relates to investors:
Companies, as the principal source
of firm-oriented information, are at the
center of the corporate disclosure system. Their willingness (as opposed to
their obligation) to provide information
is a function of management's perception of the utility of the disclosure
to the company and the user, the hard
and soft dollar costs associated with
the disclosure and the feasibility of
communicating the information.
Analysts combine the information
provided by companies with industry
and macroeconomic data. They provide
an interpretation of the information
and frequently conclude with a buysell recommendation directed to specific portfolio objectives. The interest
of analysts and disseminators in particular companies is influenced by the
company's market capitalization or the
potential for unusual return on investment.
Portfolio managers In large structured
organizations select industries which
will benefit from an assumed economic
scenario and utilize analysts' recommendations for individual company
selection appropriate to the characteristics
of specific
portfolios.
Information disseminators condense,
summarize and disseminate available
information and thereby assist analysts
and investors in obtaining investment
decision-making information in forms
suitable to their respective needs and
abilities to use it.
Individual investors use various methods in making investment decisions,
ranging from fundamental analysis
33

and replication of the activities of
portfolio managers, to total reliance
on the advice of registered representatives.
The Commission administers a mandatory disclosure system intended to
assure that reliable firm-oriented information is available to the public. It
does not purport to administer a system designed to produce all information used in investment decision-making.
Further, information filed with the
Commission has often been widely disseminated before filing.
The Committee considered the significant studies concerning the functioning of securities markets, theories
concerning capital asset pricing and
portfolio organization and belief in some
quarters that market forces may adequately provide sufficient reliable firmoriented information, and concluded,
with some dissent, that:
(1) The "efficient market hypothesis"-which
asserts that the current
price of a security reflects all publicly available information-c-even if valid,
does not negate the necessity of a
mandatory disclosure system. This
theory is concerned with how the market reacts to disclosed information
and is silent as to the optimum amount
of information required or whether
that optimum should be achieved on a
mandatory or voluntary basis;
(2) Market forces alone are insufficient to cause all material information to be disclosed;
(3) Commission-filed documents often
confirm information available from other
sources. The Commission's filing requirements, while often not a source
of new information to investors, assure
that information disclosed by publicly
held companies through many means
is reliable and is broadly accessible to
the public.
Although not all members agreed unreservedly, the Committee concluded
34

that the disclosure system established
by the Congress in the Secruities Act
of 1933 and the Securities Exchange
Act of 1934, as implemented and developed by the Commission, is sound
and does not need radical reform or
renovation. The Committee did forward recommendations for significant
changes in the Commission's procedures, rules, emphases, and approaches
to disclosure problems. The Committee agreed upon recommendations in a
dozen major areas. Included among
the recommendations are: (1) that the
Commission implement a voluntary
program for the disclosure of earnings
forecasts and other kinds of forwardlooking information; (2) that it develop
on an industry by industry basis a
standardized product line classification for presentation of both dollar
and, where appropriate, unit sales of
each product line (within a segment)
whose total sales comprised a certain percentage of consolidated sales
in the previous fiscal year; (3) that
it require increased disclosure regarding
candidates for and operation of boards
of directors in proxy soliciting material
and information statements; and (4) that
it schedule hearings to examine the
possibility and desirability of alleviating
the reporting burden on small companies.
These and all other recommendations are fully discussed in the Advisory Committee's Final Report, available
November 1977.

Securities Regulation and the
Capital-Raising Ability of
Smaller Businesses
In early 1977 the Commission began to examine how securities regulation affects the capital-raising ability
of smaller businesses. Under an agreement with the Department of Commerce's National Bureau of Standards
Experimental Technology Incentive Pro-

gram (ETIP), the Commission's Directorate of Economic and Policy Research
is studying the effect of present and
proposed policies on small issuers,
broker-dealers and other economic
agents in the venture capital industry.
The first phase of this effort analyzes the principal rules, regulations and
procedures that influence the flow of
capital to new or recently established
technology-based ventures. This will
include investigation of Securities and
Exchange Commission Regulation A
and Rules 144, 145, 146,147 and 240
in an effort to determine the costs
and benefits of these provisions. The
second phase refines and tests the
data and models developed through
the analyses in phase one so that an
approach to monitoring the effects of
SEC regulation in venture capital markets can be established. It is anticipated that this experimental project
will require two years to complete.

Management Disclosure and
Corporate Governance
The Commission has initiated or
completed a number of actions deali ng
with management disclosure and corporate governance. Generally, these issues involve shareholder communications and corporate governance; disclosure of management background
information necessary to evaluate the
ability and integrity of management;
shareholder proposals; and disclosure
of management remuneration and perquisites. Certain broad policy aspects
of these questions are being considered at public regional hearings conducted by the Commission; however,
other actions, discussed below, have
also been taken.

Corporate Governance Hearings
On April 28, 1977, the Commission
requested written statements prepare-

tory to holding public hearings on the
subjects of shareholder communications, shareholder participation in the
corporate electoral process and corporate governance.tw Such statements
and hearings are for the purpose of
giving the Commission the benefit of
the views of interested members of the
public in order to assist the Commission in a broad re-examination of its
proxy rules. On August 29, 1977, after
a review of approximately 140 written
statements received, the Commission
published the specific issues to be
considered at the hearings, which were
scheduled to commence on September
29, 1977 in Washington, D.C.l5l
The Commission noted that numerous recent examples of an apparent
breakdown in corporate accountability
have led informed commentators to
question the efficacy of existing methods of corporate governance. The
Commission indicated that, while the
proxy solicitation
process and the
Commission's rules governing that process are a central focus of its inquiry, it hoped to receive information
concerning means unrelated to the
proxy solicitation mechanism to stimulate increased shareholder interest
and participation in corporate governance and to improve corporate accountability.
In view of the importance of the
issues to be considered and the Commission's desire to make participation easier for potential witnesses,
particularly individual shareholders,
the Commission has taken the unusual
step of scheduling hearings in Los
Angeles, California; New York, New
York; and Chicago, Illinois, in addition
to Washington, D.C. The hearings are
being conducted for the Commission
by the Division of Corporation Finance.
Witnesses scheduled to testify at the
hearings include members of Congress,
corporations, business associations,
35

bar associations, attorneys, public interest groups, individual and institutional investors, religious organizations,
academics and others.
Issues to be considered in these proceedings include whether the Commission should require additional disclosures in proxy materials relating to
socially significant information, including evironmental and equal employment matters, and whether the Commission should amend its rules relating to shareholder proposals. The
Commission will also consider the advisability of affording shareholders access to managment's proxy materials
for the purpose of nominating persons
to serve on the Board of Directors and
the advisability of expanding disclosures in the proxy statement relating
to the qualifications of director nominees. At the conclusion of these proceedings, the Commission will determine whether to propose amendments
to the proxy rules and other applicable
rules and whether to recommend legislation to Congress, such as a bill establishing Federal minimum standards for
corporate conduct.

Management Disclosure
On November 2, 1976, the Commission proposed for comment various
amendments to registration forms under the Securities Act and to registration and reporting forms and the
proxy schedule under the Exchange
Act.152 The proposed amendments are
intended to provide more meaningful
disclosure to investors regarding the
backgrounds of the management of
publicly held companies and to provide increased uniformity among various disclosure forms.
The proposed amendments would
require disclosure about the identity
and background of corporate officials
and events which the Commission believes are material to an investor's
36

evaluation of the ability and integrity
of directors or executive officers. In
addition to the information presently
required in proxy material, annual
reports and various registration forms
concerning the identity and background of directors, the proposed
amendments would, if adopted, also
require disclosure of all directorships
held by each director of the issuer
in companies which are required to file
reports under the Exchange Act or are
registered under the Investment Company Act and disclosure of all memberships held by each director on any
committees of the issuer's board of
directors. The proposals would also
amend the items in various forms relating to material events in the background of directors and executive officers to require disclosure of (1) injunctions prohibiting such persons
from engaging in any type of business
practice; (2) injunctions and consent
decrees prohibiting future violations
of Federal or state securities laws;
and (3) certain civil actions involving
violations of such laws.
To provide for more comprehensive
information concerning remuneration
received by certain officers and directors, the proposals would expand certain disclosure items by requiring
presentation of all direct remuneration
paid by the registrant and its affiliates.
The existing requirements call for
remuneration paid only by the issuer
and its SUbsidiaries.
Concomitant with these proposals,
amendments were proposed which
would conform the disclosure requirements in the applicable forms under
the Securities Act and the Exchange
Act. The differences among the various registration and reporting forms
in the items requiring disclosure of
pending legal proceedings would be
eliminated. In addition, amendments
are proposed to the proxy schedule

which would reconcile the proxy statements and the annual report disclosure
relating to corporate officials and
other persons. These latter amendments are thought to be necessary
because proxy and information statements, along with annual reports to
shareholders, are among the most
widely read disclosure documents.
Since these documents are intended
to communicate information to shareholders which may be useful to their
exercise of a voice in corporate affairs,
the Commission believes that material
information on the background of directors and executive officers is particularly relevant and should be set forth
in proxy statements and information
statements which relate to election of
directors.
In this release, the Commission also
invited comments on a few areas involving the adequacy of information
about persons responsible for corporate management. The Commission
announced that It had received recommendations concerning additional disclosure in this area, especially as to
remuneration of corporate officers and
directors and as to certain transactions of management. As a result, comments were invited on whether additional disclosure should be required
about the numerous emerging forms
of indirect compensation or "perquisites" now given to management personnel, the various forms of executive
compensation plans, and certain transactions of management involving the
issuer and its subsidiaries, such as disclosure of loans extended by issuers or
any of their subsidiaries which are primarily engaged in the business of lending
money.
The comment period for these proposals ended on January 31, 1977.153
The proposed amendments are being
re-evaluated in light of the comments
received.

14a-8

Amendments

On November 22, 1976 the Commission substantially amended Rule
14a-8 of the proxy rules, which sets
forth the requirements applicable to
proposals submitted by security holders
for inclusion in the proxy soliciting
materials of issuers.l54 The amendments
were designed, among other things, to
limit certain shareholder abuses that
have occurred in the past, broaden the
topics that can be covered by shareholder proposals, and formalize certain grounds for omitting proposals
that were implied but not specifically
stated in the former rule. Included
among the revisions were amendments
that: (1) limit proponents of shareholder proposals to a maximum of two
proposals of not more than 300 words
each to an issuer; (2) advance the
timeliness requirements applicable to
both proponents and managements by
20 days each; and (3) codify a number
of past interpretations of the rule by
the Commission's staff, including those
which have stated that beneficial owners
of securities as well as record owners
may submit proposals, and that a proposal which may be improper under
the applicable state law when framed
as a mandate may be proper when
framed as a recommendation or request.

Perquisites
On August 18, 1977,155 the Commission announced its interpretation
of the existing disclosure provisions of
the securities acts relating to the
disclosure of management remuneration. This release was issued for several reasons. During the four or five
months preceding the publication of
the release, the staff of the Commission received numerous inquiries relating to whether or not various personal benefits received by management from corporations should be in37

eluded within the aggregate remuneration reported in registration statements,
reports and proxy and information
statements filed by corporations under
the securities laws. Some of these
questions may have been prompted by
the publicity given to recent enforcement cases brought by the Commission which revealed the failure of such
corporations to include within the reported remuneration the value of various personal benefits received by
members of management. Others may
have raised questions because the
Commission had asked for comments
earlier156 on whether additional disclosure about perquisites should be
required in registration statements
and reports.
The Commission emphasized in this
release that registrants are required to
report in documents filed under the
securities laws the amount of remuneration received by officers and directors
from the company from all sources, includrng salary, fees, bonuses and certain personal benefits, sometimes referred to as "perquisites." This does
not mean, however, that the Commission believes that all benefits received
by management are personal benefits
which must be reported. Certain incidental benefits which are ordinary and
necessary to the conduct of company
business and incidental payments
made by the company for items which
are directly related to the performance
of management's functions at the
company plant or offices may not be
reportable forms of remuneration. The
Commission noted, however. that all
payments made by the company for
personal benefits received by management which are not directly related to
job performance are forms of remueration which should be included within the reported remuneration.
The interpretative release was issued
in order to provide some guidance to
38

registrants in this area. The Commission announced, however, that it
was aware that some questions may be
unanswered by the release. It noted
that the staff is available to assist
with questions involving the appropriate
disclosure of management remuneration and that it will continue to review
its interpretation in light of any specific problems or comments brought to
the attention of the staff by registrants and interested persons.

Beneficial Ownership
On February 24, 1977 the Commission adopted amendments to existing rules and Schedule 130 and new
rules and a Form 130-5 relating to
disclosure by certain beneficial owners
of voting securities pursuant to Section 13(d) of the Exchange ACt.157 At
the same time, the Commissionamended
certain of its forms and schedules under the Securities Act and the Exchange Act to require issuers to disclose information regarding certain
beneficial owners of their securities.158
These amendments and rules were
pnmarily based on the proposals which
were published for comment on August 25, 1975.159 Among other things,
they (1) provide a definition of the
term "beneficial ownership" for the
purposes of Section 13(d) of the Exchange Act; (2) make the disclosure
in Schedule 130 acquisition statements more meaningful to investors
and the reporting of that information
less burdensome to beneficial owners;
(3) provide a short form acquisition notice to be used by certain institutional
investors and certain employee benefit plans acquiring securities in the ordinary course of their business and not
for purposes of control; and (4) provide an exemption from the filing requirements of Section 13(d)(1) for certain underwriters engaging in a registered, firm commitment underwriting.

The amendments to the various registration, reporting and proxy forms
require disclosure in such forms, to the
extent known by the filing company, of
beneficial owners of more than five
percent of any class of voting securities and the aggregate amount and
percentage beneficially owned by all
directors and officers of each class of
voting securities of the issuer and,
depending on the form, its parent and/or
subsidiaries.
All of the rules and forms adopted
or amended on February 24, 1977 were
originally scheduled to become effective
on August 31, 1977. Because of the
substantial practical and interpretative
questions raised by institutional investors regarding compliance with the
new rules as well as objections by
institutions
as to the exclusion of
certain persons from the use of Form
130-5, the Commission postponed
their effective date until April 30,
1978.160 In addition, the Commission
requested public comment with respect
to the objections raised by institutional
investors in order to assure that its
actions were responsive to the public
interest.161 The original comment period on the institutional investor objections was to expire on September
30, 1977; however, upon request, the
Commission extended the period to
October 31, 1977.162
Concurrently with the adoption of
rules and amendments on February
24, 1977 the Commission proposed
additional amendments thereto concerning areas which had not been
specifically subject to public comment in connection with the prior
proposals.l63 These proposed amendments would, among other things,
(1) deem a person to be the beneficial owner of a security if he has
the right to acquire beneficial ownership either within a specified period
of time, pursuant to the automatic

termination of a trust, discretionary
account of similar arrangement, or at
anytime, if otherwise acquired; (2) make
the short form acquisition notice available to certain foreign entities; and
(3) require additional information in
Schedule 130 acquisition statements
concerning the involvement of reporting
persons in civil securities violations
and the plans of reporting persons relating to extraordinary corporate transactions involving the issuer or its subsidiaries. The Commission intends to
coordinate the announcement of its
action on these proposals with any
action which may be necessary as a
result of the objections raised by institutional investors to the rules which
are now scheduled to take effect on
April 30, 1978.

Tender Offers
On July 21, 1977 the Commission adopted Schedule 140-1,164 Tender Offer Statement, which sets forth
the disclosure requirements for persons
making certain tender offers. Concurrently, existing Rule 14d-1 was amended to implement the filing of the new
Schedule and to specify the disclosure
items contained therein which are required to be included or summarized in
the information published, sent or
given to security holders in connection with such tender offers. These
actions, which became effective on
August 31, 1977, are intended to augment the present statutory requirements by providing necessary disclosure to investors to enable them to
make informed decisions in connection
with a tender offer.
Schedule 140-1 contains several
new items which are not contained in
Schedule 130 (which is now used
solely for acquisition statements) and
several significant modifications of
items which are in Schedule 130.
39

These include new Item 3 which requires disclosure of business transactions between the bidder and the
subject company during a specified
three year period as well as information
relating to contacts and negotiations
between those parties concerning the
tender offer and other specified transactions. Item 4 requires additional disclosure regarding a bidder's source of
funds and the bidder's plan to repay
any loan used in connection with the
tender offer. Item 9 requires disclosure of certain financial information of
the bidder if the bidder is other than
a natural person and the bidder's
financial condition is material to a decision by a security holder of the subject company whether to tender, sell
or hold securities being sought in the
tender offer.
The adoption of the Schedule is part
of the Commission's plan to replace its
emergency rules under the Williams
Act with a comprehensive regulatory
framework with respect to tender offers.
The other tender offer proposals which
were published for comment with the
Schedule in August, 1976165 have not
been withdrawn and certain of these
proposals are being revised in response
to the comment letters received from
the public. Upon the completion of the
revisions to these other tender offer
proposals, the Commission presently
anticipates further rulemaking action.

Guide 61 •
 Banks
On August 31, 1976, the Commission authorized the publication
of
Guides 61 and 3, "Statistical Disclosure by Bank Holding Companies" of
the Guides for the Preparation and
Filing of Registration Statements under
the Securities Act and of the Guides
for the Preparation and Filing of Reports and Proxy and Registration Statements under the Exchange Act, respectively.166 These Guides are in40

tended to provide registrants with a
convenient reference to the statistical
disclosures sought by the staff of the
Division of Corporation Finance in registration statements and other disclosure documents filed by bank holding
companies.
As the operations of bank holding
companies have diversified, it has become increasingly difficult for investors
to identify the sources of income of
such companies. And, since various
sources of income can have a wide
range of risk characteristics, investors
may have difficulty assessing the future
earnings potential of a bank holding
company without detailed information
concerning the company's sources of
income and exposure to risks.
In the preparation of the Guides, the
staff has been mindful of the investor's need to assess uncertainties, the
need for disclosure with respect to
changes in risk characteristics, and
specifically the need for substantial
and specific disclosure of changes in
risk characteristics of loan portfolios.
Accordingly, the Guides call for more
meaningful disclosure about loan portfolios and related items in filings by
bank holding companies. In addition,
many of the disclosures suggested by
the Guides are intended to provide information to facilitate analysis and
comparison of sources of income and
exposure to risks. This information
also will assist investors to evaluate
the potential impact of future economic events upon a registrant's business and earnings and to assess the
ability of a bank holding company to
move into or out of situations with
favorable or unfavorable risk/return
characteristics.
The Commission intends to monitor
the experience of registrants and users
of the information provided pursuant
to the Guides to determine, by June
30, 1978, whether the disclosures

sought by the Guides are necessary
and appropriate in the public interest
and for the protection of investors.
In implementing this monitoring program, the staff will survey and interview potential users of the information
including investors, analysts and academicians in order to assess the benefits derived from disclosures provided
pursuant to the Guides. The staff also
will survey registrants in order to determine what additional burdens and
expenses, if any, are incurred in complying with the GUides.

Proposed Form S -16
Primary Offerings

-


On December 20, 1976, the Commission announced that consideration
was being given to amending Form
S-16 to make it available for certain
primary offerings.167 Form S-16 is a
registration form which is comparatively simpler and shorter than other
available registration forms. Generally,
the form is now available for the registration of ce rtai n secu rities of issuers
subject to and in compliance with the
reporting requirements of the Exchange
Act for a period of 36 calendar months
and having a net income of at least
$250,000 during three of their most
recent four years, provided (1) the
securities are being offered for the
account of persons other than the issuer and securities of the same class
are already listed and registered on a
national exchange or are quoted on the
automated quotation system of a national securities association or (2) the
securities are to be offered by the issuer
upon conversion of outstanding convertible securities or upon the exercise of outstanding transferable warrants issued by the issuer. The Commission invited comment on several
factors which were intended to limit
the type of issuers which would be

permitted to use the short form for primary offerings, the kinds of securities
which could be registered on the form,
and the need for and possible content
of additional disclosure items relating
to the direct offering.
Upon consideration of the comments
and the recommendation of the Advisory
Committee on Corporate Disclosure relating to the integration of the Securities Act and the Exchange Act through
the availability of the Form S-16 to
certain registrants generally classified
as Level 1 registrants, the Commission
determined on November I, 1977, to
publish for comment specific amendments to the Form S-16 which would
expand the availability of the form to
certain primary offerings.16B As proposed, the form would be expanded169
to permit the registration of170 (1) securities being offered to the public for
cash by certain issuers about which information is widely disseminated among
the investing public; and (2) securities
being offered by issuers eligible to use
the form to existing shareholders through
either rights offerings or dividend or
interest reinvestment plans. Cnteria
are proposed which are intended to
assure that the protective mechanism
of the full registration process is unnecessary because of the availability
to the offerees of adequate information
about the issuer and the SUitability
of the terms of the offering for the abbreviated disclosure required by the
Form S-16.
Comments were requested on the
following criteria for the eligibility of
the form for the registration of securities offered in primary offerings: the
issue has one or more classes of voting
secu rities held by non-affiliates and
has an aggregate market value of $50
million or more and/or 25,000 secunty
holders and/or there is a certain volume of trading in the issuer's securities; the offering is pursuant to a firm
41

commitment underwriting; and any offering of debt securities is pursuant to
a trust indenture subject to and qualified under the Trust Indenture Act
of 1939. Certain foreign private issuers
would be permitted under these amendments to register securities offered
pursuant to rights offerings; and closed
end management investment companies would be permitted to register on
the Form $-16 securities being offered under Dividend on Interest Reinvestment Plans.
Inasmuch as a prospectus prepared
pursuant to Form $-16 is only required to contain very limited information concerning the identity of the
issuer or the selling security holders
and the plan of distribution, the proposed amendments to the form include
proposals to require additional disclosure in the Form 5-16 about the use
of the proceeds of the offering; the
terms of the securities unless the securities are of the same class which is
registered under Section 12 of the Exchange Act; and certain other information. Further, issuers using the form
for primary offerings would be required
by other proposed amendments to undertake to provide without charge to
all offerees upon their request copies
of any and all of the documents incorporated by reference except that
the issuer may charge reasonable costs
for exhibits to such documents.
In addition, the proposals include
amendments which would: (1) incorporate the long-standing staff practice
of allowing the form to be used for
resales of securities by underwriters
who acquire securities of an issuer in
connection with the issuer's call for
or redemption of convertible securities;
(2) amend the instructions as to required exhibits to include any underwriting agreements or arrangements In
connection with the subject offering;
(3) require the presentation in the
42

prospectus of information about material recent events which were not
disclosed previously in periodic reports filed pursuant to the Exchange
Act; and (4) clarify the existing requirement that the consent of experts
who are named in any of the documents incorporated by reference or
whose reports are used in connection
with such documents must be filed
with the registration statement or by
amendment if the expert is named in
material incorporated in the future.
The Commission believes that these
amendments, if adopted, will reduce
the cost to and simplify the procedures for Issuers making primary offerings of their securities. It is believed that investor protection should
be served adequately by the criteria
proposed for the eligibility of issuers.
Nonetheless, the Commission's paramount responsibility is investor protection and safeguarding the public
interest in connection with sales and
purchases of securities. Therefore, the
proposals are being considered on an
experimental basis; and, if the amendments are adopted, the broadened usage of the form will be monitored
closely to determine the consistence
of this usage with the disclosure goals
of the Securities Act.

Segments
The Commission published for comment proposed amendments to certain
disclosure forms, schedules and rules
relating to industry and homogeneous
geographic segment reportlng.t?' This
action is intended, in part, to avoid
duplication of financial information as
a result of the issuance in December,
1976 by the Financial Accounting
Standards Board (FASB) of the Statement of Financial Accounting Standards No. 14, "Financial Reporting

for Segments of a Business Enterprise"
(SFAS No. 14). These proposals will
also partially implement certain recommendations made by the Advisory
Committee on Corporate Disclosure.172
The Commission also proposed the
development of a new, integrated
disclosure form, Form S-K. Form
S-K should improve and simplify
significantly the disclosure process by
eliminating immaterial differences
among the disclosure requirements in
various registration
and reporting
forms.
SFAS No. 14 requires corporations
to disclose revenue, profitability and
Identifiable
assets information
by
industry and homogeneous geographical segments. Other related disclosures as to the industry segments are
also required.
The Commission's principal forms
for registration under the Securities
Act (Forms S-l, S-7) and for reporting (Form 10-K) and registering
(Form 10) under the Exchange Act
require the presentation of line of
business and foreign operations information which parallels in part the
information required by SFAS No. 14.
Therefore, amendments were proposed
to avoid any duplication and to integrate the two disclosure provisions.
The proposed amendments
would
revise the present reporting requirements to refer to industry segments in
lieu of lines of business and to require
disclosure of the amounts of identifiable assets, revenue from intersegment sales ortransfers, and related
matters in addition to the revenue and
profitability information now required
as to lines of business. Registrants
would be required to present this information together with reconciliations of
the amounts of revenue, operating
profit and identifiable assets to the
related amounts in the consolidated
financial statements of registrants.

In addition, the proposals would require
the presentation of revenue, profitability and identifiable assets information as to foreign and domestic
operations together with the appropriate reconci liations
to re lated
consolidated amounts and disclosure
of the amount of export sales.
The Commission forms presently
require disclosure of financial information relating to lines of business for
a period of five years and accordingly
the proposed amendments
would
require the presentation of financial
information relating to industry segments for five years. SFAS No. 14,
however, is only applicable to "complete" financial statements and the
Commission forms require the inclusion of "complete"
financial statements for at most 2 fiscal years. The
Commission has invited comment
therefore, on whether the proposed
industry segment reporting requirement should apply only retroactively.
Five year financial information as to
foreign and domestic operations,
including the amount of export sales,
would also be required by the proposed
amendments for the purpose of year to
year comparison. This information,
however, would be required only for
fiscal
years
beginning
after
December 15, 1976.
The proposed amendments include
provisions intended to assist registrants in identifying
industry segments. These provisions are substantially similar to portions of SFAS
No. 14. The proposed amendments
differ from SFAS No. 14 in two ways:
financial Information
relating to a
dominant industry segment would be
required by the proposed amendments
if the segment is or was experiencing
a decline in sales or market share
and/or profitability during either of
registrant's most recent two fiscal
years; in addition, information relating
43

to the pricing and recipients of inter.
segment and intra-enterprise sales or
transfers would be required.
Amendments were also proposed
which would require the presentation
of the segment financial information
in annual reports to shareholders and
in certain proxy and information statements.
Finally, amendments were proposed
which would implement the recommendation of the Advisory Committee
that the Commission take action to
integrate the textual disclosure required in Commission forms with the
segmented financial statement disclosures required by SFAS No. 14.
These amendments would require
registrants to focus upon the industry
segments in the description of business
called for by Forms S-l,
10 and
lO-K. The Commission also invited
comments on the Advisory Committee's
recommendation
that segmented
financial statement disclosure be
required in interim reports on Form
lO-Q.

Projections
On April 23, 1976, the Commission
published for comment proposed
Guides 62 and 4, "Disclosure of Projections of Future Economic Performance, "of the Guides for the Preparation and Filing of Registration Statements under the Securities Act of
1933 and of the Guides for the Preparation and Filing of Reports and
Proxy and Registration Statements
under the Securities Exchange Act

of 1934, respectively.!"
The proposed Guides set forth the
views of the Commission's Division of
Corporation Finance on the disclosure
of projections in Commission filings.
In particular, the Guides address three
important considerations related to
the preparation and disclosure of projections: (1) that management have a
44

reasonable basis for its projections;
(2) that the projections be presented
in an appropriate format; and (3) that
the accompanying disclosures facilitate investor understanding of the
basis for and limitations of projections.
In announcing the proposed Guides,
the Commission indicated that it is not
encouraging the making or filing of
projections because of the diversity
of views on their importance and reliability but noted that the reliability
issue, together with the question of
whether a "safe harbor" rule for projections is needed, may be among
those matters appropriately considered
by the Commission's Advisory Committee on Corporate Disclosure.
After termination of the comment
period, no further rulemaking action
was taken on the proposed Guides
pending the Advisory Committee's
recommendations in this area. At its
meeting on February 7 and 8, 1977,
the Advisory Committee tentatively
agreed to recommend that the Commission actively and generally en.
courage the publication of management projections of sales and earnings.
The Committee proposed that the
Commission issue a statement encouraging public companies to disclose projections in filings with the
Commission subject only to the conditions that the projections be prepared
on a reasonable basis, be disclosed in
good faith, and be accompanied by an
appropriate cautionary statement.
In order to make the issuance of
forecasts attractive to managements,
the Committee
determined
that
managements should be accorded
wide latitude in determining the manner and nature of the forecast. Accordingly, the Committee agreed to recommend that the Commission encourage,
but not require, registrants to publish
major assumptions underlying pro-

jections, comparisons of previous
projections with actual results and
management analysis of the variances.
The items of information to be forecasted, the time period to be covered
by the forecast, and the decision to
discontinue forecasting would also be
discretionary with management. Third
party review would be permitted but
not required. The Committee did agree
that the Commission should require
previously issued projections
still
current at the time a registration statement is filed to be included in the
registration statement with appropriate updating if necessary.
The Division will consider proposed
Guides 62 and 4 in light of the Advisory
Committee's recommendations upon
issuance of the Advisory Committee's
final report.

Industry Guides - Rails
On April 28, 1977 the Commission solicited public comment to assist it in
the development of guidelines to be
followed by Class I Railroads in the
preparation of Securities Act and Exchange Act disclosure documents.vThe Commission selected Class I Railroads for guidelines formulation, in
part, because of the impact of the
Railroad Revitalization and Regulatory
Reform Act of 1976.175 This action was
also in futherance of a recommendation
of the Advisory Committee on Corporate Disclosure that the Commission
adopt disclosure guides applicable to
particular industries which are designed to encourage uniform textual
and financial statement disclosure
of material items that are unique to
particular industries.
Among other areas, commentators
were requested to consider guidelines
with respect to: (l) line of business
reporting, (2) the status of physical
plant and equipment, (3) the average
return on invested capital, (4) competi-

tive conditions and position, and (5)
disclosure of deferred maintenance.
The Commission also recognized that
deferred
maintenance
is a phenomenon facing a substantial portion
of the railroad industry. Accordingly,
the Commission requested comment
on the development of a uniform definition of deferred maintenance, uniform methodology for its quantification
and the appropriate
standards of
disclosure for such amount under the
Federal securities laws.
Because of the substantial differences of opinion on the appropriateness of betterment versus depreciation
accounting for purposes of financial
reporting by railroads, the Commission
also invited comment as to whether
betterment accounting should continue to be an acceptable accounting
principle for railroads for reporting
their financial position in filings with
the Commission and in reports to
shareholders.
The original comment period on
these issues was to expire on June 17,
1977; however, upon request, the
Commission extended the period to
September 16, 1977.176 The staff of
the Division of Corporation Finance
and of the Office of the Chief Accountant are currently conducting a review
and analysis of the letters of comment
as well as other materials developed
internally.

Industry Guides - Electric and Gas
Utilities
On May 10, 1977, the Commission
announced its intention to develop
guidelines for the disclosure to be
included in registration statements
and reports filed by electric and gas
utility companies under the Federal
securities regulations.!" The decision
to develop industry guidelines for this
industry represents another step in the
Commission's undertaking to imple45

ment the recommendation made by
the Advisory Committee on Corporate
Disclosure" " that the Commission
develop on a limited experimental
basis disclosure guides for specific
industries in order to encourage uniform textual and financial statement
disclosure of material items which
are unique to a particular industry.
The guidelines would not constitute
Commission rules nor would they bear
the Commission's official approval,
rather, they would represent policies
and practices followed by the Division
in administering
the disclosure requirements of the Federal securities
laws. Generally, their format will be
similar to that of the disclosure guidelines for the bank holding company
industry.
The electric and gas utility industry
was selected as one of the industries
for guideline development because of
the high demand of the industry for
capital, the unavailability to this heavily
regulated industry of current pricing
adjustments for carrying through to
customers increased expenses, and
their ever-increasing needs for energy.
Users and preparers of information
relating to electric and gas utility
companies were Invited to comment.
The release mentions certain matters
which may be appropriate for disclosure
development and invites comments
on these matters.
The comment period on the proposals expired on September
15,
1977.179
Repeal of Form 12-K, etc.
Pursuant to Section 13(b) of the
ExchangeAct, the Commission is granted
authority to, among other things, prescribe the appropriate accounting methods to be used by registrants filing
reports with the Commission. Section
308(b) of the Railroad Revitalization
and Regulatory Reform Act,180 as en46

acted on February 5, 1976, significantly amended and expanded this
authority. As amended, Section 13(b)
no longer specifically requires that
the Commission allow ICC regulated
carriers to file reports submitted to
the ICC in lieu of the information
specified by other Commission forms.
In addition, Section 13(b) now provides that Commission rules applicable to registrants whose methods of
accounting are prescribed by other
laws or regulations may be inconsistent with the disclosure requirements
of the other agencies to the extent
that the Commission determines that
the public interest or the protection
of investors so requires.
On September 3, 1976 the Commission proposed to exercise its expanded
authority under Section 13(b) and
puolished for comment proposedamendments to Rules 13a -13, 14a-3, 14c3 and 15d -13 and the revocation of
Rule 13b-l and Form 12-K.181 These
amendments were designed to require
that those registrants regulated by
the ICC, FPC, and CAB which currently file copies of annual and quarterly reports submitted to their respective agencies in lieu of Commission
Forms 10-K and 10-Q instead file
reports in compliance with Forms
10-K and lO-Q and the regulations
governing such reports.
After review of the comment letters
received and further consultation with
interested government agencies, the
Commission on April 28, 1977 adopted
the September proposals substantially
as proposed with the result that registrants reporting to the ICC, FPC,
FCC and CAB must now fife on Commission Forms lO-K and lO-Q for
periods ending on or after October I,

1977.182
During this proceeding it was also
suggested by a number of railroad
commentators that lessor and switching

company railroads should be the subject of a broad exemption from the
financial statements requirements of
Forms 10-K and 1O_Q183 In connection with its adoption of the September proposals, the Commission
announced that it was considering the
formulation of rules and requested
public comment regarding the appropriateness of providing such an exemption.l84
Based on its review of the public
comment received, especially the fact
that relatively few issuers would be
within the scope of any exemptive rule
of the type considered by the Commission, the Commission determined and
announced on October 5, 1977,185that
it was no longer considering the proposal of a general exemptive rule and
that such matters would be most appropriately considered in the context
of applications for exemption filed
under Section 12(h) of the Exchange
ACt.18S

INVESTMENT COMPANIES
The Division of Investment Management is responsibleforthe administration
of the regulatory provisions of the Investment Company and the Investment AdvisersActs of 1940, and performs certain
functions relating to disclosure requirements applicable to investment
companies and certain similar types
of issuers. For possibly the first time
since the enactment of the Investment
Company Act, the Division is undertaking a comprehensive review of each
of the provisions of this statute and
of related legislation. The study will
seek to identify instances of overregulation, remedy legislative gaps and
examine certain entities now excluded
from coverage to determine the appropriateness of comparable regulation.

Bank Study
Section

11A(e) of the Exchange

Act, added by the Securities Acts
Amendments of 1975, authorizes and
directs the Commission to study the
extent to which banks maintain accounts on behalf of public customers
for buying and selling securities registered under Section 12 of the Exchange Act and whether the exclusion
of banks from the Exchange Act definitions of "broker" and "dealer" are
consistent with the protection of investors and the other purposes of that
Act. Section llA(e) also directs the
Commission to report the results of its
study, together with such recommendations for legislation as the Commission deems advisable, to the Congress
by December 31, 1976.
The major categones of bank securities services considered as part of the
Bank Study are: (1) brokerage-type
services, such as dividend reinvestment plans, employee stock purchase
plans, automatic investment services
and customer transactions service;
and (2) certain aspects of bank investment management and advisory
services, such as advice and assistance to corporate issuers in connection with private placements or mergers, acquisitions and divestitures.
Since only limited public information
concerning those services was available, the staff prepared a Bank Study
Questionnaire and pre-tested it on a
sample of potential bank respondents.
Thereafter, the Bank Study Questionnaire was submitted to the General
Accounting Office for approval pursuant to the Federal Reports Act.
Following General Accounting Office
approval, the Questionnaire was sent
to a statistical sample of 261 banks
and trust companies. Also, since much
of the necessary factual information
regarding these bank securities services was not susceptible to collection
through a questionnaire, interviews
were commenced with bank officials
47

and with representatives of securities
firms offering comparable services.
In the course of the study, the Commission submitted to the Congress
three Reports on Bank Securities Activities. The Initial Report presented detailed factual and statistical analyses
of four bank-sponsored brokerage-type
services which are similar to services
offered by broker-dealers. The Second
Report set forth the comparative regulatory framework relating to banks
and broker-dealers in offering and
operating each of the four services
from the point of view of investor
protection. The Final Report examined
the corporate financing services and
trust department securities trading
activities of banks. The Final Report
also included the Commission's conclusions and recommendations for legislation regarding all of these bank
securities activities.
Although the Commission concluded
that eliminating the exclusion of banks
from the definitions of "broker" and
"dealer"in some respects would result
in duplicative and unduly burdensome
regulation, the Commission established
that some bank brokerage and investment management activities are not
subject to an entirely adequate regulatory structure. Such documentation reinforced a number of concerns
raised by earlier Congressional hearings
on bank securities activities. In addition, the Commission's study identified regulatory disparities which, unless
corrected, may result in undetected
securities law violations resulting from
bank securities activities.
The Commission, in its Final Report,
submitted to the Congress specific
recommendations, to enhance those
basic investor safeguards currently
unavailable to bank customers and to
prevent regulatory disparities from recurring with the passage of time.
Those recommendations have been in48

corporated

into S.2131, which was
introduced by Senator Williams on
September 22, 1977.

Distribution Costs
A matter of chief concern to the
Division of Investment Management
has been the question of whether investment companies should be permitted to use their assets to pay for
advertising, dealers' compensation and
other expenses associated with the
distribution of shares. In November of
1976 the Commission held public
hearings to gain the benefit of the
views of interested members of the
public, including the industry, with
respect to th is matter."? The hearings
were designed to assist the Commission in its consideration of the legal
question of whether it is legal under
any circumstances for a mutual fund
to bear distribution expenses, directly
or indirectly, and whether, and to what
extent, the Commission presently has
authority to permit, prohibit, or limit
the use of mutual fund assets to finance various costs of distribution.
Also, views were sought on the policy question of whether such use of
fund assets would be in the public
interest, assuming this is, or could
be made, legal. At the close of the
fiscal year, the Division was continuing to evaluate the information provided by the hearings.

Variable Life Insurance
In December 1975, the Commission
announced a proposal to adopt Rule
6e-2 under the Investment Company
Act, which would exempt separate accounts formed by life insurance companies to fund certain variable life insurance contracts from the registration requirements of the Act on the
condition that such separate accounts
comply with all but certain designated
provisions of the Act. The due date

for comments was extended until March
31, 1976.
A variable life insurance contract
differs from a traditional whole life
insurance policy principally because
the death benefit under the contract
mayor may not increase based upon
the performance of a separate account
of securities in which a portion of
the fixed premiums has been invested.
Moreover, the insured accepts the investment risks that the cash surrender
value of his policy will be higher or
lower than it would otherwise be under
a traditional life insurance policy, since
this value also reflects the performance of the separate account.
The proposal of Rule 6e-2 followed
the granting of an application in October 1975 for an order of exemption
from certain provisons of the Act filed
by Equitable Variable Life Insurance
Company (EVLlCO), the Equitable Life
Assurance Society of the United States,
and EVLlCO's separate account, which
is registered under the Act as an
open-end management investment company. On October 18, 1976 the Commission announced the adoption of
Rule 6e-2 essentially as proposed.1BB
At the same time, in response to
comments received on proposed Rule
6e-2, the Commission announced the
adoption of Rule 6c-3, which provides
exemptions for separate accounts which
meet the requirements of Rule 6e-2,
but which choose to register, under
the same terms and conditions as nonregistered separate accounts.

Brochure Rule
On July 21, 1977, the Commission
published for comment proposed Rule
204-4 under the Investment Advisers
ActlB9, which would require registered
investment advisers to furnish their
clients and prospective clients with
written disclosure statements containing certain specified information, and

to maintain a copy of such written
statement as part of their books and
records. It was the Division's feeling
that, in the absence of such a requirement, clients and prospective clients
of registered investment advisers may
not receive certain information which
would assist them in evaluating and
comparing advisory firms. At the same
time the Commission announced proposed revisions in Form ADV, the registration form under the Investment
Advisers Act, and a proposed new
Form ADV-S which would serve as
an annual update for all registered investment advisers.19o
The proposals are designed to provide the Commission with more information than is presently available
about a fast growing industry. The
number of registered advisers has increased by almost 25 percent in the
past year. Because the advisory industry is so large and diverse, the Division staff received many responses to
its requests for comments on these
proposals and the matter is under active consideration.

E. I. Du Pont de Nemours & Co.
et al, v. Collins et al,
On June 23, 1976, the Court of
Appeals for the Eighth Circuit, one
Judge dissenting, set aside a Commission order which granted a joint application by E. I. Du Pont de Nemours
and Company and Christiana Securities
Company for an exemption from the
Investment Company Act which would
permit the proposed merger of the two
companies. Application for a rehearing
en banc was denied on February 27,
1976. The Supreme Court, however,
granted the Commission's petition for
certiorari.
On June 16, 1977 the Supreme
Court held that the Commission reasonably exercised its discretion under
49

Section 17(b) of the Investment Company Act in approving the merger of
a closed-end investment company, 98
percent of whose assets consisted of
Du Pont Co. common stock, into an
affiliated company, Du Pont. The court
found that the record before the Commission reveals substantial evidence
to support the findings of the Commission and the Commission's conclusions of law were based on a construction of the statute consistent
with the legislative intent.191

ENFORCEMENT
Significant Cases Involving
Securities Acts
SEC v. Advance Growth Capital Corporation et. al.192_The United States
Court of Appeals for the Seventh Circuit affirmed a district court's refusal
to vacate a permanent injunction that
had been entered in a Commission enforcement action.
Appellants, the two individual defendants in the action, had been permanently enjoined, on April 9, 1973, from
engaging in certain conduct which
would constitute violations of the Investment Company Act. On a writ of
mandamus, the Court of Appeals had
directed the district judge to enter a
permanent injunction that had been
drafted by the Commission's staff.
Twenty-seven months later, the appellants moved to vacate the injunction
under Rule 60(b)(5) of the Federal
Rules of Civil Procedure, which authorizes a district court to grant relief
from a final judgment, inter alia, when
"it is no longer equitable that the judgment should have prospective application .... " In support of their motion,
they asserted, inter alia, that they had
(1) complied with provisions of the Investment Company Act; (2) suffered
embarrassment as a result of being enjoined; and (3) been denied the right
to participate in the management of
50

Advance Growth Capital Corporation.
The district court denied the motion
on the ground that is lacked jurisdiction to modify or vacate the injunction without direction from the court
of appeals.
Although the court of appeals found
considerable authority to the effect
that a motion in the same case for
relief from a judgment entered pursuant to appellate mandate cannot be
entertained by the trial court without
appellate leave, it indicated that it
would probably not go so far as to
hold that appellate leave is necessary
whenever relief is sought under Rule
60(b)(5).
The court of appeals affirmed the
motion to vacate on the merits on
the ground that any relief granted on
the basis of the facts alleged in the
motion would have been error since
the defendants had made no showing
that they were suffering a grievous
wrong as the result of new circumstances that were not forseen at the
time the injunction was entered.
SEC v. Arthur Lipper Corp. and
Arthur Lipper, III. 193_ln this case the
Court of Appeals for the Second Circuit affirmed the Commission's findings
that Arthur Lipper III and Lipper
Corporation had aided and abetted violations of the Federal securities laws
by engaging in a fraudulent scheme
whereby the investment adviser to a
complex of mutual funds defrauded
those funds and their shareholders of
over $1,450,000.
Mr. Lipper and
Lipper Corp. facilitated this scheme by
charging the funds excessive commissions for executing securities transactions in the United States over-thecounter markets and then funnelling
50 percent of those commissions to a
subsidiary of the funds' investment adviser. In view of such conduct, the
Commission had determined it to be in
the public interest to revoke Lipper

Corporation's broker-dealer registration
and to bar Mr. Lipper from future association with any broker or dealer.
The court of appeals, however, viewed
such sanctions as "too severe" and
stated that, under the "special circumstances" of this case, selection of
those sanctions constituted an abuse
of discretion. As a consequence, it
then "limited" the sanctions to suspension of Lipper Corporation's registration for 12 months and the barring
of Mr. Lipper from association with any
broker or dealer for the same period.
The Commission filed a petition for a
writ of certiorari on August 19, 1977.
SEC v. World Radio Mission194On January 16, 1976, the Commission
filed a complaint alleging that World
Radio Mission (WRM), a religious organization, and Clinton D. White, president of WRM, were violating the antifraud provisions of the Federal securities laws by selling securities, in the
form of notes and loan plans, to the
public while misstating and omitting
to state material facts. The district
court subsequently denied a motion by
the Commission for preliminary relief
holding that in light of the First Amendment considerations involved, the Commission was not entitled to preliminary relief since it had failed to establish that irreparable harm to the public
would result from the denial of the requested preliminary relief.
On appeal the Commission argued
that the district court erred in requiring
it to establish irreparable injury to the
public, urging that while the Free Exercise Clause protects religious practices
it does not immunize fraud.
In response to the defendants' arguments that the Commission had failed
to establish an intent to deceive, the
Commission argued that the holding in
Ernst & Ernst v. Hochfelder,195 that a
private action for damages under Rule

lOb-5 may not be based on simple
negligence, was not applicable to this
action for injunctive relief brought
by the Commission and based on
vlolations of Section 17(a) of the Securities Act, as well as Section lO(b)
of the Exchange Act and Rule lOb-5
thereunder.
The Court of Appeals for the First
Circuit agreed with the Commission,
holding that: "From the standpoint of
an SEC injunction against violations
which the court finds are likely to persist,' a defendants' state of mind is irrelevant."19B The court also rejected
the argument that defendants' sale of
securities was protected by the First
Amendment, noting that Congress had
not exempted the securities of religious organizations from the anti-fraud
provisions of the Federal securities
laws.
SEC v. Petrofunds, lnc., et al., 197_
In this case the district judge denied
defendants' demand for a jury trial
but, pursuant to 28 U.S.C. 1292(b),
certified for immediate appeal the
question of whether they were entitled
to a jury trial in an action where the
Commission sought injunctive and ancillary relief, including an accounting
and disgorgement to investors of illicit profits.19B Petrofunds and certain
other defendants, with leave of the
court of appeals, took an interlocutory
appeal from that order., Subsequently,
the court of appeals, after considering
the Commission's motion, dismissed
with prejudice the appeal for failure of
appellants to prosecute it.199
In denying the defendants' demand
for a jury trial, the district judge rejected defendants' argument that the
Commission "stands in the shoes of
private litigants with respect to its
claims for ancillary relief,
because
the purpose of a Commission enforcement action is to safeguard the public interest by enjoining violations of
II

51

the Federal securities laws.20oAccordingly, he held that the relief sought by
the Commission "springs out of the
policy of public enforcement of the
provisions of the securities laws and
exists as an exercise of the equity
powers of the Federal court" and
"cannot fairly be analogized to any
form of relief available at common
law."201 He noted, however, that the
case apparently raised for the first
time the issue "whether defendants in
an SEC enforcement action are entitled
under the Seventh Amendment to a
jury trial when part of the relief requested is an accounting for, and concomitant disgorgement of, illegal profits, "202and thus he certified the question for appeal.
Nassar and Company, Inc. v. SEC203
-The United States Court of Appeals
for the District of Columbia Circuit, in
reviewing a Commission order,204vacated and remanded that order which had
revoked the company's registration as a
broker and dealer and barred George M.
Nassar from association with any broker
ordealer, while affirming a dismissal by
the district court of the appellants' related action to have the Commission's
order declared null and void.20S The
Commission's order was based on its
determination that the evidence before
it demonstrated "*** a high pressure
sales effort that lasted for a long time,
was unsupported by any semblance of
an adequate foundation, and was characterized by grossly reckless price predictions. "206After reviewing the Commission's findings, the court noted the
absence of a discussion by the Commission concerning the appropriate
mental state required for violations of
Section 17(a) of the Securities Act and
Section lO(b) of the Exchange Act and
Rule lOb-5 thereunder.207 Accordmgly, in deference to its opinion in
Collins Securities Corp. v. Securities
and Exchange Commission, 208the court
52

remanded the case to the Commission
for reconsideration in the light of Ernst
& Ernst v. Hochfelder.209
SEC v. American Commodity Exchange, et al.21°-This action involved
thirty-six individual and corporate defendants who were alleged to have engaged in a massive fraudulent scheme
in connection with the offer and sale
of purported commodity option contracts. The complaint alleged that certain individuals devised a scheme involving the passage of legislation by a
state legislature which defined commodity option contracts as securities
for purposes of state law, but which
exempted from registration those commodity option contracts which were
purchased or sold on the floor of a
bona fide exchange or board of trade
by a broker-dealer registered with the
state securities commission. As a secondary step in the scheme, certain individuals undertook to create a commodities exchange which, with the assistance of the then state securities
administrator, became the only such
exchange in the state. No commodity
option transactions ever took place on
the floor of the exchange; in fact, the
exchange and the clearing house merely
served as vehicles for the individuals
to collect unearned fees from brokerage houses which were required to join
the exchange under threats of reprisals.
The Commission alleged that the purported commodity option contracts
constituted "securities"
within the
scope of the Federal securities laws
and that the defendants had violated
Section 17(a) of the Securities Act,
Section lO(b) of the Exchange Act and
Rule lOb-5 thereunder in connection
with the fraudulent offers and sales of
such interests.
Of the thirty-six defendants, twenty
consented to the entry of Final Judgments of Permanent Injunction with-

out admitting or denying the allegapeals for the Third Circuit, on a petitions of the complaint. Default judgtion for review of a Commission order
ments were entered against seven affirming disciplinary action taken by
other defendants. The complaint was the NASD against a broker-dealer and
dismissed without prejudice against
its president, upheld the Commission's
two other defendants who were not finding that the broker-dealer violated
served. Final Judgments of Permanent
Rules 1, 4, and 18 of Article III of
Injunction by Summary JUdgment were the NASD Rules of Fair Practice. The
entered against the remaining seven brokerage firm had created the apdefendants for violations of Securities
pearance of a shortage of the stock
Act Section 17(a), Exchange Act Sec- it was underwriting by refusing to sell
tion 10(b), and Rule lOb-5 therethe amounts requested by certain of
under. Only one defendant chose to its customers in the initial distribution,
appeal the entry of the injunction
and, thereafter, when substantially all
against him.
the stock was under its control, the
The court of appeals affirmed that
firm solicited its customers to buy and
district court judgment and held that
sell the stock at substantially increased
violations of the antifraud provisions of prices. The court, however, found
the securities laws resulted from the that procedural errors had been comscheme involving the creation of the
mitted by the NASD, and accordingly
purported exchange and clearing house vacated the Commission's order with
and the collection of fees for which
instructions that the case be referred
no legitimate function had been per- back to the NASD.
formed. It also stated that the disSEC v. Mor-Film Fare, Inc. etal.212trict court correctly held that the pur- The Commission issued an order diported commodity option contracts,
recting a private investigation into
in the circumstances of this case, were possible violations of the registration
investment contracts and thus securi- and antifraud provisions of the Federal
ties within the Federal securities laws. securities laws by Mor-Film Fare, Inc.
Further, in its opinion the court of and others (appellants). It appeared,
appeals held that the passage of the from the staff's informal inquiry, that
Commodity Futures Trading Commis- the appellants were selling unregistered
sion Act of 1974 did not strip this
securities in the form of interests in
Commission of authority to institute
limited partnerships and making false
this action after the effective date of and misleading statements concerning,
that Act for conduct which occurred
inter alia, the cost and value of propprior to the effective date of that Act. erties acquired by the partnership,
And with respect to the Commission's
the nature and existence of assets of
motion for summary judgment, the the partnership and the performance
Tenth Circuit stated that it was pro- and operations of such properties or
per for the Commission to submit in- assets.
Pursuant to the Commission's order,
vestigative transcripts in support of its
summary judgment motion, since such subpoenas duces tecum, were issued
to the appellants requiring them to
transcripts "are equivalent to affidaproduce relevant books and records
vits in terms of the quality of the
of their respective business entities,
evidence involved."
Todd and Company, Inc. and Thomas but the appellants did not fully comK. Langbein v. SEC211-0n June 27, ply with the subpoenas. Accordingly,
1977, the United States Court of Ap- the Commission applied to the United
53

States District Court for the Central
purchase stock for the accounts of
District of California for an order to another group of individuals. The court
show cause why the appellants should
of appeals affirmed the Commission's
not be compelled to produce the ma- finding that the prospectus should
terials requested under the subpoenas.
have been changed to reflect the
The district court ordered the appelchanged method of distributing the
lants to comply with the subpoenas
stock, noting that "Iilf it was too late
and they appealed that order.
to disclose the change, the investors
The appellants argued before the
had a right to assume that the prosCourt of Appeals for the Ninth Cir- pectus would be complied with, not
cuit, that the Commission's subpoenas
changed."
were issued in connection with an unHandler. et al. v. SEC, et al.215_
lawfully authorized purpose, sought
In this case three former officers of
materials irrelevant to the investigation,
Mattei, Inc., sought, among other
were broad and unreasonable, and that
things, a declaratory judgment voiding
the officers of the business entities
portions of a consent decree negounder investigation could assert their
tiated in an independent action, SecuFifth Amendment privilege against self- rities and Exchange Commission v.
incrimination to avert the production of MatteI, Inc., Civ. Action No. 74subpoenaed business entity documents.
2958-FW (C.D. Calif.), which estabThe Ninth Circuit, in a memorandum
lished, among other things, a Special
opinion, affirmed the district court's
Counsel and Special Auditor to conorder requiring obedience to the subduct an investigation of Mattei as a
poenas.
result of the reporting violations and
other corporate improprieties which
A. J. White & Co. and Allen J.
White v. SEC213-0n June 15, 1977,
had come to the Commission's attention.
the United States Court of Appeals for
Plaintiffs instituted this action 15 months
the First Circuit affirmed a Commission after the public dissemination of the
order revoking the registration as a reports of the special professionals
broker-dealer of A. J. White & Co., and over 2 years after the entry of
and barring its president, Allen J.
the consent decree. In addition to an
White, from association with any broker- order voiding the terms of the condealer.214 The Commission had found
sent decree, the plaintiffs sought an
injunction prohibiting the defendant's
that the broker-dealer and its president had violated the antifraud, extenuse in any manner of any information
sion of credit, record-keeping, and
or materials compiled by the Special
Counsel and Special Auditor.
prospectus-delivery provisions of the
In granting the Commission's motions,
Federal securities laws in connection
with a "best efforts, 65,000 shares or the court found, as the Commission
had urged, that it had the power to
none" underwriting of common stock
in Develco Corp. When the brokerenforce the consent decree, that there
dealer became aware that it would be was no unlawful delegation of power
unable to sell the requisite number
from either the district court or the
of shares to investors in bona fide
Commission, and that plaintiffs contransactions, instead of refunding in- stitutional rights had been, or would
vestors' money it resorted to unusual
be, appropriately protected.
financing arrangements involving subPlaintiffs had challenged the terms
stantial bank loans in the names of of the negotiated consent decrees on
one group of individuals being used to the grounds that (1) the entry of the
54

consent decree judgment and appro- concealed from the public shareholders
val of the Special Counsel and Special of Parklane the facts that: (1) the
Auditor contravened the limits of the
purpose of the going private transacdistrict court's judicial authority as tion was to enable Somekh to disdefined by Article III of the United
charge his personal debts from ParkStates Constitution; (2) the judgment
lane's treasury; (2) Parklane had enrepresented an unlawful delegation of gaged in negotiations suggesting that
powers in several respects and was a leasehold held by the company might
violative of the separation of powers be saleable for an amount which would
net Parklane $300,000; and (3) the
clause of the Federal Constitution; and
independent appraisal of Parklane's
(3) the judgment unlawfully comproshares reflected in the proxy statemised several of the plaintiffs constitutional rights.
ment had been conducted in the abIn moving to dismiss the action or, sence of relevant information (including items (1) and (2), above).
alternatively, for summary judgment,
The defendants noticed an appeal
the Commission had argued that the
from the district court's decision,
entry of the consent decree judgment
arguing that the information was diswas clearly within the scope of the
district court's broad equity powers; closed to the extent it was required
that plaintiffs misconceived the roles to be, that the information not disclosed was not material to investors,
of the special professionals when they
and that any violations of the law were
characterized them as agents of the
Commission and that plaintiffs conirrelevant, since Somekh owned or
stitutional rights had been, and would
controlled 72 percent of Parklane's
be, appropriately protected.
securities, and the shareholders were
SEC v. Parklane Hosiery CO.,216
powerless to stop the merger in any
Inc.-In this case, the Court of Appeals
event. The Commissionthereupon crossfor the Second Circuit affirmed the
appealed from that portion of the disfindings of violation made by the district court's decision which denied the
trict court, but declined to reverse
Commission's prayer for permanent inthat court and enter a decree of perjunctive relief.
manent injunction. This action was inIn its decision, the court of appeals
stituted against Parklane Hosiery Co.,
held that the district judge's concluInc. and Herbert Somekh, Parklane's
sions were not clearly erroneous, and
that there were material omissions
chief officer and major shareholder.
The Commission had alleged, and the
from Parklane's proxy statement. In so
district court found, that Parklane had
holding, the court rejected the degone public by selling 300,000 shares
tendants reliance on the Supreme
of stock to the public at $9 per share.
Court's decision in Santa Fe Ind. v.
Green,
U.S.
(1977), emphasizing
In 1974, because of heavy financial
that Santa Fe was a private action
pressure relating to Somekh's personal
for damages under Rule 10b-5 whereas
finances, Somekh concocted a scheme
to take Parklane private, at $2 per
this case was a Commission injunctive
share. The Commission's complaint
action for violations of the proxy,
periodic reporting and antifraud proalleged, and the district court found,
visions of the Federal securities laws.
that the proxy statement seeking approval from Parklane's shareholders
Moreover, the court of appeals concluded that in Parklane, unlike the
for the going-private merger was materially false and misleading, since it
situation conceded to exist in Santa
55

Fe, had the shareholders of Parklane
been aware of Somekh's reasons for
the going-private transaction, they, or
others, might well have been able to
enjoin the merger under New York law
as having been undertaken for no
valid corporate purpose. Such a capacity to sue under state law, the court
concluded, makes the omissions material, irrespective of Somekh's controlling influence over Parklane.
In re Weis Securities, Inc. 217_ln this
case the district court held in enforcing subordinated loan agreements In a
broker-dealer liquidation, that customers and creditors need not show actual reliance on subordination agreements, but that reliance on subordinated loans should be presumed as a
matter of law. In that case, a number
of subordinated
lenders sought to
rescind their subordination agreements
and share in the distribution
with
customers or with general creditors of
Weis on the ground that the subordinated lenders had been fraudulently
induced to enter into such loan agreements. Under both Commission and
New York Stock Exchange rules, Weis
was permitted to treat subordinated
loans as part of its capital for the
purpose of meeting its net capital
requirements.
The Commission argued in the district court and in its brief in the court
of appeals.s'" that the Federal policy
of customer protection embodied in
the Federal securities laws relating to
the financial responsibility of brokerdealers, including the net capital requirements, requires that subordinated
lenders not be permitted to rescind
subordination agreements, even if fraudulently procured, where rescission would
adversely affect customer claims. The
Commission also took the position that
since the remedy of rescission is generally inapplicable in liquidations where,
as in Weis, the funds or securities

56

with which a creditor has been fraudulently induced to part cannot be traced
or identified, to the extent that a subordinated lender has any claim, it could
only be a tort claim for fraud. Accordingly, the Commissionexpressed the
view that subordinated lenders could participate in the Weis estate, if at all,
only with the claims of non-customer
creditors after customer claims have
been satisfied.
SEC v. Bausch & Lomb219-The
United States Court of Appeals for the
Second Circuit, determined not to reverse a district court's determination
to deny the Commission's application
for injunctive and other equitable relief. In the district court, the Commission had alleged that Bausch & Lomb,
through its Chairman of the Board, had
selectively disclosed material. inside
information to a few securities analysts.
But, the district court was "*** not
convinced *** that absent an injunction there is a reasonable likelihood
that defendants will violate the securities laws in the future, "220and therefore denied the Commission's prayer
for equitable relief. The district court
also opined that scienter is a necessary
component in an action brought by the
Commission under Section lO(b) of the
Exchange Act and Rule lOb-5.221 In
affirming the judgment below, the
court of appeals did not reach the
scienter question, stating: "We need
not now decide whether Hochfelder[222]
mandates abandonment of our longstanding rule that proof of past negligence will suffice to sustain an SEC
injunction action. "223The court of appeals agreed with the district court
that the Commission had not established the necessity for an injunction
to prevent future violations and was
"*** not inclined to SUbstitute its
judgment for that of the experienced
trial judge who heard the witnesses
and had the 'opportunity by observa-

tion better to prophesy future conduct than we can on this printed
record'. "224
Natural Resources Defense Council,
et al. v. SEC225_This decision is the
most recent development in a six-year
effort by several public interest groups
to compel the Commission to adopt
rules requiring publicly-held companies
to disclose non-material226 information
concerning their environmental and
employment practices in documents
filed with the Commission or distributed to shareholders. The plaintiffs
had argued that the Commission was
compelled to adopt the disclosure policy they favor by the National Environmental Policy Act of 1969, 42 U.S.C.
4321 et seq. The court rejected this
contention, but remanded the matter
to the Commission for further consideration because of certain "flaws" that
it believed marred the Commission's
decision-making process, including,
inter aha, the failure to conduct "cost!
benefit" studies, the failure t9 consider adopting the plaintiffs' suggestions only with respect to proxy disclosures, and the Commission's reliance,
in part, on the activities of other governmental agencies. The Commission
has taken an appeal to the United
States Court of Appeals for the District of Columbia Circuit.
Collins Securities Corp. v. SEC227-ln
this case the Court of Appeals for the
District of Columbia reversed and remanded a Commission order revoking
the broker-dealer and investment adviser registrations of Collins Securities
Corporation and barring Timothy Collins,
its principal, from association with a
broker or dealer (provided that after
two years he could apply to become so
associated in a position not directly
or indirectly connected to market making activities). The Commission found
that Collins Securities Corporation and
Mr. Collins had violated numerous pro-

visions of the Federal securities laws,
including manipulation of the market
for securities of Big Horn National Life
Insurance Company.228
The court of appeals did not address
either the respondents' substantive
objections to the Commission's findings
of violations of the Federal securities
laws or the contentions they made regarding the propriety of the statutorilyauthorized sanctions. Instead, after
briefly describing the underlying factual setting, the court focused upon
the standard of proof applicable in
broker-dealer administrative proceeding
involving allegations of violations of
antifraud provisions of the Federal
securities laws. In that connection,
the court held that the Commission
had erred in basing its decision on the
"preponderance of the evidence" standard of proof because the court believed "clear and convincing evidence"
is required in administrative proceedings
involving charges of fraud, at least
where the sanction is expulsion from
the securities industry. It thus remanded the matter to the Commission
for a reexamination of the entire evidentiary record. Further, in light of the
Supreme Court's decision in Ernst &
Ernst v. Hochfelder,229 the court of
appeals directed the Commission to
consider the applicability of a scienter
requirement to fraud charges in Commission administrative proceedings.
SEC v. Universal Major Industries
Corporation, et al. 23°_In this case, the
district court found that Arthur Homans,
an attorney, through the issuance of
opinion letters asserting the legality
of the distribution of nearly 3.5 million
shares of unregistered Universal Major
Industries Corporation common stock
to over 600 individuals, aided and
abetted a violation of Section 5 of the
Securities Act. The court held that
"in some circumstances Homans knew,
and in other circumstances had reason

57

predicated upon negligence alone and
to know, that his client was engaging
that proof of scienter is unnecessary. 235
in illegal distributions of its common
Sloan v. SEC236_ln this case Samuel
stock and that his letters were being
used to further those distributions. "231 H. Sloan challenged the Commission's
Having found that the Commission had authority to issue a series of consecmade a prima facie showing of vioutive summary trading suspension orlations of the Federal securities laws, ders, which had suspended trading in
and that there existed a reasonable
the common stock of Canadian Javelikelihood of future violations by Mr.
lin Ltd. on the American Stock ExHomans, the district court granted the
change and in the over-the-counter
Commission's request for injunctive
market for consecutive ten-day periods
relief.
from April 29, 1975 through May 2,
1976. These orders were entered purMr. Homans appealed the district
suant to the authority conferred upon
court decision to the United States
the Commission by former Sections
Court of Appeals for the Second Cir15(c)(5) and 19(a)(4) of the Exchange
232
cuit.
The Commission, in its answerAcf237 and, after the Securities Acts
ing brief, argued that (1) the offer and
Amendments of 1975 became effecsale of Universal Major Industries comtive, by new Section 12(k) of the
mon stock, under the circumstances
Act,238which restated and consolidated
described above, was not exempt from
the Commission's authority to issue
registration pursuant to Section 4{2)
summary trading suspension orders.
of the Securities Act; (2) the district
In the court of appeals, Mr. Sloan
court correctly concluded that Univerargued, among other things, that the
sal Major Industries common stock
Commission's authority to suspend
was sold as part of a public offering;
trading is limited by the statute to
(3) aiding and abetting liability could
"a period not exceeding ten days. "239
be imposed for Section 5 violations;
The Commission contended that the
(4) the scienter requirement enumlegislative history of the Securities
erated in Ernst & Ernst v. Hochfelder233
Acts Amendments of 1964, which
has no application in an action inadded Section 15(c)(5) to the Act,
volving Section 5j and (5) the dismakes clear that Congress had actrict court did not abuse its discretion
cepted the Commission's practice of
in enjoining Mr. Homans from particiissuing consecutive suspension orders
pating in further violations of the regat the time that the Commission's
istration provisions of the Securities
summary suspension authority was exAct.
tended to include securities traded in
the over-the-counter market.
The Court of Appeals for the Second
The court of appeals held that the
Circuit affirmed the district court,234
Commission's practice of issuing confinding that under the circumstances
secutive summary trading suspension
of this case, Homans had aided and
orders exceeded the authority conabetted the public offering of unregferred upon it by Section 12(k) of the
istered securities. Moreover, the court
Exchange Act (and former Sections 15
rejected Homans' argument that the
(c)(5) and 19(a)(4) of the Act). In adHochfelder culpability standard was
dition, although the review proceeding
applicable in SEC injunctive actions
was not a class action, the court
and found that in proceedings instidirected the Commission to "discontuted by the SEC seeking equitable
relief, the cause of action may be tinue" the practice of issuing consec58

The law firm of White & Case243
which was also a defendant, as part of
its settlement, agreed to a court Order
which enables the court to retain jurisdiction to effect compliance with the
terms and conditions of the settlement.
The Stipulation of Settlement provides
that White & Case "undertakes to
adopt, effectuate and maintain procedures in connection with its representation of clients in matters involving the Federal securities laws." A
copy of White & Case's procedures was
Commission Litigation
attached to the Stipulation. Among the
SEC v. National Student Marketing
firm's procedures are provisions concerning the retention of certain new
Corporation, et al.-Since the date of
clients, review of certain registration
the last Report, the balance of the
statements by a second partner of the
Commission's case arising out of its
firm experienced in securities matters
investigation relating to the affairs of
who is not otherwise involved in the
National Student Marketing Corporatransaction, and identification of certion was either settled or tried. During
tain circumstances involving the isthis period, all but five of the remaining defendants consented to some suance of securities to the public where
consultation with other partners within
form of court order. Each of the
the firm is required. Both the Order
consenting individual defendants,241
and Stipulation indicate that the Comwithout admitting or denying the Commission has neither approved nor dismission's allegations, consented to the
approved of the procedures.
entry of a Judgment of Permanent InOne of the other individual defenjunction against him with respect to
certain violations of the Federal secudants, John G. Davies, had a Default
rities laws. They did so after the Com- Judgment of Permanent Injunction
entered against him by the court.
mission had filed a detailed pretrial
The trial of the Commission's action
brief in December 1976 setting forth
the factual allegations involved.
against the remaining defendants, CamIn addition, Marion J. Epley, 111,242 eron Brown, the law firm of Lord,
Bissell & Brook, and its two partone of the defendants in the action
ners, Max E. Meyer and Louis F.
and a partner of the law firm of White
Schauer, began on May 16,1977. Clos& Case, as part of his settlement,
ing arguments were held in early
agreed in a letter to the Chairman
August 1977. At this time, the Comnot to practice before the Commission
mission is awaiting the decision of the
for a period of 180 days. The Injunccourt.
tion against Epley also prohibits him
As previously reported, Anthony M.
from issuing certain legal opinions
Natelli, the audit partner of Peat,
under certain circumstances. Further,
Marwick, Mitchell & Co. responsible
the Injunction requires Epley to comply with applicable procedures of White for the National Student Marketing account, was criminally convicted of vio& Case regarding representation by the
lating the Federal securities laws. In
firm of corporations subject to the
late 1976, following his failure to set
Federal securities laws.
utive ten-day trading suspensions "forthwith."
In May, 1977, the Solicitor General
filed a petition for a writ of certiorari
in the Supreme Court, on behalf of
the Commission, which contends that
the court of appeals erred in several
respects, particularly in its reading of
the legislative history and its determination that the suit had not become
moot. The petition was granted on October 17, 1977.240

59

aside that conviction, both by direct
and collateral attack, Natelli served a
prison term for his conviction.
With respect to the Peat, Marwick,
Mitchell & Co. audit supervisor, Joseph
Scansaroli, whose conviction, as previously reported, was reversed by the
Court of Appeals for the Southern District of New York with a new trial
ordered, a settlement was ultimately
arrived at244 which provided that he
would not be retried. However, he
agreed to the entry of a Permanent Injunction and permanent bar from practice before the Commission under Rule
2 (e) of the Commission's Rules of
Practice. This disposition of the case
as to Scansaroli was agreed to with
the concurrence of the Department of
Justice.
SEC v. Royal Industries Inc.-On
November 16, 1976, the Commission
filed a complaint seeking injunctive
relief against Royal Industries Inc.
(Royal), a Delaware corporation with its
principal executive offices at Pasadena,
California.245 The Commission's complaint alleged that Royal had violated
the filing requirements of the tender
offer provisions of the Exchange Act
in filing with the Commission incomplete and inaccurate statements on
Schedule 14D urging rejection of a
tender offer for its securities by Monogram Industries Inc. (Monogram).
The complaint further alleged that
Royal's Schedules 14D failed to disclose that a principal purpose of
Royal's proposed acquisition of SAR
Industries Inc. (SAR) was to interpose
a potential antitrust obstacle to Monogram's proposed tender offer.
The complaint further alleged that
Royal's Schedules 14D filed with the
Commission contained statements that
Royal's board of directors urged rejection of a proposed tender offer by
Monogram, but failed to disclose provisions in Royal's deferred compensa60

tion plans for certain employees which
provided for acceleration of approximately $9 million of benefits to approximately 100 employees, in the event a
25 percent interest in Royal was acquired in a transaction in which a
majority of Royal's board of directors
did not concur. The complaint further
alleged that Royal failed to disclose
that two directors who voted to recommend against Monogram's proposed
tender 'offer were participants in such
plans and would receive approximately
$1,325,000 in benefits upon acceleration of payments under the plans.
The complaint also alleged that
Royal's Schedules 14D contained incomplete and inaccurate statements
concerning commissions to be paid to
brokers soliciting shares tendered, the
obligations of Monogram to accept
part or all of the shares tendered,
and a financial statement comparison
of Royal and Monogram.
The court entered a Judgment of
Permanent Injunction against Royal
restraining and enjoining Royal from
violations of the filing requirements
of the tender offer provisions of the
Exchange Act. Royal consented to the
entry of the Judgment without admitting or denying the allegations of
the complaint.
In addition to the entry of the
Judgment against Royal, the court
ordered certain ancillary relief, including the following:
(1) An undertaking by Royal to adopt,
implement and maintain procedures
reasonably designed to prevent the recurrence of the activities alleged in the
Commission's complaint, or similar activities, and designed to assure compliance
with the filing requirements of the
tender offer provisions of the securities laws; and
(2) An undertaking by Royal to amend
its Schedules 14D filed with the Commission and to correct its statements

to shareholders to assure that such
filings and statements are complete
and accurate and otherwise comply
with the securities laws.
SEC v. American Commonwealth
Financial Corp., et a/.-On May 12,
1977, the Commission filed a complaint seeking injunctive relief against
American Commonwealth Financial Corporation (ACFC), an insurance holding
company located in Dallas, Texas, of
which Great Commonwealth Life Insurance Co. (GCL) of Dallas, Texas and
National American Life Insurance Company (NALlCO) of Baton Rouge, Louisiana, were or had been subsidiaries;
Centram Industrial Limited (Centram),
a Louisiana corporation; First Republic
Life Insurance Company (FRLlC), a
Louisiana corporation; Corporate Hotel
Partnership (Partnership), a Louisiana
limited partnership; Mountain, Inc.
(Mountain), a Louisiana corporation;
Valley, Inc. (Valley), a Louisiana corporation; Rodolfo Jesus Aguilar (Aguilar), a general partner in Partnership
and owner of 30 percent of the stock
of Mountain, and, directly and indirectly, all of the stock of Centram;
Jules Burton LeBlanc, III (Jules LeBlanc), general partner in Partnership,
owner of 70 percent of the stock of
Mountain and 100 percent of the stock
of Valley, and engaged in partnership
with Aguilar in real estate development;
Paul James LeBlanc (P. J. LeBlanc),
director and chairman of the board of
ACFC from April 1975 to December
1976; and Roger Jean LeBlanc (R. LeBlanc), president, director and chief
executive officer of ACFC from approximately April 1975 through the filing
of the complaint, controlling shareholder of ACFC since February 1975,
owner of 99.5 percent of the stock of
FRUC, and brother of Jules LeBlanc.246
All of the defendants except P.J.
LeBlanc consented to the entry of Final
JUdgments of Permanent Injunction,

without admitting or denying the Commission's allegations.
The Commission's complaint alleged
that the defendants engaged in a
fraudulent course of conduct whereby
they used the assets of ACFC and other
public companies for their personal
gain and benefit and to service debt
owed to third parties by various of the
defendants.
According to the complaint, prior to
February 1975, defendants Jules LeBlanc, Aguilar and to a lesser extent R. LeBlanc had borrowed substantial sums from the Chase Manhattan Mortgage and Realty Trust (CMART),
totalling over $25 million by the end
of 1974, in connection with real estate
development in Baton Rouge, Louisiana. All of the CMART loans were
personally guaranteed by R.LeBlanc or
Jules LeBlanc and were in default
by the end of 1974.
The complaint further alleged that
R. LeBlanc, aided and abetted by Jules
LeBlanc, P. J. LeBlanc and others,
acquired shares of common stock of
ACFC so as to control that corporation in order to use its assets for
their personal gain and to service the
CMART debt.
According to the complaint, in February 1975 R. LeBlanc purchased approximately 28 percent of the common
stock of ACFC, representing control of
the corporation. In June and July 1975,
according to the complaint, R. LeBlanc caused ACFC to sell to him
505,050 shares of the company's common stock at a value of $2 million
in consideration for $1 million and real
property purportedly worth more than
$1,350,000. The complaint alleges
that in connection with this additional
acquisition of ACFC common stock,
R. LeBlanc failed to disclose that the
real property involved in the transaction had been acquired by Jules LeBlanc and other members of R. Le61

Blanc's family only three years prior
at a price less than $400,000, and
that the $1 million in cash for the
acquisition of the shares was borrowed
from a bank by pledging the ACFC
shares which R. LeBlanc acquired in
February 1975.
The complaint charged that in order
to borrow approximately $3.5 million
to repay certain indebtedness, R. LeBlanc pledged about 44 percent of
the outstanding stock of ACFC, and,
without the knowledge or prior approval of the ACFC Board of Directors,
entered into a loan agreement which
materially restricted ACFC's ability to
conduct certain business, issue stock,
increase capital or grant dividends.
The complaint further alleged that in
September 1975 R. LeBlanc caused
ACFC to purchase from Louis J. Roussel, Jr. (Roussel) and others approximately 56.5 percent of the outstanding
shares of common stock of NALICO.
ACFC gave to Roussel notes secured
by a mortgage on the same property
previously transferred to ACFC by R.
LeBlanc to secure his own purchase
of 505,050 shares of ACFC stock. After
Roussel complained that this property
was substantially overvalued, R. LeBlanc caused NALICO to purchase the
notes from Roussel.
The complaint charged that in late
November 1975, R. LeBlanc and Jules
LeBlanc, with the assistance of Aguilar,
engaged in a series of transactions
to utilize the credit of ACFC to assist
the Baton Rouge "Corporate Square"
shopping and building complex, owned
by Jules LeBlanc and Aguilar, in obtaining an extension of the CMART
loans on which it and they were in
default.
The complaint
charged that R.
LeBlanc caused FRLlC to engage in
certain transactions with publicly-held
insurance companies whereby FRLlC
contracted to assume certain Iiabili62

ties of those companies and in exchange acquired assets, including marketable securities, which he thereafter caused FRLlC to liquidate for
cash. With this cash, R. LeBlanc
caused FRLlC to purchase the notes
or stock of various private companies
owned and controlled by R. LeBlanc,
Jules LeBlanc, or their associates, to
disburse large sums of money to such
persons, and to guarantee loans to
such persons. The complaint alleged
that the insurance companies contracting with FRLlC had been relying
on FRLlC's ability to discharge its
assumed liabilities but that the above
transactions had resulted in a material
impairment of FRLlC's capital and
raised questions about its financial
condition.
The complaint further alleged that in
1976 FRLlC, directly and through subsidiaries, acquired 34 percent of the
shares of American Public Life Insurance Co. (APLlC), a Mississippi insurance company, and options to purchase a controlling block of shares
of United Founders Life Insurance
Co. (UFLlC), an Oklahoma insurance
company, and in connection therewith, filed false and misleading Schedule 13D information statements with
the Commission.
The complaint alleged that there was
a close relationship between Louisiana Governor Edwin Edwards and
Jules LeBlanc. The complaint further
alleged that, at the request of Jules
LeBlanc, Governor Edwards contacted
the Insurance Commissioner of Louisiana concerning possible regulatory
and enforcement action to be taken
with respect to FRLlC, after which the
Insurance Department deferred such
action.
The court entered Judgments of
Permanent Injunction on June 30,
1977 against R. LeBlanc, Jules LeBlanc, Aguilar, ACFC, FRLlC, Partner-

ship, Mountain, Valley and Centram,
based on consents, enjoining them
from violations of the antifraud provisions of the Federal securities laws.
In addition, the Court enjoined R.
LeBlanc, ACFC and FRLlC from violations of the reporting provisions and
R. LeBlanc and FRLlC from violations
of the proxy solicitation provisions of
the Federal securities laws.
In addition, certain ancillary relief
was ordered by the Court, including
the following:
1. The Court gave R. LeBlanc nine
months within which to dispose of
his ACFC stock. In the event that
R. LeBlanc failed to do so his stock
would be placed in an independent
voting trust, the trustee of which would
be approved by the Commission;
2. R. LeBlanc was required to resign
as an officer of ACFC;
3. ACFCwas required to retain a person to act as a monitor over the
business affairs of ACFCand to approve
all ACFC transactions over $5,000.
When ACFC failed to comply with this
provision of its Final Judgment, the
court, upon petition by the Commission, appointed a monitor on September 7, 1977;
4. FRLlC was required to retain an independent certified public accountant
to perform an audit of FRLlC, including
affiliated transactions, in the event
that the state of Louisiana did not
perform a full scale audit of FRLlC
within a specified time period; and
5. FRLlC and LeBlanc were restrained
from voting for or nominating more
than a minority of the Board of Directors of APLIC and UFLIC in order that
the Boards of these two companies
would remain composed of a majority
of persons unaffiliated with R. LeBlanc.
APLIC consented to be bound by these
provisions of the FRLlC and LeBlanc
Final Judgments.
SEC v. National Pacific Corporation

et al.-On September 24, 1976, the
Commission filed a complaint for Injunctive, Receivership and Other Relief against National Pacific Corporation (NPC), National American Life
Insurance Co. (NALlCO), a publiclyheld company, Great Pacific Corporation (GPC), Family Provider Life Insurance Company (Family), Pacific
Southwest Insurance Agency, Inc.
(PSIA), Joseph Hauser (Hauser), Melvin Wyman (Wyman), John Boden (Boden), and George Herrera (Herrera),
charging violations of the antifraud
provisions and certain reporting provisions of the Federal securities laws.247
The complaint charged that, between June 1976 and the filing of
the action, NALlCO, NPC (controlled
by defendants Hauser, Wyman, and
Boden) and the other defendants made
or caused to be made false filings
with the Commission and other governmental agencies and misappropriated valuable assets of NALICO.
The Commission alleged that between
January and June of 1976, prior to
acquiring control of NALlCO, the defendants wrongfully appropriated approximately $1 million from insurance
premiums paid directly or indirectly to
Family by various union health and
welfare funds. After the acquisition of
control of NALlCO, the defendants
caused NALICO to purchase from
NPC convertible surplus notes of another company, Farmers National Life
Insurance Co. (Farmers), which, according to financial statements filed
by Farmers, did not have enough
surplus to meet the terms of the convertible surplus notes put into NALICO
by the defendants.
The complaint further alleged that
the defendants caused NALICO to
enter into a reinsurance agreement
with Family, whereby assets and liabilities of Family were assumed by
NALICO. Those assets included $2.2
63

million in notes which had been cancelled by Hauser in March of 1976
and, consequently, were worthless.
The Commission in its complaint further alleged that the documents relating to the above transactions, which
were entered into in late June, were
backdated to make it appear as if
they had been entered into prior to
the acquisition of control of NALICO
by NPC.
The complaint alleged that financial
statements filed by the defendants on
behalf of NALICO with various state
insurance regulatory agencies as of
June 30, 1976 were false and misleading by failing to disclose the
above matters. In addition, documents
relating to the acquisition of control
of NALICO filed with the Louisiana
Insurance Department and the Commission (an Information Statement on
Schedule 13D) were false and misleading by failing to disclose the same
matters.
Following July 15, 1976, according
to the complaint, the defendants misappropriated from NALICO approximately $1.5 million, including approximately $100,000 used to payoff debts
of the defendants incurred prior to
their acquiring control of NALICO and
$1.1 million paid to a newly-formed
Swiss company.
In addition to seeking injunctive
relief, the Commission, in its complaint and in a Motion for Preliminary
Injunction filed simultaneously therewith, sought the appointment of a receiver for NALlCO, a Louisiana-based,
publicly-held insurance company, 58
percent of the common stock of which
had been owned by NPC since June
15, 1976.
Upon the Commission's application
for a Temporary Restraining Order,
U.S. District Judge Gerhard Gesell, on
September 24, 1976, issued such an
order freezing the assets of all the
64

defendants (except the normal and
reasonable living expenses of the individual defendants). On September
29, 1976, upon the Commission's
application for a preliminary injunction, U.S. District Judge Charles Richey
issued another Temporary Restraining
Order and appointed Herbert E. Milstein, Esq., Agent of the Court with
authority over the assets of NALICO.
On October 14, 1976, U.S. District
Judge William Bryant entered a Final
Judgment of Permanent Injunction
with respect to defendant Boden, by
consent.
On December 2, 1976, Judge Charles
Richey entered two Orders and a
Stipulation effecting final settlement
of this action by consent.248 The
Orders signed by Judge Richey were
as follows:
(I) A Final Judgment of Permanent
Injunction as to defendant NALlCO,
whereby NALICO was enjoined from
violations of the antifraud provisions
of the Federal securities laws, and
whereby the court's agent, Herbert
E. Milstein, was appointed as Receiver
over NALlCO, to control and manage
the business affairs of NALICO and to
prosecute any claims by or on behalf
of NALICO.
(2) A Final Judgment of Permanent
Injunction as to defendants Hauser,
Wyman, Herrera, NPC, GPC, Family
and PSIA, whereby all were enjoined
from violations of the antifraud provisions; Hauser, Wyman, and NPC
were enjoined from violations of the
reporting provisions; and defendants
Hauser, Wyman, Herrera, GPC, FPLlC,
NPC and PSIA, and certain related
entities were ordered to file with
the court affidavits as to their assets and liabilities, and to cooperate
with the Receiver or his successor.
In addition, the following terms,
among others, were ordered:
(a) Hauser, for a period of 10 years,

and Wyman, for a period of 5 years
were prohibited from serving as directors, officers, or control persons of
any publicly-held company, without
the prior written approval of the Commission;
(b) Hauser and NPC were ordered to
return to NALICO within 10 days the
$1.1 million remitted in the name
of NALICO to the Swiss company in
August of 1976; and
(c) The Receiver was authorized to
seek disgorgement from any of the
defendants.
In addition to the entry of the Orders, Judge Richey on December 2,
1976 also approved the terms of a
Stipulation by and between NALlCO,
Mr. Milstein and Mr. Sherman A.
Bernard, Commissioner of Insurance
of the State of Louisiana. Pursuant to
this Stipulation, which was also approved by the Commission, the parties to the Stipulation acknowledged
the respective interests in NALICO of
the Commission and the Insurance
Commissioner, who had been appointed
Rehabilitator of NALICO by a Louisiana
State Court, and consented to the designation of the Agent as Receiver, with
full powers of an equity receiver, over
NALICO. The parties to the Stipulation further agreed that, among other
things, any disputes between the Receiver and the Insurance Commissioner would be submitted to the
United States District Court for the
District of Columbia for its resolution
of such disputes.
With respect to the $1.1 million that
the court ordered Hauser to return by
December 12, 1976, only $832,000
was initially returned. The Commission and the NALICO Receiver moved
to hold Hauser in civil contempt of
court for not returning the remaining
funds. In addition, the Commission
and the Receiver asked the court to
hold Hauser in contempt for having

used a NALICO credit card to incur
$4,530.49 in expenses after the entry
of the September 29, 1976 freeze
order. The court, on July 7, 1977,
adjudicated Hauser in contempt of the
December 2, 1976 Final Judgment and
the September 29, 1976 freeze order,
and ordered Hauser to return the sums
of $4,530.49 and $142,000 (the portion of the remainder of the $1.1
million that Judge Richey held Hauser
in contempt for not returning) within
30 days.
At a hearing held September 28,
1977 in the U.S. District Court, Judge
Richey, after hearing testimony of
Hauser, held Hauser in further contempt of his July 7, 1977 Order,
ordered that he be incarcerated until
he paid to the NALICO Receiver $146,
530.49 and fined Hauser $10,000.
After being incarcerated in the jail
in the District of Columbia for approximately one week, Hauser was discharged from confinement when he
paid the Receiver $156,530.49.
SEC v. Falstaff Brewing Corporation,
et al. ,-On May 25, 1977, the Commission filed a complaint seeking permanent injunctive relief against Falstaff Brewing Corporation (Falstaff),
a corporation with principal offices in
San Francisco, California which engages in the manufacture and distribution of beer and other malt beverages; Paul Kalmanovitz (Kalmanovitz),
the current chairman of the board of
directors and controlling shareholder
of Falstaff; Ferdinand Gutting (Gutting),
former president and chairman of the
board of Falstaff; and James S. McClellan (McClellan), a former member
of the board of directors of Falstaff
and counsel to Falstaff.249 The complaint sought, in addition, preliminary
relief against Falstaff, including an
injunction against violations of certain
provisions of the securities laws pending
trial on the merits, and order pro65

hibiting Falstaff from convening its
annual shareholders' meeting scheduled for June 7, 1977 and prohibiting
Falstaff from soliciting or voting proxies
by means of its 1977 proxy statement.
McClellan and Gutting consented to the
entry of Judgments of Permanent Injunction at the time the complaint
was filed.
The complaint charged Falstaff, Kalmanovitz, McClellan and Gutting with
violations of the antifraud, proxy and
reporting provisions of the Federal
securities laws in connection with a
1975 transaction whereby Kalmanovitz
acquired 52 percent of the outstanding
voting rights of Falstaff. It was alleged, among other things, that Falstaff's 1975 proxy soliciting material
failed to disclose that Kalmanovitz
would obtain such control; that onehalf of his voting rights were obtained
in consideration for an extension of
credit by one of Falstaff's suppliers;
and that certain provisions in the
agreement between Falstaff and Kalmanovitz concerning the prepayment
of Falstaff's long term debt would violate agreements with Falstaff's lenders
which required pro rata payment
among all such lenders. Falstaff was
additionally charged with violations of
the periodic reporting provisions of the
securities laws in connection with its
filings with the Commission from 1974
to 1977. The Commission also alleged
that Falstaff's 1977 proxy soliciting
material was materially false and misleading with respect to a proposed
change in the dividend rights of Falstaff's Class A preferred stock, of
which Kalmanovitz owned 100 percent.
On August 1, 1977, after a hearing
on the Commission's motion for preliminary relief, Judge Howard F. Corcoran, U.S. District Judge for the District of Columbia, entered a Judgment
of Preliminary Injunction and Other
Relief against Falstaff enjoining Fal66

staff from future violations of the
antifraud, reporting and proxy provisions of the Federal securities laws. In
addition, the court preliminarily enjoined Falstaff from convening its annual shareholders meeting and prohibited the solicitation and voting of
proxies by Falstaff in connection therewith. Judge Corcoran, in a lengthy opinion, stated that "The Commission has
made a strong prima facie showing
that there is a reasonable likelihood of
future violations of the Federal securities laws on the part of defendant
Falstaff .... "
Since the entry of the preliminary
injunction, Falstaff has filed an appeal
which is currently pending before the
Court of Appeals for the District of
Columbia. Falstaff also made a motion
to the district court for clarification
and modification of the order of preliminary injunction, which was denied,
and a motion to stay the preliminary
injunction pending appeal, which was
also denied. Discovery is presently progressing in the litigation in preparation for a trial on the merits.
SEC v. Sharon Steel Corp. et al.The Commission, on September 21,
1977, filed a civil injunctive action in
the United States District Court for the
District of Columbia, and obtained a
permanent injunction,
by consent,
against Sharon Steel Corporation
(Sharon), Victor Posner (Posner), NVF
Company (NVF), Steven Posner (S. Posner), Gail Posner Cohen (Cohen), WaIter Gregg (Gregg), Bernard Krakower
(Krakower), and DWGCorporation (DWG)
as to certain violations of the antifraud, reporting, and proxy solicitation
provisions of the Federal securities
laws.25o The Commission also obtained
an Order mandating certain ancillary
relief. The court also permanently
enjoined Fingol Bloom (Bloom) from
violations of the reporting and antifraud provisions of the Federal securiI

ties laws. In addition, Pennsylvania
Engineering Corp. (PECOR)was permanently enjoined from violations of the
proxy solicitation provisions of the
Federal securities laws. Two other public companies, Southeastern Public
Service Co. (SEPSCO) and Wilson
Brothers (Wilson), subsidiaries of DWG,
while not named as defendants, consented to a court Order to comply
with the ancillary relief ordered as to
the defendant corporations. All defendants were officers or directors of companies controlled by Posner.
The complaint alleged that, from
1970 to the present, Posner, S. Posner
and Cohen, collectively the Posners,
caused several public companies controlled by Posner (Sharon, NVF, DWG,
PECOR, SEPSCO, and Wilson) to pay
for a wide variety of non-business
personal expenses for the Posners,
costing such companies over $1,700,
000. The complaint also alleged that
Sharon and its parent, NVF, filed false
financial statements in 1974 and 1975.
The court ordered Posner, and his
children, S. Posner and Cohen, to pay
$600,000 to the various public corporations in repayment for certain of
their personal expenses. The Judgment recited that the court proceedings should not be deemed to prevent
any of the public companies which
paid for the personal expenses of the
Posners from making any claim against
them.
The complaint alleged that the nonbusiness personal expenses paid for
on behalf of the Posners by the Posner-controlled companies included expenses for travel in a corporate jet,
groceries, liquor, a vacation, entertainment, rent for certain of Posner's
personal living quarters, restaurant expenses, use of a corporate yacht,
medical bills, limousines and drivers,
and domestic servants.
The complaint also alleged that Pos-

ner had caused the above-mentioned
companies, which rent space in a
Miami Beach hotel he controls, to expend over $100,000 in rentals over
that charged to nonaffiliated residents.
The complaint further alleged that
Posner caused SEPSCO, DWG and
other Posner-controlled public companies to expend over $1 million to
refurbish the top two floors of the
hotel, over $300,000 of which was
used to refurbish a personal residential apartment for Posner.
The complaint further alleged that
the companies controlled by Posner
paid for the Posners' personal expenses described in the complaint
without making any independent examination to determine if such charges were proper or legitimate corporate expenses. The complaint further alleged that from at least 1973
to the present, DWG, which directly
paid for the majority of such personal expenses of the Posners, did not
maintain any records which reflected
the business purpose of the bulk of
such expenditures.
The complaint further alleged that
the annual reports, proxy statements
and registration statements of the
companies controlled by Posner failed
to disclose, In violation of the antifraud provisions of the Federal securities laws, the nature and extent of
such expenditures made on behalf of
the Posners. The Complaint further
alleged that Sharon, NVF, NVF's treasurer, Bloom, NVF's Vice Chairman,
Gregg, and NVF's chief operating officer, McCracken, violated the antifraud provisions of the Federal securities laws when Sharon improperly
valued and misrecorded major inventory items, misrecorded certain transactions as sales, shifted income and
expenses from one year to another,
and improperly transferred steel products among inventory accounts, which
67

falsified their financial statements
for 1974 and 1975. The financial statements of Sharon and NVF for 1974 and
1975 were restated in 1977 with reo
spect to these matters.
The complaint further alleged that in
1975, Sharon, which reported $25,
600,000 in pre-tax earnings overstated
these earnings by approximately $13,
900,000. The complaint further alleged that Sharon increased its reported 1975 pre-tax earnings by $4,
929,000 by improperly revalueing virtually its entire inventory of iron ore
through the treatment of a certain
type of iron ore pellet called TPV as
a "new item" in inventory, when such
treatment was inconsistent with Sharon's
past practice and, under generally accepted accounting principles, did not
qualify for treatment as a new item.
The court enjoined Sharon, NVF,
Posner, S. Posner, Cohen, DWG, and
PECOR from using or causing the use
of any asset of any public company
related to the Posners for the personal
benefit of the Posners unless such use
has been properly authorized by such
company's board of directors.
In addition, Sharon, NVF, DWG, and
PECORwere ordered by the court and,
as part of the settlement of the action,
SEPSCOand Wilson have also agreed,
to appoint two new independent directors satisfactory to the Commission,
and to each set up a three member
Audit Committee with the two new
independent directors comprising two
of the three members. Such Audit
Committees are directed, among other
things, to adopt financial controls designed to prevent occurrence of matters alleged in the complaint, to supervise implementation of such controls,
to examine the matters alleged in the
Commission's complaint, to recommend
appropriate action, and to file such
recommendations with the Commission. The companies were further di-

68

rected to act on all such recommendations and file a report with an explanantion of the action taken and the
reasons any such recommendation
was not adopted. Such companies
were also ordered to submit their
proxy statements and their annual
reports to independent counsel familiar with the Federal securities laws
for review. As part of the settlement,
Krakower stipulated that he will not
practice before the Commission for
any company other than a company
related to Posner for one year. During
such time the Commission has agreed
not to bring proceedings against him
pursuant to Rule 2(e) of the Commission's Rules of Practice based solely
on the matters in the complaint, or
the entry of the Final Judgment.
The court also enjoined Sharon,
NVF, DWG, PECOR, Posner, S. Posner,
Cohen and their agents from making
false entries on the books of public
companies controlled by Posners.
SEC v. Louis J. Roussel, Jr., et al.On August 19, 1976, the Commission
filed a complaint in the United States
District Court for the Eastern District
of Louisiana against Louis J. Roussel,
Jr. (Roussell, National American Life
Insurance Company (NALlCO), ICB
Corporation (ICB), American Benefit
Life Insurance Company (American
Benefit) and certain other entities and
individuals.s"
The Commission's complaint alleged
that during the first half of 1975,
Roussel conducted a successful takeover of Farm & Ranch Financial, Inc.
(F&Rl, a Kansas insurance holding
company. It was further alleged that
the takeover was accomplished through
a series of purchases by Roussel and
persons and entities controlled, affiliated or associated with him, including certain of the defendants, in such
a way as to circumvent the reporting
and tender offer provisions of the

Federal securities laws and the Kansas alleged that the employees were not
informed of various material facts conInsurance Holding Company Act. The
complaint indicated that private purcerning the purchase plan, involving
chases of F&R stock were made during
the right of registrants to recover their
the effective period of NALlCO's tenentire investment.
der offer by Roussel, who arranged to
Certain of the defendants consented
have F&R stock, being accumulated on to the entry of Final Judgments of Perhis behalf by principals and employees
manent Injunction restraining and enof certain defendants, placed with
joining violations of certain provisions
various persons and entities. The com- of the Federal securities laws without
plaint alleged that no filing was made admitting or denying the allegations in
which revealed this purchasing activity
the complaint.
or the shares accumulated in support
As part of the extensive ancillary
of Roussel.
relief obtained in this case, Special
The complaint alleged violations of Counsels were appointed to conduct
the Federal securities laws in con- investigations, independent directors
nection with various transactions and were appointed to the board of direcevents which took place at the ICB tors of F&R and restitution was made
Corp., a one-bank holding company in to shareholders who tendered F&R seNew Orleans, during the period from curities in transactions which violated
1970 through 1974. It was alleged that
the tender offer provisions of the seunder the direction of certain of the curities laws.
defendants, loans were made to ICB
SEC v. Milgo Electronic Corporation,
employees, in connection with several et al.- The Commission filed a comunregistered ICB stock offerings to plaint, in the United States District
employees, which violated Federal bank Court for the District of Columbia,
credit regulations. Loans were also seeking injunctive relief against Milgo
Electronic Corporation (Milgo), a Flormade to an employee pension plan
which were also used to purchase ICB ida corporation with its principal executive offices in Miami, Florida, and Rastock. The Commission charged that
purchases of ICB stock in the open cal Electronics Limited (Racal), a Unimarket by the employee stock pur- ted Kingdom corporation with its princhase and pension plans had the ef- cipal executive offices in Bracknell,
England.252
fect, at various times, of dominating
The Commission's complaint alleged
the market for ICB stock and that this
that Milgo, in an effort to thwart an
domination was not publicly disclosed.
exchange offer for its common stock,
The complaint further alleged that
ICB came under the control of Roussel made untrue statements of material
facts and omitted to state material
in late October of 1974, and at that
time employee stock purchase plans facts concerning, among other things,
were terminated and the stock was pur- the purposes of a proposed sale of
chased by Roussel at the request and Milgo stock to Racal, the terms of
Milgo's agreement with Racal and cerwith the aid of the then chairman
and president of ICB. The Commission tain other facts.
alleged employees lost portions of
The complaint further alleged that
Racal had actual knowledge of a false
their investment as a result of their
participation in an unregistered stock and misleading press release of Milgo
and participated in the events surroundpurchase plan which existed before
Roussel's purchase. The Commission
ing its issuance.
69

The Commission's complaint further
alleged that Milgo violated the tender
offer filing requirements of the Federal
securities laws in failing to file with
the Commission, Milgo management's
statements concerning the exchange
offer and Milgo's proposed sale of
stock to Raca!.
On February 3, 1977, the court entered a Judgment of Permanent Injunction against Milgo, enjoining Milgo
from violations of certain of the tender
offer, antifraud and reporting provisions of the Exchange Act and ordering
certain other relief. Milgo consented
to the entry of the Judgment without
admitting or denying the allegations
of the complaint.
In addition to the entry of the Judgment, the court ordered certain ancillary relief, including the following:
(l) An Undertaking by Milgo to amend
its Schedules 14D filed with the Commission to reflect the institution of the
Commission's action, the substance of
the allegations in the complaint and
the relief entered by the court;
(2) An Undertaking by Milgo to file
Schedules 13D with the Commission
with respect to any acquisition
by
Milgo of five percent or more of any
equity security registered with the
Commission pursuant to Section 12 of
the Exchange Act; and
(3) An Undertaking to file with the
Commission Schedules 14D with respect to any solicitation or recommendation by Milgo to Milgo shareholders to accept or reject a tender
offer or request or invitation for tenders.
On May 13, 1977,253the court entered
a Judgment of Permanent Injunction
against Racal enjoining Racal from:
(1) Failing to timely file reports on
Schedules 13D and 14D;
(2) Acquiring additional Milgo shares
without prior approval of Milgo's share-

70

holders and without disclosing all material facts;
(3) Making any solicitation or recommendation to Milgo's shareholders without complying with the Federal securities laws;
(4) Participating with an issuer whose
stock is subject to a takeover bid in
issuing any press release that is not in
compliance with the Federal securities
laws; and
(5) Purchasing or agreeing to purchase stock from any takeover target
in violation of the tender offer and
antifraud provisions of the Federal
securities laws.
SEC v. Ormand Industries Inc., et al.
-The Commission filed a complaint in
the United States District Court for the
District of Columbia against Ormand
Industries, Inc. (Ormand), a corporation with principal offices in California
which has engaged in outdoor advertising and other lines of business, and
Jarrell D. Ormand (J.D. Ormand), formerly Chairman of the board of Ormand.254
The Commission's complaint alleged
that J.D. Ormand and certain other
officers, directors and employees of
Ormand diverted substantial amounts
of corporate funds and other corporate
assets for their personal use. Among
other things, the Commission's complaint charged that J.D. Ormand received cash advances which were
unaccounted for in an amount exceeding $250,000 which were neither repaid by J.D. Ormand nor utilized for
business purposes related to the company. Further, the Commission's complaint alleged thatJ.D. Ormand caused
Ormand to provide personal benefits
to J.D. Ormand. Such benefits, the
Commission alleged, included payments
for improvements on J.D. Ormand's
residence, entertainment and other
personal expenses for J.D. Ormand
and members of his family.

The Commission's complaint alleged,
in addition, that certain commercial
transactions were not recorded on the
books and records of Ormand and that
false and misleading entries were
made on the books and records of
Ormand. With respect to the foregoing
and other matters, the Commission
alleged that Ormand filed false and
misleading annual and periodic reports and proxy statements.
The court restrained and enjoined
Ormand from further violations of the
antifraud, reporting and proxy provisions of the Federal securities laws,
and restrained and enjoined J.D. Ormand from further violations of the
proxy provisions and ordered him to
make complete and accurate filings
with the Commission and statements
to the public. In addition, the court
ordered certain ancillary relief, including the following: the expansion of
Ormand's board of directors to include
three additional independent directors;
the establishment and maintenance
of an audit committee of the board
of directors, composed of three members, including at least two of the
newly-appointed directors; and the appointment of a special counsel to the
audit committee to conduct an investigation and recommend corrective
measures.
As additional ancillary relief, Ormand
was ordered to undertake to implement and maintain internal control
procedures designed to avoid the unauthorized or undisclosed use of corporate assets or other things of value
for the benefit of officers, directors
or employees of Ormand, its subsidiaries or affiliates.
The Delphi Capital Corporation Cases-

Following a 21/2 year investigation by
members of the Commission staff and
the Organized Crime Strike Force in
Philadelphia, five related criminal cases

were instituted in the Eastern District
of Pennsylvania against 30 defendants.
The cases were an outgrowth of the
staff's earlier investigation that led to
the revocation of the broker-dealer registration of Delphi Capital Corporation of
Philadelphia in 1974. The following five
cases were brought pursuant to this investigation.
U.S. v. Yiddy Bloom, et af.255-ln this
case, the grand jury returned a thirtyone count indictment against Yiddy
Bloom of Miami Beach, Florida, a real
estate investor and hotel owner; his son
Jerrold Bloom of Coral Gables, Florida,
a former securities salesman in Miami
Beach, Florida; Jack Silbiger of Shawnee
Mission, Kansas; Abraham Salaman of
Philadelphia, Pennsylvania, former president of Delphi Capital Corporation; Ira
Ingerman of Narberth, Pennsylvania,
president of Magic Marker Corporation,
and former chairman of the board of
Delphi Capital Corporation; Burton Dubbin of Miami Beach, Florida, secretarytreasurer and a controlling person of
Casa Bella Imports, Inc.; Albert london
of Lincroft, New Jersey, former floor
broker on the National Stock Exchange;
Bernard Cronin of Magnolia, Massachusetts, former securities salesman in
Washington, D.C.; Robert Street of
Brooklyn, New York, former securities
salesman in Washington, D.C.; Robert
Knoth of North Palm Beach, Florida,
former securities salesman in North
Palm Beach, Florida; Michael Rekoon of
Cranford, New Jersey, a former securities trader in New York City; Joseph
Patrick of Glenside, Pennsylvania; a
former trader and securities salesman
in Philadelphia, Pennsylvania; Myron
Freeman (also known as Mickey Freeman) of Annapolis, Maryland; and Joseph
Deloge of St. Petersburg, Florida,
former securities trader in Montgomery, Alabama. The above-named defendants were charged with securities
fraud, mail fraud and conspiracy to
71

violate the Federal securities laws and
mail fraud schemes.
Named as unindicted co-conspirators were nine other persons including
former National Stock Exchange personnel, former securities salesmen,
former stock brokerage firm personnel,
a former editor of an investment advisory publication, and a corporate
president.
The indictment alleges that the defendants and co-conspirators conspired
in 1971 and 1972 to manipulate the
common stock of Magic Marker Corporation, a security then traded on
the National Stock Exchange and overthe-counter.
The indictment also alleges a manipulation in 1972 by certain of the
defendants of the common stock of
Casa Bella Imports, Inc., a publicly
owned company, the common stock of
which was traded over-the-counter.
U.S. v. Charles Birkholz, et al.-In
a related information filed by the United States Attorney, the Magic Marker
specialist on the National Stock Exchange and 6 other persons, all of
whom had been named as unindicted
co-conspirators in the Yiddy Bloom
case, above, were charged with various
violations in connection with the manipulation of Magic Marker Corporation common stock, including conspiracy to violate the securities and mail
fraud statutes, securities fraud, unlawful extension of credit, and Federal
income tax violations.
Others named in the information
were Harvey Klebanoff (also known as
Harvey Kaye), a former executive vice
president of Delphi Capital Corporation; Charles Birkholz, a Kansas florist;
Stanley Levin, a floor broker on the
National Stock Exchange; John Tees,
a margin clerk at Delphi Capital Corporation; and Lawrence Richter and Jay
Teitelbaum, both registered representatives.
72

U.S. v. Harvey Birdman, et al.256_
In the third case, the grand jury returned a twenty-five count indictment
against Harvey Birdman of Elkins Park,
Pennsylvania, President of Uni-Shield
International Corporation; Bernard Cronin of Magnolia, Massachusetts, a former securities salesman in Washington, D.C.; Alan Hunter of Wyndmoor,
Pennsylvania, a former securities salesman in Philadelphia; William Richman
of Philadelphia, Pennsylvania, a former financial consultant; Arthur Salaman of Wyncote, Pennsylvania; and
Robert Street of Brooklyn, New York,
a former securities salesman in Arlington, Virginia.
The indictment charged all of the
above named defendants with conspiracy to violate Federal securities and
mail fraud statutes. Birdman, Cronin,
Hunter, Salaman and Street were also
charged with violating and aiding and
abetting the violation of antifraud provisions of the Federal securities laws
and mail fraud statutes. Birdman was
also charged with violating the ownership reporting requirements of the
Federal securities laws. Also named as
unindicted co-conspirators were two
former securities salesmen. In the indictment it was alleged that Birdman
and the other defendants and co-conspirators conspired in 1972 and 1973
to manipulate the price of the common
stock of Uni-Shield International Corporation. At the time, the corporation
had registered securities with the
Commission and its common stock was
listed on the National Stock Exchange.
U.S. v. Richard Kirschbaum, et et. 257
-In the fourth case stemming from
the joint investigation, the grand jury
returned a three count indictment
charging Richard Kirschbaum of Oyster Bay, New York, and Stanley H.
Molosky of Cherry Hill, New Jersey, a
former securities salesman at Delphi
Capital Corporation, with violations of

the securities fraud, mail fraud, and
conspiracy statutes.
The indictment alleges that in 1972,
Kirschbaum and unindicted co-conspirators, Joel Kline and Eric Baer,
arranged for the purchase of U.S.
Vinyl Corporation common stock from
Max Zerkin and Associates, Inc., in
return for a cash payment to them for
each Vinyl share bought and that
Molosky, pursuant to this scheme,
purchased approximately 8,500 shares
of U.S. Vinyl stock for his customers
from Max Zerkin and Associates, Inc.
Molosky and Kirschbaum are alleged
to have shared in the resultant cash
payments made by Kline.
The indictment also alleges that Molosky did not disclose the receipt of
these cash payments to his customers.
The final
U. S. v. Alan Hunter25Bcase resulted in a two count indictment charging Alan Hunter of Wyndmoor, Pennsylvania, with Federal income tax violations relating to his
former employment as a securities
salesman at Delphi Capital Corporation.
U.S. v. Theodore H. Kaufman, et
al.-In April 1977 part of the Commission's referral of its investigative files
to the Department of Justice in the
Giant Stores Corporation matter, a
fourteen count indictment was returned naming Theodore H. Kaufman,
Jack S. Shapiro, Benjamin A. Lieberman and Gerald Silverstein, former officers of Giant, a bankrupt Massachusetts corporation.w" The indictment
alleged a conspiracy by the four defendants and other employees of Giant
during 1971, 1972 and 1973 to issue
false financial statements regarding
Giant's income and balance sheets.
According to the main thrust of the
indictment, the defendants sought to
coverup a $2.5 million loss for the
fiscal year ending January 29, 1972

by concealing liabilities and placing
false assets on Giant's books.
The indictment also alleged that
various falsified financials were included in filings with the Cornrnissron, one
such filing was a registration statement in 1972 registering 300,000
shares of common stock which was
sold to the public. In addition, the
defendants transmitted the financial
statements to various banks in Boston
and thereby obtained loans totalling
$13 million.
U.S. v. David Stirling, Jr., et a/.- As
part of the Commission's referral of its
investigative files to the Department
of Justice in the Stirling Homex Corp.
matter, an eleven count indictment
was returned on July 27, 1976 by the
U.S. Attorney's Office in the Southern
District of New York charging four of
the former principal officers of Stirling
Homex Corp., David Stirling, Jr., William G. Stirling, Harold M. Yanowitch
and Edwin J. Schulz, and an attorneyemployee for the company, Rubel L.
Phillips, respectively with fraud In
connection with the 1970 and 1971
public distribution and sale of nearly
$40 million of Stirling Homex common
and preferred stock.
The Indictment charged that the defendants used several fraudulent devices to Inflate Stirling Homex's earnings in SEC registration statements
and annual and Interim reports and
related documents. The indictment
charges that in 1969 and 1971, the
defendants boosted reported sales
and profits by including substantial
sales of land to shell corporations
which lacked any real ability to pay,
and by making the sales at prices
which were artificially inflated. The
indictment also charges that, in 1971,
a fraudulent
sale of modules to a
shell corporation was Included in sales
and profits on the basis of a forged
73

$15 million governmental financing
commitment.
On January 29, 1977, a Federal jury
convicted the five defendants. On
March 11, 1977, a U.S. District
Judge imposed a 1 year prison sentence and $10,000 fine on David
Stirling Jr. Harold Yanowitch received
a sentence of one year and a fine
of $2,000. William Stirling received
a sentence of six months and fine of
$10,000. Rubel Phillips was sentenced
to ten months in prison and a fine
of $5,000. Finally, Edwin Schulz was
fined $2,500 and given a suspended
sentence.
Farmers' Cooperatives-In 1975 and
1976, various promoters throughout
the South and Midwest offered and
sold interests in a number of "cooperatives," organized under state farm
cooperative laws. The promoters generally claimed that the "cooperatives"
were exempt from registration under
the Federal securities laws, pursuant
to the private offering exemption.
Generally, these cooperatives stress
that they eliminate the need for consumers to deal with retail store "middlemen"; in their stead, the cooperatives offer physical locations at which
farmers can collectively seek to sell
their produce to the public. While no
direct connection has been found yet,
it appears that all the cooperatives
have similar corporate structures and
fund raising techniques, stressing the
savings resulting from elimination of
the "middleman". Nationwide, losses
to investors have been estimated to
be $3.8 million. The Chicago Regional
Office on May 13, 1977, filed a civil
injunctive action against Progressive
Farmers Association, a Missouri based
organization and the largest of the
various cooperatives.sw Additionally, a
case involving the Producers and Consumers Cooperative Exchange has resulted in a criminal indictment against
74

two defendants, one of whom has
entered a plea of guilty.261 This case
appears to be the only criminal case
brought to date with Federal assistance
against promoters of these "cooperatives".
City of Philadelphia v. SEC-In May
1976, the Staff of the Philadelphia
Branch Office commenced an informal
inquiry into the sale of municipal
securities issued by the City of Philadelphia. Upon receiving a request for
information from the staff, the City not
only refused to cooperate with the
inquiry but also commenced an action
against the Commission, seeking to
enjoin the Commission, the individual
Commissioners and members of the
Commission's staff from any further
conduct of the inquiry. The action also
sought a declaration of the invalidity
of the Federal securities laws insofar
as they vest any jurisdiction in the
Commission either to investigate the
City of Philadelphia or to commence
a civil action against that City should
it be shown that the City engaged in
fraud in the distribution of its securities. The Commission authorized the
Office of the General Counsel to move
to dismiss the action and the court
granted the Commission's motion.262
Essentially, the court distinguished
between an informal inquiry and a formal order of investigation, holding that,
since no formal order has issued, the
issues the City had raised in that regard were not ripe for review. Nevertheless, the court found that the City
had standing to challenge the staff's
preliminary inquiry and that, in that
respect, the case was not moot.
The court's opinion rejected both
of the City's challenges to the constitutionality of the Commission's informal inquiry. The City had argued,
first, that limitations inherent in the
Commerce Clauseand the Tenth Amendment prohibit Congress from authoriz-

ing a Commission investigation of the
City "because it impermissibly infringes
upon the sovereignty of the Commonwealth of Pennsylvania, of which the
City is a political subdivision." The
City also argued a violation of the
Fifth Amendment, asserting that the
Federal securities laws provisions authorizing the Commission to investigate
possible violations of the Federal securities laws by any "person" violate
due process because they are impermissibly vague.
With respect to the Tenth Amendment challenge, the court adopted the
Commission's interpretation of National League of Cities v. UserY,263 by
holding that Commerce Clause legislation may be invalidated under the
Tenth Amendment if, and only if, that
legislation "orders the states to act in
'areas of traditional governmental functions,' and, by virtue of this order,
substitutes Federal for state choices
in a manner which significantly limits
the 'States' freedom to structure integral operations' in such areas". Although the court accepted as true, for
purposes of the Commission's motion,
that the Commission's preliminary investigation has a significant effect on
the financing and distribution of municipal services, the court found that
the "thresh hold requirement that the
Federal action command the City is
lacking" since the City had not been
compelled to do anything.
Moreover, the court expressly rejected the City's argument that the
Commission's inquiry was impermissible, because it had a significant de
facto effect upon states or their political subdivisions. The court noted
that "such de facto effect is a necessary attribute of a Federal system."
In addition, the court, in a footnote
reference, seemed to express passing
approval of the Commission's argument that the National League of

Cities case need not necessarily preclude congressional legislation that is
found to intrude into the states' decision making in areas of traditional
governmental functions, if it can be
shown that the Federal interest is
demonstrably greater and state compliance with imposed Federal standards would be essential. While the
court reserved judgment on the constitutionality of a formal investigation,
it did "recognize that the considerations relevant to the constitutionality
of the 'preliminary' investigation may
well be similar to those which are
pertinent to the constitutionality
of
a 'formal' investigation".
With respect to the plaintiffs' argument that the statutes and regulations authorizing the "preliminary"
investigation are void for vagueness,
the court firmly sustained the sufficiency of the statutory provisions by
noting that the securities laws and
regulations "sufficiently
specify the
obligations imposed upon the City."
The City has appealed this decision
to the United States Supreme Court.
City of New York v. SEC264-0n
July 26, 1976, the City of New York
filed an action for declaratory and injunctive relief against the Commission
and the Commissioners in their official
capacity in the United States District
Court for the Southern District of New
York challenging the statutory basis
and constitutionality of a pending formal Corrrmisslon investigation
into
transactions in the City's securities.
The complaint alleged that the investigation constituted unlawful "regulation" of the City and sought a declaratory judgment and an injunctive
relief. Prosecution of the action was
deferred by agreement and subsequently, in December, 1976, the suit
was dismissed without prejudice by
stipulation.
Bertoli v. Hilfs, et al.265_On April

75

5, 1976, Richard Bertoli, a respondent
in an administrative proceeding initiated by the Commission, In the Matter of Executive Securities, Inc., et.
a/.266, commenced an action for damages and injunctive relief in the United States District Court for the Southern District of New York, naming as
defendants, Chairman Roderick M.
Hills, Reynolds Securities, Inc., and
Henry Gottlieb and alleging, among
other things, extortion, subordination
of perjury, cover-up and an invasion
of plaintiff's personal privacy by members of the Commission's staff. On
May 17, 1976, the court dismissed
this action as to defendants Reynolds
and Gottlieb. On July 3D, 1976, the
Commission and Chairman Hills filed
a motion to dismiss, or in the alternative, for summary judgment. In support of its motion, the Commission
argued that Chairman Hills was immune
from private damage liability for the
discretionary acts performed by him
and Federal employees under his control in the exercise of their official
responsibilities, and that the Commission, as an agency of the United
States government, cannot be sued
in its own name in the absence of
its consent, which it did not give
in this case.
The Honorable Charles L. Brieant
dismissed the action as to the Commission and Chairman Hills, holding
the Commission "immune from this
sort of litigation, calculated to and
having the effect of chilling it in the
fearless exercise of its delegated quasi-judicial functions" and holding that,
as to Chairman Hills, "to function
effectively, he must be granted immunity from private suits for damages. "
Sidney Buchman
and Joseph
Buchman v. SEC267- On April 20,
1977, the United States Court of
Appeals for the Second Circuit, on a
petition for review of a Commission
76

order modifying disciplinary action
taken by the NASD against principals
of a broker-dealer, vacated the Commission's order. The brokerage firm
had entered into a contract to purchase
securities from another firm. Before
the settlement date, the Commission
suspended trading in the stock and
continued to issue consecutive tenday orders suspending trading in the
stock for seven months. After the suspension terminated, the brokerage
firm refused to accept delivery of the
stock. The NASD, and the Commission,
determined that the breach of contract constituted conduct inconsistent
with "just and equitable principles of
trade" in contravention of Article Ill,
Section 1 of the NASD Rules of Fair
Practice. The court, however, determined that there was no violation because the refusal to complete the
contract was "colorably justified by
the confusion as to the true state of
the market and as to the applicable
law." The court held that "Ial breach
of contract is unethical conduct in violation of NASD rules, only if it is in bad
faith, just as conduct violates Rule
10b-5 only if there is scienter: intent
to deceive, manipulate or defraud."
Carter v. DeGrazia, et et, - In this
case, the plaintiff alleged, inter alia,
that a member of the Commission's
staff had participated, together with a
former employee of a Carter-affiliated
company, and a law firm that had
previously represented Mr. Carter, in
a conspiracy to violate Mr. Carter's
civil and constitutional rights in connection with the Commission-authorized investigation of Mr. Carter and
certain companies that were affiliated
with him.268 In that connection, the
complaint alleged (1) that there was no
basis in fact for the Commissions' investigation; and (2) that its purpose was to
force him out of business and to permit
the former employee to take over that

business. He sought $25 million in
damages.
After denying motions to dismiss, or
in the alternative, for summary judgment, that were filed on behalf of the
Commission staff member, the district
court, on April 11, 1977, commenced
the trial, which lasted three days. At
that juncture, Mr. Carter admitted,
during a bench conference, inter alia,
that he had no specific evidence that
the defendants conspired to put him
out of business and that he had "no
way of proving that allegation." The
court thereupon vacated its prior orders
denying the defendants' motions to
dismiss and dismissed the complaint.
Mr. Carter subsequently
sought
review of the dismissal of the complaint in the court of appeals, but his
appeal was dismissed as frivolous on
September 20, 1977.269
SEC v. Advance Growth Capital Corporation et. al.270 - In this case the
United States Court of Appeals for the
Seventh Circuit affirmed a district
court's refusal to vacate a permanent
injunction that had been entered in
a Commission enforcement action.
Appellants, the two individual defendants in the action, had been permanently enjoined, on April 9, 1973,
from engaging in certain conduct which
would constitute violations of the Investment Company Act. On a writ of
mandamus, the court of appeals had
directed the district judge to enter
a permanent injunction that had been
drafted by the Commission's staff.
Twenty-seven months later, the
appellants moved to vacate the injunction under Rule 60(b)(5) of the Federal
Rules of Civil Procedure, which authorizes a district court to grant relief
from a final judgment, inter alia, when
"it is no longer equitable that the judgment should have prospective application .... " In support of their motion,
they asserted, inter alia, that they

had (a) complied with provisions of the
Investment Company Act; (b) suffered
embarrassment as a result of being
enjoined; and (c) been denied the
right to participate in the management
of Advance Growth Capital Corporation.
The district court denied the motion,
on the ground that it lacked jurisdiction to modify or vacate the injunction
without direction from the court of
appeals.
Although the court of appeals found
considerable authority to the effect
that a motion in the same case for
relief from a judgment entered pursuant to appellate mandate cannot be
entertained by the trial court without
appellate leave, it indicated that it
would probably not go so far as to hold
that appellate leave is necessary whenever relief is sought under Rule 60(b)
(5).

The court of appeals affirmed the
motion to vacate on the merits on the
ground that any relief granted on the
basis of the facts alleged in the motion
would have been error, since the defendants had made no showing that
they were suffering a grievous wrong
as the result of new circumstances
that were not forseen at the time the
injunction was entered.
Sloan v. SEC271 - In this case
Samuel H. Sloan sought review of a
Commission order,272 dated April 28,
1975, that had revoked the brokerdealer registration of Samuel H. Sloan
& Co. and barred him from association
with any broker or dealer. The Commission's order was based upon findings that Mr. Sloan had willfully violated: (a) the recordkeeping provisions
contained in Section 17(a) of the Exchange Act and Rule 17a -3 promulgated thereunder273; (b) the net capital
requirements contained in Section
15(c)(3) of the Act and Rule 15c3-1
thereunder274;
and (c) the requirements that broker-dealers report their
77

financial condition for the past calendar year,275their income and expenses
for the past calendar year,276and any
net capital deficiency within 24 hours
after it occurs.v?
The court of appeals affirmed the
Commission's order, noting that, in
addition to the Commission's findings
of violative conduct, Mr. Sloan had
been enjoined by the United States
District Court for the Southern District
of New York on two occasions from
violating various provisions of the
Federal securities laws.278 The court
held that "Each of these injunctions
was in itself a sufficient ground to
support the revocation of Sloan's
broker-dealer license under U5(b)
(5)(c) of the 1934 Act" and that his
challenges with respect to the constitutionality of the Exchange Act were
frivolous.279
Mr. Sloan subsequently filed a petition for a writ of certiorari in the Supreme Court, seeking review of the
court of appeals' decision. His petition
was denied on October 3, 1977.280
Whiteside & CO. V. SFC281 - In this
case the court of appeals upheld a
Commission order affirming sanctions
imposed by the NASD upon Whiteside
and Company, a broker-dealer registered with the Commission and its
two partners Clarence K. Whiteside
and William H. Whiteside. This case
involved
Rule 15c3-3,
17 CFR
240. 15c3-3, under Section 15(b) of
the Exchange Act, 15 U.S.C. 7&(c).
This Rule requires every broker or
dealer to establish a "Special Reserve
Bank Account for the Exclusive Benefit
of Customers." The purpose of this
account is to ensure that each broker
or dealer retains adequate funds to
cover its indebtedness to its customers. Under the rule, smaller brokers
or dealers, such as the Whitesides,
must make monthly computations
pursuant to a specified formula and
78

maintain a balance in the account of at
least 105 percent of the net credit
balance as calculated pursuant to the
formulas. Any required deposit must
be made no later than one hour after
the opening of banking business on the
second business day following the last
business day of the month. If a required
deposit is not made, the rule requires
that immediate telegraphic notice be
given to the Commission, SIPC, and
the regulatory authority which examines the broker or dealer as to financial
responsibility.
The court of appeals found that
substantial evidence supported the
Commission's finding that the Whitesides had failed to make necessary
deposits and to give the required notice.
With respect to the sanction imposed, the court stated that "in light of
the fundamental nature of the reserve
account system to the safeguarding of
customers funds," it could not find the
Commission's affirmance of the NASD's
sanctions to be arbitrary or an abuse
of its discretion.
£. I. du Pont de Nemours & Co. v.
Collins; SEC v. Collins. 282- On June 23,
1976, the Court of Appeals for the
Eighth Circuit, in a 2 -1 decision, set
aside an order of the Commission
entered pursuant to Section 17(b) of
the Investment Company Act granting
a joint application by E. l. du Pont de
Nemours & Co.and Christiana Securities
Company which would permit the proposed merger of the two com pan ies.
The court of appeals held that the
Commission had erred, as a matter of
law, in determining that Christiana
stock should be valued on the basis of
the market value of its principal
asset-du Pont common stock-rather
than on a basis reflecting the much
lower market value of the Christiana
outstanding stock. It also held that
because the benefits to Christiana

were far greater than to du Pont, the
terms of the proposed merger were
unfair-that
they were not within the
range of an arm's length bargain as,
it held, is required under the Act.283
The Supreme Court reversed the
judgment of the court of appeals and
held that the Commission reasonably
exercised the broad discretion granted
to it by Congress, which, recognizing
that an arm's length bargain is seldom
a realistic possibility in transactions
between an affiliate and an investment
company, had substituted the Commission's informed judgment to determine the fairness of such transactions. The Court found that the
Commission properly relied on the
principle it has long and consistently
applied-that the key factor in valuing
the assets of a closed end investment
company should be the market price
of its portfolio securities.

Staff Report on Transactions in
Securities of the City of New York
On August 26, 1977, the Commission transmitted to Congress Its Staff
Report on Transactions In Securities of
the City of New York (the Report). The
Report was the product of a 19-month
investigation and focuses on events
which occurred during the period from
October 1974 through April 1975,
when the City faced a fiscal crisis and
issued very large amounts of shortterm securities.
The Report was transmitted to Congress in response to requests from
Senator William Proxmire, Chairman
of the Senate Committee on Banking,
Housing and Urban Affairs; Congressman William S. Moorehead, Chairman
of the House Banking Subcommittee
on Economic
Stabilization;
and
Congressman Benjamin Rosenthal,
Chairman of the House Government
Operations Subcommittee on Com-

merce, Consumer and Monetary Affairs.
The Report was based on an investigation conducted by the Commission's
New York Regional Office. That investigation was one of the most complex in
the Commission's history and involved
collection of more than 250,000 documents and over 12,000 pages of sworn
testimony. It sought to: (1) determine
the nature and extent of the knowledge
of New York City officials, underwriters,
rating agencies and bond counsel with
respect to the then steadily-worsening
financial condition of the City; and
(2) compare the knowledge of these
parties to the disclosures made to the
public from October 1974 through
April 1975-a
period during which
approximately $4 billion worth of New
York City short-term debt securities
were sold to the public.
The Report consists of seven chapters which examine the chronology
of events related to the City's financial
condition, the City's accounting practices and financial reporting, the role
of the City and its officials and the
role played, in connection with the
offering and issuance of these securities, by the underwriters, bond counsel and the rating agencies.
The inquiry concluded that officials
of New York City, with knowledge of the
City's true financial condition, misled
public investors in the offer and sale of
its securities. The Report further found
that -the underwriters failed to fulfill
their responsibilities to the investing
public and inadequately disclosed
materially adverse information regarding the budgetary and financial problems of the City.
According to the Report, the rating
agencies appear to have failed, in a
number of respects, to make either
diligent inquiry into data which called
for further investigation, or to adjust
properly their ratings of the City's
79

securities based on data which they
knew in a manner consistent with
standards upon which prior rating had
been based. As to bond counsel, who
issued opinions on the validity of the
issuance of New York City securities,
the Report concluded that they, when
on notice of circumstances
which
called into question matters basic to
their opinions, should have conducted
additional investigation. The Report
also concluded that bond counsel, who
continued with their engagement having knowledge of information material
to investors, should have, under those
circumstances,
taken reasonable
steps to satisfy themselves that such
material facts were disclosed to the
public.
As stated in the Report, the Federal
securities laws administered by the
Commission have as their principal
purpose the protection of public investors. Accordingly, the staff inquired
as to whether, in the offer, sale and
distnbution of New York City's debt
securities, under the circumstances,
there was provided the measure of
disclosure mandated under the Federal
securities
laws in the interest of
the investing public. The Report stated,
"We conclude that it was not."
The Report is a distillation, analysis
and evaluation of the evidence which
had been obtained as of the date it
was issued. The investigation, which
is a continuing one, is not an adjudicatory proceeding; nor does the investigation or the Report constitute a determination of the rights or liabilities of
any person.
The Commission will, after receiving
staff recommendations, consider what
Commission action or legislative recommendations, if any, should follow.

NOTES TO PART 1
"Ihe Commission's report covers the
periodsfrom July I, 1976to September3D,
1976 (the transition quarter) and from
80

October 1, 1976 to September 30, 1977
(fiscal year 1977). Unless otherwise indicated, references to the past fiscal year
include the transition quarter.
2Actof June4, 1975,Pub.L. No.94-29,89
Stat. 97.
3SEC,Report of the Securities and Exchange Commissum on Rules of National
Securities Exchanges Which Limit or Condition the Ability of Members to Effect Transactions Otherwise Than on Such Exchanges

(September2, 1975).
4Securities Exchange Act Release No.
11628 (September2, 1975), 7 SECDocket
762.
SId. 7 SECDocket 763.
6Securities Exchange Act Release No.
11942 (December19, 1975),8 SECDocket
756.
7Althoughexchangemembershavebeen
permitted to effect over-the-countertransactions in listed securities on an agency
basis, Rule 19c-1 permitted each exchange to continue until January2, 1977,
to require its members to satisfy public
limit orders on that exchange at prices
equal to or superiorto the over-the-counter
transaction priceasa condition to effecting
ani: such transactions.
Securities Exchange Act Release No.
11942(December19, 1975),8 SECDocket
766.
9/d.
lDld.

»t«. 8 SECDocket 768-69.

l2Letter to the Commission from the
NMAB ConcerningIn-HouseAgencyCross
Transactions in Listed Securities by
ExchangeMembers,dated September24,
1976.
l3ld.
l4ld.

at 9.
lSLetter to the Commission from the
NMAB Concerning Off-Board Trading by
Membersof NationalSecuritiesExchanges,
dated February25, 1977.
l6ld. at 2-3.
17Letter to the Commission from the
NMAB Concerning Off-Board Trading by
Membersof NationalSecuritiesExchanges,
dated May 19, 1977.
vt«.

19ld.

»t«.

at 3.

21SecuritiesExchangeAct Release No.
13662(June26, 1977),12SECDocket947.
22SEC,l,
Statement on the Future Structure
of the Securities Markets (February 2,
1972),37 FR 5286 (1972).
23SEC,Policy Statement on the Structure
of a Central Market System (March 29,
1973).
24SecuntiesExchangeAct Release No.
9529 (March 8, 1972).
2sSecuritiesExchangeAct Release No.
10969 (August 14, 1974), 5 SEC Docket
735.

26Securities Exchange Act Release No.
11288 (March 11, 1975), 6 SEC Docket
425.
• 27Securities Exchange Act Release No.
11406 (May 7, 1975), 6 SEC Docket 859.
28Securities Exchange Act Release No.
12670 (July 29, 1976), 10 SEC Docket 108.
29Securities Exchange Act Release No.
13626 (June 14, 1977), 12 SEC Docket
835.
30Securities Exchange Act Release No.
12159 (March 2, 1976)49 SEC Docket 76.
See also December 19/5 Release. 8 SEC
Docket 773-76, and infra at p. 10 for a
discussion of certain market linkage facilities proposed as alternatives to a composite book.
31Letter to the Commission from the
NMAB concerning
Establishment
of a
Composite Limit Order Book, dated
January 28, 1977.
32SeeJune 1977 Release for a discussion
of market fragmentation. 12 SEC Docket

958-64.

3342nd Annual Report at 7-8; 41st
Annual Report at 11; 40th Annual Report at
7; and 39th Annual Report at 9.
34Securities Exchange Act Release No.
12885 (October 12, 1976), 10 SEC Docket
697.
35Seediscussion, supra at p. 9.
36For a more detailed treatment of trns
request, see discussion, infra at p. 19.
37SeeIntermarket Execution System Discussion Paper, prepared by the National
Market Association for the NMAB dated
April 1977, and testimony of NYSE given
during the August Hearings on August 2,
1977. (Official Transcript of Proceedings
Before the Securities and Exchange Commission in the Matter of Off-Board Trading
Rules, pp. 5-21)
(both of which are
available In File No. 4-180.)
38Letter to the Commission from Kenneth Rosenblum, Senior Vice President and
Counsel of the MSE, dated September 9,
1977 (File No. 4-180).
39Seediscussion, infra at p. 19.
4°Letter to the Commission from Michael
Tobin, President of the MSE, dated March
22,1977.
41Letter to the NMAB from Lee A. Pickard,
Director, Division of Market Regulation,
dated May 18, 1977.
42Letters to the MSE, the Amex, the
NYSE and SIAC from the Commission, each
dated October 4, 1977.
43NMAB,Report to the Congress: The Possible Need for Modifications of the Scheme
of Self-Regulation in the Securities Industry so as to Adapt it to a National
Market System, December 31. 1976.
44Seediscussion, supra at p. 5.
45Securities Exchange Act Release No.
13091 (December 21, 1976), 11 SEC
Docket 1229.
46Securities Exchange Act Release No.

13092 (December 21, 1976), 11 SEC
Docket 1248. Rule 10b-21 and the amendments to Rule 17a-3 were first proposed
in Securities Exchange Act Release No.
10636 (February 11, 1974), 3 SEC Docket
540, and were reproposed in Securities
Exchange Act Release No. 11328 (April 2,
1975), 6 SEC Docket 552.
47See 42nd Annual Report at 17 -18;
41st Annual Report at 15-17; 40th Annual Report at 8-9; and 39th Annual Report at 10-11.
48See Securities Exchange Act Release
No. 13230 (February 1, 1977), 11 SEC
Docket 1630; and Securities Exchange Act
Release No. 13674 (June 23, 1977), 12
SEC Docket 1014. After the end of the
fiscal year, the Commission instituted proceedings to determine whether these proposals and those of other self-regulatory
organizations designed either to expand
exlstlng programs for the trading of options
or initiate new programs (the "Expansion
Proposals") should be disapproved. See
discussion of the Options Moratorium,
infra at p. 14, and Securities Exchange Act
Release No. 14057 (October 17, 1977),
13 SEC Docket 375.
49Astandardized call option contract essentially gives the purchaser (its "holder")
the right, until the contract expires, to
purchase for a specified price (the "strike"
or "exercise" price) a fixed number of
shares of a given security (ordinarily 100
shares) (the "underlying security") from the
seller (or "writer") of the call. Conversely,
the purchaser of a standardized put option
contract acquires the right to sell, before
the option expires, a fixed number of shares
of the underlying security (ordinarily 100
shares) to the writer of the put, at a
specified price (the "strike" or "exercise"
price) by the put option contract.
50See Securities Exchange Act Release
No. 13592 (June 2, 1977), 12 SEC Docket
692; Securities Exchange Act Release No.
13587 (June 2, 1977), 12 SEC Docket 690;
Securities Exchange Act Release No. 13588
(June 2, 1977), 12 SEC Docket 690;
Securities Exchange Act Release No. 13591
(June 2, 1977), 12 SEC Docket 692; and
Securities Exchange Act Release No. 13589
(June 2, 1977), 12 SEC Docket 691.
51As used here, the term "option class"
means all option contracts of the same
type, i.e., put or call, covering the same
underlying security.
5242nd Annual Report at 17.

»t«
»ta.

55Securities Exchange Act Release No.
13045 (December 8, 1976), 11 SEC Docket
1120.
56ld.
57Securities Exchange Act Release No.
13051 (December 9, 1976), 11 SEC Docket
1124; Securities Exchange Act Release No.

81

13050 (December 9, 1976), 11 SEC Docket
1123; Securities Exchange Act Release No.
13080 (December 16, 1976), 11 SEC
Docket 1220; and Securities Exchange Act
Release No. 13058 (December 10, 1976),
11 SEC Docket 1173.
58By contrast, both the Amex and the
Phlx, with some modifications, utilize unitary specialist systems in their options
programs.
59Theachievement of a centralized clearing system for listed options, the establishment of a common system for reporting
and disseminating last sale information and
the standardization of the terms of listed
options, have facilitated such dual trading.
Securities Exchange Act Release No. 10981
(August 22, 1974), 5 SEC Docket 224.
6°At the end of the fiscal year, the Commission had pending before it a proposal
by' the PSE to permit dual trading with
different expiration dates. Securities Exchange Act Release No. 12250 (March 23,
1976), 9 SEC Docket 259. Subsequent to
the end of the fiscal year, the Commission
instituted proceedings to determine whether
this proposal and those of other selfregulatory organizations designed either to
expand existing pro~rams for the trading
of options or to initiate new programs
(the "Expansion Proposals") should be disapproved. See discussion of the Options
Moratorium, infra at p. 14, and Securities
Exchange Act Release No. 14057 (October
17, 1977), 13 SEC Docket 375.
61Such trading activity included "prearranged trading" and "wash sales" which
involved option trades between exchange
members which were entered into with the
understanding that such trades were to be
closed (reversed) within a short period of
time at the same, or nearly the same, price.
A related problem is "fictitious trading,"
which Involves the reporting of transactions
which do not actually occur.
62Securities Exchange Act Release No.
13433 (April 5, 1977), 11 SEC Docket 2194.
63fd.
64For a discussion of these inspections,
see pp. 131-136, infra.
65These conferences were held at the
Commission on March 7-8, 1977, March
31 to April I, 1977, and on September
28-29, 1977.
66Securlties Exchange Act Release No.
12334 (April 12, 1976), 9 SEC Docket
407; Securities Exchange Act Release No.
13160 (January 13, 1977), 11 SEC Docket
1447; Securities Exchange Act Release No.
13431 (April 5, 1977), 11 SEC Docket 2193;
Securities Exchange Act Release No. 13071
(December 14, 1976), 11 SEC Docket 1179;
and Securities Exchange Act Release No.
13161 (January 13, 1977), 11 SEC Docket

1448.

67Securities Exchange Act Release No.
13095 (December 22, 1976), 11 SEC Docket

82

1268; Securities Exchange Act Release No.
12703 (August 12, 1976), 10 SEC Docket
221; Securities Exchange Act Release No.
13406 (March 25, 1977), 11 SEC Docket
2150; Securities Exchange Act Release No.
12379 (April 27, 1976), 9 SEC Docket
493; and Securities Exchange Act Release
No. 12539 (June 11, 1976), 9 SEC Docket
877.
68Secunties Exchange Act Release No.
14056 (October 17, 1977), 13 SEC Docket
366.
69Securities Exchange Act Release No.
13760 (July 18,1977),12SECDocket
1275.
7°fd.
71Securities Exchange Act Release No.
14056 (October 17, 1977), 13 SEC Docket
766.
72/d.
73Securities Exchange Act Release No.
14057 (October 17, 1977), 13 SEC Docket
375.
74/d.

75The impetus for the PSE's application
for unlisted trading privileges was PRJ's
request that its securities be delisted from
the PSE, where they had been listed since
1972. On June 22, 1977, the Commission
ordered PRI stock removed from listing and
registration on the PSE, effective upon the
Commission's disposition of the PSE's application for unlisted trading, but in no
event later than 120 days from June 22,
1977. Securities Exchange Act Release No.
13657 (June 22, 1977), 12 SEC Docket
930. In that order the Commission exempted,
for the same time period, the NASD and
all brokers and dealers from the requirements of Securities Exchange Act Rule
17a -15, which relates to last sale reports of OTC transactions in certain listed
securities.
76Securities Exchange Act Release No.
13658 (June 22, 1977), 12 SEC Docket
933.
77Since June 22, 1977, PRI has been
traded both on the PSE and in the OTC
market. Such trading has been possible
because the effective date of the delisting was deferred by the Commission pending resolution of PSE's application for unlisted trading privileges in that security and
because the PSE had exempted from its
off-board trading restrictions listed securities for which the issuer had applied for
delisting and for which the PSE had applied for unlisted trading privile~es. The
latter action by the PSE enabled ItS members to act as dealers in PRI common stock
in the OTe market if they desired.
7842nd Annual Report at 11.
79Securities Exchange Act Release No.
12055 (January 27, 1976), 8 SEC Docket

1155.

8°Securities Exchange Act Release No.
13388 (March 18, 1977), 11 SEC Docket
2049.

81At the Joint Oversight Hearings conducted in July 1977 by the Subcommittee
on Oversight and Investigations and the
Subcommittee on Consumer Protection
and Finance of the House Committee on
Interstate and Foreign Commerce, the Commission was requested to furnish to the
Subcommittee whatever legislative recommendations it wished to make. The Commission responded that it would not be in a
position to make legislative recommendations until it had completed Its rulemakmg
proceeding under Section II(a). See letter
to the Honorable John E. Moss and the
Honorable Bob Eckhardt from Harold M.
Williams, Chairman, Securities and Exchange Commission, dated August 19,
1977.
82Secunties Exchange Act Release No.
12483 (May 26, 1976), 9 SEC Docket
731.
83The NASD is the only registered securities association.
84Securities Exchange Act Release No.
12994 (November 18, 1976), 10 SEC
Docket 998.
851nthis regard, Rule 1992-1 defines
"control" as the power to direct or cause
the direction of the management or politics of a member company, and establishes
certain rebuttable presumptions with respect to the control of a member.
86Securities Exchange Act Release No.
12395 (October 28, 1976), 10 SEC Docket

807.

8715 U.S.C. 78ili(c) (1970).
8842nd Annual Report at 22-23.
891d. at 23. Securities Exchange Act
Release No. 12802 (September 16, 1976),
10 SEC Docket 484. The term "NASDAQ"
also refers to the automated quotation
system developed by the NASD and now
operated by its subsidiary, NASDAQ, Inc.
90Securitles Exchange Act Release No.
13551 (May 19, 1977), 12 SEC Docket
434.
91Bradford's exemption was conditioned
on requirements similar to those which the
Commission previously imposed upon other
processors exempted from registration.
42nd Annual Report at 23.
92Seediscussion supra, at p. II.
93Theprovision of automated order routing systems by various exchanges was
discussed in the 42nd Annual Report at
9-10.
84Seenote 41 supra.
95Securities Exchange Act Release No.
13726 (July 8, 1977), 12 SEC Docket 1107.
96Section 3(a)(23) of the Exchange Act
defines the term "clearing agency" to
include clearing corporations and depositories. Generally clearing corporations clear
and settle transactions between participating brokers and dealers (i.e., process
trade data received from participating
brokers and dealers and determine the

amounts of secunties and money that
should be exchanged among them). Depositories hold securities certificates and effect
delivery between participants
by book
entry.
9742nd Annual Report at 19.
98Secunties Exchange Act Release No.
12795 (September 1, 1976), 10 SEC Docket
352.
99Securities Exchange Act Release No.
13584 (June 1, 1977), 12 SEC Docket 671.
At the same time, the Commission Issued an
order extending until September 1, 1977,
the existing registrations of The DepOSitory
Trust Company: Bradford Securities Processing Services, lnc., Stock Clearing
Corporation of Philadelphia: Boston Stock
Exchan~e Clearing Corporation: Midwest
Securities Trust Company: The Options
Clearing Corporation; Midwest Clearing
Corporation: Pacific Secunties Depository
Trust Company: Pacific Clearing Corporation: and TAD Depository Corporation.
The Commission also announced the extension until September 1, 1977, of the time
for concluding the registration proceedings. Three of the clearing agencies granted
registration on December 1, 1975, had
been combined to form the National Securities Clearing Corporation (NSCC) and their
registrations were withdrawn m January
1977. See discussion infra at p. 22.
Subsequently, the Commission extended
until March 1, 1978, the interim registration of the above clearing agencies (other
than NSCC whose interim registration had
not expired) and extended until that date
the time for concluding the proceedings.
Securities
Exchange Act Release No.
13911 (August 31, 1977), 12 SEC Docket

1640.

looSecuritles Exchange Act Release No.
12274 (March 29, 1976), 9 SEC Docket
305: Securities Exchange Act Release No.
12428 (May 11, 1976), 9 SEC Docket 622:
and Secunties Exchange Act Release No.
12825 (September 20, 1976), 10 SEC 527.
lolSecurities
Exchange Act Release
No. 12829 (September 24, 1976), 10 SEC
Docket 593. Subsequently, proceedings
were instituted With respect to NESDTC
to determine whether to make permanent
the intenm registration granted to it. Securities Exchange Act Release No. 13664
(June 23, 1977), 12 SEC Docket 986.
l0242nd Annual Report at 19.
103Securities Exchange Act Release
No. 12954 (November 3, 1976), 10 SEC
Docket 851.
104Securities Exchange Act Release
No. 13163 (January 13, 1977), 11 SEC
Docket 1448.
l05Bradford National Clearing Corporation
v. Securities and Exchange Commission,
No. 77-1199 (C.A.D.C.).
10642ndAnnual Report at 19.
l0742nd Annual Report at 20.

83

108Securities Exchange Act Release
No. 13293 (February 24, 1977), 11 SEC
Docket 1818.
109Securitles Exchange Act Release
No. 13636 (June 16, 1977), 12 SEC Docket
853.
II°That is, the Comptroller of the Currency, the Board of Governors of the Federal
Reserve System and the Federal Deposit
Insurance
Corporation.
See Section
3(a)(34) of the Securities Exchange Act.
111Securities
Exchange Act Release
No. 13914 (September 8, 1977), 13 SEC
Docket 17.
112Securities Exchange Act Release
No. 12874 (October 7, 1976), 10 SEC Docket
693.
113The"open throat" area IS space in the
center of a certificate reserved for imprinting the record owner's name and address
and other information.
114556F.2d 555 (2d Cir. 1977).
1155U.S.C. 552.
116See42nd Annual Report at 20-21
for a description of the Commission's preliminary report on the Street Name Study
and the initial steps taken by the Commission during the second phase of the Street
Name Study.
117SeCUritles Exchange Act Release
No. 13719 (July 5, 1977), 12 SEC Docket
1111.
118pub. L. No. 95-213 (December 19,
1977).
119Seeinfra at p. 157, for a discussion of
SIPC.
12°ln 1975, companion bills H.R.8064
and S.1231, 94th Cong., 1st Sess., were
mtroducted In both houses of Congress.
See 42nd Annual Report at 98-99.
121(1976-1977 Transfer Binder] Fed.
Sec. L. Rep. (CCH) para. 95,627 (1976).
122NASD Manual (CCH) para. 2174
(April 21, 1977). Article III, Section 24,
of the NASD's Rules of Fair Practice provides that selling concessions, discounts,
or other allowances shall be allowed only as
consideration for services rendered In a
distribution
and only to broker-dealers
actually engaged in the securities business.
123Securitles Exchange Act Release
No. 13364 (March 9, 1977), 11 SEC Docket
1945.
124/d., n. 9.
125Securities Exchange Act Release
No 13185 (January 19, 1977), 11 SEC
Docket 1514.
1261na letter dated May 11, 1976, from
Chairman Hills to NYSE Chairman Batten,
the NYSE was urged to consider that suggestion.
127Securities Exchange Act Release
No. 12806 (September 16, 1976), 10 SEC
Docket 465.
128Securitles Exchange Act Release
No. 13508 (May 5, 1977), 12 SEC Docket
299.

84

129Securities Exchange Act Release
No. 13661 (June 23, 1977), 12 SEC Docket
940.
130Section 17(f)(1) applies to every
national securities exchange, member
thereof, registered securities association,
broker, dealer, municipal securities dealer,
registered transfer agent, registered clearing agency and participant therein, member
of Federa Reserve System and bank whose
deposits are insured by the Federal Deposit
Insurance Corporation. Although other
financial institutions, such as Insurance
companies and foreign banks, are not
included in the system, such institutions
may write to the Comrnission to request
to be included. Such applications Will be
considered on a case-by-case basis.
131Securitles Exchange Act Release
No. 13053 (December 28, 1976), 11 SEC
Docket 1161.
132Securities Exchange Act Release
No. 13280 (February 18, 1977), 11 SEC
Docket 1804.
133Securlties Exchange Act Release
No. 13281 (February 18, 1977), 11 SEC
Docket 1807.
134Securities Exchange Act Release
No. 13831 (August 4, 1977), 12 SEC Docket
1465.
135Securlties Exchange Act Release
No. 13053 (December 28, 1976), 11 SEC
Docket 1161.
1361nSecurities Exchange Act Release
No. 13538 (May 24, 1977), 12 SEC Docket
339, AutEx, Inc., was named as the designee. SIC was created as a wholly owned
subsidiary of the ITEL AutEx, Inc. after
ITEL Corporation acquired AutEx, Inc.
137Reports and inquiries concerning
United States Government or Agency
securities are to be made to any Federal
Reserve Bank or Branch.
13817CFR 249.1200.
139The Lost and Stolen Securities Program is not intended to be a substitute
for other steps being undertaken to improve
securities processing, prevent losses and
reduce the risk of theft. The Commission
continues to endorse the immobilization
and elimination of certificates
through
greater use of depositories and book entry
systems.
140Securities Exchange Act Release
No. 12214 (March 16, 1976),9 SEC Docket
203. Securities Exchange Act Section
17(f)(2) provides that every partner, director, officer, and employee of every member
of a national securities exchange, broker,
dealer, registered transfer agent and registered clearing agency shall be fingerprinted
and shall submit, or cause to be submitted,
such fingerprints to the Attorney General
of the United States for identification and
appropriate processing. The Commission is
given authority to exempt certain classes
of persons from these requirements in a

manner consistent with the public interest
and the protection of investors.
141For Instance, in the case of a registered
transfer agent, the rule requires the fingerprinting of only those persons engaged in or
having access to "transfer agent activities."
142Securities Exchange Act Release
No. 13105 (January 11, 1977), 11 SEC
Docket 1311.
143The term "SECO broker-dealers"
refers to those broker-dealers which are
not members of the NASD.
144Securities Exchange Act Release
No. 13679 (June 27, 1977), 12 SEC Docket
1017.
145Securities Exchange Act Release
No. 12157 (March 2, 1976), 9 SEC Docket
45. The first set of notices under Section
3l(b) generally concerned the issue of
exchange membership and access to the
exchanges. It is discussed In the 42nd
Annual Report at 25.
146Securities Exchange Act Release
No. 13027 (December I, 1976), 11 SEC
Docket 1066.
147Because both the Cincinnati
and
Spokane Stock Exchanges had indicated
a desire to overhaul their respective sets
of rules, the Commission found it preferable
to send notices to these exchanges with
respect to their entire rulebooks instead
of citing specific rules.
148The Cincinnati Stock Exchange and
Spokane Stock Exchange have responded
pursuant to Section 19(b) of the Securities
Exchange Act with proposed revisions of
their rulebooks. See Securities and Exchange Commission File No. SR-CSE77-1; and Securities and Exchange Commission File No. SR-SSE-77-1.
149Securities Exchange Act Release
No. 14002 (September 27, 1977), 13 SEC
Docket 238. Further notice was not given
with respect to the other rules cited in the
December I, 1976, notice. The Commission
expects that, before any further action
on those rules is taken pursuant to Section
31(b), the rule will be the subject of an
interim statement intended to facilitate
additional consideration
of the issues
they present.
150Securities Exchange Act Release
No. 13482 (April 28, 1977), 12 SEC Docket
239.
151Securities Exchange Act Release
No. 13901 (August 29, 1977), 12 SEC
Docket 1630.
152Securities Act Release No. 5758
(November 2, 1976), 10 SEC Docket 834.
153Theoriginal deadline for submission
of comments of December 15, 1976 was
extended to January 31, 1977 in Securities
Act Release No. 5783 (December 15,
1976), 11 SEC Docket 1164.
154Securities Exchange Act Release

No. 12999 (November 22, 1976), 10 SEC
Docket 1006.
lssSecurities
Act Release No. 5856
(A~~~S:c1~~it~~~7kc\2 ~~~a~~C~~.I~~P58
(November 2, 1976), 10 SEC Docket 834.
ls7Securities
Act Release No. 5808
(February 24,1977), 11 SEC Docket 1779.
158/d., 11 SEC Docket 1978-1803.
159Securities Act Release No. 5609
(Auaust 25, 1975), 7 SEC Docket 696.
16'"°Securities Act Release No. 5851
(August 10, 1977), 12 SEC Docket 1461.
161Securities Act Release No. 5859
(August 29, 1977), 12 SEC Docket 1598.
162Securities Act Release No. 5872
(September 29, 1977), 13 SEC Docket 227.
163Securities Exchange Act Release
No. 13292 (February 24, 1977), 11 SEC
Docket 1814.
164Securities Exchange Act Release
No. 13787 (July 21, 1977), 12 SEC Docket
1256.
16sSecurities Exchange Act Release
No. 12676 (August 2, 1976),10 SEC Docket
143.
166Securities Act Release No. 5735
(August 31, 1976), 10 SEC Docket 313.
167Securities Act Release No. 5792
(December20, 1976), 11 SEC Docket 1214.
168Securities Act Release No. 5879
(November 2, 1977), 13 SEC Docket 509.
169Theform would still be available for
the registration of securities to be offered
by security holders and by the issuer up'on
the conversion of outstanding convertible
securities and exercise of outstanding
options.
17°Theuse of the form will continue to be
conditioned upon the issuer meeting the
rules for the use of the Form S-7.
171Securities Act Release No. 5826
(Mav 10, 1977), 12 SEC Docket 340.
17~Seeminutes of the Meetings of the
Advisory Committee on February 8, 1977.
173Securities Act Release No. 5699
(April 23, 1976), 9 SEC Docket 472.
174Securities Act Release No. 5824
S19C778)'Ol12(FSEbC
Dock et17987'6)
(Ap!si45128U'
. . .
e ruary, 5
.
176Secuntles Act Release No. 5840
(July I, 1977), 12 SEC Docket 1097.
177'Securities Act Release No. 5827
(Mav 19, 1977), 12 SEC Docket 426.
17ilSee Minutes of the Meeting of the
Advisory Committee on Corporate Disclosure on October 22, 1976.
179Theoriginal deadline of August 1, 1977
for commenting on the concept release was
extended to September 15, 1977 in Securities Act Release No. 5850 (August 9, 1977),
12 SEC Docket 1460.
18045U.S.C. 801 (February 5, 1976).
181Securities
Exchange Act Release
No. 12769 (September 3, 1976), 10 SEC
Docket 407.
182Securities Exchange Act Release

85

No. 13477 (April 28, 1977), 12 SEC Docket
228.
183Lessor railroads are substantially or
wholly owned subsidiaries of operating
railroads whose facilities or trackbeds
are operated under lease pursuant to which
the parent railroad is lessee. The Income
of the lessor subsidiary is determined
pursuant to the lease arrangement based
on the interest and a fixed dividend on
the outstanding securities of the lessor.
Switching and terminal companies are
owned and operating railroads which share
the expense of operation on a user basis.
184Securities Exchange Act Release
No. 13478 (April 28, 1977), 12 SEC Docket

232.

185Securit,es Exchange Act Release
No. 14032 (October 5, 1977), 13 SEC
Docket 303.
186UnderSection 12{h), the Commission,
upon application and after notice and
opportunity for hearing, may exempt in
whole or in part any issuer from the provisions of Sections 12(g), 13, 14 or 15(d),
If the Commission finds, by reason of the
number of public investors, amount of
trading interest in the securities, the nature
and the extent of the activities of the issuer,
income or assets of the issuer, or otherwise,
that such action is not inconsrstent with the
public interest or the protection of investors.
1871nvestment Company Act Release
No. 9470 (Ocotober 4, 1976), 10 SEC
Docket 680.
1881nvestment Company Act Release No.
9482 (October 18, 1976), 10 SEC Docket
751.
1e9/d.
1901nvestment Advisers Act Release
No. 602 (July 21, 1977), 12 SEC Docket
1337.
191No.75-1870 (June 16, 1977).
192539F.2d 649 (C.A. 7, 1976).
193547F.2d 171 (C.A. 2, 1976).
194Lltigation Release No. 7248, (January
23, 1976), 8 SEC Docket 1176.
195425U.S. 185 (1976).
196544F.2d 535 (C.A. 1, 1976).
1975.D.N.Y., No. 76Civ. 2368. In Its complaint, the Cornrnissron alleged violations
of registration, reporting and antifraud
provisions of the Federal secunties laws
rn connection with the sale of interests
in oil and gas drilling programs to public
investors.
1985ECv. Petrofunds, lnc., 420 F. Supp.
958, 960 n. 9 (S.D.N. Y., 1976) (Weinfeld,
Jr.),
199C.A.2, No. 76-6184 (entered on April
12, 1977). Litigation Release No. 7908
(May 5, 1977), 12 SEC Docket 339.
200SECv. Petrofunds, lnc., supra, 420
F. Supp. at 960.
201/d.
2021d.at 959.

86

203No.76-1278 and No. 1536 (C.A.D.C.,
October 3, 1977), [Current Binder] CCH
Fed. Sec. L. Rep. para 96,185.
204Richard C. Spangler, tnc., Nassar and
Co., Inc. and Albert Teller and Co., Inc.,
Securities
Exchange Act Release No.
12104 (February 12, 1976), 8 SEC Docket
1257.
205CCHFed. Sec. L. Rep., para. 96,185
at p, 92,341.
206Securities Exchange Act Release No.
12104 (February 12, 1976), 8 SEC Docket
at 1268.
207CCHFed. Sec. L. Rep., para 96,185
at p, 92,342.
208No. 75-2200 (C.A.D.C., 1977), [Current Binder] CCH Fed. Sec. L. Rep., para.
96,122.
209425 U.S. 185 (1976).
210546F.2d 1361 (C.A. 10, 1976).
211557 F.2d 1008 (C.A. 3, 1977).
212Nos. 76-3543 and 76-3764, (C.A. 9,
1977).
213556F.2d 619.
214TheCommission order imposing these
sanctions provided that, after one year,
Mr. White could apply for leave to become
associated with a broker-dealer in a nonproprietary capacity. Securities Exchange
Act Release No. 12614 (July 9, 1976), 10
SEC Docket 7.
215430F.Supp. 71 (C.D. Cal., 1977).
216558F. 2d 1083 (C.A. 2, 1977).
217425 F. Supp. 212 (S.D.N.Y., 1977),
apDeal pending, C.A. 2, No. 77-6034.
2180ral argument of the case occurred
shortly after the close of the fiscal year.
219No. 76-6189 (C.A. 2, September 30,
1977), [Current Binder] CCH Fed. Sec. L.
Rep., para. 96,186.
220420 F. Supp. 1226 1244 (S.D.N.Y.
1976) (citations omitted).
221/d.at 1241.
222Ernst& Ernst v. Hochfelder, 425 U.S.
185 (1976).
223CCHFed. Sec. L. Rep., para. 96,186 at
p. 92,350 (citations omitted).
224CCHFed. Sec. L. Rep., para. 96,186
at p. 92,353 (Citation omitted).
225432 F. Supp. 1190 (D.D.C., 1977),
appeal pending, C.A.D.C., No. 1761.
226The Commission's existing rules already require disclosure of all material
information. See e.g., 17 CFR 230.408,
240.12b-20, and 240. 14a-9.
227562F. 2d 820 (C.A. D.C., 1977).
228Withrespect to the Big Horn activities,
the Commission found that Collins Securities Corporation and Mr. Collins had wilfully
violated Securities Act Section 17(a), 15
U.S.C. 77q(a), and Securities Exchange Act
Section 10(b), 15 U.S.C. 78j(b), as well as
Rules 10b-5 and 10b-6 thereunder, 17
CFR 240.lOb-5 and 240.lOb-6.
In addition, the Commission also found
that Collins Securities Corporation and Mr.
Collins had wilfully violated or willfully

aided and abetted violations of margin,
reporting and recordkeeping requirements
of the Federal securities laws.
229425U.S. 185 (1976).
23°[1975-1976 Transfer Binder] CCH
Fed. Sec. L. Rep., para. 95,229 (S.D. N. Y.,
JUI~ 14, 1975).
2 'ki. at p. 98,207.
232No.75-6111 (C.A. 2, 1976).
233425U.S. 185 (1975).
234546F. 2d 1044 (C.A. 2, 1976), certiorari denied sub nom., Homans v. SEC [Current] Fed. Sec. L. Rep. (eCH) 78,014.
235/d.at 1047.
236547F. 2d 152 (C.A. 2, 1976), petition
for a writ of certiorari granted Sup. Ct. No.
76-1607 (October 17, 1977).
23715 U.S.C. 780(c)(5) and 15 U.S.C.
78s(a)(4). _
23815U.S.C. 781(k).
2391d.
240SUp.Ct. No. 76-1607.
241litigation Release Nos. 8077 and 8078
(August 22, 1977), 12 SEC Docket 1590.
242Litigation Release No. 7902 (May 2,
1977), 12 SEC Docket 336.
243Litigation Release No. 7902 (May 2,
1977), 12 SEC Docket 336.
244Securities Act Release No. 5800
(January 21, 1977), 11 SEC Docket 1548.
245Litigation Release No. 7651 (November
16, 1976), 10 SEC Docket 98l.
246Litigation Release No. 7920 (May 12,
1977), 12 SEC Docket 42l.
247LitigationRelease No. 7581 (September
24, 1976), 10 SEC Docket 626.
246Litigation Release No. 7682 (December
3, 1977), 11 SEC Docket 1155.
249Litigation Release No. 7943 (May 27,
1977), 12 SEC Docket 743.
250Litigation Release No. 8119 (September 21, 1977), 13 SEC Docket 178.
251Litlgation Release No. 7529 (August
19, 1976), 10 SEC Docket 263.
252Litigation Release No. 7921 (February
3, 1977), 11 SEC Docket 1110.
253Litlgation Release No. 7921 (May 13,
1977), 12 SEC Docket 452.
254Litigation Release No. 7910 (May 9,
1977), 12 SEC Docket 415.
255Litigation Release No. 8103 (September 7, 1977), 13 SEC Docket 52.
256Litigation Release No. 8104 (September 7, 1977), 13 SEC Docket 52.
257Litigation Release No. 8082 (August
24, 1977), 12 SEC Docket 1593.
258Litigation Release No. 8105 (September 7, 1977), 13 SEC Docket 52.
259Litlgation Release No. 7882 (April 20,
1977)/ 12 SEC Docket 72.
260lltigation Release No. 7932 (May 23,
1977), 12 SEC Docket 503.
261litigation Release No. 7940 (May 25,
1977), 12 SEC Docket 506.
262City of Philadelphia v. SEC, 434 F.
Supp. 281 (1977).
263426U.S. 833 (1976).
264S.D.N.Y.No. 76-Civ. 3707.

26576Civ. 1331 (Cl 13).
266Admin. Proc. File No. 3-4694.
267553F.2d 816 (C.A. 2, 1977).
268CivilAction No. 74-2263-S
(D. Mass.)
The Commission had entered orders for
public proceedings, on the basis of the
Information acquired during the investigation: (1) to determine whether two Carteraffiliated companies had willfully violated
the registration (Section 5 of the Securities
Act, 15 U.S.C. 77e) and antifraud provisions of the Federal securities laws (Section
17(a) of the Securities Act, 15 U.S.C.
77q(a), Section lO(b) of the Exchange Act,
15 U.S.C. 78j(b), and Rule 10b-5, 17
CFR 240.10b-5) promulgated under the
latter Act) and whether Mr. Carter had willfully aided and abetted such violations
(In the Matter of Brokers Diversified Inc.,
Administrative Proceeding File No. 3-4421
(January 15, 1974)); and (2) to determine
whether a proposed stock offering of
another Carter-affiliated company would
violate registration and antifraud provisions
of the Federal securities laws (In the Matter
of Brokers Diversified Services Corp.,
Administrative Proceeding File No. 3-4436
(Feb. 12, 1974)). The Commission consolidated the proceedings and thereafter, on
August 1, 1974, following the filing of Mr.
Carter's complaint, entered a default order
based on basis of his failure to appear at
a scheduled administrative hearrng. The
Commission's order found that Mr. Carter
had aided and abetted violations of registration and antifraud provisions of the Federal
securities laws in connection with the offer
and sale of common stock of two affiliated
companies between June 1972 and January
1974.The order also barred Mr. Carter from
being associated with any broker-dealer.
In the Matter of Brokers Diversified, lnc.,
et al., Securities Exchange Act Release
No. 10938 (August 1, 1974).
269Docket No. 77-1228 (C.A. I), petition
for a writ of certiorari denied, Sup. Ct. No.
77-550l.
27°539 F.2d 649 (C.A. 7, 1976).
271547 F.2d 152 (C.A. 2, 1976), petition
for a writ of certiorari denied Sup. Ct. No.
76-1547 (October 3, 1977).
272Securities Exchange Act Release No.
11376 (April 28, 1975), 6 SEC Docket 772.
27315U.S.C. 78q(a) and 17 CFR 240. 17a-3
resoectively.
2~415 U.S.C. 780(c)(3) and 17 CFR
240. 15c3-1 respectively.
275Rule17a-5, 17 CFR 240. 17a-5.
276Rule17a-10, 17 CFR 240. 17a-10.
277Rule17a-11, 17 CFR 240. 17a-1 l.
278S/oanv. SEC, supra, 547 F.2d at 155.
2791d.
280SUp.Ct. No. 76-1547.
281557F.2d 1118 (C.A. 5, 1977).
28297S. Ct. 2229 (1977).
283The Commission's application
for
en banc rehearing was denied.

87

Part 2
The Disclosure
System

Part 2
The Disclosure
System

A basic purpose of the Federal
securities laws is to provide disclosure of material, financial, and other
information on companies seeking to
raise capital through the public offering
of their securities, as well as companies whose securities are already
publicly held. This aims at enabling
investors to evaluate the securities of
these companies on an informed and
realistic basis.
The Securities Act of 1933 generally
requires that before securities may be
offered to the public a registration
statement must be filed with the Commission disclosing prescribed categories of information. Before the sale of
securities can begin, the registration
statement must become "effective."
In the sales, investors must be furnished a prospectus containing the
most significant information in the
registration statement.
The Securities Exchange Act of
1934 deals in large part with securities already outstanding and requires
the registration of securities listed on
a national securities exchange, as well
as over-the-counter securities in which
there is a substantial public interest.
Issuers of registered securities must
file annual and other periodic reports
designed to provide a public file of
current material information. The Exchange Act also requires disclosure of

material information to holders of registered securities in solicitations of
proxies for the election of directors
or approval of corporate action at a
stockholder's meeting, or in attempts
to acquire control of a company through
a tender offer or other planned stock
acquisition. It provides that insiders of
companies whose equity securities are
registered must report their holdings
and transactions in all equity securities of their companies.

PUBLIC OFFERING: THE 1933
SECURITIES ACT
The basic concept underlying the
Securities Act's registration requirements is full disclosure. The Commission has no authority to pass on the
merits of the securities to be offered
or on the fairness of the terms of
distribution. If adequate and accurate
disclosure is made, it cannot deny
registration. The Act makes it unlawful to represent to investors that the
Commission has approved or otherwise passed on the merits of registered securities.

Information Provided
While the Securites Act specifies
the information to be included in registration statements, the Commission
has the authority to prescribe appropriate forms and to vary the particular
91

items of information required to be
disclosed. To facilitate the registration
of securities by different types of
issuers, the Commission has adopted
special registration forms which vary
in their disclosure requirements so as
to provide maximum disclosure of the
essential facts pertinent in a given
type of offering while at the same
time minimizing the burden and expense of compliance with the law.
In recent years, it has adopted certain short forms, notably Forms S-7
and S-16, which do not require disclosure of matters already covered in
reports and proxy material filed or distributed under provisions of the Securities Exchange Act. Another short
form for registration under the Securities Act is Form S-8 for the registration of securities to be offered to
employees of the issuer and its subsidiaries. Recent Commission actions
to amend the three forms referred
to above are discussed below.

Reviewing Process
Registration statements filed with
the Commission are examined by its
Division of Corporation Finance for
compliance with the standards of adequate and accurate disclosure. Various
degrees of review procedures are employed by the Division.' While most
deficiencies are corrected through an
informal letter of comment procedure,
where the Commission finds that material representations in a registration
statement are misleading, inaccurate,
or incomplete, it may, after notice and
opportunity for hearing, issue a "stoporder" suspending the effectiveness
of the statement.

Time for Registration
The Commission's staff tries to complete examination of registration statements as quickly as possible. The
Securities Act provides that a reg-

92

istration statement shall become effective on the 20th day after it is
filed (or on the 20th day after the
filing of any amendment). Most registration statements require one or
more amendments and do not become
effective until some time after the
statutory 20-day period. The period
between the filing and effective date
is intended to give investors an opportunity to become familiar with the
proposed offering through the dissemination of the preliminary form of
prospectus. The Commission can accelerate the effective date to shorten
the 20-day waiting period-taking into
account, among other things, the
adequacy of the information on the
issuer already available to the public
and the ease with which facts about
the offering can be understood.
During the 3 months ended September 30, 1976, 637 registration statements became effective. Of these,
72 were amendments filed by investment companies pursuant to Section
24(e) of the Investment Company Act
of 1940, which provides for the registration of additional securities through
amendment to an effective registration
statement rather than the filing of a
new registration statement. For the
remaining 565 statements, the median
number of calendar days between the
date of the original filing and the
effective date was 28.
During the 1977 fiscal year, 2,921
registration statements became effective, including 402 which were amendments filed by investment companies.
The median number of calendar days
between the date of the original filing
and the effective date for non-investment company filings was 16.

Recent Actions Concerning the
Registration Process
The Commission continuously monitors its disclosure forms and the rules

concerning the procedures for registration statements and exemptions
under the Securities Act to assure
that the provisions are current and
adequate, and to assure that they do
not involve undue burdens on registrants. Actions of this general nature
occurring during the period covered by
this report are discussed under the
following headings.

Form 5.8
On November 22, 1976 the Commission adopted amendments to Form
S-82 SUbstantially as previously proposed" but with several significant
modifications. In considering the over
160 letters of comment, the Commission, in addition to responding with
significant changes to further simplify the disclosure requirements together with the wider availability of the
new form, made major changes to:
(1) delete the regulatory conditions
governing the availability of the form;
(2) modify the limitations on the use
of the form for reoffers and resales;
and (3) delete the requirement for an
opinion of counsel concerning compliance with the Employee Retirement
Income Security Act of 1974.
As proposed, Form S-8 would not
have allowed reoffers to be made by
affiliates or underwriters through the
use of the Form S-8 prospectus.
No person can use the new Form S-8
prospectus for reoffers or resales. The
new form continues with the prohibition in the use of a Form S-8
prospectus for reoffers and resales by
"affiliates" but goes on to allow any
affiliates to make registered reoffers
of certain amounts of securities acquired pursuant to a registration statement on Form S-8 through the use
of a Form S-16 or S-l prospectus
as indicated under general Instruction
E of the Form S-8. The Form S-16
or S-l prospectus can be filed as

part of the registration statement on
Form S-8 and need not be the subject of a new, separate registration
statement or any new filing fee. Persons deemed to be "underwriters" may
utilize the reoffer and resale procedure
specified for affiliates in general Instruction E or comply with the provisions of Rule 144. Persons not
deemed to be "affiliates" or "underwriters" of the issuer make reoffers
or resales under the exemption afforded by Section 4(1) of the Securities Act, presupposing that these persons satisfy the requirements for the
exemption. These procedures are designed to provide adequate notice to
the public and to the Commission
with respect to the registered reoffer
of securities.
The new form became effective for
all registration statements and posteffective amendments filed on Form
S-8 after December 31, 1976.

Amendments to Forms 5-7 and
5-16 and Rescission of Form 5-9.
On December 20, 1976, the Commission adopted amendments to Forms
S-7 and S-16 and rescinded Form
S-9 under the Securities Act.4 These
amendments were adopted substantially as proposed" and generally expand the availability of the S-7 and
S-16 short form registration statements to additional issuers which are
subject to the reporting requirements
of the Exchange Act.
Issuers using Forms S-7 and S-16
are permitted to omit from the Form
S-7 prospectus, or to incorporate by
reference in the Form S-16 prospectus,
certain information already provided
to security holders or available to investors in reports filed under the
Exchange Act. Thus, the amendments
reflect recent improvements in the
nature and extent of information required to be included in reports and

93

proxy and information statements under that Act, and the increased availability of such information to the investing public.
Among the principal changes in the
availability
of the Forms S -7 and
S-16 are their expansion to issuers
with a class of debt securities listed
on a national securities exchange or
a class of securities subject to Section 15(d) of the Exchange Act; the
elimination of the requirement that a
majority of the registrant's board of
directors must have served during the
prior three years; the reduction in the
net income test from the present
requirement of $500,000 for each of
the prior five years to $250,000 for
three of the last four years, including the most recent year; the deletion
of any requirement that the issuer
must have had income adequate to
cover dividends paid for the prior
five years; and the reduction of the
present ten year test to a new thirtysix month standard within which the
registrant must not have had any defaults in the payment of any dividend
or sinking fund installment on preferred stock, or installment on indebtedness. Also, Form S-7 was made
available for the registration of securities in any type of offering, such
as exchange offers, not solely in cash
offerings as was previously required.
At present, Form S-16 may be used
only for certain types of offerings,
most commonly those by persons other
than the issuer."
In addition, certain of the disclosure
items of Form S-7 were amended to
require additional information if the
securities are to be offered in exchange for the assets or securities of
any other person. Such information
relates to the management of the issuer and to the person whose assets
or securities are the subject of the
offer. Also, if there has been a re94

cent change in control of the issuer,
Forms S-7 and S-16 were amended
to require that certain additional disclosure concerning such change in
control and the management of the
issuer be made in the prospectus
if not previously reported pursuant to
the Securities Act or the Exchange Act.
Form S-9 previously was a short
registration form for use by issuers
in registering certain debt securities
under the Securities Act if they met
certain minimum earnings coverage
ratios in their debt securities. Since
the form had not been widely used
recently and since the amended Form
S-7 is now available to virtually all
issuers which could previously have
used Form S-9, the Commission rescinded Form S-9.

Registration Form for Business
Combination Transactions
On September 27, 1976, the Commission published for comment proposed Form S-14A,7 an optional short
form for registration under the Securities Act of securities of certain
issuers to be issued in reclassifications and business combination transactions of the character described in
Securities Act Rule 145(a), and proposed amendments to related rules."
The proposed form provided for a short
prospectus (which could be in the form
of a proxy or information statement),
consisting principally of information
concerning the transaction in which
the registered securities would be
issued. More detailed information concerning the transaction and the parties
to the transaction would be filed with
the Commission as a new Part /I of
the registration statement and incorporated by reference in the prospectus.
The registrant would be required to
provide Part /I at its own expense,
upon request. These proposals were
intended to result in cost savings

to registrants and to provide disclosure to investors in a simpler, more
understandable form.
During the comment period, which
expired January 10, 1977, 22 comments were received. Although the
comments indicated overwhelming support for the Commission's goals of
simplifying disclosure for investors
and reducing the burdens on registrants, a large number of commentators
felt that the differential disclosure
approach embodied in the proposed
form did not achieve these goals.
In February, 1977, the Commission
announced that, in light of the comments received on proposed Form S14A, it did not intend to adopt the
form at that time." Instead, the Commission invited comment on the advisability of developing a new registration form for the same purpose.
The new form, as contemplated, would
consist of a single, abbreviated prospectus (and proxy or information
statement) which would incorporate by
reference reports filed under the Exchange Act and/or the issuer's annual
report to shareholders. The staff of
the Division of Corporation Finance
will consider both the comments received on this matter and the recommendations of the Advisory Committee
on Corporate Disclosure.

Rule 146
The so-called "private offering" exemption from registration under the
Securities Act, Section 4(2), provides
that offers and sales by an issuer
not involving any public offering will
be exempt from registration. The section has long been a source of uncertainty for issuers wanting to sell
their securities in private placements.
In April 1974, the Commission adopted
Rule 146 under the Securities Act,
"Transactions by an Issuer Deemed
Not to Involve Any Public Offering,"

which is designed to protect investors
while at the same time providing
more objective standards to curtail
uncertainty
as to the meaning of
Section 4(2) to the extent feasible.10
In general, the rule provides that
transactions by an issuer meeting all
the conditions of the rule do not involve "any public offering."
Major
conditions to be met are essentially
that (1) there must be no general
advertising or solicitation in connection
with the offering; (2) offers can be
made only to persons the issuer reasonably believes have the requisite knowledge and experience in financial and
business matters, or can bear the economic risk; (3) sales can be made only
to persons the issuer reasonably believes have the requisite knowledge
and experience, or who can bear the
economic risk and have an advisor
(meeting certain standards) who can
provide the requisite knowledge and
experience; (4) all offerees either must
have access to or must be furnished
with the type of information
that
registration would disclose; (5) there
can be no more than 35 purchasers
of securities in the offering; and
(6) reasonable care must be taken to
prevent resale of the securities in
violation of the registration provisions
of the Securities Act.
Rule 146 does not provide the exclusive means for offering and selling
securities in reliance on Section 4(2).
Issuers may continue to rely on the
Section 4(2) exemption by complying
with relevant administrative and judicial criteria at the time of a transaction. The staff of the Commission
will issue interpretive letters to assist
persons in complying with the rule,
but will issue no-action letters relating
to Section 4(2) only in the most
compelling circumstances.
In December 1976, the Commission
requested from the public empirical
95

information regarding the operation of
Rule 146 and whether it should be
revised, retained or rescinded." Moreover, specific recommendations for
amendments to the rule were sought.
The request was prompted by criticism
that the rule has hindered the investment of venture capital and has facilitated the fraudulent offering of certain types of securities. Subsequently,
the Commission proposed an amendment to the rule which would require
the filing of a notice when the rule
is used.12
The majority of the comments favored retention of the rule; it is
expected that several amendments to
the rule will be proposed in order to
increase its availability to issuers and
improve its efficiency.

reversing the position stated in Securities Act Release No. 5223, January
1, 1972 and Securities Act Release
No. 5243, April 12, 1972, regarding
the status of securities acquired pursuant to an Employee Stock Ownership Plan (ESOP). Under prior practice,
the Commission took the position that
securities acquired pursuant to stock
bonus or similar plans were included
within the Rule 144 definition
of
"restricted securities." Accordingly,
the Division of Corporation Finance,
in issuing interpretive and "no-action"
letters, consistently took the position
that common stock acquired by a
trustee of an ESOP, from the issuer,
for allocation, distribution and subsequent sale by employees of the issuer
would be "restricted securities" for
purposes of Rule 144.
Proposed Rule 148 and
The Commission reconsidered this
Amendments to Form 8-K
position
and, in light of the possible
On September 16, 1977 the Comburdens
of
non-affiliate employee commission proposed the adoption of
Rule 148 under the Securities Act, pliance with the provisions of Rule
which would establish objective stan- 144 compared with the limited benedards for the resale of certain types fits of compliance, if any, along with
the facts set forth in the letter, conof securities relating to bankruptcy
proceedings."> The purpose of the cluded that it was not in the public
proposed rule is to provide some de- interest or in the interest of the
gree of certainty as to when a person protection of investors to take the
could sell such securities without the position that ESOPshares in the hands
need for registering them under the of non-affiliate employees are "rewhere the plan does not
Act. In a related matter, the Com- stricted"
function
as
a conduit for distribution
mission also proposed the adoption of
to
the
public.
As indicated in Release
certain amendments to Form 8-K
under the Exchange Act for the pur- No. 5750, the volume of shares contributed to the plan vis-a-vis the compose of assuring that current informapany's outstanding shares as well as
tion about a debtor and the bankthe
length of time the plan holds the
ruptcy proceedings in which it has
shares
prior to distribution
to parparticipated will be available to the
ticipants are important factors in reachpublic shortly after such proceedings
ing a conclusion on this issue. Therehave been completed.
fore, where (1) the corporation is subStatus of Securities Acquired
ject to the reporting requirements of
Pursuant to an ESOP
Section 13 or 15(d) of the Exchange
On October 8, 1976 the Commis- Act, (2) the corporation's common
sion announced that the Division of stock is actively traded on an exCorporation Finance issued a letter14
change or in the over-the-counter
96

market, and (3) the number of shares
issuable pursuant to the plan is small
in relation to the number of shares
presently issued and outstanding, the
Commission has authorized the Division to take the view that shares issued and to be issued as bonuses do
not constitute "restricted securities"
within the meaning of Rule 144. Affiliates would be required to use Rule
144 for resales absent registration of
their shares.

Undertaking to Provide Financial
Information Added to Guide 60
On September 27, 1976 the Commission approved the addition of Section 21(c), "Undertaking to Provide
Financial Information" to Guide 60,
"Preparation of Registration Statements Relating to Interests in Real
Estate Limited Partnerships"." Section 2l(c) requests that registrants
undertake to furnish to investors the
financial statements required by Form
10-K for one full year of operations after the effective date of a
registration statement relating to a
real estate limited partnership. The
purpose of this undertaking
is to
try to assure that investors receive
financial information for at least the
first year of actual operations. In many
instances, the issuers obligation to
file reports under the Exchange Act
terminates before the proceeds of the
offering are fully invested so that
the investor never receives financial
information of the type required by
Form lO-K relating to partnership
operations.

GUide 42
On June 13, 197716 the Commission
announced that it is considering clarification or amendment of Guide 42,
"Reports or Memoranda Concerning
the Registrant," one of the Guides
for the Preparation and Filing of Registration Statements under the Securi-

ties Act of 1933. This guide requires
that certain reports or memoranda be
furnished to the staff as supplemental
information in connection with submission of a registration statement in
order that the staff have access to
materials necessary and helpful for
its review of registration statements
and that the staff be able to discern whether any conditioning of the
market has taken place prior to the
proposed offering. The Commission's
consideration of the guide is focusing
on whether its requirements are unnecessarily broad and whether there is
a consensus of understanding on the
part of the securities industry and its
counsel as to the guide's requirements,
purposes and operation.

Delegation of Authority
The Commission delegated to the
Director of the Division of Corporation
Finance its authority to issue releases
announcing that the Secretary of the
Treasury, pursuant to authority contained in Section 3(a) (12) of the Exchange Act, has designated certain
securities issued or guaranteed by
corporations in which the United States
has a direct or indirect interest as
"exempted securities" under the Act.
This delegation of authority will result
in more timely notice to the public of
the designation of a new exempted
security by eliminating any delay caused
by seeking Commission approval for
release of the intorrnation.t?

Amendments to Rules 424 and 429
In order to expedite the processing
of prospectuses and to reduce the
filing burden on issuers, the Commission adopted certain minor amendments to Rules 424 and 429 under
the Securities Act.18 The amendments
reduce the number of copies of prospectuses required to be filed and
require that certain data be set forth
on the front pages of such documents.
97

Rescission of Rule 458
The Commission rescinded Rule 458
on July 5, 1977.19 This rule required
corporations to submit with an initial
filing of a registration statement a
brief summary of that statement for
the Commission's use. The summary,
which was used to prepare notices of
filing of registration statements included in the SEC News Digest, is no
longer being required because the
Commission believes that this will reduce paperwork and ease the burdens
on corporations which are preparing
registration statements and that the
Commission staff can write a shorter
version of News Digest notices themselves.
The notices in the Digest continue
to give the following information: (1) the
file number; (2) the form on which
the registration statement is filed;
(3) the name, address and phone number of the issuer of the security;
(4) the title and the number or face
amount of the securities being offered;
(5) the name of the managing underwriters, if any; and (6) whether the
offering is a rights offering. The editors of the Digest are now considering
whether additional information should
be set forth in the notices.

Office of Engineering
During the fiscal year the Division
reorganized the functions previously
performed by the Office of Oil and
Gas and the Office of Engineering by
consolidating all of the Division's engineers and geologists in one office,
which was designated the Office of
Engineering.
This office is responsible for reviewing from a technical standpoint
the disclosure in all filings involving
oil and gas, mining, aerospace, and
other engineering and geological matters. Sixty-five registration statements
were examined during fiscal 1977 for
98

oil and gas drilling programs, totaling
$808,851,466. In the transition quarter of July through September 1976,
11 oil and gas drilling programs totaling $117,505,000 were examined.
Additional information regarding certain offerings of fractional undivided
interests in oil and gas rights is contained under Regulation B in this part.

SMALL ISSUE EXEMPTION
The Commission is authorized under
Section 3(b) of the Securities Act to
exempt securities from registration if
it finds that registration for these
securities is not necessary to the
public interest because of the small
offering amount or limited character
of the public offering. The law imposes
a maximum limitation of $500,000
upon the size of the issues which may
be exempted by the Commission.
The Commission has adopted the
following exemptive rules and regulations:
Regulation A: General exemption
for U.S. and Canadian issues up to
$500,000.
Regulation B: Exemption for fractiona I undivided
interests in oil or
gas rights up to
$250,000.
Regulation E: Exemption for securities of a small
business investment company up
to $500,000.
Regulation F: Exemption for assessments on assessable stock and
for
assessable
stock offered or
sold to realize
the amount
of
assessment up to
$300,000.

Rules 234-237 Exemptions
of
and 240: first lien notes, securities of cooperative housing corporations, shares
offered in connection with certain
transactions, certain
securities
owned for five
years and certain
limited offers and
sales of small dollar amounts of securities by c1oselyheld issuers.

Regulation A
Regulation A permits a company to
obtain needed capital not in excess of
$500,000 (including underwriting commissions) in anyone year from a public offering of its securities without registration, provided specified conditions
are met. Among other things, a notification and offering circular supplying
basic information about the company
and the securities offered must be
filed with the Commission and the offering circular must be used in the
offering. In addition, Regulation A
permits selling shareholders not in a
control relationship with the issuer to
offer in the aggregate up to $300,000
of securities which would not be included in computing the issuer's
$500,000 ceiling.
During the transitional quarter, 54
notifications were filed under Regulation A, covering proposed offerings of
$20,433,368. A total of 78 reports of
sales were filed reporting aggregate
sales of $7,699,859. Such reports
must be filed every six months while
an offering is in progress and upon its
termination.
During the 1977 fiscal year, 218
notifications were filed under Regulation A, covering proposed offerings of

$78,209,915 as compared with 240
notifications covering proposed offerings of $83,528,448 in the prior year.
A total of 356 reports of sales were
filed reporting aggregate sales of
$37,920,060. As stated above such reports must be filed every six months
while an offering is in progress and
upon its termination. Sales reported
during 1976 had totaled $41 million.
Various features of Regulation A offerings over the past three years and the
transitional quarter are presented in
the Part 9 of the report.
In the transitional quarter the Commission temporarily suspended 2 exemptions where it had reason to believe there had been noncompliance
with the conditions of the regulation
or with disclosure standards, or where
the exemption was not available for
the securities. Added to 6 cases pending at the beginning of this quarter,
this resulted in a total of 8 cases
for disposition. Of these the temporary
suspension order became permanent
in 2 cases: one by lapse of time
and one by acceptance of an offer
of settlement. Six cases were pending
at the end of the quarter.
In fiscal 1977 the Commission temporarily suspended 2 exemptions where
it had reason to believe there had
been noncompliance with the conditions of the regulation or with disclosure standards, or where the exemption was not available for the securities. Added to 6 cases pending at
the beginning of the fiscal year, this
resulted in a total of 8 cases for
disposition. Of these the temporary
suspension order became permanent
in 6 cases: in 3 by lapse of time,
in 2 cases after hearings, and in one
by acceptance of an offer of settlement. Two cases were pending at the
end of the fiscal year.
On September 29, 1977 the Commission announced the adoption of
99

Rule 264 and an amendment to its
rule governing delegation of authority
to Regional Administratorsw effective
October 31, 1977, establishing a procedure whereby the Commission may,
in its discretion, determine that a
notification on Form I-A filed pursuant to the Regulation A exemption
from the registration requirements of
the Securities Act of 1933, as amended,
has been abandoned. The Commission
may then remove such filings from
consideration as pending matters.

Regulation B
Regulation B provides an exemption
from registration under the Securities
Act for public offerings of fractional
undivided interests in oil and gas
rights where the initial amount to be
raised does not exceed $250,000, provided certain conditions are met. An
offering sheet disclosing certain basic
and material information of such offering must be furnished to prospective purchasers at least 48 hours in
advance of sale of these securities.
Form S-10 is available for the
registration of fractional undivided interests in oil and gas rights where the
initial amount to be raised exceeds
$250,000 or where the exemption is
unavailable for any other reason.
During the 1977 fiscal year, 96 offering sheets and 95 amendments
thereto were filed pursuant to Regulation B and examined by the Office
of Engineering of the Division of Corporation Finance. Sales reported during
the year aggregated $7.3 million. In
the transition quarter from JUly through
September 1976, 39 offering sheets
and 58 amendments were filed, and
aggregate sales of $889,551 were reported. During the 1976 fiscal year
365 offering sheets and 462 amendments were filed and examined by the
Office of Engineering. Aggregate sales

100

reported during fiscal 1976 were $22.5
million.
In fiscal 1977, the Commission temporarily suspended the Regulation B
exemption for one offeror and permanently suspended the exemption for
29 offerors where it had evidence that
the offerors had failed to comply with
certain requirements. In addition, the
exemption was temporarily suspended
for one offeror during the transition
quarter.

Regulation F
Regulation F provides exemptions
from registration for two types of transactions concerning assessable stock.
First, an assessment levied upon an
existing security holder may be exempted under the regulation, provided the
assessable stock is issued by a corporation incorporated under the laws
of and having its principal business
operations in any State, Territory or
the District of Columbia. Regulation F
provides an exemption also when assessable stock of any such corporation
is sold publicly to realize the amount
of an assessment levied thereon, or
when such stock is publicly reoffered
by an underwriter or dealer. The exemption is available for amounts not
exceeding $300,000 per year. The
Regulation requires the filing of a
notification and other materials describing the offering.
During the transitional quarter, 5
notifications were filed under Regulation F, covering assessments of stock
of $1'14,289. During the 1977 fiscal
year, 12 notifications were filed under
Regulation F, covering assessments of
stock of $444,815, as compared with
15 notifications covering assessments
of $356,318 in 1976.

CONTINUING DISCLOSURE: THE
SECURITIES EXCHANGE ACT
The Exchange Act contains significant disclosure provisions designed to

provide a fund of current material information on companies in whose securities there is a substantial public
interest. The Act also seeks to assure
that security holders who are solicited
to exercise their voting rights, or to
sell their securities in response to a
tender offer, are furnished pertinent
information.

Over-the-Counter Registration
Section 12(g) of the Exchange Act
requires a company with total assets
exceeding $1 million and a class of
equity securities held of record by 500
or more persons to register those securities with the Commission unless
one of the exemptions set forth in that
section is available or the Commission
issues an exemptive order under Section 12(h). Upon registration,
the
reporting and other disclosure requirements and the insider trading provisions of the Act apply to these companies to the same extent as to those
with securities
registered
on exchanges.
During the 3 months ended September 30, 1976, 54 registration statements were filed under Section 12(g).
Of these, 16 were filed by issuers already subject to the reporting requirements, either because they had another
security registered on an exchange or
they had registered securities under
the Securities Act. During the fiscal
year, 231 registration statements were
filed under Section 12(g). Of these,
137 were filed by issuers already subject to the reporting requirements,
either because they had another security registered on an exchange or
they had registered securities under
the Securities Act. Included in these
figures are companies which succeeded
to the businesses of reporting companies and thereby became subject to
the reporting requirements.

Registration on Exchanges
Generally speaking, a security cannot be traded on a national securities
exchange until it is registered under
Section 12(b) of the Exchange Act. If
it meets the listing requirements of the
particular exchange, an issuer may
register a class of securities on the
exchange by filing with the Commission and the exchange an application
which discloses pertinent information
concerning the issuer and its affairs.
During the 3 months ended September
30, 1976, a total of 36 issuers listed
and registered securities on a national
securities exchange for the first time,
and a total of 121 registration applications were filed. The registrations of
all securities of 9 issuers were terminated. During the fiscal year 1977,
a total of 89 issuers listed and registered securities on a national securities exchange for the first time, and
a total of 367 registration applications
were filed. The registrations of all
securities of 113 issuers were terminated. Detailed statistics regarding
securities traded on exchanges may be
found in Part 9 of the report.

Exemptions
Section 12(h) of the Act authorizes
the Commission to grant a complete
or partial exemption from the registration provisions of Section 12(g) or from
other disclosure and insider trading
provisions of the Act where it is not
contrary to the public interest or the
protection of investors.
There were 27 exemption applications pending on July 1, 1976, and 15
applications were filed between that
date and September 30, 1976. Of
these 42 applications, 5 were withdrawn, 2 were granted, and 35 applications were pending at the end of the
period. For the 1977 fiscal year 35
applications were pending at the beginning of the year, and 56 applica101

tions were filed during the year. Of
these 91 applications, 26 were withdrawn, 34 were granted, and 2 denied.
Twenty-nine applications were pending at the end of the fiscal year.

Exemptions - Foreign Private
Issuers Under Section 12(g)
Foreign private issuers with total
assets in excess of $1 million and a
class of equity securities held of
record by 500 or more persons, of
which 300 or more reside in the United
States, are subject to the registration,
reporting, proxy and insider trading
provisions of the Exchange Act of
1934. Notwithstanding, Rule 12g3-2(b)
provides an exemption from registration under Section 12(g) of the Act for
a foreign issuer which submits material specified in the Rule to the Commission on a current basis. Such
required material includes that information about which investors ought
reasonably to be informed with respect
to the issuer and its subsidiaries and
which the issuer (1) has made public
pursuant to the law of the country of
its domicile or in which it is incorporated or organized, (2) has filed with
a stock exchange on which its securities
are traded and which was made public
by such exchange and/or (3) has distributed to its security holders.
When it adopted Rule 12g3-2 and
other rules relating to foreign securities,21 the Commission indicated that
from time to time it would issue lists
of those foreign issuers which have
obtained exemptions from the registration provisions of Section 12(gJ of
the Act by providing the information
specified in Rule 12g3-2(b). The purpose of the publication of such lists is
to call to the attention of brokers,
dealers and investors that some form
of relatively current information concerning those foreign issuers on the

102

list is available in the public files of
the Commission and also that current
information concerning other foreign
issuers not on the list may not be available in the United States. The latest
Jist was published on August 31,
1977,22and includes those foreign private issuers which as of July 31, 1977,
appear to be current in furnishing the
information under Rule 12g3-2(bJ.
There is a total of 141 foreign private
issuers on the list.

Periodic Reports
Section 13 of the Exchange Act requires issuers of securities registered
pursuant to Sections 12(bJ and 12(g)
to file periodic reports keeping current
the information contained in the registration application or statement. Similar reports are required pursuant to
Section 15(d) of certain issuers which
have filed registration
statements
under the Securities Act which have
become effective.
During the 3 months ended September 30, 1976, 13,057 reports annual, quarterly and current - were
filed. In 1977, 45,139 reports annual, quarterly and current - were
filed.

Amendments to Certain Periodic
Reports and Related Rules
On January 13, 1977, the Commission adopted amendments to Forms
8-K, lO-Qand 10-K, which are used
for current, quarterly and annual reports filed pursuant to section 13 or
15(dJ of the Exchange Act and to the
disclosure schedule for proxies and
information statements.»
Although many of the persons who
commented on the amendments,
which were proposed by the Commission on July 19, 1976,24 argued that
the Form 8-K should be eliminated

and its items transferred to the Form
lO-Q, the Commission determined to
retain the current report on Form 8-K
to assure disclosure of certain matters
about which investors might not otherwise receive adequate and reasonably
current information. Accordingly, the
Form 8-K has been retained to serve
as the report for the disclosure of
changes in control of the registration,
acquisition and disposition of significant amounts of assets, the appointment of a receiver of the registrant in
a bankruptcy or similar proceeding25
and changes in a registrant's certifying
accountant. Registrants may also use
the form to report certain material
events.
In order to assure that the current
reports are more timely filed, the
amendments require registrants to file
reports on Form 8-K within fifteen
days after the occurrence of the event
reported. Registrants are permitted,
however, to request an extension of
time in which to file the audited financial statements required in reports of
an acquisition of assets; and events
which are reported voluntarily by registrants may be described in reports
filed within ten days after the end of
the month during which such an event
occurs.
The remainder of the Form 8-K
items have been transferred to the
Form lO-Q or eliminated altogether
because of sufficient existing requirements in other forms.26 As a result,
generally there was an approximately
62 percent decrease in the number of
items of information required to be
included in reports on Form 8-K.
The amendments to Form 10-Q provide for a two part report. Part II
contains the items which were transferred to the Form lO-Q from the
Form 8-K. In addition, two new items
permit registrants to disclose other
material events on the Form 10-Q

and require registrants
to state
whether any reports on Form 8- K were
filed during the quarter. The latter
amendment provides users of the reporting system with a convenient
reference to determine whether a
registrant has filed any reports on
Form 8-K. The Form lO-K was also
amended to require disclosure about
the information encompassed by the
items which were transferred to the
Form lO-Q that have occurred during
the fourth quarter of a registrant's
fiscal year.
Substantive amendments of some of
the disclosure items were adopted
also. The change in control item in the
Form 8-K was amended to require
additional information including the
consideration used by the person(s)
which acquired control and descriptions of any arrangements or understandings among the members of both
the former and new control group and
their associates with respect to election of directors or other matters. In
addition, the item requiring disclosure
about certain acquisitions and dispositions of assets was amended to require
registrants to disclose the source of
the funds used for the acquisition.
The legal proceedings item and the
item relating to disclosure of increases
and decreases in outstanding securities in the Form lO-Q were amended
to require registrants to describe the
disposition of previously reported legal
proceedings and to report certain increases and decreases in outstanding
indebtedness.
These proposals were adopted because the Commission believed that
they would provide for more comprehensive quarterly and annual reports,
more timely reporting of events of current importance to investors, reduction of those reports filed on Form 8-K,
and substantial savings to registrants
and the Commission.
103

Withdrawal of Proposed
Amendments to Forms 1O-K and
10-Q
On December 2, 1976 the Commission formally withdrew its proposal to
amend Forms lO-K and 1O_Q27 to
provide a space on the cover page of
each form which a registrant could use
to indicate its intent to file a registration statement on Forms 5-7,5-9
or 5-16.28 The Commission, however,
did adopt a modified version of the
proposal in the form of amendments to
the General Instructions
to Forms
5-7, 5-16, 10-K and lO-Q. The
amendments are in the form of an instruction to each of those forms requesting that the registrant provide
the staff with optional notice, by letter,
of its intention to file a registration
statement on Form 5 -7 or Form
5-16.29

Foreign Private Issuer Registration
and Annual Report Forms
On December 10, 1976, the Commission announced that it was soliciting the views of the public concerning means of improving the disclosure presently required by Forms 20
and 20-K under the Act.3D Forms
20 and 20-K are the registration and
annual report forms, respectively, authorized for use by certain foreign private issuers under the Act. The Commission indicated that it was considering the possibility of publishing
for further comment specific proposals to make Forms 20 and 20-K
substantially
similar in content to
filings on the counterpart Forms 10
and lO-K authorized for use by domestic and certain other North American issuers.
The Commission indicated that its
present consideration was prompted
in part by the significant differences
in the disclosure requirements be104

tween those in Forms 20 and 20-K
as compared to those in Forms 10
and 10-K. Continual efforts by the
Commission to improve disclosures to
investors have resulted in material
amendments to Forms 10 and lO-K
in the past several years. Forms 20 and
20-K, on the other hand, have not
been amended since 1967. Additional
Commission considerations included
the theory that amendments of this
nature might not only make the information concerning foreign issuers
more meaningful, but also improve the
domestic market for foreign securities
and thereby facilitate the free flow of
capital among nations. It was also suggested that such amendments might
reduce, to an extent, any competitive
disadvantages reporting domestic issuers possibly suffer in relation to
reporting foreign issuers.
In its announcement,
the Commission indicated that it was soliciting
public views concerning the appropriate approach to be used with respect to disclosures by those foreign
issuers which have used or contemplate using the United 5tates capital
markets. Of particular interest were
public views concerning the desirability, feasibility, and the potential impact on the domestic markets for
foreign securities if increased disclosure requirements were made applicable to foreign private issuers.
The comment period for public views
on the concept amendment proposals
expired March 31, 1977. A total of 54
substantive comment letters were received as a result of the solicitation.
The staff of the Division of Corporation Finance completed its review and
analysis of the letters of comment a-ndsubmitted its recommendations to the
Commission. At the close of the fiscal
year, the Commission was considering
the Division's recommendation.

Annual Reports to Security Holders

also undertake to make copies of the
exhibits to their Form 10-K available
Based in part on the Industrial
but companies may impose a tee
31
Issuers Advisory Report the Commislimited to their reasonable expenses
sion proposed amendments to its proxy
for
providing such copies. Finally,
rules in 1974 in order to improve the
these
companies will be required: to
disclosure in, and dissemination of,
contact known record holders, such as
annual reports to security holders and
brokers, banks and their nominees,
to improve the dissemination of annual
who may be reasonably expected to
reports filed with the Commission on
hold securities on behalf of beneficial
Form 10-K.32
owners;
to inquire of them as to the
On October 31, 1974, the Commisnumber of sets of material needed for
sion amended Rules 14a-3 and 14c3 under the Exchange Act of 193433 distribution to beneficial owners for
to require that annual reports to secu- whom they hold securities; to furnish
the material to them; and to pay the
rity holders contain at least the folreasonable expenses of the record
lowing information: certified financial
holders for distributing the material
statements for the last two fiscal
to the beneficial owners.
years; a summary of operations for the
In furtherance of its responsibility
last five fiscal years and management's
to
promote the dissemination of comanalysis of the summary with special
attention to significant changes oc- plete information about issuers subject to its jurisdiction, the Commiscurring during the most recent three
years; a brief description of the com- sion authorized the publication of a
guideline exhibiting policies and pracpany's business which, in the opinion
of management, indicates the general tices of its Division of Corporation
Finance which permits the integration
nature and scope of the company's
of
the information required by Form
business; a line of business breaklO-K
into a company's annual report
down of total revenues and of income (or loss) before income taxes to shareholders.>' It is believed that
and extraordinary items for the last utilization of this procedure will effive fiscal years; the name and prin- fect a beneficial result for sharecipal occupation or employment of holders and issuers alike because the
substance of publicly disseminated reeach director and executive officer
ports to shareholders should be upof the company; and the market price
graded
and issuers will be able to
ranges and dividends paid for each
file
one
report with the Commission
quarterly period during the last two
fiscal years with respect to each class in lieu of two.
of equity securities entitled to vote
at the company's annual meeting.
Proxy Solicitations
In addition, the new rules require
that annual reports to security holders,
Where proxies are solicited from
or the proxy statement, must contain
holders of securities registered under
an undertaking that the company will Section 12 or from security holders
holding
provide, without charge, to any secu- of registered public-utility
rity holder as of the record date, upon companies, subsidiaries of holding
written request, a copy of the com- companies, or registered investment
pany's Form 10-K annual report, ex- companies, the Commission's proxy
regulation requires that disclosure be
cept for the exhibits thereto, as filed
made of all material facts concerning
with the Commission. Companies must
105

the matters on which the security
holders were asked to vote and that
they be afforded an opportunity to vote
"yes" or "no" on any matter other than
the election of directors. Where management is soliciting proxies, a security holder desiring to communicate
with the other security holders may
require management to furnish him
with a list of all security holders or
to mail his communication for him. A
security holder may also, subject to
certain limitations, require the management to include in proxy material
an appropriate proposal which he
wants to submit to a vote of security
holders, or he may make an independent proxy solicitation.
Copies of proposed proxy material
must be filed with the Commission in
preliminary form prior to the date
of the proposed solicitation. Where
preliminary material fails to meet the
prescribed disclosure standards, the
management or other group responsible for its preparation
is notified
informally and given an opportunity
to correct the deficiencies
in the
preparation of the definitive proxy
material to be furnished to security
holders.
Issuers of securities registered under Section 12 must transmit an information statement comparable to
proxy material to security holders
from whom proxies are not solicited
with respect to a stockholders' meeting.
During the 3 months ended September 30, 1976, 970 proxy statements
in definitive form were filed, 938 by
management and 2 by nonmanagement groups or individual
stockholders. In addition, 30 information
statements were filed. The proxy and
information statements related to 962
companies and pertained to 898 meetings for the election of directors, 75
special meetings not involving the
106

election of directors, and 12 assents
and authorizations.
Aside from the election of directors,
the votes of security holders were
solicited with respect to a variety of
matters, including mergers, consolidations, acquisitions, sales of assets and
dissolution of companies (52); authorizations of new or additional securities,
modifications of existing securities,
and recapitalization plans (90); employee pension and retirement plans
(3); bonus or profit-sharing plans and
deferred compensation arrangements
(40); stock option plans (91); approval
of selection by management of independent auditors (472); and miscellaneous amendments to charters and
by-laws, and other matters (254).
During the 3 months, 46 proposals
submitted by 17 stockholders for action at stockholders' meetings were
included in the proxy statements of
27 companies. Typical of such proposals submitted to a vote of security holders were resolutions on amendments to charters or by-laws to provide
for cumulative voting for the election
of directors, preemptive rights, limitations on the grant of stock options to
and their exercise by key employees
and management groups and the sending of a post meeting report to all
stockholders.
A total of 12 proposals submitted
by 8 stockholders were omitted from
the proxy statements of 8 companies
in accordance with the provisions of
the rule governing such proposals. The
most common grounds for omission
were that the proposals were not
proper subjects for stockholders' action under the applicable state law and
that the proposals related to the issuer's ordinary business operations.
For the 3 months, 4 companies were
involved in proxy contests for the
election of directors which bring special requirements into play. In these

contests, 42 persons, including both
management and nonmanagement, filed
detailed statements required of participants under the applicable rule. Control of the board of directors was involved in 4 instances. Four were pending as of September 30, 1976.
During the 1977 fiscal year, 5,832
proxy statements in definitive form
were filed, 5,669 by management
and 14 by non management groups or
individual stockholders. In addition,
149 information statements were filed.
The proxy and information statements
related to 6,278 companies and pertained to 6,235 meetings for the election of directors, 271 special meetings
not involving the election of directors,
and 39 assents and authorizations.
Aside from the election of directors,
the votes of security holders were
solicited with respect to a variety of
matters, including mergers, consolidations, acquisitions, sales of assets and
dissolution of companies (225); authorizations of new or additional securities, modifications of existing securities, and recapitalization plans (541);
employee pension and retirement plans
(24); bonus or profit-sharing
plans
and deferred compensation arrangements (327); stock options plans (386);
approval of selection by management
of independent auditors (3,403) and
miscellaneous amendments to charters
and by-laws, and other matters (1,547).
During the 1977 fiscal year, 492
proposals submitted by 163 stockholders for action at stockholders'
meetings were included in the proxy
statements of 268 companies. Typical
of such proposals submitted to a vote
of security holders were resolutions on
amendments to charters or by-laws to
provide for cumulative voting for the
election of directors, preemptive rights,
limitations on the grant of stock options to and their exercise by key
employees and management groups

and the sending of a post meeting
report to all stockholders. In addition,
a significant
number of proposals
relating to social issues were included
in management proxy materials. Those
proposals related to such subjects as
the Arab boycott of Israel, corporate
operations in South Africa, corporate
political activities and questionable
corporate payments abroad, and equal
employment opportunities.
A total of 239 proposals submitted
by 116 stockholders were omitted from
the proxy statements' of 122 companies in accordance with the provisions of the rule governing such
proposals. The most common grounds
for omission were that the proposals
were not submitted on time, were not
significantly related to the issuer's
business, and were related to the
issuer's ordinary business operations.
In fiscal 1977, 37 companies were
involved in proxy contests for the election of directors which bring special
requirements into play. In these contests, 594 persons, including both
management and nonmanagement, filed
detailed statements required of participants under the applicable rule.
Control of the board of directors was
involved in 26 instances. In 8 of these,
management retained control. Of the
remainder, 3 were settled by negotiation, 5 were won by non management
persons, and 10 were pending at year
end. In the other 11 cases, representation on the board of directors was
involved. Management retained all
places on the board in 6 contests;
opposition candidates won places on
the board in 5 cases.

Takeover Bids, Large Acquisitions
Sections 13(d) and (e), and 14(d),
(e) and (f) of the Exchange Act, enacted
in 1968 and amended in 1970, provide for full disclosure in cash tender
offers and other stock acquisitions in107

volving changes in ownership or control. These provisions were designed to
close gaps in the full disclosure provisions of the securities laws and to
safeguard the interest of persons who
tender their securities in response to a
tender offer.
During the transitional quarter, 231
Schedule 130 reports were filed by
persons or groups which had made
acquisitions resulting in their ownership of more than five percent of a
class of securities.
Twenty-seven
Schedule 130 reports were filed by
persons or groups making tender
offers (including 3 tender offers filed
with the Commission by foreign nationals), which, if successful, would
result in more than five percent ownership. In addition, 13 Schedule 140 reports were filed on solicitations or
recommendations in a tender offer by
a person other than the maker of the
offer. One statement was filed for the
replacement of a majority of the board
of directors otherwise than by a stockholder vote.
During the 1977 fiscal year, 1,098
Schedule 130 reports were filed by
persons or groups which had made
acquisitions resulting in their ownership of more than five percent of a
class of securities. One hundred thirty
four reports were filed (on either Schedule 130 or on the new Schedule
140-1 which went into effect August
31, 1977) by persons or groups making
tender offers (including 18 tender
offers filed with the Commission by
foreign nationals), which, if successful, would result in more than five percent ownership. In addition, 79 Schedule
140 reports were filed on solicitations
or recommendations in a tender by a
person other than the maker of the
offer. Eight statements were filed for
the replacement of a majority of the
board of directors otherwise than by
stockholder vote. One statement was
108

filed under a rule on corporate reacquisitions of securities while an issuer
is the target of a cash tender offer.
Rule 14d -2 under the Exchange
Act exempts certain communications
involved in a tender offer from the provisions of Regulation 140. Among such
communications are those from an
issuer to its security holders which do
no more than identify the tender offer,
state that management is studying the
proposal and request the security
holders to defer making a decision on
the tender offer until they receive
management's recommendation. Such
recommendations must be made no
later than 10 days before expiration of
the tender offer, unless the Commission authorizes a shorter period.

Insider Reporting
Section 16 of the Exchange Act and
corresponding provisions in the Public
Utility Holding Company Act of 1935
and the Investment Company Act of
1940 are designed to provide other
stockholders and investors generally
with information on insider securities
transactions and holdings and to prevent unfair use of confidential information by insiders to profit from shortterm trading in a company's securities.
Section 16(a) of the Exchange Act
requires every person who beneficially
owns, directly or indirectly, more than
10 percent of any class of equity security which is registered under Section 12, or who is a director or an
officer of the issuer of any such security, to file statements with the Commission disclosing the amount of all equity
securities of the issuer of which he is
the beneficial owner and changes in
such ownership. Copies of such statements must be filed with exchanges on
which the securities are listed. Similar
provisions applicable to insiders of
registered public-utllity holding companies and registered closed-end in-

vestment companies are contained in
the Holding Company and Investment
Company Acts.
In connection with insider securities
transactions under Section 16 of the
Exchange Act, the Commission adopted
various amendments to Rules 16b-3
and 16a-6(c) under the Act for the
purpose of including certain transactions in stock appreciation rights
within the exemptions provided by
those rules.35 The amendments exempt from the reporting requirements
of Section 16(a) and the short swing
profit recovery provisions of Section
16(b) cash settlements of stock appreciation rights by insiders, provided certain conditions are met. Included
among these conditions are requirements relative to the issuer, the rights,
and the administration
of the plan
under which the rights are granted.
In addition, the amendments clarify
the conditions for the availability of
the exemption provided by Rule 16b-3
and make clear the circumstances
under which amendments to existing
plans must be submitted to an issuer's
security holders for approval.
During the 3 months ended September 30, 1976, 21,676 ownership reports were filed. These included 2,607
initial statements of ownership on
Form 3, 18,111 statements of changes
in ownership on Form 4, and 958
amendments to previously filed reports.
In fiscal 1977, 94,444 ownership reports were filed. These included 10,041
initial statements of ownership on
Form 3, 80,001 statements of changes
in ownership on Form 4, and 4,402
amendments to previously filed reports.
All ownership reports are made available for public inspection when filed
at the Commission's office in Washington and at the exchanges where copies
are filed. In addition, the information

contained i" reports filed with the
Commission is summarized and published in the monthly "Official Summary of Security Transactions and
Holdings," which is distributed by the
Government Printing Office to about
2,197 subscribers.

ACCOUNTING AND AUDITING
STANDARDS
The Federal securities laws reflect
a recognition by Congress that dependable financial statements of a
company are indispensable
to informed investment decisions regarding
its securities. A major objective of the
Commission has been to improve accounting, disclosure, and auditing
standards related to financial statements and to assure that high standards of professional independence
and conduct are maintained by the
public accountants who examine them.
The primary responsibility for implementing these objectives rests with
the Office of the Chief Accountant of
the Commission.
Under the Commission's broad rulemaking power, it has adopted a basic
accounting regulation (Regulation SoX)
which, together with interpretations
and guidelines on accounting and reporting procedures published as Accounting Series Releases, governs the
form and content of financial statements filed with the Commission. The
Commission has also formulated more
specific rules on accounting and auditing of broker-dealers. The accounting
rules and releases of the Commission,
and its decisions in particular cases,
have contributed to clarification of the
accounting principles and practices
and auditing standards, developed by
the accounting profession, generally
followed in the preparation offinancial
statements.
The accounting and financial reporting rules and regulations prescribe
109

accounting principles to be followed
only in certain limited areas. One of
the principal ways the Commission protects investors from inadequate or improper financial reporting is to require
a report of an independent public
accountant, based on an examination
of financial statements performed in
accordance with generally accepted
auditing standards, which expresses
an opinion on the financial statements covered by the report and the
accounting principles and practices
reflected therein. The requirement
that the opinion be rendered by an independent public accountant, which
was initially established under the
Securities Act, is designed to secure
the benefits of the detached objectivity and skill of a knowledgeable
professional person not connected
with management.
The Commission's accounting staff
selectively reviews financial statements filed with the Commission for
compliance with existing standards
and to assure that accounting and
auditing standards do not remain
static in the face of changes and new
developments in financial and economic conditions. New methods of
doing business, new types of business,
economic changes affecting business
generally or industries specifically, the
combining of old businesses, the use
of new types of securities, and other
innovations create accounting problems which require a constant reappraisal of reporting requirements.

Relations With the Accounting
Profession
In order to keep abreast of changing
conditions, and in recognition of the
need for a continuous exchange of
views and information between the
Commission's accounting staff and
outside accountants regarding appropriate accounting and auditing poll110

cies, procedures and practices, the
staff maintains continuing contact
with individual accountants and various professional organizations. The
latter include the American Institute of
Certified Public Accountants (AICPA)
and the Financial Accounting Standards Board (FASB), the principal professional organizations
concerned
with the development and improvement of accounting and auditing standards and practices. The Chief Accountant also meets regularly with his
counterparts in other regulatory agencies to improve coordination on policies and actions among the agencies.
Because of its many foreign registrants and the vast and increasing
foreign operations of American companies, the Commission has an interest in the improvement of accounting
and auditing principles and procedures on an international basis. To promote such improvement, the Chief
Accountant corresponds with foreign
accountants,
interviews many who
visit the country, and, on occasion,
participates in foreign and international accounting conferences.
Professional efforts are being made
to improve and harmonize accounting
standards among countries through
various international accounting conferences and committees. One committee, comprised of representatives
from approximately thirty-five countries,
was established to promulgate international accounting standards. This
committee has adopted five standards, has proposed a number of other
standards and is developing additional
proposals. The Commission will continue to cooperate closely with these
committees and groups which have as
their long-term objective the development of a coordinated worldwide accounting profession with uniform standards.

The Audit Function

mittee on Oversight and Investigations
of
the Committee on Interstate and
Oversight - Events over the past few
Foreign
Commerce of the House of
years, including major fraud cases
Representatives, in its October 1976
brought by the Commission involving
report, entitled "Federal Regulation
false and misleading financial stateand
Regulatory Reform", included
ments, have led to a major reexamirecommendations
concerning
the
nation of the role of the accounting
Commission's role in setting accountprofession and the means of achieving
ing and auditing standards, the estaband maintaining audits which consislishment of adequate systems of intently reflect standards of high quality.
ternal
control, the structure and reThe AICPA is the private organization
of the profession to which the Commis- sponsibilities of independent audit
sion has historically looked for estab- committees of corporate boards of
actions
lishing auditing standards for the pro- directors, and disciplinary
against
accountants.
fession.
In January 1977 a staff study enIn early 1977 the Commission on
titled "The Accounting Establishment"
Auditors'
Responsibilities
(Cohen
was issued by the Subcommittee on
Commission), which had been estabReports, Accounting and Management
lished by the AICPA in 1974 to study
of the Committee on Government Opthe role and responsibilities of indeerations of the Senate, and in April,
pendent auditors, issued its "Report of May and June of 1977 this SubcomTentative Conclusions and Recommittee held hearings on accounting
mendations." This comprehensive reand auditing practices and proceport included approximately forty tendures. A major subject under considertative recommendations related to the
ation at those hearings was the kind
role of the independent auditor which
and type of increased regulation
include: the decisions an auditor must
needed for the accounting profession
make when he forms an opinion on
and whether Federal legislation is
financial information; reporting on unnecessary to ensure such regulation.
certainties; the auditor's responsibility
In September 1977, the AICPA anfor detecting fraud; the auditor's role
nounced the establishment of a new
in corporate accountability; the boun"Division of CPA Firms", an organizadaries of the auditor's role and its
tion designed to carry out reforms
extension; the effectiveness of the
which members of the accounting proauditor's role and its extension; the
fession have represented that the proeffectiveness of the auditor's comfession is capable of accomplishing on
munication with users and the public;
its own. A Public Oversight Board comthe effectiveness of the education,
posed of five individuals of high stattraining and development of auditors;
ure from outside the profession is to
the problems associated with the audioversee the activities of the Division.
tor's independence; the process of es- The Commission has undertaken to retablishing auditing standards; and the
port to Congress prior to July 1 of each
effectiveness of the profession's self- year on the progress of the Commisregulation and regulation from outside
sion and of the profession in respondthe profession.
ing to the concerns which have been
During this year, Congress also took
raised about the profession.
Auditor Independenc~inancial statea more active role in examining the
ments reported on by independent
accounting profession. The Subcom-

III

auditors are, under the Federal securities laws, the keystone to providing
investors with reliable financial information. The independence of an auditor is crucial to his effectiveness. Over
the past year, the Commission took a
number of steps to strengthen auditor
independence. In July 1976, the Commission revised Rule 3-16(s) of Regulation S-X to require disclosure in
a note to the financial statements of
the existence and nature of a previously reported disagreement between
a company and its former accountants
in those cases in which the successor
accountant found acceptable an accounting method which the former accountant found unacceptable." Previously, the Commission had adopted
rules which required companies to
disclose, in Form 8-K, disagreements
between the company and a terminated auditor. The requirements
are
aimed at strengthening auditor independence by discouraging companies
from changing auditors merely to obtain approval of an alternative accounting treatment.
In September 1977, the Commission
proposed for public comment amendments to disclosure rules and forms
to require disclosure of (1) the reasons
for any change of a registrant's independent accountants; and (2) whether
the decision was approved by the registrant's Board of Directors or its
audit cornmtttee.v In its release the
Commission noted that these proposals
accorded with the increased significance of the role of the independent
accountant and should aid investors
in better understanding and evaluating
the registrant's relationship with its
independent accountants. The inclusion
of audit committees in the proposed
rule is indicative of the importance of
these committees in the view of the
Commission.
As a further aid in strengthening the
112

independence of auditors, the Commission proposed that proxy statements which include selection or ratification of the independent auditors
contain information on (1) the nature
of services other than examination of
financial statements provided during
the last fiscal year by the independent auditors and the related fees;
(2) whether the board of directors
or audit committee approved all services; and (3) the company's revenues
derived from the independent auditors.38
These proposed amendments are
one way in which the Commission has
encouraged the formation of audit
committees comprised of independent
members of the Board of Directors.
The Commission strongly favors such
committees, which can serve as links
between independent accountants and
shareholders for the discussion of
matters pertinent to the examination
of the financial statements. In furtherance of these objectives, the Commission believes that one of the principal responsibilities of an independent audit committee should be that
of recommending the engagement or
discharge of the company's independent accountants to the shareholders
or the full Board of Directors.
In recognition of the disagreement
and concern over whether and what
types of services offered by accountants result in a lessening of the
independence or the appearance of
independence of auditors, the Commission solicited information and comment on the nature of services auditors provide their audit c1ients.39

The Accounting Function
FASB-The FASB is an independent
private body which establishes standards of financial accounting and
presentation for the guidance of issuers of financial statements and public accountants who examine such

statements. The FASB provides leadership to the profession in establishing
and improving accounting principles
and standards, and the Commission
expects that the FASB's conclusions
will promote the interests of investors.
Unless the Commission has expressed
a view to the contrary, it considers
the statements of the FASB to be
substantial authoritative support for
an accounting practice or procedure.
The Financial Accounting Foundation, an organization sponsored by a
number of leading organizations which
represent various aspects of the accounting, securities, banking, academic, financial and other professions,
appoints the seven members of the
FASB and the members of the advisory
council to the FASB. In the past
year, the Structure Committee of the
Financial Accounting Foundation, after reviewing the operations of the
FASB, published a report containing
a number of recommendations to increase the effectiveness of the FASB,
manyofwhich have been implemented.
As of September 30, 1977, the FASB
had issued 16 Statements of Financial
Accounting Standards and 18 Interpretations relating to accounting opinions or standards. In addition, it had
under active consideration a heavy
agenda of technical projects which included: conceptual framework for accounting and reporting; financial accounting and reporting in the extractive industries; criteria for determining
materiality; interim financial reporting;
business combinations and purchased
intangibles; accounting for interest
costs; accounting and reporting for
employee benefit plans; and classification of preferred stock. It had held
public hearings on many of the projects and had issued exposure drafts
of certain proposed statements.
The FASB has appointed a permanent screening committee to assist it

in identifying emerging practice problems, evaluating their magnitude and
urgency, and assessing priorities for
their resolution. The Chief Accountant
and the FASB maintain liaison procedures for consultation on projects of
either the Board or the SEC which
are of mutual interest.
When the FASB issues improved
standards of accounting and financial
reporting, the Commission revises its
rules and regulations to co-ordinate
with the improved standards.
In
August 1977, the Commission amended Rule 3-16 of Regulation S-X to
conform its lease accounting and disclosure requirements to those standards adopted by the FASB in its
Statement No. 13, "Accounting for
Leases" to require that financial statements filed with the Commission for
fiscal years ending after December
24, 1978 reflect such requirements
and to require certain lease disclosures of rate-regulated enterortses.w
In May 1977, the Commission published for comment proposals for revisions of certain disclosure forms and
rules relating to industry and homogeneous geographic segment reporting.
These proposals were intended to coordinate the Commission's line-ofbusiness information with FASB Statement No. 14, "Financial Reporting
for Segments of a Business Enterprise" and to avoid unnecessary duplication resulting from compliance with
this statement. In certain instances
the proposals would require additional
information, such as intersegment sales
and transfers, beyond the requirements of the FASB. The proposals
would require registrants to provide
detailed descriptions of industry segments in which they engage in business, as well as five year financial
information relating to industry segments and foreign and domestic operations. In connection with these pro113

posals, the Commission also sought
comment on proposed Form S-K,
a new integrated disclosure form.41
Oil and GasAccounting-The Energy
Policy and Conservation Act of 1975
(EPCA) authorized the Commission to
take such steps as may be necessary
to assure the development and observance of accounting to be followed
by companies engaged in the production of crude oil or natural gas. In
carrying out these responsibilities, the
Commission is required to consult with
the Department of Energy, the General
Accounting Office and the Federal
Energy Regulatory Commission. The
Commission is authorized to rely on
accounting practices developed by the
FASB if the Commission is assured
that such practices would be observed
to the same extent as if the Commission had prescribed such practices by
rule.
In June 1977, the Commission solicited public comment on matters
relating to the reporting of financial
and operating data on oil and gas
operations pursuant to the EPCA and
to the disclosure of such data in filings
with the Commission pursuant to the
Federal securities laws.42In July 1977,
the FASB issued an exposure draft of a
proposed "Statement on Financial
Accounting and Reporting by Oil and
Gas Producing Companies." In the
exposure draft the FASB proposed
that oil and gas production companies
should follow a form of the successful
efforts method of accounting and that,
among other things, companies should
disclose information on quantities of
oil and gas reserves and certain related
data in their financial statements.
In August and October 1977, the
Commission proposed rules for public
comment pursuant to the EPCA and
the Federal securities laws.43 These
proposed rules were substantially the
same as those contained in the FASB
114

exposure draft except that they required certain data in addition to those
proposed in the FASB's statements.
Replacement Cost Disclosure-In
December, 1976, the Commission
amended Rule 3-17 of Regulation
S-X,
the rule which
requires
disclosure of certain replacement cost
data, to state that liability for disclosures of replacement cost data may
be imposed only in instances in which
it can be shown that the disclosures
were prepared without a reasonable
basis or were disclosed in other than
good faith. The Commission took this
action in recognition of the imprecise
nature of replacement cost information and in order to encourage the
development and disclosure of such

intormation."
In August 1977 the Commission,
noting that significant effort has been
expended by registrants, public accounting firms and industry groups to
provide meaningful replacement cost
disclosures, requested public comment on experience with problems
which have arisen in implementing
Rule 3-17. The Commission also indicated its plans to engage in a general
evaluation of experiences with the
replacement cost rule during 1978.45
Establishment of Accounting Principles-In July 1976, the public accounting firm of Arthur Andersen & Co.
(Andersen) brought suit against the
Commission in the United States
District Court for the Northern District
of Illinois to enjoin the Commission
from enforcing compliance with (1)
Instructions H(f) of Form 10-Q which
requires that independent accountants express their judgment regarding the preferability of an accounting
principle adopted when accounting
principles are changed at the discretion of a registrant; and (2) the statement of policy embodied in Accounting
Series Release No. 150 in which the

Commission stated that it would consider accounting principles, standards
and practices promulgated by the
FASB as having substantial authoritative support and those contrary to
such FASB promulgations as having no
support.
Andersen's motion for a restraining
order, pendente lite, was denied on
August 13, 1976, and its motion for a
preliminary injunction was denied on
September 3, 1976. On October 4,
1976, the Commission filed a motion
for summary judgment, or, alternatively, to dismiss the action on the
basis that (1) Accounting Series Release No. 150 is not a substantive
rule but is merely a statement of Commission policy, and as such does not
constitute any delegation of Commission authority to any person and was
properly issued; (2) Instruction H(f)
is a proper exercise of the Commission's broad authority to adopt accounting rules; and (3) Andersen lacks
standing to pursue the issues raised.
This motion remains pending.

Disciplinary Matters
During the period July I, 1976 to
September 30, 1977, the Commission
issued twenty-two orders imposing
disciplinary sanctions on public accountants pursuant to the Commission's Rules of Practice. Professional
accountants were also the subject
of a number of enforcement
proceedings alleging misconduct in connection with audit examinations or
the preparation of financial statements. (See Part 4 for a discussion
of significant accounting proceedings).

Staff Accounting Bulletins
The Division of Corporation Finance
and the Office of Chief Accountant
issued eight Staff Accounting Bulletins during the year. The statements
in these bulletins are not rules or interpretations of the Commission, nor do

they bear the Commission's official approval; they represent interpretations
and practices followed by the staff in
reviewing financial statements and
administering the requirements of the
federal securities laws. These bulletins
included interpretations
regarding
disclosure of replacement cost, interim financial reporting, disclosure
of holdings of New York City securities,
allowance for funds used during construction, and data relating to FASB
Statement No. 19, "Financial
Accounting and Reporting by Oil and Gas
Producing Companies."

EXEMPTIONS FOR INTERNATIONAL
BANKS
Section 15 of the Bretton Woods
Agreement Act, as amended, exempts
from registration securities issued,
or guaranteed as to both principal and
interest, by the International Bank for
Reconstruction and Development. The
Bank is required to file with the Commission such annual and other reports
on securities as the Commission determines to be appropriate. The Commission has adopted rules requiring the
Bank to file quarterly reports and
copies of annual reports of the Bank
to its Board of Governors. The Bank
is also required to file advance reports
of any distribution in the United States
of its primary obligations. The Commission, acting in consultation with
the National Advisory Council on International Monetary and Financial Problems, is authorized to suspend the
exemption for securities issued or
guaranteed by the Bank. Except where
otherwise indicated, all amounts that
follow are expressed in U.S. dollar
equivalents as of June 30, 1977.
Net income for the year was $209
million, compared with $220 million
the previous year. Of the $209 million
net income earned in the fiscal year
ended June 30, 1977, the Executive
115

Directors of the Bank in July 1977
approved the allocation of $109 million
to the General Reserve and recommended to the Board of Governors
of the Bank that the balance of $100
million be transferred by way of grant
to the International
Development
Association.
Repayments of principal on loans
received by the Bank during the year
amounted to $709 million, and a further $64 million was repaid to purchasers of portions of loans. Total
principal repayments by borrowers
through June 30, 1977, aggregated
$8.0 billion, including $5.7 billion
repaid to the Bank and $2.3 billion
repaid to purchasers of borrowers'
obligations sold by the Bank.
Outstanding borrowings of the Bank
were $18.5 billion at June 30, 1977.
During the year, the Bank borrowed
$650 million through the issuance of
2-year U.S. dollar bonds to central
banks and other governmental agencies
in some 80 countries; $1,850 million
in the United States; DM 3,400 million
(U.S. $1,394.1 million) in the Federal
Republic of Germany; 2.0 billion yen
($7.0 million) in Japan; SwF 1,250
million (U.S. $502.5 million) in Switzerland; SwF 75 million (U.S. $29.5 million) and $150 million in Saudi Arabia;
$100 million in Yugoslavia; and $37.5
million from the Interest Subsidy
Fund, which is administered by the
Bank. The Fund, which obtained its
resources from voluntary contributions from member governments, was
established to subsidize the interest
payments to the Bank on loans made
to poorer developing countries.
These borrowings, in part, refunded
maturing issues amounting to the
equivalent of $916 million. After retirement of $78 million equivalent of obligations through sinking fund and purchase fund operations, the Bank's
outstanding borrowings showed a net
116

increase of $3,831 million from the
previous year after adding $566 million
representing adjustment of borrowings as a result of currency depreciations and appreciations in terms of
U.S. dollars of the value of the nondollar currencies in which the debt was
denominated.
The Inter-American
Development
Bank Act, which authorizes the United
States to participate
in the InterAmerican Development Bank, provides an exemption for certain securities which may be issued or guaranteed
by the Bank similar to that provided
for securities of the International Bank
for Reconstruction and Development.
Acting pursuant to this authority, the
Commission adopted Regulation lA,
which requires the Bank to file with
the Commission substantia lIy the
same type of information, documents
and reports as are required from the
International Bank for Reconstruction
and Development. The following data
reflect information submitted by the
Bank to the Commission.
On September 30, 1976, the outstanding funded debt of the Ordinary
Capital resources of the Bank was the
equivalent of $1. 927 billion, reflecting
a net increase during the transition
quarter of the equivalent of $111
million. During such quarter, the
funded debt increased through a
public offering in the United States
of $100 million and private placements
in Trinidad and Tobago for $15 million
and in Germany for the equivalent of
$19.6 million. In addition, there were
drawings totalling $5.9 million under
arrangements
with Japan and the
United Kingdom. The funded debt
decreased by approximately $14.5
million due to downward adjustment
of the U.S. dollar equivalent
of
borrowings
denominated
in nonregional currencies. The funded debt
also decreased through the retirement

of approximately $15.3 million from
sinking fund purchases and scheduled
debt retirement.
On September 30, 1977, the outstanding funded debt of the Ordinary
Capital resources of the Bank was the
equivalent of $2.246 billion, reflecting
a net increase in the past year of
the equivalent of $319 million. During
the year the funded debt increased
through a public offering in the United
States of $100 million; public offerings
in Austria and Germany for the equivalent of $16.3 million and $39.2 million,
respectively; the Bank's first public
offerings in Japan and Trinidad and
Tobago for the equivalent of $56.2
million and $10.4 million, respectively;
a public offering and a private placement in Switzerla nd tota II i ng the
equivalent of $93.9 million; as well
as a private placement in Italy for $15
million.
In addition,
there were
drawings totalling $277 million under
arrangements with Finland, Japan and
the United Kingdom. Additionally,
$73.9 million of two-year bonds were
sold to Latin American and Caribbean
Central
Banks or Governmental
Agencies, essentially representing a
roll-over of a maturing borrowing of
$54.1 million and an increase in shortterm funded debt of $19.8 million.
The funded debt increased byapproximately $43 million due to upward adjustment of the U.S. dollar equivalent
of borrowings denominated in nonregional currencies. The funded debt
decreased through the retirement of
approximately
$78.2 million from
sinking fund purchases and scheduled
debt retirement.
The Asian Development Bank Act,
adopted in March 1966, authorized
United States participation
in the
Asian Development Bank and provides
an exemption for certain securities
which may be issued or guaranteed

by the Bank, similar to the exemptions
accorded the International Bank for
Reconstruction and Development and
the Inter-American
Development
Bank. Acting pursuant to this authority,
the Commission has adopted Regulation AD which requires the Bank to
file with the Commission, documents
and reports as are required from those
banks. The Bank has 42 members
with subscriptions
totaling $6.95
billion.
From July 1, 1976 through September
30, 1976, the Bank's net borrowings
totaled the equivalent of $108 million.
Through fiscal 1977, the Bank's net
borrowings totaled the equivalent of
$1,151 million. From July 1, 1976
through September 30, 1976, the
Bank issued obligations
of the
equivalent of $32.6 million in Switzerland
and for fiscal 1977, the Bank issued
obligations of the equivalent of $42
million in Germany. From July I, 1976
through September 30, 1976, borrowing in the United States was $75
million at 8.625 percent; and for fiscal
1977, borrowing in the United States
was $70 million at 6.5 percent (2
year).
As of September 30, 1977, 14
countries have contributed or pledged
a total of $486.1 million to the original
source mobilization of the Bank's concessionary loans fund. A total of
$57.4 million from Ordinary Capital
resources has been set aside by the
Board of Governors for concessionary
loan purposes. Congress appropriated
a $25 million contribution during fiscal
1977, bringing U.S. contributions to
$150 million. As of the same date,
pledges from donor countries for replenishment of the Bank's concessional loan funds amounted to an
additional $580.96 million. The total
to be contributed could amount to
$809.16 million.
117

TRUST INDENTURE ACT OF 1939
This Act requires that bonds, debentures, notes and similar debt
securities offered for public sale, except as specifically
exempted, be
issued under an indenture which
meets the requirements of the Act
and has been duly qualified with the
Commission.
The provisions of the Act are closely
integrated with the requirements of
the Securities
Act. Registration
pursuant to the Securities Act of
securities to be issued under a trust
indenture subject to the Trust Indenture Act is not permitted to become effective unless the indenture conforms
to the requirements of the latter Act,
designed to safeguard the rights and
interests of the purchasers. Moreover,
specified
information
about the
trustee and the indenture must be
included in the registration statement.
The Act was passed after studies
by the Commission had revealed the
frequency with which trust indentures
failed to provide minimum protections
for security holders and absolved socalled trustees from minimum obligations in the discharge of the trusts.
It requires, among other things, that
the indenture trustee be a corporation
with a minimum combined capital and
surplus and be free of conflicting
interests which might interfere with
the faithful exercise of its duties on
behalf of the purchasers
of the
securities,
and it imposes high
standards of conduct and responsibility
on the trustee.
During the three months ended
September 30, 1976, 83 trust indentures relating to securities in the
aggregate amount of $4 billion were
filed. During fiscal year 1977, 358
trust indentures relating to securities
in the aggregate amount of $24.63
billion were filed.
118

INFORMATION FOR PUBLIC
INSPECTION: FREEDOM OF
INFORMATION ACT
On November 21, 1974, Congress
passed over President Ford's veto
amendments to the Freedom of Information Act.46 which significantly
changed the procedures governing
the handling of requests made pursuant to the Freedom of Information
Act (5 U.S.C. 552) as well as the
scope of certain of the exemptions
from Act's provisions. These amendments became effective February 19,
1975. The Commission amended its
rules under the Freedom of Information Act (17 CFR 200.80)47 to reflect
the amended provisions of the Freedom
of I nformation
Act; these rules
specify the categories of available
materials and those categories of
records that are generally considered
non public. These rules establish the
procedure to be followed in requesting
records or copies and provide for a
method of administrative appeal from
the denial of access to any record.
They also provide for the imposition
of duplicating fees and search fees
when more than one-half man-hour of
work is performed by the Commission's
staff to locate and make records
available. In addition to the records
described, the Commission makes
available for inspection and copying
all requests for no-action and interpretive letters received after December
31, '1970, and responses thereto
(17 CFR 200.80). Also made available
since November 1, 1972 are materials
filed under Proxy Rule 14a-8(d),
which deals with proposals offered
by shareholders
for inclusion
in
management proxy-soliciting materials,
and related materials prepared by the
staff (17 CFR 200.82).
Following the effective date of the
amendments to the Freedom of In-

formation Act, the Commission instituted the practice of issuing a
public release, in a series designated
Freedom of Information Act Releases,
in most administrative
appeals decided under the Act. The Commission
hopes that this series of releases
will serve to inform the public as to
its disclosure
policies under the
Freedom of Information Act and of the
manner in which it has interpreted
and applied the Act to the many types
of records maintained by the Commission.
Exemption 3 of the Freedom of Information Act was amended by the
Congress when it enacted the "Government in the Sunshine" Act48 in order
to conform FOIA Exemption 3 to the
analogous exemption contained in the
Sunshine Act. Previously, the FOIA
exemption had applied to any matter
"specifically
exempted from disclosure by statute."49 The purpose of
the amendment, the Conference Report on the Sunshine Act states, is
to overrule the decision
of the
Supreme Court in Administrator, FAA
v. Robertson.w in which the Court
approved withholding under a statute
which gave an agency discretion to
withhold matters where it determined
that disclosure was not "in the public
interest. "51 As a result, statutes
which contain only a "public interest"
standard no longer serve as statutory
authorization under these exemptive
provisions. This amendment did not
substantially affect the Commission,
however, since Section 24 of the
Exchange Act, as amended by the
1975 Securities Acts Amendments
(which applies to all records in the
Commission's possession, however
obtained), already had the effect of
limiting Commission discretion
to
withhold
records "in the public
interest."
Most of the administrative appeals
decided by the Commission are con-

cerned with investigatory records. The
seventh exemption of the Act, as
amended, provides that the Freedom
of Information Act "does not apply"
to such records to the extent that
their production
would "interfere
with enforcement proceedings," "deprive a person of a right to a fair trial
or an impartial adjudication,"
"constitute an unwarranted invasion of
personal privacy," or cause other types
of harm specifically enumerated in the
exemption. The Commission, in the
administrative appeals it has decided,
has determined that investigatory
records will generally be withheld on
the ground that production will "interfere with enforcement proceedings" only if judicial or administrative
proceedings brought by the Commission or other law enforcement
authorities are in progress or there is
a concrete prospect that law enforcement proceedings will be instltuted.v
Evidentiary materials contained in investigatory files closed after the completion of public law enforcement proceedings will generally be available to
any person requesting
access to
them.53 In those cases where investigations are closed by the Commission without the institution
of
public
enforcement
action,
the
Commission has recognized that considerations of personal privacy often
require that such records not be
disclosed to members of the public,54
except where a demonstration
of
particularized need for access to the
records sufficient to outweigh considerations of personal privacy has
been made.55
Registration statements, applications, declarations, and annual and
periodic reports filed with the Commission each year, as well as many
other public documents, are available for public inspection and copying
at the Commission's public reference
room in its principal
offices
in
119

Washington, D.C. and, in part, at its
regional and branch offices.
The Commission has special public
reference facilities in the New York,
Chicago and Los Angeles Regional
Offices and some facilities for public
use in other regional and branch
offices. Each regional office has
available for public examination copies
of prospectuses used in recent offerings of securities registered under the
Securities Act; registration
statements and recent annual reports filed
under the Exchange Act by companies
having their principal office in the
region; recent annual reports and
quarterly reports filed under the
Investment Company Act by management investment companies having
their principal office in the region;
broker-dealer and investment adviser
applications originating in the region;
letters of notification under Regulation A filed in the region, and indices
of Commission decisions.
During the Transitional Quarter and
the 1977 fiscal year, over 25,000
persons examined material on file in
Washington (4,812 from July 1, 1976,
through September 30, 1976, and
20,899 from October I, 1976, through
September
30,
1977);
several
thousand others examined files in
New York, Chicago, Los Angeles, and
other regional offices. More than
69,000 searches were made for information requested by individuals
(12,260 from July 1, 1976, through
September 30,1976, and 57,213 from
October 1, 1976, through September
30, 1977); and approximately 19,000
letters were received for information
and/or documents (3,423 from July I,
1976, through September 30, 1976,
and 15,376 from October 1976,
through September 30, 1977).
The public may make arrangements
through the Public Reference Section
of the Commission in Washington, D.C.
120

to purchase copies of material in the
Commission's public files. The copies
are produced by a commercial copying
company which supplies them to the
public at prices established under a
contract with the Commission. Current
prices begin at 10 cents per page for
pages not exceeding 8W' x 14" in size,
with a $3.50 minimum charge. Under
the same contract, the company also
makes microfiche
and microfilm
copies of Commission public documents available on a subscription or
individual order basis to persons or
firms who have or can obtain viewing
facilities. In microfiche services, up to
60 images of document pages are contained on 4" x 6" pieces of film, referred to as "fiche."
Annual microfiche subscriptions are
offered in a variety of packages covering all public reports filed on Forms
lO-K, lO-Q, 8-K, N-IQ and N-IR
under the Securities Exchange Act or
the Investment Company Act; annual
reports to stockholders; proxy statements; new issue registration statements; and final prospectuses for new
issues. The packages offered include
various categories of these reports, including those of companies listed on
the New York Stock Exchange, the
American Stock Exchange, regional
stock exchanges, or traded over-thecounter. Reports are also available by
standard industry classifications. Ar-rangements also may be made to subscribe to reports of companies of one's
own selection. Over one hundred million pages (microimagery frames) are
being distributed annually. The subscription services may be extended to
further groups of filings in the future
if demand warrants. The copying company will also supply copies in microfiche or microfilm form of other public
records of the Commission desired by a
member of the public.
Microfiche readers and reader-print-

ers have been installed in the public
reference areas in Washington, D.C.
and the New York, Chicago, and Los
Angeles regional offices, and sets of
microfiche are available for inspection
there. Visitors to the public reference
room in Washington, D.C. may also
make immediate
reproduction
of
material on photostatic-type copying
machines. The cost to the public of
copies made by use of all customeroperated equipment is 10 cents per
page. The charge for an attestation
with the Commission seal is $2. Detailed information concerning copying
services available and prices for the
various types of services and copies
may be obtained from the Public Reference Section of the Commission.

FREEDOM OF INFORMATION ACT
LITIGATION
In Harnett, et al. v. SEC, et al.,5S
Joel Harnett, a candidate in New York
City's mayoral election campaign,
sought the disclosure of draft portions
of a staff report of investigation into
certain transactions in the securities
of the City of New York,57Even though
the plaintiffs had not made a formal
FOIA request for the draft portions of
the report and, accordingly, the Commission was never afforded an opportunity to consider the matter, the
United States District Court ordered
the Commission to submit the report
to it for in camera inspection.w Since
the records were clearly exempt from
compelled disclosure pursuant to Exemptions 5 and 7 of the FOIA, and
since production for in camera inspection would have disrupted unnecessarily the Commission's ongoing investigation, the Commission secured a stay
of the District Court's order pending
review by the Court of Appeals or, alternatively, consideration of the Commission's petition for a writ of mandamus.
The action was subsequently rendered

moot, however, when the staff's completed report was issued on August 26,
1977,59 although the demands of both
the plaintiffs and the Commission for
costs, including reasonable attorneys'
fees, have yet to be resolved by the
district court.
In Continental Stock Transfer and
Trust Co. v. SEC, so a stock transfer
agent registered with the Commission
sought review of a Commission order
pursuant to Rule 24b-2 under the
Exchange Act,S1denying Continental's
request for confidential treatment of
the list of the names of the issuers of
securities for which it acted as a transfer agent. Continental claimed that the
information in question, which was required to be submitted pursuant to
Form TA-1, was exempt from disclosure as "confidential commercial information" under Exemption 4 of the
Freedom of Information Act. The Commission, in denying the request for
confidential treatment, cited the facts
that (1) the information in question
was already publicly available, although some research was necessary
to compile it, and (2) other transfer
agents in positions similar to that of
Continental had filed comparable information with the Commission without making any claim of competitive
disadvantages.
On March 21, 1977, the Court of Appeals for the Second Circuit affirmed
the Commission's order. In its opinion,
the court adopted for the Second Circuit the test formulated by the District
of Columbia Circuit for determining
what information is within the scope of
Exemption 4.S2Applying that test, the
court ruled that disclosure of the information in question was neither likely to impair the government's ability to
obtain similar information in the future
or to cause substantial harm to Continental's competitive position. In this
latter regard, the court noted that it
121

found persuasive the fact that almost
all of the information disclosed by
Continental was already available to
the public through various reference
works.
Canadian Pacific Ltd. v. SEC63also
involved a petition for review of a Commission order entered pursuant to
Rule 24b-2 under the Exchange Act.
The information in issue in that case
was data regarding the remuneration
which Canadian Pacific Limited, a
diversified Canadian corporation, paid
to its three highest paid officers. The
information was required to be filed
with the Commission pursuant to the
Commission's rules relating to proxy
solicitations and, unless granted confidential treatment by the Commission, was required to be disseminated
by Canadian Pacific to its shareholders.
The Commission, in response to the
request of the corporation, did grant
confidential treatment for the remuneration information pertaining to the
three years in issue in this case, 1974
through 1976. Upon consideration of a
request for access to this information
under the Freedom of Information Act,
however, the Commission determined
that the FOIA required the Commission
to honor the request and, accordingly,
entered an order suspending the three
prior orders granting confidential
treatment, which had been entered by
the staff pursuant to delegated authority.
In petitioning the court of appeals
for review of the Commission's order,
the company claimed that the information was exempt pursuant to Exemptions 4 and 6 of the Freedom of Information Act, relating to confidential
commercial information and to information the disclosure of which would
result in a clearly unwarranted invasion of personal privacy. In addition,
the company raised certain procedural
122

objections to the Commission's order.
After the issues had been fully briefed
in the court of appeals, the company,
on February 28, 1978, elected to dismiss the pending petition for review,
and the information was disclosed to
the party requesting access to it.

NOTES TO PART 2
lSecurities Act ReleaseNo.5231 (February 3, 1972).
2Securities Act Release No. 5767
(November22, 1976), 10 SECDocket 983.
Corrected in Securities Act Release No.
5767A (December 17, 1976). 11 SEC
Docket 1200.
3SecuritiesAct ReleaseNo. 5723 (July 2,
1976), 9 SECDocket 1014.
4Securities Act Release No. 5791 and
SecuritiesExchangeAct ReleaseNo. 13083
(December20,1976),11 SECDocket1205.
5The amendments were proposed in
Securities Act ReleaseNo. 5728 (July 26,
1976), 10 SECDocket 92.
6The Commissionannounced that it is
consideringamendmentsto FormS-16 to
allow its use in certain primary offerings.
See Securities Act Release No. 5792
(December20, 1976),11SECDocket1214.
7SecuritiesAct ReleaseNo. 5744 (September 27, 1976), 10 SECDocket 574.
SA proposed amendment to Securities
Act Rule 429 (a) would make the rule unavailable if the issuer's latest registration
statement was filed on Form S-14A. Proposedamendmentsto Rules14a-3, 14a-6,
14a-11, 14a-12, 14c-2 and 14c-5 under
the ExchangeAct provided that material
filed in a Form S-14A registration statement would satisfy the Informational and
filing requirementsof the proxyor information rules underSection 14of the Exchange
Act.

9SecuritiesAct ReleaseNo. 5806 (February 16, 1977), 11 SECDocket 1716.
l°Securities Act ReleaseNo. 5487 (April
23, 1974), 4 SECDocket 154.
11 Securities
Act Release No. 5779
(December6, 1976), 11 SECDocket 1116.
12SecuritiesAct ReleaseNo. 5822 (April
18, 1977), 12 SECDocket 4.
13SecuritiesAct ReleaseNo. 5865 (September 16, 1977), 13 SECDocket 107.
14SecuritiesAct ReleaseNo. 5750 (October 8, 1976), 10 SECDocket 691.
15SecuritiesAct ReleaseNo. 5745 (September 27, 1976), 10 SECDocket 586.
16SecurltiesAct ReleaseNo. 5834 (June
13, 1977), 12 SECDocket 814.
17SecuritiesExchangeAct Release No.
13190 (January19, 1977), 11 SECDocket
1525.
lsSecurities Act ReleaseNo. 5811 (February 28, 1977), 11 SECDocket 1864.

19Securities Act Release No. 5842 (July
5, 1977), 12 SEC Docket 1099.
20Securities Act Release No. 5871 (September 29, 1977), 13 SEC Docket 226.
21Securities Exchange Release No. 8066
(April 28, 1967).
22Securities Exchange Act Release No.
13913 (August 31, 1977), 12 SEC Docket
1642.
23Securities Exchange Act Release No.
13156 (January 13, 1977), 11 SEC Docket
1425.
24Securities Exchange Act Release No.
12619 (July 19, 1976), 10 SEC Docket 15.
25This is a new requirement in the Form
8-K which was adopted because the Commission believes that the availability of this
information in the Commission's files will be
useful to investors.
26Thefollowing items of information were
transferred to the Form 10-Q: Legal Proceedings, Changes in Securities, Changes
in Security for Registered Securities, Defaults upon Senior Securities, Increase and
Decrease in Outstanding Securities, and
Submission of Matters to a Vote of Security
Holders. Two other items of information
were eliminated altogether: Options to Purchase Securities and Extraordinary Item
Charges and Credits.
27See Securities Act Release No. 5715
(June 2, 1976), 9 SEC Docket 760, for the
text of the withdrawn proposal.
28Securities Act Release No. 5776
(December 2, 1976), 11 SEC Docket 1051.
29Securities Act Release No. 5777
(December 2, 1976), 11 SEC Docket 1051.
30Securities Exchange Act Release No.
13056 (December 10, 1976), 11 SEC
Docket 1172.
31See39th Annual Report, pp. 16-17.
32Securities Exchange Act Release No.
10591 (January 10, 1974), 3 SEC Docket
359. See 40th Annual Report, pp. 15-16.
33Securities Exchange Act Release No.
11079 (October 31, 1974), 5 SEC Docket
356.
34Securities Exchange Act Release No.
13639 (June 17, 1977), 12 SEC Docket
918.
35Securities Exchange Act Release No.
13097 (December 22, 1976), 11 SEC
Docket 1269; Securities Exchange Act
Release No. 13385 (March 17, 1977), 11
SEC Docket 2008; Securities Exchange Act
Release No. 13659 (June 22, 1977), 12 SEC
Docket 935.
36Accounting Series Release No. 194
(July 18, 1976), 10 SEC Docket 100.
37Securities Act Release No. 5868 (September 26, 1977), 13 SEC Docket 218.
38Securities Act Release No. 5869 (September 26, 1977), 13 SEC Docket 221.

39lbid.
4°Accounting Series Release No. 225
(August 31, 1977), 12 SEC Docket 1612.
41Securities Act Release No. 5826 (May
10, 1977), 12 SEC Docket 340.
42Securities Act Release No. 5837 (June
20, 1977), 12 SEC Docket 900.
43Securities Act Release Nos. 5861
(August 31, 1977), 12 SEC Docket 1617,
5877 (October 26, 1977), 13 SEC Docket
416, 5878 (October 26, 1977), 13 SEC
Docket 434.
44Accounting Series Release No. 203
(December 9, 1976), 11 SEC Docket 1162.
45Securities Act Release No. 5848
(August 5, 1977), 12 SEC Docket 1458.
46pub. L. No. 93-502.
47Securities Act Release No. 5571 (February 21, 1975), 6 SEC Docket 286.
48P.L. 94-409. The "Government In the
Sunshine" Act is codified at 5 U.S.C. 552b.
495 U.S.C. 552 (b) (3).
50442 U.S. 255 (1975).
51H. R. Rep. No. 94-1441,
94th Congress., 2d Sess. 25 (1976).
52See, e.g., In the Matter of Request of
I. Walton Bader, FOIA Release No. 1 (April
3, 1975), 6 SEC Docket 541; In the Matter
of Request of Jeffrey B. Albert, FOIA Release No. 10 (June 11, 1975), 7 SEC
Docket 138.
53Securities Act Release No. 5571 (February 21, 1975), 6 SEC Docket 288. In the
Matter of Request of John A. Jenkins, FOIA
Release No. 11 (June 11, 1975), 7 SEC
Docket 139.
54ln the Matter of Request of John A.
Jenkins, FOIA Release No. 11 (June 11,
1975), 7 SEC Docket 139.
551nthe Matter of Request of Jung Ja
Malandris, FOIA Release No. 8 (May 29,
1975), 7 SEC Docket 58.
56S.D.N.Y., No. 77 Civ. 3110 (VLBl; C.A.
2, No. 77-6124.
57The report was prepared and issued
pursuant to Section 21(a) of the Securities
Exchange Act, 15 U.S.C. 78u(a).
585 U.S.C. 522(a) (4) (B).
59Securities and Exchange Commission,
Staff Report on Transactions in Securities
of the CIty of New York, Subcommittee on
Economic Stabilization, House Committee
on Banking, Finance and Urban Affairs,
95th Cong., 1st Sess. (Comm. Print, 1977).
6°C.A. 2, No. 77 -4034; CCH Fed. Sec.
L. Rep. para. 96,172 (March 21,1977).
6117 CFR 240.24b-2.
62See,e.g., Charles River Park "A", Inc.
v. Department of Housing and Urban Development, 519 F.2d 935 (C.A.D.C., 1975).
63C.A.D.C., No. 77-1587.

123

Part 3
Regulation of
Securities Markets

-

"

.- '.11111'

Part 3
Regulation of
Securities Markets

In addition to the disclosure provisions discussed in the preceding
chapter, the Securities
Exchange
Act of 1934 (Exchange Act), as
amended by the Securities
Acts
Amendments
of 1975 (the 1975
Amendments),"
assigns
to the
Commission
broad regulatory
responsibilities
over the securities
markets, the self-regulatory organizations within the securities industry
and persons conducting a business in
securities. Among other regulatory
responsibilities,
the Exchange Act
directs the Commission to facilitate
the establishment of a national market
system for securities and a national
system for the clearance and settlement of securities transactions. The
Exchange Act requires registration of
securities
exchanges and certain
clearing agencies, permits registration
of associations of brokers or dealers,
established the Municipal Securities
Rulemaking Board (MSRB), as a selfregulatory organization, to formulate
rules for the municipal securities industry, and provides for Commission
supervision
of the self-regulatory
responsibilities of national securities
exchanges,
registered
clearing
agencies,
registered
securities
associations and the MSRB. The Exchange Act also requires the registration of securities brokers and dealers,

certain municipal
securities
professionals,
securities
information
processors,
and transfer
agents.
Finally, the Exchange Act contains
provisions
designed
to prevent
fraudulent, deceptive and manipulative
acts and practices on the exchanges
and in the over-the-counter markets.
Important recent developments concerning regulation of the securities
markets are discussed in Part 1 of this
Annual Report.

REGULATIONS OF EXCHANGES
Registration
The Exchange Act generally requires
a securities exchange to register with
the Commission as a national securities
exchange unless the Commission,
acting pursuant to Section 5 of the
Exchange Act, exempts it from
registration because of the limited
volume of its transactions.
As of
September 30, 1977, the following
ten. securities
exchanges
were
registered
with the Commission:
American
Stock Exchange,
Inc.;
Boston Stock Exchange, Incorporated;
Chicago Board Options Exchange,
Incorporated;
Cincinnati
Stock
Exchange;
Intermountain
Stock
Exchange; Midwest Stock Exchange,
Incorporated;
New York Stock Exchange, Inc.; Pacific Stock Exchange,
Incorporated;
Philadelphia
Stock
127

Exchange,
Inc.; Spokane Stock
Exchange.
On October 12, 1976, the Commission, pursuant to Section 19(a)(3)
of the Exchange Act, issued an order
withdrawing the registration of the
Detroit Stock Exchange as a national
securities exchange. That exchange
had ceased operations at the close of
business on June 30, 1976, in accordance with a plan of liquidation adopted by its governing committee on May
12, 1976, and approved by a majority
of its membership on June 7, 1976.2
On October 13, 1977, the Honolulu
Stock Exchange (HSE), the only
securities exchange currently exempted from reglstration.s informed
the Commission that it would cease
operations as of December 30, 1977.
At the end of the fiscal year, that
exchange had begun taking the steps
necessary to terminate its business
operations
in an orderly fashion
and to seek termination of its exemption from registration as a national
securities exchange.

Delisting
Pursuant to Section 12(d) of the
Exchange Act, a security may be withdrawn from listing and registration
with a national securities exchange
upon the exchange's application to the
Commission, or upon the application
of its issuer, in accordance with the
rules of the exchange and upon such
terms as the Commission may impose
for the protection of investors. In
evaluating delisting applications, the
Commission
generally
does not
substitute its judgment for that of
an exchange, and, where there has
been full compliance with the rules
of an exchange with respect to delisting, the Commission will grant a
delisting application. The Commission's
authority in such cases is limited to
the imposition
of terms deemed
128

necessary for the protection

of in-

vestors.!
The standards for delisting vary
among the exchanges, but generally
delisting actions are based on one or
more of the following factors: (1) the
number of publicly held shares or
shareholders is insufficient (often as a
result of acquisition or merger) to
support a broad-based trading market;
(2) the market value of the outstanding
shares or the trading volume is inadequate; (3) the company no longer
satisfies
the exchange's
listing
criteria with respect to earnings or
financial condition; or (4) required
reports have not been filed with the
exchange.
During the fiscal year, the Commission granted exchange applications for the delisting of 86 stock
issues, 20 bond issues, and 5 warrants.
Applications
were granted to the
individual
exchanges as follows:
American Stock Exchange (Amex), 35
stocks, 7 bonds and 5 warrants;
Pacific Stock Exchange (PSE), 30
stocks and 1 bond; Philadelphia Stock
Exchange (Phlx), 14 stocks and 1
bond; New York Stock Exchange
(NYSE), 18 stocks and 12 bonds;
Boston Stock Exchange (BSE), 1
stock; Midwest Stock Exchange
(MSE), 6 stocks."
The Commission also granted the
application of 16 issuers to withdraw
their securities
from listing and
registration on the Amex; 2 from the
NYSEj 6 from the BSEj 1 from the
Intermountain Stock Exchange: and 1
from the HSE.

Unlisted Trading Privileges
Prior to the 1975 Amendments,
Section 12(f) of the Exchange Act
provided that a national securities
exchange might, upon application to
and approval by the Commission,
extend unlisted trading privileges to

any security listed and registered on
another national securities exchange.
The 1975 Amendments broadened
that provision to encompass securities
not listed on any other exchange;
other textua I changes reflected
Congressional concern over the impact
of unlisted trading on the development
of a national market system and
clarified that such applications may
not be granted if the effect would
be to restrict competition."
On March 25, 1977, the PSE submitted an application for unlisted
trading privileges in the common stock
of Pacific Resources, Inc. The PSE
application was the first application
for unlisted trading privileges in a
security not listed on another exchange filed pursuant to Section 12(f)
(1)(C) for consideration
by the
Commission?
At the end of fiscal year 1976,8 the
Commission had under review an
Initial Decision? granting an application of the SSE for unlisted trading
privileges in the common stock of
Ludlow Corporation, which was already
listed and registered on the NYSE.'°
On March 11, 1977, the Commission
affirmed the decision of the Administrative Law Judge granting unlisted
trading privileges." The Commission
held that the standards of Section
12(f) of the Exchange Act and Rule
12f-l thereunder were met because
considerable local interest existed in
the security on the SSE, which provided an appropriate
medium for
trading the security. In addition, the
Commission concluded that competitive factors existed which could
lead to the execution of transactions
on the SSE instead of the primary
market, and there had not been any
showing that the primary market would
cease to be fair and orderly if unlisted
trading privileges were extended to
the SSE. The Commission stated that

the "fair
and orderly
markets"
standard, which was added to Section
12(f) by the 1975 Amendments, reflected congressional focus on the
development of a national market
system. On May 6, 1977, Ludlow
filed a petition, which is currently
pending,
requesting
the United
States Court of Appeals for the
District
of Columbia
Circuit
to
review and to set aside the Commission
order granting the SSE application for
unlisted trading privileges in Ludlow
common stock. 12

Exchange Disciplinary Actions
Section 19(d) of the Exchange
Act requires exchanges to report for
Commission review any final disciplinary
sanction imposed by an exchange that
(1) denies membership or participation
to any applicant,
(2) prohibits or
limits access to services offered by an
exchange or member thereof, or (3)
imposes final disciplinary sanctions
on any person associated with a
member or bars any person from becoming associated with a member.
During the fiscal year, three exchanges reported to the Commission a
total of 279 separate disciplinary actions. The sanctions imposed by the exchanges as a result of those actions
included (1) the imposition of fines
ranging from $350 to $75,000 in 177
cases, (2) the admonishment of 42
individuals, (3) the suspension from
membership in the exchanges (for
periods ranging from three weeks
to three years) of three member
organizations and 52 individuals, (4)
the censure of four member firms and
75 individuals, (5) the barring from
association with a member of 50
individuals and (6) the expulsion from
membership of 28 individuals and two
member firms.

EXCHANGE RULES
Section 19(b) of the Exchange Act,
129

as amended by the 1975 Amendments,
requires self-regulatory organizations
to file with the Commission any proposed rule or change in an existing
rule accompanied by a concise statement of the basis and purpose.P
Promptly after filing, the Commission
is required to publish notice of the
proposed rule change and to give
interested parties an opportunity to
submit their views on it. Proposed
rule changes may not take effect
unless approved by the Commission
(with the exception of certain types
of rule changes, such as interpretations of existing rules, which are
permitted
to take effect without
Commission review, subject to the
Commission's powers under Section
19(b)(3)(C) to abrogate such rule
changes).
As previously reported." the Commission has adopted Exchange Act Rule
19b-4and related Forms 19b-4Aand
19b-4B, which provide procedures by
which self-regulatory organizations
may file proposed rule changes for the
Commission's approval or give notice of
those rule changes which may take
effect without Commission approval.
The rule also provides the self-regulatory
organizations critena by which they
may determine which of their policies,
practices and interpretations
are
deemed to be rules for the purpose
of the filing requirement.
Furthermore, it specifies the procedures to
be followed by the Commission in passing upon proposed rule changes.
During the fiscal year, the Commission received 248 submissions
from exchanges involving a variety
of rules and stated policies. The following were among the more significant rule changes considered by the
Commission:
1. On June 15, 1976, the NYSE submitted a package of three rule proposals to remove major restrictions
130

on floor trading activity, including
a reduction in the minimum capital
requirements applicable to registered
floor traders. In connection with these
proposals, the staff of the Division
of Market Regulation conducted an
inspection of the NYSE's capacity to
conduct adequate regulation and surveillance of floor trading activities.
On January 17, 1977, as a result of its
inspection and analysis of the NYSE
proposals, the Commission approved a
reduction of the minimum capital
requirement for registered floor traders
from $250,000 to $25,000 and requested the NYSE to analyze further
the remaining proposals in light of the
Commission's comments thereon.
2. The Commission approved rule
changes filed, respectively, by the
Amex and the NYSE to rescind their
so-called "New York City Rules,"
pursuant to which each exchange
had prohibited trading on its floor of
any security which was admitted to
trading on any other exchange located
in New York City. As a result of the
Commission's approval of the these
proposals, the common stock of Varo,
Inc., became the first Amex-NYSE dual
listing in more than fifty years. In addition, stock of six other companies is
now dually traded on the Amex and the
NYSE.
3. The Commission approved an
NYSE rule change proposal to rescind
certain restrictions with respect to
"off-floor" trading by its membersthat is, trades executed on the floor of
the NYSE as a result of a member's
order originating from off the floor. The
restrictions generally prohibited an
NYSE member who acquired stock by
means of an off-floor order on a "plus"
or "zero plus" tick, at or above the
previous day's closing price, from
selling that stock within twenty-four
hours, except at a loss. These restrictions had been adopted in 1969 in

response to a Commission study which
indicated that manipulation in a stock's
price may result from concentrated and
dominant trading by off-floor traders.
The NYSE stated that the proposal was
in response to improvements in communications facilities since the rule
was adopted, and it agreed to implement a surveillance program to monitor its members' off-floor trading actrvities. The Commission's staff informed
the NYSE that it would oversee the
NYSE monitoring plan to ensure that
the NYSE could effectively determine
whether there had been a recurrence
of the conduct which the rule was
designed to prevent.
4. The Commission approved an
NYSE rule proposal rescinding membership restrictions upon foreign brokerdealers and broker-dealers controlled
by foreign parent organizations.
5. The Commission also approved
rule changes filed by the NYSE requiring its listed companies to establish
independent audit committees comprised solely of directors independent
of management."
6. The Commission disapproved a
proposed Amex rule change which
would have established alternate listing
criteria for domestic corporations. In
disapproving that proposed rule, the
Commission noted that it would have
expanded the universe of issuers whose
stocks would be eligible for listing on
the Amex and explained that, in light of
Amex rules restricting off-board principal transactions in listed stocks, the
Commission could not conclude that
the Amex rule proposal was consistent
with the requirements of the Exchange
Act. At the end of the fiscal year, the
Commission had under consideration
an Amex request that the Commission
reconsider its disapproval of this proposed rule change in conjunction with
its consideration of a related Amex

proposal concerning Amex foreign
listing standards.
7. The Commission approved a
proposed rule change filed by the Chicago Board Options Exchange, Incorporated (CBOE), enabling the CBOE to
develop procedures for appointing its
"board brokers" on the basis of a competitive bidding process." The specific procedures were to be set forth in
a subsequent filing by the CBOE and
had not been received as the end of the
fiscal year.
8. The Commission approved a rule
change filed by the NYSE which eliminated the "three man" unit rule for
specialist firms, rescinded a prohibition against the maintenance of joint
limit orders by non-affiliated specialists
in their specialist stocks, and lowered
certain capital requirements for specialist firms.
9. The Commission approved an
Amex rule proposal rescinding a prohibition against the entry of quotations
of listed stocks by Amex members in
over-the-counter quotation sheets and
NASDAQ.

EXCHANGE INSPECTIONS
NYSE Advertising Inspection
On October IS, 1976, the NYSE
filed proposed rule changes which
would rescind its pre-clearance requirements for member advertising.
The NYSE's pre-clearance of member
advertising was viewed as a primary
means of ensuring compliance with
the NYSE's rules governing the content of member advertising."? In order
to obtain information as to NYSE surveillance of member advertising under
the existing rules and to evaluate the
feasibility
of proposed alternative
procedures, members of the Commission's staff inspected (on December
9 and 10, 1976) the NYSE's Advertising and Sales Literature Review
Section and, as a follow-up, inspected
131

(on January 10, 1977) the NYSE's
Enforcement Department with respect
to its enforcement of NYSE advertising
standards.
On the basis of the information obtained during these inspections, and
information submitted by the NYSE in
support of its proposed rule change,
the Commission was satisfied that
rescission of the pre-clearance requirements for member advertising,
and substitution of a post-use sampling
review, probably would not lead to any
substantial lessening of compliance
with the NYSE advertising standards.
Accordingly, the Commission approved
the NYSE proposal.ts In doing so,
however, the Commission directed the
staff to transmit a letter to the NYSE
as to certain findings made during the
course of the staff's inspections. In its
letter, the staff communicated
its
concern that certain shortcomings in
NYSE advertising review procedures
be corrected to assure that the quality
of member advertising not be allowed
to deteriorate. The staff suggested
that:
(1) An apparent lack of sufficient
knowledge of the NYSE's substantive
advertising standards should be corrected by the use of educational circulars and conferences between the
NYSE staff and NYSE members;
(2) In order to ensure compliance
with the NYSE's advertising standards, post-use sampling reviews may
need to be conducted on a more frequent basis than once annually;
(3) Disciplinary actions should be
pursued more vigorously by the NYSE
staff as a means of enforcing the
NYSE's advertising rules, particularly
where repeat offenders are involved
and warnings had been issued; and
(4) The NYSE should make greater
efforts to avoid delay in investigating
potential disciplinary cases.
132

NYSE Specialist Surveillance
Inspection
From February 16-18, 1977, the
Commission's staff conducted an inspection of the NYSE to review its
programs for the regulation
and
surveillance of specialists and its
recently revised procedures for the
allocation of newly listed stocks.
This was accomplished through interviews with NYSE staff personnel and
examination of files pertaining to the
interpretive and investigative activities
of those individuals. Further, in the
area of stock allocations, the Commission's staff examined procedures
and standards for evaluating specialist
performance
and effecting
stock
allocations. In particular, the staff
focused on the use of the Specialist
Performance Evaluation Questionnaire
(SPEQ), and grades derived therefrom,
by the NYSE's Allocation Committee in
effecting the assignment of newlylisted stocks.
By letter dated June 29, 1977, the
findings of the Commission staff were
communicated
to the NYSE. The
principal areas addressed in that letter
were: (1) specialists' execution of percentage orders'" and regulation thereof; (2) provision of an adequate audit
trail to deter, among other things, the
printing of fictitious trades (i.e., reported transactions which appear on
Network A of the Consolidated Tape
but which are never cleared or settled);
and (3) the relationship of stock allocation procedures to the potential for
greater competition among specialists
on the NYSE floor.
With respect to the first area, the
NYSE undertook an educational program (partially in response to earlier
Commission approval of an amended
percentage order rule) to reinforce
specialists' understanding as to the
proper handling of percentage orders.
In addition, the NYSE advised its

employees who conduct periodic inspections of specialists' trading records
to effect certain procedures in order
to monitor compliance in this area.
Concerning the question of an
adequate audit trail, the NYSE has reported to the Commission's staff that
it is continuing to explore alternative
modifications in its transactional reporting system in order to incorporate
certain features which the Commission
deems essential for improved market
surveillance. One such feature would
be the ability to reconstruct, in a timely
and accurate fashion, trading sequences in all NYSE-listed securities.
Finally, with regard to allocation
procedures and standards, the Commission's staff observed that the
NYSE's approach to this function
presupposes the continued dominance
of the unitary specialist system on the
NYSE floor.20 The NYSE recently submitted a proposed rule change which
establishes minimum levels of acceptable specialist performance in terms
of SPEQ grades. Failure to meet one
or more of the minimum criteria for
a specified period could result in the
reallocation of one or more of the
assigned stocks of the affected
specialist. At the end of the fiscal
year, the Commission had not completed its review of the procedures
and standards which this proposal
would establish.

the Commission's staff conferred with
several MSE employees and reviewed a
variety of records pertaining to the
operation of the MSE stock floor. In
addition,
the Commission's
staff
observed the transmission of orders to
brokers on the MSE floor through the
MSE's signet 80 and Quote 'n Trade
systems as well as the execution and
reporting of transactions on the floor.
In the area of specialist surveillance
and regulation, members of the Commission's staff reviewed the MSE's
procedures for ongoing surveillance
of stock trading and implementation
of a recently revised program for
evaluating specialist performance.
The latter is significant in that performance results will constitute the
principal criteria for allocating newly
listed stocks. The staff also examined
the execution of odd-lot orders in
NYSE-listed stocks which are admitted
to trading on the MSE.

Midwest Stock Exchange Inspection

Another area upon which the inspection focused was the MSE's program
in passing upon member requests for
extensions
of time within which
customers must comply with Regulation
T margin requirements. Concern in
this area was heightened by the recent
insolvency of an MSE member which
had sought, and obtained, a number of
Regulation T extensions in certain
securities for which its customers
subsequently refused to pay, contributing to the demise of the flrm.22

On September 26-28, 1977, members of the Commission staff conducted an inspection of the MSE relating primarily to (1) the regulation
and surveillance of stock specialists;
(2) MSE procedures related to Regulation T extension requests by member
firms; and (3) implementation of the
MSE's program to allow members to
function as registered market makers
in stocks admitted to trading on the
MSE.21In the course of this inspection,

The Commission's staff also observed
the functioning of registered market
makers on the MSE floor. The MSE's
creation of this function was approved
by the Commission in June 1977.23
Members that register to act in this
capacity
serve as supplemental
market makers in their respective
assigned issues and thereby are able to
accept market or limit orders in those
issues. Where registered
market
makers accept orders in such issues,
133

their handling of those orders is
generally governed by the same MSE
rules which pertain to specialists
acting under similar circumstances.
The MSE believes that the registered
market maker function will add greater
depth and liquidity to the marketplace.
At the end of the fiscal year, the
Commission's staff was continuing its
review of the data and records obtained
from the MSE. Upon completion of
that review, a report discussing its
findings will be transmitted to the
MSE.

American Stock Exchange Options
Program Inspection
On November 10-11, 1976, and on
April 12-13, 1977, members of the
Commission's staff conducted inspections
of the Amex focusing
primarily on (1) the adequacy of its
member education programs in connection with its proposal to list
put options for trading on its floor24
and (2) the ability of the Amex's option
surveillance
systems to enable it
adequately to enforce compliance with
its rules and the Federal securities
laws. Special attention was given to
Amex procedures
for monitoring
member trading in securities underlying Amex-listed options, use by
members of certain non-public information in effecting option transactions and member option transactions designed solely to produce
benefits under option margin rules.25
While the design of the Amex educational program appea red generally
adequate to prepare members for the
commencement of put trading on the
exchange, the Commission's staff was
concerned with the Amex's failure to
make any substantial
progress in
developing surveillance procedures
which would enable it to detect
questionable member trading activity.
134

During that inspection, the Commission's staff was particularly concerned about the inability of the Amex
to identify accurately those members
executing particular
option transactions.s" and the staff suggested
possible changes in Amex procedures
which would correct this deficiency.
By the April 1977 inspection, the Amex
had instituted some new procedures
designed to facilitate the collection of
this information with respect to some
option transactions, but as the fiscal
year ended, substantial improvements
still needed to be made.
Also, based in part on this inspection,
it was determined that the Amex's
surveillance
programs
were not
adequate to determine whether its
members or their customers were
trading in concert with others in an
attempt to evade rules of the exchanges on which options are traded
(options exchanges) regarding maximum
positions in an option class.v Subsequently, the Commission's staff
found similar inadequacies in the
surveillance programs of the other
options exchanges. At the end of the
fiscal year, the options exchanges
had begun some efforts, working
jointly with the Commission's staff,
to develop waysof improving surveillance

programs.s"
Chicago Board Options Exchange
Inspection
On April 4-5, 1977,the Commission's
staff conducted an inspection of the
CBOE which focused primarily upon
the CBOE's procedures for enforcing
member compliance with its rules
concerning option selling practices
and the trading of put options under
the CBOE's proposed put option program. The inspection also included a
review of the CBOE's system for
monitoring the initial and continued

qualification
of securities
which
underlie CBOE listed options.
Although the inspection team was
concerned, in some cases, with delays
in handling inquiries and complaints
in the area of sales practices, the
CBOE's complaint procedures in this
area generally seemed satisfactory.e
On the basis of that preliminary inquiry,
the CBOE put option training program
generally appeared adequate to apprise members of their responsibilities
with regard to the trading of put options
on the CBOE floor.30
In connection
with its overall
investigation and study of options
trading.v'
the Commission
contemplated the need for industry-wide
standards
for
monitoring
the
performance of market makers on the
floors of the options exchanges. In
that regard, the Commission's inspection staff determined that the
CBOE had made some limited progress
toward defining and monitoring compliance with standards for the performance of market makers and other
parties on the CBOE floor.32

Midwest Stock Exchange Options
Program Inspection
On April 6, 1977, the Commission
conducted its first inspection of the
newly established pilot options program
at the MSE.33The inspection focused
upon the adequacy of the MSE's
systems for the surveillance of options
trading on its floor.
After reviewing the MSE's options
market surveillance
program, the
Commission's inspection staff concluded that while it generally appeared
to be adequate, at the then current
trading volume, to monitor options
trading by MSE members, it might well
not be adequate to handle any substantial expansion in options trading
on that exchange.>' As the fiscal year
ended, the MSE was responding to the

Commission's suggestion that it improve its oversight capability by computerizing certain surveillance systems in anticipation of increased trading volume resulting from future
expansions of the MSE's options pilot
program.
The inspection indicated that the
MSE was responding to suggestions by
the Commission's staff that the MSE
refine standards for evaluating market
maker trading performance in order to
justify the favorable margin treatment
accorded to such options market participants.w
Following the commencement of its
options pilot program, the MSE had
upon occasion certified incorrectly
that certain underlying securities for
listed options met its requirements for
initial and continued quallflcation.w
and the Commission's staff had urged
at that time that certain improvements
be made by the MSE in its certification
procedures. Based upon comments
made by the MSE during the Commission's inspection, it appears that the
MSE has now instituted certain new
procedures
to ascertain
whether
underlying securities meet its qualifications.

Pacific Stock Exchange Options
Program Inspection
On April 7, 1977, the Commission's
staff conducted an inspection of the
PSE to determine whether its surveillance programs could accommodate
an expanded options program " The
inspection also reviewed the adequacy
of the PSE's educational programs for
members and the operation of its disciplinary procedures for member violations of PSE rules.
Based upon the inspection, it appeared that the PSE's educational programs-for put option trading,38 and for
the training of new floor members,
generally were adequately designed to
135

inform members of their responsibilities under PSE rules, but that there
were other deficiencies in the PSE's
options program that require attention. Partially in response to suggestions of the Commission's staff during
this inspection and another inspection
conducted the preceding fiscal year,39
the PSE modified and instituted a previously proposed system of fixed fines
for relatively minor infractions of exchange rules. The object of the new
system is to streamline the PSE's disciplinary process for minor infractions
and to permit its enforcement staff to
allocate more of its time and resources
to other areas. The Commission's inspection team also noted a number of
areas in which the PSE's surveillance
systems, like those of other options
exchanges, were demonstrably inadequate and had to be strengthened before existing options programs could
be allowed to expand.4o
Based, in part, on its staff's inspection of the options exchanges, the
Commission subsequently determined
that the surveillance and enforcement
programs of each of the options exchanges appeared to be inadequate,
and the staffs of the Commission and
the options exchanges were working on
solutions to the problem as the fiscal
year ended.

SUPERVISION OF THE NASD
The Exchange Act provides that an
association of brokers and dealers may
be registered with the Commission as
a national securities association if it
meets the standards and requirements
for the registration and operation of
such associations contained in Section
15A of the Act. The Exchange Act contemplates that such associations will
serve as a medium for self-regulation
by over-the-counter brokers and dealers. In order to be eligible for registration, an association's rules must be de136

signed to protect investors and the
public interest, to promote just and
equitable principles of trade and to
meet other statutory requirements.
Registered securities associations
operate under the Commission's general supervisory authority, which includes the power to review disciplinary
actions taken by an association, to approve or disapprove changes in the
association's rules and to abrogate,
add to and delete from such rules. The
NASD is the only association registered with the Commission.
At the close of the fiscal year, 2,782
brokers and dealers were NASD members. This represented a net decrease
of 113 members during the year, resulting from 207 admissions to and
320 terminations of membership. The
number of members' branch offices
increased by 226 to 6,194 as a resu It
of the opening of 965 new offices and
the closing of 739. During the fiscal
year, the number of registered representatives and principals (which categories include all partners, officers,
traders, salesmen and other persons
employed by or affiliated with member
firms in capacities which require registration) decreased by 2,103 to 192,396.
This decrease reflects the net result of
15,635 initial registrations, 14,501 reregistrations and 32,239 terminations
of registrations during the year.
In fiscal year 1977, the NASDadministered 45,948 qualification examinations, of which 24,317 were for NASD
qualification, 2,161 were for the Commission's SECD program" and the
balance were for other agencies, including the major exchanges and various state securities regulators.

NASD Rules
Under Section 19(b) of the Exchange
Act and Rule 19b-4 thereunder, the
NASD is required to file with the Commission any proposed rule change,

accompanied by a concise general
statement of its basis and purpose.
The Commission is generally required
to publish notice of the proposed rule
change together with the terms of such
change or a description of the subjects
and issues involved and to give interested parties an opportunity to submit
thei r views. Most proposed ruIe changes
may not take effect unless approved
by the Commission; however, certain
rule changes, including those establishing or changing a due, fee, or other
charge imposed by the NASD and
those concerned solely with the administration of the NASD, need not be
approved by the Commission before
taking effect.
During the fiscal year, the NASD
filed numerous rule changes with the
Commission
under Rule 19b-4.
Among the major filings which the
Commission approved were:
(1) Adoption of a new Section 33 to
Article III of the NASD Rules of Fair
Practice, which authorizes the Board
of Governors of the NASD to adopt
rules, regulations and procedures relating to transactions in options contracts, including options to be included in the NASDAQ System.42
Under this new rule, the Board of
Governors has the authority, among
other things: (1) to develop a regulatory program consistent with existing
standardized options trading plans
and Commission rules and regulations
governing options, and (2) to adopt
rules governing trading in conventional
over-the-counter option contracts as
well as the activities of the NASD-only
member firms doing business through
option exchange members in exchangelisted options on an "access basis."43
(2) Amendments to Article XVII of
the NASD By-Laws, Code of Arbitration
Procedure and Uniform Practice Code,
to reflect the transfer of the securities
processing operations of the National

Clearing Corporation (NCC), a whollyowned subsidiary of the NASD, to the
National Securities Clearing Corporation (NSCC).44
(3) Amendment to Section l(a) of
Schedule G under Article XVIII of the
NASD By-Laws, to permit any member
of the NASD to become a so-called
"Designated Reporting Member" upon
request, provided the member executes over-the-counter transactions in
listed securities required to be reported on the Consolidated Tape and
maintains transaction reporting capability through the NASDAQ Transaction Reporting System.45

NASD Inspections
During the past fiscal year, the Commission's staff conducted inspections
of NASD district offices located in
Atlanta, Boston, Chicago, Dallas,
Denver, Kansas City, New Orleans,
Seattle and Washington, D.C., and of
the NASDAQ Qualifications Department in the NASD's Washington headquarters. These inspections were conducted as a part of the Commission's
oversight responsibility to assure that
the NASD is performing its self-regulatory functions adequately. They aid
the Commission
in determining
whether there is a need for new rules,
or for amendment or modification of
existing Commission rules or NASD
rules, policies or interpretations. They
also are intended to further coordination of the Commission's and the NASD's
regulatory and enforcement activities
relating
to the over-the-counter
market.
The NASD district office inspections
involved a review of (1) the composition
and effectiveness of the District Business Conduct Committees, examination subcommittees, and nominating
committees, (2) the functioning of the
district staffs, especially their working
relationships with the various commit137

tees composed of NASD-member
firms, and (3) the district staffs' coordination and cooperation with the
Commission's regional offices, the exchanges, and other interested regulatory bodies. Problems uncovered during these inspections related to (1) procedures for notifying the Commission's
regional offices, either orally or in
writing, of possible violations of Federal
securities laws, (2) delays in the timely
processing of disciplinary matters, (3)
the thoroughness of certain investigations in response to customer complaints, and (4) adequacy of review of
members' supervisory practices upon
receipt of customer complaints or
notices of termination of registered
representatives' employment for cause.
The staff also observed a need for
(1) closer monitoring of district nominating committees to assure a fairer
representation of their members on
District Business Conduct Committees
and (2) more complete member office
examination reports and District Business Conduct Committee meeting minutes to include notation of all apparent
violations and their disposition. All of
these problems and observations were
reviewed with representatives of the
NASD's national office during the
course of the fiscal year, and appropriate corrective action has been initiated or completed.
The purpose of the inspection of the
NASD's NASDAQ Qualifications Department (Department) was to evaluate the effectiveness of the Department's enforcement of the NASDAQ
qualification standards for an issuer's
eligibility and continued inclusion in
the NASDAQ system. The inspection
revealed instances where the NASD
had not (1) taken steps to remove
promptly from the NASDAQ system
securities of issuers which had not
been filing required financial reports
in a timely fashion and had not been
138

maintaining the prescribed minimum
$250,000 capital and surplus, (2) obtained current financial or other pertinent information
with respect to
foreign issuers included in the system
in order to verify their compliance with
applicable maintenance criteria, (3)
routinely advised its market surveillance department of the names of
delinquent issuers for which special
monitoring efforts might be needed to
detect any unusual trading problems
relating to those issuers, or (4) scheduled hearings promptly in those instances where an issuer requested one
after being notified that it was to be
deleted from the NASDAQ system for
not maintaining minimum qualification standards. The Commission's
staff recommended to the NASD that,
for the benefit of potential investors,
the NASD should consider providing a
means for identifying, on NASDAQ
quotation display terminals, in newspapers and in various financial publications, issuers involved in Chapter X
or XI bankruptcy proceedings. By the
end of the fiscal year, the Department
had initiated corrective procedures in
most areas. The Commission's staff
plans to conduct a follow-up review
during the next fiscal year.

NASD Disciplinary Actions
The Commission receives from the
NASD copies of its decisions in each
case where disciplinary action is taken
against a member or a person associated with a member. Generally, such
actions are initiated on the basis of
allegations that the respondents have
violated specified provisions of the
NASD Rules of Fair Practice. Where
violations by a member firm are found,
the NASD may impose such sanctions
as expulsion, suspension, limitation
of activities or operations, fine, censure, or other fitting sanction. If the
violator is an individual, his regis-

tration with the NASD may be suspended, he may be barred from association with any member, or he may be
fined, censured, or otherwise suitably
sanctioned.
During the past fiscal year, the NASD
reported to the Commission final disposition of 281 disciplinary complaints
in which 156 members and 318 individuals were named as respondents.
Complaints against 6 members and 26
individuals were dismissed for failure
to establish the alleged violations. In
its disciplinary
actions, the NASD
expelled 20 members from membership and suspended 5 members for
periods ranging from one day to two
years. The NASD imposed fines, ranging from $25 to $20,000, on members
in 107 cases and censured members
in 18 cases. In addition, the NASD
barred 83 persons associated with
member firms and suspended the
registrations of 45 persons for periods
ranging from one day to five years.
Finally, the NASD imposed disciplinary
sanctions on 164 other individuals in
the form of censures or fines in amounts
ranging from $100 to $20,000.

Review of NASD Disciplinary Actions
Section 19(d) of the Exchange Act
requires a self-regulatory organization
which imposes a disciplinary sanction
on a member or a person associated
with a member to file notice of such
sanction with the Cornmission.w An
action subject to the filing requirement may be reviewed by the Commission on its own motion or on the timely
application of any person aggrieved
by the action. The effectiveness of any
sanction is not stayed pending appeal
to the Commission unless the Commission so orders. If the Commission fi nds
on review that the party against whom
an action has been taken committed
the acts found by the NASD, and that
such acts violated the specified rules,

the Commission must sustain the
action unless it finds that the penalties
imposed are excessive or oppressive.
Such penalties may be reduced or set
aside; the Commission may not, however, increase the penalties imposed
by the NASD.
At the beginning of the fiscal year,
15 proceedings for review of NASD
disciplinary
actions were pending
before the Commission, and during the
year 13 additional cases were brought
up for review. The Commission disposed of 13 of these appeals. In five
cases, the Commission affirmed the
NASD's action. The Commission set
aside the NASD's action in one case,
dismissed appeals in four cases because of the respondents' failure to
file briefs, remanded two cases to the
NASD, and permitted withdrawal of
one appeal. At the close of the fiscal
year, 15 appeals were pending.
Four significant opinions were issued during the fiscal year. In Ben B.
Reuben.v the Commission affirmed
the NASD's findings that the respondent violated the NASD Rules of Fair
Practice by deliberately attempting
to negotiate a check on behalf of a
client when the respondent knew or
should have known that the client was
not entitled to the check. Respondent,
a registered principal of an NASD
member firm, caused the firm to issue
a check to his client in payment for
securities sold forthe client's account.
Several days later the firm put a stop
payment order on the check and issued a duplicate check which was
cashed by respondent and deposited
in his personal account to be used
for his client's benefit. Approximately
one year later, after respondent had
organized his own broker-dealer firm,
the original check reappeared in his
client's possession. The respondent,
without consulting his own records or
those of his previous firm, deposited
139

the check in his personal account,
where it failed to clear. He explained
that he suspected his client was not
entitled to the check, but he nontheless deposited it with the idea that
clearance of the check would indicate
that his client was in fact entitled to
it. Respondent contended that the
NASD had erred in finding his conduct
inconsistent with just and equitable
principles of trade, that he was denied
due process, and that the sanctions
imposed by the NASD-censure, a 30
day suspension and a $2,500 finewere too harsh in view of the economic
hardship he would suffer, the absence
of prior history of misconduct on his
part, and the fact that no one was injured as a result of his actions. The
Commission affirmed the NASD's finding that Respondent's actions did not
meet the standards imposed by the
NASD's Rules of Fair Practice and
found Respondent's due process arguments without substance. The Commission also affirmed the sanctions
imposed, stating that, because disciplinary proceedings conducted by
the securities industry's self-regulatory
bodies under the "high standards
of commercial honor and just and
equitable principles of trade" standards are ethical in character, the fact
that a violation of those standards did
not result in actual harm does little,
if anything, to mitigate the severity
of the offense.
In Hibbard & O'Connor Securities,
lnc., et et. ,48 the Commission affirmed
findings of the NASD with respect to
respondent's "parking" of securities
to circumvent net capital requirements, failure to register salesmen,
improper payments to an employee of
another member of the NASD, and
failure to comply with certain recordkeeping, customer protection and
delivery requirements. Other findings
against the member and an officer
140

were set aside, and proceedings were
remanded to the NASD for a reassessment of sanctions. The Commission
noted, however, that the officer's
attempt to cover up misconduct and
to frustrate the NASD's investigation
of alleged violations with respect to
which he had not been named a party
could be a basis' for instituting new
NASD proceedings against him.
With respect to the officer, the
NASD District Committee had imposed
a $2,000 fine and a censure for his
alleged role in certain net capital hypothecation violations. After a hearing
before the NASD Board of Governors,
the fine was raised to $10,000 and
the officer was barred from association
with any NASD member because the
Board found that the officer had attempted to cover up misconduct concerning improper payments to another
member's employee and to inhibit the
NASD's investigation of the improper
payments. On review the Commission
set aside the NASD's findings of violations in which the officer allegedly
participated; accordingly, no findings
adverse to the officer could be predicated on them. Moreover, the Commission found that since the officer
had never been charged with participation in the improper payments or
with attempting to obstruct the NASD's
investigation, the alleged obstruction
could not serve as a basis for adverse
findings against the officer. The Commission noted, however, that its reversal of the NASD's actions with respect to the officer did not preclude
the institution of new NASD proceedings against him based upon his alleged efforts to cover up the improper
payments and to frustrate the NASD's
investigation.
In Waldron & Co., Inc.,49 the Commission, in reviewing a disciplinary
action by the NASD, rejected the member's claim that it was deprived of a

fair and impartial hearing, sustained
the NASD's finding that the member
and its president had sold securities
at unfair prices and affirmed the sanctions imposed. The NASD found that
the member and its president had
executed, on a principal basis, a series
of securities sales to members of the
public at prices not reasonably related
to the then current market prices,
thereby violating the NASD's "markup" policy.50 The member argued to
the Commission that the proper base
on which to compute the mark-up was
not the firm's contemporaneous cost,
but rather the primary market maker's
asked price in the sheets published
by the National Quotation Bureau,
Inc. The Commission rejected this
argument, noting that the member
(as well as other broker-dealers) had
purchased the security in question
from the primary market maker at
prices less than the asked price quoted
in the "pink sheets." On that basis,
the Commission found that the best
evidence of the prevailing market price
was the member's contemporaneous
cost.
In Fred K. Kerpen,51 the Commission
affirmed action taken by the NASD
against a member and its registered
principal, where the principal failed to
take timely steps to discover conversion of customers' funds by a registered
representative of the member and to
prevent future occurrences of such incidents. On appeal to the Commission,
while not disputing the NASD's findings with respect to the misconduct of
the registered representative,
the
member and principal expressed disagreement concerning the steps that
should have been taken by the principal to discover and prevent the misconduct. The principal argued that he
had failed to take action against the
registered representative following an
initial complaint involving forgery and

conversion because the allegations,
when made, appeared incredible in
view of the representative's previous
good reputation in the investment
community. Nevertheless, following
subsequent complaints from other
customers, the principal continued to
fail to examine the representative's
accounts or to terminate his employment, apparently choosing to attempt
to rehabilitate the representative. The
NASD found, and the Commission
affirmed, that the principal was negligent in failing to supervise, particularly following the subsequent complaints
against the representative.
It was
further argued that the sanction imposed by the NASD against the principal-a ten-day suspension-was
excessive, particularly since the principal
devoted only part of his time to the
firm, which no longer had any full-time
employees. The Commission affirmed
the sanction, noting that one of the
purposes of the disciplinary action is to
indicate to other members the seriousness with which the NASD regards
failure to supervise employees.52

Review of NASD Membership Action
Under Section 15A(g)(2) of the Exchange Act, the NASD must notify the
Commission of its intention to admit to
membership a registered broker-dealer
subject to a statutory disqualification,
or to permit a statutorily disqualified
person to become associated with a
member, not less than 30 days before
the member's admission or the person's association. At the time the
notice is filed, the NASD may apply for
an order stating that, notwithstanding
the disqualification, the Commission
will not proceed under those provisions
of the Exchange Act empowering the
Commission to exclude the firm or
associated person. The Commission,
in its discretion and SUbject to such
terms and conditions as it deems
141

necessary, may issue an order permitting such membership or association
if it finds such action appropriate in
the public interest and for the protection of investors. At the beginning of
the fiscal year, four applications of this
nature were pending before the Commission. During the year, four applications were filed, four were approved
and three were withdrawn, leaving one
application pending at the end of the
year.

SUPERVISION OF THE MUNICIPAL
SECURITIES RULEMAKING BOARD
The Municipal Securities Rulemaking Board (the MSRB) was established
under the 1975 Amendments as a selfregulatory organization whose principal
purpose is to draft and submit for Commission approval53 a comprehensive
body of rules establishing standards
for the municipal securities industry.
During the fiscal year, the MSRB filed
with the Commission over 40 proposed
rule changes and amendments to proposed rule changes. The fol/owing
were among the more significant rule
changes approved by the Commission:
(1) The Commission approved a
series of MSRB rules concerning professional qualifications of members of
the municipal securities industry.54
Basically, the rules provide for examination of prospective industry members
and require each of those persons who
have not previously been employed in
the securities industry to serve a 90day apprenticeship before transacting
a municipal securities business with
the public. In addition, the rules provide for the examination of supervisory
personnel, including persons responsible for the financial affairs of securities firms engaged in the municipal
securities business. The rules also require the collection of pertinent information concerning the background
of all personnel engaged in underwrit142

ing, trading and sales of municipal
securities.
(2) The Commission also approved a
series of MSRB record keeping rules
designed to assure that securities
firms and banks maintain certain basic
information concerning their activities
as municipal market professionals,
both for purposes of their own operations and to permit the conduct of
compliance examinations by the regulatory agencies.
(3) The MSRB adopted, and the
Commission approved, a customer
confirmation rule which requires municipal securities dealers to provide
their customers with pertinent information concerning their transactions
in municipal
securities
including
several items of information necessary
to describe accurately the securities55
purchased.
(4) The Commission also approved
the MSRB's rule G-12 which establishes uniform industry practices relating to the processing, clearance and
settlement of transactions in municipal securities. Rule G-12 is intended,
among other things, to increase the
efficiency and reduce disputes concerning the delivery of securities.w
The provisions of rule G-12 are applicable only to transactions between
municipal securities professionals and
do not apply to municipal securities
transactions with customers.

REVENUES, EXPENSES AND
OPERATIONS OF SELF-REGULATORY
ORGANIZATIONS
Section 23(b)(4)(B) of the Exchange
Act requires that the Commission submit "a statement and analysis of the
expenses and operations of each selfregulatory organization in connection
with the performance of its responsibilities under this title." As set forth
in Section 3(a)(26) of the Exchange
Act, the term "self-regulatory organi-

zation" refers to any national securities exchange, registered securities
association (i. e. , the NASD), registered
clearing agency, and, for limited purposes, the MSRB.
Self-regulatory organizations, exclusive of registered clearing agencies
and the MSRB, receive approximately
75 percent of their revenue from five
sources: transaction charges, listing
fees, communication fees, clearing
fees and depository fees. The nature
of these revenue sources makes the
financial condition of self-regulatory
organizations highly dependent upon
price fluctuations and trading volume.
Total share volume of securities
traded on all national securities exchanges and over-the-counter
increased by 14.5 percent between
calendar year 1975 and 1976, bringing 1976 share volume to 8.7 billion. As
a result of this increased trading activity, combined self-regulatory organization revenues increased to $249 million, up $44 million from the 1975
total.
Changes in major revenue components between 1975 and 1976 were
as follows:
• Revenues from transaction fees
increased to $39 million from
$33 million;
• Revenues from communication
fees increased to $39 million
from $26 million;
• Revenues from clearing fees increased to $41 million from $35
million;
• Revenues from tabulating services increased to $17 million
from $14 million; and
• Revenues from all "other"
sources increased to $43 million
from $38 million.
The expenses of the self-regulatory
organizations are concentrated in two
areas, employee costs and communication and data processing costs.

These costs accounted for 74 percent
of the $233 million in self-regulatory
expenditures for 1976.
In 1976, for the second consecutive
year, the net income of self-regulatory
organizations, exclusive of the registered clearing agencies and the MSRB,
increased. The 1976 pre-tax income of
self-regulatory oganizations equaled
$17 million, a $3 million increase over
1975's earnings.

Financial Results of the NASD
Each year the Commission reviews
the NASD's proposed fee and assessment schedule, its supporting financial statements for the current and
past fiscal years, and proposed budget
for the following fiscal year. The fee
and assessment schedule must comply with Section 15A(b)(5) of the Exchange Act, which requires the NASD
to allocate dues equitably among its
members.
The NASD's statement of financial
results for its fiscal year ended September 30, 1976 revealed that the
NASD's equity increased to $11.1 million from $9.2 million in the prior year.
This increase in the NASD's equity resulted principally from higher net operating earnings and to a lesser extent
from profitable operations of NASDAQ,
Inc.
Operating revenues of the NASD
were $22.2 million, an increase of $9.2
million over the previous year's operating revenues. This increase resulted
primarily in $8.0 million in new revenues from the newly acquired NASDAQ
system. Other sources of income generally remained stable. Fees charged
for administering qualifications examinations appears to have stabilized, at
$2.4 million in 1976. Member assessments and branch office fees increased from $5.9 million in fiscal
year 1975 to $6.5 million in 1976, a
10 percent increase.
143

During the 1976 fiscal year, operating expenses of the NASD increased
to $20.5 million from $12.0 million in
fiscal year 1975, thus, net operating
income for fiscal 1976 was $1.8 million
as opposed to $0.9 million in the prior
year, a marked increase. In addition,
in fiscal year 1976, the National Clearing Corporation had net income of $0.2
miffion which, when added to the
NASD's net income, increased the
NASD equity by $2.0 million, as compared with a net increase of $1.4
million in its 1975 fiscal year.

NASD Budget
The Commission reviews the NASD
budget as part of its regulatory oversight responsibilities. During recent
years, the Commission has been specifically interested in the NASD's budget
as it relates to its program for examination of member broker-dealers, in
order to assure that the NASD has a
sufficient examiner staff to perform its
enforcement
and surveiffance
responsibilities. The NASD budget for
fiscal year 1977 provides for total expenditures of $13.67 million in fiscal
year 1977, an increase of $1.7 million.
The increase is largely attributable to
the increase in employee compensation which increased by $1.05 million
to $10.35 million.
The NASD has projected its income
for fiscal year 1978 at $15.42 million,
based upon its current schedule of
fees and assessments. The NASD fee
structure remains unchanged for fiscal year 1978, but the annual assessment base has been modified. The fiscal year 1977 gross income assessment rate was 0.2 percent of a member's
revenues from municipal securities
transactions and 0.25 percent of a
member's revenue from other overthe-counter securities transactions
during calendar year 1975. The fiscal
year 1978 rates would be 0.17 percent
144

and 0.21 percent, respectively, of
revenue derived from municipal securities and over-the-counter transactions during calendar year 1976.

American Stock Exchange, Midwest
Stock Exchange, National Association
of Securities Dealers, and New
York Stock Exchange
In calendar year 1976, the markets
governed by the four largest self-regulatory organizations (in terms of total
revenue) - the Amex, the MSE, the
NASD, and the NYSE - experienced
rising share volume. On the NYSE,
share volume rose from 5.1 billion in
1975 to 5.6 billion in 1976, an increase of 12 percent. For the same
period, MSE share volume increased 7
percent, share volume from over-thecounter transactions by members of
the NASD increased 21 percent, and
AMEX share volume increased 18 percent. This rise in share volume resulted in increased revenues for those
four self-regulatory organizations.
The Amex experienced the second
largest share volume increase of the
four self-regulatory organizations and,
with the growth in options trading,
the largest percentage increase in
revenues. In 1976 total revenue increased 37 percent from 1975. Transaction fees accounted for much of
the increase with a 62 percent gain
from 1975 to 1976. This increase in
revenues, coupled with a 33 percent
increase in expenses, resulted in an
increase of net income of 258 percent
to $1.5 million.
The MSE posted a 21 percent increase in revenue between 1975 and
1976 with the largest gains occurring
in depository and registration fees.
Although the MSE's revenue increased
21 percent in 1976, expenses increased
even more, by 23 percent, and as a
result net income declined by 24 percent to $745,000.

The NYSE ranked third among the
four largest self-regulatory organizations
in percentage gain in total revenue
between 1975 and 1976. Even with
the rise in NYSE share volume, transaction fees decreased $314,000.
Listing fees increased 37 percent from
$23 million in 1975 to $31 million
in 1976. Depository fees and floor
usage revenue also increased $5
million. Much of the revenue improvement was carried through to pre-tax
income, which increased $1.6 million
from 1975 to 1976.
NASD revenues are not as sensitive
to changes in volume as are those of
the national securities exchanges. As
a result, the NASD had the smallest
percentage increase in total revenue
of the four largest self-regulatory
organizations
between 1975 and
1976, approximately 12 percent. The
NASD's expenses for the same period
increased, however, by only ten percent; and, consequently, the NASD
had a net income of $2 million in
1976, compared to a net income of
$1.3 million in 1975.

Boston Stock Exchange, Chicago
Board Options Exchange, Pacific
Stock Exchange, and Philadelphia
Stock Exchange
The next four largest self-regulatory
organizations
(in terms of gross
revenue) also experienced
rising
revenues, expenses and volume.
During 1976, share volume on the
BSE increased by 3 percent; the CBOE
experienced a 49 percent increase in
contract volume; the PSE gained 38
percent in volume; and the Phlx gained
3 percent in share volume.
The CBOE's increase in volume
generated a 120 percent rise in membership dues and a 63 percent increase in communication
fees. Expenses for the CBOE, however, increased 51 percent during 1976. The

items with largest gains were depreciation and amortization (141 percent increase) and communications,
data processing and collection (121
percent increase). Earnings in 1976
were 4 percent higher than in 1975.
The BSE's rise in revenue came from
two sources: increased transactions
fees and the opening of the New
England Securities Depository Trust
Company in 1976. Share volume increased from 54 million in 1975 to 56
million in 1976. Expenses increased
30 percent from January to December,
1976. This resulted in a decline in
net income to $150,000, a decrease
of 58 percent from 1975.
The PSE also experienced increases
in revenue due to greater volume.
Nevertheless, the PSE had large increases in its expenses, particularly
communications, data processing and
collection and professional and legal
services, which caused net income to
fall again this year. Expenses exceeded revenues by $686,000 in 1976.
Phlx also registered gains in total
revenue. Between 1975 and 1976
Phlx gained 21 percent in total revenue, primarily because of a 93 percent increase in transaction fees. Pretax income increased to $230,000 in
1976 representing
a 174 percent
increase over 1975.

Cincinnati Stock Exchange,
Spokane Stock Exchange, and
Intermountain Stock Exchange
Following the trend of the four
largest self-regulatory organizations,
the Cincinnati Stock Exchange (CSE)
and the Spokane Stock Exchange
(SSE) also experienced rising share
volume in 1976.
In 1976 the CSE nearly tripled its
portion of total share volume; this
was the second year of continued increases in share volume. Total revenue,
however, decreased 35 percent with
145

the largest changes occurring in transaction fees, membership dues, and
floor usage revenue. Expenses increased 10 percent in 1976, causing
pre-tax income to decline from $35
thousand in 1975 to a loss of $18
thousand in 1976.
The SSE, which receives income
primarily from membership dues and
listing fees, had offsetting increases
in total revenue and total expenses
for 1976.
Most of the Intermountain Stock
Exchange (ISE) revenue is from miscellaneous sources. While revenue rose
in 1976, expenses rose more, reducing
pre-tax income for the year.

Expenses and Operations of
Registered Clearing Agencies
Clearing agencies were required by
the 1975 Amendments to register with
the Commission by December I, 1975.
This is the first year that operating
revenues and expenses for registered
clearing agencies have been presented
in the Commission's annual report
separately from revenue and expense
data for the exchanges or securities
association with which many of the
clearing agencies are affiliated.57 Accordingly, a comparative analysis of
this data cannot be made against
prior years' operations. As reported in
the statistics section of this report
at Table 10, Self-Regulatory Organizations- Clearing Agencies,58 total revenues for all clearing agencies were
$93.1 million for their fiscal years
ending in 1976 (except OCC, for which
figures are included for a fiscal year
ending June 30, 1977). Revenues from
clearing services were $50.6 million;
from depository services, $34.8 million;
and from interest and other sources,
$7.7 million.
Since the operating results of many
clearing agencies historically have been
presented as part of the consolidated
146

operating reports of securities exchanges and the NASD, the statistics
section of this report at Table 8,
Consolidated Revenues and Expenses
of Self-Regulatory Organizations, also
presents revenues from clearing fees
and depository fees for affiliated clearing agencies. These consolidated reports show that, for calendar year
1976, revenues from clearing fees increased by 16 percent over calendar
year 1975 to $41.2 million and revenues from depository fees increased
30 percent over calendar year 1975 to
$36.2 million.59
While 1976 trading volume increased
only 13.6 percent over 1975 volume,
clearing and depository fee revenues
for clearing agency subsidiaries of
self-regulatory organizations increased
by much larger percentages. The increase in revenues may not entirely
be accounted for by increases in fees
charged; it appears, therefore, that
there is an increasing use of clearing
agencies by the securities industry,
which will further reduce the physical
movement of securities certificates.

Municipal Securities
Rulemaking Board
The MSRB income of $420,994
during the transitional quarter from
July 1, 1976 to September 30, 1976
and $1,338,115 during fiscal year
1977 (as reported in the Part 9 of
this report at Table II, Self-Regulatory
Organization-Municipal
Securities
Rulemaking Board) was derived primarily from two fees established by
rules adopted under the Securities
Act. Municipal securities brokers and
municipal securities dealers are assessed (1) an initial registration fee
of one hundred dollars and (2) an
underwriting assessment equal to a
percentage of the face value of all
municipal securities they purchase
from an issuer as part of a new is-

sue which has a final stated maturity
of not less than two years from the
date of the securities. 50 The underwriting assessment accounted for 99
percent of MSRB income during the
transitional quarter and 94 percent
of MSRB income during fiscal year
1977. The balance of MSRB income
was from other fees and interest
income.
During the fiscal year, the MSRB had
expenses which totaled $957,088. The
major expense items were staff salary
and benefits (43 percent); meetings
and travel including Board members'
allowance of $250 per day (27 percent); and mailing lists, rule manuals,
postage and other printing (14 percent). During the transitional quarter,
income exceeded expenses by $227,
486; and, during fiscal year 1977,
despite the reduction in the underwriting assessment, income exceeded
expenses by $574,535. As of September 30, 1977, the MSRB had a surplus of $1,084,413.

BROKER-DEALER REGULATION
Persons Deemed Not to be Brokers
Section 15(a) of the Exchange Act
generally requires, with certain exceptions, the registration of any broker or
dealer which uses the mails or any
means or instrumentality of interstate
commerce to effect any transactions
in, or to induce or attempt to induce
the purchase or sale of, any security.
Section 3(a)(4) of the Exchange Act, in
turn, provides that the term 'broker'
means "any person engaged in the
business of effecting transactions in
securities for the account of others,
but does not include a bank." The
Commission's staff frequently
has
been requested to interpret the applicability of the broker-dealer registration requirement of the Exchange
Act to those situations in which an
issuer of securities elects not to em-

ploy a registered broker-dealer in the
distribution of its securities, but instead utilizes the services of its officers, directors, or other employees
to effect a distribution. Such a method
of distribution is frequently employed
by, among others, promoters of taxsheltered interests such as real estate
syndications or oil and gas drilling
programs. In this regard, the Exchange
Act generaJly has not been interpreted
by the staff to require the registration
of the issuer itself as a broker or dealer.51 At the same time, however, persons acting on behalf of the issuer
in distributing its securities may, debe
pending on the circumstances,
brokers (or, more infrequently, dealers)
within the meaning of the Exchange
Act.
On January 21, 1977, the Commission published for comment proposed
Exchange Act Rule 3a4-1,52 which is
designed to clarify the circumstances
under which persons distributing securities on behalf of an issuer are
deemed not to be "brokers" within
the meaning of Section 3(a)(4). If
adopted in the form proposed, Rule
3a4-1 would establish a "safe harbor"
within which natural persons associated with an issuer would not be
deemed to be brokers. Generally, an
associated person of an issuer might
avail himself of this "safe harbor" in
one of three ways: (1) by confining
his participation to certain kinds of
transactions, such as offers and sales
made through a registered brokerdealer or to certain institutions, (2) by
being a bona fide employee meeting
specified criteria set forth in the proposed rule with regard to frequency of
involvement in selling securities, performance of other duties with the
issuer and nature of compensation, or
(3) by restricting his activities in connection with a distribution to ministerial or other essentially passive func147

tions. The "safe harbor" of proposed
Rule 3a4-1 would not be available,
however, to any person subject to a
"statutory disqualification" within the
meaning of Section 3(a)(39) of the Exchange Act.

the development of a secondary market
in the guaranteed portion of such loans.
Rule 15a-5 represents an effort by the
Commission to reduce duplicative regulation which might frustrate the goals
of the SBA's loan program.

Exemption from Registration for
Certain Financial Institutions

Financial Responsibility
Requirements

On November 11, 1976, the Commission adopted Exchange Act Rule
15a-5 which provides an exemption
from the Act's broker-dealer registration requirement for non-bank lenders
participating in the guaranteed loan
program of the Small Business Administration (SBA).63 The securities
activities of such lenders must be
limited to making loans guaranteed by
the SBA and selling the guaranteed
portion of such loans. The rule, however, permits such a financial institution participating in the SBA loan program to sell the guaranteed portion of
a note evidencing such indebtedness
provided that the sale is made through
or to a broker or dealer registered
with the Commission or to a bank,
a savings institution,
an insurance
company, or an account over which an
investment adviser registered under
the Investment Advisers Act of 1940
exercises investment discretion.
Rule 15a-5 is intended to facilitate participation by qualified lending
institutions in the SBA's guaranteed
loan program by exempting such institutions from regulatory requirements
under the Exchange Act which, under
the circumstances, are not necessary
for the protection of investors. Under
its loan program, the SBA has sought
to encourage private financing of small
business concerns by providing a
guarantee of a portion of an approved
loan to an eligible small business enterprise. In order to increase the supply of capital available to such businesses, the SBA also has encouraged

The 1975 Amendments required the
Commission to establish, not later
than September 1, 1975, minimum
standards of financial responsibility
for brokers and dealers. On June 26,
1975, fulfilling this congressional
directive, the Commission amended
Exchange Act Rule 15c3-1 to adopt
a uniform net capital rule.64 During
the fiscal year, the Commission further
amended the uniform net capital rule
to refine its requirements based on the
year's experience and to respond to
specific regulatory concerns, particularly relating to the treatment of options positions.
On November 20, 1975, the Commission implemented a series of temporary amendments to Rule 15c3-1
to provide a transitional period for
municipal
securities
brokers and
municipal securities dealers newly
subject to the financial responsibility
standards of Section 15(c) of the Exchange Act.65 Most significantly, the
rule reduced, on an interim basis, the
capital required by brokers and dealers
effecting transactions solely in municipal securities in order to qualify for
the alternative net capital requirement.66 After carefully monitoring the
effect of this temporary amendment
for approximately a year and a half, the
Commission determined
that the
$25,000 minimum capital requirement was appropriate and, on July 28,
1977, permanently adopted the temporary amendment. 67
Under the net capital rule, effective
January 1, 1977, brokers and dealers

148

were permitted to reduce substantially
the "haircuts"68 on short-term commercial paper rated in one of the three
highest categories by at least two of
the nationally recognized statistical
rating organizations. On December 30,
1976, at the request of certain major
dealers in commercial paper, the Commission solicited public comment on
possible alternatives to requiring ratings by two rating services. 59 After
reviewing the proposals submitted in
response, the Commission, on June
16, 1977,70 reaffirmed the two-rating
requirement as a prerequisite for the
reduced haircuts.
On May 23, 1977, the Commission
adopted modifications to the uniform
net capital rule and the customer protection rule in order to prohibit brokers
and dealers from effecting substantial
short sales of securities without sufficient capital to carry such transactions.?" The amendment applies to
brokers or dealers which maintain
short security positions for extended
periods of time in stock loan or brokerdealer accounts receivable and requires that they obtain sufficient collateral to secure such receivables fully
or, in lieu of such collateral, reduce
their net worth and establish reserves
to the extent of such collateral deficiencies.
On September 2,1977, the Commission further amended the net capital
rule in order to adjust the treatment
accorded positions in optlons.? These
amendments (1) revised the provisions
relating to the capital requirements
for brokers and dealers which carry,
clear, endorse, or guarantee (carrying
firms) the accounts of options specialists or market makers, (2) established
early warning notification
requirements for such carrying firms, and (3)
limited, on the basis of their net capital, the market maker positions such
firms can carry. In order to assure that

the capital position of a carrying firm
reflects the risk attributable to the
positions in each of its market maker
accounts assessed on an account-byaccount
basis, the Commission
amended the rule to require the consolidation of securities positions held
in multiple market maker accounts
carried by a firm. The early warning
provisions require that a carrying firm
promptly notify the Commission and
the designated examining authority if
at any time a market maker fails to
make certain deposits or if the aggregate deductions attributable
to all
market maker accounts carried by the
clearing firm exceed 1,000 percent of
the carrying firm's net capital. In addition to the notification requirements,
the amendments prohibit a carrying
broker from allowing these deductions
to exceed 1,000 percent of the carrying broker's net capital for a period
exceeding five business days.
The Commission also amended the
net capital rule in order to establish
a financial responsibility standard for
options specialists and market makers
which transact a business solely with
other brokers and dealers who, because of the nature of their business
(i.e., traders on the floor of an exchange'? or clearing members of a
clearing corporatlonr-), are not exempt
from the requirements of the net capital rule.

Recordkeeping
Requirements

and Preservation

Exchange Act Rules 17a -3 and
17a-4 require registered brokers and
dealers to make, keep current, and
preserve for specified periods certain
books and records relating to their
business. During the past fiscal year
the Commission adopted four major
amendments to these rules in order to
adjust the requirements in accordance
149

with developments in the securities industry.
On February 24, 1977, the Commission approved the MSRB's recordkeeping and record-retention rules for
municipal
securities
brokers and
municipal dealers, rules G-8 and
G-9,75 Because the MSRB's rules
establish standards substantially similar to those prescribed by Exchange
Act Rules 17a-3 and 17a-4, the
Commission amended its record keeping and preservation rules in order to
permit municipal securities brokers
and municipal securities dealers to
elect to comply with either the generic
requirements of the Commission's
rules or the more specific requirements of MSRB rules G-8 and G-9.
The Commission also adopted paragraph (a) (14) of Rule 17a -3 and
paragraph (e) (4) of Rule 17a -4 in
order to incorporate recordkeeping
and retention requirements relating to
the Lost and Stolen Securities Program.76 Under the amended rules,
every member, broker or dealer must
make, and retain in an easily accessible place for a period of three years
reports concerning lost, missing, stolen, and counterfeit securities."? and
all confirmations of inquiry or other
information received from the Federal
Reserve Banks or the Securities Information Center, Inc., the Commission's designee under the Lost and
Stolen Securities Prograrn.?"
On April 22, 1977, the Commission
amended Exchange Act Rule 17a-4
(b) (9) to require brokers or dealers
subject to Rule 15c3-3 to maintain
a current and detailed description of
the procedures they utilize to comply
with Rule 15c3-3,79 This recordkeeping requirement is consistent with
the revised FOCUS report which is discussed below.
Finally, on September 15, 1977, the
Commission adopted a new paragraph
150

(i) to Exchange Act Rule 17a-4.80
This paragraph provides that any outside service bureau, depository, bank
not operating pursuant to Exchange
Act Rule 17a-3(b) (2), or other recordkeeping service which prepares or
maintains a broker's or dealer's books
and records must acknowledge that
such books and records are the property of the broker-dealer and must
represent, among other things, that
such books and records are available
for examination by the Commission
and its designees. Such Commission
designees include a trustee appointed
pursuant to the Securities Investors
Protection Act of 1970 (SIPC Act)81
and the self-regulatory organization
designated to inspect the broker or
dealer for compliance with financial
responsibility rules pursuant to the
SIPC Act and Exchange Act Rule
17d-1.

FOCUS Reporting System
The Financial and Operational Combined Uniform Single (FOCUS)reporting
system, Form X-17A-5,
which became effective on January 1, 1976,82
superseded the previously existing and
often uncoordinated reporting systems used by the Commission, the
self-regulatory organizations and the
state securities agencies in their surveillance registration programs. The
FOCUS report83 is designed to present, clearly and concisely, data reflecting the financial status and operational condition of a firm. The report
has generally eliminated the necessity
for a broker-dealer to prepare and
file multiple reports with more than
one regulator.
During the fiscal year, the Commission adopted a number of amendments to the reporting program on the
basis of a continuing reevaluation of
the needs of the self-regulatory organi-

zations, the Commission and the 45
states which use the system.84 In particular, Forms X-17A-lO
and X17A-20 were revoked, and that information previously submitted on
these forms was incorporated into
Form X-17A-5. The Commission also
revised the reporting requirements on
Form X-17A-5.
A broker or dealer
subject to amended Exchange Act
Rule 15c3-3
must represent that
its procedures for obtaining possession
or control of customers' funds and
securities have been tested and are
functioning in a manner adequate to
fulfill the requirements of Rule 15c33. In addition, a broker or dealer is
required to report the number and
market value of securities not in its
possession or control as of the report
date. In order to facilitate an independent assessment of the adequacy
of a broker's or dealer's procedures,
the Commission also proposedw that
Form X-17A-5
include data on the
number and market value of a customer's fully paid and excess margin
securities for which the instructions
required by Exchange Act Rule 15
c3-3 had not been issued as of the
report date.
In addition, the Commission amended
the reporting program to require an
independent public accountant, as
part of the annual audit, to review a
broker-dealer's procedures for obtaining and maintaining possession or
control of certain customer securities
pursuant to Exchange Act Rule 15c33, and to give its opinion as to the
adequacy of those procedures. On
June 30, 1977, however, the Commission suspended this requirement until
January 1, 1978, in order to evaluate
whether Rule 15c3-3 constituted a
sufficient standard of adequacy and
to consider alternatives to that requlrement.w At the close of the fiscal year, the Commission was in the

process of analyzing the comments
received.

Broker-Dealer Examinations
The Commission, as part of its
review of compliance by brokers and
dealers with the provisions of the
Exchange Act, the rules under that
Act, and the rules of the self-regulatory organizations of which such brokers and dealers are members, conducts an examination program for
SECO brokers and dealers, self-regulatory organizations and members of
self-regulatory organizations.
The Commission conducts two types
of examinations of SECO brokers and
dealers. The first, a routine examination, is conducted on an annual basis
to determine the financial and operational condition of the firm. A second
type of examination, the "cause" examination, is conducted whenever a
financial or operational problem is
discovered or suspected, and generally
concentrates on that particular problem area rather than the overall condition of the firm. During the fiscal year,
the Commission conducted 232 routine examinations and 91 cause examinations of SECO firms.
In addition, under Section 15(b)
(2) (C) of the ExchangeAct, as amended
by the 1975 Amendments, the Commission, or a self-regulatory organization acting at the Commission's direction, is required to examine each newly registered broker or dealer within
six months of its registration.
Accordingly, the Commission conducts
examinations of each SECO registrant
under its Post Effective Conference
Program. During the fiscal year, the
Commission conducted 277 such examinations. In addition, the Commission has directed each self-regulatory
organization to conduct a similar examination of any newly-registered broker or dealer for which it is the
151

designated examining authority under
Exchange Act Rule 17d-1.
The Commission also reviews the
programs and procedures implemented by self-regulatory organizations to
fulfill their regulatory responsibilities
under Sections 6, 15A, and 19(9)
(l) of the Exchange Act.87 One phase
of this review, consisting of on-site
inspections of a self-regulatory organization's examination and compliance
programs and facilities, is the primary responsibility of the Commission's Division of Market Regulation.
The second phase-the
"oversight"
examination-is the primary responsibility of the Commission's regional
offices. This examination is designed
to evaluate the adequacy and quality
of the examinations performed by
the self-regulatory organizations.
In the "oversight" examination, conducted promptly after the completion
of a self-regulatory organization's examination, the Commission reviews
the financial and operational condition of a member broker or dealer.as
Generally, the specific findings of the
examination are discussed with the
self-regulatory organization shortly after the examination, and the working
papers, reports and evaluations prepared by the self-regulatory organization as part of its examination of
the broker or dealer are compared to
the information gathered and the conclusions formed by the Commission's
staff. During the transition quarter
and the fiscal year, the Commission
conducted 427 oversight examinations.
The Commission also conducts, as
necessary, cause examinations
of
member firms. These examinations are
nearly identical in purpose and scope
to the Commission's cause examination of SECO brokers and dealers.
During the fiscal year, the Commission conducted 467 cause examinations of member firms.
152

The Commission continues to update its Broker-Dealer Examination
Manual and Checklist to reflect the
current rules and regulations applicable to brokers and dealers.89 In
addition, the Commission prepares
and distributes
to all its regional
offices educational materials on new
regulatory developments and examination techniques to supplement the
Broker-Dealer Examination Manual to
inform the securities compliance examiners of such matters. The Commission's staff also prepares and transmits to the regional offices a monthly
status report regarding new rule proposals and regulatory developments,
the Commission's examination program and the surveillance and examination efforts of the self-regulatory organizations.

Early Warning and Surveillance
The Commission is responsible for
the financial and operational soundness of all registered brokers and
dealers. In this connection, pursuant
to Section 5(a) of the SIPC Act, the
Commission requires each self-regulatory organization to identify member
firms which may be in or approaching
financial difficulty or which, for other
reasons, may require closer-than-normal
surveillance. Each firm so identified
is placed on an "early warning" list,
which is transmitted on a bi-weekly
basis to the appropriate Commission
regional office. While on the early
warning list, a firm is monitored by
the Commission's regional office, acting in conjunction
with the firm's
self-regulatory examining authority.
In addition, Exchange Act Rule 17
a-ll
requires a broker or dealer
to notify the Commission and the appropriate self-regulatory organization
if the firm falls below certain standards of financial and operational
soundness, measured in terms of capl-

tal sufficiency and adequacy of books
and records. A firm not in compliance
with the rule must take immediate
remedial action and provide the Commission with financial and operational
information on an accelerated basis.
The Commission, in a two-phased
program, periodically reviews the early
warning and surveillance tools of the
self-regulatory organizations to ensure
that they constitute sound, effective
programs. In the first phase, the
Commission's staff evaluates the selfregulatory organization's early warning
and surveillance program, including
its goals, procedures, budget and staffing. In that connection, the Commission maintains on-going communication with all self-regulatory organizations, particularly those which have
not been inspected during the past
fiscal year, to determine the status
of their regulatory programs.
The second phase of the Commission's early warning and surveillance
program, generally carried out by its
regional offices, involves an on-site
review of member firms to determine
their understanding of and compliance
with the applicable early warning standards and procedures. As a rule, a
regional office combines its evaluation with a review of the firm's financial and operational soundness
and of the self-regulatory organization's most recent examination of that
firm.
The Commission's efforts, in conjunction with those of the self-regulatory organizations, to develop comprehensive and effective early warning
and surveillance programs explain, in
part, the steady decline in the number of securities firms which have
been subject to liquidation
in the
past several years.90 Seven liquidation proceedings under the SIPC Act
were commenced during the fiscal
year.

Training Program
The Commission administers comprehensive periodic training programs
for securities compliance examiners,
both those on the Commission's staff
and those employed by the self-regulatory organizations. 91 These programs
are designed to broaden the knowledge
and the skills of the examiners and
acquaint them with the latest modifications of examination procedures.
The Commission's training efforts
essentially consist of four distinct programs:
(1) Periodic two-day training seminars conducted at each regional office
and dealing with the Commission's
oversight examinations. Such seminars review the results of oversight
examinations, discuss any new and
important developments or techniques
emerging from these examinations,
and provide an opportunity for the
regional offices to discuss with selfregulatory organization staff members
means to refine and to coordinate
more closely their examination programs and techniques.
(2) Two-day seminars held twice
each year in each regional office for
the more experienced securities compliance examiners on the subject of
examination techniques. Such seminars discuss significant new developments in the industry and particular
examination techniques that may be
used to deal with such developments.
(3) One four-day training seminar
held at the Commission's headquarters. This seminar provides examiners
from the Commission, the self-regulatory organizations and State securities commissions with information on
basic examination techniques, as well
as the various regulatory programs of
the Commission pertaining to brokerdealer financial and operational compliance.

153

(4) Bi-weekly, one-hour training sessions in the regional offices for the
Commission's examiners. These sessions focus on new developments,
regulatory problems, rules and examination techniques.
In addition, the individuals charged
with primary responsibility for each
regional office's examination program
meet every three months with the Commission's staff to discuss new training
and examination techniques, areas
where additional training is required,
and the strengths and weaknesses of
the Commission's current regulatory
program. Such meetings ensure uniformity of regulation throughout the
Commission's regional offices and
contribute to the continuing refinement of the Commission's training and
examination programs.

Regulatory Burdens on
Brokers and Dealers
In recent years the Commission
has become increasingly cognizant of
the need to evaluate carefully the
impact, on both competitive and regulatory levels, of the substantive requirements of its rules and regulations on brokers and dealers, especially the sma IIer firms. As a consequence, the Commission has undertaken a number of programs aimed at
streamlining and simplifying requirements for the securities industry.
As noted above, on July 28, 1977,
the Commission amended the net capital requirement, Exchange Act Rule
15c3-1,92 to permit brokers and dealers transacting business solely in municipal securities, generally smaller
brokers and dealers, to operate under
the alternative net capital requirement while maintaining only the greater
of $25,000 or four percent of aggregate debit items in the reserve
formula rather than the $100,000
154

minimum required of other brokers
and dealers.93
The Commission's program to allocate regulatory responsibilities under
Rule 17d-2, in conjunction with the
development of uniform registration
(Form 80), agent application (Form
U -4), and agent termination (Form
U-5) forms,94 has been a catalyst for
reducing regulatory burdens among
brokers and dealers. Under the Commission's program, a number of selfregulatory organizations have reached
agreements to share key summary
financial and operational information
among themselves and with state
administrators. These agreements help
obviate the necessity for brokers and
dealers to file multiple copies of information with numerous regulators
and thus reduce the burden (and the
cost) of regulation.
In implementing Lost and Stolen
Securities Program, the Commission
provided exemptions from the inquiry
requirements of Rule 17f-1 where it
is unlikely that missing, lost, counterfeit, or stolen securities would be
involved.95 In instances where inquiry
is required, the Commission has approved, on a pilot basis, a system
under which institutions may tailor
their participation according to their
business needs. It is expected, therefore, that smaller firms which do not
anticipate making any required inquiries or can obtain lower charges through
a correspondent may choose to become indirect inquirers.
Similarly, in adopting Rule 17f-2,96
which implements the congressional
directive that securities industry personnel be fingerprinted, the Commission attempted to reduce the burden
of compliance on brokers and dealers
while still offering maximum protection to the investing public. In order
to ease implementation of the rule,
which requires the fingerprinting of

all persons who are engaged in the
sale of securities, who have access
to securities or monies or original
books and records relating thereto,
or who supervise persons engaged in
such activities, the Commission provided for the rule to become effective
on a gradual basis.97
Finally, the Commission revised the
alternative net capital requirement for
any broker acting solely as a floor
broker on a national securities exchange. As adopted in 1975, the net
capital rule required floor brokers to
maintain net capital of at least $25,000
predicated on the fact that the value
of an exchange membership generally
exceeded that amount. In recognition
of the current market value of such
memberships, on May 23, 1977, the
Commission made this provision available where the membership value exceeded $15,000 or where the excess
of $15,000 over the value of the membership was held in escrow by an
independent agent.98

RegUlation of SECD broker-dealers
Under Section 15(b) of the Exchange Act, the Commission is responsible for prescribing rules establishing qualifications standards for all
brokers and dealers, including those
who are not members of the NASD
(nonmember or SECO brokers or dealers). This section also empowers the
Commission to adopt rules governing
the business conduct of SECO brokers
and dealers, in order to provide regulation of such brokers and dealers
comparable to that provided by the
NASD for its members.
At the close of the fiscal year, the
number of SECO brokers and dealers
registered with the Commission and
not entitled to an exemption from the
Commission's SECO rules totaled 309,
and the number of associated persons
of such firms (i.e., partners, officers,

directors, sole proprietors and employees not engaged in merely clerical
or ministerial
functions)
totaled
23,236.
Exchange Act Rule 15b9-2 imposes
an annual assessment to be paid by
SECO brokers and dealers to defray
the cost of their regulation by the
Commission. On September 9, 1977,
the Commission announced the adoption of the annual assessment form for
SECO brokers and dealers for fiscal
1977 (Form SECO-4-77).99In adopting Form SECO-4-77,
the Commission modified the assessment by reducing the gross income assessment
from 0.375 percent to 0.2 percent for
municipal securities transactions and
0.25 percent for OTC securities transactions.loo The annual base SECOfirm
and personnel assessment ($250 and
$5, respectively) remained unchanged.

CLEARANCE AND SETTLEMENT
Progress Toward a National System
for the Clearance and Settlement of
Securities Transactions
With the Commission's active encouragement, entities involved in securities processing improved during
the fiscal year their ability to complete securities transactions
in a
prompt, accurate and economical
manner. The continued development
of interfaces among clearing corporations and depositories (which immobilize securities certificates and allow
participants to complete transactions
and move securities throughout the
country by book entry) tended to reduce costs and accelerate the settlement process.
Recently adopted Exchange Act
Rules 17Ad-1 through -7 are designed to protect investors and to facilitate the establishment of a national
system for the clearance and settlement of securities transactions by
155

assuring that the transfer agent community performs its functions in a
prompt, accurate and more predictable manner, and, by prohibiting
those transfer agents which are unable
to do so, from expanding their transfer agent activities.'O'
As a result of such improvements,
as well as the increased participation
in depositories
by broker-dealers,
banks and other institutions, the Commission believes that substantial progress is being made toward the development of an efficient national system
for the clearance and settlement of
securities transactions. The Commission expects that the continued development and refinement of clearing and
depository services will attract more
persons to become participants
in
these systems because of the substantial benefits which accrue from such
participation. The increased number
of participants will, in turn, contribute
toward the effectiveness of the national system by enabling greater numbers
of securities transactions to be cleared
and settled through book-entry movement.

Rule Changes of Registered Clearing
Agencies
Numerous changes in, or additions
to, the rules, practices and operations
of the twelve registered clearing agencies'02 were submitted to the Commission for its approval under the provisions of Section 19(b) of the Exchange
Act and Rule 19b-4 thereunder. The
following are among the most significant items on which the Commission
acted favorably:
(1) The Options Clearing Corporation (OCC)amended its rules to permit
each clearing member of OCCto effect
settlements in respect of exercised option contracts
through a clearing
agency designated by the clearing
member for that purpose. Previously,
156

a clearing member of OCC was required to effect settlement of exercised option contracts through an account sponsored by OCC at one clearing agency. Now, a clearing member of
OCCis permitted to exercise and settle
options transactions through its regular clearing account maintained directly with a clearing agency of its
choice. This allows the designated
clearing agency to net the exercised
option transactions against other securities transactions of the clearing
member.'03
(2) OCC also amended its rules to
permit put option contracts and to
provide for the clearance and settlement of put transactions and exercises.'04 Other changes in OCC's rules
were adopted to permit option contracts to be exercised on the same
date the option contracts were purchased'05 and to provide for the automatic exercise of certain "in-themoney" option contracts held in a
clearing member's account on the
expiration date of such option con-

tracts.tw
(3) Stock Clearing Corporation of
Philadelphia (SCCP) adopted amendments permitting members to use its
depository facility to hypothecate securities to a bank by means of a
book entry pledge.107
(4) SCCP also implemented a continuous net settlement system as an
alternative to trade-for-trade
clearance.'0a That system was established
in order to permit members with high
volume to net transactions in specific
issues, thereby reducing the cost of
securities processing.
(5) The Depository Trust Company
(DTC) and the Pacific Securities Depository Trust Company (PSDTC) each
adopted rule changes providing for an
interface between the two entities. lOS
The depository-to-depository interface

permits book entry movements of securities between DTC and PSDTC.
(6) The National Securities Clearing
Corporation (NSCC) adoptedtw amendments to the rules of its Stock Clearing Corporation (SCC) Division and its
American Stock Exchange Clearing
Corporation (ASECC) Division providing for the settlement of Amex transactions in listed debt securities
through NSCC's SCC Division rather
than through NSCC's ASECC Division.
The amendments were designed to
permit the inclusion of all Amexlisted debt securities transactions in
the SCC Division's interfaces with Midwest Clearing Corporation
(MCC),
Pacific Clearing Corporation,
and
SCCP. NSCC also adopted'!" a rule
change of the SCC Division of NSCC
expanding the class of persons who
may become Special Representatives
to include any registered clearing
agency and any member of the SCC
Division of NSCC. This rule change
permits a non-member of the SCC
Division to have trades compared by
NSCC but cleared and settled by regional clearing agencies and allows
parties to compare a trade outside
NSCC and then submit the trade to
NSCC for clearance and settlement
via the Special Representative. Bradford National Clearing Corporation and
Bradford Securities Processing Services, Inc. (BSPS), filed a petition in
the United States Court of Appeals
for the District of Columbia Circuit
seeking to reverse the approval of
these rules.112
(7) MCC and Midwest Securities
Trust Company (MSTC) adopted rule
changes providing for a pledge loan
program.113 The program enables participants, via book entry, to pledge
with banks, as collateral for loans,
their securities held in the depository.
(8) MSTC and DTC each adopted

rule changes to provide a book entry
settlement capability for securities
transactions between participants of
the two depositories even though one
or both participants might not be a
participant in both deposltories.tt(9) The New England Securities
Depository Trust Company adopted a
number of rule changes providing for
the establishment of interfaces with
DTCll5 and MSTC.116
(10) Pacific Securities Depository
Trust Company adopted rules providing
for the implementation of a Transfer
Agent Custodian program. 117 As part of
that program, PSDTC, through agreements with transfer agents, will maintain at the transfer agent shares it
holds on deposit.
(11) TAD Depository Corporation
(TAD) adopted a change in its rules
to provide for the establishment of an
interface with DTC.118
(12) TAD also amended its rules to
establish a collateral loan service for
its particlpants.tw
(13) BSPS adopted several rule
changes providing for the establishment of regional clearing centers
through which its participants may
submit securities transactions for settlement.12o

SECURITIES INVESTOR PROTECTION
CORPORATION
The SIPC Act established the Securities Investor Protection Corporation
(SIPC) to provide certain protections
to customers of member brokers and
dealers who were unable to meet their
financial obligations to their customers. SI PC is a non-profit membership corporation, and all registered
brokers and dealers and all members
of national securities exchanges are,
with certain limited exceptions, members.121 SIPCis funded primarily through
assessments on its members, although
it may borrow up to $1 billion from
157

Litigation Related to SIPC

In SIPC v. Executive Securities Corporetion.v- a broker-dealer and an
educational institution had lent securities to the broker-dealer in exchange for full cash collateral. When
the latter firm became insolvent, the
lenders sought to recover losses by
claiming customer status under the
SIPC Act. The Court of Appeals for
the Second Circuit, affirming the orders of the bankruptcy court and the
District Court below, held that the
broker-dealer and the institution maintained neither investment nor trading
accounts with the debtor and, therefore, were not within the class of
investors or traders entitled to protection as "customers"
under the
SIPC Act.

The membership in SIPC of a registered broker-dealer who marketed
the shares of mutual funds and advised the funds as well as its clients was at issue in Massachusetts
Financial Services, Inc. v. SIPC.122
The broker-dealer asserted that, as a
broker-dealer registered to engage exclusively in the marketing of shares
of mutual funds, it was exempt from
SIPC membership pursuant to the
exception in Section 3(a) (2) of the
SIPC Act123 and was not liable for
assessments. The firm also performed
other functions, none of which required broker-dealer registration, that
went beyond the statutory exceptions.
SIPC argued that once the firm registered as a broker-dealer, it became
a Sl PC member by virtue of its
other activities that are not among
the specific exceptions and thus could
be assessed for the non-exempt activities. The Court of Appeals for the
First Circuit disagreed and affirmed
the decision of the District Court that
the broker-dea ler was not a S IPC
member because all of its activity as
a broker-dealer was statutorily exempted.

In Stock Clearing Corporation v.
Weis Securities, 125 SCC, a subsidiary
of the NYSE, sought to reclaim securities which it had delivered to the
debtor in exchange for an uncertified
check on the debtor's bank account
which had been frozen upon initiation
of the debtor's liquidation. SIPC instituted the proceeding a few hours
after the securities were delivered.
Shortly thereafter, SCC, having been
informed that the account was frozen,
accepted the check, which later was
returned for insufficient funds to SCC.
SCC argued that the securities had
been delivered to the debtor on the
condition that they would be paid for
in cash and that the debtor's failure
to fulfill the condition precluded the
securities from passing into the debtor's estate. The Court of Appeals for
the Second Circuit, affirming the lower
court decision, held that since SCC
had knowingly accepted an uncertified
check on a frozen bank account it had
effectively relied on the debtor's credit since there was reason to believe
the check could not be converted into cash immediately. Accordingly, the

the U.S. Treasury under certain conditions.

Liquidation Proceedings
During the period covered by fiscal year 1977, liquidation proceedings
under the SIPC Act were initiated
for seven SIPC members. While most
of the cases involved claims by a
relatively small number of customers,
SIPC advanced over a million dollars
to the trustee of Institutional Securities of Colorado, Inc., and over
$900,000 to the trustee of A.H. Speer
Co. Total claims will also be quite
substantial in the liquidation of Swift,
Henke & Co., Inc., and I.E.S. Management Group, Inc.

158

court held, SCC could not reclaim
securities.

the

By-Law Proposals Submitted by
SIPC to the Commission
In July 1977, SIPC submitted
a
proposed by-law change to repeal Section 5 of Article
3 of the SIPC bylaws, which required
the Board of
Directors to meet at least once each
quarter.126 The proposal was approved
by the Commission on August 31, 1977.

EXEMPTIONS
The Commission
granted
various
exemptions
from provisions
of the
Exchange Act during the fiscal year.
On November 11, 1976, the Commission adopted Rule 15a-5, which provides an exemption
from the Act's
broker-dealer registration requirement
for non-bank lenders participating
in
the guaranteed
loan program of the
Small Business Admlnlstration.w
Exchange Act Rule lOb-6
imposes
certain prohibitions
upon trading
in
securities
by persons interested
in a
distribution
of such securities. During
the fiscal year, the Commission granted
approximately
300 exemptions
under
paragraph
(f) of Rule 10b-6
under
circumstances indicating that the transactions did not appear to constitute
manipulative
or deceptive devices or
contrivances within the meaning of the
Exchange Act.
One application
pursuant to Section
15B(a) (4) for exemption
from the
municipal
securities
dealer registration requirements
and the rules and
regulations
applicable
to municipal
securities
dealers was received
by
the Commission and granted as consistent with the public interest,
the
protection
of investors, and the purposes of Section 15B.
Other applications
for exemption
from the provision of the Exchange
Act are discussed
elsewhere in this
Annual Report, in connection with the

individual provisions
applications.

pertinent

to those

NOTES TO PART 3
"Act of June 4, 1975, Pub. L. No.
94-29, 89 Stat. 97.
242nd Annual Report at 77 -78.
3Section 5 of the Exchange Act requires exchanges to register with the Commission as national securities exchanges
or to seek an exemption from such re~istration. Exemptions may be granted In
cases where the volume of transactions
effected on the exchange is limited.
4See Ecological Science Corp., Securities Exchange Act Release No. 10217
(June 13, 1973), 1 SEC Docket 5, and
cases cited therein. See also Clary Corp.,
Securities Exchange Act Release No. 11751
(October 20, 1975), 8 SEC Docket 196;
BBI, Inc., Securities Exchange Act Release No. 11686 (September 26, 1975),
7 SEC Docket 978. There were not any
contested delistings during fiscal year 1977.
Sin addition, an application by the Amex
to strike the stock of university Savings
Association was granted by the Federal
Home Loan Bank Board, pursuant to its
authority under Section 12(i) of the Exchange Act.
6See S. Rep. No. 75, 94th Cong., 1st
Sess. 106 (1975); H. Conf. Rep. No. 229,
94th Cong., 1st Sess. 95 (1975).
7See Part 1, supra at p. 15 for a discussion of PSE's application for unlisted
trading privileges. On February 7, 1977,
the Phlx submitted an application
for
unlisted trading in four securities not
listed on any exchan~e: American Greetings
Corporation, Combined Insurance Company of America, Kearney and Trecker
Corporation and Pennzoil Off-Shore Gas
Operators. That application, however, was
subsequently withdrawn by the Phlx.
842nd Annual Report at 78-79.
9BSE, Administrative Proceeding File No.
3-4646 (May 6, 1976).
lOApplication for Unlisted Trading Privileges in Common Stock of Ludlow Corp.
by the BSE, File No. 7 -4596 (filed April
23, 1974).
llSecurities Exchange Act Release No.
13359 (March 11, 1977).
12Petition for Review, United States Court
of Appeals for the District of Columbia
Docket No. 77-1417, filed May 4, 1977.
13This requirement arPlies to the rules
of exchanges as wei as rules of the
National Association of Securities Dealers,
Inc. (NASD), clearing agencies and the
MSRB.
1442nd Annual Report at 79.
15Part 1, supra at p, 27.
160n December 13, 1977, a group of
board brokers on the CBOE filed a notice
of appeal in the United States Court of
Appeals for the Seventh Circuit challenging
159

the Commission's approval order (Carey et
al v. SEC, No. 77-1704). The litigation
was pending as of the end of the year.
lTfhe proposed rule changes did not involve any changes in the substantive standards governing member advertising.
18Securities Exchange Act Release No.
13238 (February 2, 1977), 11 SEC Docket 1633.
19The Commission's concern over the
handlin~ of percentage orders arose from
inspections that indicated that the NYSE
did not have adequate procedures, includmg record keeping, to prevent specialists
from handling percentage orders on a discretionary basis in violation of Section
ll(b) of the Act.
20Thestaff noted that, since SPEQgrades
are the primary allocation cnteria, it would
be difficult for a new specialist unit, although possessing adequate capital and
!=jualified personnel, to compete wIth established units for the allocation of stocks
which become listed on the NYSE.
21The scope of this inspection did not
extend to the MSE options program.
22Litigation Release No. 7843 (March
23, 1977), 11 SEC Docket 2146.
23Securities Exchal'lKe Act Release No.
13651 (June 20, 1977), 12 SEC Docket

ing under a strictly limited and carefully
controlled pilot program on June 3, 1977.
Securities Exchange Act Release No. 13587
(june 2, 1977), 12 SEC Docket 690.
31Asdiscussed in Part I, supra at p. IS,
the Commission has instituted an investigation and study of standardized options
trading. Securities Exchange Act Release
No. 14056 (October 7, 1977), 13 SEC
Docket 356.
32For example, since the Commission's
last inspection, the CeDE had developed
a minimum attendance standard for market
makers and had instituted
a program
whereby it now receives comments upon
the performance of each market participant
(including market makers, floor brokers and
board brokers) from other CeDE floor members who have daily contact with them.
33Asdiscussed at p. 13, supra, the MSE
began listing standardized call options on
December 10, 1976. Securities Exchange
Act Release No. 13045 (December 8,
1976), 11 SEC Docket 1120.
34Asthe fiscal year ended, the Commission was, however, studying a number of
problems related to surveillance of options
markets which were not limited to anyone
exchange. See discussion in Part I, supra

925.

35Article XLVII, Rule 6, of the MSE rules
provides that markets makers' option transactions on the MSE should constitute a
course of business reasonably calculated to
contribute to the maintenance of a fair and
orderly market. In order to monitor and enforce compliance with this rule, the MSE
was developing minimum attendance standards for market makers, guidelines concerning percentages of trades which they
may execute in certain option classes, and
procedures to obtain input from other floor
participants concerning market maker performance.
36These requirements are set forth in
Article XLI, Rules 3 and 4, of the MSE
rules.
37At the time of the inspection, the Commission had pending before it a rule proposal by the PSE to expand from 30 to 50
the maximum number of stocks on which
call options could be listed. The PSE subsequently filed another rule proposal to
extend this maximum number to 80 classes.
In connection with its investi~ation and
study of standardized trading (discussed in
Part I, supra at p. 15), the Commission
commenced disapproval proceedin~s with
respect to these proposals. Securities Exchange Act Release No. 14057 (October
17, 1977), 13 SEC Docket 375.
38ThePSE commenced put option trading
under a strictly limited and carefully controlled pilot program on June 3, 1977.
Securities
Exchange Act Release No.
13589 (June 2, 1977), 12 SEC Docket
691.

24TheAmex commenced put option trading under a stnctly limited and carefully
controlled pilot program on June 3, 1977.
Securities Exchange Act Release No.
13592 (June 2, 1977), 12 SEC Docket

692.

2Seyexecuting a transaction at the close
of business which moves the price of an
option up or down, a member could alter
his daily margin requrrement for his positions in that option.
26This lack of an "audit trail" resulted
because, under procedures then in effect,
Amex personnel reported the terms of
trades without requiring written indicia
thereof from the parties to the trade.
27EachOptions Exchange has established
uniform maximum limits on the size of
positions in a particular option class which
may be held by a member or member's
customer, acting either alone or in concert with others. See, e.g., Amex Rule 904.
28SeePart 1, supra at p. 14, concerning
the imposition of a moratorium on the
exoansion of options programs.
29The Commission has, however, been
concerned that the CaOE and other options exchanges have apparently not organized any comprehensive enforcement efforts to develop and pursue cases in this
area. At the end of the fiscal year, this
subject was being considered in connection
with the Commission's review and investigation of the standardized options markets.
See discussion, supra at p. 15.
30TheCeDE commenced put option trad-

160

at o. 15.

3942nd Annual Report at 17 -18.
40()ne such area involved the use by exchange members who are members of The
Options Clearing Corporation (OCC) of the
OCC Adjusted Trade Report. This report
is used by clearing members to make
changes in their accounts with OCC to
permit correction of errors after the final
clearing process is completed. However,
because review of this report was not incorporated into the exchange surveillance
programs, the Commission has become
concerned that clearing members might
employ this report to abuse the trade adjustment process. As the fiscal year ended,
the Commission was evaluating this problem in connection with its investigation and
study of standardized options markets. See
discussion in Part 1, supra at p, 15.
41Thoseregistered broker-dealers which
are not NASD members are referred to as
SECO broker-dealers (the term "SECO"
being an acronym standing for SEC Only).
42Securities Exchange Act Release No.
13162 (January 13, 1977), 11 SEC Docket

1448.
43See the sections entitled "Regulation
of the Options Markets" and "Options
Morotorium" in Part 1, supra at p. 12-15,
for a discussion of subsequent developments in this area.
44This proposed rule change became effective concurrent with the Commission's
order granting reglstration to the NSCC
and the NSCC's Implementation
of the
terms, conditions and directives contained
in that order. Securities Exchange Act Release No. 13163 (January 13, 1977), 7
SEC Docket 1448.
45Securities Exchange Act Release No.
13860 (August 15, 1977), 12 SEC Docket
1526.
46Securities Exchange Act Rules 19d-1,
19d-2, 19d-3 and 19h-1 set forth the
form and content for such notices. See Part
1, supra at p. 21.
47Securities Exchange Act Release No.
12944 (November 2, 1976), 10 SEC Docket

847.

48Securities Exchan&e Act Release No.
13996 (September 27, 1977), 13 SEC
Docket 231.
49Securities Exchange Act Release No.
12872 (October 6, 1976), 10 SEC Docket
663.
50NASD Mark-up Policy Interpretation,
Article III, Section 4, NASD Manual (CCH)
para. 2154 (April 21, 1977).
51Securities Exchange Act Release No.
12898 (October 15, 1976), 10 SEC Docket
722.
52petition for review denied, F. K. Kerpen
&C'!.[ v. SEC, 559F.2d 1203(2d Cir. 1977).
53under Section 19(b) of the Exchange
Act and Rule 19b-4 thereunder, self-re~ulatory organizations are required to file with

the Commission any proposed rule change
and a concise general statement of the
basis and purpose of such proposed rule
change. The Commission must then publish
notice of the proposed rule change together
with either the terms of such change or a
description of the subjects and issues involved and must give parties an opportunity
to submit their views. Most proposed rule
changes may not take effect unless approved by the Commission; however, certain rule changes, including those establishing or changing fees, dues or other
charges, imposed by a self-regulatory organization or rules concerned soley with the
administration of the self-regulatory organization, may become effective without Commission review, subject to the power of the
Commission under Section 19(b)(3)(C) to
abrogate such rule changes.
54Securities Exchange Act Release No.
12949 (November 3, 1976), 10 SEC Docket
850; Securities Exchange Act Release No.
13274 (February 16, 1977), 11 SEC Docket
1747; Securities Excha nge Act Release No.
13905 (August 31, 1977), 12 SEC Docket
1636; Securities Exchan-8eAct Release No.
14038 (October 7, 1977), 13 SEC Docket
307.
55Securities Exchange Act Release No.
13942 (September 9, 1977), 13 SEC Docket

60.

56Securities Exchange Act Release No.
13939 (September 8, 1977), 13 SEC Docket

26.
5742nd Annual Report at 98.
58Separate revenue and expense figures
are included in Table 10 for American Stock
Exchange Clearing Corporation (ASECC),
National Clearing Corporation (NCC), Stock
Clearing Corporation (SCC). In January
1977, the Commission granted registration
to the NSCC an entity formed to combine
the operations conducted by ASECC, NCC
and SCC. On September 24, 1976, the Commission granted registration to the New
England Securities Depository Trust Company (NESDTC). See p. 22, supra. The
Commission expects to conclude the NSCC
and NESDTC revenue and expense figures
in its Annual Report for fiscal year 1978.
59Thedifference in the reported revenue
figures for clearing and depository services
and fees in Table 8 and 10, result from
the following factors: (1) clearing agencies
which are not affiliated with otherself-regulatory organizations are not included in
Table 8; (2) the periods covered in Table
8 are on a calendar year basis while the
periods in Table 10 are on the clearing
agencies fiscal year basis; and (3) the reportin~ entities may not use the same
classifications in reporting revenue items.
60Thatfee amounted to 0.005 percent for
all sales prior to November 1, 1976; 0.003
percent for all sales from November 1,

161

1976 through June 30, 1977; and 0.002
percent for all sales from July I, 1977
th rough October 31, 1977. Effective
November I, 1977, the fee was reduced
to 0.001 percent.
61Asa general matter, the issuer would
not be deemed to be in the business of
effecting transactions in secunties for the
account of others as a broker, or buying
and selling securities for its own account
as a dealer. Section 3(a)(5) of the Exchange
Act defines the term "dealer" to mean "any
person engaged in the business of buying
and selling securities for its own account,
through a broker or otherwise, but does not
include a bank, or any' person insofar as he
buys or sells securities for his own account, either individually or in some fiduciary capacity, but not as part of a regular
business."
62Securities Exchange Act Release No.
13195 (January 21, 1977), 11 SEC Docket
1552.
63Securities Exchange Act Release No.
12967 (November 11, 1976), 10 SEC
Docket 904.
64Securities Exchange Act Release No.
11497 (June 26, 1975), 7 SEC Docket
24l.
65Securities Exchange Act Release No.
11854 (November 20, 1975), 8 SEC Docket
459. While many of these temporary
amendments expired, the Commission extended until March 1, 1978, a number of
amendments relating to certain receivables
and undue concentrations in municipal
securities. Securities Exchange Act Release No. 12482 (May 26, 1976), 9 SEC
Docket 722; Securities Exchange Act Release No. 13113 (December 28, 1976),
11 SEC Docket 1322; Securities Exchange
Act Release No. 13488 (April 29, 1977),
12 SEC Docket 285; and Securities Exchange Act Release No. 13806 (July 28,
1977), 12 SEC Docket 138l.
66Asamended, Exchange Act Rule 15c3l(f)(1)(a) permits brokers and dealers effecting transactions solely in municipal
securities to operate under the alternative
method while maintaining net capital at
least equal to the greater of $25,000
(rather than $100,000 as required of other
brokers and dealers) or 4 percent of aggregate debit items computed under a reserve
formula, 17 CFR 240.15c3-3a
(1976).
Smaller municipal securities firms would
have experienced substantial difficulty in
maintaining the $100,000 of net capital
otherwise required by Rule 15c3-1(f)(1)(a).
67Securities Exchange Act Release No.
13806 (July 28, 1977), 12 SEC Docket
138l.
68ln determining the value of its assets
for purposes of computing its net capital,
a broker or dealer must reduce the value of
securities held for its own account by prescribed amounts (commonly known as
162

"haircuts"), which are calibrated on the
basis of the volatility and marketability of
the securities.
69Securities Exchange Act Release No.
13125 (December 20, 1976), 11 SEC
Docket 1353.
7°Securities Exchange Act Release No.
13635 (June 16, 1977), 12 SEC Docket
850.
71Securities Exchange Act Release No.
13565 (May 23, 1977), 12 SEC Docket
463.
72Securities Exchange Act Release No.
12766 (September 2, 1976), 10 SEC Docket
362.
73Securities Exchange Act Release No.
12766 (September 2, 1976), 10 SEC Docket
362.
74Securities Exchange Act Release No.
13623 (June 13, 1977), 12 SEC Docket 823.
75Securities Exchange Act Release No.
13296 (February 24, 1977), 11 SEC Docket
1833.
76Securities Exchange Act Release No.
13831 (August 5, 1977), 12 SEC Docket
1456.
nSecurities Exchange Act Release No.
13280 (February 18, 1977), 11 SEC Docket

1804.

78See Part 1, supra at p. 29.
79Securities Exchange Act Release No.
13462 (April 22, 1977), 12 SEC Docket
156.
8°Securities Exchange Act Release No.
13962 (September 15, 1977), 13 SEC
Docket 7l.
8115 U.S.C. 78aaa (1970).
62Securities Exchange Act Release No.
11935 (December 17, 1975),8 SEC Docket
808. 42nd Annual Report at 12-14.
83The FOCUS reporting system serves
multiple purposes, including surveillance of
a broker's or dealer's financial and operational condition, annual review of its activity, transmission of relevant data to customers, and collection of economic and
statistical information. It consists of the
following parts: (1) a monthly filing by
brokers and dealers which carry or clear
customers' accounts (Part I); (2) quarterly
filing by brokers and dealers which carry
or clear customer accounts (Part II), and
by brokers and dealers which introduce
their accounts on a fully disclosed basis
to another broker or dealer (Part IIA, an
abbreviated version of Part 11)/. and (3)
an audited annual report (Part II). 42nd
Annual Report at 12-14.
84Securities Exchange Act Release No.
13462 (April 22, 1977), 12 SEC Docket
156.
85Securities Exchange Act Release No.
13461 (April 22, 1977), 12 SEC Docket
86. Part II would otherwise require that this
information be submitted on a quarterly
basis.
86Securities Exchange Act Release No.

13713 (July 1, 1977), 12 SEC Docket 1108.
87Securities Exchange Act Release No.
12352 (April 20, 1976), 9 SEC Docket
450. 42nd Annual Report at 92.
88Theexamination includes, among other
things, a physical inspection of the broker
or dealer's books and records and supporting materials and a review of the firm's sales
practices.
891tmay be noted that the self-regulatory
organizations have similarly developed and
updated their examination manuals and
checklists during the fiscal year.
90See 6 Securities Investor Protection
Corp. Ann. Rep. (1976).
911naddition to inviting examiners employed by the self-regulatory organizations
to certain of the Commission's training
programs, the Commission also works with
the self-regulatory organizations to improve
their own training programs. The Commission periodically reviews the training efforts
of the self-regulatory organizations which
hold informal, bi-monthly training programs
and more formal annual training sessions
for their own examination staffs. In many
instances, the Commission's examiners
have been invited to attend or participate
in such sessions.
921ngeneral, Rule 15c3-1 prescribes a
lower net capital requirement for firms
which neither carry customers accounts nor
hold customer funds and securities and for
firms which conduct a limited securities
business; these are generally smaller
brokers and dealers. In addition, the net
capital rule provides an "alternative net
capital requirement," available at the election of qualified brokers and dealers, which
adjusts net capital requirements.
93Securities Exchange Act Release No.
13806 (July 28, 1977), 12 SEC Docket
1381.
9442nd Annual Report at 96.
95Securities Exchange Act Release No.
13832 (August 25, 1977), 12 SEC Docket
1465.
96Securities Exchange Act Release No.
12214 (March 30, 1976), 9 SEC Docket
203.
97Securities Exchange Act Release No.
13105 (January 11, 1977), 11 SEC Docket
1311. As to persons entering the securities industry after July 1, 1976, the rule
is effective immediately. Persons already
employed by or associated with entities
subject to the rule on that date were exempted until January 1, 1977. On December 23, 1976, the Commission adopted
an amendment to Rule 17f-2 extending the
January 1, 1977, deadline for fingerprinting the latter class of p'ersons until January
1, 1978, on the condition that 25 percent
of those persons required to be fingerprinted under the rule are in fact fingerprinted during each calendar quarter of
1977.

98Securities Exchange Act Release No.
13565 (May 23, 1977), 12 SEC Docket
463.
99Securities Exchange Act Release No.
13943 (September 9, 1977), 13 SEC
Docket 63.
looThe distinction between the levies on
municipal and other OTC securities income
has been made because the Commission is
relieved of certain rulernakrng functions as
to SECO firms and associated persons bv
the MSRB. The MSRB has established
fixed and variable fees to defray the costs
of Its regulatory activities In the municipal
securities area which must be paid to that
Board by firms engaging in that type of
business.
101See discussion of the new transfer
agent rules in Part I, supra at
l02As of September 30, 1977, the following twelve clearing agencies were registered
with the Commission: Boston Stock Exchange Clearing Corporation; Bradford
Securities Processing Services, Inc.; The
Depository Trust Company; Midwest Clearing Corporation; Midwest Securities Trust
Company; Options Clearing Corporation;
National Securities Clearing Corporation;
New England Securities Depository Trust
Company; Stock Clearing Corporation of
Philadelphia; Pacific Clearing Corporation;
Pacific Secunties Depository Trust Company; and TAD Depository Corporation.
l~Securities Exchange Act Release No.
12857 (October 4, 1976), 10 SEC Docket
657.
l04Securities Exchange Act Release No.
13428 (April 4, 1977), 11 SEC Docket
2191.
105Securities Exchange Act Release No.
13709 (June 30, 1977), 12 SEC Docket
1102.
l06Securities Exchange Act Release No.
13155 (January 12, 1977), 11 SEC Docket
1424.
107Securities Exchange Act Release No.
12642 (July 19, 1976), 10 SEC Docket
1142.
lo8Securities Exchange Act Release No.
12749 (August 31, 1976), 10 SEC Docket
325.
l09Securities Exchange Act Release No.
12788 (September 13, 1976), 10 SEC Docket 457; Securities Exchange Act Release
No. 12789 (September 13, 1976), 10 SEC
Docket 457.
l1°Securities Exchange Act Release No.
13456 (April 21, 1977), 12 SEC Docket

42.

l11ld.
112Bradford National Clearing Corporation
v. SEC, No. 77-1547 (C.A.D.C.).
113Securlties Exchange Act Release No.
13378 (March 16, 1977), 11 SEC Docket
2005.
114Securities Exchange Act Release No.
1~378 (March 16, 1977), 11 SEC Docket
163

2004; Securities Exchange Act Release
No. 13934 (September 6, 1977), 13 SEC
Docket 25.
115Securities Exchange Act Release No.
13467 (April 25, 1977), 12 SEC Docket
185; Securities Exchange Act Release No.
13530 (May 11, 1977), 12 SEC Docket
383; Securities Exchange Act Release No.
13800 (July 25, 1977), 12 SEC Docket

1377.
116Securities Exchange Act Release No.
13466 (April 25, 1977), 12 SEC Docket
184; Securities Exchange Act Release No.
13600 (June 6, 1977), 12 SEC Docket 768.
117Securities Exchange Act Release No.
13277 (February 17, 1977), 11 SEC Docket 1748.
118Securities Exchange Act Release No.
13714 (July' I, 1977), 12 SEC Docket 1109.
119Secunties Exchange Act Release No.
12961 (November 8, 1976), 10 SEC Docket 902.
120Securities Exchange Act Release No.
12915 (October 21, 1976), 10 SEC Docket 782: Securities Exchange Act Release
No. 13511 (May 6, 1977), 12 SEC Docket 362; Securities Exchange Act Release
No. 13876 (August 19, 1977), 12 SEC Docket 1567.

164

121Excluded from membership are brokers and dealers whose business consists
exclusivelr of (1) the distribution of shares
of mutua funds, (2) the sale of variable
annuities, (3) the business of insurance,
or (4) the business of rendering investment advisory services to certain investment companies or insurance company
separate accounts.
122545 F.2d 754 (1st Cir. 1976), cert.
denied, 97 S. Ct. 1696 (1977).
123Section3(a) (2) exempts from membership in s/Pe persons "whose business as
a broker or dealer consists exclusively of
(i) the distribution of shares of registered
open end investment companies or unit
investment trusts .... "
124556F.2d 98 (2nd Cir. 1977).
125542F.2d 840 (2d Cir. 1976).
126Section 3(d) of the SIPC Act provides
that the Board of Directors meet at the
call of the Chairman. In addition, Secnon 6 of Article 3 of the by-laws permits a special meeting to be called by the
Vice Chairman or at the request of three
directors.
127See discussron, supra at p. 148.

Part 4
Enforcement

Part4
Enforcement

The Commission's enforcement activities, which are designed to combat
securities fraud and other illegal conduct, continued at a high level during
the past year. These activities encompass civil and criminal court actions,
as well as administrative proceedings.
Where violations of the securities laws
are established, the sanctions which
may result range from censure by the
Commission to prison sentences imposed by a court.
The enforcement program is designed
to achieve as broad a regulatory impact as possible within the framework
of resources available to the Commission. In view of the capability
of
self-regulatory and state and local
agencies to deal effectively with certain securities violations, the Commission seeks to promote effective
coordination and cooperation between
its own enforcement activities and
those of other agencies.

DETECTION
Complaints
The Commission receives a large
volume of communications from the
public. These consist mainly of requests for information and complaints
against broker-dealers and other members of the securities community as
well as complaints concerning the
market price of particular securities.

During the past year, approximately
4,000 complaints against broker-dealers were received, analyzed and answered. Most of these complaints
dealt with operational problems, such
as the failure to deliver securities or
funds promptly, or the alleged mishandling of accounts. In addition,
there were about 9,100 complaints received concerning investment advisers, issuers, banks, transfer agents,
mutual funds or similar matters.
The Commission seeks to assist persons in resolving complaints and to
furnish requested information. Thousands of investor complaints are resolved through staff inquiries of the
firms involved. While the Commission
does not itself maintain an arbitration program to resolve disputes between brokerage firms and investors,"
a complaint may lead to the institution
of an investigation or an enforcement
proceeding, or it may be referred to
a self-regulatory or local enforcement
agency.

Market Surveillance
The Commission's staff has devised
procedures to identify possible violative activities in the securities markets through surveillance of listed securities. This program is coordinated
with the market surveillance operations of the New York, American and
167

regional stock exchanges, as well as
the various options exchanges.
In this regard, the Commission's
market surveillance staff maintains a
continuous watch of transactions on
the stock and options exchanges and
reviews reports of large block transactions to detect any unusual price
and volume variations. It also monitors financial news tickers, financial
publications and statistical services.
In addition, the staff has supplemented its regular reviews by receiving
daily and periodic market surveillance
reports from the exchanges and the
NASD which provide in-depth analysis
of information developed by them. To
augment its surveillance capabilities,
the staff is using various data processing services so that irregular trading activity will be promptly detected
and effectively investigated.
For those securities traded by means
of the NASDAQ system, the Commission has also developed a surveillance program, which is coordinated
with the NASD's market surveillance
program, through a review of weekly
and special stock watch reports.
For those over-the-counter securities not traded through NASDAQ, the
Commission uses automated equipment to provide an efficient and comprehensive surveillance of stock quotations distributed by the National
Quotation Bureau. This is programmed
to identify, among other things, unlisted securities whose price movement or dealer interest varies beyond
specified limits in a pre-established
time period. When a security is so
identified, the equipment prints out
current and historic market information. Other programs supplement this
data with information concerning sales
of securities pursuant to Rule 144
under the Securities Act, ownership
reports, and periodic company filings
such as quarterly and annual reports.
168

These data, combined with other available information,
are analyzed for
possible further inquiry and enforcement action.
The staff also oversees tender offers,
exchange offers, proxy contests and
other activities involving efforts to
change control of public corporations.
Such oversight includes review not
only of trading markets in the securities involved, but also, of filings with
the Commission of required schedules,
prospectuses, proxy material and other
information.

TRADING SUSPENSIONS
The Exchange Act authorizes the
Commission summarily to suspend
trading in a security traded either on
a national securities exchange or in
the over-the-counter
market for a
period of up to ten days if, in the
Commission's opinion, such action is
in the public interest.
During fiscal 1977, the Commission
suspended trading in the securities
of 111 companies, compared with
126 companies in fiscal 1976 and
113 companies in fiscal 1975. In most
instances the trading suspension was
ordered because of a delinquency in
filing required reports with the Commission, substantial questions as to
the adequacy, accuracy or availability
of public information concerning the
company's financial condition or business operations, or because of transactions in the company's securities
suggesting possible manipulation or
other violations.
Of the 111 companies whose securities were the subject of trading
suspensions in fiscal 1977, 25 were
related to the Penn Central Transportation Company (Penn Central).
On December 13, 1976, the Commission suspended trading in the securities of Penn Central, Penn Central
Company (Penn Central's parent) and

the securities of 23 of its leased lines
companies and other affiliates at the
request of the companies pending announcement by Penn Central of its
proposed plan of reorganization.
On May 4, 1977, the Commission
again suspended trading in the securities of Penn Central, Penn Central
Company, and the securities of 28
other companies affected by the plan
at the request of these companies'
pending announcement by Penn Central of certain amendments to its
proposed plan of reorganization.

ENFORCEMENT PROCEEDINGS
The Commission has available a
wide range of possible enforcement
remedies. It may, in appropriate cases,
refer its files to the Department of
Justice with a recommendation for
criminal prosecution. The penalties
upon conviction are specified in the
various statutes and include imprisonment for substantial terms as well
as fines.
The securities laws also authorize
the Commission to file injunctive actions in the Federal district courts
to enjoin continued or threatened
violations of those laws and applicable
Commission rules. In injunctive actions, the Commission frequently has
sought to obtain other equitable relief under the general equity powers
of the Federal district courts. The
power of the Federal courts to grant
such relief has been judicially recognized. The Commission often has requested the court to appoint a receiver for a business where investors
were likely to be harmed by continuance of the existing management. It
also has requested court orders which,
among other things, restrict future
activities of the defendants, require
that rescission be offered to securities purchasers, or require disgorge-

ment of the defendants'
ill-gotten
gains.
The Commission's primary function
is to protect the public from fraudulent and other unlawful practices and
not to obtain damages for injured
individuals. Thus, a request that disgorgement be required is predicated
on the need to deprive defendants
of profits derived from their unlawful
conduct and to protect the public by
deterring such conduct by others.
If the terms of any injunctive decree are violated, criminal contempt
proceedings may be filed as a result
of which the violator may be fined
or imprisoned.
The Federal securities acts also
authorize the Commission to impose
remedial administrative sanctions. Administrative enforcement proceedings
involve alleged violations of the securities acts or regulations by firms
or persons engaged in the securities
business. Generally speaking, if the
Commission finds that a respondent
willfully violated a provision of or
rule under the securities acts, failed
reasonably to supervise another person who committed a violation, or has
been convicted of or enjoined from
certain types of misconduct, and that
a sanction is in the public interest,
it may revoke or suspend the registration of a broker-dealer or investment adviser, bar or suspend an
individual from the securities business
or from association with an investment
company, or censure a firm or individual. Proceedings may also cover
adequacy of disclosure in a registration statement or in reports filed
with the Commission. Such a case may
lead to an order suspending the effectiveness of a registration statement or directing compliance with
reporting requirements. The Commission also has the power to suspend
169

trading summarily in a security when
the public interest requires.

be expected to be delivered to public
investors, until such time as these
respondents demonstrate to the satisINVESTIGATIONS
faction of the Commission that they
Each of the acts administered by
are familiar with the disclosure prothe Commission authorizes investigavisions of the securities laws.
tions to determine if violations have
On the basis of the Commission's
occurred. Most of these are conducted
order for private proceed ings, to which
by the Commission's regional offices.
the respondents consented without
Investigations are normally carried out
admitting or denying the allegations,
on a confidential
basis, consistent
the Commission found that responwith effective law enforcement and the
dents had been retained by an issuer of
need to protect persons against whom
securities to advise prospective invesunfounded charges might be made.
tors as to tax consequences of investThus, the existence or results of a
ing in oil and gas leases. The responnonpublic investigation are generally
dents did counsel and advise c1ientnot divulged unless they are made a
investors about these investments,
matter of public record in proceedings
and in some cases favorably recombrought before the Commission or in
mended the Investments and distrithe courts. During the fiscal year
buted documents concerning such in1976, a total of 400 investigations
vestments to some of the clients. The
were opened, as against 413 in the
respondents received payments from
preceding year.
the issuers of such securities based, at
ADMINISTRATIVE PROCEEDINGS
least in part, on the fact of, or on the
Summarized below are some of the amount of, monies invested by clients
administrative proceedings which were of the law firm; which payments may
not have been disclosed to some of the
instituted or concluded in the fiscal
client-investors. In addition, the reperiod.
spondents failed to reveal to clientIn the Matter of Plotkin, Yolles,
2
investors that two of the partners in the
Siegel & Turner - The Commission
law firm owned common stock in one of
Instituted administrative proceedings
under Rule 2{e) of its Rules of Prac- the issuers of such securities. Under
tice against the Michigan law firm of the circumstances, the Commission
Plotkin, Yolles, Siegel & Turner and found that the respondents did not
three of its individual partners, Mar- possess the requisite qualifications to
cus Plotkin, Murray Yolles and Robert represent others before the CommisW. Siegel. On accepting offers of sion.
settlement from the respondents, the
In the Matter of Revere Management
Commission censured the law firm and Company, Inc. et al. - On January 5,
accepted the resignations of the three
1977, an order for public administraindividual partners from appearance
tive proceedings was entered by the
or practice before the Commission,
Commission for the purpose of hearing
provided that after eighteen months,
evidence on allegations of violations of
they may apply to the Commission
the antifraud provisions of the Federal
for reinstatement.
In addition, the
securities laws by Revere Management
three partners were ordered to con- Co., Inc. (Management), a brokersult with competent securities counsel dealer registered with the Commission
in connection with the preparation of and located in Philadelphia, Pennsylany documents that may reasonably vania, William M. Hess (Hess) of
170

Philadelphia, Pennsylvania, president
and director of Revere Fund, Inc. (Revere), an open-end, diversified investment company registered with the
Commission pursuant to Section 8(a)
of the Investment Company Act of
1940; American Fund Services, Ltd.
(AFS), a broker-dealer located in Dusseldorf, Germany; and Albert Kuhn
(Kuhn), a German national who was the
principal operator of AFS.3 Management has been the principal underwriter for Revere since its inception in
1959. Kuhn, as Revere's "exclusive
representative," distributed shares of
Revere throughout
Germany from
1967 through
1969; from 1969
through 1974 Kuhn was Management's "general representative"
in
Germany.
In December 1975, Kuhn was found
by a German court to have converted,
from 1972 continuing into 1974, redemption checks from 37 Revere
shareholders totalling approximately
$239,000. In the Commission's order
for proceeding, it was alleged that from
June 1972 through December 1973,
Management, Hess, Kuhn and AFS
willfully violated and willfully aided and
abetted violations of Section lO(b) (the
antifraud provisions) of the Exchange
Act of 1934 and Rule lOb-5 thereunder
in redeeming and effecting transactions in the redeemable shares of Revere. In this regard, the order for proceedings alleged, among other things,
that the respondents generally engaged in acts, practices, and a course
of conduct that operated as a fraud
and deceit upon shareholders in connection with (1) the redemption procedures employed by Revere, (2) the failure of the Revere shareholders to receive their redemption proceeds, and
(3) the processing of improperly
guaranteed redemption requests.
A public hearing on the alleged violations was held in Philadelphia,

Pennsylvania, on April 12-15, 1977,
and May 2-6, 1977, before Administrative Law Judge Ralph Hunter Tracy.
Decision had not yet been entered at
the end of the fiscal year.
In the Matter of Touche Ross &
Company, et al. - On September 2,
1976, the Commission ordered the institution of a public administrative
proceeding under Rule 2(e) of the
Commission's
Rules of Practice
against Touche Ross & Co., and three
auditors of the firm."
The charges involved in the proceeding stem from Touche's examination of
an Annual Report on the financial
statements
of Giant Stores Corp.
(Giant) for the fiscal year ended
January 29, 1972, and of Ampex Corporation (Ampex) for the fiscal year
ended May 1, 1971.
The order alleged that Touche's April
18, 1972, report on the Giant financial
statements and its June 21, 1971 report on the Ampex financial statements, were materially false and misleading as to its statements
that
Touche's examination was made in accordance with generally accepted auditing standards and accordingly, included such tests of the accounting
records and such other auditing procedures as were considered necessary
under the circumstances. In addition it
was charged that Touche did not have a
reasonable basis for opining, as it did,
that the financial statements of Giant
and Ampex as of January 29,1972, and
May 1, 1971, respectively, fairly presented (1) the consolidated positions
of Giant and Ampex and their subsidiaries; (2) the results of their operations; or (3) the changes in their financial position, all in conformity with
generally accepted accounting principles.
The Order further alleged that Giant
materially overstated net income in its
financial statements and that the re171

spondents, in performing the examination of Giant's financial statements,
failed to follow generally accepted auditing standards, permitted the use of
accounting principles which were not
in accordance with generally accepted
accounting principles and did not have
a reasonable basis for the expression of
an unqualified opinion on Giant's financial statements.
Touche filed suit in the United
States District Court for the Southern
District of New York to enjoin the
Commission's proceedings against it.
In December, 1976. the Commission
filed a motion to dismiss. This motion is
now pending before the court."
In the Matter of Investors Diversified
Services, Inc., et al. - On July 19,
1977, the Commission ordered two
public administrative
proceedings
under the Securities Exchange Act of
1934, the Investment Advisers Act of
1940 and the Investment Company Act
of 1940 against William H. Langfield
(Langfield), Investors Diversified Services., lnc., (IDS), 26 broker-dealers
and 22 individuals employed by the
broker-dealers."
As alleged in the proceedings, the
case stemmed from Langfield's personal trading activities during the
period between 1971 and 1973 while
he was employed as an over-thecounter (OTC)securities trader for IDS,
which served as investment adviser to
several registered investment companies (the IDS Funds). Langfield, during 1971-1973, executed approximately $1.8 billion in purchases and
sales of OTC securities for the IDS
Funds. Langfield had discretion to
choose which OTC market-makers
would receive orders to purchase or sell
securities on behalf of the IDS Funds.
The Commission's orders alleged that
during the period from August 1969 to
April 1974, Langfield was placing orders with OTC market-makers on be172

half of the IDS Funds and negotiating
trades and placing orders for his personal account directly with many of the
same market-makers with whom he
placed IDS Fund orders.
Although Langfield traded directly
with the market-makers' personnel,
the Commission's orders alleged that
he did not maintain an account with
each market-maker but, instead. had
his personal transactions confirmed to
another broker-dealer where he did
maintain an account which he used
exclusively to clear the trades he made
with the market-makers with whom he
also placed IDS Fund orders. The records of the market-makers reflected
that Langfield's
orders had been
placed by the broker-dealer with whom
Langfield maintained his personal account,
when in fact
Langfield
negotiated and effected those trades
directly with the market-makers.
According to the Commission's orders, from October 1970 to about April
1974, Langfield executed approximately 1,850 trades in OTC stocks for
his personal account, 83 percent of
which involved purchases and sales of
the same securities within two days
time or less. Langfield, who received a
salary of about $25.000 from IDS. netted, in addition to his salary, in excess
of $300,000 as a result of his trading
with the various OTC market-makers
for his personal account.
The Orders also alleged that certain
of the market-makers and several of
their employees gave Langfield preferential price treatment when he executed trades with them for his personal
account. The alleged preferential
treatment consisted of, among other
things, giving Langfield: (1) direct access to the market-makers' trading
personnel for personal trades; (2) the
use of price and volume quotations
that would only be given in some instances to preferred institutional cus-

tomers; and (3) prices on OTC securities which were inconsistent with
and more advantageous than the prevailing market prices as represented by
the market-makers' bid and ask quotations or which were inconsistent with
other purchases and sales executed by
those market-makers at the same time
or immediately
before or after
Langfield's trade.
The Commission found that thirteen
of the broker-dealer respondents involved wilfully violated the bookkeeping provisions of the Exchange Act and,
with the consent of those respondents,
ordered those broker-dealers to adopt
and maintain new procedures to prevent any recurrence of this type of
conduct in the future," The Commission also found that IDS failed reasonably to supervise Langfield and that
James Murray (Langfield's immediate
supervisor at IDS for whose account
Langfield also traded) wilfully violated
the antifraud provisions of the Securities Act, Exchange Act and Investment Advisers Act, the section of the
Investment Company Act forbidding
agents from accepting outside compensation, and failed reasonably to
supervise l.angfield." The Commission,
upon consent, censured IDS and Murray and suspended Murray from being
associated with a broker-dealer, investment adviser, or investment company or affiliate thereof for 45 days and
from being associated in any supervisory capacity therewith for one year.
The Commission further found that
Langfield wilfully violated and aided
and abetted violations of the antifraud
provisions of the Securities Act, Exchange Act and Investment Adviser's
Act and violated the section of the Investment Company Act making it unlawful for agents of an investment
company to accept outside compensation. Langfield, with his consent, was
barred from association with any

broker or dealer, investment adviser,
investment
company or affiliate
thereof.
The Commission also found that ten
of the broker-dealers and eight of their
employees wilfully violated and/or
aided and abetted violations of the
antifraud provisions of the Securities
Act and Exchange Act and that ten of
the broker-dealers and nine of their
employees failed reasonably to supervise persons who committed such violations. The Commission, with the consent of the subject respondents, ordered these respondents to adopt procedures designed to prevent a recurrence of this type of conduct and imposed various other sanctions ranging
from censures to suspensions for
periods of time up to 20 business days.
In lieu of imposition of the ordered
suspensions,
the various brokerdealers agreed to pay amounts ranging
from $10,000 to $40,000 each to the
a ppropriate
IDS investment
companies for whom Langfield effected
transactions.
The proceedings are still pending as
to two broker-dealers
and four
employees or officers of brokerdealers.
In the Matter of Frank S. Arko,
et al. 9_ The Commission instituted
public administrative
proceedings
against Frank S. Arko, a Bellevue,
Washington investment adviser, and
William M. Mitchell, a salesman employed by a registered broker-dealer
in Seattle, Washington. Arko's business involves mailing, nationally and
internationally, a report in which he
recommends investments in coins and
valuable metals, and in securities of
companies involved in mining such
metals. The proceedings are based
on allegations by the Commission
that Arko, in violation of the Exchange Act and Advisers Act antifraud provisions, engaged in a prac173

tice commonly known as "scalping"
with respect to securities of QC Explorations, Ltd. and Lion Mines, Ltd.,
Canadian corporations whose stock
is traded on Vancouver, B. C. Exchange, and Galaxy Oil Company, a
Texas corporation whose stock is traded in the over-the-counter market.
Specifically, it is alleged that Arko
advanced information to Mitchell on
recommendations to be made in the
report prior to its distribution to Arko's
subscribers and that Mitchell traded
for his own account in QC Explorations, Lion and Galaxy securities based
on this advance knowledge. Mitchell
is alleged to have aided and abetted
Arko by taking positions in these securities in his firm's trading account
prior to the distribution
of Arko's
recommendation, then selling shares
from the trading account to Arko's
personal account. On occasion, Arko
and Mitchell split the sale from the
trading account to their personal accounts, then sold at the market for
a substantial profit. Arko and Mitchell were previously enjoined by the
U. S. District Court for the Western
District of Washington from further
violations of the Exchange Act and
Advisers Act antifraud provisions for
the same conduct alleged in the administrative proceeding."
In the Matter of S. D. Leidesdorf
& Co. et al. - On February 16, 1977,
the Commission issued an Opinion and
Order under Rule 2(e) of the Commission's Rules of Practice which set forth
the findings of an investigation and Imposed sanctions against S. D. Leidesdorf & Co. (Leidesdorf) and a partner
and audit manager of that firm.!'
Leidesdorf and the individual respondents submitted offers of settlement
in which they consented to the issuance of the Opinion and Order without
admitting or denying any of the statements or conclusions set forth therein.
174

The Commission's Opinion focused
upon Leidesdorf's examination of financial statements issued by Tidal
Marine International Corporation (Tidal) in 1971 and 1972. The Commission found that those financial statements were materially false and misleading and that Leidesdorf and the
individual respondents had failed to
conduct their examinations in accordance with generally accepted auditing
standards.
The Commission ordered Leidesdorf
to submit to an examination by an
outside committee of the manner in
which the firm conducts its audit
practice with respect to publicly held
companies. The Commission also suspended Leidesdorf from accepting
new Commission audit clients for a
period of two months and ordered the
firm to comply with certain undertakings set forth in its offer of settlement.
In the Matter of Seidman & Seidman,
et al. - In September 1976, the Commission issued an Opinion and Order
pursuant to Rule 2(e) of the Commission's Rules of Practice that set forth
findings of four Commission investigations and imposed sanctions against
Seidman & Seidman and certain partners and employees in connection with
its combination of practices in February 1972 with the Los Angeles Office
of Wolfson, Weiner, Ratoff & Lapin.12
The Commission's Opinion focused
on the auditing deficiencies in Seidman & Seidman's examinations of the
financial statements of three former
WolfsonlWeiner clients-Equity Funding
Corporation of America, Omni-Rx Health
Systems and SaCom and certain of
the audits of financial statements of
Cenco, Inc.
The Commission found that the
audits of the financial statements of
Equity, Omni-Rx, SaCom and Cenco
involved serious deficiencies in Seid-

man & Seidman's audit performance,
review, supervision and, except with
respect to Cenco, its professional
Independence. The Commission noted
that the financial statements of these
issuers were not prepared in conformity with generally accepted accounting principles and the audits
were not conducted in accordance
with generally accepted auditing standards as was represented by Seidman & Seidman in its reports.
Pursuant to an offer of settlement
submitted by Seidman & Seidman,
the Commission ordered implementation of certain measures to provide
assurance of the quality of the firm's
practice before the Commission including a comprehensive examination
by an independent committee of Seidman & Seidman's audit practice and
a subsequent review to determine
whether reasonable recommendations
of the independent committee have
been implemented. The review has
been completed, and a committee
report has been filed with the Commission. Temporary restrictions were
also placed on mergers and combinations of practice and on the acquisition of new clients involving
filings with the Commission.
In the Matter of Laventhol & Horwath,
et al. -In
September 1977, the Commission issued an Opinion and Order
pursuant to Rule 2(e) of the Commission's Rules of Practice that set forth
findings of three Commission investigations and imposed sanctions against
Laventhol & Horwath, (Laventhol) and
three former partners of that firm.13
Laventhol and the individual respondents submitted offers of settlement
in which they consented to the issuance of the Opinion and Order and certain other relief without admitting or
denying the Commission's allegations.
The Commission's Opinion focused
on the auditing deficiencies in con-

nection with Laventhol's examination
of certain financial statements of
Western Properties Limited Partnership, Co-Build Companies Inc., and
Cosmopolitan Investors Funding Co.
The Commission concluded that Laventhol failed to conduct these audits
in accordance with generally accepted
auditing standards.
As part of the Order, Laventhol
agreed to submit to an examination
of the manner in which it conducted
its accounting practices with respect
to publicly-held companies. The examination is to be made by an independent committee, and a report
submitted to the Commission and disseminated to the public .as a result
of this examination. Laventhol also
agreed not to accept new Commission audit clients for a period of
60 days beginning September 1,1977.
In the Matter of Government Employees Insurance Company, et al.-On
October 27, 1976, the Commission
instituted proceedings pursuant to
Sections 15(c) (4) and 21(a) of the
Exchange Act as well as Findings of
Fact and an Order of the Commission
with respect to Government Employees Insurance Company (GEICO), Norman Lawrence Gidden (Gidden), formerly the chairman of GEICO's board
of directors and Ralph Clark Peck
(Peck), formerly president of GEICO.14
The respondents submitted offers
of settlement and statements pursuant to Section 2l(a) of the Exchange Act in which they, without
admitting or denying the findings,
consented to the Findings and Order
of the Commission.
The Commission found with respect
to GEICO that during 1975 the company filed quarterly reports with the
Commission on Form lO-Q which
failed in material respects to disclose its deteriorating financial condition, changes in the accounting
175

treatment of deferred acquisition costs
and loss reserves, the effect of such
changes on earnings and the uncertainty of the operating results which
it did report due to these changes.
Had such changes in accounting treatment not been undertaken, GEICO
would have reported pretax losses for
the first nine months of 1975 of $823
million instead of $50.7 million of
pretax losses actually reported. The
Commission also found that Peck and
Gidden in their respective capacities
as officers of GEICO failed in material
respects to comply with the reporting
provisions of Section 15 of the Exchange Act. In addition, the Commission found that Gidden sold 15,
045 shares of GEICO common stock
in November 1975 while In possession
of material non-public information concerning the deteriorating financial condition of the company.
The Commission ordered GEICO to
comply fully with the provisions of
the Exchange Act and accepted undertakings from GEICO contained in the
company's offer of settlement to:
accept the resignations of Peck and
Gidden, maintain certain newly instituted procedures with respect to establishment of loss reserves and select
a qualifted individual for the board
of directors. The Commission accepted
the undertakings of Gidden and Peck
to: comply with the provisions of the
Exchange Act, terminate their employment relationships with GEICO and refrain from accepting employment as
officers or directors of any publicly
held company for three years. In
addrtion, the Commission accepted an
undertaking from Gidden to establish
a $35,000 fund for the compensation
of any party who may be judged by
a court to have been damaged by his
sale of GEICO stock in November
1975.
In the Matter of Hinkle Northwest,
176

Inc., et el. - The Commission instituted public administrative proceedings against Hinkle Northwest, Inc.
(Hinkle), a registered broker-dealer
and investment adviser located in Portland, Oregon, its principals, Ernest
Hinkle, Kenneth LaMear, and Dennis
Reiter, and three salesmen, Bernard
Molinari, Fred Hogg, and Patrick
McGinnis.15 The Commission alleged
violations of the record keeping, net
capital, and antifraud provisions of the
Exchange Act in connection with Hinkle's purchase of U.S. treasury securities financed by repurchase agreements. Also named as a respondent in
the proceedings is John Wied, formerly
vice-president and treasurer of Benjamin Franklin Federal Savings and
Loan Association (the Association), a
Federally chartered savings and loan
association in Portland, Oregon. In
1975, Wied facilitated Hinkle's purchase of $25 million of U.S. Treasury
notes from First Pennco Securities and
of $100 million of U.S. Treasury bills
from Blyth Eastman Dillon Capital
Markets, Inc. Both Pennco and Blyth
relied upon the credit and credibility of
the Association in executing the transactions.
Wied was recently found guilty in the
United States District Court for the
District of Oregon, in a 15 count indictment which alleged misapplication
of the Association's assets, personal
benefit from transactions of the Association, and making of false entries
in the books and records of the Association relating to the Pennco and Blyth
transactions.ts In activities unrelated
to the treasury transactions, Hinkle is
alleged to have transmitted documents
improperly offering for sale the securities of R. L. Burns Corporation,
Pacific Power & Light Co., and SuperValu Stores, Inc., to members of the
public at a time when registration
statements had not yet become effec-

tive with respect to such securities.
Further, in April 1976, while trading
was suspended in securities of Presley
Companies, it is alleged that Hinkle
mailed an article and business card inducing transactions
in Presley securities in violation of Section 12(k) of
the Exchange Act.

CIVIL PROCEEDINGS
During the fiscal year, the Commission instituted a total of 166 injunctive
actions. Many Commission proceedings resulted in wide-ranging ancillary
relief and remedies which the Commission sought according to the needs of
the particular case. Such relief reflects
the Commission's intent to carry out to
the fullest extent its mandate to protect the public from future violations of
the securities laws. Some of the more
noteworthy proceedings and significant developments in actions instituted
in earlier years are reflected below.
SEC v. Century Mortgage Company,
Ltd. - This is a civil action filed in the
United States District Court for the
District of Utah, in which the complaint, in substance, alleged that the
defendants violated the registration
and antifraud provisions of the Federal
securities laws in the offer and sale of
notes, investment contracts and evidence of indebtedness of Century
Mortgage Company, Ltd. (Century
Mortgage) and Gateway Valley Estates,
Inc. (Gateway)."?

The complaint further alleged that
the defendants made untrue statements of material facts, including,
among others, that money obtained
from the sale of securities would be
used to purchase real estate instruments of conveyance and debt securities at discounts; that Century
Mortgage could earn enough profits in
its business operations to enable it to
pay to persons purchasing its two-year
notes an effective rate of annual in-

terest of 16.23 percent on notes of
$2,500 face value or more, and effective annual interest rates from 10.8
percent to 12.8 percent on notes of
lesser face value; that contracts receivable (i.e., real estate contracts and
debt securities)
held by Century
Mortgage were "fully collectible"; and
that the total market value of the contracts and properties purchased by
Century Mortgage was nearly double
their purchase cost.
The complaint further alleged that
the defendants omitted to disclose,
among other things, that they used and
dissipated monies obtained by Century
Mortgage from public investors for
their own personal use; that proceeds
of the public offering would be used to
fund affiliated corporations and business ventures of promoters of the issuer; and that Century Mortgage's certified financial statements included in
prospectuses did not present fairly the
financial position of Century Mortgage.
A receiver was appointed by the
Court and was ordered, among other
things, to take possession and custody
of all business assets of Century
Mortgage and Gateway and a temporary restraining order was entered
against the defendants. Thereafter,
preliminary and permanent injunctions were entered against certain of
the defendants. The hearing on the
Motion for Preliminary Injunction as
against some of the defendants has
been consolidated with the trial on the
merits and is scheduled for hearing in
February 1978.
SEC v. Penn Central Co., et al. - In
May 1974, the Commission instituted
an action for injunctive and other relief
against the Penn Central CO.1Sand
others alleging violations of the antifraud provisions of the securities laws.
In December 1976 the District Court
for the Eastern District of Pennsylvania
denied certain motions made by several

177

defendants to dismiss the complaint
and/or for summary judgment. With respect to one such defendant, however,
the judge dismissed the Commission's
complaint with respect to injunctive relief, based on a finding of the absence
of any reasonable likelihood of future
violations, but granted the Commission
leave to amend its complaint with respect to the Commission's request for
disgorgement. The court determined
that the Commission's request for ancillary relief survived the denial of the
request for injunctive relief. 19 A motion
to reconsider the denial of the motions
for summary judgment and/or dismissal is pending.
By orders entered on February 18
and March 14,1977, the Court vacated
a previous preliminary injunction freezing assets of certain Liechtenstein entities in the United States and provided
for payment to the Trustees of the
Penn Central Transportation Co. of
$1,250,000 by those entities whose
assets were subject to the preliminary
injunction. Fiedel Goetz, the defendant who the Commission alleged controlled the Liechtenstein
entities
whose assets were frozen, died while
residing in Switzerland in December
1976. The complaint alleged that
Goetz had improperly received funds
from a subsidiary of the Penn Central
Transportation Co. prior to its bankruptcy in 1970.
In July 1977 the Court ordered reentry of a Stipulation and Order between
the Commission and three defendants
who were non-management directors
ofthe Penn Central Transportation Co.
prior to its bankruptcy in 1970. The
three directors undertook not to become associated with the Penn Central
Transportation Co., its parents, its affiliates or successors in the future and,
upon becoming a director of a corporation subject to the Federal securities
laws in the future, to set forth in writing
178

the manner in which each would discharge his duties as director and to
submit the document to the general
counsel of the corporation. The Court
also entered a Final Judgment of Permanent Injunction against David Bevan, the former chief financial officer
of the Penn Central Transportation Co.
Bevan consented to the injunction
without admitting or denying the allegations of the ccrnptamt.w
SEC v. SCA Services, Inc., etal. -In
August, 1977 the Commission filed a
complaint for injunctive and other relief charging SCA Services, Inc. (SCA);
Christopher P. Recklitis (Recklitis),
SCA's former President, Treasurer and
Director; Berton Steir (Steir), founder
and former Chief Executive Officer and
President of SCA; Carlton Hotel Corporation (Carlton), a privately held corporation owned primarily by Recklitis;
and four other persons with violations
of certain of the antifraud, reporting
and proxy solicitation provisions of the
federal securities laws.21
The complaint charged that from
approximately January 1972 through
July 1975, Recklitis, while an officer of
SCA and aided and abetted by Steir
and others, diverted nearly $4 million
of SCA's assets to his personal and
Carlton's use and benefit through cash
advances to Recklitis and Carlton and
vendors of Carlton, which advances
were not in the ordinary course of
SCA's business, and through three
fraudulent land transactions whereby
he used nominees to acquire properties located in Amesbury,
Massachusetts
and Utica, New York.
Ricklitis then caused the properties to
be resold to SCA at values inflated by
approximately $2.5 million. Further,
the complaint charged that Recklitis
used the funds improperly obtained to
pay Carlton debts and personal debts
and expenses. The complaint further
alleged that the receivable due SCA

from Carlton was misrepresented in
SCA's financial statements and that
material facts concerning the alleged
activities were omitted from SCA's reports, proxy materials and registration
statements and prospectuses.
The complaint further charged that
loans, advances and guarantees were
given to employees which were either
not properly authorized by SCA's board
of directors or were not in the ordinary
course of business and, thus, contrary
to SCA's public representations. In addition, the Commission alleged that
SCA made an improper political contribution in Massachusetts and paid
gratuities and bribes to obtain contracts and to obtain necessary permits
to use property owned by SCA for landfill purposes.
The Commission also charged that a
former vice president and director of
SCA, who was not charged with the
above activities, withdrew, without
proper authorization, $65,000 from a
wholly owned subsidiary of SCA,
applied approximately $53,000 of such
funds owed to pay an outstanding personal debt to SCA and retained the
balance. Certain of SCA's reports,
proxy materials and registration statements and prospectuses did not disclose such misuse of SCA's assets.
Simultaneously with the filing of the
complaint, SCA consented, without
admitting or denying the allegations, to
the entry of a Judgment of Permanent
Injunction enjoining it from violating
the above-mentioned provisions of the
federal securities laws and ordering
certain other relief. Recklitis, Carlton
and one other defendant also consented, without admitting or denying
the allegations, to the entry of a Judgment of Permanent Injunction enjoining them from violating the federal
securities laws. The remaining defendants are currently in litigation with the
Commission.

SEC v Basic Food Industries, Inc., et
al. - On September 15, 1977, the
Commission filed a complaint for injunctive and other relief charging
Basic Food Industries, Inc. (BFI); Allan
H. Applestein
(Applestein),
BFI's
former Chairman of the Board and
Chief Executive Officer; Gilbert Pasquet (G. Pasquet), formerly a director
of BFI; Alix Pasquet (A. Pasquet) and
Haitian Equities, SA with violations of
certain of the antifraud, reporting,
proxy solicitation and stock ownership
reporting provisions of the Federal
securities laws.22
The complaint charged that, since
about 1971, Applestein caused BFI to
make cash advances and other payments aggregating
in excess of
$217,000forhispersonal
benefit. During this period, according to the complaint, Applestein utilized at least
$182,000 of such funds for, among
other things, personal and family
travel, personal entertainment
expenses, personal legal expenses, personal office-related expenses and personal telephone expenses. The Commission also charged Applestein with
engaging in undisclosed transactions
with G. Pasquet and A. Pasquet, who
are Haitian nationals, and Haitian
Equities, SA, a Haitian company controlled at the time of the transactions
by the Pasquets. The complaint alleged that the defendants concealed
material aspects of the underlying
transactions in materials filed with the
Commission and disseminated to the
public.
The Commission also alleged that
Applestein, on or about February 4,
1975, assertedly sold his control block
of 450,000 shares of BFI common
stock to Haitian Equities, a company
not yet formed, for $100,000, substantially below the market value of the
stock. The complaint charged that
Applestein and the Pasquets planned
179

to pledge all or part of the stock for a
bank loan, the proceeds of which were
to be used to compensate Applestein
for the stock and to acquire several of
Applestein's privately-held companies.
According
to the complaint,
by
November 1975, Applestein purportedly rescinded the "sale" of his stock.
It is alleged that Applestein, G. Pasquet, A. Pasquet and Haitian Equities
filed false and misleading reports on
Schedule 130 with the Commission
concerning both the purported sale
and reacquisition inasmuch as these
reports, among other things, failed to
disclose the conditions of and circumstances surrounding the events,
including the extent and nature of business transactions between Applestein
and the Pasquets and Haitian Equities.
This case is currently in litigation.
SEC v. Petrofunds Inc., et al. - As
previously reported, on May 26, 1976,
the Commission instituted an action
In the U.S. District Court for the
Southern District of New York for
injunctive and other relief against
defendants Petrofunds, Inc. (Petrofunds); McRae Oil Corporation (McRae Oil): McRae Consolidated 011 and
Gas, Inc. (Consolidated); James A.
McRae (J.A. McRae); David Kelly (Kelly); J. Frank Benson (Benson); Osias
Biller (Biller); Louisiana Gas Purchasing Corporation (LGPl; Louisiana
Gas Intrastate, Inc. of Shreveport
(LGI); Sunny South 011 and Gas, Inc.
(SSOG); Houston National Bank; Bromley DeMeritt, Jr. (DeMeritt); Henry
Becton; Sidney Raphael (Raphael):
Edmund D'Elia (D'Elia), the law firm
of Raphael. Searles, Vischi, Scher,
Glover and D'Elia, Thomas Leger &
Co. (Leger & Co.): Thomas Leger (Leger); Judge Edward Coulson (Coulson);
Bennett J. Roberts, Jr. (Roberts); and
Edward C. Dorroh (Dorrohl.s" In its
complaint the Commission charged
these defendants with failing to com180

ply with certain of the antifraud and
other provisions of the Securities Act
and the Exchange Act. The Commission's motion for a preliminary injunction against the above-named defendants was denied by the Court in June
1976. On June 23, 1976 the Court
approved a stipulation entered into by
the Commission and Houston National
Bank providing for the dismissal of the
Commission's action against the bank
without prejudice. Subsequent to such
ruling, certain of the defendants entered a Demand for a Jury Trial. By
an order dated October 13, 1976,
the court granted the Commission's
motion to strike the defendants' Demand for a Jury Trial.
In May 1977, the Court entered a
Final Order terminating
the Commission's action against the defendant Henry Becton and requiring
him to "take all reasonable actions
including
all reasonable and appriate inquiry and investigation to
assure himself that" he complies with
Rule lOb-5 "in connection with any
securities offering, by any company of
which he is an officer or director
or any partnership of which he is a
general partner, or any issuer controlled by such company or partnership, of interests In any oil or gas
drilling fund, program or venture,
or in which the solicitation of investments is based in substantial part
on the affording to investors of tax
deductions, credits or losses arising
from the proposed method of operation ... " Such Final Order was
entered pursuant to an agreement by
Stipulation between the Commission
and Henry Becton by the provisions
of which Becton neither admitted nor
denied the allegations of the complaint.
Subsequent to the completion of
discovery and the submission of proposed pre-trial orders by the Commis-

sion and the defendants, eighteen of
the nineteen remaining defendants
agreed by Stipulation to the entry of
certain Final Orders without admitting
or denying the allegations of the complaint. On June 28, 1977, the Court
entered such Final Orders. The action
as to the remaining defendant was
terminated by the Commission on the
basis of an exchange of letters between the Commission and that defendant,24
The Final Orders respecting fourteen
of these defendants,
Petrofunds,
McRae Oil, Consolidated, J.A. McRae,
Kelly, Benson, DeMeritt, Leger & Co.,
Leger, SSOG, Dorroh, LGP, LGI, and
Biller prohibit them from engaging in
conduct violative of the antifraud provisions of the Exchange Act.
In addition to the Final Order, Consolidated, which is the parent company
of McRae Oil and Petrofunds, in its
Stipulation, has undertaken to establish
and maintain an Audit Committee,
consisting
of certain
named individuals, to perform certain specified
functions. The Final Order directs
compliance with all of the terms of the
Stipulation including this undertaking.
The Audit Committee is to review,
among other things, all proposed
dealings between Consolidated, its
subsidiaries or affiliates and oil and gas
drilling funds controlled by any of them
to assure they are fair; is to make recommendations
to Consolidated's
board of directors with respect to such
dealings; and is authorized to consult outside auditors and would review
at least twice a year all expenses
charged to each of the drilling funds
and make appropriate recommendations and reallocations. The Audit
Committee also is to make recommendations regarding disclosure in
offering documents employed in connection with the offering of interests
in any new drilling fund.

The Final Order with respect to
Biller includes a representation by
Biller that he has not actively practiced before the Commission, does not
intend to practice before the Commission, and will give the Commission
thirty days notice in advance of his
practicing before it. By letter, the
Commission has agreed to refrain from
instituting a proceeding against Biller
under Rule 2(e) of its Rules of Practice
based on the allegations in the complaint or the entry of the Final Order so
long as he complies with the above
stated representations.
In addition to the Final Order, Leger
& Co. and Leger agreed to the Commission's issuing an Order and an Opinion
pursuant to Rule 2(e) of its Rules of
Practice pursuant to which Leger & Co.
and Leger are to submit to a review, by
an individual acceptable to the Commission and its Office of the Chief
Accountant, of its current policies,
practices, and procedures in accordance with the AICPA Technical Standards Review Program to determine
any weaknesses therein and adopt
and implement any reasonable recommendations of the reviewer made in
his final report. The report of the
reviewer which was expected to be
completed within 90 days from the
date of the Commission's Opinion
and Order is to be submitted to the
Office of the Chief Accountant.
A
follow-up review is to be conducted
one year after the issuance of the
above stated report to determine the
extent to which Leger & Co. and Leger
have adopted and implemented the
recommendations made in such report. These defendants will not accept
engagement by any new public clients
until one month after the above described report is submitted to the
Office of the Chief Accountant. (For
further information, see Accounting
Series Release No. 223).
181

In addition, the Court entered Final
Orders against the law firm of Raphael,
Searles, Vischi, Scher, Glover and
D'Elia and two of its partners, Raphael
and D'Elia. The Final Order entered
with respect to Raphael requires him
to take all reasonable and appropriate
measures and actions including all
reasonable and appropriate inquiry
and investigation to assure himself
that the following contain full and
fair disclosure of all material facts:
(a) any offering document filed with
the Commission pursuant to the Securities Act on behalf of the issuer
or sponsor of any oil and gas drilling
fund, program or venture, or tax incentive investments, for which issuer or
sponsor he is registration counsel;
(b) any offering document filed with
the Commission on behalf of any issuer
of securities of which he is or shall
become an officer, director or control
person.
In addition, by a separate letter
undertaking, Raphael agreed not to
practice before the Commission for a
period of sixty days immediately following the entry of the Final Order
with respect to him and thereafter
to submit for review by a partner of
the law firm (who has seniority at least
equal to his and did not work on such
filing) any offering document prepared
by Raphael in whole or part which is
to be filed with the Commission. Such
review is to be conducted for the purpose of ensuring that such filing complies with the provisions of the 1933
and 1934 Acts. By letter, the Commission agreed not to institute any
proceeding under Rule 2(e) of its Rules
of Practice against Raphael based
upon the above-described Final Order
or the allegations in the amended
complaint so long as he abides by such
commitments.
The Commission's
Division of Enforcement advised
Raphael by letter that, in its view,
182

breach of any of the above-stated
undertakings would constitute an
independent ground for the institution
of a proceeding under Rule 2(e), but
that such a proceeding would not
involve the facts alleged in the
Commission's complaint.
The Final Order with respect to
D'Elia and Raphael, Searles, Vischi,
Scher, Glover & D'Elia requires these
defendants to take all reasonable
actions to assure themselves that full
and fair disclosure of all material
facts is made in any registration
statement or offering circular filed
with the Commission for any issuer or
sponsor of participation units in oil
and gas drilling funds, programs,
ventures, or tax incentive investments
for which they act as counsel. In
addition, in a letter undertaking,
the firm agreed to review its procedures and practices respecting
preparation of registration statements
and offering circulars during the
60 days following the entry of the
Final Order. The firm also agreed
that a partner of equal seniority in
the firm would review any registration
statement or offering circular prepared in whole or in part by Raphael
to assure its compliance with the
1933 and 1934 Acts. By letter the
Commission agreed that if D'Elia and
the firm comply with the terms of
the Final Order and undertakings the
Commission will not institute proceedings under Rule 2(e) based on the
matters alleged in the complaint or
the entry of the Final Order. Such
letter also states that the Commission's
Division of Enforcement views a
breach of any of the above stated
undertakings or the Final Order as
constituting an independent ground
for the institution of a proceeding
under Rule 2(e) but that such proceeding would not involve the facts

alleged in the Commission's complaint.
A Final Order with respect to Roberts
requires him "to take all reasonable
actions including all reasonable and
appropriate inquiry and investigation
to assure himself that, in connection
with any securities offering by any
company of which he is an officer,
director or counselor any partnership of which he is a general partner
or counsel, or any issuer controlled
by such company or partnership," no
violation of the antifraud provisions
of the Exchange Act occurs. In addition, such Order requires Roberts, an
attorney, to conduct a review of his
policies, practices, and procedures
during the sixty days immediately
following the entry of the Final
Order. In a separate letter to the
Commission, Roberts undertook that
he would not practice before the
Commission during the above stated
review. The Commission, in a letter
to Roberts, stated that it would not
institute
any proceedings under
Rule 2(e) of its Rules of Practice
against Roberts based on the allegations in the Commission's complaint
or the entry of the Final Order so
long as he complies with his representations and undertakings.
The Commission terminated its
action against the one remaining
defendant, Judge Edward C. Coulson,
on the basis of an exchange of letters
between the Commission and Judge
Coulson. In his letter to the Commission, Judge Coulson stated that,
in view of the Codeof Judicial Conduct
of the State of Texas, which prohibits the private practice of law,
he commits that he will not represent
Petrofunds Inc., or its affiliated
companies, and he will not practice
as an attorney before the Commission. He further stated that if he
should desire to practice before the

Commission, which would be inconsistent with his commitment,
he
will notify the Commission in writing.
The Commission in its letter to counsel
for Coulson stated that in reliance on
the commitment contained in the
letter it would not institute a proceeding under Rule 2(e) based upon
the allegations in the Commission's
complaint, but that in the view of the
Commission any action by Judge
Coulson inconsistent
with that
commitment might constitute a basis
for a decision regarding his right
to practice before the Commission.
SEC v. Solon Automated Services,
Inc. et a/. - On April 25, 1977, a
complaint for injunctive and other
relief was filed by the Commission
in the United States District Court
for the District of Columbia against
Solon Automated Services, Inc.
(Solon), a supplier of coin-operated
laundry equipment throughout the
United States with principal offices in
Washington, D.C.25 The complaint
also named various officers, directors
and employees of Solon and charged
all defendants with violating certain
of the antifraud provisions of the
Federal securities laws.
The complaint alleged that from
the 1940's to the present, the defendants variously caused Solon to
enter into lease agreements with
lessors whereby Solon, in exchange
for the right to install and maintain
coin-operated
laundry
equipment, agreed to pay the lessors
"commissions,"
in the form of
an agreed upon percentage of
the gross proceeds from the machines, an agreed upon flat rate,
or some other form of agreed
upon amount.
Generally on a
monthly
basis,
employees
of
Solon would collect
the gross
proceeds from the machines, and
commission checks would be pre183

pared and delivered to the lessors.
The defendants,
in calculating
the commissions owing to certain
of the lessors, generally to those
on a percentage rate basis, would
take "deductions"
from the commissions due and owing to the
lessors. Certain of these deductions were not permitted by the
lease agreements and were taken
without the knowledge or consent
of the lessors. The practice of
taking deductions from commissions originated in the 1940's at
the time of Solon's inception,
and grew to the extent that deductions of approximately $225,000
were taken during fiscal year ending in 1974, deductions of approximately $350,000 were taken during
fiscal year ending in 1975, and deductions of approximately $350,000 were
taken during the fiscal year ending in
1976.
The complaint further alleged that
the practice of taking unauthorized deductions, the amount of monies deducted, and contingent liabilities which
Solon may have as a result of the
practice of taking unauthorized deductions were not disclosed in Solon's
financial statements or other public
filings, or to purchasers, sellers, or
prospective purchasers or sellers of
Solon's securities, or to Solon's customers.
The Honorable William B. Bryant,
United States District Judge, entered
judgments on April 25, 1977 against
the defendants permanently enjoining
them from violating the antifraud
provisions of the Federal securities laws in connection with the
offer and sale of Solon common
stock or any other securities. The
judgment
further
ordered
the
defendants in Solon to pay to the
benefit of its customers (the les184

sors) the sum of $900,000 in accordance with a "Plan of Distribution" filed with the Court and
ordered all defendants to institute
new policies, practices and proced ures with respect to the payment of commissions owing to the
lessors of Solon in accordance
with a "Statement of Policy Concerning the Payment of Commissions" filed with the Court. The
defendants consented to the entry
of these judgments without admitting or denying the allegations of
the complaint.
SEC v. First Pittsburgh
SecuriOn
ities Corporation,
et al. January 31, 1977, the Commission
filed a complaint in the United
States District Court for the Western
District
of Pennsylvania,
seeking to enjoin First Pittsburgh
Securities
Corporation,
a registered broker-dealer,
and others
from further violations of the securities
registration,
antifraud
and books and records provisions
of the Federal securities laws.26
The Commission alleged that the
defendants
fraudulently
offered
1. 7 miland sold approximately
lion dollars in unregistered
securities to certain of the insolvent
defendant
corporations.
The
Commission also alleged that investor monies obtained by the defendants through the sale of the
unregistered securities were disbursed to certain of the defendants through interest free loans.
Extensive ancillary
relief
affecting certain of the defendants
in this matter was granted and
lengthy litigation
ensued. Relief
included the issuance of a restraining order, a preliminary injunction,
the freezing of assets
and the issuance of protective
orders. A hearing on the merits

took place on June 10, 1977.
The
Commission
is
currently
awaiting a decision.
SEC v. Diplomat National Bank,
et al. - On September 28, 1977,
the Commission filed a complaint
for permanent
injunction
in the
U.S. District
Court for the District
of Columbia
against
the
Diplomat
National
Bank (Diplomat), Charles C. Kim (Kim), Bo
Hi Pak (Pak),
Tongsun
Park
(Park),
and
Spencer
Robbins
(Robbins),
charging
them
with
violatrons of the antifraud
provisions of the securities
laws in
connectron
with offer, sale and
purchase
of Diplomat
common
stockP
The complaint alleged that in 1975,
during the initial offering of Diplomat
common stock,
the defendants
variously participated in a scheme
whereby Pak and Park, through undisclosed
nominees, respectively
purchased in excess of 43 percent and
10 percent of Diplomat's outstanding
stock. The purchases were in direct
violation of stock ownership limitations
established by the Comptroller of the
Currency for Diplomat and contrary to
express representations
regarding
maximum stockholdings by investors
in Diplomat's disclosure document
used in the offering. The complaint
further alleged that, during the resales
of Diplomat stock by Diplomat on
behalf of Pak, Park and others, defendants variously made misrepresentations and omissions of material
fact regarding, among other things:
(1) the existence of shareholders who
owned in excess of Diplomat's previously established maximum limitation on stock ownership; (2) Diplomat's
financial condition; (3) risks attendant to an investment in Diplomat;
(4) the existence of a substantial
demand deposit at Diplomat which was

controlled by Pak; (5) the number of
shares of stock which had been
tendered to Diplomat for resale; and
(6) that a letter from the Comptroller
of the Currency, concluding that there
were no improprieties by Diplomat in
connection
with its initial stock
offering, was obtained as a result
of misrepresentations to that agency
by Kim, who was at the time Diplomat's
chairman.
On September 28, 1977, the Honorable John Pratt of the U.S. District
Court for the District of Columbia
entered Judgments of Permanent
Injunction restraining and enjoining
Diplomat and Kim from violating the
antifraud provisions of the securities
laws. The defendants consented to the
entry of the Court's Final Judgment
and Order without
admitting
or
denying the allegations in the Commission's complaint. Additionally, the
Court ordered Diplomat to institute
additional safeguards to prevent a
recurrence of violations.
On September 30, 1977, Judge
Pratt entered Judgments of Permanent Injunction restraining and
enjoining defendants Robbins, Park
and Pak from violating the antifraud
provisions of the Federal securities
laws. The defendants consented to the
entry of the Court's Final Judgement
and Order without
admitting
or
denying the allegations in the Commission's complaint. Additionally, the
Court ordered that Park and Pak shall
not directly or indirectly
exercise
voting rights or solicit proxies in connection with Diplomat's stOCk.28
SEC v. Gamble-Skogmo, Inc., Herbert B. Nelson, Samuel Luftig - On
September 14, 1977, the Commission
filed an injunctive action in the United
States District Court for the Northern
District of Illinois against GambleSkogmo, Inc. (G-S), a Delaware corporation primarily engaged in retail op185

erations, Herbert B. Nelson (Nelson),
former president of Gamble Import
Corporation (GIC), a subsidiary of G-Si
and Samuel Luftig (Luftig), former
senior vice president of GIC.29
The complaint alleged that defendant G-S violated the proxy solicitation
and reporting provisions of the Exchange Act in that G-S failed to
disclose certain kickbacks and rebates
in various annual reports and proxy
statements. It was alleged that these
kickbacks and rebates were paid to
GIC by various foreign ocean carriers
and Japanese
television
manufacturers.
The complaint further alleged that
defendants Nelson and Luftig, officers
of GIC during this period of time,
caused the company to enter into the
kickback and rebate agreements. It
was alleged that these actions by
Nelson and Luftig aided and abetted
the proxy solicitation and reporting
violations of G-S and constituted
violations of the antifraud provisions
of the Exchange Act.
Without admitting or denying the
allegations
of the complaint,
defendant G-S consented to the entry
of a Judgment of Permanent Injunction enjoining it from further violations of the reporting and proxy provisions of the securities laws. The
action is still pending against Nelson
and Luftig.
SEC v. Fisco, inc., et al. - The
Commission filed a civil injunctive
action against FISCO, Inc. (FISCO),
a Pennsylvania automobile insurance
holding company; William Rush (Rush),
a founder, director and former president of FISCO; Robert J. Reilly (Reilly),
a director and former officer of FISCO,
Leonard P. Connolly (Connolly), a
former officer of FISCO and its sole
employee;
Robert K. Greenfield
(Greenfield), formerly FISCO's Chairman of the Board and a member of
186

a law firm which represented FISCO;
and Lawrence J. Lee (Lee), also a
former member of that law firm. The
injunctive action involves allegations
of violations of the antifraud and reporting provisions of the Federal
secu rities laws.30
The Commission's complaint alleged
that, during periods in which it was
reporting substantial
increases in
earnings, in fact, FISCO should have
been reporting substantial losses. As
a result, all of FISCO's filings with
the Commission during these periods
were materially false and misleading.
The Commission's complaint also
alleged that a FISCO prospectus, as
well as other pubtic statements of
FISCO, was materially false and misleading as a result of failing to disclose the true state of facts in connection with the transfer of liability
for a substantial block of insurance
to FISCO's wholly-owned insurance
subsidiary, Gateway Insurance Company, on September
30, 1971.
According to the complaint, the reserves for claims attributable to such
insurance, as audited by an independent certified public accounting firm,
were materially deficient. As a result,
FISCO's income for the current period
reflected in the prospectus was overstated by approximately $4 million.
The complaint further alleged that,
in order to report income improperly,
FISCO used a variety of devices,
primarily the understatement of reserves for losses. The methods by
which FISCO understated loss reserves
ranged from management orders to
reduced reserves to deliberate adoption
of computer programs designed to prohibit reserve increases.
The complaint alleged that Lee prepared and Greenfield reviewed opinions
with respect to FISCO's acquisition of
Prestige Casualty Company, an Illinois
insurance company. The opinions con-

tained certain statements which Lee
and Greenfield knew or should have
known were factually false. According
to the complaint, the opinions were
one of the bases upon which FISCO's
accountants permitted FISCO wrongfully to include in its financial statements material amounts of Prestige's
income. As a result, FISCO's income
for the year 1972 was materially overstated.
Simultaneously with the filing of the
Commission's complaint, each of the
defendants consented to the entry by
the District Court for the District of
Columbia of Judgments of Permanent
Injunction enjoining them from violations of the antifraud and reporting
provisions of the Securities Act and
the Exchange Act.
In addition to the Judgments of Permanent Injunction, the Court ordered
that, except with respect to FISCO,
Rush, Reilly and Connolly shall not
act as officers or directors or make
any significant policy decision or prepare or be responsible for the preparation of financial statements of any
publicly held company. The Court also
ordered that Mitchell shall not act as
an officer or director of any publicly
held company.
Lee and Greenfield represented, in
stipulations filed with the Court, that
they do not practice before the Commission. They agreed to give prior
written notice to the Commission in the
event that they intend to practice
before the Commission and that, in the
event that such prior written notice
is given within three (Greenfield) or
two (Lee) years, the Commission may
use the entry of the Judgment as the
sole basis for a proceeding pursuant
to Rule 2(e) of the Commission's Rules
of Practice.
SEC v. General Dynamics Corporation and Lester Crown - In July 1977,
the Commission filed a complaint

against General Dynamics Corporation
and Lester Crown to enjoin them from
further violations of the proxy provisions of the Federal securities laws
and from making and causing to be
made certain false and fictitious
entries in the books and records of
General Dynamics Corporation.u The
complaint
alleged
that General
Dynamics' proxy materials for 1974,
1975, and 1976, in which Crown was
nominated as a director of General
Dynamics, failed to disclose that
Crown provided funds to others to
make payments intended to influence
certain members of the General
Assembly of the State of Illinois in
connection with proposed legislation
and that he directed officers and
employees
of Material
Services
Corporation, wholly-owned subsidiary
of General Dynamics, to submit and
receive payment on expense accounts
which
included
false expenses
pursuant to a plan to reimburse Crown
for the aforementioned payments. The
defendants, simultaneously with the
filing of the complaint, and without
admitting or denying the allegations,
consented to the entry of a Final
Judgment of Permanent Injunction
against further
violations
of the
proxy provisions
of the Federal
securities laws and against making
false and fictitious
entries in the
books and records of Material Service
Corporation, General Dynamics Corporation or any other issuer.
In addition, the order required that
General Dynamics correct and amend
its proxy statements for 1974, 1975
and 1976 to detail the information
concerning the aforementioned payments. The defendants also were required to cause General Dynamics
and its subsidiaries
to issue to
their
officers
and appropriate
employees intracorporate guidelines
187

for the proper use in disbursement
of corporate funds.
SEC v. Mexletter Business & Investment Service, et al. - On September
7, 1976, the Commission filed a complaint in the United States District
Court for the District of Columbia
seeking injunctive
relief against
Mexletter-Mexican Business and Investment
Service (Mexletter),
a
registered investment adviser with the
Commission located in Mexico City,
Mexico and Eugene C. Latham
(Latham), controlling shareholder and
president of Mexletter.32
The Commission's complaint alleged
that, from 1967 until the filing of the
complaint,
Mexletter and Latham
offered for sale and sold to U.S.
investors unregistered
securities,
including promissory notes, certificates
of deposits, "financial bonds" and
"financial
certificates"
issued by
certain Mexican investment banks
(financieras), in violation of the registration provision of the Securities Act.
The complaint further alleged violations of the antifraud provisions of the
Securities Act and the Exchange Act
in that the distribution of unregistered
securities was effected by means of
promotional
materials containing
numerous false and misleading statements of material fact and omissions
to state material facts necessary to
enable investors to make informed
investment decisions. As part of the
alleged violations,
the complaint
alleged that Mexletter and Latham
made false and misleading statements
regarding the risks of investment in
securities of Mexican financieras and
failed to disclose certain risks of
investment in such securities.
The complaint
further
alleged
violations by Mexletter and Latham
of the Investment Advisers Act of
1940, including the antifraud, record188

keeping and reporting requirements of
the Advisors Act.
The complaint further alleged that
Mexletter and Latham acted as brokerdealers without registering with the
Commission under the Exchange Act.
The Court, on July 8, 1977, entered
Judgments of Permanent Injunction
against the defendants,
enjoining
them from violations of the registration and antifraud provisions of the
Federal securities laws. In a Consent
and Undertaking filed with the Court,
the defendants
consented to the
entries of the Judgments, without
admitting or denying the allegations
In the complaint.
SEC v. Uniroyal Inc. - On January
27, 1977, as part of the Commission's
ongoing management fraud program,
the Commission instituted a civil injunctive action against Uniroyal Inc.
in the United States District Court for
the District of Columbia.33
The Commission's complaint alleged
violations of various provisions of
the Federal securities laws in connection with (a) the making of substantial
improper and illegal payments, involving approximately $2.3 million in
corporate funds, to officials
and
employees of various foreign governments, including Mexico's; (b) the
falsification of corporate books and
records of Uniroyal; (c) the payment
of questionable
commissions;
(d)
the utilization of unrecorded and unaccounted for funds for improper
purposes; (e) violations of foreign
currency exchange laws; (f) the making
of domestic political contributions;
and (g) the filing of materially false
and misleading annual and periodic
reports and proxy statements with the
Commission, concerning the aforementioned matters.
Simultaneously with the filing of the
complaint, the Court entered a Judgment of Permanent Injunction
re-

straining and enjoining Uniroyal from
further violations of the antifraud,
reporting and proxy provisions of the
Exchange Act and ordering certain
other relief. Uniroyal consented to
the entry of the Court's Judgment
without admitting
or denying the
allegations
in the Commission's
complaint.
The ancillary relief obtained in this
case included independent review of
an investigation
conducted
by
Uniroyal regarding political
contributions and other improper payments, and orders of the Court
directed to certain unlawful conduct.
SEC v. Sucrest Corporation, et al. On June I, 1977, the Commission
filed a complaint in the United States
District Court for the District of
Columbia seeking injunctive
relief
against Sucrest Corporation (Sucrest),
a New York sugar refiner, certain
of its officers and directors,
and
Czarnikow Rionda Company, Inc.
(RIONDA) a sugar broker located in
New York City.34
The complaint charged the defendants with violations of antifraud
and reporting provisions of the Exchange Act and the Securities Act.
The complaint alleged that Sucrest
and Rionda had engaged in sham
transactions
when Sucrest orally
agreed with Rionda to resell to
Rionda, after Sucrest's year-end,
the same quantity of raw sugar which
Sucrest had purchased from Rionda
prior to Sucrest's year-end at a price
which would assure both companies of
no monetary gain or loss between
them, except for fees which Sucrest
paid to Rionda. The complaint further
alleged that these transactions
materially affected Sucrest's yearend inventory quantities and the income computed therefrom for its fiscal
1975 and 1976 years, and resulted
in the dissemination
of false and

misleading press releases stating
Sucrest's income, and in the filing of
misleading reports with the Commission. The complaint further alleged
that officers of both Sucrest and
Rionda made materially false and
misleading statements to Sucrest's
auditors in order to conceal the
existence of the oral agreement from
their auditors.
All of the defendants consented to
the entry of Judgments of Permanent
Injunction which granted certain ancillary relief without admitting or
denying the allegations in the Commission's complaint.
SEC v. Charles Jacquin, Et Cie.,
Inc. et al. - On October 17, 1977,
the Commission filed a complaint in
the United States District Court for
the District of Columbia seeking injunctive and ancillary relief against
Charles Jacquin et Cie., Inc. (Jacquin),
which produces and imports alcoholic
beverage products, and two of its
officers, Jerome J. Cooper (J. Cooper)
and Norton Cooper (N. Cooper),
secretary-treasurer and vice president
respectively, alleging violations of the
antifraud, proxy and reporting provisionsofthe Federal securities laws.35
The complaint alleged that during
the period from at least 1969 to 1977,
Jacquin, J. Cooper and N. Cooper
made undisclosed payments of money
and transferred
other assets of
Jacquin to customers and others,
including payments to state alcoholic
beverage control officials,
as inducements to purchase Jacquin products. These inducements included
the distribution of cases of alcoholic
beverages free of charge to retail
customers, the value of which approximated $300,000 to $500,000 per
year, the payment of money to certain
retail customers by means of fictitious
invoices for goods or services never
actually received by Jacquin, and the
189

payment of money and other valuable
items to members or employees of a
state liquor control board.
The Commission also alleged that J.
Cooper and N. Cooper, without disclosure, diverted and caused the
diversion of Jacquin funds and assets
for their own benefit and for the
benefit of members of their family,
including Elsie Cooper (E. Cooper)
and Ruth Cooper (R. Cooper) president
and executive employee, respectively,
of the company, and mother and
sister, respectively, of J. Cooper and
N. Cooper. This diversion of funds
and assets was accomplished
in
several different ways, including the
payment of salaries to members of
J. Cooper's and N. Cooper's family
although they rendered no substantial
services to Jacquin, and the payment
of a variety of personal expenses of
the Cooper family such as apartment
rentals, maintenance fees for condominiums, utility and real estate
tax expenses on personal residences,
and college tuition payments for
certain children of Jacquin's officers
and directors.
The complaint further alleges that in
1973 and 1975 J. Cooper requested
certain Jacquin employees to make
political contributions to, among other
candidates
for elective office, a
candidate for the presidency, which
contributions
J. Cooper caused
Jacquin to reimburse by causing false
and misleading expense vouchers to
be prepared.
Jacquin, J. Cooper and N. Cooper
consented,
without admitting
or
denying the allegations, to Judgments
of Permanent Injunction and Ancillary
Relief restraining them from further
violations of the antifraud, proxy and
reporting provisions of the Federal
securities laws. E. Cooper and R.
Cooper signed Undertakings agreeing
190

to be bound by the provisions of the
aforementioned Judgments.
The ancilllary relief included (1)
the expansion of Jacquin's board of
directors to include two additional
independent directors and provision
for additional independent directors
in the event Jacquin increases the size
of its board; (2) the establishment
of an audit committee of Jacquin's
board; and (3) the appointment of a
Special Counsel for Jacquin to conduct an investigation, and upon the
approval of Jacquin's board, to take
appropriate action against any officer,
director or employee of Jacquin.
SEC v. Potter Instrument Company
lnc., et al. - On March 9, 1977, the
Commission, having filed a complaint
in the United States District Court
for the District of Columbia, obtained
a Judgment of Permanent Injunction
by consent against Potter Instrument
Company Inc. (PICO) and John T.
Potter, PICO's largest shareholder and
the chairman of its board of directors."
The complaint alleged that PICO and
Potter had violated certain antifraud
and proxy solicitation provisions of the
Federal securities laws by failing to
disclose that Potter had received substantial benefits from PICO in addition
to his stated salary during the period
from 1970 through 1974. These additional benefits included the yearly
expenditures
of
approximately
$100,000 in corporate funds to maintain Potter's residence and personal
racing yacht and to pay the salaries
of domestic
servants
and crew
members who were reflected on the
company's personnel and payroll records as maintenance personnel and
engineers.
The complaint additionally alleged
that PICO and Potter had attempted
to conceal
PICO's deteriorating
financial
condition
during
1974
by issuing false and misleading press

releases and by filing interim reports
with the Commission which failed to
reflect necessary adjustments
for
obsolescence in Its inventory and
rental equipment.
In addition to consenting to the entry
of the Judgment of Permanent Injunction against it, PICO undertook to
prepare and disseminate to its shareholders a report containing a summary of recent corporate developments
and the allegations in the Commission's
complaint. PICO further undertook to
establish certain committees, including
an audit committee, from among the
members of its present board of
directors, and to appoint only outside
directors approved by the Commission
to fill any vacancies on its board of
directors for a period of three years.
The Court's Judgment and Order
against Potter placed certain permanent restrictions upon the scope of
his activities at PICO and prohibited
him from voting his shares to defeat
any motion, resolution or course of
action recommended by a majority
of PICO's board of directors for a
period of three years.
SEC v. Banque de Paris et des
Pays-Bas (Suisse) S.A. - On May
10, 1977, the Commission filed a
complaint in the United States District
Court for the District of Columbia
seeking injunctive relief against the
Banque de Paris et des Pays-Bas
(Suisse) SA (the Banque), a Swiss
banking corporation
in Geneva,
Switzerland.s? The complaint alleged
that the Banque filed Schedules 13D
which contained untrue statements
of material fact and omitted to state
material facts required to be stated
in such Schedules. These Schedules
13D pertained to the Banque's ownership of securities in Amicor Corp.
(Arnicor): Florida Water and Utilities
Co., (Florida Water); Hygrade Food
Products Corp. (Hygrade): Princeton

Electronic Products, Inc. (PEP); and
Electro Audio Dynamics Inc. (EAD).
The Commission's complaint alleged
that the Banque acquired approximately 26 percent of the outstanding
common stock of Hygrade and stated
in its Schedule 13D that such securities
were acquired for the Banque's own
account and accounts over which the
Banque had sole discretionary authority.
The complaint alleged that the Banque
did not disclose the names of those
persons over whose account it acted
in a fiduciary capacity.
The Commission's complaint stated
that the Banque acquired approximately 7 percent of the common stock
of Amicor for its own account and
accounts over which it had sole discretionary authority. The complaint
alleged that the Banque failed to file
either the purchase agreement or the
discretionary account agreement, as
it was required to do, with the Schedule
13D pertaining
to Amicor. In an
amendment to the Amicor 13D, the
Banque stated that it had purchased
the Amicor securities for its own
account and for a limited number of
accounts not exceeding 20 depositors.
Eventually, the Banque admitted that
only one account was involved, and
that the beneficial
owner of the
account was an associate of the law
firm which acted on behalf of the
Banque in negotiating the purchase
of the Amicor securities. The Commission's complaint alleged further
misrepresentation in that the Banque
did not have unfettered discretionary
control over this account, since, when
requested by the account holder, the
Banque bought certain securities back
from the account and the account
holder would have been able to cancel
his account and withdraw all the
securities from the account.
The Commission's complaint stated
that the Banque acquired 5.1 percent
191

of the stock of Florida Water and filed
a Schedule 130 which stated the
securities were purchased for its own
account and accounts over which it
had sole discretionary authority, pursuant to a loan agreement among
Florida Water, the Banque and an unaffiliated party. The complaint alleged
that the Banque failed to disclose
the identity of either the unaffiliated
party or the identity of the discretionary account holders for which it
purchased the securities.
The Commission's complaint stated
that the Banque filed a Schedule
130 pertaining to the acquisition
of 40.5 percent of EAD's common
stock for the Banque's own account
and accounts over which the Banque
had sole discretionary accounts. The
complaint alleged that the Banque
failed to disclose the Identity of the
discretionary account holders and that
when the Banque disposed of 205,000
shares of EAD pursuant to a registered
public offering the Banque failed to
file an amended Schedule 130 required to be filed.
The Commission's complaint further
stated that the Banque filed a
Schedule 130 pertaining to the acquisition of 11.6 percent of the common stock of PEP for its own account
and accounts over which it had sole
discretionary authority. The complaint
alleged that the Banque failed to
disclose the identity of the discretionary account agreements as exhibits
to the PEP 130. The complaint
also alleged that the Banque failed to
disclose that the Banque and two other
purchasers were given the right to
nominate a person to PEP's board of
directors and that such designee was
a representative of one of the discretionary account holders.
The Court entered a Judgment of
Permanent Injunction
against the
Banque, enjoining the Banque from
192

violations of the security acquisition
reporting provisions of the Federal
securities
laws. The Banque consented to the entry of the Judgment
without admitting
or denying the
allegations in the complaint. In addition, certain ancillary
relief was
ordereo by the Court, including the
following: (a) The Banque is to establish
adequate procedures to insure compliance with the reporting requirements
of the security acquisition provisions
of the Securities Exchange Act of
1934; (b) Within two years the Banque
is to dispose of all its holdings and
the holdings of those accounts for
which it purchased the equity securities
of Florida Water, EAD, and PEP; and
(c) Until these securities are disposed
of, the Banque is to escrow these
securities with an agent in the United
States who would vote the securities
in the same proportion as all other
shares in the pertinent issuer are
voted.
SEC v. Vanguard Security Funding
Corporation - On March 16, 1977,
the Commission filed a complaint in
the United States District Court for
the District of Columbia seeking injunctive
relief against Vanguard
Security Funding Corporation (Vanguard) of Montgomery, Alabama.38
Simultaneously, the Court entered a
Judgment of Permanent Injunction
enjoining Vanguard from violating the
antifraud and reporting provisions of
the Federal securities laws based upon
its consent in which it neither admitted nor denied the allegations of
the Commission's complaint. Vanguard, through a subsidiary, is engaged in underwriting group life and
health insurance and group disability
insurance.
The complaint alleged that in 1974,
in order to report an improved legallyrequired surplus, Vanguard's subsidiary entered into sham transactions

in which it acquired real estate in
exchange for surplus debentures. The
obligation to pay the surplus debentures
was contingent
upon
achievement of predetermined levels
of the Alabama statutory surplus. The
complaint alleged that, by reason of
accounting treatment given to the
sham transactions, real estate and
subordinated debt were substantially
overstated and net loss and retained
earnings deficit were substantially
understated in financial statements
of Vanguard's subsidiary, included
in the Annual Report on Form 10-K,
and that footnote assertions therein,
that the transactions removed an impairment of capital, were false.
The complaint also alleged that Vanguard failed to disclose: (1) That
the fair market value and cost of the
real estate was substantially
less
than reported; (2) The existence of
an agreement providing for reversion
of title to certain of the real estate
should the subsidiary be placed in
receivership; and (3) That Vanguard
filed false and misleading statutory
surplus reports with the Alabama
Department of Insurance, including
false and misleading appraisals of
certain of the real estate.
SEC v. William R. Lummis, et a/.,
Administrators of Estate of Howard R.
Hughes, et a/.39 - In March 1975,
as previously reported, the Commission
instituted a civil proceeding for injunctive and other relief alleging
numerous violations of the Federal
securities laws arising from the bid
by Howard R. Hughes to purchase
the assets of Air West, an airline
carrier.w
On September 20,1976, the District
Court for the Northern District of
California issued Findings of Fact and
Conclusions of Law in connection
with the defaults of Howard R. Hughes,
Summa Corporation and Hughes Air

Corp. Subsequently, an interlocutory
appeal was taken by the defaulted
defendants (the Administrators of the
Estate of Howard R. Hughes having
been substituted
as parties defendant).
That appeal has been
briefed; no date for argument has
been set.
On August 19, 1977, the District
Court issued a Final Order (on consent) permanently enjoining Patrick
Hillings
(Hillings)
from violating
the proxy solicitation
provisions
of the Federal securities laws. On
August 10, 1977, the court issued a
Judgment of Permanent Injunction
on Consent permanently enjoining
David B. Charnay (Charnay) from
violating the antifraud
and antimanipulative provisions of the Federal
securities laws and ordering Charnay
to disgorge $19,500, such payment
being deemed satisfaction of the claim
for disgorgement in the Commission's
action. Both Hillings and Charnay
consented to the court's orders without admitting or denying the allegations of the Commission's complaint.
SEC v. los. Schlitz Brewing Company - On April 8, 1977, the Commission filed a complaint in the United
States District Court for the District
of Columbia seeking injunctive and
ancillary relief against Jos. Schlitz
Brewing Company (Schlitz), a Wisconsin
corporation
which is the second
largest brewer of beer and malt
beverages in the United States,
alleging violations of the antifraud,
proxy and reporting provisions of the
Federal securities laws.41
The complaint alleged that during
the period from 1969 to 1977, Schlitz
disbursed millions of dollars in undisclosed payments in cash and other
items of value to its customers and
others, including approximately $3
million in payments to beer and malt
beverage retailers, as inducements
193

to purchase Schlitz products, in
violation of Federal, state and local
liquor laws and regulations. These
inducements were accomplished by
(1) the payment of cash to retailers
and their agents and the furnishing
of goods and services to retailers;
(2) the reimbursement of its nationwide network of 1,000 wholesalers
who made cash payments and provided other items of value to retailers; (3) the concealment of these
payments through sham contracts,
invoices, agreements and other
documents; (4) the direction of cash
payments through third parties, including certain of Schlitz' and its
wholesalers'
outside advertising
agencies, as well as those of its
retailers.
A permanent injunction against violations of the Federal securities laws
by Schlitz and the appointment of a
Special Agent with the power to investigate the acts and practices
alleged in the complaint was requested
by the Commission. The case is being
litigated.
SEC v. H.K. Porter Company On March 21, 1977, the Commission
filed a complaint in the United States
District Court for the District of
Columbia, seeking injunctive relief
against H.K. Porter Company (Porter),
a Delaware corporation with its principal executive offices in Pittsburgh,
Pennsylvania.42 Simultaneous with the
filing of the complaint, the Court
entered a Judgment of Permanent
Injunction against Porter restraining
and enjoining Porter from further
violations of the filing requirements
of the ownership reporting and tender
offer provisions of the Federal
securities laws and ordering certain
other relief.
The complaint alleged that Porter
had violated Sections 13(d) and
14(d) of the Exchange Act and the
194

rules promulgated thereunder in
filing with the Commission false
and misleading
statements
on
Schedule 130 with respect to Porter's
intentions in purchasing securities of
Missouri Portland Cement Company
(Missouri) and making a tender offer
for Missouri common stock. The complaint further alleged that Porter's
statements and amendments to statements on Schedule 130, reporting
Porter's purchase of a block of
Missouri common stock from Cargill,
Inc., in August 1975, were false and
misleading in stating that the purpose
of the purchases was "for investment," when in fact, such purchases
were part of Porter's plan to make
a tender offer for additional shares
of Missouri and to acquire control of
Missouri.
The complaint further charged that
Porter's amended and restated
Schedule 130 and amendments thereto reporting terms of a new tender
offer and purchases of Missouri shares
pursuant to the tender offer from
December 1975 through January
1976, were false and misleading in
stating that Porter did not intend
to seek representation on Missouri's
board of directors or participate in
the management of Missouri, when in
fact, Porter intended to do so.
SEC v. Arthur T. Mudd and Bobby
Hodges - On May 19, 1977, the
Commission filed a complaint against
Arthur T. Mudd and Bobby Hodges,
both of Memphis, Tennessee, alleging
violations of the municipal securities
registration and antifraud provisions
of the Federal securities laws.43
The Commission alleged that the
defendants were engaging in the
business of offering and selling
municipal securities to the public
without registering with the Commission as municipal
securities
dealers.

It was further alleged that in the
conduct of such business, Mudd and
Hodges sold municipal securities to
their customers at prices not reasonably related to current market prices.
Both defendants consented to the
entry of an Order of Permanent
Injunctlon.v
This was one of the first cases
where an action was brought against
a municipal
securities
dealer for
failure to register with the Commission
as required by the Securities Acts
Amendments of 1975.
SEC v. T.A.S. Investments and Gary
R. Paro - On July 20, 1977, the
Commission filed a complaint in the
United States District Court for the
Northern District of New York, seeking
to enjoin T.A.S. Investments (TAS.)
and Gary R. Paro, President of TAS.,
both of Syracuse, New York, from
further violations of the registration
and antifraud
provisions
of the
securities laws.45 The Commission's
complaint alleged that the defendant's
violations arose in the course of their
offer and sale of unregistered securities
in the form of investment interests
in advertising
and promotional
campaigns. The Commission alleged
that the defendants made numerous
misrepresentations and omissions of
material facts in a brochure mailed
nation-wide
which offered these
securities. These misrepresentations
and omissions concerned, among
other things, the use of the funds
raised from investors, the experience
of defendants
in the advertising
business, and the safety of and return
on the investments.
Simultaneously with the filing of the
Commission's
complaint,
a Final
Judgment of Permanent Injunction
and Order of Ancillary Relief was
entered, enjoining T.A.S. and Paro
from violating the registration and
antifraud provisions of the securities

laws. T.A.S. and Paro consented to
the entry of the Judgment without
admitting or denying the allegations
contained
in the complaint.
The
court also ordered,
as ancillary
relief, that the defendants (1) return to investors all monies received,
(2) send a letter to investors and
prospective investors informing them
of the Commission's action and withdrawing the defendants' offer, and (3)
submit affidavits to the court and the
Commission
demonstrating
compliance with this portion of the Court's
order.
SEC v. Shelby Bond Service Corporation, et al.-The Commission, on
April 18, 1977, filed a complaint
against Shelby Bond Service Corporation (Shelby Bond), a defunct Tennessee corporation which conducted
business as an unregistered municipal securities broker-dealer prior to
January I, 1976, and others, alleging
violations of the antifraud provisions
of the Federal securities laws in connection with the offer, purchase and
sale of municipal securities, including industrial development revenue
bonds.46 The Commission's complaint
alleged that Shelby Bond, its principals, and its salesmen used high
pressure
sales techniques
and
charged excessive markups and that
Shelby Bond salesmen made fraudulent misrepresentations and omissions
concerning such material facts as the
speculative nature of the securities
and the financial condition of the issuers.
The Commission's complaint further
alleged that Precision Optical Laboratory, Inc. (Precision Optical), Shelby
Bond, and the principals of Shelby
Bond violated the antifraud provisions
of the Federal securities laws in connection with the offer and sale of industrial development revenue bonds
which were issued to finance Precision
195

Optical and were underwritten
by
Shelby Bond.
Six of the defendants consented to
permanent injunctions and three defendants were enjoined by default.
Three defendants have been preliminarily enjoined until further order of the
Court.v One of the defendants subsequently consented to the entry of a
permanent injunction. No trial date
has been set for the remaining two defendants.
SEC v. Charles A. Carter, et al. - Th is
civil injunctive action followed the failure of Bankers Trust Savings and Loan
Association (Bankers Savings & Loan),
the largest state-chartered
savings
and loan association in Misslsslppl.:"
At the time of its failure in May 1976,
Bankers Savings & Loan held savings
accounts of over $210 million in the
form of passbook accounts and certificates of deposit. The savings accounts
of Bankers Savings & Loan were not
Federally insured by the Federal Savings and Loan Insurance Corporation
(FSLlC) but were privately insured
along with accounts in other statechartered associations in Mississippi
and Tennessee by American Savings
Insurance Company (American Savings) of Jackson, Mississippi.
On June 20, 1976, after Bankers
Savings & Loan and other statechartered savings and loan associations in Mississippi had been unable to
honor requests for withdrawals, the
Mississippi
legislature
passed an
emergency plan calling for a moratorium on withdrawals and providing for a
conservator for all non-Federally insured savings and loan associations in
Mississippi. The plan affected about
150,000 depositors having a total of
over $450 million deposited in savings
accounts in 34 non-Federally insured
savings and loan associations. Under
the terms of the plan, until an association obtained approval from the con196

servator to reopen, its depositors could
not withdraw any of their funds. This
ranged from a few days to a matter of
months in some instances. Bankers
Savings & Loan has since reorganized,
obtained FSLlC insurance and reopened under the name of Depositors
Savings Association.
The Commission's complaint, filed
on May 13, 1977 in the United States
District Court for the Southern District
of Mississippi, charged Charles A.
Carter (Carter), C. D. Shields (Shields),
Ray A. Jones (Jones), American Savings, Plaza Investment
Company
(Plaza) and Edwin L. Figg (Figg) with
violations of the antifraud provisions
of the Securities Act and the Exchange
Act. The complaint
charged that
Carter, Shields, Jones and American
Savings made misrepresentations and
omissions in the offer and sale of the
savings accounts of Bankers Savings
& Loan concerning,
among other
things, the insurance of the savings
accounts and the financial condition
of Bankers Savings & Loan and American Savings. The complaint further
charged Carter, Shields, Jones, Plaza
and Figg with violations in the offer and
sale of securities issued by Bankers
Trust Company, the parent holding
company of Bankers Savings & Loan,
which filed for proceedings under
Chapter X of the Bankruptcy Act. The
complaint alleged, among other things,
that purchasers of debentures and
promissory notes of Bankers Trust
Company were falsely led to believe
that such securities were issued by
Bankers Savings & Loan, and that the
defendants failed to disclose the operating losses and financial condition of
Bankers Trust Company to the purchasers of such securities. All the
defendants consented to the entry of
permanent injunction against them.
SEC v. American Hospital Supply
Corporation-On December 29, 1976,

the Commission filed a complaint
against American Hospital Supply
Corporation (American Hospital) alleging violations of certain of the reporting and proxy provisions of the Exchange Act in connection with disclosures concerning contracts providing
for American Hospital's equipping of
the King Faisal Specialist Hospital in
Riyadh, Saudi Arabia.49 According to
the complaint, American Hospital's reports filed with the Commission failed
to disclose certain facts concerning
purported agency, commission and
consulting arrangements entered into
in connection
with the American
Hospital contracts. The Commission
also charged in the complaint that
questionable
payments had been
made by American Hospital's foreign
subsidiaries during the period from
1970 through 1976 and that American
Hospital had filed and had caused to
be filed with the Commission annual
and periodic reports that were materially false and misleading in that they
failed to disclose such payments.
American Hospital, without admitting
or denying the allegations of the Commission's complaint, consented to the
entry of a Final Judgment of Permanent Injunction and Ancillary Relief
restraining and enjoining American
Hospital, or any of its affiliates and
subsidiaries, from further violations of
the reporting and proxy provisions of
the Exchange Act and ordering certain
other relief.
Ancillary relief ordered by the Court,
among other things, prohibits American Hospital, its employees and agents
from, directly or indirectly: (a) making
unlawful payments or causing unlawful payments to be made of any corporate funds of American Hospital or any
of its affiliates or subsidiaries for the
purpose either of obtaining business,
whether private or governmental, or
avoiding substantial compliance with

the legal requirements of any governmental jurisdiction; (b) using or aiding
and abetting the use of corporate
funds of American Hospital or any of
Its affiliates or subsidiaries for any unlawful political contributions or any
other unlawful political purposes; (c)
making or causing to be made any
materially false or fictitious entries in
the books and records of American
Hospital and its affiliates and subsidiaries; and (d) establishing, maintaining or causing to be established or
maintained any secret or unrecorded
fund of corporate monies or other
assets or making or causingto be made
any payments or disbursements thereof.
American Hospital was also ordered
to institute' and maintain enforcement
and control measures to assure compliance with its internal business
ethics code of conduct and with the
provisions of the Final Judgment.
SEC v. In vesco International Corp.In June 1977, the Commission filed a
complaint for injunctive and ancillary
relief in the United States District
Court for the Northern District of Georgia against Invesco International
Corporation, Security Management
Company, Inc. and three of Invesco's
officers, including its chairman of the
board of directors, alleging violations
of the reporting and antifraud provisions of the Federal securities laws.
The complaint sought injunctions and
an order directing the appointment to
the board of directors of a majority of
independent directors.
The Commission's complaint alleged
that Bruce R. Davis, chairman of Invesco's Board of Directors and its chief
executive officer, aided and abetted by
two other officers, purchased stock
from Invesco for inadequate consideration, sold other stock to Invesco at inflated prices, and received other remuneration in the form of loans and
197

advances and concealed such information by filing false and misleading
reports on Forms 8-K and lO-K.
On June 28, 1977, Judge William C.
O'Kelly issued orders permanently enjoining Invesco and its chief executive
officer from violations of the reporting
provisions of the Exchange Act, and
the two corporate and three individual
defendants from violations of antifraud provisions of the securities
laws.50 In addition, the Court issued
orders directing the Invesco board of
directors to nominate and recommend
for election a number of independent
directors who were not unacceptable
to the Commission and who would then
comprise a majority of said board.
SEC v. Orofino, et et. 51-This action
was instituted in December, 1976 in
the United States District Court for the
Southern District of New York to enjoin
Frank X. Orofino (Orofino), Colonial
Securities, lnc., Intermountain Transfer Corp. (Intermountain) and 16 others
from further violations of the registration and antifraud provisions of the
Federal securities laws in connection
with the offer and sale of the common
stock of Tucker Drilling Company, Inc.
(Tucker). Thereafter, all of the defendants, with the exception of TAO & Co.
(TAO), consented to the entry of Final
Judgments of Permanent Injunction
without admitting or denying the allegations in the Commission's complaint. The Commission stipulated to
the dismissal of its complaint against
TAO upon the basis that it was a soleproprietorship of the son of defendant
Orofino and not an entity under
Orofino's control.
The Commission's complaint alleged
that Orofino and certain of the other
defendants gathered approximately
300,000 shares of the common stock
of Tucker representing approximately
19 percent of the issued and outstanding stock. These 300,000 shares in198

eluded approximately 150,000 shares
which had previously been distributed
pursuant to a public offering and subsequently accumulated by certain of
the defendants and approximately
150,000 unregistered shares. Thereafter, Orofino and several of the other
defendants sold approximately 290,000
of these 300,000 shares through their
own and various nominee accounts at
several broker-dealers. No registration
statement for the offer and sale of
these approximately 290,000 shares
was ever filed with, or declared effective by, the Commission, nor was any
exemption from registration available.
The complaint further alleged that in
order to facilitate the distribution of
these Tucker shares, the defendant
Intermountain improperly removed restrictive legends from approximately
100,000 Tucker shares. Additionally,
the Commission charged that various
undisclosed sums of cash and amounts
of securities were given to the brokerage industry-related defendants who,
in return, solicited purchasers for
Tucker stock. Finally, the complaint
stated that in an attempt to maximize
their profits, Orofino and several of the
other defendants aided the distribution of Tucker stock by bidding for,
purchasing and inducing others to purchase Tucker stock while engaged in
said distribution.
SEC. v. Forest Laboratories, Inc. et
al.-In June, 1977, the Commission
filed a complaint in the United States
District Court for the Southern District
of New York against Forest Laboratories, Inc. (Forest), a New York based
pharmaceutical company, Hans Lowey
(Lowey), former chairman of the board
and president of Forest, Ian Stewart
(Stewart), former treasurer of Forest,
Milton Dorison (Dorison), former president of Forest, and Roberto Sein (Sein),
manager of a Forest subsidiary in
Puerto Rico, seeking to enjoin the de-

fendants from violations of the antifraud, reporting and proxy provisions
of the Federal securities laws.52
The Commission's complaint alleged
violations of the Federal securities
laws in connection with Forest's falsely inflating revenues recorded on its
books and records by approximately $4
million in connection with sales and
purported sales by Forest to three of its
major European customers. This was
accomplished, in part, by the preparation and maintenance of two sets of invoices, one set for the customer and
shipper which reflected the true pnce
of the goods sold, and the other set for
recordation on the books and records
of Forest, which reflected an inflated
price for the goods sold, in some cases
two, three or more times the true price.
The complaint alleged that the above
schemes resulted (in most years from
1963 through 1973) in reported earnings of Forest being inflated to levels
substantially
higher than the true
earnings of Forest for such years.
Forest consented to the entry of a
Permanent Injunction
enjoining it
from further violations of the abovementioned provisions of the Federal
securities laws and ordering certain
other relief without admitting or denying the allegations of the Commission's
complaint. The Court's order provides
that Forest's counsel and independent
public accountants shall conduct an
investigation of and prepare a report
covering the period from April 1, 1963
to the date of the entry of the Judgment, encompassing the matters set
forth in the complaint. Under the
terms of the Court's Order, such investigation
will be reviewed by a
Special Review Counsel. In September
1977, Sein consented to the entry of a
similar Permanent Injunction without
admitting or denying the allegations of
the complaint.
SEC v. Max Wilson, Inc., et al.-This

case resulted from an investigation
concerning the promotional and sales
activities of Max Wilson, Inc., a "Filefor-You-Agent" (FFYA), in connection
with the U.S. Bureau of Land Management's (BLM) Simultaneous Oil and
Gas Lease Filing System.53 Under the
system, the BLM each month posts a
list of public land available for oil and
gas leases and leases that have expired
or were terminated because the former
holder did not pay the annual rental. If
more than one U.S. citizen wants the
lease, the names are drawn in a lottery.
The winner gets the lease.
According to the complaint, Max Wilson, Inc., one of a growing number of
companies engaged in this type of business, recommended that its clients
file on certain BLM parcels that were
made available to the public each
month. The company received $10 per
parcel for each entry. The company
also guaranteed to pay each successful client a fixed amount (varying with
each parcel) plus a 3 percent overriding royalty interest, if production were
to commence, for his parcel. In addition, Max Wilson, Inc. would provide all
clerical functions necessary to enter
the lottery, pay the yearly rentals for a
successful client (if he sold the lease to
Max Wilson, Inc.) and notify the client
if he were successful.
The Commission filed a civil complaint on March 9, 1977 in the U.S.
District Court for the District of New
Mexico against Max Wilson, Inc., Max
Wilson and Robert Wilson alleging violations of the registration and antifraud provisions of the Federal securities laws in the offer and sale of, among
other things, investment contracts.
The complaint further alleged that in
connection with the offer and sale of
the securities, the defendants made
untrue statements of material facts including, among others, that: (l) there
were no others interested in purchas199

ing investors' leases when, in fact,
others had made offers to purchase
the investors' leases; and (2) the defendants knew who would pay the highest cash consideration plus overriding
royalties for oil and gas leases and that
this information would be made available to investors when, in fact, competitive offers were usually not forwarded to investors by defendants. In
addition, the complaint also alleged
that in connection with the offer and
sale of the securities, defendants
omitted to state, among other things,
that: (1) the use of defendants' address on the BLM Simultaneous Oil
and Gas drawing entry card isolated
the winner from those who might pay
substantially more for the lease than
the defendants' guaranteed price; and
(2) competing offers for the investors' leases would not be forwarded
to the investors.
The defendants consented to the
entry of a permanent injunction without admitting or denying the allegations of the Commission's complaint.
SEC v J. Ray McDermott & Co., Inc.,
et al.-On October 6, 1976, the Commission filed a complaint against J.
Ray McDermott & co., Inc. and several
of its past and present officers and
directors to enjoin them from further
violations of the antifraud, reporting
and proxy provisions of the Securities
Exchange Act of 1934.54 The complaint
alleged that the above defendants
made secret cash payments of corporate funds totaling at least $509,000
to co-defendant Schacht McCollum, a
former officer of Tenneco Oil Company,
a corporate subsidiary of Tenneco,
Inc., to aid in procuring and maintaining certain contracts and billings with
the Tenneco Oil Company.
Each of the defendants consented,
without admitting or denying the facts
set forth in the complaint, to the entry
of permanent injunctions prohibiting
200

future violations of the Federal securities laws. In addition, McDermott
undertook to prepare a written report
describing its internal investigations
into the matters set forth in the Commission's complaint together with the
results thereof and to make appropriate disclosure of the matters involved in the report to its shareholders.
SEC v Exxon Corporation, et al.-On
September 27, 1977, the Commission
filed a civil injunctive action against
Exxon Corporation (Exxon) and Vincenzo
Cazzaniga (Cazzaniga)-a former president and managing director of Esso
Italiana, S.p.A., Exxon's wholly-owned
subsidiary in Italy, seeking to enjoin
the defendants from further violations
of the reporting and proxy provisions
of the Exchange Act.55
The Commission's complaint alleged
that during the period from at least
1963 and continuing to at least 1972,
defendants Exxon and Cazzaniga, and
others, directly and indirectly, expended at least $55.25 million in Italy
as payments to political parties, government officials and employees, commercial bribes and other illegal, improper, noncorporate or unaccountable payments. Some or all of these
payments to political parties, government officials and government employees were made in connection with
governmental action and were made in
order to secure or influence such governmental action. Defendants Exxon,
Cazzaniga and others, directly and indirectly, disguised said payments by
means of false and improper accounting and the use of unrecorded bank
accounts.
In addition, the complaint alleged
that from at least 1963 and continuing
to at least 1975, defendant Exxon and
others expended at least an additional
$1.25 million in at least 15 other foreign countries as payments to political
parties, government officials and em-

ployees, commercial bribes and other
illegal, questionable, noncorporate or
unaccountable payments.
Without admitting or denying the
allegations contained in the Commission's complaint, defendant Exxon
consented to the entry of a Final Judgment of Permanent Injunction enjoining the company from further violations of the reporting and proxy provisions of the Exchange Act. In addition, Exxon was required to disclose in
a current report for September 1977
on a Form 8-K, filed with the Commission simultaneously with the filing with
the Court of the Commission's complaint, further details with respect to
matters concerning the Italian and
other payments.
On January 9, 1978, the Court entered a Judgment against Cazzaniga,
by default, enjoining him from further
violations of the reporting and proxy
provisions of the Exchange Act. This
default judgment was signed after
Cazzaniga advised the Court that he
would not appear or file an answer or
other pleading to the Commission's
complaint.
SEC v. Indonesian Enterprises, Inc.,
et al.-On February 2, 1977, the Commission filed a complaint against Indonesian Enterprises, Inc., Ramayana
Indonesian Restaurant of New York,
Inc., P. N. Pertamina (the National Oil
State Enterprise of the Republic of
Indonesia) and Ibnu Sutowo, to enjoin
them from further violations of the
registration and antifraud provisions
of the securities laws.56 The complaint
alleged that the defendants sold over
$1 million of Class A common, nonvoting stock of Indonesian Enterprises, Inc., when no registration
statement was filed or in effect. Sales
were made to 54 of the largest foreign
and domestic corporations in the world
including
Mobil Oil, Ashland Oil,
Monsanto Company and Esso Standard

Eastern, Inc. The complaint further
alleged that the defendants coerced
individuals and corporations having
business relationships with the defendant Pertamina to purchase shares of
the defendant Indonesian Enterprises.
Each of the defendants consented,
without admitting or denying the facts
set forth in the complaint, to the entry
of a permanent injunction prohibiting
further Violations of the Federal securities laws.
SEC v. Diversified Industries, Inc., et
al.-On November 15, 1976, the Commission filed a civil injunctive action
seeking to enjoin Diversified Industries, Inc. (Diversified), a metal processing and manufacturing company,
and Ben Fixman, Sam Fox, Morris
Lefton, Jack Kootman and E. Allen
Payne, all present or former officers
and/or directors of Diversified or its
subsidiaries, from future Violations of
the registration, proxy and reporting
provisions of the Exchange Act. The
complaint also sought certain ancillary
relief.57
The complaint alleged, among other
things, that since at least 1968, Diversified, through certain of its subsidiaries, engaged in a course of business
involving underpayments and deliveries of materials of lower quality or
quantity than actually due. The complaint further alleged that since 1971,
Diversified, again through certain of its
subsidiaries, falsified corporate records to generate over $400,000 in cash
which was used, in part, to make payments to representatives of companies
doing business With Diversified. The
complaint alleged that the individual
defendants participated in certain of
these activities, knew of others, and
should have known, if they did not
know, of still others.
Without admitting or denying the
allegations contained in the Commission's
complaint,
defendant
201

Diversified, simultaneous with the
filing of the complaint, consented to
the entry of a Final Judgment of
Permanent Injunction enjoining the
company from future violations of
the antifraud, proxy and reporting
provisions of the Exchange Act. In
addition, the Judgment provided for
certain ancillary
relief, including
provisions requiring Diversified to
appoint a Special Review Committee
and Special Counsel, satisfactory to
the Commission, to Investigate the
allegations contained in the Commission's complaint and other matters
relevant thereto, to file a report
of its findings with the Commission
and the Court, and to seek redress
and take further action if warranted.
Defendants Ben Fixman, Morris
Lefton, Jack Kootman, and E. Allen
Payne also consented,
without
admitting or denying the allegations
contained in the Commission's complaint, to the entry of Final Judgments
of Permanent Injunction enjoining
them from, among other things, future
violations of Sections 10(b) (antifraud),
13 (a) (reporting), and 14(a) (proxy)
of the Exchange Act. Fixman has also
been enjoined from future violations
of Section 13(d) (requirement to file
report when acquiring over 5% of
beneficial interest in securities of
public companies) of the Exchange
Act. Additionally, the judgments provide for certain ancillary relief, including the payment of $8,000 by
Kootman to Diversified.
In other counts, the complaint
sought to enjoin Penn-Dixie Industries,
Inc. (Penn-Dixie), a company engaged
in the manufacture of construction
materials, Jerome Castle (Castle),
its then chairman and president,
Arnold Y. Aronoff (Aronoff), a Detroit
businessman, and the JDL Trust, a
Cayman Islands trust allegedly created
and controlled by Aronoff, from future
202

violations of the antifraud provisions
of the Exchange Act. The complaint
also sought to enjoin Penn-Dixie,
Castle and Aronoff
from future
violations of the reporting provisions
and Penn-Dixie and Castle from future
violations of the proxy provisions
of the Exchange Act.
The complaint alleged, among other
things, that the defendants by fraud
and deceit caused Penn-Dixie, in
October of 1973, to purchase a parcel
of Florida land for approximately
$5.9 million. The parcel was less than
fifty percent of a larger parcel of
land which Aronoff, through the JDL
Trust, had purchased the previous
day for approximately $5.8 million.
The complaint asked the court to
impress a trust on the entire tract
of land with a view toward causing
appropriate restitution to Penn-Dixie
and depriving the non-corporate defendants of unlawfully or improperly
obtained benefits, money or property.
Finally, in still another count, the
complaint sought to enjoin Castle,
Fixman and Penn-Dixie from future
violations of Section 13(d) (requirement to file report when acquiring
over 5% of beneficial
interest in
securities of public companies) of the
Exchange Act in connection with their
alleged efforts during 1974 and 1975
to take over control of Diversified.
Without admitting or denying the
allegations contained in the Commission's complaint, Penn-Dixie consented to the entry of a Final Judgment of Permanent Injunction which
was entered on July 7, 1977. The
Judgment against Penn-Dixie permanently enjoins it from future violations of the antifraud reporting and
proxy provisions of the Exchange Act.
In addition, the Judgment provides
for certain ancillary relief.
Pursuant to the terms of the Judgment and attached
Undertaking,

Penn-Dixie is required to appoint to
its board three new directors, satisfactory to the Commission, who are
neither present nor former employees
of Penn-Dixie. These directors will
serve on a new Audit Committee of
the board created pursuant to the
terms of this settlement. Penn-Dixie
is further required to maintain a
Special Counsel previously appointed
by the company.
Pursuant to the terms of the Judgment, the Audit Committee, together
with the Special Counsel will, among
other things, investigate and report
on the allegations contained in the
Commission's complaint. Additionally,
the judgment provides for review by
the Audit Committee of all future
transactions between the company
and certain
persons, including
Castle and Aronoff, and provides
that the company will enter into only
such transactions as are approved
by the Audit Committee.
The Commission is currently in litigation with defendants Fox, Castle,
Aronoff and the JDL Trust.
SEC v. General Telephone and
Electronics Corporation - In January
1977, the Commission filed a complaint seeking to enjoin General
Telephone and Electronics Corporation (GTE) from further violations
of the antifraud, reporting and proxy
provisions of the Federal securities
laws.58
The complaint alleged that GTE had
made numerous payments in the
United States and 27 other countries
totalling approximately $14 million, a
significant portion of which were or
may have been to or for the benefit
of government officials
or their
intermediaries or in the nature of
commercial bribes, kickbacks and rebates to officials of private foreign
customers.
The complaint also alleged that in

connection with the financing of the
sale of GTE's 28 percent equity interest in Philippine Long Distance
Telephone Company (pLDT) to, and
subsequent
related transactions
with, several Philippine nationals,
GTE agreed to pay and did pay
$484,000 in cash, $2,813,000 in
credits, and accrued but did not pay
$1,678,000
in the form of commissions, to the group of Philippine
nationals on sales of telecommunications equipment by GTE to PLDT
as well as $1 million in personal
loans and the promise of an additional
$1 million in commissions given to the
Philippine nationals by GTE in exchange for their directing PLDT to
sign a $20 million supply contract
with GTE.
The complaint contains similar
allegations regarding GTE payments
in connection with its efforts to obtain
a multi-million dollar telecommunications contract with a state enterprise
in Iran.
GTE consented to the entry of a
Judgment of Permanent Injunction
enjoining it from further violations
of the above mentioned provisions
of the Federal securities laws without
admitting or denying the allegations
of the complaint. In addition, GTE
adopted, and, pursuant to the Judgment, is to maintain, policy guidelines and procedures relative to
commercial practices with respect
to payments by GTE to any official
or employee of any private customer
or any government, or any official
or employee of any entity owned and/
or controlled by any government which
is unlawful under the laws of the
United States or such foreign country,
which guidelines were consistent
with the terms of the Injunction.
Theodore F. Brophy, chairman ofthe
board of directors of GTE, John J.
Douglas, vice-chairman of the board
203

of directors of GTE, and William F.
Bennett, executive vice-presidentstaff of GTE, who were not named as
defendants in this action, acknowledged
in a Court-ordered Acknowledgement
and Undertaking that, as officers and/
or directors of GTE, they were bound
by the terms of the Permanent Injunction and undertook, as officers
and directors of GTE, to comply fully
with its terms and conditions and
to use their best efforts to cause
GTE to continue in full compliance
with its terms and conditions.
SEC v. Philippine Long Distance
Telephone Corporation, et. al. - In
January 1977 the Commission filed a
complaint seeking to enjoin Philippine
Long Distance Telephone Company
(PLOTl, Philippine Telecommunications Investment Corporation (PTIC)
and Stamford Trading Company,
Limited (STC) from further violations
of the antifraud and reporting provisions ofthe Federal securities laws.59
The complaint alleged that there was
an agreement among Ramon Cojuangco
(Cojuangco),
president
of PLOT;
Alfonso Yuchengco (Yuchengco),
chairman of the board of PLOT; Luis
Tirso Rivilla (Rivilla), an officer and
director of PLOT; and Antionio M. Meer
(Meer), another stockholder in PTIC,
(referred to hereinafter as the PTIC
Group); and General Telephone and
Electronics
Corporation
(GTE) to
have GTE pay the above-named stockholders of PTIC undisclosed commissions of from five to seven percent on sales of telecommunications
equipment by GTE to PLOT in connection with the financing of PTIC's
1967 purchase of GTE's controlling
interest in PLOT. The complaint
further alleged that the PTIC Group
received $1 million in personal loans
and the promise of an additional $1
million in commission payments from
GTE in 1971 in exchange for their
204

directing PLOT to sign an approximately $20 million supply contract
with GTE.
The PTIC Group received commissions from GTE of $484,000 in
cash and $2,813,000
in credits.
GTE accrued but did not pay an
additional $1,678,000
in commissions, and GTE assigned to an independent
escrow agent for no
consideration the personal promissory
notes of the members of the PTIC
group, totalling approximately
$1
million, given to GTE in 1971 in
connection with GTE's $20 million
supply contract with PLOT, on which
notes no principal or interest had
ever been paid. Such assignment
irrevocably instructed such escrow
agent to deliver the notes in accordance with the instructions
of the
members of the PTIC Group or, if not so
delivered by maturity, to destroy the
notes.
PLOT, PTIC and STC consented to
the entry of a permanent injunction
enjoining them from further violations
of the above-mentioned
provisions
of the Federal securities laws without
admitting or denying the allegations
of the complaint. In addition to the
entry of the permanent injunction
against PLOT, PTIC and STC, certain
ancillary
relief was ordered
by
the Court and undertaken by PLOT,
PTIC, STC, Cojuangco, Yuchengco,
Rivilla, and Meer, including the payment by PTIC to PLOT irrevocably of
an amount of cash equal to $1 million.
SEC v.Kodiak Industries, et al.-On
October 28, 1976, the Commission
filed a civil injunctive action in the
United States District Court for the
Southern District of California seeking
to enjoin Kodiak Industries (Kodiak),
Dominic J. Alessio (Alessio), Anthony
Alessio (A. Alessio), Alvin G. Rosa
(Rosa) and C. Arnholt Smith (Smith)
from further violations of the antifraud,

reporting, Williams Act proxy and
quired to offer rescission rights to all
tender offer provisions of the Exchange Fortuna shareholders who tendered
Act, and Fortuna Corporation (Fortuna) shares in response to Kodiak's cash
tender offer of December 2, 1974; (2)
from further violations of the antifraud,
reporting and proxy provisions of the that with respect to the proposed
Exchange Act. 60
merger of Kodiak and Fortuna deThe complaint alleged that since ap- scribed in Fortuna's definitive proxy
proximately May 1972, the individual
material filed with the Commission on
defendants engaged in a scheme to October 19, 1976, the enjoined defenconceal their intentions to effect a dants were not able to vote the Fortuna
merger of Fortuna, a publicly held
shares owned or controlled by them
corporation
which operated race
unless the merger was approved by a
tracks in New Mexico, into Kodiak, a majority of the minority shareholders
private corporation
owned by the
of Fortuna voting; (3) that should the
Alessios and Rosa. The complaint
merger proposal not be so approved,
the enjoined defendants will be able to
further alleged that the purpose of this
vote the Fortuna shares owned and
merger was to enable the individual
defendants to appropriate the assets controlled by them in any other proand cash flow of Fortuna for their per- posed merger between Kodiak and Forsonal benefit. The complaint also tuna only with the approval of the
alleged that the defendants engaged Court, pursuant to a plan approved by
the Court which provided that Kodiak
in a scheme to conceal Smith's control
must demonstrate that the merger is
of, relationship to and business transactions with Kodiak and Fortuna.
for a legitimate corporate purpose and
The Commission alleged that the de- that the consideration to be paid to
fendants effected these schemes by, Fortuna shareholders was fair and
reasonable; and (4) the enjoined deamong other means, filing with the
Commission and disseminating to For- fendants were also ordered to make
tuna shareholders false and mislead- certain corrected filings with the Coming annual reports, proxy materials,
mission and distribute them to Fortuna
Schedules 13D and tender offer stateshareholders.
ments, which statements were utilized
On May 19, 1977, without admitting
or denying the allegations contained
in connection with a cash tender offer
made by Kodiak for Fortuna shares in in the Commission's complaint, defendant Smith also consented to the entry
December 1974.
of a Final Judgment of Permanent InWithout admitting or denying the
allegations contained in the Commis- junction against him, enjoining him
sion's complaint, defendants Kodiak, from further violations of the aforeFortuna, Alessio, A. Alessio and Rosa, mentioned provisions of the Exchange
consented to the entry of Final Judg- Act.
SEC v. World Radian Mission, et
ments of Permanent Injunction against
al.-On January 16, 1976, the Comthem, enjoining them from further
violations of the aforementioned pro- mission filed suit in the Federal District
Court for the District of New Hampvisions of the Exchange Act.
shire charging World Radion Mission
In addition to enjoining these defendants from further violation of provi- and Clinton D. White with violating the
antifraud provisions of the Federal
sions of the Exchange Act, the injuncsecurities laws. The complaint, allegtions provided for the following ancillary relief: (1) The defendants were re- ing that the defendants were fraudu205

lently selling "loan plans" in the form
of 8 percent, 9 percent, 10 percent, 11
percent and 12 percent interest-bearing notes, sought injunctive relief and
the appointment of a receiver."
After an evidentiary hearing, the
Court found that the Commission had
made a prima facie showing of a violation of the Federal securities laws and
the likelihood that future violations
would occur; it nevertheless declined
to issue a preliminary injunction on the
basis that the issuance of an injunction would have a substantial adverse
impact on a bona fide religious organization, and that there was no evidence
that denial of an injunction would
cause any harm to the public.
The Commission appealed; and, on
November 4, 1976, the Court of Appeals for the First Circuit reversed the
decision and directed the District
Court to issue an injunction preliminanly enjoining the defendants from
further violations of the antifraud
provisions of the Federal securities
laws.62
In reversing, the Court of Appeals
disagreed with the District Court's
finding that the public investors would
not suffer harm; noted defendants'
stated intent to continue the activities
found by the trial court to be deceptive; and dismissed defendants' protestations of good faith, stating that a
Commission injunction "is designed to
protect the public against conduct;
not to punish a state of mind."
SEC v. Mar-Film Fare, Inc., et al.53
and SEC v. International Film Corp.,
et al. 64_The cited cases were companion civil injunctive actions filed by the
Commission in the United States District Court for the Central District of
California in May and June, 1977
against a total of twelve corporate and
individual defendants. The complaints
alleged the fraudulent, unregistered
distribution of securities. consisting of
206

limited partnership
interests purportedly for the purpose of financing
motion picture and other business interests. The fraudulent nature of the
distributions involved false representations concerning the tax shelter
features and benefits of such investment programs and the existence of
contracts with prominent entertainment personalities.
In the International Film Corp. case,
District Judge A. Andrew Hauk entered
temporary restraining orders against
all nine defendants, ordering them not
to dispose of assets or destroy property related to the allegations set forth
in the Commission's complaint. Both
actions are otherwise still pending before the court.
SEC v. E. L. Aaron & Co., Inc. 65_0n
May 3, 1977, after a trial on the merits,
the Honorable Lee P. Gagliardi of the
United States District Court for the
Southern District of New York found
that defendant Peter E. Aaron (Aaron)
had violated the registration and antifraud provisions of the Federal securities laws in connection with the offer
and sale ofthe common stock of LawnA-Mat Chemical & Equipment Corp.
(LAM).66 On May 19, 1977, Judge
Gagliardi signed a final Judgment of
Permanent Injunction enjoining Aaron
from further violations of the aforementioned provisions.
The Court found that Aaron violated
and aided and abetted violations of the
antifraud provisions by failing to restrain E. L. Aaron & Co., Inc. (Aaron &
Co.) registered representatives under
his supervision from making false and
misleading statements in connection
with the offer and sale of LAM stock.
In addition, Judge Gagliardi found
that Aaron violated the registration provisions and Rule 144 thereunder, by
arranging for the purchase of 21,000
unregistered LAM shares for the trading account of Aaron & Co. at a time

when Aaron & Co. was soliciting customers' orders for the purchase of
LAM stock. The court found that Aaron
& Co. had purchased these unregistered shares in pre-arranged, sham
transactions through another brokerage firm acting as an intermediary
and, in so doing, functioned not as an
agent or broker for a customer, but as
a principal or dealer for its own account in violation of Rule 144. This is
the first case in which a Federal court
has issued an opinion involving a violation of Rule 144.
SEC v. Equity Service Corp., et al.On April 27, 1977, the Commission
filed a complaint in the United States
District Court for the Eastern District
of Pennsylvania, naming Equity Service Corporation, Robert H. Mortimer
(Mortimer), Pacific-Atlantic
all Co.
(PAOCO) and others.s? The complaint
and other motions filed sought preliminary and permanent injunctions, protective orders, an accounting and the
appointment of a temporary receiver.
The complaint alleged that the defendants violated the securities registration and antifraud provisions of the
Federal securities laws in connection
with the offer and sale of fractional
undivided working interests in oil and
gas leases, limited partnership interests and investment contracts concerning oil and gas leases located in
Arkansas, Colorado and Louisiana. The
complaint further alleged that the defendants made numerous misrepresentations and omissions to investors
concerning, among other things, the
use of investor funds, the employing of
a psychic and a "Radiation Survey
Vehicle" to select sites and the production which had been achieved from
wells which had previously been drilled.
Mortimer was also charged with misappropriation of investor funds.
In May 1977, District Judge Edward
N. Cahn entered Judgments of Perma-

nent Injunction by consent against all
detendants.w Judge Cahn also appointed a receiver over all the subject
oil and gas programs and ordered the
defendants to account for assets, including income, derived from their
participation in the scheme.
SEC v. American Centennial Corporation-In May 1977, the Commission
filed suit in the United States District
Court for the Middle District of Tennessee against American Centennial
Corporation (ACC), and four of its officers and directors for violations of the
antifraud provisions of the Federal
securities laws in connection with the
offer and sale of common stock of ACC,
a publicly held insurance cornpany.w
The Comrrussion's complaint alleged
that the defendants, in preparing the
sales literature for the public offering
and in training young inexperienced
college students to sell the stock,
made material omissions and failed to
include information necessary to make
that disclosed not misleading. The
sales presentation relied heavily upon
management's prior association with
another company which had a market
increase of 2400 percent over an 18month period before settling at a price
near its initial offering price. In both
the literature and the oral sales presentations, the complaint alleged that
the defendants stressed the rise in the
market price of the above shares while
failing to include the fact that the
market price decreased as dramatically as it rose and was then trading at
a price substantially lower than the
figures used In the sales literature.
The complaint alleged that the sales
presentation also included a comparison of ACC and the other insurance
company which ended with the projection that since ACC had more sales
representatives, more capital, a wider
area of distribution and a greater price
per "share it would be at least 25 per207

cent more profitable than the other
company; in other words, a purchase
of the stock was to yield a 600 percent
profit according to projections made
by the sales personnel.

PARTICIPATION AS AMICUS CURIAE
Tannenbaum v. Zeller'v-« This case
presented the question of whether
fully informed and truly independent
directors of a mutual fund are precluded, under the Investment Company Act, from exercising any discretion and good faith business judgment
in determining whether to use a portion of the commissions paid by the
fund on brokerage transactions to reward broker-dealers which sold fund
shares or provided research services
instead of recapturing such excess
commissions for the fund's direct cash
benefit.
The issue arose because of the minimum fixed-brokerage commission rate
structure that prevailed on the exchanges until May 1, 1975, when it was
prohibited by the Commission. Under
that system, persons were compelled
to pay brokerage commissions according to a fixed rate which did not reflect
economies of scale. As a result, the
'brokerage commissions paid by mutual
funds far exceeded the actual cost to
the broker. The mutual funds had essentially two ways to use these excessive commissions-they could channel
the excess to brokers which provided
the fund with sales or research services or they could, through a variety
of devices, recapture the excess in the
form of a direct cash benefit for the
funds.
The fund in Tannenbaum had chosen
to use the excess to reward brokers
providing sales and research services.
The plaintiff sued on the ground that
the defendant investment adviser had
caused the fund to take this course in
violation of its fiduciary duty. As a de208

fense, the adviser argued that the decision to forego recapture of the excess commission had been made by
the disinterested
members of the
board of directors in the exercise of a
good faith business judgment, and
that the advisor could not be held
liable for carrying out the instructions
of the board. The district court agreed
with defendant, and plaintiff appealed
to the Court of Appeals for the Second
Circuit.
In an amicus curiae brief, the Commission argued that the recapture decision was one that could be committed to the discretion of the disinterested members of the board of directors. Crucial to this position was the
fact that this case arose in the context of rapidly changing market conditions which created substantial equities in favor of the defendants in this
case. In addition, the structure of the
Investment Company Act and two prior
decisions by courts of appeals indicated that the recapture question was
one area where independent and disinterested directors could exercise
business judgment. In the context of
this case, the Commission observed
that, contrary to its general experience, the district court had found that
the directors were truly independent of
the investment advisor. The court had
also found that the directors' judgment to forego recapture was not unreasonable.
In an opinion which closely follows
the reasoning of the Commission's
amicus curiae brief, the Court of Appeals held that the defendants had
not violated their fiduciary duty to the
fund because of their failure to recapture the excess commissions. The
Court also held, however, that the defendants
had violated the proxy
solicitation provisions of the securities laws by failing adequately to inform fund shareholders of the recap-

ture alternative. The Commission had
not addressed this issue in its amicus
curiae brief.
Sanders v. John Nuveen & Co.71_ln
this case, upon remand for its reconsideratlon.P the Seventh Circuit Court
of Appeals reversed its earlier finding
that an underwriter of commercial
paper who had acted in the "mistaken
but honest belief that the financial
statements prepared by certified public accountants correctly presented
the condition of the issuer is liable to
its customers for losses sustained as
a result of the issuer's default."73 In
so doing, the court of appeals noted
that Hotchfelder required a finding of
a "scienter," whether knowing or reckless conduct, where violations of the
antifraud provisions of the Exchange
Act are alleged, and that the record in
this case was barren of an actual intent to deceive by the underwriter. The
court also disposed of plaintiff's claim
under the antifraud provisions of the
Securities Act when it stated that, even
if there is a private right of action under that section, which it did not have
to decide, plaintiff had not shown
"scienter." The court also rejected
plaintiff's argument that a private right
of action could be implied under Rule
27 of the National Association of Securities Dealers, Inc., in the absence
of a finding of fraud, Since the record was insufficient for the court of
appeals to decide whether the underwriter was liable to the plaintiff purchaser of commercial paper under
Section 12(2) of the Securities Act,
the court of appeals remanded the
case to the district court on that
issue.
In its amicus brief, the Commission
had argued that liability in this case
could be premised on Section 12(1) of
the Securities Act, which prohibits the
sale of unregistered securities. Since

the plaintiff had waived this argument,
the court did not decide the lssue.>
The Commission had also urged that
Section 12(2) of the Act might provide
a basis of recovery for the plaintiff.
The Commission noted, however, that
the standard of care imposed by that
section varies with the circumstances
under which the securities were sold.
Daniel v. International Brotherhood
of Teamsters, Chauffeurs, Warehousemen and Helpers of Americet» - In
this case arising under the antifraud
provisions of the securities laws, the
Court of Appeals for the Seventh Circuit held that an interest in a noncontributory, compulsory pension plan
was a "security" which had been "sold"
to the plaintiff in violation of the antifraud provisions. The plaintiff alleged
that he had been a member of the
Teamsters union and had worked for
employers covered by union contracts
for 22% years. During that period, his
employers made contributions on his
behalf to a pension fund maintained
jointly by representatives of the union
and his employers. The only break in
this 22V2 years of service was a three
month involuntary layoff after the
plaintiff had worked ten years. When
the plaintiff applied for his pension,
however, he was informed that the
three month layoff had caused him to
forfeit his pension. In his complaint,
the plaintiff claimed, inter alia, that
the union and the trustees of his pension fund had made false and misleading representations to him concerning
the break-in-service requirement, in
violation of the antifraud provisions of
the Federal securities laws. In response
to the defendants' motion to dismiss
the securities laws counts for a failure
to state a claim upon which relief
may be granted, the district court held
that the plaintiff's interest in the fund
was a security that had been the sub-

209

ject of a sale within the meaning of
the antifraud provisions.
In an amicus curiae brief, the Commission argued that the court of appeals should affirm the district court
and allow the plaintiff the opportunity
to prove his case in the court below.
With respect to the question of whether
the interest in the fund was a security,
the Commission noted that the prior
Supreme Court law on the definition
of the term "investment contract"
demonstrated that the pension interest was a security. Thus, the Commission argued that the employee invests
money, in the form of his services, for
which he receives compensation, including wages, fringe benefits and the
pension interest. Moreover, this investment is placed in a common trust
fund where the promised profit on the
investment is dependent upon the
managerial efforts of the pension fund
trustees. Finally, the Commission
pointed out its long-standing position
that interests in pension funds were
securities, and the Congress' agreement with that position, as evidenced
by the Investment
Company Act
Amendments of 1970 which added a
section to the Securities Act providing
that interests in pension funds are
securities which need not be registered under the Act.
With respect to the question of
whether the pension interest was the
subject of a "sale" within the meaning of the Federal securities laws, the
Commission argued that its previous
"no-sale" rationale applicable to the
registration of interests in noncontributory (the employer makes the pension contributions on behalf of the
employee) and compulsory (the employee has no choice but to participate
in the pension plan) plans should not
be extended to the antifraud provisions. In addition to the inherent differences between the registration and
210

antifraud provisions, the Commission
noted that important changes in the
legal and economic significance of
pensions rendered the "no-sale" rationale inappropriate for purposes of
the antifraud provisions.
The Commission's brief then discussed the question of whether there
was some other reason that the antifraud provisions should not apply to
the sale of pension interests. The
Commission examined the provisions
of the Employee Retirement Income
Security Act of 1974 (ERISA) and concluded that there was no indication in
that act that Congress intended to
preempt the Federal securities laws.
Indeed, the Commission moved that
the disclosure requirements of ERISA
were not at all comparable to the protections afforded by the antifraud
provisions. Finally, the Commission
addressed the argument that application of the antifraud provisions could
be disruptive and unfair to existing
plans by pointing out that those provisions are only a generalized selfexecuting prohibition against fraud
which does not require any filing with
the Commission and that the plaintiff
in this and any other case must still
show that he relied, to his detriment,
on false or misleading representations.
The decision of the court of appeals
closely parallels the Commission's
amicus curiae brief. The Supreme Court
has granted petitions for certiorari.
Piper, et al. v. Chris-Craft Industries,
Inc., et aU6-This action arose out
of a contest for corporate control
of Piper Aircraft Corporation which
began in 1969. Piper was the SUbject
of two competing tender offers, one
made by Chris-Craft Industries, lnc.,
and the other by Bangor Punta Corporation. Chris-Craft, the loser in the
battle for control of Piper, had won
the ensuing litigation, in which it had
been held, among other things, that

Bangor Punta, members of the Piper
family and an investment banker had
violated the Federal securities lawsSection 14(e) of the Exchange Act
and Rule lOb-6 under that Act-in
connection with Bangor Punta's obtaining control of Piper."?
The primary issues in the Supreme
Court were whether there was an implied private right of action under
Section 14(e) (Williams Act) on behalf of a competing tender offeror
against those whose misleading statements injured it; whether any limitations should be imposed on the maintenance of, or on the relief granted
under, such an action; if indeed such
a right existed; whether private purchases of Piper shares by Bangor Punta,
while its exchange offer for the Piper stock was in registration, constituted a violation of Rule 10b-6i
whether the alleged violations caused
the injury complained of -i.e., ChrisCraft's loss of an opportunity to gain
control of Bangor Punta; and whether
the court of appeals correctly computed damages to compensate ChrisCraft for its loss and whether the
liability had been apportioned properly among the defendants. The Commission filed an amicus curiae brief,
in which it addressed only the first
three issues referred to above.
In its brief the Commission traced
the history of tender offers, which
prior to the passage of the Williams
Act in 1968, had not been regulated,
in sharp contrast to the comprehensive regulation of proxy contests under Section 14(a) of the Exchange
Act and rules thereunder. Since tender
offers were found by Congress to be
alternatives to proxy contests as a
means of preserving or gaining control,78 it patterned the protections
under the Williams Act on the existing
proxy regulation. Since Congress took
great care to provide an equal op-

portunity to the offeror and the target and to "avoid tipping the balance
of regulation either in favor of management or in favor of the person making
the takeover bid",79 the Commission
urged that the legislative history
showed that Congress intended to protect all persons involved in tender
offers.
The Commission argued that, since
the Williams Act has created a per-.
vasive regulatory scheme similar to
that under the proxy rules, a defeated tender offeror who seeks to
vindicate provisions of the Williams
Act should be accorded standing to
sue for the same reasons that the
Court previously had implied private
remedies for violations of the proxy
regulations.w Additionally, the Commission, relying on Cort v. Ash,81
asserted that a private right of action
should be implied in this case because (1) the Williams Act created
such a right in favor of each participant in a tender offer contest.w
(2) there was no explicit denial of
such a right, and, in fact, Congress
was aware that language similar to
that proposed in Section 14(e) had
been used to imply private remedies
on behalf of participants
in proxy
contests; (3) a private right of action
was necessary to supplement the Commission's efforts to effectuate the
Congressional purposes in enacting
the Williams Act; and (4) the Williams
Act was an intrusion of Federal law
into an area that was the subject of
state corporation law, and the state
laws to a great extent were inconsistent
with the purposes of the Williams
Act.
The Commission also argued that
Section 14(e) of the Exchange Act,
which proscribes misleading, as well
as fraudulent, statements made in
connection with tender offers, does
not require a showing of knowing or

211

intentional wrongdoing. While injured
persons should be compensated for
their losses when Section 14(e) is
violated, courts should be guided by
the express remedies provided in the
securities laws and make an award
which restores the injured parties to
their prior status.
With respect to Rule lOb-6, the
Commission noted that the rule proscnbes persons distributing securities
to the public from bidding In the
market place for either the same
securities or securities convertible into
the securities being distributed. The
purpose of the rule is to avoid the
situation where a potential purchaser
is induced into buying securities being
distributed because secret purchases
by the issuer, or those affiliated with
him, is driving the price up. It was
the Commission's position that the announcement of the acquisition of shares
so obtarned has the same effect since
it could lead the target's shareholders
to believe that the violator's offer will
succeed and that the public investors
must tender immediately in order to
participate. Accordingly, the Commission urged that any person injured
by a violation of Rule lOb-6 should
be accorded standing to pursue a private remedy by implication or under
one of the several express remedies
granted by Section 9(e) of the Exchange Act.
The Court held that a tender offeror,
suing in its capacity as a competing
takeover bidder, does not have standing to sue for damages under Section 14(e) of the Exchange Act and
that the creation of an implied cause
of action for damages is not necessary
to effectuate the Congressional objective of protecting the shareholders of
target companies. The Court also held
that Rule lOb-G, which is aimed at
maintaining an orderly market for the
distribution of securities free from
212

manipulative influences, is not available to compensate a takeover bidder
who may have lost an opportunity to
gain control of a target because of
violations of the Federal securities
laws.83

LITIGATION INVOLVING
COMMISSION LITIGATION
SUbpoena Enforcement Actions
SEC v. Touche Ross & Co. and
Misag Tabibian- This subpoena enforcement action arose from the staff's
investigation into possible violations of
the securities laws by The Bohack Corporation (Bohack) (a publicly held
corporation which operates a chain of
grocery supermarkets) and its officers
and directors. Specifically, the staff
had been investigating possible material misstatements in, or omissions
from, Bohack's financial statements
from on or about January 24, 1973,
and thereafter.
On July 30, 1974, Bohack filed a
petition for an arrangement under
Chapter XI of the Bankruptcy Act.
Prior to the filing of the Chapter
XI petition, Peat, Marwick, Mitchell
& Co. (PMM), a national auditing firm,
had served as Bohack's independent
accountants. The Commission's staff
learned that National Bank of North
America (NBNA), a major Bohack
creditor, had hired Touche Ross &
Co. (Touche Ross), another national
auditing firm, to review the audit of
Bohack (conducted by PMM) for the
fiscal year ending January 26, 1974.
The purpose of Touche Ross' review
was to determine whether NBNA had
any basis for prosecuting a civil action
against PMM. Misag Tabibian, a partner in Touche Ross' New York City
office, actually conducted the review.
The respondents refused to comply
with subpoenae duces tecum served
on them by the staff, asserting that
any substantive information gathered

in the course of their review was
protected from disclosure to the Commission on several grounds, including,
among others, that: (I) the Touche
Ross review was in the nature of
"peer review"; and (2) there was a
"confidentiality" agreement among the
parties to the review, i.e., Touche
Ross, NBNA, and PMM.
In its decision, the court considered
and ultimately rejected the respondents' arguments and held, inter alia,
that courts and administrative agencies are "entitled
to every man's
evidence." The court also held that
the Commission's investigation was
proper and stated that "the public
interest will be served by a full and
vigorous exploration of all relevant
evidence, and information which could
lead to relevant evidence."
In accordance with its decision, on
October 28, 1977, the court issued
an order compelling the respondents
to comply with the subpoenae served
upon them.
SEC v. Charles Jacquin et Cie.,
Inc.85-ln connection with its investigations in the Matters of Emersons,
Ltd. (Emersons) and Charles Jacquin
et Cie., Inc. (Jacquin), the Commission's staff issued two subpoenae
duces tecum to Jacquin, a distiller,
and its principal officer, requesting
the production of certain documents
regarding payments by Jacquin of
bribes, rebates and kichbacks to retailers of its liquor products as an
inducement to purchase these products.
After a failure to comply with the
subpoenae, the Commission applied to
the United States District Court for
the District of Columbia for an order
requiring Jacquin to comply with the
Commission's subpoenae. On September 8, 1976, after a hearing, the
Court issued such an order. Subsequently, Jacquin failed to produce the

documents which were required by the
subpoenae and the Court's order.
The Commission thereupon moved
the District Court for an order adjudging Jacquin and its two principal officers in civil contempt of the
September 8 order, and further fining
the company and its two principal
officers and appointing a Special Agent
to secure compliance with the September 8 subpoena enforcement order.
On December 2, 1976, after a hearing, the Court issued an order finding
Jacquin and its two principal officers
in civil contempt of the September
8 Order, fining the two officers
$1,000 per day for each day after
the order that the September 8 Order
was not complied with, and appointing
a Special Agent to gather from Jacquin's premises all material responsive
to the Commission's subpoenae and to
take such other necessary action to
assure compliance with the Court's
September 8 Order. The Special Agent's
fees and expenses were ordered by
the Court to be paid by Jacquin.
During the course of his 30 day
mandate, the Special Agent conducted
a thorough review of Jacquin's files
and interviews of its personnel in an
effort to secure compliance with the
Court's Orders. As a result, the Special Agent delivered numerous documents to the Commission and filed
with the Court a detailed report covering
the methods and results of his inquiry.
The appointment
of the Special
Agent and his activities and findings,
as set forth in his report, constituted
an invaluable aid to the Commission's
investigation and ultimately helped
lead to the filing of a civil injunctive
action against Jacquin and entry of a
Judgment by consent against the company and its two principal officers.86
213

DELINQUENT REPORTS PROGRAM
Fundamental to the success of the
disclosure scheme of the Federal securities laws is the timely filing in proper form and content of annual, periodic, current reports and other filings
required of issuers and individuals.
The Delinquent Reports Program was
commenced by the staff three years
ago to identify those situations wherein required reports have not been
timely filed and, when appropriate,
to recommend remedial enforcement
action. Such enforcement actions can
include suspension of trading in the
securities of a registrant, thus alerting
the public to the lack of current and
accurate information and/or, when
necessary, the initiation of an enforcement action which may include
(1) the seeking of a court order requiring the filing of delinquent reports coupled with an injunction
against further violations of the Exchange Act's reporting provisions and
(2) a revocation or temporary suspension of a registrant's securities
pursuant to Exchange Act Section
12(j).
The staff of the Commission continuously monitors compliance with the
reporting requirements of Sections
13 and 15(d) of the Exchange Act.
When Commission records indicate a
delinquency in filing a report required
to be filed by Exchange Act Section
13(a), the staff will attempt to, among
other things, mail the registrant a
notice of detected delinquency and
request that a written explanation be
filed under cover of Form 8-K. On
July 14, 197587, the Commission announced its intention to include thereafter in a registrant's public file certain correspondence to and from a
registrant concerning its delinquency
notwithstanding the registrant's continued filing responsibilities. This pro214

cedure makes available to the public
a delinquent registrant's reasons for
failing to meet its statutory disclosure obligations.
The Commission suspended trading
in the securities of approximately
thirty registrants during the 1977
fiscal year primarily based on their
failure to file at least one required
annual report on Form lO-K. These
suspensions were temporary-they
ran for one ten-day period for each
delinquent registrant.
During this fiscal year, the Commission initiated six civil actions against
delinquent registrants and other persons seeking court orders compelling
the immediate filing of delinquent
reports or other required filings and
permanently enjoining future analagous
Exchange Act violations. Three of
those actions were resolved by consents to the entry of, inter alia, final
judgments of permanent injunction.88
One case, SEC v. Aminex Resources
Corporation, was resolved by the grant
of a summary judgment in favor of the
Commission 'which included a final
judgment of permanent injunction
after a preliminary injunction
had
previously been entered by the Court.90
Two actions are pending.89 Another
civil action under this Program, SEC
v. MacMillan Ring-Free Oil Co. and
John M. Shaheen, is noteworthy because the Commission sought and obtained injunctive relief by consent
against both the delinquent registrant
and its chief executive officer.
In this fiscal year, the Commission
also initiated three civil contempt
proceedings based on delinquencies
in spite of court ordered injunctions
against such violations. One of these
proceedings deserves particular mention. SEC v. Southwestern Research
Corporation was a civil injunctive action settled by consent upon which
a Final Judgment of Permanent In-

junction was entered on June 12,
1975 by the United States District
Court for the District of Columbia.
Having detected subsequent violations
of this injunction, the Commission
initiated a civil contempt proceeding
on December 26, 1976 against both
Southwestern Research Corporation
and its president and chief executive
officer. After a hearing on the matter,
on February 28, 1977, the Court
entered an order finding both parties
in civil contempt of the Final Judgment of Permanent Injunction and ordering that the delinquent reports be
filed and caused to be filed by a
specified date. In addition, the Court
ordered that should the delinquent
reports not be filed by the specified
date or, thereafter, if reports were
not filed and caused to be filed in
proper form with the Commission in
compliance with the Final Judgment
of Permanent Injunction, a civil fine
would be imposed separately against
the corporation
in the amount of
$100 and the named chief executive
officer and president in the amount
of $1000 for each report for each
day that each report is not timely
filed with the Commission."
Two administrative proceedings were
initiated by the Commission under the
Program pursuant to Section 12(j} of
the Exchange Act to determine whether
the registration of securities with the
Commission sh'ould be suspended or
revoked due to the failure of the
registrant to file, inter alia, Form 1O-K
annual reports and thus to comply with
the reporting provisions of Section 13
(a) of the Exchange Act. These proceedings were the first instituted after
the 1975 Amendments to the Securities
Act which expanded Commission authority to suspend or revoke the registration of a security. Exchange Act
Section 12(j} provides that the Commission, for the protection of inves-

tors, may deny, suspend for a period
of not exceeding twelve months, or
revoke the registration of a security,
if the issuer has failed to comply
with any provision of the Exchange
Act. Thereafter, broker-dealers are
prohibited from engaging in any transaction or inducing the purchase or
sale of any such security. One of the
proceedings has been concluded by
the revocation of the registration of
the security92, and the other administrative proceeding is pending.93

CRIMINAL PROCEEDINGS
Members of the staff of the Commission who have investigated a case
and are familiar with the facts involved
and the applicable statutory provisions
and legal principles are often requested
by the Department of Justice to participate and assist in the trial of a
criminal case referred to the Department, and to participate and assist
in any subsequent appeal from a
conviction.
The criminal cases that were handled
during the fiscal year demonstrate
the great variety of fraudulent practices that have been devised and employed against members of the investing
public.
U. S. v. William H. Brown, et al.In July 1977, Judge William W. Knox
of the United States District Court
for the Western District of Pennsylvania imposed the two longest white
collar sentences in the history of the
District upon two securities law violators.94 This action was the culmination of an extensive investigation by
attorneys from the Philadelphia Branch
Office, the U. S. Attorney's Office,
Pittsburgh, Pennsylvania, and the Fraud
Section of the Criminal Division,
United States Department of Justice.
In the 22 count indictment, William H.
Brown, Dale R. McDonald and Robert
E. Lindsay, Jr., were charged with con215

spiracy, securities fraud, mail fraud
and the sale of unregistered securities.
The indictment alleged that, from
January 1971 until November 1976,
the defendants devised a scheme to
defraud over 120 investors of more
than $1,732,000 by the sale of unregistered investment contracts in Investors Security Leasing Corporation,
Monroeville, Pennsylvania. Brown was
also the former president of Investors
Security Corporation, a broker-dealer
which had been registered with the
Commission until August 1975, when
it was placed in SIPC trusteeship in
connection with an injunctive action
brought by the Commission staff based
on alleged violations of the net capital and antifraud provisions of the
Federal securities laws.
Many of the investors were unsophisticated persons who lived in remote
areas of Pennsylvania and West Virginia and had invested their life savings
in Investors Security Leasing Corporation. The indictment charged that as
a result of this scheme, defendant
Brown received in excess of $310,000;
defendant McDonald in excess of
$93,000; and defendant Lindsay in
excess of $45,000.
Prior to trial,defendant Lindsay pled
guilty to one count of conspiracy and
one count of securities fraud. Lmdsay
was sentenced to three years imprisonment and three years probation.
However, the court suspended all but
sixty days of Lindsay's prison sentence and ordered Lindsay to serve
the remaining sixty days imprisonment on thirty consecutive weekends.
In April 1977, following a three week
jury trial, Brown and McDonald were
convicted on 19 counts of the indictment. Brown was sentenced to a
term of two years imprisonment on
each of the mail fraud counts, such
sentences to run concurrently; and
a term of two years imprisonment
216

on the conspiracy count. The court
further ordered that each of Brown's
two year sentences were to run consecutively.
McDonald was sentenced to a term
of two years imprisonment
on the
conspiracy count. He received a term
of one year imprisonment on each
of the securities related counts, such
sentences to run concurrently. He also
was sentenced to a term of one
year on each of the mail fraud counts,
such sentences to run concurrently.
The court further ordered that the
above sentences were to run consecutively.
U.S. v. Maurice A. Lundy, et al.On October 21, 1977, Maurice A.
Lundy, a Rhode Island securities broker, pleaded guilty to two counts of
an indictment charging him with violations of the registration and antifraud provisions of the Federal securities laws in connection with the offer and sale of scotch whiskey warehouse receipts.t" The case was significant in that the underlying security was an investment contract in the
form of a whiskey warehouse receipt
representing ownership of raw spirits
in the United Kingdom.
In 1973, Lundy had been a defendant in a civil action which resulted
in the first judicial determination that
scotch whiskey warehouse receipts
were securities within the contemplation of the Securities Act.96
The criminal action, which developed
from the civil action, involved the
participation
among the Company
Fraud Department of Scotland Yard
as well as the Commission and the
Department of Justice and was based,
among other things, upon the fact
that, in selling the receipts, Lundy
had misrepresented the investment as
being "insured for profit" and omitted
to disclose that the whiskey covered
by the receipts was "not in good

order, set up properly or under expert supervision in the United Kingdom".
U.S. v. Robert W. Bradford and
Bertsil L. Smith-On
February 22,
1977, as a result of the Commission's
referral of its investigative files to
the Department of Justice concerning
Robert W. Bradford and Bertsil L.
Smith, both of Memphis, Tennessee,
a Federal grand jury in Atlanta returned an indictment charging Bradford with eight counts of wire fraud
and Smith with five counts of wire
fraud in connection with transactions
involving municipal securities.s"
The indictment
charged, among
other things, that Smith and Bradford induced investors to purchase
municipal bonds and converted the
proceeds to their personal use.
After a four day jury trial Bradford
was convicted on five counts of wire
fraud and sentenced to two years of
imprisonment and two years probation.
Smith pleaded guilty to two counts
of wire fraud and was sentenced to
serve eighteen months on one count
and three years on the second count
to run consecutively with the first
count. The sentence on the second
count was suspended, and Smith is
to be placed on probation after serving
eighteen months imprisonment.
U. S. v. Robert Berkson, et al.,In June 1975, after investigations by
the Commission and the United States
Attorney for the Southern District of
New York, a grand jury indicted Wilbur Hyman, Robert Berkson, Maurice
Rind, and James Gallentine, former
officers and employees of Packer,
Wilbur & Co., Inc., a now defunct
broker-dealer, for violations of, inter alia, the antifra ud provisions of
the Exchange Act. The defendants
were charged with misappropriating
customer securities held in trust by
Packer, Wilbur & Co., Inc., selling and

pledging those securities, and using
the proceeds, which were in excess of
$200,000, for their own benefit. The
sales and pledges were accomplished
by the use of forged stock transfer
powers. After the return of the indictment, defendant Hyman fled to
Spam, where he remains a fugitive.
In April 1976, prior to the trial of this
matter, defendant Gallentine pleaded
guilty to one count of the 10 count
indictment and, thereafter, was sentenced to a term of imprisonment of
15 months and was fined $1,500.
(Imposition of 12 months of the sentence was suspended.)
In June 1976, after a jury trial,
defendants Berkson and Rind were
found guilty. Defendant Berkson was
sentenced to a term of imprisonment
of five years, imposition of which was
suspended, and was fined $25,000.
Defendant Rind was sentenced to a
term of imprisonment of 18 months
and was fined $10,000.98 Appeals by
both of these defendants were argued
before the Court of Appeals for the
Second Circuit, which affirmed the
convictions in December 1976. Thereafter, the United States Supreme
Court refused to grant certiorari.
On April 13, 1977, the Commission
ordered the institution of public administrative proceedings against Berkson, Rind, and Gallentine, based inter alia, on the above plea and convictions. On July 26, 1977, the order
for administrative
proceedings was
amended as to Berkson and Rind, to
include additional convictions arising
from other, unrelated facts.
U.S. v. Larry L. Stevens, alk/a Frank
Goodman-In September 1977, a 39
count indictment was returned in the
United States District Court for the
Western District of Washington alleging
violations of the mail fraud, securities fraud, and bankruptcy fraud
statutes by Larry L. Stevens, a/k/a
217

Frank Goodman, former president of
Northwestern Mortgage Investors Corporation (Northwestern), Seattle, Washthrough
ington.99 The defendant,
Northwestern and its related companies, and by numerous misstatements and omissions, raised over $5
million from approximately 1,700 investors under various, estate oriented
investment programs, the primary one
being a four-year 8 percent promissory
note secured by a fractional interest
in real property. The company made
extensive use of newspaper, magazine,
television, radio and mail advertising,
and attracted many elderly people on
fixed incomes as investors. The alleged
violations of the bankruptcy fraud
statute arise out of concealment of
assets and false statements in connection with the Chapter X Reorganization of Northwestern, in which the
Commission, through the Seattle Regional Office, is a party. A trial date
of March 6, 1978 was set by the
court.
U. S. v. Dale E. Baker and Jake
Evenblij-A 27 count indictment was
returned by a grand jury on November
19, 1977, in the Western District
of Washington after investigation by
the Commission and the F.B.1.1°O The
indictment charges the defendants
with mail fraud, wire fraud, and securities fraud in connection with an
"advance fee" scheme. It is alleged
that the defendants used a Cayman
Island, British West Indies company
controlled by Baker and its purported
United States agent, Insured Leasing
Services, to obtain fees ranging from
1 percent to 10 percent of the promised loan from various borrowers in
five states in exchange for "loan
commitments," lease-purchase agreements, and letters of intent totaling
over $11 million.
It is further alleged that the defendants promised to maintain the ad218

vance deposit in a trust account and
utilized a forged letter from a Cayman Island bank verifying $5.5 million
in funds to them in order to obtain
the deposits. It is also alleged the
defendants falsely claimed that a wellknown brokerage firm was acting as
their agent and had given them authority to use its name and reputation in connection
with obtaining
advance deposits from borrowers. The
defendants are awaiting trial, which
is scheduled for early 1978.
U.S. v. E. M. "Mike" Riebold- A
14 count indictment was returned by
a Federal Grand Jury in Kansas City,
Missouri charging E. M. "Mike" Riebold with 6 counts of securities fraud,
3 counts of wire fraud, and 5 counts
of sales of unregistered securities.t'"
The indictment alleged that Riebold
defrauded purchasers of Time-Western
Corporation's common stock and fractional undivided interests in oil and
other mineral rights by means of false
representations concerning the assets
of Time-Western, the nature of the
securities being sold, the rate the
investor would receive on his investment and the use of the proceeds
obtained from the sale of the securities. The indictment also alleged that
Riebold failed to disclose the fact
that he had been criminally convicted
of securities fraud violations on December 19, 1975;102that the assets
of Time-Western were inflated; and
that a well of Time-Western had been
tested by an expert and shown not
to be commercially feasible. The indictment also alleged that Riebold
converted substantial sums of money
paid by purchasers of Time-Western
securities to his own personal use
and benefit.
On February 2, 1977, Time-Western
and Riebold were enjoined by consent
from further violations of the registration and antifraud provisions of the

Securities Act and Exchange Act in
connection with the offer and sale
of Time-Western securities.
USA, ex reI. SEC v. Syphers103 On January 13, 1977, the Commission
instituted a criminal contempt proceeding in the United States District
Court forthe District of Arizona against
John A. Syphers (Syphers). Syphers
was charged with wilfully violating
and disobeying an order of permanent
injunction issued by the Honorable
William P. Copple in 1974 enjoining
him from violating the registration and
antifraud provisions of the Federal
securities laws in connection with the
securities of Techni-Culture, Inc., or
any other securitiQs.104 In the instant
action Syphers was charged with engaging in conduct violative of this injunction. Specifically, he was charged
with improperly removing restrictive
legends from the securities of Tucker
Drilling Cornpany.-tnc. ~in violation of
the registration provisions of the Securities Act.
On June 24, 1977 Syphers entered
a plea of guilty to criminal contempt
and, on August 15, 1977, Judge Copple
imposed a fine of $500.105
U.S. v. Barry S. Marlin - This case
involved a scheme to defraud numerous investors of more than $12 million
through a series of fraudulent schemes
as alleged in an indictment returned on
July 27, 1977.106 One of the alleged
schemes involved real estate limited
partnerships with a significant tax
shelter feature. In fact, the indictment
alleges that no properties were purchased, but amounts invested were, in
small part, returned to investors as
purported income and the investors
were induced to falsely report tax deductions. Other schemes alleged in the
indictment
include the fraudulent
promotion of a Grand Cayman Island
bank which had no real existence, the
fraudulent solicitation of funds for

purported deposit in that bank and the
raising of funds through the sale of
various securities to finance other
fraudulent ventures of the defendant.
The indictment further alleges that
the defendant diverted a large part of
the funds raised to his own use and
benefit. The case is awaiting trial in
Los Angeles.
U.S. v. Robert Waldman, et al. 107 After an eight day trial, Robert Waldman and David Dick, general partners
of several Massachusetts real estate
limited partnerships were found guilty
of fifteen counts of a fifty-eight count
indictment charging them with securities fraud in the sale of limited partnership interests to 7,000 Massachusetts residents for approximately
$35 million. The defendants were
found to have defrauded investors by
misrepresenting the financial condition of the partnerships, paying dividends out of capital or loans and by
illegally diverting funds to companies
controlled by the defendants. Dick was
sentenced to ten years imprisonment
and Waldman was sentenced to five
years imprisonment.
U.S. v. Nicholas Chiolaloe - On
February 27, 1976, Nicholas Chiola
was indicted by a Federal Grand Jury
in Chicago, Illinois. The indictment
charged that while an employee of a
registered
broker-dealer,
Chiola
caused that broker-dealer to fail to
make and keep certain records required under the Commission's recordkeeping rules. The case against Chiola
was developed by the Commission's
staff following the discovery that
Chiola had embezzled substantial
sums of money from his employer
and concealed the theft through false
and inaccurate entries on the brokerdealer's books and records.
Chiola was subsequently convicted
and sentenced to a term of two years
in prison based upon his plea of guilty.
219

After sentencing, Chiola appealed the
conviction to the United States Court
of Appeals for the Seventh Circuit.
Among other things, Chiola challenged
the sufficiency of the indictment on
the grounds that because he himself
was not a registered broker-dealer, he
was unable to violate the Commission's
recordkeeping rules, which apply only
to broker-dealers.
The Court rejected Chiola's contention and affirmed the conviction. In
doing so, it noted that under 18 U.S.C.
~ 2(b), an accessory who lacks capacity
for the crime is punishable as a principal if he causes another with capacity to perform the offense. The Court
concluded that it was not necessary
for the government to separately allege
a specific violation of 18 U.S.C. ~ 2(b)
in order to hold Chiola as a principal
to the crime charged. The Court also
refused to find any ambiguity between
the language of 18 U.S.C. ~ 2(b) and
the criminal provisions of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934.
In October, 1977, the Supreme
Court denied Chiola's petition for certiorari.
U.S. v. Joseph B. Erni - This case
involved the criminal prosecution for
securities fraud of an individual with
a long history of engaging in fraudulent
activities. Joseph B. Erni had prior
convictions in the District of Columbia
and in United States District Court in
Colorado.
In January 1971 and continuing
through 1975, Erni created a series of
enterprises which raised monies from
the investing public under the guise of
engaging in a variety of businesses
including the ownership of lands located in Colorado, subdivision and
residential development of real estate,
and the manufacture, sale and installation of a patented waste disposal
system. In fact the enterprises had
little or no assets or operations. Monies

220

raised from the public to fund these
enterprises were diverted by Erni to
repay investors in previous ventures
and to pay his personal expenses.
On February 17, 1975 Erni consented to the entry of a final judgment of permanent injunction.109
On August 11, 1977 a Federal grand
jury at Milwaukee, Wisconsin returned
a multi-count indictment charging Erni
with violations of the antifraud and
registration provisions of the Federal
securities laws and with interstate
transportation of money obtained by
fraud in connection with the offer and
sale of securities of Western Armon
Systems, Inc. The indictment also
charged Erni with making materially
false and misleading statements concerning that company including its
ownership of franchise rights to manufacture and sell a waste treatment
system, its projected gross profits
and the expected market value of the
company's common stock.tw
U.S. v. Institutional Securities of
Colorado, Inc., et al. - This case involves both a civil and criminal action
against a Denver, Colorado brokerdealer Institutional Securities of Colorado, Inc. (IS0C) and three of its principles who, by falsifying records and
bookkeeping entries and by misappropriating customers' assets, continued
in business while insolvent and in violation of the Commission's net capital
rule.
In the fall of 1976, the Commission
filed a civil action seeking a temporary restraining order and permanent injunction. The Temporary Restraining Order was entered September 29, 1976.
The Commission's files were subsequently referred to the Department of
Justice, and the matter was presented
to a Federal grand jury for the District of Colorado in Denver. A Denver
Regional Office staff attorney was ap-

pointed Special Assistant U.S. Attorney
to assist in the presentation of the
matter to the grand jury and trial of
the case.
On April 15, 1977, a 40-count indictment was returned charging ISOC,
Abraham Goldberg, William Bernhard,
and Stanley Richards, with violations
of the net capital provisions of the
securities laws, false filings with the
Commission, falsification of books and
records, fraud in the sale of stock, misappropriation and hypothecation of
customers' funds and securities, mail
fraud and wire fraud, among other
thlngs."!'
On July 28, 1977 Goldberg and Bernhard pleaded guilty to a three-count
information charging them with violating the antifraud and net capital provisions of the Exchange Act and with
conspiracy to violate the antifraud, net
capital, record keeping and brokerdealer reporting provisions of the Exchange Act as well as certain sections
of Title 18 of the U.S. Code. Also on
July 28, 1977 ISOC pleaded nolo contendere to violating the net capital
provisions of the Exchange Act. On
September 2, 1977 Goldberg and
Bernhard were sentenced to eight days
in jail, a $5,000 fine and two years
probation which was conditioned upon
each performing 408 hours of charitable work. On the same day, ISOC,
presently in SIPC trusteeship, was sentenced to a fine of one dollar. At
the time of sentencing, the 40-count
indictment against the defendants
was dismissed.
On September 29, 1977 Stanley
Richards, who had also been charged
in the indictment
was found not
guilty. 112
The Richardson & Co. Cases - As
a result of an extensive Commission
and Grand Jury investigation involving
the collapse in April 1975 of Richardson & Co., a brokerage firm located

in Century City, California, four indictments were returned in Los Angeles,
California against 10 individuals alleging conspiracy, securities fraud, wire
fraud and misapplication
of bank
funds, and one criminal action was
brought in New York City against one
person charging willful failure to comply with the broker-dealer record keeping requirements.
Richardson & Co. was a "third
market" broker which arranged for the
purchase and sale of large blocks of
stock negotiated directly between
major financial institutions without
using the national stock exchanges.
The prosecutions involved a massive
illegal short selling scheme involving
large blocks of exchange listed securities and secret kickback schemes
between Richardson & Co. and employees of four major financial institutions. Ten of the eleven defendants
named in the indictments pleaded
guilty to various counts of the indictments and have been sentenced. Eight
of the ten received prison sentences.
The remaining defendant, Thomas
Patrick Richardson, president and
controlling shareholder of Richardson
& Co., was convicted on May 1, 1976
in a bench trial before the Honorable
W. Matthew Byrne and sentenced to a
six year prison term, which conviction
is currently on appeal. He is awaiting
trial on a second indictment in which
the other co-defendants have already
been convicted and sentenced.
U.S. v. Thomas P. Richardson, et
a/.113-This case involved a 46-count
indictment alleging that Thomas Patrick
Richardson, Thomas C. Thomas, Jr.,
treasurer of Richardson & Co., and
Kevin Kelley and John E. Kelley,
vice presidents and traders at Richardson & Co., effected in excess of $25
million worth of illegal short sales
of stock and fraudulently represented
to various brokerage firms that

221

Richardson & Co. owned the stock it
purported to be selling through these
brokerage firms. The indictment
further alleged that the defendants
borrowed in excess of $25 million of
stock from various stock lenders including
Harvard University,
Yale
University, Columbia University and
Bowery Savings Bank and used this
borrowed stock to make delivery to the
various stock brokerage firms to whom
they fraudulently
represented that
they owned the stock. The indictment
further alleged that the defendants
concealed their short sales and stock
borrowings by creating fictitious and
fraudulent entries on Richardson &
Coo's books and records and by filing
false financial statements with the
Commission and the NASD which
failed to reveal the short sales and the
liability resulting from the stock borrowings.
Also included in the indictment, on
one count of wire fraud, was Joseph
C. Werba, former president of Wells
Fargo Secunty Clearance Corporation,
a wholly-owned subsidiary of Wells
Fargo Company. Werba was charged
with the unauthorized clearing of stock
transactions for Richardson & Co. and
making of unauthorized loans to the
firm. In addition to the 6 year prison
sentence for Thomas Patrick Richardson, Thomas C. Thomas was sentenced
to two years imprisonment;
Kevin
Kelley and John Kelley were both sentenced to one year imprisonment and
Werba was sentenced to nine months
imprisonment.
U. S. v. John C. Gammagel14-This
case concerned a one-count information filed in New York City charging
the defendant with fraudulently obtaining money from the New York City
brokerage firm of Shields Model Roland, Inc. The scheme, as alleged,
involved a charging of interest by
Wells Fargo Securities Clearance Cor222

poration at the direction of Joseph
C. Werba to the Shields firm when,
in fact, no interest was charged or
received by Wells Fargo Clearance
Corporation. According to the information, Werba and Gammage divided the
purported interest payments of $10,700
made by the Shields firm. The defendant Gammage pleaded guilty to
the charge of fraudulently falsifying
the brokerage firm's books and, on
February 15, 1977, he was sentenced
to one year imprisonment, which was
suspended, and he was placed on
probation for one year.
U.S. v. Charles Kummer, et al. 115_
The case involved a 23 count indictment alleging that Charles Kummer, while employed as a Senior Securities Trader at Bankers Trust Co.
of New York, received secret cash
kickbacks amounting to approximately
$800,000 from the defendants Thomas
Patrick Richardson, John Richardson,
and James Richardson in return for
causing Bankers Trust Co. of New
York to sell in excess of 8.8 million
shares of stock of various companies
owned by pension funds through Richardson & Co. The indictment further
alleged that the defendant Kummer
intentionally bought stocks for pension funds managed by Bankers Trust
Co. of New York from Richardson &
Co. at prices which were higher, and
sold stocks to Richardson & Co. at
prices which were lower, than those
available at the time the trades were
executed resulting in losses to the
pension funds of approximately $3
million during the period 1972 through
1974. The indictment further alleged
that Kummer received the secret kickbacks based upon a percentage of
profits Richardson & Co. made in stock
trades with Bankers Trust Co. of
New York.
Defendants Kummer, John Richardson and James Richardson pleaded

guilty to various counts of the indictment. Kummer was sentenced to
six months imprisonment,
and an
additional five years probation. Additionally, Kummer was fined $5,000
and ordered to make restitution in
the amount of $222,500. John Richardson was sentenced to six months
in jail and a $5,000 fine and James
Richardson to 4-112 months in jail
and a $5,000 fine. Thomas P. Richardson is awaiting trial.
U.S. v. Richard Douglas Avery116_
The indictment charged that defendant Avery, while employed as a senior
securities trader at Financial Programs,
Inc., an investment adviser which
furnished investment advice to a number of Denver based mutual funds,
violated provisions of the Investment
Company Act by accepting secret cash
kickbacks of $6,000 and $9,000 from
Richardson & Co. in return for causing
the mutual funds affiliated with Financial Programs, Inc., to buy and
sell substantial amounts of securities
through Richardson
& Co. Avery
pleaded guilty to both counts of the
indictment and was sentenced to 9
months in jail and fined $10,000 for
each count.
U.S. v. Peter Klaus117-This indictment charged that the defendant
Peter Klaus, while employed as a
stock trader in the trading department of Fidelity Union Trust Company, Newark, New Jersey, engaged in
securities fraud by accepting a cash
kickback of $10,000 from Richardson
& Co. in return for causing Fidelity
Union Trust & Co. to sell 114,900
shares of Travelers Corp. common
stock in the amount of $3,734,250
through T.P. Richardson & Co. Klaus
pleaded guilty to the charge and was
fined $4,000 and placed on three
years probation.
U.S. v. Westco Financial Corporation
et al.- This case involves the fraud-

ulent unregistered interstate distributions of the securities of two corporations and one limited partnership.
The principal of Westco Financial
Corporation (Westco), a Denver, Colorado broker-dealer, and an officer,
director or general partner in all three
issuers effected these distributions
through Westco in participation with
the other general partner and corporate officers and directors.
As a part of the same course of
conduct, securities and other assets
of Westco customers were misappropriated and converted in a number
of ways, including the placing of
worthless securities in discretionary
accounts, executing unauthorized
transactions, converting customers'
securities and free credit balances
and hypothecating customers' securities. In addition, in order to conceal
the financial condition of Westco and
to conceal the aforementioned conduct, Westco's books and records
were falsified and Westco filed a
false report with the Commission.
On November 11, 1975 the Commission filed a civil action alleging
violations of the registration, antifraud,
record keeping and reporting provisions of the Federal securities laws.
The Commission sought injunctions
against Westco, its principal, Old Colorado City Corporation, its officers
and directors, Westco Investment Corporation, its president and controlling
shareholder, Tanglewood Ranch 50
-A, Ltd. and its general partners.
The Commission also sought appointment of receivers for Old Colorado City
Corporation, Westco Investment Corporation and Tanglewood Ranch 50
-A, Ltd. As a part of the same
action, the Securities Investors Protection Corporation applied for the
appointment of a SIPC trustee. On
November 14, 1975, the Court entered
an Order granting the Commission's
223

and SIPC's request for permanent
injunction. The defendants neither
admitted nor denied the Commission's

allegations.!"
The Commission files were subsequently referred to the Department of
Justice, and the matter was presented
to a Federal grand jury for the District of Colorado. A Denver Regional
Office staff attorney was appointed
Special Assistant U.S. Attorney to
assist in the prosecution of this case.
On May 12, 1977 an indictment
was returned charging Westco and
Charles Julius Johnson (Johnson),
an officer and director of Westco,
with violating the antifraud and brokerdealer reporting provisions of the Exchange Act and Milford A. Sims (Sims),
of Cody, Wyoming, with violating the
antifraud provisions of the Exchange
Act. 119
On July 26, 1977, Johnson pleaded
guilty to two counts of securities
fraud, and on September 1, 1977,
he was sentenced to 3-112 years probation, with the requirement he make
restitution to investors. On July 29,
1977, Sims pleaded guilty to one count
of securities fraud, and on September
I, 1977, he was sentenced to 3-112
years probation with the requirement
he make restitution to investors. On
September 16, 1977, a plea of nolo
contendere by Westco was accepted
to one count of securities fraud, and
the company was fined $5,000.120

Organized Crime Program
The prosecution of securities cases
is often based primarily on circumstantial evidence requiring extensive
investigation by highly trained personnel. The difficulties in such investigations and prosecutions are compounded when elements of organized
crime are involved. Witnesses are
usually reluctant to cooperate because
of threats or fear of physical harm.

224

Books, records, and other documentary evidence essential to the investigation and to a successful prosecution may be destroyed or nonexistent.
The organized crime element is adept
at disguising its participation in transactions, through the use of aliases
and nominee accounts, by operating
across international boundaries, and
by taking advantage of foreign bank
secrecy laws. It frequently operates
through "fronts" and infiltrates legitimate business concerns. Organized
crime also has an extensive network
of affiliates throughout this country
in all walks of life, and in many
foreign nations. As a result of these
problems, civil and criminal litigation
involving organized crime can result in
unusually lengthy proceedings. Despite
these difficulties,
the Commission,
working in cooperation with other
enforcement agencies, has been able
to make major contributions to the
fight against organized crime.
During the fiscal year 1977, the
organized crime program focused principally on two goals: (1) increasing the
Commission's effectiveness in obtaining current reliable information relating to organized criminal activity
in the securities industry; and (2) aggressively pursuing to completion investigations of situations brought to
the Commission's attention as potentially involving the infiltration of elements of organized crime into the
industry.
In order to increase the flow of
reliable data, an intelligence unit was
established in 1974 in the Division
of Enforcement. Its principal function
is to maintain channels of communication with state, local and other
Federal agencies, as well as comparable agencies of foreign governments,
which might have information on organized criminal activity in the securities industry. Information received by

this unit is correlated with other available information and evaluated in light
of the Commission's responsibilities
under the Federal securities laws. Information indicating possible securities
law violations by organized criminal
elements is relayed by the intelligence
unit to those other members of the
staff whose principal duties are to
investigate activity by organized crime.
Thrs program has already generated a
significant number of new cases, as
well as contributing new sources of
information to ongoing investigations.
In furtherance of the intelligence
function, members of the staff have
continued to participate in seminars
and lectures sponsored by state and
local governments, and their representatives have been included In the
Commission's training programs. This
has alerted local authorities to the
role of the Commission in curtailing
organized criminal activity In the securities industry. Members of the Commission staff are also assigned on a
full time basis to certain of the Justice Department's Organized Crime
Strike Forces. Both the Strike Forces
and the Commission staff have benefited thereby in learning more about
organized criminal activity in the secunties industry.
As a result of the organized crime
unit's enforcement efforts during the
past fiscal year, the Commission filed
injunctive actions naming 32 persons
and contributed to the return of indictments naming 18 individuals and
the convictions of 14 of them. Four
persons considered to be important
members of organized crime were enjoined, two such members were indicted and one was convicted on indictments returned in prior years.
The Commission staff assigned to
the New York Organized Crime Division
Strike Force conducted an extensive
investigation
into the activities of

Tri-State Energy, Inc. (Tri-State). The
investigation disclosed that from June
1972 through June 1973 certain officers and principal shareholders of TriState joined forces with an officer of
Bankers Trust Company, of New York
and several known securities violators
for purposes of enriching themselves
at the expense of lending institutions,
creditors and the general investing
public through a sophisticated bank
and stock swindle.
In order to accomplish their objectives, they caused the issuance of false
and misleading financial statements
and reports, prepared fraudulent purchase orders, misrepresented certain
material facts to banks, artificially
inflated the market price of certain
securities, and distributed unregistered stock. Following the end of the
fiscal year, as a result of this investigation, a Federal grand jury in the
Southern District of New York indicted
C. W. Deaton, Leonard James, William
Rubin, Otto Sebold, Peter Crosby and
Raymond J. Ludwig.

Cooperation With Other
Enforcement Agencies
In recent years the Commission has
given increased emphasis to cooperation and coordination With other enforcement agencies, Including the
self-regulatory organizations, enforcement agencies at the state and local
level, and certain foreign agencies. Its
programs in this area cover a broad
range. For example, the Commission
believes that certain cases are more
appropnately enforced at the local
rather than the Federal level where the
activities, while perhaps violating the
Federal securities laws, are essentially
of a local nature. In these instances,
the Commission authorizes the referral
of the case to the appropriate state or
local agency, and members of the staff
familiar with it are made available for
225

direct assistance to that agency in its
enforcement action. A member of the
staff has been specifically designated
as a liaison with state enforcement
and regulatory authorities.
The Commission also has fostered
programs designed to provide a comprehensive exchange of information
concerning mutual enforcement problems and possible securities violations. During the fiscal year, it continued its program of annual regional
enforcement
conferences.
These
conferences are attended by personnel from state securities agencies, the
U.S. Postal Service, Federal, and state
and local offices of self-regulatory
associations, such as the NASD. They
provide a forum for the exchange of
information on current enforcement
problems and new methods of enforcement cooperation. One result of these
conferences has been the establishment of programs for joint investigations. Although the conferences were
initially hosted by the Commission's
regional offices, many state and local
agencies are now serving as sponsors
or co-sponsors.

FOREIGN RESTRICTED LIST
The Commission maintains and publishes a Foreign Restricted List which
is designed to put broker-dealers,
financial institutions, investors and
others on notice of unlawful distributions of foreign securities
in the
United States. The list consists of
names of foreign companies whose securities the Commission has reason to
believe have been, or are being,
offered for public sale in the United
States in violation of the registration requirements of Section 5 of the
Securities Act. The offer and sale of
unregistered securities deprives investors of all the protections afforded by
the Securities Act, including the right
to receive a prospectus containing

226

the information required by the Act for
the purpose of enabling the investor
to determine whether the investment
is suitable for him. While most brokerdealers refuse to effect transactions in
securities issued by companies on the
Foreign Restricted List, this does not
necessarily prevent promoters from illegally offering such securities directly
to investors in the United States by
mail, by telephone, and sometimes by
personal solicitation. During the past
fiscal year, two corporations were
added to the Foreign Restricted List,
bringing the total number of corporations on the list to 10 1. The following companies were added during the
year:
Mercantile Bank & Trust Company,
limitedv» - Information came to the
attention of the Commission that this
corporation, with an office in Kingstown, on St. Vincent in the Windward
Islands, was offering and selling by
mail, instruments purporting to be certificates
of deposit, among other
things, to investors in the United
States. No registration
statement
under the Securities Act of 1933 has
been filed with the Commission covering any of these instruments. Accordingly these offers and sales are in
violation of Section 5 of the Securities
Act.
Among the other instruments issued
were letters of credit, cashiers checks,
lines of credit, numbered-account
checks and other evidence purporting
to reflect cash on deposit.
International Trade Development of
Costa Rica, S.A. 122 - The Commission
received information that International Trade Development of Costa
Rica, S.A. was engaged in publicly
offering its securities, represented to
be promissory notes, in the United
States. No registration
statement
under the Securities Act has been filed
with the Commission covering these

securities. Accordingly, the offering is
in violation of Section 5 of the Securities Act.

NOTES TO PART 4
"See Office of Consumer Affairs Report.
2Securities Act Release No. 5841 (July
5, 1977), 12 SEC Docket 1098.
3Securities Exchange Act Release No.
13225 (February I, 1977), 11 SEC Docket
1628.
4Securities Exchange Act Release No.
12851 (October 1, 1976), 10 SEC Docket
655.
576 Civ. 4489 (CBM).
6Securities Exchange Act Release Nos.
13766 and 13769 (July 19, 1977), 12 SEC
Docket 1277, 1284.
7Securities Exchange Act Release No.
13770 (July 19, 1977), 12 SEC Docket 1286.
6SecUrlties Exchange Act Release No.
13766 (July 19, 1977), 12 SEC Docket 1283.
9Securitles Exchange Act Release No.
13801 (July 25, 1977), 12 SEC Docket 1378.
I°Litigatlon Release No. 7579 (September 23, 1976), 10 SEC Docket 544.
llSecurities Exchange Act Release No.
13268 (February 16, 1977), 11 SEC Docket
1724.
12Securities Exchange Act Release No.
12752 (September 1,1976),10 SEC Docket
327.
13Securitles Exchange Act Release No.
13976 (September 21, 1977), 13 SEC Docket 120.
14Securities Exchange Act Release No.
12930 (October 27, 1976), 10 SEC Docket 790.
15Securities Exchange Act Release No.
13213 (January 28, 1977), 11 SEC Docket 1623.
16Litigation Release No. 8163 (October
17, 1977), 13 SEC Docket 407.
17Litigatioh Release No. 7845 (March 24,
1977), 11 SEC Docket 2147.
lBLitigation Release No. 6349 (May 2,
1974), 4 SEC Docket 258. See 41st Annual Report, p, 38.
19SECv. Penn Central Co., et al., 425
F. Supp. 593 (E.D. Pa. 1976).
2°Litlgation Release No. 8057 (August
5, 1977), 12 SEC Docket 1510.
21Litigation Release No. 8059 (August
8, 1977), 12 SEC Docket 151l.
22Litigatlon Release No. 8116 (September IS, 1977), 13 SEC Docket 105.
23Litigation Release No. 7412 (May 26,
1976), 9 SEC Docket 754.
24Litigation Release No. 8001 (June 28,
1977), 12 SEC Docket 1093.
25Litigation Release No. 7887 (April 26,
1977), 12 SEC Docket 27l.
26Litigation Release No. 7777 (February
10, 1977), 11 SEC Docket 1112.
27Litigation Release No. 8134 (September 30, 1977), 13 SEC Docket 296.

2BLItigation Release No. 8132 (September 28, 1977), 13 SEC Docket 259.
29Litigation Release No. 8146 (September 6, 1977), 13 SEC Docket 7.
30Litigation Release No. 8073 (August
18, 1977), 12 SEC Docket 1563.
31litigation Release No. 8026 (July 13,
1977), 12 SEC Docket 1153.
32Litigalion Release No. 7550 (September 7, 1976), 10 SEC Docket 437.
33Litigation Release No. 7759 (January
27, 1977), 11 SEC Docket 158l.
34Litigation Release No. 7951 (June 1,
1977), 12 SEC Docket 747.
35Litlgation Release No. 8164 (October
17, 1977), 13 SEC Docket 407.
36Litigation Release No. 7816 (March
9, 1977), 11 SEC Docket 1984.
37Lltigatlon Release No. 7915 (May 10,
1977), 12 SEC Docket 418.
3BLItigation Release No. 7828 (March 16,
1977), 11 SEC Docket 2039.
39Litigation Release No. 7464 (June 24,
1976), 9 SEC Docket 982.
40See42nd Annual Report, p. 118.
41Litigatlon Release No. 7863 (April 8,
1977), 11 SEC Docket 2260.
42Litigatlon Release No. 7841 (March
23, 1977), 11 SEC Docket 2145.
43Litlgation Release No. 7939 (May 19,
1977), 12 SEC Docket 506.
44Litlgation Release No. 8036 (July 25,
1977), 12 SEC Docket 1410.
45Lit!gation Release No. 8050 (August
2, 1977), 12 SEC Docket 1453.
46Litigation Release No. 7888 (April 27,
1977), 12 SEC Docket 272.
47Lltigation Release No. 7965 (June 9,
1977), 12 SEC Docket 811.
4BLitigation Release No. 7929 (May 20,
1977), 12 SEC Docket 50l.
49Litigation Release No. 7717 (December 30, 1976), 11 SEC Docket 1398.
50Litigation Release No. 8031 (July 19,
1977), 12 SEC Docket 1342.
51Litigation Release No. 7709 (December 27, 1976), 11 SEC Docket 5.
52Litigatlon Release No. 7596 (June 7,
1977), 12 SEC Docket 806.
53Litigatlon Release No. 7998 (June 28,
1977), 12 SEC Docket 1092.
54Lltigatlon Release No. 7603 (October
6, 1976), 10 SEC Docket 687.
55Litigation Release No. 8131 (September 27, 1977), 13 SEC Docket 258.
56Litigation Release No. 7770 (February
2, 1977), 11 SEC Docket 1109.
57Litigation Release No. 7650 (November 15) 1976), 10 SEC Docket 980.
5BLitlgatlon Release No. 7760 (January
31, 1977), 11 SEC Docket 1662.
59Litlgatlon Release No. 7736 (January
13, 1977), 11 SEC Docket 1504.
6°Litigatlon Release No. 7622 (October
28, 1976), 10 SEC Docket 831.
61Litigation Release No. 7248 (January
23, 1976),8 SEC Docket 1176.
227

62Litigation Release No. 7837 (March
23, 1977), 11 SEC Docket 2143.
63Lltigation Release No. 7986 (June 22,
1977), 12 SEC Docket 1007.
64Litigation Release No. 7937 (May 25,
1977), 12 SEC Docket 505.
65Litigation Release No. 7297 (February
26, 1976), 9 SEC Docket 2.
66SEC v. E.L. Aaron & Co., inc., et
al., Litigation Release No. 7966 (June
9, 1977), 12 SEC Docket 8.
67Litigation Release No. 7909 (May 5,
1977), 12 SEC Docket 339.
6811tigatlon Release No. 7970 (June 10,
1977), 12 SEC Docket 894.
69Lltigation Release No. 7949 (June I,
1977), 12 SEC Docket 747.
7°552 F.2d 402 (C.A. 2, 1977).
71554 F. 2d 790 (C.A. 7, 1977).
72The Supreme Court had remanded the
case in light of Ernst & Ernst v. Hochfelder, 425 U.S. 185 (1975). See 425
U.S. 929 (1976).
73524 F. 2d 1064, 1066 (C.A. 7, 1975).
74554 F.2d at 794.
75CCHFed. Sec. Rep., para. 96,141.
76U.S. Sup. Ct., Nos. 75-353, 75-354,
75-355.
77Chris-Craft Industries, Inc. v. Piper
Aircraft Corp., 303 F. Supp. 191 (S.D.N.Y.,
1969), affirmed in part and reversed and
remanded In part, 426 F.2d 569 (C.A.
2, 1970) (en bane); on remand, 337 F.
Supp. 1128 (S.D.N.Y., 1971), reversed
and remanded, 480 F.2d 341 (C.A. 2),
certiorari denied, 414 U.S. 910 (1973);
on remand, 384 F. Supp. 507 (S.D.N.Y.,
1974), modified, 516 F.2d 172 (C.A. 2,
1975). In addition to the Commission's
action against Bangor Punta and Piper
for violation of Section 5 of the Securities
Act, in which a consent injunction was
entered, without defendants admitting
or denying any of the allegations, the
Cornrnisston
sued Bangor Punta alleging
violations of Section 17a of the Securities Act and Section lO(b) of the Exchange Act and Rule 10b-5 thereunder,
with respect to Bangor Punta's misleading
registration statement. SEC v. Bangor Punta Corp., 331 F. Supp. 1154 (S.D.N.Y.,
1971), affirmed In part and reversed In
part, 480 F.2d 341 (C.A. 2), certiorari
denied, 414 U.S. 910 (1973).
78Senate Committee on Banking and
Currency, Hearings Before the Subcommittee on Securities on S.510, 90th Cong.,
1st Sess. 16, 33 (1967).
79S. Rep. No. 550, 90th Cong., 1st
Sess. 3 (1967); H.R. Rep. No. 1711,
90th Cong., 2nd Sess. 4 (1968).
8°J.I. Case. Co. v. Borak, 377 U.S.
426 (1964), which had also relied on Section 27 of the Exchange Act.
81422 U.S. 66, 78 (1975).
82See, e.g., Lowenschuss v. Kane, 520
F.2d 255 (C.A. 2, 1975) (tendering share-

228

holder may sue offeror); Smallwood v. Pearl
Brewing Co., 489 F.2d 579 (C.A. 5), certiorari denied, 419 U.S. 873 (1974) (nontendering shareholder); Electronic Specialty Co. v. International Controls Corp., 409
F.2d 937 (C.A. 2, 1969) (target company
may sue for an injunction offeror); H.K.
Porter Co. v. Nicholson File Co., 482 F.2d
421 (C.A. 1, 1973) (offeror may sue to
enjoin target from making misleading
statements). Cf. Crane Co. v. Westinghouse
Air Brake Co., 419 F.2d 787, 798-99 (C.A. 2,
1969); Union Pacific Railroad Co. v. Chicago and North Western Railway Co., 226 F.
Supp. 400, 406 (N.D. ilL, 1964) (proxy
contest).
83430 U.S. 1 (1977).
84Fed.Sec. L. Rep. (CCH), Par. 96,184 at
92,337 (S.D.N.Y. September 30, 1977).
85Unlted States District Court for the
District of Columbia, (Misc. No. 76-0141
filed August 23, 1976).
86Litigation Release No. 8164 (October
17, 1977), 13 SEC Docket 407.
87Securities Exchange Act Release No.
11534 (July 14, 1975),7 SEC Docket 405.
88SEC v. Getty Financial Corporation,
Litigation Release No. 7743 (January 19,
1977), 11 SEC Docket 1543; SEC v.
MacMillan Ring-Free Oil Co. and John M.
Shaheen, Litigation Release No. 7900 (May
2, 1977), 12 SEC Docket 335-336; and
SEC v. Ormont Drug & Chemical Co., Inc.,
Litigation Release No. 7987 (June 23,
1977), 12 SEC Docket 1008.
89LltigatlOn Release Nos. 7884 (March
24, 1977), 11 SEC Docket 2147, and 8124
(September 23, 1977), 13 SEC Docket 256.
90SEC v. Canadian Javelin Ltd., et al.,
Lrtlgation Release Nos. 7642 (November
10, 1976), 10 SEC Docket 948 and 7779
(February 14, 1977), 11 SEC Docket 1772
and SEC v. Bethmann Bank et al., Litigation
Release No. 7933 (May 23, 1977), 12 SEC
Docket 504.
91Litigation Release No. 7823 (March 16,
1977), 11 SEC Docket 2038.
921nthe Matter of Western Orbis Company, Securities Exchange Act Release No.
13610 (June 9, 1977), 12 SEC Docket 772.
931nthe Matter of Ametex Corporation,
Securlties
Exchange Act Release No.
13418 (March 31, 1977), 11 SEC Docket
2156.
94Litigation Release No. 8026 (July 14,
1977), 12 SEC Docket 1153.
95Lltigation Release No. 8168 (October
26, 1977), 13 SEC Docket 503.
96SECv. M. A. Lundy, 362 F. Supp. 226
(D.C.R.I., 1973).
97Litigation Release No. 7813 (March 7,
1977), 11 SEC Docket 1983.
98Litlgation Release Nos. 6955 (June 30,
1975), 7 SEC Docket 369; 7477 (July I,
1976), 9 SEC Docket 1011; and 7530
(August 20, 1976), 10 SEC Docket 308.

99Litigation Release No. 8176 (October
31, 1977), 13 SEC Docket 630.
lOOLitigation Release No. 8185 (November 7, 1977), 13 SEC Docket 728.
lD1Litigation Release No. 8007 (June 30,
1977), 12 SEC Docket 1138.
lD2Litigation Release No. 7164 (November 12, 1975), 8 SEC Docket 514.
lD3CR.77-15-PHX-WPC
(D. Ariz).
l04SEC v. Techni-Cutture, lnc., et al., Civil
Action File No. 73-473-PHXWPC.
lD5Litigation Release No. 8102 (September 6, 1977), 13 SEC Docket 1.
lD6Lltigation Release No. 8113 (September 13, 1977), 13 SEC Docket 103.
lD7Litigation Release No. 8030 (July 19,
1977), 12 SEC Docket 1369.
lD8Litigation Release No. 7513 (August 5,
1976), 10 SEC Docket 4.
lD9Litigation Release No. 7272 February
10, 1976), 8 SEC Docket 1291; litigation
Release No. 7309 (March 11, 1976),9 SEC
Docket 176.
llDLitigation Release No. 8086 (August
25, 1977), 12 SEC Docket 1594. Subse-

quel)tly', Erni pleaded guilty to one count of
the Indictment.
lllLitigation Release No. 7934 (May 25,
1977), 12 SEC Docket 504.
112Litigation Release No. 8167 (October
26, 1977), 13 SEC Docket 502.
113Litlgation Release Nos. 7155 (November 7, 1975),8 SEC Docket 428; and 7438
(June 9, 1976), 9 SEC Docket 868.
114U.S.D.C.,S.D.N.Y., 76CR 1155 (TPG).
115Litigation Release No. 8136 (September 30, 1977), 13 SEC Docket 297.
116U.S.D.C. C.D. Cal., CR-761556LEW.
117U.S.D.C. C.D. Cal., CR-761557LTL.
118Litigation Release No. 7177 (November 25, 1975), 8 SEC Docket 584.
119Litigation Release No. 7942 (May 26,
1977), 12 SEC Docket 507.
12DLitigation Release No. 8158 (October
14, 1977), 13 SEC Docket 405.
l2lSecurities Act Release No. 5751 (October 5, 1976), 10 SEC Docket 692.
122Securities Act Release No. 5725 (July
16, 1976), 10 SEC Docket 57.

229

Part 5
Investment Companies
and Advisers

Part 5
Investment Companies
and Advisers

Under the Investment Company Act
of 1940 and the Investment Advisers
Act of 1940, the Commission is charged
with extensive regulatory and supervisory responsibilities over investment
companies and investment advisers.
The responsibility for discharging these
duties lies with the Division of Investment Management.
Unlike other Federal securities laws,
which emphasize disclosure, the Investment Company Act provides a
regulatory framework within which investment companies must operate.
Among other things, the Act: (1)
prohibits changes in the nature of an
investment company's business or its
investment policies without shareholder approval; (2) protects against
management self-dealing, embezzlement or abuse of trust; (3) provides
specific controls to eliminate or mitigate inequitable capital structures; (4)
requires that an investment company
disclose its financial condition and investment policies; (5) provides that
management contracts be submitted
to shareholders for approval and that
provision be made for the safekeeping
of assets; and (6) sets controls to
protect against unfair transactions
between an investment company and
its affiliates.
Persons in the business of advising
others about securities transactions

for compensation must register with
the Commission under the Investment
Advisers Act. This requirement was extended by the Investment Company
Amendments Act of 1970 to include
advisers to registered investment companies. The Advisers Act, among other
things, prohibits fraudulent, deceptive
or manipulative practices, performance fee contracts which do not meet
certain requirements, and advertising
which does not comply with certain
restrictions.
The assets of investment companies
and assets under the management of
investment advisers constitute important resources for investment in
the nation's capital markets. In order
to continue their role of channeling
individual savings into capital needed
for industrial development, investment companies and investment advisers must have the confidence of
investors. The safeguards provided by
the Investment Company and Investment Advisers Acts contributes to
sustaining such confidence.

NUMBER OF REGISTRANTS AND
INSPECTIONS
As of September 30, 1977, there
were 1,333 active investment companies registered under the Investment Company Act. This represents an
increase of 22 in the number of active

233

registered companies since September 30, 1976. The 1,311 active investment companies registered on that
date represented an increase of 25
over the number of active registered
companies on June 30, 1976. On September 30, 1977, 4,823 mvestment
advisers were registered with the Commission representing an increase of
781 from September 30, 1976. The
4,042 investment advisers registered
on that date represented an increase
of 185 since June 30, 1976. Further
data IS presented in Part 9 of the
Report.
During the Transitional Quarter the
Commission's staff conducted examinations of 52 investment companies
and 92 investment advisers, and durrng the 1977 fiscal year 286 investment companies and 459 investment
advisers were examined. It is the
Commission's ultimate objective to
exarnrne all investment companies and
investment advisers within the first
year after registration, and once every
other year thereafter. This should provide effective regulatory oversight. As a
result of the Commission's examination and mvestigation program rn the
Transitional Quarter, numerous violations of the Investment Company Act
and of the Investment Advisers Act
were uncovered. Two investment company and five investment adviser matters were referred to the Division of
Enforcement for possible action during the Transitional Quarter, and during the 1977 fiscal year 16 investment
company and 25 investment adviser
matters were referred to Enforcement.

RULES
Rules Concerning Applications for
Orders Filed Under Investment
Advisers Act
On May 13, 1976, the Commission
proposed the adoption of Rules 0-4,
0-5 and 0-6' under the Advisers Act,
234

to establish rules governing the filing
and processing of applications for
orders under the Advisers Act. The
proposed rules, which were similar to
the rules under the Investment Company Act concerning applications, were
intended to provide the Commission
with the kind of formal and complete
record normally required as the basis
for Commission action on applications
for orders. On September 3, 1976, the
Commission announced the adoption
of Rules 0-2, 0-5 and 0-6, effective
October 21, 1976, substantially as
proposed."

Rule 15a-2
On September 17, 1976, the Commission announced the adoption of
Rule 15a-2 under the Investment
Company Act to become effective
October 29, 1976.3
The primary purpose of Rule 15a-2
is to eliminate uncertainty as to when
the required approval of the investment advisory contract must be obtained. The Commission believes that
for contract continuances extending
past the initial two-year term permitted by the Investment Company Act
the votes of approval ought to be taken
at intervals of not more than approximately one year and at times when
there is meaningful information as to
performance over the preceding year
on which to base a judgment as to
continumg the contracts. An additional purpose of the rule is to eliminate
certain practices which the Commission, upon the basis of its experience,
considers to be contrary to the policy
and purposes of Section 15 of the Act.
One such practice would be scheduling votes within successive calendar
years so that there may be an interval
of substantially more than 365 days
between them as where votes are
scheduled in January of one year and
in 'December of the following year.

Another such practice would be scheduling votes so far in advance of the
date on which the continuance of the
contract is to take effect that there is
no meaningful information on which
either the directors or shareholders
can base their votes.
Rule 15a-2 provides that the first
continuance of a contract shall be
deemed to have been approved at
least annually if such contract is
specifically approved by the board
of directors or by vote of a majority
of the investment company's outstanding voting securities
during
the 90 days prior to and including
the earlier of (1) the specified termination date of the contract or (2)
the second anniversary of the date
on which the contract was executed.
The section further provides that any
subsequent continuance of a contract
shall be deemed to have been approved in compliance with Sections
15(a)(2) or 15(b)( 1) if such contract
is specifically approved by the board
of directors or by a majority of the
investment company's outstanding
voting securities during the 90 days
prior to and including the first anniversary of the date upon which the
most recent previous annual continuance of such contract became
effective.

Rule 2a-5
On June 3, 1977, the Commission
published for comment proposed Rule
2a-5 and, on August 10, 1977,
the Commission announced its adoption essentially as proposed." Rule
2a-5 provides an exemption under
specified circumstances to a broker
or dealer, or any affiliated person of
such broker or dealer, who would
otherwise be deemed an interested
person of an investment company, or
an investment company's investment
adviser or principal underwriter. It

obviates the need for exemptive
applications under circumstances in
which the Commission has granted a
large number of orders.

Proposed Rule 81-1
The Commission released for public
comment on July 21, 1977, proposed
rules, a proposed form and a proposed
amendment to a form, which WOUld:
(1) create
a form to be used by
certain investment companies registered under the Investment Company Act in requesting orders of the
Commission
declaring
that such
companies have ceased to be investment companies and (2) require the
quarterly
reports of management
investment
companies to contain
specified information
in the event
that any such company was the
surviving company of a merger into
or consolidation
with another registered company, so as to provide,
among other things, a basis for a
determination that the latter company
has ceased to be an investment
cornpany.s These proposals represent
another step in the Division's program to examine its regulation of investment companies and institute appropriate modifications where practicable. The Division believes that
such rules and forms would facilitate
the deregistration of companies which
have ceased to be investment companies. At the close of the year, the Division was evaluating the mformation received in response to its request for
comments.

Proposed Rule 241-2 and Proposed
Amendment to Rule 241-1
On July 8, 1976, the Commission
published for public comment a proposed Rule 24f-2 under the Investment Company Act of 1940 for registration under the Securities Act of 1933
of an indefinite number of securities

235

of certain investment companies. 6 One
purpose of the proposed rule is to
allow the registration
fee paid on
such securities to be based upon
actual sales in certain circumstances,
rather than on estimates
of the
amount of securities to be sold. In
addition, the proposed rule might
relieve certain investment companies
and indirectly their security holders
of certain costs associated with the
monitori ng of the amounts of securities
sold and the triple filing fee presently
required for retroactive registration
of shares. The Commission also published for public comment a conforming amendment to Rule 24f-l
under the Investment Company Act
to require the filing of an opinion
of counsel with respect to the legality
of the issuance of securities registered
retroactively under the rule.
In 1970, Section 24(f) of the Investment Company Act was amended
to permit the Commission to adopt
rules concerning
the retroactive
registration of securities under the
Securities Act where the number of
shares sold exceeded the number of
shares registered. Pursuant to this
authority,
the Commission
has
adopted Rule 24f-l
allowing the
retroactive registration of secu rities
if: (1) the securities are retroactively
registered within six months of their
sale, (2) a filing fee three times
the usual fee is paid, and (3) a current
prospectus was delivered to persons
purchasing the oversold shares.
The amendment to Section 24(f)
also empowered the Commission to
adopt rules to allow the registration
of an indefinite number of securities
offered by certain investment companies. The Commission believes, in
view of its experience with Rule
24f-l
and proposed Rule 24f-2,
investors would have the protections
afforded under the Securities Act

236

since they would receive a current
prospectus
with respect to the
security and would have the remedies
specified In the Act.

Rule 206(3)-2
On December 2, 1976, the Commission published a proposed Rule
206(3)-2
which provided a nonexclusive method for compliance with
the Investment Advisers Act in connection with an agency cross transaction for an advisory client by persons
who otherwise might be considered to
be acting in a conflict of interest
in violation of their fiduciary duties
to the client." It requires that the
transaction be effected pursuant to a
written consent for a period not to
exceed one year and executed by the
advisory client after full written disclosure that the investment adviser
and/or an affiliated broker-dealer are
acting as agent for and receiving
commissions for both parties and,
accordingly, have a conflicting division
of loyalties and responsibilities. The
rule was adopted, essentially as proposed, on June 1, 1977.8

APPLICATIONS
One of the Commission's principal
activities in the regulation of investment companies and investment advisers is the consideration of applications for exemptions from various
provisions of the Investment Company
and Investment Advisers Acts or for
certain other relief under these
Acts. Applicants may also seek determinations of the status of persons
or companies. During the Transitional Quarter, 65 applications were
filed under the Investment Company
Act, and final action was taken on
44 applications. There were 2 applications filed under the Advisers Act,
and no final action was taken on
any applications. On September 30,

1976, 203 applications were pending
under both Acts.
During fiscal year 1977, 226 applications were filed under the Investment Company Act, and final action
was taken on 222. There was 1 application filed under the Advisors
Act, and final action was taken on
2 applications. On September 30,
1977, there were 136 applications
pending under both Acts.
Under Section 6(c) of the Investment Company Act, the Commission,
by order upon application,
may
exempt any person, security or
transaction from any provision of
the Act, if and to the extent such
exemption IS necessary or appropriate
in the public interest and consistent
with the protection of investors and
purposes fairly intended by the
policies and provisions of the Act.
Under Section 206A of the Advisers
Act, the Commission has identical
authority with regard to provisions
of that Act. Under Section 17 of the
Investment Company Act, affiliates of
a registered investment company
cannot sell to or purchase from the
registered company unless they
first obtain an order from the Commission. Many of the applications
filed with the Commission relate
to these sections.
One such application of particular
interest
was filed by American
Bakeries Company (Bakeries). In
1974, Bakeries was contacted by
Mathers Fund (Fund) (a registered
investment company) and told that
the Fund owned 178,200 shares of
Bakeries' common stock that it
wanted to sell, and offered to sell,
the shares to Bakeries. Because this
block of stock represented more than
5 percent of Bakeries' outstanding
voting securities,
under the law
Bakeries was an affiliated person of
the Fund and therefore prohibited by

Section 17(a) from entering into the
transaction before filing an application with the Commission. Both parties
to the transaction overlooked the
applicability
of Section 17(a) and
executed the transaction without an
application having been filed.
Later, by coincidence, the value of
the outstanding common stock of
Bakeries' began to rise after the
sale, and when the Fund discovered
that the transaction had been in
violation of Section 17(a), and on
advice of counsel, it sought to rescind the transactions on the grounds
that, because it was in violation of
the Act, it was void. When Bakeries
refused to return the shares, the
Fund brought suit against Bakeries
in the United States District Court
for the Northern District of Illinois.
Bakeries then filed an application
with the Commission for an order
retroactively exempting the transaction from the prohibitions
of
Section 17(a). A hearing was held
on the matter, and the Commission
granted the application after concluding that the transaction was fair
to the Fund, that is would have been
granted if the application had been
filed at the proper time, and that
there were special circumstances
in this case which justified the granting of retroactive relief.?
Also, in the past fiscal year, the
Vanguard group of investment companies, a complex of fourteen funds
each with identical
boards of
directors, proposed to internalize
the distribution
of their shares.
Previously, Wellington Management
Company served as adviser, manager,
and distributor
for the funds. In
1975, the Vanguard complex internalized their corporate administrative functions by capitalizing and
operating a service company known
as the Vanguard Group, Inc. (Van-

237

guard). The proposal to internalize
the distribution
function came in
February of this year after the boards
of directors of each of the Vanguard
funds which charged a sales load
determined that those funds should
become no-load funds immediately.
By internalizing
their distribution
function, the Vanguard funds expect
to save approximately $831,000 in the
first year of operation. The amount
is primarily attributable to reduced
advisory fees negotiated with Wellington Management Company by each of
the funds. In addition to cost savings,
the arrangement is expected to reduce
the dependence of each of the Vanguard funds on its outside adviser
by placing a function essential to
fund existence in the hands of the
complex. The arrangement is also
expected to enhance the ability of
the funds to evaluate services provided to them.
Because of the affiliations among
the fourteen funds and Vanguard,
the funds and Vanguard filed an
application on February 24, 1977
seeking a conditional order by the
Commission pursuant to Rule 17d-1
which would permit Vanguard Marketing Corporation,
a wholly-owned
subsidiary of Vanguard, to undertake
the distribution
of shares of the
Vanguard funds. Conditional orders
were also sought pursuant to Sections
17(b) and 6(c) which would facilitate
operation of the distribution proposal.
The Commission issued a notice of
the filing of the appllcatlon,
as
amended, on July 15, 1977.10 A request
for hearing was filed on August 8,
1977, by a shareholder of Wellington
Fund, Inc., the largest of the Vanguard
funds.
After consideration of the matter,
the Commission determined that it
was appropriate in the public interest
of investors that a hearing be held
238

with respect to the application. The
Commission also deemed it appropriate, in view of the cost savings
that the Applicants had represented
would inure to the benefit of the
Vanguard Funds during the first
year of operation of the Vanguard
distribution
proposal,
to grant
an interim and temporary order of
exemption. Accordingly, on September
13, 1977, the Commission issued a
notice of and order for hearing and a
temporary order of exernption.n The
hearing was scheduled to commence
on December 5, 1977, in Philadelphia,
Pennsylvania.

OTHER DEVELOPMENTS
In light of the fact that the Division
of Investment Management is now
responsible for, among other things,
processing registration statements
and post-effective amendments filed
by registered investment companies
and similar issuers under the Securities
Act of 1933 (14 U.S.C. 77a-1 et. seq.)
and consistent with the Commission's
practice of publishing the views of
its staff to assist registrants, their
counsel and accountants, and other
interested persons, the Commission
authorized publication of a release
setting forth procedures for filing
and processing registration statements and post-effective amendments
filed by registered investment com-

panies."
The enactment of the Tax Reform
Act of 1976 affected investment
companies in several ways. The most
significant
effect from the Commission's perspective was the enactment of a provision under the
tax laws which allowed registered
investment companies organized in
corporate or business trust form to
"pass through"
the tax-exempt
status of the income from certain
securities of United States states

and territories
and the political
subdivisions.
This "pass through"
treatment
had under previous tax
law been allowed only to managed
investment companies which were
organized as limited partnerships or
to unit lnvestrnent
trusts whose
portfolios
could not be managed
under the Investment Company Act.
However, until just a few months
prior to the enactment of the Tax
Reform Act, several problems under
the securities laws had prevented
such partnerships from receiving the
exemptive orders under the Investment Company Act necessary for them
to operate in compliance with the
law.
At the time of the enactment of the
Tax Reform Act, only a few partnerships with the objective of tax-exempt
income had filed registration statements under the 1933 and 1940 Acts,
and only two had effective 1933 Act
registration
statements.
After the
enactment of the Tax Reform Act,
several of the partnerships' registrations were abandoned or withdrawn.
Others were amended to indicate a
change of the company into corporate
form. In addition, during the month
prior to, and the two months subsequent to, the enactment of the
Tax Reform Act, approximately 30 new
investment companies of the management type with the objective
of.
tax-exempt income registered with
the Commission.
Another effect of the Tax Reform
Act of 1976 was to end a brief flourish
of registrations of "exchange funds"
in partnership form. Exchange funds
are investment companies in which
investors have pooled appreciated
stock in return for shares of the
investment company without paying
capital gains tax on the appreciation.
In 1966, the tax laws were amended
to discontinue
the favorable tax

treatment when corporations were
used as the depositories
for the
appreciated
securities.
When the
problems under the securities laws
which had prevented the use of
partnerships as investment companies
were overcome and when the Internal
Revenue Service issued a ruling that
publicly syndicated limited partnerships could be formed tax-free with
such appreciated securities, several
such partnership exchange funds registered with the Commission. The
Tax Reform Act of 1976 had a provision
which ended this favorable tax treatment on transfers to partnerships also.
In the face of all this activity, the
Commission published a release giving
the Division's views with respect to
certain regulatory and disclosure
matters pertinent to companies investing in securities the income from
which is exempt from federal income
taxation.P
The Commission also
issued an interpretation
of a rule
under the Investment Company Act
indicating,
generally, that it shall
be considered
inappropriate
for
"money market" funds and certain
other open-end investment companies
to determine the fair value of debt
portfolio securities on an amortized
cost basis, except In the case of
securities with remaining maturities
of 60 days or less.t"

NOTES TO PART 5
1 InvestmentAdvisersAct Release
No.516
(May 13, 1976),9 SECDocket661.
21nvestmentAdvisers Act Release No.
532 (September3, 1976), 10 SECDocket
433.
31nvestmentCompanyAct ReleaseNo.
945l{September 17, 1976),10SECDocket
532.
41nvestmentCompanyAct Release No.
9886 (August 10, 1977), 12 SEC Docket
1509.
SlnvestmentComf.anyAct Release No.
9861 {July21, 1977 , 12 SECDocket1320.
61nvestmentCompanyAct Release No.
9347 (July 8, 1976), 10 SECDocket206.

239

71nvestment Advisers Act Release No.

557 (December 2, 1976), 11 SEC Docket
1072.
81nvestment Advisers Act Release No.

111nvestment Company Act Release No.
13, 1977), 13 SEC

9927 (September
Docket 92.

121nvestment Company Act Release No.

91nvestment Company Act Release No.

9426 (September 3, 1976), 10 SEC Docket
404.

9924 (September 13,1977),12 SEC Docket
88.

9785 (May 31, 1977), 12 SEC Docket 713.

589 (June 1, 1977), 12 SEC Docket 740.

10lnvestment Company Act Release No.

9850 (July 15, 1977), 12 SEC Docket 1301.

240

131nvestment Company ACt Release No.
141nvestment Company Act Release No.

9786 (May 31, 1977), 12 SEC Docket 715.

Part 6
Public Utility
Holding Companies

--

~


Part 6
Public Utility
Holding Companies

Under the Public Utility Holding
Company Act of 1935, the Commission
regulates interstate public utility holding company systems engaged in the
electric utility business and/or retail
distribution of gas. The Commission's
jurisdiction also covers natural gas
pipeline companies and other nonutility
companies which are subsidiaries of
registered holding companies. There
are three principal areas of regulation
under the Act: (l) the physical integration of public utility companies
and functionally
related properties
of holding company systems, and the
simplification
of intercorporate
relationships and financial structures
of such systems; (2) the financing
operations of registered holding companies and their subsidiary companies,
the acquisition and disposition of
securities and properties and certain
accounting practices, servicing arrangements, and intercompany transactions; (3) exemptive provisions
relating to the status under the Act
of persons and companies, and provisions regulating the right of persons
affiliated with a public utility company
to become affiliated
with another
such company through acquisition of
securities.

COMPOSITION
For the fiscal

year 1977, there

were 18 holding companies registered
under the Act. There were 17 registered holding companies within the
14 "active" registered holding company systems."
The remaining
registered holding company is relatively
small, and not included
among
the "active" systems. In the 14 active
systems, there were 67 electric and/or
gas utility subsidiaries, 55 nonutility
subsidiaries, and 22 inactive companies, or a total of 161 system
companies, including the top parent
and subholding companies. Table 35
in Part 9 lists the active systems
and their aggregate assets.

FINANCING
Volume
During fiscal 1977, a total of 12
active registered holding company
systems issued and sold 49 issues of
long-term debt and capital stock
aggregating $2.4 billion pursuant to
authorization
by the Commission
under Sections 6 and 7 of the Act.
Table 36B in Part 9 presents the
amount and types of securities issued
and sold by these holding company
systems.
The aggregate amount of these
financings represents a 29 percent
decrease over the previous fiscal year.
Bonds and debentures issued and sold
243

decreased 20 percent, preferred stock
decreased 62 percent, and the amount
of common stock issued and sold
decreased 26 percent.
During the transition quarter, July 1
to September 3D, 1976, a total of
8 active registered holding company
systems issued and sold 13 issues
of long-term debt and capital stock
aggregating $275.6 million pursuant
to Sections 6 and 7 of the Act. Table
36A in Part 9 presents the amount
and types of securities issued and
sold by these holding company
systems.

PROCEEDINGS
Central and South West Corporation2-On January 3D, 1976, the Commission issued a Notice of and Order
for Hearing- in this proceeding to
examine whether the electric utility
facilities of the subsidiaries of Central
and
South
West
Corporation
(CSW) are operated as a single
integrated system or are capable of
being operated economically
as a
single integrated public utility system,
as required by Section ll(b)(l) of the
Act and, if so, whether engineering
plans submitted by CSW for implementing extensive operating changes
for its utility system represent a
reasonable prospect for achieving
such econorrucal operations.
By Order dated May 18, 1977,4
the Commission amended its January
3D, 1976 Order for Hearing to expressly permit an examination
of
whether the Commission's determination of February 16, 1945, that the
electric uti Iity faci Iities of CSW's
subsidiaries constituted a single integrated system, should be modified
or set aside in the event the record
in the instant proceeding fails to
support a finding now that those
facilities are operated as a single
integrated system or are capable of
244

such operation under any of the proposals submitted by CSW to comply
with the standards of Section 11(b)(l).
This is a contested proceeding.
Initial hearings before an administrative law judge were held in October
1976. Further testimony was filed in
May 1977, and hearings resumed in
September 1977.
Lykes Brothers, Inc. - Lykes Brothers,
Inc. (Lykes), on behalf of itself and its
SUbsidiaries, filed an application for an
exemption by order under Section 3(a)
of the Act after the Commission, acting
pursuant to Rule 6, notified Lykes of
the termination of its claim to exemption under Rule 2. The Division of
Corporate Regulation is opposing
Lyke's application
for exemption
claiming that nonutility diversification
in the holding company system
renders such exemption detrimental to
the public interest or the interests of investors or consumers within the meaning of the "unless and except" clause
of Section 3(a) of the Act. There are
no factual disputes, and the proceeding is being presented on a stipulated record. Lykes and the Division
of Corporate Regulation have agreed
to a schedule for filing briefs with
the Commission. After submission of
briefs, the matter will be before the
Commission for decision.
The plan provides for the issuance
by Union of its shares of common
stock, par value $5 per share, in exchange for the publicly held shares of
MU's common stock on the basis of 1.1
shares of Union common stock for
each share of MU common stock.
Consummation of the plan is stayed
until the plan is approved and ordered
enforced by a United States District
Court, in accordance with the Act.
British American Utilities Corporation-British
American Utilities Corporation (British American) and North
East Heat & Light Company (North

East) have filed a plan with the Commission pursuant to Section ll(e) of
the Act providing for the exchange of
shares of North East for the outstanding shares of British American and for
the liquidation of British American as a
corporate entity.
Under the plan, North East will
amend its Articles of Incorporation to
effect a change in the authorized stock
structure of North East. The newly
authorized stock of North East will
coincide with the present authorized
stock of British American. British
American will direct that a portion of
the newly issued North East stock be
delivered to the existing shareholders
of British American to replace, on a
share for share basis, the shares held
by those shareholders. At the closing,
British American will convey all of its
properties, rights and assets to North
East. At that time North East will
assume all of British American's liabilities, contracts and obligations.
Colonial Gas Energy System-Colonial Gas Energy System (Colonial), a
parent holding company of Lowell Gas
Company and Cape Cod Gas Company,
both Massachusetts gas utility companies, was notified by the Commission, by letter dated September 9,
1977, issued pursuant to Rule 6, that a
substantial
question exists as to
whether Colonial is entitled to an
exemption from the registration requirements of the Act. Colonial's exemption pursuant to Rule 2 terminates
thirty days after such notification. In

the interim, Colonial is entitled to file an
application for exemption by order of
the Commission pursuant to the applicable provisions of Section 3(a). Upon
such filing, an administrative proceeding is held to explore the questions
prompting the Commission to terminate Colonial's exemption.
Union Electric Company-In
its
opinion of April 29, 1977, the Commission approved a plan filed pursuant to
Section 1l(e) of the Act under which
Union Electric Company (Union) proposed to retire the publicly held minority interest in the common stock of
Missouri Utilities Company (MU), a
public utility subsidiary of Union."
Upon completion of these transactions British American will be liquidated.
A hearing was held before an administrative law judge and the matter will
be submitted to the Commission for
decision upon receipt of approval of
the plan by the state regulatory body.

NOTES TO PART 6
'Three of the 18 are subholding utility
companiesin these systems.Theyare The
PotomacEdisonCompanyand Monongahela
PowerCompany,public utility subsidiaries
of AlleghenyPowerSystem,Inc., and Southwestern Electric PowerCompany,a public
utility subsidiaryof Centraland SouthWest
Corporation.
2See42nd Annual Report, p. 146.
3HoldmgCompanyAct ReleaseNo.19361
(January30, 1976),8 SECDocket 1202.
4HoldmgCompanyAct ReleaseNo.20031
(May 18, 1977), 12 SECDocket 443.
sHoldingCompanyAct ReleaseNo.20012
(April 29, 1977), 12 SECDocket 312.

245

Part 7
Corporate
Reorganizations

Part 7
Corporate
Reorganizations

The Commission's role under Chapter X of the Bankruptcy Act, which
provides a procedure for reorganizing
corporations
in the United States
district courts, differs from that under
the various other statutes which it
admmisters. The Commission does not
initiate Chapter X proceedings or hold
its own hearings, and it has no authority to determine any of the issues in
such proceedings. The Commission
participates
in proceedings under
Chapter X to provide independent,
expert assistance to the courts, participants, and investors in a highly complex area of corporate law and finance.
It pays special attention to the interests of public security holders who may
not otherwise be represented effectively.
Where the scheduled indebtedness
of a debtor corporation exceeds $3 million, Section 172 of Chapter X requires
the court, before approving any plan of
reorganization, to submit it to the Commission for its examination and report.
If the indebtedness does not exceed
$3 million, the court may, if it deems it
advisable to do so, submit the plan to
the Commission
before deciding
whether to approve it. When the Commission files a report, copies or sum.
maries must be sent to all security
holders and creditors when they are
asked to vote on the plan. The Com-

mission has no authority to veto a plan
of reorganization
or to require its
adoption.
The Commission has not considered
it necessary or appropriate to participate in every Chapter X case. Apart
from the excessive administrative burden, many of the cases involve only
trade or bank creditors and few public
investors. The Commission seeks to
participate principally in those proceedings in which a substantial public
investor interest is involved. However,
the Commission may also participate
because an unfair plan has been or is
about to be proposed, public security
holders are not represented adequately, the reorganization proceedings are
being conducted in violation of important provisions of the Act, the facts
indicate that the Commission can
perform a useful service, or the court
requests the Commission's participation.
The Commission in its Chapter X activities has divided the country into
four geographical areas. The New
York, Chicago, Los Angeles and Seattle
regional offices of the Commission
each have responsibility for one of
these areas. Supervision and review of
the regional offices' Chapter X work is
the responsibility of the Division of
Corporate Regulation of the Commission which, through its Branch of

249

Reorganization, also serves as a field
office for the southeastern area of the
United States.

CHAPTER IX OF THE BANKRUPTCY ACT

failed to perform under the contractual agreement. As of the date of the
petition, the debtor had assets of $2.9
million and liabilities of about $3.7
million, excluding the third issue.
The debtor filed a plan to adjust its
debts at the time the proceeding was
commenced. The plan provided for
payment of the defaulted principal and
interest within five years of confirmation of a plan of debt adjustment and
resumption of the scheduled principal and interest payments after confirmation of the plan.
A holder of revenue bonds from the
third offering commenced a civil action, which has been authorized to
proceed as a class action, alleging
violations of the fraud provisions of the
Federal securities laws and common
law fraud and deceit in connection
with the sale of the same. The plaintiff
also challenged the good faith of the
petition, since the proposed plan did
not provide for payment of the claims
of the defrauded bondholders. The
court held the petition to be filed in
good faith and adopted the Commission's contention that the need for
financial rehabilitation
establishes
"good faith" In a Chapter IX proceeding.3
In order to project the amount of
revenues that would be available on a
yearly basis to service and retire the
revenue bonds, the court appointed a
consultant with the debtor's consent
to report to the court concerning the
prospective earnings capacity of the
debtor and ways in which it could be
improved. The consultant has completed and filed his report, which will
be the basis to evaluate specific plan
proposals.

Chapter IX provides for a voluntary
reorganization procedure for the adjustment of the debts of any state's
political subdivision or public agency
or instrumentality.
The recent revision of Chapter IX,
together with the new Chapter XI Rules
of Bankruptcy Procedure effective August 1, 1976, now provide for Commission intervention and participation in
Chapter IX cases. The presiding judge
may also request the Commission's
participation in the proceeding. The
Commission appeared in two Chapter
IX proceedings, one during the transitional quarter' and one during the fiscal year.2
Fort Cobb, Oklahoma Irrigation Fuel
Authority-Upon
the filing of the debtor's petition, the district court requested that the Commission enter an
appearance in the proceedings as
provided under Chapter IX.
The debtor is a public trust, organized under the laws of the State of
Oklahoma, whose principal asset is a
rural retail gas distribution system,
which provides natural gas to commercial and residential customers in a five
county area in the western part of
Oklahoma. The principal customers
are farmers, who are engaged in peanut and potato farming. The debtor
financed the acquisition and construction of its gas distribution system by
three public offerings of revenue
bonds between 1969 and 1973, totalling $4.5 million. The proceeds from
the third offering of revenue bonds,
SUMMARY OF ACTIVITIEStotalling $1.5 million, were misapproCHAPTER X
priated. The debtor contends that it
gave the proceeds from the third
In fiscal year 1977, the Commission
offering to the general contractor, who entered 9 new Chapter X proceedings
250

involving companies with aggregate
stated assets of approximately $895
million and aggregate indebtedness of
approximately $878 million. During
the transitional
quarter, July 1 to
September 30, 1976, the Commission
entered 2 new Chapter X proceedings
while closing 2 proceedings. Including
the new proceedings, the Commission
was a party in a total of 124 reorganization proceedings during the fiscal year.
The stated assets of the companies
involved in these proceedings totaled
approximately $5.3 billion and their
indebtedness about $4.8 billion.
During the fiscal year 12 proceedings were closed, leaving 112 in which
the Commission was a party at year
end.

ADMINISTRATIVE MAnERS
In Chapter X proceedings, the Commission seeks to protect the procedural and substantive safeguards afforded parties in such proceedings.
The Commission also attempts to secure judicial uniformity in the construction of Chapter X and the procedures thereunder.
GAC Corporation,
et et.» - The
debtors, including its major operating
subsidiaries, are one of the nation's
largest land developers involving about
40,000 public investors and over $300
million in assets. The bulk of these
assets consists of land under development and receivables generated by the
land sales contracts. Over 100,000 lot
purchasers at six major developments
have bought home sites from GAC
under installment land sales contracts
that impose future land development
obligations on GAC. Accordingly, the
effort to reorganize GAC assumes
that continued development will (1)
permit collection of balances due on
the land already sold, (2) eliminate
the possibility of extensive damage
claims by lot purchasers against

GAC for failure to deliver developed
lots as promised, and (3) enhance
the value of the remaining unsold
land.
The GAC trustees have proposed a
long range development
program,
since approved by the court, that
will reduce and consolidate GAC's
land developments thereby placi ng
GAC's development costs within its
financial capabilities. The essential
element In the program has Involved
a lot exchange offer which enables
lot purchasers to exchange their lots
in areas no longer scheduled for
development to other areas where
development will be completed. The
exchange offer, which reportedly has
been accepted by over 80 percent
of involved lot purchasers, is considered a success.
The bankruptcy court, to afford the
lot purchasers a measure of protection, in light of certain adverse
events which have since been eliminated, ordered $19.2 million of the
lot purchasers' post-petition payments
placed in an interest-bearing escrow
account as a guarantee that GAC will
have funds available to complete its
development obligations. This ruling
was appealed to the district court by
certain of GAC's bond indenture
trustees who argued: (1) that the lot
purchasers were not entitled to such
special protection, (2) that a formal
adversary proceeding pursuant to Rule
10-701 was necessary before the
court could escrow the funds, and (3)
that diverting the payments into
an escrow fund would impair the
debtor's estate by depriving it of
necessary funds.
The Commission filed In the district
court a brief supporting the bankruptcy court and arguing: (1) that
the lot purchasers had potential
administrative
claims
for their
post-petition installment payments

251

should the debtor fail to complete
the promised development," (2) that
requirements of an adversary proceeding under Rule 10-701 apply
only to disputes over pre-petition
claims and have no application to
the determination of post-petition
administrative matters,s and (3) that
placing a portion of lot purchasers'
payments in an escrow fund, in fact,
furthers the prospects of a successful
reorganization because, by granting
lot purchasers some measure of protection that GAC will be financially
able to fulfill its development obligations, it encourages lot purchasers
to continue their installment payments
without which a reorganization would
be impossible. The matter is still
pending at the end of the fiscal year.
Interstate Stores, lnc.? - As previously reported," a $38 million claimant appealed to the Second Circuit
a decision of the district court retaining jurisdiction in the Chapter
X court to determine that claim. A
date for trial on the claim before
the Chapter X court was set. An expedited appeal was sought and
granted. The trustees and the Commission sought affirmance of the
district court's decision. After oral
argument, claimant sought a stay of
the trial pending disposition of the
appeal. The Second Circuit granted
the motion and further ordered the
parties to proceed to trial in the
California state court.
The California jury returned a verdict
dismissing the claim and awarding
$1.6 million to the debtors for rent
arrearages plus attorney's fees. A
judgment was accordingly entered in
the California state court. Motions by
claimant for a judgment notwithstanding the verdict and for a new
trial were denied. Claimant then
appealed to an intermediate California
appellate court.

252

The trustees sought an order from
the bankruptcy judge expunging the
$38 million proof of claim filed in
this case on the basis of the California
judgment. The bankruptcy court declined to expunge the proof of claim,
pending resolution of the California
appeal. The trustees appealed the
bankruptcy court's decision to the
district court, which appeal was
pending at the close of the fiscal
year.
Gulfco Investment Corporation, et
al.9 - The debtor is a publicly held
holding company operating various
businesses, including land development, mortgage banking and consumer financing, through 26 related
corporations.
The trustee applied for an order substantively consolidating all of the
debtors since they were operated as
a single entity and it was impossible,
because of the inadequate records,
to determine intercompany claims between the debtors. Claimants holding
pledges of the stock of the two
operating companies opposed the consolidation urging that these companies
were solvent, and that a consolidation
would effect an unconstitutional
taking of their security interests without compensation.
The Commission suggested that
as a practical matter it would be
preferable to deal with the consolidation issue within the context
of a proposed plan of reorganization
as creditors could then know specifically what they were to receive as
opposed to considering consolidation
in the abstract. However, the Commission did support consolidation of
all the debtors, but urged recognition
of creditors' equitable rights to preferred treatment where warranted by
the facts. The Commission noted
that unilateral misconduct of the
debtors could not effect a forfeiture

of creditors' rights vis-a-vis a debtor
company which dealt with its creditors
as the sole enterprise receiving the
extension of credit. The Commission
also concluded
that it would be
wasteful and destructive to accept
the objectors' suggestion of splitting
the estate into a number of separate
trusteeships charged with litigating
with each other to establish the rights
of different creditors groups.
The court approved the form of
consolidation as recommended by the
Commission. After the close of the
fiscal year certain creditors appealed
the court's order to the United
States Court of Appeals for the Tenth
Circuit.
Carolina Caribbean Corp. 10 - The
trustee had determined
that reorganization
was impossible
and
proposed an orderly liquidation for
this publicly held company which
was engaged in land development
and in the operation
of related
resort facilities. The debtor's development operations mainly involved the
installment sale of subdivided homesite
lots with title remaining in the seller
until the buyer rendered payment in
full. The trustee sought to reject
as executory
about 2,000 such
installment contracts, including about
1,300 contracts where buyers had
rendered full payment but had not
been deeded lots; such rejection
of the contracts would have enabled
a bank claimant, as mortgagee of the
underlying land, to foreclose on the
land in satisfaction
of its claims
against the estate.
The Commission objected to the
trustee's proposed rejection of the
contracts arguing that (1) land sales
contracts which are fully performed
save for the granting of deeds by
the seller are not "executory" within
the meaning of the Bankruptcy Act
and thus may not be rejected, and (2),

under Chapter X, a trustee may reject only contracts that are "burdensome" to the estate and it would not
be "fair and equitable", as part of a
Chapter X plan, to reject the contracts and deprive fully paid buyers
of their lots where the granting of
deeds is the sole act remaining to be
performed
by the seller, an act
imposing no "burdensome" obligations
on the estate. As a result, the trustee
offered a compromise enabling the lot
buyers to obtain lots. Under the terms
of the compromise, which was subsequently approved by the court, land
was made available to fully paid lot
buyers, with the proviso that, to obtain
a lot, an eligible buyer pay to the
estate an amount covering costs of
transfer and survey so that no additional costs were placed on the
already bankrupt estate.
C./.P. Corporations. 11_ The district
court agreed with the Commission and
permitted the trustee to utilize proceeds from the sale of mortgaged property for the purpose of completing
roads contiguous to property which the
mortgagee held as additional collateral.
The blanket mortgage contained a provision providing for a release price of
125 percent of the pro rata debt plus
an additional $500 upon the sale of a
parcel of property. The trustee needed
that portion of the proceeds exceeding
100 percent of the pro rata debt to
complete roads which would enhance
the value of surrounding property and
enable the trustee to maximize the
value of the debtor's real estate holdings.
The Commission argued that the
bankruptcy court has the power to use
the collateral of secured creditors
where adequate protection for their
rights can be demonstrated. The court
had found that there was a reasonable
possibility of a successful reorganization, and the evidence indicated that

253

the value of the mortgagee's collateral
substantially exceeded the amount of
the debt. Under these circumstances
the court was justified in the exercise
of its equitable discretion to modify
the release provisions of the mortgage
and permit the trustee to apply a portion of the proceeds to the contemplated construction.

TRUSTEE'S INVESTIGATION AND
STATEMENTS
A complete accounting for the stewardship of corporate affairs by the
prior management is a requisite under
Chapter X. One of the primary duties of
the trustee is to make a thorough study
of the debtor to assure the discovery
and collection of all assets of the
estate, including claims against officers, directors, or controlling persons
who may have mismanaged the debtor's affairs. The staff of the Commission often aids the trustee in his investigation.
Investors Funding Corporation of
New York. 12_As a result of his investigation, the trustee commenced a plenary lawsuit in the Federal court in New
York against 188 detendants.P The
defendants include the debtors' former
officers, directors, accountants and
consortium of lending banks. The complaint alleges, among other things,
that the debtors' officers and directors
engaged in a "massive" fraud upon the
debtors, its creditors, debenture holders, stockholders and the public and,
further, that the accountants failed to
properly audit the books and records
of the debtors and that the banks received preferential transfers of property. The relief sought includes the subordination
of the banks' asserted
senior position to the claims of debenture holders and other creditors, as
well as damages in an amount yet to be
ascertained.
The trustee's report under Section
254

167 of the Bankruptcy Act concluded
that, inter alia, the debtors are hopelessly insolvent and that there is no
reasonable possibility for reorganization as a going concern. Accordingly,
the trustee recommended that the
debtors be liquidated in an orderly
manner.
Omega-Alpha, Inc.14-The trustees
resolved through settlements major
claims against the estate, involving the
LTV Corporation (LTV), Security Mortgage Investors (SMI) and the class action suit known as the Mesh/Shlensky
litigation.
The LTV claims and the Mesh/Shlensky litigation were resolved in a single
settlement. They both arose out of the
sale in 1971 of The Okonite Company
by LTV to Omega-Alpha. Mesh and
Shlensky were shareholders of LTV at
the time of that sale. They brought a
consolidated suit seeking rescission of
that sale or in the alternative compensatory damages of $21.5 million and
other monetary relief. LTV asserted
claims of over $39 million based mostly
on debentures held by it by virtue of
the conversion privilege which allows
holders of Omega-Alpha's 4-3/4 percent convertible subordinated debentures to convert into LTV common
stock. The settlement required a cash
payment by the debtor to LTV of $13.5
million, the equivalent of 34.2 percent
of its claim, and fees of the attorneys
for Mesh/Shlensky
not to exceed
$125,000.
The co-trustees deemed the settlement to be in the best interest of the
estate because of (1) the complexity
and uncertainty of the outcome of the
litigation involved, (2) the expense to
the estate of prosecuting and defending the claims and counterclaims, and
(3) avoidance of delay in distribution
of dividends to creditors on account of
these controversies until they are resolved by extended litigation.

SMI had objected to the proposed
The district court subordinated desettlement claiming that it violated its
frauded shareholders to the rights of
rights as a senior creditor to priority in
unsecured creditors, and those sharepayment before LTV since the settleholders appealed that decision. At the
ment would pay LTV unsecured claims
close of the fiscal year the appeal was
in advance of SMl's claim. This objecpending.
tion was resolved by a settlement
PLANS OF REORGANIZATION
under the terms of which SMI agreed
to receive $8.6 million in cash in full
Generally, the Commission files a
payment of its $9.1 million senior
formal advisory report only in a case
claim. Both settlements
were ap- which involves substantial public inproved by the court.
vestor interest and presents significant
Stirling Homex Corporation. 15-The
problems. When no such formal report
debtor was found insolvent with no is filed, the Commission may state its
hope of rehabilitation.
Unsecured
views briefly by letter, or authorize its
creditor claims are approximately $46 counsel to make an oral or written
million, and an anticipated $15 to $16 presentation. During the transitional
million will be available to pay those
quarter the Commission published two
claims. Shareholders, who were in- advisory reports, dealing with two
duced by fraud into purchasing the
plans of reorgaruzatron.w During the
debtor's securities, sought pari passu fiscal year the Commission suppleclassification with unsecured creditors
mented one advisory report dealing
under Section 197 of Chapter X and with one plan of reorganlzatlon.w
Its
Bankruptcy Rule 10-302. Their dam- views on 10 other plans of reorganizaage claims aggregate $100 million.
tion were presented to the courts either
The trustee acknowledged in his re- orally or by written memoranda."
port under Section 167 of Chapter X
The Commission also filed a staff adthat the information Issued by the deb- visory report on the trustee's plan of
tor at the time it offered and sold its
reorganization for the Penn Central
shares was distorted and misleading.
Transportation Company under SecAdditionally, the Commission has sued tion 77 of the Bankruptcy Act conand obtained injunctive relief based cluding that the plan was fair, equitupon materially false financial state- able and feasible. The report was filed
rnents.!" and former management has at the invitation of the presiding judge,
been convicted of defrauding its in- the Honorable John P. Fullam and is
vestors.!? The Commission flied a similar to that customarily filed under
memorandum with the district court
Chapter X of the Bankruptcy Act.
supporting the shareholders' position
Imperial-American Resources Fund,
seeking parity with unsecured crediInc. 22_At the conclusion of the plan
tors.!" The Commission argued that
hearings, the court referred the trustee's internal plan of reorganization to
defrauded purchasers may assert
claims on the fraud rather than the the Comrnissron for report. The plan
instrument and that "an investor who created a reorganized company to
has been swindled by a debtor into carry on the 011 and gas business which
purchasing a worthless security suf- the debtor conducted as sole general
fers as real a loss as that of a supplier
partner of 13 limited partnerships. The
of merchandise, a bank that has made provisions of the plan consolidated the
a loan, or a pedestrian who has been limited partnership into a reorganized
corporate entity and substituted stock
injured by a debtor's vehicle."
255

of the reorganized corporation for the
limited partnership interests now held
by the limited partners.
The plan provides for full payment in
cash of administrative, priority claims,
and unsecured claims of creditors of
the limited partnerships. The plan
treats the interests of the limited partners as a claim against the property of
the debtor, although the investment
is not a loan or debt. Since these
claims exceed by far the value of the
estate, the common stock of the debtor owned by a subsidiary of the Colorado Corporation, a corporation controlled by John M. King, will not participate in the reorganized company. In
addition, the plan provides for the
equitable subordination of the claims
of the Colorado Corporation as well as
John M. King individually.
The proceeding involved a unique
situation where a corporate general
partner initiated a Chapter X proceeding while the limited partnerships did
not. The plan does not change the purpose of the partnerships, nor does the
pooling of the partnership assets depart radically from the original investment intent of the limited partners. Indeed, the investors had no advance
knowledge of what properties would be
purchased by the partnership they
were placed in. In fact, there was
cross-investing by limited partnerships
into each other.
Under the terms of a settlement of a
class action claim, based principally
on allegations of violations of the Federal securities laws in connection with
the sale of the limited partnership interests, 12 -112 percent of the stock
of the reorganized company will be distributed to this class of limited partners on the basis of their damages, and
the remaining 87 -112 percent of the
stock will be distributed to limited
partners for their present interest in
the limited partnerships. Therefore,
256

while the ultimate beneficiaries are the
same, the two blocks of shares will be
allocated among them on a different
basis. The 87 -1/2 percent of the stock
will be distributed directly to limited
partners in proportion to the net present value of their respective interests
in the assets acquired by the reorganized compa ny. The 12 -112 percent
block of shares which represents substantially half of the defendants' alleged interest in Imperial will be distributed through the class action court
to the class of limited partners in proportion to their losses, defined as the
difference between the present value
of their partnership interests and their
original investment.
The Commission concluded that the
plan was fair, equitable and feasible.
The Commission did recommend that
the plan be amended to provide for
cumulative voting for the common
stock of the new corporation. This
amendment was proffered by the trustee and approved by the court.
R. Hoe & Co., Inc.23-The trustees
proposed an internal plan of reorganization based upon the continuing
operations of the debtor's saw division.
Under the plan, common stock in the
reorganized company would be distributed to creditors, and Class A stockholders were to be accorded a minimal
equity interest in the reorganized
company.
The Commission filed an advisory
report24 concluding that the plan was
not fair and equitable in that the
trustees undervalued the debtor. The
Commission placed a value of $19.2
million on the gross estate, as compared to the trustees' value of $17
million. The Commission found such
additional value in the going-concern
value of the saw division and excess
cash and inventory. In addition, the
Commission advised that post-petition
interest to unsecured creditors should

be computed at the 6 percent judgment rate rather than at the higher
legal rate proposed by the trustees.
The difference between the trustees'
computation and the 6 percent judgment rate was about $800,000.
The Commission urged that the plan
be amended to reflect the recornmended valuation, and that it should
be further amended to provide distribution to unsecured creditors of cash
and notes equal to 25 percent of their
claims. Under these suggestions,
which the Commission stated would
render the plan fair and equitable,
Class A stockholders would retain a 25
percent equity interest in the reorganized company.
The court's valuation was between
the Commission's and the trustee's.
Approximately 12 percent of the reorganized company's equity was to be
retained by the Class A stockholders.
The Commission advised and the court
agreed that: (1) a cash distribution
should be made to general unsecured
creditors; (2) the issuance of warrants
to general unsecured creditors should
be eliminated; and (3) post-petition
interest to unsecured creditors should
be computed at the 6 percent New
York judgment rate,25 rather than the
higher legal rate (7 -112 percent to
8-112 percent) proposed by the trustee.
The plan was amended in accordance with the court's decision and as
amended was approved and confirmed.
King Resources Co.26-ln a special
report the trustee updated the engineering reports indicating substantially higher values for the debtor's oil and
gas properties. Based upon this new
information, the Commission filed a
second advisory report,27 stating that
the debtor may be solvent and recommended that further valuation hearings be held before votes were solicited

for the trustee's plan. The report
concluded that, since the new valuation evidence reflected a value above
the amount of pre-petition claims, the
plan was unfair to subordinated debenture holders by virtue of the conversion rights given to senior creditors.
The conversion feature, which allows senior creditors a greater number
of new shares of stock per claim than
subordinated debt, was originally intended to satisfy the contractual subordination provisions of the indentures
which require that senior debt be paid
in full before subordinated debt can
receive a distribution. Since the senior
debt is now fully satisfied by reason of
the higher valuation, the conversion
privilege is no longer necessary.
The district court rejected the Commission's recommendation and approved the plan. The plan was subsequently voted upon and approved by
creditors. The court, in conjunction
with the confirmation hearing, conducted further valuation hearings,
wherein both the trustee and a stockholders' protective committee offered
testimony. The court nevertheless
found the debtor insolvent, denied the
motion to eliminate the conversion
feature, and confirmed the plan. Appeals were filed by the indenture
trustees and a stockholders' protective committee, among others, from
the confirmation order.
U. S. Financial, Inc. 28_The trustees
filed a plan of orderly liquidation for
this San Diego based real estate
company. The plan will transfer the
debtor's assets to a liquidating corporation whose life is to terminate in 1982
unless holders of two-thirds of the new
liquidating common stock vote to permit continuation of the business.
The plan is designed to produce a
non-public company with creditors,
other than banks and financial institutions, being paid the value of their claim

257

in cash. The larger creditors will receive the liquidating common stock
with proceeds of the ongoing liquidation to be distributed quarterly.
The trustees proposed a conservative liquidation value of the debtor
estate of about $44 million but noted
that under a more optimistic set of
assertions the value could reach $52
million.
The subordinated debenture holders
and public shareholders of the debtor
will not participate based on their instruments
since the value of the
debtor estate was found insufficient to
satisfy in full senior creditors. However, the plan proposes to compromise
the class action claims of public
debenture holders and shareholders
which are based on, among other
things, violation of Federal securities
laws, by allocating 15 percent and 5
percent, respectively, of the debtor's
value, payable in cash, to the defrauded public investors.
The losses of debenture holders are
estimated
at about the prmcipal
amount of the debentures, $35 million, and the losses of stockholders are
estimated at about $100 million.
The Commission filed an advisory
memorandum concluding that if certain minor amendments are made the
trustees' plan may be found to be "fair,
equitable and feasible." The memorandum noted, however, that while the
valuation of the estate was within the
range of reasonableness it did resolve
all significant financial doubts against
the small creditors who are to receive
cash for their claims.
Aldersgate Foundation, Inc. 29_ The
debtor is a non-profit corporation
which operates two retirement centers
in central Florida. Acquisition of property and development of the centers
were accomplished
solely through
charitable contributions and debt fi258

nancing consisting primarily of $20
million of 7 percent first mortgage
bonds sold to about 3,000 persons.
Seven plans were proposed for the
reorganization
of Aldersgate, and
three of them were referred to the
Commission for examination and report. Each of the plans proposed that a
profit corporation, controlled by the
respective contributors of new equity
capital, would acquire the retirement
centers and some of the debtor's other
properties. Taxes and administrative
costs would be paid in full in cash
under each plan.
In general, each plan proposed compensating the bondholders up to the
court-determined values of the properties securing the respective bond issues since the bond indentures contain nonrecourse provisions which preclude the bondholders from asserting
deficiency claims against the debtor.
Two of the plans proposed that the
reorganized debtor carry about $19
million of debt, about 97 percent of
total capitalization, consisting largely
of 7 percent first mortgage bonds to be
issued to the bondholders. The third
plan would have required the reorganized debtor to carry $15 million of
debt, consisting of 7 percent debentures and a $7.4 million loan obtained
by mortgaging the debtor's properties.
The cash proceeds of the loan, the 7
percent debentures and preferred
stock would be issued to bondholders
in exchange for their claims.
The debtor originally acquired land
for its primary retirement center by
giving a mortgage to the seller, who
agreed to be subordinated to first
mortgage bonds sold by the debtor to
finance the center's development. The
mortgagee has brought an adversary
proceeding seeking to avoid the subordination. All three plans proposed to
compromise this litigation by offering
the mortgagee payment in cash and

securities equal to the full principal of
Dolly Madison Industries Inc.30 _
the mortgage.
The trustee filed a plan of reorganizaThe Commission, in an advisory
tion based upon the continuance of
memorandum, concluded that none of the debtor's furniture manufacturing
the plans is feasible because they
and convenience retail food store
proposed unrealistic capital strucoperations. The plan was predicated
tures which required debt service far in on the debtor's insolvency. It cured
excess of the debtor's reasonably
certain defects pointed out by the
foreseeable earnings capacity. The Commission in an earlier report.?"
Commission also concluded that the
that is, (1) the classes of creditors
plans' proposals for settling the litigaand their treatment were more clearly
tion regarding the relative priorities of delineated; (2) the provision for the
the purchase money mortgagee and issuance of warrants was eliminated;
bondholders are too generous to the
and (3) the issuance of non-voting
mortgagee, in view of the probable re- stock was prohibited. The plan, among
coveries, and, hence, are not fair and other things, provided for the payment
equitable.
of creditor claims as follows: (1) bank
claims, $1.1 million in cash; $1.6
The Commission agreed that equal
treatment of the three issues of bonds
million in preferred stock and $14.9
sold to construct the debtor's primary
million in common stock at the rate
of one share for each $20 of claims;
retirement center and secured by different portions thereof was proper
and (2) general unsecured creditors,
since, among other things, there was common stock at the rate of one share
for each $20 of claims. Included in
evidence of routine commingling of
the general unsecured creditor class
funds without regard to the stated
are $1.5 million in claims asserted by
terms of the respective bond issues.
shareholder
fraud claimants
as
The Commission also noted that the
a result of a settled class action.32
additional capital expected to be supThe Commission reported to the
plied to the debtor if reorganized as a
profit corporation in exchange for a court that the plan was feasible and
controlling interest was minimal in equitable, if the court found certain
compromises with creditors to be fair.
comparison to the debtor's size and
The Commission did not find enough
that a profit corporation would incur
substantial taxes and other expenses evidence in the record to make a refor which the debtor has never been commendation on the proposed comobligated. Accordingly, the Commis- promises. The court found that the
plan complied with the statutory
sion recommended that an internal
standards of fairness and feasibility.
plan be devised which would maintain
The plan was approved and confirmed
the debtor's non-profit status and that
contingent income securities be is- by the court.
American Mortgage & Investment
sued for the portion of creditors'
claims left uncompensated after is- Company, Inc.33 - The debtor is a
publicly held, South Carolina land
suance of a realistic amount of senior
debt. Shortly after the close of the development company which suffered
in 1972, and
fiscal year, the court refused approval financial difficulties
1973 by relying too heavily upon bank
of the three plans and directed the
Chapter X trustee to develop a non- debt secured by its principal source
profit plan according to the Com- of income, land sale contracts. By
December 1974, the debtor was forced
mission's recommendations.

259

to seek relief under Chapter X of the
Bankruptcy Act.
Two plans of reorganization were
proposed, one by the trustee and
another by the debtor. The plans
were premised upon the debtor's
solvency. The Commission filed a
memorandum
concluding
that
certain additional
evidence was
required before either plan could
be found feasible and that in certain
respects, the plans were not fair
and equitable. Thereafter, the trustee
withdrew his plan and adopted an
amended version of the debtor's
plan as the trustee's amended plan of
reorganization.
The trustee's amended plan provides for the continuation
of the
debtor's land development business.
Costs of administration, taxes and
wage claims will be paid in full In
cash. The secured bank creditor will
be paid in full over a four-year period
from the current receivables subject
to its claim, which will be preserved
absent certain after-acquired
collateral provisions. Purchase money
mortgages on land inventory will be
repaid in full at 8 percent interest
in three annual installments commencing three years after confirmation. Other secured claims will be
repaid in full from the sale of the
collateral in the course of the debtor's
future operations.
The amended plan proposes to pay
unsecured
creditors
in full
in
interest bearing notes. Those creditors
with claims between $500 and $4,999
will receive two-year notes and those
in excess of $5,000 five-year notes
with larger payments in the later
years. Creditors with claims less than
$500 or who reduce their claim to
$500 will be paid in full in cash.
The rights of stockholders are altered
only to the extent of prohibiting pay-

260

ment of dividends until the creditors
are repaid.
In a supplemental memorandum,
the Commission concluded that the
amended plan was feasible but that
it was unfair in that payment to the
purchase money mortgagees was unnecessarily deferred and that no
provision was included
for the
potential rescission claims of purchasers of lots which were not likely
to be developed in accordance with
representations by the debtor's sales
personnel. The court approved the
plan on the basis of presentations
by the trustee and the debtor aimed
at showing the necessity for the
deferred payments and the improbability of viable rescission claims
arising in the future. The plan was
accepted and confirmed in February

1977.
Detroit Port Development Corp. 34 The debtor is a non-profit municipal
corporation which sold $9 million of
revenue bonds to public investors
in order to finance the acquisition
of an existing port and terminal
facility along the Detroit River. Thereafter, the debtor leased the facilities
under a 30-year lease to a business
corporation.
The lessee was to
operate the facilities and its rental
payments were to go towards retirement of the bonds. However, after
several years of operating deficits
the lessee-operator defaulted. The
debtor clearly lacked the management and the equity capital needed
to take over and operate the business
for its own account, and accordingly,
filed a petition for reorganization
under Chapter X.
The trustees' proposed amended
plan of reorganization provides for a
continuation of the original concept
of a lessee-operator. After months of
negotiations with several prospective
lessees, the trustees signed a letter

of intent with a corporation which
has successfully operated a competing
port and terminal facility for many
years. The letter of intent embodied
a temporary operating agreement and
a 40-year lease subject to approval
by the court and the bondholders.
The trustees' amended plan contemplates extending the maturity date
of the outstanding revenue bonds so
it will coincide with the termination
date of the proposed long-term lease.
The bonds now outstanding will be
exchanged for new bonds modified as
to maturity. Due to a shortage of
funds necessary to meet administrative
and priority claims, the plan provides for an invasion, up to a maximum
amount, of the existing funds held by
the indenture trustee in the bondholders' sinking fund. The bondholders
will receive a 50 percent cash payment
upon confirmation for three delinquent
semi-annual interest payments.
Bondholders Will be compensated
for the balance of lost interest by
receipt of additional revenue bonds
identical in every regard, except face
value, to the modified bonds. The plan
further
provides for real estate
taxes of over $1 million in arrearage
to be recomputed based upon a lower
assessed valuation, and the resultant
figure to be paid to the taxing
authorities by the new lessee over
a 20-year period. At the close of the
fiscal year, the amended plan had
been referred to the Commission for its
advisory memorandum. Subsequent to
the close of the fiscal year, the
Commission filed an advisory memorandum with the court advising that
the amended plan may be found fair,
equitable and feasible.
C./.P. Corporation. 35_The debtor is
engaged in acquiring, developing and
selling real estate and has approximately 880 shareholders. The debtor
relied heavily on debt financing to

carry its real estate, most of which
was nonincome producing.
The trustee's plan of reorganization
was premised upon the concept of
paying creditors, most of whom are
secured, in parcels of real estate in
lieu of cash or securities. Creditors
will select their land in kind from
the real estate securing their mortgages. Title to the land, subject only
to real estate taxes, will then be
transferred to the creditors. Values
placed on the individual parcels of
land have been set by court approved
appraisals. Creditors holding first and
second mortgages were to be entitled
to discounts of 25 percent and zero
percent, respectively, against the appraised value of the land so selected
to compensate them for the market
risks of accepting in kind payment.
The discounted valuation will then be
used in computing value received in
satisfaction of the claim.
The Commission filed an advisory
memorandum finding the plan fair,
equitable and feasible if amendments
were made to modify the wide difference in treatment of first and
second mortgagees under the plan.
Certain mortgagees also opposed this
disparity of treatment and sought
payment in cash or notes. Following
negotiations between the trustee and
various mortgagees, an amended plan
of reorganization was proposed.
Under the amended plan, first mortgagees who hold purchase money
mortgages are given the option of payment in full in kind with a 15 percent
discount, or payment in full in cash
with no discount within six months of
confirmation. Second mortgagees will
be given payment in kind with a 5 percent discount. The largest mortgage
creditor which holds both first and second mortgages on debtor's land will receive an overall discount of 9.6 percent. These discounts respond to and

261

satisfy objections raised in the Commission's original report.
Subsequent to the close of the fiscal
year, the Commission filed a supplemental advisory memorandum advising the court that the amended plan
may be found fair, equitable and feasible.
Arlan's Department Stores, Inc. 36_
The trustee reported to the court,
creditors and stockholders that reorganization of the debtor as a viable
entity was impossible. In this connection, he cited the progressive deterioration of the estate both prior to and
during the Chapter XI case. The debtor's continuing inability to purchase
goods on normal credit terms, an inadequate supply of merchandise and
an irreversible decline in consumer
confidence were insurmountable obstacles to rehabilitation. Accordingly,
after obtaining court authorization,
the trustee terminated operations and
proposed a plan of orderly liquidation.37 The plan proposed a distribution of the cash resulting from the
liquidation of the debtor's assets in
accordance with the order of priorities
set forth in Section 64 of the Bankruptcy Act. 38 The Commission reported
that the plan complied with the statutory standards of "fairness and feasibility". Subsequently, the plan was approved and confirmed by the court.

ACTIVITIES WITH REGARD TO
ALLOWANCES
Every reorganization case ultimately
presents the difficult problem of determining the compensation to be paid
to the various parties for services
rendered and for expenses incurred in
the proceeding. The Commission, which
under Section 242 of the Bankruptcy
Act may not receive any allowance for
the service it renders, has sought to
assist the courts in assuring economy
of administration
and in allocating
262

compensation equitably on the basis
of the claimants' contributions to the
administration of estates and the formulation of plans. During the transitional period, 144 applications for
compensation totaling about $13.5
million were reviewed. During the fiscal year, 616 applications totaling
about $21 million were reviewed.
North American Acceptance Corp. 39
-Trustee's general and special counsel filed a joint fee application in connection with the settlement of adversary proceedings with Security Mortgage Investors (SMI) and The Chase
Manhattan Bank, N.A. Counsel each
sought $1 million for their services,
representing a final award, with respect to this litigation.
The litigation involved the issue of
ownership of a $66 million ($44 million
on a discounted basis) loan portfolio.
A comprehensive settlement was effected resolving the interrelated claims
among the parties. This settlement resulted in the estate receiving about
$15 million in cash in exchange for
relinquishing Its claims to the portfolio and its interest in various securities, including certain SMI debentures held by the debtor. The settlement permitted the debtor to continue
to service the portfolio.
The Commission concluded that this
phase of the Chapter X proceeding was
sufficiently distinguishable to justify
a separate allowance. The Commission's recommendations were $650,000
for the general counsel and $625,000
for special counsel. The bankruptcy
court awarded $637,500 to each.
These awards have been appealed to
the district court.
Imperial '400' National, Inc.40 Twenty-one applications were filed
seeking final fees and reimbursement
of expenses totalling $3.3 million. The
Commission advised the court that, exclusive of $331,000 in interim allow-

ances already paid, further fees and
expenses in excess of $1.5 million
would imperil the successful reorgaruzation of the debtor. The court awarded
the aggregate sum of $1,474,000.41
Certain applications raised interesting questions. An unsuccessful
plan proponent, who was neither a
creditor nor stockholder, sought reimbursement of $516,000 for legal
and other expenses. The Commission
advised that, notwithstanding the efforts made, only persons who, like a
creditor or stockholder, have a financial Interest in the estate or have a
cognizable administrative interest in
the proceedings, have standing to seek
fees.42 The court awarded $25,000
to this unsuccessful proponent.
The attorneys for the debtor requested $100,000. The Commission
pointed out that a substantial amount
of time expended by counsel in the
debtor's superseded Chapter XI proceeding was of dubious value to the
estate. Such services included futile
attempts to promulgate arrangements
far beyond the scope permissible In
Chapter XI and opposition to the Commission's transfer rnotion.v Taking
these factors into account, the court
awarded $52,500.
First Home Investment Company of
Kansas, Inc.44 - Nine applicants
sought final allowances (Including
amounts previously paid) and reimbursement of expenses aggregating
about $895,000. The Commission
recommended
payment of about
$533,000. The court awarded fees and
expenses totalling about $523,000.
The trustee and his counsel requested $350,000 and $300,000,
respectively, for services rendered
over a three year period. The Commission recommended
$165,000 and
$200,000, respectively, noting that
exorbitant fees should not be allowed
simply because the estate IS in a posi-

tion to pay such fees. The court awarded
$200,000 to the trustee and $180,000
to his counsel.
The co-counsel for Investors' Protective Committee "A" requested allowances of $103,585 and $30,742, respectively. The Commission recommended allowances of $75,000 and
$25,000, respectively. The Commission
pointed out that, although unrecorded
time may be a common experience
among lawyers, the applicants have
the burden of proof of establishing
the value of their services. When a
substantial volume of services has
been recorded, as was the case, it is
not unreasonable to presume that unrecorded time was omitted because it
was unimportant; such time should not
be compensable. The Commission also
pointed out that duplication of services cannot be tolerated and that it
IS unreasonable to have the estate bear
the full cost of consultations and preparation for and attendance at meetings and hearings by two sets of counsel. The court awarded the applicants
$60,000 and $30,000, respectively.
Interstate Stores, Inc. 45 - The Commission appealed a decision of the
bankruptcy court which granted in full
interim allowance requests of, among
others, general counsel for the trustees. General counsel sought and was
awarded $575,000 for services rendered over a 17-V2-month period plus
$33,717.26 for reimbursement of expenses. The bankruptcy court in granting the application, however, failed to
set forth any reasons in law or fact Why
it declined to follow the Commission's
recommendation of $450,000 and disallowance of certain expenses.w
On appeal, the Commission reiterated its contention that 22 percent of
general counsel's claimed time expenditures of 9,670 hours were inadequately documented and that the requirements of "strict economy" man263

dated a reduced interim fee. The
Commission again argued that certain
expenses were not properly chargeable
to the estate. The district court modified the bankruptcy court's award and
granted $525,000. In this connection,
the district court stressed the importance of maintaining adequate and
contemporaneous time records." With
respect to disbursements, the district
court found that meals, cab fares and
overtime wages to non-legal personnel
are ordinary expenses incurred in the
operation of a law firm, i.e., overhead,
and reduced the award by about
$12,000. General counsel returned
$62,000 plus interest to the estate.
Investors Funding Corporation of
New York. 48 - Applications for allowances, the bulk of which were interim
requests, were filed by the trustee,
his attorneys and accountants. The
aggregate sum sought was $1.3 million. The Commission recommended
$995,000 stressing that interim awards
in Chapter X do not purport to measure the value of the services rendered
but are intended only to alleviate economic hardship and thereby to assure
efficient administration of an estate.
The court, with but one exception,
awarded the sums recommended by
the Cornrnlssion.w Based upon its
holding that "interim allowances are
designed only to keep body and soul
together" and the submissions of general counsel reflecting its overhead,
the court awarded $422,527 to the
trustee's general counsel, rather than
the $360,000 recommended by the
Commission. General counsel sought

$503,000.

INTERVENTION

IN CHAPTER XI

Chapter XI of the Bankruptcy Act
provides a procedure by which debtors
can effect arrangements with respect
to their unsecured debts under court
supervision. Where a proceeding is

264

brought under that chapter but the
facts indicate that it should have been
brought under Chapter X, Section 328
of Chapter XI and Rule 11-15 of the
Rules of Bankruptcy Procedure authorize the Commission or any other party
in interest to make application to the
court to transfer the Chapter XI proceeding to Chapter X.
Under Rule 11-15, the Commission, as well as other parties in interest, except the debtor, have 120 days
from the first date set for the first
meeting of creditors to file a motion.
The time may be extended for good
cause. A motion made by the debtor
for transfer, however, may be made at
any time. The rule requires a showing
that a Chapter X reorganization is feasible. This in effect means that a
motion can be granted only if the court
finds both that Chapter XI is inadequate and reorganization
under
Chapter X is possible.
Attempts are sometimes made to
misuse Chapter XI so as to deprive
investors of the protection which the
Securities Act and the Exchange Act
are designed to provide. In such cases
the Commission's staff normally attempts to resolve the problem by informal negotiations.
If this proves
fruitless, the Commission intervenes
in the Chapter XI proceeding to develop an adequate record and to direct
the court's attention to the applicable
provisions of the Federal securities
laws and their bearing upon the particular case.
United Merchants & Manufacturers,
Inc. 50-Shortly after the filing of petitions under Chapter XI by the debtor
and 374 subsidiaries, the Commission
filed a motion, under Section 328
of the Bankruptcy Act and Bankruptcy
Rule 11-15, to transfer the case
to Chapter X. The Commission argued
that Chapter X is the appropriate
proceeding for the debtor because,

among other things, (1) more than
a minor adjustment
of the rights
of public debenture holders is necessary; and (2) a comprehensive reorganization and the scrutiny of a disinterested Chapter X trustee, rather
than a simple composition
of unsecured debt, is required.
The debtor is one of the largest
diversified textile companies in the
United States, employing
about
32,000 people, with substantial
foreign operations as well. Other
businesses include commercial factoring and finance operations and a
nationwide retail clothing chain (Robert Hall Clothes). The petitions
reflected consolidated
assets and
liabilities of $903 million and $677
million, respectively. Subsequent to
the filing of the Chapter XI petitions,
the debtor sold its factoring division (United Factors, Inc.) and liquidated its nationwide retail clothing
chain.
The debtor's capitalization includes
$66 million in debentures held by
more than 2,000 public investorcreditors and close to six million
shares of common stock held by more
than 17,000 public investors.
At the close of the fiscal year, a
hearing on the Commission's transfer
motion had been postponed at the
request of the debtor to enable it
to file a Chapter XI arrangement. The
debtor states that it can propose an
arrangement which will not affect in
a major way the rights of public
debt holders.
Continental Mortgage Investors. 51_
As previously reported.V the Commission moved to transfer this Chapter XI case to Chapter X. On September 30, 1976, a hearing was held
on the transfer motion. On that date,
certain bank and institutional creditors withdrew their transfer motion,
and the official creditors' committee,

nine of whose eleven members were
representatives of the banks that filed
the creditors' transfer motion, filed an
unverified answer in opposition to the
Commission's transfer motion. On the
same date, the debtor filed a consent
to a transfer to Chapter X and its
own transfer motion. Three days earlier, on September 27, 1976, the indenture trustee for the debtors' $46
million of debentures and certain
debenture holders also filed a transfer motion.
At the conclusion of the hearing,
the bankruptcy court took the Commission's transfer motion and other
matters raised at the hearing under
advisement. The bankruptcy court
never did render a decision. Instead,
on application of the official creditors' committee, the bankruptcy court
adjudicated the debtor a bankrupt
and directed that bankruptcy be proceeded with pursuant to Section 376
of the Bankruptcy Act and Rule 11-42
(b) (1) of the Rules of Bankruptcy
Procedure. The Commission appealed
to the district court which affirmed
the bankruptcy judge's adjudication of
the debtor.
The Commission, joined by the debtor, appealed the order of adjudication
to the United States Court of Appeals for the First Circuit.53 The Commission sought a reversal of the adjudication order and a remand with
instructions that the various pending
transfer motions, including the one
filed by the Commission, which were
never decided before the adjudication,
be acted upon without further delay.
The Commission argued, among
other things, that there was no "want
of prosecution" within the meaning of
Bankruptcy Rule 11-42(b) (1), particularly since the debtor demonstrated
its desire to pursue its rehabilitation
effort by filing a consent to the Commission's transfer motion and its own
265

motion to transfer the case to Chapter X. The Commission further stressed
that the debtor should be allowed to
pursue a Chapter X rehabilitation effort absent the stigma and prejudice
of a bankruptcy adjudication.
At the close of the fiscal year, the
appeal and hearings before the bankruptcy judge on the debtor's voluntary
Chapter X petrtlon.>' filed after the
adjudication, were pending.
Contmentallnvestment Corporation. 55
-The Commission had sought the
transfer of this diversified financial
service holding company from Chapter
XI to Chapter X arguing (1) Chapter
X is required where more than a minor
adjustment of the rights of public
debenture holders is necessary; (2) public debenture holders are entitled to
"fair and equitable" treatment; (3) the
plan of arrangement was not feasible
because, among other things, certain
litigation claims against the debtor
were not dischargeable in Chapter XI;
(4) a comprehensive reorganization
rather than a "simple composition"
of unsecured debt was required;
(5) there was a need for a new
management and an investigation by
a disinterested trustee into the debtor's past activities; and (6) the debtor sought to circumvent the protections afforded public investors by
Chapter X through the use of prefiling acceptances.
The bankruptcy judge denied the
Commission's transfer motion holding
that, under the facts of the case,
the debtor's "needs to be served"56
were adequately met in the Chapter
XI case. The Commission appealed to
the district
court and obtained a
stay of confirmation of the debtor's
proposed Chapter XI arrangement
pending resolution of its appeal. The
Commission stressed, among other
things, that the bankruptcy judge did
not have "open-ended discretion" to
266

decide the merits of a transfer rnotionY The discretion of the court,
the Commission argued, must be exercised within the framework of the
principles enunciated by the cases,
and under those principles a transfer
to Chapter X was required.w At the
close of the fiscal year, the matter
was still pending before the district
court.
Great Amencan Management & Investment. 59_The Commission filed a
motion pursuant to Section 328 of
Chapter XI and Rule 11-15 of the
Rules of Bankruptcy Procedure to
transfer this proceeding to Chapter
X. The debtor is a large real estate
investment trust with assets of $280
million and liabilities of about $330
million. GAMI invested primarily in
short-term construction, land acquisition and development loans. Of these
assets only about $61 million are still
accruing interest as of the date of
the Chapter XI petition.
The debtor has outstanding about
$58 million of three classes of subordinated debentures held by 1,500
public investor-creditors,
and $4.5
million shares of beneficial interest
are held by over 8,300 public investors.
The Commission in its transfer motion argued, among other things, that
there was a need for a thorough
investigation by an independent trustee
and that rehabilitation of the debtor
will require a substantial adjustment
of widely held public debt. At the close
of the fiscal year, a hearing on the
Commission's transfer motion had not
been held.
Duplan Corporation. 6°-The Commission filed a motion pursuant to
Section 328 of the Bankruptcy Act
and Rule 11-15 of the Rules of
Bankruptcy Procedure to transfer this
proceeding to Chapter X. The debtor
is a diversified textile and apparel

company which directly and indirectly,
through its various subsidiaries and
divisions, is engaged in the manufacture and sale of various textile lines,
buttons, children's sleepwear and ladies' intimate apparel. The Chapter XI
petition reflected assets and liabilities
of $84.1 million and $78.6 million, respectively. Its capitalization includes
$19.2 million outstanding principal
amount of convertible subordinated
debentures held by about 1,300 persons and 2.6 million shares outstanding of common stock held by more than
5,000 persons.
The court granted the Commission's
transfer motion. It agreed that there
was need for a thorough investigation by an independent trustee and
that rehabilitation of the debtor required a substantial adjustment of
widely held public debt.
Crown Corporation. 61_ The Commission filed a motion pursuant to Section 328 of Chapter XI and Rule 11-15
of the Rules of Bankruptcy Procedure
to transfer this proceeding to Chapter X. The debtor is a holding company whose subsidiaries are in such
diverse businesses as commercial
printing, supplying food packing products, roofing and manufacturing of
women's apparel. Crown also has major investments in real estate. The
Chapter XI petition reflected assets
of $23.7 million, liabilities of $21.5
million and shareholders' equity of
$21 million. Also, there are $7.8 million of subordinated debentures held
by about 1,900 persons and about
2.1 million shares of outstanding common stock held by about 2,300 persons.
The debtor had filed a plan of arrangement which was accepted by
creditors and conditionally confirmed
by the court. A key element of the
plan of arrangement provided for a
proposed settlement of various class

action suits pending against the debtors which alleged fraudulent activity
on the part of the debtor as well as
violations of the securities laws. The
suits raised complex issues, were in
the early stages of litigation, and
appeared too far from being settled,
leaving the plan in limbo.
The Commission moved to transfer
the case to Chapter X arguing that
(1) the plan of arrangement is not
feasible because, among other things,
the class action suits pending against
the debtor assert claims that are not
dischargeable in Chapter XI and it
is unreasonable to expect that these
class suits are capable of settlement
within the near future; (2) Chapter X
IS required when more than a minor
adjustment of the rights of public
debenture holders is necessary; (3) public debenture holders are entitled to
"fair and equitable" treatment; and
(4) there is a need for an independent
investigation of possible causes of
action against former management of
Crown.
At the close of the fiscal year, the
bankruptcy court had not rendered a
decision on the Commission's transfer motion.

NOTES TO PART 7
'Reclemetion

District No. 2090,

N.D.

Calif., No. C-76-1207-RHS.
2Fort Cobb, Oklahoma Irrigation Fuel
Authortty, W.O. Okla., No. Bk-76-679-E.
3Ashton v. Town of Deerfield Beach,
151 F.2d 40.44 (C.A. 5, 1946).
4S.D. Fla., No. Bk-76-131-NCR-H.
sin re Los Angeles Land & Investments,
Ltd., 282 F.Supp. 448, 453 (D. Hawaii,
1968), affirmed per curiam, 447 F.2d
1366 (C.A. 9, 1971). See also, In re
Carolina Caribbean Corp., W.O. N.C., No.
A-B-75-123,
Chapter X filed February
28, 1975.
6The purposes and krnds of cases covered
by Rule 10-701 are described in the Adversary Committee's note to Rule 70~.
7S.D.N.Y., No. 74-B-614-802,
inclusive. Previously reported in 42nd Annual
Report, pp. 152-53, 159; 41st Annual
Report, pp. 157-58.
842nd Annual Report, pp. 152-53.

267

9W.D. Okla., Nos. Bk-74-484,
512, 525,
554 and 731.
lOW.D. N.C., No. A-B-75-123.
l1S.D. Ohio, No. B-1-75-1181.
Previously reported in 42nd Annual Report,
p.153.
12S.D.N.Y., Nos. 74-B-1454,
1455 and
74-B-1511-1542,
inclusive. Previously
reported in 41st Annual Report, pp. 15051.
13Bloor v. Dansker, et al., 76 Civ. 4679
(HEW), (S.D.N.Y., 1976).
14N.D. Texas, No. Bk-3-74-454-G.
Previously reported in 42nd Annual Report,
pp.156-57.
15W.D.N.Y., No. Bk-72-1399.
16SEC v. Stirling Homex Corp., et al.,
No. 75-1065 (D. D.C.), Litigation Release
No. 6960, July 2, 1975.
17U.S. v. Stirling Homex Corp., et a/.,
76 Crim. 685 (MEF) (S.D. N.Y.), appeal
docketed No. 77-11-40-(C.A.
2, March
24,1977).
180ppenheimer v. Harriman National Bank
& Trust Co, 301 U.S. 206 (1937); Associated Gas & Electric Co, 149 F.2d
996 (C.A. 2), cert. den., 326 U.S. 736
(1945); Four Seasons Nursing Centers of
America, Inc., 472 F.2d 747 (C.A. 10,
1973).
191nre R. Hoe & Co., Inc., Corporate
Reorganization Release No. 319 (September 8, 1976), 10 SEC Docket 441: In re
Imperial-American Resources Fund, lnc.,
Corporate Reorganization Release No. 320
(September 28, 1976), 10 SEC Docket
630.
20ln re King Resources Co., Corporate
Reorganization Release No. 321 (July I,
1977), 12 SEC Docket 1144.
211nre Aldersgate Foundation, Inc., M.D.
Fla., No. 74-383-0rl-Bk-P;
In re American Mortgage & Investment Co." Inc.,
D. S.C., No. 74-323; In re Arlan s Department Stores, lnc., S.D.N.Y., No. 73B-468; In re C.I.P. Corp., S.D. Ohio,
No. B-1-75-1181;
In re Detroit Port
Development Corp., E.D. Mich., No. 7692807 -K; In re Dolly Madison Industries,
Inc., E.D. Pa., No. 70-354; In re U.S.
Financial, Inc., S.D. Calif., No. 17007-K.
220. Colo., No. 72-B-556.
Previously
reported in 39th Annual Report, p. 119.
23S.D.N.Y., No. 69-B-461.
Previously
reported in 37th Annual Report, PP. 183,
194-195; 36th Annual Report, p. 179.
241nre R. Hoe & Co, Inc., Corporate
Reorganization Release No. 319 (September 8, 1976), 10 SEC Docket 441.
25CPLR5004.
260. Colo., No. 71-B-2921.
27July 1 1977.
28S.D. calif., No. 17007-K. Previously
reported in 42nd Annual Report, p. 158,
41st Annual Report, p. 158.
29M.D. Fla., No. 74-383-0rl-Bk-P.
30E.D. Pa., No. 70-354.
Previusly re-

268

ported in 41st Annual Report, p. 151,
153-54; 39th Annual Report, p. 122.
31See41st Annual Report, pp. 153-54.
32Bershad v. Dolly Madison Industries,
Inc., et al., (E.D. Pa., No. 70-2585).
33D. S.C., No. 74-323.
34E.D. Mich., No. 76-92807 -K.
35S.D., Ohio, No. B-1-75-1181.
36S.D.N.Y., No. 73-B-468.
Previously
reported in 41st Annual Report, p. 153;
40th Annual Report, p. 131.
37Aplan of reorganization under Chapter
X may contemplate an orderly liquidation.
Country Life Apartments v. Buckley, 145
F.2d 935 (C.A. 2, 1944); In re Lorraine
Castle Apartments Bldg. Corp., 149 F.2d
55 (C.A. 7, 1944); Bankers Life & Casualty v. Kirtley, 338 F.2d 1006 (C.A. 8,
1964).
3811 U.S.C. n04.
39N.D. Ga., B-74-290-A.
4OD. N. J., No. B-656-65.
Previously
reported in 42nd Annual Report, p. 156;
40th Annual Report, p. 128; 39th Annual
Report, pp. 124-25; 38th Annual Report,
pp. 117, 122, 125; 36th Annual Report,
pp. 176-77, 190; 35th Annual Report,
p. 161; 33rd Annual Report, pp. 132,
137; 32nd Annual Report, p. 94.
411n re Imperial '400' National, tnc.,
431 F. Supp. 155 (D. N.J., 1977).
4211 U.S.C. ~~671-73.
43See In re Ulen & Co., 130 F.2d 303
(C.A. 2, 1942).
44D. Kans., No. 28075-B-2.
Previously
reported in 42nd Annual Report, p, 156;
40th Annual Report, pp. 125-26.
45S.D.N.Y., Nos. 74-B-614-802,
inclusive. Previously reported in 42nd Annual
Report, pp. 152-53; 41st Annual Report,
pp.157-58.
46Such reasons are necessary if the
reorganization court declines to follow the
Commission's fee recommendations. Finn
v. Childs Co., 181 F.2d 431 (C.A. 2,
1950); Surface Transit, Inc. v. Saxe, Bacon
& O'Shea, 266 F.2d 862 (C.A. 2, 1959);
Ruskin v. Griffiths, 269 F.2d 827 (C.A.
2, 1959).
47See In re Hudson & Manhattan RR
Co., 339 F.2d 114 (C.A. 2, 1964); In re
Orbit Liquor Store, 439 F.2d 1351 (C.A.
5, 1951); In re Meade Land & Development Co., Inc., 527 F.2d 80 (C.A. 3,
1975); York International Bldg., Inc. v.
Chaney, 527 F.2d 1061 (C.A. 9, 1975).
48S.D.N.Y., Nos. 74-B-1454,
1455 and
74-B-1511-1542,
inclusive. Previously
reported in 41st Annual Report, pp. 15051.
491nre Investors Funding Corporation of
New York, et al., 442 F.Supp. 461
(S.D. N.Y., 1976).
50S.D.N.Y., Nos. 77-B-1513-1888;
77 -B-2003-2015.
51D. Mass., No. 76-0593.
5242nd Annual Report, pp. 161-62.

53Nos. 77-1216 and 1217.
54Before a Chapter X petition can be
approved, it must be shown that the petition was filed In "good faith". This means,
among other things, that It is not unreasonable to expect a successful reorganization U46(3), 11 U.S.C. ~546(3).
550. Mass., No. 76-1158-G.
Previously
reported in 42nd Annual Report, p. 16l.
56General Stores Corp. v, Shlensky, 350
U.S. 462 (1950).
57SECv. American Tretlet Rentals Co.,

379 U.S. 594 (1965); Schreibman v. Mason, 377 F.2d 99 (C.A. I, 1967); SEC
v. Burton, 342 F.2d 783 (C.A. I, 1965);
SEC v. Canandaigua Enterprises Corp.,
339 F.2d 14 (C.A. 2, 1964).
58SECv. American Trailer Rentals Co.,
supra; General Stores Corp., supra;. SEC
v. U.S. Realty Improvement Co., 31u U.S.
434 (1940).
59N.D. Ga., No. B-77-760-A.
6°S.D.N.Y., Nos. 76-B-1967-68.
610. Hawaii, No. 77 -30.

269

Part 8
SEC Management
Operations

(~'CJ
000
•••••••
..
...
.- ..-

Part 8
SEC Management
Operations

In 1977, the Commission made a
number of changes designed to make
the most effective use of its resources
and provide improved service to the
public.

ORGANIZATIONAL CHANGES
Although no major reorganization
occurred in 1977, the Commission
made several improvements designed
to enhance its effectiveness and assure the best allocation of its resources.
The Office of Public Affairs was
created by merging the functions of
the former offices of Congressional
Affairs and Public Information. The
new organizational arrangement was
created to improve coordination between the Commission's press relations and Congressional relations and
provide increased emphasis in both
areas.
During 1977, the Office of Public
Affairs coordinated agency responses
to in-depth Congressional inquiries,
including detailed oversight hearings
by subcommittees of the House Interstate and Foreign Commerce Committee; tracked approximately 500 House
and Senate bills (from both the 94th
and 95th Congress); received approximately 1,250 letters and an estimated
20,000 telephone calls; wrote and
circulated approximately 300 memo-

randa to Commissioners and Commission staff members; held approximately ten news conferences; coordinated, edited, and published the Commission's annual report to Congress;
and coordinated arrangements for the
"SEC Major Issues Conference," an
assembly of 64 representatives of the
SEC, industry, public interest groups,
and the academic community, which
considered key major policies confronting the Commission. In addition,
the Office initiated a new publication
entitled "SEC Employee News," which
is being disseminated to the Commission's staff on a monthly basis.
The Branch of Investor Service,
formerly part of the Office of Reports and Information Services, became a major component of the Office
of Consumer Affairs in April 1977.
As a result, the Office of Consumer
Affairs has been assigned primary
responsibility for processing and responding to inquiries and complaints
from individual investors. The Commission attempts to resolve complamts
regarding registered entities by requesting reports on the SUbject of
the complaint. In addition, inquiries
and complaints from members of the
public often provide valuable information about practices within the securities industry. The Office of Consumer
Affairs gathers statistics from these

273

communiques and prepares reports
about the entities subject to the
Commission's jurisdiction
to assist
other offices and divisions in carrying
out their regulatory and enforcement
responsibilities.
During 1977, the
Commission received, analyzed, and
answered approximately 4,000 complaints and inquiries about registered
brokers and dealers. Most of the complaints involved operational problems
such as failure to deliver funds or
securities or the alleged mishandling
of accounts. In addition, there were
approximately 9,100 complaints and
inquiries concerning investment advrsers, issuers, banks transfer agents,
and mutual funds.
During 1977, the Office of Consumer
Affairs concentrated much of its efforts on the development of a uniform system for the resolution of disputes between broker-dealers and small
investors. The system will be made
available nationwide through the selfregulatory organizations and is to include a simplified procedure for the
expeditious resolution of claims involving small dollar amounts. Following
two public forums on this subject,
the Commission announced on April
26, 1977, that it would consider related proposals to be generated by
a conference of representatives of
self-regulatory organizations and members of the public. The conference
was convened and participants agreed
to submit proposed rules for a simplified procedure for resolving small
claims by the end of the calendar
year and a uniform arbitration code
shortly thereafter.
The position of the Director of
Regional Office Operations was also
established in the Executive Director's Office during this time frame.
Before 1977, there was no real "regional presence" in the home office.
Although several divisions have bran274

ches which have responsibility
for
assisting the regions with particular
programs, these units' primary allegiance resides with their parent divisions.
The creation of a Director of Regional Office Operations, provides the
regions with an advocate in headquarters who can represent their interests in the variety of problems and
issues which arise in the normal course
of business. The Director is responSible for coordinating the regions'
response to and participation
in a
variety of substantive programs being
undertaken by the Commission or any
of its home office units.
In this same vein, it is the duty
of the Director of Regional Office
Operations to direct the regions in
initiating proposals relating to potential substantive programs and regulatory reform. The regional offices are
in a unique position to submit a
variety of suggestions impacting upon
the substantive and administrative
work of the Commission due to their
responsibilities for implementing rules
and regulations while performing their
Inspection function and because they
are often the first units in the Commission to confront novel enforcement
problems. It is the job of the Director of Regional Office Operations to
encourage the regions to play an
active role in addressing the regulatory and enforcement concerns they
perceive and in proposing possible
solutions to them.
To assist the Director of Regional
Office Operations in carrying out his
functions, every six months one of
the regional administrators is appointed
to be the Director's principal contact point in the field. During his
tenure, the Advising Regional Administrator acts as the Director's sounding
board on regional issues, consults
with the Director and meets with head-

quarters staff to explain the regional
viewpoint. The Advising Regional Administrator also helps by evaluating
suggestions from other regional administrators and forwarding proposals
of his own for consideration at headquarters.

staff by the Columbia Law School.
The Commission also began participating in the three-week Harvard University program for government executives and the Brookings Institute Conferences for Senior Executives.
An attorney hiring committee, composed of representatives of each of
PERSONNEL MANAGEMENT
the Commission's legal divisions, was
The permanent personnel strength
established to coordinate the SEC's
of the Commission totalled 1,959 emattorney interview and selection proployees on September 31, 1977 as
cesses for 1977. The Committee exshown below:
panded the Commission's recruiting
Commissioners
.4 efforts by contacting more than 100
Staff:
law schools and by increasing the
Headquarters Offices 1,237
number of locations at which initial
Regional Offices
718 interviews were conducted. The comTotal Staff
1,955
mittee, in conjunction with the PerRecognizing the importance
of
sonnel Office developed a novel but
sharpening staff skills and keeping
standardized procedure for rating apabreast of new developments, the
plications to insure that all attorney
Commission expanded its involvement
candidates receive consideration using
in staff training and development by the same criteria. The Cornrnission
nearly three-fold. In 1977, over 600 was also successful in recruiting exstaff members attended nearly 1,000
perienced litigators to strengthen entraining programs. Categorically, the
forcement staffs in both the headgreatest increases in training occurred
quarters and regional offices.
in the areas of executive and manageThe Commission's affirmative action
ment development, litigation and com- program resulted in the hiring of
munication. While outside institutions
Increased numbers of women and
continued to be the major source of minority attorneys. During 1977, the
staff training, a four-fold increase
percentage of female attorneys on the
was experienced in "in-house" courses legal staff rose from 12.9 percent
designed specifically for SEC staff.
to 16.7 percent, and the percentage
of minority attorneys rose from 6.3
The agency commitment to training
excellence was illustrated by several percent to 6.7 percent.
noteworthy examples. Over 100 senior
In the area of recruitment and
staff managers throughout the Com- placement of the handicapped, the
mission attended an "in-house" semi- Civil Service Commission commended
nar entitled the "Manager's Role in the SEC for its " ... comprehensive
EEO," which was the first such pro- and results-oriented system which will
gram ever offered at the SEC. Eight
continue to enhance employment opsenior staff attorneys represented the
portunities for qualified handicapped
Commission at the prestigious Nationindividuals in professional as well as
al Institute
of Trial Advocacy in support positions ... " The CSC further
Boulder, Colorado, while another
stated that the SEC's affirmative actwenty-six staff attorneys attended a tion plan for the hiring, placement
and advancement of handicapped inone-week securities litigation program
developed for the Commission's legal dividuals ..... could serve as an example
275

for other Federal agencies of similar
size."
Seven of the regional offices received on-site personnel management
evaluation and assistance visits from
headquarters classification, staffing,
and training personnel during 1977.
These visits provided staff of the
Personnel Office with an opportunity
to perform job audits, conduct supervisory training sessions, and meet
with individual supervisors and employees to discuss personnel-related
problems and concerns.
The Commission is continuing its
effort to establish meaningful distinctions between grade levels for professional positions. Guidelines distinguishing senior level broker-dealer
compliance examiners from journeyman and junior level examiners have
been completed. Similar guidelines
for investment company examiners,
investment adviser examiners, investigators, and financial analysts are now
being considered.

INFORMATION SYSTEMS
MANAGEMENT
During 1977, several major programs were initiated to improve the
utilization of information at the Commission. In the area of records management, an extensive microfilm system was introduced to begin to address internal storage and dissemination problems associated with the
Commission's voluminous paper files.
The use of this technology, which is
presently being utilized by an outside contractor to make Commission
filings available to the public, will
eventually result in the elimination
of much of the manual handling and
transfer of files among offices. This
comprehensive micrographics program
will, over a period of three or four
years, convert all official public filings
and formal correspondence to micro276

form. At headquarters, access to these
documents will be provided by furnishing copies of individual microfiche. Regional and branch offices
will have complete sets of all filmed
documents on ultra high reduction
film strips with paper copies available as needed.
The Commission's current use of
automatic data processing was enhanced by the addition of a teleprocessing capability and the development of associated data entry and
retrieval functions for selected applications. The computer terminals,
printers, and special computer software required for teleprocessing were
procured and installed in the latter
part of 1977. The initial teleprocessing
applications to be implemented include a microform index to support
the microfilm operation described
above, a centralized index of unique
identifying numbers for SEC registrants, and a workload system to control the internal processing of documents filed with the Commission.
For the microfilm operation, teleprocessing will provide a rapid means
of keeping the film index of filings
up-to-date and will allow users to
obtain that information directly without consulting unwieldy and often
incomplete paper listings. The unique
identifier will be utilized initially in
the microfilm index and the filings
workload, system and will provide a
means of linking various information
related to the same SEC registrant.
The on-line workload system will reduce chronic delays in recording the
receipt of filings, reduce data input
errors, and streamline processing, resulting in disposition data which is
more timely and accurate.
In order to ensure that adequate
computer resources will be available
for teleprocessing and other projected
needs, the decision was made to up-

grade the in-house computer on an
interim basis, pending development
of long-term computer requirements.
Permanent installation of the replacement computer is scheduled for late
1978. This upgrade will make it possible for the Commission to continue
its program of providing effective computer support to its staff.
In line with its commitment to improving its computer capability, the
staff completed a five-year plan addressing the role of data processing
in the Commission's work and set
long-range goals for applying new
technology. As the first phase of
this plan, a detailed, agency-wide
systems requirements analysis was initiated in the last quarter of 1977 by
a team of management consultants.
A major aim of this study is to find
ways to enhance the quality and accessibility of information available
both to the Commission's staff and to
'the general public. Some of the specific areas to be addressed are document indexing, case tracking, direct
inquiry of computer maintained information, management reporting, and
information services for the regional
offices. The requirements analysis is
scheduled for completion during 1978.
Follow-up work will include computer
system designs to meet the identified
data requirements and identification
of alternative ways of implementing
the proposed systems.

FINANCIAL MANAGEMENT
The Commission's 1977 appropriation of $56,270,000 was offset in part
by fees collected by the Commission
amounting to approximately 56 percent of its operating expenses. The
Commission is required by law to colof
lect fees for : (1) registration
securities issued; (2) qualification of
trust indentures; (3) registration of
exchanges; (4) registration of brokers

and dealers who are not members
of the NASD; and (5) certification of
documents filed with the Commission.
In addition, the Commission imposes
fees for certain services such as
filing annual reports and proxy material.
During 1977, the Commission began
developing its annual budget estimate
using zero-base budget (ZSS) techniques. Application of this method produced several important benefits:
The ZSS process highlighted
major issues. This process
forced the agency to develop
a program-oriented
budget
which focuses attention on
objectives and methods of
attaining them, thereby facilitating consideration of important substantive issues.
Zero-base budgeting assisted
in identifying trade-offs between programs. For the first
time, the Commission was afforded a well ordered opportunity to consider whether to
apply an increment of resources to maintaining a marginal activity at its current
level or to enhance a critical
program of higher priority.
The same analysis took place
within individual programs, as
program coordinators analyzed
trade-offs among competing
decision packages contributing to the same overall program goal.
While the content of the Commission's budget justification
was enhanced, the size was
reduced as a result of the
new approach. The material
submitted to OMS for its
1979 budget request contained 46 percent fewer pages
than in 1978, while the corresponding
Congressional
277

budget justification
is only
81 pages, compared with 121
pages the previous year.
In general, the ZSS process worked
well throughout the Commision. The
emphasis given to sharpening objectives succeeded in convincing managers to support development of a case
management system. Further improvement in the use of ZSS to manage
Commission resources will depend in
large measure on the agency's success in redesigning a manpower reporting system which complements
and measures progress toward achieving major program objectives.

FREEDOM OF INFORMATION ACT
Commission rules pursuant to the
Freedom of Information Act (FOIA),
as revised on February 19, 1975,
provide that the public can inspect
or obtain copies of all records main-.
tained by the SEC with the exception
of certain specified categories of information. Most financial data and

278

other information filed by registered
companies has always been available
for inspection by the public. However, the public was traditionally denied access to certain categories of
material, notably investigatory records.
Pursuant to various FOIA requests, the
Commission has made available for
public inspection many records which
had previously been considered confidential. Among these records are
portions of the broker-dealer manual
and the entire investment advisers
and investment company inspection
manuals, the summary of administrative interpretations under the Securities Act of 1933, and the periodic
securities violations bulletin. Moreover,
the Commission has made available,
pursuant to specific FOIA requests,
staff letters of comment on registration statements and Wells Committee
submissions. The Commission received
a total of 1,250 requests for information under the FOIA between July
1, 1976 and September 30, 1977.

""Part9
Statistics

.

~

,'""

I

..

.

~

~

.

'.

-,."',

-

_~--

"

~.

c

:~~;~
:.

~<,-

-~;

Part 9
Statistics

THE SECURITIES INDUSTRY
Income, Expenses and Selected
Balance Sheet Items
Registered broker-dealers recorded
total revenue of $8.9 billion in 1976,
21.4 percent above the 1975 figure
of $7.3 billion. Securities commissions are by far the most important
source of revenue; however, the industry appears to be diversifying its
business activity. Since 1973, when
53.6 percent of total revenue was
generated from this source, commissions have accounted for a steadily
declining portion of total revenue.

They contributed 46 percent of total
revenue in 1975 and 41 percent in
1976. Trading and underwriting revenues were the second and third most
important revenue contributors, together accounting for 29 percent of
total revenue in 1975 and 32 percent in 1976.
Pre-tax income came to approximately $1.5 billion,
bringing the
1975 industry profit margin of 15.2
percent up to 16.9 percent in 1976.
Pre-tax income increased 34.8 percent
on a 21.4 percent growth in revenue.
Ownership equity at the end of 1976
was nearly $5.3 billion, reflecting a
16.9 percent increase during the year.

281

Table 1
FINANCIAL INFORMATION FOR BROKER-DEALERS

1975-1976
(Millions of Dollars)

A.

t975

t976

3,3741
1,201 1

131 7

3,656 2
1,8274
2692

9303
6017

1,0226
5567

6975
3943
7,3307
6,2159
1,114 8

7061
8602
8,8984
7,395 1
1,5033

Revenue and Expenses
1
2
3
4
5
6
7
8
9
10

Secuntoes Commissions
Gain (loss) In Trading
Gain (loss) In Investments
Proftt (loss) From Underwntmg and
Seiling Groups
Interest Income
Other revenue Related to Secunties
BUSiness
RevenueFromAll Other Sources
Total Revenue
TotaI Expenses.
Pre-Tax Income

B. Assets, liabilitIes
11
12

13
14

and Capital

TotaI Assets
liabilities
a
Total liabilities (excluding
subordinated debt)
b
Subordinated debt
c
Total habihhes (l1a + 11b)
Ownership EqUity
Total llabilitoes and Ownership EqUity
Number of Frrms

$ 31,1811
25,8244

8347
26,6591
4,522 0
$ 31,181 1
4,015

$ 48,9872
42,8428
8581
43,700 9
5,286 3
$ 48,9872

4,347

• Expensesrnclude Partners' CompensatIOn
Source Form X-17A-I0

Historical Financial Information of
Broker-Dealers
with Securities
Revenue of $500,000 or More1
Every source of broker-dealer revenues with the exception of interest
income increased in 1976 due to the
record trading volume. Common stock
volume on all registered exchanges
increased 12.9 percent in 1976 over
1975. The three most important revenue components increased as
follows: Secunties Commissions 9 percent to $3.5 billion; Trading Activities
'The Financial and Operational
Combined
Uniform
Single (FOCUS) reporting system requires larger firms to
report In greater detail than smaller broker-dealers
Frrms
With $500,000
or more In secunlles
related revenue,
the level at which reporting becomes more detailed,
held approximately
98 percent of the Industry's assets
and reported over 96 percent of all revenue In 1976

282

59 percent to $2.0 billion; Underwriting 10 percent to $1.0 billion.
Interest income declined 7 percent
in 1976, primarily due to the decline
in interest rates. Total revenue increased 22 percent for the year to
$8.6 billion and pre-tax income of
$1.4 billion was 36 percent higher
than the 1975 results. Total assets
increased $17.2 billion, or 56 percent
in 1976. Of this increase, $16.4 billion
was balanced by corresponding increases in liabilities. Other liabilities
alone accounted for $10 billion of this
increase. The remaining growth in
assets, $847 million, represented
growth in equity capital, with ownership equity increasing 22 percent in
1976.

Table 2
HISTORICAL REVENUE AND EXPENSES FOR BROKER-DEALERS WITH
TOTAL REVENUE OF $500,000
OR MORE
(Millions of Oollars)

A.

1970
1971
1972
1973
1974
1975
1976
Revenue and Expenses
1
Commrssinns
a
Commissions earned on eqUity
secuntres transacnens execuled
on a nauonat secunnes exchange
$1,904 1 $2,727 2 $2,747 3 $2,3852 $2,081 1 $2,5993 $2,684 9
Other commission revenue
3624
560 1
656 3
4306
357 1
6163
8225
C
Total cemrmssrons
2,2665 3,2873 3,4036 2,8158 2,4382 3,2156 3,5074
Gain (Loss) on Frrm secunnes Trading
and Investment Accounts
a
Gain (loss) In trading
823 5 1,056 0
994 2
5902
7224 1,1366 1,756 6
b
Gam (loss) In Investments
-31
749
2425
2086
545
1310
253 1
c
Total gam (loss)
8984 1,2985 1,2028
587 1
7769 1,2676 2,009 7
Profit (Loss) from Underwriting and
Sellmg Groups
601 3
9570
9156
493 5
4963
9127 1,0078
Revenue From Sale of Investment Company
Securities
a
As underwriter
NlA
NlA
N/A
N/A
NlA
488
599
b
Other than as underwriter (retail
transacllons)
NlA
NlA
N/A
NlA
N/A
709
861
Total revenue from sale of Investment
company securities
1842
1955
1510
1488
788
1197
1460
Interest Income
3786
3638
5270
620 9
6220
5913
5495
Fees for Account Supervision, Investment
AdVISoryand AdminIstrative Services
636
823
986
828
1545
2055
846
Commodity Revenue
882
983
1246
1682
177 5
1866
2358
Other Revenue Related to Secunties
Business
N/A
3813
6898
NlA
NlA
NlA
NlA
2662
3062
Revenue From All Other Sources
3004
3233
3997
1671
2000
Total Revenue

$4,747 0 $6,583 1 $6,7294 $5,249 7 $5,064 7 $6,996 4 $8,551 5

12
13
14
15
16
17
18

CompensatIOn to registered
representatives
Employee compensallon and benefits
commrssions paut to other brokers
Interest
Communications
Occupancy and equipment rental
Promollonal
All other operating expenses

$ 777 7 $1,139 0 $1,198 0 $ 9374$
9494 $1,2745 $1,571 8
1,0857 1,2997 1,3922 1,184 2 1,0966 1,3755 1,660 2
1280
1820
1857
188 0
1510
210 8
346 6
5399
5198
6337
7957
7497
5800
8389
3700
4338
4880
4610
4626
4817
5884
348 7
4128
4596
4334
4397
4630
484 2
1568
1877
2140
1857
172 1
1568
2020
606 3
7874
7935
6859
633 7 1,4130 1,445 1

19

Teta r expenses

10
B

C,

Expenses
11

Pre-Tax Income
20
Pre-tax Income

Number of Firms

4,0131

4,9622

5,364 7 4,8713

4,654 8 5,955 3' 7,137 2'

733 9 $1,620 9 $1,364 7 $ 3784 $ 4099 $1,041 7 $1,4143
655

788

817

652

609

764

930

'Expenses Include partners' compensallon
Source Form X-17A-1O

283

Table 3
HISTORICAL CONSOLIDATED BALANCE SHEET FOR BROKER-DEALERS
WITH TOTAL REVENUES OF $500,000
OR MORE
(MIllions of Dollars)

A Assets
I Cash, clearrng funds, and other deposits
2 ReceIVables from brokers or dealers
a Secunties failed to delIver
b Securrloes borrowed
c Other receivables
3 ReceIvables from customers
4 Market value or fa" value of secunties and
cemmemnes accounts
a Tradrng accounts
b Other accounts
c Total market value or fa" value of
securrloes and commodltoes accounts
5 MembershIps rn exchanges (market value)
Properly,
turmture, equipment leasehold
6
Improvements and nghts under lease agreements (net of depreCIatIon).
7 Other assets
8 Total assets

1971

$ 1,1617

$ 1,2205

16 Total habitmes

and caprtal

Number of Fums

$ 1,280 6 $ 1,1394

$

940 3 $

1,8436
1,0960
3300
9,0562

1,2199
8890
9052
7,4501

NA
NA

NA
NA

NA
NA

NA
NA

NA
NA

10,2614
2102

11,6670
200 I

11,870 1
2079

9,721 6
1230

2286
1,1638

2781
1,368 I

3067
1,3975

2799
1,599 0

$27,9250

1975

1974

1973

25679
1,3639
3822
13,3728

1976

9227

$ 1,133 7

1,446 I
1,3362
1,069 7
8,4551

2,2137
2,0763
1,0924
12,796 9

10,573.3
2,1924

17,7424
3,6463

10,7885
1005

12,865 7
117 7

21,3887
1410

2685
1,2248

2554
4,2764

3034
6,8899

$32,7496

$25,1887

$23,7868

NA
NA
NA
14,3984

NA
NA
NA
98781

NA
NA
NA
10,4210

2,2125
7,123 1
1422
9,477 8

4,6298
6,9150
2506
11,7954

$30,775 0 $48,0360

NA
NA
NA
8,994 1

NA
NA
NA
11,285 7

2,7057
8355
1978
3,7390

2,4196
9836
3452
3,748 4

2,7322
1,284 3
354 2
4,3707

1,7243
8469
3647
2,9359

1,2810
5792
1,0585
2.9187

1,3989
1,0631
1,084 3
3,5463

2,1512
1,6021
1,0184
4,7717

2,1255
2,1165
4,2420

2,1038
2,6326
4,7364

2,1498
3,078 3
5,2281

2,1844
2,7931
4,977 5

1,7325
2,2536
3,9861

1,7329
2,958 5
4,6914

2,0231
4,144 2
6,1673

7074
2,3430

906 8
2,858 7

1,525 I
2,5054

1,158 3
2,5497

1,0382
2,098 5

1,1638
7,1958

2,554 6
17,1702

20,0255
6410

23,536 0
7281

28,027 7
7739

26,075 I
7670

42,4592
7967

$20,6665

C. Ownership EqUity
17 OwnershIp equIty

1972

2,2303
1,0222
2951
9,6436

2,3189
8648
1977
7,077 0

$23.4841

B. liabilities
9 Moneseborrowed
a
cured by customer collateral
b Secured by fum collateral
c Unsecured
d Total money borrowed
10 Payables to brokers or dealers
a. Secunties tailed to recerse
b Securrloes borrowed
c Other payables to brokers or dealers
d Total payables to brokers or dealers
11 Payables to customers
a Free credit balances
b All other pa~ables to customers
c Total payab es to customers
Short
POSItIons rn secunties and commodI12
tres accounts
13 Other liabIlitIes
14. Tctal Irabrhtes excludrng subordrnated borrowrngs
15 Suberdinated borrowrngs

18 Total habrhnes

1970

2,8176

$24,264 I $28,8016
3,660 9

$23,484 1 $27,9250
655

3,948 0

21,4995
6422

20,4625
5935

22,141 7

21,0560

3,0470

$32,749 6 $25,1887

788

817

652

2,730 8

$26,842 I $43,2559
3,9329

4,780 1

$23,786 8 $30,775 0 $48,0360
609

764

930

.Item 6 not net of amornzatrcn
Source Form X-17A-10

Securities Industry Dollar
Securities commissions represented
41 cents of each dollar of securities
industry revenue. Another 20.5 cents
of each dollar came from trading activities and underwriting revenue contributed 11.5 cents. Together, these
three activities accounted for 73 cents
of each revenue dollar.
The largest portion of this revenue
284

dollar - 36.4 cents - went to pay
registered representatives and support personnel (clerical and administrative employees). Another 12 cents
was spent on communications, occupancy and equipment. After all expenses, including partners' compensation, 16.9 cents of the revenue dollar
remained. This was the industry's
largest pre-tax profit margin since

1972.

..

..
o

o

w

~

o
u

~

x
-e

17
w

0:::

e,
o
z
<

c

.~

"

u

'c:>

VI

E
E
o

W
VI

Z
W

U

~

"

x
w

c

o
:;
o
E

2
a.

w

..

:;)

Z
W

~

0:::

!.. 0t- ...

>
W
U.

o

co
co

~IL

co
.
> .-N
e >
-"
<C

VI

W
U
0:::
:;)

o

'"

.. ~..

~
coc ._co

! .~
..

:>

co u

~Jl

co

"E
o

E

o

U

285

Broker-Dealers,
Employees

Branch Offices,

The number of broker-dealers increased from 4,113 in 1975 to 4,347
in 1976. Following the upward trend of
the broker-dealers
the number of
branch offices increased to 6,290.

286

The number of full-time brokerdealer employees stood at 200 thousand at the end of 1976. There were
approximately 73 thousand full-time
registered representatives employed
in the industry at the close of the
year, 31 percent of the industry's
total employment.

BROKER-DEALERS

AND BRANCH

OFFICES

6000

9000

1971
7469

1972
7334

1973
7223

1974
6301

1975
6267

1976

_

Broker-Dealers

P~ Preliminary
SOURCE:

X-17A-10

_____
R=Reuis ed

REPORTS

t

Branch

OffIces

Es Esumate
G A-04217

8-8

287

Table 4A
BROKERS AND DEALERS REGISTERED UNDER THE SECURITIES EXCHANGE
ACT OF 1934-EFFECTIVE
REGISTRATIONS AS OF SEPTEMBER 30, 1976 CLASSIFIED
BY TYPE OF ORGANIZATION AND BY LOCATION OF PRINCIPAL OFFICES.
Number of Reg,strants
teeanen of Pronc,pal OffIces
Total

AlABAMA
AlASKA
ARIZONA
ARKANSAS
CAlifORNIA
COLORAOO
CONNECTICUT
OELAWARE
DISTRICT Of COLUMBIA
fLORIDA
GEORGIA
HAWAII
IDAHO
IlliNOIS
INOIANA
IOWA
KANSAS
KENTUCKY
LOUISIANA
MAINE
MARYlAND
MASSACHUSmS
MICHIGAN
MINNESOTA
MISSISSIPPI
MISSOURI
MONTANA
NEBRASKA
NEVADA
NEW HAMPSHIRE
NEW JERSEY
NEW YORK (excluding New Yorl< CIty)
NORTH CAROLINA
NORTH DAKOTA
OHIO
OKLAHOMA
OREGON
PENNSYlVANIA
RHODE ISLAND
SOUTH CAROLINA
SOUTH DAKOTA
TENNESSEE
TEXAS
UTAH
VERMONT
VIRGINIA
WASHINGTON
WEST VIRGINIA
WISCONSIN
WYOMING
TOTAL (excluding
Clm
NEW YORK C TV
SUBTOTAL
fOREIGN'
GRAND TOTAl

26
0
28
23
477

60
58
12
28
11l
38
17
6
1,4~
35
30
10
23
12
35
154
56
74
19
70
3
16
2
3
183
260
28
5
90
22
24
191
18
12
2
53
151
31
5
39
54
5
35
7

Sole
proproetorshlps
3
0
4
2
145
6
6
3
2
10
1
0
1
1,163
7
2
2
1
6
1
2
33

5
4
1
3
1
0
1
1
38

93
5
0
5
4
3
26
5
1
1
3
24
3
2
8
7
1
3
2

PartnershIps

CorporalIons3

1
0
1
0
44
3
10
0
5
4
1
0
0
83
2
1
2
1
4
4
4
13
5
1
4
6
0
0
0
0
26
19
1
0
15
1
1
41
2
1
0
2
5
4
1
3
1
0
0
0

22
0
23
21
288
51
42
9
21
97
36
17
5
220
41
32
26
8
13
7
29
108
46
69
14
61
2
16
1
2
119
148
22
5
70
17
20
124
11
10
1

Number of Proproetors, Partners, OffIcers,
etc"
Sole
CorporaPartnerTotal
propro ..
sh,ps
Ilons3
tershms
134
0
105
109
2,545
401
424
32
268
3,449
257
93
20
2,804
259
210
148
70
181
49
229
1,078
383
612
78
781
20

112

3
0
4
2
145
6
6
3
2
10
1
0
1
1,1~
2
2
1
6
1
2
33
5
4
1
3
1
0
1
1
38

122
24
2
28
46
4
32
5

4
11
624
613
145
27
683
III
100
1,127
45
49
12
325
1,038
123
22
332
282
17
343
24

5
0
5
4
3
26
5
1
1
3
24
3
2
8
7
1
3
2

48

93

3
0
4
0
243
56
117
0
25
8
2
0
0

486

5
6
9
3
14
21

72
95
108
2
11
144
0
0
0
0
77
51
2
0
216
2
3
220
8
2
0
29
23
12
2
13
4
0
0
0

112
3
10
509
469
138
27
462
105
94
881
32
46
11
293
991
108
18
311
271
16
340
22

New York
4,164
1,216

1,651
373

322
247

2,191
596

20,948
10,545

1,651
373

2,103
2,365

17,194
7,807

5,380
29

2,024
2

569
2

2,787
25

31,493
226

2,024
2

4,468
9

25,001
215

5,409

2,026

571

2,812

31,719

2,026

4,477

25,216

, Includes directers, offrcers, trustees and all other persons occupy,ng s,molar status or performing s,m,lar functIOns
2 Allocat.ons
made on the baSIS of loeatoon of pnncrpel offrces of regrstrants. not actual lecauens of persons
3 Includes all forms of erganuatrons
other than sole proproetorsh,ps and partnersh~s
• Reg,strants whose pronc,pal off.ces are located In fore,gn countroes or other juns tenens not hsted

288

128
0
92
107
2,157
339
301
29
241
3,431
254
93
19
1,155
247
202
137
66
161
27
155
950
270
606
66
634
19

Table 4B
BROKERS AND DEALERS REGISTERED UNDER THE SECURITIES EXCHANGE ACT
OF 1934-EFFECTIVE
REGISTRATIONS AS OF SEPT. 30, 1977 CLASSIAED BY TYPE
OF ORGANIZATION AND BY LOCATION OF PRINCIPAL OFFICES
Number of Proproetors, Partners,
etc 23

Number of Registrants
Location of Pronclpal OffIces
Total

ALABAMA
ALASKA
ARIZONA _
ARKANSAS
CAliFORNIA
COLORADO
CONNECTICUT
OElAWARE
OISTRICT OF COLUMBIA
FLORIDA
GEORGIA
HAWAII
IDAHO
IlliNOIS
INOIANA
IOWA
KANSAS
KENTUCKY
LOUISIANA
MAINE
MARYlANO
MASSACHUSmS
MICHIGAN
MINNESOTA
MISSISSIPPI
MISSOURI
MONTANA
NEBRASKA
NEVADA
NEW HAMPSHIRE
NEW JERSEY
NEW MEXICO
NEW YORK (excluding New Yorl< City)
NORTH CAROLINA
NORTH DAKOTA
OHIO
OKLAHOMA •
OREGON
PENNSYlVANIA
RHODE ISLAND
SOUTH CAROLINA
SOUTH DAKOTA
TENNESSEE
TEXAS
UTAH
VERMONT
VIRGINIA
WASHINGTON
WEST VIRGINIA
WISCONSIN.
WYOMING
TOTAL (excluding
City)
NEW YORK CITY
SUBTOTAL
FOREIGN
GRAND TOTAL

25
0
31
28
503
63
54
11
30
126
39
16
6
1,649
49
14
28
11
18
13
41
149
60
79
22
71
4
15
2
4
188
7
261
31
7
94
20
29
194
18
10
3
54
157
27
5
37
53
5
39
5

Sole
proproetorshlps
2
0
4
7
177
5
7
3
3
12
1
0
2
1,251
6
4
2
1
4
1
4
28
6
3
1
2
2
0
1
1
37
1
98
6
1
5
4
4
27
5
0
1
3
18
2
1
7
6
1
5
1

Partnerships

Corporalions'

1
0
1
0
46
3
8
0
5
4
2
0
0
119
2
1
2
1
4
4
4
13
5
1
4
5
0
0
0
0
25
0
19
1
0
17
0
1
45
2
1
0
2
7
2
1
3
0
0
0
0

22
0
26
21
280
55
39
8
22
110
36
16
4
279
41
9
24
9
10
8
33
108
49
75
17
64
2
15
1
3
126
6
144
24
6
72
16
24
122
11
9
2
49
132
23
3
27
47
4
34
4

Total

133
0
112
105
2,530
409
412
37
264
489
256

Sole
proproatorsh,ps

40
605
147
40
682
101
115
1,150
45
44
17
358
1,085
115
32
323
278
17
349
20

2
0
4
7
177
5
7
3
3
12
1
0
2
l.251
6
4
2
1
4
1
4
28
6
3
1
2
2
0
1
1
37
1
98
6
1
5
4
4
27
5
0
1
3
18
2
1
7
6
1
5
1

90
18
3,213
261
80
144
72
162
52
247
970
389
613
88
789
21
108
4
15

664

Partnerships
3
0
5
0
254
56

113
0
25
8
4
0
0
678
5
6
9
3
16
21
72
84
112
2
11
141
0
0
0
0
75
0
52
2
0
226
0
3
169
8
2
0
29
29
7
2
13
0
0
0
0

Officers,
Corporalions'
12£
0
103
98
2,099
348
292
34
236
469
251
90
16
1,284
250
70
133
68
142
30

171

858
271
608
76

646
19
108
3
14
552
39
455
139

39

451
97
108
954
32
42
16
326
1,038
106
29
303
272
16
344
19

New York
4,405
1,320

1,773
469

361
252

2,271
599

18,310
10,491

1,773
469

2.177

2,245

14,292
7,845

5,725
31

2,242
3

613
2

2,870
26

28,801
229

2,242
3

4,422
9

22,137
217

5,756

2,245

615

2,896

29,030

2,245

4,431

22,354

Re~,strants whose pronclpal offices are located In foreign countroes or JUrisdictions not listed
2 Inc udes directors,
officers, trustees and all other persons occuPYInJ Similar status or performing Similar funcllons
3 Allocallons
made on the baSIS of location of pronclpal offices of registrants, not actual locations of persons
• Includes all fonns of organizatIOns other than sole proproetorshlps and partnerships
1

289

SEeD Broker-Dealers
The number of broker-dealers who
are not members of the NASD (SECO
broker-dealers) increased from 302 to
309 in fiscal year 1976. This was the
third consecutive year in which the
number of SECO broker-dealers
increased by a small amount despite an
overall contraction in the size of the
total broker-dealer firm community.
This increase is attributable primarily

to the registration as broker-dealers of
exchange members primarily engaged
in an exchange commission business
and of persons engaged in the distribution of oil and gas or limited partnership interests. On the other hand there
was a decline in the number of firms
selling real estate related securities,
exchange members primarily engaged
in floor activities and put and call
broker-dealers.

Table 5
PRINCIPAL BUSINESS OF SECO BROKER-DEALERS
Fiscal year-end

Exchange member primarily engaged," floor actmnes
Exchange member primarily engaged '" exchange commission business
Broker or dealer," general secunnes business
Mutual fund underwriter and distributor
Broker or dealer seiling variable annumes
Sohcrtor of savmgs and loan accounts
Real estate syndicator and mortgage broker and dealer
Broker or dealer selhng 011and gas Interests
Put and call broker or dealer or Option underwriter
LImited Partnership Interests
Broker or dealer selling secuntres of only one Issuer or associated Issuers (other than mutual funds)
Broker or dealer," mumcrpai bonds
Broker or dealer seiling church securities
Government bond dealer
Broker or dealer," other securities busmess
Broker or dealer," Interests '" condonumums
InactIve
TOTAL
'Not

290

tabulated

on proor years

1973

1974

1975

1976

17
28
66
24
18
9
21
3

20
,

17
20
65
18
18
7
33
6
15

21
19
67
19
15
7
43
4
,7

18
,

19

20

16
3
26

17
7
31
14
13
300

16
8
42
6
8
302

11
28
61
14
10
5
33
12
3
23
21
8
20
2
43
3
22
309

.

7
276

.

. .

Table 6A
APPLICATIONS

AND REGISTRATIONS

OF BROKERS AND DEALERS

Transition Quarter ending September 30, 1976
BROKER-DEALER

APPUCATIONS

ApplicatIons pending at close of preceding quarter
Applicatoons recewed dunng quarter 1976

97
283
380

Total applicatIons for d'SpOSItIOn
O,sposltoon of Applicatoons
Accepted for fIling
Returned
WIthdrawn
Demed
Total applicatoons disposed of

213
60
0
0

ApplicatIons pending as of September 30, 1976

107
BROKER-DEALER

REGISTRATIONS
5,308
213

EffectIVe regrstratmns at close of preceding quarter
RegIstratIons effectove dunng quarter 1976

5,521

Total regIstratIons
RegIstratIons terminated dunng quarter 1976
WIthdrawn
Revoked
Cancelled
Total registrations termmated

108
3
1
112

Total regIstratIons at end of quarter 1976

5,409
INVESTMENT

ADVISER APPLICATIONS

Applicatoons pendIng at close of preceding quarter
ApplicatIons recersed dunng quarter 1976

103
448

Total apphcaticns for drsposmon
DISposItIon of apphcatiens
Accepted for fIling
Returned
WIthdrawn
OeOled
Total applrcations disposed of

551
227
156
3
0

INVESTMENT

ADVISER REGISTRATIONS
3,857
227

Effectove regrstratiens at close of preceding quarter
RegIstratIons effectIVe dunng quarter 1976

Total registratrons at end of quarter 1976

386
165

ApplicatIons pending as of September 30, 1976

Total regrstratrons
RegIstratIons terminated dunng quarter 1976
WIthdrawn
,
Revoked
Cancelled
Total regrstrations terminated

273

4,084
41
0
1
42

---

4,042

291

Table 6B
APPLICATIONS

AND REGISTRATIONS

OF BROKERS AND DEALERS

Fiscal Year 1977
BROKER.OEAL£R APPliCATIONS
ApplicatIOns pending at close of preceding year
Applications recewed during fiscal 1977

107
1,360
----

Total applicatIons for dlsposllton
DISpositIon of ApplicatIons
Accepted for filing
Returned
Withdrawn
Denied
Total apphcations disposed of

1,467

778
163
5
0

946
521

Applications pending as of September 30, 1977
BROKER.OEAL£R REGISTRATIONS
EffectIVe registratiens at close of preceding year
Registrations effectIVe dUllng fiscal 1977

5,409
778
---

Total regrstrations
Registrations terminated dunng fiscal 1977
Withdrawn
Revoked
Cancelled
Total regrstrations terminated

6,187

345
0
86
431

Total registratIons at end of fiscal 1977

5,756
INVESTMENT ADVISER APPUCATIONS

Apphcatlons pending at close of preceding year
Apphcatlons received dunng fiscal 1977

165
1,861

Total apphcanons for drsposrtion
DISpOSItion of apphcations
Accepted for flhng
Returned
WIthdrawn
Demed

2,026

948
641
1
0

Total applrcatrons disposed of

1,590

---436

Apphcatoons pending as of September 30, 1977
INVESTMENT ADVISER REGISTRATIONS
EffectIve regtstratiens at close of preceding year
RegIstrations effective during fiscal 1977
Total regrstrehons
RegIstratIons terminated dunng tiscal 1977
Withdrawn
Revoked
Cancelled
Total registrations terminated
Total regrstratens at end of fiscal 1977

292

4,042

948
---4,990
167
0
22
189
4,801

Table 7A
APPLICATIONS

AND REGISTRATIONS OF MUNICIPAL
DEALERS AND TRANSFER AGENTS

SECURITIES

Transition Quarter ending September 30, 1976
MUNICIPAL SECURmES DEAlERS APPLlCAnONS

o

Applications pendong at close of preceding quarter
Applications received dunng quarter 1976

325

325

Total applications for drsposmon
DISposition of Applications
Accepted for filing
Returned
Withdrawn
Denied

323

o

o
o
323

Total applications disposed of
Applications pending as of September 30, 1976
MUNICIPAL SECURITIES DEAlERS REGISTRAnDNS

314
9

Effective reglstrallons at close of preceding quarter
Reglstrallons effectIVe dunng quarter 1976

323

Total registrations
Registrations termonated dUring quarter 1976
Withdrawn
Cancelled
Suspended

1
0
0

Total registrations termonated

322

Total registrations at end of quarter 1976
TRANSFER AGENTS APPLlCAnONS

2
16

Applications pendong at close of precedong quarter
ApplicatIOns received dUring quarter 1976

18

Total applications for disposrton
OISposlt,on of Applications
Accepted for filing
Returned
Withdrawn
Demed

11

2
0
0
13

Total applications disposed of
Applications pendong as of September 30, 1976
TRANSF£R AGENTS REGISTRAnONS
Effective registrations at close of precedong quarter
Reglslratlons effective durong quarter 1976

783

Total registrations
.
RegistratIOns termonated dUring quarter 1976
Withdrawn
Cancelled
Suspended

794

Total reglstrallons terminated
Total registrations at end of quarter 1976

11

0
0
0

---

0

794

293

Table 78
APPLICATIONS

AND REGISTRATIONS OF MUNICIPAL
DEALERS AND TRANSFER AGENTS

SECURITIES

Fiscal Year 1977
MUNICIPAL SECURITIES DEALERS APPLlCATlDNS
ApplicatIons pendIng at close of preceding year
ApplicatIons receIved dunng fIscal 1977

2

---323D

Total appllcatrons for drsposrtton
DIsposItIon of Appllcatrons
Accepted for "ling
Returned
WIthdrawn
DenIed

10
0
0
0

Total appbcatiens dIsposed of

10

Appllcatrons pendlOg as of September 30, 1977

22

MUNICIPAL SECURITIES DEALERS REGISTRATIONS
Effeetlve regrstrations at close of preceding year
Reglstratrons efleetrve dunng trscal 1977

322
10
--332

Total regrstranons
Reglstratrons terminated dunng hscal 1977
WIthdrawn
Cancelled
Suspended

0

0
0

Total regrstranens terminated

0

Total regIstratIons at end of fIscal 1977

332
TRANSFER AGENTS APPliCATIONS

Applications pending at close of precedmg year
ApplicatIons recewed dunng trscal 1977

5
54

Total apphcatens for dISPOSItIon
DISposItIon of apphcatmns
Accepted for fIling
Returned
WIthdrawn
DenIed

59
43
1
0
0

Total appllcalrons drspnsed of

44

Appllcatrons pendlOg as of September 3D, 1977

15
TRANSFER AGENTS REGISTRATIONS

Effeetlve regtstratrons at close of precedmg year
RegIstratIons eflectlVe dunng hscal 1977
Total regrstranons
RegIStratIons termrnated dunng fIScal 1977
WIthdrawn
Cancelled
Suspended
Total regIStratIons termmated
Total regrstratrons at end of frscal 1977

294

794
43
837

o

o
o

~

837

~i~~~~m~~~~~
i ~~~~H~H£~iH~~:f ~

O1~g~~N(XiM~~:£t'I')-_-N~

~

-- ~-~N_-~~.
- ~

~~ft'l')-N_-

~-('I')-

~~~~!~H~~S~
:1f

('1')-

isr.n

~~!i8!~:~
:::~
N~~~~
:i

~C'I')-

N(,QI.nI.n ......,..........('I')_N

......
~

fg~~~~~~~~~~Si

~i~-;ig:e~-~
.. cn~~
~(,Q ......_NC"'ll.nt'l')ON_01
N..:I.n-ui,.:C'ico-~.nc.D_-.
t'l')t'I')N('I')N_M_

co

~

t

01

:H~~~~~~~::3~:::8

gg

_

V-

ui
~

~;;~8~;;~~9; ~
:~MoO~~:f~g :£
gi!!i~~i~~ ~ ~

E~~~~;!~
g~Nui"""-~~:i ~ "I

COOlDNc.DC"'lCO('l')O

......
NCD

~~~g~~~~~~N~

-

~~c:d'~gf~~-:iy:)~...;~

t'I')

~
~

...

~~;;~~mEl~; ;

;::~""';oO~ui~:!f ~

f!"':~"':N.~~

N

:;l

~

~

~

295

-

O('l')OOOO~1.I'1000~

~

-;J;

~~:!;~O('l')=O'J

-

m 7

~~~~O_~~

~o~ooo~~rer;;o3i

~...;

('1')-

...:

~~~~~~~~

-a)

~

_oooo:tooOOu>OOQ

ocr

....;

~O~OOO~g;;;~0S; ~
Pi""':

cD"';

-:--

~~o~m~~~U)~o~
C"')

OQ.q-U')CD_

-

- 5~~~:!;~~~
-~

oo:f

0

M

g~o~~:;g~~oo~o~
oo:f

~_OOO'llN

::g

,..,.

~~~500~g~~O~
~

--

<Dar)ar)M

296

N

""'OOONOONOO

~

~~
- -;5~3~~~~
-

....;
~

......
Q.

en ....
'en

~...N

...

ONOOOC"l')::e~+OO+

~~~~~or:::~~~o~
tON
_
-

_lJ")

;;

...;

N

;1)

CD

zi

~~~gc;:X;~~
~ 00
..,...,., ..,.,
O!.N-

;;

zi ....

~~;ie~O~~:#~Q~g

~~=~n~~~E ~ ~

;;.

~

N

~

:t ...

~H.~~s;~=~~~~r:)~
~
_.

"":"";t't')-N'-i

....;

...

~

~~~8~~~~~~O~
~ ~~~~~~~~
-'

f77N.rC'i"';

....;

oq-

;;

ro.i-i

,...: N

~
~
~

......

I

~ffir2~~rg~~ ~ ~
g,...:

O~OOOO~H~mo~~ 8
,..;

~u-).-i

-

...

at

:iuiN"

_--4

...i£

~~

~~o~ooo~

~

O~OiOO~~~Og~5
N

~N

~~o~~~~~
0-)"";

...

,...: :::

~

...

~

s ~_~

,....,,~N N

~

~~E~8;~~~!3°~ ~_

...

,...; MN~oON

-

...
N

~~~~aEH:fBa~o~ E!
--

MMrr)::fN'

...:

...
~

297

.--.0010
_
_ N_NN

...

II II I

I I I I 1

1I I I I

tiH8~!~
NNNNN
1 I I Ill:

~8~;;~

t<i~N,.,;t<i

~~Ho~;;;
.,.,..,N.,._

1"'....
-- ""

I I II I

...

II I I I

"""'....
":NN

...

0"';0":.
NNNNN

"':oO"':otiai
__

('I")_MCDN

;;~~~~

,.,

N

N""''''oo
"';p;t'lifWit"i

~~&i~~
t"i"':"':N"p;

I I I I I

I I 1I I

I I I""'"

~!S 1 I I

_4Dr.n

...

~~~~~

I :il!s:;l:g
1'1')-00"

~~~~iD
CDNCD_v

'"

1 II I I

I I 1I I

rJ.u5

I 1 I I 1

3;a~i~
.n.;.;.;tIi

N.., ....'"(&)

r:~~~:!::!:

s
298

NN"":rJt"i

..

ti .............................
2N""";"'c.o
1:......
",..........,..... ...

2N,."
c ......
"

..n1D

~----- 15----~O'G"cncn

.::l

.....;

......
,....
......
000
OON,,
__

c

M

....:

lDG"JI.oC")_

.!

II
.f

_

fll==~:g
OtocnC"')"lIt

,....
e~cncnG'lcn

<.>

~

:=

;;~~~
~~::::-~~r-..('I')OOMr--,.
('I')

l.t')CDU")

I I
1

if:

1 1 1

1 1 1

~
I I....

1 1

O....:~...;N-

"":oOOO-oON

I'"

I I

,....,,"'I:t-~C'O

U")"""c.D'o:t",...."

_NNN(¥)

~
'"
'"
~

8~~('r)~

O"ll:f"CDN""'"
CX)Oc.o,......'Ct

('I')

C'O'"NU''UI')

C7J-rr;N-....:~

1

c,
'"

~
'"
>z:

~~~~~
-co"""''''''

000,"0-N-NN

:38 I

Ln

r--..mC"'1NtD
alMO .....
""'"
COOOc.or--.('I')

0')

0"0

~~~~g

U")('I')C)N"=t
.... OLn'o::tN

('1')_000')0
......O('l')LOC")

I

1

I

I

1

O'I-C'io.no
_NNN('I')

en

~

Z

z:

i=

Z

~

Q

>
a:

=5
c:I

0

&0.1

co

a:
r.L

C
0

i

en

1Il

:E

IV

I-

<.>

NcnU"Joo::t-ClO
i,I')_OO_N
C.OOOOOC(,O

"";MNO"":
OOO"lO"J~:::

o q-,......""'"

I

1

I

1

I

1 1

I I

1

I

I

1

I

I

1

1

I I

I

1

..........

,....",...,.m"'d'C:O
_0'000"'"
U")G)'o:t"'o:t"('I')

___
NN
OOOOa)",,-<.D

<.0

NNNNN

C;;~~~~

oo::tU")('I')CO&O
I.I'HI")(:CQ')1.l')

Q')tDOO.,.M

(;;00-0'8

I~cn~~

1

1'I:t("l')NO
mo,...."co
U)_CO('l')

,....,,~..qU"')

_-or;<.Og
'Q'"U)..q('l')U)
("t')m<J'("t')o
,...."mU"')moo

..q('l')"""'U"')_
oU)~~tD

r-c ec eeec ct

-,""":NN("t')-

Q

1 1 1

c

Q

coco("t')tD
_N_("t')

I I

"""'NtD,...."tD
_00 __
~("t')-'Q'"N

m-("t')-CO
lDU"')("t')("t')..q
m_Noo:t"tD
N("t')-NN-N

<C

N

~~~~;
l.t')
__
oC)

('I') ('I')C)
Lt'),...."

('1')('\"')000"11.1')

~ui

ai":::

N--__
u:~~~~

0

"C

~

('I')--ON

O-U')('I')

_,...."..qU)U)
"""'OU"')"""'lD
_'Q'"tDoo

IS;

N

NCDrruncn

r-:""';""';oe-i
_ NNNN

C"'l";MMC'i

('I')-oo:t("t)~

~~;~~

--NOO('l')
0')(00
..... _

~8~~;::::

1 1 1

1-

q-_voom

LnLt'),.....

("I")

.....

C"")("')lt')-o-C)

OOOC"")"""O'l

_0)('1')
__
('I')_'o:t"O')C"')

1 1

1

Ci

... ..

<DC()(OOO('l')
('I') Ln (0-0
("1')_000')_

~~-~:i~

-'"N"t'I'i

~ ~
co
'"
'0
~ es
Z
~ ::E
'"
i= ~
cr: ~
a:

I

1 1 1

c;;n-"":otiai"::i

~

:::)

I

-~~~

<.>
'"

I-

I

('I')-Q')('"I')

~


Q

1

1"""'-('1')00

~
~


a:

I

s~ai"~:f~

~~::is:i

~
~

::5

-'
&0.1
en

1 1

<C

Q

~~::::g~

-e es es ec ee
"";N-C"iNN

NNNC"/"J-~

Nc.o_N_

NC"U'¥')OHl')

~O::)P.n.q-U")
LnOOr-..('I')

OOq-V<Da.n

0

....iN

---

~~::::~~

C't'itvicYi('l')-~

~

~~~~~

~~~~~

OON"";'"=t"<.O

('I')t"')("H"'~

~Mci~N
NNNN("t')

oo::t"c.o .....c:n

CDvONU")
O')('1')""OOoo;t"

"'- "'....
@_('I')oo;:tN

~~~~~
I<DU:;-~~

;;;3~~
--.-..-.

-U)-U)O
_U"')_U"')U"')

"'''' "'-

~

~
~~~;~
~
~5 -"0

~~
~

0

::E

E

a:

...~

£

Q

~

"0

-g

u

-'

cr:
c::i
Z
cr:
z

!;j
c

~
~
~

..

.0

iO:
-'

cr:
to)

1

~
-c

u;

~

g

is:
Q

I-

en

u

e '""'C.c:~

:c

~~

!

~

e0

.... ""
c:~~

"'~~

e .3~~
~
""
C

..

~="'C

COC

~e ~~~
Oc_

.s

~

~ftI~

0~"'C

niEE

'"

~~!
.. ~~a
~~~

"C
"C
"C

~
~

:g----~t'I')q-U"')c.D

0"""'''''''''''''''''''''''''''''

~mcnmcnm

~

~
s
~
'"
~~~~~~
~~~~~~
~
.0

0

~

c

s E~ ~~~
0

..

"'"

~
~ ~
~
~
"
~
~ ~
~~~~~
~~~~~~ ~~~~~~
~~~~~~ " := ~
" ~ '"
~
+ z:
;;;:
~
'"

~~:e

c

",00

C

------ ..

Q:N("t')'Q'"U"')lD

C:N~q-lnc.o

-,....",....",....",....",...."

<.>

0

:::>

0

0

299

..,
-'" ....
"'....
g~ -:
PHD

j

0

...

~gCD

..,
N

5i!'Si~::i

...

.! 0_

:e
'"
N
..,

... ...

'"

....

!i:
en';

-

"'0
"'0

a;N
N_

....

~

0

.... g,~

:=,.;

~
00

... ...
00

....
00

...

00
N

N

<>

!!
.clD

c
ClOg
~c:_

2-t::.
.s :i ~'b~r;:;

U)

.....
en

(I)~~

'i

~

..

0",

c

~c:;'="""

...I

V;~~

:!l<:l!=>

C

101

~=~
~ ='~~

z
101
a.

CLU::s_

)(

101
Q

en

Z

g~~
<>

en

101
::;)

-

en

101

c

c;;
!!

:8

U ~~
:E z
c
l'lI 101
:Jl
~ Cl'
is
C
Cl' E
z
iii!
c
101
"'0

~~~<>

-~
'"""
i~~~~
~

ClO°(,£)

i~~S

"Dca

= ~gCD

~~58~

~i£~!Sl
'"
g~~~
-; ~ a~

c8c:; ~

<>

~

101

0::

~
...I

.....

g:

;:l;

...

...
00
..,

;;:

00

...
,.;

~

cu

c

QQ.0CD

~c';"'"

c::geoO:::f!:::a

E;n~.!1 e.~
<
(,)0_

<>

N

N

N

~
~

...

00

;g
.,;

:g
0

!ii!
N

..
00

.;

N

;g
.,;
'"

....
.., ....
::::
'"
N

..,

..
....

...

5
..,
'"

::l
N

...
,.;

"'0

'"
::l

..

Ji
:a
'E

j

..

'"

.c

"'0

'"~ "=.;

i

...

° ~ "
P ~
~ :is'"
~

i

a

c

.l!

....
<:>

..,

5.. "5 .!!..
" ~ E
~
'" ..
,;
l;

-:;;

"'0

c

ll! :S

:iil

...

=

~
'"° ~
-°~cnf~~
"'0

<>

1::

.,;

....
~

B-g=-=~
.!;::ICIlIcn
QlIC:lao
cne~C:5

5:;:!~U:

!.-;;:o ~
is

!::'.

~
'"
::l
00

en

..,

......,

'"
~

.;

l'3

5

-

:~;2~
c:::.s-:o~
~-E&
e--au 5i

~~~=.:r

asu
.. i-i~~~
:~~~
:!:!~.. .!!;~£:
S

;!

g

...

i~~=~

.!:;-o:~

'"
~

'"
~

ile

°c

-ellPtIIOtV

.. ii~~.f

...
.;

N

~s~ ~:f
8~!!ftle

- .!ij~~f
.!!"'D---

~ ~
'" N

..,0

...

....
0

'"
~

l8N

...

,.;

N

E~~;E

'"
",1::
_"'muo

'"
'"
N

0

~~~.!!~

.. .. ii~~~
..,
'"

00

E E ~~

~

~tIOC",C

~~S5~
~~~j2

"en
t;

..

~~
5-.!
e~'lS

"g8

~~==
==li~
!'.@-= ~

=u~.5
I;

...

...

N'"

en

•

~

~-g ~ ~ it'

~
0

..

C.
E

,.;

_N

'"
s ....

...

....

00

.!!

"''''
"'
....
..,-

N

N

ii

"'0

.;

00 ....
0 ....

...

::l

51 ~

=~
... ... ~~t5t'

~t'I'i

0

!

~
~ ~

"'0

.... ~
....
'" 0

~;

'"
::i

&! ,;,

=ill

~ ...
.ll
...'" ~'" c
:S
~ ills
~ ~
00

00

N

N

:e
,.;

...

N

~

...

~;
~
...:

~ ~3

.., ....
0

00

'" '"
g:

..,'"

...

;1;

:}

'"
....

.... ..,
~ '"

;;;

s:.~

N

0

::; s
-:

..

.... ..,

'"
'"

... ...
,.;

,.;

'"

N

....

I!!

... ....
l'3

N

~g:

... ...

N

...

m

~
0

....
'"
'" '"

0

101

300

...
N

::::
~ ..,

....00
0_

N

ui

...

00

&Ei~
u-

c

5l

.;

~

rJ..-:

...

'"
;:::

~ ~

>
0::

Cl'

...

.@'tj:iS

Cl'
0::
CI

::;)

oM

<>

"'D

.., ~
'"
,.;

~

,.;

u-

:ic3 ~

Z
CI

:s

N

~
~

~

0

c

_

I
en

c

N

l8

N

N

~B.::g~

...I
Co)

Z

~.!~

!~$;~

r!

U

t=
c
N

<>
c
DOS!: .....

gE~~

c

CI

0

:;

c

en

0::

~

~ ..,... ...

...

~::Io2e~

W

... ...

....
:e
.... '" ~

CL.~rs_

I

....

...

~~it;~:::;

i.:

z
101
>
101

'"
~

'"""

~~

.., ~~

N

::i

<>

Co)

en

0

~~

<>
101

>

..,
'"
.... :e

...'"

00
0

e~ ~ .B
'"
.; ~
... :;

t=cn"B~

>lioii_-=

....

-~cO

:':;~ti8e

51

-e ~58~B~ I

!
c

8~g~811!!

E

~-g~=~

0(.)

8:1.:!

~

~cvoc.s

~Ci~:l5:;;~I1~
'" i~~
8 ~r5o'ii-e~
c: ~
~

....

c;w.JO

.:l

01"

6:1 e8.!!

~~:::Mit
~ =55 ~;:;!~
...
.ll !i
III

......u~

~.:l
.:l

"iiiCtlOlO~

~~2'i

~i';~:
00

-: ~o~

'"

Table 11
MUNICIPAL

SECURITIES RULE MAKING BOARD STATEMENT OF REVENUE
AND EXPENSES AND CHANGES IN FUND BALANCE
October 1, 1976 - September 3D, 1977
(Unaudited)

REVENUE:
Assessment fees
100t,al fees
Annual fees
Interest Income

$1,259,983
50,600
100
27,432

EXPENSES:
Salanes and employee benetrts
Meet,ngs and travel
•
Mailing list, Board manual and other pnntmg and postage
Rent, telephone and other occupancy costs
Professional and other services
Payroll taxes
Deprec,atlon
Interest
other

320,784
207,132
115,459
63,103
25,114
13,840
12,747

5,401
763,580

EXCESS OF REVENUE OVER EXPENSES

574,535

FUNO BALANCE-BEGINNING

509,B78 _.

FUND BALANCE-END

OF PERIOD

OF PERIOD

FINANCIAL INSTITUTIONS
Stock Transactions of Selected Financial Institutions
During 1976, private noninsured
pension funds, open-end investment
companies, life insurance companies,
and property-liability insurance companies purchased $40.6 billion of com-

$1,084,413

mon stock and sold $33.1 billion,
resulting in net purchases of $7.4 billion. In 1975 purchases were $35.6
billion, sales $30.8 billion, and net
purchases $4.8 billion. Their 1976
common stock activity rate was 21.1
percent as compared to 23.2 percent
one year earlier.

301

Table 12
COMMON STOCK TRANSACTIONS AND ACTIVITY RATES OF SELECTED FINANCIAL INSTITUTIONS
(Millions of Dollars)

Pnvate NOnlnsured Pension Funds'
Purchases
Sales
Net purchases (sales)

1969

1970

1971

1972

1973

15,231
10,271
4,960

13,957
9,370
4,587

21,684
12,800
8,884

23,222
15,651
7,571

20,324
14,790
5,534

213

205

22 I

197

173

22,059
19,852
2,207

17,128
15,901
1,227

21,556
21,175
381

20,943
22,552
(1,609)

15,561
17,504
0,943)

ActiVity rate
Open-End Investment Companles2
Purchases
Sales
Net Purchases (sales)
ActiVity rate
Life Insurance Companies'
Purchases
Sales
Net purchases (sales)

141

183

9,085 10,949
9,372 12,144
(287) (1,195)

165
10,633 r
13,279
(2,646) r
324 r

448

390

305

3,703
2,184
1,519

3,768
1,975
1,793

6,232
2,777
3,455

6,912
4,427
2,485

6,492
4,216
2,276

3,930
2,439
1,491

4,920 r
3,630 r
1,290 r

6,158 r
3,924 r
2,234 r

294

278

310

295

259

187

223 r

210 r

3,781
2,879
902

3,613
2,722
891

4,171
1,944
2,227

5,128
2,738
2,390

4,519
2,856
1,663

267

28 I

23 2

23 8

208

44,774
35,186
9,588

38,466
29,968
8,498

53,643
38,696
14,947

56,205
45,368
10,837

46,896
39,366
7,530

324

298

308

278

237

12,428
10,941
1,487

8,927
8,301
626

14,360
12,173
2,187

12,768
9,977
2,791

11,625
10,893
732

358

20,329
13,089
7,240

482

Acllvlty rate
Forel~n Investors"
urchases
Sales
Net purchases (sales)

11,758 17,560
9,346 11,846
2,412 5,714

1976

456

ActiVity rate
Total Selected Institutions
Purchases
Sales
Net purchases (sales)

1975

510

ActiVity rate
Property-liability Insurance Companies
Purchases
Sales
Net purchases (sales)

1974

2,400 2,193
3,223 3,196
(823) (1,003)
21 3

240

3,446
2,836
610
247

27,173 35,622 r 40,566 r
24,380 30,816 r 33,128 r
2,793 4,806 r 7,438 r
19 I

232 r

7,634 15,316
7,094 10,637
540 4,679

21 I r
18,228
15,475
2,753

r=revised
'Includes deferred profit shanng and pension funds of cerperatrons, Unions, multlemployer groups and nonprofit orgamzanens
2Mutual funds reporting to the Investment Company Institute, a group whose assets consntute about ninety percent of the assets of all
open-end Investment companies
'Includes both feneral and separate accounts
4Transacllons a foreign mdividuals and msntunens In demesne common and preferred stocks Acllvlty rates for foreign Investors are not
calculable
NOTE ActiVity rate IS defined as the average of gross purchases and sales divrded by the average market value of holdings
SOURCE Pension funds and property-liability Insurance companies, SEC, investment companies, Investment Company Institute, life
Insurance companies, Amellean Councr! of Life Insurance, foreign mvestnrs, Treasury Department

STOCKHOlDINGS OF INSTITUTIONAL
INVESTORS AND OTHERS
At year-end 1976, the eleven institutional groups listed below held 375.4
billion of total corporate stock outstanding (both common and preferred).
In comparison, they accounted for
$313.4 billion of the stock held a year
earlier. The resulting 19.8 percent increase in the value of the stockholdings of these institutions was significantly less than the 24.9 percent in302

crease in the aggregate market value
of all stock outstanding. Thus, the
share of total stock outstanding that
was held by these institutions declined
to 38.7 percent at year-end 1976 from
41.4 percent a year earlier. During
1976, the share held by other domestic investors, which consist of individuals, brokers-dealers and institutions
not listed, rose to 53.8 percent from
52.8 percent. Also, foreign investors
increased their share of stockholdings
to 6.5 percent from 5.7 percent.

Table 13
MARKET VALUE OF STOCKHOLOINGS OF INSTITUTIONAL

INVESTORS AND OTHERS

(BIllions of Dollars. End of Year)
1969

1970

1971

1972

1973

1974

1975

1976

614
450
63
137
133
46
796
25
73
200
76

67.1
439
62
15.4
13.2
46
786
28
10.1
220
7.8

887
526
6.9
20.6
16.6
5.8
941
35
154
250
90

1152
580
7.4
268
218
74
110.2
45
22.2
285
107

90.5
433
66
259
19.7
66
947
42
202
245
96

630
303
47
219
128
677
37
164
184
67

886
387
53
281
142
59
810
44
243
227
88

109.7
430
5.9
34.5
171
71
961
44
30 1
271
104

261.3
40

271.6
49

3382
58

412.7
65

345.8
6.7

2499
6.5

322.0
86

3854
100

14 Total Instrtutlonallnvestors
15 Foreign Investors'
16 Other DomestIC Investors'

257.3
269
5821

2668
28.7
5639

3324
32.9
6384

339 I
4062
41.3
370
694 7 4813

2434
284
295,5

3134
435
3998

3754
61.4
5086

17 Total Stock Outstanding'

8663

859 4 1003 7 1142 3

5673

756 7

9454

1
2
3
4
5
6
7
8
9
10
11

Prrvate Nonlnsured Pension Funds
Open-End Investment Companies
Other Investment Companies
Life Insurance Companies
Property-Lrabrli~ Insurance Companies'
•
Common Trust unds
Personal Trust Funds ,
Mutual SaVIngs Banks
•
State and Local Rettrement Funds
FoundatIons
Educational Endowments

12 Subtotal
13 Less Institutional

Holdings of Ii;vestinent CompilnY'Shares

..

8574

43

R=Revlsed
'Excludes holdings of Insurance company stock
'Includes estrmate of stock held as direct Investment
'Computed as reSIdual (line 16=17-14-15)
Includes both indiVIduals and Instltuhonal groups not listed above
'Includes both common and preferred stock. Excludes Investment company shares but Includes foreign ISSUesoutstanding In the U S

Number of Registrants
As of September 30, 1977, there
were 1,333 active investment companies registered under the Investment Company Act, with assets having
an aggregate market value of over $77
billion. These figures represent an in-

crease of 22 in the number of registered companies since September 30,
1976. At September 3D, 1977, 4,801
investment advisers were registered
with the Commission, representing an
increase of 759 from a year before.

303

Table 14A
COMPANIES REGISTERED UNDER THE INVESTMENT COMPANY ACT OF 1940
AS OF SEPTEMBER 3D, 1976
Number of RegIstered
Companies
Active

Inactlvea

Total

801
257
58
2
484

32

833

Management closed-end
Small busmess ,"vestment companies
Capital leverage companoes
All other closed-end companoes

179
38
7
134

37

216

Unot ,"vestment trusts
Vanable annurty-seoarate accounts
All other unot ,"vestment trusts

324
58
266

20

344

1,311

92

1,403

Mana"ement open-end ("Mutual Funds")
unds havIng no load
Vanable annuity-separate accounts
~~P~:h~rL~:daf:n~~mpanles

Face-amount

certificates

Approximate
Marllet Value of
Assets of ActIVe
Com~anles
(Mil Ions)

10

companies

Total

a"lnactlVe" refers to registered companoes which as of Sept 30, 1976, were," the process of beIng liquidated or merged, or have filed an
applicatoon pursuant to Section 8(1) of the Act for deregrstraten, or which have otherwise gone out of enstence and remain regIstered only
until such time as the Commission ISsues order under Section 8(1) terrmnatmg their regrstraten
blncludes about $
billion of assets of trusts which ,"vest," secunnes of other ,"vestment companoes, substantially all of them mutual
funds

Table 14B
COMPANIES REGISTERED UNDER THE INVESTMENT COMPANY ACT OF 1940
AS OF SEPTEMBER 3D, 1977
Number of Registered
Companoes
ActIVe

Inactlvea

Total

ApproxImate
Marllet Value of
Assets of Active
Companoes
(Millions)

Man1tement open-end ("Mutual Funds')
unds havIng no load
Vanable annurty-separate accounts
Caprtal Levera~e Companoes
All other load unds

816
274
59
2
481

37

853

55,979
14,244
1,344
28
40,373

Management closed-end
Small busmess Investment companoes
CapItal leverage companoes
All other closed-end companoes

174
40
7
127

41

215

7,644
271
333
7,040

Unit ,"vestment trusts
Vanable annurty-separate accounts
All other unot mvestment trusts

336
63
273

23

359

12,13~
951
11,185

10

1,145

104

1,437

76,904

Face-amount certificates companies
Total

7
1,333

a"lnactlve" refers to registered companoes whIch as of September 30, 1977, were m the process of being hquidated Dr merged, or have
fried an application pursuant to Section 8(1) of the Act for deregrstratien, or whIch have otherwiSe gone out of existence and remain registered
only until such time as the CommISSIon ISsues order under secnen 8(1) termmatmg their regrstrancn
blncludes about $40 billion of assets of trusts which mvest m secuntres of other Investment companies, substantially all of them
mutua I funds

304

Table 15A
COMPANIES REGISTERED UNDER THE INVESTMENT

COMPANY ACT OF 1940

Number of companies
Quarter endln~
September 30, 1 76

913006

Registered
at beginning
of quarter

Re~'S\ered
unng
quarter

1,376

40

Registration
terminated
dunng
quarter
13

Registered
at end of
quarter

Approximate
market value
of assets of
active
companies
(millions)

1,403

Table 158
COMPANIES REGISTERED UNDER THE INVESTMENT

COMPANY ACT OF 1940

Number of companies
Fiscal year
ended June 30

1941
1942
1943
1944
1945
1946
1947
1948
1949
1950
1951
1952
1953
1954
1955
1956
1957
1958
1959
1960
1961
1962
1963
1964
1965
1966
1967
1968
1969
1970
1971
1972
1973
1974
1975
1976
"1977

Registered
at beginning
of year
0
436
407
390
371
366
361
352
359
358
366
368
367
369
384
387
399
432
453
512
570
663
727
727
731
727
775
842
967
1.167
1,328
1.351
1.334
1,361
1,377
1,399
1,403

RegIstered
dUring
year
450
17
14
8
14
13
12
18
12
26
12
13
17
20
37
46
49
42
70
67
118
97
48
52
50
78
108
167
222
187
121
91
91
106
88
63
91

RegistratIon
terminated
durang

year
14
46
31
27
19
18
21
11
13
18
10
14
15
5
34
34
16
21
11
9
25
33
48
48
54
30
41
42
22
26
98
108
64
90
66
86
57

Registered
at end of
year
436
407
390
371
366
361
352
359
358
366
368
367
369
384
387
399
432
453
512
570
663
727
727
731
727
775
842
967
1,167
1,328
1,351
1,334
1,361
1,377
1,399
1,376
1,437

Approximate
market value
of assets of
active
companies
(millions)
$ 2,500
2,400
2,300
2,200
3,250
3,750
3,600
3,825
3,700
4,700
5,600
6,800
7,000
8,700
12,000
14,000
15,000
17,000
20,000
23,500
29,000
27,300
36,000
41,600
44,600
49,800
58,197
69,732
72,465
56,337
78,109
80,816
73,149
62,287
74,192
80,564
76,904

"Fiscal Year Ending September 30, 1977

305

Table 16
NEW INVESTMENT

COMPANY REGISTRATIONS
Quarter endIng
9130n6

FY
1977

Management open-end
No-loads
Vanable annurhes
All others

1

12

27

52

Sub-total

28

64

o

Management closed-end
SBIC's
All others

o

Sub-total

3

o

3

Unit ,"vestment trust
Vanable annuitres
All others

11
10
5

Sub-total

15

Face amount certrneates

o

Total RegIstered

40

=

1

91

Table 17
INVESTMENT

COMPANY REGISTRATIONS

TERMINATED
Quarter end,"g
9J30n6

FY
1977

Management open-end
No-loads
•
Vanable annultoes
All others

0
0
10

3
0
41

Sub-total

10

Management closed-end
S8IC's
All others

0
1

Sub-total
Unit ,"vestment trust
Vanable annumes
All others

1
11
12

-0
2

Sub-total

0
0
0

Face amount certrneates

0

Total Terrntnated

13

306

-44

1

=

57

Private Noninsured Pension Funds:
Assets
The assets of private noninsured
pension funds totaled $160.4 billion at
book value and $173.9 billion at
market value on December 31, 1976.
A year earlier their comparable asset
totals were $145.2 billion and $145.6
billion. The book value of common

stock holdings increased to $93.4
billion at year-end 1976 from $83.7
billion the previous year. Valued at
market, those holdings rose to $108.5
billion, or 62.4 percent of total assets,
at the end of 1976 from $87.7 billion,
or 60.2 percent of total assets, one
year earlier.

Table 18A
ASSETS OF PRIVATE NONINSURED PENSION FUNDS
Book Value, End of Year
(Millions of Dollars)
1969

1970

1971

1972

Cash and DePOSItS
U S Government Securities
Corporate and Other Bonds
Preferred Stock
Common Stock
Own Company
Other Companies
Mortgages
Other Assets

1,619
2,792
27,613
1,757
47,862
3,062
44,800
4,216
4,720

1,804
3,029
29,666
1,736
51,744
3,330
48,414
4,172
4,860

1,641
2,732
29,013
1,767
62,780
3,608
59,172
3,660
4,826

1,857
3,689
28,207
1,481
74,585
3,868
70,717
2,728
4,983

Total Assets

90,579

97,011

106,419

117,530

1973

1974

1975

1976

3gJt
1,258
80,593
4,098
76,495
2,377
5,229

4,286
5,533
35,029
1.129
79,319
4,588
74,731
2,372
6,063

2,962
10,764
37,809
1,188
83,654
5,075
78,579
2,383
6,406

2,199
14,713
39,070
1,250
93,359
NA
NA
2,369
7,454

126,531

133,731

145,166

160,414

2,336

N A Not AvaIlable
NOTE Includes deferred prof,t sharing funds and pension funds of corporanons, umons, mult,employer groups, and nonprofit organuatiens

Table 188
ASSETS OF PRIVATE NON INSURED PENSION FUNDS
Market Value, End of Year
(Millions of Dollars)
1969

1970

1971

Cash and DePOSItS
U S Government Secunhes
Core:rate and Other Bonds
Pre erred Stock
.
Common Stock
Own Company
Other Companies
Mortgages
Other Assets

1,619
2,568
21,262
1,598
59,827
5,775
54,052
3,461
4,295

1,804
2,998
24,919
1,631
65,456
6,038
59,418
3,504
4,422

1,641
1,857
3,700
2,772
26,111
26,232
2,014
1,869
86,636 113,369
7,691
8,750
78,945 104,619
3,184
2,427
4,560
4,908

Total Assets

94,632

104,737

126,921

1972

154,363

1973

1974

1975

2,336
4,474
27,664
985
89,538
6,947
82,591
2,108
5,140

4,286
5,582
30,825
703
62,582
5,230
57,352
2,063
5,681

2,962
2,199
14,918
11,097
34,519
37,858
892
1,212
87,669 108,483
6,958
NA
80,711
NA
2,139
2,160
7,073
6,341

132,247

1ll,724

145,622

1976

173,906

N A Not AvaIlable
NOTE Includes deferred profit sharing funds and pension funds of corporations, Unions, mult,employer groups, and nonprofit ergamzatrens

307

Private Noninsured Pension
Funds: Receipts and
Disbursements
In 1975, the most recent year for
which information on the receipts and
disbursements of private noninsured
pension funds is available, net receipts
were $14.0 billion. Of the $26.6 billion

in total receipts that year, employers
contributed $19.8 billion and employees
$1.6 billion. Investment income (interest, dividends and rent) and net loss on
sale of assets were $6.7 billion and
$1.7 billion, respectively. Ofthe $12.6
billion in total disbursements, beneficiaries received $12.3 billion.

Table 19
RECEIPTS AND DISBURSEMENTS

OF PRIVATE NONINSURED

PENSION FUNDS

(Millions of Dollars)

1969
Total Receipts
Employer ContnbutlOns
Employee Contnbutlons
Investment Income
Net Profit (loss) on Sale of Assets
Other Receipts
Total Disbursements
Benefits Paid Out
Expenses and Other DIsbursements
Net ReceIpts

1970

1971

1972

1973

14,151 13,195 17,545 20,070 19,673
8,487
9,717 11,324 12,745 14,368
1,011
1,074
1,120
1,199
1,273
3,549
3,866
4,102
4,302
4,843
(924)
991 (1,592)
1,723
904
113
130
95
101
113
5,428
6,180
7,263
8,493
9,539
5,290
9,313
6,030
7,083
8,297
138
150
180
196
226
8,723
7,015 10,282 11,577 10,134

1974

1975

21,063
16,971
1,460
5,982
(3,477)
127
11,030
10,740
290
10,033

26,583
19,828
1,604
6,703
(1,659)
107
12,597
12,334
263
13,986

1976'
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0

'Sent$ has been transferred to the Department of labor
NOTE Includes deferred profit shanng and pension funds of corporations, Unions, mult.employer groups and nonprofit organizations

SECURITIES ON EXCHANGES
Exchange Volume
Dollar volume of all securities transactions on registered exchanges totaled
$207.0 billion in 1976. Of this total,
$195.0 billion represented stock trading, $11.7 billion option trading, and
the balance trading in rights and warrants. (Due to Section 22 of the Securities Acts Amendments of 1975, bond
transactions are no longer reported by
the exchanges.) The value of New York
Stock Exchange transactions
was
$164.7 billion in 1976. NYSE share
volume increased 11.7 percent from
the 1975 total. On the American Stock
Exchange, value of shares traded increased 31.5 percent to $7.5 billion.
The AMEX volume of 637.0 million
shares was up 17.8 percent from the
1975 figure. Share volume on regional
exchanges increased 20.1 percent
from the 1975 figure to 749.5 million
shares, valued at $23.0 billion,
308

The Chicago Board Options Exchange
contract volume for 1976 was 21.5
million, up 49 percent from 14.4 million in 1975. The value was $9.0 billion, an increase of 41 percent from
$6.4 billion in 1975. The American
Stock Exchange Option volume was
8.17 million contracts in 1976, an increase of 133 percent from the 3.5
million contracts in 1975. The value of
AMEX options trading in 1976 was
$2.2 billion. Philadelphia Stock Exchange option volume was 1.19 million
in 1976, up 327 percent from 279
thousand in 1975, with a value of $325
million in 1976. Pacific Stock Exchange
contract volume in 1976 was 550 thousand with a value of $161.4 million.
The Midwest Stock Exchange began
listed option trading on December 13,
1976. Their contract volume in 1976
was 15 thousand with a value of $3.2
million.
The Detroit Stock Exchange ceased
operations June 30, 1976.

Table 20

EXCHANGE VOLUME: 1976
(Data on thousands)
Oplions

Total
Dollar
Volume
All Registered Exchanges
Amencan
Boston
Chicago Board OptIons
CInCinnati

Detroit
MIdwest
New York
PacIfic Coast
Philadelphra
Intermountaon
Spokane
Exempted Exchanges-Honolulu

Stocks

Number of
Contracts

Dollar
Volume

RIghts and Warrants

Dollar
Volume

Share
Amount

Dollar
Volume

194,968,674

7,035,662

255,758

89,446

105,596
55
0
0
0
0
133,429
12,148
4,530
0
0

29,172
24
0
0
0
0
53,497
6,032
720
0
0

0

206,958,654

11,734,222

31,428

9,779,193
1,826,681
9,039,849
1,036,382
47,899
9,292,796
164,678,859
7,629,905
3,621,989
657
4,442

2,205,265
0
0
3,199
0
161,374
324,535
0
0

8,171
0
21,501
0
0
15
0
550
1,191
0
0

0
1,036,382
47,899
9,289,597
164,545,430
7,456,384
3,292,925
657
4,442

637,047
55,695
0
31,458
1,671
276,094
5,649,152
274,220
100,380
3,263
6,680

0

0

383

94

383

0
9,039,849

7,468,331
1,826,627

Number
of Units

309

MARKET VALUE OF SECURITIES TRADED ON
ALL U.S. STOCK EXCHANGES
Dollars

811110ns

.-

-I

20 0 -

B-'"~'
&

Warrants

-

,...-

-

Options

,..........-

~
'--

I--

-

~

16 0 -

-

!"--

12 0

-

-

...-.-

80 -

-

-

-,

"
40

-

'-

,

~

.

--

)

--

"

-

:

--

-- -

0_

17

6_

117

73

74

75

1976

o
1966

310

67

68

69

70

71

72

NASDAQ Volume
NASDAQ share volume and price information for over-the-counter trading
has been reported on a daily basis
since November 1, 1971. At the end of
1976, there were 2,627 issues in the
NASDAQ system, an increase of 1.1

percent from 2,598 in 1975. Volume
for 1976 was 1.7 billion share, up 21
percent from 1.4 billion in 1975. This
trading-volume reflects the number of
shares bought and sold by market
makers plus their net inventory
changes.

Table 21A
SHARE VOLUME BY EXCHANGES'
Year
1935
1940
1945
1950
1955
1960
1961
1962
1963
1964
1965
1966
1967
1968
1969
1970
1971
1972
1973
1974
1975
1976

Total Share
volume
(thousands)

NYSE

AMEX

MIDW PCSE PIlLE

681,971
377,897
769,018
893,320
1,321,401
1,428,552
.. 2,121,050
1,699,346
1,874,718
2,118,326
2,663,495
3,306,386
4,641,215
5,406,582
5,133,498
. 4,835,222
6,172,668
6,518,132
5,899,678
. 4,950,833
6,371,545
7,125,201

7313
7544
6587
7632
6885
6908
65.65
7184
73.17
72 81
7010
6954
6448
6200
6317
71 27
7134
7047
7492
7847
8105
8003

12.42
1320
2131
13.54
1919
2246
2584
2026
1889
1942
2259
2289
2845
29 74
2761
1902
1842
1822
1375
10.27
897
935

191
211
177
216
209
222
224
236
233
243
263
257
236
263
284
316
3 52
371
409
439
406
387

In Percentage

269
278
298
311
308
314
345
297
283
265
234
268
246
265
347
368
372
4 13
368
348
310
393

SCSE OTSE CNSE Other'

110 096
1 33 119
106 066
065
097
048
085
089
039
030
080
087
031
083
029
029
093
082
026
086
040
043
087
089
078
1 22 051
163 051
191 043
221
059
219
071
182 086
154 085
141 078

085
082
079
055
039
034
031
036
047
054
053
045
033
031
012
010
015
015
018
019
011
002

003
008
005
009
005
004
004
004
004
003
005
005
002
001
000
002
003
003
004
004
013
044

691
305
551
261
502
141
133
095
110
086
064
051
0.57
095
100
057
044
045
039
044
015
o 17

'Share Volume for Exchanges Includes Stocks, Rlfhts, and Warrants
'Others Include Intermountain, Spokane, Natlona , and Honolulu Stock Exchanges

Table 21B
DOLLAR VOLUME BY EXCHANGES'
Year
1935
1940
1945
1950
1955
1960
1961
1962
1963
1964
1965
1966
1967
1968
1969
1970
1971
1972
1973
1974
1975
1976

In Percentage

Total Oollar
Volume
(thousands)

NYSE

AMEX

MIOW PCSE PIlLE

15,396,139
8,419,772
16,284,552
21,808,284
38,039,107
45,276,616
. 64,032,924
54,823,153
64,403,991
72,415,297
89,498,711
.123,643,475
162,136,387
197,061,776
176,343,146
131,707,946
. 186,375,130
205,956,263
178,863,622
118,828,272
157,555,360
195,224,815

8664
85.17
82.75
8591
86 31
83 86
8248
86 37
8523
83 54
81 82
7981
77 31
7357
7350
7844
79 07
77 77
8207
83 62
8504
84 35

783
768
1081
685
698
935
1071
681
752
846
991
1184
1448
1800
1700
1111
998
1037
606
439
366
388

132
139 088
134
207
1.52 III 191
178 0.96 1 16
200
2 19 103
1 12
235
244
190
1.03 078
195
272
104 060
275
199
103 049
275
200
105 046
239
272
106 042
3 15 248
114 042
344
243
112 042
285
314
110 056
279
1 13 067
308
266
312
1 13 104
339
3 12 143 067
381
376
199 067
400
379
229
058
394
075
429
256
355
454
245
100
489
350
123
202
325
1 18
482
172
476
383
169 094

acss

OTSE CNSE Other'
040
036
035
039
039
034
037
041
051
066
070
057
043
035
012
011
018
o 17
021
022
012
002

004
009
006
011
009
007
007
007
006
006
008
007
003
001
001
003
005
005
006
006
o 17
053

016
009
013
005
008
003
005
004
004
004
003
002
003
008
012
004
003
005
001
001
000
000

'Dollar Volume for Exchanges Includes Stocks, RIghts, and Warrants
'Others Include Intermountain, Spokane, National, and Honolulu Stock Exchanges

311

Special Block Distributions
In 1976, the total number of special
block distributions increased 20 percent. The value of these distributions
decreased 57.1 percent to $613.6 million from $1.4 billion in 1975.
Secondary distributions accounted
for 60.0 percent of the total number
of special block distributions in 1976
and 94.8 percent of the total value of
these distributions.
'
The special offering method was em-

ployed 22 times, accounting for 23.2
percent of the total number of special
block distributions in 1976, but, with
an aggregate value of $18.5 million,
these offerings accounted for only 3.0
percent of the value of all special
block distributions.
The exchange distribution method
was employed 16 times in 1976. The
value of exchange distributions was
$13.6 million, representing an increase of 64.1 percent from the 1975
figure.

Table 22

SPECIAL BLOCK DISTRIBUTIONS

REPORTED BY EXCHANGES

(Value In thousands)
Secondary drstnbutions
Year

1942
1943
1944
1945
1946
1947
1948
1949
1950
1951
1952
1953
1954
1955
1956
1957
1958
1959
1960
1961
1962
1963
1964
1965
1966
1967
1968
1969
1970
1971
1972
1973
1974
1975
1976

312

Number

Shares
sold

116
81
94
115
100
73
95
86
77
88
76
68
84
116
146
99
122
148
92
130
59
100
110
142
126
143
174
142
72
204
229
120
45
51
57

2,397,454
4,270,580
4,097,298
9,457,358
6,481,291
3,961,572
7,302,420
3,737,249
4,280,681
5,193,756
4,223,258
6,906,017
5,738,359
6,756,767
11,696,174
9,324,599
9,508,505
17,330,941
11,439,065
19,910,013
12,143,656
18,937,935
19,462,343
31,153,319
29,045,038
30,783,604
36,110,489
38,224,799
17,830,008
72,801,243
82,365,749
30,825,890
7,512,200
34,149,089
24,089,636

Value
82,840
127,462
135,760
191,961
232,398
124,671
175,991
104,062
88,743
146,459
149,117
108,229
218,490
344,871
520,966
339,062
361,886
822,336
424,688
926,514
658,780
814,984
909,821
1,603,107
1.523,373
1,154,479
1,571,600
1,244,186
504,562
2,007,517
3,216,126
1,151,087
133,838
1,409,933
581,560

Special offerongs

Exchange drstnbutens
Number

57
19
17
33
38
28
20
33
41
72
68
57
52
51
35
32
35
30
26
19
4
14
16

Shares
sold

705,781
258,348
156,481
390,832
619,876
545,038
441,644
1,127,266
2,345,076
2,892,233
2,553,237
2,334,277
3,042,599
3,452,856
2,669,938
1,706,572
2066,590
2,595,104
1,469,666
802,322
82,200
483,846
752,600

Value

24,664
10,211
4,645
15,855
29,454
26,491
11,108
58,072
65,459
107,498
97,711
86,479
118,349
125,404
93,528
52,198
48,218
65,765
30,156
9,140
6,836
8,300
13,623

Number
79
80
87
79
23
24
21
32
20
27
22
17
14
9
8
5
5
3
3
2
2
0
0
0
0
0
1
0
0
0
0
91
33
14
22

Shares
sold
812,390
1,097,338
1053,667
947,231
308,134
314,270
238,879
500,211
150,308
323,013
357,897
380,680
189,772
161,850
131,755
63,408
88,152
33,500
63,663
35,000
48,200
0
0
0
0
0
3,352
0
0
0
0
6,662,lll
1,921,755
1,252,925
1,475,842

Value
22,694
31,054
32,454
29,878
11,002
9,133
5,466
10,956
4,940
10,751
9,931
10,486
6,670
7,223
4,557
1,845
3,286
3,730
5,439
1,504
588
0
0
0
0
0
63
0
0
0
0
79,889
16,805
11,521
18,459

Value and Number of Securities
Listed on Exchanges
The market value of stocks and
bonds listed on U.S. Stock Exchanges
at year-end 1976 was $1,301 billion,
an increase of 25 percent from the previous year-end figure of $1,038 billion.
The total was composed of $899 billion
in stocks and $403 billion in bonds.
The value of listed stocks increased by
25 percent in 1976 and the value of
listed bonds increased 26 percent.
Stocks with primary listing on the New
York Stock Exchange were valued at
$858 billion and represented 96 percent of the common and preferred
stock listed on all U.S. exchanges. The
value of NYSE listed stocks increased

from their 1975 year-end total by $173
billion or 25 percent. Stocks with primary listing on the AMEX accounted
for 4 percent of the total and were
valued at $36 billion. The value of
AMEX stocks increased $7 billion or 23
percent in 1976. Stocks with primary
listing on all other exchanges were
valued at $4.2 billion, a decrease of 1
percent from the 1975 total.
The net number of stocks and bonds
listed on exchanges increased by 15
issues or 0.2 percent in 1976. The only
gains were recorded on the NYSE,
where listing increased by 123 issues,
and on the Philadelphia Stock Exchange, where listings increased by 1
issue.

Table 23
SECURITIES LISTED ON EXCHANGES'
(December 31, 1976)
EXCHANGE

COMMON

PREFERRED

BONDS

TOTALSECURITIES

Number Mar1let Value Number Market Value Number Mar1let Value Number Mar1let Value
(",oIlions)
(Millions)
(MIllions)
(MIllions)
RegisteredAmencan
Boston
CinCinnatI
MIdwest
New Yor1l
PaCIfIC
Philadelphia
Intermountain
Spokane
Exempted:
Honolulu

1,118
81
6
21
1,550
47
29
31
25

89
2
3
7
608
10
94
0
0

366

7

2,926

$867,922

820

New Yor1l
Amencan
PaCIfic
Honolulu

35
73
3
2

$ 20,018
11,213
93
15

1
1
1
0

Total

113

$ 13,339

Total

18

$ 34,226
353
22
284
830,484
1,950
209
26
2
$

s

$

1,834
1
6
83
27,815
144
7ll
0
0
7

185
1
6
1
2,708
18
2
0
0
2

$

NA

1
43
10
402,220
398
7
0
0
$

5

1,392
84
15
29
4,866
75
125
31
25

$402,684

6,672

5
18
"0

170
5
0

5,425
NA
0
0

206
79
4
2

23

175

5,425

291

36,060
355
72
377
1,260,519
2,491
927
26
2
378

27

2,923

$30,601

$

$1,301,207

Includes the followmg
foreIgn stocks-

$

25,448
11,231
93
15
$

36,787

'Excludes secunues whIch were suspended from trading at the end of the year and secunnes whIch because of inactiVIty had no ava liable
quotes
'
"Less than 5 mIllion but greater than zero

313

Table 24
VALUE OF STOCKS USTED ON EXCHANGES
(Dollars In billions)
Dec 31
1936
1937
1938
1939
1940
1941
1942
1943
1944
1945
1946
1947
1948
1949
1950
1951
1952
1953
1954 .
1955
1956
1957
1958
1959
1960
1961
1962
1963
1964
1965
1966
1967
1968
1969
1970 .
1971
1972
1973
1974
1975
1976

Securities on Exchanges
As of September 30, 1976, a total of
?,799 securities, representing 3,382
Issuers, were admitted to trading on
securities exchanges in the United
States. Over 4,800 issues were listed
and registered on the New York Stock
Exchange, accounting for 33.8 percent of the stock issues and 88 percent of the bond issues.
As of September 3D, 1977, a total
of 6,798 securities,
representing
314

New York
Stock
Exchange

Amencan
Stock
Exchange

599
389
475
465
419
358
388
476
555
738
686
683
670
763
938
109 5
120 5
1173
1691
2077
2192
1956
2767
3077
3070
3878
3458
411.3
4743
537 5
4825
6058
6923
6295
6364
741.8
871 5
7210
5111
6851
8583

148
102
108
101
86
74
78
99
112
144
132
121
119
122
139
165
169
15.3
221
271
310
255
31 7
254
242
330
244
261
282
309
279
430
612
477
395
491
556
387
233
293
360

Exclusively
on Other
Exchanges

30
31
33
32
31
28
36
40
38
3 1
43
42
41
53
40
43
43
47
40
39
60
54
48
47
56
41
29
43
42

Tolal
747
491
583
566
505
432
466
575
667
882
818
804
819
91.6
1110
129.2
140 5
1354
194 8
238 8
254 0
2242
3127
3373
3353
4261
3742
4417
5068
5731
5144
6527
759.5
6826
6807
7956
9327
7638
5373
7187
8985

3,283 issuers, were admitted to trading on securities exchanges in the
United States. Over 4,950 issues were
listed and registered on the New York
Stock Exchange, accounting for 27.4
percent of the stock issues and 87 percent of the bond issues.
Data below on "Securities Traded on
Exchanges" involves some duplication
since it includes both solely and dually
listed securities.

Table 25A
SECURITIES TRADED ON EXCHANGES
(September 30, 1976)
Issuers
Registered
Amencan
Boston
ChIcago Board Optmns
ChIcago Board of Trade
Cmcmnatr
Detrort
Honolulu'
Intermeuntarn
MIdwest
New York
Pacrnc Coast
PBS
Spokane

1,255
849
1
3
346
373
35
52
621
1,895
860
940
37

Stocks
Temporamy
exempted Unlisted

1,260
143
1
1
37
65

39
750
2
320
317

50
360
2,160
854
303
35

2
346
181
820
5

Bonds'
Total
1,300
893
1
3
357
382
44
52
707
2,163
1,036
1,123
40

201
16
14

29
2,594
93
63

'Issues exempted under Section 3(a)(l2) of the Act, such as obhganons of U S Government, the states, and crties, are not mcluded
'" this table
'Exempted exchange had 38 listed stocks and 6 admitted to unlisted tradmg

Table 258
SECURITIES TRADED ON EXCHANGES
(September 30, 1971)
Stocks
Issuers

1.172

Amencan
Boston
ChIcago Board Opltons
ChIcago Board of Trade
Cincinnati
DetrOIt
Honolulu'
Intermountam
MIdwest
New York
PaCIfIC Coast
PBS
Spokane

832
1
3
343
1
34
49
614
1,933
835
935
36

Registered Temporarily Untsted
exempted
1,179
147
1
1
42

44
736
2
313
1

48
361
2,217
833
327
34

1
333
174
782
5

Bonds'

Total

1,224
883
1
3
355
1
44
49
695
2,220
1,008
1,109
39

188
16
14

31
2,701
95
67

'Issues exempted under Sectmn 3(a)(l2) of the Act, such as obhganens of U S Government, the states, and crties, are not Included m this
table
'Exempted exchange had 38 listed stocks and 6 adrmtted to unlisted trading

Table 26A
UNDUPLICATED COUNT OF SECURITIES ON EXCHANGES
(September 30, 1976)
Registered exchanges
RegIstered and LIsted
Temporarily exempted from regrstratron
AdmItted to unlisted tradmg prmleges
Exemr,t;~dchanges
AdmItted to unlisted tradmg pnvileges
Total

Stocks
3,871
3
40
23
6
3,943

Total

Bonds

2,835 6,706
2
5
13
53
6
0

Issuers
Involved
3,327
2
31

29
6

16
6

2,856 6,799

3,382

315

Table 26B
UNDUPLICATED

COUNT OF SECURITIES ON EXCHANGES
(September 30. 1917)

RegIstered exchanges
Registered and Listed
Temporarily exempted from registranon
Admitted to unlisted tradong privileges
Exempted exchanges
Listed
Admitted to unlisted trading prlvoleges
Total

1933 ACT REGISTRATIONS
Effective Registration Statements
Filed
During the fiscal year ending September 30, 1977, 2,912 securities
registration statements valued at $93
billion became effective. For the fiscal
transition quarter ending September
30, 1976, 639 registrations valued at
$15 billion became effective. While the
number of effective registrations in
fiscal 1977 rose four percent from
Fiscal 1976, the dollar value increased
six percent. Among these statements,
there were 637 first-time registrants in
fiscal 1977 as compared with 540 in
fiscal 1976 (168 in the fiscal transition quarter).
The number of registration statements filed rose two percent to 3,029
in fiscal 1977 from 2,976 in the previous fiscal year (648 in the fiscal
transition quarter).

Purpose of Registration
Effective registrations for cash sale
for the account of the issuers amounted
to $78 billion in fiscal 1977, increasing from $70 billion in fiscal 1976. With
respect to distribution of these registrations between equity and debt
offerings, equity offerings increased
from $40 billion in fiscal 1976 to $49
billion in fiscal 1977 - a 23 percent
316

Stocks

3,761
4
36
22
6
3.829

Bonds

Total

2,949 6.710
2
6
14
50
4
0

Issuers
Involved

3.227
2
22

26
6

24
8

2.969 6.798

3,283

increase. Debt offerings in comparison,
decreased from $29 billion to $28
billion - a four percent fall.
Among the securities registered for
cash sales in fiscal 1977, nearly all
debt issues were for immediate offerings, whereas 82 percent of the equity
registrations were for extended cash
sale. Registration of extended offerings totaled $40.0 billion with investment companies accounting for $30.9
billion and employee plans $8.1 billion.
Corporate equity registrations
accounted for 25 percent of immediate
cash sale registrations, down 14 percent from fiscal 1976.
Securities registered for the account
of the issuer for other than cash sale
totaled $14.1 billion including $11.9
billion of common stock. The bulk of
these registrations
were common
stock issues relating to exchange
offers, mergers and consolidations.
In fiscal 1977 common stock effectively registered for this purpose totaled
$10 billion, a decrease of 11 percent
from fiscal 1976.
Registrations for the purpose of
secondary offerings (proceeds going to
selling securities holders) typically involve sales of common stock. In fiscal
1977, these registrations amounted to
$1.3 billion, representing a decline of
36 percent from fiscal 1976.

Table 27
EFFECTIVE REGISTRATIONS
(Dollars,"

millions)
Cash Sale for Account of Issuers

Total
F,sca I year ended June 30
Number
1935'
1936
1937
1938
1939
1940
1941
1942
1943
1944
1945
1946
1947
1948
1949
1950
1951
1952
1953
1954
1955
1956
1957
1958
1959
1960
1961
1962
1963
1964
1965
1966
1967
1968
1969
1970
1971
1972
1973
1974
1975
1976
Transrtion Quarter July-September 1976
1977'
CumulatIve Total

284
689
840
412
344
306
313
193
123
221
340
661
493
435
429
487
487
635
593
631
779

906

876
813
1,070
1,426
1,550
1,844
1,157
1,121
1,266
1,523
1,649
2,417
3,645
3,389
2,989
3,712
3,285
2,890
2,780
2,813
639
2,912
56,367

Value
913
4,835
4,851
2,101
2,579
1,787
2,611
2,003
659
1,760
3,225
7,073
6,732
6,405
5,333
5,307
6,459
9500
7,507
9174
10,960
13,096
14,624
16,490
15,657
14,367
19,070
19,547
14,790
16,860
19,437
30,109
34,218
54,076
86,810
59,137
69,562
62,487
59,310
56,924
77,457
87,733
15,010
92,997

$

1,051,542

Common
Bonds
Stock o;~nJ~{:~'
16B
531
802
474
318
210
196
263
137
272
456
1,331
1,150
1,678
1,083
1,786
1,904
3,332
2,808
2,610
3,864
4,544
5,858
5,998
6,387
7,260
9,850
11,521
7,227
10,006
10,638
18,218
15,083
22,092
39,614
28,939
27,455
26,518
26,615
19,811
30,502
37,115
6,767
47,024

490
3,153
2,426
666
1,593
1,112
1,721
1,041
316
732
1,851
3,102
2,937
2,817
2,795
2,127
2,838
3,346
3,093
4,240
3,951
4,123
5,689
6,857
5,265
4,224
6,162
4,512
4,372
4,554
3,710
7,061
12,309
14,036
11,674
18,436
27,637
20,127
14,841
20,997
37,557
29,373
5,066
28,132

$

$

450,415

343,061

Preferred
Stock

Total

2B $ 686
3,936
252
3,635
406
1,349
209
2,020
109
1,433
110
2,081
164
1,465
162
486
32
1,347
343
2,715
407
5,424
991
4,874
787
5,032
537
4,204
326
4,381
468
5,169
427
7,529
851
6,326
424
7,381
531
8,277
462
9,206
539
12,019
472
13,281
427
12,095
443
11,738
253
16,260
243
16,286
253
11,869
270
14,784
224
14,656
307
25,723
444
27,950
558
37,269
1,140
52,039
751
48,198
823
3,360
58,452
3,237
49,882
44,034
2,578
2,274
43,082
2,201
70,260
69,502
3,013
12,246
413
2,425
77,580
34,679

828,161

'For 10 months ended June 30, 1935
'F,scal year ended September 30, 1977

317

SECURITIES

EFFECTIVELY REGISTERED
1935

Dollars Bdllons

-

WITH S.LC.

1977

100

80

BILLIONS

OF OOLLARS

60

40

20

o

NUMBER

30

OF REGISTRATIONS

20

10

o

1935

45

40

50

55
(F

FISCAL

318

YEAR

END

CHANGED

FROM

r s ce

60
l Yeors)

JUNE

TO

SEPTEMBER

65

70

1975 77

Table 28
EFFECTIVE REGISTRATIONS

BY PURPOSE AND TYPE OF SECURITY
FISCAL 1976
(Dollars

In

millions)
Type of secUrity

Purpose of regrstration

All re,~~t~~~~~;t (g:~~~~~~df::~ae~h sale
ImmedIate offering
Corporate
Offered to
General public
seCUrity holders
ForeIgn ~lM!rnments
Extended cas sale and other Issues
For account of Issuer for other than cash sale
Secondary offerings
Cash sale
Other

Total

Bonds,
debentures,
and notes

Preferred
stock

Common
stock

87,726
69,502
40,522
36,949

30,954
29,373
28,969
25,396

3,573
3,013
3,010
3,010

53,200
37,115
8,543
8,543

36,284
664
3,573
28,980
16,136
2,089
973
1,116

25,388
8
3,573
404
1,510
71
30
40

2,965
45
0
4
547
12
0
12

7,932
611
0
28,572
14,079
2,006
943
1,063

TRANSITIONQUARTERJULY-SEPTEMBER1976
(Dollars

In

millions)

Purpose of registraten

Total

All ref"strat,ons (estimated value)
or account of Issuer for cash sale
Immediate offering
Corporate
Offered to
General pubhc
Security holders
Foreign governments
Extended cash sale and other Issues
For account of Issuer for other than cash sale
secondary offerings
Cash sale
Other

Type of secUrity
Bonds,
Preferred
debentures,
stock
and notes

Common
stock

15,010
12,246
6,876
6,152

5,428
5,006
5,050
4,325

474
413
413
413

9,108
6,767
1,414
1,414

6,024
127
725
5,369
2,508
257
88
169

4,325
0
725
16
362
0
0
0

411
2
0
0
58
4
0
4

1,288
125
0
5,354
2,088
253
88
165

FISCAL 1977
(Dollars In mrlhens)

Purpose of regrstration
All ref"strat,ons (estimated value)
or account of rssuer ter cash sale
Immediate offenng
Corporate
Otiered to
General public
seCUrity holders
foreign governments
Extended cash sale and other Issues
For account of Issuer for other than cash sale
secondary offerings
Cash sale
Other

Total

Type of seCUrity
Bonds,
Preferred
debentures,
stock
and notes

Common
stock

92,997
77,580
37,091
32,717

29,248
28,132
27,997
23,623

3,512
2,425
2,416
2,416

60,237
47,024
6,679
6,679

31,895
822
4,375
40,489
14,069
1,347
402
946

23,613
9
4,375
135
1,107
9
0
9

2,320
96
0
9
1,020
67
0
67

5,962

717

0
40,345
11,942
1,272
402
870

319

EFFECTIVE REGISTRATIONS
CASH SALE FOR ACCOUNT OF ISSUERS

00110 .. 801 lions

50

I
I
I
I

40

30

\

,
,,

...

20
Common

Stock

~,~I
,

,,

,

\

~ J

10

I 'I
I 'I
/

'

o
1935

40

45

50

55
(FlScol

1Ju.

FISCAL

YEAR

END CHANGED

60

65

70

75

77

Yeo r s )

FROM JUNE TO SEPTEMBER

DATA FOR TRANSITION
QUARTER
BONDS $S.1 BILLION,
PREFERRED

JULY.SEPTEMBER
1976 NOT SHOWN ON CHART
STOCK $.4 BILLION,
COMMON STOCK $6.8 BILLION

Regulation A Offerings
During the transitional quarter, 54
notifications were filed for proposed
offerings under Regulation A. Issues
between $400,000 and $500,000 in
size predominated.

During fiscal year 1977, 218 notifications were filed for proposed offerings under Regulation A. Issues between $400,000 and $500,000 in size
predominated.

Table 29

OFFERINGS UNDER REGULATION A
Fiscal
1977

Transrtronal
Quarter

Fiscal
1976

Fiscal
1975

17
30
30
24
117

4
5
8
8
29

24
36
27
39
114

28
42
39
24
132

218

54

240

265

52
166

12
42

37
203

44
221

218

54

240

265

205
7
6

48
3
3

222
12
6

227
7
31

218

54

240

265

Size
$100,000
$100,000
200,OOO
300,000
$400,000

f

or
-

less
$200,000
ug0i\oOOO
,0
$500,000

Total
Underwroters
Used
Not Used
Total
OIfelOrs
ISSUIng Companys
Stockholders
Issuers and Stockholders JOintly
Total

ENFORCEMENT
Types of Proceedings
As the table below reflects, the securities laws provide for a wide range
of enforcement actions by the Commission. The most common types of
actions are injunctive proceedings instituted in the Federal district courts
to enjoin continued or threatened se-

curities law violators, and administrative proceedings pertaining to brokerdealer firms and/or individuals associated with such firms which may lead to
various remedial sanctions as required
in the public interest. When an injunction is entered by a court, violation of
the court's decree is a basis for criminal contempt action against the violator.

321

Table 30

TYPES OF PROCEEDINGS
ADMINISTRATIVEPROCEEDINGS
Persons Subject to, Acts
ConstItuting, and BasIs
for, Enforcement Actoon

Sanctoon

Braker-dealer, municipal secuntles
dealer, Investment adviser or
associated perlon
Wlmul .lIlolatlon of securities acts prOVISIon or rule, aodlng or
abetting such vlolatoon, failure reasonably to supervise others, wIIIfull mosstatement or omission In toling WIth the CommissIon, conVlcllon of or rnJunctlOn agaInst certarn crimes or conduct

Censure or limitation on actiVIties, revocatIOn, suspension or denial
of registration, bar Dr suspension from aSSOCiation(1934 Act HI5B
(c) (2)-(4), 15(b) (4)-(6), AdvIsers Act U203(e)-(f)'

ReClstered securrtles association
Organlzatoon or rules not confomllng to statutory requorements

SuspensIon of registration or limitation of actIVities, functions, or
operations (1934 Act, U9(h) (1)

VIolatIOn of or rnabillty to comply With the 1934 Act, rules thereunder, or ItS own rules, unJustlflld failure to enforce compliance
WIth the toregoong or With rules 01 the MUniCipal Secuntres
Rulemakrng Board by a member or person assocIated WIth a member

Suspension Dr revocation of registration, censure or limitatIon of
actwrtres, functions, or operations (1934 Act U9(hl (I»

lIember of rellstered secuntles
association, or associated person
Berng sUblect to CommIssIon order pursuant to 1934 Act, U5(b),
wollful VIOatien of or effectong transaction for other person With
reason to believe that person was vlolatong secunties acts provlsoons, rules thereunder, or rules of MunIcipal SecUritieS Rulemakrng Board

Suspension or expulSIon from the aSSOCIatIon,bar Dr suspension
from assecratien WIth member of aSSOCIation(1934 Act, HI9(h)
(2)-(3»

lIatlOnal secuntles elcbance
Organization or rules not confonmng to statutory requirements

Suspension of regIStratIon or IImotatlon of actIVItIes, functions, or
operations (1934 Act, U9(h) (I)

VIolatIon of or rnabollty to comply WIth 1934 Act, rules thereunder or
ItS own rules, unJustoflld failure to enforce compliance WIth the
foregornc by a member or person associated With a member

SuspensIOn or revocatIon of regIstratIOn censure Dr limitatIon of
actmties, functIOns, or operatoons (1934 Act, U9(hl (I),

lIember of national securities
enhnce,
Dr associated penons
Ile1ng sublect to CommIsSion order pursuant to 1934 Act, il5(b),
Willful VIOatien of or effectrng lransactlon for other person WIth
reason to believe that person was vlolatong securities acts prOVIsIons
or rules thereunder
Rllistered

clearlnc alenc,

VIolatIon of or rnablilty to comply With 1934 Act, rules thereunder,
or ItS own rules, tarlure to enforce compliance wllh ItS own rules
by partIcIpants
Participant
alenc,

Suspensum or expulSIon from exchance, bar Dr suspensIon from
assoclatoon woth member (1934 Act, HI9(hl (2)-(3»

In

rallsterad

SuspensIon Dr revocation of registration censure Dr limItatIon of
actIVItieS, functions, or operations (1934 Act, U9(h) (I)

clearinl

Being subject to CommISSion order pursuant to 1934 Act, U5(bl
(4), WIllful VIolatIon of or effectrng transactoon for other person With
reason to believe that person was VIolatIng provlsoons of clearing
agency rules

SuspensIOnDrexpulSion from clearing agency(l934Act,

U9(hl (2»

SeCUritieS Information processor
VIolation of Dr rnablilty to comply WIth provlsoons of 1934 Act Dr
rules thereunder

Censure Dr operatIOnal limitatIons,
regtstratien (1934 Act, illA(b) (6»

suspensIon or revocatoon of

Transfer alent
Willful Violation of or rnabollty to comply WIth 1934 Act, HI7
17A, or regulatIons thereunder

or

Censure or hmrtatien of actlVltoes, demal, suspensIon, Dr revocation of registration (1934 Act, U7A(c) (3»

'Statutory references are as follows "1933 Act", the SecUritieS Act of 1933 "1934 Acr' the SecUritieS Exchange Act of 1934
"Investment Company Act", the Investment Company Act of 1940, "AdVIsers Act", the Investment 'AdvIsers Act of 1940 "Holdrnl CompanY
Act", the Public UtIlity HoldIng Company Act of 1935, ''Trust Indenture Acl", the Trust Indenture Act of 1939, and "SiPA", the seeunnes
Investor Protection Act of 1970

322

Table 3O-cont.
TYPES OF PROCEEDINGS
ADMINISTRATIVEPROCEEDINGS
Persons Subject to, Acts
Constituting, and Basts
for, Enforcement Action

Sanctum

Any person
Willful vIolation of secuntres act prosrsmn or rule, aIding or abetting such vrotancn, Willful misstatement In filing With Comrrussmn

Temporary or permanent pretnbrtien from servmg In certain capacities for registered

Investment

company (Investment

Company Act,

~9{b»
Officer or dllector of senregulalory ollanllation.
Willful viotanen of 1934 Act, rules thereunder, or the orgarnzatmn's
'own rules, willful abuse of authonty or unjustified tailure to enforce
compliance

Removal from office or censure (1934 Act, U9(h) (4»

Pnnclpal of broker-dealer
Engaging In business as a broker-dealer after appointment of SIPC
trustee

Bar or suspension from being or being associated With a brokerdealer (SIPC, UO(b»

1933 Act registration statement
Statement matenally Inaccurate or Incomplete

Stop order suspending effecllveness (1933 Act, ~8(d»

Investment company has not attained $100,000 net worth 90 days
after statement became effective

Stop order (Investment Company Act, U4(a»

~n~~~

:me.c~ ~~s1~l~ons 12, 13

Matenal noncompliance WIth such provIsIOns

Order directing compliance (1934 Act, U5(c) (4»)

Socuntles Issue
Noncompliance by Issuer With 1934 Act or rules thereunder

Denial, suspension of effecllve date, suspension or revocation of
regrstration on nallonal secunties exchange (1934 Act, U2{j))

Public Interest requires trading suspension

Summary suspension of over-the-counter or exchange trading (1934
Act, ~12(k»

Registered Inveslment company
Failure to file Investment Company Act registration statement or
requned report, filing matenally Incomplete or misleading statement of report

Revocallon of regrstration (Investment Company Act , ~8(e»

Company has not attained $100,000 net worth 90 days after 1933
Act registration statement became effectIve

Revocation or suspension of regrstration (Investment Company Act,
U4(a»

Attorne" accounlant, Dr other
profeSSional or expert
Lack of reqursite qualifications to represent others, lacking In
character or Integnty, unethical or Improper professronal conduct,
willful VIolation of secunnes laws or rules, or aiding and abetting
such voolallon

Permanent or temporary denial of prmlege to appear or practice
before the Commission (17 C F R ~201 2(e) (I»)

Attorney suspended or disbarred by
court, expert's hcense revoked or
suspended, conViction of a felony
or misdemeanor InvolVing moral turpitude.

Automallc suspension from appearance or practice before the Comnussion (17 C F R ~201 2(e) (2»

Permanent mjuctmn against or finding of secunties vlolallon In
action, fmdlng of secunnes Violation by
CommiSSIon In adminIstrative proceeding

Temporary suspensien from appearance or practice before ComrmsSIOn(17 C F R ~201 2(e) (3»

Commlsslon-mstltuted

Member of Muoiclpal Socunties
Rulemaking Board
WIllful VIolation of secunties laws, rules thereunder, or rules of the
Board

Censure or removal from office 1934 Act, U5B(c) (8»

323

Table 3D-cont.
CIVIL PROCEEDINGSIN FEDERALDISTRICTCOURTS
Persons Subject to, Acts
Oonshtutmg, and BaSIS for,
Enforcement Act

Sanction

Any pellon
EnBag,"g '" or about to engage In acts or practices vlolat,"g securities acts, rules or orders thereunder (,"clud,"g rules of a registered
self-regulatory organization)

Injunction agarnst acts or practices whIch constitute or would
constitute VIolatIons (plus other equitable relief under court's general equIty powers) (1933 Act, Sec 2Q(b), 1934 Act, Sec 2J(d),
1935 Act, Sec 18(1), Investment Company Act, ~42(e), AdVIsers Act,
~209(e), Trust Indenture Act, ~321)

Noncompliance with prevrstons of law, rule, or regulation under
1933, 1934, or Hold,"g Company Acts, order Issued by Comrmssrcn
rules of a regIstered self-regulatory organization, or undertaking
In a regIstratIon statement

Writ of mandamus, Injunllon, or order drrectmg compliance (1933
Act, ~20(c), 1934 Act, ~21(e), Holdrng Company Act, ~18(g»

Secunties InYestor Protection
CorporatIOn
Refusal to cement funds or act lor the protection of customers

Order dtrectmg discharge of obhganons or other appropriate relief
(SIPA, ~7(b»

National securities nchanee or
registered secunties aSSoclatloo
Noncompliance by ItS members and persons associated WIth Its
members WIth the 1934 Act, rules and orders thereunder, or rules
of the exchange or assoclallon

Writ of mandamus, mjunctron, or order duectmg such exchange
or assocratren to enforce compliance (1934 Act, ~2J(e»

Registered cleanog agency
Noncompliance by Its parncipants WIth Its own rules

Writ of mandamus, mjunctren, or order dtrectmg clearing agency to
enforce compliance (1934 Act, ~2J(e»

Issuer subject to reportIng
requirements
FaIlure to flie reports requlfed under H5(d) of 1934 Act

Forfeiture of $100 per day (1934 Act, ~32(b»

Relistered InYesllneot company or
affiliate
Name of company or of security Issued by It deceptive or mrsleading

lnjunction against use of name (Investment Company Act, ~35(d»

Officer, director, member of
advisory board, adYiser, depositor,
or underwriter of loYestment
company
Engage," act or practice censtitutmg breach of frducrary duty
,"volv,"g personal mISconduct

Injunction against actmg m certam capacities for ,"vestment company, and other appropriate relief Investment CompanyAct, ~36(a»

Any person haYing fiduCIary duty
respectlog receipt of compensatIon
from I.vesllnent company
lnjunction (Investment Company Act ~36(a»

Breach of fidUCIary duty

REFERRALTO AITORNEYGENERALFORCRIMINAL PROSECUTION
Persons Subject to Acts
ConstItuting, and baSIS
for Enforcement ActIon

Sanction

WIllful VIolation of secunties acts or rules thereunder or WIllful
rmsstatement m any document required to be fIled by secunues
laws and rules or by self-regulatory ergannatrcn m connection WIth
an apphcatron for membership, partrctpatum or to become assocrated With a member thereof

MaXimum penalties $10,000 nne and 5 years nnpnsonment, an
exchange may be fined up to $500,000, a publlc-utlilly holding
company up to $200,000 (1933 Act, Secs 2Q(b), 24, 1934 Act, Secs
2J(d), 32(a), Hold,"g Company Act, Sees 18(1), 29, 1939 Act, Sec
325, Investment Company Act, Secs 42(e), 49, AdVIsers Act, Secs
209(e), 217)

Any persoo

324

Table 31
INVESTIGATIONS OF POSSIBLE VIOLATIONS OFTHE ACTS AOMINISTERED BYTHE COMMISSION
Pending September 3D, 1976
Opened

1,329
400

Total for Drstnbuhen
Closed
Pending September 30, 1977

1,729
325
1,404

During the fiscal year ending September 30, 1977, 224 formal orders
were issued by the Commission upon

recommendation of the Division of Enforcement.

Table 32
ADMINISTRATIVE

PROCEEDINGS INSTITUTED DURING FISCAL YEAR ENDING
SEPTEMBER 30, 1977
93

Broker Dealer Proceedings
Investment Adviser Proceedings
Stop Order, Reg A Suspension and Other DIsclosure Cases

38
11

Injunctive Actions 1976-1977
During fiscal 1977, 166 suits for injunctions and 21 miscellaneous actions were instituted in the United
States district courts by the Commission, and 26 district court proceedings
were brought against the Commission.
During that year this office handled 7
appellate cases involving petitions for
review of Commission decisions, 3 ap-

peals in reorganization matters and 35
appeals in injunction and miscellaneous cases. SEC participated and filed
6 amicus curiae briefs in 6 cases.
During fiscal 1977, the General
Counsel referred to the Department of
Justice 100 criminal reference reports.
(This figure includes 7 criminal contempt actions.)

Table 33
INJUNCTIVE ACTIONS
Fiscal Year
1968
1969
1970
1971
1972
1973
1974
1975
1976
1977

Cases lnstituted

lmunctrens
Ordered

93

98

94

102
97

111
140

119

114
113

178
148
174
158
166

145
289
453
435
336

Defendants
Enjoined
384

509
448
495
511
654
613
749
722
715

325

Criminal Proceedings
During fiscal 1977, 100 cases were
referred to the Department of Justice
for prosecution. (This figure includes
7 criminal contempt actions.) As a result of these and prior referrals, 68 indictments were returned against 230
defendants during the fiscal year.
There were also 135 convictions in 53
cases. Convictions were affirmed in 15

cases that had been appealed, and appeals were still pending in 6 other criminal cases at the close of the period. Of
19 defendants in 17 criminal contempt
cases handled during the year, 4 defendants were convicted, prosecution
was declined as to 2 defendants, and
9 defendants in 8 cases are still pending. Thirteen cases are pending in a
Suspense Category.

Table 34
CRIMINAL CASES
Number of cases

FIscal year
1968
1969
1970
1971
1972
1973
1974
1975
1976
1977

List of All Foreign Corporations on
the Foreign Restricted List
The complete list of all foreign corporations and other foreign entities on
the Foreign Restricted List on June 30,
1975, is as follows:
Aguacate Consolidated Mines, Incorporated (Costa Rica)
Alan MacTavish, Ltd. (England)
Allegheny Mining and Exploration
Company, Ltd. (Canada)
Allied Fund for Capital Appreciation
(AFCA, SA) (Panama)
Amalgamated Rare Earth Mines,
Ltd. (Canada)
American Industrial Research SA,
also known as Investigacion Industrial Americana, SA (Mexico)
American International Mining (Bahamas)
American Mobile Telephone and
Tape Co., Ltd. (Canada)
Antellnternational Corporation, Ltd.
(Canada)
326

Number of

referred to
JustIce Dept

mdrctments

40
37
35
22
38
49
67
88
116
100

42
64
36
16
28
40

40
53
23
68

Defendants
mdieated
123
213
102
83
67
178
169
199
118
230

ConVlcllons

84
83
55
89
75
83
81
116
97
135

Antoine Silver Mines, Ltd. (Canada)
ASCA Enterprises Limited (Hong
Kong)
Atholl Brose (Exports) Ltd. (England)
Atholl Brose, Ltd. (England)
Atlantic and Pacific Bank and Trust
Co., Ltd. (Bahamas)
Banco de Guadalajara (Mexico)
Bank of Sark (United Kingdom)
Briar Court Mines, Ltd. (Canada)
British Overseas Mutual Fund Corporation Ltd. (Canada)
California & Caracas Mining Corp.,
Ltd. (Canada)
Canterra Development Corporation,
Ltd. (Canada)
Cardwell Oil Corporation, Ltd. (Canada)
Caribbean Empire Company, Ltd.
(British Honduras)
Caye Chapel Club, Ltd. (British Honduras)
Central and Southern Industries
Corp. (Panama)

Cerro Azul Coffee Plantation (Panama)
Cia. Rio Banano, S.A. (Costa Rica)
City Bank A.S. (Denmark)
Claw Lake Holybdenum Mines, Ltd.
(Canada)
Claravella Corporation (Costa Rica)
Compressed Air Corporation, Limited
(Bahamas)
Continental and Southern Industries.
S.A. (Panama)
Credito Mineroy Merca'ntil (Mexico)
Crossroads Corporation, S.A. (Panama)
Darien Exploration Company, S.A.
(Panama)
Derkglen, Ltd. (England)
De Veers Consolidated Mining Corporation, S.A. (Panama)
Doncannon Spirits, Ltd. (Bahamas)
Durman, Ltd., formerly known as
Bankers International Investment
Corporation (Bahamas)
Ethel Copper Mines, Ltd. (Canada)
Euroforeign Banking Corporation,
Ltd. (Panama)
Financiera Comermex (Mexico)
Financiera de Eomento Industrial
(Mexico)
Financiera Metropolitana (Mexico)
Finansbanken a/s (Denmark)
First Liberty Fund, Ltd. (Bahamas)
Global Explorations, Inc. (Panama)
Global Insurance Company, Limited
(British West Indies)
Globus Anlage-Vermittlungsgesellschaft MBH (Germany)
Golden Age Mines, Ltd. (Canada)
Hebilla Mining Corporation (Costa
Rica)
Hemisphere Land Corporation Limited
(Bahamas)
Henry Ost & Son, Ltd. (England)
International Communications Corporation (British West Indies)
International Trade Development of
Costa Rica, S.A.
Ironco Mining & Smelting Company,
Ltd. (Canada)

James G. Allan & Sons (Scotland)
J. P. Morgan & Company, Ltd., of
London, England (not to be confused with J. P. Morgan & Co.,
Incorporated, New York)
Jupiter Explorations, Ltd. (Canada)
Kenilworth Mines, Ltd. (Canada)
Klondike Yukon Mining Company
(Canada)
Kokanee Moly Mines, Ltd (Canada)
Land Sales Corporation (Canada)
Los Dos Hermanos, S.A. (Spain)
Lynbar Mining Corp., Ltd. (Canada)
Mercantile Bank & Trust Company,
Limited
Norart Minerals Limited (Canada)
Normandie Trust Company, S.A.
(Panama)
Northern Survey (Canada)
Northern Trust Company, S.A. (Switzerland)
Northland Minerals, Ltd. (Canada)
Obsco Corporation, Ltd. (Canada)
Pacific Northwest Developments,
Ltd. (Canada)
Panamerican Bank & Trust Company
(Panama)
Paulpic Gold Mines, Ltd. (Canada)
Pyrotex Mining and Exploration Co.,
Ltd. (Canada)
Radio Hill Mines Co., Ltd. (Canada)
Rodney Gold Mines Limited (Canada)
Royal Greyhound and Turf Holdings
Limited (South Africa)
S.A. Valles & Co., Inc. (Phillipines)
San Salvador Savings & Loan Co.,
Ltd. (Bahamas)
Santack Mines Limited (Canada)
Security Capital Fiscal & Guaranty
Corporation, S.A. (Panama)
Silver Stack Mines, Ltd. (Canada)
Societe Anonyme de Refinancement
(Switzerland)
Strathmore Distillery Company, Ltd.
(Scotland)
Strathross Blending Company Limited
(England)
Swiss Caribbean Development & Finance Corporation (Switzerland)

327

Tam O'Shanter, Ltd. (Switzerland)
Timberland (Canada)
Trans-American Investments, Limited
(Canada)
Trihope Resources, Ltd. (Canada)
Trust Company of Jamaica, Ltd.
(West Indies)
United Mining and Milling Corporation (Bahamas)
Unitrust Limited (Ireland)
Vactionland (Canada)
Valores de Inversion, S.A. (Mexico)
Victoria Oriente, Inc. (Panama)
Warden Walker Worldwide Investment Co. (England)
Wee Gee Uranium Mines, Ltd. (Canada)
Western International Explorations,
Ltd. (Bahamas)
Yukon Wolverine Mining Company
(Canada)

PUBLIC UTILITY HOLDING
COMPANIES
Assets
At fiscal year 1977, there were 18
holding companies registered under
the Act. There were 17 registered holding companies within the 14 "active"
registered holding-company systems.
The remaining registered holding company is relatively small, and not included among the "active" systems.
In the 14 active systems, there were
67 electric and/or gas utility subsidiaries, 55 nonutility subsidiaries, and 22
inactive companies, or a total of 161
system companies, including the top
parent and subholding companies.
The following table lists the active systems and their agregate assets.

Table 35

PUBLlC.UTILlTY
Soley
Registered
HoldIOg
Companies
Allegheny Power System, Inc
Ame"can Hectnc Power
Co, Inc
.
Central & Southwest Corp
ColumbIa Gas System,
Inc, The
Consolidated Natural Gas Co
Eastern lltrhties AsSOCiates
General Public Utrhtres Corp
Middle South Utlllt"s, Inc
NatIOnal Fuel Gas Co
New England Electnc System
Northeast Utrhtres
Ohio Ed.son Co
Philadelph.a Elect"c
Power Co
Southern Company, The
Subtotals
Adjustments (a) to take amount
of JOIOtly-owned companies,
Ib) to add net assets of .. ght
JOlnlly-owned companies not
Included above"
Total companies & assets
10 active systems

HOLDING COMPANY SYSTEMS

RegIstered
HoldIOg
OperatIOg
Companies

Electne &lor
Gas Utlilly
Subsrdianes

Non-UlJhty
Subsrdianes
4

1
1
1
1
1
1
1
1

o
o

1

12

10
3

11
3

8
5
4
4
7
1
4
5
1

10
6
1
4
2
2
2
8
0

0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
1
1
0

59

(a)+8
12

67

55

Inactive
Companies

o

Total
Companies

Deprecianen, on
12-31-76'

8

$ 2,062,665,000

28
9

6,879,459,000
2,276,539,000

20
12
8
10
13
4
7
20
2

3,243,759,000
1,946,717,000
286,004,000
3,954,649,000
4,136,235,000
463,604,000
1,713,833,00
2,873,201,000
2,343,924,000

o

1

3
8

58,439,000
8,072,294,000

21

152

1

o

2
1
3

o

o
6

o

$40,311,322,000

(b)+688,231,OOO

0
55

Aggregate System
Assets, Net of

22

161

$40,999,553,000

'Represents the consolidated net assets of each system as reported to the Commlss.on on Form U5S for the year 1976 The figures for
NatIOnal Fuel Co are as of September 30, 1976
"These mne companies are Beechbottom Power Co , Inc, wh.ch IS a currently IOact.ve SubSIdiary that IS equally owned by the Ame"can
Elect"c Power Co , Inc and Allegheny Power System, Inc, OhiO Valley Elect"c Corp and ItS SubSIdiary, Indiana-Kentucky Electnc Corp,
whIch are owned 37 8 percent by Ame"can Electnc Power Co , Inc, 16 5 percent of OhIO Edison Co , 12 5 percent by Allegheny Power System,
Inc, and 33 2 percent by other companies, CardIOal OperatIOg Co , an Indirect subsld.aryequally owned by Ame"can EJect"c Power Co , Inc
and an electnc utIlity company not associated With a registered system, The Arklahoma Corp which IS owned 32 percent by Central & Southwest Corp system, 34 percent by Middle South utihnes. Inc system, and 34 percent by an electnc utility company not associated WIth a
registered system, Yankee AtomiC Hectnc Co , ConneclJcut Yankee AtomIC Power Co , Vermont Yankee Nuclear Power Corp and MalOe
Yankee AtomIC Power Co , wh.ch are statutory u!lllly subsidranes of Northeast Ut.llt.es, New England Electnc System, Eastern Utlllt"s
Assoc.ates and other electnc utrhties not assocrated With a registered system

328

Table 36A
FINANCING OF HOLDING COMPANY SYSTEMS
(TransItIon Quarter)
7-1-76 to 9-30-76
In Million of Dollars'
Bonds
Amencan Electnc Power Co
AppalachIan Power Co
Consolidated Natural Gas Co
Eastern UtIlity AssocIates
General Public UtilItIes Corp
OhIO EdIson
•
Pennsylvania Power Co
MIddle South Utllllles •
Northeast Utllllles
ConnectIcut Yankee AtomiC Power Co
Southern Company, The
Total ••

Debentures

,:~~

c;'o'dn
21

694

07

746
420 0

26
11

597
15.0

03

4138

4100

1579

104 6

63
00

313 1

'ThIS table does not Include short-term "nanclngs. seeunties ISsued and sold by subSldlanes to their parent companies or obligatIons
Incurred by reJ.,stered systems for pollutIon control facIlitIes fInanced through the $lIe of revenue bonds by governmental agencIes
2JJebtseeurmes are computed at pnce to company, preferred stock at offenng Price and common stock at offeflng or subsenptien Price.
3A11common stock ISsued dunngthe translllon quarter IS attributable to dIVIdend reinvestment plans
4Prlvate placement.

329

Table 368
FINANCING OF HOLDING COMPANY SYSTEMS1
(Fiscal 1977)
In Millions of Dollars'
Bonds
Alleghany Power Systems Inc
Monongahela Power Co
West Penn Power Co
Amerocan Electroc Power Co
Indiana & Michigan ElectriC Co
Indiana & Michigan Power Co
Mentucky Power Co
Kingsport Power Co
Michigan Power Co
OhiO Power Co
•
OhiO Electroc Co
Central and South West Corp
Central Power & light Co
Southwestern Electroc Power Co
Consolidated Natural Gas Co
Eastern Utilities AsSOCiates
General Public Utilities Corp
Jersey Centra I Power & light Co
Metropolitan EdISon Co
Middle South Utilities, Inc
Arkansas Power & lIsht Co
Ieuisrana Power & light Co
Middle South Energy, Inc
New England ElectriC System
Granite State Electroc Co
North~~t ~t'i~~~s Power Co
•
Connectocut light & Power Co
Western Massachusetts Electroc Co
OhiO Edison Co
Southern Company, The
Alabama Power Co
Gulf Power Co
Southern Services, Inc
Yankee AtomiC Electroc Co •
Total

Debentures'

Preferred
Stock
$
152
203

Common'
Stock
$
2138

400
7 600
302
12.0
50
• 1204
.72000
1080
744
300
744

55

7 500

107
814

580
344
1357
104
401
•• 72000

7 1380

.7 27 5
7

308

80

500

445
299

• 134 4

400

992
344

500

.7 22 0

60
331

150

100
$1,1499

$4069

$2209

$6265

, The table does not Include securotoes ISsued and sold by subsrdianes to thelf parent holding companies, short-term notes sold to banks,
portfolIO sales by any of the system companies, or secunnes Issued for stock or assets of nonaffiliated companies Transactions of ttus
nature also require authOrization by the CommISSion, except, as prOYlded by Sec 6(b) of the Act, the ISsuance of notes haVing a maturoty of
9 months or less where the aggregate amount does not exceed 5 percent of the prinCipal amount and par value of the other securotles
of the Issuer then outstanding
• Includes notes to banks maturong In more than one year
• Debt securot,es are computed at proce to company, preferred stock at offellng Price, common stock at offering or subscnptren proce
• Common stock Includes shares ISsued by diVidend reinvestment plan.
S Two or more ISsues
• Provate placement
7 At least one ISsue negotiated.
• Statutory utility subSidiary of Northeast Utilities and New England E1ectroc System

CORPORATE REORGANIZATIONS

Commission Participation
In fiscal year 1977, the Commission
entered 9 new Chapter X proceedings
involving companies with aggregate
stated assets of approximately $895
million and aggregate indebtedness of
approximately $878 million. During the
transitional quarter, July 1 to September 30, 1976, the Commission entered
2 new Chapter X proceedings while
330

closing 2 proceedings. Including the
new proceedings, the Commission was
a party in a total of 124 reorganization proceedings during the fiscal year.
The stated assets of the companies
involved in these proceedings totaled
approximately $5.3 billion and their
indebtedness about $4.8 billion. During
the fiscal year 12 proceedings were
closed, leaving 112 in which the Commission was a party at year end.

Table 37
REORGANIZATION PROCEEDINGS UNDER CHAPTER X OF THE BANKRUPTCY ACT
IN WHICH THE COMMISSION PARTICIPATED
Fiscal Year 1977
Oebtor

Distnct Court

Air Industrial Research, Inc 4
Aldersgate Foundation, Inc
Amencan Associated Systems, Inc
Amencan land Corp
Amencan Loan & Finance Co 4

NO
M0
EO
S0
EO

Amencan Mortgage & Investment Co
Amona Lutheran Hospital
Atlanta lnternatranal Raceway, Inc 3
Arlan's Dept Stores, Inc
Bankers Trust'
Bankers Trust Co 2
Beck lndustnes, Inc
Bermec Corp
Beverly Hills Bancorp
Bubble Up Delaware, Inc
BXP Constructrcn Corp
CIPCorp
Calvon Chnstlan Retirement Home, Inc
Carolina Canbbean Corp
Coast Investors, Inc'

Cal
F1a
Ky
Ohio
Va

March 14,
Sept 12,
Oec 24,
Aug 8,
July 31,

1974
1974
1970
1973
1972

May 6,
Oct 3,
Feb 26,
Sept 25,
Aug 30,

1974
1974
1971
1973
1972

n

SC
Am
NO Ga
SONY
SO Ind

Dec 13,
May 11,
Jan 18,
March 8,
Oct 7,

1974
1970
1971
1974
1966

Feb 6,
May 25,
Feb 3,
March 8,
Nov 1,

1975
1970
1971
1974
1966

SO MISS
SONY
SONY
CO Cal
CO Cal

Oec 16,
May 27,
Apnl 16,
Apnl 11,
Aug 31,

1976
1971
1971
1974
1970

Apnl 5,
JUly 3D,
Apnl 10,
May 14,
Oct 19,

1977
1971
1971
1974
1970

SONY
S 0 OhiO
W 0 Mlch
WON C
W 0 Wash

Jan 15,
May 23,
Aug 8,
Feb 28,
Apnl 1,

1974
1975
1974
1975
1964

June 10,
June 26,
Nov 4,
Apnl 17,
June 10,

1974
1975
1974
1975
1964

o

3

SECNotice ot
Appearance Filed

Petrnon Filed

Coffeyville Loan & Investment'
CombonedMetals Reduction Co
Commonwealth Corp
Commonwealth Fmaneral Corp'
Community Business Services, Inc

o Kans
o Nev
NO Fla
EO Pa
EO Cal

July 17,
Sept 3D,
June 28,
Dec 4,
June 8,

1959
1970
1974
1967
1972

Aug 10,
Sept 7,
July 17,
Dec 13,
Apnl 30,

1959
1972
1974
1967
1973

Contonental Mortgage Investors
Contonental Vendon~Mach,"e Corp
Cosmo Capital Inc
Oavenport Hotel, Inc
Detroit Port Development Corp 2

o Mass
EONY
NO III
EO Wash
EO Mlch

Oct 21,
July 10,
July 22,
Dec 20,
Sept 14,

1976
1963
1963
1972
1976

Oct 21,
AUf 7,
Apn 22,
Jan 26,
Nov 17,

1976
1963
1963
1973
1976

Olverslfled EqUity Corp 2
Diversitred Mountaoneer Corp
O'¥',an Corp 2
E &T teasing. Inc

SO Ind
SOW Va
SONY
SONY
o Md

Jan 24,
Feb 8,
Oct 22,
Oct 5,
Dec 20,

1977
1974
1958
1976
1974

Feb 17,
Apnl 24,
Nov 10,
Oct 5,
June 5,

1977
1974
1958
1976
1975

Educational Computer Systems, Inc
Eichler Corp s
Equ.table Mortgage Investment Corp
Equitable Plan Co s
EqUity Fundong Corp of Amenca

o Am
NO Cal
SO Iowa
SO Cal
CD Cal

Apn126,
Oct 11,
July io.
March 17,
Apnl 5,

1972
1967
1975
1958
1973

Nov 3,
Det 11,
July 10,
March 24,
Apnl9,

1972
1967
1975
1958
1973

Farnngton Manufactunng Co
First Baptist Church, Inc of Margate, Fla
Forst Home Investment Corp of Kansas, Inc
Forst Research Corp
GACCorp 1

ED Va
SOFia
o Kan
SOFia
SOFIa

Dec 22,
Sept 10,
Apnl 24,
March 2,
May 19,

1970
1973
1973
1970
1976

Jan 14,
Oct 1,
Aplil 24,
Apnl 14,
June 14,

1971
1973
1973
1970
1976

GEBCOInvestment Corp 2
Wm Gluckon Co , Ltd
Gro-Plant lndustnes, Inc'
Gulfco Investment Corp
Gulf Union Corp

W 0 Pa
SONY
NO Fla
W 0 Okla
M 0 La

Feb 8,
Feb 22,
Aug 30,
March 22,
Aug 29,

1977
1973
1972
1974
1974

March 24,
March 6,
Sept 13,
March 28,
Nov 5,

1977
1973
1972
1974
1974

Harmony Loan, Inc
HawaII Corp 2
Hawkeye Land, Ltd
R Hoe & Co , Inc
Home-Stake Production Co

ED Ky
o HawaII
SO Iowa
SONY
NO Okla

Jan 31,
March 17,
Dec 19,
July 7,
Sept 20,

1973
1977
1973
1969
1973

Jan 31,
March 17,
Jan 21,
July 14,
Oct 2,

1973
1977
1974
1969
1973

Houston Educational Foundalton, Inc
Human RelatIOns Research Foundat.on'
Impenal-Amencan Resources Fund, Inc
:~l.~~:1 ~~~~~e~~tt~~~~~~ent Trust

S 0 Tex
SO Cal
Colo
NJ
SO Ind

16,
31.
25,
18,
10,

1971
1964
1972
1966
1966

March 2,
Feb 14,
March 6,
Feb 23,
Feb 4,

1971
1964
1972
1966
1966

Interstate Stores, Inc
Investors AsSOCiated,Inc'
Investors FundongCorp of New York
Jade a,l & Gas Co s
J 0 Jewell, Inc

SONY
W 0 Wash
SONY
CO Cal
NO Ga

June 13,
March 3,
Oct 21,
June 28,
Det 20,

1974
1965
1974
1967
1972

June 13,
March 17,
Det 22,
Aug 16,
Nov 7,

1974
1965
1974
1967
1972

Dumont-Airplane

& ManneS

o
o

Feb
Jan
Feb
Feb
Det

See footnotes at end of table

331

Table 37
REORGANIZATION PROCEEDINGS UNDER CHAPTER X OF THE BANKRUPTCY ACT
IN WHICH THE COMMISSION PARTICIPATED-Continued
Fiscal Year 1977
Debtor

Olstnct Court

o

SEC NotIce of
Appearance Filed

Petrtren Flied

King Resources Co
Klrchofer & Arnold'
Lake Winnebago Development Co , Inc
Little Mlssoun Minerals Assn, Inc'
Los Angeles Land & Investments, Ltd

Colo
EON C
W 0 Mo
o NO
HawaII

o

Aug 16,
Nov 9,
OCt 14,
July 18,
OCt 24,

1971
1959
1970
1966
1967

OCt
Nov
OCt
Jan
Nov

19,
12,
26,
29,
28,

1971
1959
1970
1968
1967

LOUISianaLoan & Thnft, Inc
Lusk Corp
Lyntex Corp
Dolly Madison Industnes, Inc
Magnolia Funds, Inc •

EO La
ArIZ
SONY
EO Pa
EO La

OCt 8,
OCt 28,
Apnl 15,
June 23,
Nov 18,

1968
1965
1974
1970
1968

OCt 8,
Nov 15,
Jan. 28,
July 6,
May 26,

1968
1965
1974
1970
1969

Manufacturer's Credit Corp 5
Maryvale Community HospItal'
Mid-City sannst Church
Morehead City ShipbUilding'
Mount Everest Corp 5

o
o

Aug I,
Aug 1,
July 30,
Nov. 9,
May 29,

1967
1963
1968
1959
1974

NatIOnal Telephone Co , Inc
Nevada Industnal Guaranty Co
North Amencan Acceptance Corp
North Western Mortgage Investors Corp
ome~A1Pha, Inc
Pan enean financial Corp

Conn
Nev
NO Ga
W 0 Wash
NO Tex
HawaII

o
o
o

July 10,
May 7,
March 5,
Dec 12,
Jan 10,
OCt 2,

Pan.vlew Gem, Inc
~~~:~r~~;~~~~e
& Loan Corp 2,'

W 0 Mo
M0 NC
M 0 Pa
NO Tex
Utah

Dec
Apnl
Aug
Sept
Jan

Reliance Industnes, Inc 1
Riker Delaware Corp 5
Royal Inns of Amenca, Inc
Scranton Co~ 5
Sequoyah In ustnes, Inc •

HawaII
NJ
SO Cal
M 0 Pa
W 0 Okla

May' 24, 1976
Apnl 21, 1967
;n124,1975
pnl3, 1959
Jan 21, 1974

Aug
May
June
Apnl
Jan

Edward N Siegler & Co 5
Siena Trading Corp 5
Sound Mortga!e Co , Inc 5
Southern Lan Title Corp
Stanndco Developers, Inc

NO OhiO
Colo.
W 0 Wash
EO La
WON Y

May 23,
July 7,
July 27,
Dec 7,
Feb 5,

1966
1970
1965
1966
1974

June 7,
July 22,
Aug 31,
Dec 31,
March 7,

1966
1970
1965
1966
1974

SlIrling Homex Corp
Sunset Internallonal Petroleum Corp 5
TMT Trailer Ferry, Inc 5
Texas Independent Coffee Organization'
Tllco, Inc

WONY
NO Tex
SOFia
S 0 Tex
Kans

July 11,
May 27,
June 27,
Jan 5,
Feb 7,

1972
1970
1957
1965
1973

July
June
Nov
Jan
Feb

24,
10,
22,
13,
22,

1972
1970
1957
1965
1973

Tower CradIt Corp 5
Traders Compress Co
Trans-East Air Inc'
Trans-International Computer Investment
Trustors' Corp 5

M 0 Fla
W 0 Okla
Me
NO Cal
CO Cal

o

Apnl
May
Aug
March
Sept

13,
12,
29,
22,
13,

1966
1972
1972
1971
1961

Sept 6,
June 6,
Feb 22,
July 26,
OCt 9,

1966
1972
1973
1971
1961

"U" Olstnct BUilding Corp
US Frnanctal, Inc
Vlatron Computer Systems Corp
Virgin Island Properties, Inc 5
VinCOCorp 5

W 0 Wash
SO Cal
Mass
VI
EO Mlch

Dec 9,
Sept 23,
Apnl 29,
Oct 22,
March 29,

1974
1975
1971
1971
1963

Dec 9,
Nov 3,
Apnl 29,
Apnl 11,
Apnl9,

1974
1975
1971
1972
1963

Waltham Industnes Corf
Washington Group, Inc
Webb & Knapp, Inc 5
H R WeIssberg Corp 5
Westec Corp •

CO Cal
M 0 N.C
SONY
NO III
S 0 Tex

July 14,
June 20,
Ma~ 7,
Marc 5,
Sept 26,

1971
1977
1965
1968
1966

AU~ 19,
Ju y 25,
May 11,
Apn13,
OCt 4,

1971
1977
1965
1968
1966

Western Growth CapItal Corp.
.
Western National Investment Corp 5
wes2ate-Californla Corp
Won erbowl, Inc
Yale Express System, Inc 5

Anz
Utah
S.O Cal
CO Cal
SONY

Feb 10,
Jan 4,
Feb. 26,
March 10,
May 24,

1967
1968
1974
1967
1965

Ma~ 16,
Marc 11,
March 8,
June 7,
May 28,

1968
1968
1974
1967
1965

RIC lnternatronal Industnes, Inc'
John Rich Enterpnses, Inc 5

o

NJ
ArIZ
EO La
EON C
EO Pa

o
o
o

o

o

o
o

o
o

18,
16,
20,
16,
16,

30,
11,
23,
12,
28,

1968
1963
1968
1959
1974

1975
1963
1974
1973
1975
1972

May 27,
July 2,
March 28,
Dec. 12,
Jan 10,
Jan 9,

1976
1963
1974
1973
1975
1973

1973
1976
1975
1970
1970

Dec 28,
Sept 14,
Aug 20,
Se~t 23,
eb 6,

1973
1976
1975
1970
1970

, CommiSSIOnfiled notices of appearance In transitional 3uarter, July 1 to Sept 30, 1976
COmmISSIonfiled notices of appearance In fiscal year 1 77
, Reorganlzallon proceedings closed dunng tranntrenal Quarter, July 1 to Sept 3D, 1976
• ReorganizatIon PJroceedlnns closed dunng fiscal year 1977
5 Plan has been substantia
y consummated but no final decree has been entered because of pending matters
2

332

July
Sept
OCt
Nov.
June

10, 1976
23, 1967
24, 1975
IS, 1959
30, 1974

SEC OPERATIONS
Net Cost
Total estimated fees collected by the
Commission in fiscal 1977 represented
56 percent of funds appropriated by
the Congress for Commission operations. The Commission is required by
law to collect fees for (1) registration
of securities issued; (2) qualification

of trust indentures; (3) registration of
exchanges; (4) registration of brokers
and dealers who are registered with
the Commission but are not members
of the NASD; and (5) certification of
documents filed with the Commission.
In addition, by fee schedule, the Commission imposes fees for certain filings
and services such as the filing of
annual reports and proxy material.

333

APPROPRIATED
Dollar!>

FUNDS vs FEES COLLECTED

Millions

60

50

40

NET COST OF
COMMISSION
OPERATIONS

30

20

I
-f

I

I

10

1

-1
0
*Estlmated

334

to

~
~
~
.;:

i

;;;~

'"

00

...

to
6

....
....
~

:IE

~

;;~

~~~
OCJ~o

8g

8-'"
.... '" .0
'"
~I~

co

8 8
0

g- o
!(l

'" .0
.0
'" '" '"
.... '"
"'-'"
'"
~
"'....'" ~ ~
'" '" N N N

...
~I~

8
co 8~g
goo
~::f~~~c:i 0
8 ~~
"'!.~~I8.
~~:1f
;:1;"'''' '"
... 1'"
'" '"

8~88~

'"

~:.

~ to
" ~

CJ

)
~
s

;;8

rf~

to

-c~
Z!e

c
co
:Ii

0'"
I--

ii~
A.

~g

8?=

0

fA.

to

....

C'"
CD
M
CD

:E

l'lI

l-

c
co
:IE

o~
zc~!!!
en'"
1&1
...~~
'"

t;

~
~
.... ~
en .... :IE
I&I~

1- ..
1&1"
ell!!!

0'"

:»

...~;
-

CD

t'
c

~ ~
~
~
...!..:l
.;:

i!

335
• U S. GOVERNMENT PRINTING OFFICE. 19780-276-923

