44th Annual Report
of the SEC
for the fiscal year
ended September 30,1978

'"

..'

•

'.

I

SECURITIES AND EXCHANGE COMMISSION
Headquarters Office
500 North Capitol Street
Washington, D.C. 20549

COMMISSIONERS
HAROLD M. WILLIAMS,
PHILIP A. LOOMIS, JR
JOHN R EVANS
IRVING M. POLLACK
ROBERTA S. KARMEL

CHAIRMAN

GEORGE A FITZSIMMONS,

SECRETARY

For sale by the Superintendent of Documents. U S Government Printing Ofhce
Washington. D C 20402
Stock Number 046-000-00120-6

CHAIRMAN'S LETTER OF TRANSMITTAL

The Honorable Walter F. Mondale
President, U. S. Senate
Washington, D.C 20510
The Honorable Thomas P. O'Neill, Jr
Speaker, U.S. House of Representatives
Washington, D.C 20515
Gentlemen:
I am pleased to transmit herewith the Annual Report of the Untted
States Securities and Exchange CommISSIOn for the period October 1,
1977 to September 30, 1978. Reflecting the Comrrussron's continuing
efforts to review and improve ItS internal procedures, this year's Annual
Report has a new, streamlined format, which we hope Will Increase its
utility to the Congress and to others interested In the Commission's

work.
The activmes and accomplishments
set forth in the Annual Report
once again reflect the Commission's long tradition of hard work and
high achievement. As I did last year, I would like to take thrs
opportunity to offer my views of the Commission's progress In
addressing the major Issues facmg the Commission. One theme runs
throughout my review of the Comrrnssron's progress. Each Issue we
address reflects the Cornrrussion's effort to balance judrcrously ItS use
of direct regulatory authority against its reliance on private sector selfregulatory initiatives wherever consistent With investor protection.
Through this process, the Commission has cultivated one of the sources
of ItS fundamental strength and vitality-the
ability to maximize the
Implementation
of the Congressional goals embodied In the federal
securities laws With a minimum of federal intervention.
Development

of a Netionel

Market System

The Secuntres Acts Amendments of 1975 require the Cornrmssion to
tacrlitate the Implementation of a national market system for the
trading of securrtres. The Commission believes that such a system
III

should Ideally be an Industry undertaking, and that the Commission's
role should be to Identify objectives. stimulate Initiatives, assess
progress, and fill whatever vords may occur from time to time In the
process. It was In this SPirit that the Commission In January 1978
released a comprehensive policy statement setting forth SIX Interrelated
initiatives which It believed should be taken to facilitate development
of the system
DUring the past year, substantial progress was made In Implementing
three of the January rrutratrves-i-a consolidated quotation system, a
nationwide network of order-routing facilities, and refinement of the
exrstrng consolidated transaction reporting system Following the end of
the fiscal year, additional progress was made In facilitating the
development of a national market system. In March 1979, the
Commission Issued a status report assessing the progress made dunng
the past year and indicating the Commission's views as to those steps
which next should be taken to continue progress toward a national
market system. The status report discussed developments towards
achrevmg the other three January initiatives and indicated that the
Commission's first Priority IS the achievement of nation-Wide price
protection for public limit orders against execution at inferior prices In
additron, the status report stated that the Cornrrussron would Initiate
rulernakmg proceedings, which It has done, to consider redefinition of
the trading environment for secuntres now traded over-the-counter
when those secuntres become listed on an exchange for the first time
Finally, the Cornrrussion IS actively considering rulernakrng with respect
to qualified secuntres,
Industry and Comrrussron actions related to these areas have a high
pnority, and I remain confident that the baSIC elements of a national
market system Will all be In place before the end of my term as
Chairman In 1982 While much remains to be done In order to attain
that goal, the Cornrrussion IS fully committed to insuring that Congress'
mandate IS Implemented In a fashion which strengthens and Improves
our capital markets. Those markets are the finest in the world, and
nothing In the evolving new system threatens that pre-eminence.
The Problems of Small BUSiness
Small busmess has long been recognized as a Vital part of the
American economy. The 13 rrulhon or so small firms account for 55
percent of all private employment, 48 percent of the nation's bus.ness
output and 43 percent of ItS GNP. Even these rather rrnpressive figures
fall to convey the full Importance of small businesses to the drversrty
and Vitality of our society. lndrvidual efforts to respond to the demands
of a free market provrde our economy With ItS Immense diversrty,
achieved to a great extent through the efforts of small businessmen.
But, In recent years, small busmesses have not tlounshed. The
opportunity cost of capital IS high-c-as IS rnflatron-c-and adverse
attitudes towards risk-taking have worked to exclude small companies
from our capital markets and Impaired their ability to grow. The
inability of small business to accumulate capital and generate the
IV

savings required for innovation has slowed growth, diminished
productivity and contributed to the increasing difficulty In maintaining
the standard of living we have come to expect In the United States
Many of the problems facing small businesses are beyond the scope
of the Commission to address. However, a fundamental objective of the
federal securities laws IS to promote public confidence In the securities
markets, so that Investors will be willing to participate In the process by
which capital IS marshalled from the public and channelled Into
economic growth. This Important interrelationship
between Investor
confidence and capital formation requires that the Commission be
sensitive to the effects of ItS activities on the capital formation process
Thus, the Commission has tried to remain cognizant of the effects of ItS
actions on small businesses
While we must carefully balance our efforts to facilitate venture
capital formation against our primary responsibility to protect Investors,
we have been able to ease the regulatory burden on small business In a
number of areas Although the federal secunties laws are not generally
considered to be a primary contributor to the capital formation
problems of small business, they do have an Impact We therefore
monitor our regulatory actions to ensure that they do not Inadvertently
affect thrs sector of the economy In a negative way Further, we are
taking affirmative steps to rmrurruze the tension which often
accompanies the interaction between small business and the
government.
The Commission has recently amended Rules 144 and 146, and
Regulation A, to liberalize sales of restricted securities and to make
small offerings more viable In addition, we have adopted a new
registration statement, Form S-18, to assist small business capital
formation
This Form will allow a small, unseasoned Issuer to sell up to
$5 million In equrty secuntres without Incurring the full range of
disclosure and reporting burdens Imposed upon other Issuers
Finally, the Commission has created a new Office of Small Business
Policy In the DIVISion of Corporation Finance, to serve as the focal POint
for small business matters Within the Commission As these initiatives
are Implemented, there should be a substantial lessening of the
frustration that has historically accompanied much of the dealings by
small businesses With the Commission
Corporate Accountsbtttty
One of the oldest and most traditional of all our self-regulatory
frameworks is embodied In the relationship between shareholders,
management and the board of directors of a corporation The
effectiveness of thrs framework has been criticized, and some of the
Criticism IS no doubt valid. But, thrs structure IS fundamental to our
society, and I believe It retains a great vitality
The Cornrrussron has been engaged In a continuing review of
mechanisms of corporate accountability
since September 1977 Thrs
review has so far produced amendments to our proxy rules including
disclosure of the background and relationships of nominees for

v

membership on the board of directors and disclosure of board and
cornrruttee structure and composition, new rules regarding disclosure of
management remuneration, and a heightened sensitivity In the
corporate community to the need to reexamine the traditional roles
played by boards of directors, management and shareholders In the
accountability
process. Currently, a staff report IS being prepared
consolidating the knowledge we gained from our hearings on corporate
accountability,
examining the areas appropriate for future exploration,
and analyzing the roles which the publrc and pnvate sectors should play
in the accountability
process. In addition, as a result of the Increased
disclosure requirements for 1979 proxy statements, the Commission
will be able to quantify data regarding composition and structure of
boards of directors and their committees and develop a baseline for
tracking future developments. This should provide all concerned with
corporate accountability
a better understanding of developments and
programs In this vital area.
The Commission IS consrdenng proposing for comment amendments
to the proxy rules which would Improve the effectiveness of the proxy
Solicitation process as a vehicle for communication
between
shareholders and their companies. If adopted, such amendments would
be effective for the 1980 proxy season. One proposal under
consrderatron would require that proxy cards permit shareholders to
vote with respect to mdrvrdual nominees for election to boards of
directors. A second proposal would clarify the time by which
shareholder proposals must be submitted In order to be Included in
corporate proxy materials. And a third proposal would expand the
limited exemption which now exists for the furrushrng of unsolrcited
proxy voting advice.
The Commission's efforts to enhance corporate accountability
are not
Intended as adversary, but rather as furthenng the tradrtionat and Vital
mechanisms of corporate governance and self-regulation.
Our
contrnumg initiatives will hopefully provide disclosures which will
enable and encourage Investors and others to assess how well the
corporate cornrnuruty governs Itself, and may thus help avoid the need
for federal legrslative intervention.
Enforcement
A vigorous and ettective enforcement program IS entreat to the
Comrnissron's ability to carry out ItS responsibility to protect investors.
Our willingness and ability to take prompt enforcement action to
redress violations of the statutes and regulations which we administer
helps to Insure the credibility of the Commission's activtties and
voluntary compliance With the federal securlties laws. The
Cornrnisston's enforcement cases discussed in this year's annual report
reflect the complexity and breadth of the Commission's responsibilities.
The Commission attempts to tailor the relief obtained In ItS
enforcement cases In order to protect the investing public, remedy the
results of past Violative conduct, and assure that circumstances which
may have facilitated violations of the federal securities laws do not
VI

recur Such an approach requires that the Commission have and
exercise a degree of flexibility-not
only to respond to traditional areas
of concern to the Congress and the Commission but to assure that the
Commission IS capable of meeting new challenges. A good example of
this approach IS the Commission's ability to obtain other equitable
relief In appropriate injunctive cases. Such additional relief, including
the appointment of special review persons to conduct further
mvestigatrons Into factual allegations made by the Commission and to
make a comprehensive report of their findings, helps to place the cost
and responsibility of remedying the harm caused to the investing publrc
by Violations of the federal secuntres laws upon those who are
responsible for the Violations. In this manner, the Commission's
enforcement staff may devote its energies to other problem areas In the
knowledge that the public will be protected, and that the full facts
surrounding vrolatrons will be made known This approach has enabled
the Commission to rnaxrrruze the effective use of Its limited staff
resources
Nevertheless, our resources are Inadequate to police all secunties law
Violations which may take place. As a result, our enforcement actrvrtres
are designed not only to address specifrc wrongdoings, but also to alert
the private sector as to the kinds of actrvitres which we believe Violate
the secuntres laws.
Private actions, brought by aggrieved mdrvrduals to protect their own
rights, supplement the Commission's own enforcement program, and
Significantly Increase the likelihood that securities law Violations will be
challenged and corrected Increasingly, however, the ability of private
parties to enforce provrsions of the federal secunt.es laws has been
challenged In the courts. * To the extent courts determine that the
federal secunties laws do not Imply private rights of action, the ability
of aggrieved mdivrduals to seek redress for personal wrongs will thereby
be curtailed. The resulting burden on the Cornrrussron would seriously
Impair ItS ability to enforce the federal secuntres laws
Disclosure

Developments

Assuring the disclosure of corporate information necessary to enable
Investors to make an intelligent Investment decision IS one of the
Commission's primary responsibilities
The Securttres Act of 1933
generally requires that before securrtres may be offered to the public a
registration statement must be filed With the Commission, and a
prospectus containing the most Significant intorrnatron In the
registration statement must be furnished to Investors. In addition, the
Securities Exchange Act of 1934 contains disclosure provisrons
designed to provide current information on a periodic basis about
companies In whose securrtres there IS a substantial public Interest.
The Commission IS endeavoring to Integrate the various types of
* See, e.g., Touche Ross & Co v. Redington, __
U S __
(June 18,
F.2d __
(9th
1979); Transamenca Mortgage Advtsors, Inc v. LeWIS, __
Crr ), cert. granted __
U.S. __
(1978)
VII

disclosures under both acts to reduce compartmentalized,
duplicative
or Inadequate disclosures and to rrururruze the Cornrnrssron's regulatory
role. To this end, the short registration Form S-16, which Incorporates
by reference all current 1934 Act reports on file that already contain
basic frrrn-ortented
information, has been expanded In a number of
respects. Primary underwritten offerings are now permitted on this
Form by certain high-quality Issuers and their substdranes, as well as
rights offerings and offenngs of secuntres pursuant to dividend and
Interest reinvestment plans As we gain further experience with this
new concept, we Will be exploring ways to broaden the categones of
Issuers and transactions covered by the Form. In addition, the
Commission IS encouraging companies to use information filed with the
Commission as the pnmary means of communication with shareholders
rather than creating alternative documents such as annual reports
which may be less useful to Investors. To this end, we have published a
gurdehne which encourages companies to combine their annual report
on Form 10-K with their annual report to shareholders and we also are
explonng revismg our forms, as discussed below.
The Commission's AdVISOry Committee on Corporate Disclosure,
which reported ItS recommendations to the Commission In 1977,
favored the integration of the 1933 and 1934 Acts Into a continuous
disclosure system. The Commission presently IS Implementing many of
the AdVISOry Committee's other recommendations,
including a revrsion
of the Commission's Form 10-K to make It a more flexrble document,
and the encouragement of corporate disclosure of forward-looking
information, such as projections of earnings. Because of the increasing
importance attached to such "soft" mtorrnatron-c-as
opposed to
Commission
objectively vennabte rustoncal facts, or "hard" data-the
has encouraged companies voluntarily to disclose management
projections and has published staff gurdes for such disclosures
In
addition, we have adopted a "safe harbor" rule designed to afford
protection from liability for reasonably-based projections disclosed In
good faith that subsequently are not met
Our Interest In encouraging the disclosure of other "soft" and "firmspecrfrc" information IS continuing. We are also encouraging the use of
a "management report on operations," as a part of the annual report to
shareholders, to aid users of financial information In interpreting a
company's accounting and financial reports
Oversight of the Accounting

Profession

One of the major areas of current Commission concern IS ItS oversight
of the accounting profession. Where feasible, we Intend to emphasize
self-regulatory initiatives from within the profession.
Our first report to Congress regarding the accounting professton, In
July 1978, reflects ttus approach We did not attempt to tell the
profession how It should go about meeting the objectives of selfregulation. Rather, we set forth with particularity the major objectives
that we believed the profession should meet In order to be effectively
self-regulating
And, while the record IS far from complete concerning
VII I

the effectiveness of the profession's voluntary efforts, we told the
Congress that the profession was making adequate progress In developing
initiatives of its own to achieve self-regulatory objectives Consequently,
we recommended that these private Initiatives be allowed to continue to
evolve.
The Commission, through ItS Chief Accountant's Office, has given
close attention to the protession's self-regulatory efforts over the past
year. In July 1979, the Commission Issued ItS second annual Report to
Congress on the Accounting Profession and the Commission's Oversight
Role, assessing progress made toward the articulated objectives.
The corning years should also see major developments In several
substantive accounting and auditing areas. The Commission, aided by
an AdVISOry Committee on Oil and Gas Accounting, IS In the process of
Implementing ItS September 1978 decrsion to consider a new
accounting prrncipte-s-reserve recognition accounting-for
011 and gas
producers, a task which Will take several years to complete
In addition, the Cornrrussion IS closely tollowmg the work being done
by the Financial Accounting Standards Board In the development of a
conceptual framework for the accounting profession. The result of the
FASB's project should be a set of pnnciples which can serve as a guide
for the profession to work toward as It develops and refines accounting
and disclosure pnnciples and methodologies. It IS a safe prediction
that, dunng the coming decades, the economic, political and
technological changes in thrs country and the world-and
their Impact
on the nature and methods of American business-i-wr!l be enormous.
Accountants and frnancial managers Will need such a conceptual
framework, one that IS suffrcrently tlexible and broad to accommodate
these new developments.
Appropriate accounting for the effects of changing prices IS a
fundamental problem which demands Imaginative and progressive
solutions. In 1976, the Cornrrussron provided an Important Impetus to
this effort m ASR No. 190, which Introduced a limited requirement for
disclosure of the replacement costs for certain assets The Cornrrussron
remains fully committed to insuring that users of nnancral statements
receive adequate information about the Impact of changing prices on
corporate earnings and assets. The FASB has proposed that certain
large publicly-held enterprises provide disclosures regarding certain
effects of price changes on earnings, assets, liabilities, and owner's
equity in periods of nsing prices These disclosures would supplement,
but not replace, historical cost frnancral statements. While the
Commission Will consider amendrng or rescrndrng ItS replacement cost
rule If an acceptable final standard IS adopted by the FASB, the
Cornrrussron would not view positively a delay rn the adoption of that
standard.

Investment

Management

For the past 40 years, the Cornrrussion has regulated Virtually every
aspect of the investment company Industry. There has been little, If
IX

any, self-regulation
The Commission's presence has been formal and
pervasive.
This IS now beginning to change. The Commission IS rethinking the
fundamental assumptions on which our regulatory program In this area
has historically been based, and I expect, over time, dramatic changes
Will be visible In the way we interact With the private sector In
regulating Investment companies.
The Drvrsion of Investment Management IS currently engaged In a
thorough review of the Investment Company Act and all the rules and
administrative
practices thereunder. As a result of this re-evaluation, a
Significant regulatory shifting has already begun. First, we are moving
towards Simpler rules that are easier to understand, less costly to
comply With, and state objectives and policy rather than describe
method. Second, we are encouraging Investment company directorsespecially those who are dismterested -to assume their responstbihtres
to the companies that they serve. As this shift to private sector
responsrbrlrty occurs, we will enhance the Cornrnissron's oversight
capabilities to assure compliance With the new regulatory scheme, and
thereby ensure that there is no dirnurutron In Investor protection
The Drvision has also begun a thorough re-evaluatron of the
Investment Advisers Act and our regulatory program under It to
determine whether they are adequate In light of the Significant growth
of and change In the advisory protession in recent years. As a first step
In this re-evaluation, the Commission has recently acted to Improve the
quality of information regarding Investment advisers which IS available
to the public. To the extent our experience leads us to adopt new rules
affecting Investment advisers, I expect our approach to be Similar to
that taken In the Investment company area. Indeed, the staff has
already begun to consider the possibtlrty of self-regulation for
Investment advisers
I firmly believe that these initiatives, which Will be continued in the
years to come, will return to the private sector the responsrbihty for
managing the Investment company Industry, and Will Improve
Investment advisory regulation as well.
Options
On February 15, 1979, The Commission's Options Study released ItS
report on the efficacy of exrstrng self-regulatory and Commission
oversight of the burgeoning options markets. This Study, which
commenced In 1977 With the announcement of a moratorium on the
expansion of trading In exchange-listed options, extended to all aspects
of standardized options trading and the regulation of such trading.
Followmg the release of the report, the Commission approved a plan
which Will lead to lifting the moratorium
The plan calls for close
cooperation among the self-regulatory organizations and the
Cornrrussron In the Implementation of some 75 specrnc actions
designed to correct the defrcrenctes found by the Options Study in
current surveillance and sales practices.
The Study Identified specrtic problems, and established specrfrc

x

regulatory objectives. But, we hope to rely on the Industry Itself to take
the trutiatives which will lead to a lifting of the moratorium, rather than
ourselves prescribing specifrc corrective action. The response of the
industry to the results of the Study has In general been encouraging,
and I expect the Commission's goals to be met without undue delay.
Market Surveillance
In order to insure that self-regulation IS consistent with our mandate
to protect Investors, It IS Important that we have effective oversight of
what the self-regulatory orgaruzatrons-i-whether
In options or equities-are dorng and how well they are doing It. To this end, the Drvrsion of
Market Regulation has recently strengthened ItS ability to oversee the
performance of the self-regulatory organizations. The Drvrsion has
established a new inspection Unit to oversee the activrtres of these
entitles In carrying out their own surveillance, inspection and
enforcement functions. This unit Will advise the Commission, on a
regular basis, as to the current performance of the self-regulatory
organizations. Further, a consultant has been engaged to advise the
Commission regarding Improvements In ItS surveillance system. Our
goal is not to duplicate the surveillance capabilities of the selfregulatory organizations, but rather to insure that the aggregate
surveillance capacity IS adequate, that there are no gaps and that there
has been an appropriate allocation of surveillance functions among the
self-regulators and the Commission
Implementation

of the Foreign Corrupt Precuces Act

One of the most challenging projects facing the Cornrnrssron IS the
Implementation
of the Foreign Corrupt Practices Act. This Act, Signed
Into law December 19, 1977, requires every public Issuer of securitres
to make and keep accurate books and records and to establish and
maintain a system of Internal accounting control which provides
reasonable assurance that specrfred objectives of reliability are met.
The primary impetus for the enactment of the Act were disclosures In
the mid-1970's
of widespread corporate bribery. The Commission has
already brought several cases alleging Violations of the Act, and
recently adopted rules designed to Implement prcvisrons of the Act
These rules, codified as new Regulation 13B-2, expressly prohibit the
falsification
of corporate books, records, or accounts and prohibit the
offtcers and directors of an Issuer from making false, misleading or
Incomplete statements to any accountant In connection With any audit
or examination of the Issuer's financial statements or the preparation of
required reports. In addition, the Commission has proposed to require a
management statement on Internal accounting controls In the coming
years, the Act Will play an increasingly Significant role In our regulatory
and enforcement programs.
Management

Developments

and Resource Attocetion

FIscal year 1978 was marked by the launching of several Important
management initiatives Intended to make more effrcrent use of limited
XI

Cornrrussron resources and strengthen the Commission's ability to
deliver services to both Investors and regulated entities Major strides
were taken In the area of Information handling, including the
replacement of the agency's computer, the development of important
program tracking systems and the pilot Implementation of a
computerized micrographics system In the area of personnel
management, the Commission offered ItS first formal upward mobility
program, creating new professional and administrative opportunities for
seasoned clerical staff A unrque arrangement with the CIvil Service
Commission has provided the Commission with an unusual opportunity
to begin to develop a performance appraisal system that will aid In
manpower plannrng, career counseling and management development.
The Offtce of Data Processing and the Office of the Comptroller
commenced design of the agency's first comprehensive financial
management reporting and budgetmg system, while the Office of the
Executive Director initiated a major study of all fees collected by the
Commission. In addition, under the guidance of the Office of Consumer
Affairs, a unrform small claims processing procedure was Implemented
by all of the major self-regulatory agencies.
The Commission IS proud It has achieved the reputation of being one
of the most effective federal regulatory agencies with one of the
smallest staffs In government. However, over the past few years, the
Cornrrussron has been given broad new statutory responsibilities-particularly by the Securities Acts Amendments of 1975 and the
Foreign Corrupt Practices Act. Its workload under pre-existing statues
has also Increased dramatically, and major demands on ItS resources
have been made to meet new obligations under statutes such as the
Freedom of Information, Sunshine and Privacy Acts. In addition, the
Cornrnrssron has undertaken a number of special studies and hearings
to Improve ItS regulatory efforts
Yet at the same time as the Commission's workload IS burgeoning,
ItS resources are shrinking. Indeed, under current budgetary proposals,
the Cornrnrssron will have 44 fewer authorized positions In fiscal 1980
than It had In fiscal 1975, before much of the workload explosion took
place As a result, we must constantly reassess our resource capability
In light of current needs, and shift personnel as best we can to try
to staff adequately our Priority programs.
The Comrrussion supports the President's efforts to control inflation
and to contain the federal budget We are therefore prepared to work
within necessary budgetary constraints, and to be even more selective
In allocating scarce resources and In setting priorities than we have
been In the past However, even under current staffing levels, we are
concerned that some of our responsibilities
may not be discharged as
fully or as well as has come to be expected from the Cornrnrssron, and
any further restraints could have a Significant detrimental effect on
both our enforcement and regulatory programs.

*

*

*

These are Important times for the Commission We are developing
and Implementing new concepts In secunties regulation and
XII

enforcement, and we have been pleased and gratified at the
cooperation and support which we have received from the Congress In
our efforts. I look forward to a continued excellent relationship In the
future. Should the Commission be able to assist the Congress In ItS
legislative programs, we stand ready to do so at your request
Sincerely,

Harold M Williams
Chairman

XIII

COMMISSIONERS AND PRINCIPAL STAFF OFFICERS
(As of Apnl 1, 1979)

COMMISSIONERS
HAROLD M. WILLIAMS of Calif, Chairman
PHILIP A. LOOMIS, JR., of Calif.
JOHN R. EVANS of Utah
IRVING M. POLLACK of New York
ROBERTA S. KARMEL of New York

Term expires
June 5

1982
1984
1983

1980
1981

Secretary: GEORGE A FITZSIMMONS
Executive Assistant to the Chairman: DAN I EL L. GOELZER
PRINCIPALSTAFFOFFICERS
BENJAMIN MILK, Executive Director
EDWARD F. GREENE, Director, Drvrsion of Corporation Finance
LEE B SPENCER, Deputy Director"
WILLIAM C. WOOD, Associate Director
MARY E. T. BEACH, Associate Director
MICHAEL J. CONNELL, Associate Director?
STANLEY SPORKIN, Director, Drvisron of Enforcement
WALLACE L. TIMMENY, Deputy Director
IRWIN M. BOROWSKI, Associate Director
THEODORE SONDE, Associate Director
DAVID P. DOHERTY, Associate Director
THEODORE A. LEVINE, Associate Director
ANDREW M. KLEIN, Director, DIVIsion of Market Regulation
SHELDON RAPPAPORT, Deputy Director
LLOYD H. FELLER, Associate Director
DOUGLAS SCARFF, Associate Drrector '
SYDNEY H. MENDELSOHN, Director, DIVIsion of Investment
Management
MARTIN C. LYBECKER, Associate Director
JOEL GOLDBERG, Associate Director
AARON LEVY, Director, DIVIsion of Corporate Regulation
GRANT GUTHRIE, Associate Director
RALPH C. FERRARA, General Counsel
PAUL GONSON, Associate General Counsel
DAVID FERBER, Schetter to the Commission

1

xv

ANDREW L ROTHMAN, Director, Office of Public Affairs
CHILES T A LARSON, Deputy Director
A. CLARENCE SAMPSON, Chief Accountant
STEVEN J. GOLUB, Deputy Chief Accountant?
(VACANT), Director of Economic and Policy Research
ROGER W. SPENCER, Deputy Director
WILLIAM STERN, Acting Director, Office of Opinions and Review
HERBERT V EFRON, Associate Director
R. MOSHE SIMON, Assistant Director
WARREN E BLAIR, Chief Administrative
Law Judge
LAWRENCE H HAYNES, Comptroller
RICHARD J. KANYAN, Service Officer
JAMES C. FOSTER, Director, Office of Personnel
JOSEPH F OLIVO, JR , Director, Office of Reports and Information Services
JOHN D ADKINS, Director, Office of Data Processing
JUSTIN P KLEIN, Director, Office of Consumer Affairs
MATTHEW R SCHNEIDER, Director of Legislative Affairs"

Former Director Richard H Rowe. left the Commission on March 15, 1979
Ttus posrtron was added subsequent to the close of the fiscal year
Former Associate Director, Kathryn B McGrath, left the Commission on December 31,
1979
I
2
3

XVI

REGIONAL AND BRANCH OFFICES

REGIONAL OFFICES AND ADMINISTRATORS
Region 1. New York, New Jersey -William
D. Moran, 26 Federal
Plaza, New York, New York 10007.
Region 2 Massachusetts, Connecticut, Rhode Island, Vermont,
New Hampshire, Malne.-Willis
H. RICCIO, 150 Causeway St.,
Boston, Massachusetts 02114.
Region 3 Tennessee, Virgin Islands, Puerto RICO, North Carolina,
South Carolina, Georgia, Alabama, MISSISSiPPi, Flonda, part
of Loursiana.c-Jule
B. Greene, SUite 788, 1375 Peachtree
St , N. E , Atlanta, Georgia 30309
Region 4. llhnors, Indiana, Iowa, Kansas City (Kansas), Kentucky, Michigan, Minnesota, MISSOUri,Ohro, Wlsconsln.-WIIham D. Goldsberry, Room 1204, Everett McKinley Dirksen
Bldg., 219 S. Dearborn St , Chicago, llhnors 60604.
Region 5. Oklahoma, Arkansas, Texas, part of l.oursrana, Kansas
(except Kansas City) -Michael
J. Stewart, 8th Floor, 411 West
Seventh St., Fort Worth, Texas 76102.
Region 6. North Dakota, South Dakota, Wyoming, Nebraska,
Colorado, New Mexrco, Utah.-Robert
H. Davenport, Two Park
Central, Room 640, 1515 Arapahoe Street, Denver, Colorado
80202.
Region 7 California, Nevada, Arizona. Hawau, Guam -Leonard
H. Rossen, SUite 1710, 10960 Wilshire Bou1evard, Los Angeles, California 90024.
Region 8 Washington, Oregon, Idaho, Montana, Alaska -Jack
H. Bookey, 3040 Federal Building, 915 Second Ave, Seattle,
Washington 98174.
Region 9. Pennsylvania, Maryland, Virginia, West Virginia, Delaware, Drstnct of Columbia.-Paul
F Leonard, Room 300,
Ballston Center Tower No.3, 4015 Wilson Boulevard, Arlington, Virginia 22203.
BRANCH OFFICES
Cleveland,
St.

Ohio 44113

-1020

Standard

Bldg,

1370 Ontano

XVII

Detroit, Michigan 48226.-1044
Federal Bldg.
Houston, Texas 77002.-Room
5615, Federal Office & Courts
Bldg., 515 Rusk Ave.
Miami, Florida 33 13 l.-SUlte 1114 DuPont Plaza Center, 300
Biscayne Boulevard Way.
Philadelphia, Pennsylvania 19106 -Federal Bldg., Room 2204,
600 Arch St.
St. Louis, MIssouri 631Ol.-Room
1452, 210 North Twelfth St.
Salt Lake City, Utah 84111 -Suite 810, Boston Bldg., One
Exchange Place.
San Francisco, California 94102.-450
Golden Gate Ave, Box
36042.

XVIII

COMMISSIONERS

HAROLD M. WILLIAMS, Cnetrmen
Chairman Williams was born on January 5, 1928, In Philadelphia, Pennsylvania. He received his B.A. from UCLA In 1946,
graduating Phi Beta Kappa at the age of 18. Three years later he
was awarded his J.D. degree from Harvard University Law School
He joined a Los Angeles law firm In 1949 where he specialized
In tax and corporation law and remained until 1955 except for
an Interruption to serve as a U.S. Army legal officer during the
Korean emergency. He JOined Hunt Foods and Industries, Inc.,
in 1955 as Associate Tax Counsel. He subsequently became Tax
Counsel, Vice President-Finance
and Executive Vice President
In 1964, he became President of Hunt-Wesson Foods, Inc. In
1968, he was elected President of Hunt Foods and Industries,
Inc., and with the formation of Norton Simon, Inc., later that
year-resulting
from consolidation of Canada Dry Corporation,
Hunt Foods and Industries, Inc., and McCall Corporation-he
was named Chairman of the new company's Finance Committee.
In 1969, he assumed the additional post of Chairman of the
Board of Norton Simon, Inc. In July of 1970, Mr. Williams became Dean and Professor of Management of the UCLA Graduate
School of Management. DUring his adrrurustratron, the School
achieved national ranking, including recognition as the leading
graduate business school In a public university. During the 1973
energy CriSIS, Mr. Williams took leave to serve as full-time Energy
Coordinator for the City of Los Angeles. While at UCLA, Mr. Williams also served as Director of Norton Simon, Inc, Phillips Petroleum Company, ARA Services, Inc., CNA Financial Corporation,
Signal Companies, Inc., and Montgomery Street Income Securities, and as a Trustee of the Aerospace Corporation. In his service to the community, Mr Williams acted as Co-Chairman for the
Public Commission on Los Angeles County Government, a subcommittee chairman of the Mayor's ad hoc Committee on Los
Angeles City Revenues, a member of the State of California ComXIX

mrssion for Economic Development and of the California Citizens
Commission on Tort Reform, and a member of the SEC Advisory
Committee on Corporate Disclosure

PHILIP A. LOOMIS, JR.
Commissioner Loomis was born In Colorado Spnngs Colorado,
on June 11, 1915. He received an A. B. degree, with highest
honors, from Pnnceton University In 1938 and an LL B. degree,
cum laude, from Yale Law School In 1941, where he was a Law
Journal editor Pnor to JOining the staff of the Secuntres and
Exchange Commission, Commissioner Loomis practiced law with
the firm of O'Melveny and Myers In Los Angeles, California. Comrrussroner Loomis JOined the Commission's staff as a consultant
In 1954, and the following year he was appointed Associate DIrector and then Director of the DIVISion of Trading and Exchanges.
In 1963, Commissioner Loomis was appointed General Counsel
to the Cornrnissron and served In that capacity until his appointment as a member of the Commission. Commissioner Loomis IS
a member of the Amencan Bar Association and the Amencan
Law Institute. He received the Career Service Award of the National Civil Service League In 1964, the Securitres and Exchange
Commission Distinguished Service Award In 1966, and the Justice Tom C. Clark Award of the Federal Bar Association In 1971
He took office as a member of the Securrtres and Exchange CommiSSIOn August 13, 1971, and IS now serving for the term of
office exprrmg June 5, 1984

JOHN R. EVANS

Cornrrusstoner Evans was born In Bisbee, Anzona, on June 1,
1932 He received rus B S degree In Economics In 1957, and
hrs M S. degree In Economics In 1959 from the University of
Utah He was a Research ASSistant and later a Research Analyst
at the Bureau of Economics and BUSiness Research at the University of Utah, where he was also an Instructor of Economics
dunng 1962 and 1963. He came to Washington In February
1963, as Economics ASSistant to Senator Wallace F Bennett of
Utah From July 1964 through June 1971 Commissioner Evans
was rrunonty staff director of the U S Senate Committee on
Banking, HOUSing and Urban Affairs and served as a member of
the professronal staff from June 1971 to March 1973. He took
office as a member of the Secunties and Exchange Commission
on March 3, 1973, and IS now serving for the term exprnng June
5, 1983.
IRVING M. POLLACK
Commissioner Pollack was born In Brooklyn, New York, on Apnl
8, 1918 He received a B.A degree, cum laude, from Brooklyn
College In 1938 and an LL. B. degree, magna cum laude, from
Brooklyn Law School In 1942 Pnor to JOining the Commission's

xx

staff he engaged In the practice of law In New York City after
serving nearly four years In the United States Army, where he
gained the rank of Captain. Mr. Pollack JOined the staff of the
Commission's General Counsel in October 1946. He was promoted from time to time to progressively more responsible positions In that office and In 1956 became an Assistant General
Counsel. A career employee, Mr. Pollack became Director of the
Division of Enforcement In August 1972 when the SEC'sdlvlslons
were reorganized. He had been Director of the DIVISion of Tradmg
and Markets since August 1965, and previously served as Associate Director since October 1961. In 1967 Mr Pollack was
awarded the SEC Drstmguished Service Award for Outstanding
Career Service, and In 1968 he was a co-reciprent of the Rockefeller Public Service Award In the field of law, legislation and
regulation. Mr. Pollack took the oath of office on February 13,
1974 as a member of the Securities and Exchange Commission,
and IS now serving for the term expiring June 5, 1980.

ROBERTA S. KARMEl
Commissioner
Karmel was born May 4, 1937, In Chicago,
tllmors. She received a B.A from Radcliffe College In 1959 and
an LL.B. from New York University School of Law In 1962. From
1962 to 1969, Mrs. Karmel worked In the New York Regional
Office of the Securities and Exchange Commission as an attorney,
then attorney branch chief, then assistant regional administrator.
From 1969 to 1972 she was an associate With Wlilkle, Farr &
Gallagher In New York Mrs Karmel was a partner In Rogers &
Wells from 1972 through September 1977, and an adjunct professor at Brooklyn Law School from 1973 through 1977 She has
been a member of the American Bar Association Federal Regulation of Securities Committee since 1973 She has also served
on the Association of the Bar of the City of New York Committee
on Securities Regulation, Committee on Administrative Law, and
Committee on Professional Responsibility. She IS the author of
numerous articles In legal journals. Mrs. Karmel took the oath
of office as a member of the Securities and Exchange Commission
on September 30, 1977, for a term expiring on June 5, 1981

XXI

TABLE OF CONTENTS

Chairman's Transmittal Letter
Commissron and Pnncrpal Staff Officers
Regional and Branch Offices
BIOgraphies of Commrssroners

III
xv
XVII
XIX

REGULATION OF THE SECURITIES MARKETS
Secunnes Markets and Facilities
The Natronal Market System
National system for clearance and settlement of secunties transactions
Charges for Market Information
Trading by exchange members
Options trading
Effects of the Absence of Fixed Commission Rates
RegulatIOn of Brokers, Dealers and Munrclpal Secuntres Dealers
Regulatory burdens on small brokers and dealers
Lost and stolen secunties
Secunnes confrrmauons
Broker-dealer practices
Unrform dispute resolution procedures for Investors
Munrclpal secunties dealers
Transfer agent rules
Oversight of Self-Regulatory Orgamzatmns
Secunties exchanges
Natrona! Assocration of Secunnes Dealers, Inc
Munrclpal Secunties Rulemaklng Board
Clearrng agencies
Inspections of self-regulatory organizations
Revenues and expenses of self-regulatory orgarnzattons

THE DISCLOSURE SYSTEM
Corporate Governance, Management
Small Business Hearings
New Developments In Policy

4
5
5
6
7
7
7
8
8
8
9
9
9
9
9
10
11
11
11
14

15
Background

and Remuneratron

15
16
17
XXIII

AdvIsory Committee on Corporate Disclosure
Projections of Future Economic Performance
lntegration of Documents and Other Disclosure RevISions
Tender Offers, Large AcqUIsitIOns and Corporate Repurchases
Foreign Corrupt Practices Act
Oversight of the Accounting Profession
Report on the Accounting Protessron and the Commission's Oversight Role
Accounting Standards for 011 and Gas Producers

INVESTMENT COMPANIES AND ADVISERS
Comprehensive Review of Regulatory System
lnsututronal Disclosure
Integrated Regrstratton and Reporting System

ENFORCEMENT PROGRAM
Settlement of Cemrmssron Actions
Questionable Payments
Tender Offers and Corporate Takeovers
Management Perqursrtes
MUnicipal Securities
Other Significant Enforcement Cases

17
18
18
19
20
21
21
22

23
23
24
24

27
27
27
31
33
34
35

OTHER IMPORTANT LITIGATION

45

PUBLIC UTILITY HOLDING COMPANIES

49

Ccmpositmn
Financing
Volume
Fuel Programs
Service Company Operations

49
49
49
49
50

CORPORATE REORGANIZATIONS

51

ADMINISTRATION AND MANAGEMENT

53

Informalion Systems Management
Market Surveillance System
Financial Management
Personnel Management .
Equal Employment Opportunity
ACtiVity under the Freedom of lnformatron Act
Office Space ActiVities

APPENDIX
The Securities Industry
Income. Expenses and Selected Balance Sheet Items
Table I-Financial
tntormatron for Broker-Dealers-1975-1977
XXIV

53
54
55
56
57
57
58

63
65
65
66

APPENDIX -

Continued

Historical Financial Information of Broker-Dealers with Securities
Related Revenue of $500,000 or more
Table 2-Hlstorlcal
Consolidated Revenue and Expenses of Broker-Dealers with Securities Related Revenue of $500,000 or
more
Table 3-Hlstorlcal
Balance Sheet for Broker-Dealers with Secuntres Related Revenue of $500.000 or more
Secunties Industry Dollar
Chart-Securities
Industry Dollar 1977
Broker-Dealers. Branch Offices. Employees
Chart-Broker-Dealers
and Branch Offices
Table 4-Brokers
and Dealers Registered under the Secuntres
Act of 1934
Table S-Prlnclpal
Business of SECO Broker-Dealers
Table 6-Applicatlons
and Regrstratrcns of Brokers and Dealers-Fiscal
Year 1978
Table 7-AppllcatlOns
and Regrstrations of Municipal Securities
Dealers and Transfer Agents-Fiscal
Year 1978
Self-Regulatory Drgantzatmns-c-Revenues and Expenses
Table S-Revenues
and Expenses 01 Self-Regulatory Orgaruzanons 1973-1978
Table 9-Detalled
Revenues and Expenses for each Sell-Regulatory Orgamzation
Table 10--Sources of Self-Regulatory Organization Revenue
1973-1977
Table ll-Self-Regulatory
Orgamzanons-c-Cleanng
Agencies
Revenue and Expenses-Fiscal
Year 1977
Table 12-Revenue and Expenses of Municipal Secuntres Rulema king Board

66

67
68
68
69
70
71
72
73
74
75
76
79
80
82
84
85

Exemptrons

85

Section 12(h) Exemptions
Exemptions for Foreign Private Issuers
Financial lnstrtutions
Stock Iransactions of Selected Financial lnstitutrons
Table 13-Common
Stock Iransacnons and ACtiVity Rates of
Selected Financial lnstrtutrens
Stockholdmgs of lnsntutronal Investors and Others
Table 14-Market Value of Stockholdmgs of lnstttuttnnal lnvestors and Others
Table IS-Companies
Registered Under the Investment Company Act of 1940 as of September 30. 1978
Table 16-Companles
Registered Under the Investment Company Act of 1940
Table 17-New Investment Company Regrstrahons
Table IS-Investment
Company Regrstrations Terminated
Private NOnlnsured Penson Funds Assets
Table 19A-Assets of Private NOnlnsured Pension Funds (Book
Value)

85
85
86
86
87
88
88
89
89
90
90
90
91

xxv

Table 19B-Assets of Pnvate Norunsured Pension Funds (Market
Value)
Secunties on Exchanges
Exchange Volume
Table 20-Market
Value and Volume of Sales on Registered and
Exempted Secuntres Exchanges
Chart-Market
Value of Securrties Traded on All U S Stock
Exchanges
NASDAQ Volume
Table 2lA-Share
Volume by Exchanges
Table 2lB-Dollar
Volume by Exchanges
Special Block DlstnbutlOns
Table 22-Speclal
Block DlstnbutlOns Reported by Exchanges
Value and Number of Secuntres Listed on Exchanges
Table 23-Secuntles
Listed on Exchanges
Table 24-Value
of Stocks Listed on Exchanges
Secunties on Exchanges
Table 25-Secuntles
Traded on Exchanges
Table 26-Unduplicated
Count of Secunties on Exchanges
1933 Act Registrations
Effective Registratron Statements Filed
Table 27-Effectlve
Regrstratrons
Chart-s-Securrtres Effectively Registered with SEC
Purpose of Registranon
Table 28-Effectlve
Registrations by Purpose and Type of Secunty Fiscal 1978
Chart-Effeclive
Registrations Cash Sale for Account of Issuers
Regulation A Offenngs
Table 29-0ffenngs
Under Regulation A
Enforcement
Types of Proceedings
Table 3D-Types of Proceedings
Table 31-lnvesligatlOns
of Possible Violations of the Acts Administered by the Cornmrssron
Table 32-Admlnlstratlve
Proceedings Instituted Dunng Fiscal
Year Ending September 30. 1978
Injunctive Actions
Table 33-lnJunclive
Actions
Cnmmal Proceedings
Table 34-Cnmlnal
Cases
Iradmg Suspensions
Foreign Restricted List
Public Utility Holdmg Companies
Assets
Table 35-Public
Utility Holdmg Company Systems
Table 36-Key Fmancral Statistics of Registered Public Utility
Holding Company Systems
Table 37-Fmancmg
of Holding Company Systems

XXVI

91
91
91
92
93
94
94
94
95
95
96
96
97
97
98
98
98
98
99
100
101
101
102
103
103
103
103
104
107
107
108
108
108
108
109
109

III
III
III
112
113

Fuel Programs
Table 38-Fuel
Expenditures of Holdmg Company Systems
Corporate ReorganizatIOns
Comrmssmn Particrpatron
Table 39-ReorganizatlOn
Proceedmgs Under Chapter X of the
Bankruptcy Act
SEC Operatrons
Net Cost
Chart-Appropriated
Funds vs Fees Collected
Table 40-Budget
Estimates and Appropriation

113
114
114
114
115
117
117
118
119

xxvii

Regulation of the Securities Markets

DUring the fiscal year, the Commission worked to fulfill ItS continuing responsibility
to strengthen the nation's
securities markets and to protect Investors who trade In those markets
The Commission took significant steps
to enhance competition In the secunties
industry; to Improve the availability of
transaction and quotation information,
to Increase efficiency In the execution
and clearance of securities
transactions; and to make It practical for brokers to execute Investors' orders In the
best market available. Many of those
steps brought closer the realizatron of
a national market system and a national
system for the prompt and accurate
clearance and settlement
of transactions In securrties. both of which the
Congress directed the Commission to
help establish. 1

Securities Markets and Facilities
The National Market System-The
past year was most significant
In the
development of a national market system.
In December 1977, the Cornrntsston
adopted amendments to Rule 19c-1
under the Securities Exchange Act removing certain remaining restrictions
on the ability of exchange members to
effect transactions In listed secunties
otherwise than on exchanges. This action assured that a member of an exchange would be permitted to effect

over-the-counter agency transactions In
listed securities With any person not also
represented as agent by that member
(r.e , precluding only "In-house agency
cross" transactions), thereby permitting
brokers greater tlexrbrlrty In seeking the
best market In which to effect agency
transactions 2
On January 26, 1978, the Commission Issued a statement on the development of a national market system
(January Statement)
In that Statement,
the Commission set forth ItS views as to
those steps which It believed should be
taken In 1978 to facrl itate development
of a natrona I market system as envistoned by the Congress In the Securities
Acts Amendments of 1975 (the 1975
Amendments).
The program described In the January
Statement consisted of SIX Interrelated
initiatives the development and Implementation of three new national market
system facilities,
a consolidated quotation system (CaS), a nationwrde network of order routing facilities and a
central publrc agency limited order file,
the refinement of an exrstrng natronal
market system facility, the consolidated
transaction reporting system (Consolidated System); the commencement
of
rulernakmg proceedings to consider
desrgnatton of certain categories of securities as qualified for trading In the
national market system; and the continued consrderatron of off-board trading

rules In light of the progress made toward a national market system 3
DUring the remainder of the fiscal
year the Commission and the Industry
made significant
progress
toward
achievement of some of the objectives
of a national market system and, more
particularly,
certain of the initiatives
described In the January Statement
In
addition, through comments and industry proposals submitted In response to
the January Statement, the self-regulatory organizations and the securities
Industry have Increased their collective
commitment
to enhance and perfect
market linkage and information systems
and to address unresolved policy and
technological concerns.
COincident with the Issuance of the
January Statement, the Commission announced the adoption of Rule llAcl1 under the Exchange Act, which requrred each self-regulatory
organization, as of August 1, 1978, to collect
and disseminate to securities information vendors quotations and quotation
sizes for all equity securities as to which
last sale information IS included In the
Consolidated
System. Quotations and
quotation sizes are required by the rule
to be firm at the prices and In the
amounts displayed by vendors, subject
only to exceptions for revised quotations
or quotation sizes and for unusual market conditions.
Although Rule 11 Acl-l
, unlike Rule
17a-15, does not require reporting selfregulatory organizations to file plans for
the dissemination
of quotation mtormatron, the Commission, In the release
announcing the adoption of Rule llAcl1, encouraged the exchanges and the
National Association of Securities Dealers (NASD) to consider joint Implementation
of Rule llAcl-l
on a
voluntary basis. 4
In response to this statement, In April
1978, representatives of the American
Stock Exchange (Arnex), Boston Stock

2

Exchange (SSE>, Cmcmnati Stock Exchange (CSE), Midwest Stock Exchange
(MSE), NASD, New York Stock Exchange (NYSE), Pacific Stock Exchange
(PSE) and Philadelphia Stock Exchange
(Phlx) met to diSCUSSthe possibility of
developing a JOint plan for the Implementation of the Rule. On July 25,
1978, the Amex and NYSE JOintly filed
With the Cornrnissron a "Plan for the
Purpose of Implementing Rule llAcl1 under the Securities Exchange Act of
1934"
(CQ Plan) and, on July 28,
1978, the Commission temporarily declared that plan effective pursuant to
Section lIA(a)(3)(B)
of the Exchange
Act for a period of 180 days. 5
The CQ Plan (1) establishes JOint procedures to govern the collection, processing and dissemination
of quotation
information
by participating
market
centers; (2) provides for the selection
and evaluation of an exclusive processor
to collect quotation Information
from
partrcrpating market centers and make
that information available to quotations
vendors; and (3) establishes fees relatmg to the receipt of quotation information. Pursuant to the CQ Plan, on
August 1, 1978, the BSE, MSE, NYSE,
PSE and Phlx commenced drsserrunatmg quotations to vendors In a Single
data stream processed by the Securities
Industry Automation Corporation (SIAC)
and, at this time, all exchanges reportrng quotations" other than the CSE are
partrclpating.? The Implementation of
the CQ Plan and the resultant availability to brokers, dealers and Investors of
firm quotations from all reporting market centers ISan Important step In meetmg the statutory goals of a national
market system. 8
Significant steps also have been taken
toward Implementation
of comprehensive market linkage systems. In the January Statement, the Commission called
for prompt development of market linkage systems to permit orders In qualr-

fled securities
to be promptly
and
efficiently transmitted
from one qualified market center to another.
On March 9, 1978, the Amex, BSE,
NYSE, PSE and Phlx JOintly filed with
the Cornrrussron a "Plan for the Purpose
of Creating and Operating an InterMarket Cornrnurucatrons Linkage" (ITS
Plan). The ITS Plan provides the basis
for the Implementation
of an Intermarket Trading System linking the various
participants and providing facilities and
procedures for (l) routing of orders and
administrative
messages between and
among participants
and (2) partrcrpatron, under certain conditions, by members of all participating
markets In
opening transactions In those markets
On April 14, 1978, the Cornrrussron,
noting that the ITS Plan represented a
positive response to the January Statement, issued a temporary order pursuant to Section 11A(a)(3)(B)
of the
Exchange Act approving the Implementation of the ITS 9 and In August 1978,
the Commission extended that approval
for an additional year 10 As of the end
of the fiscal year, all reporting self-regulatory organizations other than the CSE
and NASD were partrcipating In the ITS
and over 100 securitres were being
traded in the system.
The other linkage system, the Cincinnati Stock Exchange multiple-dealer facility
(CSE system),
represents
an
expert rnent in the use of a fu lIy automated electronic trading system. The
Cornrnissron, on April 18, 1979, approved the CSE Pilot on a nine month
experimental basis." The CSE System,
through an electronic communications
network maintained by the CSE, enables
CSE members, without the necessity of
maintaining a presence on the floor of
the CSE or any other exchange, to participate In a market conducted In accordance
with certain auction-type
trading principles by entenng bids and
offers for securities for their own ac-

count and as agents for their customers'
accounts. In addition, CSE rules permit
a specialist on any national secuntres
exchange, without becoming a member
of the CSE, to enter bids and offers In
the system as principal or as agent In
any security In which that specialist IS
registered on another exchange. Orders
entered into the CSE System are stored
In the CSE's computer
facilities and
queued for execution as follows: pnonty
IS governed first by pnce (J.e., the highest bid and lowest offer) and second, as
between orders at the same prrce, by
time of entry. However, public agency
orders as defined In the CSE's rules, regardless of time of entry, are granted
pnonty over other orders at the same

price.
The Cornrmssion believes that these
systems evidence considerable progress
in the application
of automation and
computer and communications
technology to overcome some of the problems
associated
with
market
fragmentation. In the Commission's view,
the ITS and the CSE System both offer
valuable opportunities
to the Commission and the brokerage community to
assess the ability of differing types of
market I In kage systems to integrate
trading In physically separate locations
and to observe the effects of these linkage systems on the operation of the
markets
In response to its universal message
switch initiative, announced In the January Statement,
the Cornrnissron received two different types of proposals.
The NYSE submitted a letter generally
expressing support for enhancing order
switching mechanisms but noting that
a variety of such facihties, including ItS
own common message SWitch, were currently available. The NYSE further noted
that those SWitches commercially available from brokerage services firms currently permit brokers to route orders
directly to the market of their choice.

3

Notwithstanding
Its belief that a universal message switch IS now functionally available, the NYSE expressed ItS
willingness,
later concurred In by the
Amex, to provide other exchanges access to its swrtch.
In contrast to this proposal, the NASD
described a national order routing system (NORS) as a part of the overall national market system configuration.
NORS would be designed to link all exchanges and third market makers With
any broker or dealer establish mg access
to the system and would permit the routmg of designated orders to a specific
market center or undesignated orders
on the baSIS of the best machine drsplayed quotation
Because of the difference In scope of
these proposals, the Commission,
In
June, requested further comment from
the various self-regulatory organizations
and other potential users of the routing
system on the baSIC policy question of
whether order-by-order routing of retail
orders to the best market In size should
be a characteristic of the national market system." At the end of the fiscal
year the Commission was evaluating the
responses to ItS June 1978 request.
An addrtronal area of significant progress dunng fiscal year 1978 was the
proposal, In October 1978, of two rules
dealing extensively With the operation
of the Consolidated
System and the
manner In which vendors of market information display transaction and quotation information to their subscribers. 13
The Commission hopes to take further
regulatory action With respect to these
proposals In the near future.
Although there has been considerably
less tangible progress toward achievement of the other three initiatives deSCribed In the January Statement (I.e,
rmplernentation of a central agency limit
order file, consideration
of off-board
trading rules, and initiation of rulemak-

4

mg With respect to qualified secuntres),
the dialogue between the Commission
and the securities Industry with respect
to these matters has refined both the
Commission's views on these subjects
and those of the Industry. At the end of
the fiscal year, the Commission was
continuing to evaluate the comments
which had been received With respect
to these initiatives.

National system for clearance and
settlement of secunttes trensections-:
During the fiscal year, substantial progress was made In the Commission's effort to foster development of a national
clearance and settlement system.
The United States Court of Appeals
for the District of Columbia Circurt affirmed the Commission's order of January 13, 1977 which granted
the
application of National Securities Clearrng Corporation (NSCC) for registration
as a clearing agency 14 The Commission
views the registration of NSCC as a key
step In achieving the national clearance
and settlement
system envrsioned by
the Congress. Although the court did not
disturb NSCC's registration,
It did remand to the Commission for further consideration the matters of competitive
bidding for NSCC's facilrtres management contract and geograph IC price mutualization.
The Commission took several Important steps toward achieving a competitive national clearance and settlement
system. The Commission has reviewed
the transaction completion rules of the
securities exchanges and of the National Assocratron of Securities Dealers,
Inc. (NASD). Some of those rules unnecessarily restricted competition among
clearing agencies Others failed to comply With the Exchange Act for other reasons. 15 As a result of this review, over
100 exchange and NASD rules were
amended or deleted. This step removed
many Impediments to development of

a national clearance and settlement system.
The Commission also held hearings
in March and April 1978 on this subject. The Commission
received data,
views and arguments concerning the
extent to which NSCC had satisfied the
conditions imposed upon It by the Commission In ItS order granting NSCC regrstration as a clearing agency." In
addition, the Commission received other
information which has proven useful In
formulating further steps toward ach levmg a national clearance and settlement
system.
Progress toward a national system
also was evident In other areas. The expansion of Interfaces among clearing
agencies has permitted
most brokers
and dealers to clear through a Single
clearing agency (one account processing) all transactions
regardless of the
market of execution. Expanded interfaces among depositones have further
Immobilized securities certificates and
allowed most partrcrpants to move securities throughout the country, to effect pledges and to make deliveries by
book entry. These developments have
reduced costs and accelerated the settlement process.
During the year, the Commission took
two Important steps In rrnrnobrlrzmg certificates. First, Rule 17f-4 under the
Investment Company Act was adopted.
The rule establishes the conditions under which registered Investment companies, or custodians
for registered
Investment companies, may deposit investment company secuntres In a secunties depository 17
The Commission also worked toward
increasing Insurance company particrpation in secuntres depositones. Insurance companies are large holders of
secuntres but, principally
because of
certain requirements of state laws, have
been inhibited from widespread partrcipatron In securities deposrtones
The

National ASSOCiation of Insurance Commissioners recently formed a task force
on the use of book entry and depository
systems by Insurance companies Members of the Cornrrussron staff met With
the task force and were appointed by the
task force to serve on an advisory committee which Will seek solutions to both
the legal and practical problems restricting Insurance company particrpation.

Charges for Market Information-In
May 1978, the Cornrnrssron began a review of a dispute between the Options
Price Reporting Authority (OPRA) and
two commercial vendors of transaction
and quotation information. The dispute
concerns fees charged by OPRA to vendors for access to options last sale Information. 18
OPRA IS the exclusive processor of
market information for the options exchanges, and the dispute arose when
OPRA decided to charge an "access
fee" to those persons having direct access to the high speed communications
line for last sale reports of options transactions The Cornrnissron held a hearing
to provide Interested persons an opportunity to present both oral and written
views on the Issues raised, including the
question of whether the Exchange Act
authonzes an exclusrve processor, such
as OPRA, to charge a fee to vendors as
a condition of access to market information, such as options last sale reports.

Tradmg by exchange members-Section l1(a)( 1) of the Exchange Act, as
amended In 1975, prohibits, With specified exceptions, any member of a national secuntres exchange from effecting
any transaction on that exchange for ItS
own account, the account of an assocrated person, or an account With respect to which it or any of Its associated
persons exercises Investment discretion. Under Section l Ita), the Commission has broad authonty to fashion either

5

more flexible or more restnctive standards. Section 11 (a) became effective,
as applied to most exchanges members,
on February 1, 1978.
Durrng the fiscal year, the Commission made significant progress In completing ItS regulatory program under
Section 11(a)(l).
Based on proposals
publrshed In the preceding two years
and on an exhaustive public drscussion
relating to those proposals and the Secnon generally, the Cornrrussron announced In March and Aprrl 1978 several
Important actions. First, the Commission adopted a rule under which member transactions for accounts covered by
the general
prohibition
of Section
11 (a)( 1) may be effected as long as
those transactions are referred to independent members for execution and
meet certain conditions. The exemption
was designed to put members and nonmembers In the money management
business on the same footing, to the
extent practicable, In light of the purposes of this provisron.
Second, the Cornrrussron adopted
separate exemptions for (l) member
transactions effected for affiliates which
a member Itself would be permitted to
effect under Section 11(a)(l) and rules
thereunder
and (2) members'
bond
transactions
These exemptions were
designed to remove unintended burdens
Imposed by Section 11(a)(l) In the exchange markets and, at the same time,
to avoid permitting members and their
affiliates any special trading advantages
over public customers and other nonmembers. Finally, the Commission resolved several major interpretive Issues
under Section 11(a)(l) and rules thereunder, including the meaning of the
phrase "Investment discretion"
The Commission also approved programs designed by the NYSE and Amex
to supplement the market making capacity of specrahsts by creating new
classes of market makers who would be

6

exempt from the prohibitions of the Section These programs were established
for a temporary perrod In order to permit
the Cornrrussron to review them to determine whether the predicted market
benefits are being realized.
Options Trading-In July 1977, the
Commission requested those national
secunties exchanges on which options
are traded to refrain from expanding
their options trading programs. 19 The
Cornrmssron's request, which was honored, was based upon concerns that
the rapid growth In options trading since
1973 had been accompanied by trading
abuses.
In October 1977, the Commission
announced commencement
of a comprehensive mvestrgatron and study of
the nation's standardized options markets " and a proposed rule to halt temporarrly any expansion of trading In
standardized options pending completion of the study and resolution of the
Comrmssron's concerns as to the adequacy of existrng regulation. 21
On June 22, 1978, the Cornrrussron
requested the NASD and each national
securttres exchange wh rch traded, or
had proposed to trade, standardized options to continue to honor the Cornrrnssion's request for a voluntary moratorrum
on further expansion until the Cornrrussion had evaluated the findings of the
Options Study. 22 The Commission made
that request because It hoped to resolve
ItS concerns with respect to the standardized options markets In a cooperative
effort with the self-regulatory organizations, rather than tormalrzmg the rnoratorrum by rulernakmg. 23
On August 3, 1978, the Cornrrussron
announced that the NASD, the NYSE
and the five options exchanges had
agreed to ItS request 24 Accordingly, the
Cornrrussion postponed final action on
ItS proposal to halt any trading expansion by rule. The Cornrrussron also said
It would consider whether to continue

or terminate the moratorium on expansion of options trading promptly after
reviewing the report of the Options
Study. (Subsequent to the close of the
fiscal year the Commission received the
Report of the Options Study and, In February 1979, Issued a release setting
forth the circumstances
under which
expansion of options trading could take
place.)
Effects of the Absence of Fixed Commission Rate~ln
1975, the Commission prohibited the national securitres
exchanges from prescribing fixed minimum commission
rates and from requiring their members to charge no less
than those rates. The Commission has
submitted to the Congress five reports
covering the first twenty months of commission price competition through December 31, 1976, describing what effect
the absence of any schedule of fixed
rates of cornrrussion IS having on the
maintenance of fair and orderly markets
and on the development of a national
market system for securities.
Analysis of cornrrussion rates IS now
Integrated Into the Commission's
ongoing monitoring of the financial condition of the industry. In that connection,
the Commission released to the public
on May 22, 1978, a "Staff Report on
the Securities Industry In 1977," which
detailed among other findings, the results of ItS cornrrussron rate survey.
From May 1, 1975, to the end of September 1978, individual investors' effective cornrrnssron rates when measured
as a percent of principal value declined
13.9 percent. Instrtutronal customers,
due to their larger average order size and
greater bargaining power, have negotiated discounts averaging 48.8 percent
from the exchange prescnbed minimum
rates. When the rates are measured as
cents per share, the declines were 6
percent for individuals and 48.5 percent for mstitutions. lndrvrduals paid an
average of 28.2 cents per share on their

September 1978 orders, which averaged 394 shares In size. Institutional
orders averaged 1,859 shares In size
and cornrrnssions averaged 13.4 cents
per share for these customers.
Broker-dealers were affected by the
elimination of fixed minimum commission rates largely depending upon the
extent they serve institutional Investors.
Some firms which did a large portion of
their total business wrth institutions
merged with more diversified frrrns. A
group of new discount broker-dealers
have entered the Industry to offer investors a reduced level of services at reduced cornrrussron rates. Broker-dealers'
gross revenue for the first nine months
of 1978 was one-third higher than the
comparable 1977 period, due to recordsetting VOlume In the second and third
quarters of 1978. This Jump In revenue
more than doubled pre-tax profits
The Commission's economic staff has
continued to rnorutor the Impact of negotiated cornrrussron rates. Competitively determined cornrrussion rates do
not appear to have adversely affected
the development of a national market
system or the maintenance of fair and
orderly markets

RegUlation of Brokers, Dealers,
Municipal Securities Dealers and
Transfer Agents
Regulatory burdens on small brokers
and deeters-stne Commission IS aware
of the need to evaluate the costs and
cornpetrtive Impact of ItS regulations on
brokers and dealers
Accordingly,
In
adopting regulatory requrrernents, the
Commission
weighs the benefits
to
Investor protection and other statutory
goals against possible compliance and
competitive
burdens. In addition, the
Commission has endeavored to tailor
regulatory requirements
to particular
busmess practices or ways of doing
business so as to avoid Imposing regulatory burdens. This effort can partrcu-

7

larly benefit smaller, more specialized
brokerage firms.
In 1975, the Commission's
financial and operational reporting system
and ItS financial
responsibility
rules
were substantially
restructured to reflect this approach
Based on three
years' experience with their operation,
the Commission has undertaken a comprehensive review of these rules with a
view toward eliminating
any unnecessary requirement
Although this review
IS generally directed toward Improving
the efficiency and effectiveness of the
regulatory system as a whole, the possible benefits to brokers and dealers
domg a limited secunties business are
receiving particular attention
Through such efforts, the Commission has attempted to rrururntze the effects of ItS rules on smaller brokerdealers and to help assure their continued participation In the securities markets without sacrificing the Commission's
primary statutory objective of protecting
Investors
Lost and stolen secunties-: The Comrrussron's program for the reporting of
missing, counterfeit or stolen securities
became fully operational dunng fiscal
1978 The Commission arranged with
the Unted States Attorney General to
enter flies of the National Crime Information Center on securitres thefts Into
the data base maintained by the Securities Information Center, Inc. (SIC), the
organization designated by the Commission to receive reports and respond
to mqurnes regarding corporate and
municipal secuntres. The Federal Reserve Banks perform the same functions
with respect to government securities.
The Commission
made arrangements
with the National Crime Information
Center for the exchange of information
on lost or stolen securities
As of Septernber 1, 1978, approximately
190,000 reports of rnrssrng, lost, stolen or
counterfeit secuntres, with an aggregate

8

market value of nearly $1 billion, had
been received by the SIC
Secunttes conttrmsttons-: The Comrmssion adopted, effective December
18, 1978, a new rule prescribing delivery and disclosure requrrernents for confnrnatrons of securrtres transactions sent
by brokers and dealers to customers 25
The confirmation
IS an Important disclosure document
that provides an
Investor with information
pertinent to
each securities transaction. The Comrnrssron's adoption of new confirmation
disclosure and delivery requirements
represents an effort to review old regulatory requirements
so as to enhance
Investor protection
while eliminating
regulatory burdens for which the compliance costs appear to exceed the public benefit The Commission IScontinuing
to evaluate whether additional disclosure on customer
confrrrnatrons
for
transactions In particularly debt securities would be appropriate
Broker-dealer practices-On September 28, 1978 the Commission
published a release26 givmg notice to brokerdealers that certain practices regarding
customer accounts are inconsistent with
Just and equitable principles of trade
and may In some Instances violate the
antifraud provisions of the Federal secunties laws These practices are as follows
(a) Issuance to customers of checks
drawn on distant banks, a practice referred to as "remote checking",
(b) retention of Interest and divrdend
payments rather than disbursing such
payments to customers promptly upon
receipt, without afford Ing customers adequate prior notice and a reasonable
opportunity to elect either Immediate or
deferred payment;
(c) Imposition of Increased commission rates without adequate prior notice;
(d) rrnposrtron of custodial fees on
"inactive"
customer accounts without
adequate prior notice; and

(e) failure to promptly transfer customer accounts.
Uniform dispute resolution procedures for Jnvestors-A program to Implement
uniform,
fair and efficient
dispute resolution procedures for investors was undertaken by the Commission
In May 1976, In connection with ItS establishment
of an Office of Consumer
Affairs. The purpose of this program IS
to Improve the ability of Investors to resolve disputes with broker-dealers In a
satisfactory
manner, and at less cost
then litigation. In April 1977, the Comrrussion agreed to consider proposals
from the Securities Industry Conference
on Arbitration (SICA), a voluntary group
of secuntres Industry and public representatives
which would contemplate
utilization of exrstrng arbitration facilities of the self-regulatory
orgarnzatlons.27
On November 15, 1977 SICA submitted to the Comrnrssron a proposal for
a Uniform small claims procedure for
Investor-broker
disputes
SICA proposed that the securities Industry selfregulatory organizations adopt a unrform
set of rules for the simplified arbitration
of customer claims against broker-dealers mvolvmg less than $2500. Any such
dispute could be resolved by a Single
arbitrator on the basis of pleadings and
documentary evidence Without a hearmg, although a hearing could be requested by the customer claimant or an
arbitrator. On May 4, 1978 the Commission approved, pursuant to Section
19(b) of the Exchange Act and Rule
19~
thereunder, the adoption of a set
of rules similar to the SICA proposal, by
the NYSE and the Amex. 28 The uniform
small claims rules were approved subsequently for adoption by other orgaru-

zanons."
The Cornrrusston

expects to receive
further proposals from SICA regarding
uniform investor dispute resolution procedures, including a unrform arbitration

code for adoption by self-regulatory organizations.
The Cornrrussion
will review the operation of these arbitration facilities as
part of ItS general oversight responsibilities With respect to self-regulatory
organizations.
MUnicipal secunties dealers-On July
17, 1978, the Cornrrussron published
for comment proposed amendments to
Form MSD, which IS used for rnurucrpal
secuntres dealers, registration by banks
and separately Identifiable departments
or divrsrons of banks 30 The proposed
amendments were designed to simplify
or to clarify, In several respects, the
scope of information
solrcited by the
Form
Transfer agent rules- The Commission's first substantive rules governing
the performance of transfer agents became effective durrng the fiscal year. 31
These rules (l) prescn be for registered
transfer agents performance time standards for the transfer of secuntres from
one record owner to another for the completion of the registrar function and for
responding to mqumes concerning the
status of Items previously presented for
transfer; (2) provide for early warning to
the regulatory agencies of Inadequate
transfer agent performance;
(3) apply
limitations on the expansion of transfer
agent actrvitres when transfer agents are
repeatedly
unable to meet the time
standards for performance of the transfer or registrar functions; (4) require the
making and keeping of certain records,
and (5) provide exemptions from the
performance time standards and recordkeeping sections for certain registered
transfer agents

Oversight of Self-Regulatory
Organizations
Secunties exchanges-As of September 30, 1978, ten exchanges were regrstered With the Cornrrussion as national
secuntres exchanges: American Stock
9

Exchange, Inc. (Arnex), Boston Stock
Exchange, Incorporated (BSE); Chicago
Board Options Exchange, Incorporated
(CBOE); Cincinnati
Stock Exchange
(CSE); Intermountain
Stock Exchange
(ISE); Midwest Stock Exchange, Inc.
(MSE); New York Stock Exchange, Inc.
(NYSE); Pacific Stock Exchange Incorporated (PSE); Philadelphia Stock Exchange, Inc. (Phlx): Spokane Stock
Exchange (SSE). The Commission ISsued on November 8, 1978 an order
terminating the exemption from registration as a national secunties exchange
of the Honolulu Stock Exchange, which
had ceased operation earlier In the fiscal
year.
In connection With the Commission's
oversight of the delistmg of secuntres
traded on exchanges, the Commission
during the fiscal year granted applications by exchanges to strike 116 equity
issues and 25 debt Issues from listing
and registration. The Commission also
granted applications,
submitted by ISsuers, requesting Withdrawal from listmg and registration for 35 equity Issues
and 5 debt Issues.
In November 1977, the Cornrrussron
initiated a review of ItS past practices
In granting
applications
for unlisted
trading privileges. Since the Initiation
of that review, the Cornrrussron has not
granted any applications
for unlisted
trading privileges. The Cornrrussron's
review of ItS policies IS designed to develop standards which the Commission
will apply In considenng whether the
extension of unlisted trading privileges
IS consistent With the maintenance of
fair and orderly markets.
DUring the fiscal year, the national
securities exchanges reported to the
Commission approximately
250 diSCIplmary actions, Imposing a variety of
sanctions upon member firms and their
employees
National ASSOCIatIon of Securities
Dealers, Inc.-The National ASSOCiation
10

of Secuntres, Inc. (the "NASD") IS the
only secunties association
registered
with the Cornrrusston At the close of the
fiscal year, 2,798 brokers and dealers
were NASD members.
DUring the past fiscal year, the NASD
reported to the Commission final drspositron of 230 disciplinary complaints
In which
105 member firms and 230
indivrduals were named as respondents.
At the beginning of fiscal 1978, 15
proceedings for review of NASD diSCIplmary decrsions were pending before
the Commission, and during the year 16
additional cases were brought up for review. The Commission revrewed 17 of
these cases, and reduced the sanctions
to be Imposed In some of those cases.
The Cornrrussron also reviewed 35
NASD applications to admit a broker or
dealer to membership or to permit a person to become associated with a member where the broker or dealer or person
ISsubject to a statutory disqualification.
The Comrrussron denied the registration
of one indrvrdual and instituted
proceedings to deny the registration of two
others. It has taken no adverse action
With respect to the other 32 notices.
The Cornrrussion began during the
year to review an NASD proposed rule
to prohibit its members from giving drscounts to customers In distributions
of
sscuntres offered at a fixed price. The
proposal was written In response to a
1976 judicial
decrsion (Paprlsky v.
Berndt32)
which held that such drscounts were lawful In some circumstances, absent a contrary Commission or
NASD ruling. The matter Involves complex Issues which. depending upon their
resolution, could have far reaching impact on underwriting practices.
DUring the fiscal year the Commission
worked With self-regulatory
organizations to Simplify and eliminate duplication In the self-regulatory system for
brokers and dealers. In September 1978,
the Cornrrusston temporarily approved

four plans proposed by self-regulatory
organizations
for allocating
their responsibilities
to perform various regulatory functions for brokers and dealers
which belong to more than one self-regulatory organization.
The plans represent agreements reached between the
NASD and four exchanges: the Boston
Stock Exchange, Inc., the Clncmnat:
Stock Exchange, Inc., the Midwest Stock
Exchange, Inc., and the Pacrfrc Stock
Exchange, Inc.
The plans reflect progress toward reducing unnecessary regulatory duplication by assigning to the NASD much
of the responsibility for conducting onsite examination of dual members and
for processing various applications.
At
the close of the fiscal year, the Comrrussion was constdering plans proposed
with respect to other self-regulatory organizations.

MuniCipal

Board-As

Securtttes

Rulemakmg

the case of national secunties exchanges and the NASD, the
Commission
reviews proposed
rule
changes of the Murucipal
Securities
Rulemakmg Board (the MSRB) During
the fiscal year, the MSRB filed seventeen rule proposals. The Commission
considered several of those proposals
and others which were pending from the
previous fiscal year.
The Commission approved a series of
rule proposals designed to establish
baSIC standards of fair and ethical conduct for rnumcrpal securities
profesThe
rules
establish
slonals.33
requirements
In particular
areas such
as: (1) SUitability of recommendations
and transactions;
(2) professional advertising; (3) administration
of discretrenary
and other
accounts;
(4)
supervrsion of employees; (5) determination of prices and cornrmssrons: (6)
disclosures in connection with new ISsue municipal
securities; and (7) advertisements
of such secunties.
The
rules provided the first regulation of thrs
In

type for most rnurucrpal
securrtres
professionals,
since the rules of fair
practice of the NASD do not apply to
transactions In municipal secuntres and
exemptions are available for many persons subject to comparable rules applicable to brokers and dealers who are not
members of the NASD
The Cornrrussron also approved a rule
establishing
terms and conditions for
the sale of new Issue murucipal securities dunng the underwriting penod. 34
The rule requires rnurucipal secuntres
underwntrng
syndicates
to establish
procedures
for allocating
securrtres
among competing orders; to disclose
those procedures to syndicate members
and, upon request, to others; and to reveal information
concerning
certain
customers to syndicate members.
In addrnon,
the Cornrnissron
approved two new examinations for rnunrcrpal securities professionals. 35 The
first examination IS required In order for
a person associated With a murucipal
secuntres broker or rnurucrpal secuntres
dealer to become qualified as a tmancrat
and operations principal.
The second
examination IS required In order for a
person to become qualified as a rnurucrpal securities representative.
Clearing AgenCies-The Commission
has granted temporary registration to 12
clearing agencies pending the development of permanent standards for registratron.
On June 1, 1977, the Comrrussron
proposed for publrc comment standards
which clearing agencies would have to
meet In order to be granted permanent
registration 36 The Commission received
numerous comment letters on the proposed standards and on March 6, 1978,
proposed revised standards for publrc
comment. 37 The Commission again received many comment letters on the reVised proposed
standards
and IS
considering them.

inspections of self-regulatory orgent11

zatlOns---During
the fiscal year, the
Commission's staff conducted inspections of NASD district offices located In
Los Angeles, New York and San FranCISCO.These Inspections Involved a review and evaluation of the organization
and staffing of those offices, the procedures and quality of their broker-dealer
exarrunatron. disciplinary and customer
complaint processes, the adequacy of
their survlliance for compliance With
Comrrussron and NASD rules, and the
composition
and effectiveness of the
District Committees. In the Los Angeles
and New York district offices, the Comrrussron's staff noted areas In which the
NASD's compliance programs could be
enhanced The staff was generally satisfted With the NASD's compliance program at ItS San Francrsco district office
In ItS inspection of the Los Angeles
district office, the staff noted shortcommgs In that office's ability (1) to conduct
adequate ftnancral, operational and sales
practices exarrunatrons.
(2) to meet
planned examination cycles; (3) to respond fully and promptly to customer
mqumes and complaints, (4) to process
appropriately
requests for extensions
of time for delivery of payment for secuntres pursuant to Regulation T of the
Board of Governors of the Federal Reserve System; and (5) to follow up on
examinations In order to institute drsciphnary actions In a timely fashion It
appeared that these deticrencres were
attributable,
In large part, to a lack of
adequate and experienced staff durmg
1976 and 1977. These matters were
reviewed With otfrcials from the NASD's
headquarters office and its Los Angeles
district office upon completion of the
mspectron,
and were also discussed
With these offrcrals In follow-up meetings later In the fiscal year. The DIStrict's manpower quota was Increased
from 16 to 20, to authonze an additional full time attorney, a supervisor
and two examiners, and the NASD pro-

12

vrded assurances that the district's

operations were current.
The inspection of the New York district office revealed several dencienc res , Including
(1) the relative
inexperience of, and a high rate of turnover among, the examiner staff; (2) a
lack of adequate supervisron of the examination process; (3) the narrow scope
of the examinations conducted by the
NASD's staff, particularly With respect
to sales practices; (4) the failure of the
examiners to follow specmed examination procedures; (5) the failure of the
staff to take adequate follow-up steps
to assure that noted defrcrencres were
corrected; and (6) problems regarding
the processing of requests for extensions of time for payment of securities
pursuant to Regulation T Revised procedures have been Implemented or are
under consideration as a result of this
Inspection.
On November 15, 1977, the Comrrussron's staff Inspected the Amex to
determine the adequacy of ItS surveillance programs for monitoring compliance With Amex rules regarding position
limits. In addition, the staff reviewed
the Amex's procedures for rnorutonng
the use of market maker accounts With
clearing firms by specralrsts and Regrstered Option Traders to determine
whether the Amex's procedures would
detect Violations of Regulation T.
The staff found deficrencies
In the
regulatory and surveillance
programs
designed to monitor or provide for regulation of options POSitions. The staff
also raised a number of as yet unresolved questions based on conflicting
Interpretations
by the FRS and the
Amex regarding the availability of "exempt credit"
for Registered Options
Traders.
The Comrrussron's staff inspected the
Amex and NYSE on November 7, 1977,
and on January 25 and 26, 1978, respectively
The purpose of these In-

spections was to review and evaluate the
enforcement by the Amex and NYSE of
their delrstmg policies to determine
whether those exchanges are fulfilling
their regulatory responsibilities.
The staff concluded that the NYSE's
regulatory responsibilities,
In relation to
Its dehstrng policies and procedures,
were being earned out satrsfactonly.
With respect to the Amex, the staff
found that It had no program of centralized management and control for
dehsting securities. The Amex subsequently has taken steps to correct the
deficiencies found
On Apnl 20-21,
1978, the Commission's staff conducted an inspection of
the NYSE's processing of Regulation T
extension requests. The inspection disclosed that the NYSE procedures for review of Regulation T extension requests
do not assure compliance With that Regulation's requirement that extensions be
granted only in exceptional circumstances. In addition,
inadequacies
were
found in member firm's supervisory procedures, and NYSE surveillance thereof,
for compliance With Regulation T requirements. By letter dated September
19, 1978, the Drvrsion of Market Regulation Informed the NYSE of ItS findrngs and suggested possible alternative
solutions to the problem The Commission's staff IS drscussing With the NYSE
the Implementation
of new procedures
for the processing of extension requests
and IS also reviewmg whether the procedures of other exchanges and the
NASD are adequate to assure compliance With the requirements of Regulation T.
On October 3-5, 1977, the Commission's staff conducted an rnspectron of
the CBOE which focused pnmarily upon
the CBOE's examination program and
its procedures for enforcing member
compliance
With its rules concerning
option selling practices. The Commission's Inspection team noted a number

of areas In which It felt that the CBOE's
surveillance systems, like those of other
options exchanges, should be strengthened. The staffs of the Commission and
the Options Exchanges were working on
solutions to a number of problems as
the fiscal year ended
On May 18-19,
1978, the Commission's staff reviewed the CBOE's closmg
rotations procedures. The Commission's
staff was concerned about the need for
uniform procedures among the options
exchanges and the unfairness to publrc
customers of dally closing rotation procedures because of limitations that are
imposed on publrc customers but not on
protessronals on exchange floors. Based
In part on the results of this rnspectron,
the Commission approved a four month
experirnent by the options exchanges to
extend trading unt,14.10 New York time
and to suspend dally closmg rotations
On July 27 and 28, 1978, the Commission's staff Inspected the Phlx With
respect to (1) operation and surveillance
of the trading floor for stocks, (2) regulation of specralrsts and alternate dealers, (3) functioning
of the BUSiness
Conduct, Floor Procedures, and Stock
Life Committees; and (4) processing of
Regulation T extension requests submitted by member firms At the end of
the fiscal year, the Commission's staff
was continuing to analyze data gathered
In the course of this inspection
After
completion of this work, a report drscussing the staff's findings Will be transmitted to the Phlx.
On September 27 and 28, 1978,
members of the Commission staff conducted an inspection of the NYSE Arbitration Department.
The purpose of
the inspection was to determine whether
the NYSE's procedures result In the fair
and etncient resolution of disputes between broker-dealers
and their customers. As of the end of the fiscal year,
the Cornrnissron staff was In the process
of reviewing the data gathered dunng

13

the course of the inspection and, after
evaluation, will make any necessary recommendations to the NYSE and to the
Commission. The inspection Included
Interviews with the staff of the Arbitration Department, review of the system
of documentation for matters submitted
for arbitration, and reivew of a sample
of case files. The subjects of inquiry included the time necessary to conclude
arbitration proceedings, the manner In
which arbitrators are selected, the number of locations In which hearings may
be held, the types of cases and issues
involved, the appropnateness of awards,
the extent of particrpatron by the NYSE
staff In the resolution of disputes, and
the referral of matters which may be of
concern to the appropriate disciplinary
authorities of the NYSE and/or other organizations.

Revenues and expenses of self-regulatory organizations- The regulatory

14

functions of the various exchanges and
the NASD With regard to their brokerdealer members are financed through
various fees and dues, such as listing
fees and transaction charges. The nature of some of these revenue sources
makes the financial condition of selfregulatory organizations dependent upon
price fluctuations and trading volume.
Furthermore, the various self-regulatory organizations are quite different in
the extent of their dependence on particular sources of revenue. Some sources
of revenue, such as transaction, clearing and depository fees, change directly
with changes in share volume. Others
are relatively fixed, such as listing fees
and membership dues. Additional analysis and statistical detail on share volume and revenues and expenses of each
self-regulatory organization IS presented
in the Appendix of this report.

The Disclosure System

Corporate Governance; Management
Background and Remuneration
During the fiscal year, the Cornrrussion took sigruftcant steps toward providing new disclosures to investors
regarding the structure and function of
corporate boards of directors, and toward Implementing required disclosures
of new material inforrnatron regarding
the background and remuneration of
directors.
As a result of many recent events, including numerous corporate disclosures
revealing questionable and Illegal payments, the Commission became concerned about the adequacy of corporate
accountability and conducted a broad
re-examination of ItS rules relating to
shareholder communications, shareholder participation in the corporate
electoral process and corporate governance generally. 38 The Cornrrussionheld
public hearings which commenced in
Washington on September 29, 1977,
and continued for five and a half weeks,
with sessions In Los Angeles, New York
and Chicago. On July 18, 1978, the
Commission proposed rule, form, and
schedule amendments designed to increase the information available to
Investors regard109 (l) the structure,
cornposrtron, and functioning of Issuers'
boards of directors; (2) resignations of
directors; (3) attendance at board and
committee meetings; (4) voting policies
and procedures of certain institutions

subject to the proxy rules that exercise
voting rights With respect to equity securitres held for their own accounts or
for the accounts of others; and (5) the
terms of settlement of proxy contests.
The Commission also requested com.
ments on a rule proposal that would enable shareholder-proponents to review
management statements opposing
shareholder proposals pnor to the mailing of Issuers' proxy matenals.39
Final rules adopting many of the proposals were Issued after the close of the
fiscal year. Generally, those amendments require disclosures In the areas
descnbed above Including disclosure of
certain economic and other relationships of directors and nominees. However, the proposals on institutional
Investors' voting polrcres were Withdrawn.
The staff is also engaged In the preparation of a comprehensive report which
would address some of the more complex questions raised dunng the course
of the corporate governance proceedrngs, The report is expected to address
such issues as exrstmg checks on corporate conduct, available shareholder
remedies, the functions of the board of
directors and ItS various committees,
and the respective roles of the pnvate
sector, shareholders, the Commission,
the self-regulatory organizations, and
Congress In corporate accountability.
After review and perhaps publication of .

15

the staff report, the Commission will
consider what further action, if any, IS
appropriate and will determine whether
to publish additional rulernakmg proposals or to recommend or support new
legislation affecting corporate accountability.
The Commission also published proposed amendments to various forms,
reports, and schedules
Intended to
standardize and Improve ItS disclosure
requirements
relating to management
renurneratron 40 In view of the development of complex and varied management remuneration
packages and the
necessity for accurate and complete remuneratron
disclosure,
the amendments were Intended to provide clearer
and more concise reporting of all types
and formats of remuneration, including
security-based and other non-cash arrangements.
In addrtron, these proposed amendments were Intended to
provide a clearer method for reporting
of personal benefits or "perqursites"
provided to management, In recognition
of the considerable concern engendered
In the corporate and legal cornrnurutres
by the Commission's
Interpretive
releases regarding how such benefits
should be disclosed. (After the close of
the fiscal year, the Commission adopted
amendments to the remuneration disclosure requrrernents.)
In connection with ItS efforts to consolidate, for easier reference, substantially all disclosure requirements
Into
one uniform schedule, the Commission
also adopted standardized Items, which
set forth In one regulation the current
disclosure requirements concerning directors and executive officers, management remuneration,
legal proceedings
and security ownership of certain benefrcral owners and management 41 The
Commission's action at the time also
Involved amendments to the disclosure
requirements regarding the Identity and
background of corporate offtcials and

16

events which are material to Investors'
evaluation of the ability and integrity of
management. 42 These amendments, for
example, will require disclosure With respect to the previous five year period of
any injunctions or consent decrees relating to business practices or Violations
of Federal or State secunties laws and
certain CIVil actions involvmg Violations
of such laws to which directors and officers are subject, as well as disclosure
of other directorships
held by each director or nominee.

Small Business Hearings
On December 14, 1977, the Commission announced that It would hold
pubhc hearings concerning the effects
of ItS rules and regulations on the ability
of small businesses to raise capital and
the Impact on small businesses of the
disclosure requirements under the Secunties Acts.43 The Commission,
on
March 6, 1978, published a release listmg the Issues to be considered at the
hearings. 44 The general areas of inquiry
for which the Commission requested
oral presentations and written subrnrsstorrs Included the following.
(a) The Definition of a Small Business
Issuer;
(b) POSSible Revision of Disclosure
Obligations
Imposed on Small Bustnesses:
(c) Role of Underwriters, Accountants
and Attorneys In a Small Business Secuntres Offering;
(d) Intrastate Offerings and Rule 147;
(e) Regulation A;
(f) Rule 240; and
(g) Private Placements and Rule 146.
In a companion release dated March
6, 1978, the Commission
proposed
Form S-18 and related actions concerning Simplified registration and reporting requirements for small Issuers 45
The Form was proposed to be available
for offerings of up to $3 million by domestic or Canadian corporate Issuers

which are not subject to the Commission's continuous
reporting
requirements
The Form calls for narrative
disclosure somewhat less extensive that
that presently required by Form $-1 and
audited financial statements substantially srrnilar to those required by Regulation A. In addition,
the proposal
relaxed certain financial statement requirements by allowing such Issuers to
Include In their initial annual report
filed with the Commission audited financial statements substantially similar
to those required by Regulation A
Between Aprr112, 1978 and May 18,
1978, the Commission conducted a senes of hearrngs In Washington,
DC;
Los Angeles, California; Denver, Colorado, Atlanta, Georgia, Chicago, Illinois; and Boston, Massachusetts. The
commentators
discussed a number of
deletions, additions, and modifications
of registration
and reporting requirements in an effort to aid small bustnesses and new ventures. Commentators
also emphasized that there are a number of factors other than the Federal securities laws that have a substantial
Impact on access to the public marketplace.
Based on the hearrngs and other
available information and suggestions,
the Commission adopted revrsrons to
Rule 144, Rule 146, and Regulation A
The Commission
relaxed Rule 144's
quantitative
resale restnctrons, 46 and
proposed an amendment to Rule 144
which would permit certain persons who
have held securities covered by the Rule
for a five year perrod to sell such securities Without any volume limitations
(This proposal was adopted after the end
of the fiscal year With a holding period
of three years for exchange listed securrties and four years for secuntres not
listed but Issued by a reporting company).47 An amendment was adopted to
Rule 146 to allow the use of Regulation
A type financial
information
for Rule

146 offerings up to $1.5 million 48Pursuant to requisrte Congressional
authorrzation, the Commission raised the
ceiling on the amounts of securities
which may be sold under Regulation A
Within a twelve month perrod from
$500,000
to $1,500,000
49
In conjunction With the Commission's
ongoing review of problems facing small
businesses, additional
proposals-e-rncludmg Form $-l8-were
stili In various stages of staff formulation
and
review at the end of the fiscal year
(Subsequent to the close of the fiscal
year, the Commission adopted, on March
29, 1979, Form S-18 as revised to reflect certain recommendations
of commentators. The form IS available for
offerrngs of up to $5 million dollars, of
which up to $1.5 million may be sales
by existmg securrty holders.)

New Developments in Disclosure
Policy
Advisory Committee
On Corporate
DIsclosure-In
November, 1977, the
Report of The AdVISOry Committee on
Corporate DIsclosure was presented to
the Commission and the public 50 The
Report represented the culmination
of
a 21-month investigation by a 17 -rnernber Committee which was assisted by
the staff of the Commission and a number of other protessional and self-regulatory organizations
The transmittal
letter accompanying
the Report Indicated that although not
all members agreed unreservedly, the
conclusions reached were that the disclosure system established by the Comrnrssron IS sound and does not need
radical reform or renovation. However,
the letter also urged that the Commission be mindful of the POSSIbilities extant for such reform, and the Report
goes on to recommend that the Comrrussion review ItS practices In 13 major
areas: (1) the Commission's disclosure
objectives; (2) the Commission's rule-

17

making and monitoring practices; (3)
the development of Industry gurdelines:
(4) soft information;
(5) segment reporting; (6) social and environmental
information; (7) proxy statement disclosure; (8) further integration of the Secuntres Act and the Exchange Act; (9)
reporting requirements
under the Exchange Act; (10) financial statement
disclosures, (11) disclosure problems
of small companies; (12) dissemination
of company filings; and (13) reorganization of the Commission's file-keeping
system.
In a release Issued In February,
1978,51 the Commission summarized
the major aspects of the Report and announced ItS preliminary response to the
recommendations.
In the area of Industry guidelmes, the
Commission has Issued two releases 52
announcing Its Intent to develop guides
for railroads and for gas and electric
utilities, and the staff IS reviewing the
letters received on these projects With
a view to making further recommendations to the Commission.
Projections of Future Economic Performance.-In connection With projections of financial
information,
the
Commission reviewed the administrative record on several prior rule-making
porposals and hearings, completed ItS
review of the Advisory Committee's recommendation that the Commission ISsue a publrc statement encouraging the
disclosure of earnings forecasts and
other forward-looking
information
by
registrants, and approved, after the end
of the fiscal year, proposed gurdelmes
for disclosure of such information. The
guidelmes Included, in accord With the
Advisory Committee's recommendation,
a proposed rule that would provide a
"safe-harbor"
from the liability provisions of the Federal securities laws for
reasonably based and adequately presented projections or forecasts that are
made In good faith, but ultimately prove
to be erroneous
18

In a release " Issued In December,
1977, the Commission adopted amendments to ItS disclosure forms Implementing
the Advisory
Committee's
recommendations
concerning the disclosure of Industry segment and geographrc information,
and integrating
such disclosure With the registrant's description of business Information.
To
provide the public With further guidance
concerning the Issues presented by segment disclosure, the Diviston of Corporatron
Finance
later Issued an
interpretative release responding to some
of the more frequently-asked
questlons.54

lntegreiton of Documents and Other
DIsclosure Revtstons-« The Advisory
Committee also recommended that the
Commission continue ItS efforts to integrate the disclosure aspects of the
Securities Act and the Exchange Act and
pursuant to thrs goal, the Commission
has taken several actions. On April 11,
1978, the Cornrnissron adopted admendments to Form S-16, the Simplest
and shortest
registration
form; the
amendments,
for the first time, made
the form available for registration of securities to be offered directly to the public in primary offerings. 55Issuers eligible
to use form S-16 are required to file
periodic reports under the Exchange Act
containing information about their bUSIness management and financial operations. Since these reports are generally
available, the form requires only limited
further disclosure concerning the offering, and basic disclosure regarding the
Issuer IS included through incorporating
these reports by reference.
Further
amendments to Form S-16 were proposed on September 7, 197856 making
the short form available for primary offerings by larger, well established subsidiary Issuers. (These proposals were
adopted after the close of the fiscal
year.)
Another Significant action relating to
the format of disclosure involves the

Cornrrussron action of August 16, 1978
inviting comment on a proposed new
version of Form 100K, the annual reporting form under the Exchange Act 57
The Advisory Committee recommended
that Form 100K be amended to eliminate what are, In the Committee's View,
unnecessary requirements, to add new
requirements
and to allow the information required to be presented In a
more effective and flexible format.
A number of comments were received
on this concept and the Commission's
staff is reviewing them with a view to
making specrfic recommendations
to
the Commission. It IS expected that a
number of the revrsions to Form 10-K
which might be proposed would allow
that document to be prepared In a "freewriting" style similar to the annual report to security holders, rather than In
the rigid format now required under
Form lO-K. One result of thrs approach
might be that registrants would be encouraged to combine the two documents--the
annual report to security
holders and the annual report on Form
10-K-thereby
Improving the comprehensrveness of mtorrnatron
disseminated by registrants While easing the
burdens of preparing and filing the required documents.
The Commission has also taken steps
to further the Advisory Committee's recommendation
that disclosure requirements under the Securities Act and
Exchange Act relating to the same categories of information be uniform among
forms and reports. In December, 1977,58
the Commission adopted the first two
Items of Regulation S-K, which provide
uniform requirements for registrants to
provide disclosure In various reports and
forms of their busrness and properties
by focusmg on their Industry segments
and geographic areas. In July 1978,59
the Commission adopted additional uniform Items regarding disclosure of management background and remuneration,
material legal proceedings, and bene-

ncrat ownership

of management and
certain substantial security holders. The
approach of Regulation S-K IS Intended
to make compliance With disclosure requrrernents Simpler by providrng one
convenient reference source and assurmg that information required to be disclosed on a particular subject does not
vary from one form to another.
Elsewhere In this Report, a descrrptron IS provided of actions taken concerning
the Advisory
Committee's
recommendations
on corporate governance and small busmess frnancmgs
and disclosure

Tender Offers, Large Acquisitions
and Corporate Repurchases
Sections

13(d) and (e), and

14(d),

(e) and (f) of the Exchange Act, enacted

In 1968 and amended In 1970, provide
for full disclosure In cash tender offers,
other stock acqursrtrons
mvolving
changes In ownership or control, and
corporate repurchases of stock These
provisions were desrgned to close gaps
In the full disclosure
provrsions of the
securities laws and to safeguard the interest of persons who tender their securitres In response to a tender offer or
have their securities repurchased by the
Issuer
On April 21, 1978, the Commission
adopted amendments to Regulation 130
as well as a new Schedule 13G relating
to disclosure by certain beneftcial owners of equity secunties pursuant to Section 13(d) of the Exchange Act 60 Among
other th rngs, the new provrsrons (l) proVide a definition of the term "benefrcral
ownership" for the purpose of Section
13(d) of the Exchange Act; (2) make the
disclosure In Schedule 130 acqursitron
statements more meaningful to investors and the reporting of that inforrnatron less burdensome
to beneftctal
owners; and (3) provide a short form
acquisrtron statement to be used by certain institutional
Investors and certain
employee benefit plans acquiring se-

19

cunties In the ordinary course of their
business and not for purposes of control.
Concurrently with the adoption of the
amendments
to Regulation 130, the
Commission
proposed for comment
amendments to Regulation 130 which
would Implement Section 13(g) of the
Exchange Act. 61The principal effect of
the proposed amendments IS to require
persons who own more than five percent
of a class of equity securities specified
In Rule 13d-Hc)
and who are not presently required to file under Section
13(d) of the Exchange Act, to file annually the applicable
information
required by Schedule 13G. (The gaps In
reporting
under Section
13(d) were
closed with the adoption
of these
amendments,
essentially as proposed,
on November 22, 1978,62 subsequent
to the end of the fiscal year.)
Various technical and interpretive ISsues raised by the amendments to Regulation 130 were also addressed In a
staff interpretive release.P and further
amendments to Regulation 13D were
adopted relating to the availability
of
Schedule 13G to a parent holding company and to the beneficial ownership of
pledged secuntres, including secuntres
pledged to a broker-dealer In connection
with margin account transactions. 64
To satisfy the obligation under Section 13(g) to tabulate and make promptly
available the Information contained In
Schedules 130, 13G, and 14D-1, the
Commission, after the close of the fiscal
year, proposed and adopted amendments to the cover pages of those forms 65
These proposals require persons filing
the schedules to abstract certain data
from within the schedule In order to facrhtate the entry of such data Into a proposed computer system.
On November 17, 1977, the Comrrussron also proposed for comment a
new rule and related schedule with respect to gomg private transactions by

20

public companies or their affiliates. 66
The effect of these transactions IS the
elimination or substantial reduction of
the public equity Interests, thereby resulting In the corporation or ItS successor becoming a privately held firm. If
adopted, the proposals would provide
defrrutrons, specific disclosure and dissemination
requirements,
substantive
protections and particular antifraud provisions with respect to gomg private
transactions.

The Foreign Corrupt Practices Act
In December 1977, the President
signed the Foreign Corrupt Practices Act
of 1977 (FCPA), which amended certain sections of the Federal securitres
laws. The Act prohibits Issuers from,
among other things, corruptly making
payments to officials of foreign governments In order to Induce such officials
to use their authority or Influence to obtain business In the country for the ISsuer.
The Act also requires issuers to comply with certain related provrsrons including the maintenance of a system of
Internal accounting controls which provides reasonable assurance that certain
objectives are met. The Act will sigrnticantly assist the Commission In its continuing
program
against
fraud
by
management of publicly held companies.
Subsequent to the end of the fiscal
year, the Cornrnissron adopted rules that
prohibit the falsification
of an Issuer's
books and records and the making of
false, misleading or Incomplete statements to an accountant In connection
With any audit or examination of the financial statements of the Issuer or the
preparation
of reports or documents
filed with the Cornrrussron. These rules
are intended to assure that an issuer's
books and records accurately and fairly
reflect Its transactions and dispositions
of assets; to protect the integrity of the

Independent audit of Issuer financial
statements
required
under the Exchange Act; to promote the reliability
and completeness
of financial
information that issuers are required to file
with the Commission, or disseminate to
Investors under the Exchange Act; to
promote compliance with the new Sections 13(b)(2)(A) (FCPA provisions); and
to prevent the concealment of questionable or Illegal corporate payments and
practices. The Commission believes that
these rules, while Intended to deal with
a much broader range of practices than
the problem of questionable or Illegal
corporate payments and practices, will
serve to discourage repetition of the seriOUSabuses which the Commission has
uncovered in this area.
It bears emphasis that the Internal
accounting
control provrsions of the
FCPA are not exclusively concerned with
the preparation of financial statements.
An equally Important objective of the
new law, as well as pre-existing provisions of the Federal securities laws, IS
the goal of corporate accountability.
In.
this context the Act embodies certain
requirements
of integrity In corporate
record keeping and includes assurances
that there IS proper control over and accountability for the use of corporate assets and that corporate transactions are
executed In accordance with management's general or specific authorization.
Accordingly, the Act establishes requirements concerning the Internal activities of reporting companies that are
supportive
of the disclosure
system
mandated by the Exchange Act, but
should not be analyzed solely from that
point of view. The new requirements
may provide an independent baSIS for
enforcement action by the Commission,
whether or not violation of the provisions
may lead, in a particular case, to the
dissemination of materially false or misleading Information to Investors.

Certain cases brought by the Comrrussron under the Act are discussed In
this report In the "Enforcement
Program" section.

Oversight of the Accounting
Profession
Report on the Accounting Profession
and the Commission's Oversight RoleIn July 1978, the Commission submitted to Congress ItS frrst Report on the
Accounting Profession and the Commission's Oversight Role This was In accordance
With the Commission's
undertaking dunng the hearings held on
the accounting profession by the Subcommittee on Reports, Accounting and
Management of the Senate Committee
on Governmental Affatrs one year earlier
to report periodically on the accounting
profession's response to the challenges
which Congress and others have placed
before It and on related Commission in-

rtiatives.
The questions raised concerning the
accounting
profession and ItS future
have centered principally on the profession's capability, absent direct government regulation,
to regulate
and
discipline
its members and to assure
their Independence; and to set auditing
and accounting standards. The Report
contained the views of the Commission
and the staff on on the major issues confronting the accounting profession. and
analyzed In detail the recent progress
made by the Commission and, under ItS
active oversight, the protession, in dealIng With them.
During the fiscal year, the profession's major self-regulatory
initiatives
were focused on the new Drvision of
Firms of the American Institute of Certified
Public Accountants.
The SEC
Practice Section of that Divisron, monitored by a Public Oversight Board composed of distingurshed individuals from
outside the accounting profession, IS to
provide leadership In addressing Issues

21

of importance to the profession and ItS
Independence,
such as the range of
services appropriate for accountants to
offer clients, and IS responsible for the
development and conduct of a continuing program of peer reviews of member
firms.
Based on ItS review of events during
the preceding year, the Commission indicated that It was too early to assess
the long-run effectiveness of the profession's efforts at self-regulation,
but that
It regarded the section's creation as a
major accomplishment and a potentially
viable foundation for a meaningful program of self-regulation.
The Comrnrstherefore,
that the
sron Indicated,
profession's
initiatives
showed sufficient promise to be permitted to continue to evolve, and that It would not at
that time recommend legislation, such
as that Introduced In Congress dunng
the year, which would institute formalized procedures for self-regulation
of
the profession.
The Cornrrussron has worked with the
accounting profession to define the objectives of the self-regulatory program,
and to assure that the profession's proposed Implementation IS consistent with
those objectives. As described In the
staff report, the Cornrrussron has monrtored the profession's efforts m this
area closely In addition, the Commission was active dunng the year m overseeing the profession's
Initiatives
concernrng the Independence of auditors and the accountrng and audrtmg
standard-setti ng processes.
Accounting Standards for Oil and Gas
Producers-During
the fiscal year the
Cornrrnsston conducted an extensive
public proceeding on accounting standards for 011 and gas producers. The Commission's
proceeding was conducted
pursuant to both the Federal securrtres
laws and the Energy Policy and Conservatron Act of 1975 (EPCA), which re-

22

quires that the Cornrnrssron assure the
development
and observance of accounting practices for the oil and gas
Industry. The Impact of the requirements of EPCA, among other things,
contributed
to the uniqueness of the
Cornrrussron's proceeding In this matter.
In August 1978, the Cornrnission announced that It had determrned, among
other things, to require disclosure In financial statements of supplemental financial and operating data, Including
inforrnatron on future net revenues from
production of proved 011 and gas reserves. It also specrfred a form of successful efforts accounting to be followed,
and proposed an alternative
full-cost
method
Based on ItS conclusions that development of new tmancral accounting
measurement standards will be necessary to achieve meaningful reporting of
earnings and fmancral position for 011
and gas producing companies, the Comrnrssron announced that it had determined to work toward the development
of a method of accounting that recognizes valuations of proved 011 and gas
reserves In the balance sheets and mcome statements of 011 and gas producers, a method which the Cornrrussion
designated
"reserve
recognition
accountmg." Because of the inherent imprecrsion
of reserve valuation,
the
Cornrnrssron also indicated that It Will
closely study the feasibility of th ISmethod
and ItS usefulness before determining
the ultimate method of reporting
Although the Cornrrussron's conclusions In this matter differed from those
of the FASB, the Comrrussron. In announcing ItS determinations,
emphaSized that ItS policy toward the FASB
remained unchanged, and reiterated Its
strong general support of the FASB's
role rn addressing frnanctal accounting
Issues.

Investment Companies and Advisers

Comprehensive Review of Regulatory
System
The Divrsron of Investment Management undertook during the fiscal year
comprehensive
reviews of the Investment Company Act and the Investment
Advisers Act. These reviews were Implemented with a view to ensuring that the
Acts and the Commission's administration of them are consistent with both the
protection of investors and the needs of
regulated Investment managers In light
of current and anticipated
trends In
business
The DIVision established
a special
study group to review the Investment
Company Act and the rules, regulations,
and administrative
practices under it,
with the purpose of simplifying and reducrng the burden of regulation, to the
extent possible, consistent with the protection of Investors. One objective of the
study ISto replace administrative review
of proposed Investment company activities with rules codifying general condrtions under which such activities are
permissible.
Such rules could obviate
certain routinely granted applications
for exemptive relief and requests for interpretive advice. More significantly the
study is explonng ways of reducing the
extent to which the staff becomes involved in decisrons of investment companies and their managements which
involve the exercise of both business
judgment and legal and frducrary re-

sponstbilrty. A major focus of this effort
will be on strengthening and structuring
the role of drsrnterested directors of Investment companies
In making and
overseeing such decisrons,
The result should be a regulatory system which relies primarily on investment companies and their managers,
and particularly the disinterested directors, to discharge their duties properly
and to make full and fair disclosure, but
which preserves a strong oversight function for the Cornrmssion through ItS inspectron and enforcement
programs
(Subsequent to the close of the fiscal
year, the Cornrnrssron
proposed rules
regarding the pricing of redeemable investment company securities; the receipt of brokerage
commissions
by
affiliated
brokers In connection
With
stock exchange transactions;
transactions With portfolio affiliates; reorganization of portfolio companies; and certain
jornt purchases of Insurance coverage
It also proposed and adopted three rules
regarding unit Investment trusts. Moreover, It proposed to rescind an obsolete
rule regarding the receipt of brokerage
cornrnissions
by affiliated
brokers In
connection With over-the-counter transactrons.)
The Investment Advisers Act review
IS concentrating on whether the exrstrng
regulatory structure IS adequate In light
of the dramatic growth of the advisory
industry in recent years Subjects to be

23

examined by the review Include. whether
or not there should be professional and
financial qualifications
for Investment
advisers, whether there should be speerne antifraud rules dealing with abuses
to which the advisory Industry may be
particularly
vulnerable, whether there
should be different regulations for different types of advisers, and to what
extent the Advisers Act should apply to
entitles such as banks, Insurance companies, rruru-accounts. and certain kinds
of publications
(Subsequent to the end
of the fiscal year, on January 24, 1979,
the Commission adopted major amendments to the Investment adviser registration form and adopted a new rule
requiring advisers to make certain drsclosures to their clients. These actions
should greatly Increase the amount of
material information about Investment
advisers which IS available to the Comrnrssion and the public)

Institutional Disclosure
The Commission adopted dunng the
fiscal year Rule 13f-1 and related Form
13F Implementing the institutional drsclosure program mandated by Section
13(f) of the Exchange Act which was
added by the Securities Acts Amendments of 1975 67 Section 13(f) empowers the Cornrnissron
to adopt rules
creating a reporting and disclosure system to collect specifrc mtorrnatron as to
the equity secuntres held In accounts
over which certain institutional
investment managers exercise Investment drscrenon. The reporting system required
by Section 13(f) IS Intended to create
In the Commission a central repository
of historical and current data about the
Investment activrtres of institutional investment managers.
Under Rule 13f-1,
an institutional
Investment manager exercismg investment discretion
with respect to accounts having $100 million or more In
exchange-traded or other specrfred eq24

urty secunties, on the last trading day
of any of the twelve months of a calendar
year, must file Form 13F With the Comrrussron, Within forty-five days after the
last day of such calendar year. The new
rule took effect beginning With calendar
year 1978. Banks must also file Form
13F With the appropriate banking agency.
The release announcing adoption of
Rule 13f-1 sought comments concernmg the usefulness and costs associated
With quarterly, as opposed to annual reporting. As of the end of the fiscal year,
the DIVISion of Investment Management
was reviewing the numerous comments
It had received concerning that matter
(Subsequently to the close of the fiscal
year the Cornrnrssron, on January 5,
1979, Issued final rules requiring quarterly reportrng.)

Integrated Registration and
Reporting System
The Comrrussron adopted dunng tiscal 1978 a rule and forms creating an
Integrated
regrstration and reporting
system designed to reduce both the
number of forms and the duplicative information filed by management investment companies. 68 The need to Integrate
the various registration and reporting
requirements under the Securities Act
and the Investment Company Act has
been recognized since 1941, and the
Cornrrussion's action achieved thrs Important goal.
The Integrated registration
and reporting system provides for a unified
registration statement form (Form N-1
for open-end companies and Form N-2
for closed-end companies) which may
be used both to register securities under
the Securities Act and to meet the requrrernents for filing a registratron statement under the Investment Company
Act. The unified registratron statement
Includes most of the information previously contained In registration state-

ment
Form
N-8B-l
under
the
Investment Company Act, and Forms S4 and S-5 under the Securities Act. The
Commission also adopted a revised notification
of registration,
Form N-8A,
under the Investment Company Act The
new form permits Investment companies filing a notification of registration
Simultaneously with a registration statement to file a special short-form nonficatron of registration.
As part of the Integrated registration
and reporting system, the Commission
adopted Rule 8b--16 requiring the annual updating of registration statements
filed under the Investment Company
Act. This IS a new requirement
for

closed-end
management
Investment
companies. The effect of Rule 8b-16
will be to ensure that the staff of the
Commission and the public have access
to complete and current Information
about all registered management
investment companies
The Commission revised Form N-l R,
the annual report form under the Investment Company Act for management
Investment
companies
The annual
amendment of registration statements
filed under the Investment Company Act
required by Rule 8b-16 permits elimination of separate narrative annual reports previously required to be filed as
part of Form N-l R

25

Enforcement Program

DUring the past fiscal year, the Comrrussron has continued to maintain a vigorousand effective enforcement program
as a means of accomplishing ItS Investor
protection goals. The significant cases
brought and disposed of reflect the variety of fraudulent conduct detected and
prosecuted by the Commission. They
also show the channelling of the enforcement effort Into specific problem
areas.
The Commission's enforcement activities, which are designed to combat securities fraud and other Illegal conduct,
encompass civil and criminal court actions, as well as administrative proceedings. Where Violations of the
securities laws are established, the
sanctions which may result range from
censure by the Commission to prison
sentences Imposed by a court.
The enforcement program ISdesigned
to achieve as broad a regulatory Impact
as possible within the framework of resources available to the Commission. In
view of the capability of self-regulatory
and state and local agencies to deal effectively With certain secunties violations, the Commission seeks to promote
effective coordination and cooperation
between its own enforcement activities
and those of other agencies.

Settlement of Commission Actions
A high percentage of the Commission's judicial and administrative en-

forcement actions are settled before any
trial of the action ISheld. These actions
are primarily remedial In nature and are
aimed at preventing future Violative conduct and at remedying the results of
past Violations. The Commission has
been successfu I In obta Inmg settlements which meet both of these goals
Without the necessity for prolonged litigation which could Impose a serious
burden upon limited personnel resources
Typically, defendants consent to such
settlements Without admitting or denymg the factual allegations contained In
the Commission's complaint (In the
case of injunctive actions) or order for
proceedings (In the case of administrative proceedings) Accordingly, In the
following discussion of significant enforcement actions, it should be assumed that the defendant consented to
any indicated settlement Without admitting or denying the factual allegations.

Questionable Payments
The Commission continued ItS enforcement Interest in the area of questionable and Illegal corporate payments
in fiscal 1978, and expects that ItS interest in this area Will continue in fiscal
1979. While more than 400 corporations have made disclosures of such
payments, the Commission IS continuing to investigate evidence of violative

27

conduct In this area both by companies
which have disclosed such activities
and by other corporations as well
Prevrous Commission enforcement
activities disclosed a widespread pattern of rllegal and unethical corporate
activity and contributed to the enactment by the Congress of the Foreign
Corrupt Practices Act of 1977 (Sections
13(b)(2), 30A and 31 (c) of the Exchange Act) which was signed Into law
rn December 1977. The Act prohibits
Issuers from, among other things, corruptly makrng payments to officials of
foreign governments rn order to rnduce
such offtcials to use their authority or
rnfluence to obtarn busrness for the ISsuer rn the country.
The Act also requires Issuers to comply with certarn related provisrons, rncludrng the maintenance of a system of
Internal accountrng controls which provrdes reasonable assurance that certarn
objectives are met. The Act Will sigruficantly assist the Commission In ItScontinuing program against fraud by
management of public companies
The relief obtarned rn these cases IS
designed to be both remedial and prospective For example, rn the Seagrams
case discussed below, the Frnal Order
prohibits the defendants (1) from filing
Inaccurate annual and other reports
with the Comriussion pursuant to Section 13(a) of the Exchange Act, regardIng, among other things, (a) any
accountrng practices employed to disguise Illegal activities, (b) the Illegal
contribution of funds for the benefit of
political candidates, (c) the Illegal drsPOSitionof wrnes and SPirits for gratuities, promotion, or entertarnment, and
(d) the establishment or maintenance
of any fund of corporate monies or other
assets which are not accurately and
fairly accounted for, In reasonable detail, on the books and records of the
defendants; (2) from makrng or ardrng
and abettrng the making of false and
28

ncntrous entries rn books and records
under their control; and (3) orders the
defendants to file With the Cornmission
reports on Form 8--K drsclosmg all material matters relevant to the complarnt.
The following cases Illustrate the
Comrrussron's efforts rn thrs area
SEC v. Bestrtce Foods Co. 69_0n Au-

gust 17, 1978, the Cornrrussron filed a
complaint against Beatrice Foods Co.
(Beatrice) and contemporaneously, a
Judgment of Permanent Injunction was
entered against Beatrice upon ItS consent.
The complarnt charged violations of
the reportrng and proxy sohcrtatron proVisions of the Exchange Act rn connection With Beatrice's payment of discounts
or rebates to ItS dairy customers In posSible Violation of state mrnimum pricmg
or milk marketing laws. The complaint
alleged that durmg the period from
1971 through 1976, payments totaling
rn excess of $11. 7 mil/Ion were accounted for falsely and Improperly on
Beatrice's books and records or passed
through unrecorded bank accounts.
The complaint also alleged that at varIOUStimes the existence of certarn of
these unrecorded accounts came to the
attention of Beatrice's Internal audit
staff but references to these accounts
were omitted from Internal audit reports In addition, the complaint alleged
that on the one occasion when the exrstence of an unrecorded bank account
was discovered by Beatrice's pubhc accountrng firm, the discovery was not
disclosed rn the audit report.
SEC v. The Seagram Company Ltd.

70_

On September 8, 1978, the Commission filed a complaint agarnst The Seagram Company Ltd. (Seagram) and ItS
pnncrpal subsidiary, Joseph E. Seagram
& Sons, Inc. (JES). The complaint alleged the failure by Seagram and JES
to disclose In their annual and periodrc
reports filed With the Comrnissron certain illegal and questionable political

contributions
and certain illegal and
questionable trade practices.
The complaint alleged that Seagram
and JES failed to disclose that Seagram
maintained a special account In Canada, from which various payments were
made, including questionable and Illegal payments and political contributions
made through JES. The complaint further alleged that JES made additional
payments In cash and merchandise to
retailers of wine and spirits In possible
violatron of Federal and state liquor
laws and regulations. These payments
were not reflected or were Inaccurately
reflected on the respective books and
records of Seagram and JES. Finally,
the complaint alleged that JES paid an
advertising agency $435,000
In order
to reimburse that agency for the advertising expense incurred on behalf of a
primary cadidate for a state election In
1970. It was alleged that this expenditure was falsely reflected on the books
of JES.
Simultaneously with the filing of the
complaint, Seagram and JES consented
to the entry of a Final Order.
SEC v. The Goodyear Tire & Rubber
Company71-0n
December 21, 1977,
the Commission obtained a Judgment
of Permanent Injunction and other injunctive relief against The Goodyear TIre
& Rubber Company (Goodyear) upon
Goodyear's consent. The Commission's
complaint had alleged various violations
of the secunties
laws In connection
with the maintenance
of unrecorded
cash funds totaling over $1 5 million
and the rnakrng of both Illegal domestic
political contributions and various questionable foreign payments. The Commissron charged that questionable
payments were made In at least twenty
foreign countries In order, among other
things, to secure price Increases, settle
tax problems, acquire licenses to do
business, secure government purchase
of Goodyear products, expedite customs

clearance and other regulatory matters,
Influence the outcome of CIvil litigation
and settle labor difficulties.
It was further charged that one payment represented Goodyear's share of
an industry-wide payment to secure an
Increase In the government-controlled
price of tires In a Latin American country. In order to maintain these unrecorded funds and make the questionable
payments, the Commission charged that
there had been falsifications
of corporate books and records, and filings of
materially false and misleading annual
and periodic reports and proxy statements with the Cornrrussron.
SEC v. )05. Schutz Brewing Co. 72_
The Cornrrussron, on April 7, 1977,
filed a complaint against the Jos. Schlitz
Brewmg Co. (Sch lrtz) alleging that Sch lrtz
had made undisclosed payments to varIOUS persons and entities, In violation of
Federal and state liquor laws, to Induce
these persons to purchase from Schiltz.
The complaint also alleged the undisclosed receipt of payments by certain of
Schlitz's Spanish affiliates In violation
of Spanish tax and currency exchange
laws. The complaint sought an mjuncnon against violations of the antifraud,
proxy and reporting provrsions of the
Federal securities laws as well as additional equitable relief. including the appointrnent
of a Special Counsel to
investigate Schiltz's practices and report on hrs findings
Based upon ItS view that the alleged
payments might be material facts to
Investors, the court denied a motion by
Schiltz to drsrruss the Commission's
complaint.
The Court's determination
of materiality was premised on the alleged payments' reflection
on the integrity of
management and on the potentially adverse consequences to Schiltz's licenses as a result of ItS Illegal conduct. The
court also cited with approval the Commission's May 12, 1976 report to the

29

Senate Banking Housing and Urban Affairs Committee
in finding that the
amount of business dependent on the
questionable payments was relevant to
a determination of materiality
On July 7, 1978 the same Court entered a Final Judgment of Permanent
Injunction by Consent against Schlitz.
enjommg It from violations of the proVISions of the Federal securitres laws
alleged
In the Commission's
complaint. 73

SEC v. The Boeing Company74-0n
July 28, 1978, the Commission filed a
civil injunctive action against Boeing
Company (Boeing) alleging violations of
the antifraud, reporting and proxy provisions of the Exchange Act and the
rules thereunder. Simultaneously
with
the filing of the complaint, Boeing consented to the entry of a Judgment of
Permanent Injunction
The complaint alleged that since about
1971, Boeing engaged In an undisclosed course of business whereby (l)
It made payments of approximately $27
million to officials of foreign governments or instrumentalities
thereof and
approximately $6 million to indrviduals
or entities controlled by them, who were
officers or controll rng shareholders of
foreign airlines, in connection With sales
of Boeing airplanes; (2) Boeing entered
Into contractual arrangements With varIOUSconsultants and cornrrussion agents
pursuant to which Boeing disbursed at
least $19 million Without adequate records and controls sutncrent to Insure
that such disbursements were actually
made for the purpose indicated or that
services were received by Boeing commensurate With the amounts of such
disbursement;
(3) Boeing executed
multiple consulting contracts With foreign consultants which facilrtated the
payments of large sums of money Into
accounts maintained by those consultants outside their home country; (4) In
two Instances Boeing represented to a

30

foreign government or an instrumentalrty of a foreign government that It would
not pay cornrnissrcns
to any person
when, In fact, It did pay substantial
cornrrussions.
As part of the equitable relief obtained in the case Boeing was required
to establish a Special Review Committee consisting of three outside members
of ItS Board of Directors. The Special
Review Committee IS to review the adequacy and accuracy of disclosures made
by Boeing in ItS Form 8-K report, and
to review Boeing's own Investigation in
connection With the matters alleged In
the complaint and Similar matters concerning commissions,
fees, and other
payments made by Boeing since January
1, 1971, to determine whether such investigation was reasonably complete.
SECv. PageAtrways, Inc. 75--On April
12, 1978, the Commission filed a CIVil
injunction
action charging Page Airways, Inc. (Page) and SIXof its officers
and/or directors With Violations of the
antifraud, penodrc reporting and proxy
provisions of the Exchange Act. The
complaint also charged Page With violations of Section 13(b)(2) of the Exchange Act, which was added to that act
by the Foreign Corrupt Practices Act.
The complaint alleged that the defendants, In connection With overseas
sales of aircraft, paid or caused to be
paid funds to officrals of foreign governments, to entities controlled by such
ottrcrals or to purported cornrmssion
agents without adequate controls to insure that such disbursements were actually made for the purposes Indicated
In Page's records and Without adequate
controls to document whether the services provided, If any, were commensurate With the amounts paid.
The action filed by the Comrnission
IS currently being litigated.
SECv. Katy lndustrtes, Inc. 76_ln the
first case brought under Section 30A of
the Exchange Act, which was added to

that act by the Foreign Corrupt Practices
Act and which prohibits certain foreign
payments by Issuers of securities and
certain persons acting on their behalf,
the Commission, on August 30, 1978,
filed a civil injunctive action against
Katy Industries, Inc. (Katy), its chairman of the board of directors; and another Katy director
On the same day,
the DIstrict Court entered judgments
permanently enjoining the defendants
from Violating certain of the periodic reporting, proxy sohcrtation, antifraud and
foreign corrupt practices provisrons of
the Federal secunties laws With respect
to payments made In connection with
obtaining a foreign oil concession. The
defendants consented to the entry of the
Injunctions.
SEC v. E-Systems Inc.77-On March
13, 1978, the Commission filed a CIVil
injunctive action which alleged that ESystems Inc. (E-Systems) and three of
ItS employees violated the reporting and
proxy solicitatron provisions of the Federal securities laws In connection with
E-Systems' Indirect payments of approximately $1.4 rnillron to an official
of the Republic of Korea. The complaint
alleged that the payments were made to
bank accounts located In the United
States controlled by relatives of the Korean official
The complaint further alleged that those relatives
in turn
transferred the monies to the Korean
officral, or his designees.
The defendants consented to the entry of a Judgment of Permanent Injunction and Other Relief.

SEC v. Aminex Resources Coro.t"-:«
On March 9, 1978, the Commission
filed a Civil injunctive action against
Aminex Resources Corp. (Arnmex), certain of ItS officers and directors, and
other corporations alleging violations by
various of the defendants of Sections
10(b), 13(a) and 13(b)(2) of the Exchange Act and rules thereunder. The
Commission's
complaint
alleged that

certain of the defendants had engaged
in schemes, undisclosed to Arrunex's
shareholders or to the public, to misappropriate and divert at least $1.24
million of Arrunex's assets. The defendants disguised these misappropriations
by means of false and Improper accounting rn the books and records of
Aminex. In furtherance of these schemes,
Amrnex allegedly filed false and misleading annual and quarterly reports
With the Cornrnissron.
The Commission sought and obtained
a temporary restraining order agamst
the defendants restrarrung them from
further VIolations of the above-mentioned provrsions of the Federal securities laws and also appointing a temporary
receiver to manage the assets of Aminex
and ItS subsidiaries. The temporary receiver served In this capacity until bankruptcy receivers were appointed
for
Ammex, and for the subsrdianes.
On May 24, 1978, the District Court
entered a Judgment of Permanent Injunction and Ancillary Relief against the
remaining defendants upon their consent. In addition to being enjorned, the
defendants were ordered to disgorge
$1.24 million to Aminex. Other provrsions of the Judgment mclude restrictions upon the mdrvrdual defendants
assuming positions as officers or directors of any publtc company In the future.

Tender Offers and Corporate
Takeovers
Due to a variety of corporate economic
considerations, there has recently been
a significant
Increase In tender offers
and other corporate takeover activity.
The Commission's enforcement and rulemaking responsibilities
under the Williams Act " are designed to ensure that
parties involved in such transactions are
provided the benefit of full and fair disclosure; to ensure that all affected
shareholders and Investors are treated
fairly; and to avoid tippmg the balance

31

of regulation In favor either of the bidder
or the target company's management
Because of the swiftly changing circumstances often associated with tender
offers, the Commission has taken measures to insure ItS capability to monitor
changes In corporate ownership; to coordinate ItS efforts to detect promptly
any possible violations of the applicable
laws; and to take appropnate investigatory and enforcement action.
Among the recent Important enforcement actions In the tender offer area are
the following:
SEC v. Sun Company, Inc. BO_On
March 9, 1978, the Commission filed
a civil injunctive
action against Sun
Company, Inc. (Sun), LHIW, Inc. (LHIW),
and certain other corporate and individual defendants.
Among other things, the complaint
alleged that certain defendants violated
Sections
13(d), 14(d) and 14(e)
of the Exchange Act and rules thereunder In connection with an offer by Sun
and LH IW for the common stock of Becton Dickinson and Company (BectonDickinson) by which they acquired approximately 34 percent of the outstandmg common stock of Becton-Dickrnson.
Equitable relief sought In the case includes injunctions and an order compelling Sun and LHIW to make an offer
of rescrssron to those persons from
whom Sun and LH IW purchased Becton-Dickinson stock and with respect to
any Becton-Dickrnson
stock for which
the offer of rescrssion IS not accepted,
ordering Sun and LHIW to dispose of
such shares In a manner pursuant to a
plan approved by the Court
SEC v. Bank of Credit and Commerce
internettonst,
S.A. BI_On March 20,
1978, the Commission flied a crvil injunctive action against Bank of Credit
and Commerce
lnternatronal,
S.A.
(BCCn, and other corporate and individual defendants.
The Commission alleged, among other

ion»,

32

things, that certain foreign persons and
entities and certain United States persons had acted as a group In seeking to
acquire control of Financial General
Bankshares,
Inc. (Financial
General)
and had acquired approximately 25 percent of its common stock without making the necessary disclosure filings with
the Commission.
In addition to permanent mjunctions
and other relief, as part of the equitable
relief obtained In this case upon the
defendants' consent, certain of the foreign persons and/or entitles were either
to make a cash tender offer for all the
common stock of Fmancral General at
a price of $15 per share, which was the
highest pnce they paid for the stock, or
In the event such an offer was not made
within a certain time penod, to sell their
stock. In addition, such persons represented that If any person made a cash
tender offer at a price In excess of $15
per share they would tender their stock
to the person making the offer. The defendants also were ordered to create a
$1 million fund against which claims
could be made by persons who sold
stock to the defendants at a pnce less
than $15 per share.
SEC v. Secunty lnternsttonel CorporationB2-On November 22, 1978, the
Cornrrussron filed a complaint against
Security International Corporation (SIC),
the chief executive officer of SIC, a consultant to SIC, and other corporations
and individuals. The complaint alleged
violations of the provrsrons of the Federal securities laws relating to tender
offers, proxy matenals, annual reports
and required reports concerning stock
ownership and acquisrtions.
The complaint alleged, among other
things, that SIC and ItS chief executive
officer caused annual reports and preliminary proxy matenals to be flied with
the Cornrnrssron which contained false
and misleading statements about annual remuneration paid to the chief ex-

ecutive officer. The complaint further
alleged that the chief executive officer
caused to be filed With the Commission
and distributed to shareholders tender
offer materials containing
misleading
statements about the remuneration paid
him. It was also alleged that the material
failed to disclose adequately the terms
of a competing tender offer and that
certain of the defendants (1) acted as
a statutory "group" under the Williams
Act and failed to file the necessary reports With the Commission disclosing
the group's existence and actions and
(2) sought to acquire stock outside of
the tender offer.
The court, on July 17, 1978, entered
a Final Order of Permanent lnjunctron "
against certain consenting defendants,
except the consultant. In addition, the
order, in substance, required the consenting defendants to correct certa In
misleading statements In their previous
filings With the Commission.
After a hearing, the court entered an
Order of Preliminary Injunction against
the consultant enjoining him from VIOlating certain of the antifraud,
reportmg, proxy solicitation
and secunties
acquisition provisions of the Federal securities laws. The Commission's action
seeking a permanent injunction against
him is still pending. 84
SEC v. Texas International
Company85-On March 7, 1978, the Commission filed a complaint against Texas
International Company (TI) to enjoin It
from further alleged Violations of Sections 10{b), 14{d) and 14(e) of the Exchange Act and rules thereunder
In
connection with a December 1977 tender
offer for certain claims which were exchangeable for stock of Phoenix Resources
Company,
formerly
King
Resources Company. The complaint alleged that TI's tender offer materials
should have been filed With the Commission. In addition, the cornplamt alleged Violations
of the antifraud

provrsions concerning,
among other
things, (1) the comparability
between
the amount of cash paid per share of
stock In the December 1977 tender offer and a prior tender offer to different
parties; (2) the value per share of each
class of stock to be Issued under Phoenix's plan of reorganization;
(3) the
present and future financial condition
of Phoerux and the value of Its assets;
and (4) the comparability
between the
amount of cash paid per share of stock
to the senior creditors and trade creditors and that offered to the security
holders of King Resources
The matter IS presently before the
court on cross motions for summary
judgment.

Management Perquisites
The staff's continuing Investigations
involvrng management perquisites have
focused on the payment of nonbusiness
expenses and subsidres to corporate officers and directors. Examples Include
rental of expensive livrng quarters at far
less than the amount paid by the companies for their maintenance, and the
use of corporate airplanes, as well as
other undisclosed expenses and benefits.
An Important action brought In this
area IS the following case.
SEC v. Charles Jacquin et Cie, Inc.86_
This case alleged Violations of the antifraud, reporting and proxy solrcrtatron
provrsrons of the Federal secunties laws
by the corporate defendant and two of
ItS officers.
Among other things, the complaint
alleged substantial salary payments to
certain members of the officers' family
who, In fact, rendered no Significant
services to the company. The complaint
further alleged that the company paid
a variety of strictly personal expenses of
the family including
such Items as
apartment rentals, maintenance,
tax,
and utility expenses for personal rest-

33

dents and college tuitron payments for
certain children of Jacquin's officers
and directors.
In addition to the injunctive relief
which was granted In the case upon the
defendants'
consent, Jacquin was ordered to expand Its board of directors
to Include two additional Independent
directors; establish an Audit Committee
of the board; and, appoint a Special
Counsel to prepare an accounting of
montes Improperly directed by or to any
officer, director or employee of Jacquin.
In this connection, the officer defendants were required to provide an accounting of and to repay montes which
they received for their personal benefit.

Municipal Securities
The trading of government and murucipat secunties has Significantly
increased In recent years. At one time,
these secuntres were purchased primarily by financial institutions for their
Investment yield and low risk. More recently, however, highly sophisticated
and extremely speculative trading practices In these securities have developed,
mvolvrng brokers and dealers who, by
the use of manipulative and deceptive
practices, have preyed upon unsoptustreated Investors. These developments
have generated an active enforcement
Interest on the part of the Commission.
The followmg enforcement actions reflect the Commission's activity In this
area.

SEC v. Winters Government Secun-

ties CorporatlOnB7-ThlS

case, filed on
August 15, 1977, was one of the first
injunctive actions by the Commission in
connection With transactions In United
States government securrtres. Winters
Government
Securities
Corporation
(WGSC), an unregistered broker-dealer,
and others, were alleged to have Violated
certain of the antifraud provisions of the
Federal securines laws, In connection
WIth transactions In secunties consist-

34

ing primarily of Government National
Mortgage Association (GNMA) securities for delayed or forward delivery and
payment.
The Cornrrussron's complaint alleged
that the defendants used high pressure
sales techniques,
charged excessive
markups and cornrrussrons and used
sham accounts. The complaint further
alleged that fraudulent misrepresentanons and omissions were made In
that the defendants
represented that
quick and substantial profits could be
made Without risks.
In addition to permanent injunctive
relief consented to In the case, the Commission obtained a representation from
one defendant and instituted pubhc admirustrative
proceedings
against another which limited, for periods of tirne,
their ability to be associated with broker-dealers. The Commission also cancelled the broker-dealer registration of
one defendant. 88
The Cornrnissron has also been concerned with the growing number of
abuses in the offer and sale of industrial
development bonds. In some instances
these bond offerings have resulted In
ftnancral loss for investors. One case In
the area IS U.S. v. George Mariscal. 89
Tlus case Involves Criminal charges
against a Phoenix, Arizona attorney who
In another matter had been enjoined
from offering and/or selling the securities of any issuer in Violation of the registration requirements of the Securities
Act and, subsequently,
had been permanently suspended from appearing or
practicmg before the Commission under
an order Issued pursuant
to Rule
2(e)(3)(II) of the Cornrnission's Rules of
Practice. 90
The Ind ictment 91 charged George
Mariscal, the attorney and promoter of
Toltec Agri-Nomics,
Inc., an Arizona
corporation. with ten counts of interstate transportation
of securities obtained by fraud and thirteen counts of

mail fraud. (The defendant was convicted on 22 counts in May 1979 )

Other Significant Enforcement

Cases
SEC and Comptroller of the Currency
v. The National Bank of Georgla92- The
Commission and the Comptroller of the
Currency JOintly filed a CIvil injunctive
action against The National Bank of
Georgia (NBG), The Calhoun First National Bank (Calhoun), and T. Bertram
Lance (Lance) alleging violations of certain ofthe antifraud, reporting and proxy
soucrtation provrsrons of the Federal securitres laws. Simultaneously
the defendants consented to the entry of Final
Judgments of Permanent Injunction and
Other Equitable Relief.
The complaint alleged that NBG, Calhoun and Lance engaged in certain unsafe and unsound banking practices
including
a pattern of related-party
transactions by Lance and certain of his
relatives, substantial and prolonged overdraftmg in checking accounts at Calhoun, numerous questionable loans to
officers and directors of Calhoun and
misleading entries on its books and records, Incomplete and Inadequate evaluations of NBG's loan porttoho, and
loans by N BG to relatives and associates
of Lance without adequate regard for the
creditworthiness
of the borrowers and
on preferential terms.
The complaint alleged that the senior
management of Calhoun and the management of N BG engaged In, were aware
of, or permitted certain of the unsafe
practices, and that the board of directors In a number of Significant respects
performed no meaningful
monitoring
role of management. The management
of Calhoun engaged In such acnvrties
despite persistent criticisms
and recommendations by the Comptroller of the
Currency and despite having knowledge
of many of the unsafe practices.
As part of the settlement of the case,

NBG and Calhoun made certain undertakings which are construed to be Written agreements entered Into with the
Comptroller of the Currency within the
meaning of the Financial Institutions
Supervisory Act of 1966
(12 U.S C
Section 1818) After five years from the
date of the Judgment, unless terminated
by the Comptroller,
NBG and Calhoun
will no longer be subject to the Court's
order to comply with such undertakings,
but such undertakings shall continue as
a final cease and desist order of the
Comptroller.
The NBG and Calhoun undertakings
relate to certain of the lending practices
of the banks with respect to insiders;
the relationships of the banks to their
correspondent banks; certain reporting
requirements of insiders of both banks;
and the adequacy of the loan loss reserves of both banks.
As a further part of the equitable relief
granted, the Court ordered both banks
to maintain
audit committees,
with
specrfied duties and functions, consisting In part of Independent directors.
In addition, Lance made certain undertakings which addressed certain of
the conduct described In the complaint
and with which he was ordered to comply.
SEC v. Netionet Student Marketing
coroorettonv-us» August 31, 1978,
District Judge Barrington D. Parker of
the United States District Court for the
District of Columbia issued a Memorandum Opinion and Judgment tollowing
the trial of the remaining defendants In
the Commission's litigation ansmg from
the National Student Marketing Corporation (NSMC) stock fraud.
The Commission proceeded to trial
against. the president of an Insurance
holding company acquired by NSMC
th rough a merger In 1969; a d Irector of
the Insurance holding company who was
a partner In ItS law firm; another partner
In the law firm; and the law firm Thtr-

35

teen other defendants In the case settled the civil case before trral; three
defendants were granted summary Judgment. 95
The Commission had alleged that the
remaining defendants had violated and
aided and abetted violations of Section
lO(b) of the Exchange Act, Rule 1O~
5 thereunder and Section 17(a) of the
Securities Act by participating
In the
merger of NSMC and the Insurance
holding company, a merger which was
approved by that company's
public
shareholders based on allegedly materially false and misleading financial information concerning
NSMC, and by
engaging in the sale of NSMC stock Immediately after the merger, all without
disclosrng
materral Information
contained In a comfort letter delivered at
the closmg by NSMC's outside auditors.
The NSMC tmancial statements which
were contained In the proxy statement
sent to the public shareholders of the
Insurance holding company showed a
profit of approximately $700,000 while
the auditors stated irrthe comfort letter
that retroactive adjustments were necessary such that they would show a loss.
The court found that" ... [the attorneys] should have refused to proceed
with the merger absent disclosure to and
resolrcrtatron of the shareholders."
Concerning the alleged aiding and
abetting Violations by the attorneys In
failing to take any action at the closmg,
the court held that" ... the attorneys'
responsibilities to their corporate client
required them to take steps to ensure
that the information [contained In the
comfort letter] would be disclosed to the
shareholders. "
The court concluded that the attorneys were required at the very least to
"speak out at the closmg concerning the
... concomitant requirements that the
merger not be closed until the adjustments were disclosed and approval of
the merger was again obtained from the

36

Interstate shareholders".
Although
It
determined that the defendants had VIolated the securrties laws, the court concluded that an Injunction
was not
warranted.

SEC v. IU

tntemetionet Corp.96-On

Aprrl 17, 1978, the Cornrnission rnstrtuted an injunctive action against IU International
Corporation (I U) In which
the Cornrnissron alleged that IU filed
annual reports and proxy statements
which failed to disclose adequately and
accurately materral facts The alleged
failure concerned IU's payment of approximately $445,000
In legal fees incurred In the defense of IU's chairman
and chief executive officer, John M.
Seabrook, and two others In the AlscoHarvard Fraud LitigatIOn, (Consolidated
Cases) D.D.C., Civil Action No. 71659, and IU's payment of approximately $533,000 to settle claims against
Seabrook arrsing out of such litigation.
The complaint further alleged that IU
was not named as a defendant In such
litigatron and was not Involved In any
way In the acnvitres which formed the
baSIS of such litigation.
The Cornrrussron's action was settled
by the entry of a decree enjom rng I U
from Violation of the reporting provisions
of the Federal securitres laws and requrrrng I U to comply With the terms of
ItS Consent and Undertaking (Consent)
filed With the decree. Seabrook agreed
to comply With the terms of the Consent.
Among other th mgs, the Consent provrded for the appointment of a Special
Counsel to investigate and Issue a report
with respect to the matters set forth in
the complaint and the transcrrpt of Seabrook's testimony
taken- durrng the
Commission's investigation which preceded the filing of the complaint.

SEC v. Moms A. Shenker97-The
Cornrnissron flied this action on October
13, 1977 against Continental Connector Corporation (Connector), whose pnncipat asset is the Dunes Hotel and

Casino In Las Vegas, Nevada; Connector's controlling
shareholders-Morris
A. Shenker; seven of Connector's former
or present directors;
and companies
wholly owned or controlled by Shenker.
The complaint also named as defendants the Pipefitters
Local Union No.
560 Pension Fund, and Pipefitters Welfare Educational Fund, trust funds (collectively, the "Prpefitters Funds"); and
four trustees of the Prpefitters Funds.
The complaint charged Shenker, Connector, and other defendants with VIOlations of the antifraud provisions of the
Securities Act and the antifraud and reporting provrsions of the Exchange Act
through their participation
In a scheme
to defraud which caused Connector to
enter into a transaction with a company
owned by Shenker. The transaction was
allegedly designed to benefit Shenker
and his company to the detnment of
Connector and Its public shareholders.
As a result of this transaction, the complaint alleged, Shenker's company received $5 million of Connector's montes.
The complaint further alleged that Connector made false and misleading public
disclosures
concerning
this
transaction.
In order to restore to Connector assets
lost through the transactions alleged In
the complaint, the judgments also provided that Shenker guarantee Connector
against loss In the amount of $5 million
plus interest in connection with the
transaction
described above between
Connector and the company owned by
Shenker.
Finally, the Prpefrtters Funds were
ordered to appoint a special counsel to
investigate and report on the transactions alleged in the complaint.
In addition, the Piepfitters Funds were ordered
to adopt written Investment policies and
procedures and to appoint an independent investment advisor to review and
approve all proposed investment deersions pnor to their being effected.

The action IS pending against one remaining defendant.
Further,
the complaint
charged
Shenker, the Prpefrtters
Funds, and
other defendants with engaging In a
course of busmess whereby the assets
of the Pipetitters Funds were used for
the benefit of Shenker and hrs controlled companies and not for the benefit of the beneficianes of the Prpefitters
Funds.
Simultaneous With the filing of the
lawsuit, Connector, Shenker, the Pipefitters Funds, and certain other defendants consented to the entry of orders of
permanent injunction. In addition, Connector was ordered to appoint three independent directors, satisfactory to the
Commission, to ItS board of directors
and to have these Independent directors, through an audit committee and an
Independent public accountant, investigate and report on certain past transactions
between Connector
and its
officers, directors and certain other persons. In addition, the audit committee
will review certain proposed transactions and will approve or disapprove any
such transaction.
SEC v. Sheldon L. Hert, et al.98; Re-

port of Investigation in the Matter of
National Telephone Co., lnc., Relating
to Acttvittes of the Outside Director of
Nettonel Telephone, Inc.99-On January 16, 1978, the Cornrnissron filed a
Civil injunctive action naming as defendants certain former officers, directors and employees
of National
Telephone Co., Inc. (National) and Pnce
Waterhouse & Co (PW), National's former Independent auditors. The complaint alleged Violations of Section 17(a)
of the Sec unties Act and Sections 10(b)
and 13(a) of the Exchange Act and rules
thereunder, and the Commission's Regulation S-X.
The complaint alleged that certain financial statements Issued by National
and reported upon by PW were rnaten-

37

ally false and rrusleadrng, rn that they
materially overstated assets and revenues and understated liabilities and expenses. The complaint also alleged that
PW failed to conduct Its audit of National rn accordance with generally accepted
auditing
standards
and,
accordingly, that PW lacked sufficient
basis to conclude that National's frnancial statements were presented rn accordance
with generally
accepted
accountrng pnnciples. In addition, the
indivrdual defendants were named for
their roles in the preparation and ISSUance of allegedly materrally false and
misleading public cornrnurucatrons concerning National's declrnrng frnanctal
condition durrng the perrod prror to National's enterrng bankruptcy proceedrngs.
PW agreed to a settlement rn which
It consented to the entry of a Frnal Judgment and Other Relief enjcrrung PW
from Violations of the antifraud and reportrng provisions of the Federal secuntres laws rn connection
With the
securitres of National or ItS subsrdrarres.
The judgment entered against PW also'
(1) ordered PW to review rnternally a
number of specified audit areas descrrbed rn the complarnt and to adopt
such procedures, if any, as are needed
to assure the adequacy of ItS audit practices; (2) ordered PW to submit to a
"peer review" of the manner In which
PW conducts ItS audit practice With respect to clients whose financial statements are filed With the Commission or
whose securitres are listed on a stock
exchange or traded in the over-thecounter market; and (3) ordered PW to
return to Natronal's Chapter X Trustee
$90,000 rn fees paid rn connection With
the National engagement for Natronal's
1973 and 1974 fiscal years
Pursuant to Section 21(a) of the Exchange Act, the Commission also Issued
its Report of Investigation (Report) based
on rntorrnatron received in the Cornrrus-

38

sion's non-public mvesngatron-i-ro the
Matter of National Telephone Co., Inc.With respect to the actrvities of certarn
directors of National. These directors
consented to the issuance of the Report
Without adrrutting or denyrng the Report's findrngs.
The Report found that these directors
were aware, durrng the fall of 1974 and
the wrnter and sprrng of 1975, of significant
facts concernrng
National's
troublesome financial condition. Moreover, they were also aware of the optimistic nature of the company's publrc
disclosures, disclosures which were in
direct contrast With the true state of the
company's affairs. Under these circumstances, the Report contrnued, "ITlhe
company's outside directors had an affirmative duty to see to It that proper
disclosures were made." The Report
concluded that "In general, outside directors should be expected to rnamtain
a general tarnilranty
with their company's communications
with the public.
Inthisway, theycancomparesuch
comrnurucatrons With what they know to be
the facts, and If the facts as they know
them are rnconsrstent With those communications, they can see to It, as stewards for the company, that approprrate
revistons or add It Ions be made."
SEC v. George M. OssermanlOO-On
September 7, 1978, the Cornrrussron
filed a complarnt seekrng Injunctions
agarnst a number of Individual corporations and limited partnerships, and a
law firm. The complarnt alleged that
each of the defendants Violated the regrstration provrsrons of the Securities Act
m connection With the offer and sale of
approximately $112 million of unregistered securitres rn the form of limited
partnersh Ip interests.
The complarnt further alleged that
certain of the defendants Violated the
general antifraud provisrons of the Secunties Act and the Exchange Act rn

connection with the sale of the limited
partnership interests.
On September 14, 1978, certain defendants (including the law firm) consented to the issuance of permanent
Injunctions without admitting or denyrng the allegations of the complaint. The
court ordered one of these defendants
to make an accounting of the disposition
of funds received by him in connection
with the activities alleged In the complaint. The law firm further stipulated
that It would adopt, Implement
and
maintain
Internal supervisory
procedures set forth in a letter of undertaking
to the Commission.
The Commission is conducting drscovery as to the remaining defendants
and expects a hearing on the merits In
the coming fiscal year.

In the Matter of Bateman, EIchler,
Hill Richards Inc.101--On March 20,
1978,
the Commission
issued an
Order Instituting
Proceedings against
Bateman Eichler, Hili Richards, Inc.
(Bateman Eichler) and four of its senior
officers for violation of the anti-manipulative and antifraud provisrons of the
Exchange Act In connection With trading
in the securities of Frigitromcs,
Inc.,
Vernitron Corporation and Logicon Inc.
The Order also alleged that Bateman
Eichler violated the beneficial ownership reporting requirements and recordkeeping provisions of the Exchange Act,
that the four officers aided and abetted
such Violations and that all of the respondents violated the margin provisions of the Exchange Act. The Order
alleged that a senior vice-president of
Bateman Eichler purchased the securities of these three Issuers for customers
accounts without their authonzation.
Approximately $9.6 million of these securities were purchased on such unauthorized basis. The fact that customers
were unaware of the unauthorized purchases for their accounts or in some instances,
refused
to accept
the

unauthonzed
purchases for their accounts, enabled this officer to offer to
sell securities to other customers at a
price below their then current market
price. These transactions resulted in an
artificial
inflation of the prices of the
securities.
Bateman Eichler and its officers consented to findings of violations as alleged In the order and the Imposition of
certain remedial sanctions.
As part of the remedial sanctions ordered by the Commission, Bateman EIchler's registration With the Commission
as a broker-dealer was suspended for
one year but the suspension was held
In abeyance providing that Bateman EIchler met certain conditions. The conditions Included a protubrtron
(with
certain exceptions) from engaging in
any block posrtiorung on certain national securities exchanges for a period
of six months, the setting aside of $1
million for claims and the establishment
of a Special Review Committee to review
and monitor the compliance activities
of the firm. Three officers were suspended from assocratron With any broker-dealer for one year each but that
sanctron was held In abeyance provided
that each officer not serve in any capacity with any broker or dealer for three
months, nor receive compensation from
the firm for an additional three months
and not be found to have committed
additional
violations of the Exchange
Act for a period of one year from the date
of the order. The fourth officer was
barred from association With a broker or
dealer With the proviso that he could
reapply to be associated with a broker
or dealer after three years from the date
of the order.

In the Matter of Memll Lynch, PIerce,
Fenner & Smith, Inc 102_ln November
1977, the Commission issued an Opinion and Order wherein it found that Merrill Lynch, Pierce, Fenner & Smith Inc.
(Merrill Lynch), a research analyst em-

39

ployed by Merrill Lynch, and twentyeight of Merrill Lynch's salesmen had
violated the antifraud provisions of the
Securities Act and the Exchange Act In
connection
with recommendations
to
purchase shares of Scientific
Control
Corporation (Scientific). After the institution of public administrative
proceedmgs, hearings were held before an
administrative
law judge In various major crties throughout the United States.
At the conclusion of the proceeding, the
respondents made offers of settlement,
which were accepted by the Commission. The Cornrnrssron Issued an OprnIon and Order, which contained findings
and Imposed remedial sanctions upon
the respondents.
The find ings of violations by the Merrill Lynch salesmen primarily rest upon
the false and misleading
representations made to public customers dunng
oral presentations designed to encourage the purchase of SCientific shares.
Most common among these misrepresentations were statements related to
the future Increase In the market price
of SCientific shares, and statements
comparing SCientific, In terms of future
potential, to much larger and more seasoned companies
The Commission
found these statements to have been
-made without a reasonable basis In fact
and, hence, In violation of the antifraud
provrsions. Merrill Lynch was also found
to have failed to reasonably supervise
the twenty-eight salesmen with a view
toward preventing these violations.
The Commission
censured Merrill
Lynch and ordered the payment of the
sum of $1.6 million to compensate ItS
customers who suffered losses In connection with transactions In Sctentrfrc.'?'
In addition, the Commission directed
Merrill Lynch to review and strengthen,
where necessary, ItS sales and research
guidehnes and its training program for
salesmen.
Seven individual salesmen received

40

suspension from association with the
secuntres Industry for various periods;
twenty-one salesmen were censured. In
the Commission's
Opinion and Order,
the proceedings were dismissed against
eighteen salesmen and a supervisory
analyst.

In the Matter of Bache Halsey Stuart
Shields Incorporated and Shearson
two adminisHayden Stone Inc.-In
trative proceedings,
the Commission
found that Bache Halsey Stuart Shields,
Inc. (Bache) and four of ItS employees 104
violated the Federal securities laws In
connection with listed option activity In
the accounts of certain customers. 105
The respondents
were charged with
churning their customers' accounts over
which they had discretionary authority
and effecting option trades for such accounts which were not suited to the investment
objectives,
Investment
sophistication
and financial situations
of the customers.
The Commission found that Bache
and two of ItS salesmen violated certain
of the antifraud provrsions of the Federal
secunnes laws and that Bache and one
of its salesmen violated the margin requirementsofthe
Federal Reserve Board.
Two branch managers were found to
have failed reasonably to supervise persons subject to their supervision.
As part of Bache's offer to settle the
proceedings, Bache agreed to pay approximately $74,000 to customers who
suffered losses, and to cancel debit balances In customers' accounts totalling
approximately $264,000.
The Commission ordered all option
trading suspended for forty-five days In
two of Bache's branch offices where the
respondent employees had worked. Three
of the employees were barred from association with any broker or dealer and
one was suspended for 15 days. The
barred respondents may reapply to become associated with a broker or dealer

after specified
periods of time have
elapsed.
In the other administrative
proceeding, the Commission alleged that Shearson Hayden Stone (Shearson) and two
of its employees violated the general
antifraud
provisions of the S 303
Act and the Exchange Act and that two
employees failed reasonably to supervise a person subject to their supervision.
As part of the settlement,
Shearson
agreed to pay approximately $146,000
to customers who suffered losses. The
Comrnissron ordered that one branch
office of Shearson suspend option trading for 30 days and another branch office suspend option trading for 60 days
One employee was censured, another
suspended from association with a broker or dealer for 90 days and another
was barred from association With any
broker or dealer.
The findings were made pursuant to
offers of settlement submitted by the
respondents.
SEC v. The IES Management Group,
Inc.106-ln a series of judrcial and administrative
actions mvolvrng the I ES
Management Group, Inc (lES), a registered broker-dealer, and related indrviduals,
the Cornrrussicn
obtained
permanent orders of mjunctron, by consent, against nine indivrduals enjoining
them from Violations of registration,
antifraud, customer protection, and financial responsibility
provrsrons of the
Federal secuntres laws. Additionally,
a
Securities Investor Protection Corporation trustee was appointed to liquidate
IES.
The Commission's complaint In thrs
matter alleged that I ES fraudulently
sold Interests in tax shelter limited partnerships. Pursuant to offers of settlement, the Commission
revoked the
broker-dealer and Investment adviser
registrations of I ES, barred three individuals and suspended one person for

a one-year period from being associated
with any broker, dealer, Investment
company, or Investment adviser The
Cornrnissron also accepted resignations
from practice before the Commission
from three attorneys.
In the Matter of Steven S Mltchell107The Cornmissron ordered public adrrunistrative proceedings against two registered broker-dealers and nine individual
options market makers In connection
with certain options trades on the floor
of the Pacrfrc Stock Exchange (PSE) In
San Francisco. The proceedings
are
based upon allegations of the Commission's staff that the respondents VIOlated certain of the anti-manipulation
and antifraud provrsrons of the Federal
securities laws by engaging In trade reversals In call option contracts respectmg the underlying stock of Houston Oil
and Minerals Corp. (Houston 0,1). Listmg and trading In Houston 011 options
began Simultaneously on the PSE and
the Chicago Board Options Exchange on
November 22, 1976 The trades In ISsue occurred on that first day of competitive
trading
between
the two
exchanges. A pubhc evrdentrary hearing
In San Francisco has been completed
and the Administrative
Law Judge has
entered find ings that the respondents
Violated certain provrsions of the securities laws alleged In the order mstrtuting proceedings
and has Imposed
sanctions including a suspension
The
matter IS now an appeal to the Commission.
In the Matter of The Boston Company
tnstttuttonel Investors, Inc.-In
an initial decision which became the final
Cornrrussron decision as to all respondents except Raymond L. Dirks (Dirks) of
New York, New York (petition for review
pending), SIX registered Investment advisers were found to have Violated the
general antifraud provisrons of the Federal securities laws In March 1973, by
offering for sale and seiling on their

41

clients' behalf the securities of Equity
Funding Corporation of America (Equity
Funding) after receiving information from
Dirks that one or more former Equity
Funding employees had alleged that a
substantial amount of the corporation's
reported Insurance business had been
fabricated by company offrcrals.
Four of the respondents were censured. The administrative law judge,
finding that another respondent had dISclosed to ItS immediate purchaser, a
large New York block trading firm, much
but not all of the information about Equity Funding It possessed, determined
that the public Interest required no
sanction against the respondent.
Dirks was found to have violated the
antifraud provisions and aided and abetted the other respondents' Violations by
selectively disseminating allegations
about the Equity Funding fraud to them
and others, all of whom were clients of
potential clients of Dirks' broker-dealer
firm. Dirks was tmtrally suspended from
association With a broker-dealer for sixty
days; he has petitioned for review of
each adverse finding and legal conclusion. The Divrsion of Enforcement IS
seeking review of that portion of the initial decision wherein Dirks was suspended for only sixty days.
In reaching hrs decision that the other
respondents received and wrongfully
employed material, non-public information about Equity Funding, the administrative
law judge
sharply
drstrngurshed between vague, unattnbuted rumors Circulating in financial
Circles and concrete allegations from
one or more recent employees In a positron to know about alleged Improprieties. The judge also ruled that material
information under the antifraud provisions could consist of the allegations of
fraud, falsified records, and artrftcrally
Inflated earnings conveyed In this case.
The judge found that the seiling respondents' sudden lrqurdatron of their
42

clients' Equrty Funding holdings and
Dirk's pattern of intensive Investigation
and selective dissemination were all
strong indications that the Equity FundIng allegations were both material and
a substantial factor in the determination
to sell.
U.S. v. Richard P. Curran108-On
September 14, 1976, a Federal grand
jury In Phoenix, Arizona returned a
multi-count indictment against 18 individuals and 5 corporations. The indictment charged the defendants With
various counts of securities fraud, mail
fraud, and interstate transportation of
money obtained by fraud in connection
with the purchase and sale of various
Interests in land contracts offered for
sale and sold by Cochise College Park,
Inc. (Cochise). In addition, certain defendants were charged With operating
enterprises In Violation of the Federal
Racketeer Influenced and Corrupt Organizations (RICO) statute. The indictment resulted from a joint CommissionFBI investigation.
Over $40 million was raised from
members of the publrc, the public loss
from the sales of these Interests exceeded $20 mIIlion. The losswascaused
by an extremely high default rate on the
contracts for the lots sold, together With
large sales commissions and assignment discounts paid by Cochise on the
lot contracts.
On the basis of verdicts of guilt rendered after trial and the entry of pleas
of guilty to Informations, various fines
of up to $10,000 have been imposed
upon certain of the defendants. Sentences range from periods of probation
to ten years Imprisonment. The matter
remains pending or on appeal With respect to certain of the defendants. 109
(Subsequent to the close of the fiscal
year, certain appeals were resolved resulting in attirrnatrons of convictions of
three defendants and reversal of convictions for two others. 110)

U. S. v. Larry L. Stevens alkJa Frank
Goodman111_A thirty-nine
count indictrnent was returned against Larry L
Stevens a/kJa Frank Goodman charging
him WIth VIolations of the antifraud proVISIons of the Securities Act, mall fraud
and bankruptcy fraud. The alleged VIOlations occurred In connection With the
sale of promissory notes and Investment
contracts of North Western Mortgage
Investors Corporation (the company) of
Seattle, Washington of which Stevens
was president and In connection With ItS
Chapter X reorganization
proceeding.
The company, under the control of the
defendant, raised In excess of $6 million from over 1,700 Investors, the vast
majority of which were elderly and retired, attracted by a promised 8 percent
return. The notes and contracts sold to
the public were secured by Interests In
real property. However, the indictment
charged that the notes and contracts
were sold In amounts far In excess of the
company's equity therein; that the company was offering to pay Interest to
Investors at a time when It was not payrng nor could It pay Interest to existrng
investors; and that the company was
making Interest payments from other
investor montes The defendant pleaded
gurlty and was sentenced to serve three
years In a Federal perutentrary followed
by probation.
U.S. v. Barry S. Marlin-In thrs case
a sentence of ten years Imprisonment
followed by five years probation was Imposed on the defendant following his
plea of guilty to SIXcounts of an indictment charging him With secunties fraud,
mall fraud and rnducmg the filing of
false tax returns 111 Marlin earned out
a complex fraudulent scheme In which

numerous Investors were falsely told
that their funds were profitably Invested
In real estate syndrcations, a Caribbean
bank and a London based export-Import
business. Vrctrrns were gathered primarily from airline and airport employment tretds,
and Included
many
commercial pilots, cabin attendants and
airport fire fighters who Innocently involved their friends, associates and famrly members Marlin'S scheme resulted
In a public loss believed to be In excess
of $12 million.

U.S. v. Walter Wencke-In thrs case
five defendants were convicted for their
roles In conspiring to defraud publtc
shareholders of Sun Fruit, Ltd. pursuant
to a scheme In which this fmancrallytroubled concern was taken over by false
assurances of renabihtatron followed by
a systernatrc looting of ItS assets by defendant Wencke and his co-conspirators. The looting was concealed from
discovery for a time through false reports disseminated to shareholders and
through the mstrtutron of a fraudulent
receivership
proceeding In a Nevada
State court In which Wencke caused
himself to be named as receiver All defendants received prison terms. The
principal defendant, Wencke, a prominent San Diego, California attorney, was
sentenced to serve five years Imprisonment followed by five years probation,
fined $31,000 and ordered to make restitution to the Victims. The investigation
leading to the successful prosecution of
the case resulted from a Significant cooperative effort of the Postal Inspection
Service, the Internal Revenue Service
and the Comrrussron's
enforcement
staff. 112

43

Other Important Litigation

The Commission, through ItS Office
of General Counsel, participates as a
party and as an amicus rn a substantial
amount of lrtrgatron rn addition to ItS
enforcement
actions
The results rn
these suits often affect exrstrng rnterpretations of the Federal secuntres laws
and/or the scope of the Commission's
authority. The followrng IS a summary
of some of these non-enforcement
actions which were litigated rn the past
year.
Daniel v. tnternettonet Brotherhood
of Teamsters--The Issue raised In Daniel rnvolved the extent of the coverage
of the Securities Act. The case presented the question of whether the antifraud provisions of the Federal secuntres
laws are applicable to the acqursttron by
employees of rnterests rn certarn types
of pension funds-a
question which
turned on whether such an acqursrtron
rnvolved the "sale" to the employee of
a "security." The private plarntrff rn that
case contended that it did. The District
Court dismissed that portion of hrs cause
of action but the U.S Court of Appeals
for the Seventh Circuit reversed that
determination.
The Supreme Court
thereafter
granted certiorari
and the
Commission appeared amicus as It had
rn the Circuit Court
In the Supreme Court, the Commission contended that, under the proper
mterpretatron of the terms "sale" and
"security"
rn the securities laws and on

the baSIS of principles long established
and consistently applied rn numerous
Supreme Court decistons considenng
the term "rnvestment contract" (one of
the terms rncluded rn the statutory defrrution of the term "secunty' J-c-the acqursitron of an rnterest rn a pension fund
was a sale of a security and, hence, subject to the antifraud
provrsions. The
Cornrrussron's particular concern which
led It to appear amicus was that the defrnrtion of these terms not be constricted
because ItS experience rn administering
the Federal securrtres laws had shown
that unscrupulous persons who sought
to defraud others through promises of
profits had constantly
devised new
schemes rnvolvrng novel Investment vehicles to effectuate their goals. Srnce
Congress, rn enactrng the secuntres
laws, could not anticipate every potential rnvestment vehicle which could be
utilized to commit fraud, the Commission contended that the traditionally
broad construction
given to the term
"rnvestment contract" was a necessary
protection for rnvestors and an accurate
mterpretatron of the secuntres laws. At
the close of the fiscal year, the case was
awaitrng a decision by the Supreme
Court. (Subsequent to the close of the
fiscal year, the Supreme Court, on January 16, 1979, reversed the Judgment
of the Court of Appeals, holdrng that the
Securities Act of 1933 and the Securities Exchange Act of 1934 do not ap-

45

ply to a non-contnbutory,
pension fund.)

compulsory

Nettonet Resources Defense Council
v. SEC- This case arrses out ofthe Commission's determination
not to adopt a
rule proposed by the plaintiffs
They had
requested the Commission to require,
among other things,
publicly-owned
corporations to disclose detailed information concerning the present and potential
environmental
effects of the
corporations'
activities
including
the
nature and extent of the pollution caused
by such activities,
the teasibthty
of
curbing such pollution and the plans
and prospects for Improving relevant
technology.
The Commission
determined not to adopt the proposed rules
for reasons directly related to Its mandate of Investor protection. It was concerned that rules requiring disclosure of
particular categories of information that
would only be material With respect to
some companies and only of Interest to
some Investors would result In disclosure documents that would be so voluminous as to be of less use to Investors
generally. Also, It was concerned that
disclosure requirements not Impose an
unreasonable administrative
burden on
the Commission or excessive costs on
publicly held corporations. The major
action
Issues raised In the plaintiffs'
contesting the Cornrnissron's determination were whether the determination
of the Commission not to adopt the proposed rules was subject to judrcral review and whether the Commission had
acted properly In contrnurng to elrcrt
environmental
Information through ItS
existing rules rather than through the
methods proposed by the plaintiffs.
The Distnct Court ordered the Comrnissron to undertake further rulemaking
proceedings and the Commission appealed to the U.S. Court of Appeals for
the District of Columbia Crrcuit. On appeal, the Commission contended that
ItS decision not to promu lgate requested

46

rules was proper and moreover, that the
determination IS committed by law to ItS
discretion and not reviewable under the
Administrative
Procedure Act. (Subsequent to the end of the fiscal year, the
Court of Appeals reversed the District
Court holdrng and upheld the Commission's determination
not to promulgate
the proposed rules on the grounds that
the Cornrnisston's determinations
were
procedurally free from defect and reasonable.)

Bradford National Cleanng Corporation, et al. v. SEC-Bradford raised issues dea ling with the creation of a
national clearing system as required by
of
the secunties Acts Amendments
1975. These amendments directed the
Commission to facilitate the establishment of a national system for clearance
and settlement
of securities transactions having due regard for the maintenance of fair competition
among
brokers and dealers, c1eanng agencies
and transfer agents.
To carry out this broad directive, Congress gave the Commission authority to
register clearing agencies that meet certain specified cntena, including an abiltty to clear and settle securities
transactions
promptly and accurately
and an absence of rules that Impose any
burden on competition not necessary or
appropnate In furtherance of the purposes of the Exchange Act. Without
such registration, or a Commission exemption therefrom,
it is illegal to operate such an agency.
The plaintiffs
in Bradford appealed
from the registration by the Commission
of the National Securities Clearing Corporation as a cleanng agency alleging
that it imperrnissrbly contained certain
monopolistic tendencies, The U.S. Court
of Appeals for the District of Columbia
Circuit, however, affirmed the Commission's action concluding that the Commission had appropriately assessed the
Importance
of the relevant statutory

considerations
and had properly balto be dependable,
stable, efftcrent-sanced the results. The Court concluded , and more rapidly achievable than any
other alternative-rather
than in estabthat the Commission's vigilance would
forestall any irreparable antrcompetmve
lishing an admittedly more competitive
harm from accornpanyrng the registrasystem that for years to come would be
stili developing, precarious, and thus
tion and that the Commission had acted
less certain to provide safe, efficient
properly in establishing a national clearand inexpensive services.
Irg framework that was virtually certain

47

Public Utility Holding Companies

Composition
Under the Holding Company Act, the
Commission regulates Interstate public
utility holding company systems engaged In the electnc utility business or
In the retail distnbution
of gas. The
Commission's
jurisdiction
also covers
natural gas pipeline
companies and
nonutilrty companres which are subsidiary companies of registered holding
companies.
There are presently
15 registered
holding company systems with aggregate assets, as of June 20, 1978, of
over $46 million.
In the 15 systems
there are 62 electnc and/or gas utility
subsidiaries, 71 nonutilrty subsldranes,
and 22 inactive cornparues, or a total
of 174 system cornparues, including the
top parent and subholdrng companies.
Table 35 In the Appendix lists the systems and Table 36 lists their aggregate
assets and operating revenues

Financing
Volume--Durlng
fiscal year 1978,
approximately
$3 billion of seruor securities and common stock financing of
the 15 registered systems was approved
by the Commission. Of thrs amount, approximately $2.1 billion was long-term
debt financing, and over $887 million
was for equity tmancing. These amounts
represent a 34 percent Increase In longterm debt financing
over fiscal year

1977 and a 5 percent Increase In the
sale of common and preferred stock. In
addition, the Commission approved over
$4.2 billion of short term debt tmancmg
and $978 million of pollution control
financing for the 15 registered holding
company systems. Table 37 In the Appendix presents the amount and types
of secuntres Issued under the Act by
these holding company systems.

Fuel Programs
Dunng fiscal year 1978, the Commission authorized $184 million of fuel
exploration and development capital expenditures for the holdmg company systems. This autnonzation covers an annual
maximum expenditure for fuel programs
defined on geographical and functional
terms. Table 38 In the Appendix lists
the authonzatron by holding company
system for each fuel program
Largely as a result of the energy crisis.
holdrng companies have embarked on
major and expensive new commitments
to acquire better control over their own
fuel supplies, and these commitments
require substantial additional
capital
Generally, the arrangements Involve formation of several new subsidianes for
producing, transporting
and financmg
fuel supplies or the Investment of caprtal for the exploration of and development drilling for minerai reserves With
a nght to production accruing to such
Investment. Since 1971, the Cornrrus-

49

sron has authorized over $2.2 billion for
fuel programs of holding companies.

Service Company Operations
At the end of calendar year 1977,
there were eleven subsidiary service
companies providing managerial, accounting, administrative and engineering services to eleven of the 15 holding
companies registered under the Act.
The billings for services rendered to the
holding company systems amount to
$363 million or 2.10 percent of the total revenues generated by the electric
and gas operating utilities of the holding
company systems. All services are rendered at cost to the operating utilities,
With several systems Including a return
on capital Invested by the parent holdrng company. Because the subsidrary
service companies are service oriented,

50

they are heavily labor mtensive havmg
10,299 employees and assets of over
$190 million.
DUring the calendar year, the Commission issued a notice of a proposed
amendment to the Uniform System of
Accounts for pubhc utility service companies. The revised system of accounts
will (l) provide for closer coordination
With the Federal Energy Regulatory
Cornrnissron's Uniform System of Accounts for electnc and gas public utilities, (2) facilitate the conduct of audit
and account Inspection programs, and
(3) Improve reports filed by service companies subject to the Act. At the close
of the fiscal year it was expected that
the final rules for the revised system of
accounts would be submitted to the
Commission for approval in January
1979.

Corporate Reorganizations

The Commission's

role under Chapter

X of the Bankruptcy Act, which provides
a procedure for reorganizing corporations In the United States distnct courts,
differs from that under the vanous other
statutes which it administers. The Commission does not initiate Chapter X proceedings or hold ItS own hearings. and
It has no authonty to determine any of
the Issues In such proceedings
The
Commission participates In proceedings
under Chapter X to provide independent, expert assistance to the courts, participants,
and Investors In a highly
complex area of corporate law and finance. It pays special attention to the
Interest of public security holders who
may not otherwise be represented effectively.
Where the scheduled Indebtedness of
a debtor corporation exceeds $3 million, Section 172 of Chapter X requires
the court, before approving any plan of
reorganization, to submit It to the Commission for its examination and report
If the Indebtedness does not exceed
$3 million, the court may, If It deems
It advisable to do so, submit the plan to
the-Cornrnrssion before decrdrng whether
to approve it. When the Commission
flies a report, copies or summanes must
be sent to all secunty holders and credrtors when they are asked to vote on the
plan. The Commission has no authonty
to veto a plan of reorgaruzatron or to requrre ItS adoption

The Commission has not considered
It necessary or appropnate to participate
In every Chapter X case. Apart from the
excessive administrative
burden, many
of the cases Involve only trade or bank
creditors and few public Investors. The
Commission seeks to participate pnncrpally In those proceedings in which a
substantial
publrc Investor Interest IS
Involved. However, the Commission may
also participate because: 0) an unfair
plan has been or IS about to be proposed; (2) public security holders are
not represented adequately; (3) the reorganization proceedings are being conducted
In Violation
of Important
provrsrons of the Act; (4) the facts indicate that the Cornrnission can perform
a useful service; or (5) the court requests the Commission's participation
The Cornrnissron In ItS Chapter X activities has divided the country Into four
geographical areas. The New York, Chicago, Los Angeles and Seattle regional
offices of the Commission each have responsibihty for one of these areas Supervision and review of the regional
offices' Chapter X work IS the responsibility of the DIVISion of Corporate Regu latron of the Comm rssion wh ich, through
Its Branch of ReorganizatIOn,
also
serves
as a field
office
for the
southeastern area of the United States
Dunng the fiscal year, the Commission entered SIXnew Chapter X proceed-

51

ings involving companies with aggregate
stated assets of approximately $165
million and aggregate Indebtedness of
approximately $127 million. Including
the new proceedings. the Commission
was a party In a total of 118 reorgaruzatron proceedings during the fiscal year
(a list of these proceedings appears In

52

Table 39 In the Appendix of thrs report).
The stated assets of the companies involved in these proceedings totaled approximately $5.7 billion and their
indebtedness about $5.1 billion.
During the fiscal year 24 proceedings
were closed, leaving 94 In which the
Commission was a party at year end.

Administration and Management

In FY 1978, the Commission Improved both Its planning capabilities
and Internal management systems In
order to increase the effectiveness of Its
programs and to provide better service
to the public. No major organizational
changes were undertaken
Rather, the
focus was on managing the current organization In order to make It function
more effectively.

Information Systems Management
The Commission took several important steps toward Improving ItS Information handling processes In 1978.
The Commission received authority from
the General Services Administration
to
replace its ten-year old computer with
an IBM 360-65. A three-year lease was
awarded, allowmg the Commission time
to complete
a comprehensive
study
aimed at Identifying possible new computer applications,
delineating
the
agency's ADP requirements and speerfymg the characteristics
and configuration needed to address present and
contemplated needs. In addition, a prototype-teleprocessing
network was established linking the Atlanta and Los
Angeles regional offices with the central
computer facility.
A comprehensive information system
requirements analysis was completed,
as planned, providing a blueprint for information system development activrties to be undertaken over the next

several years. In conjunction with thrs
analysis, work began late In 1978 to formulate functional specifications for the
computer
processing capability
that
would be required to support all of the
Commission's information systems over
the next 5 to 8 year period This task IS
expected to be completed during the
first quarter of 1979.
Significant progress was made during
1978 toward the development of several
new information systems and the enhancement of certain exrstrng systems.
In the administrative area, the new Staff
Time and Actrvrty Tracking
System
(STATS) now provides the Commission
With an expanded and Improved means
to record the work activity of every Commission employee on a continual basis.
Categories of Information have been established to conform With and generate
information useful in preparing ZBB and
congressional budget justifrcatrons
The
system also allows for the production of
certain staff time and activity reports
required by various levels of SEC management. These reports serve as a basis
for manpower planning and provide for
Improved utilization of scarce personnel
resources. Other new systems were developed to maintain the Commission's
personnel records and position management data. Apart from Improving the integrity of the data base and reducrng
manual preparation of forms, these systems provide, for the first time, a means

53

of conducting personnel research and
analysis on a prompt, low cost basis.
In the area of financial management,
the Commission
initiated several Important processing changes In both
budget and accounting systems. Most
significantly,
development
of a Case
and Activities Tracking System (CATS)
was also Initiated In 1978. Thrs system
Will provide the Commission
With a
means of rnorutonng active Investigations and litigation, as well as rulemakmg and special projects. It Will give the
Chairman, the Commission, the Executive Director, drvisron directors and regional administrators the ability to track
the progress of open cases by means of
Identifiable milestones. In addition, authonzed personnel Will be able to inquire Into current case status, access
case-related documentation,
and obtain
related or similar case history and settlement information
In an effort to make more eftrcrent use
of exrstrng information systems through
better utrlrzatron
of ItS upgraded computing capabilities, the Commission inmated the expansion of ItS Name and
Relationship
Search System This innovation Will provide the staff With a facility for Immediate terminal access to
an Index of name and associated data
Oil companies and mdrviduals
having a
direct or indirect relationship with the
Commission.
Thrs on-line access replaces a system of manual requests
which often required several days of
processing.
Operational testing of a major comprehensive records management system
was also begun In 1978. Thrs system,
utrhzrng microform and teleprocessing
techniques, Will provide the staff With
the capability for directly entering and
retrieving information relating to the receipt and disposition of various reports
filed with the Cornrnrssron.
It Will also
provide for quick access to information
being maintained on microfilm.
Even-

54

tually, this system Will be expanded under a consolidated data base concept
and will include relevant data on all entities required to register with and report
to the Commission.
Apart from Improved file integrity,
speedy retrieval
and greater availability of data, the new
system marks the beginning of the end
for the millions of pages of paper normally added to the Commission's voluminous officral files each year Full
operation of the first phase was scheduled for early In 1979

Market Surveillance System
DUring the fiscal year, the Commission conducted a feasibrlrty study and
Initiated the design of a comprehensive
market surveillance system In consultation With the firm of Monchlk-Weber
Associates, Inc. The study represents a
concerted effort by the Cornrnission to
examine and modernize the information
resources used In ItS administration
of
the Federal secuntres laws through enhanced application
of advanced comrnurucations and computer technology.
The feasibility study entailed extensive analysis of the current market surveillance system and techniques With a
view toward establishing a comprehensive market surveillance system which
would monitor all secuntres market activrtres by reference to specified Violations of self-regulatory organization rules
and the Federal securities laws The
study encompassed fact-gathering and
procedural documentation
of a representative cross section of orgamzations
Involved In both the conduct of securities trad mg and the regulatory processes
related to all market activities.
It examined the option, equity, and bond
exchanges, the over-the-counter
market, and the various regulated components and facilities Within those markets.
The activrtres of major classes of market
participants such as retail member firms,
floor members of national secunties ex-

changes, investment advisors, investment companies and related institutions,
clearing agencies and transfer agents
were examined to determine the best
manner In which to Integrate such activities Into the comprehensive surveillance system.
Other governmental
regulatory bodies were also contacted to
reduce possible regulatory overlap The
study has, thus far, made several recommendations
directed at enhancing
the effectiveness of the Commission's
regulatory, oversight, and enforcement
functions. The study was, at the close
of the fiscal year, In the design phase
of ItS effort which IS scheduled to be
completed by April 30, 1979
The proposed market surveillance
system is not Intended to replace or diminish the existing regulatory responsibtlrtres of the various self-regulatory
organizations
Rather It IScontemplated
that the market surveillance system Will
Integrate exrstmg trad mg information
from the various markets at one location, so that the Commission may better
rnorutor trading practices both for oversight and enforcement
purposes as
well as for analysis of self-regulatory
organization rule proposals and revrsion
of Commission rules. In this manner,
the Commission's oversight capabilities
Will be greatly enhanced by making possible more effective dally coordination
with all of the nation's secuntres markets. The proposed system also represents the first attempt ever to correlate
current information from all exchanges
and self-regulatory
organizations In a
manner designed to detect possible secunties violations
The system Will include among ItS Input sources such
Commission filings as. Forms 3,4, 144,
and 146; Schedule 130, 140, and
13G; penodic filings and reports of broker-dealers; dally trading and clearing
information; and corporate news
The system Will facihtate other exrsting Commission functions such as the

inspection and regulation of self-regulatory organizations and the examination of broker-dealers.
The proposed
system will be geared also to accommodate developments
In the evolvrng
national market system For the system
to be completely successful, It IS contemplated that It Will be necessary for
the self-regulatory organizations to move
toward eventual standardization of certain trading and clearing information
Such changes, however, Will be planned
In conjunction With development of the
national market system.
The system IS expected to be Implemented over a five-year period, dependmg upon Industry developments,
the
pace at which trading Information can
be standardized, and the availability of
government funding
By building upon
existmg Industry and self-regulatory automated systems, the system cost will
be relatively modest In comparison to
communications
and computer systems
created In recent years elsewhere In government or In private Industry The comprehensive market surveillance system,
when Implemented, will represent a significant Improvement In the Industry's
and the Commission's regulatory information systems

Financial Management
The Commission collects fees for the
regrstration
of secuntres.
secunties
transactions on national secunties exchanges, and miscellaneous filings, reports and applications
In fiscal year
1978, the Cornrnrssron collected $26 1
million dollars In fees; this represents
approximately
42 percent of the total
funds appropriated by the Congress for
Cornrrnssron operations
The Office of the Executive Director
IS currently conducting a major study of
all fees collected by the Cornrrussron
Thrs study Will address such Issues as
the burden upon registrants and Investors, the relationship between existmg

55

fees and Commission costs, the surtabrhty of exrstrng fees, fee collection procedures and the Impact of fees on the
business community
The staff will submit ItS recommendations
dunng 1979
The development of a comprehensive
financial
management
reporting and
budgeting system was begun In 1978
by the Offices of the Comptroller and
Data Processing under the coordination
of the Office of the Executive Director
The system IS designed to automate and
Integrate accounting and budgeting activities previously administered individually and manually. The long-term goal
IS the linking of the financial management systems Into a larger agency-wide
administrative management system. The
reasons for the Commission's focus on
the financial management system are:
It will facilitate the timely preparation
of complex reports and analyses which
will be tailored to meet the needs and
mandates of controlling agencies and of
the Cornrrussron's Internal management
structure; and It will provide structured
policy planning and review techniques
at a program level.

Personnel Management
On September 30, 1978, the Comrrussron's permanent personnel strength
was 2,009. Approximately two-thirds of
these personnel were assigned to Commission headquarters
In Washington,
D C.; the remaining one-third were employed In the seventeen regional and
branch offices located In major national
and regional financial centers throughout the United States.
DUring 1978, personnel management
activities at the Commission stressed
the increasing Importance of managing
personnel resources more efficiently, as
reflected In several new programs designed to enhance the management of
human resources.
One of the Cornrnissron's Important
initiatives has been the launching of a

56

cornprehensive
promotion
appraisal
program under the sponsorship of the
Civil Service Commission The research
psychologists assigned to this project by
CSC Will Initially collect task data and
behavroral statements for all major attorney functions, with the objective of
developing data needed to Implement
an interim performance evaluation program In 1979. This data Will then be
refined, other major job categories Will
be brought into the program, and the
research team Will be expected to present the Comrrussron with a validated
promotion appraisal system In 1980.
DUring this period, the Cornrrussion may
also seek the assistance of outside consultants, to work with the CIVil Service
team In putting a useful performance
appraisal system Into place at the earliest possible time. Such a system,
when operational,
Will provide an informed and validated basis for making
personnel
dectsrons,
I.e., Initiating
manpower planning,
provrdrng career
counselling, establishing executive development requirements and Improving
recru itrnent efforts.
In order to make the best use of inhouse talent, as well as to enhance ItS
affirmative action efforts, the Commission Initiated ItS first formal upward
mobility program. This was designed to
Identify high-potential
employees
In
lower grade clerical and technical jobs
and develop them for advancement Into
targeted professronal and administrative POSitions. Twelve employees were
selected for particrpatron In the 1978
program, which Will become an annual
feature of the Cornrnrssron's overall personnel effort.
In order to make the upward mobility
program stili more meaningful,
the
Cornrrussron established a career counseling program Oriented toward applicants who were not selected for entry
Into the upward mobility program. A series of workshops was conducted both

to help these mdrvrduals develop career
goals and to better enable them to prepare themselves to qualify for future vacancies.
In another important area, the Comrrussion Increased ItS senior executive
and managerial training by 30 percent,
and Increased both ItS tumon assistance
and In-house training programs by 20
percent dunng 1978. Thrs was supported by an Increase in the quality of
all training activrtres Cornrrussron-wrde
The Cornrnrssron has continued
to
emphasize the recruitment and full utilization of handicapped persons. Its efforts in this area have been recognized
by the CIVil Service Commission as one
of the more aggressive and effective In
the Federal service, and have served as
a model for use by other agencies In
addition to ItS focus on recrurtrnent, the
Commission has sought to eliminate attrtudinal, environmental and procedural
barriers to the employment of handicapped persons. Important steps include obtaining contracts for the services
of Interpreters for the deaf and readers
for the blind; signing major Commission
events, such as the annual Awards Ceremony, for heanng Impaired employees;
brarllmg location and directional signs;
purchasing
telecommunications
devices for use by deaf employees and the
deaf community and those With speech
Impairments; and developing a continuing program to train supervisors and
employees in sign language to allow
heanng-rrnparred workers to communicate more effectively With their co-workers and
supervisors.
The
SEC
headquarters
building has also been
made accessible to handicapped VISItors and employees.
In an effort to be more responsive to
the concerns and problems of ItS employees, the Commission has also established a more effective employee
counseling program. Towards this end,
the Office of Personnel established a

centralized branch to advrse staff members of rights, benefits and obligations
regarding such matters as health benefits, life Insurance, retirement, career
development,
and alcohol and drug
abuse.

Equal Employment Opportunity
Overall, the number of women employees In the Commission Increased by
8 percent during 1978. Women attorneys In the Commission Increased from
105 In September 1977, to 123-approximately a 17 percent Increase Of
the 659 attorneys employed, there was
a nse of 2 2 percent In the number of
women attorneys and a 4.2 percent nse
In the number of rrunorrty attorneys over
the previous year.
The Committee on Equal Employment
Opportunity,
consisting of representatives of the secuntres Industry and the
SEC, published a handbook on equal
employment and affirmative action plans
which was distnbuted
throughout the
secuntres Industry. The purpose of the
handbook IS to Inform securrtres industry employers about equal employment
laws and to assist them In achrevrng voluntary compliance. The committee also
raised $14,000
for the initiation of a
college scholarship program for black
students. The scholarship
program IS
expected to eventually be expanded to
Include women and other rrunontres

Activity under the Freedom of
Information Act
Cornrrussron rules Implementing
the
Freedom of Information Act provide that
the public can Inspect or obtain copies
of records maintained by the SEC, With
the exception of certain specified categories of information
In 1978, the
Commission received 1,252 requests
for information,
up 13 percent from
1977.
While most information flied by registered companies
has always been

57

available for inspection by the publrc,
the public was historically denied access to certain categories of material,
notably investigatory records Pursuant
to various FOIA requests dunng 1978,
the Commission has made available for
public inspection many records which
previously had been considered confidential. Among these records are portions of the broker-dealer manual and
the entire Investment advisers and investment company inspection manuals,
the summary of administrative interpretations under the Securities Act of 1933,
and the Commission's periodic Securities Violations Bulletin
Moreover, the
Commission has made available, pursuant to particular FOIA requests, staff
letters of comment on registration statements and other filings and Well Committee subrrussions.

Office Space Activities
One of the Commission's most serious
operational shortcomings IS In the area
of space The Commission headquarters
expanded Into two floors of the former
Federal Home Loan Bank Board BUildmg In the Spring of 1978 Acqursrtion
of this additional space has provided
some relief from the overcrowded conditions at the main headquarters buildmg. but It has also resulted In a less
efficient and more costly dispersion of
personnel among three burldrngs The
Commission IS contrnumg ItS efforts to
acquire a single buildmg In Washington
large enough to house ItS entire headquarters operations

FOOTNOTES
1 See Sections
11 A and 17 A of the Exchange Act
2 Secuntres
Exchange Act Release No
14325 (December 30,1977),13
SEC Docket
1289
3 Secunties
Exchange Act Release No
14416 (January 26,1978),14
SEC Docket
31 (the January statement).

58

4 Secuntres
Exchange Act Release No
14415 (January 26, 1978), 14 SEC Docket

14
5 Securrtres
Exchange Act Release No
15009 (July 28, 1978),
15 SEC Docket

467.
6 On July
28, 1978,
the Commission
granted exemptions from Rule 11Acl-1
to
the Intermountain
and Spokane Stock Exchanges relievrng them of the obligations of
that Rule Securities Exchange Act Release
No 15011 and 15012 (July 28, 1978), 15
SEC Docket 478 and 479. At the end of the
fiscal year, the NASD was engaged In discussions with CO Plan participants regarding
ItS partrci pat Ion In the CO Plan
7 Secunties
15009 (July
467

Exchange Act Release No
28, 1978),
15 SEC Docket

8 Secuntres
Exchange Act Release No
14415 (January 26,1978),
14 SEC Docket

14
9 Secuntres
Exchange Act Release No.
14661 (April 14, 1978), 14 SEC Docket
806.
10 Securities
Exchange Act Release No
15058 (August 11, 1978), 15 SEC Docket
596
11 Secunties
Exchange Act Release No
14674 (April 18, 1978), 14 SEC Docket
817
12 Secunties
Exchange Act Release No
14855 (June 23, 1978), 15 SEC Docket
138
13 Secunties
Exchange Act Release Nos
15250 and 15251 (October 20, 1978), 15
SEC Docket 1355 and 1370
14 Bradford
Netionei Cleanng Corporetion
and Bradford Securities Processing Services,
Inc. v Securities and Exchange ComttusSIOn, DC c« No 77-1199,77-1547
15 The
Commission's
review was conducted pursuant to Section 31(b) of the
1975 Amendments
16 See Securitres
Exchange Act Release
No 13163 (January 13, 1977),
11 SEC
Docket 1448.
17 Investment
Company Act Release No
10453 (October 26, 1978), 15 SEC Docket
1427
18 Secunties
Exchange Act Release No
14784 (May 19, 1978),
14 SEC Docket
1159
19 Securitres
Exchange Act Release No

13760 (June 18, 1977), 12 SEC Docket would have had the effect of expanding existing pilot programs or initiating new pilot
1275.
programs for the trading of standardized op20 Secuntres
Exchange Act Release No.
14056 (October 17,1977),13
SEC Docket tions, and the Commission dismissed the
366. Following Issuance of the October Re- consolidated disapproval proceeding With regard to 26 of those self-regulatory orgaruzalease, the Commission, on December I,
1977, announced the appointment of senior tron rule proposals. The details of the
staff members to conduct ItS study and in- agreement between the self-regulatory orvestigation of the options markets The re- ganizations IS set forth 'In Securities Exmainder of the Options Study staff was change Act Release Nos. 14878 (June 22,
1978) and 14991 (July 25, 1978), 15 SEC
thereafter assembled and has consisted of
Docket 98 and 15 SEC Docket 359, respecapproximately 20 professionals and 7 suptively.
porting personnel.
25 Exchange Act Rule 1Ob-10
21 See proposed Securities Exchange Act
26 Securities Exchange Act Release No.
Rule 19b-HT). In light of the Commission's
15194 (September 28, 1978), 15 SEC
concerns regarding the exrstrng pilot options
Docket 1174.
trading programs and the Commission's in27 Securities Exchange Act Release No.
ability to find, at that time, that certain pend13470 (April 26, 1977), 12 SEC Docket
mg self-regulatory organization rule change
186.
proposals designed to expand existing op28 Securities Exchange Act Release No.
tions trading pilot programs or to initiate new
14737 (May 4, 1978), 14 SEC Docket 985.
options pilot programs (the NYSE and the
29 Chicago Board Options Exchange, Inc.,
NASD) were consistent with the requirements of the Exchange Act, and the rules and Pacrfic Stock Exchange, Inc Securities
thereunder, the Commission announced SI- Exchange Act Release No. 14881 (June 22,
multaneously with the publication proposed 1978), 15 SEC Docket 103; Philadelphia
Stock Exchange, Inc., Securities Exchange
Rule 9b-HT), the initiation of disapproval
proceedings for 26 such rule change pro- Act Release No. 14896 (June 26, 1978),
posals. See Securities ExchangeAct Release 15 SEC Docket 146; and the National AsNo. 14057 (October 17, 1977), 13 SEC sociation of Securities Dealers, Inc, Securities Exchange Act Release No. 14892,
Docket 375.
(June 23, 1978), 15 SEC Docket 144.
22 Securities Exchange Act Release No.
30 Securities Exchange Act Release No.
14878 (June 22, 1978), 15 SEC Docket 98.
14971 (July 17, 1978), 15 SEC Docket
23 The Commission also requested that the
self-regulatory organizations withdraw those 307.
31 Securities Exchange Act Release No
rule change proposals which were pending
before the Commission which would have 13636 (June 16, 1977), 12 SEC Docket
had the effect of expanding existmg pilot
853
32 [1976-1977
Transfer Binder] Red. Sec
programs, or initiating new pilot programs for
the trading of standardized options. Those L. Rep. (CCH) ~ 95,627 (S.D.N.Y. 1976).
33 Securities Exchange Act Release Nos.
proposals Included the 26 rule change proposals which were the subject of a consoli15247 and 15248 (October 19,1978), 15
SEC Docket 1323 and 1325.
dated disapproval proceeding commenced
34 Securities Exchange Act Release No.
by the Commission on October 17, 1977,
and certain other pending rule change pro15090 (August 25, 1978), 15 SEC Docket
853.
posals which would have had the effect of
35 Securities Exchange Act Release Nos.
expanding or altering pilot programs or initiating new pilot programs for the trading of
14038 (October 7, 1977), 13 SEC Docket
307, and 14965 (July 14, 1978), 15 SEC
standardized options and which were not the
Docket 288.
subject of that disapproval proceeding.
24 Securities Exchange Act Release No.
36 Securities Exchange Act Release No.
15026 (August 3, 1978), 15 SEC Docket
13584 (June I, 1977), 12 SEC Docket 671.
494. The self-regulatory organizations also At the same time, the Commission also ISWithdrew those rule change proposals which
sued an order extending until September I,

59

1977, the exrstrng registrations of The Depository Trust Company, Bradford Securities
Processing Services, Inc., Stock Clearing
Corporation of Philadelphia, Boston Stock
Exchange Clearing Corporation, Midwest Securities Trust Company, The Options ClearIng Corporation,
Midwest
Clearing
Corporation, Pactfrc Securities Depository
Trust Company, Pacrftc Clearing Corporation
and TAD Depository Corporation and announced the extension to September I,
1977 of the time for concluding those registratron proceedings On August 31, 1977,
the Commission extended until March 1,
1978, the interim registrations of the above
clearing agencies and also extended to that
date the time for concluding their regrstratron
proceedings. Securities Exchange Act Release No. 13911 (August 31, 1977), 12
SEC Docket 1640
37 Securities
Exchange Act Release No
14531 (March 6, 1978), 14 SEC Docket
356. At the same time, the Commission announced the extension to August 31, 1978,
of the interim registrations of all clearing
agencies already registered and also announced the extension to that same date the
time for concluding the proceedings on
whether to make those registrations permanent.
38 Securities Exchange Act Release No
13482 (April 28, 1977), 12 SEC Docket
239; Securities Exchange Act Release No
13901 (August 29, 1977), 12 SEC Docket
1630.
39 Secuntres
Exchange Act Release No
14970 (July 18, 1978), 15 SEC Docket
291.
40 Securities Act Release No. 5950 (July
28, 1978), 15 SEC Docket 449.
41 Securities Act Release No. 5949 (July
28, 1978), 15 SEC Docket 428.
42 ld.
43 Secuntres
Act Release No. 5889 (December 14, 1977), 13 SEC Docket 1094.
44 Securities Act Release No. 5914 (March
15, 1978), 14 SEC Docket 314.
45 Securities Act Release No. 5915 (March
15, 1978), 14 SEC Docket 331.
46 Securities Act Release No. 5979 (September 20, 1978), 15 SEC Docket 1109.
47 Securities Act Release No. 5980 (September 20, 1978), 15 SEC Docket 1114.
48 Securities Act Release No. 5975 (September 8, 1978), 15 SEC Docket 1052

60

49 Securities Act Release No. 5977 (September 11, 1978), 15 SEC Docket 1054.
50 Report of the AdVISOryCommittee on
Corporate Disclosure to the Secunties and
Exchange Commission, Committee Print 9529, House Committee on Interstate and Foreign Commerce, 95th Cong., 1st sess., November 3, 1977.
51 Secuntres
Act Release No. 5906 (February 15, 1978), 14 SEC Docket 140.
52 Securities Act Release Nos. 5824 (April
28, 1977), 12 SEC Docket 78; and 5827
(May 19, 1977), 12 SEC Docket 426.
53 Securities Act Release No. 5893 (December 23,1977),13
SEC Docket 1217.
54 Securities Act Release No. 5910 (March
3, 1978), 14 SEC Docket 695.
55 Securities Act Release No. 5923 (April
11, 1978), 14 SEC Docket 695.
56 Securities Act Release No. 5974 (September 7, 1978), 15 SEC Docket 1013.
57 Securities Exchange Act Release No.
15068 (August 16, 1978), 15 SEC Docket
606.
58 Securities Act Release No. 5893 (December 23,1977),13
SEC Docket 1217.
59 Securities Act Release No. 5949 (July
28, 1978), 15 SEC Docket 428.
60 Securities Act Release No. 5925 (April
21, 1978), 14 SEC Docket 861.
61 Securities Act Release No. 5926 (April
21, 1978), 14 SEC Docket 888.
62 Securities Exchange Act Release No.
15348 (November 22,1978),16 SEC Docket
228.
63 Securities Exchange Act Release No.
14830 (June 5, 1978), 14 SEC Docket
1305.
64 Securities Exchange Act Release No.
14910 (June 30, 1978), 15 SEC Docket
183.
65 Securities Exchange Act Release No.
15317 (November 9, 1978), 16SEC Docket
147.
.
66 Securities Act Release No. 5884 (November 17, 1977), 13 SEC Docket 839.
67 Securities
Exchange Act Release No.
14852 (June 15, 1978), 15 SEC Docket 14.
68 Investment Company Act Release No.
10378 (August 28, 1978), 15 SEC Docket
723.
69 litigation
Release No. 8510 (August
18, 1978), 15 SEC Docket 717.
70 Litigation Release No. 8526 (September 8, 1978), 14 SEC Docket 1100.

71 Litigation Release No. 8227 (December
99 Litigation Release No. 8543 (Septem21, 1977), 13 SEC Docket 1206
ber 21, 1978), 15 SEC Docket 1151.
72 Litigation
Release No. 8460 (July 7,
100 Secuntres
Exchange Act Release No.
1978), 15 SEC Docket 278.
14579 (March 20, 1978), 14 SEC Docket
73 43rd Annual Report at 193.
520, and Securities Exchange Act Release
74 Litigation Release No. 8482 (July 28,
No. 15166 (September 19, 1978), 15 SEC
1978), 15 SEC Docket 535.
Docket 1117.
75 litigation
Release No. 8372 (April 13,
101 Securrtres
Exchange Act Release No
1978), 14 SEC Docket 766.
76 litigation
Release No. 8519 (August 14149 (November 9, 1977), 13 SEC Docket
646
30, 1978), 15 SEC Docket 891
102 The Commission's Order permits the
77 litigation
Release No. 8315 (April 13,
payment of up to $1.45 rmllron of trus
1978), 14 SEC Docket 419.
amount to be made pursuant to the settle78 Lrtrgatron
Release No. 8316 (March 13,
ment agreement filed In the class action en1978), 14 SEC Docket 496.
titled In Re Sctenttttc Control Corporation
79 Securities Exchange Act of 1934, SecSecurities LitlgatlOn-MDL 157.
tions 13(d) and 14(d).
103 A salesman of Shearson Hayden Stone
80 litigation
Release No 8314 (March 9,
who IS also a respondent In the proceedings
1978), 14 SEC Docket 418
IS not affected by the Cornmrssron's findings
81 litigation Release No. 8336 (March 20,
against the other respondents.
1978), 14 SEC Docket 579.
104 Securities Exchange Act Release Nos.
82 Litigation Release No. 8206 (November
14723 (May 1, 1978), 14 SEC Docket 977,
29, 1977), 13 SEC Docket 974.
14846 (June 12, 1978), 15 SECDocket 10,
83 Litigation Release No. 8498 (August 9,
and 14918 (July 3, 1978), 15 SEC Docket
1978), 15 SEC Docket 585.
191.
84 Litigation Release No. 8513 (September 21, 1978), 15 SEC Docket 1149.
105 Litigation Release Nos. 8333 (March
85 litigation Release No. 8330 (March 14,
15,1978),14
SEC Docket 504, 8468 (July
1978), 14 SEC Docket 503
21, 1978), 15 SEC Docket 419, and 8145
86 Litigation Release No. 8164 (October
(October 6, 1977), 13 SEC Docket 355,
17, 1977), 13 SEC Docket 407.
Securities ExchangeAct ReleaseNos 14560
87 Litigation Release No 8484 (August 2,
(March 15, 1978), 14SECDocket428, and
1978), 15 SEC Docket 536
15087 (August 25, 1978), 15 SEC Docket
88 litigation
Release No. 8067 (Septem722.
ber 15, 1977), 12 SEC Docket 1560.
106 Securities Exchange Act Release No.
89 Litigation Release No.5 794 (March 19,
14084 (October 21, 1977), 13 SEC Docket
1973), 1 SEC Docket 1242.
454.
90 Securities Act Release No 5442 (No107 Litigation Release No. 7571 (Septemvember 30, 1973),3 SEC Docket 101
ber 20, 1976), 10 SEC Docket 541.
91 litigation Release No. 8332 (March 14,
lOB litigation
Release No. 7946 (May 31,
1978).
1977), 12 SEC Docket 744, Litigation Re92 Litigation Release No. 8395 (April 26,
lease 8431 (June 9,1978),15
SEC Docket
1978), 14 SEC Docket 1029.
86; and litigation Release No. 8480 (July
93 (D. D.C. Clv,l Action No 225-72).
27, 1978), 15 SEC Docket 425.
94 42nd Annual Report at 42, 43d Annual
109 t.rtrgatron
Release No. 8642 (January
Report at 59.
11, 1979), 16 SEC Docket 802.
95 Litigation Release No. 8377 (April 20,
110 t.itrgatron Release No. 8361 (April 15,
1978), 14 SEC Docket 858.
1978), 14 SEC Docket 692
96 litigation
Release No. 8155 (October
III Litigation Release Nos. 8113 (Septem17, 1977), 13 SEC Docket 359.
ber 13, 1977), 13 SEC Docket 103, and
97 Litigation Release No. 8256 (January
8374 (April 19, 1978),14SECDocket857.
16, 1978), 13 SEC Docket 1432.
112 Litigation Release Nos. 8084 (August
98 Securities Exchange Act Release No.
25,1977),12
SEC Docket 1593, and 8438
14380 (January 16, 1978), 13 SEC Docket
(June 20, 1978), 15 SEC Docket 132.
1393.

61

Appendix

THE SECURITIES INDUSTRY
Income, Expenses and Selected
Balance Sheet Items
Registered
broker-dealers
recorded
total revenue of $8.9 billion In 1977,
nearly unchanged from 1976 Securities comrnrssrons are by far the most Important source of revenue; however, the
Industry appears to be diversifying ItS
business activity
Since 1973, when
53 6 percent of total revenue was generated from this source, commissions
have accounted for a steadily declining

portion of total revenue They contributed 41 percent of total revenue In
1976 and 37 percent In 1977. Trading
and underwntrng revenues were the second and third most Important revenue
contn butors, together accounting for 32
percent of total revenue In 1976 and 30
percent In 1977
With stable revenue but 12.6 percent
higher expenses In 1977, Industry pretax Income declined to $591 mil/Ion.
Ownership equity at the end of 1977
was $4.115
b: 1/ ron, reflecting an increase of $30 million dunng the year.

65

Table 1
FINANCIAL INFORMATION FOR BROKER-DEALERS

1975-1977
(Millions of Dollars)
1975'

1976'

1977'

$ 3 378
1202
131
930
140
476
897
218
$ 7 373

$ 3 657
1828
269
1 035
165
557
I 168
236
$ 8915

$ 3334
1691
353
991
161
782
738
881
$ 8931

$ 1284
1413
524
668
488
472
159
76
488
681
6153
$ 1120

$ 1575
1664
535
900
590
485
203
81
572
805
7410
$ 1505

$ 1541
1769
507
1246
708
4ll
203
69
553
1333
8340
$ 591

$31851

$48983

$54663

26352
836
27188
4663
$31851
4079

42842
858
43700
5283
$48983
4315

48787
948
49736
4927
$54663
4484

A. Re.. nue
Secunties

Cornrmssrons

Gam (less) m Tradmg
Gam (loss) In Investments
ProfIt (loss) From llnderwntrng and Sellmg Groups
Revenue from Sale of Investment

Company Securities

Interest Income
Other Revenue Related to Secunties BUSiness
8 Revenue From All Other Sources
9 Total Revenue
Elpenses
10 Registered Representatives
Compensation
11 Employee Compensation and Benefits

12
13
14
15

Comrmssrons and Clearance Pard to Other Brokers
Interest upense
Communications and Data Processmg
Occupancy and [qUipment

16 Prometion

17
18
19
20
21

Regulalory Fees and Expenses
Compensation to Partners and Volmg Stockholder OffIcers
All Other Operafmg Expenses
Total Expenses
Pre-Tax Income

Assets. L,ab,lrt,es and Caprtal
22 Tolal Assets
23 lrabrlmes
a Total l"biI,tres (excludmg subordinated debt)
b Subordmated debt
c Total l"b,1I1I05 (23a + 23b)
24 Ownership Equ,ty
25 Total uaburtres and Dwnershrp EqUity
Number of Fums

R ~ ReVISed
P ~ Prelimmary
Sources Form X-17A-lO and FOCUSReports
OffICeof Secunties Industry And Self-Regulatory Economics
Directorate at Economic and Policy Research

Historical Financial Information of
Broker-Dealers with Securities
Related Revenue of $500,000 or
More
Brokerage firm revenue declined 3 9
percent In 1977 on share volume which
was Virtually unchanged from 1976
Cornrrussion revenue, trading profits
and underwntrng revenue each declined
somewhat from their 1976 levels. Investment profits, Interest Income, commodity and other revenue each rose

66

from the previous year. Pre-tax Income
declined 54 percent, however, as brokers' expenses rose 16.5 percent dunng
this year of slightly declining revenue.
Balance sheet comparisons for the
two years are not comparable because
of changes made In the brokerage firm
reporting system. Firms With securities
related revenue of $500,000
or more
filing the FOCUS report held approximately 95 percent of the Industry's assets and reported over 93 percent of all
revenue In 1977.

Table 2
HISTORICAL CONSOLIDATED REVENUE AND EXPENSES OF BRoKER.DEALERS WITH
SECURITIES RELATED REVENUE OF $500,000 OR MORE
(Mliloons of Dollars)
1970

1971

1972

1973

1974

1975'

1976'

1977'

A. Revenue
$1167
1 Cernmrssrons
1 Gain (Loss) on Firm Securmes Trading and Investment Ac-

$3187

$3404

$1816

$1438

$3.210

$3516

$1954

counts

a Gain (loss 1 In trading
b Gain (loss) In investments
c Total gain (loss)
Profit (Loss) from UndelWTlting and Selling Groups
Revenue from Sale 01 Investment Company Secuntres
Margin Interest Income
Fees for Account Supemsien Investment AdvISOry and Admmrstranve Services
Commodity Revenue
Other Revenue Related to Secunttes BUSiness
Revenue from All Other Sources
10 Total Revenue
bpenses
II Compensalion to RegIStered Representatives
12 Employee Compensation and Benelots
13 commrssens Pard to Other Brokers
14 Interest
15 Cemmumcatrons and Oata ProcesSing
16 Occupancy and Equipment
17 Promolion
18 All Other Operating Expenses
19 Total Expenses
Pre-Tallneome
20 Pre-Tax Income
Numbel 01 Firms

814
75
898
601
184
379

1056
143
1299
957
196
364

994
109
1103
914
151
517

590
- 3
587
494
149
611

711
55
777
496
79
611

1143
131
1274
914
110
466

1757
153
1010
1.011
146
550

1518
317
1835
945
136
731

64
88
N/A
266

82
98
N/A
300

99
125
N/A
306

83
178
N/A
323

85
168
N/A
400

156
187
509
167

207
236
691
201

190
267
766
415

$4747

$6583

$6729

$5250

$5.065

$7.013

$8.577

$8241

$778
1086
128
540
370
349
157
606

$1.139
1300
182
520
434
413
188
787

$1198
1392
186
634
488
460
214
794

$ 937
1184
188
796
461
433
186
686

$ 949
1097
151
750
463
440
172
634

$1278
1376
209
587
482
464
157
1416

$1576
1668
168
839
590
486
202
1633

$1428
1593
312
1149
649
372
186
1903

$4013

$4962

$5365

$4 871

$4655

$5963

$7162

$7592

$1621

$1365

378

$ 410

$1050

$1415

652

609

734
655

788

817

764

930

649
857

R ~ ReVISed
P ~ Preliminary
Sources Form X-17A-I0 and FOCUSReports
OffICeof SeCUTItieSIndustry And Sell-Regulatory Econcmics
Olrectorale 01 EconomICand Policy Research

67

Table 3
HISTORICAL BALANCE SHEET FOR BROKER-DEALERS WITH
SECURITIES RELATED REVENUE OF $500.000 OR MORE
(MoIllons 01 Dollars)

A. Assets
I Cash cleanng fund and other deponts
2 Receivables from olher broker-dealers
a Secuntes failed 10 dehver
b Secuntres

1972

1973

$ 1162

$ 1221

$ 1281

I 1139

925

$ 1,135

2319
865
198
7077

2.230
1022
295
9.644

2568
1364
382
13373

1844
1,096
330
9.056

1220
889
905
7,450

1,446
1,366
1071
8.464

2.215
2.091
1.093
12.804

2.375
2307
682
13.728

10.261
210
1392

11667
200
1646

11 870
208
1704

9722
123
1879

10789
101
1493

12901
118
4.535

21.392
142
7203

28.521

$23484

$27925

132750

$25189

$23,787

$30826

$48075

$51.747

$ 8994

Sll 286

114398

I 9878

$10,421

I 9.488

Ill.802

$26.503

1724
847
365
4978
1158
642
2550

1281
579
1059
3986
1038
594
2099

1.416
1,064
1,088
4.696
1165
767
7203

2152
1,614
1,019
6.174
2.555
799
17.178

26.887

43.293

borrowed

10

7 Tofal assets
B lJabllrtres
8 Money borrowed
9 Payable fo other broker-dealers
a Secunties failed to receive
b Secunties borrowed
c Other payables
10 Payable 10 customers
11 Short posmons rn secunues and commodifies
12 Subordinated borrowrngs
13 Other hablhlles
14 Total hab,hf"s

940

$

1976

$

979

se-

2706
836
198
4242
707
641
2343
20667

C Ownership Equrty
15 Ownership EQu,fy
16 Tolal hablilles and capllal

$

1975

19771

1971

c Other receivables
Receivables from customers
Market value or fair value of long posmons
cunties and commodities
5 Exchange memberships at markel value
6 Other assets

1974

1970

2,420
984
345
4736
907
728
2.859
24.264

2732
1284
354
5228
1525
774
2505
28802

22142

21056

1J)

3038

2598
1770
1.092
5.158
4834
840
4.837
47632

2.818

3661

3948

3047

2731

3.939

4.782

4.115

123484

127925

$32750

125189

$23787

$30.826

$48.075

$51.747

817

652

770

932

857

Number 01 Firms

655

788

609

1 The balance sheel for 1977 IS nof comparable wllh prevous years' data because 01changes rn Ihe reportmg IorIO
Sources Form X-17A-1O and FOCUSReports
OffICe01Secunnes Induslry And Self-Regulalory Economics
Directorate of Economrc and Policy Research

Securities Industry Dollar: 1977
Securities commissions represented
37.9 cents of each dollar of securities
industry revenue. Another 18.3 cents of
each dollar came from trading activities
and underwriting revenue contributed
11.7 cents Together, these three activities accounted for 67.9 cents of each
revenue dollar.
The largest portron of this revenue

68

dollar-38.5
cents-went
to pay registered representatives and support personnel (clerical and adrrumstrattve
employees). Another 13.1 cents was
spent on communications, occupancy
and equipment. General partners and
voting stockholder officers' compensation amounted to 5.9 cents of each dollar, With 8.4 cents remaining for pre-tax
income. Thrs margin was 50 percent
below the 1976 figure.

w
::e
u

0

z
x

-<

I-;"
w

~
e
s

a:::
a..
0

z
-<
V'I

W
V'I

,.....
,.....
en

Z

w
x
w
a..

-;
t-,

~
s

=

.....
.....

C

2

c

0:

EO

~
c

'"

C)

Q

8
<:::>

>-

c

=
~

..

<:::>

'"

V)

=:z

'-

c
r:

Q

~
i:

V)

t

w.I

~

~

1::

=

=

-r

~
c
~
~
~

C.)

w.I

V)

a:::

~
~
~
cu.
~ ...
£~
~~
~
> >

U.

-<

w
::J
Z
W

>
w

c."

W
U

a:::
::J

0
V'I

"

r

E

~ I<J)

;l E
~

'" 0a:0..

0

",U

r

EO

~w

~ a:

..2-

<,

M

00

0
V'I

~

~
"""
~~
U ~
c ~
0

ll')

-

+:
~ 0

.s

::J

s" <i:

/'

!
~ a~
~'"

<J)

"o
S
"i; 0
~ u,

-e
0

~
'"~ x
~ UJ
o

E
E

:.: a:
f-.

0

~0

u

::J

<J)

69

Broker-Dealers,
Employees

Branch Offices,

The number of broker-dealers Increased from 4,315 In 1976 to 4,484
In 1977. Following the upward trend of

70

broker-dealers, the number of branch
offices Increased to 6,498.
There were approximately 39,000
full-time registered representatives associated with members of the New York
Stock Exchange at the end of 1977.

BROKER-DEALERS
o

AND BRANCH OFFICES

3000

6000

9000

1972
73H

1973

1974
6301

1975
6267

1976
6290

1977
64981:

__
Pv Prel

Broker-Dealers
iminorv

SOURCE:

Branch

Offices

R=R e r-z s e d
X-17A-lO

AND

FOCUS

REPORTS

71

Table 4
BROKERS AND DEALERS REGISTERED UNDER THE SECURITIES ACT OF 1934-EFFECTIYE
REGISTRATIONS AS OF
SEPTEMBER 3D, 1978 CLASSIFIED BY TYPE OF ORGANIZATION AND BY LOCATION OF PRINCIPAL OFFICE
Number of Proprietors
Partners Officers, etc

Number of Registrants
location

Sole

of Pnncrpal Othces
Tolal

pro-

Part-

COI-

pn-

ner

etor-

ships

ooratrons

Sole
proTotal

ships
Alabama
Alaska

Anzona
Arkansas
Cahtorrna
Colorado

Connecticut
Delaware
OlStncl of Columbra
flonda
Georgra

Hawau
Idaho
llhnors
Indiana
Iowa

Kansas
Kenlucky
toursrana
Maine
Maryland

Massachusetts
MIChigan
Mmnesota
MISSISSIPPI
MISSOUri

Montana
Nebraska
Nevada
New Hampshire
New Jersey

New

MeXICO

New York (e"ludIOg
North Carolina
North Dakota
OhiO
Oklahoma
Olegon
Pennsylvania
Rhode Island
Soulh Carolina
South Dakola

NY C,Iy)

Tennessee
Texas
UIah
Vermont
Virginia
WashlOg1on
West Virginia
WisconSin
Wyoming
Tolal Iexcludmg
New York C,Iy
Subtotal
Foreign
Grand Total

NY CIIy)

Cor-

ner-

pora-

ships

trons

ships

25
0
29
19
504
60
62
10
33
148
47
14
6
177l
50
29
29
II
23
9
46
152
55
74
19
66
4
14
2
5
194
6
266
29
5
86
23
27
211
17
8
2
50
164
29
4
30
56
6
40
5

3
0
4
2
152
2
9
3
2
17
2
0
2
1344
9
2
2

1
0
2
0
56
3
9
0
6
6
2
I

0
122
I
0
2

11
0
13
17
296
55
44
7
25
125
43
13
4
305
40
27
25
9
14
6
38
113
45
73
16
60
2
14
I
3
119
5
150
23
5
69
19
24
137
to
7

3
0
4
2
152
2
9
3
2
17
2
0
2
1345
9
2
2

45
141
25
2
23
50
5
35
4

125
0
102
82
2,460
352
351
34
277
521
288
72
18
3276
257
135
144
71
175
43
316
937
362
445
79
742
21
101
4
18
685
31
654
141
19
566
110
III
1168
42
33
12
344
1116
128
21
302
284
20
383
20

5
1

3
0
14
0
266
56
43
0
27
12
4
2
0
600
2
0
9
3
16
19
122
82
105
0
7
107
0
0
0
3
75
0
55
0
0
185
0
0
177
8
2
0
29
34
7
2
13
0
0
0
0

I

I

4
6
1
5
1

4
3
4
13
4
0
3
4
0
0
0
I
26
0
19
0
0
13
0
0
46
2
1
0
2
8
2
1
3
0
0
0
0

4574
1451

1.830
551

371
270

237J
630

17 998
9609

1,831
550

2,089
2357

14078
6702

6,025
24

2381

641
2

3003
21

27607
158

2381

4,446
9

20780
149

6049

2381

643

3025

27765

2381

4455

20929

I

0
2
2
0
I
1
39
1
97
6
0
4
4
3
28
5
0
I

3
15
2
I

0

I

Registrants whose principal offices are located 10 foreign countries or other junsdictions not listed
Includes directors officers trustees and all other persons occupying Similar status pertormmg SImilar functions
not actual locations of persons
4 Includes all forms of organizations other than sole proprietorships and partnerships

3 AllocatIOns made on the baSIS of locatron of pnncrpal office of registrants

I

119
0
84
80
2042
294
299
31
248
492
282
70
16
1331
246
133
133
67
154
24
190
829
251
444
72
633
19
101
3
14
571
30
502
135
19
377
106
108
963
29
31

5
0
4
26
6

I
2

72

Part-

pn-

etor

5
0
4
26
6
I

0
2
2
0
I
I

39
I

97
6
0
4
4
3
28
5
0
I

3
15
2
I

4
6
I

0

II

312
1067
119
18
285
278
19
378
19

Table 5
PRINCIPAl BUSINESS OF SECO BROIlER-DEAlERS
FIScalyear-end

Exl:hange member pnmanly engaged on exchange commISSion bUSiness
Exl:hange member pnmanly engaged on floor actlvilles
BroUr or dealer on general secunnes busoness
Mutual fund underwmer *
Mutual fund dlstnbulor*
Broker or dealer selhng vanable annUIty conlracts
SoIlcrtor of savongs and loan accounts
Real estale syndIcator and mortgage broker and banker
Real estale condomonlUm onleresls *
limIted partnership onlerests *
Broker or dealer selhng 011 and gas onlerests
Pul and can broker or dealer or optIon wnter (non-exchange opllOns)
Broker or dealer selhng secumles of only one Issuer or assoclaled ISSUers(olher than mutual funds I
Broker or dealer selhng church secunlles
Governmenl bond dealer (other llIan munIcipal)
Broker or dealer on municipal bonds *
Broker or dealer on olher secuntes busoness
No secunlleS busoness
Totals

1976

1977

28
II
61
9
5
10
5
33
3
23
12
3
21
10
2
5
46
22

25
18
65
II
4
12
6
35
5
25
20
5
23
II
3
5
28
25

309

326*'

* Not labulaled ,n pner years, new calegory on lhe Form SECCl-+-76
** Based on data provided by 326 of the 346 SECObroker-dealers

73

Table 6
APPLICATIONS AND REGISTRATIONS OF BROKERS AND DEALERS
Fiscal Year 1978
BROKER.OEAlfR APPLICATIONS
ApplicatIOns pending at close of preceding year
ApplicatIOns received dunng "scal 1978
Total applications for d,sposrt,on
O,sposrtlOnof Applications
Accepted for "ling
Returned
W"rthdrawn
Denied
Total applicatIOns diSposed of

521
1,359
1,880
939
70
6
0
1.015

Applications pending as of September 3D, 1978

865
BROKER.DEAlER REGISTRATIONS

EffectIVe registrations at close of preceding year
RegistratIOns effectIVe dunng fIscal 1978

5.756
939

Total registrations
RegistratIOns terminated dunng tlscal1978
W"rthdrawn
Revoked
Cancelled
Total registrations terminated

6,695
601
2
85
688

Total regrstranens at end of nscal 1978

6,007
INYESIllENT ADVISER APPLICATIONS

Applications pending at close of preceding year
ApplicatIOns received dunng "seal 1978

436
1,238

Total applications for dispoSItion
Olsposrtlon of applicatIOns
Accepted for "ling
Returned
W"rthdrawn
Denied
Total application dupesed of

1.674
610
137
1
0
748

ApplicatIons pending as of September 30, 1978

926
INVESTMENT ADVISER REGISTRATlDNS

Effective registratIOns at close of preceding year
RegIstratIOns effective dunng "seal 1978
Total regIstratIons
RegIstratIOns terminated dunng "seal 1978
W"rthdrawn
Revoked
Cancelled
Total registratIons terminated
Total registrations at end of hscal 1978

74

4,801
610
5,411
193
5
8
206
5,205

Table 7
APPLICATIONS AND REGISTRATIONS OF MUNICIPAL SECURITIES DEALERS AND TRANSFER AGENTS
Fiscal Year 1978
MUNICIPAl SECURITIESDEAlERSAPPliCATlDNS
Appllcatoons pending at close of precedmg year
ApplicatlOfls recetved dunng IIscal 1978

22
15

Total applications for dlSPOSrtlon
DISPOSrtlOflof Appllcatoons
Actepted for filing
Returned
Wrthdrawn
Denied
Total applications diSposed 0'

37
16
0
0
0
16

Appllcaflons pendmg as of September 30, 1978

21
MUNICIPAl SECURITIESDEAlERSDEGISTRATIONS

Effective registratIOns al close of preceding year
Reglstraflons effectIVe dunng flsca' 1978

332
16

Tota' reglstraloons
Reglstraflons terminated dunng fiscal 1978
Wrthdrawn
Cancelled
Suspended
Total reglslratlOns termmaled

348
12
0
0
12

Total registrations at end of fiscal 1978

336
TRAllSfER AGENTSAPPliCATlDNS

ApphcallOns pending at close of precedmg year
Apphcatoons recetved dunng fiscal 1978

15
47

Total applications for d,sposrtlon
Dlsposrtoonof applications
Actepted for filing
RetUrned
Wrthdrawn
Denied
Total apphcallons diSposed of

62
43
0
0
0
43
19

ApphcatlOfls pendmg as of September 30, 1978
TRAIlSfER AGENTSREGISTRATIONS

837
43

Effective reglstralions at close of precedmg year
Reglstratoons eflectlve dunng fiscal 1978
Total reglstrallOns
Reglstralions termmated dunng fiscal 1978
Wrthdrawn
Cancelled
Suspended
Total regIstratIOns termlnaled
Total reglstrallOns at end of fiscal 1978

8BO
19
0
0
19
861

75

Self-Regulatory Organizations-Revenues and Expenses
The high trading volume dunng the
first three quarters of 1978 provides an
opportunity to examine how changes In
trading volume Improve each self-regulatory organization's financial results.
As a result of the record high trading
volume in the second and third quarters
of 1978, exchange share volume for the
first nine months was 3.2 percent higher
than the figure for all of 1977. The revenue increase was not as dramatic.
Through the first three quarters of 1978,
revenue was, however, running 8 percent higher than for the same period In
1977. Because operating costs are
largely fixed the growth in revenue dramatically improved pre-tax Income.
For the first nine months of 1978, the
national securities exchanges and the
NASD enjoyed combined pre-tax income of nearly $26 million, more than
double the $12.7 million generated
during all of 1977.
The NYSE derives 44 percent of its
revenue from its volume related transaction and depository fees. Relatively
fixed sources of revenue such as listing
fees paid by corporations, and communications fees and membership dues
paid by brokers generate 45 percent of
revenue and miscellaneous sources account for 11 percent. Pre-tax Income
through September 1978, at $15.5
million, was already 45 percent higher
than 1977 results.
The Amex generates only 22 percent
of Its revenue from volume-related
transaction fees Its listing and communication fees and membership dues,
however, all generated revenue at a
higher annual rate in 1978 than 1977.
Pre-tax Income for the first nine months
of 1978 was nearly triple the 1977 annual figure.
Trading volume In listed and unlisted
Issues over-the-counter was 52 percent

76

above the 1977 pace through September 1978. NASD revenue, however, is
derived from sources which do not vary
with trading volume. Registration, corporate finance and listing fees together
with membership dues generate 87 percent of revenue. Nine-month 1978 revenue was consequently about threefourths of 1977 annual revenue. Pre-tax
income slipped In 1978. The nine-month
figure was only about one-third of 1977's
annual results.
With the registration of the NSCC In
1977, most transactions executed on
the NYSEand Amex and In the over-thecounter market began to be cleared
through this clearing agency. The three
organizations thus no longer have clearing costs and generate only a small
amount of revenue from services performed for the clearing agency. The operating surplus from the clearing agency's
operation is returned to its members in
the form of fee rebates.
The MSE discontinued Its unprofitable broker service bureau in 1978 and
total 1978 revenue was reduced. Nearly
73 percent of revenue IS stili volumerelated, however, and the combined effects of the discontinued losses and the
growth in trading volume have resulted
In pre-tax Income of $724,000 through
September, 1978. Pre-tax losses were
over $1 million in 1977.
The PSE, Phlx and SSE also depend
heavily on volume-related fees. Sixty-six
percent of PSE and 80 percent of both
Phlx and SSE revenue comes from these
sources. The record trading volume has
raised PSE's pre-tax Income to a ninemonth level nearly ten times as high as
the 1977 annual figure. The comparable nine-month Phlx and SSE pre-tax
Income figure is nearly seven times as
large as the previous year's annual results.
The CSOE ISdependent upon volumerelated sources for 65 percent of ItSrevenue. A pre-tax loss of $580,000 In

1977 became pre-tax profit of over$2.2
million in the nine months of 1978.
The CSE, which began an electronic
trading experiment
In 1978, now receives less in floor usage revenue and
more in communications
fees. Its 1978
revenues were higher than the previous
year but profitability
comparisons were
unfavorable for this small exchange.
The ISE In Salt Lake City, and the
SSE appear to be unaffected by the factors which influence the other orgaruzations.
The MSRB Income of $678,476
during fiscal year 1978 (See Table 12) was
derrved prrmarily from three fees established by rules adopted under the Exchange Act. Municipal secunties brokers
and municipal securities dealers are assessed (1) an initial fee of $100, (2) an
underwriting
assessment fee equal to
.001 percent of the face value of all
rnunicrpat secuntres they purchase from
an Issuer as part of a new Issue which
has a final stated maturity of not less
than two years from the date of the secunties, and (3) an annual fee of $100
which can be offset by underwntmg fees
paid Within the calendar year. The underwriting assessment fee accounted for
75.7 percent of the MSRB Income during fiscal year 1978. The balance of
MSRB income was from other fees and
interest income.
During fiscal year 1978, the MSRB
had total expenses of $854,703.
The
major expense items were staff salaries
and employee benefits, including MSRB
contribution to an employee retirement
plan established In 1978 (44 percent);
meetings and travel (24.8 percent); and
mailing list, rule manual, postage and
other prrnting (15.5 percent). Expenses
exceeded income by $176,227,
due, in
part, to a Significant reduction in assessment fees received. As of September 30, 1978, the MSRB had a surplus
of $908,186.
Aggregate cleanng agency revenues

Increased approximately $9 million in
1977 to approximately
$103 million.
Aggregate clearing agency operating expenses Increased In excess of $10 million, or 12 percent over 1976.
NSCC had an increase in clearing revenues over Its predecessors' combined
1976 revenues of 17 percent, or $5
million, to approximately
$35 million
(including an $800,000
loss resulting
from the Insolvency of one of ItS clearing
members and approximately $3.6 million in regulatory fees to the NYSE,
Amex and the NASD). These regulatory
fees were for services consisting prrncipalty of exarrunatron, rnorutonng and
investigation of financial and operating
conditions of existing and prospective
clearing members and notification
of
unusual market conditions which may
affect secunties clearing .
When Boston Stock Exchange Clearrng Corporation and New England Securities Depository Trust Company, both
wholly owned subsidiarres of the BSE,
are combined for purposes of analysis,
their revenue increased $77,000 while
expenses Increased $87,000.
While Bradford Securities Processing
Service, Inc 's clearing and other revenues Increased by $1.6 million and
$1.1 million, respectively, ItS expenses
Increased by $2.6 rrullron.
The Depository Trust Company revenues Increased 8 percent to $33.3 million while Its expenses Increased a like
amount to $33.3 million.
The Midwest Clearrng Corporation experrenced a 7 percent decline In clearmg services revenues while its expenses
Increased 14 percent. The Midwest Securrties Trust Company had a 5 percent
increase in depository servrces revenues
and a 7 percent Increase In expenses.
Pacific Clearing Corporation also experienced a substantial
decrease In
clearing services revenues With a 15
percent decline while its total expenses
remained about the same. The Paciftc

77

Secuntres Depository Trust Company
had a 3 percent decline In depository
services revenues while expenses increased by 8 percent.
Stock Clearing Corporation of Philadelphia also experienced a decline in
clearing services revenues with a decrease of 4 percent while expenses decreased by 2 percent.

78

The Options Clearing Corporation's
total revenues increased 1 percent as
did its expenses.
TAD Depository Corporation, which
ceased dorng business early in 1978,
had an increase in revenues from
$307,000 to $495,000 while its expenses increased from $287,000 to
$466,000.

or> .......
.."._('O')coc:n<D
r--gOC)C)c-....t"'?..".or>
c-....QOor>C)ClOt"'?ClOClO
_N";oO..".-""'oOor>
00or>_

l:'J
('0')

or>

en

79

-

-

+.-0000

a.

~~

__

000,..,

-

_anooc)o~\QOOO:::;

~

t;

::_+N

+_N

+

...

:5::+C"oI+-""-

......,

-

~ __
OOf""oan
C"oIC"oI_N
-_

a

_\QOOc.DOc.D_O
f""C"oI__
--

t;

a.

Jl~

~


.;~

13

o:::~oo~ao+~oan

...~

,..
co

..

~ ~~
,..::

..,
~::~~:z
~~ ~
~

NOr-OO
0""
an
c.D

o\Qan,..,an 0""
an,..,\Q\Q
c:n
-Of""_
0'1

_OCCOO~\Q_0'I_0\Q

a.

~
....

a

Jl~

...,..
...
s=
......
.......
~
c

CD

co

.;~
g
U

...;

..,

~

a

~

a

-

1I)c.D_an_an
__
_O'I
__
O'IC"o1c:no
_00_""""_""...;

~

li:l

...
~
~

-

~
~
~ :z~mc;~~~~ ~ ~
ooo_c:nooc:n""_

'" 06"';
...;...;
...;
;i

w -

~
~

co

-..t;

...
O-~OOc::::~O+~O~

...

...;...;

...;...;

'"

a
00

CD

.L

,..,OOOO">Ooo_ooNNO""
~_
~~~~~
IN

~

15.

... :i ~~
-=

:a ...
11l
...... ....
1
......,.. ~ ~
...
'"
:z: J!
u ;:

..,

::i

-

g

anl,Q,..,ONOO_N
f"".-c:nOONNanoo
c:nN
C'.I
__
c.D_

'5

CD

__
IN __
c:nOOO
c.DlDOONf""c.Dc:n
c.DN_C'.I __
anan

l.D

:i

-

~
..,

anane::::tNO __
anC)_an_C'"')c:nc:n
c:n
r-Nc.DOOe::::tOO
__

Q.

~
co
::!

...
,..
=...
......
.......
:-

c::l

~

i~

_ooooe::::toooo.-oanoc.D
C'"')c:n00_'-0'1
_an_
0:0_
an

0
CD

,..:...;~
N

...;

00

::i

co

~~e::::t~~~~~_~0~
_

_l.DOOOON

...
~
..., ~

...

a

cn~

g
~

Na"l_O_NC'"')an
O....,
.. _NOO_to')
an_an...,._cnC'"')o:o
...;...;

...;:i-

...

;:0;
.,;
t;

1:5

~

...

~~~ooo~~=~o~
o.DU'i~

M

N

c::l

oD

..
..,

::i

;;-

~

...,
:J!l

M

..

...,
~
~
~ ~
....

a

~~
~f5

ii
-g~e

....
.,,~=

~
l!

~::b~

ee'!~

~ ..
......8
8c.:!C
~~i~

!.!

~!::!"ClI;;

."
!i!!~
:.i:~
~Cc~."
.".!
5 !!~~-:~ ." "'1;1;-g-g~-!
.! g."j~!~~i~! ~S8::_~! !!
! jc=0-;;5=t'-~2-~
i l:!.! ~g"'~"E g
1) .... c

jii
o.;:j:J =- 5

..
~£'iEi.~o

1l!'=sJ!.!:-:i:....
~ (.) ....
c

'"
80

a: ....

ex

&~;;-!!.8~

"] ~o.j~.i!
~
$l.!lJ!:liS
~:i
~

!
.. J

~

l;

~il~
~5~1
sE~~
!_cE
-a"3-;;~
:gi~w

j

~iij;
c
:"0:'0 ~

45; f~~

...

j~~SCi

~

+jj

-

<D

+

- __
00 __
C'.IU")U")_U")_
_

C'.I_

~


..-

~"""""C'.I<D_
<D~cn.....,l.n"""
C'.IU")
""-C'.I

-

......
...... ...,. ......
~<D~l.nOO....,

~

OO~'-D~~OO

-

'i;j.eD

...,.~~~oo~~~cn.....,~oo
~_~
~
.........,.__

~_~

_

~~~.....,

~~~

~

~N~~

~OO~~"""~-U")-"""~~

-

~~~~~
N

Nf""i

~~::!;~
N

.....,

=

.....,

~
<D

~

-

00

MC'.I

~OOOO_OOOO __
~~"""

oo...,.OO_<Doo
~~

~N

<D

=~
~~
~- ~
;;;ce ~

CC
-i

81

-

OO'lO __

~

('0,1_('0,1('0,1('0,11:'.1

II

I I 1

IIIII

1I 11I

I I I;:;:;

~~~r;;~
c.Dc-..._C'.I_
~~~~N

111:ll:;Q

8~~8~
ro?Nt"?~N

IIIII

I I I~'"

111~:;g

IIIII

f"')C)C'ol_O
__
<D.nO
0""''''''('0,1('0')

NNM.r.r

IIIII

........
en

;:i;
....
en

I I I I I

.,.,--1 ..... OOc.D_
r.,jU"'Jr-<D

I I I 1 1

~Nr.ir..i

.....
....

~~~~~
M~MM.

~~~~~~
+_++_

---

U)

0_,...,000"_

....

0000""'O'J0'l1l'l
_c.D
"""""""
__

C'.I
0'1

=~oO=::i~

~~:::

c.D...,._("').n

1 I~=~

II

00'1('0')""('0,1
c.DO.,.,c.oO

r"')_oo,....an
N';e.DeD

I I I I 1

III

('0,1000_
.....
,...,
I I CoD_....,.
___
-0
_OOl"'llD

_0
_
_""0""""
MN.rv:iv:i
C""C'.lc.D

t"":lOOQQ

_C'.Ir"')OOO'l

....;....;p)~

IIIII

I111I

re I I I I

1I I I I

IIIII

I I I 1 1

I I I~~

__

.,.,..,.cncnC'.l
00("0,10

O"t(,Dr"')_o
""'''''''000
",r.... _

•••

N-ONM

""('0,10000_
__

..rirJi

II I I I

('O')_c:n("')_

I I I I I

82

I I I I 1

__

c.o

r"')c.Dt'o.Ic-...r-

t"":l_c.DC'.IC'.I~

C7>.no __

~H2~~
I
00"':000->

I I I I I

I I I I I

1111I

"".,
NN

83

..=

..i

=

i
l!!

~
~


..~-~ ~~

..

00

~


~

zi

t""

Ln

ti ...

= = =

Cl
::g
c.o
~;;

~
8
__
~

:;: :z ~ ~

~

84

zi:;;i

-~
=

Table 12
REVENUE AND EXPENSES OF MUNICIPAL SECURITIES RULEMAKING BOARD
YearendedSeptember30

Revenue
Assessment fees
Annual fees
Inlt,al fees
Interest Income

1978

1977

$ 513708
96301
16800
51667

$1259983
100
50600
27431

678476

1338115

(qIenses

Salanes and employte benefits
Meelings and travel
Mailing ust, Board manual and other pnnflng and postage
Rent, telephone and other occupancy costs
Professional and other services
Payroll taxes
Depreciation
Other

Revenue over (under) expenses

Fund Balance, beginning of year
Fund Balance, end of year

EXEMPTIONS
Section 12(h) Exemptions
Section

12(h) of the Exchange Act
the Commission to grant a
complete or partial exemption from the
registration provisions of Section 12(g)
or from other disclosure and msider
trading provisions of the Act where It IS
not contrary to the public Interest or the
protection of Investors.
For the year beginning October 1,
1977, 29 applications
were pending,
and 177 applications were filed dunng
the year. Of these 146 applications. 29
were withdrawn, 70 were granted, and
4 denied. Forty-three apphcatlons were
pending at the end of the year.
On January 17, 1978. the Commission amended ItS rules governing the
delegation of authority to the Director
of its Division of Corporatron Finance.
The new amendment authorizes the DIrector to grant exemptive orders pursuant to Section 12(h) of the Exchange
Act With respect to applications for exemption from the registration,
reportIng, proxy and insider trading provisions
of the Exchange Act. Such authority,

authorizes

376839
212467
132870
62385
32886
18163
13624
5469

320.784
207132
115459
63103
15114
13840
12747
5401

854703

763580

(176117)
1084413

574535
509878

$ 908186

$1084 413

limited to applications which appear to
the Director to be routine In nature and
not requiring a hearing, Will reduce the
processing time for these aoolicatrons.

Exemption for Foreign Private
Issuers
Rule 12g3-2
provides various exernptrons from the registration provisions of Section 12(g) of the Exchange
Act for the securities of foreign private
Issuers. Perhaps the most Important of
these IS that contained In subparagraph
(b), which provides an exemption for
certain foreign Issuers which submit, on
a current basis, material specified In the
rule. Such material Includes that information about which Investors ought reasonbly to be Informed and which the
issuer. (1) has made public pursuant to
the law of the country of domicile or In
which It IS Incorporated or organized;
(2) has filed with a foreign stock exchange on which its secuntres are traded
and which was made public by such exchange; and/or (3) has distributed to its
security holders. Periodically, the Commission publishes a list of those foreign

85

issuers which appear to be current under this exemptive provision. The most
current list is as of July 31, 1978 and
contains a total of 152 foreign issuers.

FINANCIAL INSTITUTIONS
Stock Transactions of Selected
Financial Institutions
DUring 1977. private nonInsured
pension funds, open-end Investment

86

companies, life insurance companies,
and property-liability insurance companies purchased $36.9 billion of common stock and sold $34.5 billion,
resulting in net purchases of $2.4 billion. In 1976 purchases were $40.6
billion, sales $33.1 billion, and net purchases $7.4 billion. Their 1977 common stock activity rate was 20.7 percent
as compared to 21.1 percent one year
earlier.

_
_

_OlD

0-0
_NU":l

oO~ci

"I

"I

_

__

ori.

0

en

_0_

0

---

"I

~-~
~-=!~N
=~

r-

C'.j

......
_"1

__

~

_O'lC".l

"';~N~

"I

87

STOCKHOLDINGS OF
INSTITUTIONAL INVESTORS AND
OTHERS
At year-end 1977, the eleven institutional groups listed below held $342.4
billion of total corporate stock outstanding (both common and preferred). In
comparison, they accounted for $375.2
billion of the stock held a year earlier.
The resulting 8.7 percent decrease In
the value of the stockholdrngs of these
institutions was more than the 6.1 per-

cent decline In the aggregate market
value of all stock outstanding. Thus, the
share of total stock outstanding that was
held by these institutions declined to
34.4 percent at year-end 1977 from
35.4 percent a year earlier. During
1977, the shares held by other domestic Investors, whrch consist of indivrduals, broker-dealers and institutions not
listed, rose to 60.0 percent from 58.6
percent. Foreign Investors,share of
stockholdmgs remained at 6.0 percent

Table 14
MARKET VALUE OF STOCKHOLDIN6S OF INSTITUTIONAL INVESTORS AND OTHERS
(Bllhons of Dollars. End 01 Year)
1970

1971

1972

1973

1974

1975

1976

1977

671
439
62
154
132
46
186
28
101
220
78

887
526
69
206
166
58
941
35
154
250
90

1152
580
74
268
218
74
110 2
45
222
285
107

905
433
66
259
197
66
947
42
202
245
96

630
303
47
219
128
43
677
37
164
184
67

886
387
53
281
142
59
810
44
243
227
88

1097
430
59
342 R
169 R
78R
957 R
44
301
271
104

1019
362
31
338
171
69
832
48
300
261
98

12 Subtotal
13 less Inslitulional Holdmgs of Investment Company Shares

2716

3382

4127

3458

2499

3220

3852R

3529

49

58

65

67

65

86

14 Total lnstttunenal Investors
15 Foreign Investors 2
16 Other Domeslic Investors J

2668
187
5639

3324
329
6384

4062
413
6906R

3391
370
5253R

2434
284
3699R

3134
526 R
4835 R

3752 R
639 R
6206R

3424
601
5926

17 Total Stock Outstandmg'

8594

10037

11381 R

9014 R

6417 R

8495 R

10597 R

9951

Pnvate Nonmsured Pension Funds
Open-End Investment CompanIes
Other Investment Compa",es
life Insurance Compames
Property-llabilrty Insurance Companres1
Common Trust Funds
Personal Trust Funds
Mutual Savmgs Banks
9 State and local Retirement Funds
10 Foundations
11 Educational Endowments

R = ReVISed
I Excludesholdmgs of Insurance company stock
2 Includes estimate 01slock held as direct mvestment
J Computed as residual (hne 16 = 17 - 14
15) Inciudes both mdlvlduals and Instltuhonal groups not lISted above
• Includes both common and preferred stock Excludesmvestment company shares but Includes foreign ISsuesoutstandmg In the U S

88

100

105

Table 15
COMPANIES REGISTERED UNDER THE INVESTMENT COMPANY ACT OF 1940 AS OF SEPTEMBER 30,1978
Number of Registered Compames
Inactive a

Active

Total

ApproXImate
Mar1<etValue
of Assets of
Active
Companies
(Millions)

820
271
53
2
494

55
14
3
0
38

875
285
56
2
532

63.969
20,956
1,475
28
41.510

Mana~ement closed-end
mall business Investment companres
Caprtal leverage compames
All other closed-end compames

162
37
7
118

53
5
0
48

215
42
7
166

8,039
303
380
7,356

Uqrt tnvestmenl trust
Va"able annully-separate accounts
All other unrt tnvestmenl trusts

349
66
283

24
0
24

373
66
307

20.733'
1.009
19,724

1.336

136

1.472

93,921

Mana,emenl open-end ("Mutual Funds")
unds havtng no load
Vanable annully-separate accounts
~~P~\~~r~~a'~n~mpames

Face-amount certificate comDames

1.180

Total

• "Inact.ve" refers to regIStered companies wlllch as Df september 30. 1978. were m the process of being hquidated Dr merged. Dr have Itled an
appltcatlon pursuant to sect.on 8(1) of the Act tor dereglStrallon, Dr which have otherwISe gone Dul Df eustence and rematn registered only until such time
as Ihe CDmmlSslonISsuesOIlIer under Section 8(1) termmatmg therr regIStration
, Includes about 3 8 bllltDn 01assets Dftrusts whIch tnvesl tn securtties of Dlher Investment companies. substanltally all of them mutual funds

Table 16
COMPANIES REGISTERED UNDER THE INVESTMENT COMPANY ACT OF 1940
Number Dfcompames
Fiscal year ended
september 30

1941
1942
1943
1944
1945
1946
1947
1948
1949
1950
1951
1952
1953
1954
1955
1956
1957
1958
1959
1960
1961
1962
1963
1964
1965
1966
1967
1968
1969
1970
1971
1972
1973
1974
1915
1976
1917"
1918

RegIStered
at beglnntng
of year

RegIStered
dunng
year

ReglStralton
terminated
dunng year

0
436
407
390
371
366
361
352
359
358
366
368
367
369
384
387
399
432
453
512
570
663
727
727
731
727
755
842
967
1.167
1.328
1.351
1.334
1.361
1.377
1.399
1.403
1.437

450
17
14
18
14
13
12
18
12
26
12
13
17
20
37
46
49
42
70
67
118
97
48
52
50
78
108
167
222
187
121
91
91
106
88
63
91
98

14
46
31
27
19
18
21
11
13
18
10
14
15
5
34
34
16
21
11
9
25
33
48
48
54
30
41
42
22
26
98
108
64
90
66
86
57
63

• Began FIScalYear Endtng seplember 30.1977

RegIStered
at end of
year

ApproXImate
market value
Dfassets
of active
compames
(millions)

436
407
390
371
366
361
352
359
358
366
368
367
369
384
387
399
432
453
512
570
663
727
727
731
727
775
842
967
1.167/
1.328
1351
1.334
1.361
1377
1.399
1.376
1.437
1472

$ 2.500
2.400
2.300
2.200
3.250
3,750
3.600
3,825
3700
4,700
5.600
6,800
7.000
8,700
12.000
14,000
15.000
17.000
20.000
23.500
29.000
27.300
36.000
41.600
44.600
49,800
58.197
69,732
72,465
56337
78.109
80,816
73.149
62287
74.192
80.564
76.904
93.921

1:>°1

89

Table 17
NEW INVESTMENT COMPANY REGISTRATIONS
1978
Mana~:::~~~~pen-end

6

o

Vanable annUlt,es
All others

56

Sub-total

62

Managementclosed-end
SBIC's
All others

I
15

Sub-total

16

Un,t mvestment trust
Vanable annuities
All others

3
17

Sub-total

20

o

face amount certrhcates
Total RegIStered

98

Table 18
INVESTMENT COMPANY REGISTRATIONS TERMINATED
1978
Mana~~~~~~pen-end
Vanable annuitres
All others

6
3
34

Sub-total

43

Management closed-end
SBIC's
All others
Sub-total

o

13
13

Umt Investment trust
Vanable annumes
All others
Sub-total
Face amount certificates
Total termInated

Private Noninsured Pension
Funds: Assets
The assets of private nonInsured pension funds totaled $181.5 billion at
book value and $181.6 billion at market
value on December 31, 1977. A year
earlIer their comparable asset totals
were $160.4 billion and $173.9 billion.

90

o
63

The book value of common stock holdrngs increased to $97.0 billion at yearend 1977 from $93.4 billion the previous year. Valued at market, those
holdings decreased to $100.9 billion,
or 55.6 percent of total assets, at the
end of 1977 from $108.5 billion, or
62.4 percent of total assets, one year
earlIer.

Table 19A

ASSm OF PRIYATE NONSUREO PENSION FUNDS
Book Value, End of Year
(Mllltons of Dollars)
1970

1971

1972

1973

1974

1975

1976

1977

Cash and Deposas
U S Government Secunties
=ate
and Other Bonds
Pn! erred Stock
Common Stock
Own Company
Other Compames
Mortgages
Other Assets

1,804
3,029
29,666
1,736
51,744
3,330
48,414
4,172
4,860

1,641
2,732
29,013
1,767
62,780
3,608
59,172
3,660
4,826

1,857
3,689
28,207
l.481
74,585
3,868
70,717
2,728
4,983

2,336
4404
30,334
1.258
80,593
4,098
76,495
2,377
5,229

4,286
5,533
35,029
1.129
79,319
4,588
74,731
2,372
6,063

2,962
10764
37,809
1.188
83,654
5,075
78579
2,383
6,406

2,199
14,713
39,070
1,250
93,359
N.A
NA
2,369
7,454

3,721
20,138
45,580
1.168
96,984
NA
NA
2,497
11,421

Total Assets

97,011

106,419

117,530

126,531

133,731

145,166

160.414

181.509

NA Not Available
Note Includes deferred prof.t sh.nn, funds and penslOfl funds of corporations, umons, mull.emplOjOr groups, and nonprofit or,an_allons

Table 19B

ASSm OF PRIYATE NONINSURED PENSION FUNDS
Market Yalue, End of Year
(Millions of Dollars)

Cash and Deposas
U S Government Secunt.es
and Other Bonds
Pn!ferred Stock
Common Stock
Own Company
Other Compames
Corporate

~~ac:.rs
Total Assets

1970

1971

1972

1973

1974

1975

1976

1977

1,804
2,998
24,919
1,631
65,456
6,038
59,418
3,504
4,422

1.641
2,772
26,111
2,014
86,636
7,691
78,945
3,184
4,560

1,857
3,700
26,232
1.869
113,369
8,750
104,619
2,427
4,908

2,336
4,474
27,664
985
89,538
6,947
82,591
2,108
5,140

4,286
5,582
30,825
703
62,582
5,230
57,352
2,063
5,681

2,962
11,097
34,519
892
87,669
6,958
80,711
2,139
6,341

2,199
14.918
37,858
1,212
108,483
NA
NA
2,160
7,073

3,721
20,017
42,754
1,009
100,863
NA
NA
2,362
10,838

104,737

126,921

154,363

132,247

111.724

145,622

173,906

181.564

N.A Not Available
Note InCludes deferred profa shann, funds and penSion funds of corporations, umons, mulilemployer ,roups, and nonprof.t or,anllallons

SECURITIES ON EXCHANGES
Exchange Volume
Dollar volume of all equity secuntres
transactions on registered exchanges
totaled $198.3 billion in 1977. Of thrs
total, $187.2 billion represented stock
trading, $10.9 billion, option trading,
and the balance, trading in rights and
warrants. The value of New York Stock
Exchange transactions was $157.3 billion in 1977. NYSE share volume decreased 4.6 percentfrom the 1976 total
but still accounted for 80 percent of all
transactions. On the American Stock
Exchange, value of shares traded increased 14.2 percent to $8.5 billion.

The AMEX volume of 651.9 million
shares was up 2.3 percent from the
1976 figure. Share volume on regional
exchanges increased 1.1 percent from
the 1976 figure to 757.9 million shares,
valued at $21.4 billion.
The Chicago Board Options Exchange
contract volume for 1977 was 24.8
million, up 16 percent from 21.5 million In 1976. The value was $8.0 billion, a decreaseof 12 percent from $9.0
billion In 1976. The American Stock
Exchange Option volume was 10.1 million contracts In 1977, an Increase of
23 percent from the 8.2 million contracts in 1976. The value of AMEX options trading In 1977 was $1.9 billion.
91

1.9 million with a value of $459 million.
The Midwest Stock Exchange contract
volume was 601 thousand contracts
with a value of $101 million In 1977,
the first full year of trading In options.

Philadelphia Stock Exchangeoption volume was 2.2 million In 1977--almost
double the 1976 volume with a value
of $402 million In 1977. Pacific Stock
Exchange contract volume in 1977 was

Table 20
MARKET VAlUE AND VOLUME OF SALES ON REGISTERED AND EXEMPTED SECURITIES EXCHANGES I
(All data are In thousands)
Total
Market
Value
(Oollars)

Options)

Stocks'
Market
Value
(Oollars)

Number
of
Shares

Market
Value
(Oollars)

All Registered Exchanges for past

Calendar Year
1973
1974
1975
1976
1977
1978

179,310,223
120,487,320
163,978,654
206,958,654
198,291,919
268,508,724

177,877,567
118,433,546
157,259,952
194,968,674
187,202,557
249,257,272

5,723,164
4,846,343
6,231,232
7,035,662
7,023,101
9,602,325

SIX

Warrants

RIghts

Number
ot
Contracts

Market
Value
(Dollars)

Number
of
Units

Market
Value
(Dollars)

Number
ot
Units

1,119
5,683
14,428
31,428
39,622
57,306

973,076
389,251
285,859
248,124
184,435
343,725

124,740
67,174
97,225
53,603
67,841
68,064

11,082
4,301
9,024
7,634
5,792
2,323

51,515
37,167
52,928
35,843
43,940
13,889

212,966
81
0
0
122,589
5,900
2,189
0
0
0

35,468
43
0
0
28,988
3,018
547
0
0
0

407
2
0
0
1,435
479
0
0
0
0

568
235
0
0
12,796
289
0
0
0
0

years

448,498
1,660,222
6,423,469
11,734,222
10,899,135
18,9tJ5,405

Breakdown of 1978 Data by RegISteredExchange
All RegIStered Exchanges
'Amencan Stock Exchange
'Boston Stock Exchange
'Clnnclnatl Stock Exchange
Midwest Stock Exchange
'New York Stock Exchange
PacifIC Stock Exchange
'PhIladelphia Stock Exchange
Intermountain Stock Exchange
Spokane Stock Exchange
'ChICago Board Options Exchange

18,943,355
1,535,923
433,287
10,880,316
210,550,436
7,872,090
4,560,103
815
9,655
13,722,745

15,204,973
1,535,839
433,287
10,461,239
210,426,412
7,099,249
4,085,804
815
9,655
0

922,179
177,281
15,127
343,185
7,617,958
297,904
142,687
2,281
13,723
0

3,525,010
0
0
419,077
0
766,462
472,110
0
0
13,722,745

All Exempted Exchanges for past
Calendar Year
1973
1974
1975
1976
1977
1978

1,899
1,174
524
383
298
0

1,897
1,174
524
383
298
0

Sll

17,619
0
0
2,288
0
3,063
2,912
0
0
33,712

years

260
149
69
94
64
0

, Reports of those exchanges marked wrth an astensk cover transactions cleared dunng the calendar month, clearances occur for the most part on the
flftp day after that on whIChthe trade actually was effected Reports for other exchanges cover transactions effected or trade dates ot calendar month
Data on the value and volume of secunties sales are reported In connection WIth fees paid under Section 31 of the Secunties Exchange Act of 1934
They Include all seeunnes sales effected on exchanges except sales of bonds of the United States Government whICh are not sublect to the fee The data
cover odd.lot as well as round.lot transactions
'Includes voting trust certificates, certmcates of depoSit for stocks, and Amencan DepoSitaryReceipts for stocks, but excludes nghts and warrants
) ExercIses are not Included In these totals

92

MARKET VALUE OF SECURITIES TRADED ON
ALL U.S. STOCK EXCHANGES
Dollars

Bli lions
-I

200

-

,-

El.....'.'.
OptIon.

-

-

& Wa"onh

--

~

-

-

I--

160

-

.--

.....-

120

-

80

-

-

-

-

-

-

40

-

-

.

-

o

1967

68

69

70

71

72

G."

1.1

73

74

-

6••

117

109

75

76

1977
GA

'21!H8

I

93

system, a decrease of 2.0 percent from
2,627 in 1976. Volume for 1977 was
1.9 billion shares, up 11 percent from
1.7 billion in 1976. This trading volume
reflects the number of shares bought
and sold by market makers plus their
net inventory changes,

NASDAQ Volume
NASDAQ share volume and price information for over-the-counter trading
has been reported on a dally baSISsince
November I, 1971. At the end of 1977,
there were 2,575 issues in the NASDAQ

Table 21A
SHARE VOLUME BY EXCHANGES I
In Percentage

Yur

Total Share
Volume
(thousands)

NYSE

AMEX

MIDW

PCSE

PIllE

BOSE

CNSE

Other1

1935
1940
1945
1950
1955
1960
1961
1962
1963
1964
1965
1966
1967
1968
1969
1970
1971
1972
1973
1974
1975
1976
1977

6g1,911
377,897
769,018
893,320
1,321,401
1,428,552
2,121,050
1.699,346
1,874,718
2,118,326
2,663,495
3,306,386
4,641.215
5,406,582
5.133.498
4.835,222
6.172.668
6.518.132
5,899,678
4,950,833
6,371,545
7,125,201
7,134,882

7313
7544
6587
7632
6885
6908
6565
1184
7317
72 81
7010
6954
6448
6200
6317
1127
1134
7047
7492
7847
8105
80 03
7954

1242
1320
2131
1354
1919
2246
2584
2026
1889
1942
2259
2289
2845
2974
2761
1902
1842
1822
1375
1027
897
935
973

191
211
177
216
209
222
224
236
233
243
263
257
236
263
284
316
352
311
409
439
406
387
395

269
278
298
311
308
314
345
297
283
265
234
268
246
265
347
368
372
413
368
348
310
393
311

110
133
106
097
085
089
080
087
083
093
082
086
087
089
122
163
191
221
219
182
154
141
149

096
119
066
065
048
039
030
031
029
029
026
040
043
078
051
051
043
059
011
086
085
078
066

003
008
005
009
005
004
004
004
004
003
005
005
002
001
000
002
003
003
004
004
013
044
064

776
387
630
316
541
141
133
095
110
086
064
051
057
095
100
057
044
045
039
044
015
017
028

I Share

2

Volume for EJchanges Includes Stocks, Rights, and Warrants
Others Include Intermountarn, Spokane, Natronal. Getrolt and Honolulu Stock EJchanges

Table 21B
DOWR VOLUME BY EXCHANGES I
In Percentage

Yu,

Total OoIla'
Volume
(thousands)

NYSE

AMEX

MIDW

PCSE

PIlLE

BOSE

CNSE

Othel1

1935
1940
1945
1950
1955
1960
1961
1962
1963
1964
1965
1966
1967
1968
1969
1970
1911
1972
1973 .
1974
1975
1976
1977

15.396.139
8.419,772
16,284,552
21,808,284
38,039,107
45,276,616
64.032,924
54.823.153
64,4Il3.991
72.415.297
89.498.711
123,643,475
162.136,387
197,061,776
176.343.146
131.707.946
186.375.130
205,956.263
178.863.622
118.828.272
157.555.360
195.224.815
187,393.082

8664
8517
82 75
8591
8631
8386
82 48
86 37
8523
8354
8182
7981
77 31
7357
7350
7844
7907
7777
82 07
83 62
8504
84 35
8396

783
768
1081
685
698
935
1011
681
752
846
991
1184
1448
1800
1760
1111
998
1037
606
439
366
388
460

132
207
200
235
244
272
275
275
272
315
344
314
308
312
339
376
400
419
454
489
482
476
479

139
152
178
219
190
195
199
200
2.39
2.48
243
285
279
266
312
381
379
394
355
350
325
383
353

088
III
096
103
103
104
103
105
106
114
112
110
113
113
143
199
219
256
245
202
172
169
162

134
191
116
112
078
060
049
046
042
042
042
056
067
104
067
067
058
075
100
123
118
094
074

004
009
006
011
009
007
007
007
006
006
008
007
003
001
001
003
005
005
006
006
017
053
075

056
045
048
044
047
003
005
004
004
004
003
002
003
008
012
004
003
005
001
001
000
000
001

I OoIla'

2 Others

94

Volume for EJchanges Includes Stocks. Rights, and Warrants
Include Intermountarn, Spokane. Nabonal. and Honolulu Stock EJchanges

Special Block Distributions

ployed 18 times. accounting for 28.6
percent of the total number of special
block distributions In 1977, but, with
an aggregate value of $14.5 million,
these offerings accounted for only 5.2
percent of the value of all special block
distributions.
The exchange distribution method
was employed 6 times in 1977. The
value of exchange distributions was
$5.2 million, representing less than 2
percent of the value of all special block
distributions.

In 1977, the total number of special
block distributions decreased by 33.7
percent. The value of these distributions
decreased 54.2 percent to $280.9 million from $613.6 billion in 1976.
Secondary distributions accounted for
61.9 percent of the total number of special block distributions in 1977 and
93.0 percent of the total value of these
distributions.
The special offering method was em-

Table 22

SPECIAL BLOCK DISTRIBUTIONS REPORTED BY EXCHAJIGES
lY..

IlIl11a1unds)

Secondlry d,stnbutlOlls
Yur

1942
1943
1944
1945
1946
1947
1948
1949
1950
1951
1952
1953
1954
1955
1956
1957
1958
1959
1960
1961
1962
1963
1964
1965
1966
1967
1968
1969
1970
1971
1972
1973
1974
1975
1976
1977

Humber

•
•
•
...
..
, ....
..
..

. , ..

•
•
,

.

..
• _..

116
81
94
115
100
73
95
86
77
88
76
68
84
116
146
99
122
148

92
130
59
100
110
142
126
143

114

...

142
72
204
229
120
45
51
57
39

Exthlnae d.stnbutlOns

Sha",s
sold

Vllue

2,397,454
4,270,580
4,097,298
9,457,358
6,481,291
3,961,572
7,302,420
3,737,249
4,280,681
5,193,756
4,223,258
6,906,017
5,738,359
6,756,767
11,696,174
9,324,599
9,508,505
17,330,941
11,439,065
19,910,013
12,143,656
18,937,935
19,462,343
31,153,319
29,045,038
30,783,604
36,110,489
38,224.199
17,830,008
72,801,243
82,365,749
30,825,890
7,512,200
34,149,069
24,089,636
9,848,986

82,840
127,462
135,760
191,961
232,398
124,671
175,991
104,062
88,743
146,459
149,117
108,229
218,490
344,871
520,966
339,062
361,886
822,336
424,688
926,514
658,780
814,984
909,821
1,603,107
1,523,373
1,154,479
1,571,600
1,244,186
504,562
2,007,517
3,216,126
1,151,087
133,838
l.409,933
581,560
261,257

Humber

57
19
11
33
38
28
20
33
41
72

68

57
52
51
35
32
35
30
26
19
4
14
16
6

Shires
sold

705,781
258,348
156,481
390,832
619,876
545,038
441,644
1,127,266
2,345,076
2,892,233
2,553,237
2,334,277
3,042,599
3,452,856
2,669,938
1,706,572
2,066,590
2,595,104
1,469,666
802,322
82,200
483,846
752,600
295,264

Special offennas
Vlloe

24,664
10,211
4,645
15,855
29,454
26,491
11,108
58,072
65,459
107,498
97,711
86,479
118,349
125,404
93,528
52,198
48,218
65,765
30,156
9,140
6,836
8,300
13,623
5,242

Humber
79
80
87
79
23
24
21
32
20
27
22
17
14
9
8
5
5
3
3
2
2
0
0
0
0
0
1
0
0
0
0
91
33
14
22
18

Shires
sold

Vlloe

812,390
1,097,338
1,053,667
947,231
308.134
314,270
238,879
500,211
150,308
323,013
357,897
380,680
189,772
161,850
131,755
63,408
88,152
33,500
63,663
35,000
48,200
0
0
0
0
0
3,352
0
0
0
0
6,662,111
1,921,755
1,252,925
1,475,842
1,074,290

22,694
31,054
32,454
29,878
11,002
9,133
5,466
10,956
4,940
10,751
9,931
10,486
6,670
7,223
4,557
1,845
3,286
3,730
5,439
1,504
588
0
0
0
0
0
63
0
0
0
0
79,889
16,805
11,521
18,459
14,519

95

Value and Number of Securities
Listed on Exchanges
The market value of stocks and bonds
listed on U.S. Stock Exchangesat yearend 1977 was $1,291 billion, a decrease of less than 1 percent from the
previous year-end figure of $1,301 billion. The total was composed of $818
billion in stocks and $473 billion in
bonds. The value of listed stocks decreased 9.0 percent in 1977 and the
value of listed bonds increased 17.5
percent. Stocks with primary listing on
the New York Stock Exchange were valued at $777 billion and represented
95.0 percent of the common and preferred stock listed on all U.S. exchanges. The value of NYSE listed

stocks decreased from their 1976 yearend total by $82 billion or 9.6 percent.
Stocks with primary listing on the AMEX
accounted for 4.6 percent of the total
and were valued at $38 billion. The
value of AMEX stocks increased $2 billion or 5.5 percent In 1977. Stocks with
primary listing on all other exchanges
were valued at $3.3 billion, a decrease
of 20.7 percent from the 1976 total.
The net number of stocks and bonds
listed on exchanges decreased by 145
issuesor 2.2 percent in 1977. The Philadelphia Stock Exchange listed 10 additional secunties. Cincinnati and
Honolulu showed no change while the
other exchangesall showed a drop in the
number of listings.

Table 23
SECURITIES LISTED ON EXCHANGES I
December 31, 1977
Common
Exchanges

RegIstered
Amencan
Boslon
Cmcmnaf
Mldwesl
New Vorl<
PacifIC
Philadelphia
Inlermountam
Spokane
uempted
Honolulu'
Tolal
Includes the folloWing
foreIgn stocks
RegIStered
New Vorl<
Amencan
PaCific'
Exempted
Honolulu'
Tolal

Number

1047
72
6
19
1,513
41
3D
29
24
18

Preferred

Marl<el
Value
(Million)
$35,559
437
27
259
751,273
1,034
196
49
6

Number

Bonds

Marl<et
Value
(Million)

99
2
3
6
627
9
93
0
0

$2,079
I
7
66
25,420
143
705
0
0

Number

184
I
6
I
2,658
18
12
0
0

Tolal Secunloes

Marl<el
Value
(Mllhon)

Number

N.A
I
47
8
472,527
392
100
0
0

1,330
75
15
26
4,79B
68
135
29
24

$37,638
439
81
333
1,249,220
1,569
1,001
49
6

$366

7

$7

$5

27

$378

2799

$789,206

846

$28,428

2,882

$473,080

6,527

$1,290,714

36
71
3

$ 19,872
11,433
80

73
7

179
6
0

6.998
NA0

216
78
4

26.943
11,440
80

0

0

112

$ 31400

80

185

6,998

300

38,478

15

+

$
$

15

I Excludes seeunnes whICh were suspended from tradmg allhe end of the ",ar, and secunnes whICh because of Inactivity had no available quotes
'(eStlmaled) Honolulu Stock Exchange ceased operallons on December 31, 1977
+ less Ihan 0 5 mllhon, bul greater Ihan zero

96

Marl<et
Value
(Million)

Table 24
VALUE OF STOCKS LISTED ON EXCHANGES
lOillars

In

billionsl

Dec31

New York
Siock
Exchange

Amencan
Stock
Exchange

1936
1937
1938
1939
1940
1941
1942
1943
1944
1945
1946
1947
1948
1949
1950
1951
1952
1953
1954
1955
1956
1957
1958
1959
1960
1961
1962
1963
1964
1965
1966
1967
1968
1969
1970
1971
1972
1973
1974
1975
1976
1977

599
389
475
465
419
358
388
476
555
738
686
683
670
763
938
1095
1205
1173
1691
2077
2192
1956
2767
3077
3070
3878
3458
4113
4743
5375
4825
6058
6923
6295
6364
7418
8715
7210
511 I
685 I
8583
7767

148
102
108
101
86
74
78
99
112
144
132
12 I
119
122
139
165
169
153
22 I
271
310
255
317
254
242
330
244
261
282
309
279
430
612
477
395
491
556
387
233
293
360
376

Securities on Exchanges
As of September 30, 1978, a total of
6,777 securities, representing 3,179
Issuers, were admitted to trading on securities exchanges In the United States.
This compares with 6,798 Issues involving 3,283 Issuers, a year ea:ller.

ExclUSIVely
on Other
Exchanges

30
31
33
32
31
28
36
40
38
31
43
42
41
53
40
43
43
47
40
39
60
54
48
47
56
4I
29
43
42
42

Total
747
491
583
566
505
432
466
575
667
882
818
804
819
916
1110
1292
1405
1354
1948
2388
2540
2242
3127
3373
3353
426 I
3742
4417
5068
5731
5144
6527
7595
6826
6807
7956
9327
7638
5373
7187
8985
8185

Over 5,000 Issues were listed and registered on the New York Stock Exchange, accounting for 60 percent of
the stock Issuesand 90.7 percent of the
bond Issues. Data below on "Securities
Traded on Exchanges" Involves some
duplication Since It Includes both solely
and dually listed securities.

97

Table 25
SECURITIES TRADED 011 EXCHAIIGES
Bonds

Stocks
Issuers

Amencan
Boston
Ch,cago Board of Opllons
ChIcago Board of Trade

1.088
819
I
3
341
I
47
596
1,926
816
914
35

~~~~~~~V
Intermountain
MIdwest
New York
PaCIfIC Coast
PBS
Spokane

Temporanly
exempted

RegIstered
1,096
126
1
1
29

Unlisted
39
740

1.136
866
1
3
355
1
47
670
2,230
982
1.082
38

2
326

46
366
2,227
814
290
34

I

Total

1
303
167
792
4

203
16
15
29
2,776
106
71

I Issues

2

exempted under SectIOn 3(a)(l2) of the Act, such as obllgallons of U S Govemment, the states, and cmes, are not Included In thIS table
Exempted exchange had 1 admitted to unlisted trading

Table 26
UIIDUPLICATED COUIIT OF SECURITIES 011 EXCHAIIGES
(September 30,1978)
Issuers
Involved

RegIstered exchanges

Stocks

Bonds

Total

RegIstered and lIsted
Temporanly exempted from regIstratIon
Admrtted to unlisted tradIng pnvlleges
Exempted exchanges
listed
Admrtted to unlisted trading pnvlleges

3,676
4
36

3,044
2
14

6,115
6
50

3,148
2
28

3.060

6,777

3,179

Total

0
I
3,711

1933 ACT REGISTRATIONS
Effective Registration Statements

Filed
During the fiscal year ending September 30, 1978, 3,028 registration statements valued at $65 billion became
effective. The number of effective registratlons in fiscal 1978 rose 3.9 percent from fiscal 1977. The decrease In
the dollar value is due to a change in
reporting the registrations of investment
companies necessitated by a change in
the rules of the Securities Act of 1933.

98

(The number of effective Investment
company registrations continue to be
included while the dollar value of effective investment company registrations
is no longer available.)
Among the registration statements
effective, there were 647 first-time registrants In fiscal 1978 as compared with
637 in fiscal 1977.
The number of registration statements filed rose 5.8 percent to 3,204
in fiscal 1978 from 3,029 in the previous fiscal year.

Table 27
EFFECTIVE REGISTRATIONS
(Dollars In m1l1lonsl
Total
FIscal year ended June 30

19351
1936
1937
1938
1939
1940
1941
1942
1943
1944
1945
1946
1947
1948
1949
1950
1951
1952
1953
1954
1955
1956
1957
1958
1959
1960
1961
1962
1963
1964
1965
1966
1967
1968
1969
1970
1971
1972
1973
1974
1975
1976
Transltoon Quarter July-September 1976
FiscaL year ended September 30
1977(r)
1978
Cumulat,ve
r

Total

Number

Cash Sale for Account of Issuers
Value
913
4.835
4.851
2.101
2,579
1.787
2,611
2,003

Common
Stock

Bonds
Debentures,
and Notes

Preferred
Stock

490
3,153
2,426
666
1,593
1 112
1,721
1041
316
732
1851
3102
2,937
2,817
2,795
2.127
2,838
3,346
3093
4240
3,951
4.123
5,689
6,857
5,265
4,224
6,162
4,512
4,372
4,554
3.710
7061
12,309
14,036
11,674
18,436
27.637
20,127
14,841
20,997
37,557
29,373
5,066

28
252
406
209
109
110
164
162
32
343
407
991
787
537
326
468
427
851
424
531
462
539
472
427
443
253
248
253
270
224
307
444
558
L,140
751
823
3,360
3,237
2,578
2,274
2,201
3,013
413

686
3,936
3,635
1,349
2,020
1,433
2,081
1,465
486
1,347
2,715
5,424
4,874
5,032
4,204
4,381
5,169
7,529
6,326
7,381
8,277
9,206
12,019
13,281
12,095
11,738
16,260
16,286
11,869
14,784
14,656
25,723
27,950
37,269
52,039
48,198
58,452
49,882
44,034
43,082
70,260
69,502
12,246

Total

284
689
840
412
344
306
313
193
123
221
340
661
493
435
429
487
487
635
593
631
779
906
876
813
1,070
1,426
1,550
1,844
1,157
1,121
1,266
1,523
1,649
2,417
3,645
3,389
2,989
3,712
3,285
2,890
2,780
2,813
639

1.760
3,225
7,073
6,732
6,405
5,333
5,307
6,459
9,500
7,507
9.174
10,960
13.096
14,624
16,490
15,657
14,367
19,070
19,547
14,790
16,860
19,437
30,109
34,218
54,076
86.810
59.137
69,562
62.487
59,310
56,924
77.457
87,733
15,010

168
531
802
474
318
210
196
263
137
272
456
1,331
1150
1,678
1,083
1.786
1,904
3332
2,808
2,610
3,864
4.544
5,858
5998
6387
7,260
9,850
11,521
7,227
10,006
10,638
18,218
15,083
22,092
39,614
28,939
27,455
26518
26,615
19,811
30,502
37,115
6,767

2,914
3,028

92,579
64,7562

47,125
25,3051

28017
23,324

2,425
2,095

77,566
50,724

59,397

1,115,880

475,821

366,270

36,774

878,871

sss

=

revised
10 months ended June 30, 1935
adoptoon of Rule 241--2 (17 CFR 270241-2)
.nvestment companres
I For

2 The

effecllve November 3, 1977 made ,t ,mposslble to report the dollar value of secunnes

rellstered

by

99

SECURITIES
Oollors
100

EFFECTIVELY REGISTERED
1935

811110ns

-

WITH S.E.C.

1978

80

BILLIONS

OF DOLLARS

60

20

Hundreds
40

NUMBER

30

OF REGISTRA nONS

20

10

0

1935

40

45

50

55
( F t s cc l

FISCAL

YEAR

END CHANGED

DATA FOR TRANSITION
EFFECTIVE

1..'

100

DOES

NOT

70

65

FROM JUNE TO SEPTEMBER

QUARTER JULY-SEPTEMBER

REGISTRATIONS
INCLUDe

60
Years)

$IS.0 BILLION.

INVESTMENT

COMPANIES

1976 NOT SHOWN ON CHARTS

NUMBER OF REGISTRATIONS
AS OF

1/1/78

DUE

TO RULE

639
CHANGE

1975

78

Purpose of Registration
Effective registrations for cash sale
for the account of corporate Issuers
amounted to $29 billion 1 In fiscal 1978
as compared to $33 billion in fiscal
1977. With respect to distribution of
these registratrons between equity and
indebt offerings,
equity offerings
creased from $6.7 billton In frscal 1977
to $7.9 blllion-an
18 percent increase. Debt offerings Increased from
$24.2 billion to $29.2 billron-c-a 207
percent fall.
Among the securities registered for
cash sale in fiscal 1978, nearly all debt
issues were for Immediate offerings,
whereas 36.3 percent of the equity reg-

1 The adoption
of Rule 24f-2 (17 CFR
270.24f-2)
effective November 3 1977
made It irnpossrble to report the doliar valu~
of secunties registered by Investment com-

panies.

istrations were for cash sale. Registrations of extended offerings totaled $17.5
brlhon with employee plan offerings acco.un.ting for $9.1 billion. In prior years,
this Included sales of open-end investment companies.
Securities registered for the account
of the Issuer for other than cash sale
totaled $12.9 billion including $9.3
billion of common stock. The bulk of
these registrations were common stock
Issues relating to exchange offers, mergers and consohdatrons, In fiscal 1978
common stock effectively registered for
this purpose totaled $8.8 billion, a decrease of 24.1 percent from fiscal 1977
Registrations for the purpose of secondary offerings (proceeds gorng to seiling security holders) typically concern
sales of common stock. In fiscal 1978
these registrations amounted to $1.1
brluon, or a 16 percent decline from fiScal 1977.

Table 28
EFFECTIVE REGISTRATIONS

8Y PURPOSE AND TYPE OF SECURITY: FISCAL 1978
(Dollars ,n moilions)

r,pe of security
Purpose of registrations

All re~lStratlOns (estimated value)
or account of ISsuer for cash sa ~
Immediate offenng
Corporate
Offered to
~neral public
SecUrity holders
Foreign governments
Extended cash sale and other ISsues
For account of ISsuer for other than cash sale
Secondary offenngs
Cash sale
Other

Bonds.
10tal

debentures,
and notes

Preferred
stock

Common

stock

64.756
50.724
33.186
29.087

24.228
23324
23230
19.131

4.909
2.095
2.083
2083

35619
25305
7.873
7.873

28.948
139
4.099
17.538
12901
1,131
387
744

19128
3
4099
93
838
66
1
65

2.081
2
0
12
2801
13
13

7739
134
0
17432
9262
1052
386
666

101

EFFECTIVE REGISTRA TlONS
CASH SALE FOR ACCOUNT OF ISSUERS
Dollan

1935

Billions.

-

1978

50

,1

,1

,I

d

40

,I
I I
I I
~


I
I

,

"

II

30

,,,
,

20
Common

Stock

~,~l,

,

\

10

i'>.
Preferred

Stock

......

:

• •••

~

...........................................

o
1935

40

45

55

50
(FIscal

~

102

FISCAL

YEAR

END CHANGED

60
Years

FROM JUNE

DATA FOR TRANSITION
QUARTER
BONDS 5S.1 BILLION,
PREFERRED

65

70

75

1

TO SEPTEMBER

JULY.SEPTEMBER
1976 NOT SHOWN ON CHART
STOCK 5.4 BILLION, COMMON STOCK 56 8 BILLION

78

Regulation A Offerings
During fiscal year 1978, 242 notifications were filed for proposed offerings
under Regulation A. Issues between

$400,000 and $500,000 In size predominated. It should be noted, that the
ceiling for Regulation A was raised to
$1.5 million on September 11, 1978,
Just prior to the end of the fiscal year.

Table 29

OFFERINGS UNDER REGULATION A
FIscal
1978

FIscal
1977

Fiscal
1976

$100,000 or less
$100,000-$200,00
$200,000-$300,000
$300,000-$400,000
$400,000-$500,000
$5OO,OOll-$1,500,OOO

23
33
36
25
120
5

17
30
30
24
117
0

24
36
27
39
114
0

Tolal

242

218

240

55
187

52
166

37
203

242

218

240

223
5
14

205
7
6

222
12
6

242

218

240

SIze

UndefWfIlers
Used
Not Used
Total
Offerars
ISSUing Companoes
Stockholders
Issuers and Stockholders

JOlnUy

Total

ENFORCEMENT
Types of Proceedings
As the table below reflects, the secunties laws provide for a wide range of
enforcement actions by the Commission. The Most common types of actions
are injunctive proceedings Instituted In
the Federal district courts to enjoin continued or threatened securities law VI-

olators, and administrative proceedings
pertaining to broker-dealer firms and/or
mdrviduals associated with such firms
which may lead to various remedial
sanctions as required In the public interest. When an injunction IS entered by
a court, violatron of the court's decree
is a basis for Criminal contempt action
against the violator.

103

Table 30
TYPES OF PROCEEDINGS
ADMINISTRATIVEPROCEEDINGS
Persons Subject to, Acts Constituting,
and BaSISfor, Enforcement Action

Sanct.on

lroller-dealer, munICipal Sleurllies
dealer, ,.. ostmont anlSl! or
assoclat.d person
rule. aiding or abeNmg such
vIOlation, failure reasonably to supervise others, willful misstatement or
omISsIOn In filing with the CommISSion, conviction of or InJunct.on against
certain cnmes or conduct
WillfUl VIolation OJ secunnes dl,.l) ",rovlslon or

RIIist.red

Censure or limitation on actmties revocatIOn, suspenslOR or deDlal of
regrstranon, bar or suspensien from assoc13t1on(1934 Act. H ISB(cH2}(4), IS(bH4H61. AdvISersAct. H 2D3leHfH •

SlcurllleS assoclaten

Organuatlon or rules not conforming to statutory reqUirements

SuspensIOnof regIStration or limItation of actlvltres, functIOns, or operations
(1934 Act, S 19Ih)(1ll

Yoalation of 0' InabIlity to comply With the 1934 Act. rules thereunder or
rts own rules, unJustified failure to enforce compliance With the foregOing
or WIth rules of the MUDlclpal Secuntres Rulemaklng Board by a member
or person assocIated wrth a member

Suspension or revocahon of registration.

censure or limitation

functIons, or operations (1934 Act. S 19(hHI))

of

actiVIties.

lI.mber 01 rellst.red Sleurllies
association, or aSS<lClat.d
person
Being subJeCt to CommISsIOnorder pursuant to 1934 Act, S IS(b), Willful
voolatlOOof or effecting transaction for other person With reason to belreve
that person was Violating seeunties acts provISIOns, rules thereunder, or
rules of MUDlclpal Secunues Rulemakrng Board

Suspension or expulSion from the aSSociatIOn, bar or suspenSIOn from assoc,atlon WIth member of association (1934 Act. SS 191hH2}-13ll

IlItlonaI SlcurllleS .seha ...
OrganuatlOn or rules not conforming to statutory requirements

Suspensnn of regIStration or lnmtanen of actiVIties, functIOns, or operations
(1934 Act, S 19(hl(1ll

VIOlatIOnof or Inability to comply wdh 1934 Act, rules thereunder or ItS own
rules, unJustifIed farlure to enforce compliance WIth the foregOing by a
member or person associated WIth a member

SuspenSion or revocatien 01 registratIOn, censure or limItation of act,mlls,
functions, or operatens (1934 Act, S 19(hl(1ll

llember 01 national soeurllie •
• sella .... or a.S<lClated persons
Betng subJeCt to CommISsIOnorder pursuant to 1934 Act, S IS(b), WIllful
voolatlOOof or effecting transaction for other person With reason to believe
that person was Violating secUntllS acts proVISionsor rules thereunder
RIIist.red

elearl .......

,

VlOlatlOOof or Inabllrty to comply wrth 1934 Act, rules thereunder, or ItS
own rules, failure to enforce compliance WIth ItS own rules by partiCIpants

.....,

Participant In fIIIst.red

SuspenSion or espulSion from exchange, bar or suspensen from assoc,atlon
WIth member (1934 Act, H 19(hH2H3ll

SuspensIOnor revocatIOn of reglstratton, censure or limitatIon of actiVIties,
functions, or operallOns (1934 Act, S 19(h)(1ll

el.an ..

Beln' subject to CommISSionorder pursuant to 1934 Act, S lS(bH4), Willful
vlOlatlOOof or effecting transactIon for other person WIth reason to believe
that person was VIolating provISIons of c1eanng agency rules

Suspensen or espulSion from cleanng agency (1934 Act, S 19(hH2)J

SIcarItles Information processor
YroiatlOO of or Inabllrty to comply wrth prOVISIons of 1934 Act or rules
thereunder

Censure or operatIOnal Iimltallons, suspenSion or revocatIOn of regIStratIOn
(1934 Act, S llA(bH6))

Tl'IlISIer IIInt
Willful VIOlatoonof or rnab.lrty to comply wrth 1934 Act, H 17 or 17A, or
relulatlOOs thereunder

Censure or IimrtatlOO ot actlvltres, demal, suspenSIOn, or revocatlOO of
regIStration (1934 Act, S 17A(cH3))

Ally pel'S8ll
Willful vlOlatlOO01 secunties act prtlVlslOn or rule, aldrng or abett.ng such
vlOlatlOO,WIllful mISstatement In filing wrth CommISSion

Temporary or permanent prohlbrtlOO from seNlng rn certaIn capaCrt,es for
regIStered Investment company (Investment Company Act, S 9(b))

• Statutory referenets are as follows "1933 Act", the Secunties Act of 1933, "1934 Act", the Secuntlls Exchange Act of 1934, "Investment Company
Act",the Investment Company Act of 1940, "Advisers Act", the Investment Advisers Act ot 1940, "Holdrng Company Act", the PublocIIlllity Holding Company
Act of 1935, "Irust Indenture Act",the Trust Indenture Act of 1939, and "SIPA",the Secunties Investor Protect.on Act of 1970

104

Table 3D-Contlnued
TYPES OF PROCEEDINGS
ADMINISTRATIVE PROCEEDINGS
Persons Subteel to, Acts Constrtutln"
and BasIs for, Enforcement ActIOll
8IfIctr or dlrtctor 01 sa"rtPlatorJ orpnlutlon
Willful VIOIatoon of 1934 Act, rules thereunder, or the or"nllallOll's own
rules, willful abuse of authorrty or unjustified flliure 10 enforce compliance
Prilclpl

En""n"n

Removal flllm office or censure 1193Uct, t 19<h)(4))

01 brollir-dnier

bus,ness as I brobr-duler

after Ipporntmenl of SlPC lruslee

1133 Act rqI$lrIlIOlI ~1 ... 1Il
Stop order SUlpendln, 1"ec1ovenlSS 11933 Act, t I(d))

Stltement mllenilly Inlccurlle or Incomplete
Investment company his not attllned
statement became effectove

$100,000 net worll 90 dlYS after

StoP order (Investment Complny Act, t 14(1))

I'moIIs subject to Slcttoas t Z, 13
... 151d) 01 tlIIll34Act
Order dlrectln, complilnce 11934 Act,

Matenal noncomplllnce wrth such PIllVlSIOllS

t 15Ic)(4)

S1clrttlls IuUl
Noncompliance by ISSuer wrth 1934 Act or rules thereunder

Den,"I, SUSpeIISIOllof effect,ve dltt, SUSpeIISIOIlor revocatlOll of ""strlllOll
on nallOllll secuntoes mhon,e 11934 Act, t 121m

PublIC Interes' reqUires tred",

Summlry suspenslOll of over-lhe ..... nler or achan,e
t (2Ik))

SUSpellSlon

tredln,

11934 Act,

llIisIInd Inmt1nIlIl company
Flllull to file Investment Complny Act re"sIII'1OIl stalemen' or reqUIred
1tjlOII, fllin, mltenally ,"complete or mlSlead'"l stile men' of "port

RIYOCI'1OIlof 1I"slrlllOll (Investment CompanyAct, tI(t))

Company hiS not Ittllned $100,000 net worll 90 dlYS Ifter 1933 Act
ltl,stlltlOll stltemenl became effectove

RIYOCI'1OIlor suspenslOl1 of 1I"stlibon

AtlInIy,

(Investment Company Act, t 14(1))

..,.rt

-.tut. or otlIIr

".teuloul ...

'0 IPpear

!Jet 01 requlsrte qualificatIOnS to IIpresent others, Ilcktn, In chlrlcter or
Inte,n!y; unethICal or Implllper plllfesSlOl1al conduct, willful VIOIltlOl1of
secunbes laws or rules, or IId,n, and lbet!Jn, such Y1o1ltlOll

Permlnent or lemporlry denlll of pnvIlep
CommlsslOl1 (11 C F R t 201 2lelll))

AttOl'lllJ IIIslllnded or dlsbarrld by
court, 1IIIIIt'S bClnll moIltd or
1IIS1II.d1d, COIlYictIOl of I felony
or mlllle ... ,.or inyolYilll morll
turpitude

Auloma'lC suspensIOn IllIm appearance or praellce belor, the Comm,,_
(11 C F R t 201 2(e)(211

Permlnent ,",unellOll "',"St or f,ndl.' 01 secunt .. s VIOIatlOll,n Commlss,olHnstrtuted lellOll, flndln, of secuntoes VIOIltlOll by CommlsslOll In
Idmlftlstretove proceed,",

T,mporary suspenslOll lrom Ipparlnee
C F R t 201 2(e)13))

Willful VIoIatlOll of securrtoes laws, rules .htleunder,

Consullor removll flllm offoct (1934 Act, t ISSlc)(I))

or rules of the Board

or prlctlCe before the

or praellCl belore Comm,",""

(11

CML PROCEEDINGS IN FEDERAL DISTRICT COURTS
Persons SubjlCl to, Acts Constrtut,nc.
Ind BasIS for Enforcement ActIOll

SlnctlOll

En",,",

I. or lbout to en""
In acts or practICeS VIoIlbn, secuntltS
acts, rules or orders thereunder (,oclud,n, rules of I ItlISttred s,ff-re,u"'tory or"nllabon)

InfunellOll IllInst aels or prlctlCeS wlncb COIlstrtutl or would COIlstrtull
VIoIlllOlls (plus 01"" equrtable refl,f under court's pneral equrty oo-sl
(1933 Act, Sec 20(b), 1934 Act, Sec 21(d), 1935 Act, Sec 11(1), Investment
ComPlY Act, t 42(e), Advtsers Act, t 209(,), Trust Indentu" Act, t 321)

Noncompliance wrth pnIYISIOllSof law, rule, or "lulatlOll u.dII1933, 1934,
or HoId,n, Company Acts, order ,ssued by Commlssron rules of are"stered
self-Itlulatory or"nllltlOll, or undertlktn, '" I ""stllt1Ollstltement

Wnt of mlndlmus, ,n,uncllOll, or order dIrect,", c:ompllloce 11933 Act,
t 201c), 1934 Act, t 21(e), Hold,", Company Act, t ISW)

105

Table 3D-Continued
TYPES OF PROCEEDINGS
CIVil PROCEEDINGSIN FEDERALDISTRICTCOURTS
Persons SubJecllo Acls Consiliuling
and BaSISfor. Enlorcemenl Acllon

Sanction

Securities Investor Protecuon

Cof1ItrJtlon
Refusal 10Cllmm,1funds or act for the prolechon of customers

Order directing dIscharge of obligatIOns or other appropnate

relief

(SIPA

~ 1(b))

IlItionaI Slcunties elchalle or
fIIlslered SlCUntits association
Nllncomphance by ,ts members and persons associated with lis members
Wllh the 1934 Act. rules and orders thereunder or rules of Ihe exchange

or association
llI!stered

citarial

Wnt of mandamus. InJuncllon, or order dlrectmg such exchange or assncranen 10enforce comphance (1934 Act. ~ 2I(ell

IIIncy

NllnCllmphance by lis partICipants WIth Its own rules

Writ of mandamus

injunction

or order directing cleanng agency to enforce

comphance (1934 Act. ~ 2I(e))
issuer sublect 10rep<>rtlng
requirements
Failure to file rep<>rtsrequited under ~ 15(d) of 1934 Acl
:=red

Forteolureof $100 per day (1934 Act. ~ 32(b))

Investment compan, or

Name of Cllmpan, or of secunly ISsued by II de<:epl,veor mISleading

InlunctlOn agamst use of name (Inveslment Company Act. ~ 35(d))

OIIIeer. dlrechlr. IIIImhtr.1
advisory IIoard. adYlser, depos"or,
II' IIIIdtrwriler 01 investment
CMIlIIftY
Engage In act or practice Cllnsl,tullng breach of fidUCiary duly involVing
personal mISconduct

Injunction against achng In certam caeacmes for Investment company and
other appropnate rehel (lnvestmenl Company Acl ~ 36(a))

by IIIrsoa haYlnallduclary duty
respoctJna receipt 01 COJlllllnsation
InMn IllYIstmInt compan,
Breach of hduClary duty

InJuncllon (lnveslment Company Act ~ 361a))
III REFERRAlTOATTORNEYGENERALFORCRIMiNAl PROSECUTION
BaSISfor Enforcemenl Act.on

Sancllon or Rehef

Willful vlOlalion of seeunnes acts or rules Ihereunder or willful mrsstatement
onany documenl reqUired to be Illed by secunlles laws and rules or byselfregulatory organlzallOn on connectIOn wllh an apphcallon for membership.
partlC,palion or to become assoclaled WIth a member Ihereot

Mal,mum penanres $10.000 hne and 5 years Impnsonmenl an .. change
may be hned up to $500.000. a pubhc-utlhty holdong company up 10
$200.000 (1933 Act Sees 20(b) 24 1934 Act. Sees 2Hd) 32(a) 1935
Act Sees 18lfl 29 1939 Act Sec 325 Inveslment Co Act Sees 42/.)
49 AdvISers Act Secs 209Ie).217J

REFERRAlTOATTORNEYGENERAl FORCRIMiNAl PROSECUTION
Persons Sub)OCllo Acts Constltulong.
and BasISfor. Enforcement Acllon

Sanct,on

Willful v,olal,on of secunties acts or rules thereunder or Willful mrsstatement
10 any document requ,red 10be filed by seeurmes laws and rules or by selfreguiatory orlanlzal,on 10 connectlOft WIth an apphcallon tor membership.
part'ClpatlOn or to become assoc.ated WIth a member thereof

Mallmum penalties $10 000 hne and 5 years impnsonment an .. change
may be flOed up 10 $500.000 a pubhc-utlhty holdlOg Cllmpany up 10
$200.000 (1933 Act, sees 20lb) 24. 1934 Act Sec. 2Hd) 32/01 Holding
Company Act. Sees 18(1) 29. 1939 Act Sec 325.lnvesemenl CompanyAct
Secs 42/e). 49. AdvIsers Act. Secs 209(e) 217)

by luller wblc:h violates Stctton 3lA(al 01
UIt 1134 Act.

MlIlmum penalty $1.000.000 hne '1934 Act Sec 32(c)(1))

.., ofllctr or director 01 an InUlr, or any
s1lIcUoIdtr KtiJII on bthaK 01 SlICh luller,
.1IIlIIully vtoIatts StctJon 3llA(a) 01
UIt 1134 Act.

Mal.mum penalty $10.000 fine and 5 years rmprrsonment (1934 Act. Sec
32lC)(2))

by..,..".. or aplIt IsHjtct 10 llIt
oIlbt UI"ed Stales) 01
.. Isner IOUlIIIo llan YloIIttd Section 3lA(a)
tI UIt 1134 Act. .1IlIl!ldIy carrlttl out
UIt let or prIC1lcI ~II
sucll
vtoIatJoI

MaXImum penalty $10.000 'lne and 5 years Impnsonmenl1l934
32/C)(3))

jIrtMIctiolI

106

Act Sec

Table 3D-Continued
TYPES OF PROCEEOINGS
REFERRAlTOATTORNEYGENERAlFORCRIMiNAlPROSECUTION
PersonsSublect'tO. Acts Constituting,
and BaSISfor. Enforcement Action

Sanctron

AIy person
Wililul vlolalion of securmes acts or rules thereunder or willful misstatement
In any document requlled to be filed by securmes laws and rules or byselfregulatory organIZation In conneclion with an apphcatlon for membership,
partIcipatIOn or to become associated wrfh a member thereof

MaXimum penalties $10000 fine and 5 years irnpnsonment an exchange
may be fined up to $500,000, a pubhc-utlhty holding company up to
$200.000 (1933 Act Sees 20lbl 24 1934 Act Sees 2l(dl 321a) Holding
Company Act, Sees 18U). 29 1939 Act See 325. Investment Company Act
Sees 421e' 49 AdvISersAct Secs 2091e' 2111

AIy Isslltr wtIlch VJOIatessection 30A(a) 01
tile 1134 Act Uore .... convpl practIces)

MaXimumpenalty $1,000 000 fine (1934 Act Sec 32(c){111

AIy officer or director of an Issuer, or any stockholders acting on behaIJ
of such issuer, wtIo w1l11ullyvIolates Section 30A(a) 01
tile 1134 Act

MaXimum penalty $10000 fine and 5 years impnsonment (1934 Act See
321C){2))

Any employee or agent (SUbject to the JUriSdICtIon01 the Unrted States)
of
al issuer lound to have vIOlated sectIon 30Ala)
of the 1134 Act, wtIo w1l11ullycamed out
tile act or practIce constrtutllli such
vloIatIon

MaXimum penatty $10 000 fine and 5 years irnpnsonment (1934 Act See
321C){3))

Table 31
INVESTIGATIONS

OF POSSIBLE VIOLATIONS OF THE ACTS AOMINISTEREO BY THE COMMISSION

Pending September 30. 1977
Opened

1404
337

Total for Olstnbutlon
Closed

1741
385

Pending September 30 1978

1356

DUring the fiscal year ending September 30, 1978, 196 formal orders
were Issued by the Commission upon
recommendation of the DIVISionof Enforcement.

Table 32
ADMINISTRATIVE

PROCEEDINGS

INSTITUTED DURING FISCAL YEAR ENDING SEPTEMBER 3D, 1978

Broker Dealer Proceedings
Investment Adviser Proceedings
Stop Order, Reg A SuspenSion and Other OlSclosure Cases

62
16
44

107

Injunctive Actions 1977-1978
During fiscal 1978, 135 SUitSfor injunctions and 19 miscellaneous actions
were Instituted In the United States distrrct courts by the Commission, and 20
district court proceedings were brought
against the Commission. Durrng the
year this office handled 12 appellate
cases involving petitions for review of

Commission decrsions, 4 appeals In reorganization matters and 31 appeals In
injunction and miscellaneous cases.
SEC participated and filed 11 amicus
currae brrefs In 11 cases.
During frscal 1978, the General
Counsel referred to the Department of
Justice 105 crrminal reference reports.
(This figure Includes 4 criminal contempt actrons.)

Table 33
INJUNCTIVE ACTIONS
Cases

FIscal Year

Ordered

94
III
140
li9
178
148
174
158
166
135

1969
1970
1971
1972
1973
1974
1975
1976
1977
1978

Defend'nts
EnJomed

Injunctions

lnstituted

102
97
li4
113
145
289
453
435
336
289

Criminal Proceedings
During the past fiscal year 109 cases
were referred to the Department of Justice for prosecution. (This figure includes 4 cnrmnal contempt actions.) As
a result of these and prror referrals, 50
Indictments were returned against 144
defendants during the fiscal year. There
were also 174 convictions in 80 cases.
Convictions were affirmed In 5 cases

509
448
495
5li
654
613
749
722
715
607

that had been appealed, and appeals
were still pending In 5 other crrminal
cases at the close of the fiscal year. Of
14 defendants In 12 criminal contempt
cases handled during the frscal year, 1
defendant was convicted, prosecution
was declined as to 2 defendants, and
11 defendants In 10 cases are stili
pending. Four cases are pending In a
Suspense Category.

Table 34
CRIMINAL CASES
FIscal
year
1969
1970
1971
1972
1973
1974
1975
1976
1977
1978

108

Number of cases
referred to
Justrce Dept

Number of
Indictments

Defendants
mdlcted

37
35
22
38
49
67
88
116
100
109

64
36
16
28
40
40
53
23
68
50

213
102
83
67
178
169
199
118
230
144

ConVictIOns

83
55
89
75
83
81
li6
97
135
174

Trading Suspensions
DUring fiscal 1978, the Commission
suspended trading In the secunties of
86 companies, a decrease of 22 percent
from the III secuntres suspended In
fiscal 1977 and a 32 percent decrease
from the 126 securrtres suspended In
fiscal 1976. Of the 86 companies whose
securities were the subject of trading
suspensions In fiscal 1978, 38 were
suspended because of delinquency
In
filing required reports with the Commission. In most other Instances, the
trading suspension was ordered either
because of substantial questions as to
the adequacy, accuracy or availability
of public Information
concerning the
company's financial condition or bustness operations, or because of transactions in the company's
securities
suggesting possible manipulations
or
other violations.

Foreign Restricted List
The Commission maintains and publishes a Foreign Restricted List which
IS designed to put broker-dealers, financial institutions, Investors and others on
notice of unlawful distribution of foreign
securities In the United States. The list
consists of names of foreign companies
whose securities the Commission has
reason to believe have been, or are
being, offered for public sale In the
United States In violation of the registration requirements of Section 5 of the
Securities Act. The offer and sale of unregistered securities deprives Investors
of all the protections afforded by the
Securities Act, including the right to receive a prospectus containing the information required by the Act for the
purpose of enabling the Investor to determine whether the Investment IS SUItable for him. While most broker-dealers
refuse to effect transactions In securities Issued by companies on the Foreign
Restricted trst, trus does not necessar-

ily prevent promoters from Illegally offering such secuntres directly to Investors
In the United States by mail, by telephone, and sometimes by personal solicrtatron
DUring the past fiscal year,
two corporations were added to the Foreign Restricted List, bringing the total
number of corporations on the list to
101. The following company was added
dunng the year:
Empreste Minera Cauda/osa de Panama, S.A.- The Commission received
information that Ernpresia Minera Caudalosa de Panama, S A., a Panamanian
corporation, had been engaged In offermg and seiling In the United States instruments purporting to be options to
buy secuntres, or Instruments appearing
to represent secunties
No registration
statement under the Securities Act of
1933 had been filed With the Commission covering any of these Instruments,
so that these offers and sales may be In
violation of Section 5 of the Securities
Act of 1933.

List of All Foreign Corporations on
the Foreign Restricted List
The complete list of all foreign corporations and other foreign entities on
the Foreign Restricted List on September 30, 1977, IS as follows.
Aguacate Consolidated
Mines, Incorporated (Costa Rica)
Alan MacTaVish, Ltd. (England)
Allegheny Mining and Exploration Company, Ltd. (Canada)
Allied Fund for Capital Appreciation
(AFCA, SA) (Panama)
Amalgamated
Rare Earth Mines, Ltd.
(Canada)
American Industrial Research SA, also
known as lnvestrgacion
Industrial
Americana, S.A. (MeXICO)
American International
Mining (Bahamas)
American Mobile Telephone and Tape
Co., Ltd. (Canada)

109

Antel International
Corporation,
Ltd.
(Canada)
Antoine Silver Mines, Ltd. (Canada)
ASCA Enterprises Limited (Hong Kong)
Atholl Brose (Exports) Ltd. (England)
Atholl Brose, Ltd. (England)
Atlantic and Pacrfrc Bank and Trust Co.,
Ltd. (Bahamas)
Banco de Guadalajara (Mexico)
Bank of Sark (United Kingdom)
Briar Court Mines, Ltd. (Canada)
British Overseas Mutual Fund Corporation Ltd. (Canada)
California & Caracas Mining Corp., Ltd
(Canada)
Canterra Development Corporation, Ltd.
(Canada)
Cardwell Oil Corporatron, Ltd. (Canada)
Caribbean Empire Company, Ltd. (British Honduras)
Caye Chapel Club, Ltd. (British Honduras)
Central and Southern Industries Corp.
(Panama)
Cerro Azul Coffee Plantation (Panama)
Cia. RIO Banano, S.A. (Costa Rica)
City Bank A.S (Denmark)
Claw Lake Molybdenum
Mines, Ltd.
(Canada)
Claravella Corporation (Costa Rica)
Compressed Air Corporation,
limited
(Bahamas)
Continental
and Southern Industries,
S.A. (Panama)
Credrto Mlneroy Mercantil (Mexico)
Crossroads Corporation, S.A. (Panama)
Darien Exploration Company, S.A. (Panama)
Derkglen, Ltd. (England)
De Veers Consolidated
Mining Corporation, S.A. (Panama)
Doncannon SPirits, Ltd. (Bahamas)
Durman, Ltd., formerly known as Bankers International
Investment Corporation (Bahamas)
Ethel Copper Mines, Ltd. (Canada)
Euroforeign Banking Corporation, Ltd.
(Panama)
Financiera Comermex (Mexico)

110

Fmanciera

de Eomento Industrial

(Mex-

ICO)

Fmancrera Metropohtana

(Mexico)
Finansbanken a/s (Denmark)
First Liberty Fund, Ltd. (Bahamas)
Global Explorations, Inc. (Panama)
Global Insurance
Company,
Limited
(British West Indies)
Globus Anlage-Vermittlungsgesellschaft MBH (Germany)
Golden Age Mines, Ltd. (Canada)
Hebula Mining Corporation (Costa Rica)
Hemisphere Land Corporation Limited
(Bahamas)
Henry Ost & Son, Ltd. (England)
International
Communications
Corporation (British West Indies)
International Trade Development of Costa
Rica, S.A.
Ironco Mining & Smelting Company,
Ltd. (Canada)
James G. Allan & Sons (Scotland)
J. P. Morgan & Company, Ltd., of London, England (not to be confused with
J. P. Morgan & Co., Incorporated,
New York)
Jupiter Explorations, Ltd. (Canada)
Kenilworth Mines, Ltd. (Canada)
Klondike Yukon Mining Company (Canada)
Kokanee Moly Mines, Ltd. Canada)
Land Sales Corporation (Canada)
Los Dos Hermanos, S.A. (Spain)
Lynbar Mining Corp., Ltd. (Canada)
Mercantile Bank & Trust Company, limited
Norart Minerals LImited (Canada)
Norrnandre Trust Company, S.A. (Panama)
Northern Survey (Canada)
Northern Trust Company, S.A. (Switzerland)
Northland Minerals, Ltd. (Canada)
Obsco Corporation, Ltd. (Canada)
Pacific Northwest Developments,
Ltd.
(Canada)
Panarnerican Bank & Trust Company
(Panama)
Paulpic Gold Mines, Ltd. (Canada)

Pyrotex Mining and Exploration Co.,
Ltd. (Canada)
Radio Hill Mines Co., Ltd. (Canada)
Rodney Gold Mines Limited (Canada)
Royal Greyhound and Turf Holdings
Limited (South Africa)
SA Valles & Co., Inc. (Philhpmes)
San Salvador Savings & Loan Co., Ltd.
(Bahamas)
Santack Mines Limited (Canada)
Security Capital Fiscal & Guaranty Corporation, SA (Panama)
Silver Stack Mines, Ltd. (Canada)
Societe Anonyme de Refrnancement
(Switzerland)
Strathmore Distillery Company, Ltd.
(Scotland)
Strathross Blending Company Limited
(England)

Swiss Caribbean Development & FInance Corporation (Switzerland)

PUBLIC UTILITY HOLDING
COMPANIES
Assets
At fiscal year 1978. there were 15
holding companies registered under the
Act of which 14 are "active." In the 15
registered systems, there were 62 electric and/or gas utility SUbsidiaries, 71
non-utility subsrdianes, and 22 Inactive
companies, or a total of 174 system
companies including the top parent and
subholding companies. The following
table lists the active systems.

Table 35
PUBLIC UTILITY HOLDING COMPANY SYSTEMS
Solely
Registered
Holding
Compan"s

• Beech Bottom Power Co . Inc
-
 mactrvt
-
 SO% AI'S. SO% AEP
OhIO V.lley Elee Corp & subs
Indllna-Kentucky Elee Corp
-
 electnc utdlty
-
 37 8% AEP
165% OE
12S%AI'S
33 2% 7 other compan"s

Elect"c andlor Gas
Utdlty Subsldla"es

3
0
1
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
1
1
0

Allegheny Power SF:'
lAPS) •
Amencan EJectnc
r Co (A£P)
Central & South West Corp (CSW)
Cololual Gas Energy System (CGES)
Columilla GIS System (CGS)
ConsolIdated Hatural Gas (CNG)
Eastern Utlldres Assoclltes (EOO
General Public Utdd"s (GPU)
Middle Suoth Utddres (MSP)
NatlOllal Fuel Gas Co (HFG)
How Engl.nd Electnc System (HEES)
Northeast Utdd"s (HEU)
OhIO EdIson (OE)
Phda Electnc Power Co (PhdEP)
Southern Comp.ny (SC)
Total compan"s

RegIStered
Holdmg
Operatmg
Compa"es

13
'
 Add.homa Corp
-32%CSW
34%MSU
34% Okl.homa Gas & Elee

Honullhty
Subsldla"es

Inactive
CompanIes

Total
Companies

5
1
1
5

4
10
3
13
11
6
1
5
3
2
2
8
0
0
3

0
5
1
2
0
0
2
1
3
1
0
6
0
1
0

8
28
9
18
20
12
8
12
13
5
7
20
2
3
9

62

71

22

174

0
12
3
2
8
5
4
5
6
1
4

Other

3
3'
I'

-

4'
I'
4'
4'
2'

'Vankee AtomIC Elect"c Co 30% HEES. 31 5% HEU.
45% EUA
ConnectICut V.nkee AtomIC I'oMr Co 15% HEES. 44%
HEU.4 5% EUA
Vermont Vankee Huclear I'oMr Corp 20% HEES. 12%
HEU
Mame Vankee AtomIc Power Co 20% HEES. 15% HEU
- statutory utllrty Subsldlanes

111

Table 36
KEY FINANCIAL STATISTICS OF REGISTERED PUBLIC UTILITY HOLDING COMPANY SYSTEMS
Name of Company

Allegheny Power System, Inc (APS)
,
Amentan Eled"c Power Company, Inc (A[P)
Central and South West Corporation (C&SWl
CoIon .. 1 Gas Energy Systems (eCES)
ColumbIa Gas System, Inc, The (CCS)
ConsolIdated Natural Cas Company (CNG)
Eastern Utllrtles AsSOCIates (EUAl
General ~bhc UtJlrtres CorporatIon (GPU)
lItddle South Ut,htles, Inc (MSU)
NatlOllal Fuel Gas Company (NFG)
New England EIect"c System (NEES)
Northeast Utllrtles (NEll)
Oluo EdIson Company (OE)
PhIladelphIa Electnc Power Co (PEP)
Southern Company, The (SC)

I As

112

of 12-31-77

As of June 30, 1978
(000 OmItted)
Total
Assets
$ 2,496,961
7,697,000

2m:m,

Operating
Revenues
$

845,435
2.199,600

1,2~km,

3,276,619
2,263,405
310,352
4,441,198
5.196,160
563,428
1.801.779
2,961.621
2.907,121
61.152
9.418,639

2,400.247
1.545.452
174,792
1.302,399
1.557.468
543,428
760.589
925,170
826,244
6.645
2776,854

$46.405.464

$17,185,092

Tlble 37
FINANCING OF HOLDING COMPANY SYSTEMS
(fiscal 1111)
In Millions 01 Dollars
Bonds
Allegheny PaMr System Inc
Mononlahela PaMr Co
Potomalc EdISon Power Co
West Penn Power Co
Amencan Electnc Power Co
Appalachian Power Co
Indlana-Mlchlgan Electnc Co
Indiana-Michigan Power Co
IndIana-Kentucky Electnc Co
OhIO Power Co
Central & South West Corp
Central Power & light Co
Public SelYlce of Oklahoma
Southwestern Electnc Power Co
West Teus Utllitres Co
Colonial Gas Co
Columbia Gas System
Consolidated Natural Gas Co
Eastern Utllitres AsSOCiates
fall Rrver Electnc & ught Co
Montaup Electnc Co
General Pubhc Utllrtles
Jersey Central Power & light Co
Metropolrtan Edison Co
Pennsylvanra Electnc Co
MIddle South Utllrtres
Arkansas-MlSssoun
Power Co
Arkansas Power & lIghl Co
LoulSllna Power & l,ght Co
MISSISSIPPI Power & lIght Co
New Orleans Pubhc SelYlce Co
Natoonal fuel Gas Co
New England Electnc Syslec
New England Power Co
GraM. Stat. Electnc Co
Northeast Utllrtres
ConnectICut lIghl & Power Co
Hartford Electnc lIght Co
Holyoke Water Power Co
West.rn Massachusetts
Electnc Co
OhIO Edison Co
Pennsylvanra Power Co
Southern Co, The
Alabama Power Co
Georgll Power Co
Gull Power Co
MISSISSIPPI Power Co
ConnectICut Vankee AtomIC Power Co
Vankee AtomIC Electnc Co
Total

long-Ierm
Notes and/or
Debentures

PoIlulion
Control
Frl1anclngs

Stock
Preferred

$

$ 100

150
150
450

500
500
900

160
1000
300,0

1100
900

400

450
U50

400

380

Common

1068
750
1200
500

500
500
600

390
500
185

500

155
120
340

1407

10
1500
1350

591
300

500
400
400
450
100

1100
250

106

4000
1000
250

540
300
15
190

490

$917 8

$164 0

$1,9360

Fuel Programs
During fiscal year 1978, the Commission authorized $184 million of fuel
exploration and development capital expendrtures for the holding company sys-

1181
1881

S1455

Short
Term
Debt
$ 1000
500
480
500
1740
100 0
1500
1500
1700
920
915
765
415
188
5920
1000
59
116
710
1170
850
870
1748
132
1150
150
100
100
450
1300
07
150
150 0
350
60
400
955
97
1000
3050
400
360
300
160

S623 8

S0251

terns. Trus authonzation covers an annual
maximum expenditure for fuel programs
defined on geograprucal and functronal
terms. The following table lists the autnonzatron by holding company system
for each fuel program.

113

Table 38
FUEL EXPENDITURES OF HOLDING COMPANY SYSTEMS
(In Millions of Dollars)
Holding Company Systems

Central & South West Corp
Columbia Gas System, Inc
Consolidated Natural Gas Co
General PublIC Ut,lrt,es Corp
M'ddle South Ut,lilles, Inc
NatlOl1al Fuel Cas Co
New England Electnc System
Northeast Ut,lrt,es

Cas
andlor
Oil
Dnlling

Coal
andlor
lignite
Exploralion

Uramum
Explorat,on

$ 87

$217

$52

Nuclear
Fuel
Procurement

Coal
Gas"lCalion

Fuel
Storage
Transportatten

s

25
10

130
31
132

350
136

100

410

$703

$152

$520

50

110
$380

$35

$50

Total = $184 0 million

CORPORATE REORGANIZATIONS
Commission Participation
In fiscal year, the Commission entered six new Chapter X proceedings involving companies with aggregate stated
assets of approximately $165 million
and aggregate Indebtedness of approximately $127 million. Including the
new proceedings, the Commission was

114

a party in a total of 118 reorganization
proceedings during the fiscal year. The
stated assets of the companies involved
in these proceedings totaled approxrmately $5.7 billion and their indebtedness about $5.1 billion.
During the fiscal year 24 proceedings
were closed, leaving 94 In which the
Commission was a party at year end.

Table 39
REORGANIZATION PROCEEDINGS UNDER CHAPTER X OF THE BANKRUPTCY ACT
IN WHICH THE COMMISSION PARTICIPATED
(Rscal Vear 1911)
Distnct
Court

Debtor

A1dersgate foundation, Inc
Amencan Associated Systems, Inc
Amencan land Corp
Amencan Mortgage & Inv~stment Co
Amona lutheran Hospital

SECN<ltlceof

Petition
File<!

Appearance

file<!

M 0 fla
EO Ky
SO Ohio
oSC
DAm

Sept
Dec
Aug
Dec
May

12,1974
24,1970
8,1973
13 1974
11,1970

Ocl
feb
Sept
feb
May

3,1974
26,1971
25,1973
6,1975
25,1970

~~st~tores, Inc
Bankers Trust Co J
Beck Industnes, Inc
Bermec Corp

SONY
SO Ind
SO MISs
SONY
SONY

March
Oct
Oec
May
Apnl

8,1974
7,1966
16 1976
27,1971
16 1971

March
Nov
Apnl
July
Apnl

8,1974
1,1966
5,1977
30,1971
10,1971

&everty Hills Bancorp
Brethren's Home, The I
Bubble UP Delaware, Inc
~~ C~~~~ryctlOnCorp

CO Cal
SO OhIO
CO Cal
SONY
SO Ohio

Apnl
Nov
Aug
Jan
May

11,1974
23,1977
31.1970
15,1974
23 1975

May
Oec
Oct
June
June

14,1974
27,1977
19 1970
10,1974
16,1975

~~~n~~:~o~~~c
qorp
Coffeyville loan & Investmentl
Combined Metals Re<!uctlon Co
Commonweanh Corp

WO NC
WO Wash
n Kans
n Nev
NO fla

feb
Apnl
July
Sept
June

28,1975
1.1964
17,1959
30.1970
28 1974

Apnl
June
Aug
Sept
July

17,1975
10,1964
10 1959
7,1971
17 1974

Commonwealth flnancral Corp J
Communrty BUSiness Services. Inc l
Conllnental Investment Corp 1
Continental Mortgage Investors
Continental Vending Machine Corp

EO Pa
EO Cal
o Mass
o Mass
EO NY

Oec
June
Ocl
Oct
July

4,
8.
31.
21
10,

1967
1971
1978
1976
1963

Dec
Aprrl
Oct
Oct
Aug

13,1967
30 1973
31. 1978
21. 1976
7. 1963

Cosmo Capital Inc I
Oavenport Hotel, Inc
DetrOIt Port Development Corp!

NO III
EO Wash
EO Mlch
SO Ind
SOW Va

July
Oec
Sept
Jan
feb

12 1963
20, 1972
14. 1976
24,1977
8,1974

Aprrl
Jan
Nov
feb
Aprrl

22,1963
26, 1973
17,1976
17,1977
24 1974

Oumont-Alfplane & ManneJ
Duplan Corp
ET &T leaSing. Inc!
EducatIOnal ifmputer Systems, Inc l
E.chler Corp

SONY
SONY
n Md
NO Cal

Oct
Oct
Oec
Apnl
Oct

12,1958
5,1976
10 1974
16,1972
II, 1967

Nov
Oct
June
Nov
Oct

10,1958
5.1976
5,1975
3,1971
II. 1967

EqUitable Mortgag 'nvestment Corp I
Equrtable Plan Co
Equrty funding Corp of AmerIcal
famnglon Manufactunng Co
forst BaptISt Church, Inc of Margate, fla

SO 'owa
SO Cal
CO Cal
EO Va
SOfia

July
March
Apnl
Oec
Sept

10,1975
17 1958
5,1973
22,1970
10.1973

July
March
Apnl
Jan
Oct

10 1975
24,1958
9,1973
14 1971
I 1973

first Home Investmeyt Corp of Kansas, Inc 3
forst Research Corp
GAC COIp
GEBCO Investment Corp
Wm Gluck," Co, ltd

o Kan
SOfia
SOfia
WO Pa
SONY

Apnl
March
May
feb
feb

24. 1973
2.1970
19,1976
8,1977
22.1973

Apnl
Apnl
June
March
March

24. 1973
14.1970
14,1976
24. 1977
6,1973

Gro-P1ant Industnes. Inc J
Gulfco Investment Corp
Gulf Unoon Corp
Harmony loan. Inc
Hawa" Corp

NO fla
WO Okla
M 0 la
EO Ky

Aug
March
Aug
Jan

Sept
March
Nov
Jan

March

30,1971
22. 1974
29,1974
31,1973
17,1977

March

13,1972
28,1974
5,1974
13,1973
17. 1977

SO Iowa
SONY
NO Okla
SO Tex
SO Cal

Oec
July
Sept
feb
Jan

19,1973
7,1969
10,1973
16,1971
31. 1964

Jan
July
Oct
March
feb

21.1974
14,1969
2,1973
U971
14.1964

e Co'o
e NJ
SO Ind
SONY
WO Wash

Feb
feb
Oct
June
March

25. 1971
18,1966
10,1966
13.1974
3.1965

March
Feb
Feb
June
March

6 1971
23. 1966
4.1966
13,1974
17,1965

r.~~~

g=:::~

~~~~~a~~r Corp j

1

o

HawkeYe land, ltd

R Hoe & Co, Inc I

::'~;taE~u~~~~'~~u~~atlon.
Inc j
Human Relafrons Research foundafron l
Impenal-Amencan Resources Fund. Inc J

i~:,~1
~~~~e~t;~~~~~~ent
::~~e

kt:~~t~~

Inc!

o

Trust!

AnI

Haweu

See footnotes at end of table

115

Table 3S-Contmued
REORGANIZATION PROCEEDINGS UNDER CHAPTER X OF THE BANKRUPTCY ACT
IN WHICH THE COMMISSION PARTICIPATED
(FlsealYe.r 1978)

Debtor

Investors

Fundmg

C~rp of New York

Ja~ ~~~~IGrn'c ~o
Kmg Resources Co J
lake WlOnebago Development

OlStnct

PetitIOn

Court

Filed

SONY
CD Cal
NO Ga
Colo
WO Mo

o

Co, Inc

o

Hawau

SEC NotICe ot
Appearance
Filed

Oct
June
Oct
Aug
Oct

21
28
20
16
14

1974
1967
1972
1971
1970

Oct
Aug
Nov
Oct
Oct

22 1974
16 1967
7 1972
19 1971
26,1970

Oct
Oct
Oct
Apnl

Nov
Oct
Nov
Jan
July

28 1967
8,1968
5 1965
28,1974
6 1970

July
Oct
June
May
July

30,
23
28
27
2

June

24 1967
8,1968
28,196S
15 1974
23 1970

NJ
EO la
EO Pa
Conn
Nev

o
o

Aug
July
May
July
May

1
30
29
10
7

Pan Amencan Fmancial Corp

NO Ga
WO Wash
NO Tex
CO Cal
HawaII

o

March
Dec
Jan
Dec
Oct

5 1974
12,1973
10 1975
9 1977
2 1972

March
Dec
Jan
Feb
Jan

28,1974
12,1973
10 1975
2 1978
9 1973

Parl!.vlew Gem, Inc
Pocono Downs, Inc
John Rich Enterpnses, Inc J
Reliance Industnes, Inc
RIker Delaware Corp J

WO Mo
MO Pa
Utah
HawaII
NJ

o
n
o

Dec
Aug
Jan
May
Apnl

18 1973
20,1975
16 1970
24 1976
21 1967

Dec
Aug
Feb
Aug
May

28,1973
20 1975
6,1970
10,1976
23 1967

Royal Inns of Amenca, Inc
Scranton Corp J
Edward N Siegler & Co '
Sierra Trading Corp J
1
Sound Mortgage Co, Inc

SO Cal
M 0 Pa
NO OhiO
Colo
WO Wash

Apnl
Apnl
May
July
July

24,1975
3 1959
23 1966
7 1970
27 1965

June
Ap,,1
July
Aug

24,1975
15,1959
7,1966
22,1970
31 1965

Southern land Title Corp
Stanndco Developers, Inc
Stifling Homex Corp
Sunset International
Petroleum
TMT Trailer Ferry, Inc J

EO la
WONY
WONY
NO Tex
SOFia

Dec
Feb
July
May
June

7
5
11,
27
27

Dec
March
July
June
Nov

31 1966
7 1974
24, 1972
10,1970
22 1957

WO Okla
Kans
M 0 Fla
WO Okla
NO Cal

Feb
Feb
Apnl
May
March

24 1978
7,1973
13 1966
12 1972
22 1971

June
Feb
Sept
June
July

5
22
6
6
26

1978
1973
1966
1972
1971

NO
CD
W0
SO
M 0

June
Dec
Sept
May

24
13
9
23
23

1977
1961
1974
1975
1977

Oct
Oct
Dec
Nov
Oct

3
9
9
3
3

1977
1961
1974
1975
1977

1971
1971
1963
1971
1977

Apnl
Apnl
Apnl
Aug
July

29 1971
II 1972
9 1963
19 1971
25 1977

los Angeles land & Investmjnts,
lOUISIana loan & Ihnft. Inc
lusk Corp
lyntex Corp'
Dolly MadISon Industnes, Inc

ltd

1

EO la
Am
SONY
EO Pa

o
o

Manufacturer's
Credit Cjrp ,
Mid-City Baptrst Ch~rch
Mount Everest Corp
National Telephone Co, Inc
Nevada Industnal Guaranty Co
North Amencan Acceptance Corp
North Western Mortgage Investors
Omega-Alpha,
Inc J
Paclfrc Homes I

Thermo-llyjJe,

Inc

Corp J

o

Corp J

I

o

Iilce, Inc J
Tower Credit Corp i
Traders Compress Co
Trans-Internalional
Computer

Investment

Tnnlty Baptist purch
of JacksonVille
Inc I
Trustors' Corp
Drstnct BUIldIOg Corp
US FlOanCial Inc
Honda
UniverSity BaptISt Church of Jacksonville

'u"

Inc I

Fla
Cal
Wash
Cal
Fla

Sept

1967
1968
1974
1975
1963

1966
1974
1972
1970
1957

June

1968
1968
1974
1976
1963

Vlatron Computer Systems CQ{P ,
Vlfgm Islan1 Properties, Inc
Vmco Corp
Waltham lndustnes Corp l
Washmg10n Group, Inc

o
o

Mass
VI
ED MlCh
CO Cal
M 0 NC

Ap,,1
Oct
March
July
June

29
22
29
14
20

Webb & Knapp Inc J
H R WeISsberg Corp ,
Western Growth Capital Corp
Western National Investment Corp'
Westgate-California
Corp

SONY
NO III
Am
Utah
SO Cal

o

May
March
Feb
Jan
Feb

7 1965
5 1968
10,1967
4 1968
26 1974

May
Ap"l
May
March
March

II 1965
3,1968
16 1968
II 1968
8 1974

CO Cal
SONY

March
May

10 1967
24 1965

June
May

7 1967
28, 1965

~I~d~~:;s

IR~tem

Inc i

I CommISsIOn fried notices of
2: Reorganization proceedings

J Plan has been substantially

116

o

appearance ,n frscal year 1978
closed dunng usee! year 1978
consummated
but no frnal decree has been entered because of pendrng matlers

SEC OPERATIONS
Net Cost
The Commission collected $26.1 million dollars 10 fees 10 fiscal year 1978
This represents approximately 42 percent of the total funds appropriated by
the Congress for Commission
operations. By statute, the Commission is required by law to collect fees for: 1) the
registration of securities; 2) the qualification of trust indentures; 3) the transactions of national secuntres exchanges

and registered brokers and dealers; 4)
the registration of brokers and dealers
who are registered with the Commission
but are not members of the National
Association of Securities Dealers; and
5) the certrfrcatron of documents filed
with the Commission. In addition, by fee
schedule, the Commission Imposes fees
for certarn filrngs and services. These
Include, but are not limited to, the filing
of annual reports and preliminary proxy
material.

117

APPROPRIATED
Dollars

FUNDS

YS

FEES COLLECTED

Millions

70

60
.......
.
....
...
...
....
........ ,...
::::::':. ...
::::", :::
.......
.
,

.::~

~::::::::: :' .:':::.'
::.::::"::::::: ".:::::' ::

50

40

30

20

10

o

1971
J.I
118

72

73

74

75

76

71

19781/

Estimated
GA-l00278-1

'"

J
(7\

N

J
(7\

r-,
(7\

<oJ
U

...

i:

o
o
Z
;:::
Z

~
0..
I-

Z
<oJ

::0

z

-~-

0:
<oJ

=~~
=~
C'ilr.i

>

N

N

N

N

o
o
r.n
:::>
-(l

c;no.n_o_
_NO"lo.n_
c.....c.....0"l
__
NI~+N

cn .. o.n_cn
_0_0_
O">N_Nc:n
"';1"';+"';

..
..

..
..

..
..

N

N

N

c;n

0'>

O"l

O"l

en
en

119

