46th Annual Report
of the Securities and

Exchange Commission
for the fiscal year

ended September 30, 1980

~.

For sale by the Superintendent of Documents, U.S. Government Printing 01llce
WashlnJrton, D.C. 20402

Chairman's Letter of Transmittal

The Honorable George Bush
President, U.S. Senate
Washington, D.C. 20510
The Honorable Thomas P. O'Neill, Jr.
Speaker, U.S. House of Representatives
Washington, D.C. 20515
Gentlemen:
It is my pleasure to transmit to you the Annual Report of the United States
Securities and Exchange Commission for the fiscal year ended September 30, 1980.
This is the fourth Annual Report which I have been privileged to transmit to the
Congress on behalf of the Commission. As has been my practice, I would like to
review some of the important challenges which the Commission has met, as well as
some of the additional initiatives which we have undertaken, during the past year.
Each of these matters should be viewed as illustrative of our on-going efforts to
continue to merit the reputation for excellence in public service which this Agency
has earned over nearly half-a-century.
When this Annual Report is published, I will have served as Chairman of the
Commission for close to four years -longer
than all but two of my 20 predecessors.
A tenure of this length has provided me with a perspective on the work of the
Commission which may, perhaps, not be available to one serving a shorter time in
this office. It has also convinced me of the validity of my view that a long-term
commitment to service is essential if a Chairman is to have a significant impact on
the shape and character of the Commission and its work. Until this time, the average
tenure of Commission Chairmen has been two years and two months. I hope that my
term will mark the beginning of a new tradition of long-term commitment by the
chief executive officer of the Commission.
Such a commitment from the Chairman of the Commission is important for a
number of reasons. At the practical level, many issues which face the Commission
are so complex or difficult that their resolution inevitably involves a multi-year
process. A Chairman measuring his tenure in months, rather than years, might be
reluctant to take on a major task with no expectation that he would have time to
conclude it Or, if he did address such a question, he might be tempted to seek an
expedient answer which would produce more immediate results, but prove
unsatisfactory over the long term. In my experience, such issues as achieving the
integration of the disclosure systems of the Securities Act of 1933 and the Securities
Exchange Act of 1934, or helping to foster a meaningful and effective system of selfregulation for the accounting profession, are among those matters which could not
successfully have been addressed in a compressed time frame.
More subtly, it is impossible for a Chairman who remains in office only a relatively
brief time to develop a complete sense of the sophisticated scheme of Federal

securities regulation which the Commission and the private sector administer, or to
provide the necessary sensitivity and continuity of action that are required if he is to
have a significant impact on the diverse regulatory relationships which exist between
the Commission and the private sector. Since I took office in April, 1977, the
Commission has been engaged in a comprehensive effort to reexamine-and,
where appropriate, to rebalance - its relationships to those segments of the private
sector with which we interface in a variety of regulatory contexts. The past year has
been characterized by a continuation of these same kinds of efforts.
Thanks to the unique disclosure and self-regulatory framework established by the
Federal securities laws, the Commission's relationship with the private sector has
traditionally been more one of oversight than prescription - more cooperative than
adversarial. The high esteem in which the Commission has been held is at least in
part attributable, in my view, to the fact that its traditional regulatory objectives-that
is, its corporate disclosure and self-regulatory oversight programs-are
rational and
achievable ones. Historically, we have been largely uninvolved in substantive
economic regulation or in balancing competitive interests.
The Commission's reputation as a model agency can also be traced, in part, to the
fact that it has understood the importance of a healthy private sector and
appreciated government's limitations, as well as its responsibilities. Too often,
debate about an issue centers on whether to address the real or perceived problem
through enhanced governmental regulation and, if so, what degree of externallyapplied governmental restraint should be brought to bear on the matter. Little
thought is given to refocusing the debate: The issue should not be framed solely as
one involving the appropriateness or degree of governmental involvement. Rather,
we should first focus on the legitimate needs and expectations of the American
public, as well as the respective roles which both the private sector and government
could usefully play in meeting them, ever mindful of our broader interests in
fostering and maintaining those philosophies and institutions which underpin our
free and democratic society.
Thus, the Commission has been committed to being a judicious and balanced
agency-or, in other terms, an accountable regulator. It has recognized the need for
private sector diversity, encouraging considerable discretion for those who, in good
faith, seek to comply with the spirit of the law.
Such a regulatory sensitivity and balance has fostered an atmosphere in which
private institutions respond meaningfully and constructively to societal interests
within a broad self-regulatory framework, and with a minimum of Commission or
Congressional involvement. For example, rather than seeking a legislative remedy to
concerns about the accounting profession that were raised during the late 1970s,
the Commission counseled the Congress instead to encourage and support the
accounting profession's own constructive efforts towards effective self-regulation. To
further this objective, the Commission accepted the responsibility to monitor and
evaluate the profession's efforts and undertook to report to the Congress on the
progress being made. Similarly, rather than call for new legislation, or adopt a host
of new rules and regulations itself, in response to various concerns raised about
corporate accountability in this Country, the Commission has left the initiative to
resolving fundamental questions regarding the structuring and functioning of
business enterprises, including their boards of directors, where it best
belongs-within
the domains of private-sector responsibility and decisionmaking.
ii

Further, the Commission has appreciated that the broader interests of society and
the economy are at issue. The ultimate purpose of the Federal securities laws is,
after all, to ensure the confident, efficient, and fair securities markets that foster the
capital formation process which underpins our prosperity and our democracy. In this
light, while the Federal securities laws speak specifically only to the need for investor
protection and the maintenance of fair and orderly markets, achieving those
objectives and fostering capital formation are not inconsrstent ends. On the contrary,
when they are properly balanced, they go hand-in-hand. Adequate investor
protection and fair and orderly markets enhance the confidence and wrlhnqness of
the public to invest, while healthy and active capital markets provide the fuel for a
growing economy and offer investors a fair and efficient marketplace for a broad
range of investment media.
To achieve this regulatory balance, the Commission has been dedicated to
Improving those of its traditional core activities - such as ItS inspection, market
surveillance, and enforcement programs-which
are central to ensuring honest and
healthy securities markets. At the same time, however, the Commission recognizes
its responsibility to accept regulatory risks and balance competing interests so as
not to seriously discourage legitimate investment and commerce in the name of
investor protection. The Commission's adoption of Rule 242, as well as its
amendments relaxing the requirements of Rule 144, are two examples. A third IS the
Commission's recent adoption of the Rule 19c-3 experiment.
Nor has the Comrmssion been reluctant to reexamine long-standing views or
admimstrative practices when such a course seemed mdicated. For example, in
reviewing its disclosure requirements, the Commission has emphasized the most
useful information, even if It IS so-called "soft" information such as projections,
value-based disclosures, and management's discussion and analysis. Often, that has
meant fostering private-sector Innovation and allowinq experimentation - even,
when necessary, estabhshmq safe harbors from exposure to liability under the
Federal securities laws. In that regard, Financial Accounting Standards Board
Statement No. 33, concerning the effects of changing pnces, IS an example of such
an innovative private-sector approach to disclosure.
Similarly, the growth of two similar but separate corporate disclosure systems over
46 years, with requirements added or deleted In an almost ad hoc manner, had
resulted in a crazy-quilt disclosure pattern difficult for registrants and the
Commission to deal with and not as useful as it could be to the investing public, the
Intended beneficiaries. The Commission's integrated disclosure response has been a
highlight of my term as Chairman and IS now nearly complete.
A third example of the Cornrrussion's WIllingness to reexamine long-held views
can be seen in its recent efforts to reform ItS regulatron of investment companies.
The nearly 40 years of Commission administration of the Investment Company Act
of 1940 had produced a pervasive regulatory pattern that had subtly shifted
responsibility for business decisions from the private to the public sector. Yet, the
Commission's response, these last four years, has been to refashion this regulatory
system to remove the Federal government from such routine business decisions
and to place the authority-and
the responsibility-for
these matters where they
belong-on
investment company managers and directors, especially independent
directors.
In addition to these philosophical reasons calling for Commission sensitivity and
critical self-examination, budgetary and personnel restraints during the period also
III

made it imperative that the Commission consider seriously reordering its priorities
and reallocating its resources. The securities markets themselves had grown
enormously, becoming infinitely more complex and outstripping the Commission's
facilities to understand, surveil, and oversee their operation by the self-regulatory
organizations. Similarly, the number and complexity of filings by issuers and others
had grown tremendously over the past few years. The inability of the Commission to
increase staff or budget at a time of such explosive growth in the private sector, as
well as in the responsibilities assigned to us by the Congress, made it essential that
we reassess how well we were discharging our responsibilities, and that we find
better ways to do our job, including a greater degree of reliance on private-sector
initiative and good faith.
In summary, I believe that the Commission has more than satisfactorily met the
needs of the present, while at the same time preparing itself-as well as the private
sector-to
confront the challenges of the future. Moreover, it has done so in ways
which have enhanced the cost-effectiveness of the Commission's many programs,
improved the sensitivity and stability of the Commission's relationships with the
private sector, and allowed that sector to begin to meet the American public's
growing expectations.
I will now touch on a few highlights of the Commission's recent efforts to be a fully
successful- and accountable - regulator:

The Full Disclosure System
When the Congress enacted requirements for public disclosure of corporate
information in connection with new offerings of securities as part of the Securities
Act of 1933, and then added requirements for continuous disclosure of corporate
information as part of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, it sowed the seeds of
two, largely uncoordinated, systems of disclosure. The earliest members of the
Commission recognized the potential problem. When William 0, Douglas resigned
as Chairman of the Commission to join the Supreme Court in 1939, he wrote to
President Roosevelt that integratmg those two disclosure systems was one task
which he regretted he had not had the opportunity to accomplish. It was a task that
remained undone until this past year, when the Commission finally took steps which
should lead us very shortly to a complete rationalization and full integration of the
disclosure systems of the Securities Act and the Securities Exchange Act
In a series of related actions at the end of August, 1980, the Commission moved
to make the yearly report on Form 10-K the centerpiece of corporate disclosure for
both the registration of new offerings, as well as the Commission's continuous
reporting requirements. Furthermore, the Form 10- K was revised and streamlined,
eliminating requirements that had led to "boilerplate" disclosure, while at the same
time placing new emphasis on such useful data as cash flow and the impact of
inflation. As a part of this same integration effort, requirements for information that
appears in both the 10-K and the less formal annual report to shareholders were
made uniform, facilitating the ability of companies to use their shareholder reports, if
they so choose, to meet significant portions of their 10- K filing obligation. The final
major piece of the integration program should fall into place some time this year
when the Commission considers adoption of a new, three-tiered system of
registration for offerings based on the minimum information package contained in
the new Form 10-K.
iv

The results of this major integration initiative will be to reduce costs, delays, and
other burdens associated with corporate filings, while at the same time making the
disclosure system more useful to investors. For example, given the current unsettled
state of the securities markets - especially the market for corporate debt as a result
of rapidly fluctuating interest rates - it is extremely important that the regulatory
scheme allow an offering to be brought to market in a timely fashion once the
business decision to proceed with the offering is reached. Reliance on an issuer's
continuous disclosure filings, as well as the availability of the technique of
incorporation by reference from such filings to satisfy 1933 Act registration
requirements, should aid immeasurably in that regard. The ultimate
objective-which
I believe we are well on the way towards achieving-is,
of course,
to facilitate the Nation's capital formation process.
In order to administer the new integrated disclosure system in a cost-effective
manner, the Division of Corporation Finance undertook its first major reorganization
in almost 20 years. Reorganized now along lines that concentrate review of
companies from the same industry in the same branch, the Division is developing
both reservoirs of experience in particular industries, as well as continuity in its
comments on the filings of a given company. In addition, the Division has also
implemented a "selective review" procedure. This allows increasingly-strained
Commission resources to be focused on review of the most critical registration and
continuous disclosure documents, while placing examination of other documents on
an audit, or sample, basis. In some instances, registration statements of established,
seasoned companies will be allowed to go effective with no staff review, with issuers
reminded that adequate disclosure remains their responsibility.
At the same time as we were engaged in implementing the integrated disclosure
program, and the organizational and administrative changes necessary to make it
work during a period of budgetary restraint, the Commission continued its widelyacclaimed efforts to facilitate capital formation by small businesses. The focal point
for these efforts is the Office of Small Business Policy, established in 1979 in the
Division of Corporation Finance to spearhead and coordinate the Commission's
efforts to assist smaller issuers. During the past four years, the Commission has
eased registration and disclosure burdens on such issuers to the greatest extent
consistent with investor protection and sound administrative practice.
A few examples should suffice: Prior to fiscal 1980, the Commission had adopted
a new, abbreviated Form S-18 for registered offerings of up to $5 million. A study
of the use of the streamlined Form S-18 during the first 15 months following its
adoption in April, 1979 showed that it had been used to raise more than $286
million in capital, mostly by companies which had never before sought financing
through the public securities markets.

As a further step in this area, the Commission, on January 17, 1980. adopted Rule
242. That Rule allows qualifying companies to raise up to $2 million in any sixmonth period through securities offerings totally exempt from Commission
registration. The effects of this Rule were assessed in a monitoring report issued late
last year, and consideration is presently being given to increasing the dollar limit of
the exemption.
Significant changes have also been made to Rule 144, governing resales of
securities held by affiliates of the issuer and other restricted securities. Over the past
three years, the much-criticized requirements of the Rule have been relaxed
considerably, After some of the initial changes, the Commission's staff undertook an
v

empirical study to determine the impact on the markets of this deregulatory effort.
Finding no significant adverse impact from the earlier changes, the Commission
continued to relax its regulation of the area, with some of the most significant
changes coming just after the close of the last fiscal year.
Also during fiscal 1980, the Commission announced that it was considering the
advisability of defining classes of securities issuers by size In order to make possible
modified reporting requirements for smaller issuers. Public comment was sought on
the various questions involved, and the Commission IS considering this initiative in
coordination with its efforts to Implement the recently-enacted Regulatory Flexibility
Act.
In a related matter, the Commission actively participated, during the fiscal year, in
the development of The Small Business Investment Incentive Act of 1980. Signed
into law on October 21, 1980, the Act effects a number of statutory changes which
should have a beneficial impact on the ability of small business to raise needed
capital.
On another front, during the past fiscal year, the Commission authorized
publication of its Staff Report on Corporate Accountability,
the product of a threeyear study of mechanisms of corporate accountability, shareholder communication,
and corporate governance generally. In view of the significant progress being made
voluntarily by the private sector, the staff recommended against legislation, as
suggested by some, to set standards for the composition and performance of
corporate boards. In addition, however, to the changes in the Commission's proxy
rules previously adopted as an outgrowth of the study, the staff did recommend a
number of other actions for the Commission to consider, many of which may be
pursued during the present fiscal year. Finally, the Commission will continue
monitoring information furnished in proxy statements in order to track
developments in this important and dynamic area.
The Securities Markets
The past year saw record trading volume in the Nation's securities markets,
placmq unprecedented demands upon the industry's trading, clearing, and back
office capabilities. For example, volume on the New York Stock Exchange alone
totaled 11.4 billion shares during calendar year 1980, a figure 40 percent greater
than the year before, and close to four times what it was only 10 years ago. The
other exchanges and the over-the-counter markets have experienced similar
dramatic increases in volume.
The orderly and generally very satisfactory manner in which these demands were
accommodated by the securitIes Industry is a measure of the progress which the
industry and the Commission have achieved during the past decade in rnodernizinq
and strengthening mechanisms for communication, execution, and processing. It is
also testimony to the wisdom of the evolutionary approach which the Commission
has followed towards facilitating the establishment of a national market system.
Undoubtedly, the single most important action in that regard was the
Commission's initiative to increase market maker competition in exchange-traded
securities by prohibiting application of exchange off-board trading restrictions to
newly-listed securities. In adopting Rule 19c - 3 last June, the Commission hoped to
foster, among other things, a valuable experiment in competition between exchange
and over-the-counter market makers. In order to be in a position to assess this
experience-and to take appropriate regulatory action in response to trading
vi

developments-the
Commission committed itself to a careful monitoring program
and will shortly issue its first monitoring report.
To make the 19c-3 experiment a meaningful one, however, the Commission also
recognized that there must be an efficient tradmq link between the exchanges and
the over-the-counter markets. To that end, the Commission was considering, at the
dose of the fiscal year, a regulatory measure to require the implementation of an
automated linkage between the Intermarket Trading System (ITS) and the NatIOnal
Association of Securities Dealers' (NASD) Automated Quotation System, in the event
that such a linkage is not achieved voluntarily by the parties involved. On February 5,
1981, in response to an industry initiative in that regard, the Commission issued for
public comment an order which would require the linkage to be implemented, on a
pilot basis, by September 30, 1981. In doing so, the Commission expressed its
prelirrunary belief that the prompt implementation of such a linkage would both
increase competition and efficiency in the Nation's securities markets, as well as
enhance the ability of brokers to achieve the best possible execution of their
customers' orders.
In the final analysis, however, progress towards a national market system must be
measured by the events which occur in the marketplace, rather than solely by the
development of any given facility, or by the number or frequency of overt
Commission regulatory action. In that connection, Commission adoption of Rule
19c-3 was only the most recent of a series of steps which have been taken dunng
the past four years to achieve a national market system. Among prior industry and
Commission accomplishments were the establishment of both the ITS and the allelectronic National Securities Tradmg System of the Cmcmnati Stock Exchange; the
implementation and refinement of the nationwide consolidated quotation and
transaction reporting systems; the proposal of criteria for designating securities as
"qualified" to trade in a national market system, an initiative subsequently adopted
in modified form after the close of the fiscal year; and the commitment of the
exchanges participating in ITS to develop a joint plan for the protection of public
limit orders. With the advances of fiscal 1980, it is clear that, given the contInuing
good faith cooperation of the industry, we stand on the threshold of havinq the
facilities and trading environments in place which would provide the experience
necessary to define the contours of a truly national market system.
Also during fiscal 1980, the Commission concluded a unique, and uniquely
successful, exercise in cooperation between a regulated community and a Federal
regulatory agency when it terminated the moratonum on expansion of trading in
standardized, exchange-listed options on equity securities. The rnoratonurn, adopted
voluntarily by the industry In July, 1977 at the Commission's request, provided an
opportunity for the Commission's staff to complete the most comprehensive study
ever undertaken of the options markets. The Commission and the industry selfregulatory organizations (SROs) subsequently worked in concert to Implement many
of the recommendations of the study, making possible the end of the rnoratonurn
on March 26, 1980. Following the Commission's action to end the options
moratorium, expansion of this important and fast-growing segment of the securities
rnarkets'resurned at a measured pace in accordance with a plan worked out JOIntly
by the affected SROs,
Moreover, recently, the Commission also approved, in principle, the expansion of
the standardized exchange-traded options markets to include an options contract on
a non-equity security. In approving the filing of the Chicago Board Options
Vii

Exchange to trade options on Government National Mortgage Association passthrough certificates, the Commission recognized not only the economic value to the
housing industry and the economy of such trading, but also the fact that, with the
enhancements of recent years, there was no reason to suspect that the regulatory
environments of the registered options exchanges were not adequate to ensure that
such trading would be carried on in the public interest. Other options exchanges are
expected to file similar applications, and the Commission expressed its tentative view
in favor of allowing multiple trading of such non-equity options.
Significant progress was also made during fiscal 1980 towards implementation of
the Commission's Market Oversight and Surveillance System (MOSS). That System
will enable the Commission to oversee appropriately the securities industry SROs in
today's complex, increasingly interrelated and computerized, and mushrooming
trading markets, as well as provide the Commission with an enhanced capacity for
market and intermarket surveillance in several important areas. With a three-year
authorization from the Congress, and completion of the pilot phase of the project,
the Commission IS now ready to begin operational implementation on a limited
basis.
MOSS should be viewed as an important part of the Commission's overall
program to reassess and strengthen its SRO oversight and inspection programs. It
will not in any way supplant the work of the SROs, which will have continuing
primary responsibility for surveillance of their own marketplaces. Rather, it will
enable the Commission to carry out better its own responsibilities to provide the
constructive oversight tension necessary for the self-regulatory system to continue
functioning effectively.
Finally, just after the close of the fiscal year, the Commission was able to resolve a
complex regulatory question that had been pending since 1976 as result of a
Federal District Court decision in the case known as PapiLsky v. Bemdt. The
questions raised by this case - which many felt endangered the continued viability of
the fixed-price system for underwriting new issues of securities, as well as the
Nation's capital raising capacity which had come to rely on that system-were
resolved through approval by the Commission of new rules of the NASD governing
such transactions. Again, the Commission and the industry were able to arrive at a
mutually-satisfactory resolution to a complex regulatory problem without the need
for the Commission to engage in direct rulemaking.
Accounting

Matters

In August, 1980, the Commission submitted to the Congress the third of its series
of reports on The Accounting Profession and the Commission's Oversight Role.
These reports have played a key part in the Commission's efforts to stimulate
development of a system of meaningful and effective self-regulation within the
profession. Important progress has been made in this area during the past three
years, all of it achieved without adoption by the Commission of a single rule. Last
year's report concluded that, while the ultimate success of the profession's program
remains to be proven, the significant private-sector progress to date provides a basis
for continuing optimism that the objective would be achieved.
The Commission also devoted a great deal of study during fiscal 1980 to
comments by corporations and their auditors with regard to difficulties which they
were experiencing in complying with the accounting provisions of the Foreign
Corrupt Practices Act (FCPA), enacted in December, 1977. In order to provide some
viii

certainty about the Commission's views regarding the FCPA, and to dispel needless
anxiety in the business and professional communities concerning it, the
Commission recently took the unprecedented step of issuing a policy statement
regarding its interpretation of and enforcement intentions under these provisions. In
that statement, the Commission stressed the reasonableness standard of the Act and
its principal objective of reaching knowing or reckless conduct. We also indicated
that a wide degree of deference would be afforded issuers in their good faith exercise
of business judgment in designing, implementing, and maintaining accounting
systems to meet the requirements of the Act.
Also during the fiscal year, the Commission completed a review of the comments
which it had received on its proposal to require the filing of a statement of
management on the adequacy of internal accounting controls, to be reviewed by the
independent auditor, as part of the issuer's 10- K report. In order to encourage
private-sector initiatives in developing systems of accounting controls and reporting
upon them, and based in large part upon the advances which had already been
made by the private sector and its commitments for further progress, the
Commission, in June, 1980, withdrew its proposed rule. In doing so, the
Commission indicated that it would continue to monitor private-sector progress in
the area and would revisit the question after three years' experience.
The Commission continued, during the year, to work closely with the accounting
profession and the Financial Accounting Standards Board (FASB) on a wide range
of issues, including the FASB's important Conceptual Framework Project. One such
issue, which is key to the continued efficiency of financial disclosure, IS that of
accounting for the effects of changing prices.
Such disclosure, as a supplement to financial statements, was first required for the
largest companies by the Commission's Accounting Series Release No. 190
(ASR 190). In September, 1979, in what the Commission views as a major
breakthrough in this area, the FASB adopted Financial Accounting Statement
No. 33, which addresses essentially the same needs as, and builds upon the
experience gained under, ASR 190. The development of Statement No. 33 made it
possible for the Commission to withdraw its own requirements, in favor of those
adopted by the private sector.
The FASB's action in adopting Statement No. 33 represents a recognitIon that the
current state of the art does not at this time permit a definitive standard, but that the
urgency of the need for enhanced disclosure in this area is such that one must begin
the process and still allow for the experimentation that is the only practical source of
necessary experience and empirical data on which to build a better standard.
Accordingly, the Commission urged issuers and their advisors to provide the most
meaningful disclosure possible in this emerging area, adopting a broad safe harbor
from liability for such disclosures.
Similarly, the Commission and the FASB have been involved in on-going efforts
during this period to develop the most useful and appropriate accounting and
disclosure standards for the activities of oil and gas producers. In August, 1978, the
Commission announced its intention to begin a period of experimentation looking
towards the development of a method of Reserve Recognition Accounting (RRA) to
replace both successful efforts and full cost, the two historical-cost accounting
methods then in use. At the time the RRA initiative was first introduced, the
Commission indicated that it expected RRA to be a uniform method of accounting to
be used by all oil and gas producers in their primary financial statements, but noted
ix

that the feasibility of its development was not assured given the current state of
reserve estimation technology. The Commission also indicated at that time that it
would continue to explore the relevance and reliability issues raised by the
commentators concerning RRA.
Since that time, the Commission has adopted requirements that data regarding
changes in present value of estimated future revenues of oil and gas producers be
included in certain Commission filings. It has also, however, provided that such
information need not be audited and may be presented supple mentally, noting both
the need to allow addmonal time to establish and implement uniform guidelines and
standards for reserve evaluation and reporting, as well as the remaining uncertainty
concerning the costs and related benefits of having such information audited.
Recently, after reviewing the work of the Commission's advisory committee on
RRA, and consulting further with the FASB and representatives of the petroleum
engineering profession, the Commission announced that it no longer considers RRA
to be a potential method of accounting in the primary financial statements of oil and
gas producers, and that it supports an undertaking at this time by the FASB to
develop a comprehensive package of disclosures for such entities. In doing so, the
Commission reiterated its firm belief that value-based disclosures were vital to any
such disclosure package, and indicated that the issue of the appropriate method of
primary financial statement accountIng might more usefully be addressed after the
FASB has developed appropriate supplemental disclosures for oil and gas
production activities and made further progress on its Conceptual Framework
Project. With these actions regarding RRA, the Commission thus again displayed its
willingness to experiment in an emerging area, to recognize the limitations of what it
could responsibly do, and to defer to private-sector initiatives which hold the
promise of meaningful progress, in a difficult area, without the need for the
Commission itself to act precipitously or preemptorily.

Investment

Companies

The Investment Company Act of 1940 is perhaps one of the most extreme of the
Commission's major regulatory statutes in terms of the degree of constraint which it
Imposes upon an industry. A major regulatory reform effort during the past three
years has been the Commission's project to cut back on the involvement of the
Commission and its staff in the business decisions of investment companies. The
objective has been to reduce the costs and burdens of regulation, while at the same
time enhancing the authority and responsibility of investment company
directors - especially the independent directors - in overseeing management
decisions.
To pursue this effort, the Investment Company Act Study Group was established in
the Divrsion of Investment Management during fiscal year 1978. The Group has
been at work since that time, reviewing the complex of statutory provisions and
Commission rules applicable to investment companies with a view towards reducing
reporting burdens and direct Commission regulatory involvement wherever possible.
One of the first major initiatives to result from this Study was withdrawal of the
policy that had resulted in detailed Commission staff review and clearance of
mvestment company advertisements. In addition, during fiscal 1980, the
Commission adopted several rules which permit, under certain circumstances,
previously-prohibited transactions between an investment company and its affiliated
persons. Shortly after the close of the fiscal year, the Commission also adopted rules

x

permitting mutual funds, for the first time, to use fund assets to finance the
distribution of their own shares. This action resolved a persistent controversy and
was taken, consistent with the goals of the Investment Company Act Study, despite
long-standing doubts about both the benefits of such use of investment company
assets and whether the practice is fair to existing shareholders. Once again, ultimate
responsibility for those decisions is placed on the company's directors, where it
belongs, subject to certain safeguards,
Finally, during the past fiscal year, the Commission adopted Rule 465 under the
Securities Act, permitting amendments to the registration statements of open-end
Investment companies to become effective without any action on the part of the
Commission or Its staff. For these funds, which maintain a continuous offering of
their shares, this action will steamline the amendment process and permit the
registrants themselves to assume greater responsibility for meeting their disclosure
obligations.
Enforcement and Litigation
The individual initiatives which I have just described comprise only a small part of
the wide range of activities in which the Commission has been involved during the
past fiscal year. For example, our enforcement program continues to be the best of
its kind anywhere in the Federal government, lending credibility to all Commission
disclosure and regulatory activities. In addition, we have successfully focused much
of our enforcement efforts-which,
like other Commission operations, are limited by
available resources - on areas critical to the integrity of the public securities
markets, such as insider trading.
Similarly, in an area of Increasing importance to investor protection and the
orderly development of the law, the Commission's Office of the General Counsel has
strengthened the Commission's ability to identify and participate, as amicus curiae,
In legal proceedings between private parties that could have a significant impact on
the interpretation of the Federal securities laws. This effort has been increasingly
important given the adverse effects of certain recent court decisions limiting private
rights of action.
Program Analysis and Management
The Commission has also continued, during fiscal 1980, to attempt to
institutionalize empirical analysis and monitoring as fundamental tools in
rule making and assessing regulatory impact. The previously-mentioned reports on
the usage of Form S-18, Rule 242, and Rule 144, and the programs developed to
monitor such diverse areas of concern as private sector progress concerning board
composition and functioning and the effects of RUle 19c- 3, are all illustrative of the
success of this initiative. Moreover, the Commission has begun to issue expanded
yearly reports on the securities industry provided by the Commission's Directorate of
Economic and Policy Analysis.
Finally, by way of managerial improvements, the Commission implemented,
during the fiscal year, a new performance evaluation system for middle-level
managers, an automated position tracking system, an automated Case Activity
Tracking System, new financial controls, and systematic management reviews. An
internal audit function was established at the Commission for the first time; a unique
arrangement with the Office of Personnel Management has provided the
xi

Commission with the opportunity to develop a new performance appraisal system
that will aid in manpower planning, career counseling, and management
development; upgrades of data processing and information storage and retrieval
systems have brought state-of-the-art technology to those important areas of
Commission operations; and programs to strengthen both communication
with key
constituencies and public education about the Federal securities laws have helped
facilitate accomplishment
of the Commission's mission. These initiatives, together
with such earlier management efforts as our development of the Commission's Staff
Time and Activity Tracking System, have improved our ability to utilize effectively
our limited resources and to enhance the professionalism with which the Agency is
managed.
*******
As the Commission approaches the completion of its first half-century, I am
pleased to be able to report that it remains the vigorous, flexible, and responsive
regulatory agency that its architects undoubtedly intended it to be. When a
reexamination of its processes, a rethinking of its policies, or a rebalancing of its
relationship to the private sector has been necessary, the Commission has shown
itself ready and able to undertake the task.
The staff-which
has earned, collectively and individually, a reputation as the best
in the Federal Government-remains
capable and committed. It is a tribute to what
a meritocracy can achieve in government. Its members have appreciated the need
for regulatory reform, and they have had the intelligence, creativity, and
sophistication to fashion Commission initiatives and to enforce securities regulations
in the highest traditions of this unique agency. I am proud of them and honored to
have been associated with them.
In addition, those in the private sector, on the whole, have also responded to the
Commission's initiatives in a most responsible and constructive manner. Most have
shown an understanding of, and a commitment to, the necessity of maintaining an
appropriate degree of Commission presence and discipline in protecting the
integrity of the Nation's securities markets. Moreover, they have accepted their own
responsibilities most creatively and positively. As is common among people of
goodwill, we have, at times, disagreed. But, my sense is that there is a remarkably
broad consensus on common objectives.
In sum, the Commission has-with
the cooperation and understanding of the
private sector- proven able to adapt to the demands of the times and the realities of
limited resources. I think that I speak for my fellow Commissioners and the
Commission's staff when I say that we are proud of the important role which we have
played in helping to keep the Nation's securities markets the best in the world, and
that we are prepared to continue doing so.

.. .
Harold M. Williams
Chairman
xii

Commissioners and Principal Staff Officers
(As of December 31, 1980)

Commissioners
HAROLD M. WILLIAMS of California, Chairman
PHILIP A. LOOMIS, JR., of California
JOHN R. EVANS of Utah
STEPHEN J. FRIEDMAN of New York
BARBARA S. THOMAS of New York

Term expires
June 5

1982
1984
1983
1981
1985

Secretary: George A. fitzsimmons
Executive Assistant to the Chairman: Daniel L. Goelzer
Principal Staff Officers
Benjamin Milk, Executive Director
George G. Kundahl, Deputy Executive Director
Edward F. Greene, Director, Division of Corporation Finance
Lee B. Spencer, Deputy Director
William C. Wood, Associate Director
Mary E. T. Beach, Associate Director
John T. Shinkle, Associate Director
Stanley Sporkin, Director, Division of Enforcement
Irwin M. Borowski, Associate Director
Benjamin Greenspoon, Associate Director
David P. Doherty, Associate Director
Theodore A. Levine, Associate Director
Douglas Scarff, Director, Division of Market Requleuon
Sheldon Rappaport, Deputy Director
Roger D. Blanc, Associate Director
George T. Simon, Associate Director
Edward A. Kwalwasser. Associate Director
(Vacant), Associate Director
Sydney H. Mendelsohn, Director, Duiision of Investment Management
Martin C. Lybecker, Associate Director
Joel Goldberg, Associate Director
Aaron Levy, Director, Division of Corporate Regulation
Grant Guthrie, Associate Director
Ralph C. Ferrara, General Counsel
Jacob H. Stillman, Associate General Counsel
(Vacant), Associate General Counsel
Michael K. Wolensky, Associate General Counsel

Paul Gonson, Solicitor to the Cornrntssron
Andrew L. Rothman. Director, Office of Public Affairs
Chiles T.A. Larson. Deputy Director
A. Clarence Sampson, Chief Accountant
LeGrand C. Kirby. Deputy Chief Accountant
Steven E. Levy. Director of Economic and Policy Analysis
William Stern. DIrector, Office of Opinions and Review
Herbert V. Efron, Assocrare Director
R. Moshe Simon. Associate Director
Warren E. Blair. Chief Administrative Law Judge
Lawrence H. Haynes. Comptroller
Richard J. Kanyan, Director, Office of Administreuoe Services
G. William Richardson. Deputy Director
James C. Foster. Director, Officer of Personnel
Wilson Butler. Director, Office of Applications and Reports
John D. Adkins. Director, Office of Data Processing
Thomas J. Whalen. Deputy Director
Robert R. Wolf, Acting Director, Office of Consumer Affairs and Information
Services
Matthew R. Schneider. DIrector of Legislative AffaIrs

Regional and Branch Offices

Regional Offices and Administrators
Region 1. New York, New Jersey -Stephen

L. Hammerman. 26 Federal Plaza, New

York, New York 10007.

Region 2. Massachusetts, Connecticut, Rhode Island, Vermont, New Hampshire,
Maine. - Willis H. Riccio. 150 Causeway St., Boston, Massachusetts 02114.

Region 3. Tennessee, Virgin Islands, Puerto Rico, North Carolina, South Carolma,
Georgia, Alabama, Mississippi, Florida, part of Louisiana -Jule B. Greene. SUite
788, 1375 Peachtree St., N.E., Atlanta, Georqra 30367

Region 4. Illinois, Indiana, Iowa, Kansas City (Kansas), Kentucky, Michigan,
Minnesota, Missouri, Ohro, Wisconsin. - William D. Goldsberry. Room 1204,
Everett McKinley Dirksen Bldg., 219 S Dearborn St , Chicaqo, llhnors 60604.

Region 5. Oklahoma, Arkansas, Texas, part of LOUIsIana, Kansas (except Kansas
CJty).-Wayne M. Secore, 8th Floor, 411 West Seventh St, Fort Worth, Texas
76102.

Region 6. North Dakota, South Dakota, Wyoming, Nebraska, Colorado, New MexIco,
Utah -Robert H. Davenport. Suite 700, 410 Seventeenth St., Denver, Colorado
80202.

Region 7. Cahfornia, Nevada, Arizona, Hawan, Guam. - Leonard H. Rossen. SUite
1710, 10960 Wilshsrre Boulevard, Los Angeles, California 90024.

Region 8. Washmgton, Oregon, Idaho, Montana, Alaska -Jack H. Bookey, 3040
Federal BUilding, 915 Second Ave., Seattle, Washington 98174
Region 9. Pennsylvania, Maryland, Virginia, West Virginia, Delaware, District of
F. Leonard. Room 300, Ballston Center Tower No 3, 4015
Columbia.-Paul
Wilson Boulevard, Arlington, Virginia 22203.

Branch Offices
Detroit, Michigan 48226 -231

Lafayette St., 1044 Federal Bldg.

Houston, Texas 77002.-Room

5615, Federal Office & Courts Bldg, 515 Rusk Ave.

Miami, Florida 33131.-Suite
Way.

1I 14, DuPont Plaza Center, 300 Biscayne Boulevard

Philadelphia, Pennsylvania 19106. - Federal Bldg., Room 2204, 600 Arch St.
Salt Lake City, Utah 84 I 11. - SUIte 810, Boston Bldg., One Exchange Place
San Francisco, Callforrua 94102. -450

Golden Gate Ave, Box 36042.

Biographies of Commissioners

Harold M. Williams. Chairman
Chairman Williams was born on January 5, 1928, in Philadelphia, Pennsylvania. He
received his B.A. from UCLA in 1946, graduating Phi Beta Kappa at the age of 18.
Three years later he was awarded his J.D. degree from Harvard University Law
School. He joined a Los Angeles law firm in 1949 where he specialized in tax and
corporation law and remained until 1955 except for an interruption to serve as a U.S.
Army legal officer during the Korean emergency. He joined Hunt Foods and Industries, lnc., in 1955 as Associate Tax Counsel. He subsequently became Tax Counsel,
Vice President- Finance and Executive Vice President. In 1964, he became President
of Hunt-Wesson Foods, Inc. In 1968, he was elected President of Hunt Foods and Industries, Inc., and with the formation of Norton Simon, lnc., later that year-resulting
from consolidation of Canada Dry Corporation, Hunt Foods and Industries, lnc., and
McCall Corporation-he
was named Chairman of the new company's Finance
Committee. In 1969, he assumed the additional post of Chairman of the Board of
Norton Simon, Inc. In July of 1970, Mr. Williams became Dean and Professor of
Management of the UCLA Graduate School of Management. During his administration, the School achieved national ranking, including recognition as the leading
graduate business school in a public university. During the 1973 energy crisis, Mr.
WIlliams took leave to serve as full-time Energy Coordinator for the City of Los Angeles. While at UCLA, Mr. Williams also served as Director of Norton Simon, lnc.,
Phillips Petroleum Company, ARA Services, Inc., CNA Financial Corporation, Signal
Companies, Inc., and Montgomery Street Income Securities, and as a Trustee of the
Aerospace Corporation. In his service to the community, Mr. Williams acted as CoChairman for the Public Commission on Los Angeles County Government, a subcommittee chairman of the Mayor's ad hoc Committee on Los Angeles City
Revenues, a member of the State of California Commission for Economic Development and of the California Citizens Commission on Tort Reform, and a member of
the SEC Advisory Committee on Corporate Disclosure.

Philip A. Loomis. Jr.
Commissioner Loomis was born in Colorado Springs, Colorado, on June II, 1915.
He received an A.B. degree, with highest honors, from Princeton University in 1938
and an LL.B. degree, cum laude, from Yale Law School in 1941, where he was a Law
Journal editor. Prior to JOInIngthe staff of the Securities and Exchange Commission,
Commissioner Loomis practiced law with the firm of 0' Melveny and Myers in Los
Angeles, California. Commissioner Loomis joined the Commission's staff as a
consultant In 1954, and the following year he was appointed Associate Director and
then director of the Division of Trading and Exchanges. In 1963, Commissioner
Loomis was appointed General Counsel to the Commission and- served in that capacity until his appointment as a member of the Commission. Commissioner
Loomis is a member of the American Bar Association and the American Law Institute. He received the Career Service Award of the National Civil Service League in
1964, the Securities and Exchange Commission Distinguished Service Award in
1966, and the Justice Tom C. Clark Award of the Federal Bar Association in 1971.
He took office as a member of the Securities and Exchange Commission on August
13, 1971, and is now serving for the term of office expiring June 5, 1984.

John R. Evans
Commissioner Evans was born in Bisbee, Arizona, on June 1, 1932. He received
his B.S. degree in Economics in 1957, and his M.S. degree in Economics in 1959
from the University of Utah. He was a Research Assistant and later a Research Analyst at the Bureau of Economics and Business Research at the University of Utah,
where he was also an instructor of Economics during 1962 and 1963. He came to
Washington in February 1963, as Economics Assistant to Senator Wallace F.
Bennett of Utah. From July 1964 through June 1971 Commissioner Evans was minority staff director of the U.S. Senate Committee on Bankmg, Housing and Urban
Affairs and served as a member or the professional staff from June 1971 to March
1973. He took office as a member of the Securities and Exchange Commission on
March 3, 1973, and is now serving for the term expiring June 5, 1983

Stephen J. Friedman
Commissioner Friedman was born on March 19, 1938 in New York City. In 1959
he received an AB, magna cum laude, from Princeton University where he majored
in public and international affairs (Woodrow Wilson School). He graduated from
Harvard Law School, LL.B. 1962, magna cum laude, where he was an editor of the
Harvard Law Review. Mr. Friedman began his career clerking for Supreme Court Associate Justice William J. Brennan, Jr. in July 1963. From July 1964 to July 1965,
he served as Special Assistant to the Maritime Administrator at the Department of
Commerce. He joined the New York firm of Debevoise, Plimpton, Lyons & Gates as
an associate in August 1965, and became a partner of that firm in January 1971.
From 1974 to 1977 he was also a lecturer in advanced securities regulation and corporation finance at Columbia Law School. From 1974 to 1979 he served in the
Treasury Department as Deputy Assistant Secretary for Capital Markets Policy. Mr.
Friedman is the author of a number of published speeches and articles on corporate, financial and securities law, and of An Affair with Freedom: Mr. Justice
Brennan, published in 1967. He also contributed articles on Justices Brennan and
Goldberg to The Justices of the United States Supreme Court, published in 1969,
and was the draftsman of the Revised Uniform Limited Partnership Act, prepared under the auspices of the National Conference of Commissioners on Uniform State
Laws. He has been a member of the Federal Regulation of Securities Committee,
American Bar Association and a member of the Committee on Securities Regulation
and the Ethics Committee of the Association of the Bar of the City of New York. In
addition, he has served as co-chairman of the Committee on Banking of the Administrative Law Section of the American Bar Association from 1965 to the present Mr.
Friedman took the oath of office as a member of the Securities and Exchange Commission on April 14, 1980, for the term expiring on June 5, 1981.

Barbara S. Thomas
Commissioner Thomas was born December 28, 1946. She received a B.A. cum
laude in history from the University of Pennsylvania in 1966. In 1969, she received a
J.D. from the New York University School of Law, cum laude, where she placed second in a class of 323, was a member of the Order of the Coif, and was an editor of
the New York University Law Review. A John Norton Pomroy Scholar, she received
the Jefferson Davis Prize in Public Law, American Jurisprudence Prizes for Excellence in 15 subjects and made the Dean's List every semester. Mrs. Thomas was an
associate of the firm of Paul, Weiss, Rifkind, Wharton & Garrison in New York from
September 1969 to April 1973 when she joined the firm of Kaye, Scholer, Fierman,
Hays & Handler, also of New York, as an associate. In January 1978, Mrs. Thomas
was made a partner of Kaye, Scholer, Fierman, Hays & Handler. She was Chairman
of the Corporation Law Committee of the Association of the Bar of the City of New
York, a member of the Committee on Federal Regulation of Securities of the American Bar Association and a member of the Securities Regulation Committee of the
New York State Bar Association. She is also a member of the University of
Pennsylvania Alumni Council on Admissions. On October 21, 1980, Mrs. Thomas
took the oath of office as a member of the Securities and Exchange Commission,
and is now serving for a term that expires June 5, 1985.

Table of Contents
Chairman's Transmittal Letter
,...........
.
.
Cornrnission and Principal Staff Officers . . . . . . . . . . .
.
.
Regional and Branch Offices
. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .. ..
Biographies of Commissioners
. ..
Regulation of the Securities Markets
. . . . . . . . . . . .. ..
Securities Markets, Facilities and Tradmg . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .. .
.
National Market System. . . . . . . . ..
..
. . .. .
.
Natronai System for Clearance and Settlement of Secunnes Transactions. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . ..
Options Trading
.. ..
Study of Government Secunties Markets. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Issuer Repurchases. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . ..
Effects of the Absence of Fixed Comrnission Rates .. .. ..
..
Monitormg Commission Rules . . . . . . . . . . .. .. ..
Regulation of Brokers, Dealers, Municipal Secunties Dealers and Transfer
Agents . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . ..
..
..
Regulatory Burdens on Small Brokers and Dealers
Broker-Dealer Reporting Requirements
Registration Requirements
. ..
'" .
.........
Broker-Dealer Exammations . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
MUnIcipal Securities Brokers and Dealers. .
.
Lost and Stolen Securities
Transfer Agents. . . . ..
.
.
..
Securities Investor Protection Corporation .
. ..
Oversight of Self-Regulatory Organizations
National Securities Exchanges. . . ..
. ..
National Association of Secunties Dealers, Inc.
. . ..
Allocation of Regulatory Responsibility
Municipal Securities Rulemaking Board
Clearing Agencies . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Procedures for Filing Proposed Rule Changes.
..
Inspections and Surveillance
. . . ..
Market Oversight Surveillance System . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .

8
8
8
8
8
9
9
10
10
10
10
11
12
13
13
14
14
17

The Disclosure System
Integration Program
,
,.,...................................
Revisions of Form 10-K
Accounting Standards
Proposed New Registration Forms..............
Form 10-Q
.
Form S-8
,.,.......................................
Reorganization of Corporation Finance.
Disclosure Revisions; Interpretive Advice . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .. .

19
19
20
20
21
21
21
22
22

3
4
6
6
6
7

Corporate Accountability; Management Background and Remuneration .
Monitoring of Existing Guidelines
..........
Small Business

24
25
26

Form S-18
Long Range Studies
Rule 242
Rule 254
Classifying of issuers
Legislation. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .

26
26
27
27
27
27

Tender Offers. . . . . . . . . . . . . .. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Tender Offer Rules
Tender Offer Legislation
..........
Beneficial Ownership Report
Accounting Matters. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
The Accounting Profession and the Commission's Oversight Role. .
Scope of Services by Independent Accountants .,................
Accounting Standards for Oil and Gas Producers. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
FASB Conceptual Framework Project. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .. . . . . . . .
FInancial Reporting and Changing Prices . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Reporting on Internal Accounting Control
,.....
Auditor Association with Required Supplemental Financial Information
,
,....

28
28
29
30
30
30
31
32
33
34
35

Investment Companies and Advisers. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .

39
39
40
42
42
42
42
43

DIsclosure Study and Related Matters
Investment Company Act Study. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Legislation Relating to Venture Capital
Significant Applications and Interpretations
Union Service Group
Union-Investment-Gesellschaft . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Institutional Disclosure Program
,.................

Enforcement Program
Sanctions and Remedies . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Insider Trading
Corporate Takeovers, Tender Offers and Beneficial Ownership.. . . . . . . .
Administrative Proceedings Under Section 15(c)(4) of the Securities Exchange Act . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Questionable Payments . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Government and Municipal Secunties
,.............
Related Party Transactions
Energy and Tax Related Cases
Coordination With Other Authorities: Effective Commission Response to
Discovery of Problems
,..........
Other Significant Enforcement Cases

Programmatic Utigation and Legal Work

,...................

Significant Litigation. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Scope of the Antifraud Provisions of the Federal Securities Laws. . .
Private Rights of Action Under the Federal Securities Laws. . . . . . . .

36

45
45
46
47
49
51
52
53
55
58
59
63
63
63
65

Standard of Culpability
Protection of the Shareholder's Franchise
Scope of Commission's Investigatory Authority. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Standard of Proof in Adjudicatory Administrative Proceedings Before
the Commission
,.............................
Tender Offer Litigation .,......................................
Other Significant Projects
ALI Code . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Right to Financial Privacy . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
"Ginnie Mae" Study...........................................

66
67
67

Public Utility Holding Companies. . . . . . . . .. .. .. .. .. .. .. . . . . . . . . .. . .. .

73
73
73
73
74
74

Composition. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Financing
Fuel Programs. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Service Company Operations. . . . . . . .. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .. . . .. . . . . . .
General Public Utilities Corporation/Three Mile Island. . . . . . . . . .. . . . . . .
Acquisition of Columbus , Southern Ohio Electric Company by American Electric Power Company. . . . . . . . . . . . ..

68
69
70
70
71
71

74

Corporate Reorganizations

75

Administration and Management . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .

77

General Management and Program Developments. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Information Systems Management
Facilities Improvement
Information Systems
Other ADP Activities
,......
Financial Management
Internal Audit . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Personnel Management . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Senior Executive Service . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Performance Appraisals. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Merit Pay . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Delegations of Authority
Merit Promotion. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Incentive Awards
Equal Employment Opportunity
Part-time Employment. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Upward Mobility. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Space Management
Consumer and Public Affairs
Investor Complaints
Consumer Education and Public Information. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .

77
77
77
78
79
79
80
80
80
81
81
81
81
82
82
82
82
82
83
83
83

Footnotes. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .

85

Appendix.
The Securities Industry
Income, Expenses and Selected Balance Sheet Items . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Table 1- Financial Information for Broker-Dealers 1975-1979 . . . . .
Historical Financial lnforrnation of Broker-Dealers with Securities Related Revenues of $500,000 or More
Table 2-Historical Consolidated Revenue and Expenses of BrokerDealers With Securities Related Revenue of $500,000 or More. . .
Table 3-Hlstoncal
Balance Sheet For Brokers With Securities Related Revenue of $500,000 or More . ..
Securities Industry Dollar: 1979 . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Chart-e-Secuntres Industry Dollar: 1979 .
Broker-Dealers, Branch Offices, Employees. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Chart-Broker-Dealers
and Branch Offices. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Table 4-Brokers
and Dealers Registered Under the Securities Act
of 1934 - Effective Registrations as of September 30, 1980 Classified by Type of Organization and by Location of Principal Office
. . . . ..
Table 5-Pnnclpal
Business of SECO Broker-Dealers
Table 6-Applicatlons and Reqistratrons of Brokers and Dealers and
Investment Advisers-Fiscal
Year 1980
Table 7 -Applications
and Registrations of Municipal Securities
Dealers and Transfer Agents-FIscal
Year 1980.........
Self-Regulatory Organizations: Revenues, Expenses and Balance
Sheet Structure
..
Table 8-Assets, Liabilities and Net Worth of Self-Regulatory Organizations 1975-1979 . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Table 9-Revenues
and Expenses of Self-Regulatory Organizations
1975-1979...
Table 10-Uses of Self-Regulatory Orgamzation Funds 1975-1979
Table 11 - Sources
of Self-Regulatory
Organization
Funds
1975-1979
Table 12-Self-Regulatory
Orgamzations-Clearmg Agencies Revenues and Expenses - Fiscal Year 1979 ..
Table 13-Revenues
and Expenses of Municipal Securities Rulemaking Board
Exemptions
Section 12(h) Exemptions
Rule 10b-6 Exemptions..
Exemptions for Foreign Private Issuers
...................
Ftnancial lnstitutrons
....................................
Stock Transactions of Selected Financial Institutions
Table 14 -Common
Stock Transactions and Activity Rates of Selected Financial InstitutJons
Stockholdmgs of lnstitutronal Investors and Others
Table 15 - Market Value of Stockholdmgs of Institutional Investors
and Others
,
"
,
,.
Table 16-Compames
Reqistered Under the Investment Company
Act of 1940 as of September 30, 1980
,
,.

93
93
93
94
94
95
96
96
97
98
99

100
101
102
103
104
106
107
108
110
112
113
113
113
113
113
114
114
115
116
117
118

Table 17 -Companies
Registered Under the Investment Company
Act of 1940
.
Table 18-New
Investment Company Registrations
.
Table 19-1nvestment
Company Registrations Terminated
.
Private Noninsured Pension Funds: Assets
.
Table 20-Assets
of Private Noninsured Pension Funds
.
Securities on Exchanges..
.
Exchange Volume.
.
.
.
Table 21-Market
Value and Volume of Sales of Registered Securities Exchanges
.. ..
..
.
NASDAQ Volume
.
Share and Dollar Volume by Exchange .
Chart-Market
Value of Securities Traded On All U.S. Stock Exchanges. .. .
.
Table 22-Share
Volume by Exchanges...
..
.
.
Table 23-Dollar
Volume by Exchanges
.
Special Block Distribution. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .. . .
Table 24-Speclal
Block DistributIons Reported by Exchanges
.
Value and Number of Securities Listed on Exchanges..
... .
.
Table 25-Securities
Listed on Exchanges-December
31. 1979
Table 26- Value of Stocks Listed on Exchanges
Securities on Exchanges
...
. .. . .
Table 27 -Securities
Traded on Exchanges
... . .. .
Table 28-Unduplicated
Count of Securities on Exchanges
.

119
120
120
121
121
122
122
123
124
124
125
126
126
127
127
128
128
129
130
130
130

1933 Act Registrations
. . ..
.
.. .. .
Effective Registration Statements
. . . . . . . . . . . .. . ..
Table 29-EffectIve
Registrations
.
Chart - Securities Effectively Registered With S.E. C. - 1935-1980 ..
Purpose and Type of Registrations
.
Table 30-Effective
Registrations by Purpose and Type of Security:
Fiscal Year 1980
.
.
Chart-EffectIve
Registrations Cash Sale for Account of Issuers
1935-1980 . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .. .
.

135

Regulation A Offerings
Table 31-0fferings

.
.

136
136

Enforcement
...
. .. .. .
.
Types of Proceedings..
. . .. .. .
Table 32- Types of Proceedmgs
..
.
.
Table 33 -Investigations
of Possible Violations of the Acts Admmistered by the Commission
..
... .. ....
. .....
. ..
Table 34 -Administrative
Proceedmgs Instituted During Fiscal Year
Ending September 30, 1980
.
Injunctive Actions 1979-1980
.
Table 35-lnJunctlve
Actions ..
Crimmal Proceedmgs . . . .. ..
Table 36-Crimmal
Cases
Tradmg Suspensions
..
Foreign Restricted List. . ....

136
136
137

. ..

..
under Regulation

A ..

.
.

131
131

132
133

134
134

140
141
141
141
141
142
142
142

Public UtilityHolding Companies
System Companies............................................
Table 37 -Public UtilityHolding Company Systems
Table 38-Key Financial Statistics of Registered Public UtilityHolding Company Systems.......................................
Table 39-Public Financing of Holding Company Systems-Fiscal
1980
Fuel Programs. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Table 40-Regulated
Expenditures of Holding Company Systems - Fiscal 1980 . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Corporate Reorganizations. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Table 41 - Pending Reorganization Proceedings Under Chapter X of
the Bankruptcy
Act in Which the Commission
Participated - Fiscal Year 1980
Table 42 - Reorganization Proceedings Under Chapter 11 of the
Bankruptcy Code in Which Commission Entered Appearance
During Fiscal Year
SEC Operations
Chart-Appropriated Funds vs Fees Collected. . . . .. . .. .. . . . . . . . .
Table 43 - Budget Estimates and Appropriations . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .

144
144
145
145
146
147
148
149

150

151
152
153
154

Regulation of the Securities Markets
Securities Markets. Facilities and

Trading
Natural Market System -During the
past fiscal year, continued progress was
made in the development of a national
market system. Most significantly, the
Commission initiated an experiment designed to increase competition in exchange-traded securities.
On June 11, 1980, the Commission
adopted Rule 19c-3 under the Securities Exchange Act of 1934 (Exchange
Act).' The rule precludes the application of off-board trading restrictions to
certain securities that become exchange-listed after April 26, 1979,
including those securities which had
been listed previously, but failed to remain so.
In its release adopting Rule 19c-3, the
Commission noted that the rule will
provide the opportunity for competition
between over-the-counter
and exchange markets. By permitting exchange members to effect transactions
in-house, the rule may also result in
cost savings for brokers, dealers and investors. Furthermore, by limiting expansion of off-board
trading
restrictions, the rule will maintain the
status quo pending resolution of the
broader issues associated with such
anti-competitive requirements generally. Finally, the rule will permit the Commission and the industry
to gain
valuable experience regarding the effects of concurrent over-the-counter
and exchange trading. Among other
matters, experience under the rule
should enable the Commission to observe the effectiveness of existing trading systems, particularly the Intermarket

Trading System (ITS) and the Cincinnati Stock Exchange's automated
National Securities Trading System
(NSTS), in addressing the needs of
such an environment. The lessons of
this experience may provide incentives
to improve those systems or to develop
new systems to accommodate
any
changes in trading patterns that occur.
In a separate release, the Commission noted that it did not expect to take
further action in the near future with respect to off-board trading restrictions
generally.2 Accordingly, the Commission withdrew
an earlier proposal- proposed Rule 19c-2 under the
Exchange Act - with respect to offboard trading rules. That proposal,
which was published in June 1977,3
would have eliminated all remaining exchange restrictions on off-board principal transactions and on "in-house
agency crosses," (I.e., off-board agency
transactions in which a member acts as
agent for both buyer and seller in the
same transaction), with respect to reported securities.
On December 5, 1979, the Commission proposed Rule l1Aa3-2 under the
Exchange Act, which, if adopted, would
establish procedures relating to the filing and approval of plans governing
planning, developing, operating or regulating a national market system or its
facilltles.t The rule is proposed to be
adopted
pursuant
to
Section
l1A(a)(3)(B)
of the Exchange Act,
which provides for Commission approval of Joint industry action with respect to
the establishment of a national market
system. At the close of the fiscal year,
the Commission was analyzmq the
comments received in response to pro-

posed Rule 11Aa3-2 and was considermq further action with respect to it.
On February 19, 1980, the Commission adopted two proposals desiqned to
refine the operation of the consolidated
transaction reporting and quotation systems First, the Commission adopted
an amendment to exrstinq Rule 17a-155
(redesiqnated as Rule 11Aa3-1) under
the Exchange Act which eliminates,
subject to one condition,
the preexisting prohibrtron on retransmission
of transaction information for purposes
of creating a moving ticker display. It
also sets forth procedures for amending
transaction reporting plans filed pursuant to the rule.
Second, the Cornrnissron adopted
Rule 11Acl-2 under the Exchange Act,
which Imposes minimum requirements
regulating the manner in which securitres information vendors display transaction and quotation inforrnatron." Most
importantly, the rule requires that the
NASDAQ system disseminate, for securities traded solely over-the-counter, the
best bid and best offer as opposed to a
"representative" quotation. This provision of the rule became effective on
July 5, 1980 On June 24, 1980, in order to allow time for development of
certain quotation processing facilities
related to compliance With the rule, the
Cornrnissron extended the effective date
of portions of the rule regulating the
display of quotation and transaction information for exchange-traded secuntres.?

During the fiscal year, the Commission continued its efforts to achieve ItS
goal of intermarket price protection, initially for public hrnit orders, and ultimately for all orders. The Cornrnissron
reviewed comments received on proposed Rule 11 Ac 1-3 under the Exchange Act," which, if adopted, would
prohibit any broker or dealer from executing any order to buy or sell certain
securities at a price inferior to the price
2

of any public limit order displayed at the
time of execution unless the broker or
dealer assures that those hrnit orders
are satisfie d. In addition, the Commission continued to encourage the ITS
participants to implement their commitment to develop a joint plan for protection of public limit orders. At the end of
the fiscal year, the Cornrrnsston was
anticipating the receipt of an amendment to the ITS plan that would provide
for the implementation and operation of
a pilot Lirmt Order Information System
(LOIS). LOIS would provide, on the
floor of each ITS participant, a display
of limit orders entered from all participant exchanges at various price levels.
LOIS, in combination with ITS, is intended
to p r ov rd e a mechanism
through which nationwide lirmt order
protection WIth respect to certain block
transactions may be achieved. Finally,
the ITS participants have, on their own
irutrative, begun dISCUSSIons about a
rule that would preclude the execution
of transactions on one ITS participant at
prices Inferior to the quotations disseminated by any other ITS participant.
The Cornrnission has also continued
to encourage the development of linkages between the ITS and the over-thecounter market and between the ITS
and the NSTS. In ItS release adopting
Rule 19c-3, the Commission stated that
It expected that the ITS partictpants and
the National Association of Securities
Dealers, Inc. (NASD) would quickly
reach agreement on an automated linkage between the ITS and the NASDAQ
system, which was recently enhanced to
provide the capability for automated execution against third market maker
quotations. The Cornrrussion also stated that it expected that the ITS participants and the NSTS would quickly
reach agreement on a linkage between
their systems.
Shortly before the end of the fiscal
year, the Commission received a status

report from each of the relevant parties
on the Implementation of a linkage In
the near term between the ITS and the
NSTS. However,the ITS participants did
not commit themselves to the Implementation of an automated linkage between the ITS and the NASDAQ system.
While hopeful of achieving voluntary industry agreement with respect to the
linkage between the ITS and the
NASDAQ system, the Commission, at
the close of the fiscal year, was considering regulatory measures to ensure the
irnplernentatron of that linkage If no voluntary agreement is reached.
National System for Clearance and
Settlement
of Se cur i ties Transactions - During the fiscal year, substantial progress was made in the
Cornrmssion's effort to foster development of a national system for clearance
and settlement of securities transactions. The staff continued Its review of
the two Issues remanded by the United
States Court of Appeals for the District
of Columbia Circuit in Bradford National Cleanng Corporation u Secunties and Exchange Cornrrussron 9 In
that decision, the court affirmed the
Comrrussion's decision granting the application of National SecuritIes Clearinq
Corporation (NSCC) for registrauon as
a c1eanngagency The Cornrnissron has
viewed that registration as a key step In
achievmq a national clearance and settlement system. While not disturbing
NSCC's registration,
the court remanded two issues to the Commission
for further consideration: (a) NSCCs
selection of Securities Industry Automation Corporation as the facilities manager of ItS consolidated system without
cornpetrtive bidding, and (b) NSCCs
use of geographic price mutualization
(GPM). GPM is the practice of charging
all participants the same fees regardless
of whether the participants deal with the
clearing agency at its main facility or
through a branch office.

In March 1979, the Cornrrussron sohcited public comment on those two ISsues.!" In addition to the 11 comment
letters received by the Commission In
the previous fiscal year, the Commission received three letters In fiscal 1980
from NSCC in response to those comment letters, as well as a report on the
economic aspects of competitive bidding and GPM, submitted on behalf of
NSCC. The Cornrnissron also received
an economic report submitted on behalf of Bradford National Corporation In
response to NSCCs report. The Commission IS completing Its review of
those letters, reports, and other available Information and expects to announce Its decisron on these Issues In
fiscal year 1981
The Cornrrussion continued ItSreview
of the Issues raised by proposed rule
changes submitted by Bradford Securities Processing Services, Inc. and NSCC
that would establish automated companson and clearance systems for municipal securities. Such systems have
resulted In siqrufrcant improvements In
the processing of equity and corporate
debt securities. Specifically, the proposed systems would (a) enable rnunicipal secunues brokers and dealers to
compare transactions through a central
entity rather than havinq to relate directly to each broker and dealer with whom
they execute transactions; (b) Increase
standardization In the processing of
transactions in municipal secunties,
and (c) provide the settlement and finencial benefits that accrue from the
netting of transactrons in the same secunty.
Progress toward a national system
was also evident in other areas. The expansion of interfaces among secunties
depositones was furthered by the Commission s approval of proposed rule
changes filed by The Depository Trust
Company and the Philadelphia Depository Trust Company estabhshmq an rn-

3

terface between thern.t! That interface
permits a participant in either depository to make book entry movements of
securities either to its own account, or
to an account of another participant, in
the other depository. It thus eliminates
the need for the actual withdrawal and
physical movement of securities in order to settle transactions among depository participants.
In addition, the
national system was furthered by the
approval of a rule change which established procedures whereby book-entry
transfers within New England Securities
Depository Trust Company may be
used for settlement of trades clearing
through Boston Stock Exchange Clearing Corporation. 12
Options Trading -As previously reported, beginning on July 15, 1977,
there existed, at the Commission's request, a voluntary moratorium on expansion of the standardized options
markets, pendmg (a) completion of the
Commission's Special Study of the Options Markets (Options Study); (b) evaluation of the Options Study's findmgs;
and (c) resolution of Commission concerns regarding the adequacy of the
regulatory framework within which
standardized
options trading o c-

curred.!"
The report of the Options Study was
released to the public on February 15,
1979,14 followed by a Commission release, on February 22, 1979, setting
forth the Commission's plan for implementing the Options Study's recommendations
and terminating
the
moratorium.P In that release, the Commission stated that, before it would permit further expansion of the options
markets, certain .recommendations of
the Options Study would have to be implemented
by the options
selfregulatory
organizations
and the
broker-dealer community. These recommendations generally called for additional self-regulatory organization

4

rules, improvements in self-regulatory
organization surveillance and compliance systems and procedures, and improved regulatory controls by brokerage
firms.
Upon finding that the self-regulatory
organizations
had responsibly
addressed the major regulatory deficiencies identified by the Options Study, the
Commission determined on March 26,
1980, to terminate the moratorium and
to begin to permit further expansion of
the standardized options markets.16
The Commission, therefore, approved
rule change proposals submitted by
each of the options exchanges and the
New York Stock Exchange (NYSE)P
Those rules, if complied with, should
provide significant additional protection
for public lnvestors.P The Commission
also received undertakings from the options exchanges that were found to be
generally responsive to the Options
Study recommendations to revise their
broker-dealer examination and compliance procedures. In addition, the Commission found that the surveillance
systems of the options exchanges, if effectively utilized and upgraded in the
normal course of business and in response to Commission staff requests,
would be adequate to detect most currently known trading abuses involving
options and their underlying securities.
With respect to those few recommendations that the Commission did not
believe the self-regulatory organization
rule proposals addressed adequately,
such as those relating to the establishment of a central customer complaint
file and the disclosure of commission
mformation on customer account statements, the Commission indicated that it
intended to initiate formal rule-making
proceedings to determine whether
Commission rules mandating compliance with such recommendations
should be adopted.
In its release terminating the options

moratorium, the Commission also issued a general statement of policy regarding the listing of additional put and
call options classes, the expansion of
multiple trading and the filing of expanstonary rule proposals (March policy
steternentl.!" As a result of the options
moratorium, each options exchange
had been limited to the listing and trading of five put option classes. In the
March policy statement, the Commission stated that it had not identified any
surveillance or compliance problems
unique to puts trading and perceived
certarn benefits with respect to the listmg of puts and calls on the same underlying security. To ensure that puts
expansion would occur in an orderly
manner, the Commission requested
each options exchange to furnish to the
Commission a proposed puts expansion schedule and to file proposals to
increase the number of its authorized
puts classes in accordance with that
schedule. Pursuant to the schedules
subsequently submitted by each of the
options exchanges;"?and based on representations that puts expansion would
not adversely affect exchange surveillance, operational capabilities or member firms back office operations, the
Commission approved a series of proposals to enable each options exchange
to list puts on any security underlying
that exchange's call option classes.F'
In view of the continuing restriction
on multiple trading and the limited
number of attractive stocks meetmg the
current options listing standards, the
Commission requested the options exchanges to formulate and jointly submit, an appropriate plan to allocate
additional call options. On May 30,
1980, the Commission approved proposals by the options exchanges lncorporatmg a listing procedure devised
jointly by them for the selection of 60
additional call options classes.P By the
end of the fiscal year, pursuant to Com-

mission authorlzation.P''
the options exchanges had instituted options trading
on most of the securities selected m the
initial allocation.
One issue raised, but not resolved by
the Options Study was whether the
Commission should continue its policy
of restricting multiple trading in exchange-traded options. In the March
policy statement, the Commission
stated that, under appropriate circumstances, the benefits of multiple trading
appeared to outweigh any adverse consequences. At the same time, the Commission expressed the belief that the
near-term development of market mtegration facilities might create a more
fair and efficient market structure within
which multiple tradmg could occur. As
a result, the Commission deferred further action on the general expansion of
multiple trading in order to afford the
self-regulatory organizations an opportunity to consider whether, and to what
extent, the development of market integration facilities would rrururnize market
fragmentation and maximize competitive opportunities in the options markets. In this regard, the Commission
requested that the self-regulatory organizations jointly discuss the desirability of Implementing such facilities and
submit a report to the Cornmissron
which either described the facilities
needed and a plan for their implementation, or explained why such facilities
were unnecessary, unfeasible or otherwise inappropriate. In response to the
Cornrnissron's
request, the options exchanges have formed a joint task force
to study options market integration
questions.
Finally, the March policy statement
announced the Commission's determination to once again begm to consider
expansionary self-regulatory organization rule proposals relating to options.
Among the regulatory mitlatives submitted by the self-regulatory organiza-

5

tions since the termination
of the
moratorium are proposals to rescind
their respective restricted options rules
and to modify options position limits,
exercise limits and strike price intervals.
The self-regulatory organizations have
also submitted proposals involving new
options products, includmq an NASD
proposal to trade standardized options
in the over-the-counter rnarket'" and a
Chicago Board Options Exchange
(CBOE) proposal to trade options on
Government National Mortgage Association modified pass-through certificates
(GNMA).25At the end of the fiscal year,
the Commission was actively reviewing
these proposals.
Study of Government Securities
Markets -As a result of an inquiry from
Senator Harrison A Williams, the Commission staff, together with staff members of the Department of the Treasury
and the Board of Governors of the Federal ReserveSystem, conducted a study
of the government-related securities
markets. Staff members of the three
agencies assembled information about
these markets, Including abusive practices in securities transactions by market participants,
and analyzed the
adequacy of existing regulation of these
markets. The agencies are preparing a
report for presentation to the Congress
that analyzes the need for increased
regulation of the government-related
securities markets and for legislation
establishing a new regulatory structure.
Issuer Repurchases - Late in the fiscal year, the Commission considered
republishing for comment a revised version of proposed Rule 13e-2 under the
Exchange Act. If adopted, Rule 13e-2
would regulate purchases of an issuer's
securities by or on behalf of the issuer
and certain other persons. The rule
would generally limit the time, price and
volume of such purchases. In addition
to the purchasing limitations, the rule
would impose specific disclosure re-

6

quirements that would pertain to repurchase programs of substantial size. The
regulatory predicate that underlies proposed Rule 13e-2 is the need for a pattern of regulation that limits the ability
of an issuer and persons whose purchases are closely related to those of
the issuer to control the price of the issuer's securities. The rule, therefore, is
designed to assure-that the trading
markets are free from control or domination by the issuer and certain other
persons. Proposed Rule 13e-2 had been
previously published for comment in
1970 and 1973. (Subsequent to the
close of the fiscal year, on October 17,
1980, the Commission published a release asking for public comment on a
revised version of proposed Rule
13e_2.26
Effects Of The Absence of Fixed
Commission Rates -In May 1975, the
Commission prohibited the national securities exchanges from prescribing
fixed minimum commission rates to be
charged by their members. Later that
year, the Congress enacted a similar
prohibition as part of the 1975 Amendments. Pursuant to that legislation, the
Commission submitted to the Congress
five reports (through December 31,
1976), describing the effects of the unfixing of commission rates on the maintenance of fair and orderly markets and
on the development of a national market system for securities.
Analysis of cornrnission rates is now
Integrated into the Commission's ongoIng monitoring of the financial condition of the industry. In that connection,
the Commission's Directorate of Economic and Policy Analysis released to
the public in September 1980, a "Staff
Report on the Securities Industry in
1979" (Staff Report), which detailed the
results of its comrnission rate survey in
the context of a comprehensive analysis
of the basic economic dynamics of the
securities
industry.
The Staff Re-

port-the third in a continumg series of
annual reports designed to provide the
Commission with an economic basis
for anticipating the Impact of regulatory
changes upon the securities mdustry,
Investors
and the broader
economy-greatly expands the scope of the
previous reports on the securities industry with respect to fundamental industry trends and relationships while
continuing to monitor the impact of negotiated comrnisslon rates.
Some of the more specific findmgs in
regard to commission rates are as follows. From Apnl 1975 through June
1980, individual Investors' effective
commission rates, when measured as a
percent of principal value, declined 18.2
percent. Institutional customers, because of their larger average order size
and greater bargaining power, have
negotiated discounts averagmg 56.3
percent from the pre-May 1975 exchange-prescribed
minimum rates.
When commission rates are measured
in cents per share, the declines were
10.5 percent for indivrduals and 55.3
percent for institutions. Individuals paid
an average of 26.9 cents per share on
their June 1980 orders, which averaged
427 shares in size. Institutional orders
averaged 2,513 shares m size and commissions on these orders averaged 11.6
cents per share. Individual orders of
10,000 shares or more showed commission rate discounts comparable to
similarly sized instrtutional orders.
Broker-dealers were affected by the
elimination of fixed mmimum commission rates largely depending upon the
extent to which they served mstitutional
investors. Some firms which did a large
portion of their total business with institutions have merged with more diversified firms or have gone out of business
and a new industry segment, discount
broker-dealers, has appeared. On the
whole, these changes now offer investors a broader spectrum of services with

a correspondingly
commission rates.

broader range of

Monitoring
Commission Rules Monitoring of Commission rules continues with the annual Staff Report on the
Securities Industry in 1979 (the 1979
Report released in September 1980),
which describes and analyzes the securities industry's financial experience and
focuses upon major areas of concern to
the industry and the Commission. During the last fiscal year, the Comrnissron's Directorate of Economic and
Policy Analysis also developed and implemented a program to monitor the
impact of Rule 19c-3, which involves an
experimental removal of off-board trading rules; published the results of a survey measuring the impact on brokerdealers of Section 11(a) of the 1934
Act, which makes it unlawful for a
member of a national securities exchange to effect certain transactions,
and of the temporary rules promulgated
by the Commission to alleviate the
unintended effects of that section: continued to monitor and provide reports
to the Commission concerning the effects of the Intermarket Tradmg System
on the quality of markets, the routing of
order flow and intermarket competition:
provided monitoring reports to the
Commission concerning the Cmcmnati
Stock Exchange National Securities
Trading System, an automated securities trading market; compiled and reported the results on its Survey of Specialists, which has been conducted over
the past five years; and published a
study on the monitoring of the operation of Rule 144 (a "safe harbor" rule
applicable to public sales of restricted
stock In the over-the-counter market)
and its effect on securities prices.
7

Regulation of Brokers, Dealers,
Municipal Securities Dealers and
Transfer Agents
Regulatory Burdens on Small Brokers and Dealers - The Commission IS
aware of the need to evaluate the costs
and competitive Impact of Its regulations on small brokers and dealers. Accordingly, in adopting regulatory requrrernents, the Commission weighs
the benefits to investor protection and
other statutory goals against possible
cornphance and competitive burdens.
In addition, the Commission endeavors
to tailor regulatory requirements to particular business practices so as to avoid
imposing unnecessary regulatory burdens. This effort can particularly benefit
small, more specialized brokerage
firms.

Broker-Dealer
Reporting
Requirements - On September 9, 1980, the
Commission proposed amendments to
Form X-17A-5, the Financial and Operatrorial Combined Uniform Single
(FOCUS) Report, under the Exchange
Act, which IS filed with the Commission
by broker-dealers.P" The proposed
amendments would revise and clarify
certain requirements of the FOCUS reporting system so that the reporting
burden is minimized, consistent with
the attainment of other public policy
objectives. In addition, they would provide more useful information that will
assist the Commission In monitoring
the operations and financial condition
of broker-dealers and In evaluating the
likely effect of proposed and exrstinq
regulations on the securities industry
and would define Items more clearly so
that Information will be reported in a
consistent manner by all firms.

Registration

Requirements

- Form

U-4, the Uniform Application for Securities and Commodities Industry Registration, IS the personnel form that the
Commission requires to be filed on be-

8

half of associated persons of a broker
or dealer by a registered broker or dealer who is not a member of a registered
national securities association. Form
U-4 is also accepted as a uniform application form for associated persons by
46 states, all of the national securities
exchanges and the NASD.
During fiscal 1980, the Commission
proposed for adoption extensive revisions to Form U_4.28 These proposed
revisions include changes in format to
Improve clarity and to eliminate duplication and the addition of several questions requesting information about the
applicant. If adopted, this amended
form Will be used by the entities which
currently use Form U-4. The amended
form would also be used in implementing the operation of the Central
Records Depository (CRD). The CRD IS
a Joint undertaking
by the selfregulatory organizations and 46 states,
under which an applicant will be required to file only one application in order to register with all participating
entities.
Broker-Dealer Examinations -As a
result of a reorganization within the Division of Market Regulation in January
1980, the Branch of Broker-Dealer Examinations was established in the Office of Inspections, Examinations and
Surveillance. The branch has primary
responsibility for the coordination of the
Commission's broker-dealer examination programs.
The branch plans and coordinates
the broker-dealer examinations conducted by the Commission's regional
offices and has revised and improved
the examination materials used by the
regional office staffs. All examinations
conducted in the program are reviewed
by the branch to detect unique issues or
trends in the operations or sales practices of the broker-dealer community. In
addition, the branch serves as a clearinghouse for legal and regulatory in-

i e s from
the regional
office
examining staffs.
The branch also coordinates regional
office efforts to respond to changes and
events in the industry. For instance, the
branch coordinated the regional offices'
efforts to conduct a detailed review of
the operational and trading practices
activities of discount broker-dealers.
The branch also worked with the various stock exchanges in order to prepare for and alleviate strains on the
market created by the New York City
transit strike.
In March 1980, the branch conducted
a regulatory conference for the Commission's Assistant Regional Admirustrators
for Regulation
and Chief
Broker-Dealer Examiners. At the conference, the regional office representatives discussed varIOUS regulatory
developments and problems. The conference resulted in a number of projects
relating specifically to areas of concern
in the Commission's examination program.
In September 1980, the branch conducted the first of a new series of training sessions for the Commission's securities compliance examiners. Experts
on various aspects of examination techniques and the securities laws, drawn
primarily from the Commission's staff,
served as instructors for examiners
from all of the Commission's regional
offices.
Municipal Securities Brokers and
Dealers - On January 15, 1980, the
Commission adopted amendments to
Rule 15b 10-12 under the Exchange
Act.29 The amended rule exempts the
municipal securities transactions of all
"Securities and Exchange Commission
Only" (SECO) brokers and dealers from
the Commission's fair practice rule, and
makes the SECO fair practice rules applicable to transactions in government
and other exempted securities by all
SECO brokers and dealers.

qurr

On August 28, 1980, the Commission adopted amendments to Form
MSD, the form used by municipal secunties dealers that are banks or separately identifiable departments or divisions
of banks.P? The amendments conform
a defmition In Form MSD to a definition
in a rule of the Municipal Securities
Rulemaking Board and allow, under
certain circumstances, bank municipal
securities dealers to substitute, for
forms currently required to be filed with
the Cornmissron, forms required by the
bank regulatory agencies containing
similar information with respect to supervisory personnel.
During the fiscal year, the Commission, pursuant to Section 17(b) of the
Exchange Act, jointly conducted with
the appropriate bank regulatory agency
one examination of a bank municipal
securities dealer.
Lost and Stolen Securities - The
Lost and Stolen Securities Program (the
Program), which includes more than
17,000 Federally-insured banks, securities organizatIons and non-bank transfer agents as participants, uses a data
bank to monitor rnissinq secunties. Participants use the system to seek assurance of the authenticity and ownership
of the certificates they are processing.
On June 10, 1980, the Commission released a staff report containing comprehensive general statistical mformation
regarding the operation of the Program
for calendar year 1979. As stated in that
report, Securities Information Center,
Inc., of Wellesley Hills, Massachusetts,
the Commission's designee to operate
and maintain the computerized data
base of missing, lost, counterfeit and
stolen securities, received reports of
loss, theft or counterfeiting concerning
approximately 280,000 certificates valued at approximately $1.3 billion. As of
December 31, 1979, the aggregate net
value of the data base since the incep9

tion of the program was approximately
$2.6 billion.
Transfer Agents -On
September 2,
1980, the Commission published a
comprehensive release 31 that sets forth
staff interpretations regarding Rules
17Ad-l through 17Ad-7 under the Exchange Act. These rules establish,
among other things, minimum performance standards and record-keepfor all registered
ing requrrernents
transfer agents. The release (a) discusses many of the Issues previously
addressed by the staff in interpretive
and no-action letters that are publicly
available; (b) sets forth prior responses
to many oral requests for interpretive
assistance; (c) further clarifies previous
written staff interpretations; and (d) provides illustrations of the practical operanon of many of the provisions of these
rules.
Securities Investor Protection Corporation - The Securities Investor Protection Act of 1970 (SIPA) 32 provides
certain protections to customers of brokers and dealers that fail to meet their
obligations to their customers. SIPA is
administered principally by the Securities Investor Protection Corporation
(SIPC), a non-profit membership corporation, the members of which are, with
limited exceptions, registered brokers
and dealers. SIPC IS funded through assessments on ItS members, although it
may borrow up to $1 billion from the
United States Treasury under certain
emergency conditions.
Dunng fiscal year 1980, SIPC transmitted to Congress a recommendation,
which was later endorsed by the Comrmssion, that the level of customer protection provided by SIPA be raised to
$500,000 (from the previous level of
$100,000), not more than $100,000
(previously $40,000) of which may be
for cash claims. A bin Incorporating this
recommendation was pending before
Congress at the close of the fiscal year.
10

(Just subsequent to the end of the fiscal
year, the bill was enacted into law.)

Oversight of Self-Regulatory
Organizations
Netionet Securtnes Exchanges -As
of September 30, 1980, ten exchanges
were registered with the Commission as
national securities exchanges pursuant
to Section 6 of the Exchange Act:
Arnerican Stock Exchange (Amex);
Boston Stock Exchange (BSE); Chicago Board Options Exchange (CBOE);
Cmcmnau Stock Exchange (CSE), Intermountain
Stock Exchange (ISE);
Midwest Stock Exchange (MSE); New
York Stock Exchange (NYSE); Pacific
Stock Exchange (PSE); Philadelphia
Stock Exchange (Phlx); and Spokane
Stock Exchange (SSE). No exchange is
currently operating under an exemption
from registration as a national securities

exchange.
Dunng the fiscal year, the Commission completed a review of its policy
concerning applications for unlisted
tradmg privileges in listed securities.
The Commission determined to grant
applications for unlisted trading privileges where (a) transactions in the subject securities
are required
to be
reported in the consolidated transaction
reporting system and (b) the exchange
has the capacity for executing trades in
a fair and orderly manner. In addition,
Rules 12f-l and 12f-3, regarding information to be included in applications
for the extension or termination of unlisted tradmg privileqes, were amended
to reflect the new standards set forth in
the Securities Acts Amendments of
1975 (1975 Arnendmentsj.P''
In connection With the Cornrnissron's
oversight of the delistmg of securities
traded on national securities exchanges,
pursuant to Section 12 of the Exchange
Act, the Commission, during the fiscal
year, granted applications by exchanges

to strike 65 equity issues and nine debt
issues from listing and registration. The
Commission also granted applications
submitted by issuers requesting withdrawal from listing and registration for
25 equity issues and 12 debt issues
The national securities exchanges reported to the Commission, pursuant to
Section 19(d)(1) of the Exchange Act
and Rule 19d-1 thereunder, 407 final
disciplinary actions imposing a variety
of sanctions upon member firms and
their employees. On August 22, 1980,
the Commission amended Rule 19d-1
to exempt from its reporting requirements uncontested summary sanctions
imposed for violations of exchange regulations regarding floor decorum 34
During the fiscal year, the Commission received from the national exchanges 208 fllmqs pursuant to Rule
19b-4 under the Exchange Act, includrnq 177 proposed rule changes and 31
notices of a stated policy, practice or interpretation not constituting a rule
change
Among the significant exchange rule
filings approved by the Commission
durmq the fiscal year were: (a) adoption
of the Uniform Code of Arbitration by
ten self-regulatory orqanizations.:" (b)
establishment by the NYSE of an OpenIng Automated Report Service and trade
comparison procedures for orders received before the opening of trading;36
(c) a rule change of the MSE requiring
MSE specialists to guarantee execution
of orders between 100-399 shares of issues traded in the Intermarket Tradmg
Systern.P" and (e) an Amex rule recommending that Amex-listed companies
have at least two independent directors
and establish audit committees composed solely of independent dlrectors.P"
During the fiscal year, the Commission disapproved a NYSE proposed rule
change to limit the number of physical
access annual members to two because
the Commission was unable to find that

the proposed rule change was consistent with Sections 6(b)(8) and 6(b)(5) of
the Exchange Act.40 The Commission
also Initiated proceedmgs to determine
whether to disapprove proposed rule
changes of the NYSE and Amex to
make permanent their rules governing
registered competitive market makers
(RCMMs) and registered equity market
makers (REMMs), respectively.f! The
rules currently permit individual members to register as supplemental market
makers in equity securities, thereby
qualifying their on-floor proprietary
trades for the market maker exemption
from the general exchange member
proprietary trading prohibitions of Section l1(a)(1) of the Exchange Act.
National Assocrauon of Securities
Dealers, Inc. - The NASD is the only
national securities association registered with the Commission. At the close
of the fiscal year, 2,888 brokers and
dealers were NASD members.
During the last nine months of the
fiscal year, the NASD reported to the
Commission the final disposition of 210
disciplmary actions. At the beginning of
fiscal 1980, 16 proceedings for review
of NASD disciplinary decisions were
pendmg before the Commission, and
durrnq the year 12 additional cases
were brought up for review. The Comrnission reviewed 22 of these cases
During the year, the Cornmission
continued to review an NASD proposed
rule change submitted In 1978 to prohibit NASD members from giving discounts to customers in distributions of
securities offered at a fixed price The
proposal would amend the NASD's
Rules of Fair Practice to Impose a more
explicit prohibition on an NASD member's taking securities m trade (swap) at
more than their fair market price and to
hrnit the ability of members to grant or
receive discounts In connection with
fixed price offerings. The proposal was
filed in response to a 1976 judicial deci11

sion, Papilsky v Berndt.v- which held
that certain discounts were not unlawful
absent a contrary Commission or NASD
ruling.
Between September and November
1979, the Commission
held public
hearings on the issues raised by the
proposed rule. Based on the testimony
of the 16 witnesses at the hearings and
on the comment letters received, the
Commission determined to send the
NASD a letter requesting the NASD to
consider amending the proposal in certain respects.v' The Commission suggested that the NASD broaden the
circumstances under which a member
could be compensated in connection
with a fixed price offering for research
provided to customers and revise the
definition of fair market price as it relates to the practice of swapping securities in a fixed price offering. The NASD
fIled amendments to the proposal in
September 1980 as suggested by the
Comrnisslon.v'
(Subsequent
to the
close of the fiscal year, the Commission
approved the NASD's revised rules proposals.)
DUring the fiscal year, the Commission approved a proposed rule change
of the NASD to create two new categories of registration for employees of
NASD member flrms.?" The proposal
permits an individual whose activities
are limited to either investment company and variable contracts products or
tax shelter securities (direct participanon programs)
to register with the
NASD as a "limited representative" in
one of those areas after passmg an appropriate specialized qualification examination.
In addition, the Commission
approved a proposed rule change of the
NASD to amend the procedures for the
reporting of over-the-counter transactions in listed securities to the consolidated transaction reporting system.f"
The rule change requires NASD mem12

bers to report over-the-counter principal transactions on a "gross" basis, i.e.,
exclusive of any commission equivalent
or differential, as well as any retail
mark-up or mark-down.
Previously,
those transactions were reported inclusive of any mark-up or mark-down.
Since transactions
effected on exchanges are reported on a gross basis,
the rule change should provide greater
comparability of over-the-counter and
exchange transaction
information in
listed securities.
The Commission also approved a
rule that authorizes the NASD Board of
Governors to adopt rules relating to the
sponsorship
and distribution
to the
public of tax shelter securities, or direct
participation programs, by NASD members and their affiliates.47 Such rules
adopted by the NASD Board of Governors must be submitted to the Commission for individual approval.
Allocation

of Regulatory Responsi-

bility -In fiscal 1980, the Commission
approved four plans pursuant to Section 17(d)(l) of the Exchange Act and
Rule 17d-2 thereunder, for the allocation of regulatory responsibility among
the NASD and four stock
exchanges-the
BSE, the CSE, the MSE,
and the PSE.48 Pursuant to these plans,
the NASD is responsible for conducting
all on-site examinations, both routine
and special, and reviewing related reports of brokers and dealers that belong
to both the NASD and one of the exchanges. Dual members designated to
the NASD after the execution of the
plans would be examined by the NASD
for compliance with the NASD's rules
and the exchange's regulatory rules. As
a result of the allocation plans, a dual
member which had previously been examined on a routine basis by the NASD
and one of the participating exchanges
would be subject to an examination by
only the NASD. The adoption of the
plans has therefore eliminated duplica-

tive examining responsibilities between
the NASD and each of the four exchanges that executed the plans.
Municipal
Securities Rulemaking
Board -As in the case of national securities exchanges and the NASD, the
Commission reviews proposed rule
changes of the Municipal Securities
Rulemaking Board (MSRB). During the
fiscal year, the MSRB filed 12 rule proposals. The Commission considered a
number of those proposals and others
which were pending from previous
years.
On March 6, 1980, the Commission
approved an MSRB rule that established
standards of ethical conduct for municipal securities brokers and dealers that
provide financial advisory services for
compensation to municipal issuers.r'?
The rule requires a municipal securities
broker or dealer, acting as a paid advisor with respect to a new issue of municipal securities,
to satisfy certain
conditions specified in the rule prior to
purchasing the same Issue. The rule
also requires a municipal securities broker or dealer that establishes a "financial advisory relationship" with an issuer
with respect to a new issue of municipal
securities to enter into a written agreement that sets forth the basis of compensation to the municipal securities
broker or dealer.
In addition, the Commission approved substantial changes in the
MSRB's rules pertaining to customer
and interdealer confirmations. 50 The
changes were designed to increase the
amount of information available regarding prices, yields and call features on
municipal bonds. The effective dates of
the amendments were originally delayed for six months, to September 24,
1980, to allow time to plan for the orderly implementation
of the new requirements. On September 12, 1980,
the effective dates of the amendments
were extended to December 1, 1980, to

allow additional time for implementa-

tion."!
Finally, the Commission approved
amendments to the MSRB's arbitration
code which established a simplified
procedure for the resolution of intraindustry disputes involving $5000 or
less. Such disputes can now be settled
by a single arbitrator instead of the previously required three.P The amendments were also designed to conform
the MSRB rules with the uniform arbitration code developed by the Securities
Industry Conference on Arbitration. 53
Clearing Agencies -DUring the fiscal year, the Commission announced
the publIcation of standards that the DIvision of Market Regulation will use m
reviewing clearing agency registration
applications. 54 The standards represent
the views of the Division regardmg the
manner in which clearing agencies
should comply with the registration proVISionsof Section 17A(b)(3) of the Exchange Act. They deal with, among
other thmgs, requirements regardmg
participation in clearing agencies, fair
representation of participants, disciplinary procedures, the safeguarding of
securities and funds and the clearing
agency's obligations to participants.
The Division will apply the standards in
making recommendations to the Comrrussion regardmg the granting or denial of registration to the 13 clearing
agencies that currently are temporarily
registered with the Commission, and
those c1earmgagencies that may apply
for registration in the future.
In December 1979, the Commission
adopted Exchange Act Rule 17Ad-8,
which requires registered c1eanngagencies to provide, upon request, securities
position listings to issuers whose securities the clearing agency holds in its
name or that of its nominee. 55 A securities position listing is a list of (a) the
participants in a clearing agency on
whose behalf the clearing agency holds

13

the Issuer's securities and (b) their posinons In the Issuer's securities
as of a
specified date. The Final Report of the
Street Name Study published
by the
Cornrruss ion In December
1976,56
made several recornrnendations
to improve
the
existing
system
for
transmitting
cornmumcatrons
from ISsuers to beneficial
shareowners,
and
Rule 17 Ad-8 was adopted In response
to one of those recommendations.
During the fiscal year, the Commission staff conducted
oversiqht mspecnons of Stock Clearing Corporation
of
Philadelphia,
Philadelphia
Depository
Trust Company
and Pacific Clearing
Corporation.
The staff also conducted
a
joint inspectron
of Pacific Depository
Trust
Company
(PSDTC)
with the
Board of Governors of the Federal Reserve System (FRS), which IS PSDTC's
appropriate
regulatory
authority.
The
conduct of this examination
on a JOint
baSIS furthered
the statutory
goal of
avoiding unnecessary
regulatory duplication and unnecesary
regulatory
burdens on clearing
agencies
that are
subject to Inspection by both the Comrrussion and Federal bank regulators.
The findings
of these
inspections
were discussed
with the respective
clearing agencies and they either have
been or are being addressed.
Procedures for FIling Proposed Rule
Changes - Section
19( b) of the Exchange Act, as amended
by the 1975
Amendments,
requires
self-regulatory
organizations
to file all proposed
rule
changes
with the Commission
for approval. Shortly after Section
19(b) became
effective,
the Commission
adopted Rule 19b-4
and related Form
19b-4A establishing
procedures
for selfregulatory
orqaruzations
to file proposed rule changes and desiqnatrnq the
types of proposed
rule changes
that
may become
effective upon filing. In
May 1979, the Cornrrussion proposed a
number of amendments
to Rule 19b-4
14

and Form 19b-4A57 which were designed to improve and srrnphfy the rule
filing process, thus expediting Commission review of proposed rule changes.
The Commission
received a number
of comment
letters In response
to its
proposed amendments
to the rule filmq
requirements
and during the fiscal year,
the staff revised the proposals in light of
issues raised by those comment letters.
(Subsequent
to the close of the fiscal
year, the Comrmssion
adopted amendments
to Rule
19b-4
and
Form
19b-4A 58 The amendments,
to become
effective on January 1, 1981, include
(a) an amendment
to Rule 19b-4 clarifying which actions
of self-regulatory
organizations
require
proposed
rule
changes;
(b) an amendment
to Rule
19b-4
designating
certain
clearing
agency rules as eliqible for summary effectiveness;
and (c) amendments
to
Form 19b-4A, redesiqnated
as Form
19b-4, to specify, in greater detail, the
Information required by that form.)
Inspections
and
Surveillance During the fiscal year, the Commission's staff continued its inspection program of the Nation's securities markets.
The purpose of this inspection program
IS to evaluate, on an ongoing basis, the
adequacy
of the operational,
market
surveillance,
compliance,
and drsciplinary programs of the various stock and
options exchanges
and the NASD.
A total of 12 inspections
focusing on
market
surveillance
programs
were
conducted
during the fiscal year. These
Included Inspections
of the equity tradIng programs of the Amex, the BSE, the
National
Securities
Trading
System
(NSTS) of the CSE, the Intermountain
Stock
Exchange,
the
MSE,
the
NASDAQ trading program of the NASD,
the NYSE, the Phlx, the PSE, and the
Spokane
Stock Exchange.
In addition,
the staff inspected
the options trading
programs
of the Amex, the CBOE, and
the Phlx.

Since September 1979, the staff has
also conducted inspections of the operations of NASD district offices located
in Atlanta, Boston, Seattle, Cleveland,
Los Angeles and Dallas. The focus of
these Inspections was on the overall
quality of the NASD's programs to insure compliance by Its member firms
with the securities laws. Specifically, the
staff reviewed all NASD district office
programs including not only the district
offices' routine examination programs,
but also their programs for (a) investigating customer complaints and terminations of registered representatives
from employment for cause; (b) monitoring the financial condition of member firms; (c) processing Regulation T
extension requests; and (d) disciplining
member firms.
The Commission's
inspection program disclosed a number of deficiencies in the current programs of the
self-regulatory organizations examined
during the fiscal year. In the surveillance
area, these included: (a) inadequate
market surveillance techniques for particular categories of trading violations at
some self-regulatory organizations; (b)
Inadequate
trading information and
trade processing
systems at several
marketplaces; and (c) inadequate prosecution of disciplinary cases by some
securities exchanges. In addition, the
compliance inspections noted various
problems with the broker-dealer examination programs
conducted
by the
NASD and certain of the exchanges.
The self-regulatory organizations were
asked to address these problems, and
throughout the course of the fiscal year
significant action was taken by particular self-regulatory organizations in several of these areas.
In November 1979, an inspection report presented to the Commission regarding regulatory capabilities of the
Amex questioned the adequacy of disciplinary actions taken in several trading

lnvestrqations. The Commission sent a
letter to the Amex requesting that the
exchange undertake a general review of
its disciplinary procedures with a view
toward improving the performance of
Its disciplinary system. In response, the
Amex initiated several changes in its enforcement procedures regarding tradIng floor offenses, strengthened
its
disciplinary staff, and appointed a Special Committee of the Amex Board of
Governors to review the entire disciplinary system. On September 18, 1980,
the Special Committee delivered its final report to the Commission. Although
the Committee concluded that radical
changes were not necessary, it made
several recommendations
to improve
the prosecution of disciplinary matters
at the Amex. In part because of its experience with the Amex disciplinary process, the Cornrrussron staff mitrated,
shortly before the close of the fiscal
year, a study of the performance of the
disciplinary
system of other selfregulatory organizations.
Similarly, dunng November 1979, the
staff presented an inspection report to
the Commission that detailed the various types of multiple and Interlocking
market maker accounts which can occur at the CBOE, and the difficulty
which the existence of such account relationships often posed for the CBOE in
enforcing many of its trading rules. As a
result, the Commission requested that
the exchange undertake a complete review of market maker account relationships on the CBOE floor and that it
evaluate whether all CBOE market
makers were actually performing in a
manner consistent with their market
making obligations. In June 1980, the
CBOE filed a proposed rule change
with the Commission to deal with these
issues.
Dunng October, November and December of 1979, the staff conducted
three separate inspections of the mar15

ket surveillance and other regulatory
programs of the NYSE. These inspections documented that the NYSE did
not have an adequate transaction audit
trail in certain respects and assessedits
effect on the exchange's surveillance
and disciplinary program. On the basis
of these inspections, the staff prepared
a report to the Commission regarding
the performance of the NYSE market
surveillance system and the Commission requested that the NYSE present a
specific plan for the creation of an adequate transaction audit trail. On September 9, 1980, the NYSE presented its
plan to the Commission's staff, including provisions for the development of
an audit trail and the enhancement of
several important market surveillance
functions during fiscal year 1981.
In February 1980, the staff conducted
an inspection of the equity trading program of the PSE. This inspection found
significant deficiencies in the surveillance system of this exchange, specifically with the lack of a complete audit
trail and any routine automated review
of trading on the PSE floor. In recognition of these problems, the PSE undertook a complete overhaul of its surveillance program for equity trading and
developed automated systems to replace ineffective manual procedures.
The Commission also brought administrative actions against the Phlx and
the SSE as a result of problems discovered at those exchanges during previous years. In its proceeding against the
Phlx, the Commission found that the exchange had failed to enforce certain of
its rules regarding equity quote dissemination and options trading, and ordered remedial action to correct these
deficiencies. In the SSE matter, the
Commission found that the exchange
had failed to develop and employ adequate surveillance procedures to detect
violations by its specialists of the margin, net capital and bookkeeping re-

16

quirements. (In both cases, the exchanges settled the action by agreeing
to implement certain changes as explained more fully in the "Enforcement
Program" section of this Annual Report.)
The staff also conducted an inspection of the Amex options compliance
program during September 1979. The
inspection focused on the response of
the Amex to the recommendations
made in the Comrnlssion's Options
Study. The staff found, generally, that
the Amex had made good progress in
implementing the Commission's Options Study recommendations,
but
noted several areas where additional
progress was needed.
The staff also conducted an oversight
inspection of the compliance activities
of the Phlx dunnq June 1980. The inspection included a review of the Phlx's
financial surveillance of member firms,
its examination and disciplinary programs, and its response to the Options
Study. This Inspection had not yet been
closed as of the end of the fiscal year.
In its inspections of the NASD's district offices, the Commission's staff
found that those offices generally appeared to be executing their routine examination programs with reasonable
thoroughness. The staff identified, however, several areas in which remedial attention was needed to cure problems in
the examination program.
SInce September 1979, the Division
of Market Regulation has processed 50
applications
pursuant to Sections
6(c)(2) and 15A(g)(2) of the Exchange
Act and Rule 19h-1 thereunder, to perrnrt persons subject to statutory disqualifications, as defined in Section
3(a)(39) of the Exchange Act, to become associated with broker-dealers.
The following self-regulatory organizations filed such applications: (a) the
NASD filed 23 applications; (b) the
NYSE filed 23 applications; and (c) the

Amex, the Phlx, the CBOE, and the
MSE each filed one application. The
Commission determined that six of
these applications were not in the public interest.

Market Oversight Surveillance System - The Market Oversight Surveillance System (MOSS) is an automated
information system essential to effective
Commission oversight of the nation's
securities markets.
The system has five basic functions
which support the Commission's ongoIng programs. The first IS trade audit,
which provides the basic ability to rnonrtor trading in the nation's securities
markets on an exception basis. The
second, market reconstruction, allows
the staff on an as-needed basis to review historical trading. The third function, inspection support, assists in the
inspection of broker-dealers, investment companies/advisers
and selfregulatory organizations (SROs) with
pre-inspection reports, analysis of Inspection information and follow-up. Investigation tracking, the fourth function,
assists management in the overall coordination of SRO and Commission inquiries and investigations. The final
function is the analysis/MIS function,
which gives the Commission the capability to evaluate the econormc impact
of existmq or proposed rules.
Prior to designing MOSS, the Commission conducted a study of market
surveillance and regulatory processes to
determine the feasibility of improving its
market surveillance and oversight functions. Once it was determined that surveillance and oversight could be enhanced with such an automated
system, a detailed design was formulated and presented to the Commission.
The Commission indicated two prime
interests: (1) observing certain trading
phenomena surrounding options tradIng, especially in light of lifting the op-

tions moratorium, and (2) testing the
theory and practicality of the system design. Therefore, it was decided to initiate a pilot or prototype of the system in
order to further evaluate the proposed
design.
The first elements of the pilot became operational in January 1980 In
contrast to the full MOSS design which
provides on-line features, the pilot was
limited to off-line processing. Although
it captured basic trading and clearing
data for listed securities, as well as
NASDAQ quotes, the pilot analysis
components did not include regional
trading and clearing information or
NASDAQ transactions.
During its first nine months of operation, the pilot provided the Commission
staff with data useful In both its surveillance and oversight functions. During
the life of the pilot, the staff has had an
opportunity to observe the adequacy of
SRO surveillance and data collection
systems.
Concurrent with the pilot project, the
full MOSS program underwent extensive scrutiny by OMB and Congress
during fiscal 1980. Its funding requirements were carefully examined first by
OMB, prior to Including provision for
MOSS in the President's fiscal 1981
budget, and then by the Appropriations
Committees of the two Houses. In addition, the Senate Banking and House
Commerce Committees closely examined MOSS as part of their overall review of Commission
activities
in
connection with the agency's authorization. The final authorization approved
Commission implementation of the first
two years of MOSS, spread over a
three-year period, 1981- 1983.
The Commission has worked closely
with the SROs in the development of
the MOSS system and has tried to be
responsive to the feedback received.
Throughout 1980, a number of briefings were conducted for the SROs and

17

other members of the industry in order
to introduce MOSS and provide insight
into its possible impact. Briefings of
SRO upper management, as well as
their technical counterparts, were con-

18

ducted at the various SROs and at the
Commission's headquarters. This will
be a continuing process throughout
MOSS development.

The Disclosure System
The "full disclosure" system administered by the Commission is designed to
assure that the securities markets operate in an environment in which full and
accurate material information about
publicly traded companies is available
to all interested investors. During the
fiscal year, the prime focus of the Commission in the area of disclosure policy
was on the integration program.
This program has several major objectives: (1) integration of disclosures
required by the Securities Act of 1933
(Securities Act) and the Securities Exchange Act of 1934 (Exchange Act); (2)
narrowing of the differences between
information supplied by registrants to
the Commission in formal filings and to
various segments of the public through
informal means; (3) improvement of
disclosure requirements by revising obsolete rules and making requirements
uniform; and (4) refocusing of the staff
review process. Substantial progress
has been made in the last year in reaching these objectives.
Other areas of particular importance
included the development of gUIdance
for special situations outside the normal
system of continuous disclosure and
the implementation of a program review
of existing disclosure rules and guides
to delete or amend unnecessary or outmoded provisions.

Integration Program
The integration program is a considered response to the need to reduce
burdens imposed by duplicative discloSure oblIgations under the Federal securities
laws. The Securities
Act
established a system of transaction-

oriented disclosure, With the focus on
particular offermgs of securities. The
Exchange Act established a system of
contmuous disclosure, with the focus
on public companies and their ongoing
reportmg obligations to the Commission and to their shareholders. These
two systems developed and operated
independently over more than 40 years.
resulting in an unnecessary degree of
duplication in the disclosure documents
produced.
The mtegration program, an attempt
to bring the two systems together mto a
smgle, rationalized system of corporate
disclosure. ISbeing carried out at several different levels. In the Exchange Act
context, the Commission has eliminated unnecessary disclosure requirements and minimized the differences
between formal disclosure documents.
such as annual reports on Form 10-K.
and those informal shareholder communications produced outside the system of formal Commission filings, such
as annual reports to security holders.
The Commission
is also further
mtegratmg the disclosure systems under the Securities Act and Exchange
Act by taking advantage of improved
Exchange Act continuous disclosure
documents to meet Securities Act disclosure needs wherever possible. Such
a system has been expanded to include
offerings of securities issued pursuant
to employee benefit plans registered on
Form S-8. Proposals to expand such 10tegration to nearly the entire system of
registration under the Securities Act
have also been published. Finally, the
procedures followed by the staff reviewing these disclosure documents
have been substantially revamped to

19

account for the shift in emphasis from
Securities Act disclosure to the continuous disclosure documents filed under
the Exchange Act.
Revisions of Form 1O-K - During the
one-week period of August 27 to September 2, 1980, the Commission issued
seven releases designed to implement
integration of the disclosure and reportIng provisions of the Securities Act and
Exchange Act and to enhance the effectiveness of required disclosure, while
reducing attendant burdens to the extent possible. At the center of this program are the amendments to Form
10-K, the annual report form required
to be filed by most publicly owned
companies, Regulation S-K, a repository of standard disclosure instructions
covering both the Securities Act and the
Exchange Act; and Exchange Act Rules
14a-3 and 14c-3, which govern annual
reports to security holders. 59 These
amendments restructure Form 10-K
and impose content requirements on
the annual report to security holders
which are generally consistent with the
revised Form 10-K requirements, thus
encouraging and facilitating the voluntary combination of the annual report to
security holders with the formal Commission report on Form 10-K. In addition, the Form 10-K was amended to
require that a majority of the registrant's
board of directors sign the company's
Form lO-K. This requirement IS consistent with the shift in emphasis effectuated by the integration program away
from Securities Act disclosure to the
continuous disclosure scheme under
the Exchange Act.
The convenient central repository
created by Regulation S-K was expanded to include three new items previously listed separately: Management's
Discussion and Analysis of Financial
Condition and Results of Operations;
Selected Financial Data; and Market
Price of the Registrant's Common Stock

20

and Related Security Holder Matters.
These three new items, which must appear in both the Form lO-K and the annual report to security holders, unify
and give more meaning to the disclosure in both these documents. The new
Regulation S-K items, with certain limitations, also appear in Securities Act
registration statements, thereby improving the disclosure in such documents
and further providing the basis for a integration of the Form 10-K, the annual
report to security holders, and registranon statements filed under the Securities act. The result of these major
revisions to rules and forms is the establishment of a uniform, minimum
package of information to be found in
Securities Act registrations; Exchange
Act periodic disclosure reports; and the
annual report to security holders.
On August 27, 1980, the Commission adopted other amendments to
Regulation S-K and certain frequently
used forms under the Securities act and
the Exchange Act in order to standardize and improve the Commission's requirements relating to the filing of
exhibits.P?
These
amendmentsanother step in achieving uniform filing
requirements-deleted
13 exhibits formerly required to be filed, revised and
made uniform the requirements relating
to certain other exhibits and, with one
exception, consolidated
all of the
amended exhibit requirements into a
new Regulation S-K item.
Accounting
Standards -Another
critical part of the integration program
Involved the adoption of two proposals
relating to accounting matters. The first
release adopted uniform instructions to
govern the periods covered by financial
statements Included in most registration and report forms filed under the
Securities Act and Exchange Act, as
well as in annual reports to security
holders.P! The other accounting release
revised certain articles of Regulation

S-X, which governs the form and content of financial statements filed under
the Federal securities laws, to give fuller
recognition to the accounting standardsetting efforts of the private sector and
to react to the ever-changing needs of
users of financial steternents.v- These
actions are integral to integration because they mean that the financial
statements and certain other essential
information will be uniform whether
they appear in a Securities Act registration statement, an Exchange Act periodic report, or an annual report mailed
to security holders.
Proposed New Registration Forms
-Another Commission action Involved
the adoption of new Form S-15 and reThis form
lated rule arnendrnents.s"
demonstrates, on a limited scale, how
the integrated disclosure system operates in the Securities Act context. The
new form provides an abbreviated format for registering securities issued In
business combinations which do not
significantly affect the issuer. Abbreviation is accomplished and duplicanon IS
avoided by the delivery of multiple documents. Information about the issuer is
provided by delivering its annual report
to security holders. The prospectus (Securities Act registration statement) contains only information
about the
particular transaction and about the
company being acquired. The Commission sees Form S-15 as an experiment.
Experience with its use, particularly the
use of the annual report, will be of invaluable assistance in revising the new
form as well as in the broader task of
streamlining all Securities Act registration forms.
The remaining two rulemaking actions involved proposals designed to effect some of the most significant
aspects of the integration program. The
first, in particular, calls for comprehensive revision of the major Securities Act
registration statement forrns.s" Three

proposed new forms would replace the
most
commonly
used existing
forms-S-1, S-7, and S-16 Three tiers
of Securities Act issuers would be established, with different levels of disclosure and delivery
requirements
applicable to each trer, The content of
the registration statement In each instance would be basically the same, i.e.,
the minimum package of information
identified in the Form lO-K context plus
any additional information needed to
describe the particular offering or material changes Since such disclosure was
made. The tier system would establish
how much of this Information is required to be set forth In the prospectus,
rather than merely incorporated into It
by reference, and how much ISrequired
to actually be delivered to prospective
investors. The theory behind the varying
disclosure and delivery requirements
embodied in the three tiers ISthat previously disseminated Information can be
relied upon instead of repeated In the
prospectus only in those Instances
where the issuer IS large and ItS shares
are widely traded and well followed.
How close a particular issuer comes to
meeting these varIOUSqualifications will
determine the tier to which it IS assigned and which will thereafter determine how much Information it will be
allowed to incorporate by reference and
how much Information the issuer must
actually deliver In the context of offennq
its securities to the public.
Form 1O-Q - The other proposal
published for comment would revise
the quarterly report on Form 1O-Q.65
These amendments would make Form
lO-Q consistent with Form 10-K, most
importantly, in the area of the Management's Discussion and Analysis. Moreover, these amendments would facilitate integration by providing for more
effective continuous Exchange Act reporting.
Form 5-8 -On November 19, 1979,
21

the Commission issued a release requesting
comments
on proposed
amendments to Form S-8, the form for
registration of securities to be offered to
employees pursuant to certain plans.s"
Comments were solicited on two general topics: (1) proposed procedures
whereby filings on Form S-8 would become effective automatically, i.e., without affirmative action on the part of the
Commission or its staff; and (2) proposals to change Form S-8 into an "integrated disclosure form" which could be
automatically updated by use of periodic Exchange Act reports. In February
1980, after analyzing the comments,
the Commission adopted automatic effectiveness procedures for filings made
on Form S_8.67 It IS believed that these
procedures will result in sigmficant cost
savings to Issuers and will also allow
Commission staff time to be more effectively utilized reviewing other disclosure documents. Subsequently, in April
1980, the Commission adopted amendments to Form S-8 which make that
form a truly "Integrated document", i.e.,
a Securities Act registration form which
utilizes Exchange Act periodic reports
for updatmq purposes.s" The result IS
an eliminatIon of duplicative reporting
under the two Acts, with attendant cost
and time savings to issuers WIthout sacrificing the quality of disclosure made to
investors.
Reorganization of Corporation FInance -In ItSfirst major reorganization
In 20 years, the Division of Corporation
Finance restructured Its disclosure operations section to better implement the
Integration program. The overall effect
of the reorganization was to concentrate review responsibilities for reporting
companies engaged in the same industries In one of the five major operating
sections. This distribution of review responsibilities enhances the Division's
ability to focus its resources on the particular needs and characteristics of dif-

22

ferent Industries and thus increases the
Division's ability to respond more
quickly on filings made by industries. It
also coincides with the rulemaking irutiatives which implement integration of
the disclosure systems under the Securities Act and Exchange Act in that increased staff attention may be given to
Exchange Act filings, an area where Inadequate resources and increased filings made the ability of the staff to fully
review the filings questionable in the
past.
In connection With this reorganization
and the integration program, the Division is moving toward a system of selective review. The developing system
seeks to concentrate review resources
on areas of greatest priority, while
eliminating the review of other documents except on an audit or sample baSIS.In this regard, the Division created
an Office of Procedures and Review
whose principal functions are to assist
in the implementation of this system of
selective review and to develop staff
training and other methods to obtain
the maximum benefits from realignment
according
to
industry
categorizations.

Disclosure Revisions; Interpretive
Advice
In the last year the Cornrnissron
adopted several other revisions to its
disclosure rules, mcludmq those rules
governing the annual reports filed by
certain foreign issuers, the timely reporting rules under the Exchange Act,
and certain rules applicable to insider
trading. Interpretative advice was provided on such subjects as the securities
laws Implications of pension plans and
the required liquidation disclosure in
proxy contests.
On November 29, 1979, the Commission issued four releases 69 announcing the adoption of several rules

and forms for foreign private Issuers,
The most important of these was Form
20-F which is a consolidated registration and annual report form available
for use by certain foreign private issuers
under the Exchange Act. Form 20-F
generally calls for disclosure somewhat
less extensive than Forms 10 and 10-K,
the analogous forms for domestic ISSUers, but nevertheless is a substantial increase in the disclosure previously
required from foreign private registrants. The Commission also amended
Form S-16, a short form for registration
under the Securities Act, to permit certain foreign issuers who file reports on
Form 20- F to use Form S-16 to register certain rights offerings to shareholders.
In view of these Increased disclosure
requirements, the Commission has announced that it may be feasible to develop an integrated disclosure system,
similar to the one described earlier, for
foreign registrants, The Commission
believes these actions are necessary In
light of the increasing internationalization of the world capital markets and
the growing harmonization of accountIng and disclosure practices
In April 1980, the Commission adopted amendments to Rule 12b-25, the
timely reporting rule under the Exchange Act, and to the extension application procedure previously existing. 70
The amendments instituted a system
requiring notification of a registrant's
inability to file timely ItS Exchange Act
reports. Under this system, there are no
longer applications for extensions of
time that necessitate action by the
Commission or Its staff. The Commission is therefore able to redeploy some
of its limited staff resources to the reView of Exchange Act filings, the cornerstone of the integration program,
In addition to the extensive revisions
to the Commission's forms and rules already noted, during fiscal year 1980 the

Commission revised Rules 16a-11 and
16b-3 to exempt certain transactions by
officers, directors, and ten percent beneficial owners from the msider reporting
and liability provisions of Section 16 of
the Exchange Act. Included among
these transactions were the reinvestment by such persons of dividends and
Interest pursuant to dividend reinvestment plans 71 and the delivery of stock
by officers and directors as payment for
the exercise of stock options.?"
In order to provide guidance to the
pubhc, the Cornrrussion issued a comprehensive Interpretative release setting
forth the views of ItS staff on the application of the Securities Act to pension,
profit-shannq and similar types of employee benefit plans.?" The release discussed a variety of matters, including
the circumstances under which parncipatron interests in such plans are
deemed to be secunties which are subject to the registration and antifraud requirernents of the Securities Act.
In May 1980, the Cornrrussion authorized the Division of Corporation FInance to issue a release stating the
Drvision's views With respect to disclosure In connection With proxy contests
where a principal Issue in contention IS
the liquidation of all or part of the equity
of an Issuer. 74 The release resulted
from an Increased number of such contests over the past several proxy seasons and the Division's perception that
participants did not fully appreciate the
disclosure standards applIcable with respect to a proposal to hquidate some or
all of an issuer's equity, particularly In
those instances where an attempt is
made to project or suggest drstnbution
value. The Divrsion's interpretative release, therefore, noted that in such contests inclusion
by any partrclpant.
whether management or opposition, of
a distributron value in its proxy soliciting
material is only proper where the valuation was made in good faith and on a

23

reasonable basis. Further, such statements should be accompanied by disclosure
which
would
facilitate
shareholders' understanding of the basis for and the limitations on the projected value.
The interpretative release also addressed a number of related issues,
most significant being the use of expert
opinions by participants to support distribution valuations. The release cautioned participants m proxy contests,
particularly those that have had lrmited
access to mformation concerning the
issuer, that any material limitations on
the procedure followed by such experts
in developing their opinion on valuation,
or any resultant material qualification
on the opinion the expert finds necessary in rendering it, must be thoroughly
and comprehensibly disclosed to shareholders. The release makes clear that
there may be opinions that are subject
to such qualiflcatrons and limitations as
to nullify their value as part of the support offered by a participant for the projected distribution value.
In September 1980, the Commission
issued a release75 announcing an interpretation of the Divison of Corporation
Finance which permits foreign governments or political subdivisions to register their securities on Schedule Busing
a shelf registration procedure. This
technique, which is somewhat similar to
the use of Form S-16 by domestic
companies,
does not reduce the
amount of disclosure required but
streamlines the registration process. A
significant consequence of this interpretation may be to encourage the registration
of offerings
made in the
international bond market that have not
been registered in the past.

Corporate Accountability;
Management Background and
Remuneration
In September 1980, the Commission
authorized publication of The Staff Re-

24

port on Corporate Accountability,

prepared by the Task Force on Corporate
Accountability in the Division of Corporation Finance. The Report analyzes the
complex issues raised during the Commission's 1977 corporate governance
proceedinqs.?" and sets forth the staff's
conclusions concerning the efficiency
of existing corporate accountability
mechanisms. In particular, the staff
concluded that in view of the changes
being made voluntarily in the composition, structure and operation of boards
of directors, and given the Commission's existing authority to encourage
shareholder participation, it would be
premature for the Commission to determine whether to recommend or support
Federal legislation relating to corporate
accountability. The staff indicated, however, that if legislation is to be enacted,
it believes that it should be directed towards raising standards of care and
providing a Federal course of action for
breaches of such standards.
The Report recommended that the
Commission take further action with respect to a number of matters including:
(1) Development of a uniform system
for distributing proxy statements and
other communications to record and
beneficial stock owners;
(2) Issuance of a concept release soliciting public comment on the need for
additional Commission initiatives to address issues growing out of the Supreme Court Bellotie decision;
(3) Monitoring the extent to which issuers consider shareholder nominations of directors for the purpose of
determining whether it is necessary to
adopt a rule requiring issuers to adopt
procedures to consider shareholder
nominations;

(4) Amending the proxy rules to require that proxy statements describe
how shareholders can obtain copies of
significant environmental compliance

reports their issuers have prepared pursuant to Federal law;
(5) Amending Regulation S-K to revise the existing requirements to describe all environmental proceedmgs
Involving a governmental authority so
that issuers are required to describe
only significant environmental proceedinqs or matters; and
(6) Monitoring the extent to which financial institutions voluntarily disclose
the proxy voting criteria and procedures
utilized when voting the stock they
manage for others. If such information
is not readily available and there is investor interest in obtaining it, the staff
recommended the Commission develop or support legislation to require such
disclosure.
In another effort to make the rules
governing disclosure relating to management more meaningful to shareholders, the Commission
closely
monitored the efficacy of the management remuneration disclosure required
by Item 4 of Regulation S-K. The staff
issued numerous written and oral interpretations of these requirements."? On
May 6, 1980, the Commission proposed
for public comment amendments to the
rules concerning the disclosure of management rernuneration.t" The proposals were a result of the Commission's
monitoring of the disclosure provisions
adopted in 1978 and are part of the
Commission's effort to improve the
presentation of information regarding
executive compensation. Specifically,
these proposals address pension, option, and stock appreciation
rights
plans, compensation relating to the termination of employment and certain
technical amendments. (Subsequent to
the close of the fiscal year, on November 13, 1980,)n advance of the 1981
proxy season, the Commission adopted
amendments to the management remuneration disclosure provisrons.I'')

Monitoring of Existing Guidelines
During the last year the Commission
has undertaken the task of an overall
review of its published guides to required disclosure under the Securities
Act and Exchange Act. It also focused
on the disclosure guide applicable to
one particular industry, bank holding
companies, and revised the pertinent
guide to both reduce the disclosure
burden and make the remaining disclosure more meanmgful.
In order to Implement the Commission's contmumg goal of reviewing existing rules to delete or amend unnecessary or outmoded provisions, an
advance concept release was Issued on
December 5, 1979, announcing a reevaluation of the Guides for the Preperetion and Filing of Registration Statements
and Reports
under
the
Securities Act of 1933 and the Securities Exchange Act of 1934 and soliciting comments on the manner in which
such re-evaluation should proceed.t"
On the basis of the comments received,
the staff ISm the process of formulatmg
proposals which would recommend the
withdrawal of certain provisrons of the
GUides which are now obsolete and the
rearticulation of those provrsions which
continue to have procedural or substantive significance.
In August 1979, the Comrnissron ISsued a release requestmg comments on
the quality and desirability of the disclosure made under the existmg gUidelines
for "Statistical
Disclosure by Bank
Holding Cornpanles."?' These particular
guidelines have been in operation since
1976. The request was part of the Commission's effort to monitor the effect
and value of Its disclosure rules and
gUides with a view towards amending or
rescinding those rules or guides which
do not yield the expected benefits, Most
of the commentators supported these
particular guidelines and called the resulting disclosure valuable, A number of

25

amendments were made, however, to
reduce the volume of disclosure, lower
compliance costs, and Improve the
quality of the retained disclosure.V

Small Business
The Office of Small Business Policy
In the Dtvisron of Corporation Finance
was established in June 1979 to lead
the Commission's small business rulemaking initiatives, to review and comment upon the impact of rule proposals
on small businesses, and to serve as liaison with Congressional committees,
government agencies and other groups
concerned with small business. After its
first year of operation, the Office IS
continuing its efforts to alleviate, to the
degree consistent with the protection of
Investors, the problems of small business in raising capital. In this regard,
the Office has already coordinated its
efforts With (1) the White House Conference on Small Business Financing; (2)
the Inter-Agency Task Force on Domestic Policy Review of Industrial Innovation, and (3) the Joint SEC-NASAA
Committee on Small Business Capital
Formation.
Form S -18 - The Office is also responsible for monitoring the content
and quality of disclosure in smaller offerings, pursuant to both Regulation A
and Form S-18, which ISthe simplified
registration procedure for small businesses. Form S-18 calls for substantially less narrative and financial disclosure than Form S-1, which ISthe form
such issuers would otherwise use for
registration of their securities. In a further effort to reduce the registration
burden on small issuers, the Form
S-18 was desiqned so as to contain all
the disclosure requirements Within the
confines of the form itself so that the
preparer need not seek out any cross
references to other rules and forms.
Form S-18 is available to certain domestic and Canadian corporate issuers

26

for the registration of up to $5 million of
their securities to be sold for cash. In
order to facilitate processing for the issuer, the form may be filed With the regional offices of the Commission as
well as in Washington, D.C. From its
adoption in April 1979,8J to August
1980, over 128 offerings were filed on
Form S-18 in Washington and the regional offices.
In March 1980, the Commission released the results of a study prepared
by Its Directorate of Economic and Policy Analysis (the Directorate). The report
examined the record of Form S-18
use dunnq 1979 and compared key aspects with a sample of Form S-1
users. It found that the new Form S - 18
has largely displaced the traditional
Form S- 1 for the registration
of
smaller initial offerings of common
stock, and that these S- 18 filings, covering offerings amounting in the aggregate to over $286 million, were made
by companies that for the most part
had never before sought to raise capital
through the public markets.
Long-Range
Studies -Analysis
of
the policy implications of the Federal
securities laws confronting small, hightechnology corporations in the capital
markets, as well as accounting disclosure, tender offers and other policy concerns relevant to such enterprises, has
been the focus of a joint project With
the Department of Commerce's Experimental Technology Incentives Program
(ETIP) and the Commission's Directorate. This project encompasses a broad
spectrum of related studies, including
several which will be published by the
Directorate in the newly launched Capital Market Working Papers series.
A Joint project With the Small Business Administration examining initial
public offerings has been completed
and reports have been distributed to the
general public and small business
firms. A new project to study the role of

certain exemptions from securities registration in providing a source of financing to small issuers has been
undertaken and will culminate in a final
report to be published in December
1981.
Rule 242-0n
January 17,1980, the
Commission adopted Rule 242, pursuant to Section 3(b) of the Securiues
Act.84 This rule provides an exemption
from the registration provisions of the
Secur rties Act for sales by domestic
corporate Issuers of securitres up to $2
million in any six-month period to an
unlimited number of "accredited investors" as defined m the rule, and to 35
non-accredited persons. The rule itself
does not require the Issuer to furrush an
offering circular to investors if only accredited persons are involved m a Rule
242 offering, based upon the presurnpnon that these types of mvestors are
able to fend for themselves. If, however,
a Rule 242 offering Involves one or
more non-accredited persons, the issuer must furnish all purchasers, in-cluding both accredited and non-accredited
persons, the same kind of information
as that specified m Form S-18 to the
extent material, except for certain fmancial information.
Rule 254 - On June 19, 1980, the
Commission proposed tor comment
certain amendments to Rule 252 under
Section 3(b) of the Securities Act. 85
Rule 252 provides that a RegulatIon A
exemption from reqistration for small
public offerings of an issuer's securities
shall not be available if the issuer is
subject to one of the disqualifications
described in the rule. The Cornrmssion
solicited comments on amendments to
the rule which would, among other
things, make dtsquelifications,
which
now last indefinitely, terminate automatically after five years. In addluon, the
Cornmission proposed certain amendments to Rule 242 that would conform

the disqualrfyinq provisions of that rule
to amended Rule 252.
ClassifYing of Issuers -On June 2,
1980, the Commission authorized the
issuance of a release announcmg that It
was considering the advisability of classifying Issuers under the Exchange Act
so that defined classes of smaller issuers might have modified reporting and
other r equirernents.P"
The release
raised a number of general questions
about the desrrability or feasibility of a
classiflcanon system and the criteria
which could be used m grouping companies. In this connection, the Commission also released certam statistical data
with respect to those companies that
reportmg
are subject to the periodic
provisions of the Exchange Act for the
purpose of evaluating potential classificatron criteria. The Cornrnissron intends
to consider the public comments in
connection
With any proposal
of
amendments to rules or forms under
the Exchange Act.
Leqisteuon - The Cornrrussion was
also active m the formulation of proposed legislation entitled, "The Small
Business Investment Incentive Act of
1980", HR. 7554. In addition to the significant amendments to the Investment
Company Act and the Investment AdVISers Act that are designed to alleviate unnecessary regulatory constraints on
venture capital undertakmgs (discussed
in the "Investment Companies and Advisers" section of this Annual Report),
the proposed legislation would also
amend the Securities Act and the Trust
Indenture Act of 1939 (Trust Indenture
Act). First, the proposed leqrstation
would create a new exemption from the
registration provision in Section 5 of the
Securities Act substantially Similar to
the "accredited investor" concept of
Rule 242. In addition, at the request of
the Cornrrussron, the legislation would
raise from $2 million to $5 million the
ceiling on the Commission's authority

27

under Section 3(b) of the Securities Act
to exempt small issuers from the registration requirements of that Act. Finally,
based upon a legislative proposal submitted by the Commission, the proposed legislatIon would amend the
Trust Indenture Act to increase the aggregate amount of securities that may
be partially or totally exempt from the
provrsions of that Act. (Subsequent to
the close of the fiscal year, on October 21, 1980, this leqislation was signed
into law.)

Tender Offers
Tender offer Rules -In
November
1979, the Cornrnrssion adopted new
tender offer rules"? which had been
published for comment in February
1979. At the same time, the Commission published for comment other proposed tender offer rules.88 This action
was part of the Cornrrussion's ongoing
program to estabhsh a comprehensive
regulatory framework WIth respect to
tender offers.
The new rules govern the actrvities of
the person making the tender offer (the
bidder) and prescribe certain obliganons for the issuer of the securities
sought in the tender offer (the subject
company). The rules regulating the bidder may be divided into four categories:
fIlIng requirements; dissemination provisions: disclosure requirements; and
substantive provisions. The operation of
these rules is triggered by the date of
commencement of the tender offer,
which is defined by Rule 14d - 2 as essentially equivalent to the date the tender offer is first published or sent or given to security holders.
Rule 14d - 3 requires the bidder to
file a Tender Offer Statement on Schedule 14D-1 as soon as practicable on
the commencement date, to hand dehver a copy of the schedule to the subject
company and to give telephonic notice
of certain information to the securities

28

exchanges and the NASO. Material.
changes in the information disclosed in
the Schedule 140-1 are to be filed as
amendments in the same manner as an
original filing.
Rule
14d-4
establishes
three
alternative methods of disseminating a
tender offer to security holders which
involves the exchange of their securities
for cash: long-form publication; summary publication; and the use of stockholder lists and security position listings. While tender offers may be disseminated by methods other than those
specified in Rule 14d-4, the use of the
latter two methods is governed by the
requirements of this rule. The drssernination of a tender offer involving the exchange of securities is governed by the
provisions of the Securities Act if the
transaction is subject to the registration
requirements of that Act. Rule 14d - 6
sets forth the specific disclosure requirements applicable to these tender
offers, which requirements are generally
based on the method of dissemination.
If summary publication, stockholder Iits
or security positions listings are used,
then the summary advertisement must
contain specified disclosure items. Substantive provisions concerning tender
offers regulate the minimum length of a
tender offer, require prompt payment or
return of the securities at the termination of the tender offer, provide additional withdrawal rights, and permit the
bidder to extend certain pro rata acceptance provisions if full disclosure is
made.
The new rules impose two duties on
the subject company. First, the subject
company must comply with Rule
14d-5 which permits the bidder to
elect to use the subject company's
stockholder list or dissemination of the
tender offer materials. The subject
company could determine to retain the
stockholder list, in which case the subject company would distribute the bid-

der's tender offer materials, or to furrush the stockholder list to the bidder, in
which case the bidder would distribute
them, Second, the subject company is
required to disclose to security holders
its position with respect to the tender
offer and the reasons therefor. Such a
communication
may be a solicitation/recommendation governed by Rule
14d - 9 requiring the filing of Schedule
14D-9 with the Commission and transmittal to other designated persons
The rules that the Commission proposed for comment in November 1979
Included a definition of the term "tender
offer"; certain antifraud provisions concerning trading by certain persons in
possession of material non-public information relating to a tender offer; provisions requiring equal treatment of security holders in the context of tender
offers; and a prohibition on certain purchases not made by means of a tender
offer. In September 1980, the Commission adopted one of these proposals,
Rule 14e-3, which established a "disclose or abstain from trading rule" for
any person in possession of material information that relates to a tender offer
by another person, which information
he knows or has reason to know is
nonpublic and was acquired from that
other person or the issuer of the securities subject to the tender offer.89Included in the rule are exceptions pertaining
to multi-service financial institutions
and brokerage transactions. In addition,
as a means reasonably designed to prevent fraudulent, deceptive or manipulative acts or practices, an "anti-tipping"
rule was established with respect to material, non-public information relating to
a tender offer. With respect to the remaining tender offer rule proposals, the
Commission anticipates further rulemaking proceedings in the near future.
Tender Offer Legislation -On
February 15, 1980, the Commission sent to
Congress, in response to requests re-

ceived from Senators
Pr o x rru r e ,
Williams and Sarbanes, a package of
legislatIve proposals relating to tender
offers and ac q u is it io n of control.
Among other things, these proposals
would make certain changes to the current scheme of regulation in the Exchange Act as established
by the
Williams Act.
First, as to disclosure of beneficial
ownership, the proposed revrston of
Section 13(d), and the rules which
would be adopted thereunder, would replace current Sections 13(d) and 13(g)
and would establIsh a urufled and effective system for the disclosure of five
percent beneficial ownership of publicly-traded equity securities. Moreover,
the proposal would correct the present
situation in which a person who has become oblIged to file a statement disclosing the beneficial ownership of five
percent or more of the secunties of a
class, or who has become obliged to
amend such statement, may continue
acquinng additional securities during
the period prior to the actual filIng of
the required statement.
Second, as to Issuer repurchases,
present Section 13(e) would be reenacted with only minor, conforming
amendments. As is presently the case
under Sections 13(d) and 14(d), Issuer
repurchases would not be subject to the
reportinq requirements of proposed
Section 13(d) or the regulatory requirements of proposed Section 14(d). Rather, issuer repurchases will continue to
be regulated, as is necessary or appropriate by Commission rules adopted
under Section 13(e).
Third, the present system of regulatIng "tender offers," which are not defined by statute, would be replaced by a
system of regulating "statutory offers,"
which are defined, with appropriate exceptions, as acquisitions by any person
who is or would become the beneficial
owner of more than ten percent of a

29

class of publicly traded equity securities. Like present Section 14( d), the
proposed revision would goven the dissemination of pertinent Information.
Fourth, proposed Section 14(i) would
create and define certain aspects of a
private right of action for damages
and/ or equitable relief for violanon of
any pr ovisro ns of proposed Section
13(d), 13(e), 14(d), 14(e), 14(f), 14(g)
or 14(h). In addition to overruling Piper
v. Chris Craft Industries, which denied
a defeated tender offeror standing to
sue for damages under Section 14(e),
the proposal would provide needed protection to a broad range of persons aggrieved by violations of the beneficial
ownership reporting, issuer repurchases, "statutory offer," and antifraud
provisions of proposed Sections 13(d),
13(e), 14(d) and 14(e), respectively.
Finally, the proposal would provide
for an explicit preemption of the antitakeover laws enacted by the States.
Under the proposal, the only such laws
allowed would be those limited in their
application to tender offers for or acquisitrons of secunties of issuers having
their principal place of business in the
State, and having 50 percent or more of
their shareholders, who hold 50 percent
or more of the securities of the class,
residents In that State. (This legislation
was Introduced In the Senate on October 1, 1980).

Beneficial Ownership Report
In June 1980, as required by Section
13(h) of the Exchange Act, the Commission sent a report to Congress concerning the beneficial ownership reporting requirements under the Exchange
Act. The Commission concluded that in
general the beneficial ownershp reporting requirements were operating effectively to produce appropriate disclosure
of mforrnation concerning substantial
acquisitions and holdings of equity securities by certain institutional investors

30

and by officers and directors and certain beneficial owners of most publiclyheld companies. The Commission
identified certain areas where additional
rulemaking may be appropriate either
to close a disclosure gap in the present
reporting system or to make the disclosure mandated more meaningful, while
lessening the burdens and costs of
such reporting. In addition, the Commission identified one area where additional legislation would be appropriate
to improve the timeliness of certain disclosures.
The Commission also considered the
issue of whether it is feasible or desirable to reduce or otherwise modify the
five percent reporting of beneficial ownership thresholds in Sections 13(d) and
13(g) of the Exchange Act. Based upon
an evaluation of the present reporting
requirements and a comparison of the
benefits and burdens of lowered reporting thresholds, the Commission concluded that at this time it was neither
feasible nor desirable to modify these
reporting thresholds.

Accounting Matters
The Accounting Profession and the
Commission's
Oversight Role - The
Commission and its staff have continued to be active in overseeing the accounting profession's initiatives designed
to establish
meaningful
self-regulation, assure the independence of auditors, and improve the accounting and auditing standard-setting
processes. The overall objectives of the
Commission's oversight activities is to
assure that the accounting profession
continues to make substantial progress
toward its primary goal of promoting
public confidence in the integrity and
credibilIty of financial reporting by public companies.
In August 1980, the Commission
submitted to Congress Its Third Report
on the Accounting Profession and the

Commission's Oversight Role In that
report, the Commission concluded that
the accounting profession, under the
oversight of the Commission, has made
significant progress toward achieving its
goals. The Commission noted, however,
that the process of reform and improvement is far from over and that the programs instituted by the profession during the past few years must stand the
test of time.
With respect to the profession's selfregulatory efforts, the Commission stated that while the structure is in place, its
programs and mechanisms are not yet
fully implemented or tested. In addition,
continued commitment by members of
the profession and effective leadership
from within the private sector is necessary. Whether the profession can accomplish the ultimate goal of effective,
meaningful self-regulation is still dependent upon future developments.
While some questions and potential
problems remain, the Commission continues to believe that the profession's
efforts to create and maintain a meaningful system of self-regulation and selfdiscipline deserve the continued support of the Congress and the Commission. The Commission further believes
that allowing the profession additional
time to accomplish its objectives is appropriate since the Commission is not
convinced that comprehensive, direct
governmental regulation of accounting
or accountants would afford the public
either increased protection or a more
meamngful basis for confidence In the
work of public accountants.
With respect to the standard-setting
processes of the private sector, the
Commission stated in its August 1980
Report that it continues to believe that
the initiative for establishing and improving accounting and auditing standards should remain in the private sector, subject to Commission oversight.
The Cornrnission reaffirmed its contin-

ued strong support for and general satisfaction With the work of the Financial
Accounting Standards Board (FASB).
The Commission
believes that the
FASB must contmue its efforts to provide leadership and take appropriate acnon In controversial areas, and that
members of the accounting profession
must continue to support the FASB's
decisions and join more actively In the
standard-setting process. The Commission also stated ItS continued belief that
the Auditing Standards Board (ASB)
and ItS Advisory Council have generally
performed in a satisfactory manner and
have generally been responsive to
changing public expectations concerning the role of the auditor.
Although the Commission acknowledges that Significant progress has
been made by the accounting profession to date, the Commrsstori's statutory responsibility for the integrity of
the financial information disseminated
by public compames requires continuing attention to the accounting principles underlying that Information, the auditmg standards by which it is reviewed,
and the mdependence and competency
of the profession which performs that
review. The Commission will, of course,
continue to rnorutor the profession and
to offer guidance, comments and leadership, if necessary and where appropriate.
Scope of Services by Independent
Accountants - The appropriate scope
of non-Audit services to be provided by
independent public accountants has attracted substantial attention in recent
years. Study and debate has centered
around various services performed of a
non-adult nature (tax services, accounting and review services and management advisory services), with principal
attention being focused on management advisory services (MAS) and the
potential impact that performance of
31

such services for audit clients may have
on auditor mdependence."''
During 1979, the Commission undertook to establish a system for monitoring the new disclosures required to
be included in proxy statements by Accounting Series Release No. 250 (ASR
No. 250). A sample of approximately
1,200 proxy statements, including both
exchange-listed and over-the-counter
registrants, were chosen statistically for
review. Emphasis was placed on obtaining a better understanding of the
nature of non-audit services being performed and the magnitude of such
services in terms of percentage relationships to aggregate audit fees.
Results of this first year review
showed that a large majority (approximately 91 percent) of companies engaged their auditors for some type of
non-audit services, with the highest incidence being in tax related areas. The
survey further indicated that the incrdence of performance of certain specifIC services (i.e., actuarial services, plant
layout, market surveys) was minimal. In
Accounting Series Release No. 264
(ASR No. 264), which presented the
Commission's views regarding factors it
believes management, the audit committee and the accountant should consider in determining the appropriate
scope of services to be performed by
Independent accountants, the Commission noted that the performance of
these specific services may, in many
cases, be difficult to justify on the basis
of the factors set forth therein. In addition, the Report of the Senate Subcommittee on Reports, Accounting and
Management of the Committee on Governmental Affairs 91 indicated that these
specific services are Incompatible with
the public responsibihtres of independent auditors.
As for the magnitude of non-audit
services performed, the survey indicated that 68 percent of the companies

32

incurred fees for non-audit services representing 0-25 percent of the total audit
fees; 21.9 percent of the companies
were In the 26-50 percent range; 7.4
percent of the companies were in the
51-100 percent range; and 2.7 percent
of the companies were over 100 percent.
While these new disclosures for 1979
contribute to an understanding of existinq practice, the Commission does
not believe that meaningful conclusions
as to the need for rulemaking or legislation can be drawn from disclosures for
a single year. The relationships need to
be reviewed and evaluated over a longer
period of time. Accordingly, the Commission plans to use, over the next several years, the disclosures provided In
proxy statements to obtain a better understanding of the nature and extent of
auditor-client relationships and to identify any trends which develop as a result
of the guidance offered by ASR No. 264
or as a result of actions taken by the accounting profession.
Although the Commission believes
that ASR Nos. 250 and 264 provide a
meaningful framework for the determination of the appropriate scope of services to be performed by independent
accountants, it has not ended its examination of the scope of services issue.
Rather, It views the issuance of ASR
Nos. 250 and 264 as part of a continuing examination of the relationships
between registrants and their independent accountants. After continued monitonnq of the practice, the Commission
will be in a better position to determine
If any further action is necessary in this
area.
Accounting Standards for Oil and
Gas Producers - The Commission continues to assign a high priority to the issue of accounting practices for oil and
gas producing compemes.P" The Commission is currently experimenting with
reserve recognition accounting (RRA), a

new method of accounting for oil and
gas producers. In September 1979, it
adopted rules for the supplemental disclosure of a summary of changes in the
present value of estimated future net
revenues from the production of proved
reserves. Also adopted was a requirement for a summary of oil and gas producing activities prepared on the basis
of RRA. The Commission anticipates
that these supplemental disclosures, together with previously adopted disclosure requirements, will provide the basis
for evaluating the feasibility of requiring
RRAas a uniform accounting method in
the primary financial statements.
Closely related to the question of appropriate financial statements disclosures of oil and gas reserve information
is the degree of auditor association with
the information. In April 1980, the Commission considered the question of an
audit requirement regarding oil and gas
reserves. The Commission emphasized
that it considers reserve information to
be extremely important to an understanding of the financial results of a oil
and gas producinq company. At the
same time, however, It acknowledged
that uncertainty exists concerning the
costs and related benefits of requiring
an audit of the reserve information. Accordingly, the audit requirement was
further postponed until a decision is
reached on adopting RRA as a uniform
method of accounting in the primary financial statements. The postponement
of the audit requirement does not represent a conclusion on the part of the
Commission as to whether or not RRA
is feasible as a uniform method of accounting in the primary financial statements.
The Commission staff is also coordinating its activities on oil and gas accounting with related efforts of the
FASS-specifically, the FASS's efforts
to develop supplemental disclosures as
to the effects of changing prices for

specialized assets, including proved oil
and gas reserves. In making any final
determinations on accounting practices
for oil and gas producers, the Commission will also give careful consideration
to progress made by the FASS in the
development of a conceptual framework for financial accounting and reporting.
FASB Conceptual Framework Project - The Commission continues to believe that the development of a conceptual framework
as a basis for
addressing accounting problems IS the
most important financial reporting matter confronting the FASB and its constituents. A conceptual framework
should assist the FASS by providing
structure and direction to financial accounting and reporting through an articulation of a coherent system of interrelated objectives and fundamentals
leading to consistent standards, and
through prescribing the nature, function
and limits of financial accounting and
reporting. The existence of such a
framework should enhance the standard-setting process by accelerating the
responsiveness of the FASS to emergIng accounting problems and contribute to more timely, effective and consistent standards.
In addition,
a
comprehensive conceptual framework
should enhance the understanding of
preparers and users of financial information as to the purposes, content and
characteristics of such information.
During the past year, the Commission has continued to actively oversee
the FASS's standard-setting initiatives.
While the Commission has some concerns with respect to the delays that
have been experienced In the FASS's
conceptual framework project, as well
as with the lack of clarity as to which
phase or phases of the project will address certain fundamental conceptual
issues, the Commission is generally

33

satisfied With the FASB's overall efforts
during the past year.
The FASB IS devoting a major portion of its resources to this project
which is necessarily a long-term evolutionary effort. However, as the framework develops during the next few
years, It IS important that the evolving
principles and concepts contribute significantly m developing financial reporting standards that address the important fundamental
issues presently
confronting the FASB and its constituents.
Although the Commission recognizes
the long-term nature of the project, the
Commission also believes that there are
certain basic issues that the F ASB
should address within the next few
years - perhaps within the maximum
five-year experimental period established by the FASB for a comprehensive re-look at Statement of Fmancial
Accounting Standards No. 33 (FAS-33),
"Financial Reporting and Changmg
Prices" In this connection. the Commission believes that the resolution of
the following two issues will be critical
to the success of the conceptual framework project:
The first Issue is the development of
concepts to govern the establishment
of accounting standards regarding the
points in time when the elements of financial statements - i.e., assets, liabilities, revenues, expenses, etc. - should
be recognized in the financial statements and the manner in which recognized elements should be measured. In
this connection, the Commission believes that the measurement concepts
set forth in FAS-33 are sound and that
these concepts should be developed in
a general concept statement dealing
with measurement issues. Progress in
these areas will, or should, directly affect the ultimate disposition of certain
major projects (such as business combinations, consolidation policy and in34

terim financial reporting) postponed by
the FASB pending developments in the
conceptual framework project. Development of these phases should also assist the Commission in its consideration
of appropriate accounting and financial
reporting for oil and gas producing
companies.
Second are the conceptual issues related to the determination and display
of the key components
of operating
performance and cash flow, which are
highly relevant in the current economic
environment. A corollary issue is the nature of possible summary financial reporting indicators that might be developed from this project which would
Identify the key items that indicate the
success of an enterprise. The FASB
must make progress on the phase
whose objective is to determine the
kinds of information about an enterprise's flow of funds and its liquidity position that should be provided in the
context of objectives of financial reporting. The Commission believes that one
of the ultimate results of this phase
should be a revision of the statement of
changes in financial position to better
reflect cash flows.
The Commission will continue to
work with the FASB by offering its comments and criticisms, where necessary,
in an effort to ensure that the conceptual framework ultimately leads to a set of
principles and concepts, as well as
standards emanating from those principles and concepts, which will serve the
needs of users of financial information
in a constantly changing economic environment.
Finenciei Reporting and Changing
Prices - The Commission continues to

view the development of financial reporting to reflect the impact of inflation
and changmg prices as one of the most
Important ongoing challenges facing
the FASB, the accounting profession
and the business community. In partial

response to the need for financial reporting which reflects the economic realities of doing business, the FASB, in
September 1979, issued its first standard to address the complex area of accounting for the effects of changing
prices. Considered by the Commission
to be a significant breakthrough in the
private sector standard-setting process,
FAS-33 represents an important addition to the historical cost-based accounting model and, perhaps more importantly, reflects the willingness of the
FASB to deal with difficult
issues
requiring innovative solutions.
FAS-33 represents an experimental
effort by the FASB, requiring two fundamentally different approaches to be followed in preparing required disclosures.
Large, publicly-held companies subject
to the provisions of the new standard
are required to provide disclosure (as
supplemental Information to the primary financial statements) of both the
effects of general Inflation, and the effects of changing prices of specific
goods and services.
FAS-33 reflects clearly the FASB's
recognition that the state of the art does
not permit a definitive standard, that expenrnentation IS necessary,and that the
urgency of the need for disclosure of
the effects of inflation cannot await a
perfect solution The FASB has undertaken to study the disclosure practices
under the new standard and to monitor
the extent to which the mformation is
used, the type of users who fmd the
data useful, and the purpose for which
it is used. The FASB plans to amend or
withdraw requirements when evidence
justifies the need and has stated that
FAS-33 will be given a comprehensive
reconsideration after a period of not
more than five years. The Commission
understands the basis for the FASB's
conclusion as to the need for experimentation and supports Its contmumq
efforts in this area In seeking the most

meaningful disclosures. As a result of
the Issuance of FAS-33, the Commission rescinded its replacement cost rule
and extended Its safe harbor provisions
to disclosures required by the new
standard.
Ultimate success in achieving meaningful disclosures concernmg the effects of Inflation and changmg prices
will depend to a large extent on the efforts of the accountmg profession and
the business cornrnuruty In applying the
new standard and expenmenting with
additional disclosures which may help
users assess the Impact of changing
pnces on particular entites and Industries. In this regard, the Commission beheves that the new standard should be
viewed as a minimum for disclosure
and that the corporate community
should strive to contribute to the private
sector standard-setting process by volunteering additional inforrnauon which
may be necessary to make the reportIng most meanmgful and useful in the
circumstances
Reporting on Internal Accounting
Control- During the fiscal year, the
Commission completed Its review and
evaluation of the numerous publIc comments received on Its proposed rules
which would have required inclusion of
a statement by management on Internal
accounting control In annual reports on
Form 10-K filed With the Commission
under the Exchange Act, and In annual
reports to security holders furnished
pursuant to the proxy rules.P"
In June 1980, the Commission, In Accounting Series Release No. 278 (ASR
No. 278), announced the withdrawal of
these rule proposals. The Commission's decision was based, In part, on a
determination that the pnvate-sector initiatives for pubhc reportmq on mternal
accounting control were Significant and
should be allowed to continue The
Commission beheves that its action will
encourage further voluntary mrtrauves

35

and permit public companies a maximum of flexibility in experimenting with
various approaches to public reporting
on internal accounting control. Further,
the Commission urged similar experimentation concerning auditor association with such statements.
The Commission intends to give further consideration to rule proposals
concerning management reports, and
auditor association with them, based
upon three years' experience. In order
to supplement the information which
the Commission obtained in the course
of the rulemakmg proceeding and
through its analysis of reports for 1979,
the Commission intends to continue a
monitoring program through the spring
of 1982. As part of that program, the
Commission will carefully monitor
private-sector initiatives in this area, as
well as issuer practice in voluntarily providing management statements on internal accounting control and in engaging independent accountants to report
on such statements.
In conjunction with its monitoring effort, the Commission invited public
comment both on the progress beinq
made by the private sector, as well as
on what regulatory action the Commission might consider in this area. In addition, the Commission also encouraged comments on other issues and
matters discussed in ASR No. 278.
Should the Commission's monitoring
effort or the comments which it receives identify a specific need for further Commission action, the Commission stands ready to take whatever
appropriate regulatory action may be
indicated. In any event, however, a more
comprehensive reconsideration of this
area by the Commission can be expected after the Commission has had
the benefit of its analysis of three years'
experience with voluntary management
reporting and auditor involvement.

36

Auditor Association with Required
SuppLementaL FinanciaL
Information - The accounting profession today
is facing new challenges over and
above the traditional challenge of performing quality audits of financial statements. It is faced with the need for its
members to become involved with supplementary financial information disdosed outside the confines of traditional financial statements. The FASB
adopted a concept of finandal reporting
which recognizes that certain information, while relevant to an understanding
of a company's financial position and
results of operations, is better provided,
or can only be provided, by means of financial reporting other than in financial
statements. Recognition that the domain of financial reporting should extend beyond the primary financial statements is a significant
step in the
accounting standard-setting process
and one for which the Commission has
expressed support.
Recognizing that the accounting profession must accept some degree of responsibility for the presentation of supplementary inforrmation, the ASB, in
December 1979, issued its Statement
on Auditing Standards No. 27 (SAS 27),
"Supplementary Information Required
by the Financial Accounting Standards
Board." SAS 27 provides guidance to
an independent auditor on the nature of
procedures to be performed when supplementary information is required to
be presented pursuant to FASB pronouncements. Additionally, it requires
an auditor to expand his report on the
audited financial statements, if necessary, to call attention to an inability to
complete the prescribed procedures,
the omission of required supplementary
information,
or material departures
from FASB guidelines on the measurement or presentation of such information.
The Commission believes that SAS

27 is a positive step toward providing
the profession needed guidance in assessing the nature and extent of its association with supplementary information. However, the Commission
is
troubled by the ASS's decision to adopt
requirements for exception reporting as
opposed to explicit reporting on required supplementary financial information, An accountant's explicit report
on supplementary information which
describes the nature of his review and
states whether he is aware of any material modifications that should be made
to the information for it to conform with
the FASS's guidelines should provide
an Important channel of communication between the profession and users
of financial reports.
The Commission understands that
the ASS deferred requiring explicit reporting on supplementary information
due to, among other matters, its uncertainty over the applicability of Section
11 of the Securities Act to accountants'
reports on supplementary information
which are included in registration statements. The Commission recognizes
that accountants' liability for reports on
supplementary information must be

consistent with their responsibility with
respect to such information. Accordingly, the Commission has proposed rules
which exclude accountants from liability
under Section 11(a) of the Securities
Act for their reports on the two types of
supplementary information now required in financial reporting -the
effects of changing prices and data on oil
and gas reserves. The Commission believes that these proposed rules represent important steps in encouraging the
ASS to adopt requirements for explicit
reporting by auditors.
The Commission intends to consider
whether it would be more appropriate
for the liability issue to be addressed
generally in the context of all types of
supplementary information rather than
specific supplementary information
which companies are now presenting in
registration statements and other documents furnished to shareholders or investors. The Inclusion by public companies of supplementary
financial
information in annual reports and other
disclosure documents is a new and
evolving area of financial reporting and
one which the Commission desires to
encourage,

37

Investment Companies and Advisers
Disclosure Study and Related
Matters
The Division of Investment
Management established
a study group at the
end of fiscal year 1979, to undertake a
thorough
review of investment
company disclosure
requirements
under the
Securities Act of 1933 (Securities Act)
and Investment
Company Act of 1940
(Investment
Company Act). The objective is to reduce unnecessary
burdens
on both the Industry and the staff which
may result from present disclosure
requirements.
The first recommendations
resultmg
from this study, Rule 465 under the Securities Act and related amendments
to
the registration
statement
forrns.P? were
adopted by the Commission
on August
25, 1980. This rule permits most posteffective
amendments
to registration
statements
filed by open-end,
management investment
companies
and urut
investment
trusts, other than insurance
company separate accounts, to become
effective automatically,
without affirmative action on the part of the Commission or its staff. Amendments
which
merely register
additional
shares,
or
which are filed to update the Issuer's
prospectus
and do not discuss any material events in its operations,
can become effective either immediately or on
a date chosen by the registrant within
20 days of the date of filing. All other
amendments
will become
effective on
the 60th day after filing, including those
which discuss material events In investment company
operations.
The rule is
designed
to accomplish
two goals.
First, it will eliminate
staff review of
purely routine filings, thereby enabling
the Division to concentrate
its resources

on those filings which need the review
process In order to insure complete disclosure. Second, and perhaps more importantly, it will permit registrants to assume greater
responsibility
for their
compliance
with the disclosure requirements of the Federal secunnes
laws.
ThIS disclosure study IS contmumq ItS
review of ways to elimmate duplicative
reporting
requirements
in documents
sent to existing shareholders
and potential investors. As part of Its project to
simplify reporting
requirements,
the
study group IS exarmmnq ways to recIn financial
stateoncile differences
ments required to be included in different disclosure documents.
The Commission
was also active in
the area of money market funds during
the fiscal year. On September
30, 1980,
the Commission
adopted amendments
to Form N-l, the registration statement
form for open-end,
management
investment
companies.
and Rule 434d
under the Securities
Act, regarding
Investment
company
advertlslnq.?"
The
amendment
to Form N-l requires the
inclusion of a yield figure computed
by
a standardized
method, and a quotation
based on that computation,
to be included In the prospectuses
of money
market funds. The amendment
to Rule
434d further
requires
that any yield
unquotations
used In advertisements
der that rule be computed
by the same
standardized
method.
These
amendments are based on the need of Investors in money market funds for comparable yield quotations,
since such funds
are marketed
primanly on the baSIS of
yield. Prior to adoption of these amendments, money market YIeld quotations
were not comparable
and may have
confused investors.

39

On March 14, 1980, the Federal Reserve Board announced adoption of a
requirement that money market funds
maintain with Federal Reserve Banks
special non-interest bearing deposits in
respect of any Increase in asset size. In
response to this requirement, many
money market funds ceased further
sales to the general public, and their
sponsors filed registration statements
for new funds, known as "clone funds,"
which were substantially identical to existing funds (base funds) except for the
maintenance of the special deposit. The
Division examined and processed, on a
expedited basis, about 40 registration
statements of these so-called clone
funds. Clone funds were intended to
protect shareholders of the base funds
from the impact of lower yields, which
would have resulted from maintenance
by the base funds of the special deposit,
while simultaneously allowing investors
to continue to purchase money market
fund shares, albeit with a lower yield resulting from the special deposit. The expedited treatment procedure established by the staff made it possible for
most of those funds desiring early effectiveness to have their registration
statements declared effective by the
Commission Within two weeks after the
date of filing.

Investment Company Act Study
The Investment Company Act Study
Group (the Study) was established by
the Division at the end of fiscal year
1978 to review the regulation of investment companies under the Investment
Company Act. Through its rulemaking
proposals to the Commission and interpretive releases, the Study has proposed, consistent with the protection of
investors, a simpler, more efficient
regulatory system. This system reduces
Commission involvement in investment
company operations and concomitantly
enhances the authority and responsibil-

40

ity of investment company directors,
particularly disinterested directors, as
primary overseers of an investment
company's management decisions. The
recommendations of the Study have
generally taken two forms: (1) replacing
administrative review by the Commission's staff of proposed investment
company activities With rules establishing general criteria under which certain activities are permissible; and (2)
refining the Investment Company Act's
broad statutory prohibitions by interpretation so as to permit activities not originally contemplated as being within an
exemptive provision's technical scope
or underlying purpose.
Consistent with the goal of placing
greater responsibility on directors for
the operation of investment companies,
during the fiscal year the Commission
adopted several rules which permit certain transactions between an investment
company and its affiliated persons under certain circumstances and after certain findings. These rules related to purchase of liability insurance poltcies.P"
receipt of cash or securities pursuant to
a portfolio company's plan of reorganization;"? and mergers and consolidatrons.P" During that time, the Commission also adopted rules which lessen
prohibitory regulation when certain contracts for investment advisory or principal underwriting services are terminated 99 and which clarify certain
disclosure notices to periodic payment
plan participants. 100
Additionally, the Commission also
proposed rules which would:
(1) exclude from the definition of investment company, and hence from
regulation under the Investment Company Act, certain prima facie investment
companies which are primarily engaged
in a non-investment company business;101
(2) temporarily deem certain transient investment companies not to be

investment companies for purposes of
the Investment Company Act; 102
(3) deem
certain subsidiaries
of
operating corporations not to be investment companies for purposes of the Investment Company Act; 103
(4) deem, under specified circumstances for purposes of broadenmg the
exception for private companies from
the definition of Investment companies,
a company's owning ten percent or
more of an Issuer's outstanding voting
securities to be beneficial ownership by
one person; 104
(5) exempt the purchase or sale of
certain securities between an investment company and an affiliated person
who is so affiliated solely because of
having a common investment adviser,
common officers and/or common directors.i'" and
(6) clarify which persons are required
to be covered by fidelity bonding insurance.l06
Progress was also made during the
fiscal year toward resolving several other long-standing issues. First, the Commission continued to study whether to
permit mutual funds to finance distribution of their own shares. For many
years the Commission was reluctant to
permit such a use of fund assets because of concerns about conflicts of interest, questions about whether funds
would benefit from financing the sale of
their own shares, and doubts about
whether such a use of fund assets
would be fair to existing shareholders.
Nevertheless, consistent with the goals
of the Investment Company Act Study,
the Commission, in September 1979,
published for comment Rule 12b-1
under the Act, which proposed conditions under which use of fund assets for
distribution would be permitted. (Subsequent to the close of the fiscal year,
on October 28, 1980, the Commission
adopted Rule 12b-l.107)

Second, the Commission considered
whether to adopt Rule 17)-1 under the
Act. That proposal would require that
investment companies develop codes
of ethics governing purchases or sales
by investment company insiders of the
same secunties held or to be acquired
by the investment company. (Subsequent to the close of the fiscal year, on
October 31, 1980, the Commission
adopted rule 17j _) .108)
Finally, the staff completed Its work
on a proposed solution to the so-called
"mini-account"
problem. These accounts are offered by investment advisers in the form of individual accounts
but may be operated, in practice, more
like investment companies. (Subsequent to the close of the fiscal year, on
October 10, 1980, the Commission
published for comment proposed rule
3a-4 under the Investment Company
Act dealing with how to characterize or
regulate investment management services which provide clients with indivrdualized treatrnent.I?")

Legislation
Capital

Relating to Venture

In cooperation with representatives of
the venture capital industry and the
staffs of the Congressional committees
concerned with the securities laws, the
Commission's staff drafted a bill designed to afford comprehensive
requirements for certain small businesses
and for certain firms that provide venture capital to developing businesses.
This bill, the "Small Business Securities
Acts Amendments of 1980", was favorably reported out of the respective
committees by the end of August, 1980.
(A discussion of the bill as it effects
small businesses is found in the Disclosure System section of the Report)
Titles I and II of the bill (which consists of five titles) amend the Investment
Company Act and the Investment Advis41

ers Act These amendments would have
the effect of relieving qualifying "business development cornparues", as defined in the bill, from many of the
regulatory restrictions imposed by those
two Acts, and substituting a carefullytailored pattern of reduced regulation
that takes Into account the special
needs of the venture capital industry
while still preserving important protections for the investing public. This new
framework should substantially reduce
the regulatory costs and Impediments
Imposed on firms that undertake to finance and manage developing businesses. (Subsequent to the close of the
fiscal year, on October 21, 1980, this
legislation was signed into law.)
Significant Applications and
Interpretations
UnIOn Service Group - On September 25, 1980, the Commission granted
an application, under Section 17 of the
Investment Company Act, filed by the
Investment companies (funds) in the
Union Service Group, and various affiliated companies, which permitted the
externalization of the then internalized
advisory, management and distribution
functions of the funds. The Commission granted the application after concluding that the disinterested directors
of the funds, based on Information provided them by Independent legal counsel and an Independent financial consultant, had compared and quantified,
on a company-by-company
basis, the
benefits which they anticipated would
result from the externalization against
the increased operating costs which
would, at least initially, result from it in
order to determine whether such costs
were allocated
fairly
and benefits
among all of the funds. The Commission also placed significant weight on
the fact that the disinterested directors,
with the assistance of their independent
counsel and consultant,
had deter-

42

mined what value should be placed on
the right to manage the funds In order
to determine whether the benefits flowing to those companies under the externali zation exceeded the value of the
nght to manage them being acquired
by the new external manager.
Union-tnuestment-Gesellsctiett - On
August 5, 1980, Union-InvestmentGesellschaft m.b.H. (Union-Investment)
filed an application for a Commission
order, pursuant to Section 7(d) of the
Investment Company Act, permitting
Unifonds, a West German investment
company which is organized, operated
and regulated in a manner substantially
different from United States investment
companies,
to register and sell its
shares In the United States. (IruonInvestment advises and administers five
separate funds, including Unifonds, and
IS one of the oldest management companies in West Germany. The application is the first such filing by a foreign
investment company made subsequent
to the issuance of a 1975 Commission
release setting forth the Commission's
policy and gUidelines for Investment
Company Act reqrstratron of foreign investment company. no Thus, it presents
for the first time novel and difficult issues concerning whether it would be legally and practically feasible to effectively enforce the Investment Company
Act against the West German fund, and
whether It would be consistent With the
protection of Investors to permit the
fund to sell its shares In the United
States
Institutional Disclosure Program
The Commission's Institutional disclosure program, adopted pursuant to
Section 13(f) of the Securities
Exchange Act of 1934 (Exchange Act),
has now been in operation for over a
year. Under the program, money managers that fall within the definition of an
"institutional investment manager" con-

tained in Section 13(f)(5) of the Exchange Act, and that meet certain criteria set out in Rule 13f - 1 under the
Exchange Act, file reports on a quarterly
calendar basis on Form 13F. Among
the money managers that typically meet
the requirements of Section .13(f) and
file Form 13F reports, are investment
advisers, banks and insurance companies. Those managers required to file
Form 13F reports disclose certain equity holdings of the accounts over which
those managers exercise investment
discretion. Form 13F reports are not
required to be in machine readable language. The Commission decided not to
adopt such a form of reporting after
receiving public comments In 1979 indicating that some managers do not
employ computer systems and that
those managers that do use computers
employ a variety of systems. In lIght of
these comments, the Commission deterrmned that managers would frnd it
unduly burdensome to employ uniform
computer systems for the purpose of
filing Form 13F reports In machine language.
Form 13F reports are made available
to the public at the Commission's Public Reference Room as soon as possible
after filing. In most cases, reports are
available within one or two days of their
filing. Also available for public inspection at the Public Reference Room are
two tabulations of the information contained in Form 13F reports filed with
the Commission. Both tabulations are
produced by an independent contractor
selected through the competitive bidding process. The first of the tabulations Includes a listing arranged according to individual security held

showmq the number of shares of that
security held and the name of the money manager reportmq the holding. The
second tabulauon IS a summary hstmq,
also arranged accordmq to Individual
security, showmq the number of shares
of that security reported by all mstitutronal investments managers filing reports. The tabulations are normally
available at the Commission's Public
Reference Room between ten days to
two weeks after the end of the 45 day
period for filing Form 13F reports for a
particular calendar quarter. The Independent contractor produces and offers
for sale to the pubhc a magnetic tape
contaimng the informatIon Included In
the two tabulations.
Because the Institutional disclosure
program is still in its formative stages,
and because the Commission has only
limited resources to devote to the program, the staff has not yet undertaken
to analyze or otherwise use Form 13F
data on a formal basis. To date, much
of the staff time devoted to the program
has been spent: (1) answering public Inquiries concerning the substantive provisions of Section 13(1)and the requirements of Form 13F; (2) assistmq the
general public, and on occasion representatives of congressional committees,
in mterpretmq Form 13F Information;
and (3) preparing for publication the list
of equity securities, used to complete
Form 13F, that the Cornrnission is required to make public under Section
13(1)(3) of the Exchange Act. The Commission and the staff have also undertaken consideratlon
of the issue of
when confidential treatment should be
granted covering information contained
In Form 13F reports.

43

Enforcement Program
The Commission's enforcement program is designed to secure as broad a
regulatory impact as possible with the
limited resources available. To this end,
the Commission relies heavily upon civil
damage actions based upon violations
of the Federal securities laws, and upon
self-regulatory and state and local law
enforcement agencies. With respect to
those agencies, the Commission devotes substantial efforts towards promoting the effective coordination of enforcement activities. In this manner, the
Commission seeks to make maximum
effective use of available resources in
order to obtain an increased enforcement presence concerning matters
within its jurisdiction.
The cases described here are illustrauons which reflect the breadth of the
Commission's responsibilities and its
enforcement responses, and the continued vigor and effectiveness of the enforcement program.

Sanctions and Remedies
The Federal securities laws provide
administrative and civil and criminal jUdicial remedies for violations of those
laws. Sanctions in administrative proceedings for individuals subject to the
Commission's regulatory jurisdiction
may range from the imposition of a
censure to the barring of a securities
professional from the profession. Another type of administrative remedy permits the Commission to find, under appropriate circumstances, that an issuer
of securities subject to the periodic reporting provisions of the Federal securities laws, has failed to comply with
those provisions, and to order that issuer to comply upon such terms and con-

ditions as the Commission may specify.
The civil court remedy usually available
to the Commission is court entry of an
injunction barring further violations in
addition to which the courts often enter
orders providing for appropriate ancillary relief. Criminal sanctions Include
fines and impnsonment.
The Federal securities laws are primarily remedial in nature. In recognition
of that purpose, in the litigation and settlement of its proceedings the Commission makes every attempt to prevent a
recurrence of violative activity and to
rectify the result of past violations. The
Commission has been particularly successful in securing appropriate relief in
injunctive actions. In fiscal year 1980,
examples of such relief included: an
agreement by a defendant to return $9
million alleged to have been wrongfully
obtalned:"!' the appointment to boards
of directors of persons previously
unaffiliated with a corporetlon.'P filings
with the Commission which correct
earlier, incorrect filings; 113 undertakings
by persons to resign as officers of corporations.U"
undertakings by persons
to repay monies found to be due and
owing from activities complained of in
the Commission's cornplaint.P" an affirmative undertaking by individuals to
use their best effort to have independent audit committees set up by any other companies with whom they should
become associated.v'"
In the majority of its cases, the Commission is able to settle with respondents or defendants on terms which secure the necessary remedial relief.
Generally, respondents or defendants
who consent to such settlements with
the Commission do so without admit-

45

tinq or denying the factual allegations
contained in the Commission's complaint or order for proceedings. Thus,
unless otherwise noted, in the discussion of the illustrative cases which
follows, It should be assumed that settlements achieved were upon that basis.

Insider Trading
The purchase and sale of securities
by persons in possession of material,
non-public insrde information has apparently increased in recent years. The
Commission's enforcement interests
have increased as well. Three of the important cases brought by the Commission are described below. Among this
group IS one case In which the Commission alleged Insider trading based
upon material information regarding
corporate takeovers and tender offers,
an area cited In last year's Annual Report 117
SEC v. Lerner, David, Littenberg &
Samuel, et al. 118 - On April 2, 1980,
the Commission filed a complaint
against all of the partners and one associate of Lerner, David, Littenberg &
Samuel (LDL&S), a patent law firm, and
venous members of their families, certain persons associated with clients of
LDL&S, and friends of members of
LDL&S. The complaint alleged violations of the antifraud provisions of the
Exchange Act based on purchases by
the defendants of common stock of
Refac Technology Development Corp.
(Refac) while in possession of material,
non-public information. This information concerned the allowance by the
U.S, Patent Office of certain principal
claims In an application for the basic
patent on the laser, which was being
prosecuted by LDL&S under a joint royalty arrangement with Refac and the inventor of the laser.
In addition to the entry of the Court's
orders with respect to further violations
of the antifraud provisions of the Ex-

46

change Act, the Court ordered other equitable relief. In this regard, certain partners and associates of LDL&S and
certain other persons who purchased
Refac common stock undertook to
make disgorgement of approximately
$62,812 in profits derived from these
securities transactions. Other defendants undertook to make disgorgement
of $29,885 of profits derived from their
transactions in the common stock of
Refac. Moreover, LDL&S was ordered to
comply with its undertaking to adopt,
Implement and maintain policies and
procedures designed to prevent the use
or dissemination of any material, nonpublic mforrnanon received by any
member or employee of the law firm by
virtue of, or during the course of, their
employment. The Commission, in its litigation release 119 issued a statement to
emphasize Its concern With respect to
the use of material, non-public mforrnanon by partners, associates and employees of law firms.
SEC v. Neuonel Kinney Corp.120
- On June 30, 1980, the Commission
filed a complaint against National Kinney Corporation (NKC) and others. The
complaint alleged that various individual defendants purchased NKC stock
while In possession of material, nonpublic information concerning arrangements between certain persons and
entities In their attempt to acquire or
develop hotel-casino
gaming bUSInesses in the United States, Including
the possible acquisition of the Alladin
Hotel in Las Vegas, Nevada. The complaint further alleged violations of the
antifraud provisions of the Exchange
Act, based on allegations of untrue
statements of material facts made by an
officer of NKC to an official of the
American Stock Exchange in response
to questions by the official prompted by
unusual and unexplained trading In
NKC's common stock on that exchange.

The court ordered the defendants to
comply with the antifraud provisions of
the Exchange Act, and ordered NKC to
make full, fair and accurate statements
In communications with exchanges and
self-regulatory organizations. The Court
ordered certain defendants to disgorge
profits realized on transactions in NKC
common stock.
SEC v. David H. Hall121_
On February 22, 1980, the Commission filed a
complaint against David H. Hall, a practicing attorney. The complaint alleged
that Hall frequently served as a "Special
Shareholder Relations" counsel to
publicly-held companies. In this capacrty, he assisted in matters such as
preparing for annual meetings or defending against takeover attempts and
proxy contests. The complaint charged
that Hall traded in the securities of certain of these companies
while In
possession of matenal, non-public information without disclosing such information. The non-public Information In
the possession of Hall related to varIOUS
aspects of the business operations or
plans of these companies, including information concerning favorable earnings reports or earnings projections,
proposed tender offers, proposed stock
splits, or cash dividend increases. The
defendant was permanently enjoined
from violations of the antifraud provision of the Exchange Act and, In addition, agreed to disgorgement
of
$33,702 in profits he derived from certain of his securities transactions.

particular secunties as an Investment
strategy has led to an increasing number of enforcement actions regarding
the Cornrmssron's rules which require
the reporting of ownership of securities.

Corporate Takeovers, Tender
Offers, and Beneficial Ownership

SEC v. Samuel E Wyly, Raymond E
Shea and Eldon Vaughan 122 - On December 6, 1979, the Commission filed
a complaint against Samuel E Wyly,
Raymond E. Shea, and Eldon Vaughan.
The Commission's complaint alleged
that Wyly, who served as Chairman of
the Board of Directors of Wyly Corporation, entered into arrangements with
other persons designed to provide additional incentives to them to Induce the
tender of Wyly Corp. debentures In connection With an exchange offer by Wyly
Corp The Commission's complaint alleged that Wyly entered into an arrangement to provide additional compensation to Shea, in the form of a consulting
agreement, for the tender of his debentures, The complaint further alleged
that the exchange offer was part of a
plan of recapitalization of Wyly Corp.,
the success of which was the only
alternative to Wyly Corp.'s seeking relief
under the Federal bankruptcy laws. The
complaint alleged that the arrangement
With Shea and later negotiations between Shea and Wyly and Vaughn to
settle Shea's claims pursuant to his
arrangements were never disclosed by
Wyly Corp. In its reqrstration statement
for its exchange offer, in its annual and
penodic reports filed with the Commission under the Exchange Act reporting
provisrons, in Its proxy statements, or in
ItS press releases concerning Its recapitalization efforts.

During the fiscal year, the Commission brought a number of enforcement
cases In situations where the Investing
public was harmed as a result of various
practices by persons in connection WIth
takeovers and tender offers. Also, an increase in the number of entities and
persons holding significant amounts of

The Commission also alleged in its
complaint that a business associate of
Wyly, With funds obtained by Wyly
through loans and real estate transactions made Without arms-length neqotiations and on favorable terms, purchased Wyly Corp, debentures on the
open market during Wyly Corp.'s two
47

exchange offers and tendered them
pursuant to those offers. The complaint
alleged that the loans and real estate
transactions were made by Wyly with
knowledge that some of the proceeds
would be used by the business associate to purchase and tender Wyly Corp.
debentures.
The Court entered judgments of permanent injunction restramlnq and enjoining Wyly from vrolations of the
antifraud, periodic reporting, proxy and
tender offer provisions of the Exchange
Act and restraming and enjoining
Vaughan from the violation of the tender offer provisions of the Exchange
Act.
SEC v. Sun Company, Inc. - In its
Annual Report for each of the last two
years, the Commission has noted this
case as one of its important actions in
the tender offer area.123 Last year, the
District Court found that the acquisition
of approximately 34 percent of the outstanding common stock of Becton
Dickinson
and Company (BD) by
means of an offer to certain institutional
investors. which was not made available
to the general public, constituted an illegal tender offer. Other defendants in
this action included Salomon Brothers,
F. Eberstadt & Co. (and certain other
related entities), Fairleigh S. Dickenson,
J. Fitzgerald Dunning, and Kenneth
Lipper.
The Commission has reached a satisfactory settlement of its enforcement
action against Salomon, Dunning,
Lipper, Dickinson and Eberstadt. On
February 15, 1980, orders were entered: (1) setting forth the terms of the
stipulation of settlement between the
Commission, Salomon and Lipper and
dismissing the Commission's action
against Salomon and Lipper with prejudice; (2) setting forth the terms of the
stipulation of settlement between the
Commission and Eberstadt and certain
related entities and dismissing the

48

Commission's action against certain of
the related defendants with prejudice;
and (3) reciting the Court's liability finding and order as to Dickenson and otherwise terminating the Commission's
action against that defendant with prejudice.
On July 18, 1980, the Commission
filed a memorandum regarding a plan
of divesture of the illegally acquired securities for Sun. The Commission
sought: (1) an absolute obligation upon
Sun to divest itself of the ownership of
and voting rights in its BD stock; (2) a
plan of divestiture which would prevent
Sun from reaping any benefits from its
illegal acquisition, but would not insulate BD management from future takeover attempts; (3) undertakings by Sun
which would further minimize the likelihood that it would violate the Williams
Act in the future; (4) court supervision
of the settlement, including the plan of
divestiture; and (5) an overall settlement
which would deter others from violating
the Williams Act in the future.
A divestiture plan contained in a
memorandum of understanding between Sun and BD does require Sun to
dispose of its illegally acquired BD
shares by means of a complex series of
transactions, the major components of
which are: (1) the issuance and public
distribution by Sun, over a three-year
period, of debentures which are exchangeable into the BD shares held by
Sun; and (2) the immediate removal of
Sun's power to vote the BD shares it illegally acquired.
The Commission's proposed settlement with Sun, which incorporates the
plan of divestiture, also requires that for
ten years Sun must obtain permission
from the District Court before purchasing any BD securities. It further provides
that Sun may not acquire more than
five percent of the equity securities of a
company registered with the Commission for consideration in excess of $10

million without prior consideration and
approval by its board of directors and
assurances that the transaction does
not violate Section 14(d) of the Exchange Act or Rule 10b-13 thereunder.
On July 31, 1980, the court Issued an
opinion approving the settlement of five
class actions which included the plan of
divestiture, but that proposed class settlement has been objected to by two BD
shareholders. Although their objections
were rejected.P" these BD shareholders
have appealed to Judge Carter's August
15, 1980, judgment and order. Thus, as
of the close of the fiscal year, there was
no final resolution of the Commission
or the related class actions.

SEC. v. Eurrell V. Potts, et al.

125

- On April 9, 1980, the Commission
filed a complaint against Joe M. Cline .
Associates, Inc. (Cline Associates), a
broker-dealer registered with the Commission, Eurrell V. Potts (Potts), a registered representative of Cline Associates,
and certain customers of Cline Associates. The Commission's complaint alleged that the defendants failed to file
with the Commission the required beneficial ownership reports on Schedule
13D. Some of the defendants, as a
group, owned 534,190 shares or 22
percent of the outstanding common
stock of a corporation registered with
the Commission. Other customers of
Cline Associates additionally acquired
approximatelyy 241,300 shares or 10
percent of the same corporation's
shares. The Commission also alleged
that Potts and Cline Associates violated
the antifraud provisions of the Exchange Act by making materially false
and misleading representations to customers and prospective customers and
made unauthorized purchases of the
company's stock for customers. The
Commission alleged other violations
including domination and control of the
market for the shares of the corporations by Cline Associates and Potts.

The Court entered judgments of permanent injunction enjoining all defendants from further violations of the beneficial ownership provisions of the
Exchange Act. Cline Associates and
Potts were restrained from further violations of the antifraud provisions of the
Securities Act and Exchange Act and
from the recordkeepmg and transaction
reporting provisions of the Exchange
Act. In addition to injunctive relief, the
Court ordered other equitable relief,
including certain undertakmgs. Part of
this relief provided for the fair and orderly desposinon of 736,216 shares of
the corporation by a broker-dealer not a
defendant in the action.
On the same day, the Commission
announced the institution and settlement of administrative
proceedings
against PottS.126 Potts consented to the
entry of an order of the Commission
suspending him from association with a
broker or dealer for 150 days. Thereafter, he may become so associated upon
a demonstration that adequate supervisory procedures have been established
conforming to the terms and conditions
set forth in the Commission's order.
Adrninisbative Proceedings Under
Section 15( c)( 4) of the Securities
Exchange Act
An important area of concern to the
Commission is that filings with the
Commission made by issuers pursuant
to the Commission rules contain required disclosures and comply in material respects with applicable sections of
the Exchange Act and with rules promulgated thereunder. Under Section
15(c)(4) of that Act, the Commission
may publish its findings and issue an
order requiring persons subject to the
provisions of Section 12, 13, or 15(d) of
that Act, to comply with such provisions
or rules promulgated thereunder.
In the Matter of Occidental Petroleum Corporation 127 - The Commission

49

instituted proceedings, pursuant to Section 15(c)(4) of the Exchange Act, with
respect to Occidental Petroleum Corp.
(Oxy), a California corporation, to determine whether, since January 1, 1973,
Oxy had failed to make certain required
disclosures in various filings submitted
to the Commission pursuant to Section
13 of the Exchange Act and the rules
and regulations thereunder.
In its Order, the Commission found
that various filings by Oxy with the
Cornrnissron did not contain certain required disclosures relating to: the discharge of chemical and tOXICwastes
into the environment by Oxy's Hooker
Chemical subsidiaries, or to the protection of the environment: the status of
the proposed construction by Oxy of a
hydroskirnrrunq refinery on Canvey Island, the status of Oxy's negotiations
with Libya concerning the financial
arrangement pursuant to which Oxy operated in Libya; and signed undated letters of resignation which were submitted at the request of Dr. Armand
Hammer to him by certain nominees for
election to Oxy's Board of Directors.
In the Order, the Commission ordered Oxy to, among other things,
comply with the reporting requirements
of the Exchange Act, amend and correct its reports with the Commission
within 30 days, and include In Its next
quarterly report to shareholders a summary of the contents of the Order. In Its
Offer of Settlement, Oxy undertook to
desiqnate a director satisfactory to the
Commission to: (1) prepare an environmental report with respect to certain
specified matters; and (2) assure that
potential liabilities regarding the impact
of Oxy's operations on the environment
have been identified to its board of directors, and that appropriate disclosure
has been made in filings with the Commission. Oxy also made an undertaking
and representation with respect to its
policy concerning letters of resignation
from members of its Board of Directors.

50

In the Matter of Peabody International Corporation 128 - During the fiscal year, the Commission issued an Order Instituting Proceedings, pursuant to
Section 15(c)(4) of the Exchange Act,
and Findings and Order of the Commission against Peabody International
Corp. In ItS Order, the Commission
found that Peabody had failed to comply In several rnatar ial respects with
Section 13(a) of the Exchange Act and
Rules 13a-1 and 13a-13 thereunder in
connection with Its annual report on
Form 10-K for Its fiscal year ended
September 30, 1979, and quarterly report on Form 10-Q for the quarter
ended December 31, 1979. The Commission found that Peabody did not
have a sufficient basis upon which to
defer certain contract costs, attributable
to an alleged breach of contract, to
avoid recognition of the anticipated future costs and, by reason of the accounting treatment employed, overstated its income In filings with the
Commission. Further, the Commission
found that Peabody's disclosures concerning these matters in filings With the
Commission were misleading, and that
Peabody omitted to disclose material
matters.
Peabody undertook among other
things to: (1) restate certain financial
statements and amend Its filings accordingly; (2) immediately issue a press
release concerning the proceeding and
setting out the restated figures; and (3)
develop appropriate procedures and
policies concerning the deferral of certain costs. Peabody also undertook to
defer costs only if allowed by generally
accepted accounting principles, approved by its audit committee, and drsclosed in specified filings and reports to
shareholders.
The Commission ordered Peabody to
comply with the reporting requirements
of the Exchange Act, to amend its reports currently on file With the Com rnis-

sion and to comply with its undertakings.

Questionable Payments
The Foreign Corrupt Practices Act of
1977 [Sections 13(b)(2), 30A and 32(c)
of the Exchange Act] was signed into
law in December 1977. That Act prohibits issuers from, among other things,
corruptly making payments to officials
of foreign governments in order to induce such officials to use either their
authority or influence to obtain business
for the issuer in that country. The Act
also requires corporations to maintain
systems of internal accounting controls
which provide reasonable assurance
that certain objectivesare met
During the past year, the Cornrrusslon's enforcement Interests in this area
continued and two of the important
cases brought are described in the followinq summaries:
SEC v. Textron 129- On January 31,
1980, the Cornrruss io n filed a civil
injunctive action in the U.S. District
Court for the District of Columbia
seeking to enjoin Textron from further
VIolations of the antifraud, reporting and
proxy provisions of the Exchange Act
and of certain rules thereunder.
The CommISSIOn'scomplaint alleged
that during the period from at least
1971 to 1978, Textron engaged In a
course of business pursuant to which
payments
which totalled
at least
$5,400,000 were made to Textron sales
agents. According to the complaint,
Textron made such payments knowing,
or having reason to know, that the payments to such sales agents would be
shared in whole or in part with foreign
government officials or employees, or
members of rulIng farnihes, In order to
Induce those individuals to use their influence or position to secure business
for Textron. In addition, the Commission's complaint alleged that Textron
failed to disclose this course of busi-

ness and the concornrnitant risks to
earnings and profits occasioned by
such practices.
It also alleged that, In furtherance of
these actlvrtres,Textron made false and
misleading
representations
to the
United States government in connecnon with at least three contracts, and eIther falsely recorded or drd not make
and keep books, records and accounts
which accurately reflected the true nature and drsposrtion of most or all of the
payments.
Textron consented to the entry of a final judgment of permanent injunction
enjoining the company from further violations of Sections 1O(b), 13(a) and
14(a) of the Exchange Act and rules
thereunder. In addition, the judgment
required that Textron file with the Commission a report which describes the
procedures recommended to Textron
by a special committee of the Textron
board of directors intended to prevent
reoccurrence of matters of the nature
alleged in the complaint, and which
Textron intended to or had adopted.

SEC v. International
Systems
&
Controls Corporation, et al. 130 - As
discussed in last year's Annual Report,131on July 9, 1979, the Commission fried a cornplamt seekmq to enjoin
lnternational Systems & Controls Corporation (ISC) and five mdlviduals. The
Commission's complaint alleged Violations of the antifraud, reporting and
proxy provisions of the Exchange Act,
as well as of the accounting and bookkeeping provisions of the Foreign
Corrupt Practices Act. The complaint
charged, among other things, that ISC
made false and misleading disclosures
or failed to disclose ISC commitments
to pay a total of $33 milhon and its payment of approximately $23 million in
connection with the securing of or solicitation of business in, among other
countries, Iran, Algeria, Saudi Arabia,
Nicaragua, Chile and the Ivory Coast.
51

The complaint also alleged that ISC
overstated
Its assets, earnings, and
shareholders' equity by including unbilled receivables which as of ISC's fiscal 1973 year end totaled $31 million
and which reflected cost overruns on
fixed-price contracts, sham claims for
escalation and kickback arrangements,
The complaint further alleged that the
corporation failed to disclose that certain officers were the prime beneficiaries of a deferred compensation plan
and that corporate funds were used to
purchase, furnish and maintain a summer residence for the Chairman of the
Board of the firm,
On December 17, 1979, ISC and two
of the individual defendants consented
to a final judgment and undertaking.
The relief obtained included the appointment of three directors, who would
form the membership
of ISC's audit
committee, and who were satisfactory
to the Commission, The staff is continuing htiqatron against the three remaining individual defendants.
Government and Municipal
Securities
As indicated In last year's Annual Report,132 the trading of government and
municipal securities has increased significantly In recent years. Due to the
continuation of questionable issuing
and trading practices in this area, the
Commission's enforcement interest has
also continued.
SEC v. G. Weeks Securities, Inc. 133
- On October 26, 1979, the Commission filed a complaint against G. Weeks
Securities, Inc. (GWS), G. Weeks [, Co.,
lnc., and several individuals. The complaint alleged that the defendants had
violated the registration provlsions of
the Federal securities laws in the offer
and sale of investments referred to as
"standby with pair off' transactions by
GWS. The complaint alleged that standby with pair off transactions, in which
GWS would purportedly enter into a
52

commitment to sell a specified amount
of Government National Mortgage Association securities to a customer at a
future date and simultaneously agree to
repurchase the same securities on the
same future date from the customer at
a higher price, were "securities" in the
form of evidences of indebtedness and
Investment contracts in GWS.
The Court enjoined the defendants
from violations of the registration provisions of the Federal securities laws. A
previous order which enjoined the defendants from violating the antifraud
provisions of the Federal securities laws
has been appealed by the defendants.
SEC v. Harwell 134- This action was
previously noted in last year's Annual
Report.13S During the last fiscal year,
various developments occurred in this
so-called "University of Houston" case.
In this action, the Commission's complaint alleged numerous violations of
the Federal securities laws based upon
the channelling by a university employee of securities transactions through secuntles firms and individuals, who were
also defendants, for the benefit of these
parties and to the detriment of the university. The complaint alleged that one
securities firm charged excessive fees
to the university and charged commissions to both sides of the transactions
while purportedly acting as a broker for
the university. The complaint
also
charged that another firm had defrauded the university by charging excessive fees and by interpositioning with
respect to $35 million in government
security transactions,
The complaint
further alleged that another firm was
needlessly interpositioned with respect
to the university's trades in government
securities to the financial detriment of
the university and that excessive fees
were charged to the university in connection with reverse repurchase transactions.
On February 1, 1980, the Commission ordered public administrative pro-

ceedings instituted pursuant to the
Exchange Actl36 concerning Roger
Kenneth Knox, a one-third shareholder
of Covington-Knox, Inc. (CKI), one of
the securities firms enjoined in SEC v.
Harwell.
In these proceedings, the Commission found that Knox was convicted in
November, 1979, of a felony involving
the purchase and sale of securities and
arising out of conduct of a business as
a broker-dealer and that he was given a
probated sentence; that Knox is permanently enjoined by order of the United
States District Court for the Southern
District of Texas from violating the
antifraud provisions of the Securities
Act and the Exchange Act; that Knox
wilfully violated and wilfully aided,
abetted and procured the violation by
others of the antifraud provisions of the
Securities Act and the Exchange Act;
and that Knox wilfully caused false and
misleading statements with respect to
material facts to be made in CKl's application for registration as a brokerdealer and reports to be filed with the
Commission under the Exchange Act.
The Commission ordered that Knox
be barred from association with any
broker or dealer.

Related-Party Transactions
An area of continuing concern to the
Commission is that of transactions between persons who are related to a
publicly-held corporation and that corporation which, directly or indirectly,
serve to benefit the related party without
regard to the interests of the corporation or its shareholders or without sufficient disclosure of all material facts.
Transactions involving broker-dealers
and customers can raise similar problems and are also of continuing concern to the Commission.
SEC v. Jack M. Catain, Jr. and
Rusco Industries, Inc. 137 - On July 8,
1980, the Commission instituted a civil

mjunctive action against Jack M. Catain,
Jr. and Rusco Industries, Inc. The action
alleged that, between 1975 and 1980,
Catain engaged in a course of conduct
in which Rusco funds were used in connection with transactions in which
Catain, and! or certain of his friends or
associates, had an undisclosed interest.
Such transactions were for the benefit
of Catain or his friends without regard
to the interests of Rusco and its pubhc
shareholders. The transactions included
Catain's causing Rusco to: (l) purchase
the assets of a corporation owned principally by Catain, thereby satisfying the
corporation's obligations which Catain
had guaranteed and retrievmq for
Catain a substantial portion of his investment in the losing venture; (2)
make substantial advances to distributorships owned by Catam's relatives
and associates; (3) cause a Rusco subsidiary to enter into a substantial lease
and financial guarantee agreement with
a company in which Catain had an
undisclosed interest; and (4) lease cars
from a separate entity formed by

Catam,
The Court entered judgments of permanent injunction enjoining Catain and
Rusco from further violations of the
antifraud, reporting and proxy provisions of the Exchange Act. In addition,
Catain and Rusco have agreed to certain undertakings which, among other
things, require Catain to resign immediately as Chairman of the Board and
Chief Executive Officer of Rusco and
repay to Rusco any monies found to be
due and owing from the activities complained of in the Commission's complaint.
SEC v. General Resources Corporation, et al. 138 - On October 31, 1979,
the Commission filed a complaint
seeking preliminary and permanent injunctions along with any other appropriate relief against General Resources
Corporation (GRC), other corporate de-

53

fendants and various individual defendants. All of the individual defendants are
either officers and/or directors of one
or more of the corporate defendants, all
of which are affihated.
In the complaint, the Commission alleged violations by GRC and the affiliated corporate defendants of the antifraud provisions of the Securities Act
and the Exchange Act, and violations of
the penodic reporting and proxy provisions of the Exchange Act. The complaint alleged that the individual defendants violated and aided and abetted
violations of the antifraud provisions
and aided and abetted violations of the
periodic reporting and proxy provisions
in the course of their activities as officers and directors of GRC and the affiliated companies.
The complaint alleged that: (1) some
of the corporate defendants who are
publicly-held companies acquired, and
thereafter caused to transfer, valuable
assets for inadequate consideration; (2)
agreements and transactions were entered into which were contrary to the
companies' Interests and the interests
of their public shareholders; and (3) appropriate disclosure to the stockholders, the Commission, and the investing
public was not made concerning these
transactions and agreements.
The individual defendants are also alleged to have sustained the operation of
insolvent and nearly insolvent upper-tier
cornparues through a complex series of
Inter-company transactions
in which
cash of the acquired companies was
exchangged for mortgages, coal leases
and other property of dubious value.
An accounting IS being sought of all
monies or other property received by
one individual defendant, W. Bennett
Collett, and from some of the corporate
defendants. An order of permanent injunction was signed against all of the
corp po rate defendants and individual
54

defendants. However, litigation in this
matter is continuing concerning
defendant Roy E. Stephens.
SEC v. Investment Information, lnc.,

et ai. 139 - On March 19, 1980, the
Commission filed a complaint seeking a
final order of permanent
injunction
against Investment Information, Inc. (III)
and Frederick P. Oman, the company's
president and majority stockholder. The
complaint alleges that IIIand Oman violated the antifraud provision of the Exchange Act and aided and abetted violations of Section 206 of the Investment
Advisers Act.
The allegations were based on an
arrangement
whereby III brought together money managers, investment
advisers and bank trust departments
with broker-dealers. Participating brokers remitted 50 percent of commissions to III,which used a majority of the
money to pay for goods and services
purchased
elsewhere by the money
managers. Some $11.7 million in commissions were paid under this arrangement between January 1973 and June
1978, with about half - $5.8 million - remitted to IIIfor the credit of the
money managers' accounts. III retained
a fee of between 10 and 17 percent of
the gross commissions paid. The complaint alleged that the money managers
also had the option of directing III to
pay the related portion of the commission to the beneficial owner of the securities whose account paid the original
commission
Instead of paying for
goods and services purchased by the
money manager.
The complaint alleged that III prepared and sent to money managers a
suggested
customer
consent
form
which made inadequate and incomplete
disclosure concerning the arrangement,
in that the consent form erroneously
stated that the arrangement operated at
"no cost" to the customer, and failed to
disclose that III in some cases returned

cash to the beneficial owner of the secunties rather than pay for goods and
services acquired by money managers.
III and Oman were ordered by the
District Court to comply with their undertakmgs to refrain from engaging in
any business activity which involves the
provision of cash, goods or services to
fiduciary money managers in return for
directing brokerage transactions for accounts under their management to any
particular broker unless such business
activity specifically conforms with a
general Commission rule, release or
specific Commission interpretive letter
to Oman or III. However, III may arrange
for a partial return in cash of commissions charged on directed brokerage
transactions provided that such rebate
is directly returned to the account of the
beneficial owner of the securities involved in the transaction and provided
that adequate disclosure IS made to the
beneficial owner of securities.
In addition to the civil action, the
Commission issued a Report of Investigation pursuant to Section 21(a) of the
Exchange Act, detailing the conduct of
seven investment advisers, five banks,
and twelve broker-dealers, all of whom
undertook remedial actions. The investment advisers and banks agreed to
reduce cornrnlssions on certain transactions for a period of time. The Commission has also filed complaints
against two banks alleging violations of
Section lO(b) of the Exchange Act and
Rule 1Db - 5 thereunder in connection
with the III and other similar arrangements. Both cases are currently In litigation.
Energy and Tax Benefit Related
Cases
Due to the tax consequences of certain investments such as those in
energy-related products or real estate,
such investments may be inherently attractive to many investors. As a result,
the Commission devotes substantial en-

forcernent resources to the control of
fraudulent offerings in these fields. With
the advent of the nation's energy cnsis,
fraudulent offerings of energy-related
securities (and the Commission's response to them) have mtensified,
Investors in these offermgs are often
initially contacted by salesmen as part
of a nationwide, long-distance telephone sohcitation campaign. These
campaigns are typified by offermqs
which fall to comply with the registration requirements of the Securities Act
of 1933 (Securities Act) and fraudulent
solicitation statements. Individuals are
often persuaded to make an investment
on the basis of false statements or
ormssions concerning, among other
things, the amount of busmess to be
conducted by the Issuer,140 the risks associated with the investment; the experience of the Issuers' prmcpals: and the
use of investors' funds.':" One of the
major inducements to Investors IS the
purported availability of special tax benefits.142
SEC v. Stewart Energy Systems of
Idaho, lnc., A. Lamont Nibarger, et
al.143-On
October 23,1979, the Commission filed a complaint seeking to enjoin Stewart Energy Systems of Idaho,
Inc. (Stewart of Idaho). A. Lamont
Nibarqer, President of Stewart of Idaho,
and a number of other entities and mdividuals related to Stewart of Idaho, from
violations of the registration and antifraud provisions of the Federal secunties laws. In addition, the Cornrnission
sought disgorgement and other ancillary relief,
The Commission's complaint alleged,
among other things, that in the offer
and sale of notes, royalty mterests and
dealerships, the defendants made untrue statements of material fact and
failed to state material facts relatmg to
the use of investor funds for the personal benefit of Nibarger, his relatives, and
companies owned or controlled by him.

55

In addition, it alleged that no working
prototype of the Stewart cycle engine
system had ever been tested in an applied working situation and, therefore,
that statements
regarding the time
frame in which the Stewart engine system would pay for itself and provide a
return on investments
could not be
made with any accuracy. The complaint
further alleged that the defendants
failed to tell investors that in order for
them to obtain any return on their investment, It would be necessary to have
engine sales ranging from $100 million
to $1 billion.
The entry of a decree of permanent
injunction on October 23, 1979, enjoined all defendants, except Robert C.
Stewart, from further violations of the
registration and antifraud provisions,
with such defendants agreeing to certam anctllary relief. On June 3, 1980,
the court entered to a decree of permanent injunction prohibiting defendant
Robert C. Stewart from further violations.144
Nibarger agreed to resign as president of the company and to relinquish
control of Stewart of Idaho. Stewart of
Idaho agreed to appoint a new board of
directors, the majority of which will be
independent of past management. In
addition, Stewart of Idaho and Nibarger
have agreed to the appointment of an
independent special agent to report and
make recommendations on the amount
of disgorgement to Stewart of Idaho to
be made by Nibarger and companies
owned and controlled by him. The special agent will also recommend to the
court the extent to which investors
should receive an equity position in
Stewart of Idaho, and Nibarger agreed
to make an accounting to the court, the
Commission,
and the special agent.
The company further agreed to employ
an accounting firm to conduct a certified audit, and to make full and fair disclosure to investors as to all activities of
56

Stewart of Idaho and related corporations.
SEC u. CAL-AM Corp., et at. 145 - On
August 11, 1980, the District Court issued final judgments of permanent injunction against the various remaining
defendants
in this action which was
filed in 1977. The Commission's complaint charged that CAL-AM Corporation and various individuals violated the
registration, antifraud, and reporting
provisions of the Federal securities laws
by engaging in a massive nationwide
scheme, beginning in January 1975, to
solicit and obtain money from the investing public in return for unregistered
securities. The complaint alleged that,
in 1975, the defendants sold unregistered securities in the form of limited
partnerships allegedly formed to obtain
tax and other economic benefits from
the operation of resort condominiums
in Hawaii, and raised over $2.5 million
from 400 public investors. The complaint also alleged that the defendants
offered and sold over $30 million worth
of unregistered securities to public investors through false and misleading
materials which offered interests in approximately 3,000 limited partnerships
allegedly formed to obtain tax and
economic benefits from the mining of
coal and the operation of oil wells. The
complaint further alleged that, in 1977,
defendants offered and sold over $5
million worth of unregistered securities
to 500 public investors through false
and misleading
materials which described interests in leases and related
agreements allegedly designed to obtain tax and other economic benefits
from coal mining and the sale of coal.
The Commission had obtained several final judgments of permanent injunction in 1978.146 Under the terms of the
final judqrnent entered by the District
Court in 1980 the remaining defendants
were enjoined from violating certain
antifraud and registration provisions.

SEC v. The Intemational Mining Exchange, Inc. et al. 147- On September
12, 1980, the Commission filed a complaint against the International mining
Exchange, Inc. (Mining), Trenton H.
Parker & Associates, Inc., MansIOn
Properties Corporation, Mansion Properties Management Corporation, and
Trenton H. Parker, an individual, alleging violations of the registration and
antifraud provisions of the Securities
Act and certain of the antifraud, filing
and reporting provisions of the Exchange Act.
The complaint alleged that, in connection with the offer and sale of Mining's securities, namely investment contracts in the form of a "gold tax shelter
investment program," Mining and Parker made untrue statements of material
fact to the effect that: (1) investors in
Mining would acquire a leasehold interest in mining concessions; (2) investors
would profit from gold to be mined; and
(3) investors could take a 500 percent
Federal income tax deduction based on
mining developmental expenses incurred on the investor's behalf. The
complaint also alleged that Parker and
Mining omitted to Inform investors that:
(1) some purchasers of the investment
contracts acquired no interest in any
gold concession; (2) no payments were
made on behalf of the purchasers for
mining developmental expenses; and
(3) the purchaser's investments were diverted by Mining and Parker to uses
unrelated to mining developmental expenses.
The complaint further alleged that
Trenton H. Parker & Associates, Inc.,
Mansion PropertIes Corporation, Mansion Properties Management Corporation, and Parker, in connection with the
offer and sale of interests in limited
partnerships organized by Parker to
purchase and renovate historical mansions, made untrue statements of material fact. The statements claimed that:

(1) purchasers could reasonably expect
a 25 to 50 percent annual cash return
on their investments; (2) could reasonably expect approximately 100 to 200
percent capital appreciation in six to
nine months; and (3) could reasonably
expect to recover their investments by
the end of the following year. The complaint alleged that the defendants
omitted to disclose that the Investments
involved a high degree of risk, and that
the funds would be diverted to Parker's
own use and benefit.
As of the close of the fiscal year, a
date for hearing has not been set.
SEC v. Murphy 148_ln 1975, the
Cornmlssron
brought suit against
Stephen Murphy and other defendants
charging violations of the registration
and antifraud provisions of the securities laws and seeking injunctive relief.
On March 5, 1978, the District Court
granted summary judgment for the
Commission on the registration count
and issued a permanent injunction. On
September 19, 1978, the Court entered
judgment for the Commission on the
antifraud counts and enjoined Murphy
from future Violations. In addition, the
District Court directed Murphy to send
copies of the Court's order to: (1) each
investor in a limited partnership that
had a relationship with Intertie, a corporation he formed and controlled; (2) all
present and future officers and directors
of Intertie and another related corporation, Xanadex; (3) the general partner of
any limited partnership which leases
equipment or assets to Intertie or
Xanadex; and (4) any securitIes brokerage firm engaged by Murphy, Intertie, or
Xanadex to sell interests In limited partnerships which have relationships with
Intertie or the related corporation.
Murphy appealed all of the Court's
decisions. In a substantial opinion reviewing all the issues, the Court of Appeals of the Ninth Circuit affirmed the
judgments of the District Court.

57

Coordination with Other
Authorities; Effective Commission
Response to Discovery of Problems
The ever increasing mternational nature of commerce continually causes
the Commission to coordinate with authonties of foreign countries, such as
Canadian authorities, as one summarized case illustrates. In other situations,
the discovery of imminent loss to 10vestors requires that the Commission
act quickly If it is to effectively preserve
investor's assets
SEC v Alexander Kasser 149 - The
Commission oriqmally filed a cornplamt
agamst Alexander Kasser in 1974. This
complaint and a later amended complaint were both dismissed by the DIStrict Court, and pursuit of the action was
halted until reversal of the decrsion of
the District Court by the Court of Appeals in 1977
The Commission had alleged violations of various antifraud provisions of
the Federal securities laws through a
scheme to defraud the Manitoba Development Fund, a corporation owned by
the Province of Manitoba, Canada, and
engaged 10 the bus mess of fmancing 10dustnal resources development.
Kasser had fled the United States 10
the early 1970'5 and his exact whereabouts in Austria, where he became a citizen, was unknown until 1977, at which
time letters rogatory for Service of the
complaint were filed In Austria. The
Austrian courts obtained service of
process on Kasser 10 1979.
Kasser entered into a coordinated
settlement with the Commission and
Canadian prosecutors In settlement,
Kasser agreed to pay approximately $9
million (Canadian) to the Manitoba Development Fund. In addition, Kasser
consented to a permanent injunction 10
the Commissron's action which was entered on August 4, 1980. The Canadian
provincial authorities also accepted the
settlement.
58

SEC v. Philip R. Cohn and Deuid E.
Lyon 150 - On March 12, 1980, the

Commission filed a complaint against
Philip R. Cohn and David E. Lyon
alleging that, on or about March 1,
1976 to the present, Cohn and Lyon offered for sale and sold over $8 million
10 unregistered sec unties in the form of
evidences of mdebtedness, "buy back"
agreements, and promissory notes in
connection with certain real estate
transactions, and investment contracts
10 the form of interests and participations in multi-family housing projects,
In addition, the Commission alleged VIolations of the antrfraud provrsions of
the securities laws based upon misrepresentations of material fact and omissions of rnatarra! facts concerning
commingling, conversion and diversion
of proceeds, the source of funds used
to payoff investors, profits to be realized by investors, the guaranteed return
of investors' funds and the placing of
proceeds in escrow. The cornplamt also
alleged that in furtherance of the conduct described therein, defendants
Cohn and Lyon engaged in transactions, practices and a course of business which operated, or would operate
as a fraud, mcluding paying off prior investors with the proceeds of the sale of
securities to subsequent investors, and
solIciting new investors by citing the
profits realized by earlier investors without Informing them that such profits
were paid from the proceeds of sales of
securities to subsequent investors.
On April 22, 1980, and July 3, 1980,
the District Court entered orders permanently enjoining Cohn and Lyons, respectively, from further violations of the
registration and antifraud provisions of
the Federal securities laws. In addition,
on April 22, 1980, the Court ordered
various assets frozen and ordered
various books and records frozen. On
July 3, 1980, the Court ordered an accounting of all proceeds from the sale

of securities in connection with certain
multi-family housing projects and monies received from the period March 1,
1976, to present.
Other Significant Enforcement
Cases
SEC u. The Fundpack, lnc., et al. 151
- On March 21, 1979, the Cornrnission
filed a complaint against the Fundpack,
Inc. (Fundpack), Holdmg Trust (Trust)
and Holdings of U.S. Government Securities, Inc., a complex of mutual funds
(the Funds), together with the Funds'
investment adviser, Fundpack Management, Inc. (Management),
its two
broker-dealer subsidiaries and several
indlviduals. The complaint alleged VIOlatio.ns of the antifraud, registration, reportmg, proxy and fiduciary obhqation
provisions of the Federal securities
laws, based principally on the implementation in the Funds of an investment arrangement known as "switching" which imposed largely undisclosed
costs and performance
burdens on
Fundpack. These burdens have included borrowmg expenses, high transaction costs, and mvestment losses due to
a leveraged condition in the Fundpack
portfolio during stock market declines.
The switchmg program permitted and
encouraged the Funds' shareholders to
transfer their investments among the
Funds Immediately upon placing a telephone order to that effect. It resulted in
frequent fluctuations in the assets of
Fundpack which had, on some occasions, reduced its net assets by as
much as approximately 70 percent in a
single day. The total operating costs
and investment losses as a result of the
switching program had on occasion
been as high as 12 percent of Fundpack's
average
net assets
on an
annualized basis.
Additionally, the complaint alleged
self-dealing practices by Management
and breach of fiduciary duty by the
Fundpack directors. The complaint also

alleged that the Funds' prospectuses,
annual and periodic reports, proxy materials and other literature were materially false and rrusleadmq with respect to
the above matters and that Fundpack
and Trust offered and sold unregistered
secunties to the public. Five major acnons have been taken by the Court In
this litigation
On August 10, 1979, an order of prehrrunary Injunction was entered, app orntinq an independent
master to
oversee and approve certain of the operations of the Funds and Management,
providing that proxies, solicited for the
Funds' annual meeting of shareholders
on June 28, 1978, were VOid, and ordering the Funds to resohcit proxies in
compliance with the Federal securities
laws under the supervision of the independent master.P"
Followinq the preliminary Injunction,
the action was settled as to the Funds
Management and Its subsldianes, and
Victor H Polk, former president and
chairman of each of the defendant corporations. On September 29, 1979, the
Funds consented to a Final Order pursuant to which the Funds were required, among other things, to appoint
and thereafter nommate and recommend for election to their respective
boards of directors four lndivrduals satisfactory to the Cornmissron. The order
of the Court also required that the
Funds 'report to shareholders concerning the Commission's complaint, the
history of the htiqatron, and the actions
taken pursuant to the final order.153
On December 13, 1979, the Court
entered into a final judgment of permanent injunction against Polk, Management, and its subsidianes P" which permanently enjoined them from engaging
In conduct
VIolative of the antifraud.
proxy, reporting, registration, and fiduciary obligation provisions of the Federal secuntles laws. In addition, the final
judgment ordered Polk and Manage59

ment to liquidate an unregistered investment company established by Polk
and Management following the institution of the Commission's action,
On March 5, 1980, former controlling
stockholders, officers and employees of
Management consented to final judgments which permanently enjoined
them from engaging in conduct violetIng certain of the antifraud, registration
and fiduciary obligation provisions of
the Federal securities laws.155
On August 6, 1980, several former
"disinterested" directors of the funds
consented to a final judgment which
prohibited them from engaging in conduct violating certain of the registration
and fiduciary obligation provisions of
the Federal securities laws, and ordered
them to take all steps reasonably necessary to cause any Investment company
with which they become affiliated to file
with the Commission and disseminate
to shareholders complete and accurate
prospectuses, proxy materials and periodic reports.P"
The Commission's action continues
against another former officer and director of Management and its subsidiaries.
SEC v. First Independent Stock
Transfer Agent, Inc. and Terry E.
Kirchner 157 - On August 4, 1980, the
Commission filed a complaint against
First Independent Stock Transfer Agent,
Inc. (Transfer) and Terry E. Kirchner,
the company's president. The Commission sought to enjoin Transfer and
Kirchner from violating, among other
things, provisions of the Exchange Act
relating to: (1) recordkeeping requirements; (2) the time during which
turnaround must be made of all securities classified as routine items; (3) notice required to be given to the defendants' issuer clients for failure to meet
turnaround requirements; and (4) limitations on business expansion when

60

failing to comply with turnaround requirements.
The Court entered a final judgment of
permanent injunction which required
the defendants, in substance, to: (1) establish and keep current recordkeeping
and other procedures designed to ensure compliance with transfer agent
rules; (2) retain independent public
acccountants in order to review the defendants' recordkeeping system and
transfer agent procedures; (3) furnish
the Commission with written certifications with respect to the establishment
and implementation of recommended
recordkeeping and transfer agent procedures; (4) give notice to the Commission and to the defendants' clients of
past failures of the defendants to comply with the Commission's turnaround
requirements; (5) refrain temporarily
from an expansion in business; and
(6) furnish to the Commission semimonthly reports about the time required
by the defendants to turnaround items
presented for transfer.
Staff Report of the Securities and
Exchange Commission on Proxy Solicitetions in Connection with Compass Investment Group 158 - On November 15, 1979, the Commission
issued a report, pursuant to Section
2l(a) of the Exchange Act, with respect
to the Compass Investment Group. The
report was the result of a staff inquiry
into proxy solicitations made in connection with the annual meeting of Compass Investment Group (Compass).
Proxy solicitation materials were issued primarily on behalf of two individuals who had amassed 48 percent of
the outstanding shares of Compass.
They represented that there were no future arrangements or understandings
with respect to future employment with
Compass, nor any transactions or proposed transactions with the company in
which these individuals had any direct
or indirect material interest. After the

proxy materials were issued, but prior to
the shareholder meeting, these individuals had determined that one would
serve as chairman and that he would receive compensation In the amount of
$60,000 per annum In the form of a
consulting contract. These individuals
made other determinations concerning
the company as well. These lndivrduals
took no action either prior to or at the
annual meeting to advise the shareholders of the proposed arrangements.
After the staff commenced its inquiry,
the participants determined to solicit
the shareholders for approval of the
compensation arrangements. The individual who was to serve as chairman
agreed not to receive any compensation
for the period from the shareholder
meeting until the date of shareholder
approval of the compensation arrangements.
In the report, the staff restated the obligations upon those who solicit proxies
to take appropriate steps to disseminate
material information with respect to
events which occur between the time of
the mailing of a proxy solicitation regarding a shareholder meeting and the
date of the shareholder meeting, particularly when, as a result of such events,
material statements contained in the
proxy are rendered false and misleading.
In the Matter of Philadelphia Stock
Exchange,
Inc.l59 - On March 17,
1980, the Commission issued an Order
Instituting Administrative Proceedings
pursuant to Section 19(h) of the Exchange Act and Findings and Order of
the Commission against the Philadelphia Stock Exchange, Inc. (Phlx), a registered national securities exchange located in Philadelphia, Pennsylvania.
In its Order, the Commission found
that the Phlx had violated Section
11A( c)( 1) of the Exchange Act, the
Commission's quotation rule, and Section 19(9) of the Exchange Act, by its

failure without reasonable justification
or excuse, to enforce compliance by its
members and persons associated with
its members with: (1) the Commission's
quotation rule and the exchange's own
quotation reporting rule; (2) the exchange's option position limit rule; (3)
the exchange's options spread parameter rules; and (4) the exchange's rules
regarding registered options traders'
quarterly trading requirements.
The Cornmissron censured the Phlx
and ordered it to fully comply with certain undertakings made in its Offer of
Settlement. In its undertakings, among
other things, the Phlx represented that it
has made, and has undertaken to make,
extensive revisions in organizational
structure, personnel commitment of resources, programs, policies and procedures designed to strengthen its market
surveillance and enforcement capabilities.
In the Matter of Boston Stock Exchange,
lnc., Boston Stock Exchange Clearing
Corporation, Inc. leo_On the first day of
the 1981 fiscal year, October I, 1980,
the Commission
issued an Order
Instituting Administrative Proceedings
pursuant to Section 19(h) of the Exchange Act against the Boston Stock
Exchange, Inc. (BSE) a registered national securities exchange and the Boston Stock Exchange Clearing Corporation Inc. (Clearing Corporation),
a
wholly-owned subsidiary and member
of the BSE, and which is registered with
the Commission.
In Its order, the Commission found
that the BSE without reasonable justification or excuse failed to employ adequate surveillance procedures for monitoring the activity of its specialists, and
failed to discover on a timely basis violations by its members of Commission,
BSE and Federal Reserve Board regulations, which continued over a thirteen
month period. Although the Comrnis-

61

sion noted that the BSE retained special counsel to investigate the violations
and ultimately
sanctioned
various
members, the Commission found that
the failure to maintain adequate surveillance procedures and to detect and terminate the violative conduct constituted
a failure to enforce Commission and
BSE regulations In violation of Section
19(9) (1) of the Exchange Act. In addition, the Commission found that the
Clearing Corporation extended credit to
specialists in violation of Section 7(c)
(l) of the Exchange Act and Federal
Reserve Board Regulation T.
The Commission censured the BSE
and the Clearing Corporation and ordered the BSE to fully comply with certain undertakings made in its Offer of
Settlement. In its undertakings, among
other things, the BSE represented that
the Board of Governors of the BSE
would appoint a Special Management
Review Committee composed of persons who are not officers of the BSE
and who shall review, among other
things: procedures
for nominating
members for the BSE Board of Governors; and, the Board of Governor's oversight of the management of the BSE,
including adequacy of internal controls
and integrity of the BSE disciplinary
process. The Special Management Review Committee was to be formed within 30 days of the date of the Commission's Order and the Committee was to
deliver a final report to the BSE Board
and to the staff of the Commission.
SEC v. Ian T Allison, et at. 161 - On
September 29, 1980, the Commission
filed a complaint against Ian T. Allison
and a number of other entities and individuals for violations of the antifraud

62

and registration provisions of the secunties laws and the penodic reportmq,
stock ownership reporting, and antimanipulative
provisions
of the Exchange Act. The Commission's complaint alleged that Allison and other
defendants participated in a scheme to
defraud by promoting two corporations
which had no substantial operations.
The complaint also alleged that the
defendants: (1) made false and misleading statements in registration statements concerning shareholder ownership and contribution of assets by the
new majority owners of the companies;
(2) manipulated the markets in two securities at the time of the opemng of
over-the-counter tradmq: (3) made false
and misleading statements during television interviews and in press releases
and research reports; and (4) made
false and misleading statements in filings of both companies with the Commission, certam of which included balance sheets
in which assets were
presented at inflated values, and income statements in which sales and
cost of sales were overstated.
Several of the defendants were permanently restrained and enjoined from
violating the antifraud, registration, and
reporting provisions of the Exchange
Act. In addition, the Court ordered one
of the corporations to make corrective
filings and appoint two independent directors satisfactory to the Commission.
As of the close of the fiscal year, the
case was pendinq against the rernaming
defendants. The Commission sought
both preliminary and final relief againt
all of the remaining defendants including injunctive relief and orders freezing
assets and requiring disgorgement of
profits.

Programmatic Utigation and Legal Work
The Commission, through Its Office
of the General Counsel, participates in a
substantial amount of litigation in addition to its enforcement actions. This litigation includes numerous appellate
cases before the Supreme Court and
Federal circuit courts of appeals where
the Commission appears as a party or
as amicus curiae, and distnct court litigatIOn where the Commission, its Commissioners, or ItS employees are party
defendants.
Commission
litigation,
whether as a party or an arnrcus, often
involves questions of great significance
concerning the proper interpretation
and scope of the Fderal secunties laws.
The Cornrnission's participation in this
litigation has worked to strengthen the
Investor protections afforded by the securities laws and the enforcement and
regulatory programs it has undertaken
to achieve that goal. The Office of the
General Counsel is also involved in important legislative and regulatory work.
The following is a summary of some of
the important actions which were litigated in the past year, and the status of
other projects of significance to the
Commission and the public.
Significant Litigation
Scope of the Antifraud Provisions of
the Federal Securities Laws - The

antifraud provisions are the principal
statutory basis through which the Commission seeks to protect the public
against deception in secunties transactions The proper scope of these statutory provisions is a continuing program
of importance to the Commission's litigation efforts. For example, the Commission has worked with the Department of Justice in connection
with

Rubin v. Uruted States, a cnrrunal case

presently before the Supreme Court
which raises the question of whether a
pledge of securities IS a sale under Section 17(a), the general antifraud provision of the Securities Act of 1933 (Securities Act). Resolution of that question
will determine whether Section 17(a) affords protection
against deception
which occurs in the pledge of securities.
In this case, the Umted States did not
oppose the granting of Rubin'S petition
for certioran on the pledge/sale quesnon, in view of the conflict among the
Federal courts of appeals on the issue,
and the Importance of that Issue to enforcement of the Federal securities
laws. The Supreme Court granted the
petition, lImiting ItS review to the
pledge/sale question, and the case was
pending at the close of the fiscal year
In addressmg the merits, the United
States urged that the plain meaning of
the statute encompasses pledges within
the term "sale," which IS defined to include the disposition of a security or interest in a security for value. That interpretation, the United States argued, is
also supported by legal principles well
recognized at the time the Securities
Act was enacted by Congress, as shown
by the legislative history and by the policies and purposes underlying the statute
In another facet of this Program, the
Commission has addressed in a different context the Important question of
whether the securities laws will protect a
person who is deceived into parting
with money in exchange for an interest
in a security. The Commission filed an
amicus brief in the Umted States Court
of Appeals for the Fifth Circuit in First
Neuonal Bank of Las Vegas v. Estate
63

of Russell, urging that a transaction is
covered by Section 1O(b), the general
antifraud provision of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934 (Exchange Act),
where a brokerage firm's agreement to
sell United States Treasury notes was
coupled with an agreement to repurchase them. The Commission is concerned that a holding to the contrary
would leave a large class of public
investors - those who invest in United
States Government securities under
these circumstances - without the protections provided by the antifraud provisions. This case is currently pending
before the Court of Appeals for the Fifth
Circuit.
The question of whether the basic
antifraud provisions of Section 1O(b)
and Rule 10b-5 thereunder of the Exchange Act prohibit securities transactions by a person who knows material,
nonpublic information with respect to
an issuer, but not as a result of any relationship with that issuer, was addressed
by the Supreme Court in Chiarella v.
United States. In that criminal case, an
employee of a financial printer, by virtue
of the fact that prospective tender
offerors would provide his employer
with confidential information about
forthcoming
bids, gained access to
such information and, prior to the public announcement of the bid, purchased
shares in the subject companies for
quick resale. The Department of Justice, assisted by the Commission, argued that, in trading on the basis of this
nonpublic information, Chiarella engaged in a fraudulent act or practice in
violation of Section 1O(b) and Rule
10b-5. But the Court reversed his conviction, holding that a duty to either disclose or refrain from trading does not
arise from the mere possession of
non public market information - the
theory, the Court believed, on which he
had been convicted. The Court did not
reach the question of whether the de-

64

fendant committed a violation by trading while in possession of information
that was misappropriated or otherwise
obtained by unlawful means, finding
that the jury had not been properly
charged on these theories. In its decision, however, the Court clearly appeared to recognize that in cases where
a fiduciary relationship is present between the person trading on confidential information and the class of defrauded buyers or sellers - as in the
traditional insider trading case - then
liability for nondisclosure under the
antifraud provisions is appropriate.
Application of the antifraud provisions where a securities transaction has
both domestic and foreign elements is
another significant aspect of this program. For example, the Commission
participated amicus before the United
States Court of Appeals for the Second
Circuit in 1fT v. Cornfeld, urging that the
district court had erred in holding that
the antifraud provisions of Section
10(b) of the Exchange Act and Rule
10b-5 did not apply to the transnational
transactions at issue. The Commission
believed that the potential adverse consequences of the district court's decision could be grave in light of the increasingly international character of
securities transactions and securities
frauds. The Commission expressed the
view that the antifraud provisions were
applicable because, as to certain of the
transactions, the sale of securities
occurred within the United States and
the alleged fraud, which involved securities that were American in every
meaningful sense, was furthered by
substantial activity within this country.
In its decision, the Court of Appeals
upheld the applicability of Section 1O(b)
and Rule 10b-5, finding that prior cases
dealing with this subject were not dispositive. As to transactions involving
sales of American securities which were
consummated in this Country, the court

stated that the presence of both factors
weighed heavily in favor of applying
United States law. As to transactions
involving foreign securities, the court
upheld jurisdiction, pointing to such
facts as the convertability of the securities into American securities, that they
were guaranteed by an American company, and that they were issued by a
foreign subsidiary of that company
which had no operating assets. The
court also relied on the relative dominance of American (compared to foreign) activity.
Also within this program IS the Comamicus curiae
mission's particrpation
in Weiss v, Marshall Field & Co. and
Panter v, Marshall Field & Co., two related cases pending before the United
States Court of Appeals for the Seventh
Circuit. The Marshall Field cases involve claims by present and former
shareholders of Marshall Field that the
company's management made fraudulent statements in response to a publicly announced tender offer proposal.
The Commission participated amicus
curiae because the Seventh Circuit's
resolution of certain legal issues concerning application of the antifraud provisions to takeover contests may have a
significant impact on the goal of investor protection embodied in the Federal
securities laws. Thus, the Commission
urged that the district court erred In
apparently restricting Section 1O(b) of
the Exchange Act and Rule 10b-5 to situations where the defendant purchased
or sold securities or acted with the intent to manipulate the price of securities. In addition, the Commission urged
that Section 14(e) of the Exchange Act,
an antifraud provision applicable to deception in tender offer transactions,
applies to deception during the entire
tender offer process - at least from the
time of the public announcement of a
tender offer proposal - and applies to a
tender offer, whether conditional or un-

conditional. With respect to the scope
of the disclosure obliqatron imposed by
Section 14(e), the Commission urged
that facts concerning management's
actions which may have a srqniflcant
bearing on the likehhood that a particular tender offeror, or any tender offeror,
will successfully consummate a tender
offer proposal, are not so obviously
unimportant to an investor that they are
immaterial as a matter of law.
Private Rights of Action Under the
Federal Securities Laws - The Commission's participatron in the Marshall
Field cases discussed above IS also
within another program of continuing
importance to the Cornrrnssion-c-avatlability to injured parties of private
causes of action under various provisions of the Federal securities laws.
Such actions provide a vehicle through
which Injured Investors can obtain redress for violations of the securities
laws. Moreover, since the Commission's
staff can bring only a lirrnted number of
enforcement actions, and may not normally recoup investor losses in those
actions, private actions must serve as a
necessary supplement to Commission
enforcement actions. In the Marshall
Field cases, the Commission submitted
a supplemental brief in which it urged
that there is an implied right of action
for damages in favor of shareholders
under Section 14(e) of the Exchange
Act, a right of action that exists regardless of whether a tender offer proposal
is defeated before shareholders are given an opportunity to tender.
During the fiscal year, the Commission also participated amicus before
the United States Court of Appeals for
the Third CirCUIt in Zetfiro v. First
Pennsylvania Bank, the first Federal
appellate case to address whether the
Trust Indenture Act provides injured debenture holders with a Federal cause of
action for the breach of indenture terms
mandated by the Act. The Comrnissron

65

urged that, because of the unique structure of the Act, the question was not
whether an implied right of action existed, but whether the existing private
right of action for breach of contract
presented a Federal question so that
the action could be brought In Federal
court. In reaching its decision that debenture holders have a Federal cause
of action, the Third Circuit utihzed many
of the factors emphasized by the Commission, but under an implied right of
action analysis. Among other things, the
court reasoned that the interpretation of
indenture provisions required by the
Trust Indenture Act depends on an interpretation of that statute, and, thus,
Federal court jurisdiction is necessary
to achieve the Uniform standards intended by Congress.
In Transamerica Mortgage Advisors,
Inc. v. Lewis, where the Issue was
whether a private cause of action was
Implied for violations of the antifraud
provision of the Investment Advisors Act
of 1940 (Investment Advisers Act), the
Supreme Court held that a private
cause of action for equitable relief was
implied under Section 215 of the Investment Advisers Act (governing the
validity of contracts), but not under Section 206 of the Act (the antifraud provision) for equitable rehef or damages.
The Commission has continued to
monitor appellate cases concerning irnphed causes of action in the wake of
Transamerica, as well as district court
opinions which have considered whether a private cause of action for equitable
relief IS Implied for violations of Section
13(d) of the Exchange Act This provision requires that a report containing
certain information be filed with an ISsuer and the Commission by any person who acquires more than five percent of the issuer's securities, so that an
issuer can consider the impact of such
potential shifts of control upon the
company and its shareholders. Prior to

66

Transamerica, each of the courts of appeals that had considered the issue had
concluded that a private action could
be maintained for a violation of that
section. The Commission filed a bnef,
amicus curiae, with the Court of Appeals for the Seventh Circuit in Gateway Industries, lnc.. v. Agency Rent-aCar, lnc., urging that an action could be
maintained subsequent to Transamerice, and has filed copies of its brief with
distnct courts considering that issue.
The appeal was withdrawn before a decisron was rendered by the Court.
Standard of Culpability -Aaron
v.
SEC raised the important issue of
whether the Commission must prove
scienter In injunctive actions brought to
restrain further violations of Section
17(a) of the Securities Act and Section
1O(b) of the Exchange Act, and Rule
10b-5 thereunder, the principal antifraud provisions of those statutes. In
light of the importance of this issue, the
uncertainty as to its resolution, and the
frequency of lItigation concerning the
question, the Commission had urged
the Supreme Court to grant Aaron's petition for certiorari. The Supreme Court,
based primarily on analysis of the statutory language, ruled unanimously that
the Commission need not prove scienter under the broad antitrust provisrons
found in Sections 17(a) (2) and 17(a)
(3) of the Securities Act, but ruled six to
three that proof of scienter is required
under Section 17(a) (1), Section lOtb),
and Rule 10b-5. The Aaron decision,
read In combination with an earlier Supreme Court decision (United States v.
Naftalin) concerning the coverage of
Sections 17(a) (2) and 17(a) (3), provides the Commission with effective enforcement tools. Those statutory provisions should provide protection against
most deceptive conduct.
The standard of culpability program
also involves much litigation with respect to other provisions of the Federal

securities laws. In Adams v. Standard
Kruttinq Mills, lnc., the Commission
filed a memorandum amicus curiae In

this case IS that

support

of plaintiffs'

for re-

it will be an Important

hearing

en bane and petition

for re-

future.

by the

private plaintiffs,

hearing,
United
Sixth

which

suggestion

was

denied

States

Court

of Appeals

Circuit.

The

Commission

urged that the Sixth Circuit
In defining

scienter

for the
had

panel erred

as a desire

to de-

ceive, defraud,

or manipulate.

in search-

Ing the record

for evidence

of a "mo-

tive"

for deception,

that scienter
damages

and in concluding

must

from

be shown to recover

the defendant

mq firm under

Section

account-

14(a) of the Ex-

change Act and Rule 14a-9, which
hibit deception

in connection

pro-

with proxy

appellate
director

It IS the first reported

decision

to

hold

a nominee

liable under Section
both

for

responsible
director

14(a), and

precedent

the

for deception

of the

that

proxy

IS a nominee

company

Kalrnan

Issuing

Court

connection

for

applied

a

test between the

name

In

a proxy state-

and the sohcrtation

found

the

In hold-

was liable

the

use of a person's
ment

ovitz

violations,

substantial

and

where a person who is

proxy. but not then a director
mq

In the

Commission

effort.

that the connection

and it

between

the

use of Kalrnanovitz's

name and the so-

licitation

of his taking

of approval

con-

trol was pivotal. The Court flatly rejected

solicitations.

the argument

Protection
of the SharehoLder s
Frenchise - The proxy provisions at issingular
role in
sue in Adams playa

not be held liable because the rnatenal
the

ensuring

Falstaff's

vote

that

shareholders

on important

can do so In an Informed
issue is within

provided

fashion.

This
litiga-

in which the Commission

to ensure
with

making

to

decisrons

the Commission's

tion program
seeks

asked

corporate

such

that

shareholders

accurate

For

rnisrepresentatrons
proxy

in

example,

Cornrmssron's
several forums

ItIng shareholder

approval

control

of the

rnanovrtz,

company

and the election

vitz to the
time

of the sale of

a challenge

board

director

At the

of Falstaff,

The

United

States

cluded,
that

as the Commission

had urged,

Kalrnanovitz

the proxy provisions,
Section

of Appeals
Circuit con-

and

both

from

violations

14(a) of the Exchange

well as Sections

violated

and the Court enfuture

10(b).

of that Act. The principal

also
district

court

of

Act. as

13(a), and 13(d)
srqruficance

of

to a

where

a

investigating

had sought

documents

had ordered

that

Dresser comply

with the Commission's

subpoena,

a panel

and

of the

States Court of Appeals

of Columbia

Falstaff

joined

Court

The

Commis-

pursuant

independently

Dresser

but not part of its management.
for the District

jury

issued

from the company.

Kalrnano-

In

an admirus-

investigation,

of Kalrnano-

of directors.

vitz was a nominee

Commission
grand

to the

to enforce

to Paul Kal-

of the proxy statement,

authority

unsuccessfully

ample. Dresser Industries. Inc. v. SEC
Involved

subpoena

solic-

to

in the past year. For ex-

trative

management

in

known

investigation

the issuance

statement

ormssions

were

management.

authority

proxy

should

Scope of Commission's lnoesuqetory Authority - The proper scope of the

sion's

by Falstaff's

and

statement

SEC v. Falstaff Brewing Corp. involved
of a misleading

Kalmanovitz

has been challenged

are

disclosure

decisions.

that

of Columbia

Circuit

fied the order
sion from

affirmed,

to prohibit

transmitting

but modi-

the Commis-

the fruits

mvesnqation to the Department
Ice. Upon rehearing
sought
Commission,

(Iruted

for the Distnct

of Its
of Jusby the

the United States Court of

Appeals for the District of Columbia, en
bane, unanimously affirmed the distnct
court's

order requinnq

Dresser to com-

67

ply with the Commission's investigative
subpoena and struck down the modification placed on transmittal of evidence
by the Commission to the Attorney
General. In so doing, the Court broadly
defined the scope of the Commission's
appropriate investigatory authority, emphasized the importance of expeditious
investigation of violations of the Federal
securities laws by both the Commission
and the Department of Justice, and approved close interagency cooperation in
this area. Adopting the position urged
by the Commission, the Court h-eldthat
an earlier Supreme Court decision,
which precluded the Internal Revenue
Service from using its summons authority in a civil investigation after it had
determined to refer the matter to the
Department of Justice for criminal
prosecution, has no applicability to the
Commission, given its distinctive statutory authority to investigate and enforce
the Federal securities laws. A petition
for certiorari to the Supreme Court has
been filed by Dresser and the Commission has filed an opposition thereto,
urging the correctness of the decision
by the Court of Appeals and the absence of any conflict in the Federal
courts of appeals on this issue.
Petitions for certiorari to the Supreme
Court have been filed in at least two
other instances, with regard to the
Commission's investigative authority. In
SEC v. OKC Corp., the United States
Court of Appeals for the Fifth Circuit
rejected a challenge to the Commission's authority to utilize, in the course
of its investigation, a report prepared by
OKC Corporation's directors by an outside law firm and upheld the Commission's investigation. In SEC v. Blackfoot
Bituminous,
lnc., the United States
Court of Appeals for the Tenth Circuit
held that the Commission need not
show the likelihood of a violation before
seeking enforcement of its subpoenas.
The Commission's broad authority was

68

also upheld by the United States Court
of Appeals for the Third Circuit in SEC
v. Wheeling Pittsburgh Co., despite an
allegation by the targets of the Commission's investigation that the person
submitting information to the Commission had been politically motivated.
That decision was vacated by the en
bane court, however, when it granted a
petition for rehearing en bane.
Standard of Proof in Adjudicatory
Administrative Proceedings Before the
Commission - The question of which
standard of proof should be utilized in
Commission administrative proceedings was another important litigation
program area during the past year. For
example, in Collins Securities Corp. v.
SEC. the United States Court of Appeals
for the District of Columbia Circuit held
that the Commission had erred in
utilizing the "preponderance of the evidence" standard of proof in this brokerdealer proceeding. The Court believed
that "clear and convincing evidence" is
required in administrative proceedings
involving charges of fraud, at least
where the sanction is expulsion from
the securities industry.
But, the United States Court of Appeals for the Fifth Circuit later disagreed in Steadman v. SEC. The Fifth
Circuit held, among other things, that
the Commission properly utilized the
preponderance standard in an administrative proceeding brought against an
investment adviser and broker-dealer
for violations of the antifraud provisions
of the securities laws, even where one
of the sanctions imposed was a permanent bar from association with any registered investment adviser or investment company. In Steadman, the Court
accepted the Commission's argument
that, applying the balancing test for
determining the proper standard of
proof announced by the Supreme Court
in Addington v. Texas, the risk of injury
to Steadman did not significantly out-

weigh the interest of the investing public, who might be inadequately
protected if the Commission's ability to
police the securities industry were impaired by requiring the higher "clear
and convincing evidence" standard of
proof.
On April 28, 1980, the Supreme
Court granted certiorari in Steadman in
order to resolve the conflict between the
Fifth Circuit's decision and the decision
of the District of Columbia Circuit in
Collins. In its brief to the Supreme
Court, the Commission argued that the
standard of proof prescribed by the
Administrative Procedures Act is satisfied by a preponderance
of the evidence, and the determination whether
to employ a higher standard of proof is
the responsibility of the Commission, as
it is the agency entrusted by Congress
with the administration of the securities
laws, which responsibility includes the
promulgation of fair procedures in connection therewith. The Commission further argued that under the balancing
test of Addington, neither the potential
injury to the investment adviser, nor the
fact that the antifraud provisions are involved, justifies a departure from the
traditional preponderance standard, in
view of the commission's need to protect the investing public from dishonest
flduciarles entrusted with their money.
Since the decision of the United
States Court of Appeals for the Fifth
Circuit in Steadman,
the question of
which standard of proof should be utilized in Commission administrative proceedings has arisen in a number of other contexts. For example, in Investors
Research Corp. v. SEC, the District of
Columbia refused to extend its own
Collins "clear and convincing
evidence" standard to a Commission
proceeding where an affiliate of an investment company was censured for violations of Section 17(e) (1) of the Investment Company Act. The Court

explained that, since there was neither a
finding of fraud nor a severe sanction,
use of the higher standard was not required. Shortly thereafter, in Decker v.
SEC, a case Involving the same type of
violation and sanction as Investors Research, the United States Court of Appeals for the Tenth Circuit, applying the
Addington balancing test, followed the
lead of the District of Columbia Circuit
and held that the proper standard of
proof in such a proceeding was the
"preponderance
of the evidence"
standard,
Tender Offer Litigation - The Commission's adoption, in December 1979,
of extensive and detailed rules governing the conduct of tender offers subject to the Williams Act, has resulted in
litigation concerning the effect of these
rules on state takeover statutes, The
Commission
has participated
as
amicus curiae or as a party in a number of these lawsuits, which generally
arise in the context of hostile takeover
attempts, and which focus upon the
preemptive effect of Rule 14d-2(b) (the
rule concerning the early commencement date of a tender offer) on state law
provisions requiring extended precommencement
delay. The rule requires a tender offer to commence
shortly after a public announcement of
its material terms. It was designed to
thwart a developing practice by which
bidders would make public announcements about their offers without actually
commencing these offers for purposes
of the Williams Act, which contains
various provisions designed to afford investors protection
in tender offer
situations.
The Commission recognized when it
adopted Rule 14d-2(b) that it might
conflict with certain state laws, and in
IitJgation the Commission has supported the position of tender offerors
challenging these laws as unconstitutional due to such conflict. However, the
69

Cornrmssion
has also recoqruzed
states
may have a valid interest
regulating
tender offers for truly
cornpames,
and it has therefore
ported the efforts of state secur
laws administrators
to harrnoruze
operation
of their statutes
with
14d-2(b)

that
In

local
supitie s
the
Rule

In actions in which the Commission
has participated
and where a court has
reached
the merits of the substantive
preemptive
Issue, the results have been
uniformly
favorable
for the Cornrnissron In Eure v Grand Metropolitan,
Ltd., the North Carolina Superior Court
found
Rule 14d-2(b)
and the state
30-day pre-commencement
waiting requirement to be In diirect conflict, makIng complIance
WIth both a physical
lrnpossiblhty
The Court therefore held
the state
provrslon
preempted
and
unenforceable.
In Sun Life Group, Inc. v. Standard
Life Insurance Co. of Indiana, the
United States
DIstrict
Court for the
Southern DIstrict of Indiana upheld the
state's interpretation
of its takeover statute, which permitted
commencement
WIth
of the tender offer In compliance
Rule 14d-2(b),
but provided for postcommencement
review of the transacnon by state officials. The court noted
that absent such a harmonizing
interpretation, the state law could not survive
consntunonal
challenge.
In a Delaware case, GM Sub Corp. v.
Liggett Group, Inc., the Chancery Court
entered an Injunction against the conduct of a tender offer that had already
commenced
under Federal law. On appeal, the Delaware Supreme Court stated that Rule 14d-2(b) is entitled to a
presumption
of validity, and the principles of Federal
supremacy
mJlitated
against the contlnuatron
of injunctive
relief that had the effect of precluding a
tender offeror from complying with the
rule
70

Other Significant Projects
ALI Code - Over the past ten years,
the American
Law Institute (ALI) has
sponsored
the drafting of a Federal Securities Code, under the direcnon
of
Professor
Louis Loss of the Harvard
Law School.
In May 1978, the ALI's
membership
approved
a 766-page
"Proposed
Official Draft" of the Code,
which IS de srqned to replace
the six
separate
Federal statutes administered
by the Commission
with a Single comprehensive and unified piece of legislation.
The Comrmssion
and Its staff have
spent a great deal of time and effort
during the fiscal year analyzing
and
studying the proposed Code in preparation for its expected
introduction
in
Congress.
The task of evaluating
the
benefits the Code would offer and the
possible difficulties it rrnqht create, in
terms
of maintaining
an effective
scheme
of Investor protection,
IS exceedingly complex. While in many respects the ALI draft seeks simply to codify exrstinq
law, in other respects
it
would make SIgnificant
substantive
changes.
During the initral review of the proposed Code, members of the Commission staff held a series of meetings with
Professor Loss and his group of adVISers to discuss concerns about both substantive posrtions taken In the Code and
the drafting of varIOUS Code provisions.
In response,
Professor
Loss made a
substantial number of technical amendments to the Code. In September
1979,
the Commission
itself began meeting
In sessions
WIth the Code's
drafters,
open to the public, to discuss the larger
issues
raised
by the staff.
Further
discussions
followed these
meetings,
culminating
in an agreement
between
Professor Loss and a group of his advisers and the Commission
as to a
series
of further,
more substantive
amendments
that would be made to the

Code pnor to Its introduction.
As a result of these agreements,
the Comrrussion issued a release on September
18,
1980, supporting
enactment
of the
Code as so revised.
Right to Financial Privacy - When
Congress
enacted the Right to Financial Privacy Act of 1978, It included a
two-year exemption
for the Cornrnission, to allow time to study how best to
reconcile privacy interests of bank customers with the need of the Cornrmssion for access to the account records
of such customers
in the course of Its
investigations.
With that exemption
about to expire, the Commission
staff
began working with members of varIOUS
Congressional
staffs to develop a permanent legislative proposal.
The resultmg
bill provides that the
Commission
will be subject to the Right
to Financial
Privacy Act, except
in
specified cases where it is important to
afford the Commission
prompt access
to financial records in order to exercise
its responsibilities
under the Federal securities laws. In such cases, and subject
the
to prior ex parte court approval,
Commission
would be entitled to subpoena financial records of a customer
from a financial institution without prior
notice to the customer. After obtaining
these records, the Commission
would
be required to afford the customer
in
question
notice that access to hIS records had been obtained, and the customer would be entitled to bring SUit
against the Commission
for appropriate
civil penalties and injunctive relief if the
Commission's
access was not for purposes authorized by the Federal securities laws. In addition, the bill contains
provisions governing the transfer of fInancial records by the Commission
to
other governmental
authorities, and requires the Commission
to report annually when it obtains access to financial
records. (Subsequent
to the close of the
fiscal year, on October
10, 1980, this
bill was signed into law.)

'Glnnle Mae" Study - DUring the
past year, the Commission,
along WIth
the Department
of the Treasury and the
Federal
Reserve Board, undertook
a
study of the government-related
securities markets which, among other thmgs,
detailed
abusive
tradmg
practices
m
such markets. The participants
m the
Gmrne Mae study concluded
that increased regulation of these markets IS
necessary to correct the abuses, and attached to their reports proposed leqislae s t ab hs h a new
t i o n which would
regulatory structure
applicable
to forward trading
and other transactions
with rnatunties of 30 days or longer in
Government
National Mortgage ASSOCIanon and Federal Home Loan Mortgage
Corporation
securities.
The proposed
legislation was drafted so that ItS provrsions could be extended, as necessary,
to other government-related
secunties
Under the proposed
le qrs latro n, a
self-regulatory
or qarnz anon
(SRO),
composed
primarily of industry representatives,
would exercise rulemaking
authonty, subject to governmental
overSight by a "Council" composed
of the
Secretary of the Treasury, the Chairman
of the Federal Reserve Board and the
Chairman
of the Securities
and Exchange Commission,
or their respective
de srqne e s The SRO would have authority to establish fair practice standards that would pr ovide for, among
other thmgs, SUitability rules, recordkeeping
requirements,
pr of e s sro nal
qualification
and competency
requirements, and flnancial responsibrlity rules
The leqrslation would also require the
registration
of brokers and dealers efIn those
governfectmg transactions
ment secuntres subject to regulation. In
addition, investors would receive greater protection
by the establishment
of
margm requirements
by the Federal Reserve. At the close of the fiscal year, the
proposed
legislation was under review
by the Office of Management
and
Budget.

71

Public Utility Holding Companies
Composition
Under the Public Utility Holding Company Act of 1935 (Holding Company
Act), the Commission regulates interstate public utility holding company systems engaged in the electric utility business or in the retail distribution of gas.
The Commission's jurisdiction also covers natural gas pipeline companies and
nonutility companies which are subsidiaries of registered holding companies.
There are presently 14 registered
holding company systems with aggregate assets, as of June 30, 1980, of
$52.5 billion. Total holding company
system assets increased by over $5.0
billion in the twelve-month
period
ended June 30, 1980. The increase was
attributable to several coal and nuclear
fired generating plants entering service.
Total operating revenues, as of June
30, 1980, were $22 billion, a $4.1 billion
increase over the previous year. In the
14 systems, there are 60 electric and/or
gas utility subsidiaries, 68 nonutility
subsidiaries and 22 interactive companies, or a total of 168 system
companies, including the top parent
and subholding companies. Table 37 in
the Appendix lists the systems and Table 38 lists their aggregate assets and
operating revenues.

Financing
During fiscal year 1980, approximately $3.5 billion of senior securities
and common stock financing of the 14
registered systems was approved by the
Commission. Of this amount, approximately $2.6 billion was long-term debt
financing, and over $900 million was
for equity financing. These amounts

represent a 56 percent increase in longterm financmg over fiscal year 1979,
and a 10 percent decrease in the sale of
common and preferred stock. In addition, the Commission approved over
$4.9 billion of short-term debt financing
and $291 million of pollution control
fmancmq for the 14 registered holding
company systems. Table 39 in the Appendix presents the amount and types
of securities issued under the Holding
Company Act by these holding company systems.

Fuel Programs
During fiscal year 1980, the Commission authorized $597.9 million of fuel
exploration and development capital expenditures for the holding company
systems. These expenditures cover annual fuel programs subject to regulation
under the Holding Company Act defined on geographical and functional
terms. Table 40 in the Appendix lists
the authorization by holding company
system for each fuel program.
Largely as a result of radical changes
in the cost and availability of fuel, utility
companies, including registered systems, have embarked on major programs to acquire control of part of their
fuel supply. Generally, the arrangements involve formation of subsidiaries
or entry into joint
ventures
for
producing, transporting and financing
fuel supplies or the supply of capital for
the exploration of and development
drilling for mineral reserves with a right
to share in the product. Since 1971, the
Commission has authorized expenditures of over $3.2 billion for fuel programs of holding companies.

73

Service Company Operations
At the end of calendar year 1979,
there were 11 subsidiary service companies provrdinq managerial, accountmq , adrrurustr auve and engineering
services
to 11 of the 14 holding
companies registered under the Hold109 Company Act The billings for servIces rendered to the holding company
systems amount to $497.8 million or
2.26 percent of the total revenues generated by the electric and gas operatmq
utilities, with several systems mcluding
a return on capital invested by the parent holdmg company Because the subsidiary service companies are service
oriented, they are heavily labor intensive
havmq 11,762 employees and assets of
over $306 millro n. DUring February
1980, the Commission approved a proposed amendment to the Annual Report
Form U-13-60 for Subsidiary Service
Companies Subject to the Holding
Company Act. The revised report will
conform to the amended Uniform System of Accounts for Service Companies
adopted by the Cornrnissron In February 1979,
The revised Annual Report will: (1)
Simplify the preparatron of service company fmancial data, (2) more clearly disclose frnancial, accounting, and operational information needed by Federal
and state authorities which regulate the
affiliated public utihty companies served
by the service companies; and (3) facihtate the conduct of audit and account
inspection programs. The amended Annual Report form IS effective not later
than January 1, 1981, for the 11 subsidiary service companies.

General Public Utilities
Corporation/Three Mile Island
Durmg fiscal year 1980, the Commission continued to monitor the financial
and operational Impact to the General

74

Public Utilities (GPU) System of the
March 28, 1979, nuclear accident at
Three Mile Island Unit No. 2 (TMI-2).
Prior to fiscal year 1980, the Commission approved for GPU $500 million of
short-term debt bank financing for the
GPU system to assist payment of replacement power cost incurred as a result of the accrdent. The GPU system
has estimated the cost to decontaminate and restore TMI-2 at $855 million
over the next five years. As of June 30,
1979, approximately $148 million of
this amount had been expended. The
GPU system has $300 million of property insurance coverage for TMI-2.

Acquisition of Columbus &
Southern Ohio Electric Company
By American Electric Power
Company
On July 21, 1978, the Commission
approved the acquisrtion, by tender offer, of the common stock of the Columbus and Southern OhIO Electric Company (CSOE). On February 13, 1980,
the Commission approved an Arnerican
Electric Power Company (AEP) offering
of 1.3 shares of its common stock for
each share of CSOE. An exchange offer
was subsequently made and 88.45 percent of CSOE stock was acquired on
May 9, 1980, the closing date of the
tender offer
CSOE's consolidated
assets were
$1.3 billion at December 31, 1979, With
operating revenues of $417 million. The
Commission
stated in ItS February
1980 order that the existence of a minonty interest IS contrary to the standards of Section 11(b)(2) of the Holding
Company Act. AEP has filed a plan,
jointly with CSOE, to retire any such minority interest pursuant to a plan under
Section 11(e) of the Holding Company
Act This IS still pending before the
Commission.

Corporate Reorganizations
Reorganization proceedings in the
United States District and Bankruptcy
Courts are not initiated by the Commission, but are commenced by a debtor,
voluntarily, or by Its creditors. Federal
bankruptcy law allows a debtor In reorganization to continue to operate under
the court's protection while it attempts
to rehabilitate its business and work out
a plan to pay its debts. Where a debtor
corporation has outstanding publicly issued securities, the reorganization
process raises many issues that materially affect the right of its public Investors. In addition, the issuance of new securities to creditors and shareholders
pursuant to a plan are exempt from registration under Section 5 of the Securities Act of 1933. Therefore, the Commission enters its appearance and
participates in corporate reorganization
proceedings to protect the interests of
public investors holding the debtor's securities and to render independent, expert assistance to the courts and parties
in a complex area of law and finance.
The Bankruptcy Reform Act of 1978,
which became effective at the beginning of the fiscal year, represents a
comprehensive
revision of Federal
bankruptcy law and, In particular, of the
business reorganization provisions of
the prior Bankruptcy Act. The reorganization provisions of the new Bankruptcy
Code, set forth in Chapter 11 thereof,
will apply only to cases commenced on
or after October 1, 1979. Cases commenced prior to October 1, 1979, will
continue under the appropriate provrsions of the prior Bankruptcy Act.
Chapter 11 of the Bankruptcy Code
authorizes the Commission to enter Its
appearance in any reorganization case

and to raise, or present its views on, any
Issue In a Chapter 11 case. Although
Chapter 11 applies to all types of business reorqaruzatrons, the Cornrrussron
will not consider It necessary or appropriate to participate In every case Many
cases Will involve only small enterprises
with uncornphcated capital structures or
minimal public Investor Interest In Its
forty years of partictpation
In cases under Chapter X of the prior Bankruptcy
Act, the Commission generally limited
Its particrpation to proceedings In which
a substantial pubhc Investor Interest
was Involved.
DUring the past fiscal year. 64 debtors With publicly Issued secunties outstanding entered Chapter 11 reorgamzanon proceedings. The Cornrnissron
entered ItS appearance In 18 of these
cases. which Involved an aggregate of
$1.46 billion In assets and 97,000 public Investors (A list of these proceedings IS set forth In Table 42 In the Appendix to this Report). In these cases
the Commission presented ItS Views, In
court and informally In consultation
With other partrcrpants,
on a variety of
Issues including: (1) conflicts of interests of members of creditors' and equity security holders' committees, (2)
Issues concerning the debtor's operations and sales of assets; (3) the need
for appointment of a trustee or examiner to conduct an investigation Into the
debtor's affairs, questions concerning
the vahdity and effect of the terms of
the securities held by public investors,
the classification of their claims, and
proposed treatment In reorgamzation
plans; (4) the adequacy of disclosure in
the disclosure statement required to be
transmitted to public Investors when

75

their votes on a plan are being solicited;
(5) the reasonableness of fees sought
by counsel and other professionals; and
(6) interpretive questions concerning
the Bankruptcy Code's exemption from
the securities laws.
The Commission continues to playa
similar role in pending cases under
Chapter X, the reorganization of the
prior Bankruptcy Act. In addition, in
Chapter X cases where the scheduled
indebtedness of a debtor corporation
exceeds $3 million, the court is required, before approving any plan of reorganization, to submit it to the Commission for an examination and report
on the fairness and feasibility thereof. If
the indebtedness does not exceed $3
million, the court may, if it deems it advisable to do so, submit the plan to the
Commission before deciding whether to

76

approve it. When the Commission files
a report, copies or summaries must be
sent to all security holders and creditors
when they are asked to vote on the
plan. The Commission has no authority
to veto a plan of reorganization or to require its adoption. During the fiscal
year, the Commission prepared and
filed such reports in five large reorganization cases.
At the beginning of the 1980 fiscal
year, there were 87 cases pending under Chapter X of the prior Bankruptcy
Act in which the Commission was
participating. During the fiscal year, 20
proceedmgs were dosed, leaving 67
Chapter X cases in which the Commission was a party at fiscal year end. (A
list of these cases is set forth in Table
41 in the Appendix to this Report).

Administration and Management
General Management and Program
Developments
During the 1980 fiscal year, a restructuring of the Division of Corporation Finance was carried out in accordance
with recommendations made by the Office of the Executive Director and a
Corporation Finance Task Force. In
conjunction
with faculty from the
Harvard Business School, the Division
undertook implementation of workload
distribution by industry specialization.
The developing expertise in specific industnes will facilitate more Informed
and efficient review of filings by Commission staff and should produce
operational economies.
Management reviews were also conducted and recommendations provided
for a number of offices and divisions
during fiscal 1980. These reviews are
part of a continumg effort to evaluate
the Commission's management practices and to help upgrade them whenever appropriate.
Also during fiscal 1980, a number of
enhancements were made to information systems, the personnel program,
and in other areas. The objective,
throughout, has been more efficient use
of the Commission's limited resources.

Information Systems Management
The Commission made substantial
progress in 1980 in furthering the objectives of its automatic data processing
(ADP) enhancement program. Results
of the many initiatives undertaken in the
last two years in the areas of facilities
improvement, processing techniques,
computer system development technologies, and external services are beginning to manifest themselves through

qualitative and quantitative improvements In the Commission's information
processing capabilities. These Initiatives
will insure that at the beginning of the
next fiscal year the Commission will
have at its disposal an ADP capability as
close to being "state-of-the-art" as any
similar sized computer installation in
the Federal government.
Fectlities Improvement -In the area
of facihties improvement, the Commission replaced its obsolete IBM 360/65
computer system with an IBM 370/
158-a machine of much greater computing speed, power, and storage capacity that should provide sufficient
processing capabilities for all of the
Commission's ADP requirements over
the next five years, In addition, the
Commission's nationwide telecommunications network was completed
this year, providing all regional and
branch offices access to computer files
maintained at the headquarters location. Further enhancements to the telecommunications net will Include the acquisition of replacement computer
terminals at the headquarters locations
and the installation of more efficient
transmission techniques for the regional and branch offices.
In order to maximize use of the new
computer system and telecommunicanons network, the Commission recently
introduced several "state-of-the-art"
techniques in its program development
and implementation processes. The
first of these utilizes "structured analysis, design, and programming," a relatively new analytical technique which
leads to more clearly defined and formalized system requirements and information relationships, and which can
significantly reduce the number of

77

changes to a system that might otherwise be necessary subsequent to its irnplernentatron A second new efficiency
technique Implemented this year - referred to as Interactive
programming - allows the programming staff to
enter programs, make changes to data
and existing programs, and issue command statements for the processmg of
Jobs directly into the computer via terminals. A related capability given much
more emphasis this past year involves
the expanded use of an on-line data
base analysis, query, and retrieval factlity which will allow the Commission staff
to obtain data and mformation directly
from the computer on an ad hoc basis,
without the need for submitting service
requests to the ADP staff. This facility
wrll make management
mformation
available where It IS needed on a much
more timely basis.
As a complement to the ADP services
and information systems provided by
the in-house facility, the Commission
has acquired several proprietary software services for use by its staff. One
such service is an on-line information
retrieval system which provides access
to abstracts of newspaper and periodical articles. Publications included in the
system are major general-circulation
newspapers, major international affairs,
and scientific publications, as well as
other business and related news servIces. The proprietary legal research system being used by the Commission has
been enhanced, giving the staff on-line
access to company profiles and extracts
of various
financial
reports
for
companies
required to file with the
Commission. In addition, the Commission IS currently investigating the utility
of a corporate financial statement analysis package which could be of significant research value.
Information Systems - In addition to
the foregoing facilities and services enhancements, a number of major new in-

78

formation systems were Implemented
during 1980. Among these are several
systems for which developmental work
was initiated in prior years: the Case Activity Tracking System (CATS), an online system which is used to monitor
the current status of events relating to
all active investigation and litigation activities and which also provides extensive information for use in resource
allocation decisions; and the N-1 R System, which facilitates detailed analysis
of data from Investment Company Act
Form N-1R to aid in the evaluation and
regulatory surveillance of all registered
investment companies required to file
these annual reports. Also implemented
during this past year were the on-line
Position and Employee Reporting and
Tracking System (PERTS), used to
monitor temporary and permanent authorized positions and to forecast personnel related budgetary impacts; and
the Document Control Register (DCR),
used to record and monitor incoming
invoices and travel vouchers and their
payment
In addition to these Implementation
activities, several major system developmental efforts were initiated in fiscal
1980, including the requirements definition and systems analysis phases of
an enhanced Delinquent Filings Reportmg System; the development of an integrated filings workload and registrant
data base, which IS part of an on-line
system that provides the staff the capabihty to directly enter and receive information relating to the receipt and distribution of re quire d filings; and the
creation of an Integrated employee data
base which will efficiently maintain all
required Commission personnel information. In addition to the initiation of
major new systems, several critical existmq systems were enhanced this year,
mcluding the Name and Relationship
Search teleprocessing
system, the
Broker-Dealer/Investment
Adviser Di-

rectory System, the Cornrnissron's payroll system, the Rules of Conduct system, and the Complaint Processmg
System. The Cornrmsslon was also
heavily involved in coordmation of the
development by a private ADP contractor of the SEC Docket Index Systeman on-line system for retneving information relating to releases published in
the Commission's SEC Docket.
Other ADP ActIVities - Other significant measures were also taken In fiscal
1980 to enhance the Commission's inhouse ADP facility An exhaustive assessment
of the vulnerables
of the
Commission
ADP facihty was completed in December 1979. Based on individual loss potentials and existing
ADP secunty control measures, the risk
assessment
report recommended
a
series of safeguards designed to mitigate Identified weaknesses. A task team
of computer hardware, systems software, and appllcations software specialists reviewed the findings and recommendations of the risk assessment and
prepared a prioritized list of recommendations for implementation. In addition,
in order to fully support the specialized
needs of the Directorate of Economic
and Policy Analysis (DEPA), arrangements are currently being made to Install a remote job entry and time sharing capability which will substantially
enhance DEPA's capabilities
in the
areas of interactive programming and
statistical analysis and problem solving.

Financial Management
In fiscal year 1980 .. the Commission
collected a record $48 milhon in fees
for the reqistration of securities, securities transactions on national securities
exchanges and miscellaneous filings,
reports, and applications, The fees collected represented approximately 66
percent of the total funds appropriated
by Congress for Commission operations. In fiscal year 1979, the Commis-

sion had collected $33 million which
represented 47 percent of the funds appropriated by Congress for Commission
operations. Nearly $14 million of the increase in collections was attnbuted to
Securities Act reqistratron fees resulting
from money market fund registrations,
Higher stock exchange volumes accounted for $1 rnillion of the increase,
In fIscal 1980, the Office of the
Comptroller continued the rmplernentation of an automated Integrated fmancral management system. Dunnq the
fiscal year, a new system was Implemented to track mvorce payments. This
system resulted In faster responses to
questions and payments and insured
that payments can be made when due,
as required by revised cash management directives
FIscal year 1980 also saw partial Implementation of an organizational cost
accounting system. Reports generated
by this system present selected costs
for management
review and control.
This effort should result in greater
orqaruzetronal umt financial management responsibility
The positron tracking system developed in fiscal year 1979 and implemented In the first quarter of fiscal year
1980 was enhanced and evolved into a
posrtion/employee reporting and tracking system (PERTS). In fiscal year 1981,
this system Will provide management
with current posrtron and employee
data, staff year utilization, and comprehensive cost projection throughout the
fiscal year. This system was tested in
fiscal year 1980 and Implemented on
the first day of fiscal year 1981.
Initiatives intended to Improve or
conserve resources completed in fiscal
year 1980 included the issuance of a
comprehensive budget handbook, simphfication of budget call procedures, issuance of a detailed time and attendance handbook,
the completion
of
phase one of the Comptroller's microfiche project Involving two million cur79

rent documents, and establIshment of
uniform policies on the use of overtime
and the employment of temporaries. In
addition, major automation efforts continue in payroll, fee collection, budget
call procedures, and the integrated financial management system, which will
be carried on in fiscal year 1981.

Internal Audit
The Office of Internal Audit is a new
organization within the Office of the
Chairman. Formed in the middle of fIscal year 1980, the Office of Internal Audit has the responsibility to perform
operational and financial audits of
Commission functions and to report its
findings and recommendations directly
to the Chairman. The staff will function
as an independent feedback mechanism to the Chairman on the progress
of operations in achieving the Commission's long-term management goals. In
previous years, required financial internal audits were performed by the Office
of the Chief Accountant.
Initially, the Office was composed of
a director and a program analyst. Since
the close of the fiscal year, an additional
program analyst and a secretary have
been added.
In fiscal year 1980, the Office of Internal Audit issued two audit reports: "Review of Gasoline Credit Card Practice"
and "Review of the Assistant Regional
Administrator
(Regulation) Position."
Currently, the Office is conducting reviews of the security of the data processmq center and telecommunications
systems and their usage.

Personnel

Management

At the close of the fiscal year, the
Commission's total strength was approximately 1,940 persons. This was
somewhat lower than in previous years,
largely because of the extended hiring
freeze imposed by the President in
March 1980. About two-thirds of these

80

individuals were employed in Washington, D.C., while the remainder were employed in regional and branch offices
located in fifteen major financial centers
throughout the United States.
Significant resources were devoted to
developing programs to implement the
Civil Service Reform Act. Recognizing
the importance of personnel management as an integral part of overall management effectiveness, the Commission
developed innovative managementoriented programs designed to improve
productivity and enhance the agency's
effectiveness in fulfilling its obligations
to the investing public. While the full
benefit of these initiatives may not be
realized for some time, significant progress was made on several fronts during
the past year:

Senior Executive Service - The Executive Resources Board, comprised of
six top executives, became fully operational during the fiscal year. Functioning in an advisory capacity to the
Chairman, the board has provided direction and oversight in the development and administration of a personnel
management system for senior executives.
The Performance Review Board also
became operational. Its charter is to review performance appraisals for all senior executives and to recommend pay
levels, bonuses, and ranks.
An internal SES candidate development program is being planned. High
potential managers at the GS-14 and
GS- 15 levels will be competitively selected for an intensive developmental
program consisting of an assessment
center to identify executive strengths
and weaknesses, formal classroom
training, residential training, executive
seminars, and inter- and intra-agency
developmental assignments. Upon successful completion of the program,
these individuals will be placed in the
Executive Resources Pool and will be

eligible for non-competitive
ment to future SES vacancies.
Performance

appoint-

Appraisals - As

re-

ported in last year's annual report, the
Commission has devoted substantial
resources to the development of a new
performance appraisal system. To ensure that the system would be valid and
objective, the Commission utilized the
services of a major consulting firm, as
well as those of the Office of Personnel
Management.
These consultants
assisted the agency staff in gathering and
evaluating information and in developing criteria to evaluate employee performance. The evaluative studies have
been completed and, based on the findings, a new performance evaluation system has been developed to cover all
employees through OS-IS. This system which, at the close of fiscal 1980,
was awaiting approval at OPM, incorporates a goal-setting and review process
for higher grade positions; at the lower
grades, a more traditional performance
standard approach is used. The system
was implemented in November 1980
for OS-IS positions, with lower grades
to be phased in over a period of several
months. All employees will be under the
new system by July 1981.
Merit Pay - The Commission developed and submitted for OPM approval a
merit pay program to cover supervisors
and management
officials in grades
as-13 through OS-IS. This program
links within-grade pay increases to level
of performance as evaluated by the performance appraisal system. It is designed to provide financial incentives
for superior performance, and at the
same time to encourage improvement
by less effective employees. The merit
pay program will be implemented by
the Commission in October 1981.
A key feature of this plan enables
managers to exercise discretion in the
awarding of merit pay increases to their
subordinates. Most merit pay plans in

the Federal government
use "direct
linkage'" models, i.e., an employee's
performance ratmg is translated directly
into a merit pay adjustment by application of a fixed mathematical formula. By
contrast, the Commission's plan uses a
"variable linkage:' While the plan is
closely linked to the performance rating, the variable linkage gives managers
the option to adjust the size of an employee's increase either upward or
downward if there is a valid reason for
such an adjustment.
This feature IS
consistent with the philosophy underlying the Civil Service Reform Act: that
decisionmaking authority for personnel
matters should be deregulated and delegated to the lowest practicable management level.
Another feature of the Commission's
merit pay program seeks to encourage
group performance and teamwork by
basing merit pay adjustments, in part,
on organizational
accomplishments.
This, too, was authorized by the Civil
Service Reform Act.
While the foregoing initiatives to implement the Civil Service Reform Act
had high visibility, other, more traditional efforts carried on the Commission's
commitment
to improve human resource management.
Among these
were:
Delegation of Authority - The Commission negotiated agreeements with
the Office of Personnel Management
which authorize this agency to examine
and recruit applicants for certain occupations. This authority covers hiring of
accountants and, in selected regional
offices, Securities Compliance Examiners. Past experience indicates that this
type of authority enables the Commission to obtain higher quality applicants,
largely because recruitment efforts can
be focused on factors that are specific
to the needs of the agency.
Merit Promotion - A comprehensive
evaluation was made of the agency's
81

rnerit promotion program. Employee
attitudes toward the program were
sought through the use of an extensive
employee survey. The results of this
survey, along with an analysis of management needs, were used to Identify
weaknessesand deficiencies m the current system. As a result of this analysis,
the merit promotion program will be revised to streamlme procedures, ensure
their validity, and relate them more
closely to employee performance.
Incentive Awards - A comprehensive study IS being made of the incentive awards program. As a result of recent fmdings, qurdelines for granting
awards will be substantially revised to
better ensure that awards are based
upon employee performance or other
valid critena, and that monetary awards
are made m proportion to the value of
the contributions made by receipients
Equal
Employment
Opportunity
- The Commission developed an equal
employment opportunity recrurtmq program Designed to be Integrated with
the Uniform
Employee Selection
GUidelines and the affirmative action
program, this effort is intended to identify under-representation
by rrunonty
group and sex in all occupations and
grade levels, and to target recruitment
sources for rrunontles and females for
the various Job categories. The Commission's Second Annual Job Fair was
very successful in attracting minority
law students to the Commission, and a
third such recruiting program was
sponsored in November 1980, after the
close of the fiscal year.
Part-time employment - The Commission has also developed procedures
for trnplernentinq the Part-time Employment Act. These procedures, when fully
operational, will seek to tap sources m
the labor market that are not available
for full-time work by encouraging the
employment of such individuals on a
part-time basts, "Job shannq", whereby

82

the duties of a single position are
shared by more than one individual,
each on a part-time basis, will also be
tried on an experimental basis. Agency
managers are developmg goals for the
implementation of this program.
Upward Mobility -In view of previous highly successful experience with
the upward mobility program (INTERSECT) durmg the past two years, the
Cornrnission has determined to continue the effort. Accordingly, five staff
spaces were allocated for the "INTERSECT III" program. This will allow lower
grade clerical and technical personnel
to compete for entry into administrative/professronal
positions With career
ladder promotion potential to the GS-9
or 11 levels. It is noteworthy that most
of the persons selected for the original
INTERSECT Program In 1978 have
completed their formal development
assignments and have "graduated"
from the program. These lndrviduals
have now taken their place in the
work-force as successful administrative
and professional employees.
The Commission has maintained its
Initiatives in other areas of personnel
management as well. An exemplary employment program for handicapped
individuals has been continued and further refined. Attorney recruitment continues to be of major Significance as the
agency seeks to attract and retain premium quality legal talent in the face of
austere resources. A forward-looking
employee counselling effort seeks to
provide positive counselling services to
employees on career-related matters,
especially in the development of realistic career objectives and helpmg employees prepare to attain those objectives.

Space Management
Numerous problems continue to exist
due to inadequate and scattered office
space. The Commission's headquarters

personnel remain dispersed among
three locations, requiring costly, time
consuming, and Inefficient movement
of personnel, equipment, furniture, and
files. In fiscal year 1980, a Joint effort
was made by Congress, GSA, and the
Commission to obtain a consolidated
headquarters building by fiscal year
1981, or early fiscal year 1982.
The Commission has made Important progress in making existing facilities accessible to the handicapped.
Building alterations and special facilities
have been completed, thus Improving
the working environment both for the
Commission'S handicapped population
and for VIsitors.

Consumer and Public Affairs
In November 1979, in response to the
President's Executive Order No. 12160
entitled "Providinq for Enhancement
and Coordination of Federal Consumer
Programs", the Cornrnissron published
a statement to explain its consumer affairs activities, and to solicit public comment concernmg the effectiveness of Its
consumer affairs efforts. After reviewing
and analyzing the comments received,
on May 23, 1980 the Commission ISsued its final statement concerning ItS
consumer affairs activities (Securities
Exchange Act Release No. 16840, May
23, 1980; 20 SEC Docket 128).
In connection with "National Consumer Education Week," Interested
members of the public received briefings and printed material at the Commission's headquarters office The
Denver Regional Office and Philadelphia Branch Office also provided Similar materials and information for VISitors. In addition, representatives of the
Office of Consumer Affairs, the Office
of Public Affairs, and the Houston
Branch Office participated in the annual
convention of the National Association
of Investment Clubs.

Investor Complaints - During the
1980 fiscal year the Office of Consumer
Affairs received, analyzed, and answered approximately 3,000 complaints
and Inquiries
concerning
brokerdealers Most of the complaints involved
operational problems, such as failure to
deliver securrties or funds, or the alleged mishandling of accounts. In addition, there were approximately 5,000
complaints and mqurnes regarding ISsuers, transfer agents, banks, mutual
funds and Investment advisers
The Office also reviews the operation
of the arbitration facilities and complarnt-handhnq
systems of the SROs,
and reviews the complaint-handling
systems of broker-dealers Dunnq fiscal
year 1980 the Office inspected the arbitration facilities of three SROs and the
complamt-handllng
system of one
broker-dealer
In addition, the Office of Consumer
Affairs conducted a survey of registered
broker-dealers dunnq fiscal 1980 to
gather data concerning abandoned customer accounts. The purpose of the
survey was to determme when a firm
considers
a customer's account to be
abandoned, and what, if anythmg, the
firm does with the securitres and/or
funds In the account The Office IS
presently reviewinq and analyzmg the
responses received and will report its
fmdmgs to the Commission durmg the
1981 fiscal year.
Consumer Educeuon and Public
Information - Dunnq the fiscal year,
the Office of Consumer Affairs and the
Office of Public Affairs began distnbutmq to newspapers a senes of weekly
columns entitled "Information for Investors." The columns are desiqned to
provide information about tOPiCSthat
are frequently of concern to investors
They may also include discussions of
proposals likely to affect mdrvidual mvestors, about which the Cornrnissron IS
soliciting public comment.

83

The Commission continued, during
1980, to make informational and educational material directly available to investors and other interested members
of the public, both through its own facilities and through the national Consumer Information Center in Pueblo, Colorado. A new brochure entitled, Q &A:
Small Business and the SEC, was developed and published during the year
and 50,000 copies were distributed to
the public. Work began during the year
on a comprehensive handbook for novice investors, which is expected to be

84

published during fiscal 1981. Altogether, 163,000 copies of Commission brochures were distributed during fiscal
1980 to persons who requested them
from the Consumer Information Center.
Also during the fiscal year, the Office
of Public Affairs completed production
of a multi-media, audiovisual presentation on the Commission, the securities
laws, and the securities markets generally. The 22-minute program, entitled
Eagle on the Street, may be purchased
or rented in 16mm film version through
the National Audiovisual Center.

Footnotes
I Securities
Exchange Act Release No.
16888 (June 11, 1980), 20 SEC Docket
334.
2Secunties Exchange Act Release No.
16889 (June 11, 1980), 20 SEC Docket
353.
3Securities Exchange Act Release No.
13662 (June 23, 1977), 12 SEC Docket
947; withdrawn
in Securities Exchange
Act Release No. 16889 (June II, 1980), 20
SEC Docket 353.
4Securities Exchange Act Release No.
16410 (December 5, 1980), 18 SEC Docket 1306.
5Securities Exchange Act Release No.
16589 (February 19, 1980), 19 SEC Docket 659.
6Securities Exchange Act Release No.
16590 (February 19, 1980), 19 SEC Docket 659.
"Secuntles Exchange Act Release No.
16924 (June 24, 1980), 20 SEC Docket
497.
8Securities Exchange Act Release No.
15770 (Apnl 26, 1979), 17 SEC Docket
369.
9590 F.2d 1085 (D.C. Cu. 1978).
lOSecunties Exchange Act Release No.
15640 (March 14, 1979), 16 SEC Docket
1318.
11 File Nos. SR-PDTC-79-3, approved in
Secunties
Exchange Act Release No.
16352 (November 19, 1979), 18 SEC
Docket 905; and SR-DTC-79-5, approved
in Securities Exchange Act Release No.
16354 (November 20, 1979), 18 SEC
Docket 996.
12File No. SR-BSECC-80-1, approved in
Securities
Exchange Act Release No.
17045 (August 4, 1980), 20 SEC Docket
886.
1344th Annual Report at 6.
14House Comm. on Interstate and Foreign Commerce, 96th Cong., 1st Sess., Re-

port of the Special Study of the Options
Markets to the Securities and Exchange
Commission (Comm. Print 1978).

15Securitles Exchange Act Release No.
15575 (February 22, 1979), 16 SEC Docket 1163.
16Secuntles Exchange Act Release No.
16701 (March 26, 1980), 19 SEC Docket
998.
17Securities Exchange Act Release No.
16696 (March 26, 1980), 19 SEC Docket
994. In addition, on May 15, 1980, the
Commission approved the NASD's rule
proposal In response to the Options Study
recommendations.
Securities Exchange
Act Release No 16807 (May 15, 1980), 20
SEC Docket 13.
18Secuntles Exchange Act Release No.
16701 (March 26, 1980), 19 SEC Docket
998.
191d.
20Securities Exchange Act Release No.
16788 (May 6, 1980), 19 SEC Docket
1381

21Secuntles Exchange Act Release No.
16793 (May 8, 1980), 19 SEC Docket
1385; Securities Exchange Act Release No.
16848 (May 28, 1980), 20 SEC Docket
141; Secunties Exchange Act Release No.
16851 (May 28, 1980),20 SEC Docket
142; Securities Exchange Release No.
16861 (May 30, 1980), 20 SEC Docket
234; Securities Exchange Act Release No.
16996 (July 23, 1980),20 SEC Docket 767.
22Securities Exchange Act Release No.
16863 (May 30, 1980), 20 SEC Docket
237.
23Securities Exchange Act Release No.
16892 (June 13, 1980), 20 SEC Docket
398.
24Secunoes Exchange Act Release No.
16979 (July 15, 1980), 20 SEC Docket
718.
25Securities Exchange Act Release No.
16801 (May 12, 1980),20 SEC Docket 6.
26Securitles Act Release No. 6248 (October 17,1980),21 SEC Docket 212.
27Securities Exchange Act Release No.
17138 (September 9, 1980), 20 SEC Docket 1377.

85

28Secuntles Exchange Act Release No.
16977 (July 10, 1980), 20 SEC Docket
640
29Secuntles Exchange Act Release No.
16495 (January 15, 1980), 19 SEC Docket
332
30Securities Exchange Act Release No
17100 (September 5, 1980), 20 SEC Docket 1266.
31Securities Exchange Act Release No
17111 (September 2, 1980), 20 SEC Docket 1277.
3215 USC
~78aaa-78]]],
as amended
by the Securities Investor Protection Act
Amendments of 1978, Pub. L. No. 95-283,
92 Stat 249
33SecUrItles Exchange Act Release No
16422 (December
12, 1979), 18 SEC
Docket 1323
34SecUrIties Exchange Act Release No
17085 (August 22, 1980), 20 SEC Docket
1033
'36SecurIties Exchange Act Release No
16390 (November
31, 1979), 18 SEC
Docket 1197; MSE, Securities Exchange
Act Release No. 16503 (January 16, 1980),
19 SEC Docket 327; Amex, Securities Exchange Act Release No. 16502 (January
16, 1980), 19 SEC Docket 326; CSE, Securities Exchange Act Release No. 16472
(January 8,1980),19
SEC Docket 148,
MSRB, Securities Exchange Act Release
No. 16570 (February 13, 1980), 19 SEC
Docket 573; CBOE, Securities Exchange
Act Release No 16606 (February
25,
1980), 19 SEC Docket 759, BSE, Securities
Exchange Act Release No. 16671 (March
17, 1980), 19 SEC Docket 922; PSE, Securities Exchange Act Release No 16767
(April 28, 1980), 19 SEC Docket 1297;
NASD, Securities Exchange Act Release
No. 16860 (May 30, 1980), 20 SEC Docket
233; and Phlx, Securities Exchange Act Release No. 16906 (June 19, 1980),20 SEC
Docket 437
36Secunties Exchange Act Release No
17132 (September 8,1980),20
SEC Docket 1372
37Securitles Exchange Act Release No.
16650 (March 13, 1980), 19 SEC Docket
881.
38Securitles Exchange Act Release No
16970 (July 9, 1980), 20 SEC Docket 636
39Secunties Exchange Act Release No
16722 (April 3, 1980),19 SEC Docket 1106

86

40SecurIties Exchange Act Release No
17038 (August I, 1980), 20 SEC Docket
876
41Securities Exchange Act Release No
16781 (May 5, 1980), 19 SEC Docket
1372
42[1976- 77] Fed. Sec L Rep. (CCH)
.. 95,627 (S.D N Y. 1976)
43Securitles Exchange Act Release No.
16959 (July 3, 1980), 20 SEC Docket 608.
44SecUrIties Exchange Act Release No
17129 (September 8, 1980), 20 SEC Docket 1371
46Securitles Exchange Act Release No.
16936 (June 26, 1980), 20 SEC Docket
513.
46SecUrIties Exchange Act Release No.
16960 (July 7, 1980), 20 SEC Docket 615.
47Secunties Exchange Act Release No.
16967 (July 8, 1980), 20 SEC Docket 627.
48Secuntles Exchange Act Release No
16858 (May 30, 1980), 20 SEC Docket
225.
49Securities Exchange Act Release No
16630 (March 6, 1980), 19 SEC Docket
816.
60Securities Exchange Act Release No.
16707 (March 28, 1980), 19 SEC Docket
1092, Securities Exchange Act Release No.
16844 (May 27, 1980), 20 SEC Docket
137.
51Secunties Exchange Act Release No
17150 (September
12, 1980),20
SEC
Docket 1518.
52Secuntles Exchange Act Release No
17030 (July 31, 1980), 20 SEC Docket
851,875.
53Securities Exchange Act Release No.
16735 (Apnl 10, 1980), 19 SEC Docket
1164
54Securities Exchange Act Release No.
16900 (June 17, 1980), 20 SEC Docket
415
55Securities Exchange Act Release No
16443 (December
20, 1979), 19 SEC
Docket 8
66SEC, Final Report of the Securities
and Exchange Comrrussron on the Practice of Recordinq the Ownership of Securities in the Records of the Issuer in Other
than the Name of the Beneficial Owner of
Such Securities (December 3, 1976).
57Securities Exchange Act Release No
15838 (May 18, 1979), 17 SEC Docket
678.

58Securitres Exchange Act Release No
17258 (October 30,1980),21
SEC Docket
347
59Securities Act Release No. 6231 (September 2, 1980), 20 SEC Docket 1059.
6SecuritIes Act Release No. 6230 (August 27,1980),20
SEC Docket 1014.
81Secunties Act Release No. 6234 (September 2, 1980), 20 SEC Docket 1156.
62Secuntles Act Release No. 6233 (September 2, 1980),20 SEC Docket 1115.
63Secuntles Act Release No. 6232 (September 2, 1980), 20 SEC Docket 1092
64Securities Act Release No 6235 (September 2, 1980), 20 SEC Docket 1175
65Secuntles Act Release No. 6236 (September 2, 1980),20 SEC Docket 1226.
68SecuritIes Act Release No 6151 (November 19, 1979), 18 SEC Docket 984
67Securities Act Release No 6190 (F ebruary 22, 1980), 19 SEC Docket 747.
68Secunties Act Release No 6202 (April
2, 1980), 19 SEC Docket 1056.
69Securitles Exchange Act Release No
16371 (November
29, 1979), 18 SEC
Docket 1118; Securities Exchange Act Release No. 16372 (November 29, 1979), 18
SEC Docket 1128; Secunties Act Release
No. 6156 (November 29, 1979), 18 SEC
Docket 1050; and Securities Act Release
No. 6157 (November 29, 1979), 18 SEC
Docket 1052.
70Secunties Act Release No 6203 (April
2, 1980), 19 SEC Docket 1072.
71Securities Exchange Act Release No.
16806 (May 14, 1980), 20 SEC Docket 11.
72Securities Exchange Act Release No
17080 (August 21, 1980), 20 SEC Docket
976.
73Securities Act Release No. 6188 (February I, 1980), 19 SEC Docket 465.
74Securities Exchange Act Release No.
16833 (May 23, 1980), 20 SEC Docket
124.
75Secuntles Act Release No. 6240 (September 10, 1980),20 SEC Docket 1358
76Securities Exchange Act Release No.
13482 (April 28, 1977), 12 SEC Docket
239.
77Secunties Act Release No 6166 (December 12, 1979), 18 SEC Docket 1279,
Securities Act Release No 6027 (February
22, 1979), 16 SEC Docket 1138.
78Secunties Act Release No. 6210 (May
6, 1980), 19 SEC Docket 1352.

79Secuntles Act Release No. 6261 (November 14,1980),21
SEC Docket 590
80Secuntles Act Release No. 6163 (December 5, 1979), 18 SEC Docket 1188.
81Secunties Act Release No 6115 (August 30, 1979), 18 SEC Docket 220
82Secuntles Act Release No 6221 (July
8. 1980), 20 SEC Docket 600
83Securitles Act Release No 6049 (Apnl
3, 1979). 17 SEC Docket 153
84Secuntles Act Release No 6180 (January 17, 1980), 19 SEC Docket 295
85Securities Act Release No 6214 (June
19. 1980), 20 SEC Docket 390
86Securitles Exchange Act Release No
16866 (June 2. 1980). 20 SEC Docket 241.
87Securities Act Release No. 6158 (November 29. 1979), 18 SEC Docket 1053.
88Secuntles Act Release No. 6159 (November 29.1980).18
SEC Docket 1092.
89Secunties Act Release No 6230 (September 4,1980),20
SEC Docket 1241.
9045th Annual Report at 26
91Report of the Subcommittee on Reports, Accountmg and Management of the
Committee
on Governmental
Affairs,
United States Senate. "Irnprovmq the Accountability of Publicly Owned Corporations and Their Auditors" (November 1977)

at 17
9245th Annual Report at 28.
9345th Annual Report at 30
94Secuntles Act Release No 6229 (August 25, 1980), 20 SEC Docket 1005.
95SecurItieS Act Release No. 6243 (September 30. 1980), 21 SEC Docket I
961nvestment Company Act Release No.
10891 (October 4, 1979). 18 SEC Docket
637
971nvestment Company Act Release No.
10890 (October 4, 1979), 18 SEC Docket
635.
981nvestment Company Act Release No
11053 (February 19. 1980). 19 SEC Docket 733.
99lnvestment Company Act Release No.
11005 (January 2, 1980), 19 SEC Docket
132.
I00lnvestment Company Act Release No.
11086 (March 14. 1980). 19 SEC Docket
953.
1011nvestment Company Act Release No.
10937 (November
13, 1979). 18 SEC
Docket 948.
1021nvestment Company Act Release No.

87

10943 (November
16, 1979), 18 SEC
Docket 1024.
l031nvestment Company Act Release No.
10944 (November
16, 1979), 18 SEC
Docket 1027.
l041nvestment Company Act Release No.
10938 (November
13, 1979), 18 SEC
Docket 957.
lO'lnvestment Company Act Release No.
11136 (April 21, 1980), 19 SEC Docket
1268.
l061nvestment Company Act Release No.
11193 (June 2, 1980),20 SEC Docket 274.
l071nvestment Company Act Release No.
11414 (October 28, 1980),21 SEC Docket
324.
l081nvestment Company Act Release No.
11421 (October 31, 1980),21 SEC Docket
488.
1091nvestment Company Act Release No.
11391 (October 10, 1980),21 SEC Docket
183.
l1lnvestment Company Act Release No.
8959 (September 26,1975),7 SEC Docket
1002.
ll1SEC v, Alexander Kasser, Civ. Act. No.
74-90 (D.C.N.J. 1974). litigation Release
No. 9167 (August 28,1980),20 SEC Docket 1352.
112SEC v. Ian T. Allison, et al., Civ. Act.
No. 80-899 PHX-EHC (Ariz. September 29,
1980),21 SEC Docket 61.
113Id.
114SEC v. Jack M. Catain, Jr., et al., Civ,
Act. No. 80-02947 (C.D. Cal. January 3,
1979).
l1'ld.
116SEC v, Contmental Advisers, et al.,
Civ. Act. No. 78-0066 (D.D.C. January 16,
1978), litigation Release No. 9204 (October 16, 1980), 21 SEC Docket 208.
l1745th Annual Report at 44, 46.
116SEC v. Lerner, David, Littenberg &
Samuel, et aI., Civ. Act. No. 80-0845
(D.D.C.), Litigation Release No. 9094 (April
2, 1980), 19 SEC Docket 1153.
119Lltlgation Release No. 9049 (April 2,
1980), 19 SEC Docket 1153.
12SEC v. National Kmney Corp., Civ.
Act. No. 80-3683 (S.D.N.Y.), litigation Release No. 9118 (June 30, 1980), 20 SEC
Docket 595.
l21SEC v, David H. Hall, Civ. Act. No.
80-0504, (D.D.C.), LItIgation Release No.

88

9013 (February 22, 1980), 19 SEC Docket
788.
122SEC v. Samuel E. Wyly, Raymond E.
Shea and Eldon Vaughan, Civ. Act. No.
79-3275 (D.D.C.), litigation Release No.
8943 (December 6, 1979), 18 SEC Docket
1272.
l2344th Annual Report at 32; 45th Annual
Report at 45.
l ....
Wellman v. Dielcesson [current] CCH
Fed Sec. L Rep. '97,604 (S.D.N.Y.1980).
l2'SEC v, Eurrell V. Potts, et aI., Civ. Act.
No. 80-0900 (D.D.C.), litigation Release
No. 9057 (April 9, 1980), 19 SEC Docket
1200.
126Securities Exchange Act Release No.
16728 (April 9, 1980), 19 SEC Docket
1162.
127Securities Exchange Act Release No.
16950 (July 2,1980),20 SEC Docket 567.
l28Securities Exchange Act Release No.
16938 (June 27, 1980), 20 SEC Docket
559.
l29SEC v, Textron, Civ. Act. No. 80-0326
(D.D.C. January 31, 1980), Litigation Release No. 8993 (January 31,1980),19 SEC
Docket 463.
l30Civ. Act. No. 79-1760 (D.D.C. July 9,
1979), litigation Release No. 8815 (July 9
1979), 17 SEC Docket 1302.
131SEC 1979 Annual Report at 41.
l3245th Annual Report at 43-44.
l33SEC v. G. Weeks Securities, Inc., Civ.
Act. No. 79-2711 (W.D. Tenn.), litigation
Release No. 9000 (February 12, 1980), 19
SEC Docket 611.
l3'SEC
v, Harwell, Civ, Act. No.
H-78-1916 (S.D. Tex. October 5,1978), litigation Release No. 8559 (October 5,
1978), 15 SEC Docket 1341.
l3'45th Annual Report at 42.
136Securities Exchange Act Release No.
16554 (February I, 1980), 19 SEC Docket
501.
l37SEC v. Jack M. Catain, Jr. and Rusco
Industries, lnc., Civ. Act. No. 80-02947
(C.D. Cal.), Litigation Release No. 9129
(July 8, 1980), 20 SEC Docket 683.
lUSEC v, General Resources Corporation, et al., Civ. Act. No. 79-2026A (U.S.
Assit. Ct., N.D. Ga., filed October 31, 1979),
Litigation Release No. 8934 (November 27,
1979), 18 SEC Docket 1183.
u.SEC v. Investment Information, lnc., et

aI., Civ. Act. No. 80-0701 (D.C. filed March
19, 1980), Litigation
Release No. 9039
(March 19, 1980), 19 SEC Docket 972.
140SEC v. Irving Cohen, et aI., c.A. No.
80-0853 (D.D.C. April 2, 1980), Lrtiqatron
Release No. 9050 (April 2, 1980), 19 SEC
Docket 1154.
141SEC v. Edward G. Heller, et al., Civ.
Act. No. 80-2608 (D.D.C. October
14,
1980).
142SEC v. Gerald L. Rogers, et aI., Civ.
Act. No. 80-04841 (C.D. Cal. October 29,
1980), Litigation Release No. 9224 (October 30, 1980), 21 SEC Docket 411.
143SEC v. Stewart Energy Systems of
Idaho, Inc., A Lamont Nibarger, et al., C1v.
Act. No. 79-372 (E D. Wa. October 23,
1979), Litigation Release No. 8900 (October 23, 1979), 18 SEC Docket 796.
144SEC v. Stewart Energy Systems of
Idaho, lnc., et al., Civ. Act. No. C79-372
(E.D. Wash. June 3, 1980), Lltiqanon Release No. 9119 (July I, 1980),20
SEC
Docket 596.
145SEC v, Cal-AM Corp., et al., Civ. Act.
No. 77-4586-AAH (C.D. CaL), Litigation Release No. 9158 (August 11, 1980), 20 SEC
Docket 963. See also Utigation Release
Nos. 8521, 8602, 8216.
146See Litigation Release No. 8602.
147SEC v. The International Minmg Exchange, Inc., et al., Civ. Act. No. 80-1198
(D.C. Col.), Litigation Release No. 9181
(September
17, 1980), 20 SEC Docket
1546.
1uSEC v. Murphy, Civ. Act. No. 76-2299
and 78-3300 (9th Cir., 1980) Fed. Sec. L.
Rep. (CCH) '97,588 (Current).
149SEC v, Alexander Kasser, C1v.Act. No.
74-90, (D.C.N.J.), Litigation Release No.

9167 (August 28, 1980), 20 SEC Docket
1352.
150SEC v. Philip R. Cohn and David E.
Lyon, C1v.Act. No. 80-0052F (D.C. Mass.),
LItigation Release Nos. 9042 (March 20,
1980), 19 SEC Docket 975, 9066 (April 22,
1980), 19 SEC Docket 1287.
151SEC v. The Fundpack, Inc., et al., C1v.
Act. No. 79-0859 (D.D.C) Lrnqatlon Release No. 8698 (March 22, 1979), 17 SEC
Docket 72.
152Litlgation Release No. 8838 (August
13,1979),18
SEC Docket 147.
153Litlgation Release No. 8880 (October
I, 1979), 18 SEC Docket 602.
154Litlgation Release No. 8949 (December 13, 1979),18 SEC Docket 1366.
155litigation Release No. 9026 (March 5,
1980),19 SEC Docket 847.
156LltlgatJon Release No 9155 (August
6, 1980),20 SEC Docket 912.
157SEC v. First Independent
Stock
Transfer Agent, Inc. and Terry E. KIrchner,
C1v. Act. No. 80-177-1026 (U.S.D.C. Colo
August 4, 1980), Litlqatron Release No.
9157 (August II, 1980), 20 SEC Docket
963.
156Securities Exchange
16343 (November
15,
Docket 927.
a'Securities
Exchange
16668 (March 17, 1980),
921.

Act Release No.
1979), 18 SEC
Act Release No.
19 SEC Docket

160Securities Exchange Act Release No.
17183 (October I, 1980), 21 SEC Docket

22.
161SEC v, Ian T. Allison, et al., Civ. Act.
No. 80-2465 (D.D.C.), Litigation Release
No. 9188 (September 29, 1980), 21 SEC
Docket 61.

89

Appendix

Appendix

THESECORrnESINDOSTRY
Income. Expenses and Selected
Balance SheetItems
Registered broker-dealers reported
total revenues of $14.6 billion in 1979,
30 percent above the level of 1978. Securities commission income increased
8 percent in 1979 and represented 33
percent of total revenues. Trading profits rose 60 percent in 1979 and comprised 22 percent of aggregate reve-

nues. Underwriting revenues remained
virtually unchanged from the level of
the previous year, while accounting for
6 percent of total revenues in 1979.
Pre-tax income increased by $1.1 billion or 168 percent in 1979 due to the
more rapid growth of revenues relative
to expenses. Ownership equity at the
end of 1979 was $6,359 million, reflecting an increase of $570 million or 10
percent during the year.

93

FINANCIAL

Table 1
INFORMATION FOR BROKER-DEALERS
1975-1979
(Millions 01 Dollsrs)
1975

1978"

1977

1976

1979'

A Revenues
1
2
3
4

secunues Commrsstons

Gain (Loss) In Tradmq
Gam (Loss) rn Investments
Profit (Loss) From Underwnllng and
Selling Groups
5 Revenue from Sale of Investment
Company Secuntres
6 All Other Revenues
7 Total Revenues

$

..

3,378
1,202
132

$

930

3,657
1,828
269

$

1,035

3,334
1,691
353

$

4,480
1,993
391

$

4,825
3,183
742

991

949

943

$

140
1,591
7,373

$

165
1,961
8,915

$

161
2,401
8,931

162
3,222
$ 11,197

197
4,662
$ 14,552

$

1,413

$

1,664

$

1,769

$

$

B Expenses
8 All Employee Compensation
and
Benefits (Except Registered
Representatives'
Compensation)

9 Commissions
and Clearance Paid to
Other Brokers.
    

10 Interest Expe nses 

1 1 Regulatory Fees and Expenses

12 Compensation
to Partners and Voting
Stockholder Officers
13 All Other Expenses (Including
Registered Representatives'
Compensation
14 Total Expenses
15 Pre-Tax Income 

C Assets, liabilities

535

668

900

76
488

3.084
6,253
1,120

$
$

2,143

2,493

81

585
1,246
69

793
1,964
72

868
3,060
76

572

553

608

679

3,658
7,410
1,505

$
$

4,118
8,340
591

4,980
$ 10,580
637
$

5,668
$ 12,844
$ 1,707

and Cap~al

16 Total Assets
17 trabumes
a Total liabilities (excluding
subordmated debt)

b Subordmated debt)
. 
c Total liabilities (17a + 17b)
18 Ownership Equity.

19 Total Liabilities and Ownership Equity
Number

$
$

524

of Firms

$31,851

$48,983

$54,670

$66,470

$87,544

26,352
636
$27,188
$ 4,663
$31.851

42,842
858
$43,700
$ 5,263
$48.983

48,794
948
$49,743
$ 4,927
$54,670

59,500
1,181
$60,681
$ 5,789
$68,470

79,914
1,271
$81,185
$ 6,359
$87,544

4.079

4,315

4,484

4,998

4,876

R ~ Hevrsed
P = Prehrmnary

Sources

FORM X-HA-l0
and FOCUS Reports
Directorate of Econorrnc and Policy Analysis
securmes and Exchange Cornrrussron

Historical Financial Information Of
Broker-Dealers With Securities
Related Revenues of $500,000 Or
More
Aggregate revenues of broker-dealers
havmq secunties-related
revenues of
$500,000 or more Increased 20 percent
in 1979 on a 15 percent rise In share
volume. While trading profits increased,
commission revenues and underwriting
revenues declined slightly from 1978.
Investment profits, commodity revenue
94

and revenue from all other sources
each rose relative to the previous year,
Pre-tax income increased 56 percent.
Firms that reported securities-related
revenue of $500,000 or more comprised 21 percent of all firms, held approximately 86 percent of the industry's
assets and reported 83 percent of all
revenue in 1979. Balance sheet data for
the most recent three years are not
comparable with earlier years because
of changes made in the broker-dealer
reporting system.

Table 2
HISTORICAL CONSOLIDATED REVENUE AND EXPENSES OF BROKER-DEALERS
WITH SECURITIES RELATED REVENUE OF $500,000 OR MORE
(Millions
1970

1971

of Dollars)

1972

1974

1973

1975

1976

$2,438

$3 220

$3 516

1977

1978"

1979'

$3 964

$3,852

Revenues
1 Securities

Cornrrussrons

$2,267

$3,287

824

1,056

994

590

722

1,143

1,757

1,512

1,773

2,728

75
898

243
1,299

209
1,203

-3
587

55
777

131
1,274

253
2,010

326
1,838

356
2,129

693
3,421

601

957

914

494

496

914

1,021

929

838

800

184

196

151

149

79

120

146

138

138

159

64
88
645

82
98
664

99
125
833

83
178
943

85
168
1,022

156
187
1,142

207
236
1,441

176
268
1,901

232
346
2,476

246
366
3,271

$3,404

$2816

$2984

2 Gam (Loss) on Firm Secunties
Trading and Investment
Accounts
a Gam (loss) In trading
b Gam (loss) In Investments
c Total gam (loss)
3 Profit (loss) from Underwntmg
and Seiling Groups
4 Revenue from Sale of Investment Company Securmes
5 Fees for Account SUpervision,
Investment AdviSOry and
Administrative
Services
6 Commodity Revenue
7 All Other Revenues
8 Total Revenues

$4,747

$6,583

$6 729

$5,250

$5,065

$7,013

$8,577

$8 232

$10,123

$12,115

$1,086

$1,300

$1,392

$1,184

$1,097

$1,376

$1,668

Expenses
9 All Employee Compensation
and Benefits (Except RegiStered Representatives'
Compensation)
10 Commissions
Paid to Other
Brokers'
11 Interest Expense
12 All Other Expenses
(Includmg Reglslered
Representatives
Compensation
13 Total Expenses

128

540

182
520

188
796

186
634

151
750

$1,593

$1,925

$2,014

209
582

168
839

530
1,149

707
1,787

620
2,675

2,259

2,960

3,153

2,703

2,657

3,796

4,487

4,274

4,762

5,332

$4,013

$4,962

$5,365

$4,871

$4,655

$5,963

$7,162

$7,546

$9,181

$10,641

$

734

$1,621

$1,365

$

$

410

$1,050

$1,415

$

$

655

768

817

609

764

930

Pre- Tax Income
14 Pre-Tax
Number

Income

of Firms

378
652

686
857

942

$1,474

962

1,018

, Includes clearance paid to others beginning In 1977
R = Hevrsed
P = Prellmmary
Sources Form X-17A-lO and FOCUS Reports
Directorate of Econormc and Pohcy AnalySIS
Secunues and Exchange Commission

95

Table 3
HISTORICAL BALANCE SHEET FOR BROKER-DEALERS
WITH
SECURITIES RELATED REVENUE OF $500,000 OR MORE
(M.lllons
1970
A

1971

01

1972

Dollars)
1973

1974

1975

1976

1977'

1978"

1979 p

Assets

1 Cash, cleanng lunds and
Other deposrts
2 Recetvab!es Irom olher
broker-dealers
and noncustomers
3 R9C8Ivab!es Irom customars
4 Market value or I8Jr value 01
long posmcns m securmes

and commodflles
5 Exchange memberships
market value
6 Other assets

$ 1,162 $ 1,221 $ 1,281 $ 1,139 $

940 $

925 $ 1,135 $

979

$ 1,108 $ 1,569

3,382
7,077

3,547
9,644

4,314
13,373

3,270
9,056

3,014
7,450

3,883
8,464

5,399
12,804

5,364
13,728

6,131
15,431

7,757
14,394

10,261

11,667

11,870

9,722

10,789

12,901

21,392

28,521

33,038

47,451

210
1,392

200
1,646

1,704

123
1,879

101
1,493

118
4,535

142
7,203

117
3,038

at

7 Total assets

20B

121
3,488

163
4,217

$23,484 $27,925 $32,750 $25,189 $23,787 $30,826 $48,075 $51,747

$59,315 $75,551

$ 8,994 $11,286 $14,398 $ 9,878 $10,421 $ 9,488 $11,802 $26,503

$27,565 $33,945

B Liahl/lDes
8 Money borrowed
9 Payables to other brokerdealers and
non-eustomars
10 Payab!es to customers
11 Short posilJons In seeunnes
and commodflles
12 Subordinated borroWIngs
13 Other lIabrlrtles
14 T olal lIabrlrtles
C OwnershIp

EqUIty

15 Ownership

equrty

16 Total lIabrlrtles
Number

and caprtal

01 Firms

3,740
4,242

3,749
4,736

4,370
5,228

2,936
4,978

2,919
3,986

3,568
4,696

4,785
6,174

5,460
5,158

5,481
7,691

6,843
8,250

707
641
2,343

907
728
2,859

1,525
774
2,505

1,158
642
2,550

1,038
594
2,099

1,165
767
7,203

2,555
799
17,178

4,834
840
4,837

7,097
973
5,849

14,310
1,007
6.005

20,667

24,264

28,802

22,142

21,056

26,887

43,293

47,632

54,656

2,818

3,661

3,948

3,047

2,731

3,939

4,782

4,115

4,659

5,191

$23,484 $27,925 $32,750 $25,189 $23,787 $30,826 $48,075 $51,747 $59,315 $75,551
655

788

817

R = ReVIsed
P = PrelimInary
1 Tlle balance
sheet for 1977 IS not comparable wrth previous
Sources Fomn X-17A'10 and FOCUS Reports
DtreclOfate of EconomIC and Policy AnalysJs
Secuntles and Exchange CommIssIon

Securities Industry Dollar: 1979
Securities commissons accounted for
31.8 cents of each dollar produced by the
securities industry. Trading gains and underwriting profits contributed 22.5 cents
and 6.6 cents, respectively. These three
sources combined accounted for 60.9
cents of each revenue dollar, a decline of
6 percent from the 1978 figure of 65.0
cents. Allother revenues-a new category
comprised of margin interest, other revenue related to the securities business and
revenue from all other sources-represented 27.0 cents of the total revenue dollar, an increase of 10 percent over the
1978 figure of 24.5 cents.
Total expenses amounted to 87.8 cents
of each revenue dollar, a decrease of 3
percent from 1978, as the industry's pre96

70360

652

609

years' data because

770

932

of changes

857

In the reporting

962

1,018

form

profit margin increased 31 percent
from 9.3 cents per revenue dollar to 12.2
cents. All employee compensation and
benefits (except registered representatives' compensation) accounted for 16.6
cents of each revenue dollar; interest expense amounted to 22.1 cents; and all
other expenses, a new classification,
consumed 44.0 cents. The all other expenses category includes registered representatives' compensation and expenses
for communications, data processing, occupancy, advertising and miscellaneous
items. Registered representatives' compensation could not be reported separately for the securities industry as a whole
because firms fiUngPart IIAof the FOCUS
Report are required to include registered
representatives' compensation in the "all
other expenses" category.
tax

w
::lE

8
~
x

<
":-

w
II:

...

C
Z

<
lfi
l/l
Z

...

W

X
w



'"

-

r-,
o,

"'"

-o
to

Q

>....,
"'"
U)

:s
c

-."tJ
U)
Q)

....,
.v

"':s"

w

Q)

Z
w

CIJ

>
w
II:

:J

u..

o
l/l
W

o

II:
:J

lil

97

Broker-Dealers, Branch Offices,
Employees
The number of broker-dealers decreased from 4,816 in 1978 to 4,697 in
1979. Dunng the same period, the number of branch offices Increased from
5,893 to 6,519
At the end of 1979, 47,157 full-time
registered representatives were associated

98

with members of the New York Stock Exchange ("NYSE') and 67,683 full-time
registered representatives were employed
in the securities industry. The total of fulltime personnel employed in the securities
business in 1979 was 165,948, an increase of 3 percent from 161,216 in
1978. NYSE member firms accounted for
78 percent of the industry's full-time employees.

Broker-Dealers and Branch Offices
o

1972

1973

.

3000

,

6000

9000

I
i~t~~t~t~:t\:::i~~~~~~~fr;iiJ~~~~~~~IfJ~~~~~~f~rii~~~~~~~~~~~~I~~f~~
4255
)7334

I
I
~~:~::::~:tj~~~~~j~~~~~~::~~:}~~j~~~~~~~~~~~~~~
4088
J 7223

I

1974

I

i1i1~1~t~~:~::::11iifi1~1t::::~l1J~1itt~~I1fitit:Jt~:~::;;:ffiH
4081
\6301

I

1975

1976

4113
I
~~~~~~~~~~Jt~~r~~~:~~~~~~~r~~~~~~~tm~

16267

I
4315
I
}~~~~~~~~t(:~:~l~~~~~~~~tmr:~:I~~~~~~~~~~1i1i1:i~tt~:~~)::~~~:::~~1~1~
16290

1977

I
4484
:11fI~t1:~i1tr::tt{ltr:tllrtt11~f)1~1tttlr:)1~~

I
16498

I
1978

1979

I

4861R
~~~l}~~~tfi1~~~~~:}f\ii:11~~~~~~~~tt~~~~~~/111~Mt~t:ii~}~~:~~~jji~~f;i~~

J 5893R

I
4697P
~~~:;I~I~I~~II~IIII~~~:II~m~IIIIIIII~~~~I~~I~I~~~:~~~I~III~Ir~I~~~~I~I~I~~~~~~III~@
I 6519P

I

I

___ I
P.Preliminary
SOURCE:

Branch Offices

R~Revised

FORM X-17A-1O

AND FOCUS REPORTS

99

Table 4
BROKERS AND DEALERS REGISTERED UNDER THE SECURmES
ACT OF 1934EFFECTIVE REGISTRANTS AS OF SEPTEMBER 30, 1980 CLASSIFIED BY TYPE OF
ORGANIZATION AND BY LOCATION OF PRINCIPAL OFFICE
Number

Total

Alabama
Alaska
Anzona
Arkansas
Cal~omla
Colorado
Connecbcut
Delaware
Dlstncl of Columllla
FIonda
Georgia
HawaII

Idaho
IIIllOs
Indiana
Iowa
Kansas
Kentucky
LOUiSiana
MjIlne
Maryland
Massachusetts
MIChigan
Minnesota
MISSISSIppi
M,ssoun
Montana
Nebraska
Nevada
New Hampshire
New Jersey
New MeXICO
New YOtk (excludong NY Clly)
North Carolina
North Dakota

OhIO
Oklahoma

Oregon
Pennsylvania
Rhode Island
South Carolina
South Dakota
Temessee
Texas

Utah
Vermont
Vlrgtma
Washington
West Virginia
WISCOnSin
Wyoming
Total (excludong NY Clly)

New YOtk Clly
Subtolal

FOl8Ign
Grand Tolal

of Registrants

Sole
Propnetorstups

25
0
26
22
591
80
76
12
33
175
58
17
9
2,039
47
33
28
10
25
10
46
166
66
79
19
64
3
14
3
7
203
6
288
31
4
84
34
29
232
18
8
2
46

2
0
3
2
173
2
9
3
1
12
3
1
2
1,445
5
3
1
1
5
0
5
28
8
1
0
2
0
0
1
1
33
1
82
4
0
4
4
1
25
5
2
0

In
31
4
30
64
7
47
6

PartnershiPS

Number of Propnetors
Partners, Officers, Etc'
Corpora-

Total

nons

Partnerships

Corporabons

16
3
1
4
5
2
8
1

1
1
2
0
4
3
3
15
4
0
3
4
0
0
1
0
22
0
25
0
0
11
0
0
51
3
1
0
2
7
2
1
4
1
0
0
0

5,134
1,596

1,922
610

446
285

2,766
721

19,596
8,408

1,922
610

2,465
1,958

15,211
5,840

6,730
21

2,532
0

711
2

3,487
19

28,006
141

2,532
0

4,423
9

21.051
132

6,751

2,532

713

3,506

28,147

2,532

4.432

21183

a

In

2
0
3
2
173
2
9
3
1
12
3
1
2
1,446
5
3
1
1
5
0
4
28
8
1
0
2
0
0
1
1
33
1
82
4
0
4
4
1
25
5
2
0
2
16
3
1
4
5
2
8
1

0
0
7
0
274
60
63
0
25
33
7
2
0
833
2
2
9
0
16
19
70
96
105
0
7
107
0
0
2
0
60
0
195
0
0
178
0
0
201
10
2
0
29
31
7
2
15
6
0
0
0

129
0
81
85
2,156
350
324
34
248
527
324

, Includes dlrectors. officers, trustees and all other persons OCCUpying similar status or perfonlllng sllndar Iuncbons
2 AJlocabons made on the basis 01 Iocabon of pnllClplll o1Iices of r&gISlranls, not actual Iocabons 01 persons
'Includes all lorms of orgamZ8bons O1her than sole propnetorshtps and partnershops
 Aegtstrants whose pnnClpal olfices are located In fOl8lgn countnes or other junsdlclJons
not .Sled

100

2

23
0
21
20
357
74
57
9
27
151
52
15
7
417
41
29
25
9
16
7
38
123
54
78
16
58
3
14
1
6
148
5
181
27
4
69
30
28
156
10
5
2
42
154
26
2
22
58
5
39
5

0
0
2
0
61
4
10
0
5
12
3
1
0

131
0
91
87
2,603
412
386
37
274
572
334
80
27
3,788
255
170
150
63
180
45
270
1,034
392
617
80
679
22
121
6
19
738
24
1,092
137
16
556
163
118
1,140
45
19
14
313
1,094
133
21
288
325
21
404
22

Sole
PropnetorshlPS

rr

25
1,509
248
165
140
62
159
26
196
910
279
616
73
570
22
121
3
18
645
23
815
133
16
374
149
117
914
30
15
14
282
1,047
123
18
269
314
19
396
21

Table 5
PRINCIPAL

BUSINESS

OF SECO BROKER-DEALERS
Fiscal yea,-end

Exchange member pnmanly engaged In exchange cornrmssron busmess
Exchange member pnmanly engagEJd In lIoor actlVltles
Broker or dealer In general secunbes buSIness
Mutual fund undelwnlar
Mutual fund d.stnbutor
Broker or dealer selling vanable amully contracts
SoI1crtor of saVings and loan accounts
Real estate Syndicator and mortgage broker and banker
Real estate condomlrllum
Intarests
L1mrted partnershtp Intarests
Broker or dealer seiling 011and gas Interests
.
Put and call broker or dealer or oplJon wnter (non-exchange
opnons)
Broker or dealer selling secunttes of only one Issuer or associated Issuers (other than mutual
funds)
Broker or dealer selling church secunhes
Government bond dealer (other than murnopal)
Broker or dealer In munICIpal bonds
Broker or dealer In other secunhes buSIness

No securmes busmess
Totals

1978

1979

1980

25
18
65
11
4
12
6
35
5
25
20
5

6
8

1
5
41
8
2
9
4
32
3
89
27
8

33

7
2
8
5
32
1
71
19
4

23

33

11
3
5
28
25

9
0
4
38
25

27
10
1
6
42
28

326.

305 

353 

 Based on data provided by 326 of the 346 broker-dealers
 Based on data p roVlded by 305 ot the 387 broker-dealers
 Based on data provided by 353 of the 400 broker-dealers

101

Table 6
APPLICATIONS

AND REGISTRATIONS
AND INVESTMENT

OF BROKERS
ADVISERS

AND DEALERS

Fiscal Year 1980
BROKER-DEALER
Applications
Applications

pending at close of preceding
received dUring fiscal 1980

APPLICATIONS

year

891
1,522
2,413

Total applications for diSPOSition
DispoSitiOn of Applications
Accepted for filing
Returned
Withdrawn
Denied
Total applications disposed of
Applications

pending

as of September

1,120
380
0
0
1,480
30, 1980

933

BROKER. DEALER

REGISTRATIONS

6,246
1,118
7,364

EffeclJve registrations at close of preceding year
Registrations effective dUring fiscal 1980
Total registrations
Registrations terminated dUring fiscal 1980
Withdrawn
Revoked
Cancelled
Total registrations terminated
Total registration

Applications pending at close of preceding
Applications received dunng fiscal 1980
Total applications for disposition
Disposition of applications
Accepted for filing
Returned
Withdrawn
Denied
Total applications disposed of
pending

as of September

at end of fiscal 1980

ADVISER

APPICATIONS

year

1,049
938
1,987
654

252
0
0
906

30, 1980

EffeclJve registrations at close of preceding
Registrations effective dUring fiscal 1980
Total registrations
Registrations terminated dUring fiscal 1980
Withdrawn
Revoked
Cancelled
Total registrations terminated

102

613
6,751

INVESTMENT

Total registrations

58

at end of fiscal year 1980
INVESTMENT

Applications

555
0

1,081
ADVISER

REGISTRATIONS

year

5,664
641
6,305
610
2
13
625
5,680

Table 7
APPLICATIONS

AND REGISTRATIONS OF MUNICIPAL
AND TRANSFER AGENTS

SECURITIES

DEALERS

Fiscal Year 1980
MUNICIPAL
Applications pending at close of preceding
Applications received dunng fiscal 1980
Total applications for msposmon
DISPOSition of Applications
Accepted for filing
Returned
Wrthdrawn
Denied
Total applications disposed of
Applications

pending

as of September

SECURITIES

DEALERS

APPLICATIONS

year

21
6
27
4
0
0
0
4
23

30, 1980

MUNICIPAL

SECURITIES

DEALERS

REGISTRATIONS
346
4
350

Effective registrations at close of preceding year
Registrations effective dunng fiscal 1980
Total reglstrallons
ReglslralJons tsrmmated dunng fiscal 1980
Wrthdrawn
Cancelled
Suspended
Total registrations terminated
Total registrations

350

Applications pending at close of preceding
Applications received dunnq fiscal 1980
Total applications for dlSPOSrtlon
DISposition of applications
Accepted for filing
Returned
Wrthdrawn
Denied
Total applications disposed of
pending

as of September

1980

APPLICATIONS
18

58
74
44
7
0
0
51
23

30, 1980

Effective registrations at close of preceding year
Registrations effective dunng fiscal 1980
Total registrations
Registrations termmated dunng fiscal 1980
Wrthdrawn
Cancelled
Suspended
Total registrations terminated
at end of "scal

AGENTS

year

TRANSFER

Total registrations

0

at end of fiscal 1980

TRANSFER

Applications

0
0
0

AGENTS

REGISTRATIONS
891
44
935

o
o
o

o
935

103

Self-Regulatory Organizations:
Revenues. Expenses and Balance
Sheet Structure
In 1979, revenues of self-regulatory
organizatIons ("SROs") amounted to
$247.2 million-an
increase of 12 percent from the level obtained in 1978.
Total expenses increased by 17 percent, from $192.6 million to $225.6
million. Thus, pre-tax income declined
from $27.4 million in 1978 to $21.6
million in 1979.
Total share volume traded on the nation's stock exchanges continued to rise
in 1979, although the rate of increase
was less than that of 1978. Revenues
generated from volume - related activities are an important component of
SRO revenues. Commission fees and
transaction revenues, for example, increased from $52.1 million in 1978 to
$57.7 million in 1979 while communication fees rose by 15 percent and totaled $32.6 million in 1979. SRO aggregate revenues
from listing
fees
Increased by nine percent to $47.1 million in 1979 from $43.1 million in 1978.
The largest increase
in revenues
occurred in the "other" revenue category which increased by 25 percent and
aggregated $47.5 million in 1979. This
primarily consists of income from interest and/or investments.
The individual organizations are quite
different in their dependence on particular sources of revenues. The distribution of revenues among SROs is set
forth in the accompanying tables.
Employee costs continued to represent the largest component of expenses
for SROs in 1979. These costs, which
increased by 18 percent to $102.4 million during the year, accounted for almost 50 percent of the SROs' total expenses.
Communication,
data
processing and collection costs totaled
$56.1 million in 1979, an increase of 16
percent. The largest increase in expenses was professional and legal serv104

ices which rose by 31 percent and totaled $11.2 million in 1979.
During the period 1975-1979, financial decisions of major self-regulatory
organizations
were influenced by at
least two developments: (1) the evolution of the National Market System; and
(2) increases in costs associated with
capital expenditures. In an effort to
combat escalating overhead expenses,
some SROs stepped up investments in
automated transaction systems and
others reduced costs through joint ownership of clearing facilities. In situations
where capital reserves for new investment were limited, innovative money
management techniques were introduced to improve or maintain desired
asset levels.
The NYSE, with assets in excess of
$125 million (or, one-third of aggregate
SRO assets), has the largest SRO asset
base. The NYSE is followed by the MSE
($74.6 million), and the NASD ($44.4
million).
Although
two line items
(property/equipment and short-term investments) each accounted for more
than 35 percent of NYSE assets, a
single line item (investment securities)
accounted for 59 percent of NASD
asssets. The difference in asset distribution between the NYSE and the NASD
is principally attributable to the type of
market served. For example, in the case
of the NYSE, an "auction"
market,
members of the exchange meet in a geographically centralized location (the
Exchange) to effect transactions. Relatively large fixed overhead costs (e.g.,
property/equipment) are generally associated with this type of market. In
contrast, the nature of the "dealer"
market, as serviced by NASDAQ, is
such that large, fixed cost outlays for
business-related property are unnecessary. The chief component of the liabilities portion of the major self-regulatory
organizations'
balance sheets is accounts payable.
At year-end 1979. net worth (or,

member's equity) for all SROs totalled
$190.7 million. The NYSE. with $87
million, accounted for approximately 46
percent of this figure. Although individual SROs experienced large percentage
increases in net worth over the five year
period, the net worth of all SROs as a
group increased by 48 percent
The MSRB income of $744,712 during fiscal 1980 was derived primarily
from three fees established by rules
adopted under authority granted in the
Exchange Act. Municipal securities brokers and municipal securities dealers
are assessed (1) an initial fee of $100,
(2) an underwriting
assessment fee
equal to .001 % of the face value of all
municipal securities they purchase from
an issuer as part of a new issue which
has a final stated maturity date of not
less than two years from the date of the
securities and which has an aggregate
par value of $1.000.000 or rnore.! and
(3) an annual fee of $100 which, as of
October I, 1979, is due by February 15
of the fiscal year for which the fee is
paid." The underwriting assessment
fees accounted for 65% of the MSRB income during fiscal 1980. The balance
of MSRB income was from other fees
and interest income.

! From November 1, 1977, to December
31, 1979, this fee was equal to .001% of all
sales regardless of aggregate par value.
Since December 31, 1979, the assessment
changed to .001 % of all sales with an aggregate par value of $1,000,000 or more.
Effective October 1, 1980, the rate was
changed to .003%.
21nprior years, the annual fee could be
offset by payment within the calendar year
of underwriting assessmentfees. Effective
November 29, 1979, the annual fee could
no longer be offset. The result was a substantial increase in revenue from annual
fees.

During fiscal 1980. the MSRB had total expenses of $1,096.186. The major
expense items were staff salaries and
employee benefits, including contribution to an employee retirement plan (38
percent); meetings and travel (31 percent); and mailing list, rule manual.
postage and other printing (16 percent).
Expenses
exceeded
income
by
$351,474. As of September 30, 1980,
the MSRB had a surplus of $281,349.
1979 clearing agency revenues from
clearing services decreased by $10.1
million while revenues from depository
services increased by $8.6 million and
revenues from interest and other
sources increased by $6 million. Thus,
aggregate clearing agency revenues increased by $4.5 million in 1979 to approximately $123 million. This increase
is net of refunds by some clearing
agencies of fee revenues which exceeded their current needs. National
Securities
Clearing
Corporation's
("NSCC's") 1979 refund of $17 million,
however, was exceptional and accounts
for the 1979 decrease in aggregate
c1earmg revenues. NSCC's refund in
1978 was $2 million when its fee revenues were the largest of all registered
clearing agencies. Its substantial 1979
refund was due principally to cost reductions of $9.5 million and to a $2
million reduction in its rate of pre-tax
earnings retention.
Aggregate clearing agency expenses
increased by $6 million in 1979 to approximately $118 million. NSCC cost
reductions of $9.5 million discussed
supra resulted principally from a $8.9
million reduction in operating costs
through a consolidation of its facilities
management arrangements.
1979 was a relatively stable year with
changes in aggregate clearing agency
revenues and expenses approximately
offsetting each year.

105

w
(J)
(J)

~

J:

a.

C.

w
a.
(J)

....-It)QJO'>(\1

C.

OJ"""

It)lt) l.O
0>cr>Ll)<r-_

vO'>C")CCCO
""'-C\l-C\1

""'_C\I"'CtO

NNN-i~

"':C"iMMu)

w

(J)

>-

z

w
(J)
::;;

gre~Mg
-e
10
(')(0 (")

...:C"i..:C"i

.....
-

~~~~~
":T'""-VNN

106

Table 9
REVENUES

AND EXPENSES

OF SELF-REGULATORY
1975-1979
(Thousands

ORGANIZATIONS

of Dollars)

1975"

1976"

1977"

1978R

1979

32,844
31,709
21,794
35,451
27,792
13,553
11,267
5,130
6,966
1,111
13,999

38,602
40,756
25,193
41,185
36,227
16,537
13,054
4,222
9,022
1,047
23,416

37,230
42,275
30,214
8,886
6,737
16,029
14,437
4,361
10,653
922
34,256

52,086
43,109
28,265
10,332
8,678
5,429
15,554
6,246
11,074
1,127
38,087

57,699
47,136
32,560
11,707
10,201
3,724
16,572
7,649
11,229
1,236
47,498

REVENUES
Commrssron FeeslTransachon
lIsting Fees
Cornmurucanon
Fees
Cleanng Fees
Deposrtory Fees
Tabulation ServIceS
MembershIp Dues
RegIstration Fees
Floor Usage Revenues
Corporate Finance Fees
All Other Revenues

Revenues

201,618

249,262

205,998

219,986

247,212

84,276
12,885
3,504
8,001
4,824
3,338

99,782
14,887
4,423
8,676
8,425
3,445

84,016
11,097
8,250
8,150
8,526
3,252

86,491
11,568
7,956
8,539
8,441
3,861

102,428
13,294
8,213
11,194
8,240
5,496

54,694
15,861

64,742
27,982

52,372
16,761

48,407
17,304

56,071
20,685

Total Expenses

187,383

232,163

192,422

192,569

225,621

PRE-TAX INCOME

14,235

17,099

13,576

27,417

21,591

data to comply

WIth annual auoted

Total Revenues

EXPENSES
Employee Costs
Occupancy Costs
EqUipment Costs
ProfeSSIonal and legal ServIces
Deprecranon and Amortization
AdvertiSing, Pnnllng and Postage
Commurucatton,
Data Processing

and

coueenon
All Other Expenses

R ~ ReVised
Note
Source

ExtensIve

revrsions

have been made In 1975-1978

financial statements

Survey of Se~-Regulatory
Orqanrzations and suosioianes
Directorate of Econormc and Policy AnalYSIS
Seeurmas and Exchange Comrmssron

107

108

w

en
en

:el;jl~lll
~~
0)"""
":C\i

tti,..,.-

w
!!l

w

en
o

w

en
CD

109

w

en
en

, I I 'I

II II I

II I I I

I I I II

,;;~~~~~~~~


3
r

NNNMM

Q.

w
CIl
Q.

as
0<0

ce~
, II II

I I I

"'"
I I , , ,

11111

I II II

~q~~~~
r-- O)('I')M-.:t

oo;&r)Cli .....
,.... ..... C\IN('I')

~~8~~
C'JririMM
, II II

::II II

11111

II II I

I , I , I

, II , ,

I I II ,

I II II

11111

I I I!D ill

1111/

If! I II I

II I I I

"'co

11111

w

en
<

110

w

en
en

w
en
a,

'a
CD

~


.=
co
o

......I

III

~l;; ~
1lfg g

'"

...

~

'"

'"
'"

'"
o
0;

~
....

'"

'"

'"
:;:
'"

'"

'"

'"

iii~ ~~
CD....
'"
'"

...

'"
'"

112

~

..:

Teble 13
REVENUE

AND EXPENSES

OF MUNICIPAL

SECURmES

RULEMAKING

BOARD

Years Ended September 30
1980
1979

Revenues
Assessment fees
Annual fees
Inmal fees
Interest Income
Other

Expenses'
Salanes and employee benefits
Meetings and travel
Mailing IIS1,Board manual and other pnntlng and postage
Rent, telephone and other occupancy costs
ProfeSSlOllai and other 98lVIC8S
Payroll taxes
Oepreclabon and amomzat,on
Other

$484,391
190,202
15,900
36,833
17,386

$413,841
95,554
17,600
62,328
1,637

744,712

590,960

412,636
340,882
171,687
70,875
61,209
20.072
11,366
7,459

355,721
232,738
129,667
65,939
42,436
17.620
13.669
8,533

1,096,186

866,323

Excess of axpenses over revenues
Fund balance, beginntng of year

(351,474)
632,823

(275,363)
908,186

Fund balance, end of year

$281,349

$632,823

EXEMPTIONS
Section 12(h) Exemptions
Section 12(h) of the Exchange Act authorizes the Commission to grant a complete or partial exemption from the registration provlsions of Section 12(g) or
from other disclosure and insider trading
provisions of the Act where such exemption is consistent with the public interest
and the protection of investors.
For the year beginning
October I,
1979, 52 applications were pending, and
an additional 42 applications were filed
during the year. Of these 94 applications,
59 were granted, 19 were withdrawn and
one was denied. Fifteen applications were
pending at the close of the year.

Rule 10b-6 Exemptions
Exchange Act Rule 10b-6 imposes certain prohibitions upon trading in securities
by persons interested in a distribution of
such securities. During the fiscal year, the
Commission granted approximately 400
exemptions pursuant to paragraph (f) of
Rule lOb-6 under circumstances indicating that proposed purchase transactions
did not appear to constitute manipulative

or deceptive devices or contrivances
comprehended within the purposes of the
rule.

Exemptions for Foreign Private

Issuers
Rule 12g3-2 provides various exemptions from the registration provisions of
Section 12(g) of the Exchange Act for the
securities of foreign private issuers. Perhaps the most important of these is that
contained in subparagraph (b) which provides an exemption for certam foreign issuers which submit on a current basis
material specified in the rule. Such material includes that information about which
investors ought reasonably to be informed and which the issuer: (l) has
made public pursuant to the law of the
country of domicile or in which it is incorporated or organized; (2) has filed with a
foreign stock exchange on which its securities are traded and which was made
public by such exchange and/or (3) has
distributed to its security holders. Periodically, the Commission publishes a list of
those foreign issuers which appear to be
current under the exemptive provision.
The most current list is as of August 31,
113

1980, and contains a total of 227 foreign

issuers.'

ANANC~INS~OTIONS
Stock Transactions of Selected
AnanclaI Institutions
During 1979, private noninsured pension funds, open-end investment com-

1 Secuntres
Exchange Act Release No.
17169 (September 29, 1980),21 SEC Docket
8.

114

parties, life insurance companies, and
property-liability insurance companies
purchased $57.9 billion of common stock
and sold $47.1 billion, resulting in net
purchases of $10.8 billion. In 1978 purchases were $47.7 billion, sales $42.7 bilnon, and net purchases $5.0 billion. Their
1979 common stock activity rate was
27.2 percent as compared to 26.1 percent one year earlier.

C>

.....
C>

115

Stockholdings of Institutional
Investors and Others
At year-end 1979, the ten institutional
groups listed below held $415.8 billion of
total corporate stock outstanding (both
common and preferred). In comparison,
they accounted for $359.9 billion of the
stock held a year earlier. This resulted in a
15.5 percent increase in the value of the
stockholdings of these institutions compared to a 20.0 percent upswing in the

116

aggregate market value of all stock outstanding. Thus, the share of total stock
outstanding that was held by these institutions was 35.0 percent at year-end 1979.
During 1979, the shares held by other domestic investors, which consist of individuals, broker-dealers and institutions not
listed, rose to 583 percent from 56.8 percent a year earlier. Foreign investors'
share of stockholdings decreased to 6.7
percent

~~


o II)OH\I (0
ci C\I (f) OHn

-::;<D~~

117

Table 16
COMPANIES

REGISTERED UNDER THE INVESTMENT COMPANY
AS OF SEPTEMBER 30, 1981

Number

Acttve

of RegIstered

Inaettve'

ACT OF 1940

Companies

Total

Approximate
Market Value
of Assets of
Acbve
Comparnes
(Millions)

Management open-end (Mutual FUnds")
Vanable annuity-separate
accounts
All other loed funds

907
59
848

46
1
45

953
60
893

$130,453
1,674
128,779

Management closed-end
Small busmess Investment compames
All other closed-end cornoarses

163
36
127

56

219
42
177

7,616

Unrt Investment trust
Venable annuity-separate
accounts
All other unrt Investment trusts

386
B3
303

24
0
24

410

17,556'

327

1,644
15,912

5

4

9

52

1,461

130

1,591

Face-amount

Total

cerblicate

companies

6
50

B3

7,920

304

$155,981

'Inaettve refers to regIstered cornparses whICh as of September 30, 1980, were In the process of being liquIdated or merged, or
have filed an appllcabon pursuant to Secbon 8(1) of the Act for dereglstratlon,
or which have otherwise gone out of existence and
remam only untIl such bme as the Oornrmssion Issues order under Secbon 8(1) terminating the" regIstration
'Includes
about 4 4 btillon of assets of trusts wlltch IIwest In seeurmes of other mvestment companies, substannally all of them
mutual funds

118

Table 17
COMPANIES

REGISTERED

Fiscal year ended
September 30

UNDER THE INVESTMENT

Registered
at beglllnlllg
of year

Registered
dunng
year

COMPANY ACT OF 1940

Registration

termmated
dunng year

Registered
at end of
year

Approximate
market value
of assets
of active

companies
(millions)

1941
1942
1943
1944
1945
1946
1947
1948
1949
1950
1951
1952
1953
1954
1955
1956
1957
1956
1959
1960
1961
1962
1963
1964
1965
1966
1967
1968
1969
1970
1971
1972
1973
1974
1975
1976

0
436
407
390
371
366
361
352
359
358
366
368
367
369

384
387
399
432
453
512
570

663
727
727
731
727
755
842
967
1,167
1,328
1,351
1,334
1,361

1,3n
1,399
1,403
1,437
1,471
1,507

19n
1978
1979
1980

 Began Fiscal Year Endlll9

September

30,

450
17
14
18
t4
13
12
18
12
26
12
13
17
20
37
46
49
42
70
67
118
97

48

14
46
31
27
19
18
21
11
13
16
10
14
15
5
34
34
16
21
11
9
25
33
48

52
50
78
108
167

48
54
30

222

22

187
121
91
91
106

26
98
108

88
63
91
98
83
136

57

436
407
390
371
366
361
352
359
358
366
368
367
369

384
367
399
432
453
512
570

663
727
727
731
727

n5

64

842
967
1,167
1,328
1,351
1,334
1,361

90

1,3n

66
86

1,399
1,376
1,437
1,471
1,507
1,591

41
42

64
47
52

$

2,500
2,400
2,300
2,200
3,250
3,750
3,600
3,825
3,700
4,700
5,600
6,800
7,000
8,700
12,000
14,000
15,000
17,000
20,000
23,500
29,000
27,300
36,000
41,600
44,600
49,800
58,197
69,732
72,465
56,337
78,109
80,816
73,149
62,287
74,192
80,564
76,904
93,921
108,572
155,981

19n

119

Table 18

NEW INVESTMENT COMPANY REGISTRATIONS
1980
Management open-end
Vanable AnnultJ8s
All others
Sub-total

Management

closed-end

o

S8IC's

_7_

All others

7

Sub-total

Unrt Investment

trust

Vanable amultJ8s
All others

14
_8_
22

Sub-total

Face amount cerlJficates

o

Total RegIstered

136

Table 19

INVESTMENT COMPANY REGISTRATIONS TERMINATED
1980
Management open-end
Vanable amultJ8s
All others
Sub-total

1
39
40

Management closed-end

o

SBIC's

All others

9

Sub-tolal

Unrt Investment

trust

Vanable amultJ8s
All others

1
2

Sub-total

3

Face amount cerlJfieates
Totaltennonated

120

9

o
52

Private Noninsured

Pension Funds:

Assets
The assets of private noninsured pension funds totaled $223.5 billion at book
value and $225.2 billion at market value
on December 31, 1979. A year earlier
their comparable asset totals were $202.2
billion and $201.5 billion. The book value

of common stock holdings increased to
$110.9 billion at year-end 1979 from
$100,4 billion the previous year. Valued at
market, those holdings also increased to
$122,7 billion, or 54.5 percent of total assets, at the end of 1979 from $106.7 billion, or 53.0 percent of total assets, one
year earlier.

Table 20
ASSETS OF PRIVATE NONINSURED

PENSION FUNDS

(Millions of Dollars)

1972

1973

1974

Cash and OeposIls
U S Government SecuntJes
Corporate and Other Bonds
Preferred Stock
Common Stock
Own Company
Other Companies
Mortgages
Other Assets
T alai Assets

1,857
3,689
28,207
1,481
74,585
3,868
70,717
2,728
4,983
117,530

2,336
4,404
30,334
1,258
80,593
4,098
76,495
2,3n
5,229
126,531

4,286
5,533
35,029
1,129
79,319
4,588
74,731
2,372
6,063
133,731

Cash and Deposrts
U.S Government
SecuntJes
Corporate and Other Bonds
Preferred Stock
Common Stock
Own Company
Other CompallltlS
Mortgages
Other Assets

1,857
3,700
26,232
1,869
113,369
8,750
104,619
2,427
4,908

2,336
4,474
27,664
985
89,538
6,947
82,591
2,108
5,140

4,286
5,582
30,825
703
62,582
5,230
57,352
2,063
5,681

2,962
11,097
34,519
892
87,669
6,958
80,711
2,139
6,341

2,199
14,918
37,858
1,212
108,483
NA.
NA.

NA
NA

2,160
7,073

2,362
10,838

2,554
15,585

2,664
17,336

54,383

132,247

111,724

145,622

173,906

181,564

201,545

225,188

1975

1976

1978

1979

8,100
19,695
53,824
1,274
100,424

8,609
22,459
59,537
1,350
110,934

Book Value, End of Year

2,962
10,764
37,809
1,188
83,654
5,075
78,579
2,383
6,406
145,166

2,199
14,713
39,070
1,250
93,359
NA
NA.

2,369
7,454
160,414

3,721
20,138
45,580
1,168
96,984
NA
NA

NA
NA

NA
NA

2,497
11,421
181,509

2,789
16,121
202,237

3,091
17,476
223,465

3,721
20,017
42,754
1,009
100,863

8,100
18,767
48,633
1,162
106,732

8,609
21,516
51,261
1,099
122,703

Market Value, End of Year

Total Assets

N

NA
NA.

NA
NA.

A Not Available

NOTE

Includes

deferred

profit shanng

funds and pension

funds of corporations,

Unions, rnul\Jernployer

groups, and nonprofrt

orgaJ1lza\Jons

121

SECURITIES ON EXCHANGES
Exchange Volume
Dollar volume of all equity securities
exchanges
totaled $323.9 billion in 1979. Of this
total, $300 billion or $92.6 percent represented stock trading, $22.7 billion or 7.0
percent, option trading, and the balance,
trading In rights and warrents. The value
of New York Stock Exchange transactions
was $251.6 billion in 1979. NYSE share
volume Increased 14.8 percent from the
1978 total. On the American Stock Exchange, value of shares traded increased
43.9 percent to $27.3 billion. The AMEX
volume of 1.2 billion was up 17 percent
from the 1978 figure.
transactions on registered

122

The Chicago Board Options Exchange
contract volume for 1979 was 35.2 million, up 4.5 percent from 33.7 million in
1978. The market value of option contracts traded in 1979 was $13.8 billion, an
increase of less than one percent from
the 1978 total. The American Stock Exchange option volume was 17.5 million
contracts in 1979, a slight decrease from
the level obtained in 1978. The value of
AMEX options trading in 1979 was $6.0
billion. Philadelphia Stock Exchange option volume was 4.3 million in 1979, up
34.4 percent from the 1978 figure of 3.2
million. Pacific Stock Exchange contract
volume In 1979 was 4.1 million with a
value of $899 million. The Midwest Stock
Exchange contract volume was 2.6 million contracts with a value of $758 million
In 1979.

h~
z
::J

en

::>

.........:

LOOOO'll;f'vOOOO

"''''
~'"
~N

I-

J:

e

LOOOOMO'lOOOO

ii:

gJ
.,;

~~~

:::;:>e.

~

'"
-g
-g

~
en

en

I-

w

Z

z

II:

e
:J:
(,,)

><
w
en
w

co

~ !!

(,,)

::J

c;,

en

z

0
;::

0

w

0..

0

II:
W
I-

en
--g

Ci)etl~

~.2.!!

~~~

U>

"W U>
co
II: ::J

Z~

0 s

l!!
co
I- W co
..J 10
"0
C
l!II

U>

~o~c:
z 8

w

:a

co

j::

a:~

...

E

Eoi:
::J
::>
Z

~

<
~
 ~~~

~~~


C

N
III

..

.L!!

.Le
Eo'"

en

en ~
II.
0

w

::E

~

..J

0

>

::J

Z

.<:::

en

U,
~

o

~

en

~~~

:::;:>e.

0
Z
C

w

~

..J
C

>

-1Gjw~
c(~::>

co

~~~e.
"'-a:..J=

IW

~

II:
C

::E

123

NASDAQ (Volume)
NASDAQ share volume and price information for over-the-counter trading has
been reported on a daily basis since November 1, 1971. At the end of 1979, there
were 2,670 issues in the NASDAQ system, an increase of 3.4 percent from
2,582 in 1978. Volume for 1979 was 3.65
billion shares, up 30.4 percent from 2.8
billion in 1978. This trading volume reflects the number of shares bought and
sold by market-makers plus their net inventory changes.
Share and
Exchange

Dollar

Volume

by

Share volume of all stocks, rights and
warrents traded on exchanges totaled $11

124

billion, a 15 percent increase from $9.6
billion in 1978. New York Stock Exchange
accounted for 79.8 percent of all share
volume; American Stock Exchange, 10.8
percent; and Midwest and Pacific Stock
Exchanges, 3.3 and 3.4 percent, respec-

tively.
Dollar volume of all stocks, rights and
warrents was $300.7 billion, a 20.5 percent increase from $249.6 billion in 1978.
New York Stock Exchange represented
83.7 percent of the dollar volume total.
American and Midwest Stock Exchanges
had 6.9 and 3.8 percent of the total.

Market Value Of Securities Traded On
All 0.5. Stock Exchanges
Dollars BIllions

350

B
,

300

~

,

StOCkS. Rights
& Warrants
Options

250

200

19.0

22.7

o
1969

70

71

72

73

74

75

76

77

78

1979

125

Table 22
SHARE VOLUME BY EXCHANGESl
In Percentage

Year

Total Share Volume
(thousands)

681,971
377,897
769,018
893,320
1,321,401
1,441,120
2,142,523
1,711,945
1,680,793
2,118,326
2,671,012
3,313,899
4,646,553
5,407,923
5,134,856
4,834,887
6,172,668
6,518,132
5,899,678
4,950,833
6,381,669
7,125,201
7,134,946
9,564,663
10,977,775

1935
1940
1945
1950
1955
1960
1961
1962
1963
1964
1965
1966
1967
1966
1969
1970
1971
1972
1973
1974
1975
1976
1977
1978
1979
Share Volume for exchanges
'Others Include all exchanges
1

NYSE

7313
7544
6587
7632
6885
6847
6499
7131
7293
7281
6990
6938
64.40
6198
6316
7128
7134
7047
7492
7847
8092
8003
7954
8008
7978

AMEX

MIDW

1242
1320
2131
1354
1919
2227
2558
20 11
1883
1942
2253
2264
2841
2974
2761
1903
1842
1822
1375
1027
896
935
973
1075
1082

191
211
177
216
209
220
222
234
232
243
263
256
235
263
264
316
352
371
409
439
405
387
395
356
329

PSE

269
278
298
311
308
311
341
295
282
265
233
268
246
264
347
368
372
413
368
348
325
393
371
314
338

PHLE

110
133
108
097
085
088
079
087
083
093
081
086
087
089
122
163
191
221
219
182
154
141
149
149
164

BOSE

096
119
066
065
048
038
030
031
029
029
026
040
043
078
051
051
043
059
071
086
084
078
066
060
054

CNSE

003
008
005
009
005
004
004
004
004
003
005
005
002
001
000
002
003
003
004
004
013
044
064
015
027

Other'

776
387
630
316
541
265
267
207
194
144
149
123
106
133
119
069
063
064
062
067
031
019
028
021
028

'ncludes Stocks, Rights, and Warrants
not listed above

Table 23
DOLLAR VOLUME BY EXCHANGES 1
In PercenIlIge

Year

1935
1940
1945
1950
1955
1960
1961
1962
1963
1964
1965
1966
1967
1958
1969
1970
1971
1972
1973
1974
1975
1976
1977
1978
1979

Total Dollar Volume
(thousands)

15,396,139
8,419,772
16,284,552
21,808,284
38,039,107
45,309,825
64,071,623
54,855,293
64,437,900
72,461,584
89,549,093
123,697,737
162,189,211
197,116,367
176,389,759
131,707,946
186,375,130
205,956,263
178,863,622
118,828,272
157,555,489
195,224,815
187,393,082
249,603,319
300,728,389

1 Dollar Volume
for exchanges
'Others Include all eXchanges

126

NYSE

6664
8517
8275
6591
8631
8380
8243
8632
6519
8349
8178
7977
7729
7355
7348
7844
7907
7777
8207
8382
6504
8435
6396
8435
8365

AMEX

783
768
1081
685
698
935
1071
681
751
845
991
1184
1448
1799
1759
1111
998
1037
606
439
368
387
460
617
693

Includes Stocks, Rlgh1s, and Warrants
not listed above

MIDW

132
207
200
235
244
272
275
275
272
315
344
314
308
312
339
376
400
429
454
489
482
475
479
419
382

PSE

139
152
178
219
190
194
199
200
239
248
243
284
279
265
312
381
379
394
355
350
325
382
353
284
285

PHLE

088
111
096
103
103
103
103
105
106
114
112
110
113
113
143
199
229
256
245
202
172
168
162
163
180

BOSE

134
191
116
112
078
060
049
046
041
042
042
056
068
104
067
067
058
075
100
123
118
093
073
061
056

CNSE

004
009
006
011
009
007
007
007
006
006
008
007
003
001
001
003
005
005
006
006
017
053
074
017
035

Other'

056
045
048
044
047
049
053
054
066
081
082
068
054
051
031
019
024
027
027
029
016
007
003
004
004

Special Block Distribution

percent of the total number of special
block distributions in 1979, but With an
aggregate value of $2.9 million, these offerings accounted for only 1.0 percent of
the value of all special block distributions,
The exchange distribution method was
employed three times In 1979. The value
of exchange distributions was $86.1 million, representinq 30.9 percent of the
value of all special block distnbutrons.

In 1979, there were 45 special block
distributions WIth a value of $278.3 million. Secondary distributions accounted
for 82.2 percent of the total number of
special block distributions In 1979 and 68
percent of the total value of these distributions.
The special offering method was employed five times, accounting for 11.1

Table 24
SPECIAL BLOCK DISTRIBUTIONS

REPORTED

BY EXCHANGES

(Value In thousands)
Secondary

orstnbunons

Exchange

d,stnbubons

Special offenngs

YEAR
Number

1942
1943
1944
1945
1946
1947
1948
1949
1950
1951
1952
1953
1954
1955
1956
1957
1958
1959
1960
1961
1962
1963
1964
1965
1966
1967
1968
1969
1970
1971
1972
1973
1974
1975
1976
19n
1978
1979
r

=

116
61
94
115
100
73
95
86

rr

88
76
68
84
116
146
99
122
148
92
130
59
100
110
142
126
143
174
142
72
204
229
120
45
51
44
39
37
37

Shares
sold

2,397,454
4,270,560
4,097,298
9,457,356
6,481,291
3,981,572
7,302,420
3,737,249
4,280,681
5,193,756
4,223,256
6,906,017
5,738,359
6,756,767
11,696,174
9,324,509
9,508,505
17,330,941
11,439,065
19,910,013
12,143,656
18,937,935
19,462,343
31,153,319
29,045,038
30,783,604
36,110,489
38,224,799
17,830,008
72,801,343
82,365,749
30,825,890
7,512,200
34.149,069
20,566,432
9,848,986
15,233,141
10,726,560

Value

Number

62,840
127,462
135,760
191,961
232,398
124,671
175,991
104,062
68,743
146,459
149,117
108,229
218,490
344,871
520,966
339,062
361,886
822,336
424,688
926,514
656,780
814,984
909,821
1,603,107
1,523,373
1,154,479
1,571,600
1,244,186
504,562
2,007,517
3,216,126
1,151,087
133,838
1,409,933
517,546
261,257
569,487
189,253

0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
57
19
17
33
36
28
20
33
41
72
68
57
52
51
35
32
35
30
26
19
4
14
16
6
3
3

Shares
sold

0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
705,781
256,348
156,481
390,832
619,876
545,038
441,644
1,127,266
2,345,076
2,892,233
2,553,237
2,334,2n
3,042,599
3,452,856
2,669,938
1,706,572
2,066,590
2,595,104
1,469,886
802,322
82,200
483,846
752,600
295,264
79,000
1,647,600

Value

0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
24,664
10,211
4,645
15,855
29,454
26,491
11,108
56,072
65,459
107,498
97,711
86,479
118,349
125,404
93,528
52,198
48,218
65.765
30,156
9,140
6,836
8,300
13,919
5,242
1,429
86,065

Number

79
60
87
79
23
24
21
32
20
27
22
17
14
9
8
5
5
3
3
2
2
0
0
0
0
0
1
0
0
0
0
91
33
14
22
18
3
5

Shares
sold

612,390
1,097,338
1,053,667
947,231
308,134
314,270
238,879
500,211
150,308
323,013
357,897
380,680
189,n2
161,850
131,755
63,408
88,152
33,500
63,663
35,000
48,200
0
0
0
0
0
3,352
0
0
0
0
6,662,111
1,921,755
1,252,925
1,475,842
1,074,290
130,675
203,900

Value

22,694
31,054
32,454
29,878
11,002
9,133
5,466
10,956
4,940
10,751
9,931
10,488
6,670
7,223
4,557
1,845
3,286
3,730
5,439
1,504
568
0
0
0
0
0
63
0
0
0
0
79,889
16,805
11,521
18,459
14,519
1,820,
2,939

revised

127

Value and Number of Securities
listed on Exchanges
The market value of stocks and bonds
listed on U.S. Stock Exchanges at yearend 1979 was $1,487 billion, an increase
of 11.4 percent from the previous yearend figure of $1,335 billion. The total was
composed of $1,022 billion in stocks and
$465 billion in bonds. The value of listed
stocks increased 18.2 percent in 1979
and the value of listed bonds decreased
1.1 percent Stocks with primary listing on
the New York Stock Exchange were
valued at $960.6 billion and represented
94 percent of the common and preferred
stock listed on all U.S. exchanges. The
value of NYSE listed stocks increased
from their 1978 year-end total by $137.6

billion or 16.7 percent Stocks with primary listing on the AMEX accounted for
5.6 percent of the total and were valued at
$57.8 billion. The value of AMEX stocks
increased $18.6 billion or 47 percent in
1979. Stocks with primary listing on all
other exchanges were valued at $3.9 billion, an increase of 34.4 percent from the
1978 total.
The net number of stocks and bonds
listed on exchanges increased 18 issues
or 0.3 percent in 1979. The New York, Pacific, Intermountain
and Philadelphia
Stock Exchanges listed 42, 17, 9 and 2
additional
securities,
respectively.
Spokane showed no change while all
other exchanges showed a drop in the
number of listings.

Table 25
SECURmES

LISTED ON EXCHANGES'
December

EXCHANGES

COMMON

RegIstered

Number

Market VeJue
(MIllIon)

Amencen

904
56

$55,836
S03

5
14
1,536

26
458
935,997
1,599
182
332
$12

Boston
Clnc,nnah
Midwest

New York
PlICIfic

43

PhiladelphIa
Intermountain

36

SPOl<ane

24

Total

21

2,539

31, 1979

PREFERRED

Number
102
2
2
6

656
11
91
0
0

$ 994,945

870

BONDS

Market VeJue
(MIllIon)
$1,941

Number

TOTAl

Market VeJue
(MillIon)

4
17
24,609

210
1
5
0
2.939

1
35
0
459,878

263

35

860

492
0

22
0
0

305

+

$0
$27,326

3,212

$4,190

g
$0

$465,269

Number
1,216
59
12

29

SECURITIES
Market VeJue
(MIllIon)
$61,967

504
65

5,131
89
134

475
1.420,484
2,722
979

36

332

24
6,721

$12
$1,487,540

InclUdes the follOWing
for91gn stocks
Reglstered

NewYor!<

36
58
2

$32,141
24,126
$214

0
0
0

$0

Pacdic

$0

o

Total

96

$56,481

0

$0

174

Amencen

1 Excludes secuntJes whIch were suspended from tradIng at the end of
no available quotes
Honolulu Stock Exchange ceased operations on December 31, 19n
+ less than 05 mIllIon, but greater than zero

=

128

o

166
8

202

$40,252

$0

66
2

24,453
$214

$8,488

270

$64,919

$8,111
327

the year, and S9ClIntles which because of lnactlvi!y had

Table 26
VALUE OF STOCKS USTED
(Dollars

Dec

1936
1937
1936
1939
1940
1941
1942
1943
1944
1945
1946
1947
1946
1949
1950
1951
1952
1953
1954
1955
1956
1957
1958
1959
1960
1961
1962
1963
1964
1965
1966
1967
1968
1969
1970
1971
1972
1973
1974
1975
1976
1977
1978
1979

31

.

.

.
.

ON EXCHANGES

m billions)

New York
Stock
Exchange

Stock
Exchange

599
389
475
465
419
358
388
476
555
738
68.6
683
670
763
938
1095
1205
1173
1691
2077
2192
1956
2767
3077
3070
3878
3458
4113
474.3
5375
4825
805.8
8923
8295
8354
7418
8715
7210
5111
6851
8583
7767
8227
9606

148
102
108
101
86
74
78
99
112
144
132
121
119
122
139
165
169
153
221
271
310
255
317
254
242
330
244
261
28.2
309
279
430
612
477
39.5
491
556
387
288
293
360
376
392
578

Amencan

ExcluSIVely
On Other
Exchanges

30
31
33
32
31
28
36
40
38
31
43
42
41
53
40
43
43
47
4.0
39
60
54
4.8
47
56
41
29
43
42
42
29
39

Tote!

747
491
583
586
505
432
466
575
667
882
818
804
819
916
1110
1292
1405
1354
1948
2388
2540
2242
3127
3373
3353
4261
3742
4417
5068
5731
5144
652.7
5795
6826
8807
7596
9327
7638
5373
7187
8985
8185
8648
10223

129

issues were listed and registered on the
New York Stock Exchange, accounting
for 61.9 percent of the stock issues and
89.7 percent of the bond issues. Data
below on "Securities Traded on Exchanges" involved some duplication since
it includes both solely and dually listed securities.

Securities on Exchanges

As of September 30, 1980, a total of
6,850 securitIes, representIng 3,082 issuers, were admitted to trading on securities
exchanges in the United States. This
compares with 6,783 issues, involving
3,129 issuers a year earlier. Over 5,000

Table 27
SECURITIES

TRADED ON EXCHANGES
Issuers

Stocks

Registered

American
Boston
Chicago
Chicago

Board of Options
Board of Trade

Cmcmnan
Intermountain
Midwest
New York
Pacrnc Coast
PBS
Spokane

'Issues exempted
cluded In thrs table

under Section 3(a)(12)

994

994

775
1
3
336
48
581
1,915
791
870
35

106
1
1
30
47
358
2,266
780
257

Bonds'

Temporanly
exempted

Unlisted

Total

39
711

1,034
817
1
3
350

2
320
1
290

1
2
1

of the Act, such as obligations

of US

Government,

14

16

48
647
2,266

33
2,902
110
81

944

163
773
4

34

223

1,030

38

the states, and cmes, are not

Table 28
UN DUPLICATED

COUNT OF SECURITIES
(September

ON EXCHANGES

30, 1980)

Issuers
Registered and Listed
T emporanly exempted from registration
Admitted to unlisted trading pnvlleges
Tolal

130

Stocks

Bonds

Total

Involved

3,625
2
36

3,221
2
13

6,846
4
49

3,052
2
28

3,663

3,236

6,850

3.082

in-

1933 ACT REGISTRATIONS
Effective Registration

Statements

In fiscal year 1980, securities valued at
a total of $104.9 billion were registered in
3,263 effective registrations. This dollar
value of effective registrations in 1980, a
record amount for a single fiscal year,
represents a rise of 35.6 percent from the
total of $77.4 billion effectively registered
in fiscal year 1979. The number of effective registrations in 1980 rose by 4.9 percent from the 3,112 effective registrations
in fiscal year 1979.

First-time
registrants
in 1980 accounted for 947 effective registrations, an
increase of 247 registrations (35.3 percent) from the 700 first-time registrants in
fiscal year 1979.
The dollar amount of securities reqistered for cash sale by issuers (primary
cash sales) rose to $75.4 billion in fiscal
year 1980, an increase of 41.4 percent
from the total amount of $53.3 billion
registered In fiscal year 1979. The fiscal
year 1980 total dollar amount of these
reqrstrations
is exceeded only by the
$77.6 billion effectively reqistered In fiscal
year 1977.

131

Table 29
EFFECTIVE REGISTRATIONS
(Dollars on M.lhons)
Cash Sale for Account of Issuers
Total

FJSC8lYear

Fiscal Year ended June 30
1935'
1936
1937
1936
1939
1940
1941
1942
1943
1944
1945
1946
1947
1948
1949
1950
1951
1952
1953
1954
1955
1956
1957
1956
1959
1960
1961
1962
1963
1984
1965
1966
1967
1966
1969
1970
1971
1972
1973
1974
1975
1976
TransrtJon Quarter
JIy-Sept 1976
FJSC8lYear ended September 30
19n
1976'
1979
(r)
1980
(p)
CumulatJVe Total

Common
Stock'

Number of
SlaJements

Value

284
689
840
412
344
306
313
193
123
221
340
661
493
435
429
487
487
635
593
631
n9
906
676
613
1,070
1,426
1,550
1,844
1,157
1,121
1,266
1.523
1,849
2,417
3,845
3,389
2,069
3.712
3,285
2,890
2,760
2,813

$913
4,635
4,851
2,101
2.579
1.767
2,611
2,003
659
1,760
3,225
7.073
6,732
6,405
5,333
5,307
6,459
9,500
7.507
9,174
10,960
13,096
14,624
16,490
15,657
14,367
19,070
19,547
14,790
16,860
19,437
30,109
34,216
54,076
66,810
59,137
69,562
62,487
59,310
56,924
n,457
87.733

$168
531
602
474
318
210
196
263
137
272
456
1,331
1,150
1,676
1,083
1,766
1,904
3,332
2,806
2,610
3,664
4,544
5,656
5,998
6,387
7,260
9,650
11,521
7,227
10.006
10,638
16,216
15,083
22,092
39,614
26,939
27,455
28,516
26,615
19,611
30.502
37,115

Bonds,
Debentures
end Notes

$490
3,153
2,426
666
1,593
1,112
1,721
1.041
316
732
1,851
3,102
2,937
2,817
2,795
2.127
2,838
3,348
3,093
4,240
3,951
4,123
5,689
6,857
5,265
4,224
6,162
4,512
4,372
4,554
3,710
7.061
12,309
14,036
11,674
16,436
27,637
20,127
14,841
20,997
37,557
29,373

Preferred
Stock

Total

$26
252
406
209
109
110
184
162
32
343
407
991
767
537
326
468
427
851
424
531
462
539
472
427
443
253
248
253
270
224
307
444
558
1,140
751
823
3,360
3,237
2,576
2,274
2,201
3,013

3,936
3,634
1,349
2,020
1,432
2,061
1.468
485
1,347
2,714
5,424
4.874
5,032
4,204
4,381
5,169
7,529
6,325
7,381
8,2n
9.206
12,019
13,262
12,095
11,737
16,260
16,286
11,669
14,784
14,655
25,723
27,950
37,286
52,039
48,196
56,452
49,682
44,034
43,082
70,260
69,501

$686

639

15,010

6,767

5.066

413

12,246

2,915
3,037
3,112
3,263

92,579
65,043
n,400
104,900

47,116
25,330
22,714
31.631

26,026
23,251
28.894
40.907

2.426
2.128
1.712
2.841

50,709
53,320
75.379

65,762

$1,296,467

$530,162

$41,381

$1,007.550

$436,007

n,56B

(r) = reVIsed
(P) = prehmlnary
, Includes warrants, shares of benefiaaJ onterest, ce<tJficates of per1JapatJon and ell other equity onterests not elsewhent ,ncIuded
'For 10 months ended June 30, 1935
'The adoplIon of Rule 24f-2 (17 eFR 27924f-2) elfecllVe November 3. 19n made rt omposSlble to report the dollar velue of
secuntJes regostered by Investment companies
Nole The Total Cash Sale (jIfers from earlier presentations due to changes onroundlllg procedures.

132

Securities Effectively Registered With S.E.C.

1935.1980
Dollars Billions

110

90

BILLIONS

OF

DOLLARS

70

50

30

10

30

20

10

o
1935

40

50

45

55

60

(F.scol

H;H~;;i~~:j
FISCAL

YEAR

END CHANGED

DA T A FOR TRANSITION
EFFECTIVE

!! DOES

NOT

REGISTRATIONS
INCLUDE

FROM

QUARTER
515.0

INVESTMENT

65

70

75

1980

Yeors)
JUNE

TO SEPTEMBER

JUL Y.SEPTEMBER

1976 NOT

BILLION.

OF REGISTRATIONS

COMPANIES

NUMBER
AS OF

Vlna

SHOWN ON CHARTS:

DUE TO RULE

639
CHANGE

133

Purpose and Type of Registrations
Of the $104.9 billion of securities registered In fiscal year 1980, $75.4 billion
(71.9 percent) were registrations of cash
sales for the account of the issuer (pnmary cash offenngs). Non-cash registrations for the account of the issuer
amounted to $27.0 billion (25.8 percent)
and reqrstrations of secondary offerings
accounted for $2.5 billion (2.4 percent) of
all registrations in fiscal year 1980.
Within the primary offering category,
$58.7 brllion of securities were registered
for Immediate sale and $16.7 billion of
secunties were registered for extended offenngs. Of secunties registered for immediate offenng, $56.2 billion (95.7 percent)
represent the securities of corporations
and other private enterprises. The remaining $2.5 billion (4.3 percent) are securities registered by foreign governments. Effective registrations of extended
cash offenngs, the last category of primary cash offerings, amounted to $16.7
biliion In fiscal year 1980. Of this amount,
$12.7 billion (76.5 percent) represented
securities registered for future distribution
to an Issuer's employees through savings,
stock option, stock purchase or Incentive

compensation plans. Securities registered
for exchange offers, mergers and consolidations and securities reserved for the
conversion of other securities ($24.3 billion) account for 89.7 percent of the
$27.0 billion of securities registered by issuers for non-cash transactions.
Registrations for the cash sale of common stock form the largest group of secondary offerings registrations (proceeds
to selling securities holders). In fiscal year
1980, these registrations covered $1.7 billion (67.7 percent) of all registrations for
secondary offerings.
The total dollar value of all but two categories of registrations by purpose (registrations for foreign government securities
and for secondary offerings) rose in fiscal
year 1980 from fiscal year 1979. Registrations for immediate offenngs by private
enterprises to the public for cash increased for all types of securities. Bond
offerings of this kind rose by $14.1 billion
(58.3 percent) to $38.3 billion, preferred
stock offerings rose by $1.2 billion (69.4
percent) to $2.8 billion and common
stock offerings increased by $5.6 billion
(74.3 percent) to $13.3 billion from the
previous fiscal year.

Table 30
EFFECTIVE

REGISTRATIONS
BY PURPOSE AND TYPE OF SECURITY:
FISCAL YEAR 1980
(Dollars

In Millions)
Type of secunty

Purpose of registrations

Total

All registrations (estimated value)
For account of Issuer for cash sale
Immediate oHenng
Pnvate Enterpnse
Offered to
General PubliC
Secunty Holders
Foreign GovemmenlS
Extended cash sale
For account of Issuer for other than cash sale
Secondary aHenngs
Cash Sale
Other

Includes warrants,
Note Preliminary

134

shares of benefiCtallnterest,

certmcates

of parncrpanco

Bonds,
debentures
and notes

Preferred
Stock

Common

$104,900
75,380
58,709
58,220

$46,024
40,907
40,907
38,418

$ 6,301
2,841
2,814
2,814

$52,575
31,631
14,987
14,987

54,316
1,904
2,469
16,671
27,025
2,496
1,695
801

38,255
184
2,469
0
5,116
1

2,811
3
0
27
3,441
19
4
15

13,250
1,737
0
16,844
18,468
2,476
1,691
785

0

1

and all other equrty Interests not elsewhere

Stock'

Included

Effective Registrations
Cash Sale For Account Of Issuers

1935-1980
Dollars

Billions.

50
I

I
II
/I
II
/I

40
I

I

n

II

30

I
I
I
I
I

I
I

I
I
I

20
Common Stock

I

~,~:
I'
I
I

1. J

10

'/

Bonds

/

/
I \/

~

...
J

,.~~

Preferred

Stock~.!

.....

o
1935

40

45

50

,
/ ,

/

:
55

( F .. cal

60

65

70

75*

1980

Yeors)

135
*BEGINNING

IN 1977,

FISCAL

YEARS

DATA FOR TRANSITION QUARTER
BONDS SSol BilliON,
PREFERRED

END IN SEPTEMBER

RATHER

THAN JUNE.

JUl Y.SEPTEMBER
1976 NOT SHOWN ON CHART:
STOCK S.4 BilliON,
COMMON STOCK $6.8 BilliON

REGULATION A OFFERINGS
During fiscal year 1980. 398 notifications were filed for proposed offerings under Regulation A Issues between $500-

000- $1.500,000 in size predominated. It
should be noted that the ceiling for Regulation A was raised to $1.5 million on
September 11. 1978.

Table 31

OFFERINGS UNDER REGULATION A
FI8C8I
1980

Fiscal
1979

FIscal
1978

17
25
17
23
35
281

10
33
27
30
44
203

23
33
36
25
120
5

398

347

242

Underwnters
Used
Not Used

100
298

98
249

55
187

Total

398

347

242

382
14
2

331
3
13

223
5
14

398

347

242

SIze
$100,000 or Less
$100,000-$200,000
$200,000-$300,000
$300,000-$400,000
$400,000-$500,000
$500,000-$1,500,000
Total

Offerors
ISSUIng Compantes
Slockholders
lS8U8rs and StoekhoIders
Total

JOIntly

..

ENFORCEMENT
Types of Proceedings
As the table below reflects. the securities laws provide for a wide range of enforcement actions by the Commission,
The most common types of actions are
injunctive proceedings instituted in the
Federal district courts to enjoin continued

136

or threatened securities law violators. and
administrative proceedings pertaining to
broker-dealer firms and/or individuals associated with such firms which may lead
to various remedial sanctions as required
in the public interest When an injunction
is entered by a court. violation of the
court's decree is a basis for criminal contempt action against the violator,

Table 32
TYPES OF PROCEEDINGS
ADMINISTRATIVE

PROCEEDINGS

P8I1IOllS SUbject to, Acts Constitutmg.
and Basos for. Enforoement ActIon

---..-..

.... I~...,..,

Sancbon

BroUr dl .. ." IIlUIIlclII* -.rIIIM
or

Wilful VIOlabon of secunbes acts proviSIon or rule. 8IdIng or
abetbng such V1OI8IJon, failure I'll88OIl8bly
to supeM88 others, WIllful misstatement
or omlSSlOll In fi~ng WIth the CommlllSlOl1, COlWlCIJon of or 1r1Unc\lon &gains! oert8Jn cnmes or

Censure

or hmrt8tlOn on aetJVrtles. r8Y0C8bon, suspensoon or

de",al of regt8lrlltJon. bar or suspellSlon from 8S8OCI8bon
(1934 Ad., SS 158(c)(2)-(4),
15(b)(4)-(6),
Adv1aers Ad.,
SS 203(e)-(I) 

conduct
~
-.rIIIM--.Jon
0rganlZ8b0n or rule not conforming

menta.

to

st8IutofY

requtre-

Suspensoon

01 ~

lions. or operatJona

V'1OI8IIon 01 or InabdIty to comply WIth the 1934 Act, rules
thenlunder. or ns own rules. Ur'4usl1fied f.lura to enIon:e
compliance WIth the Ioregou19 or with rules of the MuniclplII
Seclwlbas RuIemalong Board by a member or person 8SSOCI8t8d WIth a member .
.........
of ~
-'ilion.
or ___

(1934

or imlt8bon
19(h)(1

Ad.

S

of 8ClJVItleS, func-

SuspellSlon or r8Y0C8bon of l'8ll'Slr8tJon.
censure or hmlt8non of activities,
functions,
or operations
(1934 Acl.
19(h)(1)

S

-.rIIIM

..-..

Being subject to ConvnISSlon order pursuant to 1934 Ad..
15(b). WIllful VIOl8bon of or e1feclJng trans8ClJon lor other
person WIth reaeon to belteve thai person was V1OI8IJngsecuacts provISIOIlS, rules thereunder, or rules of MunICIpal
Rulem8ktng Board

S

rm.
Securm.

SuspellSlon or expulsion from the 8SlIOCI8tion, bar or suapensoon from 8SlIOCI8bon WIth member of 8SSOCI8bon (1934
Ad.,
19(h)(2)-(3

SS

NIIIoMI -.rIIIM ~
0<gan0z8b0n

or rules

not conforming

to st8Iutory

require-

ments
V'1Ol8bon of or lnabolity to comply WIth 1934 Act, rules thereunder

or ,ts own

rules,

unjusltlfled

falture

to enforce

compiance WIth the foregoing by a member or person aasocI8I8d WIth a member

Suspensoon 01 reg.-on
bOIlS, or operatIOIlS (1934

or imlt8bon

func-

01 _,

Ad., S 19(h)(1

SuspellSlon or revocatlOl1 01 1'8QISlr8tJon, censure or
lion of activities,
functions,
or operations
(1934
19(h)(1

IimitaAct,

S

Suspensoon or axpulSlon from exchange. bar or suapereoon
from 8SlIOCIabon WIth member (1934 Act. U 19(h)(2)-(3

.........
clMrIng..-:Y
V'1Ol8bon 01 or INIbIIty to comply WIth 1934 Act, rules thereunder, or its own rules; f8llura to enIon:e compliance WIth its
own rules by par1JclpanlS 

Suspensoon or revoc8bon of l'8ll'Slr8tJon, censure or
non of actIvitIes,
functIOns,
or operations
(1934
f9(h)(1

1im1t8Act,

S

.....-..s

..........
In
cIMrlng
..-:Y
Being subject to ConvnI8SlOl1 order pursuart to 1934 Act,
S 15(b)(4), wtIfut viol8bon 01 or elleclJng trans8ClJon lor other
person WIth reaon to believa that person was V1OI8bng pr0VISions of cleartng egency rules.

lIec:urItI.-l~

Suspensoon
19(h)(2

S

or expulSIon

from cleanng

agency

(1934

Act,

..-

VIoI8bon of or .NIbIIty to comply WIth prov!SIOIlS 01 1934 Ad.
or rules thereunder

Censure or operatJon8I
inm8bons, lIUSp8fISIon or revocabon
of regoSlr8bon (1934 Act, S 11A(b)(6

0Slatutory ralarences .. as IoIows "1933 Ad.", the S4lcuritie8 Ad. 011933, "f934 Ad.", the Securities Exchanga Ad. 01
1934; "11lV8lIlmenI Company 14', The IIlV8lIlmenI Company Ad. 011940,
"Adv1aers Ad.", the IIlV8lIlmenI ~
Ad. 01
1940; "HoldIng Company 14', the Public UIiIty HoldIng Company Ad. of f935; ''Trust Indenture Ad.", the Trust Indenture Ad.
011939, and "SIPA", the Secunliea Inveator Protaction Ad. 011970

137

Table 32-Continued
TYPES OF PROCEEDiNGS
ADMINISTRATIVE PROCEEDINGS
Sancbon

Persone SiJbject to. Acts Constrtubng,
and Baaosfor. Enforcement Acbon
T .........

9fII

Willful Violation of or lnabllity to comply with 1934 Act, 9917
or 17A, or regulat.ons thereunder

Censure or Iimrtatlon of actJvrtl8s. denial, SUSpellSlon, or revocation of reg.strat.on (1934 Act. 9 17A(c)(3))

Any..,.on
Wil"ul violabon of sacuntles act prOVISIonor rule, aJd.ng or
abell.ng such Violation, WIllful misstatement rn filing with
Comm.SSlon
0tIIcer or d1_
reguIMoIy

Temporary or permanent proh.brtJon from 88""119 In certam
capacrtles for registered .nvestment company (Investment
Company Act. 9 9(b))

of MIl.

~.

Willful v.oIabon of 1934 Act. rules thereunder. or the organization's own rules. Wllfuillbuae of BUlhonty or unjustified fall.
ure to enforce compliance

Removal from office or censure (1934 Act, 9 19(h)(4))

Prlncl,*of~
Engllglng In OOSlne18as a broker-d8aler ahar appointment
of SIPC lnJstee
1833 Act ~on

Bar or suspensoon from being or being UlIOCUIted wrth a
broker-d8aler (SIPA, 9 10(b))

__

Statement mlllenelty Inaccurate or Incomplete

Stop order suspendmg effactJvene18 (1933 Act. 9 8(d))

Investment company has not allarned $100.000 net worth 90
days after statement became effactJve

Stop order (Investment Company Act, 9 14(a)

Peraona aubjlIct to 8ectIone 12, 13
or 15(d) of the 11134 Act.
MatanaI noncompliance with such proVISIons

Order dlrecbng compliance (1934 Act. 9 15(c)(4)

8ecuritIM 1_
Noncompliance by l18Uer with 1934 Act or rules thereunder

DenoaJ. suspensoon of effecbve dale. suspensoon or revocabon of regostralJon on national secuntl8S exchange (1934
Act.912@

Publ.c .nterest requires trading suspensoon

SiJmrNlry suspensoon of over-tbe-eouoter or exchange tradIng (1934 Act, 9 12(k))

AegIMeNd I~

c:ompeny

Failure to file Investment Company Act "",,_,on
stat&ment or requ.red report. filing rnatenally Incomplete or mi.
leading statement of report

Revocation
98(e))

Company has not allamed $100,000 net worth 90 days alter
1933 Act regt8lraIoon statement became effecbve

Revocallon or suspe .... on of r&gI_'on
pany Act. 9 14(a))

=::t. --.

00181 or expert

of reglstrat.on

(Investment

Compsny

Act.

(Investment C0m-

or other

Lack of requ.SIle qualof1calJonsto repreasnt others. IackJng m
character or Intagnty, unettveal or Improper prof~
c0nduct. WIlful VlolalJon of secunt188 laws or rules, or lIldIng and
abe1lJngsuch V1OIaIJon

Permanent or temporary der>al or prtV11ege to appear or
before the Convn_on
(17 C F R 9201 2(e)(1))

praetJce

AIlomay -..pandad or dlaIIMad by
-.rt, expert's Ian. raVOUd or
suapandacI;
-mctIon of a taIony
orm*'-"-lOl' InvolVIng monI
turpItuda.

Automatic suspensoon from appearance or pracbce before
the Convn,aaoon (17 C F R 9201 2(e)(2))

Permanent rnjunctlon aga"'st or findlng of secuntl8S V101abon
In Convn,.;on-lIll1lrtutad achon. findlng of secuntl8S V1OIlII.on
Convnlaaoon rn edm'~lVe
proceedmQl

Temporary suspensoon from appearance before Comm.aaoon
(17 C F R 9201 2(e)(3))

by

..........
of IIunIcIpeI SacwfIlaa
............
IIo.-d
WIIfuf V1OIaIJonof secuntoe. laws. rules thereunder. or rules
of the Board

138

Censure or removal from offJce 1934 Act. 9158(C)(8))

Table 32-Continued
TYPES OF PROCEEDINGS
CIVIL PROCEEDINGS

IN FEDERAL

DISTRICT

COURTS

Persons Subject to, Acts Constituting
and BaSIS for, Encorcement
Action

SenclJon

Any~n
Engaging In or about to engage In acts or praclJces violating
secuntles acta, rules or orders thereunder (Including rules of
a r&gISlered se"-regulalory
organozalJon)

agBlnst acts or practiceS which constitute or would
ViolationS (pius other equrtable relief under court's
general equrty powers) (1933 Act, Sec 2O{b), 1934 Act, Sec
21(d), 1935 Act, Sec 18(f), Investment
Company
Act,
9 42(e), Advisers Act, 9 209(e), Trust Indenture Act, 9321)

Noncompliance
wrth proVISIons of law, rule, or regulation under 1933, 1934, or Holding Company Acts, order ISSUed by
CommiSSIon rules of a registered ~-regulatory
organization, or Undertaking In a r&gIatratlon statement

Wnt of mandamus, II1UnclJon, or order dtrecb"l.l compliance
(1933 Act, 9 20(c), 1934 Act, 9 21(e), Holding Company Act
918(9))

SecuritIM

In_or

Injunct'on
consututa

ProtectIon

CorporatIon
Refusal to commrt funds or ect for the protecbon of custom-

ers

Order dJrecbng discharge
relief (SIPA, 9 7(b))

of obligationS

or other appropnate

tMlIOMI eecuritIM exchMae or
regletered eecurItIM eeeoClMlon
Noncompliance
by rts members and persons associated With
rts members wrth the 1934 Act, rules and orders thereunder,
or rules of the exchange or 8SSOCIation

Aegletered

clHring egency

Noncompliance

by rts parlJClpantS wrth rts own rules

.....

to ..-portIng reqUirements

8Ubject

Wnt of mandamus,
'IlJUnct,on or order d'recbng
agency to enforce compliance (1934 Act, 9 21 (e))

F81lure to file reports reqUired under 9 15(d) of 1934 Act

Regletered
.mHate

Wnt of mandamus,
IfljunclJon or order dlrecbng such exchange or association
to enforce compliance
(1934 Act,
921(e))

of $100 per day (1934 Act, 932(b))

Injunction
935(d))

agBlnst use of name

c:ompeny or

I_nt

Name of company
misleading

Forfeiture

cleanng

or of secunty

ISSUed by It oecepnve

or

(Investment

Company

Act,

Olflcer. dlNClor. ~
of
edvIeory ax-rd. edvI_.
ctepoe/lor.
or u.-wrtWr of I_nt
compeny,
Engage In act or pracbce constitUting
duty inVolving personal misconduct

breach

of fidUCiary

Injunction ag8lnat aCbng In certeln cepacmes for Investment
company, and other appropriate rellBf (Investment Company
Act, 936(a

'=..=r.

Any ~n
hevtng
rnpectIng .-Ipt of
from I_nt
c:ompeny.

on

Breach of fiducoary duty

InjunclJon (Investment

III REFERRAL
BaSIs for Enforcement

TO ATTORNEY

GENERAL

ACbon

FOR CRIMINAL

Company

Act 9 36(8))

PROSECUTION
SenclJon or AellBf

Any~
Wilful Violation of secuntlBS acts or rules thereunder or wdlful
misstatement In any document reqUired to be filed by seeenbas laws and rules or by ~-regulatory
organozatlOO In conneenon wrth an apphc:atlon for membetshlp,
partJClpatlon or
to become 8SSOCIated wrth a member thereof

M8Xlmum penaltJes $10,000 fine and 5 years Impnaonment,
an exchange may be fined up to $500,000, a publoc-ublrty
holding company up to $200,000 (1933 Act, Sees 2O(b),24,
1934 Act Sees 21 (d), 32(a), 1935 Act, Sees 18(1), 29, 1939
Act, Sec 325, Investment Co Act, Sees 42(e), 49, Advisers
Act, Sees 209(e), 217)

139

Table 32-Contlnued
TYPES OF PROCEEDINGS
REFERRAl

TO ATTORNEY GENERAl

FOR CRIMINAL PROSECUTION

Persona Sublecl to Acts Constrtullng,
and Bus for Enforcement AclJon

SancIIon

Any~n
Wilful Vlola!Jon of secuntles aets or rules thereunder or willful
mllll8lement
In any document reqUIred to be filed by secuntl8S laws and rules or by self-regulatory org&lllZ8llon In connecbon wrth an appllca!Jon for memberslup,

paI1Japatlon

or

to become USOCIaI8d wrth a member thereof

MaxImum penalbes: $10,000 fine and 5 y-' lIIIpf1aonment,
an exchange may be fined up to $500,000, a pubIio-utJity
holding company up to $200,000 (1933 Ad, 8ecI. 3O(b), 24,
1934 Ad 8ecI. 21 (d), 32(a), HoldIng Company AD.. 8ecI
18(1), 29, 1939 AD.. Sec 325. IllV8IIment Company AD..
8ecI 42(e), 49. AdvJ-.s AD.. 8ecI 209(e),217)

Any 'which vIoIatM SectIon 3OA(.) 01
tha 1934 Act.

MaxImum

penalty:

Any ofIIcer or dlractor 01 an 1_.
or .ny
aIocIdlolcIar acting on bahaII 01 8UCh '-.
who wllfuly vlolalH lIectIon 3OA(.) 01
tha 1934 Act.

MaxImum
(1934 Ad

Sec 32(c)(2))

Any ampIoYM or agent (eubjact to the
Jwladlctton 01 tha UnIlIId .....
) 01
an '-found to 'vioIIII8d SectIon 3OA(.)
01 tha 1934 Act, who wlIIuly CMIed ou1
the act or pnctIce COlI8IItutfng 8UCh
vloIatIon.

MaxImum
(1934 Ad

Sec 32(c)(3))

penalty

penalty

$1,000.000
$10,000

$10,000

fine (1934 Ad

Sec 32(c)(l))

fine

and 5 Y8lII8 Impneonment

fine

and 5 Y8lII8 IInpnaonment

Any~n
Willful Violation of secuntles acts or rules thereunder or WIllful
m_ement
In any document reqUIred to be filed by secun_ laws and rules or by self-regul8lory org&nIZ8IlOIl In connecbon wrth an appIK:alIon for membersh&p, paI1JapalJon or
to become USOCIaI8d wrth a member thereof

MaxImum peneltJes $10,000 fine and 5 Y8lII8 Impnaonment,
an exchange may be fined up to $500,000 a pubIic-utIity
holding company up to $200,000 (1933 AD.. 8ecI 2O(b),24,
1934 Ad 8ecI. 21(d), 32(a), HoldIng Company Ad, 8ecI

18(1), 29, 1939 AD.. Sec 325; Investment Company AD..
42(e), 49. AdvJ-.s AD.. 8ecI. 209(e), 217)

8ecI
Any 'whlch vIoIatM SectIon 3OA(a) 01
tha 1934 Act (1oNIgn corrupt pratIcea).
Any ofIIcer or dlractor 01 an __
 or any
aIocIdlolcIar acting on bahaII 01 8UCh __

who wlIIuIy vIoIIDe SectIon 3OA(.) 01
tha 1934 Act.

Any ampIoYM or -.d (~to
tha
Jwladlctlon of tha l1nIIIecJ 8tliIaa) 01
an '-found to 'vloIMNI 8ectIon 3OA(.'

MaxImum

penalty:

$1,000,000

Malamum
(1934 Ad

penalty

$10,000

Sec 32(c)(2))

MaxImum
(1934 Ad

Sec 32(c)(3))

penalty:

$10,000

fine (1934 Ad
fine and 5

Sec 32(c)(l))

years unpnaonmenI

fine and 5 Y8lII8 Impnaonment

01 tha 1934 Act, who wllfuly CMIed ou1
tha eel or pnctIce conatItutIng 8UCh

~

Table 33
INVESTIGATIONS

Pending

September

OF POSSIBLE VIOLATIONS
ADMINISTERED BY THE
COMMISSION

30, 1979

Opened
T oteI

for Dlstnbullon
Closed

Pending

September 30, 1980

During the fiscal year ending September 30. 1980, 186 formal orders were
issued by the Commission upon recorn-

140

OF THE ACTS

1,171

322
1,493
405
1,088

mendation of the Division of Enforcement

ADMINISTRATIVE

Table 34
PROCEEDINGS INSTITUTED DURING FISCAL YEAR
ENDING SEPTEMBER 30,1980

Broker Dealer Proceedings
Investment AdIn.- Proceedings
...
.
Order. Reg A $uSpe1llll0ll and Other DIsclosure Cases

35
16
23

Stop

Injunctive Actions 1979 - 1980
During fiscal 1980, 103 suits for injunctions and 25 miscellaneous actions were
instituted in the United States district
courts by the Commission, and 23 district
court proceedings were brought against
the Commission. During that year this of-

fice handled 16 appellate cases invoMng
petitions for review of Commission decisions. 3 appeals in teorganization matters
and 23 appeals in injunction and miscellaneous cases. SEC participated and filed
13 amicus curiae briefs in 13 cases.

Table 35
INJUNCTIVE ACTIONS
FoacaJ Year

1971
1972
1973
1974 .
1975 .
1976 .
19n
1978
1979
1980 .

Cases Instrtutad

140
119
178
148
174
156
166

135
1118
103

Criminal Proceedings
DUring the past fiscal year 74 cases
were referred or access was granted to
the Department of Justice. (This figure includes 1 criminal contempt action.) As a
result of these actions and those prior referrals, 26 indictments
were returned
against 49 defendants during the fiscal
year. There were also 57 convictions in 35

Injuncbons

Defendants

0rdef8d

Enjooned

114
113
145
289
453
435
336
289
253
216

495
511
654
613
749
722
715
607
511
387

cases. Convictions were affirmed in 2
cases that had been appealed. and appeals were still pending in 6 other criminal cases at the close of the fiscal year. Of
10 defendants in 9 criminal contempt
cases handled dUring the fiscal year, 3 defendants were convicted, prosecution was
declined as to 1 defendant, and 6 defendants in 6 cases are still pending.

141

Table 36
CRIMINAL

FIscal Year

Number

of cases

referre<Vaccess
JustIce Dept

1971
1972
1973
1974
1975
1976
19n

1978
1979
1980

22

38
49
67
88
116
100
109
45
74

Number of
IndIctments

16
28
40
40
53
23
88
50
42
26

Trading Suspensions
During fiscal 1980, the Commission
suspended trading in the securitIes of 25
companies, an increase of 9% from the
23 securities suspended in fiscal 1979
and a 71 % decrease from the 86 secunties suspended in fiscal 1978. Of the 25
companies whose securities were the
subject of trading suspensions in fiscal
1980, 3 were suspended because of delinquency in filing required reports with
the Commission. In most other instances,
the trading suspension was ordered either
because of substantial questions as to the
adequacy, accuracy or avaliability of public information concerning the company's
financial condition or business operations,
or because transactions in the company's
securities suggested possible manipulation or other violations.

Foreign Restricted Ust
The Commission maintains and publishes a Foreign Restricted Ust which is
designed to put broker-dealers, financial
institutions, investors and others on notice
of unlawful distribution of foreign securities in the United States. The list consists
of names of foreign companies whose securities the Commission has reason to
believe have been, or are being, offered
for public sale in the United States in vio-

142

CASES

Defendants
IndICted

83
67
178
169
199
118
230
144
112
49

ConV1Clions

89
75
83
81
116
97
135
174
87
58

lation of the registration requirements of
Section 5 of the Securities Act The offer
and sale of unregistered securities deprives investors of all the protections afforded by the Securities Act, including the
right to receive a prospectus containing
the information required by the Act for the
purpose of enabling the Investor to determine whether the investment is suitable
for him. While most broker-dealers refuse
to effect transactions in securities issued
by companies on the Foreign Restricted
List, this does not necessarily prevent promoters from illegally offering such securities directly to investors in the United
States by mail, by telephone, and sometimes by personal solicitation. During the
past fiscal year, there was one corporation
added to the Foreign Restricted List, The
total number of corporations on the list is
102. The following company was added
during the fiscal year:
International Monetary Exchange,
SA. -Information has come to the attention of the Commission that Intemational
Monetary Exchange, SA, has solicited investors in the United States, through the
mails and the means and instruments of
transportation and communication of interstate commerce, to purchase securities, namely, investments purporting to
consist of leasehold interests in supposed
goldmining properties. Since no registration statement has been filed nor become
effective pursuant to the Securities Act of
1933 with respect to these securities, their

offer and sale may be in violation of Section 5 of the Securities Act of 1933.
The complete list of all foreign corporations and other foreign entities on the
Foreign Restricted Ust on September 30,
1980, is as follows:
Aguacate Consolidated Mines, Incorporated (Costa Rica)
Alan MacTavish, Ltd. (England)
Allegheny Mining and Exploration Company, Ltd. (Canada)
Allied Fund for Capital Appreciation
(AFCA, SA) (panama)
Amalgamated
Rare Earth Mines, Ltd.
(Canada)
American Industrial Research SA, also
known as Investigacion Industrial Amer.icana, SA (Mexico)
American International Mining (Bahamas)
American Mobile Telephone and Tape
ce, Ltd~ (Canada)
Antellntemational Corporation, Ltd. (Canada)
Antoine Silver Mines, Ltd. (Canada)
ASCA Enterprises Limited (Hong Kong)
Atho'l Brose (Exports) Ltd. (England)
Atholl Brose, Ltd. (England)
Atlantic and Pacific Band and Trust Co.,
Ltd. (Bahamas)
Banco de Guadalajara (Mexico)
Bank of Sark (United Kingdom)
Briar Court Mines, Ltd. (Canada)
British Overseas Mutual Fund Corporation Ltd. (Canada)
California & Caracas Mining Corp., Ltd.
(Canada)
Canterra Development Corporation, Ltd.
(Canada)
Cardwell Oil Corporation, Ltd. (Canada)
Caribbean Empire Company, Ltd. (British
Honduras)
Caye Chapel Club, Ltd. (British Honduras)
Central and Southern Industries Corp.
(Panama)
Cerro Awl Coffee Plantation (Panama)
Cia. Rio Bonano, SA (Costa Rica)
City Bank AS. (Denmark)
Claw Lake Molybdenum Mines Ltd. (Canada)

C1aravella Corporation (Costa Rica)
Compressed Air Corporation,
Limited
(Bahamas)
Continental and Southern Industries, SA
(panama)
Credito Mineroy Mercantil (Mexico)
Crossroads Corporation, SA (panama)
Darien Exploration
Company,
S.A.
(panama)
Derkglen, Ltd. (England)
De Veers Consolidated Mining Corporanon, SA (Panama)
Doncannon Spirits, Ltd. (Bahamas)
Durman, Ltd, formerly known as Bankers
International Investment Corporation
(Bahamas)
Empresia Minera Cavdalosa de Panama,

SA
Ethel Copper Mines, Ltd. (Canada)
Euroforeign Banking Corporation, Ltd.
(Panama)
Financiera Comermex (Mexico)
Financiera
de Eomento
lndustrral
(Mexico)
Financiera Metropolitana (Mexico)
Finansbanken a/s (Denmark)
First Uberty Fund, Ltd. (Bahamas)
Global Explorations, Inc. (Panama)
Global Insurance Company, Umited (British West Indies)
Globus
Anlage-VermittJungsgesellschaft
MBH (Germany)
Golden Age Mines, Ltd. (Canada)
Hebilla Mining Corporation (Costa Rica)
Hemisphere Land Corporation Limited
(Bahamas)
Henry Ost & Son, Ltd. (England)
International Communications
Corporation (British West Indies)
International Monetary Exchange, SA
International Trade Development of Costa
Rica, SA
Ironco Mining & Smelting Company Ltd.
(Canada)
James G. Allan & Sons (Scotland)
J.P. Morgan & Company, Ltd., of London,
England (not to be confused with J.P.
Morgan & Co., Incorporated, New York)
Jupiter Explorations, Ltd. (Canada)
143

Kenilworth Mines, Ltd. (Canada)
Klondike Yukon Mining Company (Canada)
Kokanee Moly Mines, Ltd. (Canada)
Land Sales Corporation (Canada)
Los Dos Hermanos, SA (Spain)
Lynbar Mining Corp., Ltd. (Canada)
Mercantile Bank & Trust Company, Limit-

ed
Norart Minerals Umited (Canada)
Normandie
Trust
Company,
S.A.
(Panama)
Northern Survey (Canada)
Northern
Trust
Company,
S.A.
(Switzerland)
Northland Minerals, Ltd. (Canada)
Obsco Corporation, Ltd. (Canada)
Pacific Northwest Developments,
Ltd.
(Canada)
Panamerican Bank & Trust Company
(Panama)
Paulpic Gold Mines, Ltd. (Canada)

P<IBUC cmU1Y HOLDING
COMPANIES
System Companies
At fiscal year 1980 there were 14 holding companies registered under the Act of
which 13 are "active". In the 14 registered

144

Pyrotext Mining and Exploration Co., Ltd.
(Canada)
Radio Hill Mines ce, Ltd. (Canada)
Rodney Gold Mines Umited (Canada)
Royal Greyhound and Turf Holdings Limited (South Africa)
SA Valles & Co., Inc. (Phillipines)
San Salvador Savings & Loan Co., Ltd.
(Bahamas)
Santack Mines Umited (Canada)
Security Capital Fiscal & Guaranty Corporation, SA (panama)
Silver Stack Mines, Ltd. (Canada)
Societe Anonyme
de Refinancement
(Switzerland)
Strathmore
Distillery
Company,
Ltd.
(Scotland)
Strathross Blending Company Umited
(England)
Swiss Caribbean Development & Finance
Corporation (Switzerland)

systems, there were 60 electric and/or
gas utility subsidiaries, 68 non-utility subsidiaries, and 22 inactive companies, or a
total of 168 system companies including
the top parent and subholding
companies. The following table lists the active
systems.

Table 37
PUBUC

UTIUTY

HOLDING

COMPANY

SYSTEMS

Solely
RegoIlered
EIeclnc
Reglslered
HoldIng
ardIor
Holding
Opera!Jng Gas UtilIty
Nonutlllty
Inactive
Compares Compares Sublldt8l18S Sublldt8l18S Comparles
Power System (APS)
Amencan EIeclnc Power Company (AEP)
CentnlllIIld
South West CorponIIton (CSW)
ColonItll Gas Energy System (eGES)
ColumbIa Gas System(COS)
ConsoIdII8d NaIlJqj Gas Company (CNG)
Alegheny

UUIibee ~
(EUA)
GenenII Publoc UUIibee (GPU)
MlddIe South Utllrties (MSU)
NabonlII Fuel Gas Company (NFG)
New England EIeclnc System (NEES)
Nor!'- UUIlbee(NEU)
. .
Philadelphia EIeclnc Power Co (PEP)
Southern Company (80)
Eastern

-5O%APS
5O%AEP
OhIO Veley

0
12
3
2
8
5
3
4
7
1
4
5
1
5

4
10
4
12

1
0
1

3
0
1
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
1
0

13

5

60

68

,

Total Comparoes
 Beech BoItom Power Co Inc.

1
1
1
1
1
1
1
1
1
1

 Artdahoma Corp
-32%CSW
34%MSU
34% 0Idah0ma

0

8

6

29

1
2
1
0

10

6
1
0

9

22

168

0
3
0
0

2
3
2
7
0
3

Gas & EIec

,

4

4
4

8

15% NEES, .... % NEU

EIec Corp
Vermont Yan<ee Nuclear Power
Corp 20% NEES, 12% NOll.
25% EUA.

COITIP8I"S
Mellle Yan<ee Atomic Power
Co 20% NEES, 15% NDU.
4% EUA.
- StaMory

utihty 8UbsIdtanes

Table 38
KEY FINANCIAL

STATISTICS OF REGISTERED PUBUC
HOLDING COMPANY SYSTEMS

UTIUTY

As 01 June 30. 1980 (000 omJlted)
Name of Company

AIeghen~ Power System (APS)

.
.
AmerICan EJectnc Power Company Inc (AEP)
Cenlr8IlIIld
South W" ColponIbon (C&SW)
ColclIMI Gas Energy $yI*n (eGES).
. .
CoIumllIa Gas System Inc., The (COS). . ..
ConIoIdeted NlII1nI Gas Company (eNG)
Eastern UtiIIbes ~
(EUA). . .
GeneniI Public UtiIlies ColponIbon (GPU)
ModcIIe South UUitIes Inc (MSU). . .
NtIbonIIf Fuel Gas Compeny (NFO)
..
New England EJectnc $yI*n (NEES)
.
NoI1he8II UtlIibee (NEU)
..
.
f'hiledeIpIu EIeclric Power Co (PEP)
Sclut'-1 Company. The (SC)
..

Total-'-a
$ 2,870,473
10,506,994
3.596.895

106,558
3,606,947

2.841.683
363.601
5,067.082

8.934.526
873,046
1.938.055
3,291,86T
59.386
10.866,288
$52.525.341

e

1 

Connecllcut Yan<ee AtomIC
Power Co
45% EUA.

.

3
3 

17
19
12
7
10
13
5
7
19
3

2

1
5

Other

'Yan<ee AtomIC EIeclnc Co
30% NEES. 31 5% N8U. 45% EUA

EIec. Corp & Subs

IndI-.Kentucky
- eIecInc utility
-378%
AEP
12.5%APS
49 7% olher

9
6

Total

Comparoes

$1.142,932

3.490.000
1,493.195

78,723
3.368.742
2,367.420
219.197

1.643,625
2.002,420
730,871
970.620
1.188,427
7,006
3,283.7 ....
$21.986.922

145

e
e

Table 39
PUBLIC FINANCING

OF HOLDING

COMPANY

SYSTEMS

Flacall980
In Mllhons 01 Dollars

Bonds
$
Allegheny Power System
West Pem Power Co
Amencan EIectnc Power Co
AppaIec/llan Power Co
Ceder CoeI Co
Central OhIO CoeI Co
Central & Southem OhIo Electnc
Indlana & Mochtgan EIectnc
Kentucky Power Co
KIngsport Power Co
Mochl~
Power Co
OhIO owerCo
WhMhng EIectnc Co
Central & Southwest Corp
Central Power & l..Jght Co
Central & South West ServICeS
Central & South West Fuels
Pubhc Servoce Co 01 Oklahoma
Southwestern EIectnc Power Co
Colonial Gas Energy Co
I..oweIt Gas Co
CoIumboa Gas System
Consolidated
Natural Gas Co
eNG ProdUCIng Co
Eastern lJtJhbes Asaoctstes
Blackstone VaHey EIectnc
Eastern Edlson
Montaup EIectnc
General PublIC lJtJlrtles
Jersey Central Power & I.Jght
Metropolotan Edlson Co
Middle South lJtJlllles
Arkansas-M,aaoun
Power
Arkansas Power & l..Jght
loUISIana Power & l..Jgh1
Middle South Energy Inc
Middle South ServICeS
MISSlSlpp' Power & IJghI
New Orteens Pubhc Servoce
System Fuels, Inc
NatIonal Fuel Gas Co
Seneca Resources Corp
New England EIectnc System
Granole State EIectnc
N~ttEIectnc
New England Power Co
New England Power Servoce Co
Vermont Yankee Nuclear Power
Northeast lJtJhbes
ConneclJcut Power & light
Hartford EIectnc l..Jght Co
Holyoke Water Power Co
Northeast lJtJlrtoes Servoce Co
Western Massachusetts
EIectnc Co
Northeast Nuclear
Phlladelphoa EIectnc Power Co
The Southern Co
Alabama Power Co
Geofgoa Power Co
Gul Power Co
M ... Slpp' Power Co
Connectocut Yankee AtomIC Power
Yankee AtomIC EIectnc Co

Total

146

=

$

$8,761 1 mllbon

PoUubon
Control
finaoongB

$

400

Short

Slock

Term

Common

Prelerred

$

300

$

Debt
$

152

1750

1027

1650
2000

300
1000

110
1000
1000

800
550
800

300
2000
3446
350

500
500

150
200
298 7
190
1151
750

400

550
600

900

1000

2000

400

2500
1217
40
192
1800
783
125

190
2250

38
75
47
197
635
155
475
140
420 1
500
550
990

400

150
1240
20
200
900

750
100
300

550
1850
1000
80

1600
1250
2268
160
1500
1650
300
450
220
400
300
200
25
250
1430
40
280

250

550
300
182

2500
1250
500
250

403
100
500

$1,3910

Total

Long-tenn
Noles and/or
Debentures

$1,204 8

$2913

$2500

$699.8

40
1000
5750
4500
500
500
350
210
$4,9242

FUEL PROGRAMS
During fiscal year 1980. the Commission authorized $597.9 million of fuel exploration and development capital expenditures for the holding company
systems. These expenditures cover annu-

aI fuel programs subject to regulation under the Holding Company Act defined on
geographical and functional terms. The
following table lists the authorization by
holding company system for each fuel
program.

147

a

-It

! u.!!U)
l!!'"
I-

......
0

0>

l8

... ...

ao

i

a

~I

...
0

0

~

Cl

(I)

~

W
I-

...

Gil:

"CD
u.e
Iii!!

(I)

>
(I)
>
Z

_000

~<Ooo
-<0

~~

...

C

a.
~

e~

...

"c

~t

0

(J

:!

::J.ll

CJ

;

~

a:

~

-

CD '" l:
""'a
CD
~\l K

'i~
8w~

!::

'il

z
w
a.
)(

=~

Q

W
Q

W

S

~

0
W

a:

<0
It)

'"

>

<it

'"

0

~

">

U.s
15~

-

...
<0

~

...

0l:
GiCD

...

~i '"It)

:lw

Cl=

0

148

...

!

-0

I- (I) -:::E
W
S

ao

...

l!'l:
96'8 ~[
~OlL
'"
'il"3
!
.!! IL U 8.B"
i 0 U:s
~

!il
<it

ZQ.

...

0<')0

,...~~

0

8

<it

...lri
0>

<it

Corporate Reorganizations
During the fiscal year the Commission
entered 18 reorganization cases filed under Chapter 11 of the Bankruptcy Act of
1978 involving companies with aggregate
stated assets of $1.46 billion and 97,000
public investors. The Commission also
continued its participation in pending re-

organization cases under Chapter X of the
prior Bankruptcy Act During the fiscal
year 20 reorganization cases, all under
Chapter X, were closed, leaving at year
end 85 reorganization cases involving
$5.96 billion in aggregate stated assets in
which the Commission was participating.

149

Table 41
PENDING REORGANIZATION PROCEEDINGS UNDER CHAPTER X OF THE BANKRUPTCY
ACT IN WHICH THE COMMISSION PARTICIPATED
FIscal Year 1980

lilstnel Court

Debtor

Petmon FIled

SEC Nobce of
Appearance FIled

-----12,1974
24,1970
8,1973
8,1974

Oct
Feb
Sept
March

3,1974
26,1971
25,1973
8,1974

7,1966
16,1976
27,1971
16,1971
11,1974

Nov
AprIl
July
AprIl
May

1,1966
5,1977
30,1971
19,1971
14,1974

23,1977
31,1970
15,1974
23,1975
28,1975

liec
June
June
AprIl

27,1977
19,1970
10,1974
26,1975
17,1975

5,1978
1,1964
30,1970
28,1974
4,1967

Nov
June
Sept
July
Dec

1,1978
10,1964
7,1972
17,1974
13,1967

31,1978
21,1976
10,1963
20,1972
14,1976

Oct
Oct
Jan
Nov

31,1978
21,1976
7,1963
26,1973
17,1976

Dec

24,1977
8,1974
5,1976
20,1974

Feb
AprIl
OCt
June

17,1977
24,1974
5,1976
5,1975

liec
Sept
AprIl
March
AprIl

22,1910
10,1973
24,1973
2,1970
20,1979

Jan
AprIl
AprIl
July

14,1971
1,1973
24,1973
14,1970
16,1979

May
Feb
Feb
AprIl

19,1976
8,1977
22,1973
9,1979

June
March
March
AprIl

14,1976
24,1977
6,1973
9,1979

WD OkIa
MD La
ED Ky
D HawaII

March
Aug
Jan

March
Nov
Jan

March

22,1974
29,1974
31,1973
17,1977

28,1974
5,1974
31,1973
17,1977

Home-Stake Prooucuoo Co
Houston EducatIonal FOUndallon, Inc 1
Impenal-Amencan
Resources Fund, Inc

N D OkIa
S D Texas
D Colo

Sept
Feb
Feb

20,1973
16,1971
25,1972

Oct

Interstate Stores, Inc 1
Investors Assocrated, Inc 2
Investors Fundong Corp of New York
J D Jewell, ~c 2
King Resources Co 2

SD NY
WDWash
SD NY
ND Ga
D Colo

June
March

13,1974
3,1965
21,1974
20, 1972
16,1971

June
March

Lake Wimebago

WD Mo
DMz
ED Pa
ED Pa

Oct
Oct

14,1970
28,1965
23,1970
29,1974

Oct

10,1975
7,1963
5,1974
12,1973
10,1975

May
July

MD
ED
SD
SD

Fla
Ky
OhIO
NY

Sep
Dec

Bankers Trust 1
Bankers Trust Co 2
Beck Industnes, Inc
Bennec Corp 2
Beverly HIlls Bancorp

SD
S D
SD
SD
CD

Ind
M,ss
NY
NY
Cal

Oct

Brethren s Home, The
Bubble Up Delaware, Inc
BXP ConstructIon Corp 1
CIP
Corp 1
CarolIna Canbbean Corp

SD
CD
SD
SD
WD

OhIO
Cal
NY
OhIO
NC

CllJZens Mortgage Investment Trust
Coast Investors, Inc 2
Combmed Metals ReductIon Co 1
Commonwealth
Corp 2
Commonwealth
FmallClai Corp 1

DMass
WDWash
D Nev
ND Fla
ED Pa

Oct

Conunental Investment Corp
ContInental Mortgage Investors
ContInental VendIng MachIne Corp
Davenport Hotel, Inc 2
DetrOIt Port DeVelopment Corp 2

DMass
D Mass
ED NY
ED Wash
ED MICh

Oct
Oct

DlVersofied Equrty Corp
DlVersofied Mountameer Corp 2
Duplan Corp 3
E T & T Laung,
Inc 2

SD ~d
SD W Va
SD NY
DMd

Jan
Feb

Famngton Manu1actunng Co 2
First BaptIst Church, Inc of Margate, Ra 2
Rrst Horne Investment Corp of Kansas, ~c
Rrst Research Corp 2
Fort Cobb, Okla Imgabon Fuel Authonty

ED Va
SD Fla
D Kan
SD Fla
WD OkIa

GAC Corp 3
GEBCO Investment Corp
Wm Gluckln Co , ltd
Guaranty Trust Co 3

SD
WD
SD
WD

Gunco Investment Corp
Gun Union Corp 2
Harmony Loan, Inc 2
HawaII Corp

Aldersgate FOUndatIon, Inc 2
Amencan AssocIated Systems,
Amencan Land Corp 1
ArIan's Dept Stores, Inc 2

Development

lusk Corp
Dolly Madlson Industnes,
Mount Everest Corp 2

Inc 2

Co , Inc

Inc 1

Nabonal Telephone Co , ~c 2
Nevada Industnal Guaranty Co 1
North Amencan Acceptance Corp 2
North Westem Mortgage Investors Corp
Omaga-A4>ha, ~c 2

150

1

2

Fla
Pa
NY
OkIa

D Conn
D NaY
ND Ga
WDWash
N D Texas

Aug
March

Dec
May
AprIl
AprIl
Nov

Aug
Jan
May
Feb

AprIl
Sept
June
Dec

July
Dec
Sept

Oct

Oct
Oct
Aug

June
May
July
May

March
Dec

Jan

Oct

Aug

Oct

March
March
March

Oct
Nov

Oct
Nov
July
June

March
Dec

Jan

2,1973
2,1971
6,1972
13. 1974
17,1965
22, 1974
7,1972
19,1971
26,1970
15,1965
6,1970
28,1974
27,1976
2,1963
28,1974
12,1973
10,1975

Table 41-Continued
PENDING REORGANIZATION
PROCEEDINGS UNDER CHAPTER X OF THE BANKRUPTCY
ACT IN WHICH THE COMMISSION PARTICIPATED
Rscal Year 1980
Pacrlic Homes
Pan Amencan Financial Corp
Parkvlew Gem, Inc 2
Pocono Downs, Inc
John Rich Enterpnses, Inc 2

CD Cal
D HawSlI
WD Mo
MD Pa
D Utah

Dec
Oct
Dec
Aug
Jan

9,1977
2,1972
18,1973
20,1975
16,1970

Feb
Jan
Dec
Aug
Feb

2,1978
9,1973
28,1973
20,1975
6,1970

Rahance Industnes, Inc
Riker Delaware Corp 1
Royal Inns of Amenca, Inc 2

D Hawau
D NJ
S D Cal

I';,ay
Apnl
Apnl

24,1976
21,1967
24,1975

Aug
May
June

10,1976
23,1967
24,1975

Scranton Corp 1
S,erra Trading Corp

M D Pa
D Colo

Apnl
July

3,1959
7,1970

April
July

15,1959
22,1970

WD Wash
ED la
WD NY
WD NY
N D Texas

July
Dec
Feb
July
May

27,1965
7,1966
5,1974
11,1972
27,1970

Au9
Dec
March
July

June

31,1965
31,1966
7,1974
24,1972
10,1970

TMT TrSller Ferry, Inc 2
Thenno-Dyne,
Inc 1
TIIco, Inc 2
Tower Credit Corp 2
Traders Compress Co 1

SD Ra
WD Okla
D Kans
MD Ra
WD Okla

June
Feb
Feb
Apnl
May

27,1957
24,1978
7,1973
13,1966
12,1972

Nov
June
Feb
Sept
June

22,1957
5 .. 1978
22,1973
6,1966
6,1972

Tnnrty Bapbst Church of Jacksonville.
L<1c 1
"lJ' D!stnet Bu,ldtng Corp 1
US RnanClal, L<1c2
University Bapbst Church of JacksonVIlle, Ronda

ND Fla
WDWash
SO Cal
MO Ra

June
Dec
Sept
May

24,1977
9,1974
23,1975
23,1977

Oct
Dec
Nov
Oct

3,1977
9,1974
3,1975
3,1977

2

2

Sound Mortgage Co , Inc 2
Southern land Trtle Corp
Stanndco Developers, Inc
SMing Homex Corp 2
Sunset International Petroleum

Corp

2

Inc 1

o
o

Virgin Island Properttes, Inc 2
Washington Group, Inc 3
Western Growth C8prtal Corp
Westgate California Corp 3

VI
MO NC
Anz
SO Cal

Oct
June
Feb
Feb

22,1971
20,1977
10,1967
26,1974

Apnl
July
May
March

Wonderbowl,

CD

March

10,1967

June

Inc 2

Cal

1 Reorganization
proceedings closed dunng fiacal year 1980
2Plan has been substantially consummated
but no final decree has been entered
3 Raport or memorandum
on plan of reorgantzabon filed dunng fiacal year 1980

because

11,1972
25,1977
16,1968
8,1974
7,1967

of pendtng matters

Table 42
REORGANIZATION
PROCEEDINGS UNDER CHAPTER 11
OF THE BANKRUPTCY CODE IN WHICH COMMISSION ENTERED
APPEARANCE DURING FISCAL YEAR
Auto Tram Corp . ..
Chnsnan We Cerrter
Coleman Amencan Comparues .. .. . .. .. .. .. .. .. .. ..
G Weeks Securrtl9S, Inc
General Rasources Corp

..
Inforex,Inc
L S Good&Co
 ..
Mansfield TIre & Rubber Co
Park Nursong Center, Inc
Penn-DOGe Industnes, Inc
.. .
.. ..
.. .
P1easarrt Grove MedICal Cerrter..
.
, ,
Rasources ExpIorat'on, Inc
SSE, Inc
..
.. . .. .. .. .. .
Southland Lutheran Home
..  .. "
.
TeooaCorp
'"
Topps & Trowsers
Western Farmers Assoc
. . .. ., ., .
Whrte Motor Corp
.

'Plan

substantoalfy

consummated

.. ..
..
..
..

..

.

..
..
..
..

.

.......

.. , 
....,

.

..
,
'"
 ..

..

.
.
..
..

o

o

.

.. ..  .. ..

DOC
NO Ca
Kans
W 0 Tann
ND Ga
Mass
NO W Va
ND OhiO
ED MlCh
SO NY
NO Texas
NO Otuo
NO Ca
CD Ca
NO Oh,o
NO Ca
Wash
NO Oruo

,

o

dunng f'scal year

151

SEC OPERATIONS
The Commission collects fees for the
registratIon of securities, securities transactions on national securities exchanges,
and miscellaneous filings, reports and applications. In fiscal year 1980, the Commission collected a record $48 million
dollars in fees, representing approximately
66 percent of the total funds appropriated
by the Congress for Commission opera-

152

tions. These figures are up from $33 million, representing 47 percent of funds appropriated in fiscal year 1979. Nearly $14
million of the increase in collections was
attributed to Securities Act registration
fees resulting from money market fund
registrations, while higher stock exchange
volumes accounted for $1 million of the
increase.

Appropriated Funds vs Fees Collected
Dollars Millions

80

70

AP PROPRIA

.:":::::::::::: . .
....
.:::::
:::' ::'::::
.....................
..
:':::: ::.'::::::::':
.:::::.::::.:::
 :::::::::

TION

"':.t ..................................
.................................
::~F~n~~;n(E~n:~~n:~

~:
~:~ ~:~.:
~~:

60

.::~~
~~~~~~~
~~
~~~~
~~~~~~
~~~~ ~
........................................
.
:
~
~~
~~
~
~
~~;
~
~
~:;
~
~
~
~~;
~
~
~~
~;
~
~~~
~:~
......... ~~:
0.~
:::.'::::::::.:::.::::::::::.:::.::::.:::::::::
...............................................

50

,'iHi!:::ii'!!IiiIi! III' ,', Ii, ii' IiiI,! iiiiiil IIi;:ii' ii!!:m i:
.:::::::::::::::

40

NET

COST

OF

:::":::

::::

/1i!!li!!ml!!m! ...~~~:~~~~~~
...ml::!!!?
.:/1ill!!!!!I!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!;!!!!i!!ll

30

!!I!i!!!.~.;.:.!.!.!:!1~'

.:~~m~~~~~~~~~~~~~m~~~~~~~~;~;~~~~:~~
.: ~~~:~~~~::
. ~.
.... ::~jj~~~11111111111111111111111111111;~~~~)1j1~::::.::::::.
~
......................................
...................
..................
................
..............

~

 :::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::'"
:::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::......

20

FEES

~
COL L ECTE 0

10

o
1971
y

72

73

74

75

76

77

78

79

80 Y 1981Y

EstImated

153

8 8 88888 888

~~ ~'7 $~~~~
~~~
18 18 18"'~
~
"'c"'

~g

~ ~ 8 ~ 8 8 ~
N

C\i

C'i

N

C\i

N

813 813 888
8 888
ggg g <0..,.
ggg.....
<0

CD

~

~
N
(I)

Z

o
i=
c[

a:CL

o
a:

CL
CL

CC

~Q

Z

CIl
:aCC

{!!.(I)

~

::IE

tiw

...w

e
Q
::::l
ID

154

!;t
J

CO .....
<O

<0

i,1i,

i, i,Nfi

~~~

~

~

~

('\1-

N

N

C'Ii

N

