Table of Contents
Chairman's Transmittal Letter

v

Enforcement. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .. 1
Key Results . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .. 1
Enforcement Authority. New Remedies. Enforcement Activities •
International Enforcement. Violations Relating to Financial
Institutions. Penny Stock Cases. Market Manipulation. Insider
Trading. Financial Disclosure. Corporate Control. Securities
Offering Cases. Broker-Dealer Violations. Investment Adviser
Violations. Investment Company Violations. Sources for Further
Inquiry
International Affairs
20
Key Results . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 20
Arrangements for Mutual Assistance and Exchanges of Information.
Trilateral Communique.
Technical Assistance. International
Organizations. International Requests for Assistance
Regulation of the Securities Markets . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .. 25
Key Results . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .. 25
Securities Markets, Facilities, and Trading. Options and Other
Derivative Products. Regulation of Brokers, Dealers, Municipal
Securities Dealers, and Transfer Agents. Report to Congress on
Proposed Amendment to Section 11(a) of the Exchange Act. Financial
Responsibility Rules. Lost and Stolen Securities. Oversight of
Self-Regulatory Organizations
Investment Companies and Advisers. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .. 47
Key Results . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 47
Reexamination of the Regulation of Investment Companies. EDGAR
Filings .Regulatory Policy. Significant Applications and Interpretations
Full Disclosure
56
Key Results. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 56
Review of Filings.
Conferences

Rulemaking, Interpretive, and Legislative Matters •

Accounting and Auditing Matters
6.1
Key Results . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 64
Mark-to-Market
Interpretations"
Oversight of the
Accounting and

Accounting" Accounting-Related Rules and
Oversight of Private Sector Standard-Setting ..
Accounting Profession's Initiatives" International
Auditing Standards" Independence

EDGAR ............................................................•
70
Key Results. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .. 70
Pilot System .. Operational System .. Rulemaking
Other Litigation and Legal Activities. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .. 73
Key Results. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .. 73
Litigation" Significant Administrative
Significant Legislative Developments"
Reorganizations

Decisions ..
Corporate

Economic Research and Analysis
93
Key Results . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 93
Management and Program Support
95
Key Results . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 95
Office of the Secretary .. Office of Legislative Affairs"
of Public Affairs" Office of the Executive Director ..
Administrative Support
Commission Members and Principal Staff Officers ....
Biographies of Commission

Members.

Office

. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .. 102

. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .. 105

Richard C. Breeden" Edward H. Fleischman"
Mary L. Schapiro" Philip R. Lochner" Richard Y. Roberts
Regional and Branch Offices and Administrators

" 109

Endnotes.

. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .. 112

Appendix

126

Unconsolidated Financial Information for Broker-Dealers ..
Unconsolidated Annual Revenues and Expenses for BrokerDealers Doing a Public Business" Unconsolidated Balance
Sheet for Broker-Dealers Doing a Public Business" Securities
Industry Dollar in 1989 for Carrying and Clearing Firms ..
ii

Unconsolidated Revenues and Expenses for Carrying/
Clearing Broker-Dealers" Unconsolidated Balance Sheet for
Carrying/Clearing Broker-Dealers" Consolidated Financial
Information of Self-Regulatory Organizations .. Self-Regulatory Organizations--Clearing Corporations 1989 Revenues and
Expenses" Self-Regulatory Organizations-Depositories,
1989 Revenues and Expenses" Market Value of Equity /
Options Sales on U.S. Securities Exchanges .. Volume of
Equity /Options Sales on U.S. Securities Exchanges .. Share
Volume by Exchanges .. Dollar Volume by Exchanges"
Securities Listed on Exchanges" Value of Stocks Listed on
Exchanges" Certificate Immobilization Trends" Types of
Proceedings" Enforcement Cases Initiated by the Commission During Fiscal Year 1990 in Various Program Areas ..
Investigations of Possible Violations of the Acts Administered
by the Commission" Administrative Proceedings Instituted
During Fiscal Year Ending September 30,1990" Injunctive Actions" Foreign Restricted List" Enforcement Cases
Listed by Program Area" Reorganization Proceedings Under
Chapter 11 of the Bankruptcy Code in Which the Commission
Entered Appearance" Appropriated Funds vs. Fees Collected .. Budget Estimates and Appropriations ..
Organization Chart

iii

UNITED STATES
SECURmES AND EXCHANGE COMMISSION
WASHINGTON, D.C. 20549
THE CHAIRMAN

The Honorable Dan Quayle
President of the Senate
Washington, D.C.
20510

The Honorable Thomas S. Foley
Speaker of the House
Washington, D.C.
20515

Gentlemen:
I am honored to transmit the Securities and Exchange Commission's
annual report for fiscal year 1990. The activities and accomplishments
identified in the report once again reflect the Commission's
long
tradition of fiscal responsibility, hard work, and high achievement.
The 1990 fiscal year was highlighted by a number
achievements.
In particular, the Commission:
• collected $232 million in fee revenue,
percent of its annual funding level;

which

of remarkable

represents

139

• obtained court orders requiring defendants to return illicit
profits in a record amount of approximately
$601.5 million,
which consisted of disgorgement orders of $589 million and
civil penalties of $12.5 million;
• supervised closely the liquidation of Drexel Burnham Lambert
Group and its broker-dealer
subsidiary, without any cost to
the American public or the federal budget outside of normal
agency resources;
• reached a settlement with Michael R. Milken, who was ordered
to pay $400 million in civil disgorgement and sentenced to ten
years imprisonment,
three years probation,
and community
service after pleading guilty to six felony counts, and who
consented to pay an additional $200 million in criminal fines
and penalties;
• helped
market

to maintain market stability
decline in October 1989;

in the wake of the sharp

• responded to the interruption of trading on the Pacific Stock
Exchange (PSE) caused by the October 17, 1989 earthquake in
northern California, by moving
operations to the American
Stock Exchange, Chicago Board Options Exchange, New York Stock
Exchange, and Philadelphia
Stock Exchange to allow for the
trading of PSE options on their respective exchanges for two
days; and
v

• entered into new agreements with five countries providing for
exchange of investigative information, technical assistance,
and other matters.
Law Enforcement

On October 15, 1990, the Securities Enforcement
Remedies and
Penny Stock Reform Act of 1990 was enacted to increase significantly
the Commission's
enforcement authority.
Among other things, this
legislation authorizes the Commission to seek penalties in both civil
and administrative proceedings and to enter cease-and-desist
orders.
A total of 304 enforcement
actions were initiated
by the
Commission involving insider trading, financial disclosure, market
manipulation,
corporate
control,
securities
offerings,
brokerdealer and investment company violations, and other matters.
Also,
the Commission obtained court orders requiring defendants to return
illicit profits in a record amount of approximately
$601.5 million.
This consisted of disgorgement
orders of $579.8 million in noninsider trading cases and $9.2 million in insider trading cases, and
civil penalties of approximately
$12.5 million.
The Commission maintained its relentless pursuit of fraud, which
included one of the most significant
actions in the Commission's
history.
In fiscal year 1990, a settlement was reached with Michael
R. Milken, a defendant in SECv. Drexel BurnhamLambert Inc. The order
entered against Milken enjoined him and required him to pay $400
million in civil disgorgement.
The order further provided that Milken
would cooperate in the Commission's
continuing
investigation
and
would be barred in administrative proceedings.
The order was entered
simultaneously
with Milken's guilty plea to six felony counts.
In
connection with his guilty plea, Milken consented to pay an additional
$200 million in criminal fines and penalties.
In November 1990,
Milken was sentenced on his guilty plea to ten years imprisonment,
three years probation, and community service.
The Commission
focused increased attention on the problem of
fraudulent activity connected with financial institutions.
Through
contacts with the federal financial supervisory
agencies and law
enforcement
authorities,
the Commission
has helped to sensitize
financial institutions to the need for compliance with the federal
securities laws.
Internationalization

Affairs

The Commission
entered
into
its two most
comprehensive
agreements
on cooperation
to date during fiscal year 1990.
The
Commission and the Ministry of Finance of the Netherlands, on behalf
of their respective
governments,
signed an agreement
on Mutual
Administrative
Assistance
in the Exchange
of Information
in
Securities Matters; and the Commission and its counterpart in France,
the Commission des Operations de Bourse (COB), signed an Administrative

vi

Agreement.
Both of these agreements provide for comprehensive
assistance in securities matters.
The Commission also signed an
Understanding with the COB, which provides for consultation about
matters of common interest to coordinate market oversight and resolve
possible differences between regulatory systems. The Commission also
signed Understandings with the Institut Monetairs Luxembourgeois of
Luxembourg (IML) and the Comision Nacional de Valores (CNV) of Mexico.
The Understanding
with the IML provides
for the exchange
of
information relating to trades cleared through a foreign clearance
organization for the PORTAL trading system. The Understanding with
the CNV is broad in scope, encompasses assistance in enforcement
matters and the provision of technical assistance, and contemplates
consultations about all matters relating to the operation of the
securities markets in the United States and Mexico.
Other activities in the international area included the signing
of a technical assistance agreement with the Republic of Hungary's
State Securities Supervision and the Budapest Stock Exchange.
The
Commission also hosted the first joint meeting with the regulatory
authorities for the securities markets of the United States, Japan
and United Kingdom, which together represent approximately
twothirds of aggregate global equity market capitalization.
Regulation

of the Securities

Markets

The Commission pursued many initiatives to enhance the stability
and integrity of the nation's securities markets.
However, the most
significant event was the work associated with passing the Market
Reform Act of 1990, which requires that the Commission monitor
securities markets, including (1) tracking the trading activities of
large traders, to address the effects of extreme price movements and
(2) assessing the risks to broker-dealers of the financial activities
of their parent holding companies and other unregistered affiliates.
Collectively,
this Act and the Remedies Act represent the most
significant changes to the securities laws in decades.
During fiscal year 1990, the Commission supervised closely the
liquidation of Drexel Burnham Lambert Group and its broker-dealer
subsidiary, which had more than 30,000 public customer accounts,
holding approximately $5 billion in securities.
The active role of
the Commission in the liquidation of this $28 billion firm, working
closely with the Federal Reserve and other agencies, was instrumental
in preventing
losses to investors and the Securities
Investor
Protection Corporation. Ultimately, the market was protected against
instability without any cost to the American public or the federal
budget outside of normal agency resources.
The staff conducted
22 inspections
of the trading market
facilities, market surveillance,
and clearance programs of selfregulatory organizations.
In the broker-dealer examination area, the
staff completed 371 member oversight and 176 cause examinations.
The
number of cause examinations increased by 19 percent over 1989 to

vii

cover sales practices more extensively, particularly
in light of
abuses encountered
in the penny stock market.
As a result of an
examination by the Commission, previously undetected massive capital
and other violations were detected in Stotler Group, Inc., leading
to the eventual closure of this firm, which had been one of the
nation's top 10 futures brokerage
firms, and two of its chief
subsidiaries.
Investment

Companies

and Advisers

The Commission began a comprehensive
review of the Investment
Company Act to determine whether any changes in this statute would
be appropriate in light of market developments over the past 50 years.
This review is expected to lead to legislative
recommendations
affecting the nation's $1.2 trillion in investment company assets.
The Division of Investment Management also conducted 2,249 examinations
of investment companies and advisers, an increase of 14 percent from
fiscal year 1989.
Full

Disclosure

The Commission
devoted
significant
efforts
to issues
of
international importance, such as cross-border and global offerings.
For example, the Commission adopted Regulation S to streamline the
procedures for offering securities offshore, and Rule 144A to provide
a safe harbor exemption from the registration
provisions
of the
Securities Act of 1933 for resales of restricted
securities
to
institutional investors.
In addition, a task group in the Division
of Corporation Finance completed reviews of the financial statements,
management's discussion and analysis, and other related disclosures
of 191 financial institutions.
As a result of these reviews, 30
matters were referred to the Division of Enforcement
for further
inquiry or investigation.
Accounting

and Auditing

Matters

The Commission
provided policy direction
to the accounting
profession to move toward using appropriate market-based measures in
accounting for financial institutions. The Commission also continued
to devote significant resources to initiatives involving international
accounting, auditing, and independence requirements.
Litigation

and Legal

Services

The Office of the General Counsel represented the Commission in
29 appeals before the Supreme Court and the United States Courts of
Appeals.
Of these, the Commission received adverse rulings in only
seven matters. The staff also litigated 39 cases in the United States
district courts, bankruptcy courts, and administrative
tribunals.

viii

Economic

Research

and Analysis

The economics staff developed or maintained seven monitoring
programs to study the implementation
of major rules, new trading
facilities,
and developments
in the domestic and international
securities markets. The staff also completed studies concerning the
performance of circuit breaker mechanisms during the October 1987
market decline, and the effects of share turnover and margin credit
on stock market volatility.
Management

and Program

Support

The Commission
testified before Congress 19 times regarding
issues such as the reform of securities and banking laws. The agency
collected revenue of $232 million compared to a final appropriations
level of $167 million-a $65 million net gain to the U.S. Treasury.
I look forward to working with the Congress in dealing with the
complex issues facing the securities industry.
The work associated
with internationalization, maintaining market stability, restructuring
of the United States financial system, and the ongoing battle against
market manipulation and other forms of fraud against investors will
require both cooperation and continued hard work to achieve the most
successful results.
Sincerely,

'---CZ~Oc~!lRichard C. Breeden
Chairman

ix

Enforcement
The Commission's enforcement program is designed to preserve the integrity, fairness and efficiency of the securities markets, and thereby to protect
investors and foster investor confidence in the markets. To meet these goals,
the Commission has focused increased attention on particular problem areas,
including penny stock fraud and violations involving financial institutions,
while maintaining a strong presence in all other areas within its jurisdiction.

Key 1990 Results

The growth of the securities markets, both in size and sophistication, has
resulted in the allocation of significant enforcement resources to the investigation
and litigation of complex cases. The increasing globalization of the securities
markets also places demands on Commission resources for prompt and effective
action when suspect trading has a foreign component. Nonetheless, the total
number of Commission cases in fiscal year 1990 remained high in comparison to
other recent years.
In fiscal year 1990,the Commission obtained court orders requiring defendants
to disgorge illicit profits in a record amount of approximately $589million. Included
are disgorgement orders in insider trading cases requiring the payment of
approximately $9 million. Civil penalties under the Insider Trading Sanctions Act
of 1984 (ITSA) were imposed by orders requiring the payment of approximately
$12.5 million. In some instances, the payment of disgorgement and/or civil
penalties pursuant to a court order was waived based upon the defendant's
demonstrated inability to pay.
An estimated 151 criminal indictments or informations and 83 convictions
were obtained by criminal authorities during fiscal year 1990 in Commissionrelated cases. The Commission granted access to its files to federal and state
prosecutorial authorities in 134 cases.

Total Enforcement Actions Initiated

FY'86 FY'87 FY'88 FY'89 FY'90
Total
Civil Injunctive Actions
Administrative Proceedings
Civil & Criminal Contempt Proceedings
Reports of Investigation

312
162
136
14
0

303
144
146
13
0

252
125
109
17
1

310
140
155
15
0

304
186
111
7
0
1

Enforcement Authority

The Commission has broad authority to investigate possible violations of the
federal securities laws and to obtain appropriate remedies through litigation.
Enforcement actions initiated by the Commission generally are preceded by an
examination pursuant to the Commission's inspection powers or by an investigation.
Under its inspection powers, the Commission is authorized to conduct examinations
of regulated entities, including broker-dealers, municipal securities dealers,
investment advisers, investment companies, transfer agents, and self-regulatory
organizations (SROs). The Commission's investigations may be conducted either
informally or formally. Informal investigations are conducted on a voluntary basis,
with the Commission requesting persons with relevant information to cooperate by
providing documents and testifying before Commission staff. The federal securities
laws also empower the Commission to conduct formal investigations, in which the
Commission has the authority to issue subpoenas that compel the production of
books and records and the appearance of witnesses to testify. Both types of
investigations are generally conducted on a confidential, non public basis.
The Commission's primary enforcement mechanism for addressing violative
conduct is the injunctive action filed in federal court. In these civil actions, the
Commission is authorized to seek temporary restraining orders and preliminary
injunctions as well as permanent injunctions against any person who is violating or
about to violate any provision of the federal securities laws. A federal court
injunction will prohibit future violations, and, once an injunction has been imposed,
conduct that violates the injunction will be punishable by either civil or criminal
contempt, and violators will be subject to fines or imprisonment. In addition to
seeking such orders, the Commission often seeks other equitable relief such as an
accounting and disgorgement of illegal profits, rescission, or restitution. Also,
when seeking temporary restraining orders, the Commission often requests a freeze
order to prevent concealment of assets or dissipation of the proceeds of illegal
conduct. The Commission is specifically authorized to seek civil penalties in
connection with insider trading violations, pursuant to ITSA, as amended by the
Insider Trading and Securities Fraud Enforcement Act of 1988.
Several types of administrative proceedings may be instituted by the
Commission. The Commission may institute administrative proceedings against
regulated entities, in which the sanctions that may be imposed include censures,
limitations on activities, and suspension or revocation of registration. The
Commission may impose similar sanctions on persons associated with such entities
and persons affiliated with investment companies.
Administrative proceedings may be instituted against issuers as well. For
example, Section 8(d) of the Securities Act of 1933 (Securities Act) enables the
Commission to institute proceedings to suspend the effectiveness of a registration
statement that contains false and misleading statements. Administrative proceedings
pursuant to Section 15(c)(4)of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934(Exchange Act)
may be instituted against any person who fails to comply, and any person who is a
cause of failure to comply, with reporting, beneficial ownership, proxy, and tender
offer requirements. Respondents may be ordered to comply or effect compliance
with the relevant provisions. Pursuant to Rule 2(e) of the Commission's Rules of
Practice, administrative proceedings may be instituted against persons who appear
2

or practice before the Commission, such as accountants and attomeys; the sanctions
that may be imposed in these proceedings include suspensions and bars.
The Commission also is authorized to refer matters to other federal, state or
local authorities or SROs such as the New York Stock Exchange or the National
Association of Securities Dealers (NASD). The staff often provides substantial
assistance to criminal authorities, such as the Department of Justice, for the criminal
prosecution of securities violations.
New Remedies
The Securities Enforcement Remedies and Penny Stock Reform Act of 1990,
Pub. L. No. 101-429,which was signed into law on October 15, 1990,adds significantly
to the Commission's enforcement authority.
This legislation authorizes the
Commission to seek, and the courts to impose, fines for any violations of the federal
securities laws (with the exception of insider trading violations for which civil
penalties continue to be available under ITSA). The Commission also is authorized
to impose penalties in its administrative proceedings against regulated entities,
such as brokers and dealers, and persons associated with regulated entities. The
legislation authorizes the Commission to order an accounting and require
disgorgement of illegal profits in such administrative proceedings.
In addition, the Commission for the first time is authorized to institute
administrative proceedings in which it can issue cease-and-desist orders. Permanent
cease-and-desist orders can be entered against any person violating the federal
securities laws, and disgorgement of illegal profits may be required. The Commission
is authorized to issue temporary cease-and -desist orders (if necessary, on an ex parte
basis) against regulated entities and persons associated with regulated entities, if
the Commission determines that the violation or threatened violation is likely to
result in significant dissipation or conversion of assets, significant harm to investors,
or substantial harm to the public interest prior to completion of proceedings. The
legislation also affirms the existing equitable authority of the federal courts to bar
or suspend individuals from serving as corporate officers or directors. The penny
stock provisions of the legislation, in addition to enhancing the Commission's
power to provide an effective regulatory response to penny stock fraud, authorize
the Commission to sanction individuals associated with a broker or dealer by
barring or suspending them from participating (e.g., as finders or consultants) in an
offering of penny stock.
Enforcement Activities
The Commission maintained an aggressive enforcement presence in each area
within its jurisdiction and strengthened its enforcement activities in critical areas.
In December 1989, for example, the Commission announced the formation of a new
enforcement unit devoted primarily to detecting, investigating, and prosecuting
securities fraud in the banking and thrift industries. The Commission's Penny Stock
Task Force also continued its highly successful campaign against fraud in the
issuance, offer, and sale of penny stocks.
Unless otherwise noted in the discussion below, defendants or respondents
who consented to settlement of actions did so without admitting or denying the
factual allegations contained in the complaint or order instituting proceedings. See
Table 22 for a listing of enforcement actions instituted in fiscal year 1990.
3

International

Enforcement

A substantial number of investigations have international aspects, and {he
staff took depositions in and obtained information from a number of foreign
countries. In conjunction with the Office of International Affairs, the staff prepared
more than 160 requests to obtain such information from foreign authorities, pursuant
to formal or informal agreements and understandings. Such requests for assistance
generally require detailed submissions describing the investigation and setting
forth the need for the requested information.
The staff worked on a substantial number of requests for assistance from
agencies of foreign nations. Some of these requests involved extensive inquiries or
investigations in order to collect the requested information. Pursuant to authority
granted by the Insider Trading and Securities Fraud Enforcement Act of 1988,
subpoena power was used in certain investigations conducted at the request of
foreign securities authorities.
As part of its increasing emphasis on international coordination and
cooperation, the staff has provided a number of training and education opportunities.
For example, representatives from over 25 foreign securities agencies attended the
1990 Enforcement Training Program at the invitation of the Division of Enforcement.
With the increasing globalization of the securities markets, the Commission
has continued to pursue swift and aggressive action to deal with suspect trading in
the United States that originates from abroad or otherwise involves transactions by
or through foreign accounts. Recent Commission enforcement actions demonstrate
that the Commission's efforts to detect and remedy violations cannot be evaded
through the use of overseas accounts.
The Commission brought three actions for emergency relief to freeze trading
accounts with securities firms in the United States when suspicious trading,
originating abroad, occurred in those accounts shortly before the announcement of
material corporate transactions. These cases involved considerable discovery and
numerous proceedings to gather evidence both in the United States and abroad. In
SEC v. Finacor Anstalt,1 the Commission filed an action against a Liechtenstein-based
entity and other purchasers of call option contracts for the common stock of
Combustion Engineering, Inc., a Swedish-Swiss company, shortly before the
announcement of an offer for 80 percent of its outstanding common stock. The
complaint alleged that on certain trading days, Finacor accounted for 70 percent of
the trading in one series of options, and approximately 97 percent of the market in
another series; and nearly 100 percent of the market in both series on another trading
day. The Commission sought, and the court granted, a temporary restraining order
and an order freezing assets. Thereafter, the court granted an application for
preliminary injunctive relief. As of September 30,1990, the case was still pending.
As a result of market surveillance by the Commission and the SROs, the
Commission staff learned that a number of unknown individuals had traded
heavily in the shares of Contel Corporation through Swiss and German financial
institutions just prior to an acquisition offer for the company. Within one day of the
public announcement of the acquisition offer, the Commission obtained a temporary
restraining order and, ten days later, a preliminary injunction and a court order
freezing more than $3 million in assets. Motions by defendants to dismiss the
4

complaint were pending at the close of the fiscal year (SEC v. Certain Purchasers of
Common Stock and Call Option Contracts for the Common Stock of Con tel Corporation').
The Commission also obtained an emergency temporary restraining order
and a freeze of assets in SEC v. Fondation Hai? This case involved massive overseas
trading in the stock of a United States company prior to the announcement of a
proposed merger. Two of the foreign defendants appealed preliminary injunctions
and freeze orders entered against them. On appeal, the court upheld the freeze
orders, with modifications, but set aside the preliminary injunction. One defendant
consented to the entry of a permanent injunction and agreed to pay $1.4 million in
disgorgement. As of September 30,1990, the case was pending against the other
defendants.
Violations Relating to Financial Institutions

The Commission recently has focused increased attention on the problem of
fraud connected with financial institutions. Since its inception in December 1989,
the special unit within the Division of Enforcement dedicated to investigating
financial institutions and their officers, directors, and other persons associated with
their business has been investigating financial fraud encompassing false financial
statements and misleading disclosures in filings by publicly held institutions and
holding companies, as well as the full range of other potential securities violations
by persons associated with financial institutions, including insider trading.
Since January 1990, the Commission has brought four cases involving financial
institutions and associated persons. In SEC v. Jason M. Chapnick.: the Commission
filed a complaint against former officers, directors, and/or
affiliates of
Commonwealth Savings and Loan Association of Florida. The complaint charged
the individuals with insider trading, fraud in the offer, purchase and sale of
securities, and false and misleading financial statements. At the close of the fiscal
year, the proceeding was still pending.
The Commission also filed an action, SEC v. Security National Bancorp Inc. and
Wesley Godfrey, Jr.,5 alleging that Security National Bancorp (SNBI) and Wesley
Godfrey, Jr., the chairman of the board and president of SNBI, failed to disclose in
the Form lO-K filed bySNBI for fiscal year 1988, among other things, material action
taken by the Office of the Comptroller of the Currency; the resignation of SNBI's
auditors; and the alteration of an auditor's report filed with the annual report. The
defendants consented to the entry of injunctions. Godfrey, personally, was ordered
to comply with his filing obligations under Sections 13(d) and 16(a) of the Exchange
Act and Rules 13d-l and 16a-l thereunder by filing with the Commission a Schedule
130, a Form 3, and a Form 4 disclosing his beneficial ownership of SNBI stock.
Additionally, SNBI was ordered to file, and Godfrey was ordered to cause SNBI to
file, a corrected annual report on Form 10-K for 1988 and delinquent current reports
onForm8-K.
Other cases include SEC v. John E. Parigianf which involved the adequacy and
timing of loan loss reserves of Capital Bancorporation in the second and third
quarters of 1986. The defendant, a former officer and director of Capital
Bancorporation, consented to the entry of a permanent injunction. In SEC v. [iro
Yamazaki and Ikuko Sekiguchi- Yamazaki,7Jiro Yamazaki, a former bank employee, and
his wife were charged with trading securities while in possession of material

5

nonpublic information, obtained by Yamazaki in the course of his employment,
concerning a proposed tender offer. The defendants consented to the entry of an
injunction and an order requiring them to pay about $100,000 in disgorgement,
prejudgment interest, and civil penalties.
The new unit devoted to bank and thrift cases in the Division of Enforcement
also serves as a liaison, both within the Commission and with the banking regulatory
authorities, regarding securities law issues involving financial institutions. Through
contacts with the federal financial supervisory agencies and law enforcement
authorities, the Commission has sensitized the agencies to its enforcement concerns
and the need for compliance with the federal securities laws. This has facilitated
referrals of possible securities law violations to the Division of Enforcement and
grants of access to information in the Commission's nonpublic files to other law
enforcement and bank regulatory agencies, as well as the development of training
programs in the staff's areas of expertise. In addition, the Commission is a member
of the National Interagency Bank Fraud Working Group, sponsored by the
Department of Justice.
Penny Stock Cases
Penny stock cases constituted a significant part of the Commission's
enforcement effort. Eighty-six of the Commission's enforcement actions were
penny stock cases.
In SEC v. Power Securities Corporations the Commission filed an injunctive
action against two broker-dealers, Power Securities Corporation and Allied Capital
Group, Inc., fifteen individual defendants, and five nominal defendants. The
Commission's complaint alleges that various defendants violated Section 17(a) of
the Securities Act, Sections 1O(b)and 15(c) of the Exchange Act, and Rules 10b-5 and
15c1-2 thereunder. Among other things, the Commission's complaint alleges that
Power, Allied, and other defendants violated the antifraud provisions by engaging
in a fraudulent scheme of simultaneously recommending to customers both the sale
of one security and the purchase of another for the purpose of increasing commissions.
The defendants in Power also allegedly charged more than $9.4 million in
unlawful excessive mark-ups on the securities of six issuers and obtained illegal
profits exceeding $10 million from the market manipulation of two securities. The
Commission's complaint alleges that certain defendants engaged in insider trading
that resulted in unlawful profits in excess of $1 million, for which the Commission
is seeking disgorgement as well as $3 million in penalties under ITSA. The
Commission's complaint further alleges that Power and Allied maintained a secret
working relationship, such that Allied was controlled by Power, or alternatively,
such that the two firms were under common control, in violation of Section 15(b)(2)
of the Exchange Act and Rule 15b3-1. The complaint also charges that one
defendant, Henry Fong, engaged in prohibited securities transactions with or
involving Equitex, Inc., a nominal defendant in the action, in violation of Sections
57(a)(1) and 57(a)(4) of the Investment Company Act of 1940 and Rule 17d-1. As of
September 30,1990, the Commission was in litigation with the defendants.
In SEC v. Blinder, Robinson & Co., Inc " the Commission filed an injunctive
action against Blinder, its president, Meyer Blinder, and the firm's parent company,
Intercontinental Enterprises, alleging that the defendants engaged in a fraudulent
6

scheme to distribute and sell over one billion penny stock shares of 12 shell
companies that had been the subjects of "blank check" public securities offerings.
The Commission further alleged that, through fraudulent, high-pressure sales
tactics, Blinder illegally distributed and sold these securities at prices that included
undisclosed mark-ups ranging up to 140 percent, and that, as a result, the defendants
realized illegal profits of more than $20 million. At the end of the fiscal year,
litigation in this case was pending.
In SEC v. Wellshire Securities, Inc.,1Othe Commission filed an injunctive action
against Wellshire, a major penny stock broker-dealer, several of its principals and
employees, and two penny stock issuers and their principals. The complaint alleged
that Wellshire was operating a penny stock boiler room that engaged in abusive and
manipulative sales and trading practices. The Commission alleged that two penny
stock issuers provided false and misleading information to Wellshire concerning
their operational and financial condition, and that Wellshire disseminated this
information to the public. A temporary restraining order and asset freeze were
granted against Wellshire, its two principals and a salesman, and a preliminary
injunction was subsequently entered against Wellshire, its two principals, other
individuals, and one of the issuers. The other penny stock issuer and its chief
executive officer consented to permanent injunctive relief. Based on the court's
findings, the NASD canceled Wellshire's membership, putting the firm out of
business.
SEC v. Leonard M. Tucker" involved a major penny stock dealer, F. D. Roberts
Securities, Inc., that had been enjoined in a previous Commission action. On
November 20, 1989, the Commission filed an action against several of F.D. Roberts'
principals and sales managers who allegedly engaged in market manipulation,
induced aftermarket purchases during an initial public offering, and refused to
execute customer sell orders. Three of the defendants had consented to preliminary
injunctions and one defendant had consented to a permanent injunction as of the
end of the fiscal year. Several defendants entered guilty pleas in related criminal
cases brought by the United States Attorney in New Jersey.
The Commission brought an injunctive action against a public company, five
individuals, and four trusts in SEC v. Lifeline Healthcare Group, Ltd.J2 for fraud in the
sale of $100 million of Lifeline stock. The individual defendants were charged with
creating an active over-the-counter (OTC) market for Lifeline stock by filing false
and misleading reports with the Commission and issuing false reports to the public
concerning the company's financial condition, business prospects, and the identities
and holdings of major shareholders. A receiver was appointed by the court to take
control of the company. One of the individual defendants, a former director of
Lifeline, consented to a permanent injunction and disgorgement after the end of the
fiscal year. At the time of his settlement, the litigation was pending against the other
defendants.
In a follow-up to SEC v. Arnold Kimmes P a major penny stock case filed during
fiscal year 1989, the Commission obtained a permanent consent injunction against
defendant Suzanne Bosworth, a former registered representative." Bosworth
allegedly opened nominee accounts to be used in an initial public offering, falsified
brokerage accounts to hide true beneficial ownership, and participated in causing
the issuers' common stock to trade at artificially high prices.
7

SEC v. San Marino Securities, Inc.Is was the first injunctive action authorized
under Exchange Act Rule lSc2-6, the Commission's new cold call rule, which,
among other things, requires brokers and dealers to approve each customer's
account for transactions in penny stocks by making and providing a written
determination that penny stocks are suitable for the customer. The rule also requires
the broker or dealer to obtain the customer' s written agreement to initial penny stock
purchases. The Commission alleged that San Marino failed to approve customer
accounts for penny stock transactions, failed to receive written agreements from
customers concerning such transactions, and lacked supervisory procedures to
ensure compliance. San Marino consented to the entry of an injunction. The
settlement of the case included a court ordered offer of rescission by San Marino for
all transactions in which a Rule 15c2-6 violation occurred. Separate administrative
proceedings against the firm and its president also were instituted and settled; the
firm was ordered not to deal in designated securities for a 9D-day period, and the
president was suspended for a period of 30 days for his failure to supervise.
The Commission also filed an injunctive action against a now defunct penny
stock broker-dealer, Monmouth Securities, Inc., and several of its former principals
and employees for their alleged participation in a scheme with an issuer, Beres
Industries, to take the company public in return for excessive and undisclosed
underwriter's compensation. The Commission's complaint alleged that Monmouth
was provided with large amounts of the Rule 144 stock owned by Beres' chairman
during aftermarket trading at a 50 percent discount and that the firm immediately
resold the stock to clients and thereby obtained a profit of $3 million. The complaint
also alleged that Monmouth and its principals manipulated the market for Beres,
engaged in boiler room sales efforts, and that one salesman engaged in particularly
abusive sales practices (SEC v. Beres Industries, Inc.16). These proceedings were
pending as of September 30,1990.
Market Manipulation

The Commission is charged with ensuring the integrity of trading on the
national securities exchanges and in the OTC markets. The Commission staff, the
exchanges, and the NASD engage in surveillance of these markets.
In April 1990, after protracted settlement negotiations, the Commission
announced a settlement reached with Michael R. Milken, a defendant in SEC v.
Drexel Burnham Lambert Inc.J7 The Commission's injunctive action against Drexel,
Milken, and others was filed in September 1988 and alleged that the defendants had
devised and carried out a scheme involving stock manipulation, fraud on the
broker-dealer's own clients, failure to make required disclosures regarding the
beneficial ownership of securities, insider trading, and numerous other securities
law violations. The order entered against Milken enjoined him and required him to
pay $400 million in civil disgorgement into a claims fund for the benefit of defrauded
investors and other injured persons. IS The order further provided that Milken
would cooperate in the Commission's continuing investigation and would be
barred in administrative proceedings. The order was entered simultaneously with
Milken's guilty plea to six felony counts including conspiracy, securities fraud,
aiding and abetting the filing of a false document with the Commission, and aiding
and abetting the failure to file a truthful and accurate Schedule 13D. In connection
8

with his guilty pleas, Milken consented to pay an additional $200 million in criminal
fines and penalties. In November 1990, Milken was sentenced on his guilty pleas to
ten years imprisonment, three years probation, and community service.
Two enforcement actions involved dealings with Boyd L. Jefferies, former
owner of Jefferies & Co., a broker-dealer.
In 1987, Jefferies consented to an
injunction and a bar from the securities industry based on Commission allegations
of market manipulation and the "parking" of securities. In SEC v. Salim B. Lewis,19
the Commission alleged that the defendant, the managing partner of a brokerdealer, entered into an agreement with Jefferies to manipulate the price of Fireman's
Fund Corporation stock on the day American Express was to price an offering of
Fireman's Fund securities. Pursuant to the agreement, Jefferies & Co. purchased
Fireman's Fund common stock at the close, thereby causing the price to increase
one-eighth of a point to close at $38. Lewis allegedly aided and abetted the making
and keeping of inaccurate broker-dealer records in order to conceal the manipulation
and the reimbursement of losses sustained by Jefferies & Co. as a result of its
purchases. Lewis consented to the entry of an injunction and an order requiring him
to disgorge $475,000. In related administrative proceedings, Lewis consented to the
entry of a bar order.
In SEC v. GAF Corporation and James T. Shenoin." the Commission alleged that
GAF Corporation and its vice chairman had entered into an agreement withJ efferies
by which Jefferies & Co. would close the price of Union Carbide common stock at
$22 or higher. At the time, GAF was negotiating to sell a block of Union Carbide
stock, and bids for the block were to be based on the market price. As part of the
alleged agreement, the defendants promised to pay Jefferies & Co. for any losses
sustained as a result of its manipulative activities. The defendants consented to be
enjoined and GAF was ordered to disgorge $1,250,000, plus prejudgment interest.
In related administrative proceedings, a Jefferies & Co. employee who participated
in the Union Carbide manipulation consented to a six-month suspension (In the
Matter of James T. Melton 21).
In SEC v. Michael Kaufman, 22 the Commission alleged that the defendant, the
majority shareholder, secretary, and chairman of ATI Medical, Inc. manipulated the
market for ATI's stock. The defendant effected numerous purchases and sales of
ATI stock through many brokerage accounts in his own name and in the names of
four nominees to create the appearance of active trading. Kaufman consented to the
entry of an injunction and agreed to disgorge $180,331.05.
In SEC v. Novaferon Labe, Inc.,n the Commission alleged that increases in the
price of the common stock of Novaferon Labs occurred as a result of a manipulation
accomplished through the filing and dissemination of numerous fraudulent reports
with theComrnission and press releases to the public. The reports and press releases
allegedly provided false and misleading information concerning, among other
things, the company' s financial condition, business prospects, and the identities and
holding of major shareholders. At the end of the fiscal year, the litigation in this case
was pending.
Insider Trading
Insider trading refers generally to abuses of nonpublic information in the
securities markets. It encompasses more than trading and tipping by traditional
9

insiders, such as officers and directors, who are subject to a duty to disclose any
material, nonpublic information or abstain from trading in the securities of their
own company. Insider trading also includes the unlawful transmission or use of
material, nonpublic information by persons in a variety of other positions of trust
and confidence and by those who misappropriate such information. Insider trading
cases are varied and, over the years, Commission actions have included as defendants
investment bankers, risk arbitrageurs, attorneys, law firm employees, accountants,
bank officers, brokers, financial reporters, and even a psychiatrist. Most insider
trading cases are brought under the general antifraud provisions of the securities
laws--particularly Section 1O(b) of the Exchange Act and Rule 10b-5 thereunder.
Exchange Act Rule 14e-3, promulgated under the Williams Act, separately proscribes
most trading by persons possessing material, nonpublic information concerning a
tender offer.
The Commission ordinarily seeks permanent injunctions and anciIlary relief,
including disgorgement of any profits gained or losses avoided, against alleged
violators. The penalty provisions of the Insider Trading Sanctions Act of 1984, as
amended by the Insider Trading and Securities Fraud Enforcement Act of 1988 and
now codified in Section 21A of the Exchange Act, authorize the Commission to seek
a civil penalty, payable to the United States, of up to three times the profit gained or
loss avoided, against persons who unlawfully trade in securities while in possession
of material, nonpublic information, or who unlawfully communicate material,
nonpublic information to others who trade. Civil penalties also can be imposed
upon persons who control insider traders.
Each year, the Commission devotes considerable staff resources to detecting,
investigating, and litigating insider trading cases. During the fiscal year, the
Commission brought 38 civil and administrative actions alleging insider trading
violations.
Several of the cases brought by the Commission alleged abuse of material,
nonpublic information by attorneys. In SEC v. Steven L. Glauberman " the Commission
alleged that an associate in a major New York law firm sold information to a
registered representative concerning approximately 29 actual or proposed corporate
transactions such as mergers and acquisitions. The Commission alleged that the
representative traded for his own account, for customer accounts, and in a special
account for Glauberman. By the end of the fiscal year, most of the defendants had
consented to injunctions and agreed to disgorge a total of $1,773,092.70. Three
participants also consented to bars in administrative proceedings under Section
15(b)(6) of the Exchange Act. At the end of the fiscal year, the injunctive action was
pending as to other defendants.
The Commission also brought a case entitled SEC v. Saul Bluestone,25 alleging
that several members of a Detroit law firm sold Zenith stock while they possessed
material, non public information concerning a loan default and impending
bankruptcy petition. Bluestone allegedly learned the information as a member of
Zenith's board of directors and disclosed that information to several of his law
partners, all of whom sold Zenith stock. Three of the attorneys consented to
injunctions and disgorged a total of $64,582.29, plus prejudgment interest and
penalties. The litigation against two other partners was continuing at the close of the
fiscal year.
10

In SEC v. James H. O'Hagan,26 the Commission alleged that O'Hagan, then a
partner in a prominent Minneapolis law firm, traded in the securities of The
Pillsbury Company while he possessed material, nonpublic information concerning
a hostile tender offer for Pillsbury. O'Hagan's firm served as local counsel for the
offeror. The complaint alleged that O'Hagan discussed the impending offer with
another partner and that O'Hagan purchased Pillsbury options and stock after he
learned of the offer. Following the announcement, O'Hagan sold the securities,
realizing a profit of approximately $4.3 million. The district court denied a motion
for summary judgment by O'Hagan, and the Commission litigation against O'Hagan
was continuing at the close of the fiscal year.
The Commission also continued to initiate actions arising out of mergers and
acquisitions. In June, for example, the Commission filed SEC v. Alan C. Goulding.27
The complaint alleged that Goulding, formerly a senior officer of A&P, learned that
the company was preparing to make several major acquisitions, and that he tipped
several friends and business associates concerning the acquisitions and an impending
favorable earnings announcement by A&P. When the action was filed, the defendants
consented to the entry of injunctions. They also agreed to disgorge profits of
$513,881.23 and interest in the amount of $189,879.97. In addition, they agreed to
pay ITSA penalties totalling $1,300,131.25.
Financial Disclosure

Actions involving false and misleading disclosures concerning the financial
condition of companies and the issuance of false financial statements are often
complex and require more resources than other types of cases, but their effective
prosecution is essential to preserving the integrity of the disclosure system. The
Commission brought 24 cases containing significant allegations of financial disclosure
violations against issuers, regulated entities, or their employees. Many of these
cases included alleged violations of the accounting provisions of the Foreign
Corrupt Practices Act. The Commission also brought 11 cases alleging misconduct
by accounting firms or their partners or employees.
A number of cases involved the improper recognition of revenue or income.
In SEC v. Richard H. Towle,28 the Commission filed a complaint alleging that the
defendants engaged in activities that resulted in Thortec International, Inc. filing
materially false and misleading financial statements with the Commission. The
defendants, all former executive officers of Thorte, allegedly recorded unsupported
adjustments to the amount of revenue reported by Thortec's regional offices during
the process of preparing the company's financial statements and periodic reports.
Thus, the financial statements filed with the Commission materially overstated
revenue and earnings. The proceeding was still pending at the close of the fiscal
year.
In SEC v. Barry J. Minkow,29 the Commission filed an injunctive action against
14 defendants with regard to their fraudulent conduct in connection with
misrepresentations contained in financial statements and registration statements
filed with the Commission in October and November 1986 by ZZZZ Best, Inc., to
facilitate a public offering of stock in which $15 million was obtained from investors.
With the exception of two defendants, each of the defendants has consented to entry
of an order permanently enjoining him from the violations of the Securities Act and
11

Exchange Act. The case against the other two defendants was pending as of the close
of the fiscal year. Minkow also was criminally convicted of 57 counts for crimes he
committed while chairman, president, and chief executive officer of the company.
He is serving a sentence of 25 years.
Numerous other actions brought by the Commission involved alleged
fraudulent misrepresentations or omissions in financial statements that were filed
by issuers with the Commission or otherwise disseminated to the public (SEC v.
Fluid Corporations" SEC v. Raiio P. Mehta;31 SEC v. Crowell & Co., Inc.;32 and SEC v.
Malibu Capital Corporation 33).
A number of accountants were suspended from practicing before the
Commission in Rule 2(e) proceedings based on allegations of significant audit
failures (In the Matter of Stephen L.Hochberg, CPA;34In the Matter of Charles C. Lehman,
Jr., CPA;35 In the Matter of William G. Gaede, Jr., CPA;36 and In the Matter of Georgia
McCarley3"). Accountants enjoined for allegedly aiding and abetting violations of
the registration and antifraud provisions by their preparation and audit of financial
statements in connection with securities offerings also were the subject of suspension
orders (In the Matter of Bruce T. Anderson, CPNB and In the Matter of Charles V. Moore,
CPN9).

Corporate Control
The Commission's enforcement program also scrutinizes corporate mergers,
takeovers and other corporate control transactions, and the adequacy of disclosures
made by acquiring persons and entities and their targets. The Commission recently
has brought cases involving Sections 13 and 14 of the Exchange Act, which govern
securities acquisition, proxy, and tender offer disclosure. Increasingly, the
Commission seeks orders requiring violators to disgorge any profits obtained from
the violation.
The Commission was active in pursuing cases alleging tardy or inadequate
disclosure under Section 13(d). In one case, SEC v. Nortek, Inc.,40 the Commission
filed an injunctive action against Nortek, Inc. and three of its officers under both
Sections 13(d) and 1O(b)of the Exchange Act and Rules lOb-5 and 13d-1 thereunder.
According to the complaint, Nortek filed a late and misleading Schedule 130
concerning its accumulation of five percent of the outstanding stock of Rexham
Corp. Notwithstanding its obligation to file a Schedule 130, Nortek continued to
accumulate Rexham stock, buying an additional 62,000 shares after the filing
obligation accrued. The complaint alleged that Nortek purchased while it withheld
from the market required information about its five percent accumulation. The
defendants consented to injunctions against future violations. In addition, Nortek
agreed to disgorge $503,000 in profits from its Rexham purchases.
In SEC v. Edward P. Evans,41 the Commission filed an action against present or
former senior officers of Macmillan, Inc. According to the complaint, the defendants
developed a plan to recapitalize Macmillan in anticipation of a possible hostile
takeover. The proposal called for Macmillan's employee stock option plan to buy
more than five percent of the company's shares. The Schedule 130 allegedly failed
to disclose that a purpose of the acquisition was to further a recapitalization planned
or proposed by the defendants. The defendants consented to the entry of a final
judgment of permanent injunction against them.
1?

In SEC v. Alan E. Cloref? the Commission alleged that an investor failed to
update previous disclosures to reflect his intent to take a company private. Clore,
formerly the chairman of Kaisertech Ltd., and foreign corporations that he controlled
accumulated a control block of Kaisertech without amending statements made in a
previously filed Schedule 13D to disclose plans Clore allegedly had made to try to
take the company private. The complaint also alleged that Clore failed to make
disclosures concerning his purchases and sales on Form 4 as required by Section
16(a) of the Exchange Act and Rule 16a-l thereunder. The defendant consented to
the entry of an injunction.
In SEC v. Thomas Lee Oakes,43 the Commission alleged violations of the proxy
solicitation rules. According to the complaint, Oakes solicited proxies from
shareholders of North Atlantic fisheries in violation of the Commission's rules. The
complaint alleged that Oakes failed to file his proxy materials with the Commission;
misrepresented, among other matters, that he was the company's chief financial
officer; and failed to comply with various rules prescribing the form of the proxies.
Oakes consented to a permanent injunction.
The Commission also makes use of other provisions of the securities laws to
police acquisition-related conduct. For example, in SEC v. Mesa Limited Partnership
and T. Boone Pickens, Jr.,44the Commission filed an action alleging that Pickens and
Mesa violated Sections 17(a)(2) and 17(a)(3) of the Securities Act through sales of
stock and options of Homestake Mining. The complaint alleged that Mesa had
publicly announced an offer to acquire Homestake in a negotiated transaction. The
announcement disclosed that Mesa had acquired 3,540,000 shares of Homestake, or
3.8 percent of Homestake's outstanding common stock, and that Mesa was offering
to acquire all of Homestake's remaining stock. According to the complaint, Mesa
and Pickens decided to sell a substantial part of Mesa' s holdings of Homestake stock
and, after the release of the news announcement, began selling Homestake stock
and options. The complaint alleged that Mesa failed to issue a release correcting or
updating the initial release by disclosing Mesa's intention to sell Homestake
securities. Mesa and Pickens consented to final judgments enjoining them from
future violations and requiring Mesa to disgorge $2.3 million in profits.
Securities Offering Cases
Securities offering cases represent a significant portion of the Commission's
enforcement activities. These cases involve the offer and sale of securities in
violation of the registration provisions of the Securities Act. In some cases, the
issuers attempt to rely on exemptions to registration requirements that are not
available. Offering cases frequently involve material misrepresentations concerning,
among other things, use of proceeds, risks associated with investments, disciplinary
history of promoters or control persons, business prospects, promised returns,
success of prior offerings, and the financial condition of issuers.
In SEC v. American Assurance Underwriters Group, Inc.,45 the Commission
alleged that the defendants sold unregistered OTC securities, raising approximately
$6 million. The issuer inflated its financial statements by recording at face value a
note from a related party with no ability to pay. Four defendants consented to
injunctions, a default final judgment was entered against another defendant, and,
at the end of the fiscal year, the Commission was litigating against the remaining
13

three defendants. The company, which filed for bankruptcy, consented to an
injunction through its bankruptcy trustee.
The Commission's complaint in SEC v. Charles A. Oglebay46 alleged that from
May 1983 through November 1987 eight defendants fraudulently offered and sold
$57 million of unregistered securities to 800 investors. The securities were marketed
as small equipment leases, investment pools for leases, and notes purportedly
backed by leases. The leases were supposed to generate rental income that would
be remitted to the investors. Defendants allegedly made materially misleading
statements as to, among other things, title and assignment of collateral, the existence
of cash reserves and insurance, the default rate of the leases, the nature of the
investments, the degree of risk, and the receipt of commissions. As of September 30,
1990, the Commission was in litigation with the defendants.
The Commission filed an injunctive action, SEC v. RL Kotrozo, Inc.,47 against a
registered investment adviser/broker-dealer
and its two principals, alleging that
from 1985 through at least July 1989 the defendants engaged in the fraudulent offer
and sale of securities in the form of promissory notes and interests in a non-existent
mutual fund. The Commission alleged that, besides misrepresenting the existence
of the mutual fund, the defendants misrepresented their financial condition, the
risks of the investment, and the actual use of the funds. The Commission also
alleged that investor funds were commingled with the personal funds of the
principals and used to pay their personal expenses, as well as to repay earlier
investors. The defendants consented to injunctions and agreed to disgorge $977,976.
The Commission filed an injunctive action against seven defendants in SEC v.
Donald Bader" for raising approximately $9 million from 450 investors through the
sale of unregistered securities in the form of investment contracts and promissory
notes between May 1985 and May 1988. The Commission alleged that numerous
material misrepresentations were made to investors concerning, among other
things, the use of investor proceeds, the identity of control persons of the company,
the existence of a state investigation, and the existence of substantial losses from
uncollectible accounts. The defendants consented to injunctions. At the end of the
fiscal year, the issue of disgorgement remained before the court.
In SEC v. AUC COrp.,49the Commission brought an injunctive action against
ALIC Corp. and its four principal officers alleging registration and antifraud
violations in the sale of investment contracts, debentures that were represented to
be certificates of deposit, preferred stock, and single premium annuities. Defendants
raised over $17 million from over 1,000 investors, mostly senior citizens, and
allegedly misrepresented the risks and returns of the securities, the guaranteed
nature of the securities, and the financial condition of ALIC Corp. A receiver for
ALIC Corp. was appointed by the court. At the close of the fiscal year, the
Commission was engaged in discovery and litigation with the defendants.
The Commission brought several actions against individuals and entities
allegedly involved in the unregistered and fraudulent sale of interests in oil and gas
wells, fractional undivided working interests, and limited partnership interests.
Some of these actions include SEC v. William A. Thornei" SEC v. Profit Enterprises,
Inc.;51 SEC v. Transwestern Oil and Gas Co., Inc.;52 and SEC v. Thomas Hydrocarbons,
Inc.53

14

Broker-Dealer Violations

The Commission filed a series of enforcement actions against broker-dealers.
Broker-dealer cases generally involve fraudulent sales practices, net capital and
customer protection violations, as well as violations of the books and records
provisions.
The Commission continued to devote extensive resources to the litigation In
the Matter of The Stuart-James Co., Inc.,54 which was instituted in fiscal year 1989. The
case was brought against one of the nation's largest penny stock broker-dealers and
involves allegations of excessive undisclosed mark-ups on the first day of aftermarket
trading in the securities of two issuers for which Stuart-James acted as sole
underwriter; alleged abusive sales practices, including fraudulent telephone scripts,
tie-in sales, planned cross trades, and undisclosed "no net selling" policies; and
alleged failures to supervise.
The Commission filed an action against Thomas James Associates, Inc., a
broker-dealer, the two registered principals and owners of the firm, and the firm's
head trader. The Commission's complaint alleged that, in connection with Thomas
James' underwriting of the initial public offerings for four issuers, the defendants
engaged in a scheme by which the firm's undisclosed domination and control of the
market and fraudulent and high pressure sales tactics created an artificially large
demand for the issuers' shares. Clients of the firm also were allegedly charged
excessive undisclosed mark-ups. Brian Thomas, the registered principal, president,
and 50 percent owner of the firm, consented to the entry of an injunction that
included a bar from employment in the securities industry. In connection with the
court's final order in this case, the Commission obtained a $1.5 million order for
disgorgement to be paid by various defendants (SEC v. Thomas James Associates,
Inc.55). In connection with the same violative conduct, the Commission instituted
administrative proceedings against the former head trader at Thomas [ames." As
of the end of the fiscal year, those proceedings were pending.
Several actions were brought by the Commission alleging misappropriation of
customer funds. In SEC v. Oscar Ayala,57 the Commission obtained an injunction
against a registered representative who allegedly engaged in unauthorized trading
and misappropriated at least $2.4 million of customer funds for his personal use. At
the end of the fiscal year, the issue of disgorgement was being litigated. The
Commission issued a bar order against a registered representative who allegedly
misappropriated in excess of $1 million from customers for his personal use and
who had been previously enjoined for such conduct (In the Matter of Walter F. Kusay,
Jr.SS). An injunction was entered against a broker-dealer and its president and sole
owner who sold customer securities and allegedly misappropriated at least $825,000,
as well as violated net capital and broker-dealer books and records provisions (SEC
v. H.A. Kenning Investments, Inc. and Harry A. Kenning, Jr.59). Administrative
proceedings against H.A. Kenning, the president, resulted in a bar order (In the
Matter of Harry A. Kenning, Jr. (0). An injunction was also obtained by the Commission
against a registered representative who allegedly misappropriated approximately
$2,028,407 from customers and obtained approximately $300,000 through the
fraudulent sale of unregistered securities (SEC v. Bruce Black").
The Commission also pursued broker-dealers and registered representatives
for material misrepresentations and omissions made to customers in the offer and
1!i

sale of securities. An injunction was obtained by the Commission against a
registered representative of a broker-dealer for alleged misrepresentations he made
in the offer and sale of notes issued by Phoenix Aviation, Inc. concerning, among
other things, the business opportunities of the issuer and its financial and operating
condition (SEC v. Phoenix Aviation, Inc.62). The Commission instituted administrative
proceedings against the registered representative, which were pending as of the end
of the fiscal year (In the Matter of Alan R. Asker63). Injunctions were entered against
a broker-dealer and its president and sole owner based on their offer and sale of
unregistered securities and their alleged misrepresentations to investors of the risks
associated with the investment, the return on the investment, and the uses to which
investors' funds would be put. In addition to entry of the injunctions, the firm's
broker-dealer registration was revoked and the president was barred (SEC v. Jeffers
Investments Corporaiion'" and In the Matter of David K. Jeffers and Jeffers Investments
Corporation 65). Administrative proceedings were instituted against a broker-dealer
and its principal for allegedly selling unregistered securities through the use of
materially false and misleading statements concerning the ownership, financial
condition, and business prospects of the issuer (In the Matter ofV.F. Minton Securities,
Inc. and Vernon F. Minton66). These proceedings were pending at the end of the fiscal
year.
An injunction was entered against a government securities broker-dealer for
the firm's alleged failure to maintain sufficient net capital, comply with recordkeeping
requirements relating to net capital computations, prepare and file financial reports
with the Commission, comply with telegraphic notice requirements, and become a
member of a national securities exchange registered under Exchange Act Section 6
or a securities association registered with the Commission under Exchange Act
Section 15A (SECv. Frank Clarke and Co., Inc'"). In addition to entry of the injunction,
the broker-dealer's registration was revoked (In the Matter of Frank Clarke and Co.,
Inc.68). Another government securities broker-dealer's registration was revoked by
the Commission (In the Matter of Stotler and CO.69)based on allegations that Stotler
effected transactions in government securities without becoming a member of a
national securities exchange or the NASD; and failed to comply with regulations
promulgated by the Department of the Treasury with respect to: (l) the maintenance
of net capital; (2) the deposit of customer funds in a special reserve bank account; (3)
recordkeeping; (4) the filing of financial reports with the Commission; and (5) the
provision of telegraphic notice to the Commission of its net capital deficiency.
The Commission brought administrative proceedings against Donaldson,
Lufkin & Jenrette Securities Corp. and a managing director for alleged practices in
which the firm, from 1982 through April 1989, used its customers' margin securities
in hundreds of transactions for its own benefit and without the customers' knowledge
or consent. The managing director supervised the division that engaged in the
practices, which generated $5.9 million in revenues for the firm. The Commission
censured the firm and ordered that it comply with undertakings that included
review of its practices and procedures in connection with the handling of customer
securities, preparation and implementation of policies and procedures to effect
compliance with the federal securities laws, and establishment of a fund of $5.6
million, plus prejudgment interest, for the repayment of customers. The managing
director was suspended from association with a regulated entity for 45 days and
16

from supervisory responsibilities for 18 months (In the Matter of Donaldson, Lufkin &
Jenrette Securities Corporation 70).
The Commission also instituted administrative proceedings against registered
broker-dealers, their principals and other firm personnel for failure to reasonably
supervise individuals subject to their supervision in order to prevent violations of
the securities laws. In In the Matter of Gary W. Chambers." the Commission
suspended a broker-dealer's senior vice president for compliance and operations
for allegedly failing to supervise two registered representatives who engaged in
excessive and unsuitable trading in customer accounts. The Commission also
censured a broker-dealer in In the Matter of Goodrich Securities, Inc.72 and ordered the
firm to review its supervisory and compliance procedures and to revise such
procedures in order to ensure adequate supervision.
Investment Adviser Violations
The Commission instituted several significant enforcement actions involving
investment advisers. These cases included abusive sales practices and misappropriation of client funds.
In SEC v. Michael S. Douglas/? the Commission alleged that an unregistered
investment adviser made material misrepresentations in connection with the offer
and sale of interests in three unregistered investment companies controlled by the
adviser. The Commission obtained a temporary restraining order enjoining further
antifraud violations, freezing the defendant's assets, and appointing a receiver to
take control and account for at least $21 million of investor funds.
An injunction was obtained against another registered investment adviser
and its principal for allegedly engaging in a scheme to hide trading losses from an
investment advisory client by sending false account statements reporting fictitious
securities transactions to hide commodity trading losses of about $149,000 (SEC v.
Gregory D. Gooan'"). In a related administrative proceeding, the adviser's registration
was revoked and the principal barred (In the Matter of Liberty Securities Group, Inc.
and Gregory D. Govan75).
In SEC v. U.S. General Corporation." the Commission brought an emergency
trading suspension and injunctive action against a registered investment company
and six individuals for allegedly grossly overvaluing the fund's assets in Commission
filings and promotional materials distributed to the public. A substantial number
of shares were sold based upon the false information. Two of the individual
defendants have disgorged $20,304.90 to the Commission.
Administrative proceedings were brought against two investment advisers
for the dissemination of impermissible performance advertisements. One investment
adviser allegedly made material misrepresentations concerning the profitability of
its recommendations and trades, and the other investment adviser allegedly made
misrepresentations in a $10 million advertising campaign that attracted $1 billion of
new investor funds (In the Matter of Blue Chip Market Advisor, Inc. and James Paul
Azzalino 77 and In the Matter of Fred Alger Management, Inc.,78 respectively). Both
advisers were censured and ordered to comply with certain remedial undertakings.
In another advertisement case, an investment adviser allegedly promoted a
company's common stock through the use of materially false and misleading
advertisements and newsletters, traded in the securities, and obtained illegal
17

extensions of credit from brokers and dealers (SEC v. William P. Dillon 79). The
adviser consented to the entry of the injunction and was ordered to make restitution
of $350,000.
Proceedings instituted against two advisers involved application of the
Commission's 1986 interpretive release concerning the scope of Exchange Act
Section28(e),which provides a safe harbor for money managers who use commissions
generated by account transactions to pay for research and brokerage services
(referred to as soft dollars). Among other things, the release clarified the
Commission's interpretation of Section 28(e), expressed the Commission's views
regarding the best execution obligations of fiduciaries for client transactions, and
discussed various disclosure obligations. In the Matter of Patterson Capital Corporation
and Joseph P. Pattereon'" involved a registered investment adviser and two principals
who allegedly made secret use of their clients' commissions to purchase various
marketing services for the sole benefit of the adviser, in breach of their fiduciary
duties. Similarly, another investment adviser allegedly engaged in an undisclosed
brokerage allocation practice which involved obtaining client referrals for its
advisory business through the use of its mutual fund client's brokerage commissions
(In the Matter of Stein Roe & Farnham Incorporated 81). The respondents in both
proceedings consented to the findings of the violative conduct, censures, and
remedial undertakings.
An investment adviser which allegedly failed to disclose multimillion dollar
benefits it was earning on client funds and inadequately disclosed arrangements
that permitted it to earn multiple advisory fees was the subject of an administrative
proceeding. The adviser was censured and ordered to comply with certain
undertakings (In the Matter of Thomson McKinnon Asset Management L.P. 82). In SEC
v. R.E.C. Investors, Inc.,83 the Commission obtained an injunction and instituted
proceedings against an investment adviser and its principal for allegedly engaging
in a free-riding scheme, purchasing $150 million in securities in violation of the
margin rules, and earning profits of $2.65million. The defendants consented to the
injunction and were ordered to make disgorgement. In related administrative
proceedings, they were censured and ordered to comply with certain undertakings.
Investment Company Violations
In a significant action involving a registered investment company, SEC v.
Municipal Lease Securities Fund Inc.,84the Commission obtained emergency injunctive
and ancillary relief against four defendants, a control person, a broker-dealer, an
investment adviser, and an investment company. The Commission's complaint
alleged antifraud, pricing, and books and records violations of the Investment
Company Act. This case primarily involved selling and redeeming the registered
investment company's shares during a period in which it was not calculating its net
asset value on a daily basis. The court entered an order restraining sales, redemptions
and repurchases of the fund's shares, freezing the fund's assets, enjoining the
destruction of the fund's books and records, and appointing a receiver to determine
the future operation of the fund.
A permanent injunction was entered against Dart Group Corporation for
allegedly acting as an unregistered investment company. Dart Group engaged in
the business of investing, reinvesting, and trading in securities of several public

1A

companies that it had announced an intention to acquire. The defendants consented
to the injunction and undertook to report to the Commission for a three-year period
information concerning their investments and income derived from those
investments (SEC v. Dart Group Corporation 85).
The Commission brought an injunctive action against Fluid Corporation, a
business development company regulated by both the Commission and the Small
Business Administration. Fluid Corporation, among other things, allegedly made
misleading disclosures in an annual report concerning its financial condition and
omitted information regarding its subsidiary's capital impairment and reissued
audit opinion (SEC v. Fluid Corporationr). Fluid consented to the entry of an order
by which the registration of its common stock under the Exchange Act and its
election to operate as a business development company under the Investment
Company Act were revoked. At the end of the fiscal year, the action against the
remaining defendant was pending.
Sources for Further Inquiry
The Commission publishes the SEC Docket, which includes announcements
regarding enforcement actions. The Commission's litigation releases describe civil
injunctive actions and also report certain criminal proceedings involving securitiesrelated violations. These releases typically report the identity of the defendants, the
nature of the alleged violative conduct, the disposition or status of the case, as well
as other information. The SEC Docket also contains Commission orders instituting
administrative proceedings, orders making findings and imposing sanctions in
those proceedings, and the initial decisions of Administrative Law Judges in
Commission proceedings.

19

Office of International

Affairs

In December 1989, Chairman RicJuzrdBreeden announced the creation
of the Commission's Office of International Affairs (OIA). OIA has primary
responsibility for the negotiation and implementation of information-sJuzring
agreements and for developing legislative and other initiatives to facilitate
international cooperation. OIA coordinates and assists in making requests
for assistance to, and responding to requests for assistance from, foreign
authorities. OIA also addresses other international issues thai arise in
litigated matters such as effecting service of process abroad and gathering
foreign-based evidence using various international conventions, freezing
assets located abroad, and enforcing judgments obtained by the Commission
in the United States against foreign parties. In addition, OIA operates in a
consultative role regarding the significant ongoing international programs
and initiatives of the Commission's other divisions and offices.

Key 1990 Results

The Commission entered into its two most comprehensive agreements on
cooperation during fiscal year 1990. The Commission and the Ministry of Finance
of the Netherlands, on behalf of their respective governments, signed an agreement
on Mutual Administrative Assistance in the Exchange of Information in Securities
Matters (Netherlands Agreement); and the Commission and its counterpart in
France, the Commission des Operations de Bourse (COB), signed an Administrative
Agreement (French Agreement).
Both of those agreements provide for
comprehensive assistance in securities matters. The Commission also signed an
understanding with the COB (French Understanding) in which the parties agreed
to consult about matters of common interest to coordinate market oversight and
resolve possible differences between their regulatory systems.
The Commission entered into an understanding with the Institute Monetaire
Luxembourgeois of Luxembourg (Luxembourg MOU), which provides for the
signatories to exchange information relating to trades cleared through a foreign
clearing organization for the PORTAL trading system. The Commission entered
into its first technical assistance understanding with the Republic of Hungary State
Securities Supervision and the BUdapest Stock Exchange (Hungary Understanding)
which lays the groundwork for the Commission's providing technical assistance to
Hungary regarding the development of Hungary's securities markets. At the
conclusion of the first Trilateral Meeting, hosted by the Commission, a precedent
setting communique was issued in which the parties (the United Kingdom .'
Department of Trade and Industry and Securities and Investments Board, and the '

20

Securities Bureau of the Ministry of Finance of Japan) stated their agreement about
several important regulatory matters and their commitment to consult and coordinate
with each other about matters of mutual concern.
Arrangements for Mutual Assistance and Exchanges of Information
The increasing internationalization of the world's securities markets has
raised many new and complex issues that impact upon the Commission's ability to
enforce the United States federal securities laws. For example, a central problem the
Commission now faces is collecting information located abroad. The Commission
has attempted to resolve this problem by developing information-sharing
arrangements on a bilateral basis with various foreign authorities.
The information-sharing
arrangements allow the Commission to obtain
evidence located abroad while avoiding the conflicts that may result from differences
in legal systems. The Commission has entered into various arrangements with
foreign authorities in Switzerland, Japan, the United Kingdom, three provincial
authorities in Canada, Brazil, Italy, the Netherlands, France, and Luxembourg.
These arrangements have proven to be effective means for obtaining information
and developing cooperative arrangements between regulators. In addition, the
staff coordinates closely with the regulators with whom it has information-sharing
arrangements to develop ways to implement and improve the arrangements. The
Commission also cooperates on an informal basis with foreign regulators with
-
whom it does not have explicit information-sharing arrangements.
On December 11, 1989, the Commission and the Ministry of Finance of the
Netherlands, on behalf of their respective governments, signed the Netherlands
Agreement, which provides for comprehensive assistance in securities matters. The
comprehensive assistance provisions of the Netherlands Agreement are implemented
for the Commission by the amendments contained in Section 6 of the Insider
Trading and Securities Fraud Enforcement Act of 1988 (ITSFEA). Unlike the
Commission's previous Memoranda of Understanding (MOU), the Netherlands
Agreement is a binding agreement under international law as opposed to a
statement of intent to cooperate.
On December 14, 1989, the Commission and the COB signed the French
Agreement, which is similar to the Netherlands Agreement both in its comprehensive
scope and in its status as a binding agreement. The French Agreement provides that
the Commission and the COB may utilize their respective compulsory powers to
assist each other in matters within the scope of the MOU, as authorized, respectively,
by ITSFEA and by the French Law of August 2,1989.
Contemporaneously with the signing of the French Agreement, the Commission
and the COB signed the French Understanding, which goes well beyond the
provisions of the French Agreement and represents a significant new step in
international cooperation in securities matters. The French Understanding reflects
the agreement of the Commission and the COB to engage in mutual consultations
about subjects of common interest in order to coordinate market oversight and to
resolve differences that may exist between their respective regulatory systems. The
French Understanding is the first formal understanding between the Commission
and a foreign securities authority on matters beyond the enforcement of the
securities laws. It provides a framework for the two authorities to take proactive
21

steps to address a wide range of issues concerning the stability and integrity of the
United States and French securities markets.
On May 23,1990, the Commission signed the Luxembourg MOU with the
Institut Monetaire Luxembourgeois (IML), which provides for the exchange of
information between the' Commission and the IML relating to trades cleared
through Centrale de Livraison de Valeurs Mobilieres, S.A. Luxembourg for the
PORTAL trading system.
The Commission entered into a MOU with the Comision Nacional de Valores
(CNV) on October 18, 1990. The MOU with the CNV is broad in scope, and it
encompasses not only assistance in enforcement matters, but also the provision of
technical assistance. The MOU also contemplates consultations about all matters
relating to the operation of the securities markets in the United States and Mexico.
Trilateral Communique
On September 21,1990, the Commission and the United Kingdom Department

of Trade and Industry and Securities and Investments Board, and the Securities
Bureau of the Ministry of Finance of Japan, met for the first time on a trilateral basis
to consider issues of importance to the world's three largest securities markets. At
the conclusion of their meetings, the parties issued a trilateral communique in which
they stated their:
• intention to continue to coordinate their efforts to maintain safe and
sound securities markets;
• agreement that there is a need to maintain balance between the stock and
derivative markets to avoid adverse effects on the stability of the stock
markets, and their belief that margin levels and derivative instruments
should reflect the public interest in safe and resilient markets;
• intention to encourage cross-border business between their markets by
pursuing mutual recognition of regulatory systems;
• agreement on the desirability of regularly exchanging information to
facilitate the monitoring of multinational firms with operations in their
respective capital markets;
• intention to utilize fully their domestic powers to assist each
other in the oversight of their respective domestic markets and the
enforcement of their respective securities laws; and
• intention to meet regularly on a trilateral basis to continue discussions
about matters of mutual interest.

-~

Technical Assistance

The Commission is actively involved in providing technical assistance to
other countries concerning the development and regulation of their securities
markets. On May 25,1990, Chairman Richard Breeden announced the establishment
of the Commission's Emerging Markets Advisory Committee (EMAC) to advise the
Commission on how best to utilize its resources for assisting foreign regulators, and
to provide technical and other assistance to the Commission regarding requests
from governmental authorities for assistance in developing securities and other
financial markets. The EMAC is intended to ensure that the United States is in a
position to provide strong and effective leadership to emerging markets. The first

22

-

s-

meeting of the EMAC took place on June 12, 1990.
On June 22, 1990, the Commission entered into an understanding with the
Republic of Hungary State Securities Supervision and the Budapest Stock Exchange
regarding the provision of technical assistance for the development of the Hungarian
securities markets in which the Commission formally states its willingness to
provide technical assistance to Hungary "with a view to establishing and
implementing an ongoing technical assistance program for the development,
administration, and operation of the Hungarian securities markets." The signatories
also expressed their intention to use their best efforts to assist each other in the
administration and enforcement of their respective securities laws and regulations.
The Commission also has created the International Institute for Securities
Market Development (Institute) to provide training for foreign government officials
that are responsible for the development or regulation of emerging securities
markets. The Institute is intended to further market development, capital formation,
and the building of sound regulatory structures in countries engaged in such efforts.
The Institute's first seminar and consultation program will be held in the spring of
1991. The faculty of the Institute will consist of senior Commission officials, experts
from self-regulatory organizations, and members of the EMAC.
International Organizations

During 1990, the Commission participated in the following international
organizations.
The International Organization of Securities Commissions (lOSCO). The
Commission is an active participant in the work of IOSCO. In fiscal year 1990, the
Commission chaired laSCO's Executive Committee and prepared a strategic
assessment of IOSCO's Technical Committee, which reviewed both the structure
and operation of that committee and made recommendations for how it should
operate in the future. The strategic assessment was adopted by IOSCO and the
Commission was elected to chair the Technical Committee for fiscal year 1991.
The Organization for Economic Cooperation and Development (DECD). The
Commission staff participated in discussions at the OECD regarding the
establishment of international standards governing foreign corrupt practices; the
OECD Codes relating to securities matters; and accounting issues.
The Group of Negotiations on Services to the General Agreements on Tariff
and Trade (GAIT). The Commission is an active participant in the effort, through
the Uruguay Round of theGA TT, to establish a multilateral framework of principles
and rules for trade in financial services. The Commission also consulted with the
Office of the United States Trade Representative and other United States government
agencies in connection with the negotiation of other international trade and
investment agreements.
The Wilton Park Group. This organization is sponsored by the United
Kingdom Department of Trade and Industry. The staff participated in extensive
discussions to facilitate methods for enhancing the exchange of information among
securities regulators.
The Commission also has been involved with other United States governmental
agencies in reviewing the plans and directives of the European Economic Community,
which is working toward achieving an internal market among its twelve-member

23

countries by December 31,1992 (referred to as EC 92). The Commission has been
involved in several different studies, and provided assistance to other United States
government agencies, including the Department of the Treasury, in connection with
the impact of EC 92 on the United States financial services markets.
International Requests for Assistance
The table below summarizes the international requests for assistance made
and received by the Commission. 87
SEC Requests to
Foreign Governments

1988
1989
1990

?4

84

101
17788

Foreign Requests
to the SEC
81
150
13089

Regulation

of the Securities Markets

The Division of Market Regulation, together with regional office examination staff, oversees the operations of the nation's securities markets and
market professionals. In fiscal year 1990, over 10,000 broker-dealers, 9 active
securities exchanges, the over-the-counter (OTC) markets, and 15 clearing
agencies were subject to the Commission's oversight.
Key 1990 Results

Market Value of Equity and Options Sales on U.S. Exchanges
(billions)

FY'86

FY'87

FY'88

FY'89

FY'90

$1,735

$2,367

$1,907

$2,040

$1,845

Broker-Dealer

Oversight Examinations

FY'86

FY'87

FY'88

FY'89

FY'90

481

452

421

328

371

Broker-Dealer

Cause Examinations

FY'86

FY'87

FY'88

FY'89

FY'90

69

56

89

148

176

Surveillance

and Regulatory Compliance

Inspections of SROs

FY'86

FY'87

FY'88

FY'89

FY'90

22

23

21

22

22

self-Regulatory

Organization

Final Disciplinary Actions

FY'86

FY'87

FY'88

FY'89

FY'90

845

991

1,336

1,508

1,605

25

In fiscal year 1990, the Commission continued. to direct its attention towards:
market reforms, including a major legislative program, that address problems
resulting from the 1987 market break'? and subsequent episodes of extreme market
volatility; enhancement of regulation and oversight of broker-dealers to combat
"penny-stock" fraud and to maintain the financial integrity of firms servicing public
investors; internationalization of markets, a trend which has had a marked impact
on virtually all of the Commission's market supervision activities; and assuring that
other fundamental changes in the markets, e.g., in terms of the growth in size and
diversity of firms and products, proceed in a sound and orderly way and without
unnecessary regulatory restraints on industry innovation or competition.
Securities Markets, Facilities, and Trading

Market Refonn Initiatives
The nation's securities markets continued. to experience periodic episodes of
large price and volume volatility. These events demonstrated that the episodes of
intense volatility encountered during and shortly after the October 1987 market
break were not isolated occurrences. As a result, the Commission continued to
pursue many of the market reform initiatives begun in 1988 in order to enhance the
stability and integrity of the nation's securities markets.
On September 25,1990, Congress enacted the Market Reform Act of 1990 to
enhance the efficiency and fairness of the United States capital markets and to help
avoid precipitous market declines." The legislation, largely proposed by the
Commission in 1988, covers several problem areas identified by the October 1987
market break. First, it authorizes the Commission to establish rules regarding
information reporting by broker-dealer holding companies for purposes of risk
assessment. Second, it enables the Commission to promulgate rules providing for
large trader reporting. Third, it authorizes the Commission to facilitate development of coordinated clearance and settlement systems. Fourth, it empowers the
Commission to promulgate uniform rules, preempting state law, concerning the
transfer and pledge of securities to facilitate the efficient and safe operation of the
national clearance and settlement system. Fifth, it provides the Commission, subject
to disapproval by the President, with the emergency authority to halt trading in
securities markets. Sixth, it grants the Commission authority to limit trading
practices that contribute significantly to extraordinary volatility.
The Division of Market Regulation prepared a report on the trading and price
volatility experienced on October 13 and 16,1989.92 The report, which is summarized below, analyzed the impact of program trading and related. stock index
futures and options strategies on market volatility during this period.
In addition, the Commission approved rule changes to continue the coordinated circuit breaker programs of the American Stock Exchange (Amex), Boston
Stock Exchange (BSE),Chicago Board Options Exchange (CBOE), Cincinnati Stock
Exchange (CSE), Midwest Stock Exchange (MSE), National Association of Securities
Dealers, Inc. (NASD), New York Stock Exchange (NYSE), Philadelphia Stock
Exchange (Phlx), and Pacific Stock Exchange (PSE).93These rule changes provide for
a one-hour temporary trading halt if the Dow Jones Industrial Average (DJIA) falls
more than 250 points on a single day, and two hours if more than 400 points. The

26

Commodity Futures Trading Commission (CFTC) had approved analogous rule
changes submitted by futures exchanges with respect to halts in the trading of stock
index futures and options on those futures. In addition, the Commission approved
a NYSE proposal to require that index arbitrage equity trades only be effected on
stabilizing ticks when the DJIA moves 50 points from the previous day's close.
The Commission continued its discussions with the Group of Thirty subsequent to the Group's report on global clearance and settlement systems. The United
States Working Committee of the Group of Thirty has been studying ways to
implement recommendations concerning same-day funds settlement of securities
transactions and reducing the settlement period from five to three days after the
trade (from T+5 to T+3). The Commission staff has contributed to the efforts of the
United States Working Committee. The Commission staff also consulted extensively with an American Bar Association (ABA) committee examining possible
federal and state legal impediments to efficient and safe clearance and settlement of
securities transactions.
Finally, the Commission issued its Automation Review Policy?' to request that
the exchanges and the NASD establish comprehensive systems capacity, security,
and contingency planning programs, and obtain independent annual reviews of
these programs. The Office of Automation and International Markets in the Division
of Market Regulation was created to monitor the SROs' progress in this area.
The National Market System
The Commission approved the NASD's electronic Bulletin Board Service for
a one-year pilot program. The bulletin board is designed to disseminate, on behalf
of NASD members acting as market makers in OTC securities that are neither listed
on a national securities exchange nor included in the NASDAQ system, quotations
and unpriced indications of interest in those securities." As of September 1990, the
service included 216 registered market makers with 10,653 positions in 4,352
securities.
The NASD's PORTAL system established a new marketplace for secondary
trading of unregistered securities in transactions exempt from the registration
requirements of the Securities Act of 1933 (Securities Act), pursuant to Rule 144A.96
The PORTAL market is comprised of computer and communication facilities that,
in addition to supporting primary placements and resale trading, provide for the
clearance and settlement of domestic and foreign debt and equity securities through
designated PORTAL clearing and depository organizations. PORTAL began operation on June IS, 1990 with 20 United States and European securities firms as
subscribers and four financial institutions approved as qualified institutional
buyers. As of September 19, 1990, there were 14 issues listed on PORTAL, 23
approved dealers, and 9 approved brokers. NASD Market Services, Inc., a NASD
subsidiary involved in the operation of the PORTAL system, was granted a
temporary exemption from registration as a securities information processor under
Section llA of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934 (Exchange Act).97
In June 1990, the Commission approved a joint industry plan filed with the
Commission by the NASD and the American, Boston, Midwest, and Philadelphia
Stock Exchanges that governs the collection, consolidation, and dissemination of
quotation and transaction information for NASDAQ/National
Market System
')7

(NASDAQ/NMS) securities listed or traded on an exchange pursuant to a grant of
unlisted trading privileges (OTC/UTP).98 The Commission had conditioned the
granting of OTC/UTP to exchanges on the submission and approval of the Joint
Industry Plan.
Following the Commission's adoption of Rule 19c-5 eliminating barriers to the
competitive trading of options on equity securities in multiple markets," the
Commission staff has been working with the exchanges that trade options in their
efforts to develop an options market linkage to accommodate multiple trading of
options. Several exchange working groups have met to proceed with necessary
design and programming work to implement the linkage. One significant area of
disagreement among the exchanges remains: the Phlx continues to urge the Commission to require that order execution be based on time priority, so that each order
is directed to the exchange that is first to display the best bid or offer, rather than
permitting the exchanges that first receive the order to match that price. On October
17, 1990, Chairman Breeden requested that each exchange extend its earlier commitment voluntarily to refrain from listing any options that were traded on another
options exchange before January 22,1990 until February 1, 1991.11)0 The exchanges
submitted a joint industry plan for an options market linkage on December 4,1990.
National System for Clearance and Settlement
The Commission continued to work with clearing agencies, banks, brokerdealers, and other federal regulators to enhance all components of the National
System for Clearance and Settlement (National System). For example, the Commission approved: (1) rule changes that fully implemented next-day comparison of
exchange and OTC corporate securities trades'?' and automated the resolution of
uncompared trades;102 (2) cleanng agency proposals expanding Securities Clearance Group (SCG) membership to include Boston Stock Exchange Clearing Corporation, Government Securities Clearing Corporation (GSCC), and MBS Clearing
Corporation (MBSCC); (3) a proposal by the Depository Trust Company (DTC) to
add certain commercial paper transactions to its same-day funds settlement system,
on a temporary basis, for a period of 18 months.'?' (4) clearing agency proposals that
enhanced safe and efficient processing of transactions in United States government
and agency securities.'?' and (5) proposals by the International Securities Clearing
Corporation and DTC to provide clearing and depository functions for the PORTAL
marketplace. lOS
The Commission also extended the approval of the Participants Trust Company (PTC) and MBSCC for another year. 106 PTC provides depository services, and
MBSCC provides trade comparison and netting services for mortgage-backed
securities.
Internationalization
During fiscal year 1990, the Commission continued its oversight of international linkages between markets and other securities related organizations. For
example, in connection with the approval of the PORTAL system, discussed above,
the International Securities Clearing Corporation (ISCC) received approval of a rule
filing that would enable the ISCC to be a PORTAL clearing organization. 107 As such,
the ISCC's responsibilities are to act as a data communications vehicle for PORTAL

28

participants, the NASD, PORTAL depository organizations, and the Institutional
Delivery System operated by the DTe. The ISCC also received a no-action letter
concerning a link between the ISCC and CEDEL, an international clearance and
settlement organization headquartered in Luxembourg, that would establish CEDEL
as a PORTAL depository organization. lOS As such, CEDEL will offer depository
services for foreign securities traded in the PORTAL system. The ISCC's various
functions are intended to enable settlements of PORTAL transactions to take place
safely, efficiently, and accurately using existing automated systems for clearance
and settlement. In connection with the PORTAL link between the ISCC and CEDEL,
the Commission and the Luxembourg Monetary Institute, CEDEL's regulator,
entered into a Memorandum of Understanding concerning the sharing of information about transactions taking place through the PORTAL accounts.P?
The Commission also authorized the extension for a six-month period of the
NASD's operation of its pilot program with the Stock Exchange of Singapore
Limited (SES). The pilot program currently consists of an interchange of closing
prices and volume data on 27 NASDAQ securities that also are traded through the
SES's facilities. The end-of-day information being exchanged under this program
primarily assists the establishment of opening prices for the following business day.
The Commission's approval of the extension permits continuation of the pilot
through May 12, 1991.110
Several significant NYSE rule changes with an international effect were approved by the Commission in fiscal year 1990. For example, the Commission
approved:
•
 a NYSE rule that waived certain listing standards for non-United States
companies when the foreign company's procedure is not prohibited by the
laws of its home country:'!'
•
 a NYSE rule that established a modified Series 7 examination for United
Kingdom representatives registered with The Securities Association, a
United Kingdom self-regulatory organization.'P and
•
 a NYSE rule that codified general language that authorizes the exchange
to enter into bilateral information-sharing agreements for regulatory
purposes with domestic and foreign exchanges and associations.!"
The Commission staff issued a no-action letter to ISCC concerning a clearance
and settlement link with the International Stock Exchange of the United Kingdom
and the Republic of Ireland, Ltd. The letter covers transactions of United States and
United Kingdom brokers that are being settled in the United Kingdom through the
facilities of the exchange and transactions being settled in the United States at the
National Securities Clearing Corporation (NSCC) and DTC, through ISCC-sponsored accounts.l" The Commission staff also issued a no-action letter to NSCC concerning its link with the Canadian Depository for Securities (CDS) that expands
NSCC's existing link with CDS to include a direct input capability for trades on the
Toronto Stock Exchange in NSCC-eligible issues between CDS participants and
NSCC members.!"
Several new internationally based derivative product proposals were approved by the Commission during the fiscal year. First, the Commission approved
several exchanges' proposals to trade index warrants. Index warrants are direct obligations of their issuer subject to cash settlement during their term. The holder of

29

an index warrant structured as a "put" option receives payment in United States
dollars to the extent that the index has declined below a pre-stated cash-settlement
value; the holder of a warrant structured as a "call" option receives payment in
United States dollars to the extent that the index has increased above the pre-stated
cash-settlement value. The Commission approved several important requirements
attendant to the listing and trading of index warrants, including, among other
things, that: (1) the warrant issuer must conform to the exchange's listing guidelines;
(2) the exchange's options suitability standards apply to recommendations regarding index warrants; and (3) each exchange must have an adequate mechanism to
surveil trading in the warrant and the index's component stocks. In this connection,
the Commission approved a proposal submitted by the Amex to trade warrants
based on the Nikkei Stock Average (Nikkei), an internationally recognized, priceweighted index consisting of 225 actively-traded stocks on the Tokyo Stock Exchange (TSE).116The Commission also approved proposals by the Amex, the NYSE,
and the PSE to trade warrants based on the Financial Times-Stock Exchange 100
Index (FT-SE 100), an internationally recognized capitalization-weighted
stock
index based on the prices of 100 of the most highly capitalized British stocks traded
on the International Stock Exchange of the United Kingdom and the Republic of
Ireland (ISE).117
Further, the Commission received several proposals to list and trade CAC-40
Index warrants.'!" First, the exchanges proposed to list index warrants based on the
CAC-40, an internationally recognized, capitalization-weighted index consisting of
40 leading stocks listed and traded on the Paris Bourse and calculated by the Societe
des Bourses Francaises (SBF). The SBF operates under the direction of the Council
des Bourses de Valeurs or Stock Exchange Council, a regulatory organization
similar to a self-regulatory organization (SRO) in the United States. Among other
things, the SBF implements decisions made by the Stock Exchange Council, monitors and supervises the French stock market, and provides investors with comprehensive information on market activities. To facilitate the surveillance of this
product, on September 18,1990 the Commission and the Commission des Operations de Bourse (COB) exchanged letters that provide a mechanism for the exchange
of information, including customer information, for transactions involving a derivative security or the stocks underlying such security when a derivative security
is traded in United States or French markets and the underlying securities are traded
in the other country's markets.!" The COB is an autonomous administrative body
patterned after the Commission. It functions as the French market regulator with
authority to undertake investigations, notify French judicial authorities, and levy
fines. These letters supplement surveillance sharing agreements between the exchanges and SBP. The exchange proposals were under review at year-end.
Second, the Commission approved a proposal submitted by the Amex to list
and trade standardized European-style options based on the Japan Index (Index),
a broad-based, price-weighted index developed by the Amex and comprised of 210
Japanese stocks traded on the TSE.120Although the Index is comprised of Japanese
stocks, it is valued in United States dollars. Options on the Index are governed by
Amex rules applicable to the trading of index options, including rules relating to
disclosure, account approval and suitability, position and exercise limits, margin,

30

and trading halts and suspensions. The Amex has developed a special surveillance
program for the options.
Third, the Division of Market Regulation issued a letter to the CFTC indicating that the division would not object if the CFTC staff took a no-action position to
allow the offer and sale to United States citizens of futures contracts overlying the
Ff-SE 100.121

In addition to specific regulatory actions, the staff participated in several
international securities working groups under the auspices of the Technical Committee of the International Organization of Securities Commissions (lOSCO). Those
working groups and their recent activities are listed below.
The Working Group on Principles of Ethical Conduct Issued a "Report on International Conduct of Business Principles," which identified seven non-exclusive
conduct of business principles to protect customer interests and market integrity.
This report was approved at the IOSCO meeting in November.
The Working Group on Clearance and Settlement issued a report that discussed
recommendations to improve the cross-border settlement process and long-term
goals for individual countries as well as for clearance and settlement linkages. This
report was approved at the last meeting of the Technical Committee in June 1990.
The Working Group on Futures Markets presented a "Report on Screen-Based
Trading Systems for Derivative Products" as well as "Suggested Principles for the
Oversight of Screen-Based Trading Systems," which the Technical Committee
released at the IOSCO meeting in November 1990. This report proposed several
non-exclusive principles related to common regulatory concerns affecting the
oversight of screen-based trading systems, including access to such systems.
The Working Group on Capital Adequacy prepared four papers for approval by
the Technical Committee with respect to non-bank securities firms on: (1) comparison of equity position risk requirements and scope for harmonization; (2) comparison of debt position risk requirements; (3) base requirement and the minimum requirement for capital; and (4) the definition of capital. The submission of the first
three papers was approved at the Technical Committee meeting in June.
The Commission received a significant number of requests from foreign government officials for technical assistance on securities matters. To assist the Commission in responding to these requests, on March 7, 1990 Chairman Breeden announced the Commission's intent to form the Emerging Markets Ad visory Committee (EMAC). EMAC's purpose is to advise the Commission on how the Commission
can best assist the development of securities markets in Eastern Europe and
elsewhere. The first EMAC meeting was held on June 12, 1990. At this meeting,
EMAC participants agreed to form working groups to gather information and
formulate approaches to the advisory group's mission.
Options and Other Derivative Products

During fiscal year 1990, the Commission approved several rule changes intended to address market volatility concerns. First, the Commission approved on a
one-year pilot basis a proposal filed by the NYSE to place conditions on index
arbitrage orders to buy or sell component stocks of the Standard & Poor's 500 Stock
Price Index (S&P 500 Index) when the DJIA advances or declines by 50 points or
more from its previous day's closing value (80A Conditionsl.P" Specifically, when
31

the DJIA advances 50 points, index arbitrage orders to buy or sell component stocks
of the S&P 500 Index must be entered with a "buy minus" instruction. Conversely,
when the DJIA declines 50 points, such orders must be entered with a "sell plus"
instruction. Once activated, the conditions remain in effect for the remainder of the
trading day unless the DJIA moves to within 25 points of its previous day's close,
when the restrictions are removed. They are reinstated if the DJIA again moves 50
points or more away from the previous day's close. In addition, the Commission
approved a NYSE proposal to exempt index arbitrage market-on-close orders from
the 80A Conditions on expiration Fridays in order to facilitate the liquidation of
stock positions previously established in connection with derivative index products.123
Second, the Commission approved rule changes submitted by the Amex, MSE,
NYSE, and the Phlx to extend the effectiveness of their circuit breaker procedures.P'
The BSE, CBOE, CSE, and PSE circuit breaker procedures previously had been
approved through October 1991. In general, the circuit breaker rules provide that
trading in all markets will halt for one hour if the DJIA declines 250 points or more
from its previous day's closing level and, thereafter, trading will halt for an
additional two hours if the DJIA declines 400 points from the previous day's close.
Third, the Commission approved a proposal by the NYSE to modify its
Individual Investor Express Delivery Service (IIEDS) to provide that market orders
of individual investors with up to 2,099 shares will have priority delivery to
specialists' posts through the exchange's Super Dot system ahead of all other orders
at all times.!" Prior to the rule change, IIEDS was available only on days when the
DJIA moved 25 points up or down from the previous day's close.
In addition, the Commission approved several rule changes relating to automation of the options exchanges. First, the Commission approved a PSE proposal to
implement the Pacific Options Exchange Trading System (POETS), a completely
automated trading system comprised of (1) an options order routing system (ORS)
that allows the PSE to accept, edit, and route market and limit orders electronically
submitted to the PSE; (2) an automatic and semi-automatic execution system (AutoEx); (3) an on-line limit order book system (Auto-Book) that allows the PSE to enter,
update, inquire, delete, cancel, and execute public customer orders on the limit
order book; and (4) an automatic quote update system (Auto-Quote) that allows
quotes to be generated systematically, using programmed theoretical models.!"
Second, the Commission approved a proposal submitted by the Phlx to permit
the use of the Automated Options Market (AUTOM) electronic order delivery
system for eligible day limit orders and to expand AUTOM, on a pilot basis, to
include an automatic execution feature for 12 Phlx equity options and any multiplytraded option.!" The automatic execution feature of AUTOM is available only to
single customer market and marketable limit orders of up to 10 contracts relating to
near-term options series that are at-the-money and just out-of-the-money. Firm and
market maker orders are not eligible for automatic execution through AUTOM.
Once the automation execution feature is engaged, eligible orders are priced and
executed automatically at the displayed bid or offer, and the execution is reported
automatically to the Options Price Reporting Authority for public dissemination.
Third, the Commission approved on a pilot basis a CBOE proposal to amend
the eligibility standards for individuals and groups that participate in the CBOE's

3?

Retail Automatic Execution System (RAES) for options on the Standard & Poor's 100
Index (OEX).l28RAES is an electronic order routing and execution system for small
options orders. The CBOE limits RAES participation in OEX options to OEX and
Standard & Poor's 500 Index (SPX or NSX) market makers that meet certain trading
requirements; restricts the size of, and imposes obligations upon, group accounts
operating on RAES; and includes provisions designed to ensure adequate RAE5participation in OEX options. The Commission also approved CBOE proposals to
make the eligibility requirements for market makers participating in RAES, SPX/
NSX, and equity options permanent.!" Finally, the Commission approved a CBOE
proposal to increase the maximum size of RAES-eligible orders for equity options
from 10 to 20 contracts.P"
During fiscal year 1990, the Commission took steps to implement Rule 19c-5,
which authorizes the multiple trading of standardized options. The rule took effect
as to all newly-listed options on January 21,1990. As already noted, the Commission
requested that the exchanges delay the commencement of multiple trading in
options until February 1991 while they continue their work to develop a joint plan
for a market linkage facility.
The Commission approved several other important rule changes by the
options exchanges. First, the Commission approved a one-year pilot program
proposed by the PSE to require PSE trading crowds to provide a depth of 10
contracts for all non-broker-dealer customer orders in options series included in the
pilot program (Ten-Up requirementl.P' To satisfy the Ten-Up requirement, the
trading crowd must fill the customer orders at the disseminated market quote at the
time the orders are announced or displayed at a trading post.
Second, the Commission approved a PSE proposal to create a Lead Market
Maker (LMM) program designed to supplement the standard PSE options trading
pit and thereby enhance the exchange's options market-making quality.F" Specifically, a LMM, in addition to fulfilling general market maker obligations, must,
among other things, be present throughout every business day, assure that disseminated market quotations are accurate, assure that each disseminated market quotation shall be honored for a minimum of 10 contracts, and participate at all times in
any automated execution system that is operating. In exchange for assuming
additional responsibilities in their appointed options classes, the LMMs are allocated a 50 percent participation in transactions occurring in their appointed issues.l"
Third, in order to facilitate the continued trading of options listed on the PSE
after mechanical disruptions to the PSE options floor caused by the October 17, 1989
earthquake in northern California, the Commission approved proposals submitted
by the Amex, CBOE, NYSE, and Phlx to allow for the trading of PSE options on their
respective exchanges for two days, and a proposal by the PSE to accommodate this
transfer .134
Fourth, the Commission approved proposals submitted by the Amex, CBOE,
NYSE, and Phlx that provide hedge exemptions from options position and/or
exercise limits. Specifically, the Commission approved (1) six-month extensions of
pilot programs previously adopted by the Amex and the CBOE that exempt hedged
equity options positions from position limits.-" (2) a one-year pilot program
proposed by the Phlx to allow public customers to apply for a hedge exemption from
33

Utility Index Option position limits.P" and (3) on a pilot basis, a NYSE proposal to
exempt fully hedged equity options positions from position and exercise limits and
a proposal to allow public customers to apply for a hedge exemption from broadbased index option position limits.!" The Commission also approved a NYSE
proposal to modify the position and exercise limits applicable to options on its
broad-based stock index, the NYSE Composite Index.P" The NYSE modified its
rules to express the exchange's position and exercise limits in terms of the numbers
of contracts that a party may hold rather than in the dollar value of the contracts.
Specifically, the NYSE (1) set the aggregate position limit at 45,000 contracts on the
same side of the market, with no more than 25,000 contracts in the nearest term
series, and (2) established an exercise limit of 25,000 contracts (the same limit as the
nearest-term series position limit).
Regulation of Brokers, Dealers, Municipal Securities Dealers, and Transfer
Agents

Broker-Dealer Examination Program
The broker-dealer examination program's primary purpose is to provide
oversight of the SROs responsible for the routine examination of those brokerdealers conducting a public securities business. This oversight evaluation process
is accomplished primarily through the examination of broker-dealer firms recently
examined by a SRO. Additionally, cause examinations are conducted when the
Commission becomes aware of circumstances that warrant direct Commission
inquiry rather than a SRO review. In fiscal year 1990, 371 oversight examinations
and 176 cause examinations were completed, 43 more oversight and 28 more cause
examinations than were completed in fiscal year 1989.
The Commission continued to place a high priority on examinations of penny
stock broker-dealers. As a result of this special emphasis, nearly one-third of the 547
examinations completed during fiscal year 1990 were of broker-dealers engaged in
the penny stock business. The findings of these examinations have justified the
special emphasis placed on these firms. In this regard, the findings of 55 (33 percent)
of the 165 completed penny stock examinations were referred for enforcement
consideration. Additionally, referrals for enforcement consideration were made in
26 (7 percent) of the remaining 382 completed examinations.
The most significant accomplishment in the broker-dealer examination program occurred in March and April 1990. The Commission staff, along with the
NASD and Florida's Office of the Comptroller, Division of Securities, conducted an
examination sweep of 188 offices (including both main and branch offices) of 144
different penny stock firms primarily to assess the industry's compliance with new
Rule 15c2-6 (the penny stock "cold call" rule) under the Exchange Act. Rule 15c2-6
imposes specific sales practice requirements on broker-dealers who recommend
and sell low-priced non-NASDAQ OTC securities to investors who are not established customers of the broker-dealer. The Commission's examinations conducted
as part of the sweep resulted in 12 referrals for enforcement consideration and five
referrals to the NASD for its consideration. In all, 43 (23 percent) of these examinations revealed violations of the rule sufficiently serious to result in recommendations for possible investigation to the appropriate enforcement staff of the Comrnis34

sion, NASD, or Florida. As this data suggests, however, the examination sweep did
disclose that there was substantial compliance with the new rules by a large majority
of firms examined.
A review of broker-dealers engaged solely in a government securities business
was undertaken during fiscal year 1990. An examination of Stotler & Company, a
registered government securities dealer, resulted in revocation of the firm's registration on findings of net capital deficiencies ranging between $11 and $12 million,
and failure to become a member of a registered securities association, establish and
maintain current records, and prepare and file financial reports.
Cold Calling Rule Interpretations
The division worked with the NASD in developing a question-and-answer
"NASD Notice to Members" on Rule 15c2-6 under the Exchange Act, the Commission's "cold calling rule." The question-and-answer release covered a number of
frequently asked questions under the rule, which imposes suitability and customer
agreement requirements on broker-dealers recommending certain low priced stocks
to new customers. The division also worked with the NASD to prepare sample
customer forms for satisfying the rule's requirements. These forms were published
in a subsequent NASD Notice to Members.
Commission Dollar Practices
Section 28(e) of the Exchange Act provides a safe harbor for the use by money
managers of commission dollars of their advised accounts to obtain investment
research and related brokerage services.P? On July 25, 1990, the Commission
authorized the Division of Market Regulation to respond to a request of the
Department of Laborfor an interpretation of the safe harbor as applied to these "soft
dollar practices" involving employee benefit plans covered by the Employee
Retirement Income Security Act of 1974.140The division interpreted the scope of
Section 28(e) as not extending to transactions by a money manager effected with a
broker-dealer on a principal (including riskless principal) basis or to futures
transactions.!" The division indicated that the statutory exemption should not be
expanded by interpretation to encompass an area not clearly envisioned by Congress.
Foreign Broker-Dealers
In a series of no-action letters, the division adopted a flexible approach to
recent developments in the international capital markets while satisfying investor
protection and enforcement concerns. The division issued a no-action letter to the
International Stock Exchange of the United Kingdom and the Republic of Ireland,
Ltd. (lSE)l42permitting the ISE to establish a representative office in New York City
to familiarize certain broker-dealers and large financial institutions in the United
States with standardized United Kingdom equity and index options traded on the
ISE's London Traded Options Market (LTOM), without the ISE or LTOM registering as an exchange under Section 6,143LTOMmembers registering as broker-dealers
under Section 15(b),144or the London Options Clearing House registering as a
clearing agency under Section 17A of the Exchange Act.145The ISE agreed to adopt
rules requiring LTOM members to assure that United States customers (a) are
35

eligible broker-dealers or institutions under Rule 144A and Regulation S under the
Securities Act; (b) have actual experience in the United States options markets; and
(c) have received a LTOM disclosure document and an options disclosure document, as required by Rule 9b-l under the Exchange Act.
The division also took a no-action position'< with respect to the treatment of
unregistered firms that are members of the Association of International Bond
Dealers (AIBD) as broker-dealers, and not as" customers," for purposes of Rule lOb10 under the Exchange Act, thereby permitting registered broker-dealers that are
AIBD members to use the AIBD's confirmation procedures, instead of those
imposed by Rule 10b-10, solely with respect to transactions with other AIBD
members. In another interpretation of Rule lOb-10, the division took the position
that foreign banks acting as securities professionals also are not "customers."!"
The division extended indefinitely its temporary no-action position regarding
application of the broker-dealer registration requirements of Section 15(a) of the
Exchange Act to TOPIC Services, Inc. (TOPIC), a provider of quotation information,
the ISE, and market makers in securities listed in the ISE's Stock Exchange Automated Quotations system (SEAQ) that transmits quotations to subscribers ofTOPIC
terminals in the United States, provided there are no other substantial United States
contacts.l" In another interpretive letter, the division stated that foreign market
makers participating in a pilot program involving the exchange and dissemination
of quotations in the NASDAQ and SEAQ systems are exempt from the application
of Section 15(a) under Rule 15a-6, because the only United States recipients of
quotations would be qualifying NASDAQ registered market makers.v'? The division also extended indefinitely its no-action position under Section 15(a) regarding
the participation of the Stock Exchange of Singapore and its members in a pilot
program with the NASD, consisting of a daily interchange of static quotes compiled
at the close of each market day. ISO
International Offerings
During fiscal year 1990, the Commission took several actions with respect to
the application of Rules lOb-6, lOb-7, 10b-8, and 10b-13 under the Exchange Act to
transactions involving concurrent United States and foreign securities distributions, rights offerings, and tender offers. Rule lOb-6 proscribes certain conduct by
persons participating in a distribution to prevent such persons from artificially
conditioning the market for a security to facilitate the distribution. Rule 10b-7
governs market stabilization activities during an offering. Rule lOb-8 governs the
market activities of participants in a rights offering. Rule lOb-13 prohibits purchases
otherwise than pursuant to a tender offer or exchange offer from the time such offer
is publicly announced until the offer expires. The Commission granted relief under
these anti-manipulation rules for multinational offerings that permitted nonUnited States persons to continue certain customary market activities in foreign
jurisdictions during multinational transactions, subject to certain conditions designed to prevent a manipulative impact on the United States market.
For example, an exemption was granted to permit a United Kingdom market
maker affiliate of the dealer managers of concurrent United States and United
Kingdom tender offers to continue passive market making activities during the
tender offers.'!' Similarly, a United Kingdom market maker affiliated with a
36

distribution participant was permitted to continue its market making activity
during a concurrent United Kingdom and United States rights offering.152 In connection with sales in the United States of foreign securities pursuant to Securities Act
Rule 144A, exemptions were granted to Swedish.P' Finnish.P' and French 155 issuers
to permit the broker-dealers to engage in passive market making during the
distribution.
In October 1990, the Commission reproposed the Multijurisdictional Disclosure System, which included proposed no-action positions under Rules lOb-6 and
10b-13to permit participants in certain cross-border exchange and tender offers to
engage in certain activities permitted under Canadian law.l56
Short Sales
In April 1990, the Commission published a staff interpretation under Exchange Act Rule Hla-I, the short sale rule, clarifying an earlier staff letter.'? The
interpretation permits market participants to liquidate existing index arbitrage
positions consisting of long baskets of stock and short index futures or options
without aggregating long stock positions with short positions in those stocks in
certain other proprietary accounts, provided that those short positions are fully
hedged. The release emphasized, among other things, that the interpretation is
limited to the liquidation of index arbitrage positions established in compliance
with Rules 3b-3 and 10a-l under the Exchange Act.
Report to Congress on Proposed Amendment to Section l1(a) of the Exchange Act
Section Llta) of the Exchange Act provides generally that exchange members
and their associated persons are prohibited from effecting securities transactions on
the floor of an exchange of which they are members for their own accounts, accounts
of their associated persons, and accounts over which the members or their associated persons exercise investment discretion. The Commission transmitted to Congress a report of the Division of Market Regulation'< in response to a congressional
request for the Commission's view on a legislative proposal by Fidelity Management & Research Company (Fidelity) to amend Section 11(a).ls9The Commission
concurred in the conclusion of the division's report. Fidelity proposed excluding
from the prohibitions of Section 11(a) the execution by broker-dealers of trades for
accounts for which exchange members or their associated persons exercise investment discretion.
In the report, the division traced the developments in the industry that led to
the adoption of Section Tlfa), legislation reflecting Congress's concern with market
dislocations, trading advantages, and perceived conflicts of interest arising from the
combination of money management and brokerage functions. The division concluded that elimination of the managed account provision of Section 11(a) would
reduce costs for affiliated brokers executing orders for managed accounts, without
significantly changing the extent to which money managers would use affiliated
brokers. However, the division concluded that the compensation authorization and
annual disclosure requirements of Rule lla2-2(T) cause account managers to focus
on possible conflicts of interest. The division therefore recommended the elimination offhe managed account provision of Section l1(a), provided that the legislation

37

gives the Commission rulemaking authority to retain the managed account authorization and compensation disclosure requirements.
Financial Responsibility

Rules

On August 15, 1990, the Commission proposed for comment amendments to
Rule 15c3-1 under the Exchange Act concerning the withdrawal of capital from a
broker or dealer.l'" The proposed amendments were a response, in part, to the
bankruptcies of the Drexel Burnham Lambert Group, Inc. and its registered brokerdealer subsidiary, Drexel Burnham Lambert, Inc., and are designed to address the
situation where a parent or affiliate of a broker-dealer withdraws capital from the
broker-dealer. The amendments are intended to improve the Commission's ability
to protect the customers and creditors of a broker or dealer in those circumstances
where a financial problem in a holding company or other affiliate leads to withdrawal of capital from the broker or dealer. The amendments would create a new
early warning level under the net capital rule that would prohibit brokers and
dealers from withdrawing capital at an earlier stage than is now permitted.
Additionally, the proposal would require brokers and dealers to notify the Commission in advance of certain significant withdrawals of capital. Finally, the amendments would establish procedures under which the Commission may, by order, halt
the withdrawal of capital from a broker or dealer when the Commission believes
that the withdrawal may be detrimental to the financial integrity of the firm.
On January 31,1990, the division issued a no-action letter to the NYSE and the
NASD in which it allowed brokers and dealers to treat certain options contracts not
listed on an exchange as listed options contracts for the purposes of the net capital
rule. 161 The letter specifies the circumstances under which brokers and dealers may
take advantage of the more beneficial treatment accorded listed options contracts
under Rule 15c3-1.
On August 6, 1990, the division issued a no-action letter to the Securities
Industry Association'< stating that, for purposes of complying with the requirements of Rule 15c3-3a, the Formula for Determination of Reserve Requirement for
Brokers and Dealers Under Rule 15c3-3 (Reserve Formula), and the quarterly
securities count specified in Rule 17a-13, brokers and dealers may treat the actual
settlement date of certain foreign issued and settled securities as the settlement date
for purposes of these provisions. If the settlement cycle is on a "seller's option basis,"
the settlement date must be a date no more than 30 days from the trade date. The
letter also permits brokers and dealers to include as debit items in their Reserve
Formula computations foreign issued and settled failed-to-deliver securities contracts outstanding less than 30 days past the customary settlement date that allocate
to either failed-to-receive contracts or other includable contracts. The letter sets forth
certain conditions that must be met for brokers and dealers to operate under its
provisions.
Lost and Stolen Securities

Rule 17f-1 under the Exchange Act sets forth participation, reporting, and
inquiry requirements for the Lost and Stolen Securities Program (Program). As of
September 31,1990,23,028 institutions were registered in the Program. Statistics for
calendar year 1989 (the most recent year available) reflect the Program's continuing
38

effectiveness. During that year, registered institutions reported as lost and stolen,
missing or counterfeit 866,306 certificates valued at $2,136,398,027. Those institutions also reported the recovery of 123,599 certifica tes valued at $589,785,817. At the
end of 1989, the aggregate value of securities contained in the Program's database
was $16,625,727,986. Program participants (e.g., banks and broker-dealers) made
inquiries concerning 2,861,196 certificates. Inquiries concerning 5,298 certificates
valued at $10,681,680 matched reports of lost, stolen or missing securities on file in
the database.
Oversight of Self-Regulatory

Organizations

National Securities Exchanges
As of September 30, 1990, there were nine active securities exchanges registered with the Commission as national securities exchanges: the Amex, BSE,CBOE,
CSE, MSE, NYSE, Phlx, PSE, and SSE. During fiscal year 1990, the Commission
granted exchange applications to delist 106 debt and equity issues and nine options
issues, and granted applications by issuers requesting withdrawal from listing and
registration for 33 issues. In addition, the Commission granted 843 exchange
applications for unlisted trading privileges.
The exchanges submitted 107 proposed rule changes to the Commission
during fiscal year 1990. Many of these filings are described in the section above
entitled "Securities Markets, Facilities, and Trading." Among the most notable
other rule changes that were granted Commission approval were proposals by the
NYSE and CBOE to trade standardized baskets of 500 stocks at an aggregate price
in a single execution.F' Relatedly, the Commission also approved a MSE proposal
to establish a secondary trading session that would operate from 4:30 p.m. until 6:00
p.m. EST, for the execution of transactions in portfolios of securities through its
automated Portfolio Trading System.!"
The Commission also approved various proposed rule changes relating to the
evaluation of exchange specialists. The most significant of these proposals included
the Amex's revision of its specialist performance, allocation, and reallocation
procedures, including revisions of its specialist unit evaluation questionnaire.l" a
MSE proposal to revise its Co-Specialist Evaluation Questionnaire, which is completed periodically by floor brokers in order to assess the performance of MSE cospecialists.'w and NYSE proposals to revise and codify its procedures governing the
allocation of equity securities to specialist units,"? and to modify its Specialist
Performance Evaluation Questionnaire in order to establish a new rating scale and
a relative scoring methodology.t'"
With regard to the listing of securities on the exchanges, the Commission
approved proposals submitted by the Amex and NYSE relating to listing guidelines
for "hybrid" securities possessing both debt, equity, and/ or derivative characteristics;169proposals by the NYSE and MSE to list and trade contingent value rights.'?"
and a proposal by the CSE to upgrade its listing standards for common stock,
preferred stock, warrants, and bonds.!" Furthermore, the Commission partially
approved a NYSE proposal to adopt a voting rights listing standard that is designed
to guard against the potential disenfranchisement of existing common stock shareholders. I72 This voting rights listing standard used the language and concepts of the
39

Commission's Rule 19c-4, which was ordered vacated by the D.C. Circuit Court
during fiscal year 1990.173
In addition, the Commission approved proposed rule changes submitted by
the MSE and PSE to allow such exchanges to exempt their governors from monetary
damages for breach of fiduciary duty to the exchange, limiting such exemption to
those situations not involving a violation of the federal securities laws.V! The
Commission also approved proposals by the MSE and PSE to reduce from 30
seconds to 15 seconds the exposure period for orders entered through their respective automated small order routing and execution systems.F' and, on a six-month
pilot basis, a MSE proposal whereby the guaranteed execution price of small agency
market orders received over the MSE Automatic Execution System are improved
automatically from the consolidated best bid or offer according to predefined
criteria. 176
An Amex proposal to adopt a new disciplinary fine system for general rule
violations and to amend the Amex's minor rule violation enforcement and reporting plan was approved by the Commission."? The Commission also approved the
addition of 19 rules to the list of NYSE rules that are covered by its minor rule
violation plan.!" In addition, the threshold for member reporting of certain judgements, settlements, or claims under NYSE Rule 351 was increased from $5,000 to
$15,000 for associated individuals and from $5,000 to $25,000 for member organizations."?
During fiscal year 1990, the Commission approved a NYSE proposal that, for
a one-year pilot period, would provide market-on-close (MOC) orders with the
closing price "whenever practicable," and to allow for the execution of matched
MOC orders entered by the same firm. 180The Commission also approved a modified
version of the General Securities Representative (Series 7) Examination developed
by the NYSE.181By obtaining a passing score on this modified examination, a
qualified registered representative can satisfy the requirements to become a registered representative with a NYSE member organization.
The PSE's proposal to establish an electronic access membership, the Automated System Access Privilege (ASAP), was approved by the Commission during
fiscal year 1990.182
The ASAP system allows certain qualified broker-dealers who are
not regular PSE members to obtain access to the PSE's automated trading systems.
In addition, a CSE proposal to increase its minimum net capital requirement for
Designated Dealers to $100,000 was approved by the Commission.l"
The Commission approved two significant rule changes submitted by the
NYSE that revised its odd-lot pricing procedures. First, the Commission approved
the NYSE' s proposal to establish the use of a "Best Pricing Quote" in order to provide
odd-lot customers with the best prices available in the national market system.P'
The Commission also approved the NYSE's proposal to establish a four-month,
three-firm pilot program that eliminates all odd-lot differentials and extends the
NYSE's current "no commission policy" to provide that no floor brokerage charges
shall be imposed on systematized odd-lot orders. ISS
Finally, several proposals submitted by the BSE to amend its Constitution
were approved by the Commission.v" These proposals included, among other
things, changes in the composition of the BSE's Board of Governors, modification of
certain constitutional provisions regarding BSE committees, clarification of the

40

BSE'smembership provisions, and changes in the composition of the BSE's Nominating Committee in order to provide for a greater diversity of representation
among member firms.
NASD
The NASD, the only national securities association registered with the Commission, has over 6,500 member firms. In fiscal year 1990, the NASD reported a total
of 1,011 final disciplinary actions, consisting of 893 formal and summary disciplinary actions by its district committees and 118 formal and summary actions by its
NASDAQ and market surveillance committees.
In addition, in fiscal year 1990, the Commission received 64 filings of proposed
rule changes and approved 58 proposed rule changes. Among the significant rule
changes approved by the Commission, in addition to those discussed above in the
section on "Securities Markets, Facilities, and Trading," were: (a) proposals relating
to qualification standards for NASDAQ/NMS securities, and, in particular, requirements for shareholder approval of certain issuances of securities.l" and (2) a
proposal that prohibits NASDAQ market makers from entering agency orders into
the NASD's Small Order Execution system, while reiterating a market maker's
obligation to obtain best execution for its customer orders.l'" The Commission also
approved rule changes that prohibit the disenfranchisement of common stock
shareholders of issuers included in the NASD's NASDAQ/NMS system,"? and a
proposal that allows the NASD to institute expedited remedial action against a
NASDmember or associated person if the member or person has engaged, and there
is a reasonable likelihood that the member or person will again engage, insecurities
law violations.l?" Additionally, the Commission approved a NASD proposal that
requires NASD members to make reasonable efforts to obtain information from
customers concerning their financial status, tax status, investment objectives, and
such other information used or considered to be reasonable and necessary by the
member in making investment recommendations to the customer.'?'
Clearing Agencies
During fiscal year 1990, the Commission received 114 proposed rule changes
from registered clearing agencies. Ninety-two rule changes from those clearing
agencies were approved, and three were withdrawn. For example, the Commission
approved a proposed rule change by NSCC that limits the use of letters of credit to
meet a member's required clearing fund contribution to 70 percent of the member's
required deposit.l'" The Commission also approved NSCC's proposal to include in
NSCC's continuous net settlement system member transactions in book-entry-only
municipal securities.F'The Commission also approved, on a temporary basis, a rule
change by the Midwest Securities Trust Company that expanded participant
eligibility to include certain insurance and investment companies.l'" In addition,
the Commission approved MBSCC's proposal regarding its Settlement Balance
Order (SBO) system, which, among other things, introduces two-side reporting and
comparison of SBO trades, provides procedures for the resolution of uncompared
trades, and revises the SBO Cash Adjustment.!"

41

Municipal Securities Rulemaking Board
The Commission received nine proposed rule changes from the Municipal
Securities Rulemaking Board (MSRB) and approved 10 MSRB rule filings. At the
close of fiscal year 1990, three MSRB rule filings were pending.
Of particular noteamong theapproved rule filings was the adoption of MSRB
Rule G-36, which requires underwriters to submit copies of final official statements
and other documents to the MSRB for certain new-issue municipal ~ecurities."~
The
proposal also established a public access facility for copying documents.

I:,
4

I
I,I

Inspections of SRO Surveillance and Regulato y Compliance
The Commission staff conducted an inspection of the NASD's Anti-Fraud
Department,reviewing proceduresandcases pertaining toserious marketmanipulation and sales practice abuses. The inspection generally disclosed thorough
investigations conducted by the NASD staff with a few minor deficiencies involving case resolution and documentation. The staff concluded that the Anti-Fraud
Department administers an effectiveenforcement and regulatory program and, in
particular, found that members' retail mark-ups on OTC securities were analyzed
in a manner consistent with NASD guidelines and relevant Commission decisions.
The staff also conducted an inspection of the NYSE Division of Enforcement,
concentrating primarily on that division's procedures and cases originating from
regulatory programs administered by the exchange. The inspection considered the
adequacy of investigations and sanctions in cases opened by the exchange since
1987and closed in 1988 and 1989.The staff concluded that, overall, the exchange is
enforcingits members' compliance with the federal securities laws and NYSE rules
in a satisfactory manner. The staff also noted a significant improvement in the
NYSE's enforcement program as a result of the implementation of a new and
expanded management structure, increased staff, and revised case management
procefures. The staff found that although the cases reviewed reflected thorough
investigations and meaningful sanctions, some minor deficiencies existed in Enforcement'sdocumentationof investigationsand processing of cases.Thus, the staff
suggested that the NYSE's enforcement division continue to seek enhanced monitoring and development of future investigations.
The staffconducted an inspection of the work of the NASD's National Business
Conduct Committee (NBCC) to assess the organization and role of the NBCC and
to evaluate the NBCC's exercise of authority in formal disciplinaly matters. In
particular, the inspection focused on the NBCC's ability to ensure uniform application of NASD procedures and rules among the 14 NASD district offices. The staff
concluded that, in general, the NASD's NBCC operates an effective and thorough
program, and that the NBCC attains uniformity among the districts' disciplinary
proceedings. Minor deficiencies in the program were found, including instances
where the NBCC did not review cases in which the sanctions imposed by the local
committees were below the NASDGuidelines for ~ e t e r m i n i n ~ ~ ; n ~ e d
ial
~anctions.
{
The staff made pertinent recommendations to correct those deficiencies.
The staff conducted an inspectionof the NYSE's Department of Arbitration to
evaluate the effectiveness of the NYSE arbitration program in the processing and j
resolution of disputes between NYSE members and their customers. In particular,
the staff considered whether new rule changes, adopted by the NYSE in May 1989 '

i

!

in response to Commission concerns regarding the rules and procedures governing
SROs sponsored by Arbitration, were successful in improving the documentation
and fairness of cases administered by the exchange. The staff also reviewed the
adequacy and thoroughness of case documentation, the efficiency of the case
management system, and the role of the Arbitration Department in processing
cases. While the inspection revealed substantial deficiencies in case administration
and file management, the staff concluded that the Arbitration Department generally
administers a fair and efficient program with improved case management occurring
after recent amendments to NYSE arbitration rules and procedures. The staff made
several recommendations to remedy the weaknesses.
The staff conducted an inspection of the Amex's Options Sales Practice Department and Enforcement Department, which are responsible for detecting options
sales practice abuses during broker-dealer examinations and investigations and
enforcing compliance with the federal securities laws and Amex rules. The staff
concluded that, overall, these departments conduct extensive and well-documented investigations and that the Amex had satisfactorily addressed the deficiencies noted in previous inspections conducted in 1986 and 1988. The staff noted,
however, that (1) sales practice examiners did not always conduct sufficient reviews
for all sales practice issues, such as suitability, and (2) that the Amex did not
adequately resolve all apparent violations. Thus, the staff recommended that the
Options Sales Practice Department revise its procedures to ensure adequate and
consistent determinations of all apparent violations. In addition, the staff found that
Enforcement Department investigations generally were thorough and sanctions
were appropriate; however, the staff recommended improved file maintenance to
address minor documentation deficiencies in a few cases.
The staff also reviewed the Amex Examinations Division's financial surveillance and broker-dealer examination programs for six members conducting business with public customers for which the Amex serves as designated examining
authority. The staff noted some minor deficiencies and recommended improved
workpaper documentation and review, expanded sales practice reviews and documentation, and improved analysis for compliance with the possession and control
requirements of Rule 15c3-3.
The Commission's nine regional offices conducted routine oversight inspections of regulatory programs administered by eight of the NASD's 14district offices.
These inspections included evaluations of the districts' broker-dealer examinations
and their financial surveillance and formal disciplinary programs, as well as
investigations of customer complaints, terminations of registered representatives
for cause, and members' notices of disciplinary action. Although these inspections
disclosed several deficiencies involving a variety of issues, most were characterized
as less serious in degree and magnitude. Overall, these inspections revealed that the
NASD districts were effectively meeting their regulatory responsibilities.
The staff also conducted an inspection of the surveillance, investigatory, and
disciplinary programs of the NYSE for trading in equity and index options. The staff
found that, overall, the NYSE programs were functioning adequately for the current
level of equity and index options trading on the exchange. The staff found, however,
that current staff resources for the Options and Special Product (OSP) unit were
barely sufficient to review NYSE options trading as well as program and related
43

stock index futures and options trading, an area where the unit also has responsibility. The staff found relatively lengthy completion times for options trading
investigations, including less difficult investigations such as for position limit, trade
adjustment, and audit trail reporting violations. As a result, the division recommended that the NYSE critically examine present staffing levels of the OSP unit to
determine whether the allocation of additional resources is warranted.
The staff also completed an inspection of the surveillance, investigatory, and
disciplinary programs of the NYSE for program trading and related trading in stock
index futures and options. The staff recommended that the NYSE develop automated quality check procedures to monitor the accuracy of the daily program
trading reports submitted to the NYSE by members, evaluate the feasibility of
accelerating the process of collecting program trading data for incorporation into
routine surveillance procedures and trading reconstructions, expand its collection
of program trading data, and more aggressively institute disciplinary actions
against members who repeatedly submit inaccurate or incomplete information. The
staff also conducted and completed special purpose inspections of the systems,
policies, and procedures designed to develop and monitor the production of options
audit trails of the two most active options exchanges, the Amex and the CBOE. The
staff found that, overall, while the Amex and CBOE options audit trails were
conceptually sound, the accuracy of the audit trails of both exchanges needed
continued improvement. The staff recommended that the exchanges take regulatory actions to improve compliance levels by floor members. The staff also recommended that the exchanges perform immediate audits to address systemic problems in floor reporting procedures and impose more stringent requirements for time
stamping of order tickets.
The staff also conducted and completed special purpose inspections of the
systems, policies, and procedures designed to develop and monitor equity audit
trails at the three primary equities markets- -the NYSE, Amex, and NASD. The staff
concluded that the equity audit trail systems at these three SROs generally were
sound. The staff found no major systemic flaws or weaknesses in the procedures to
reconstruct trading, although the report noted the need for improvements in both
completeness and accuracy.
Finally, the staff prepared a report on trading and price volatility experienced
in the securities markets on October 13 and 16, 1989. The report contained an
analysis of program trading and related stock index futures and options trading
strategies on market volatility during this period. In this report, the staff found that:
(l) futures selling was focused in speculative accounts, foreign accounts (which the
division identified as mostly short-term speculative trading accounts), options
market makers and major broker-dealers that were hedging large institutional
options put writing and (2) floor traders (locals) at the Chicago Mercantile Exchange, Inc. (CME), the largest market for stock index futures contracts, did not
provide net liquidity to the market. At critical times during the price declines on
October 13, locals were active sellers. When the decline began, selling by locals hit
a peak of 50.1 percent of the total S&P futures sell volume.
In addition, the staff found that, unlike the 1987 market break, stock index
futures selling was not dominated by institutions. Instead, at critical times during
the decline on October 13, institutions were net buyers. As in the case of the 1987

44

market break, however, the staff also concluded that index arbitrage and other
program selling significantly accelerated and exacerbated the market decline. A
number of these index arbitrage transactions were not executed contemporaneously but rather were "legged" in a manner that more closely resembled short-term
speculative trading. Finally, the imposition of the CME's 12-point price limit for the
S&P futures coincided with a sharp drop off in the level of program selling on the
NYSE and a reduction in the rate of the price decline in stocks. While a direct causal
relationship is difficult to establish, at a minimum, the staff's findings did not
indicate any harm to the markets attributable to the imposition of the circuit breaker
mechanisms.
Applications tor Re-entry
During fiscal year 1990, the Commission received 50 SRO applications to
permit persons subject to statutory disqualification, as defined in Section 3(a) (39) of
the Exchange Act, to become or remain associated with broker-dealers. The distribution of filings among the SROs was: NASD--39; NYSE--9; Amex--1; and MSE--1.
Of the total filings processed in 1990, including those received but not completed in
1989, one was subsequently withdrawn, forty-seven were completed, and two were
pending at year-end. No applications were denied.
SRO Final Disciplinary Actions
Section 19(d)(l) of the Exchange Act and Rule 19d-1 thereunder require all
SROs to file reports with the Commission of all final disciplinary actions. A Rule
19d-1 filing reports the facts about a completed action that may have been initiated
at any time during the previous years. The time needed to complete a SRO
disciplinary action frequently reflects the severity of the violationts) charged, the
number of respondents involved, and the complexity of the underlying facts. SROs
generally conclude cases involving minor or technical violations with a single
respondent in less than a year. Cases involving serious trading violations (e.g., price
manipulation, insider trading, frontrunning, etc.) require more time to complete
because of the necessity of demonstrating specific intent to the disciplinary panel
that acts as trier of fact. Consequently, the absolute volume of Rule 19d-1 notices
submitted by a SRO in a given year is not a precise measure of its proficiency in
market surveillance and compliance. Nevertheless, the number of actions reported
can be useful in assessing the regulatory effectiveness of different SROs over similar
time periods, and this information has proven useful in focusing inspections of SRO
regulatory programs.
In fiscal year 1990, the Amex filed 36 Rule 19d -1 reports; the BSEfiled one; the
CBOE filed 160; the MSE filed 5; the NYSE filed 230; the Phlx filed 125; the PSE filed
37; the registered clearing agencies, the Cincinnati and Spokane Stock Exchanges
filed none; and the NASD filed 1,011. 197

45

SRO Final Disciplinary Actions

Exchanges

1985

1986

1987

1988

1989

1990

530

419

382

624

639

594

348

252

415

542

794

893

93

174

194

170

75

118

971

845

991

NASD:
District Committees
NASDAQ and Market
Surveillance Committees
TOTALS

1,336 1,508 1,605

Securities Investor Protection Corporation (SIPC)
The SIPC Fund amounted to $557.4 million on September 30,1990, an increase
of $107.1 million from September 30,1989. Further financial support for the SIPC
program is available through a $500 million confirmed line of credit established by
SIPC with a consortium of banks. In addition, SIPC may borrow up to $1 billion from
the United States Treasury Department, through the Commission.

46

Investment Companies and Advisers
The Division of Investment Management oversees the regulation of
investment companies and investment advisers under two companion statutes,
the Investment Company Act of 1940 (Investment Company Act) and the
Investment Advisers Act of 1940 (Investment Advisers Act), and administers
the Public Utility Holding Company Act of 1935 (Holding Company Act).
Key 1990 Results

The tables below show the number and size in terms of assets of registered
Investment companies and investment advisers and the number of examinations of
those registrants performed over the last five years.
Number of Active Registrants
1986 -1990
(end of fiscal year)

%
FY '86

FY '87

2,912

3,305

Investment Companies
Investment Advisers

FY '88 FY '89 FY '90

Increase

3,535

21

11,707 12,690 14,120 16,239 17,386

49

Assets

3,499

3,544

Under Management
1986 - 1990
(in billions)

FY '86

FY '87

FY '88 FY '89 FY '90

Increase

Investment Companies

$

742 $1,205 $1,125 $1,200 $1,300

75

Investment Advisers

$1,400 $2,500 $3,400 $4,400 $4,900

250

Number of Inspections/Examinations

of Companies

and Advisers

1986 - 1990

0/0
FY'86

FY'87

FY'88

FY'89

FY'90

Increase

643

739

799

786

988

54

Investment Advisers

1,337

1,294

1,374

1,150

1,257

(6)

Total Examinations

1,980

2,033

2,173

1,936

2,249

14

Investment Companies

47

The number of registered. investment companies decreased by less than one
percent during fiscal year 1990. The lack of growth in the number of registered
investment companies may be attributed, in part, to the fact that many investment
companies combined several separate portfolios or investment series in one investment company registration statement. The Division of Investment Management
estimates that the fiscal year 1990 registrant population consisted of 16,600 separate
portfolios or series of investment companies. Registered investment companies
added 630 new portfolios or series during fiscal year 1990, an increase of 3.9 percent.
The number of registered investment advisers grew by 7.1 percent and the assets
they manage increased by 11.4 percent.
During fiscal year 1990, the number of investment company examinations
completed increased by 25.7 percent over the prior year. Investment adviser examinations also increased by 9.3 percent during the same period.
Key 1990 results included the formation of a task force to reexamine the
regulation of investment companies and the publication of a concept release
requesting comments on issues identified by the task force. The Commission issued
proposed amendments to Rules 2a-7, 6c-9, and 31a-2 under the Investment Company Act. The Commission also adopted Rule 52 under the Public Utility Holding
Company Act to allow the issuance and sale of certain securities to proceed without
filing an application in certain circumstances and issued a notice requesting
comment on the need to eliminate or modify any of the conditions in Rule 52 as
adopted.
Reexamination

of the Regulation of Investment Companies

In March 1990, the Commission formed a task force to reexamine the regulation of investment companies. The task force is expected to make recommendations
concerning legislation and rules to reform the regulatory structure of investment
companies. Issues examined by the task force include: (1) internationalization and
cross-border sales of investment company and investment advisory services; (2)
alternative structures for investment companies; (3) securitization of assets under
the Investment Company Act; (4) distribution of the shares of open-end investment
companies; (5) repurchase of shares by closed-end investment companies; (6)
advertising by open-end companies under the Securities Act of 1933 (Securities Act)
and the prospectus delivery requirements for unit investment trusts and open-end
companies; (7) reform of insurance product regulation; and (8) bank involvement
with investment companies. On June 15, 1990, the Commission issued a concept
release seeking comment on these and other issues.!"
EDGAR Filings

Nearly half of all active registered management investment companies are
now making electronic filings on Form N-SAR. The Division of Investment Management is working with the Office of Information Systems Management to develop an
efficient means to transfer the information contained in these filings to a database
that will permit automated analysis of the information. This database will be a
useful resource in the investment company inspection program and other Commis- .
sion activities.

48

Regulatory Policy
Significant Investment Company Act Developments
InJuly 1990, the Commission proposed for public comment amendments to
rules and forms affecting money market funds, including an amendment to Rule 2a7 under the Investment Company Act, which permits money market funds to
maintain a stable price of $1.00 per share."? The proposed amendments would
require prominent disclosure that fund shares are neither insured nor guaranteed
by the United States government and that there is no assurance that the fund will be
able to maintain a stable price per share. The proposed amendments would reduce
the dollar-weighted average portfolio maturity of money market funds from 120
days or less to 90 days or less and require that no money market fund portfolio
security have a maturity in excess of two years.
In addition, money market funds (other than tax-free money market funds)
would not be able to (1) invest more than five percent of fund assets in the securities
of anyone issuer, except the United States government, (2) invest more than one
percent of fund assets in the securities of an issuer carrying a rating from any
nationally recognized statistical rating organization (NRSRO) that is less than the
highest rating issued by the NRSRO, or(3) invest more than five percent of total fund
assets in securities having less than the highest rating of an NRSRO. A security
would have to be rated "high quality" by all NRSROs rating the security. The
proposed revisions also specify the actions that a fund must take if it holds securities
that have gone into default or the ratings of which have been downgraded. Finally,
the rule would require that any fund holding itself out as a money market fund but
not relying on Rule 2a-7, meet the conditions of the rule relating to portfolio diversification, quality, and maturity.
During fiscal year 1990, the Commission proposed an amendment to Rule 6c9to expand the exemption from registration under the Investment Company Act to
include the offers and sales of equity securities by foreign banks. The proposed
amendment also would exempt the offers and sales of securities by foreign insurance companies, Canadian trust companies and loan companies, and foreign bank
and foreign insurance holding companies that meet certain requirements.P' The
proposed amendment would eliminate the need for these foreign entities to obtain
exemptive orders with respect to such offers and sales. The Commission also issued
an interpretive release stating its position that United States branches and agencies
of foreign banks, for the limited purpose of issuing securities in the United States,
will be considered banks under the Investment Company Act and exempted from
registration as investment companies.?"
The Commission proposed an amendment to Rule 31a-2 under the Investment
Company Act to clarify the location and language aspects of the recordkeeping
requirements for United States registered investment companies, particularly those
United States investment companies that invest in foreign securities.-" The proposed amendment requires that a set of those books and records forming the basis
for financial statements (required to be maintained by United States investment
companies under certain provisions of Rule 31a-1 under the Investment Company
Act) must be preserved in the United States, and that such books and records, if
created by the United States investment company, must be preserved in the English
language.

49

Significant Public Utility Holding Company Developments
As of June 30, 1990, 13 gas and electric public utility holding companies
were registered under the Public Utility Holding Company Act of 1935 (Holding
Company Act). This total is comprised of 67 electric or gas utility subsidiaries, 106
non-utility subsidiaries, and 39 inactive companies, for a total of 212 companies operating in 24 states (excluding seven power supply subsidiary companies). These
registered systems had aggregate assets of $93.1 billion as of June 30, 1990, an
increase of $900 million over June 30, 1989. Total operating revenues for the 12
months ended June 30,1990 were $35.4 billion, a $1.2 billion increase from the 12
months ended June 30,1989.
During fiscal year 1990, the Commission authorized the issuance of nearly $5
billion of senior securities and common stock financing for the 13 registered systems
consisting of $3.9 billion in long-term debt financing and $1.1 billion in common and
preferred stock. Long-term debt financing decreased by 2.5 percent from fiscal year
1989 primarily due to the volume of refinancing undertaken in prior years. Additionally, $262 million in pollution control financing and $4.6 billion in short-term
debt financing were approved. Pollution control financing increased 55 percent
from amounts authorized in fiscal year 1989. Short-term debt decreased 41 percent
from the previous fiscal year. The Commission also authorized $205 million of
investments in qualified cogeneration and small power production facilities and
energy management and audit systems. Total financing authorizations decreased
34.8 percent over 1989, from $15.5 billion to $10.1 billion. Finally, the Commission
authorized $340 million for nuclear fuel, and oil and gas development and exploration in fiscal year 1990.
The Commission audits service companies. It also reviews the fuel procurement activities, accounting policies, annual reports of registered holding company
subsidiary service companies and fuel procurement subsidiaries, and quarterly
reports by registered holding company non-utility subsidiaries. Electric utility
subsidiaries of registered holding companies were required to reduce the cost of
fuel billed to customers by the amount of revenues gained from (a) the sale of excess
oil and gas to non-associate companies and (b) subleasing and transloading of coal
and oil barges. Approximately $22.6 million in savings to consumers was realized
as a result of this requirement.
The Commission adopted one rule during fiscal year 1990. Rule 52 allows the
issuance and sale of certain securities by public utility subsidiary companies of
registered holding companies to proceed without filing an application, provided
certain conditions are met.203 The Commission adopted Rule 52 essentially as
proposed to permit the immediate realization of the rule's benefits. The Commission also issued a notice requesting comments on the need to further revise Rule 52
to eliminate or modify certain of the existing conditions. 2M
Significant Institutional Disclosure Program Developments
Section 13(£)(1)oftheSecurities Exchange Act of1934 (Exchange Act) and Rule
13f-1 require specified "institutional managers" to file quarterly reports on Form
13F. Under Rule 13f-2(T), these managers may file the report on Form 13F-E
through magnetic tape by using the Commission's pilot Electronic Data Gathering,
Analysis, and Retrieval (EDGAR) system. Managers filing these reports disclose

50

specified equity holdings of the accounts over which they exercise investment
discretion. For the quarter ended September 30,1990, Form 13F reports were filed
by 1,003 managers for total holdings of $1.3 trillion. Sixty managers of this group
reported holdings over $90 billion.
Form 13F reports are available to the public at the Commission's Public
Reference Room promptly after filing. Two tabulations of the information contained
In these reports are available for inspection: (1) an alphabetical list of the individual
securities showing the number of shares held by the managers reporting the holding
and (2) a list with the total number of shares of a security reported by all reporting
managers. Both tabulations normally are available two weeks after the date on
which the reports must be filed.

Significant Applications and Interpretations

Investment Company Matters
On October 19,1990, the Commission sued a conditional order on an application filed by The SuperTrust Trust for Capital Market Shares, Inc.20s The order
granted applicants an exemption under Section 6(c) ofthe Investment Company Act
from Sections 4(2) and 22(d) of the Act and Rule 22c-l thereunder and approved an
offer of exchange under Sections 11(a) and 11(c) of the Act. The order permits a unit
investment trust to issue redeemable securities that are divisible into non-redeemable components, authorizes secondary market transactions in such redeemable
securities at negotiated prices, and approves the exchange of shares of an open-end
management company for units of beneficial interest in a unit investment trust.
In August 1990, the Commission granted an exemption from the Investment
Company Act to a public finance authority established by the State of Western
Australia to enable it to issue and sell debt securities in the United States.206 The
exemption will provide Western Australia with an alternate source of funding for
the operations of certain public authorities in Western Australia.
In February 1990, the Commission staff learned that Smith Barney, Harris
Upham & Co. was disqualified from serving investment companies in certain
capacities because it employed three registered representatives subject to injuncnons for securities-related offenses. After determining that these employees were
not involved in Smith Barney's investment company activities, the Commission
issued an order on May 21, 1990 permitting the company to continue its investment
company activities on the condition that it review and revise its compliance
procedures to avoid future violations of this sort.207 The publication of the Commission's order prompted similar applications and compliance reviews by other
financial services firms.
Enforcement action was not recommended by the staff where a fund complex
allowed shareholders to exchange fund shares automatically in and out of money
market funds when share prices of a non-money market fund move above or below
thresholds to be designated by the shareholder. Specifically, shareholders could
place orders to (1) redeem shares in a money market fund and buy shares in a nonmoney market fund at any specified price below the current net asset value of the
non-money market fund and (2) redeem shares of a non-money market fund and
fi1

buy shares of a money market fund at any specified price above the current net asset
value of the non-money market fund.208
The staff also declined to recommend enforcement action under Section 18(f)
of the Investment Company Act where a fund that writes a straddle (a hedging
strategy involving the use of both call and put options), under certain limited
conditions, segregates qualifying liquid assets in a certain manner. The staff also
stated that a segregated account would eliminate the potential senior security
problems arising from the writing of a "put" by an investment company only if that
segregated account consisted entirely of liquid assets other than the security or
instrument on which the "put" has been written.P"
Tender option bonds are long-term fixed rate bonds that have been coupled
with a third-party "put" permitting bondholders the option to tender their bonds to
the third-party at periodic intervals and receive the face value thereof. Outside
counsel represented that the third-party "put" and the payment of periodic tender
fees to the third-party would convert long-term fixed rate bonds to synthetic shortterm variable rate demand instruments. The staff stated that it would not recommend enforcement action if,in reliance on Rule 2a-7 under the Investment Company
Act, certain money market funds purchase tender option bonds and value the instruments at amortized cost. The staff conditioned no-action relief, in part, on representations that the funds would purchase the tender option bonds only under
certain conditions listed in the staff's response.i'?
The staff decided not to recommend enforcement action under Section 30(d)
of the Investment Company Act or Rule 30d-1 thereunder and Rule 14a-3(e) of the
Exchange Act if, under certain conditions, funds sent single copies of annual and
semi-annual reports to an address at which more than one registered shareholder
of a fund indicated mail is to be delivered.I"
The staff declined to grant no-action relief under Rules 482 of the Securities Act
and 34b-1 under the Investment Company Act where a mutual fund sought to
exclude performance results before a new adviser assumed management responsibilities for the fund.212 The staff indicated that because the president and a director
of the fund's previous adviser became the president of the new adviser, the
performance results of the previous adviser should not be excluded from calculations of average annual total return. The staff noted that Rule 482 requires fund
performance to be calculated for one-, five-, and ten-year periods; the only exception
to that requirement is when the performance results of the fund would include the
performance results of an unrelated previous adviser.
Investment Advisers Act Matters
The staff granted no-action relief under the Investment Advisers Act custody
rule where an adviser to a limited partnership (Partnership) made withdrawals of
its advisory fees or capital investment in the Partnership directly from the Partnership's account with an independent custodian. The granted relief required that an
attorney or independent certified public accountant for the Partnership authorize
the withdrawals.i"
The staff stated that it would not recommend enforcement action if a registered
investment adviser collected performance-based fees from offshore funds that were
offered exclusively offshore to non-United States persons where certain conditions

52

were satisfied. Since the funds did not have to rely on the private investment
company exclusion to avoid registration under the Investment Company Act, the
staffindicated that they should not be deemed to be "private investment companies"
. within the meaning of Rule 205-3. This rule creates an exemption from the prohibition against compensation based on a share of capital gains upon, or the capital
appreciation of, the client's funds in Section 205(a)(l) of the Investment Advisers
Act.214
Holding Company Act Matters
The Commission authorized Entergy Corporation (Entergy), a registered
holding company, to form Entergy Power, Inc. (EPI) as a bulk power marketing
subsidiary that would acquire two electric generating facilities from an associate
company, Arkansas Power & Light Company (AP&L), an electric public utility
subsidiary of Entergy. The related power would be marketed wholesale to nonassociate companies.?" The Commission found that EPI's sale of power at wholesale to non-associate companies would result in economies and efficiencies that
would inure to the benefit of AP&L and the Entergy system generally. In taking this
action, the Commission denied requests for hearing filed by the Council of the City
ofNew Orleans, the Louisiana Public Service Commission, the Mississippi Attorney
General and the Arkansas Electric Energy Consumers (AEEC), an association of industrial and agricultural electric power customers of AP&L.
The Commission authorized Entergy to organize Entergy Operations, Inc.
(EOI)as a new wholly owned subsidiary service company that will manage and
operate all nuclear power facilities owned by Entergy system operating companies,
including AP&L.216 The Commission concluded that the organization of EOI as a
nuclear management service company for the purpose of consolidating the management and operations of the Entergy system's nuclear plants will benefit the integrated system by producing economies and efficiencies that could not be achieved
under separate management by the individual operating companies. The Commission denied the request for hearing filed by AEEC.
The Commission's order authorizing WPL Holdings, Inc. (WPL) to reorganize from an operating utility and holding company into a predominantly intrastate
public utility holding company-'? was remanded by the United States Court of
Appeals for the District of Columbia Circuit. 218 On remand, the Commission issued
aSupplemental Memorandum Opinion and Order clarifying the finding in its initial
order that the proposed reorganization will serve the public interest by tending
toward the efficient and economical development of an integrated public utility
system."?
Northeast Utilities (Northeast) filed an application proposing the acquisition
of Public Service Company of New Hampshire (PSNH), an investor owned public
utility company. PSNH is currently a debtor-in-possession in reorganization proceedings under Chapter 11 of the United States Bankruptcy Code (Bankruptcy
Code), pursuant to a plan of reorganization (Plan) confirmed by the Bankruptcy
Court on April 20, 1990. The Plan places an aggregate valuation on PSNH of
approximately $2.3 billion, including PSNH's 35.6 percent undivided interest
in the Seabrook Nuclear Power Project which is valued at $700 million. The $2.3
billion is to be made available for distribution to PSNH's creditors and

53

shareholders. The Plan stipulates that, if all necessary regulatory approvals are
received by December 31, 1990, unless otherwise extended, the acquisition wJ11
proceed as a direct acquisition of PSNH; otherwise, the acquisition will be accomplished through a merger. A notice of the filing of the application has been issued
by the Commission.P'and dl requests for hearing have been filed, 20 of which were
subsequently withdrawn. Eight additional entities filed comments and notices of
appearance.
Eastern Utilities Associates (EUA), a registered holding company, filed an
application to acquire the outstanding common stock of Fitchburg Gas and Electnc
Light Company (Fitchburg), a Massachusetts public utility company, and UNITlL
Corporation, a New Hampshire exempt electric public utility holding company, by
cash tender offers of $36 and $40 per share, respectively. EUA estimates the cost of
its acquisition of Fitchburg and UNITIL at approximately $47.1 million and $31.9
million, respectively. A notice of the filing of the application was issued by the
Commission,"! and requests for hearing were filed by UNITlL and Fitchburg.
Subsequently, UNITlL and Fitchburg filed an application seeking authorization for UNITlL to acquire Fitchburg, which will become a wholly owned subsidiary of UNITlL. As a result of the transaction, UNITIL will become a registered
holding company under the Holding Company Act. A notice of the filing of the
application was issued by the Commission.F' and a request for hearing was filed by
EUA.
The Commission
authorized the formation of CIPSCO Incorporated
(CIPSCO), an Illinois corporation, and CIPSCO's acquisition of Central Illinois
Public Service Company, an investor owned public utility company and an exempt
holding company under the Holding Company Act.223 Through this acquisition,
CIPSCO indirectly acquired 20 percent of the outstanding shares of common stock
of Electric Energy, a jointly owned company that operates a 1,000 megawatt electnc
generating station. By this action, the Commission permitted a company that is both
an operating company and a holding company exempt from regulation under the
Holding Company Act to reorganize in order to facilitate diversification.

Insurance Products Matters
The staff issued a letter stating that it would not recommend any enforcement
action to the Commission for a per se violation of Section 17(a) of the Securities Act,
or Rule 156 thereunder, if Pacific Mutual Life Insurance Company furnished certain
"qualified institutional investors" (defined as non-natural persons having $100
million or more in assets) with individualized variable life illustrations having
hypothetical gross rates of return that may exceed 12 percent.P' The proposed
illustrations were to be used only as supplemental sales literature. The no-action
relief was based on representations that the illustrations would be furnished only
upon request to qualified institutional investors, and not used in connection with
employee benefit plans under which participants exercise investment discretion
with respect to assets allocated to accounts maintained on their behalf.
The staff determined that it would no longer respond to no-action requests :
from separate accounts and their depositors for permission to stop filing posteffective amendments and delivering updated prospectuses when (a) contracts are i
no longer being sold; (b) there is a relatively small number of existing contract I

I

54

I

owners; and (c) the sponsoring insurance company undertakes to provide contract
owners with certain information about the contract, the separate account, and the
underlying fund. 225 When the Commission adopted Forms N-3 and N-4, it declined
to consider a rule to exempt registrants from maintaining a current prospectus with
respect to discontinued variable annuity contracts but stated that the Commission
staffwould consider any requests for such relief on a case-by-case basis. 226 The staff
has considered numerous requests for relief from the continuous updating requirement since the Commission adopted Forms N-3 and N-4 and has described the
particular information that must be provided to variable contract owners as a
condition for no-action assurance. The staff believes that similarly situated registrants should be permitted to rely on those prior letters.
A letter was issued by the staff which stated that it would not recommend any
enforcement action to the Commission under Rule 22c-l of the Investment Company Act if the College Retirement Equities Fund (CREF) allocates initial premiums
to the money market account pending receipt of a completed application for certain
variable annuity contracts.P? This position was based on a determination that
neither CREF nor any affiliate stood to be enriched, through advisory fees or sales
charges, by retaining initial premiums for incomplete applications and allocating
them to the Money Market Fund. CREF's allocation procedures would be fully
disclosed in the prospectuses for CREF certificates, and applicants would be
required to acknowledge their understanding of the allocation practice in the CREF
applications.

55

Full Disclosure System
The full disclosure system is administered by the Division of Corporation
Finance (Division). The system is designed to provide investors with material
information, foster investor confidence, contribute to the maintenance of fair
and orderly markets, facilitate capital formation, and inhibit fraud in the
public offering, trading, voting, and tendering of securities.
Key 1990 Results

The decline in the number of registered offerings, acquisitions, and tender
offers filed with the Commission, which began following the October 1987 market
break, continued in fiscal year 1990. Registration statements filed with the Commission in fiscal year 1990 totaled 2,784, representing approximately $226 billion of debt
securities and approximately $99 billion of equity securities (exclusive of posteffective amendments and filings that become effective without staff action, including dividend reinvestment and employee benefit plans that registered approximately $52 billion of equity securities). This total was 11 percent less than the 3,139
registration statements filed in fiscal year 1989 (covering approximately $219 billion
of debt securities and $124 billion of equity securities). In addition, initial public
offerings (IPOs) registered with the Commission decreased approximately 32
percent from 1989and approximately 45 percent in dollar terms. The number ofIPO
registration statements filed on Form 5-18 declined 44 percent (588 in 1989 versus
327 in 1990), while the dollar amount declined approximately 48 percent ($2.3
billion in 1989 versus $1.2 billion in 1990). Finally, third party tender offer filings
(Schedules 14D- 1) fell approximately 50 percent to a seven-year low, while merger /
going-private proxy statements dropped 15 percent from the prior year.
A task group of accountants was organized during the year to conduct comprehensive reviews of the financial statements, management's discussion and
analysis (MD&A), and other related disclosures in the Securities Exchange Act of
1934 (Exchange Act) reports of selected banks and savings and loan associations.
These reviews were in addition to those of financial institutions making transactional filings.
Regional offices continued to receive and review registration statements for
blank check offerings and post-effective amendments containing financial statements and descriptions of properties and businesses acquired with the proceeds of
these types of offerings. Of the 327 total IPO filings received in fiscal year 1990,
approximately 47 percent involved blank check offerings. Regional office staff also
referred approximately 100 matters for enforcement inquiry and investigation,
more than twice the number referred in fiscal year 1989.
In fiscal year 1990, the implications of increasing internationalization of the
securities markets continued to be a major focus of the full disclosure program. The
Commission took action to reduce the costs of capital by increasing the efficiency of
the private market with the adoption of Rule 144A, and by streamlining the procedures for offering securities offshore with the adoption of Regulation S. The
56

Commission also reproposed its multijurisdictional disclosure system with Canada, whereby companies will be able to use home country disclosure documents in
cross-border offerings. This proposed initiative will be used as a prototype for
similar efforts with other jurisdictions.
The Commission has focused increasingly on problems presented by rights
offerings and tender and exchange offers relating to such securities as a result of the
increase in United States investor holdings of foreign securities. Over the past year,
the Commission has sought in a variety of ways to address the problem of exclusion
or discriminatory treatment of United States shareholders in connection with
multinational cash tender and exchange offers. United States holders of foreign
securities not only can be deprived of the opportunity to realize significant value on
their investments by tendering into a favorable offshore offer, but they also may be
forced to decide whether to retain their securities or sell into the secondary markets
without the disclosure and procedural safeguards afforded by the regulations of
either the United States or the relevant foreign jurisdiction.
In addition to the multijurisdictional disclosure approach, the Commission is
exploring alternative solutions to these issues. One possible approach is to permit
offers to be made in the United States, where United States investors comprise such
a small portion of the company's securityholder base that a foreign bidder would
otherwise likely exclude them based on a determination that the cost of compliance
with United States laws and regulations outweighs the benefits of including United
States shareholders in the offer. The Commission also is seeking comment on a
number of specific issues relating to the manner in which such an approach might
be implemented, including the appropriate threshold of United States ownership
and whether certain protections should be present before the United States will
recognize the foreign regulatory scheme.
The Commission has sought to administer existing rules in a flexible manner
to accommodate foreign tender offer rules and practices in order to ensure the
participation of United States securityholders in multinational tender and exchange
offers. The key policies in tailoring such accommodations have been to provide to
the greatest extent possible for the equal treatment of shareholders, both United
States and foreign, and to afford United States investors the fundamental protections under the Williams Act.
The Commission issued an order in connection with the cash tender offer by
Ford Motor Company Limited for all shares of the British company Jaguar plc,
which served to reconcile conflicting United States and United Kingdom tender
offer provisions, thereby enabling Ford to open the offer to United States holders,
who in the aggregate held more than 25 percent of Jaguar's shares.i" The order
provided exemptive relief from the Commission's withdrawal rights requirements
in order to permit the United States and United Kingdom offerings to proceed
simultaneously in accordance with United Kingdom requirements.
The Commission granted relief from certain tender offer regulations to two
Swedish companies, Aktiebolaget Volvo and Procordia Aktiebolag, in connection
with their offers for another Swedish company, Pharmacia Aktiebolag.F' The relief
permitted the United States holders of target stock to be treated equally with foreign
holders, including use of a common proration pool, and allowed tender and
exchange offers to be extended simultaneously to United States security holders

57

pursuant to United States registration, tender offer, and going-private requirements.
In other activity, the Commission proposed revisions to Rule 431 regarding the
use of summary prospectuses, transmitted a report on the high-yield bond market
to the Senate Banking, Housing and Urban Affairs Committee, and adopted substantial revisions to the procedures for registering employee benefit plan securities.
The staff is actively involved in planning the transition from paper to electronic filing, and in developing the rules for the operational Electronic Data
Gathering, Analysis, and Retrieval (EDGAR) system. The conversion will begin
during 1991 and will continue for a period of 36 to 48 months. During the next fiscal
year, significant resources will be dedicated to EDGAR rulemaking, training,
planning, and coordination.
Review of Filings
The Division's financial institutions task group is conducting comprehensive
reviews of the financial statements, MD&A, and other related disclosures in the
Exchange Act reports of certain banks and savings and loan associations selected for
review on the basis of their financial condition. During the year, the task group
completed reviews of 191 financial institutions, with 30 issuers being referred to the
Division of Enforcement for further inquiry or investigation, in addition to the other
105 referrals made by the Division,
The Division also collected information on oil and gas, real estate, and other
industry limited partnership roll-up transactions undertaken since January I, 1985.
The background information is being used in the staff's ongoing review of the disclosure requirements and practices in the area to assess the need for change.
During fiscal year 1990, the staff reviewed 1,907 reporting issuers' financial
statements and related MD&A disclosures. Reporting issuers are registrants that
file reports under the Exchange Act. The reporting issuer reviews were accomplished through the full review of (1) 838 registration statements and post-effective
amendments to registration statements filed under the Securities Act of 1933
(Securities Act); (2) 1,129 annual and subsequent periodic reports; and (3) 240
merger and going-private proxy statements. Inaddition, the staff completed 292 full
financial reviews of annual reports. The Division was unable to achieve an adequate
level of accounting personnel until late in the year. As a result of the recruiting
difficulties, as well as the targeted MD&A and financial institution reviews, the
number of reporting issuer reviews fell approximately 30 percent from the prior
year.
The following table sets forth the number of selected filings reviewed during
the last five fiscal years. The decline in reviews of IPOs, tender offers, contested solicitations, and going-private transactions, which are not subject to selective review,
reflects the decline in the number of transactional filings in the home office and the
regions.

58

FULL DISCLOSURE REVIEWS
FY'86
Reporting Issuer
Reviews.

FY '87

FY '88

FY '89

FY '90

(Data not
Available)

1,729

3,097

2,734

1,907

1,775
807
695

1,949
775
707

1,444
640
1,045

1,177
604
929

895
635
708

1,389

60

2,166
567

1,949
388

1,129
292

Major Filing Reviews
Securities Act Registrations
New Issuers
Repeat Issuers
Post-Effective Amendments ••
Annual Reports
Full Reviews •••
Full Financial
Reviews

1,741
(Not Applicable)

Tender Offers
(140-1 )••••

146

201

254

188

95

Going-Private Schedules

210

230

276

176

108

68

65

93

84

75

240
992

248
2,563

314
790

291
428

240
351

Contested Proxy Solicitations
Merger/Going-Private
Proxy Statements
Other•••••

•

Reporting issuers reviewed includes those issuers filing Exchange Act reports
whose financial statements and MO&A disclosures were reviewed in Securities
Act and Exchange Act registration statements, annual reports, merger and
going-private proxy statements, and, for fiscal years beginning in 1988 when the
information became available, post-effective amendments to Securities Act
registration statements. It does not include issuers whose financial statements
were reviewed in tender offer filings.

••

In fiscal years 1987, 1988, 1989, and 1990, filings are included only if they
contain new financial statements.

••• Inc Iudes reports reviewed in connection with other filings .
•••• Excludes limited partnership roll-Up transactions. In fiscal year 1990, there were
two roll-up transactions involving 16 limited partnerships .
••••• Excludes reviews of revised and additional preliminary proxy material.

59

Rulemaking, Interpretive, and Legislative Matters
Scope of Registration Requirements
The Commission adopted Regulation 5, a series of rules intended to clarify the
extraterritorial application of the registration provisions of the Securities Act.230
Regulation 5 consists of: (1) a general statement that the registration provisions do
not apply to offers and sales that occur outside the United States; and (2) two safe
harbor rules designed to protect against an indirect offering in the United States.
One safe harbor (the issuer safe harbor) applies to offers and sales by issuers,
securities professionals involved in the distribution process pursuant to contract,
their respective affiliates, and persons acting on behalf of any of the foregoing
persons. The other safe harbor (the resale safe harbor) applies to resales by all other
persons. Two general conditions apply to the safe harbors. First, the offer and sale
must be made in an "offshore transaction," and second, no directed selling efforts
can be made in the United States.
The issuer safe harbor includes three categories of offerings based upon such
factors as the location and manner of the offering, the nationality of the issuer, its
reporting status in the United States, and the degree of United States market interest
in the issuer's securities. The first category includes (1) foreign issuers with no
substantial United States market interest in their securities, (2) certain offerings by
a foreign or United States issuer directed at a single foreign country, (3) offerings
pursuant to certain employee benefit plans, and (4) securities backed by the full faith
and credit of a foreign government. Offerings within the first category may be made
with no restrictions other than the two general conditions. Offerings within the
second category of the issuer safe harbor, offerings of a reporting United States
issuer's securities and debt securities of foreign issuers with substantial United
States market interest, are subject to additional restrictions, including a 40-day
restricted period on offers and sales to United States persons. Offerings within the
third, residual category are subject to the most restrictions.
The resale safe harbor rule is available for resales of securities outside the
United States. That safe harbor applies restrictions other than the general conditions
only to dealers, other persons receiving remuneration in respect of the offered
securities, and certain affiliated officers and directors of an issuer or distributor.
Multijurisdictional Disclosure System
The Commission reproposed its multijurisdictional disclosure system with
Canada involving proposed rules, forms, and schedules intended to facilitate crossborder offerings of securities by specified Canadian issuers.P' The rules, forms, and
schedules would provide a foundation for a multijurisdictional disclosure system
that could be used for a wider class of issuers and in additional jurisdictions. The Canadian securities regulators in Ontario and Quebec concurrently worked on proposals that would facilitate offerings by United States issuers in Canada.
Resales to Institutional Investors
The Commission adopted Rule 144A, which provides non-exclusive safe
harbor exemptions from the registration provisions of the Securities Act for resales
of restricted securities to eligible institutions.P' The exemption provided by Rule
60

_ 144Ais available for offers and sales to qualified institutional buyers." With the exception of registered broker-dealers, a qualified institutional buyer must in the aggregate own and invest on a discretionary basis at least $100 million in securities of
issuers that are not affiliated with that qualified institutional buyer. A lower thresh- old, $10 million in securities, applies to registered broker-dealers. A registered broker-dealer may also purchase as riskless principal for an institution that is itself
eligible to purchase under the rule, or act as agent on a non-discretionary basis in a
~ sale to such an institution. In addition to meeting the $100 million in securities
requirement, banks and savings and loan associations must have a net worth of at
i least $25 million to be qualified institutional buyers. The Commission solicited
further public comment on this net worth test. Limited responses have been
received and commenters are divided on the necessity and appropriateness of the
~ test.
Restricted securities that, at the time of issuance, were not of a class listed on
a United States national securities exchange or quoted in the National Association
of Securities Dealers Automated Quotation system (NASDAQ) are eligible for
resale under Rule 144A. Convertible securities or warrants that may be exercised for
securities so listed or quoted are considered to be the same class as the listed or
quoted securities, unless additional requirements relating to exercise premium and,
in the case of warrants, expiration, are satisfied.
Additionally, under certain circumstances, the availability of the rule is conditioned on the holder of the security, and a prospective purchaser from the holder,
having the right to obtain from the issuer specified limited information about the
issuer, and on the purchaser having received such information from the issuer, the
seller, or a person acting on either of their behalf, upon request. This condition
applies where the issuer of the securities to be resold under the rule is neither a
reporting company under the Securities Act nor a foreign private issuer that is
exempt from reporting pursuant to Rule 12g3-2(b) under the Exchange Act, nor a
foreign government.
In the first months of the rule's effectiveness, primary transactions making use
of the rule's provisions were undertaken principally by foreign issuers placing both
debt and equity with United States institutional investors.
II

i!

Change in Holding Period for Restricted Securities
Inthe same adopting release for Rule 144A, the Commission adopted amendments to the rules concerning the required holding period for public resale of
restricted securities.F'To sell securities under former Rules 144 and 145, a person
must have owned beneficially the securities for at least two years, no matter how
long a period has transpired since the issuer or any affiliate thereof originally sold
the securities. The amendments redefined the two-year holding period to commence on the date the securities were acquired from an issuer or affiliate, and to run
continuously from the date of the acquisition. This eliminated the-unnecessarily restrictive requirement that the securities be held for two years by each successive
holder before permitting public resales, without regard to the time elapsed from the
actual offering by the issuer or affiliate. A comparable change was made in the
calculation of the three-year period prescribed by Rule 144(k).

Regulation of Multinational Tender and Exchange Otters
The Commission issued a concept release soliciting comment on a proposed
approach to encouraging foreign bidders to extend multinational tender and exchange offers to United States holders of foreign target securities on the basis of
foreign disclosure, procedural and accounting requirements, where United States
investors own a small percentage of these securities.P' The Commission received
approximately 25 letters, including a number from foreign jurisdictions.
Summary Prospectuses
The Commission published for comment a release proposing revisions to Rule
431 under the Securities Act regarding the use of summary prospectuses.i" As proposed, the amendments to Rule 431 would expand the class of issuers that may use
summary prospectuses and would conform the filing requirements for summary
prospectuses with the requirements for other Section 10 prospectuses. The release
also proposed requirements for the inclusion of additional information in summary
prospectuses.
High- Yield Bond Study
In March 1990,the Commission transmitted an extensive report on the condition of the high-yield bond market to the Senate Committee on Banking, Housing
and Urban Affairs. The report contains available data on the size and parameters of
the high-yield primary and secondary markets, and outlines Commission initiatives in examining the activities, potential exposure and disclosure of brokerdealers, investment companies, insurance companies, and other investors in this
area.
Form S-8

The Commission issued a release adopting major revisions to the procedures
for registering employee benefit plan securities on Form S-8.236 The amendments
primarily are intended to reduce registrant costs by eliminating the need to prepare
and file separate documents for federal securities law purposes that duplicate
information otherwise provided to plan participants, while assuring timely delivery of information necessary for participants to make informed investment decisions. Pursuant to the revisions, the plan information (excluding plan financial
statements) and a statement of documents available upon request by plan participants must be delivered to participants but are not included in the registration
statement and are not filed with the Commission. Plan information does not have
to be in the form of a customary prospectus; rather, it can be provided in one or
several documents prepared by registrants in the ordinary course of employee communications. Several other amendments also were adopted to facilitate the process
of registering and reporting on plan securities, as well as plan interests, which constitute separate securities.

62

Conferences
SEC Government-Business Forum on Small Business Capital Formation
The ninth annual SECGovernment-Business Forum on Small Business Capital
Formation was held in Seattle, Washington and Atlanta, Georgia on September 14
and 17, 1990, respectively. Approximately 150 small business executives, accountants, attorneys, government officials, and other small business representatives were
in attendance at each session. The format of the forum combined a brief panel
presentation by experts, followed by testimony from local representatives. Also,
discussion groups comprised of the panel members and forum attendees were
convened. Numerous recommendations were formulated with a view to eliminating unnecessary governmental impediments to small businesses' ability to raise
capital. A final report setting forth a list of recommendations for legislative and
regulatory changes approved by the forum participants will be prepared and
provided to interested persons, including Congress and regulatory agencies.
SECINASAA Conference under Section 19(c) of the Securities Act
On April 25, 1990, approximately 40 senior staff officials of the Commission
met with approximately 40 representatives of the North American Securities
Administrators Association (NASAA) in Washington, D.C. to discuss methods of
effecting greater uniformity in federal and state securities ma tters. After the conference, a final report summarizing the discussions was prepared and distributed to
interested persons.

63

Accounting and Auditing Matters

The Chief Accountant is the principal advisor to the Commission on
accounting and auditing matters arising from the administration of the
various securities laws. The primary Commission activities designed to
achieve compliance with the accounting and financial disclosure requirements of the federal securities laws include:
• rulemaking that supplements private sector accounting standards,
implements financial disclosure requirements, and establishes independence criteria for accountants;
• review and comment process for Commission filings directed to improving
disclosures in filings, identifying emerging accounting issues (which
may result in rulemaking or private sector standard-setting), and
identifying problems that may warrant enforcement actions;
• enforcement actions that impose sanctions and serve to deter improper
financial reporting by enhancing the care with which registrants and
their accountants analyze accounting issues; and
• oversight ofprivate sector efforts, principally by the Financial Accounting
Standards Board (FASB) and the American Institute of Certified Public
Accountants (AlepA) which establish accounting and auditing standards designed to improve the quality of audit practice.
I

Key 1990 Results

Fiscal year 1990 was highlighted by a number of significant public and private
sector initiatives intended to enhance the reliability of financial reporting and to
ensure that the accounting profession meets its responsibilities under the federal
securities laws. In a key initiative, the Commission provided policy direction to the
accounting profession to move toward using appropriate market-based measures
in accounting for financial institutions. The Commission staff issued two Staff
Accounting Bulletins (SABs) to address certain accounting and financial disclosure
issues. The Commission also continued to devote significant resources to initiatives
involving international accounting, auditing, and independence requirements.
Mark-to-Market

Accounting

In the annual report for fiscal year 1989, the Commission noted the FASB's
continuing project to address issues of improved accounting guidance for investments in financial instruments. As part of this project, the FASB is assessing whether
to expand the use of market value data in financial statements and related disclosures.i"
Chairman Breeden testified before the Senate Committee on Banking, Housing and Urban Affairs on September 10, 1990 on issues involving financial institutions and accounting principles. The testimony specifically notes that, because it is
64

I

inherently difficult to distinguish portfolio categories based on intent and ability,
particularly considering the dynamic market environment in which investment
decisions are made, serious consideration must be given to reporting investment
securities at market.P"
In May 1990, the Accounting Standards Executive Committee (AcSEC) proposed rules intended to provide guidance for evaluating the intent and ability of an
entity to hold securities to maturity. A substantial number of commenters criticized
this guidance as unworkable, and many suggested it would neither result in
consistent reporting nor would it deal with abuses such as gains trading. In view of
the comments received and after considering the views of the Commission and its
staff, AcSEC agreed to postpone issuing measurement guidance pending further
examination of the issues.
The FASB will consider market value accounting for investment securities by
accelerating a portion of its existing project on financial instruments. The Commission will closely monitor this project to ensure progress and to determine whether
additional Commission initiatives are necessary.
Accounting-Related Rules and Interpretations
The Commission's accounting-related rules and interpretations serve primarily to supplement private sector accounting standards, to implement financial
disclosure requirements, and to establish independence criteria for accountants.
The Commission's principal accounting requirements are embodied in Regulation
S-X,which sets forth requirements as to the form and content of financial statements
filed with the Commission.
SABs
The Commission staff periodically issues SABs to inform the financial community of the staff's views on accounting and disclosure issues. In fiscal year 1990,SABs
were issued to address accounting and financial disclosure issues related to insurance reserves and filings by foreign private issuers, respectively. The first of these
bulletins dealt with the appropriate disclosure by property and casualty insurance
companies with respect to certain uncertainties concerning loss reserves.P" The
second bulletin clarified the circumstances under which a foreign private issuer that
furnishes a reconciliation of financial measurements prepared under foreign accounting standards that differ from United States generally accepted accounting
principles (GAAP) need not present the disclosures required by United States
GAAP unless required to do so under the foreign accounting standards under
which the financial statements are prepared.i'"
Management Reports
The staff analyzed over 190 comments received on a 1988 rule proposal that,
if adopted, would require a company's report on Form lO-K and its annual report
to shareholders to include a report from management. The proposed report would
describe management's responsibilities for preparing financial statements and for
establishing and maintaining a system of internal control directly related to financial reporting. In addition, the report would provide management's assessment of
the effectiveness of that internal control system.i"
65

There was significant congressional interest in management reports. A bill
passed the House of Representatives that would have required Commission registrants to file management reports similar to those proposed by the Commission and
would have required a registrant's auditors to examine and report on management's assessment of the internal control system.s" The Commission did not take a
position on this bill, and it was not enacted.
Reviews by Auditors of Interim Information
Commission staff analyzed approximately 175 comments received in response to a concept release seeking comment on the costs and benefits of requiring
auditors to review quarterly financial data before it is filed with the Commission.i"
The comments reflected significant concerns about the cost-effectiveness of such a
requirement.
Oversight of Private Sector Standard-Setting

Through active oversight, the Commission monitors the structure, activity,
and decisions of the private sector standard-setting organizations.
FASB

The Commission and its staff work closely with the FASB and the Financial
Accounting Foundation (FAP) in an ongoing effort to examine ways to improve the
standard-setting process, including the need to respond to various regulatory,
legislative, and business changes in a timely and appropriate manner. As the
securities markets become increasingly globalized, the standard-setting process
must recognize that United States businesses no longer compete solely within the
United States. Therefore, issues regarding the relative costs and complexity of
United States financial reporting requirements, when compared with the standards
of other countries, must be considered by the standard-setters as they consider the
adoption of particular accounting standards that impact United States businesses.
At the request of Chairman Richard Breeden, Commissioner Philip Lochner
has been reviewing standard-setting issues with the FASB and other representatives
of the accounting profession with a view toward determining whether there are any
actions that the Commission could take to reduce the complexity and costs of United
States accounting rules, while maintaining the investor protection and disclosure
policies of the federal securities laws. The Commission staff is assisting in this effort
and has encouraged a group comprised of major accounting firms to conduct a
detailed cost comparison of certain key accounting issues in a number of capital
market countries. Such a review is ongoing.
The staff also has encouraged various private sector research projects, such as
that being conducted by the Financial Executives Institute's Research Foundation,
to explore the impact of differing national accounting requirements. This focus on
a comparative analysis of standards in different countries is not intended as an effort
to seek the lowest common denominator, but rather as an attempt to identify less
costly and complex approaches to accounting issues and to provide recognition of
the FASB's efforts to contribute to greater harmony in worldwide reporting requirements.

66

The private sector continued its efforts directed at improving the standardsetting process. For example, an oversight committee recently formed by the FAF to
monitor the FASB' s operations on an ongoing basis is planning an extensive review
of the FASB/s systems and procedures for meeting the objectives of its mission
statement. The FAF trustees also determined to revise the FASB's voting procedures
to require, beginning in 1991/ a supermajority requirement to adopt or amend a
standard. Commission staff review of previously adopted FASB standards and an
analysis of the public comments on the proposed changes indicate that, while it has
not been established that the supermajority voting requirement will lead to an
improved perception of FASB standards, the change in procedure should not itself
undermine the FASB's ability to set reasonable and effective standards or significantly affect the timing of their adoption. The Commission will continue its active
oversight and monitor the effects of the FAF's action on the FASB's independence
and on future accounting standards.
Oversight of the Accounting Profession's Initiatives
In addition to oversight of the private sector process of setting accounting
standards, the Commission also oversees the process for setting auditing standards
and various other activities of the accounting profession.
AICPA

The AICPA conducts a number of activities that are overseen by the Commission. These include: the Auditing Standards Board (ASB),which establishes generally accepted auditing standards; the AcSEC, which provides guidance on specific
industry practices through its issuance of statements of position and practice
bulletins and prepares issue papers on accounting topics for consideration by the
FASB;and the SEC Practice Section (SECPS), which seeks to improve the quality of
audit practice by member accounting firms that audit public companies through
various requirements, including peer review.

ASB
The Commission continues to actively oversee the ASB's efforts to enhance the
effectiveness of the audit process. The Commission staff is monitoring projects on
(1) communications with management and the audit committee when an auditor
believes that unaudited interim financial information is probably materially misstated,244(2) the use of confirmations and internal auditors, and (3) audit report
language when there is substantial doubt about an entity's ability to continue as a
going concern.i"
The ASB is planning to continue its procedure-initially
suggested by the
Commission' s Chief Accountant-of issuing Audit Risk Alerts to provide auditors
with an overview of recent economic, professional and regulatory developments
that may affect audits they perform, thereby enabling the AICPA to playa more
visible role in focusing auditor attention on high risk areas. A second series of annual
Audit Risk Alerts is planned for issuance in time for use as an aid in performing 1990
year-end audits.

67

SECPS
During fiscal year 1990, the AICP A took steps to expand the membership of the
SECPS and to identify and address in a timely fashion any quality control deficiencies in member firms. The Commission exercises oversight of the SECPS through
frequent contact with the Public Oversight Board (POB) and members of the
executive and peer review committees of the SECPS. In addition, the staff reviews
POB files and selected working papers of the peer reviewers. This oversight has
shown that the peer review process contributes significantly to improving the
quality control systems of member firms and, therefore, enhances the consistency
and quality of practice before the Commission. The SECPS, through its Quality
Control Inquiry Committee (QCIC), also reviews and makes inquiries regarding the
quality control implications of alleged audit failures involving public clients of
SECPS member firms. The staff of the Office of the Chief Accountant has noted
significant improvements in the quality of the documentation provided to it by the
QCIC. This improved documentation, along with discussions with the POB, allows
the staff to better understand the QCIC process. The Commission believes that the
process provides added assurances, as a supplement to the SECPS peer review
program, that major quality control deficiencies, if any, are identified and addressed
in a more timely fashion. Therefore, the Commission believes that the QCIC process
benefits the public interest. The Commission understands that additional improvements are being implemented, such as more frequent review of other work of the
engagement teams involved in matters reported to the QCIC and better documentation of the POB's oversight of QCIC. The Commission believes that ongoing
improvements such as these will provide even greater assurance of the efficacy of
the QCIC process.
AcSEC
The AcSEC has a key role in identifying accounting practices, particularly
those that impact specialized industries, such as financial institutions, health care,
and computer software. During fiscal year 1990, for example, the AcSEC issued a
practice bulletin to provide criteria consistent with an earlier Commission interpretive position in Financial Reporting Release No. 28246 for determining whether
collateral for a loan has been in-substance foreclosed.i"
International Accounting and Auditing Standards

Significant differences in accounting and auditing standards currently exist
between countries. These differences serve as an impediment to multinational
offerings of securities. The Commission, in cooperation with other members of the
International Organization of Securities Commissions (IOSCO), actively participated in initiatives by international bodies of professional accountants to establish
appropriate international standards that might be considered for use in multinational offerings. For example, the Commission staff worked with the International
Accounting Standards Committee (IASC), a body of accountants with membership
in 71 countries, to reduce accounting alternatives as an initial movement toward
appropriate international accounting standards. In 1990, the lASC decided that a
substantial number of alternative treatments should be eliminated.i" Issues of
completeness, lack of specificity, and adequate disclosure requirements in interna68

tional accounting standards still need to be addressed, and the IASC has commenced projects in these areas.
The Commission staff also continued working with the International Federation of Accountants (IFAC) to revise international auditing guidelines. Auditors in
different countries are subject to different independence standards, perform different procedures, gather varying amounts of evidence to support their conclusions,
and report the results of their work differently. The Commission staff, as part of an
lasCO working group, worked closely with IFAC to expand and revise international auditing guidelines to narrow these differences, and significant progress was
made. For example, in October 1990 IFAC revised International Auditing Guideline
No. 12 to require the performance of analytical review procedures in the planning
phase of an audit and as an overall review at the final stage of the audit.
Independence
The Commission staff is studying the various national and international
requirements for auditor independence. In this connection, the staff has received
detailed information about the nature and extent of such requirements in a number
of major countries. IFAC issued a set of guidelines to be used by national standardsetters in developing independence requirements. Also, at the staff's request, IFAC
agreed to undertake a project to develop a set of specific independence requirements
that would apply to auditors of transnational issuers.
The staff is conducting a broad review of the Commission's own auditor
independence requirements. This review was prompted by three factors: (1) the
increasing globalization of the capital markets; (2) the changes in the size and
structure of certain accounting firms during the past decade; and (3) a petition filed
by the largest accounting firms seeking a reconsideration of the Commission's
views regarding the ability of accounting firms to engage in prime and subcontractor relationships with registrants that the firms concurrently audit. The staff review
is expected to be completed in fiscal year 1991.

69

The EDGAR Project
The primary purpose of the Electronic Data Gathering, Analysis, and
Retrieval (EDGAR) system is to increase the efficiency and fairness of the
securities markets for the benefit of investors, securities issuers, and the
economy. Under EDGAR, information currently submitted to the Commission on paper will be transmitted and stored electronically using electronic
communication and data management systems. Once the electronic filing is
accepted, public information will be available quickly to investors, the media,
and others on computer screens via the Commission's public reference rooms
and through electronic subscription services. When fully operational, EDGAR
will accelerate dramatically the filing, processing, dissemination, and analysis of time-sensitive corporate information filed with the Commission.
Key 1990 Results

The EDGAR pilot system completed its sixth full year of successful operation
on September 24, 1990. It has demonstrated dearly the feasibility of receiving,
processing, storing, and retrieving electronic filings. Since the pilot's beginning,
over 77,364 filings have been transmitted electronically to the Commission.
The Commission also continued with development of the operational EDGAR
system. Among the many important milestones achieved during fiscal year 1990
were:
• substantial progress on designing and programming all portions of the
operational system;
• delivering 477 workstations to staff users;
• installing the local area network connecting the users' workstations and
providing services such as electronic mail;
• constructing an on-site training room and commencing with staff
training;
• constructing the first of two computer rooms and installation of the
primary hardware and operating software for the operational system;
• convening two public meetings (November 1989 and June 1990) for filers
and other persons interested in the status of operational EDGAR;
• negotiating a cost-reimbursement, no fee subcontract between BDM and
Bechtel Information Services for Commission microfiche and paper
reproduction services; and
• executing a no-cost subcontract between BDM and CompuServe to
provide a broad range of electronic mail and bulletin board services.
Pilot System

The EDGAR pilot serves a group of volunteer companies whose filings are
processed by staff in the Office of Applications and Reports Services and Divisions
of Corporation Finance and Investment Management. At the end of fiscal year 1990,
70

603 registrants had participated fully in the pilot. In addition, numerous other
registrants had participated partially in the pilot by submitting electronic filings of
certain forms. This group of partial participants included:
• 1,104 investment companies submitting annual and semi-annual reports
on Form N-SAR;
• 75 registered public utility holding company systems or subsidiaries
submitting forms required under the Public Utility Holding Company Act;
and
• 16 institutional investment managers submitting Form 13F-E to report
securities held in their managed accounts.
No enhancements have been or will be added to the EDGAR pilot since the
award of the operational system contract. The pilot system serves solely to permit
the already participating volunteer filers to continue to file and the staff to access
filings until the operational system is available in 1991. If the conversion to the
operational system is successful, the EDGAR pilot will not receive additional filings
after September 1991. However, the SEC will not dismantle the pilot until the end
of calendar 1991 in order to allow time for the transfer of data to the operational
system.
Operational System
The Commission is in the second year of an eight-year contract to design,
implement, and operate the EDGAR system. The Commission's current obligation
is approximately $63 million over the eight-year life of the contract; however, as
with any major development project of this size, it is reasonable to expect that the
total costs may increase prior to completion.
During 1990, the Commission and the contractors made substantial progress
on the design, programming, and implementation of the operational system. A twoday critical design review of the entire system took place in January 1990 at which
certain major issues were resolved and other issues were identified for later review
and resolution. With the assistance of several work groups comprised of representatives from the divisions and offices affected by EDGAR, the Office of EDGAR
Management satisfactorily resolved almost all issues. Any remaining major issues
will be resolved early in fiscal year 1991. Regrettably, the resolution of some of these
issues impacted the basic design of EDGAR so the resulting changes took more time
and resources than anticipated. This and other factors have delayed by approximately 14 months the projected conversion of the pilot filers to the operational
system. These same factors have delayed by approximately 20 months the phase-in
of the first group of mandated filers. It is expected that testing of the operational
system by pilot filers will begin in February 1991, and live filing will begin in August
1991.

The first visible fruits of the operational system were seen by Commission staff
as the first workstations, including both new furniture and computer equipment,
were delivered in October 1989 with a total of 477 delivered by September 1990. In
November 1989, the first training classes were held in the newly constructed
training room. A total of 175 classes were held and attended by 1,100 students. The
curriculum included classes on the OS/2 operating system, Presentation Manager,
WordPerfect (word processing), EXCEL (spreadsheet), cc.Mail (electronic mail),
71

and use of the local area network (LAN). The LAN was implemented in the spring
of 1990 and connected to the EDGAR workstations thereby providing access to
electronic mail and other services.
BOM also completed construction of the first of the two computer rooms and
installation of two of four Stratus fault-tolerant computers necessary for the operational system.
Continuing its long-standing concern for the public interest in the EDGAR
system, the Commission staff convened public meetings in November 1989 and
June 1990 for filers, financial printers, and other persons interested in the status of
operational EDGAR. Nearly 300 people attended the meetings.
At the end of fiscal year 1990, BOM on behalf of the SEC completed two
additional significant subcontracts. The first is with Bechtel, already a subcontractor, and requires that Bechtel provide all Commission microfiche and paper reproduction requirements for both paper and electronic filings received by the Commission. The financial terms of the subcontract are cost-reimbursement with no fee. The
second subcontract is with CompuServe and requires that CompuServe provide a
broad range of electronic and bulletin board services for communication between
the Commission and filers. The subcontract is at no-cost to the Commission.
Rulemaking

The Rulemaking Coordination Work Group has identified issues that require
Commission rulemaking, including, among others: (1) phase-in (including voluntary filings); (2)hardship exemptions; (3) filing date adjustments; (4) fee verification;
(5) financial data tagging; (6) Williams Act filings; (7) signatures, filer identification
and password access; (8) correspondence filed electronically; (9) hours for receipt
and acceptance of filings; (10) exhibit files; (11) modular documents (formerly called
reference filings); (12) graphic and image material; (13) annual reports to securityholders; (14) amendments; and (15) confidential treatment requests. The initial rules
and phase-in schedule are expected to be released for comment during the first
quarter of calendar 1991.

72

Other Litigation

and Legal Activities

The General Counsel represents the Commission in all litigation in the
United States Supreme Court, the courts of appeals and the district courts.
This litigation includes appeals of district court decisions in Commission
injunctive actions and petitions for review of Commission orders. The
General Counsel defends the Commission and its employees when sued,
prosecutes administrative disciplinary proceedings against securities
professionals, and appears amicus curiae on behalf of the Commission in
significant private litigation involving the federalsecurities laws. In addition,
under the supervision and direction of the General Counsel, the regional
officesrepresent the Commission in corporate reorganization cases under the
Bankruptcy Code that have a substantial public investor interest. The
General Counsel also analyzes legislation that would amend the federal
securities laws or otherwise affect the Commission's work and prepares
legislative comments and congressional testimony. The General Counsel's
Office reviews proposed Commission action to ensure that enforcement and
regulatoryprograms are consistent with the Commission's statutory authority.
In addition, the General Counsel advises the Commission in the rendering of
its decisions in administrative proceedings under various statutes.
Key 1990 Results
The General Counsel represented the Commission in numerous litigated cases
in fiscal year 1990. These included 29 appeals before the Supreme Court and the
United States courts of appeals. Of these, the Commission received adverse rulings
in only seven. There were also 42 cases in the United States district courts,
bankruptcy courts, and administrative tribunals. The Commission prevailed in all
of the 22 actions brought in district court against the Commission. The General
Counsel also was successful in each of the 10 matters it litigated on behalf of the
Commission in the bankruptcy court.

Supreme Court and
Appellate Courts
32
3
Dlstnct Court
21
0
Banknuptcy Court
13
3
Other"
4
1
, Issue not reached, split ceoson,
.. State Courts and Admlnlstrabve

2
1
0
0

FY'90

FY'87

FY'88

FY'89

Wm Loss Other'

Wm Loss Other'

Wm Loss Other'

FY'86

Wm Loss Other'

31
14
4
3

3

3
7
0

2
0
1
0

24
16
8
2

3
2

3
1

0

5
1
1

30
16
2

5

8

5

2
0
0

2
2
3

Wm Loss Other'

20
22
10

5

7
0
0
1

2
0
1
0

etc.
Tnbunals

Inaddition to litigation, the General Counsel is involved. in significant legislative
and counseling work. Fiscal year 1990 was characterized by an unusually full
73

legislative agenda for the Commission. In the legislative area, the General Counsel
drafted and helped to secure passage of amendments to the securities laws that
dramatically strengthen the Commission's enforcement remedies. The office also
drafted legislation that enables the Commission to cooperate more effectively with
foreign securities authorities, thereby facilitating enforcement of the securities laws
in the context of increasingly global markets. The General Counsel drafted provisions
of the Market Reform Act, which enhances the Commission's ability to monitor
activities that may have significant market impact and permits it to take more
effective action in market emergencies. The General Counsel also prepared
congressional testimony on a wide range of topics, including accounting reform and
the regulation of financial institutions.
Another area in which the office has been significantly involved is the
Commission's Emerging Markets Advisory Committee. The Committee, which is
comprised of leading executives from brokerage firms, stock exchanges and other
institutions, advises the Commission in its efforts to assist other countries with
developing securities markets.
Litigation

Insider Trading
In United States v. Chesiman, 249 an appeal of insider trading criminal convictions,
the Commission filed an amicus curiae brief urging the United States Court of
Appeals for the Second Circuit, sitting en bane, to reject the reasoning of a prior panel
decision overturning Chestman's convictions for violating Section lO(b), Rule lOb5, Section 14(e), and Rule 14e-3 of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934 (Exchange
Act).
The panel majority had reasoned that Rule 14e-3 is invalid to the extent that it
prohibits conduct that does not involve a breach of duty. The majority came to this
conclusion by interpreting Section 14(e)'s grant of rulemaking authority to the
Commission in light of cases construing, among other things, the Commission's
rulemaking authority under Section 10(b). The Commission's brief argued, however,
that the Commission's rulemaking authority under Section 14(e) is broader than its
authority under Section 10(b). As to the Rule lOb-5 convictions, the Commission's
brief argued that the panel erred in requiring that a tippee have specific knowledge
that nonpublic information was passed along in breach of a confidential relationship.
Instead, the Commission argued that just as a person who has committed the
common law crime of receiving stolen property need not know the victim, the
circumstances of the theft, or the actual thief, it is sufficient to show that the tippee
knew or believed that the information was obtained or being conveyed in breach of
some duty. The Commission's brief also argued that the panel erred in requiring an
express acceptance of confidentiality by the tipper. Rather, the Commission's brief
took the position that an acceptance of such a duty can be implied from the
circumstances surrounding the relationship--in this case, a familial relationship.
In SEC v. Clark, 250 the United States Court of Appeals for the Ninth Circuit
affirmed a judgment in favor of the Commission based on the "misappropriation"
theory of insider trading, a matter of first impression in that Court. The Court held
that a person who trades on material nonpublic information, deceitfully stolen or

74

"misappropriated" in breach of a duty, violates Exchange Act Section 1O(b)and Rule
lOb-5. Clark was found by a jury to have stolen confidential information from his
employer about its corporate acquisition plans and to have used that information to
reap profits by buying stock of the target company in the securities market. The
Court of Appeals held that a fraud occurs where an employee steals and uses his
employer's material, nonpublic information despite his implicit representation to
his employer not to do so. Agreeing with the Commission, the Court also held, on
an issue of first impression, that Clark could be ordered to disgorge profits made by
a person he tipped even though that person was found not to have violated
Exchange Act antifraud provisions in his trading.
In SEC v. Unifund SAL, 251 the United States Court of Appeals for the Second
Circuit affirmed, with modifications, portions of preliminary injunctions obtained
by the Commission that froze assets held in the defendants' brokerage accounts, but
the Court vacated those portions of the injunctions prohibiting future violations of
the federal securities laws. In an action filed just two days after the public
announcement of a merger, the Commission alleged that the defendants, foreign
citizens residing overseas, had engaged in massive illegal trading in the securities
of one of the companies to the merger just before the public announcement. The
Commission obtained preliminary injunctions, pending further discovery, against
two of the defendants based largely on the suspicious pattern of trading in the
accounts. On appeal, the Court rejected the defendants' contention that the
Commission was required to make a "strong prima facie case" to obtain preliminary
relief and, instead, held that the Commission need establish no more than a
likelihood of success on the merits and need not establish irreparable injury as must
a private litigant. Although the Court determined that, under this standard, the
Commission was not entitled to an interim prohibition against future securities law
violations, it affirmed, with modifications, the distnct court's grant of the freeze
orders. The Court allowed the freeze of assets in an amount exceeding the profits
to secure not only a potential judgment of disgorgement but also for civil penalties.
The Court limited the duration of the freeze order, however, in light of what it
viewed as the weak evidence relating to the violation and the hardship to the
defendants. The Court noted that in future cases courts should assess all relevant
circumstances to determine the coverage, terms, and duration of such orders.
Definition of a Security
As the Commission urged in an amicus curiae brief in Reves v. Ernst & Young,252
the Supreme Court reversed a decision by the United States Court of Appeals for the
Eighth Circuit and held that interest-bearing demand notes that were widely
offered and sold to the public by an Arkansas farmers' cooperative are secUrities. In
so doing, the Court, as the Commission had urged, rejected application of the
investment contract test set forth in SEC v. w.J. Howey Co. 253 to notes and adopted
instead the "family resemblance" approach for determining whether a note is a
security. Under this approach, a note with a maturity of greater than nine months
is presumed to be a security unless it bears a strong resemblance to certain judicially
enumerated instruments that are outside the "investment market" regulated by the
federal securities laws (such as notes issued in consumer financing and notes
secured by home mortgages).

75

A majority of the Court also held, as the Commission had urged, that the notes
in this case did not fall within the exclusion in Exchange Act Section 3(a)(10) from
the definition of security for notes having a maturity "not exceeding nine months."
The Court stated that the maturity of a note payable on demand is ambiguous, since
it can be argued that the note matures either at the time of issuance or at the time
demand is actually made, which may be later than nine months from issuance.
Accordingly, the Court, relying on Congress's broad purpose of "ensuring that
investments of all descriptions be regulated to prevent fraud and abuse," resolved
the ambiguity in favor of investor protection.
Liability in Private Actions
The Commission continued to participate in cases raising the issue of the
appropriate statute of limitations for private actions under Exchange Act Section
1O(b). In Ceres Partners v. GEL Associates, 254 the Commission, as amicus curiae,
successfully urged the United States Court of Appeals for the Second Circuit to
abandon its traditional approach of looking to state law limitations periods to limit
claims under Section 1O(b) in favor of a uniform limitations period drawn from
federal law. The Court disagreed with the Commission, however, as to what federal
limitations period should govern. The Commission had taken the position that the
five-year period in Exchange Act Section 20A enacted in 1988--which codifies an
express private right of action for certain violations of Section 1O(b)in the nature of
insider trading--should be used. The Court instead chose another period governing
certain express causes of action under the federal securities laws--one year from
discovery of the facts constituting the violation and in no event more than three
years from the violation.
In Ceres, the Commission advanced the same position as to the appropriate
statute of limitations as had the Solicitor General, acting on the Commission's
behalf, in an amicus curiae brief expressing the view that certiorari should not be
granted in Lebman v. Aktiebolaget Electrolux. 255 Later, the Solicitor General, on behalf
of the Commission, filed a brief amicus curiae on the merits in Lamp! Pleva Lipkind
Prupis & Petigrow v. Gilbertson, 256 again advocating the adoption of Section 20A's
five-year period.
In Mendell v. Gollust, 257 the United States Court of Appeals for the Second
Circuit, in an opinion reflecting the position urged by the Commission in a brief filed
at the Court's request, held that a plaintiff may maintain a suit under Exchange Act
Section 16(b) on behalf of the issuer, to recover short-swing profits allegedly
obtained by the issuer's insiders in transactions involving the issuer's stock, even
after the plaintiff is involuntarily divested of his own shares of the issuer. The
plaintiff in this case owned common stock of the issuer at the time of the defendant's
short-swing transactions and at the time he filed suit, but was subsequently divested
of his shares as a result of a merger. The Commission argued, and the Court agreed,
that the remedial and deterrent purposes of Section 16(b) would be undercut if a
shareholder was deemed to lose his standing to sue by being involuntarily divested
of his shares through a business combination such as a merger.

76

-~
~-i{

~

j

",:-~

l~

t-l

:1
>~

~~
~
~~

1

I
i1

,~

-<!t

-l

I

>~

]

i
..
-

Broker-Dealers and Market Professionals
In Hollinger v. Titan Capital Corp., 258 the United States Court of Appeals for the
Ninth Circuit, sitting en bane, issued an important opinion in the area of brokerdealer regulation, agreeing with the positions urged by the Commission as amicus
curiae, and overruling numerous of the Court's precedents. First, the Court held that
under Exchange Act Section 20(a), which makes a broker-dealer firm liable for the
fraud of persons it controls unless it can establish a "good faith" defense, a firm is
always a "controlling person" of salespersons who are associated with it. Second,
the Court decided that the firm cannot avoid its duty to supervise persons it controls
merely because those persons are independent contractors. Third, the Court held
that a plaintiff in a Section 20(a) case need not plead and prove that the firm was a
"culpable participant" in the violation committed by the controlled person. Fourth,
the Court held that the burden of proof in establishing the good faith defense under
Section 20(a) rests on the firm. A firm cannot satisfy that burden simply by showing
that it has a system of supervisory procedures in place; it must persuade the court
that the supervisory system is adequate and that the firm in fact reasonably
discharged its obligation of enforcing the system.
Finally, the Court held that controlling person liability does not supplant strict
liability under the federal securities laws based on the common law principle of
respondeat superior; under the latter doctrine, the firm is vicariously liable for the
damages caused by the fraudulent conduct of its agents and employees. In one
respect, the Court did not follow the Commission's position. For purposes of
defining "recklessness" which will satisfy the scienter requirement of Section 10(b)
and Rule 1Ob-5, the Court adopted a different standard of recklessness than the
common law fraud standard of "conscious indifference," which the Commission
had advocated.
Self-Regulatory Organizations
In The Business Roundtable v. SEC, 259 the United States Court of Appeals for the
District of Columbia Circuit vacated Exchange Act Rule 19c-4,regarding shareholder
voting rights. That rule amended the rules of national securities exchanges and
associations to prohibit the listing or quoting of equity securities of any company
that nullifies, restricts, or reduces the per share voting rights of any outstanding
class of common stock. The Court held that the rule was beyond the Commission's
authority and impermissibly infringed upon the states' traditional authority to
charter and regulate corporations. The Commission had centered its discussion of
its authority to promulgate the rule on furthering the objective of Exchange Act
Section 14(a) of ensuring fair corporate suffrage. The Court decided in effect,
however, that the purpose of Section 14(a) was limited to improving shareholder
communication. A broader reading of the rule would, according to the Court,
permit the Commission to establish an entire body of federal corporate law. The
Court also rejected the Commission's argument that other sources of authority,
including the 1975 amendments to the securities laws, served to support the
adoption of the rule.
In Board of Trade of the City of Chicago v. SEC, 260 two futures exchanges
petitioned for review of (1) a 1989 Commission order granting Delta Government
Options Corporation (Delta) temporary registration as a clearing agency and (2) a

77

no-action letter issued by the Commission's Division of Market Regulation stating
that the division would not recommend enforcement action should certain entities
operate the proprietary trading system (the System) of which Delta was a part,
without being registered as an exchange under Exchange Act Section 6. As to the
1989 order, the United States Court of Appeals for the Seventh Circuit determined
that the Commission's finding in the order that Delta was organized and had the
capacity to comply with the Exchange Act was defective for lack of a determination
with regard to the status of the System as an exchange. As to the no-action letter,
however, the Court agreed with the Commission that under the rationale of Heckler
v. Chaney, 261 the division's position that it would not recommend enforcement
action was not subject to judicial review. The Commission renoticed Delta's
application for clearing agency status, and, in 1990, issued another order which
granted Delta temporary registration and expressly determined that the System
does not constitute an exchange. The futures exchanges petitioned for review of this
order. The Court affirmed.P' essentially agreeing with the Commission's argument
that the Commission's analysis of the "exchange" issue is a reasonable, practicable
interpretation of the definition of that term in the Exchange Act, and that the
Commission, in making this analysis, was acting consistently with its congressional
mandate to interpret and implement the securities laws in an ever-changing,
technologically innovative environment. Rehearing was denied.
International Application of the Securities Laws
SEC v. International Swiss Investments COrp.,263concerned a boiler room
operated by persons in various Latin American countries using the telephone to sell
securities to Ll.S.residents. The Commission brought an action alleging violations
of the federal securities laws and served its complaint by hand in Mexico. As urged
by the Commission, the United States Court of Appeals for the Ninth Circuit rejected
the defendants' challenge to the service of process. First, the Court held that the
Commission was not required to serve process on the defendants through the InterAmerican Convention on Letters Rogatory since the convention had not been
ratified by the Senate at the time that service was made. Second, the Court
determined that the Commission complied with Rule 4 of the Federal Rules of Civil
Procedure and that the manner of service did not violate international law.
Actions Involving Other Agencies
The Solicitor General filed a brief on behalf of the Federal Energy Regulatory
Commission (PERC) as respondent and the Commission as amicus curiae in Arcadia,
Ohio v. Ohio Power Company, 264 a case involving the circumstances under which SEC
regulation under the Public Utility Holding Company Act (Holding Company Act)
precludes PERC regulation under the Federal Power Act (FPA). Specifically, the
case raised the question whether Section 318 of the FPA, which governs "conflict of
jurisdiction" between PERC and the Commission, precludes PERC jurisdiction
whenever PERC and the Commission have jurisdiction to regulate the same subject
matter, or only when there is an actual conflict between a requirement of PERC and
a requirement of the Commission. The brief filed on behalf of PERC and the
Commission took the position that Section 318's rule of precedence takes effect only
when regulations or orders adopted under the Holding Company Act and the FPA
78

created conflicting obligations for regulated entities. The brief did not address
whether there was an actual conflict in this case.
Inits decision, the Supreme Court concluded that Section318had no application
to this case. The Court interpreted Section 318 literally to limit the section's
application to circumstances where the subject matter in issue falls within four
enumerated categories set forth in Section 318. In the Court's view, it was not
possibleto identify any FERCrequirement in this case falling within these categories.
In FDIC v. Jenkins, 265 the United States Court of Appeals for the Eleventh
Circuit, agreeing with the arguments made by the Commission as amicus curiae,
reversed a district court injunction prohibiting shareholders of a bank holding
company from satisfying their Rule lOb-Sclaims against certain third parties from
those parties' assets until the Federal Deposit Insurance Corporation's (FDIC)
claimsagainst the same parties are satisfied. The Court agreed with the Commission
that the absolute priority rule (which requires in certain contexts that creditors'
claims against a corporation receive priority over the claims of its shareholders)
applies only to claims against an insolvent entity's assets and not, as the FDIC
asserted,to assets of third parties. Turning to issues not addressed by the Commission,
the Court further held that an absolute priority was not "implicit" in the Federal
Deposit Insurance Act and was unnecessary for the FDIC to fulfill its statutory
duties.
Actions Involving the Proxy Antifraud Provisions
In Virginia Bankshares,Inc. v. Sandberg, 266 the Solicitor General filed an amicus
curiae brief in the Supreme Court on behalf of the Commission and the FDIC
addressing issues of materiality and causation under the proxy antifraud provisions
of the Exchange Act. These two consolidated private damage actions arose from a
"freeze-out" merger in which the plaintiffs' shares were converted into a right to
receive a certain amount of cash. The plaintiffs alleged that the proxy statement
issued in connection with the merger was materially false and misleading, in
violation of Exchange Act Section 14 and an antifraud rule thereunder. The
plaintiffs obtained a jury verdict, which was affirmed by the Court of Appeals. In
the Supreme Court, the defendants argued that, as a matter of law, they could not
be liable for the types of misstatements alleged. The first issue they raised was
whether representations in a proxy statement concerning directors' reasons and
purposes for recommending approval of a particular transaction, and their
characterizations of matters discussed in the statement, by words such as
"independent," can be materially false or misleading. The government's brief
argued that such misrepresentations can be actionable. The second issue was
whether minority shareholders can establish that their injuries were caused by a
false or misleading proxy statement when they lacked sufficient votes to block the
transaction on which the vote was taken. The government's brief argued that
causation may be established where minority shareholders are misled into voting
In favor of a transaction, thereby losing an appraisal remedy under state law, or
Whereminority shareholders have, by a false or misleading proxy statement, been
prevented from employing a variety of other methods to alter the transaction's
terms.

79

Litigation Involving Requests for Access to Commission Records
The Commission received approximately 2,000 requests under the Freedom of
Information Act (FOIA) for access to Commission records and approximately 3,200
requests for confidential treatment from persons who submitted information. There
were 61 appeals to the Commission's General Counsel from initial denials by the
FOIA Office of FOIA requests, and 11 appeals of denials of confidential treatment
requests. Only two requests resulted in court actions against the Commission.
One of the two court actions arose out of the Commission's denial of a
confidential treatment request. 267 However, after the Commission filed a motion for
summary judgment, the requester voluntarily dismissed the case. Inthe second, 268
the district court upheld, in all material respects, the Commission's denial of access
to documents from numerous investigative files. The unsuccessful requester
appealed that decision to the United States Court of Appeals for the District of
Columbia Circuit. The Commission has filed its brief urging the Court to uphold the
district court's finding that personal information in trading records, account
statements, and other records provided to the Commission during the investigations
are protected from release by FOIA Exemption 7(C), which exempts from disclosure
information, the release of which may result in an invasion of personal privacy. The
brief also argues that minutes of closed Commission meetings are not "final agency
decisions" as defined by the FOIA. The Court of Appeals for the District of
Columbia Circuit has heard oral argument and the case is under submission.
The Office of General Counsel also handled 117 subpoenas served by parties
in private litigation seeking Commission documents or investigative testimony. A
number of the subpoenas sought documents from active investigations which the
Commission declined to produce on grounds of the governmental law enforcement
privilege, as their release could impair ongoing proceedings. As a result, certain of
these subpoenas led to motions to compel, or Commission motions for protective
orders. The Commission was successful in each of these litigated motions.
Actions Under the Right to Financial Privacy Act
Eight actions were filed against the Commission under the Right to Financial
Privacy Act (RFPA), to block Commission subpoenas for customer information
from financial institutions. 269 One action was dismissed voluntarily by the movant
after the Commission filed its opposition. The remaining actions were dismissed
after the court found, in each case, the Commission was seeking the records for a
legitimate law enforcement inquiry, and the records were relevant to those
investigations. 270 Of particular note is In Re Securities and Exchange Commission
Private Investigation/Application of John Doe re Certain Subpoenas, 271 in which the
District Court for the Southern District of New York made several rulings which
should assist the Commission in litigating RFPA challenges. First, the Court
reaffirmed, over the movant's objection, the modest burden of proof on the agency
in a RFPA case, noting that an agency is not required to demonstrate that the records
sought "are" relevant to the investigation, but need only establish "a reasonable
belief that the records sought are relevant." Equally significant, the Court held that
the Commission met this burden upon demonstrating that the customer had control
over certain brokerage accounts in which suspect trading occurred: "Once a
person's connection to apparently illicit conduct has been shown, it is relevant to
80

j

know whether that person's bank account contains evidence of such conduct."
Finally, the decision makes clear that the length of time covered by subpoenas to
banks challenged under the RFPA need not be limited in scope to the dates of the
alleged improper trading.
Actions Under the Equal Access to Justice Act
The office obtained favorable decisions in two actions under the Equal Access
toJustice Act. In one, SEC v. Comserv COrp.,272the United States Court of Appeals for
the Eighth Circuit reversed and vacated the district court's award of attorneys' fees
and expenses. The district court, after dismissing the Commission's action against
one defendant, found that the action was not "substantially justified" and awarded
fees, notwithstanding its acknowledgment that the award would not go to the
defendant, but to the insurer that provided defendant's liability coverage. As urged
by the Commission, the Court of Appeals reversed, holding that the defendant was
ineligible to recover under the Act because his insurer was contractually obligated
to pay his attorneys' fees.
Actions Against Commission and Staff
Six actions were filed against the Commission and individual staff members
seeking monetary damages and/or injunctive relief. The office defended successfully
each of these actions. In Hale v. McKenzie, 273 plaintiff Joseph H. Hale, who had been
prosecuted successfully for violations of the federal securities laws, sued the
Commission and three current or former Commission staff members, alleging
numerous common law and constitutional violations in connection with the
Commission's prosecution of the plaintiff.f" The United States District Court for the
Northern District of Georgia dismissed the plaintiff's unfounded claims against the
Commission on the grounds of sovereign immunity, and those against the staff on
the grounds of, among other things, official immunity - - as the actions of which he
complained were undertaken by the staff as part of their official responsibilities.
Similarly, in SEC v. American Assurance Underwriter Group, Inc.,275a Commission
injunctive action, defendant William A. Calvo, III, filed a counterclaim alleging staff
misconduct. The United States District Court for the Southern District of Florida
dismissed the claim, finding that it was barred by Section 21(g) of the Exchange Act,
which prohibits the consolidation of Commission injunctive actions with any
private action without the Commission's consent.
Motions to Vacate Injunctions
During the last fiscal year, the staff responded to three motions to vacate
injunctions. In SEC v. Belmont Reid and Company, 276 the United States District Court
for the Northern District of California denied a motion to vacate the consent
injunction obtained in a Commission enforcement action. In that action, the
Commission had alleged that defendants fraudulently sold unregistered securities
When they sold contracts for the future delivery of gold coins. Most of the
defendants consented to injunctions, but three continued to litigate. The District
Court ultimately ruled that the gold coin contracts were not securities."? In their
motion to vacate, nine of the consenting defendants argued that, because the District
Court had ruled that the gold coin contracts were not securities, the consent
81

judgment was void for lack of subject matter jurisdiction and the injunction was
unfair. The District Court agreed with the Commission, ruling that it had jurisdiction
to enter the consent decree, the motion was untimely, and the injunction did not
constitute grievous wrong resulting from unforeseen circumstances such as would
justify vacation of the injunction.
Actions Against Professionals Under Commission Rule 2(e)
In the spring of 1990,the Commission organized a new group within its Office
of the General Counsel to focus primarily on the litigation of administrative
disciplinary cases against professionals under Rule 2(e) of the Commission's Rules
of Practice. These cases are often large and complex. The outcome of such cases
against accountants may affect how reporting companies account for costs in filings
before the Commission. The creation of the new Rule 2(e) group reflects the
emphasis the Commission attaches to these important cases. During the year,
several RuIe 2(e) actions were concluded. InIn re Ernst & Whinney,2?8 Administrative
Law Judge Jerome Soffer found that Ernst & Whinney (now Ernst & Young) and one
of its partners had engaged in improper professional conduct by violating generally
accepted auditing standards during the audit of US Surgical Corporation's 1980and
1981financial statements. Judge Soffer found that audit partners "all the way up to
the top level including the co-chairman" participated in the outcome of the audit
and that the auditors unduly relied upon representations of Surgical management
even after serious questions concerning management's integrity were raised during
the audit. Based on his findings, Judge Soffer suspended the New York region of the
firm from undertaking any new Commission engagement for a period of 45 days.
No appeal to the Commission was taken from the ruling.
In In re Calvo, 279 Administrative Law Judge Max Regensteiner found that the
public interest required attorney William Calvo to be suspended for two years.
Calvo had been permanently enjoined from violating antifraud provisions of the
federal securities laws in connection with his conduct, among other things, in
fraudulently extending a public offering beyond the period specified in the
prospectus.P' No appeal was taken from the ruling.
In In re Blonquist, 281 attorney Thomas Blonquist consented to a Commission
order under Rule 2(e) suspending his right to practice before the Commission for
five years. The suspension was based on a prior Commission action against
Blonquist, SEC v. Thomas,282 where the district court found that he had willfully
aided and abetted violations of antifraud provisions of the federal securities laws
and permanently enjoined Blonquist from further violations.
In In re Tepps and Goldstein i" attorneys Jerome Tepps and Michael Goldstein
consented to a Commission order suspending them from practicing before the
Commission for five years. The suspensions were based on a prior Commission
action against Tepps and Goldsteirr'" in which they were permanently enjoined
from violations of antifraud and reporting provisions of the federal securities laws.
The action arose from their conduct in preparing certain false and misleading filings
disseminated to the public by four blind pool issuers.

82

Significant Administrative Decisions
Broker-Dealers and Market Professionals
In F.J. Kaufman & Co. of Virginia and Frederick J. Kaufman, Jr.,285the Commission
affirmed disciplinary action taken by the NASD against a former member firm and
its general partner for violating the NASD's suitability rule. The Commission
found, as had the NASD, that Frederick Kaufman devised and recommended to
three sets of customers an options program, generally known as the "margined buywrite strategy." Under Kaufman's plan, customers sold call options and used the
premiums, together with other available funds, to purchase shares of the underlying
stock on margin. However, the Commission found that, when transaction costs
were taken into account, Kaufman's strategy was always inferior to a straight
purchase of the same stock, either for cash or on margin. Thus, the Commission
concluded that Kaufman's strategy was not suitable for any investor, a fact of which
Kaufman should have been aware.
In Investors Portfolio Management, Inc. (IPM),286the Commission revoked the
investment adviser registration of IPM, the adviser to a municipal bond fund. IPM
developed a program pursuant to which the fund bought municipal bonds in odd
lots and with "short settlement" dates (less than five business days after the date of
purchase). Its objective was to acquire bonds for the fund's portfolio that would not
be delivered by the settlement date, thereby becoming so-called "failed bonds."
Failed bonds accrue interest from the settlement date even though they need not be
paid for until they are delivered. Thus, when a bond "failed," the fund collected
interest until the date of delivery without any expenditure of capital. Moreover, in
the interim, IPM used the money that the fund would have paid out for the failed
bonds to purchase additional bonds for the fund. In this way, the fund was able to
collect two payments of interest on the same money. This practice produced
deceptively high temporary yield rates, and caused the fund to borrow beyond its
authorized ceiling when a large number of failed bonds were delivered at the same
time and the fund had to pay for them.
The Commission found that IPM violated antifraud provisions by advertising
the fund's high yields without disclosing that they were merely temporary, and the
Investment Company Act by causing the fund to exceed its borrowing limit.
Significant Legislative Developments
Enforcement Remedies
On October 15, 1990, the President signed into law the Securities Enforcement
Remedies and Penny Stock Reform Act of 1990. This legislation, which substantially
increases the strength and flexibility of the Commission's enforcement remedies,
was based upon a Commission proposal submitted to Congress in January 1987and
introduced in the 101st Congress by Senators Dodd and Heinz and Congressman
Dingell. In February 1990, Chairman Breeden testified before the Subcommittee on
Securities of the Senate Committee on Banking, Housing and Urban Affairs,
recommending a number of changes to the legislation that were largely incorporated
into the final bill.
'lfJ1

83

Provisions of the Act relating to penny stocks are based on H.R. 4497, the
Penny Stock Reform Act of 1990, which was introduced by Congressman Markey
in April 1990. Chairman Breeden testified on April 25 before the Subcommittee on
Telecommunications and Finance of the House Committee on Energy and Commerce
concerning these provisions.
The Act authorizes the Commission to seek civil money penalties (in addition
to disgorgement orders) in district court actions, and to impose money penalties in
administrative proceedings brought against broker-dealers, investment advisers,
and other regulated entities. In addition to penalties, the Commission is expressly
authorized to enter an order requiring an accounting and disgorgement, including
reasonable interest.
The legislation also includes provisions, first requested by Chairman Breeden
in his February 1,1990 testimony before the Senate Securities Subcommittee, that
authorize the Commission (following notice and opportunity for a hearing) to issue
cease and desist orders to enforce the requirements of the Securities Act of 1933
(Securities Act), the Exchange Act, the Investment Company Act, and the Investment
Advisers Act. The Commission also is empowered to order a respondent to
disgorge profits resulting from a violation or to take affirmative steps to ensure
compliance with the law. The Commission may not, however, impose civil
penalties in a cease and desist proceeding. Commission orders in cease and desist
proceedings are enforceable in federal district court and are subject to review by the
courts of appeals.
The Act expressly authorizes district courts to suspend or bar a defendant in
a Commission action from serving as an officer or director of a reporting company.
This express authority is limited to defendants who are found to have violated
Section 17(a)(l) of the Securities Act or Section 1O(b)of the Exchange Act. The court
also must find that the defendant's conduct demonstrates "substantial unfitness" to
serve as an officer or director.
With regard to penny stock reform, the Act contains a definition of penny
stocks as equity securities that do not fall within one of several excluded categories
(e.g., securities traded on a national securities exchange or quoted on NASDAQ).
The Commission has broad authority to exclude additional securities or classes of
securities. The Commission's sanctioning authority is expanded to enable it to bar
persons from "participating in an offering of penny stock."
Market Reform
Following the October 1987 market break, the Commission submitted to
Congress a number of legislative proposals that were designed to increase its ability
to monitor activities that may have significant market impact and to take effective
action in market emergencies. After some amendments to the Commission's
proposals, the House and Senate passed the Market Reform Act of 199()288in
September. The legislation was signed by the President on October 16, 1990. The
Act authorizes the Commission to suspend trading for up to 90 days if the
Commission deems it to be required in the public interest and for the protection of
investors. Before using this authority, the Commission must notify the President
and determine that he does not disapprove.

84

The Commission also is authorized to adopt rules that prescribe means
reasonably designed to prevent the manipulation of price levels of the equity
securities market or a substantial segment of that market, and that prohibit, during
periods of extreme market volatility, any trading practice that the Commission has
found to contribute significantly to extraordinary levels of volatility threatening the
maintenance of fair and orderly markets.
Two new provisions enhance the Commission's ability to monitor the securities
markets. First, large traders may be required to provide information to the
Commission concerning their identity and the accounts through which they effect
transactions. Moreover, broker-dealers must maintain in their files and make
~ available to the Commission information concerning large traders and large
1 transactions. The second provision authorizes the Commission to require broker1 dealers to obtain information and keep records concerning their procedures for
:1 monitoring and controlling financial and operational risks resulting from the
~ activities of any of their associated persons (other than natural persons). The
i Commission may require that summary reports be filed with it and may obtain
{
immediate and more detailed risk assessment information if it reasonably concludes
that it has concerns regarding the financial or operational condition of the brokerdealer.
The Act directs the Commission to undertake a number of initiatives in the
area of clearance and settlement, including the establishment of a federal advisory
committee to assess the adequacy of state commercial laws, and authorizes the
Commission, upon making the necessary findings, to adopt rules concerning the
transfer and pledge of securities that would preempt state law. Moreover, the
Commission is directed to facilitate the establishment of a national system for
prompt and accurate securities clearance and settlement, and linked or coordinated
facilities for the settlement of transactions in securities, securities options, contracts
of sale for future delivery, and options on such contracts and commodity options.

!

Other Amendments to the Securities Laws
A number of other Commission legislative proposals were enacted during the
101stCongress as the Securities Acts Amendments of 1990.289 Title II of the Act, the
International Securities Enforcement Cooperation Act of 1990, substantially improves
the Commission's ability to cooperate with the securities regulators of other
countries. The amendments exempt certain documents obtained from foreign
regulators from the disclosure requirements of the FOIA. They also clarify the
Commission's authority to provide foreign and domestic securities officials with
nonpublic information and permit the Commission to obtain reimbursement from
a foreign authority for expenses incurred in providing assistance to that authority.
The Commission and the self-regulatory organizations are permitted to impose
sanctions on a securities professional found by a foreign court or securities authority
to have engaged in illegal or improper conduct.
Title III of the Act, the Shareholder Communications Improvement Act of
1990, eliminates an unintended
gap in the statutory scheme governing
communications with shareholders. Section 14(b) of the Exchange Act is amended
to extend to mutual funds and other investment companies the benefits of the
Commission's shareholder communication rules. These rules, which require entities

85

with fiduciary responsibilities that hold securities in nominee name to deliver proxy
materials and annual reports to beneficial owners and to provide information
concerning such beneficial owners to issuers on request, are designed to facilitate
communication between investment companies and beneficial owners of investment
company securities held in street name. Broker-dealers and bank nominees also are
required to transmit information statements to beneficial owners of securities. An
issuer subject to the proxy provisions must transmit such statements to shareholders
of record when it holds a shareholder vote but does not solicit proxies. The
amendments require mutual funds and other investment companies to provide
such information statements under similar circumstances.
The Trust Indenture Reform Act of 1990 was enacted as Title IV of the Act. It
comprehensively modernizes the Trust Indenture Act of 1939 to accommodate its
requirements to the needs of contemporary financing and institutional trust practice
without undermining the purposes of the Act. The Trust Indenture Act requires that
non-exempt debt issued to the public must be issued under an indenture and
imposes certain requirements and limitations on the contract that governs the rights
and duties of the issuer, the debtholders, and the indenture trustee. The recent
amendments make mandatory indenture terms self-executing through operation of
law to make certain that such provisions are part of every indenture qualified under
the Act. The Commission's exemptive authority under the Act is broadened, and it
is permitted to allow foreign entities to serve as trustees under qualified indentures
in certain circumstances, In recognition of modem trust practice, technical conflicts
of interests are made irrelevant to a trustee's eligibility prior to a default.
Jurisdictional Proposal
In June 1990, the Department of the Treasury transmitted to Congress an
Administration legislative proposal, the Capital Markets Competition, Stability and
Fairness Act of 1990. The proposal would have transferred from the Commodity
Futures Trading Commission the authority to regulate stock index futures and
options on stock index futures by incorporating the Commodity Exchange Act
(CEA) into the Securities Exchange Act of1934 with respect to these products. It also
would have subjected the futures exchanges' regulation of margins on stock index
futures and options to Securities and Exchange Commission oversight and would
have modified the exclusivity clause of the CEA to allow instruments with
characteristics of both futures and securities to trade in both commodity and
securities markets. The bill would have required the Securities and Exchange
Commission to report to Congress on additional modifications necessary for the
efficient regulation of the linked markets for stocks, stock options, and stock index
futures. The bill was introduced in the House as H.R. 5006 and in the Senate as S.
2814. Neither bill was reported out of committee.
Commission Testimony on Other Issues
The Office of the General Counsel prepared testimony presented on behalf of
the Commission on a wide range of issues under the federal securities laws during
the second session of the 101st Congress. On August 2,1990, the General Counsel
testified at a hearing before the House Telecommunications
and Finance
Subcommittee on a draft legislative proposal sponsored by Congressman Wyden.
86

That proposal would have required each issuer to evaluate its internal control
structure and disclose the results of such assessments in its annual reports to
shareholders, along with a report by an independent public accountant on
management's assessment. The bill also specified certain procedures that must be
included in any audit of an issuer's financial statements required by the Exchange
Act and required that auditors confidentially report substantial, continuing, or
uncorrected illegalities directly to the Commission. Although these provisions
were added to the Comprehensive Crime bill by the House (H.R. 5269), the Senate
version of the bill did not include similar language. The auditor requirements were
not included in the crime bill ultimately agreed to by the Senate and House conferees
and enacted into law.
Chairman Breeden also testified on accounting reform. Before the Senate
Banking, Housing and Urban Affairs Committee on September 10, 1990, the
Chairman stressed that accounting reform, particularly a shift toward market value
accounting, is necessary to assure that meaningful financial information reaches the
public. Chairman Breeden had testified before the same committee on July 19,1990,
supporting a comprehensive reform of the U.S. system for regulating financial
institutions. The Commission took the position that Congress should undertake an
examination of the impediments to efficient operations of financial institutions and
stated that reform is necessary to reduce significantly the aggregate exposure of
taxpayers, to introduce market discipline, and to eliminate distortions to competition.
Substantially similar testimony was presented by Chairman Breeden on July 11,
1990before the Subcommittee on Telecommunications and Finance of the House
Committee on Energy and Commerce. Chairman Breeden also testified before the
House Banking, Finance and Urban Affairs Committee on November 14, 1989
concerning the collapse of Lincoln Savings and Loan and the related bankruptcy of
its holding company, American Continental Corporation. He noted that there is an
inherent risk of confusion when federally insured depository institutions are
permitted to sell uninsured securities to the public from the same offices where
insured deposits are accepted and called for legislation to protect unsuspecting
investors from potential exploitation.
Corporate Reorganizations
The Commission acts in a statutory advisor's role in reorganization cases
under Chapter 11 of the Bankruptcy Code to see thatthe interests of public investors
are adequately protected. In these cases a debtor generally is allowed to continue
business operations under court protection while it negotiates a plan to rehabilitate
the business and to pay the company's debts. Reorganization plans often provide
for the issuance of new securities to creditors and shareholders in exchange for part
or all of their claims or interests in the debtor, under an exemption in the Bankruptcy
Code from registration under the Securities Act.
In fiscal year 1990, the Commission authorized a review of its Section 1109(a)
general statutory advisory role in Chapter 11 cases and of the adequacy of public
investor protections under Chapter 11 of the Bankruptcy Code. The goal of this
review is to provide an informed basis upon which to determine whether that role
should be modified and whether legislation is needed. In connection with the
review, the Commission has received, in response to a release issued in September

87

1989,290over 40 comments from the bench, bar, and others regarding the issues
raised in the release. The project also includes an assessment of active participation
by the Commission staff in six reorganization cases, which have been paired with
six other cases in which the Commission is not actively participating.
In its capacity as a special advisor, the Commission may raise or present its
views on any issue in a Chapter 11 case. Although the Commission may not initiate
an appeal, it frequently participates in appeals taken by others. While Chapter 11
relief is available to businesses of all sizes, the Commission generally limits its
participation to cases involving debtors that have publicly traded securities registered
under the Exchange Act. In fiscal year 1990, the Commission participated in
Chapter 11 cases on a variety of issues.
Committees
Official committees are empowered to negotiate with a debtor in possession
on the administration of a case and to participate in all aspects of the case, including
formulation of a reorganization plan. With court approval, an official committee is
permitted to employ, as a cost of administration, one or more attorneys, accountants,
or other professionals to assist the committee in performing its duties. In addition
to a committee representing creditors holding unsecured claims, the Bankruptcy
Code allows the court or a United States trustee to appoint additional committees
for stockholders and others where necessary to assure adequate representation of
their interests. During fiscal year 1990, the Commission moved or supported
motions for the appointment of committees to represent investors in two Chapter 11
cases.?"
In a case having practical significance for the representation of equity securityholders by official committees, In re The Worthington Company,292 the Commission
filed a memorandum in support of a petition for rehearing in the Court of Appeals
for the Sixth Circuit, taking the position that the Bankruptcy Code permits regular
reimbursement of actual, necessary expenses of members who serve on official
committees. The panel majority, which was the first court of appeals to address this
issue, had held that because there is no express provision in the Bankruptcy Code
permitting the payment of expenses incurred by members of an official creditors'
committee, such expenses cannot be paid from the estate. The Commission,
agreeing with the dissenting opinion, urged that the panel majority misinterpreted
Section S03(b) of the Code, which gives bankruptcy courts considerable flexibility
in deciding which expenses can be paid from the estate. After the close of the fiscal
year, the Sixth Circuit panel, agreeing with the Commission's position, reversed its
earlier decision and permitted the payment committee expenses.i"
Estate Administration
The Commission acts to protect the interests of public investors in reorganization
cases by participating on selected issues involving administration of the debtor's
estate that have a significant impact upon the rights of public investors.
In Grogan v. Garner/" in response to the Supreme Court's request for the
government's views, the Solicitor General filed an amicus curiae brief on behalf of the
Commission (and other interested federal departments and agencies) concerning
the standard of proof applicable in a proceeding to have a debt that is based on the
88

debtor's fraud excepted from the bankruptcy discharge. The United States Court of
Appeals for the Eighth Circuit295 had held that a clear and convincing evidence
standard (rather than the lesser standard of preponderance of the evidence) applied
in determining whether such fraud claims can be discharged under Section 523 of
the Bankruptcy Code.
The government's brief in the Supreme Court pointed out that the Circuit
Court had erroneously based its decision on a presumption that Congress was
aware when it enacted Section 523 that the "prevailing view" was that fraud had to
be proved by clear and convincing evidence. The brief demonstrated that there was
in fact no consistent pre-Code practice of requiring clear and convincing proof either
to establish fraud generally or to demonstrate in bankruptcy that a debt was
incurred by fraud. In addition, the brief argued that application of the clear and
convincing evidence standard would depart from the standard of proof in important
federal antifraud statutes such as the federal securities laws, the False Claims Act,
the CEA, the money penalty provisions of the Federal Deposit Insurance Act, and
RICO.
Moreover, application of the clear and convincing evidence standard in
Section 523 proceedings would mean that fraud victims who have successfully
litigated fraud claims under these antifraud statutes would have to litigate their
claims again, under a higher standard of proof, in the bankruptcy court. Finally, the
brief argued that the "fresh start" policy of the Bankruptcy Code was not inconsistent
with applying a lower standard of proof, since an innocent victim's interest in
obtaining compensation for fraud is at least as important as the defrauding debtor's
interest in obtaining a "fresh start" via the bankruptcy discharge. After the close of
the fiscal year, the Supreme Court, agreeing with the government's position, ruled
that the preponderance of the evidence standard was applicable under the Section
523 of the Code.296
In In re Resorts International, Inc.297 the Commission, relying on In re BaldwinUnited, 43 o.R. 443 (S.D. Ohio 1984), filed a brief in the bankruptcy court urging that
indemnification of legal defense costs incurred by officers and directors may be
authorized as an administrative expense of the estate under Section 503(b)(l)(A) of
the Code if the court finds that their continued service is beneficial to the estate and
that the benefits to be derived from their continued service justify the amount of
advances for legal fees. In this case, because no adequate showing was made, the
Bankruptcy Court denied the debtor's request for such inderninification.
In In re Kaiser Steel Resources/" a case having major significance to the
brokerage industry, the Commission, in an appeal to the Tenth Circuit, addressed
the issue of liability under fraudulent conveyance laws for payments made in
connection with a leveraged buyout. Kaiser brought an adversary proceeding
naming 194 defendants-including
financial intromediance such as brokerage
firms, banks, and trust companies as well as its former shareholders from whom
Kaiser is seeking to recover payments it made in a 1984leveraged buyout (LBO), on
the ground that the transaction was a fraudulent conveyance under California law,
and thus is subject to avoidance under the Bankruptcy Code. The Tenth Circuit in
a test case involving a discount brokerage firm defendant, held that the LBO
payments are securities "settlement payments" protected from avoidance under
Section 546(e) of the Code. The Tenth Circuit is now considering whether Section

89

546(e) applies to the remaining financial intermediaries' defendants and Kaiser's
former shareholders."? The Commission, in its brief to the Tenth Circuit, argued
that Section 546(e) on its face applies to payments made ''by or to" a stockbroker,
securities clearing agency, or financial institution, and that the Kaiser LBO payments
were all made by or to one of these entities. In addition, interpreting Section 546(e)
as applying to financial intermediaries and shareholders furthers the important
objectives of protecting the integrity of the securities clearance and settlement
system and promoting investor confidence in the securities markets.
In In re General Development Corp.,3°o the Commission filed a brief addressing
the scope of the bankruptcy court's authority to enjoin a Delaware state court action
seeking authority to nominate and solicit the election of an alternative slate of
candidates for the debtor's board of directors. The regular annual meeting had been
scheduled by the company's board of directors after the company filed its Chapter
11 petition. The Commission argued, consistently with the position urged by the
Commission and adopted by the Second Circuit in In re Johns-Manville COrp.,3°1 that
shareholders of debtor corporations do not lose their corporate governance rights
under state law, unless it is shown that there has been a "clear abuse" of such rights
that is likely to jeopardize the reorganization. The bankruptcy court, agreeing with
the Commission's position, concluded that the record did not support a finding of
clear abuse and allowed the Delaware action to continue.
During fiscal year 1990, the Commission reiterated its position (55th Annual
Report at 84-85, 54th Annual Report at 96, and 53rd Annual Report at 73) that class
claims are permissible in bankruptcy.
The Commission believes that, under
principles of statutory construction, the well-recognized right to file class claims
outside of bankruptcy is equally available in bankruptcy cases. In In re LTV COrp.,3°2
the Commission filed a brief in the Second Circuit reiterating its view that class
claims are permissible in bankruptcy. In this case, the district court, relying on The
American Reserve3°3 and The Charter CO.304circuit court decisions, concluded that
permitting proofs of claim to be filed on behalf of a class is consistent with the broad
goals of the Bankruptcy Code.
In reversing the bankruptcy judge's decision, the court rejected a much-cited
1985 decision to the contrary in In re Johns-Manville,305
by the Chief Judge of the
Bankruptcy Court for the Southern District of New York. The appeal is pending.
Disclosure Statements/Plans of Reorganization
A disclosure statement is a combination proxy and offering statement used in
soliciting acceptances of a plan of reorganization. Such plans often provide for the
exchange of new securities for claims and interests of creditors and shareholders of
the debtor. The Bankruptcy Code provides that adequate disclosure is to be made
without regard to whether or not the information provided would otherwise
comply with the disclosure requirements of the federal securities laws. However,
in recognition of the Commission's special expertise on disclosure questions, the
Bankruptcy Code recognizes the Commission's right to be heard, distinct from its
special advisory role, on the adequacy of disclosure. For this reason, the Bankruptcy
Rules require service on the Commission of all disclosure statements.
During fiscal year 1990, the Commission received over 6,000 disclosure
statements filed in Chapter 11 cases involving both privately-held and publicly90

held corporations. The staff limits its review to those disclosure statements filed in
, cases involving a publicly-held company or a company likely to be publicly traded
1 as a consequence of the reorganization.
During 1990, the staff reviewed 93
disclosure statements.
In its review of disclosure statements, the staff seeks to determine whether the
-1,
issuance of securities under a plan is consistent with the exemption from registration
in the Bankruptcy Code and otherwise in compliance with the federal securities
laws. The Commission also reviews statements to determine whether there is
adequate disclosure concerning the proposed plan. Generally, the Commission
seeks to resolve questions concerning bankruptcy disclosure through staff comments
•, to the plan proponent. If questions cannot be resolved through this process, the
Commission may object to the disclosure statement in the bankruptcy court. During
fiscal year 1990, the Commission commented on disclosure statements in 57 cases.
The vast majority of the Commission's comments were adopted by debtors. The
., Commission was compelled to object to disclosure statements in three cases.306 In
i-~ In re American Medical Technology, Inc.307 and In re Saratoga Standardbreds, Inc.,308the
>i
Commission filed objections to proposed plans of substantially assetless publicly~ held shell corporations.
Both plans contemplated no business operations but
sought, contrary to Section 114l(d)(3) of the Bankruptcy Code, to employ the
discharge provisions of Chapter 11 to discharge claims of creditors.
In both cases the principal purpose of the plan was to emerge from Chapter 11
as a publicly-traded company without assets or liabilities and to merge with
l operating businesses at some unspecified time in the future. In addition, the
~ Commission viewed the use of Chapter 11by corporate shells to cleanse themselves
< of liabilities as an abuse of the reorganization process. In American Medical, the
i bankruptcy court agreed with the Commission's position and sustained its objection.
~ In Saratoga, the bankruptcy court overruled the Commission's objection in light of
~ the debtor's showing that after reorganization it would have had sufficient funds to
meet its reporting obligations under the Exchange Act.
The Commission also objected in SIS Corp. to confirmation of the debtor's plan
of liquidation because it sought to discharge all claims of creditors. The debtor's
plan appeared to be structured in a manner that would enable the debtor to resurrect
its corporate shell after confirmation. In denying confirmation, the court agreed
with the Commission's position.
In In re Southmark COrp.309 and In re SIS COrp.,31O the Commission filed
objections to the confirmation of proposed plans, arguing, as it has on several other
occasions."! that the provisions of the plan that purported to discharge and release
non-debtor liability should be stricken or revised because such provisions are
beyond the confines of the Bankruptcy Code discharge of liability.
In Southmark, the provision also would have protected non-debtor third
parties from future Commission enforcement actions. Citing Underhill v. Royal, 769
F.2d 1426 (9th Cir. 1985), the Commission argued that Section 524(e) of the Code
does not empower a bankruptcy court to discharge the liabilities of non-debtors
pursuant to a plan of reorganization -- that is, a bankruptcy court can affect only the
relationships of debtors and creditors and cannot discharge the liabilities of a nondebtor. In Southmark, in response to the Commission's objection, the debtor
amended its plan both to exclude Commission enforcement proceedings from the
.

1

1

l

91

operation of the discharge and release provision and also to exclude most public
investors. However, the bankruptcy court approved the plan containing the release
provision on the theory that it was consensual, since creditors were given ar
opportunity to, in effect, "opt out" of the scope of the release provision. In SIS Corp.,
following the court's oral statement that the release provision was "unacceptable,"
the debtor deleted the provision from its plan.
Compliance with the Registration Requirements of the Securities Act
Section 1145 of the Bankruptcy Code contains a limited exemption from
registration under the Securities Act for the distribution of securities by a debtor, or
an affiliate or successor to the debtor, pursuant to a plan of reorganization and in
exchange for claims against or securities of the debtor or such affiliate.
The issuance of securities pursuant to a plan is deemed to be a "public
offering," which means that there is no restriction on resale of such securities unless
the seller is an "underwriter" as specifically defined in Section 1145(b). During the
fiscal year, the staff had no occasion to file formal objections to a reorganization plan
on the basis of violations of Section 1145 of the Bankruptcy Code.

92

Economic Research and Analysis

The Office of Economic Analysis (OEA) provides technical support and
analysis to assist in evaluating the economic aspects of the Commission's
regulatory program. The economics staff provides the Commission with
research and advice on rule proposals, policy initiatives, and enforcement
actions. The staff assists the Commission in making decisions affecting the
efficiency and structure of our nation's securities industry. In addition, the
staff monitors developments in capital markets around the world and major
program initiatives affecting the United States financial services industry,
markets, and investors.
Key 1990 Results
Application of new technology within the securities industry, increased
complexity of new financial products, and development of new trading strategies
have resulted in a more dynamic domestic securities market. The United States
securities industry has been a leader in financial innovation for many years. United
States securities markets continue to benefit from a regulatory structure that fosters
both competition and the protection of investors and, thereby, promotes both public
confidence and operational efficiency in the markets.
A comprehensive program of economic and policy analysis is provided by the
economics staff, focusing on issues related to corporate restructuring, stock price
volatility, mutual fund performance, disclosure, insider trading, and market
manipulation. The market decline of October 1989 renewed the debate over the
effectiveness and economic consequences of circuit breaker mechanisms. The wave
of going-private transactions and junk bond financings that took place during the
1980's continues to require the attention of the office. Concern in this area was
heightened by the failure of Drexel Burnham Lambert, the decline in the junk bond
market, and some highly publicized cases of financial difficulty following goingprivate transactions.
Continued discussion of proposals for comprehensive reform of financial
services regulation, including the possible repeal of the Glass-Steagall Act, requires
analysis of the economic implications of merging banking, insurance, and brokerdealer activities. The need for this analysis is made all the more critical by the
deepening concerns over our national system of deposit insurance. Along these
lines, OEA reported that an analysis of bank bond yield spreads and some direct
estimates of deposit insurance premiums (using the option pricing model) strongly
suggest that deposit insurance is currently underpriced and that the current practice
of flat-pricing for insurance does not recognize the wide variation of risk across
banks. In the investment company area, the proliferation of funds and fund types,
coupled with marketing techniques by investment companies, including the use of
12b-1fees, has resulted in complex disclosure issues that can benefit from economic
analysis.
93

The staff reviewed rule proposals encompassing the full range of the
Commission's regulatory program. The staff also provided advice, technical
assistance, and empirical analyses of issues of concern to the Commission and its
operating divisions. The controversy surrounding the growth of the penny stock
market also has required increased attention by the economics office. Also, monitoring
programs were developed and maintained to study the impact of major rules, new
trading facilities, and market developments.
Key accomplishments include completion of studies on issues such as;
• the performance of circuit breaker mechanisms during the October 1989
market decline;
• the market's reaction to pension terminations and the relationship of such
termination to corporate takeovers; and
• the effects of share turnover and margin credit on stock market volatility.
Substantial progress was made toward completion of ongoing studies of the
following issues:
• post-offering price performance of blank check offerings and incidence of
securities laws violations;
• going-private transactions;
• the effects of institutional ownership on equity market liquidity and the
willingness of corporate management to invest in long-term projects;
• the relationship between insider trading and share price movements
preceding significant corporate announcements;
• the rule that permits mutual funds to use fund assets to pay for distributions;
• the effects of cross-border listing and stock price volatility; and
• deposit insurance pricing.
In addition, the staff provided technical advice and assistance to the
Commission's operating divisions on a wide variety of issues. OEA, for example,
furnished the Commission and divisions with a quarterly report on the financial
health of the securities industry. In the enforcement area, OEA worked on diversified
cases, including insider trading, disclosure violations, suitability, and market
manipulation. The staff also assisted the penny stock task force in monitoring the
impact of the task force efforts on the number of penny stock dealers. In the securities
market area, OEA examined the impact of Rule 1Ob-21(T) pertaining to short-selling
restrictions in connection with a public offering of securities, and monitored Rule
19c-3, which allows exchange members to make off-board markets in newly listed
stocks.
In the international area, the staff continued to monitor the extent and nature
of international trading in securities, foreign and United States portfolio investment
patterns, the growth of the international bond and equity markets, and restructuring
in overseas markets.

O'

Management and Program Support
Management and Program Support provides the Commission and
operating divisions with management and administrative services in support
of the Commission's objectives. Management support includes overseeing
the allocation and expenditure of agency funds, liaison with Congress,
disseminating information to the press, facilitating Commission meetings,
and developing and executing management policies. Administrative support
includes services such as accounting, data processing, staffing, and space
management.
Key 1990 Results

Fiscal year 1990 was highlighted by a number of significant activities. In particular, the Commission held 59 meetings and considered 277 matters. Two
significant pieces of legislation--the Market Reform Act of 1990 and the Securities
Enforcement Remedies and Penny Stock Reform Act--were enacted to increase the
Commission's ability to protect investors and strengthen the financial integrity of
the securities markets. A third law enacted, the International Securities Enforcement
Cooperation Act, will facilitate the flow of enforcement information domestically
and internationally, and enable the Commission to sanction United States violators
of foreign securities laws.
Among other significant accomplishments were the collection of fee revenue of
$232million, compared to an appropriation level of$167 million, and enactment of
the Commission' s authorization bill, the Securities Act Amendments of 1990, which
gives the Commission authority to enter into leases directly, exempt from General
Services Administration space management regulations or directives. In addition,
the Commission staff responded to 51,914 complaints and inquiries from investors.
Office of the Secretary

The Commission held 59 meetings in fiscal year 1990,during which it considered
277 matters including rule proposals, enforcement actions, and other items that
affectsignificantly the stability of the markets and the nation's economy. Significant
actions of the Commission included:
• adopting Rule 144A to establish a non-exclusive safe harbor from registration requirements for resales of restricted securities under the Securities Act of 1933 to a specified class of institutional investors;
• adopting Regulation S to clarify the extraterritorial application of the
registration requirements of the Securities Act of 1933;
• issuing a release to solicit comments on reform of investment company
regulation under the Investment Company Act of 1940 and the Investment Advisers Act of 1940 and related statutes;
• proposing amendments to Rule 2a-7 under the Investment Company Act
of 1940 to tighten requirements for portfolio quality, maturity, and diversity of money market funds; and
95

•


issuing a concept release to solicit public comment on permitting foreign
tender offers to proceed in the United States based upon foreign law
documentation and procedures.

Office of Legislative Affairs
At the end of the fiscal year, Congress passed two significant pieces of legislation

that substantially increase the Commission's ability to regulate the securities
markets and give the Commission new enforcement powers. The Market Reform
Act of 1990 (Public Law 101-432) authorizes the Commission to adopt rules and
procedures to enhance financial oversight, efficient clearance and settlement, and
market stability and to deter fraud and manipulation in the securities markets. The
Securities Enforcement Remedies and Penny Stock Reform Act (Public Law 101429) expands the Commission's powers by, among other things, authorizing it to
seek court orders imposing civil monetary penalties for any securities law violation
and to impose such penalties in administrative proceedings against broker-dealers
and other regulated entities. A third major piece of legislation--the International
Securities Enforcement Cooperation Act-which was passed as part of the
Commission's authorization bill--will facilitate greater access to enforcement
information and permits the Commission to sanction United States violators of
foreign securities laws.
Congressional interest in the Commission's activities and initiatives continued
at a high level. As a result, the Office of Legislative Affairs increased its efforts to
track proposals and accommodate congressional requests for documents and
information. The office coordinated and drafted testimony for 19 congressional
hearings, including three confirmation hearings, during the course of the year.
Office of Public Affairs

The Office of Public Affairs communicates information on Commission activities
to those interested in or affected by Commission actions, including the press, the
general public, regulated entities, and employees of the Commission through
ongoing programs and special projects. The office publishes the SEC News Digest
daily, which provides information on rule changes, enforcement actions against
individuals or corporate entities, acquisition reports, releases, decisions on requests
for exemptions, upcoming Commission meetings, and other events of interest. The
office publishes a regular newsletter and prepares a daily summary of news clips for
Commission employees. Special projects, such as support for activities related to the
recently formed Emerging Markets Advisory Committee for Eastern Europe, were
undertaken in support of the Commission's mission. Information on Commission
activity also is disseminated through notices of administrative actions, litigation
releases, and other materials.
Another important function is the coordination of the Commission's interaction
with the press. Many Commission actions are of nationwide and, increasingly,
international interest. When appropriate, these actions are drawn to the attention
of regional, national, and international press. The office also issues press releases
on upcoming events, Commission programs, and special projects. A total of 69news
releases were issued during the year.

96

In addition, the office responded to approximately 87,000 requests for specific
information on the Commission or its activities. The office also coordinates the visits
of national and foreign officials to the Commission. In total, programs for 327
foreign visitors were coordinated in fiscal year 1990.
Office of the Executive Director

The Commission's management staff initiated or continued special projects,
such as coordinating the agency's effort to join the NASD's Central Registration
Depository system, and the agency's internal control and audit follow-up
responsibilities pursuant to the Inspector General Act Amendments of 1988. The
management staff worked closely with the Chairman and other senior officials in
formulating the agency's budget submissions for the Office of Management and
Budget and Congress.
Equal Employment Opportunity. The Executive Director's Office also implemented improvements to the Commission's Equal Employment Opportunity (EEO)
programs. These improvements included:
• hiring two EEO specialists with specialized experience in developing
and implementing affirmative employment programs and processing
discrimination complaints;
•
selecting a Commission employee for the collateral duty position of Federal Women's Program (FWP) manager;
•
increasing membership by 100 percent on the Federal Women's Program
Committee;
• publishing policy statements by Chairman Breeden on equal employment opportunity and affirmative employment, prevention of sexual
harassment, and the promotion of minority professionals;
• completing the Affirmative Employment Plan for minorities and
women;
• conducting off-site EEO training for 120 agency managers and supervisors, EEO counselors, and members of the Federal Women's Program;
• developing EEO reference books for use by EEO collateral duty personnel and a new pamphlet on the prevention of sexual harassment;
• improving the statistical reporting system for EEO reports to the Equal
Employment Opportunity Commission and the Office of Personnel
Management;
• reducing substantially the number of informal and formal discrimination complaints through use of creative conflict resolution approaches to
problems; and
• creating the Jeanne Gerber Hartford Award in the name of the former
FWP manager to be presented annually at the Women's History Month
Observance at the Commission.
The Commission continued to actively recruit minorities and women. At the
end of the fiscal year, women accounted for 48.6 percent of the total Commission
work force; blacks accounted for 27.5 percent; hispanics accounted for approximately
3 percent; Asian-Americans made up 1.4 percent; and American-Alaskan natives
made up .04 percent.

97

Administrative

Support

The administrative support offices provide the financial, data processing,
personnel, and facilities support necessary for the Commission to carry out its
mission. Under the direction of the Office of the Executive Director, these support
services are provided by the Offices of the Comptroller, Information Systems
Management,
Personnel, Administrative
Services, Consumer Affairs and
Information Services, and Applications and Reports Services.
Commission Operations. In fiscal year 1990,for the eighth consecutive year, the
Commission collected revenue for the United States Treasury in excess of its
appropriation. The Commission collected fee revenue of $232 million compared to
a final appropriations level of $167 million -- a $65 million net gain to the United
States Treasury. Fee revenue is collected from four basic sources: registrations
under the Securities Act of 1933 (comprising 61 percent of total fiscal year 1990 fee
revenue); transactions on securities exchanges (30 percent); tender offer and merger
filings (6 percent); and miscellaneous filings (3 percent).
Financial Management. The agency completed its second year of operating the
new accounting system, the Federal Financial System (FFS). The FFS provided the
agency with significant automation improvements such as:
• entering voucher and payment data directly into the system;
• creating travel authorization and procurement documents;
• providing decentralized data throughout the Commission;
• accomplishing voucher research on-line; and
• making management data more readily available.
The Commission continued to improve its automated collection and processing
of annual fee revenue through electronic funds transfer (EFT), and a Treasury
sponsored "lockbox" depository system. The Commission received over 43,000
separate fee payments of differing amounts for transactions of exchange listed
securities and required and elective reports from about 15,000 companies. The
Commission staff began reviewing the possibility of collecting fee payments by
credit card, and the redesign of an automated fee tracking, reporting, and accounts
receivable system was begun.
Information Systems Management.
During fiscal year 1990, the Office of
Information Systems Management continued to modernize the Commission's
automated data processing and information management services. These efforts
included:
• enhancing the Division of Enforcement's capacity to monitor market
activity by creating an automated tool that will "report out of range"
events;
• completing a pilot test of the NASD's Central Registration Depository
system, which will allow the Commission to automatically receive
broker-dealer registration information;
• completing a functional requirements analysis for the new Electronic
Filing Fee Collection system, which will consolidate information for
Commission filings and associated fees; and
• implementing a Wide Area Network (WAN) by connecting both the
Denver and Boston regional offices' lo~al area networks through a dedicated communication line to headquarters.
98

Throughout the year, improvements to office automation technologies and
networking capabilities helped improve staff productivity.
Personnel Management.
The Office of Personnel revised regulations on
performance appraisals, the performance management and recognition system,
leave transfers, emergency dismissals, and position classification appeals in
accordance with governmentwide changes. In addition, the Commission's drugfree workplace plan was approved, and steps were begun toward full implementation
of that plan.
The number of internal and outside courses attended by Commission employees
increased by 68 percent from 2,200 courses attended in fiscal year 1989 to 3,700 in
fiscal year 1990. In response to continued Commission emphasis on information
systems automation, 1,145 employees were trained on computer systems and
applications. In addition, the office provided requested training to 700 staff
members to enhance or improve their on-the-job performance.
The Office of Personnel extended to all areas of the country its localized
employee assistance program contract services for staff and their families needing
special help, primarily for counseling and referral services. The employee assistance
counselors also support the Commission's drug-free workplace plan by providing
education, consultation, and referral services.
Due to a significant increase in the agency's staffing level in 1990,the Commission
conducted its largest recruitment campaign in the last five years. Despite
noncompetitive salaries and high turnover, over 500 new employees were hired,
resulting in a net increase of over 250 employees. Emphasis was placed on the
recruitment of attorneys, accountants, securities compliance examiners, computer
specialists, and secretaries. The significant hiring was accomplished through
aggressive use of delegated examining authority, special OPM hiring programs,
and advertising and attendance at numerous OPM job fairs.
In cooperation with the Office of Equal Employment Opportunity, the Office of
Personnel co-sponsored several activities, including a three-day conference to train
EEOprogram workers, supervisors, and executives from regional and headquarters
offices. In addition, the system to monitor and record employee compliance with the
Commission's rules of conduct was revised and expanded. To recognize employee
performance, the Commission awarded more than $1 million in incentive and
performance awards.
Facilities Management. The Commission requested and obtained independent
leasing authority from Congress in Its authorization bill that was enacted into law
on November 15, 1990. Provisions in the bill remove the Commission from
restrictions of General Services Administration (GSA) office leasing requirements.
Over time this will give the Commission the flexibility to provide more appropriate
working conditions for the staff. The new authority also will save both time and
money in the acquisition of space.
Earlier in the fiscal year, the Commission obtained temporary Delegated
Procurement Authority from the GSA for the acquisition of 21,000 square feet of
expansion space within the headquarters building. The Commission staff began
relocating the Denver, Chicago, Atlanta, and Miami field offices and will continue
this effort in fiscal year 1991.

99

The Office of Administrative Services awarded contracts and purchase orders
in excess of $30 million during fiscal year 1990, an increase of approximately $12
million over the previous fiscal year. The total number of actions was 2,495, a 26
percent increase over 1989. A significant portion of the increase is attributed to
computer equipment, software, and service-related procurements. In other areas,
the office increased its printing production from 50.8 million units to 60.4 million;
incoming mail increased by approximately five percent over the preceding fiscal
year, while outgoing mail increased by approximately eight percent. The installation
of a new telephone answering system in the publications section improved the
Commission's response time to public requests for documents and forms.
Consumer Affairs and Information Services. The Office of Consumer Affairs
and Information Services is responsible for (1) responding to investor complaints
and inquiries; (2) screening information received to make referrals to SEC program
divisions, self-regulatory agencies, states, or other federal agencies; (3) collecting
and analyzing complaint information and trends to help target regulatory and
enforcement activities; and (4) preparing educational materials to assist investors in
protecting their interests. In addition, the office processes requests for information
under statutes such as the Freedom of Information Act (FOIA) and the Privacy Act
(PA).

The Commission's consumer affairs staff responded to a total of 51,914complaints
and inquiries from investors, an increase of 15 percent over those received in fiscal
year 1989. A total of 40,109 were complaints and 11,805 were inquiries. Of the total
received, complaints about program trading totaled 14,921 (37 percent) while 14,260
complaints involved broker-dealers (36 percent). Broker-dealer complaints declined
almost 17 percent from those received last fiscal year. High pressure or fraudulent
sales practices were identified as the most prevalent type of complaint against
broker-dealers. Complaints against penny stock broker-dealers declined from 3,863
in fiscal year 1989 to 2,023 in fiscal year 1990, accounting for approximately 14
percent of all broker-dealer complaints this fiscal year. The remainder of complaints
were divided primarily among issuers, mutual funds, banks, transfer agents, and
investment advisers.
In order to improve responsiveness to the public and support to the program
divisions, the office made substantial progress in the re-design and development of
a new Commission computerized complaint tracking system. This is a multi-year
effort begun in fiscal year 1989, and is scheduled to be implemented in mid-1991.
The new system will permit more thorough analysis of complaint information and
trends and increase the timeliness of Commission responses to investors and other
members of the public. Another mission of the Office of Consumer Affairs and
Information Services involves responding to a variety of information requests
pursuant to federal access laws, and processing requests for confidential treatment.
The office processed 2,232 FOIA requests and appeals, 30 PA requests and appeals,
57 Government in the Sunshine Act requests, 22 government referrals, and 3,352
requests and appeals for confidential treatment. Confidential treatment requests
are typically made in connection with proprietary corporate information and are
carefully evaluated in connection with access requests to prevent the unwarranted
disclosure of information exempt under the FOIA. A total of 96 percent of all FOIA/
PA requests were responded to within the statutory time frame. The remaining four
100

percent of the requests involved voluminous records and were placed in a first-in/
first-out system for the actual review and production of records. In addition, the
FOIA/PA staff coordinated 1,014requests for Commission records from members
of Congress.
Public Reference. In a continuing interest to serve the public, the procedures in
the headquarters public reference room were enhanced to ensure expeditious
identification, location, and retrieval of documents and microfiche. The staff
answered questions and completed requests for documents from over 57,000
visitors to the headquarters public reference room. Nearly 288,000paper documents
and 335,353 microfiche records were added to the existing library of publicly
available information, which were maintained amid constant use by these visitors.
In addition, the staff processed over 500 formal requests for certifications of
Commission filings and responded to more than 40,000 requests for microfiche
records, about 5,100requests for paper filings, and over 123,000telephone inquiries
regarding filings.

101

Commission Members and Principal Staff Officers
(As ot Non>mbcr I, 1l)Yll)

Richard C. Breeden, Chairman
Edward H. Fleischman
Mary L. Schapiro
Philip R. Lochner, Jr.
Richard Y. Roberts
Executive Assistant to the Chairman: Marianne K. Smythe

Principal Staff Officers
James M. McConnell, Executive DIrector
Kenneth A. Fogash, Deputy Executive Director
Linda C. Quinn, Director, Division of Corporation Finance
Elisse B. Walter, Deputy Director
Mary E. T. Beach, Associate Director
Ernestine M. R. Zipoy, Associate Director
Robert Bayless, Associate Director
Mauri L. Osheroff, Associate Director
William E. Morley, Associate Director
William R. McLucas, Director, Division of Enforcement
Bruce A. Hiler, Associate Director
Harry J. Weiss, Associate Director
Joseph I. Goldstein, Associate Director
Colleen P. Mahoney, Chief Counsel
Thomas C. Newkirk, Chief Litigation Counsel
Richard G. Ketchum, Director, Division of Market Regulation
Mark D. Fitterman, Associate Director
Brandon C. Becker, Associate Director
Larry E. Bergmann, Associate Director
VACANT, Director, Division of Investment Management
VACANT, Associate Director
102

Term Expires
1993
1992
1994
1991
1995

Gene A. Gohlke, Associate Director
Mary S. Podesta, Associate Director
William C. Weeden, Assistant Director, Office of Public Utility
Regulation
James R. Doty, General Counsel
Paul Gonson, Solicitor
Jacob H. Stillman, Associate General Counsel
VACANT, Associate General Counsel
Phillip D. Parker, Associate General Counsel
William S. Stem, Associate General Counsel
Michael D. Mann, Director, Office of International Affairs
Edmund Coulson, Chief Accountant
Glen L. Davison, Deputy Chief Accountant
Kenneth Lehn, Chief Economist, Office of Economic Analysis
Jeffry L. Davis, Deputy Chief Economist
Terry M. Chuppe, Associate Chief Economist
David H. Malmquist, Associate Chief Economist
Jonathan G. Katz, Secretary
Margaret H. McFarland, Deputy Secretary
Mary M. McCue, Director, Office of Public Affairs
John D. Heine, Senior Public Affairs Specialist
Gary E. Fendler, Director of Communications
Warren E. Blair, Chief Administrative

Law

Judge

Lawrence H. Haynes, Comptroller
Henry I. Hoffman, Assistant Comptroller
Richard J. Kanyan, Director, Office of Administraiioe
David L. Coman, Deputy Director

Services

VACANT, Director, Office of Personnel
William E. Ford, II, Assistant Director
103

Wilson A. Butler, Jr., Director, Office of Applications and Reports Services
Marie B. Simpson, Deputy Director
Bonnie Westbrook, Director, Office of Consumer Affairs and Information
Gregory Jones, Sr., Director, Office of Information Systems Management
VACANT, Deputy Director
R. Mitchell Delk, Director, Office of Legislative Affairs

James A. Clarkson, III, Director of Regional Office Operations
VACANT, Manager, Equal Employment Opportunity
John O. Penhollow, Director, Office of EDGAR Management

104

Services

Biographies of Commission Melnbers
Chairman
Following his nomination by President Bush
and confirmation by the United States Senate, Richard C. Breeden was sworn in as the 24th Chairman of
the Commission on October 11, 1989. As one of the
youngest Chairmen in the agency's history, Mr.
Breeden is responsible for leading the Commission in
the development of policy and for overall direction of
the Commission. Mr. Breeden also represents the
Commission to the Congress, the Administration,
the financial community, and the public at large. Mr.
Breeden serves as a member of the President's Working Group on Financial Markets. He was also appointed by President Bush to serve on the Council of the Administrative Conference
of the United States.
In the fall of 1990, Mr. Breeden was elected by his colleagues from the largest
securities markets in the world to serve as Chairman of the Technical Committee of
the International Organization of Securities Commissions (lasCO) for a two-year
term. In this capacity, Mr. Breeden is responsible for leading the efforts of securities
regulatory agencies worldwide in seeking to develop international regulatory standards for securities markets. Mr. Breeden also served as Chairman of the Executive
Committee of IOSCO from 1989-1990.
From the Inauguration of President Bush until he assumed the Chairmanship,
Mr. Breeden served in the White House as Assistant to the President for Issues
Analysis. In this capacity, Mr. Breeden was responsible for coordinating the development of Executive Branch policies concerning specific problems such as the
savings and loan industry crisis.
From 1982-1985, Mr. Breeden served as Deputy Counsel to then-Vice President Bush, working on a wide range of regulatory problems. In addition, he served
as Staff Director of the Vice President's Task Group on Regulation of Financial
Services, a cabinet level group established to recommend improvements in federal
financial regulatory programs. Blueprint for Refonn, the Task Group's final report,
authored by Mr. Breeden, was issued in November 1984. From 1981-1982, Mr.
Breeden served as Executive Assistant to the Undersecretary of Labor.
Mr. Breeden is a lawyer by training. From 1985-1989, he was a partner in the
Washington office of a major law firm, where his legal practice included financial
transactions and regulatory matters of all types. Prior to his original government
service, Mr. Breeden practiced law in New York City from 1976-1981, where he
handled securities underwriting, bank financing, and major domestic and international business transactions. This followed completion of an appointment to teach
constitutional law and federal jurisdiction at the University of Miami School of Law.
Mr. Breeden was educated at Stanford University (B.A. with honors in international relations, 1972) and Harvard Law School (l.D; 1975).

10fi

Commissioner
Edward H. Fleischman was sworn in as the 66th
-:
Member of the Securities and Exchange Commission
on January 6,1986. His term expires in June 1992.
Mr. Fleischman was admitted to the New York
Bar in 1959 and to the bar of the UiS, Supreme Court
in 1980. He formerly practiced law with Beekman &
Bogue (a predecessor of the present Gaston & Snow
firm), where he specialized in securities and corporate law and related areas.
During his career, Mr. Fleischman has been
elected a member of the American Law Institute, the
American College of Investment Counsel (of which
he is currently President) and the American Society
of Corporate Secretaries, and has served as an Adjunct Professor of Law teaching securities regulation at the New York University Law School.
Mr. Fleischman was born in Cambridge, Massachusetts on June 25, 1932. He
received his undergraduate education at Harvard College, served in the Ll.S, Army
from 1952 to 1955, and obtained his LL.B degree from Columbia Law School.
Mr. Fleischman serves on the American Bar Association Section of Busmess
Law's Committee on Counsel Responsibility and chairs the Committee on Developments in Business Financing. He co-drafted that Committee's 1979 paper on resale
of institutional privately-placed debt and chaired its Subcommittees on Simplified
Indenture and on Annual Review of Developments. He also serves on the Committee on Federal Regulation of Securities, for which he chaired Subcommittees on Rule
144 and on Broker-Dealer Matters and co-drafted the Committee's 1973 letter on
utilization and dissemination of "inside" information. In addition, he serves on the
Committee on Futures Regulation and the Committee on Developments in Investment Services, and has been active in the Section on Administrative Law.
Mr. Fleischman is also a member of Committee E--Banking Law and of Committee Q--Issues and Trading in Securities of the International Bar Association
Section on Business Law. In the International Law Association (American Branch),
he has been appointed to membership on the Committee on International Regulation of Securities.
Commissioner
Mary L. Schapiro was sworn in as the 67th
Member of the Securities and Exchange Commission
on December 5, 1988. She was nominated to the Commission by President Reagan on December 22, 1988
in a recess appointment. Ms. Schapiro was renominated to the Commission by President Bush on
November 8, 1989 and confirmed by the Senate on
Novemberl8, 1989. Her term expires on june S, 1994.
Ms. Schapiro came to the Commission from the
Futures Industry Association, where she was General Counsel and Senior Vice President. While at the
106

PIA, her work included regulatory, tax and international issues, including extensive
liaison with foreign governmental officials.
Prior to her service at the PIA, Ms. Schapiro spent four years at the Commodity Futures Trading Commission. There, she served as Counsel and Executive Assistant to the Chairman of the Commodity Futures Trading Commission and was a
Trial Attorney in the Manipulation and Trade Practice Investigations Unit of the
Division of Enforcement. In the former position, Ms. Schapiro advised on all regulatory and adjudicatory matters pending before the Commission and on legislation.
She also represented the Chairman with federal and state officials, Congress, and
the futures industry, in addition to other duties.
A 1977 honors graduate of Franklin and Marshall College in Lancaster, Pennsylvania, Ms. Schapiro earned a Juris Doctor degree (with honors) from The
National Law Center of George Washington University in 1980. While in law
school, Ms. Schapiro completed internships in the Farm Credit Administration and
in the Executive Office of the President. She is a member of the District of Columbia Bar, the American Bar Association, and the Association of the Bar of the City of
New York. From 1986 to 1988, she served on the Executive Council of the Committee on Futures Regulation of the American Bar Association.
Commissioner
Philip R. Lochner, Jr. was sworn in as the 68th
Member of the Securities and Exchange Commission
on March 12, 1990by the Honorable Stanley Sporkin,
Judge of the United States District Court for the
District of Columbia. Mr. Lochner was nominated to
the Commission by President Bush in January 1990
for a term expiring in 1991.
Before being nominated to the Commission,
Mr. Lochner was General Counsel, Secretary, and
Vice President for Time Warner Inc. He became General Counsel and Secretary in September 1988. He
was elected a Vice President of Time Warner Inc. in
October 1986, and also assumed responsibility for Corporate Human Resources that
year. From 1984 to 1986, he served as Senior Vice President and General Counsel
for the Time Warner Inc. Video Group. Prior to that, he was Corporate Associate
General Counsel for Time Warner Inc. for four years, having joined the company in
1978 as Associate General Counsel.
Before joining Time Warner Inc., Mr. Lochner was with the law firm of
Cravath, Swaine & Moore. He joined the law firm in 1973 after serving, from 1971
to 1973, as an Associate Dean and Assistant Professor of Law at State University of
New York in Amherst, New York.
Mr. Lochner earned a Ph.D. in political science from Stanford University in
1971. He also studied at the University of London from 1967 to 1968 as a Fulbright
Fellow. Mr. Lochner earned a LL.B. degree from Yale University in 1967, where he
was on the Board of Editors of the Yale Law Journal, and was a member of the Order
of the Coif. He earned a B.A. from Yale University in 1964 and was elected to Phi
Beta Kappa.
107

His professional activities include the New York State Bar Association, where
he served as Chairman of the Corporate Counsel Section, and has also served as a
member of the Committee on Corporation Law for the Banking, Corporation, and
Business Law Section of that Association. Mr. Lochner is a Fellow of the American
Bar Foundation and he served as a lecturer on securities law matters for the Practising Law Institute. Heisa member of the American, New York State, and City of New
York Bar Associations, and the American Law Institute.
Mr. Lochner was born in New Rochelle, New York on March 3, 1943. He and
his wife, Sally, have two children.
Commissioner
Richard Roberts was nominated to the Commission by President Bush and confirmed by the
Senate on September 27, 1990. He was sworn in as a
Commissioner on October I, 1990 by the Honorable
Stanley Sporkin, Judge for the United States District
Court of the District of Columbia. His term expires in
June 1995.
Before being nominated to the Commission,
Mr. Roberts was in the private practice of law with
the Washington office of Miller, Hamilton, Snider &
adorn. Before joining the law firm in April 1990, Mr.
Roberts was administrative assistant and legislative
director for Senator Richard Shelby (D., Ala.), a position he assumed in 1987. Prior
to that, Mr. Roberts was, for four years, in the private practice of law in Alabama.
From 1979 to 1982, Mr. Roberts was administrative assistant and legislative director for then-Congressman Shelby.
Mr. Roberts is a 1973 graduate of Aubum University and a 1976 graduate of
the University of Alabama School of Law. He also received a Master of Laws in
taxation from the George Washington University National Law Center in 1981. He
is admitted to the bar in the District of Columbia and Alabama. Mr. Roberts is a
member of the National Association of Bond Lawyers, the American Bar Association, the Alabama State Bar Association, and the District of Columbia Bar Association.
He and his wife, the former Peggy Frew, make their home in Fairfax, Virginia
with their son and two daughters.
Mr. Roberts was bom in Birmingham, Alabama on July 3, 1951.

108

Regional and Branch Offices and Administrators
REGION 1

Lawrence lason
NEW YORK REGIONAL OFFICE
75 Park Place, 14th Floor
New York, NY 10007
212/264-1636
Region: New York and New Jersey

REGION 2

Douglas Scarff
BOSTON REGIONAL OFFICE
John W. McCormack Post Office
and Courthouse Building, Suite 700
Boston, MA 02109
617/223-9900
Region: Maine, New Hampshire, Vermont,
Massachusetts, Rhode Island, and Connecticut

REGION 3

Richard P. Wessel
ATLANTA REGIONAL OFFICE
1375 Peachtree Street, NE, Suite 788
Atlanta, GA 30367
404/347-4768
Region: Tennessee, Virgin Islands, Puerto Rico,
North Carolina, South Carolina, Georgia, Alabama,
Mississippi, Florida, and Louisiana east of the
Atchafalaya River
Charles C. Harper
MIAMI BRANCH OFFICE
Dupont Plaza Center
300 Biscayne Boulevard Way, Suite 500
Miami, FL 33131
305/536-5765

REGION 4

William D. Goldsberry
CHICAGO REGIONAL OFFICE
Everett McKinley Dirksen Building
219 South Dearborn Street, Room 1204
Chicago, IL 60604
312/353-7390
Region: Michigan, Ohio, Kentucky, Wisconsin,
Indiana, Iowa, Illinois, Minnesota, and Missouri

109

REGION 5

T. Christopher Browne
FORT WORTH REGIONAL OFFICE
411 West Seventh Street, 8th Floor
Fort Worth, TX 76102
817/334-3821
Region: Oklahoma, Arkansas, Texas, Louisiana
west of the Atchafalaya River, and Kansas
Joseph C. Matta
HOUSTON BRANCH OFFICE
7500 San Felipe Street, Suite 550
Houston, TX 77063
713/266-3671

REGION 6

Robert H. Davenport
DENVER REGIONAL OFFICE
410 17th Street, Suite 700
Denver, CO 80202
303/844-2071
Region: North Dakota, South Dakota
Wyoming, Nebraska, Colorado,
New Mexico, and Utah
Donald M. Hoed
SALT LAKE BRANCH OFFICE
U.S. Post Office and Courthouse
350 South Main Street, Room 505
Salt Lake City, UT 84101
801/524-5796

REGION 7

James 1. Sanders
LOS ANGELES REGIONAL OFFICE
5757 Wilshire Boulevard, Suite 500 East
Los Angeles, CA 90036-3648
213/965-3998
Region: Nevada, Arizona, California, Hawaii, and
Guam
Cer Gladwyn Goins
SAN FRANCISCO BRANCH OFFICE
901 Market Street, Suite 470
San Francisco, CA 94103
415/744-3140

110

REGIONS

Jack H. Bookey
SEATILE REGIONAL OFFICE
3040 Jackson Federal Building
915 Second Avenue
Seattle, WA 98174
206/442-7990
Region: Montana, Idaho, Washington, Oregon,
and Alaska

REGION 9

James c. Kennedy
PHILADELPHIA REGIONAL OFFICE
The Curtis Center, Suite 1005 E.
601 Walnut Street
Philadelphia, PA 19106-3322
215/597-3100
Region: Pennsylvania, Delaware, Maryland,
Virginia, West Virginia, and
District of Columbia

111

Endnotes

lSEC v. Finacor Anstalt, Litigation Release No. 12296 (November 20,1989),44
SEC Docket 2231.
2SEC v. Certain Purchasers of Common Stock and Call Option Contracts for the
Common Stock of Can tel Corporation, Litigation Release No. 12542 (July 13, 1990),46
SEC Docket 1395.
3SEC v. Fondation Hai, Litigation Release No. 12353 (January 18, 1990),45 SEC
Docket 714.
4SEC v. Jason M. Chapnick, Litigation Release No. 12657 (October 4, 1990),47
SEC Docket 784.
5 SEC v. Security National Bancorp, Inc. and Wesley Godfrey, [r., Accounting and
Auditing Enforcement Release No. 253 (February 6,1990),45 SEC Docket 1046.
6SEC v. John E. Parigian, Accounting and Auditing Enforcement Release No.
257 (May 18, 1990), 46 SEC Docket 515.
7SECv. Jiro Yamazaki andIkuko Sekiguchi- Yamazaki, Litigation Release No. 12507
(June 11, 1990),46 SEC Docket 865.
BSEC v. Power Securities Corporation, Litigation Release No. 12605 (September
6,1990),46 SEC Docket 2073.
9SECv. Blinder, Robinson &Co.,Inc., Litigation Release No. 12539 (July 12, 1990),
46 SEC Docket 1242.
l°SECv. Wellshire Securities, Inc., Litigation Release No. 12411 (March 14, 1990),
45 SEC Docket 1477.
l1SEC v. Leonard M. Tucker, Litigation Release No. 12307 (November 27,1989),
44 SEC Docket 2364.
12SECv. Lifeline Healthcare Group, Ltd., Litigation Release No. 12300 (November
21,1989),44 SEC Docket 2236.
13SECv. Arnold Kimmes, Litigation Release No. 12210 (August 9,1989),44 SEC
Docket 507.
14SEC v. Suzanne Bosworth, Litigation Release No. 12580 (August IS, 1990),46
SEC Docket 1780.
15SECv. San Marino Securities, Inc., Litigation Release No. 12644 (September 28,
1990),47 SEC Docket 772; see also In the Matter of San Marino Securities, Inc., Securities
Exchange Act Release No. 28486 (September 28,1990),47 SEC Docket 674.
16SECv. Beres Industries, Inc., Litigation Release No. 12575 (August 9, 1990),46
SEC Docket 1711.
17SEC v. Drexel Burnham Lambert, Inc., Litigation Release No. 11859 (September
7,1988),41 SEC Docket 1294.

112

18SECv. Michael R. Milken, Litigation Release No. 12454 (April 24, 1990),46 SEC
Docket 145.
19SEC v. Salim B. Lewis, Litigation Release No. 12569 (August 6,1990),46 SEC
Docket 1703.
20SEC v. GAF Corporation and James T. Sherwin, Litigation Release No. 12401
(March 8,1990),45 SEC Docket 1384.
21In the Matter of James T. Melton, Securities Exchange Act Release No. 28313
(August 6,1990),46 SEC Docket 1636.
22SEC v. Michael Kaufman, Litigation Release No. 12425 (March 27, 1990),45
SEC Docket 1731.
23SECv. Novaferon Labs, Inc., Litigation Release No. 12577 (August 14, 1990),46
SEC Docket 1774.
24SEC v. Steven L.Glauberman, Litigation Release No. 12574 (August 9, 1990),46
SEC Docket 1709.
25SEC v. Saul Bluestone, Litigation Release No. 12589 (August 22,1990),46 SEC
Docket 1865.
26SEC v. James H. O'Hagan, Litigation Release No. 12344 (January 10, 1990),45
SEC Docket 610.
27SEC v. Alan C. Goulding, Litigation Release No. 12500 (June 5,1990),46 SEC
Docket 799; see SEC v. Morton S. Neiman, Litigation Release No. 12455 (April 24,
1990),46 SEC Docket 153 (related case).
28SEC v. Richard H. Towle, Accounting and Auditing Enforcement Release No.
258 (May 24,1990),46 SEC Docket 519.
29SECv. Barry J.Minkow, Litigation Release No. 12579 (August IS, 1990),46 SEC
Docket 1777.
30SEC v. Fluid Corporation, Litigation Release No. 12661 (October 9, 1990),47
SEC Docket 877.
31SEC v. Rajiu P. Mehta, Accounting and Auditing Enforcement Release No. 271
(September 10, 1990),47 SEC Docket 188.
32SEC v. Crowell & Co., Inc., Accounting and Auditing Enforcement Release No.
277 (September 28,1990),47 SEC Docket 771.
33SEC v. Malibu Capital Corporation, Litigation Release No. 12635 (September 26
1990),47 SEC Docket 651.
34In the Matter of Stephen L. Hochberg, CPA, Accounting and Auditing
Enforcement Release No. 251 (January 11, 1990),45 SEC Docket 565.
35In the Matter of Charles C. Lehman, [r., CPA, Accounting and Auditing
Enforcement Release No. 275 (September 28,1990),47 SEC Docket 665.
36In the Matter of William G. Gaede, [r., CPA, Accounting and Auditing
Enforcement Release No. 274 (September 26,1990),47 SEC Docket 582.

113

37In the Matter of Georgia McCarley, Accounting and Auditing Enforcement
Release No. 267 (August 1, 1990),46 SEC Docket 1534.
38Inthe Matter of Bruce T. Andersen, CPA, Accounting and Auditing Enforcement
Release No. 268 (August 31,1990),46 SEC Docket 2013.
38Inthe Matter of Charles V. Moore, CPA, Accounting and Auditing Enforcement
Release No. 264 (July 17, 1990), 46 SEC Docket 1276.
4fJSECv. Nortek, Inc., Litigation Release No. 12406 (March 12, 1990), 45 SEC
Docket 1471.
41SEC v. Edward P. Evans, Litigation Release No. 12315 (December 6,1989),45
SEC Docket 73.
42SEC v. Alan E. Clore, Litigation Release No. 12377 (February 13, 1990),45 SEC
Docket 1114.
43SECv. Thomas Lee Oakes, Litigation Release No. 12451 (Apri123, 1990), 46 SEC
Docket 140.
44SEC v. Mesa Limited Partnership and T. Boone Pickens, [r., Litigation Release No.
12637 (September 27,1990),47 SEC Docket 653.
45SEC v. American Assurance Underwriters Group, Inc., Litigation Release No.
12334 (January 4,1990),45 SEC Docket 508.
46SEC v. Charles A. Oglebay, Litigation Release No. 12615 (September 12, 1990),
47 SEC Docket 193.
47SEC v. RL Kotrozo, Inc., Litigation Release No. 12385 (February 22, 1990),45
SEC Docket 1175.
46SEC v. Donald Bader, Litigation Release No. 12584 (August 16,1990),46 SEC
Docket 1785.
49SEC v. AUC Corp., Litigation Release No. 12419 (March 22, 1990),45 SEC
Docket 1661.
50SECv. William A. Thorne, Litigation Release No. 12286 (October 27,1989),44
SEC Docket 1969.
51SEC v. Profit Enterprises Inc., Litigation Release No. 12588 (August 21,1990),
46 SEC Docket 1864.
52SEC v. Transwestern Oil & Gas Co., Inc., Litigation Release No. 12518 (June 20,
1990),46 SEC Docket 967.
53SECv. Thomas Hydrocarbons, Inc., Litigation Release No. 12524 (June 28, 1990),
46 SEC Docket 1075.
54Inthe Matter of The Stuart-James Co. Inc., Securities Exchange Act Release No.
26700 (AprilS, 1989),43 SEC Docket 966.
55SEC v. Thomas James Associates, Inc., Litigation Release No. 12431 (March 29,
1990),45 SEC Docket 1740.
56In the Matter of George Salloum, Securities Exchange Act Release No. 28489
(September 28, 1990),47 SEC Docket 685.
114

57SEC v. Oscar Ayala, Litigation Release No. 12494 (June 1, 1990), 46 SEC Docket
793.
58Inthe Matter of Walter F. Kusay, Jr., Securities Exchange Act Release No. 27945
(April 25, 1990),46 SEC Docket 99.
59SEC v. H.A. Kenning Investments, Inc., and Harry A. Kenning, [r., Litigation
Release No. 12534 (July 6, 1990),46 SEC Docket 1237.
60In the Matter of Harry A. Kenning, Jr., Securities Exchange Act Release No.
28230 (July 18,1990),46 SEC Docket 1318.
61SECv.BruceBlack,LitigationReleaseNo.12511
(June 13, 1990),46 SEC Docket
869.
62SEC v. Phoenix Aviation, Inc., Litigation Release No. 12483 (May 22,1990),46
SEC Docket 518.
63In the Matter of Alan R. Asker, Securities Exchange Act Release No. 28483
(September 29,1990),47 SEC Docket 664.
64SEC v.Jeffers Investments Corporation, Litigation Release No. 12365 (February
1, 1990),45 SEC Docket 915.
65In the Matter of David K. Jeffers and Jeffers Investments Corporation, Securities
Exchange Act Release No. 28135 (June 19,1990),46 SEC Docket 912.
66In the Matter of V.F. Minton Securities, Inc., and Vernon F. Minton, Securities
Exchange Act Release No. 28457 (September 21,1990),47 SEC Docket 552.
67SEC v. Frank Clarke and Co., Inc., Litigation Release No. 12505 (June 7, 1990),
46 SEC Docket 828.
68Inthe Matter of Frank Clarke and Co., Inc., Securities Exchange Act Release No.
28103 (June 11, 1990),46 SEC Docket 828.
69In the Matter of Stotler and Company, Securities Exchange Act Release No.
28360 (August 21, 1990),46 SEC Docket 1816.
7°In the Matter of Donaldson, Lufkin & Jenrette Securities Corporation, Securities
Exchange Act Release No. 27889 (April 11, 1990),45 SEC Docket 1826.
71Inthe Matter of Gary W. Chambers, Securities Exchange Act Release No. 27298
(September 27,1989),44 SEC Docket 1336.
72Inthe Matter of Goodrich Securities, Inc., Securities Exchange Act Release No.
28141 (June 25, 1990),46 SEC Docket 975.
73SECv. MIchael S. Douglas, Litigation Release No. 12303 (November 22,1989),
44 SEC Docket 2240.
74SEC v. Gregory D. Govan, Litigation Release No. 12322 (December 13, 1989),
45 SEC Docket 190.
75Inthe Matter of Liberty Securities Group, Inc. and Gregory D. Govan, Investment
Advisers Act Release No. 1232 (June 1, 1990),46 SEC Docket 789.
76SEC v. U.S. General Corporation, Litigation Release No. 12304 (November 22,
1989),44 SEC Docket 2241.

115

T7In the Matter of Blue Chip Market Advisor, Inc. and James Paul Azzalino,
Investment Advisers Act Release No. 1207 (October 25,1989),44 SEC Docket 1832.
78Inthe Matter of Fred Alger Management, Inc., Investment Advisers Act Release
No. 1222 (February 26, 1990),45 SEC Docket 1272.
79SEC v. William P. Dillon, Litigation Release No. 12531 (July 5, 1990),46 SEC
Docket 1181.
MIn the Matter of Patterson Capital Corp. and Joseph B. Patterson, Investment
Advisers Act Release No. 1235 (June 25, 1990),46 SEC Docket 1057.
81In the Matter of Stein Roe & Farnham Incorporated, Investment Advisers Act
Release No. 1217 (January 22,1990),45 SEC Docket 784.
82In the Matter of Thomson McKinnon Asset Management L. P., Investment
Advisers Act Release No. 1243 (July 26,1990),46 SEC Docket 1482.
83SEC v. R.E.C. Investors, Inc., Litigation Release No. 12622 (September 18,
1990),47 SEC Docket 537.
84SEC v. Municipal Lease Securities Fund, Inc., Litigation Release No. 12331
(December 26,1989),45 SEC Docket 420.
B5SECv. Dart Group Corporation, Litigation Release No. 12392 (February 28,
1990),45 SEC Docket 1288.
86SEC v. Fluid Corporation, Litigation Release No. 12661 (October 9, 1990),47
SEC Docket 877.
87pigures are approximate.
86'fhe1990 total for SEC Requests to Foreign Governments is composed of: 173
Enforcement Assistance Requests; 2 Enforcement Referrals; and 2 Technical
Assistance Requests. Prior to 1990, separate totals for enforcement referrals and
technical assistance requests were not maintained.
86'fhe1990total for Foreign Requests to the SEC is composed of: 89 Enforcement
Assistance Requests; 2 Enforcement Referrals; and 30 Technical Assistance Requests.
Prior to 1990, separate totals for enforcement referrals and technical assistance
requests were not maintained.
90 See, e.g., SEC, Division of Market Regulation, The October 1987 Market Break
(February 1988).
91MarketReform Act of 1990, Pub. L. No. 101-432 (1990).
92Division of Market Regulation, SEC, Trading Analysis of October 13 and 16,
1989 (May 1990).
935ecuritiesExchange Act Release No. 27370 (October 23,1989),44 SEC Docket
1732.
84See Securities Exchange Act Release No. 27445 (November 16, 1989), 44 SEC
Docket 2037.
SSSecuritiesExchange Act Release No. 27975-A (May 30,1990), 46 SEC Docket
0543.
965ecurities Exchange Act Release No. 27956 (April 27, 1990),46 SEC Docket
0182.
97FileNo. SR-NASD-90-49; File No. SR-NASD-90-50.
116

98Securities Exchange Act Release No. 28146 (June 26, 1990),46 SEC Docket
0985.
99Securities Exchange Act Release No. 26870 (May 26, 1989),43 SEC Docket
1793.
l00See e-g-, letter from Richard C. Breeden, Chairman, Securities and Exchange
Commission, to Ivers W. Riley, Senior Executive Vice President, American Stock
Exchange, dated October 17, 1990.
101SecuritiesExchange Act Release Nos. 28285 (July 30,1990),46 SEC Docket
1517, and 27851 (March 27,1990),45 SEC Docket 1692.
102SecuritiesExchange Act Release Nos. 27598 (January 9, 1990),45 SEC Docket
554, and 277809 (March 16, 1990),45 SEC Docket 1502.
l03SecuritiesExchange Act Release No. 28518 (October 5, 1990),47 SEC Docket

805.

l04SecuritiesExchange Act Release No. 27902 (April 12, 1990),45 SEC Docket
1877.
10SSecuritiesExchange Act Release No. 27858 (March 28,1990),45 SEC Docket
1696.
l00securities Exchange Act Release Nos. 27958, 59 (April 27, 1990),46 SEC
Docket 192, 93.
107SecuritiesExchange Act Release No. 27959 (April 27, 1990),46 SEC Docket
193.
l08Letter from Jonathan Kallman, Assistant Director, Division of Market
Regulation, SEC, to Karen Saperstein, Associate General Counsel, ISCC, dated
September 13, 1988.
l09International Series Release No. 137 (August 8,1990),46 SEC Docket 1715.
110SecuritiesExchange Act Release No. 28609, International Series Release No.
189 (November 9, 1990),47 SEC Docket 1361.
lllSecurities Exchange Act Release No. 27554 (December 20, 1989), 45 SEC
Docket 213.
112SecuritiesExchange Act Release No. 27967 (May 1, 1990),46 SEC Docket 46.
113SecuritiesExchange Act Release No. 27877 (April 4, 1990),45 SEC Docket
1775.
114Letterfrom Jonathan Kallman, Assistant Director, Division of Market Regulation, SEC, to Karen L. Saperstein, Associate General Counsel, ISCC, dated March
12,1990.
115Letterfrom Jonathan Kallman, Assistant Director, Division of Market Regulation, SEC, to Karen L. Saperstein, Associate General Counsel, ISCC, dated August
14,1990.
11SSecuritiesExchange Act Release No. 27565 (December 22, 1989),45 SEC
Docket 300.
117SecuritiesExchange Act Release Nos. 27769 (March 6,1990),45 SEC Docket
1318,28399 (August 30, 1990), 46 SEC Docket 1907, and 28106 (June 12, 1990), 46 SEC
Docket 0832.
11SSecurities Exchange Act Release No. 28544 (October 16, 1990),47 SEC Docket
909.

117

119Letterfrom Richard Ketchum, Director, Division of Market Regulation, SEC,
to Patrick Mordacq, Secretary General, COB, dated September 18, 1990; and Letter
from Patrick Mordacq, Secretary General, COB, to Richard Ketchum, Director,
Division of Market Regulation, SEC, dated September 18, 1990.
120SecuritiesExchange Act Release No. 28475 (September 27, 1990),47 SEC
Docket 0595.
121Letterfrom Richard G. Ketchum, Director, Division of Market Regulation,
SEC, to Joanne T. Medero, General Counsel, CFfC, dated January 8, 1990.
122SecuritiesExchange Act Release No. 28282 (July 30, 1990),46 SEC Docket
1509.
123SecuritiesExchange Act Release No. 28553 (October 18, 1990),47 SEC Docket
0919.
124SecuritiesExchange Act Release No. 28580 (October 25,1990),47 SEC Docket
1078.
125SecuritiesExchange Act Release No. 27600 (January 9, 1990),45 SEC Docket
558.
12SSecuritiesExchange Act Relese No. 27633 (January 18, 1990), 45 SEC Docket
661.
127SecuritiesExchange Act Release No. 27599 (January 9,1990),45 SEC Docket
555.
128SecuritiesExchange Act Release No. 27378 (October 24,1989),44 SEC Docket
1746.
129SecuritiesExchange Act Release Nos. 28322 (August 9, 1990), 46 SEC Docket
1658, and 28088 (June 1, 1990), 46 SEC Docket 0709.
l30Securities Exchange Act Release No. 28411 (September 6, 1990),46 SEC
Docket 2038.
131SecuritiesExchange Act Release No. 26870 (May 26, 1989),43 SEC Docket
1793.
132SecuritiesExchange Act Release No. 28021 (May 16, 1990),46 SEC Docket
0389.
133SecuritiesExchange Act Release No. 27631 (January 17, 1990),45 SEC Docket
656.
134SecuritiesExchange Act Release No. 28160 (June 28,1990),46 SEC Docket
1015.
135SecuritiesExchange Act Release Nos. 27365 (October 25, 1989), 44 SEC
Docket 1643, and 27368 (October 19, 1989),44 SEC Docket 1647.
130SecuritiesExchange Act Release No. 27280 (September 29, 1989),44 SEC
Docket 1229.
137SecuritiesExchange Act Release No. 27786 (March 8,1990),45 SEC Docket
1341.
138SecuritiesExchange Act Release No. 27786 (March 8,1990),45 SEC Docket
1341.
13915U.S.c. 78bb(e).
.
140pub.L. No. 93-406, 88 Stat. 832 (September 2,1974).
141Lefterfrom Richard G. Ketchum, Director, Division of Market Regulation,
SEC, to Charles Lerner, Director of Enforcement, DOL (July 25,1990).

118

142Letterfrom Richard G. Ketchum, Director, Division of Market Regulation,
SEC, to Richard B. Smith, Esq., Davis Polk & Wardwell, dated September 4,1990.
14315 U.S.c. 78f(a).
14415 U.S.c. 780(b).
14515 U.S.c. 78q-l(c).
'46Letterfrom John Polanin, [r., Branch Chief, Financial Institution Regulation,
Office of Chief Counsel, Division of Market Regulation, SEC, to Anthony J. Leitner,
Goldman, Sachs & Co., dated September 6,1990.
147Letterfrom John Polanin, [r., Branch Chief, Financial Institution Regulation,
Office of Chief Counsel, Division of Market Regulation, SEC, to George Brunelle, M.
c., Harrison & Company, dated September 6,1990.
148Letterfrom Robert L. D. Colby, Chief Counsel, Division of Market Regulation, SEC, to Richard B. Smith, Esq., Davis Polk & Wardwell (October 4, 1990).
149Letterfrom Robert L. D. Colby, Chief Counsel, Division of Market Regulation, SEC, to Frank J. Wilson, Executive Vice President, Law & Regulatory Policy,
NASD, dated December 5,1989.
lSOLetterfrom John Polanin, Jr., Special Counsel, Office of Chief Counsel,
Division of Market Regulation, SEC, to Frank J. Wilson, Executive Vice President,
Law & Regulatory Policy, NASD, dated August 16,1990.
15tLetterregarding Aktiebolaget Volvo and Procordia Aktiebolag dated April
20,1990.
'52Letter regarding Attwoods PLC dated June 26,1990.
153Letterregarding Atlas Copco AB dated May 22, 1990.
154Letterregarding Hutamaki Oy dated June 7, 1990.
tSSLetterregarding Compagnie General d'Electricite dated July 16,1990. See
also Letter regarding U.K. Water Privatization dated November 22,1989.
'SSSecuritiesExchange Act Release No. 28561 (October 16, 1990),47 SEC Docket
979.
t57SecuritiesExchange Act Release No. 27938 (April 23, 1990),46 SEC Docket
90.
158Letterfrom Jonathan G. Katz, Secretary, SEC, to the Hon. Christopher J.
Dodd, U.S. Senate (September 10, 1990), transmitting Report of the Division of
Market Regulation of the Securities and Exchange Commission on a Proposed
Industry Amendment to Section 11(a) of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, dated
September 10, 1990.
15915 U.S.c. 78k(a).
'SOSecuritiesExchange Act Release No. 28347 (August 15, 1990),46 SEC Docket
1747.
t61Letterfrom Michael A. Macchiaroli, Assistant Director, Division of Market
Regulation, SEC, to Salvatore A. Pallante, Senior Vice President, New York Stock
Exchange, dated January 31,1990.
162Letter from Michael A. Macchiaroli, Assistant Director, Division of
Market Regulation, SEC, to Jeffrey C. Bernstein, Co-Chairman, Compliance
Committee, International Operation Association, Securities Industry Association, dated August 9, 1990.
163SecuritiesExchange Act Release Nos. 27382 (October 26, 1989), 44 SEC
Docket 1777, and 27383 (October 26,1989),44 SEC Docket 1789.
119

164SecuritiesExchange Act Release No. 27384 (October 26,1989),44 SEC Docket
1795.
lSSSecuritiesExchange Act Release No. 27455 (November 22, 1989),44 SEC
Docket 2170.
166SecuritiesExchange Act Release No. 27846 (March 26, 1990), 45 SEC Docket
1682.
167SecuritiesExchange Act Release No. 27803 (March 14, 1990),45 SEC
Docket 1431.
168SecuritiesExchange Act Release No. 27675 (February 5,1990),45 SEC Docket
964.
169SecuritiesExchange Act Release Nos. 27753 (March 1, 1990), 45 SEC Docket
1219, and 28217 (july 18, 1990),46 SEC Docket 1288.
17°Securities Exchange Act Release Nos. 28072 (May 30, 1990), 46 SEC
Docket 582, and 28143 (June 25,1990),46 SEC Docket 980.
171SecuritiesExchange Act Release No. 28293 (August 1, 1990),46 SEC Docket
1542.
172SecuritiesExchange Act Release No. 27554 (December 20, 1989),45 SEC
Docket 213.
173TheBusiness Roundtable v. Securities and Exchange Commission, Fed. Sec. L.
Rep. (CCH) 95, 291 (D.C. Cir. June 12, 1990).
174SecuritiesExchange Act Release Nos. 27625 (january 16, 1990), 45 SEC
Docket 642, and 27466 (November 22, 1989),44 SEC Docket 2183.
17SSecuritiesExchange Act Release No. 27727 (February 22, 1990), 45 SEC
Docket 1138.
176SecuritiesExchange Act Release No. 28014 (May 14, 1990),46 SEC Docket
374.
177SecuritiesExchange Act Release No. 27543 (December 15, 1989),45 SEC
Docket 197.
17SSecuritiesExchange Act Release Nos. 27878 (Apri14, 1990),45 SEC Docket
1776; 27702 (February 12, 1990), 45 SEC Docket 1058; and 28003 (May 8,1990),46
SEC Docket 318.
179SecuritiesExchange Act Release No. 27837 (March 22, 1990),45 SEC Docket
1565.
lSOSecuritiesExchange Act Release No. 28167 (june 29,1990), 46 SEC Docket
1084.
181SecuritiesExchange Act Release No. 27967 (May 1, 1990),46 SEC Docket 211.
182SecuritiesExchange Act Release No. 28335 (August 13, 1990),46 SEC Docket
1737.
183SecuritiesExchange Act Release No. 27561 (December 21, 1989),45 SEC
Docket 221.
184SecuritiesExchange Act Release No. 27981 (May 2, 1990),46 SEC Docket 240.
lSSSecuritiesExchange Act Release No. ,28040 (May 22,1990),46 SEC Docket
453.

186SecuritiesExchange Act Release Nos. 28001 (May 7,1990),46 SEC Docket
316; 28191 (july 10, 1990),46 SEC Docket 1192; and 28242 (luly 20, 1990),46 SEC
Docket 1415.
120

187Securities Exchange
Docket 2314.
188Securities Exchange
Docket 1185.
l119Securities Exchange
1506.
l00securities Exchange
Docket 26.
1915ecurities Exchange
1223.
1925ecurities Exchange
840.
1935ecurities Exchange
1552.
1945ecurities Exchange
1216.
'SSSecurities Exchange
467.
l00securities Exchange
0696.

Act Release No. 27489 (November

30, 1989),44

Act Release

26, 1990), 45 SEC

No. 27732 (February

SEC

Act Release No. 28277 (July 27, 1990), 46 SEC Docket
Act Release No. 27502 (December

5, 1989), 45 SEC

Act Release No. 27755 (March I, 1990),45 SEC Docket
Act Release No. 27664 (January 31,1990),45

SEC Docket

Act Release No. 28307 (August 2,1990),46

SEC Docket

Act Release No. 27752 (March I, 1990),45 SEC Docket
Act Release No. 28049 (May 24,1990),46

SEC Docket

Act Release No. 28081 (June I, 1990),46

SEC Docket

197Rule 19d-l authorizes certain SROs to report certain technical violations
quarterly in chart form. In fiscal year 1990, the number of cases reported in this
abbreviated format was as follows: American Stock Exchange--e, New York Stock
Exchange--90, Pacific Stock Exchange--12, and the Philadelphia
Stock Exchange-108. These cases are included in the text discussion and chart.
198Investment Company Act Release No. 17534 (June 15, 1990),46 SEC Docket
875.
199Investment Company Act Release No. 17589 (July 17, 1990),46 SEC Docket
1247.
2OOInvestmentCompany Act Release No. 17682 (August 9, 1990),46 SEC Docket
1830.
201Investment Company Act Release No. 17681 (August 17, 1990), 46 SEC
Docket 1828.
202Investment

Company

Act Release No. 17769; International

Series ReI. No.

160; File No. 5717-90 (October 1,1990),47 SEC Docket 0746.
203 Holding
Company Act Release No. 25058 (March 19, 1990),45 SEC Docket
1577.
204 Holding

Company

Act Release No. 25059 (March 19, 1990),45 SEC Docket

1582.
205Investment Company Act Release No. 17613 (July 25,1990),46 SEC Docket
1466 (Notice); Investment Company Act Release No. 17809 (Oct. 19, 1990),47 SEC
Docket 1098 (Order).
206Investment Company Act Release No. 17617 (July 26,1990),46 SEC Docket
1476 (Notice); Investment Company Act Release No. 17673 (Aug. 14,1990),46 SEC
Docket 1765 (Order).
121

207Jnvestment Company Act Release No. 17404 (April 2, 1990), 45 SEC Docket
1784 {Notice and Temporary Order); Investment Company Act Release No. 17404A
{April 11, 1990),45 SEC Docket 1892 (Corrected Notice and Temporary
Order);
Investment
Company Act Release No. 17501 (May 21, 1990), 46 SEC Docket 49c
(Permanent Order).
208Capital Preservation
Fund, Inc. (pub. avail. September II, 1990).
209Sanford C. Bernstein Fund, Inc. (pub. avail. June 25,1990).
21°Nuveen Advisory Corp. (pub. avail. September 4, 1990).
211Scudder Group of Funds (pub. avail. June 19, 1990).
212Zweig Series Trust (pub. avail. January 10, 1990).
213Bennett Management
Co. (pub. avail. February 26, 1990).
214Rosenberg Institutional
Equity Management
(pub. avail. March 14, 1990).
215Holding Company Act Release No. 25136 {August 27, 1990),46 SEC Docket
1911.
216HoidingCompany
Act Release No. 25100 {JuneS, 1990),46 SEC Docket 0737.
217Holding Company Act Release No. 24590 (February 26,1988) ,40 SEC Docket
634.
218Wisconsin's Environmental Decade, Inc. v. SEC, 882 F.2d 523 (D.C. Cir. 1989).
219Holding Company Act Release No. 25096 {May 25,1990),46
SEC Docket
0586.
22OHoiding Company Act Release No. 25032 {February 2, 1990),45 SEC Docket
1004.
221Holding Company Act Release No. 24911 {June 29,1989),43
SEC Docket
2278.
222Holding Company Act Release No. 24911 (June 29, 1989), 43 SEC Docket
2278.
223Holding Company Act Release No. 25152 {September 18, 1990),47 SEC
Docket 0480.
224Pacific Mutual Life Insurance Company (pub. avail. August 31,1990).
225Great-West Life & Annuity Insurance Company (pub. avail. August 23,
1990).
226Registration Forms for Insurance Company Separate Accounts that Offer
Variable Annuity Contracts, Investment Company Act Release No. 14575 {June 25,
1985),33 SEC Docket 508.
227College Retirement Equities Fund (pub. avail. Mar. 2, 1990).
228Securities Exchange Act Release No. 27425 (November
7, 1989), 44 SEC
Docket 1982.
229Securities Exchange Act Release No. 27671 (February 2,1990) ,45 SEC Docket
925.
230Securities Act Release No. 6863 {April 24, 1990),46 SEC Docket 40.
231Securities Act Release No. 6879 {October 23, 1990),47 SEC Docket 979.
232Securities Act Release No. 6862 {April 23, 1990),46 SEC Docket 23.
233Securities Act Release No. 6862 (April 23, 1990),46 SEC Docket 23.
234Securities Exchange Act Release No. 28093 (June 6,1990) ,46 SEC Docket 655.
235Securities Act Release No. 6869 {June 22,1990),46 SEC Docket 892.
236Securities Act Release No. 6867 {June 6,1990),46 SEC Docket 659.
2371989Annual Report at p. 29.

122

238'festimony of Richard C. Breeden, Chairman, SEC, Concerning Issues
Involving Financial Institutions and Accounting Principles before the Senate
Committee on Banking, Housing and Urban Affairs, September 10, 1990 at 32.
23SStaffAccounting Bulletin No. 87 (December 12, 1989),45 SEC Docket 192
(Property-Casualty Insurance Reserves for Unpaid Claims Costs; Contingency
Disclosure).
240StaffAccounting Bulletin No. 88 (August 10, 1990),46 SEC Docket 1787
(Disclosures Required of Foreign Private Issuers to Comply with Item 17of Form 20p).
241SecuritiesExchange Act Release No. 33-6789 (July 19,1988),41 SEC Docket
681.

242H.R.5269, 101st Cong., 2d Sess. (1990).
243SecuritiesExchange Act Release No. 33-6837 (June 20, 1989) 43 SEC Docket
2080.
244Proposed Statement on Auditing Standards, Communication of Matters
about Interim Financial Information Filed or to be Filed with Specified Regulatory
Agencies (June 1990).
245ProposedStatement on Auditing Standards, Omnibus Statement on Auditing
Standards-1990 (July 1990).
246FinancialReporting Release No. 28 (December 1, 1986), 37 SEC Docket 194.
247practiceBulletin No.7, Criteria for Determining Whether Collateral for a
Loan Has Been In-Substance Foreclosed (April 1990).
246
ASC Statement of Intent, Comparability of Financial Statements (July 1990)
249g03F.2d 75 (2d Clr.). rehearing en bane granted, [Current] Fed. Sec. L. Rep.
(CCH) cn95,439(2d Cir. 1990).
250g15F.2d 439 (9th Cir. 1990).
251910F.2d 1028 (2d Cir.), petition for rehearing denied, 917 F.2d 98 (2d Gr.
1990).
2521105.0.
945 (1990).
253328U.S. 293 (1946).
254918F.2d 349 (2d Cir. 1990).
255854 F.2d 1319 (5th Cir. 1988), eert. denied, 109 S.O. 3214 (1989).
256No.90-333 (S.Ct.).
257909 F.2d 724 (2d Cir. 1990), petition for eert. granted, 111 S.Ct. 669 (1991).
25t!g14
F.2d 1564 (9th Cir, 1990), eert. denied, 111 S. Ct. 1621 (1991).
259905F.2d 406 (D.C. Cir. 1990).
260883 F.2d 525 (7th Cir. 1989).
261470U.S. 821 (1985).
262923F.2d 1270 (7th Cir. 1991).
263895 F.2d 1272 (9th Cir. 1990).
264111 S.O. 415 (1990).
265888 F.2d 1537 (Tlth Cir. 1989)
123

266No.89-1448 (S.Ct.).
7Price Waterhouse v. SEC, No. 90-0245 (D.D.C. 1990).
268Safecardv. SEC, No. 84-3073 (D.D.C. 1989) appeal pending, No. 89-5374 (D.C.
Cir.1990).
268PhoenixCentral and Arizona, General Partnership v. SEC, Docket No. M90-001
PHX RG5 (D. Ariz. March 1, 1990); Recorp Northwest Outer Loop Associates, F/K/A
Recorp Outer Loop Associates v. SEC, Docket No. M90-002 PHX CLH (D. Ariz. March
21, 1990); In the Matter of the U.S. Securities and Exchange Commission Private
Investigation / Application of John Doe in re Certain Subpoenas, Misc. No. MI8-304 (VLB)
(S.D.N.Y. March 14, 1990); In re Securities and Exchange Commission Private Investigation/Application of John Doe re Certain Subpoenas, Misc. No. M8-85 (MBM) [1990
Transfer Binder] Fed. Sec. L. Rep. (CCH) en 95,424 (S.D.N.Y. August 10,1990) (two
actions); and In the Matter of the U.S. Securities and Exchange Commission Private
Investigation/Application
of David R. Yeaman re a Certain Subpoena, Misc. No. 90-M86W (D. Utah August 30,1990) (two actions).
26

27°Kemprowski v. SEC, c.A. No. 90-3831 (D.N.J.) (motion withdrawn October
24, 1990).
271Misc.No. M8-85 (MBM) [1990 Transfer Binder] Fed. Sec. L. Rep. (CCH) 'lI
95,424 (S.D.N.Y. August 10, 1990).
272SECv. Comserv Corp., Nos. 5063MN and 5064MN (8th Cir. July 24,1990); see
also Antonou v. SEC, Nos. 85-3384/88-1095 (8th Cir. August 14, 1989) (denying as
premature Antonou's application for attorney's fees after vacating and remanding
Commission order on review).
273Halev. McKenzie, No. 1:90-CV-ll05-GET (N.D. Ga. October 30,1990).
274SECv. World-Wide Coin Investments, Inc., 567 F. Supp. 724 (N.D. Ga. 1983).
275SECv. American Assurance Underwriter Group, Inc., No. 89-7016-CIV-P AINE
(S.D. Fla. March 30, 1990).
276SECv. Belmont Reid and Company, No. C-84-6366-JPV (N.D. Cal. November
2,1990).
277SECv.Belmont Reid and Company, No. C-84-6366 JPV (N.D. Cal. May 20, 1985),
affd, 794 F.2d 1388 (9th Cir. 1986).
27847SEC Docket 405 (September 25,1990).
279A.P.No. 3-7038 (September 20,1989).
280SECv. The Electronics Warehouse, Inc., 689 F. Supp. 53 (D. Conn. 1988).
281SecuritiesExchange Act Release No. 28262 (July 25,1990).
282Civ.No. 86-C-0313G (D. Utah).
283A.P.No. 3-7030 (October 25,1989).
284SECv. Porto, Civ. Action No. 88-C-0239 (N.D. Ill. 1988).
2855ecuritiesExchange Act Release No. 27535 (December 13, 1989),45 SEC
Docket 120.
286Investment Advisers Act Release No. 1236 (June 26,1990),46 SEC Docket
1062.
287pub.L. No. 101-429, 104 Stat. 931 (1990).
124

288pub. L. No. 101-432, 104 Stat. 978 (l990).
289pub. L. No. 101-550, 104 Stat. 2713 (l990).

290Requestfor Public Comments on the Role of the Securities and Exchange Commission in Reorganization Cases under Chapter 11 of the Bankruptcy Code, Corporate
Reorganization
Release No. 384, Release No. 34-27300 (September
Reg. 40760 (October 3, 1989).

27,1989),54

Fed.

291Inre Amdura Corporation, Case No. 90-3811-E et. seq. (Bankr, Colo); In re
Sahlen & Associates, Inc., No. 89B 11234-44 (Bankr. S.D.N.Y.) (formal request made
to U.S. trustee).

292Inre The Worthington Company, No. 89-3279 and No. 89-3286 (6th Cit.).
293Inre The Worthington Company, No. 89-3279 and No. 89-3286 (6th Cit.
December

5,1990).

294Groganv. Garner, No. 89-1149 (S. Ct.).
295Groganv. Garner, 806 F.2d 829 (8th Cit. 1986).
296Groganv. Garner, 111 S. Ct. 654 (l991).
297Inre Resorts International, Inc., Nos. 89-10119, 89-10120, 89-10461, and 8910462 (Bankr. D. N. J.).

298KaiserSteel Corp. v. Charles Schwab & Co., 913 F.2d 846 (lOth Cit. 1990).
299KaiserSteel Resources, Inc. v. Action Traders, Inc., No. 90-1243 (lOth C i r.);
Kaiser Steel Resources, Inc. v. Pearl Brewing Co., No. 90-1245 (lOth Cir.).
300Inre General Development Corp., Case No. 90-1223-BKC-AJC (Bankr. S.D. PIa).
301Inre Johns-Mansville Corp., 801 F.2d 60 (2d Cit. 1986).
302Inre LTV Corp., 104 B.R.626 (S.D.N.Y. 1989), appeal pending, No. 89-5040 (2d
Cir.).

303Inre American Reserve, 840 F.2d 487 (7th Cit. 1988).
304Inre The Charter Co., 876 F.2d 866 (lIth Cit. 1989).
305Inre Johns-Manville, 53 B.R. 346,350-51 (Bankr, S.D.N.Y. 1985).
306Inre SIS Corp. and Sisters International Inc., Nos. B-89-o800, 8-89-081 (Bankr,
N.D. Ohio) (two objection filed); In re American Medical Technology, Inc., Case No.
89-0144 (Bankr. W.O. Tex.): and In re Saratoga Standardbreds, Inc., Case No. 88-11973
(JIM) (Bankr, N.D.N.Y.).

7Inre American Medical Technology, Inc., Case No. 89-30144 (Bankr, W.O. Tex.),
308Inre Saratoga Standardbreds, Inc., Case No. 88-11973 (JIM) (Bankr, N.D.N.Y.).
309Inre Southmark Corp., Case No. 389-36324-SAF-11 (Bankr, N.D. Tex.).
3l°In re SIS Corp. and Sisters International, Inc., Bkey. Nos. B-89-0800, B-89-o81
30

(Bankr. N.D.O. hbo).

311Seee, .g., In re Custom Laboratories, Inc., 53rd Annual Report at 74 (objection
statement); In re Energy Exchange Corp. and Vulcan Energy Corp. and
In reStorage Technology Corp., 53rd Annual Report at 74-75 (objection to confirmation
to disclosure

of reorganization

plan).

125

Appendix
The Securities Industry
Revenue, Expenses, and Selected Balance Sheet Items

Broker-dealers that are registered with the Commission earned pre-tax
profits of $2.8billion in calendar year 1989, $700 million less than 1988 results. With
a pre-tax return on equity capital of 7.7%,1989 was the third year in a row of subpar profitability.
Broker-dealers produced revenues of $77.1 billion in 1989, 17% above the
1988 level. This increase resulted primarily from higher interest revenues and
modest improvements in the depressed brokerage business. In the aggregate, the
traditional dealer business-trading,
investment, and underwriting-showed
little change.
Larger volumes of securities transactions resulted in a 15% increase in
revenues from the brokerage business. An increase in exchange volume contributed
to a $1.6 billion (13%) increase in brokerage commissions. Revenues from sales of
mutual funds increased $400 million (15%). Brokers' income from margin lending
rose $800 million (24%) due to higher levels of margin debt and a rise in interest
rates. While 1989revenues reflect an improvement over the depressed 1988 results,
revenues from the brokerage business remain down from the highs in 1986 and
1987.
Revenues from the traditional principal business were stagnant for the
second year in a row. Gains from principal transactions fell $400 million (2%) in
1989. Profits from underwriting dropped by $1.1 billion (19%). The decline in
underwriting profits primarily reflects a sharp drop in the volume of new closedend funds. The volume of new equity issues in general remained down substantially
from the levels of earlier years.
The "all other revenues" category, which is dominated by interest income
from securities purchased under agreements to resell and fees from handling
private placements, mergers, and acquisitions, rose $9.7 billion (37%) in 1989.
These revenues accounted for 46% of total revenues in 1989, compared to 40% in
1988. Most of this increase represents higher interest income. Merger and
acquisition activity was down slightly in 1989, while the volume of private
placements was flat.
The growth in expenses paralleled that of revenues, increasing $11.6 billion
(19%). Interest expenses accounted for almost all of this increase, rising $10.4
billion (53%).
Assets rose by 20% to $654.6 billion, while liabilities increased 21% to $618.1
billion. Most of the growth in assets represented increased positions in government
securities, while that of liabilities was from repurchase agreements used to finance
these positions. Equity capital was stable at $36.5 billion.

126

UNCONSOLIDATED

Table 1
FINANCIAL INFORMATION
1985-1989 11
(Millions of Dollars)
1985

1988

FOR BROKER-DEALERS

1987

1988'

1989'

Revenues

1.
2.

$10,966.0

$13,976.6

$16,674.1

$11,932.4

$13,484.6

14,649.2

18,146.0

14,423.0

16,667.0

16,286.0

4,986.7
2,746.0

6,742.6
3,021.6

6,719.4
3,493.3

6,606.8
3,164.6

4,636.6
3,910.1

6.

secunnes cornrrusslons
Gains (losses) in trading and
Investment accounts
ProfIts (losses) from underwriting and selJing groups
Margin interest
Revenues from sale of investment company shares
All other revenues

2,763.6
13,863.8

4,640.3
17,997.8

4,069.3
21,826.3

2,644.0
26,096.6

3,038.1
36,821.0

7.

Total revenues

$49,844.3

$64,423.8

$66,104 4

$66,100.3

$77,0768

$ 8,184.0

$10,701 0

$11,0422

3.
4.
6.

Expenses

8.

12.
13.
14.

Registered representatives'
compensation (Part II only) 2/
Other employee compensation
end benehts
Compensation to partners end
voting stockholder officers
Comnussions and clearence paid
to other brokers
Interest expenses
Regulatory fees and expenses
All other expenses 2/

16.

Total expenses

9.
10.
11.

$ 9,004.4

$ 9,001.2

8,149.0

11,0026

12,110.9

12,160.0

12,640.6

1,778.9

2,2327

2,4296

2,263.8

2,276.6

2,9946
14,232.9
4166
14.6424

3,662.6
16,473.4
432.4
16.843.4

2,803.8
19,602.0
490.0
16,409.2

3,084.2
29,876.1
682.1
16,899.9

2,314.2
11,469.8
339.7
11.106.4
$43,341.9

$66,1226

$62,894.6

$62,623.2

$74,260.5

$ 6,502.4
13.0
26.7

$ 8,301.2
12.9
268

$ 3,209.9
4.9
9.4

$ 3,477.1
6.3
96

$2,8163
3.7
7.7

Income and Profitability

16.
17.
18.
Assets,

Pre-tax income
Pre-tax profrt margin
Pre-tax return on equity

liabilities

and Capital

$452,463.3 $620,940.6 $477,442.4 $646,216 7 $664,642.7

19.

Total assets

20.

Lrabthties
a. Unsubcrdmated liabilities
b. Subordinated habrlitres
c. Total liabilities

21.

Ownership

Equity

421,593.8
6,553.6
428,147.4

495,706.6
13,974.2
609,6798

602,726.3
16,421.7
618,148.0

$ 24,316.9 $ 31,006.2 $ 34,267.3 $ 36,636.9 $ 36,494.7
8,967

Number of firms

478,990.6 430,4983
10,944.7
12,686.8
489,936.3 443,186.1

9,436

9,616

9,217

8,812

11

Calendar,

';,/

Registered representatives'
compensation for firms that neither carry nor clear IS included In "otner
expenses' as this expense Item IS not reported separately on Part IIA 01 tne FOCUS Report.

rather than fiscal, year data IS reported

In thrs table.

FIgures may not sum due to rounding.
r=revised
p preliminary

=


Source:

FOCUS Report

127

Table 2
UNCONSOLIDATED ANNUAL REVENUES AND EXPENSES FOR
BROKER-DEALERS DOING A PUBLIC BUSINESS

1985-19891/
(Millions of Dollars)
1985

1988

1987

1988'

1989'

$10,684.6

$13,613.2

$16,016.2

$11,616.3

$13,043.1

13,086.4

16,363.2

12,393.4

16,296.3

15,066.9

4,986.0
2,730.9

6,739.0
3,006.8

6,718.6
3,467.0

6,606.6
3,135.5

4,636.4
3,860.6

6.

Securities commissions
Gains (losses) in trading and
Investment accounts
Profits (losses) from underwriting and selling groups
Margin interest
Revenues from sale of investment
company shares
All other revenues

2,763.4
13,379.6

4,640.1
17,432.8

4,069.6
21,450.2

2,643.2
26,039.0

3,037.8
36,263.0

7.

Total revenues

$47,619.0

$61,684.0

$63,114.8

$64,234.9

$74,797.8

$ 8,172.4

$10,676.4

$11,032.4

$ 8,993.3

$ 8,986.2

7,998.9

10,794.0

11,869.7

11,900.9

12,217.1

1,646.4

2,040.8

2,186.2

2,063.6

2,093.3

2,186.7
10,968.0
313.9
10,761.8

2,781.6
13,691.6
384.9
14,024.1

3,356,8
16,179.1
399.9
16,284.1

2,641.0
19,268.1
461.9
16,968.3

2,882.6
29,400.6
620.4
16,386.0

$42,038.1

$64,392.3

$61,3060

$61,287.0

$72,486.1

$ 6,480.8
11.6
26.3

$ 7,191.7
11.7
25.8

$ 1,808.8
2.9
6.7

$ 2,947.9
4.6
8.6

$ 2,312.7
3.1
6.8

6,902

6,236

6,307

6,006

6,745

Revenue.

1.
2.
3.
4.
6.

Expense.

8.

12.
13.
14.

Registered representanves'
compensation (Part II only) l/
Other employee compensauon
and benefits
Compensation to partners and
voting stockholder officers
Commissions and clearance paid
to other brokers
Interest expenses
Regulatory fees and expenses
All other expenses l/

15.

Total expenses

9.
10.
11.

Income end Profitebility

16.
17.
18.

Pre-tax Income
Pre-tax profit margin
Pre-tax return on equrtv

Number of firm.

1/

Calendar, rather than fiscal, year data is reported In this table.

l/

Registered representatives' compensation for firms that neither carry nor clear is included ,n "other
expenses. as thrs expense Item is not reported separately on Part IIA of the FOCUS Report.

Figures may not sum due to rounding.
r=revised
p = preliminary
Source:

128

FOCUS Report

Table 3
UNCONSOLIDATED BALANCE SHEET FOR BROKER-DEALERS
DOING A PUBLIC BUSINESS
YEAR-END,1985-19891/

(Millions of Dollars)
1985

1988

1987

1988'

1989'

Assets

1.
2.

Cash
$ 6,641.3
Receivables from other
broker-dealers
64,384.2
ReceIVables from customers
47,680.2
Receivables from non-customers
3,343.8
Long positions in sacurrtles
and commodities
162,267.8
Securities and Investments
not readily marketable
426.9
Securities purchased under agreements
to resell (Part II only) 2,1
142,606.9
Exchange membership
274.6
Other assets 2,1
16,161.3

$ 8,961.0

$ 7,638.9

$ 9,612.2

$ 9,838.2

66,407.4
64,177.3
3,676.8

61,963.1
38,706.4
3,370.1

67,6982
40,236.3
3,061.9

90,963.0
40,328.6
1,360.4

166,748.6

118,160.2

130,768.1

211,471.8

490.4

460.4

618.9

1,269.0

187,668.9
294.6
20,328.8

213,936.0
346.4
21,339.1

268,034.6
363.7
23,424.1

267,688.6
367.1
26,410.0

$433,666.9

$606,562.7

$466,798.6

$633,707.9

$639,686.6

$ 38,494.3
61,069.4
3,427.1
40,747.2

$ 20,766.0
43,138.1
4,173.1
34,328.7

$ 22,963.6
46,336.6
4,143.7
39,312.9

$ 22,871.6

76,972.8

73,726.8

92,414.4

93,786.7

223,832.2

213,049.9

243,828.7

328,836.8

18.

$ 43,198.4
Bank loans payable
Payables to other broker-dealers
53,121.1
Payables to non-customers
3.406.3
31,863.6
Payablas to customers
Short posmons In secunnes
79,167.3
and commodities
Securities sold under repurchase
166,960.6
agreements (Part II only) 2,1
Other non-subordinated
28,293.6
liabilities 21
6,034.9
Subordinated liabilities

34,168.4
9,966.3

32,681.0
12,306.4

37,016.6
13,634.6

43,091.6
16,060.4

19.

Total liabilities

$412,036.6

$478,666.7

$434,168.9

$499,640.8

$606,642.4

Equity capital

$ 21,630.4

$ 27,896.1

$ 31,639.6

$ 34,167.1

$ 34,144.2

3.
4.
6.
6.
7.
8.
9.
10.

Total assets

LiabiUties and Equity Capital

11.
12.
13.
14.
16
16.
17

20.

Number of finns

6,902

6,236

6,307

6,006

60,070.4
4,576.6
47,260.4

6,746

11

Calendar, rather than fiscal, year data IS reported In this table.

2.1

Resale agreements end repurchase agreements for firms that neither carry nor clear IS included In
"othar assets" and "other non-subordinated liabilities" respectively as these items are not reported
separately on Part IIA of the FOCUS Report.

Figures may not sum due to rounding.
r=revlsed
p = preliminary
Source:

FOCUS Report

129

Securities

Industry Dollar in 1989 for Carrying and Clearing Firms

Data for carrying and clearing firms that do a public business IS presented here to allow for more
detail as reporting requirements for firms that neither carry nor clear differ and data aggregation of
these two types of firms necessanly results in loss of detail. Carrying and clearing firms are those
firms that clear secunties transactions or maintain possession or control of customers' cash or
securities. Trns group produced 87% of the securities industry's total revenues in calendar year 1989.
Brokerage activity accounted for about 24 cents of each revenue dollar m 1989, no change
from the level In 1988. Securities commissions were the most important component, producing 15
cents of each dollar of revenue, while margin interest and revenues from mutual fund sales generated
SIX cents and three cents, respectively.
The dealer side produced 70 cents of each dollar of revenue. While this IS unchanged from 1988,
the distribution of the various sources of dealer revenues changed substantially.
Twenty-one of these
Six cents came from
cents came from trading and investments, down from 25 cents In 1988.
underwriting,
down from nine cents in 1988.
And 43 cents came from other securities-related
revenues, up from 36 cents In 1988.
The latter IS comprised pnmarily of interest income from
securities purchased under agreements to resell and fees from handling private placements, mergers,
and acquisrtlons,
Total expenses consumed 98 cents of each revenue dollar, compared to 96 cents in 1988. The
result was a pre-tax profit margin of two cents per revenue dollar, compared to four cents in 1988.
Interest remained the most important expense category in 1989, consuming 44 cents of each
revenue dollar, compared to 33 cents in 1988. As a percent of revenues, employee-related expenses
(registered representatives' compensation and clerical and administrative employees' expenses) fell to
28 cents from 33 cents in 1988.
Total assets of broker-dealers carrying and clearing customer accounts rose by $105.6 billion
to $631.2 billion at year-end 1989.
Proprietary positions in United States government secunties
accounted for the majonty of tms growth, Increasing by $72.7 billion to $136.3 billion.
In
combination, United States government securities and resale agreements now account for 62% of
all assets. Other long positions rose $6.5 billion to $71.1 billion.
Most of the remaining assets
represented receivables, either from customers or other broker-dealers.
Total liabilities increased $106.5 billion, or 22%, to $601.3 billion In 1989.
Repurchase
agreements accounted for 80% of this increase. Owners' equity fell 2%. from $30.6 billion in 1988
to $29.9 billion in 1989.

130

w

:!!:

8

~
><

;:
W
a:
a.
Q

~
rn
~
z
w

a.
><
w

I.;;
o

.,

~


I
W
:::l

ffi>
w

a:
u.

o

ffi
o
a:

g

131

Table 5
UNCONSOLIDATED REVENUES AND EXPENSES FOR
CARRYING/CLEARING
BROKER-DEALERS 1/
(Millions of Dollars)
1988r

Dollars
Revenues
1 Securities commissions
2. Gains (losses) in trading
and Investment accounts
3. Profits (losses) from underwriting and selling groups
4. Margin interest
5. Revenues from sale of
Investment company shares
6. Other secunnes related
revenues
7. All other revenues
8. Total revenues

$ 8,974.1

Number

15.6%

Dollars
$10,149.0

Percent
Change
1988-1989

15.2%

13.1%

210

(2.5)

25.1

14,050.8

5,320.4
3,135.5

9.3
5.5

4,262.5
3,860.6

6.4
5.8

(19.9)
23.1

1,881.7

3.3

2,071.4

3.1

10.1

20,492.8
3,128.5
$57,345.1

35.7
5.5
100.0%

28,744.0
3,738.4
$66,876.7

43.0
5.6
100.0%

40.3
19.5
16.6%

15.7%

$ 8,986.2

13.4%

(0.1)%

17.4

9,909.9

14.8

(0.6)

2.4

1,414.6

2.1

1.1

3.3
4.8

2,103.0
2,589.0

3.1
3.9

11.8
(6.3)

5.8
1.4
33.3
0.7

3,460.7
786.8
29,186.9
452.8

5.2
1.2
43.6
0.7

4.1
(2.3)
52.6
17.9

0.7
8.8
97.5%

(1.4)
3.5
19.1%

0.8
9.9
95.5%

451.2
5,877.0
$65,218.1

$ 2,563.8
4.5
8.3

of firms

Percent
of Total
Revenues

14,412.1

Expenses
9. Registered representatives'
$ 8,993.3
compensation
10. Other employee
9,970.1
compensation and benefits
11. Compensation to partners and
1,3997
voting stockholder ofticers
12. Commissions and clearance
1,880.2
paid to other brokers
13. Communications
2,763.6
14. Occupancy and equipment
3,325.3
costs
15. Data processing costs
805.3
16. Interest expenses
19,123.9
17. Regulatory fees and expenses
384.0
18. Losses In error accounts and
457.4
bad debts
19. All other expenses
5,678.5
20. Total expenses
$54,781.3
Income and Profitability
21 Pre-tax Income
22 Pre-tax profit margin
23. Pre-tax return on equity

1989P

Percent
of Total
Revenues

1,089

$1,658.6
2.5
5.5

(35.3)%

1,049

Figures may not sum due to rounding.

r-revised
p=prellminary

jj Calendar, rather than fiscal, year data IS reported In this table.
Note:

Includes Information for firms dOing a public business that carry customer accounts or clear
securities transactions.

Source:

132

FOCUS Report

Table 6
UNCONSOLIDATED BALANCE SHEET FOR
CARRYING/CLEARING BROKER-DEALERS 1/
(Millions of Dollars)
Year-end 1988'
Percent
of Total
Dollars
Revenues

Year-end 1989P
Percent
of Total
Dollars
Revenues

Percent
Change

1988-1989

Assets

1. Cash
2. Receivables from other

3.
4
5.

6
7.
8.
9.
10.

$ 8,9254

broker-dealers
66,264.8
a. SecurilJes failed to deliver
12,334 9
b. SecunlJes borrowed
45,961.5
7,968.3
c Other
Receivables from customers
40,236.3
Receivables from
non-customers
1,6477
LO~ posnions in secunties
an commodities
127.896.8
a. Bankers acceptances,
cerllficates of depOSIt
and commercial paper
12,679.0
b. U.S. and Canadian
63,581.2
~overnment obhgalJons
c. tate and muniCIpal
7.473.8
~ovemment obligalJons
27,126.3
d. orporate obligalJons
11,507.7
e. StoCks and warrants
f. Options
657.2
3,147.9
~. Arbitrage
1,464.6
. Other securilJes
I. Spot commodities
259.1
Securities and investments
not readily marketable
468.9
Securmes purchased under
258,034.5
agreements to resell
EXchange membership
328.3
21,642.1
Other assets
Total assets
$525.444.7

Liabilities and EqUity Capital
11. Bank loans pa~able
12. parbles to ot er
bro er-dealers
a Sseuntles failed to receive
b. Sscunnes loaned
c. Other
13. Payables to non-customers
14. Payables to customers
15. Short poslnons In securines
and commodities
16. Secunties sold under
repurchase a~ements
17. Othernon-su
rdmatsd
lIablhties
18. Subordinated liabilities
19. Total liabilities

20. EqUity capital

$22,922.0
45,817.5
11,544.1
27,631.9
6,641.5
2,972.1
39,312.9

1.7%

$ 9.282.4

4.0%

1.5%

126
2.3
8.7
15
7.7

89,855.9
6,741.7
69,5739
13,540.2
40,3285

14.2
1.1
11 0
2.1
64

35.6
(45.3)
51.4
699
0.2

0.3

1,124.1

0.2

(31.8)

207,109.7

328

244

619

2.4

14,712.5

23

16.0

12.1

136,253 0

216

114.3

1.4
5.2
2.2
0.1
0.6
0.3

7,077.3
30,222.7
13,404.9
828.3
2,705.7
1,435.8
469.5

.

0.1
49.1
0.1
4.1
100.0%
4.4%
8.7
2.2
5.3
13
0.6
75

1,134.0
257,688.6
330.3
24,359.6
$631.2130
$22,8017
49,349.2
9,552.5
31,273.9
8,522.7
4,443.6
47,260.4

11
48
21
0.1
04
02
0.1

(5.3)
11.4
16.5
26.0
(14,0l
J2.0
12

0.2

1418

40.8
01
3.9
1000%
3.6%
7.8
1.5
5.0
1.3
0.7
7.5

(0.1)
0.6
12.6
201%
(0.5)%
7.7
(17.3)
13.2
28.3
49.5
20.2

91,296.3

174

92,217.7

14.6

1.0

243,828.7

46.4

328,836.8

52.1

34.9

35,876.7
12,806.2
494,832.6

6.8
2.4
94.1

41.905.2
14,526.3
601,340.8

6.6
2.3
952

16.8
13.4
21.5

$30,612.3

5.9%

$29,8722

4.7%

(2.4)%

1,049
1,089
Number of firms
Figures mal not sum due to rounding
• under .05 Y.
r=revlSed
peprelmunary
j) Calendar, rather than fIScal,year data ISreported in thIStable
Note: Includes Infonnation for finns doIng a pubhcbusmsss that carry customer accounts or clear secunlles
transactions.
Source' FOCUS Report

133

Self-Regulatory Organizations:
Sheet Structure

Expenses, Pre-tax Income, and Balance

In 1989 the total revenues of all self-regulatory
organizations
(SROs) with
marketplace
jurisdiction
rose approximately
$42.2 million to $870.2 million, an
increase of 5.1 % from 1988 (1988 recognized a 7.8% decrease over 1987, 1987 a 15.2%
increase over 1986). The New York Stock Exchange (NYSE), National Association
of Securities Dealers (NASD), American Stock Exchange (Amex), and Chicago
Board Options Exchange (CBOE) accounted for 79.5% of all SRO total revenues,
down from 80.3% in 1988. The SROs' revenues are earned primarily from listing,
trading, and market data fees. The NYSE reported total revenues of $349.3 million,
up 8.0% from 1988, of which $187.9 million or 54% consisted of listing and trading
fees while $54.8 million or 16% consisted of market data fees. The Amex reported
total revenues of $109.7 million, up 6.7% from 1988. The CBOE reported total
revenues of $70.4 million, down 13.6% from the previous year. The NASD reported
an increase in total revenues of $6.7 million, or 4%, to $162.8 million. Other SROs
reporting revenue increases were the Boston Stock Exchange (BSE), which reported
a $.8 million increase, or 6.0%, to $13.3 million; the Cincinnati Stock Exchange (CSE),
which recorded a 23.9% increase, equating to a $.6 million increase in total revenues
to $3.3 million; the Philadelphia
Stock Exchange (Phlx), which reported a $6.4
million increase, or 22.2%, to $35.2 million; and the Pacific Stock Exchange (PSE),
which reported a $7.0 million increase, or 18.7%, to $44.7 million. Other SROs that
reported a decrease in revenues were the Midwest Stock Exchange (MSE), which
reported a $.8 million decrease, or 1%, to $81.6 million; and the Spokane Stock
Exchange (SSE), which reported a 20.5% decrease in revenues. The largest percentage increase in total revenues, 23.9%, was experienced
by the CSE. The largest
magnitude increase, $25.6 million, was recorded by the NYSE. The largest percentage decrease, 20.5%, was recorded by the SSE.
The total expenses of all marketplace
SROs were $832.0 million in 1989, an
increase of $49.2 million (6.3%) over 1988. The NYSE incurred the largest magnitude
increase in expenses, $36.1 million, while the CSE experienced the largest percentage increase (16.9%). The CBOE recorded a 12.7% decrease from 1988 levels
representing
a magnitude of $10.3 million. With aggregate total expenses increasing and aggregate total revenues also increasing but to a lesser extent than expenses,
pre-tax income of the SROs declined in 1989 by 22.8% from 1988 levels to $37.3
million. The NYSE experienced the largest magnitude decrease in pre-tax income,
$10.4 million, a percentage decrease of 50.8% from 1988. The CBOE recorded the
largest percentage
decrease, 378.7%, representing
a $.8 million drop in pre-tax
income for the year. The MSE recorded a decrease in pre-tax income of $2.5 million,
or -33%, NASD a decrease of $6.0 million, or -43%, and the SSE a decrease of $2,000,
or -6%. Increases in pre-tax income were reported by the Amex, the BSE, the CSE,
the Phlx, and the PSE. The Amex reported an increase of $3.3 million, or 9.5%. The
BSE reported an increase of $153,000, or 23.7%. The CSE experienced an increase of
$197,000, or 281.4%. The Phlx recorded an increase of $1.7 million, or 711.5%. The
PSE reported an increase of $3.3 million, or 221.1 %.
The total assets of all marketplace
SROs were $1,285 million in 1989, an
increase of 20% from 1988. The largest percentage
increase in total assets was
134

experienced at the CSE where total assets increased $775,000 (45.4%) from 1988 to
1989, while the largest magnitude increase occurred at the NYSE where total assets
increased $58.4 million. The total assets of Amex, BSE, and NASD also increased.
The largest decrease in total assets occurred at the MSE where total assets decreased
$354.8 million, or 62.1%. The total assets of the Phlx also decreased significantly
($38.2 million, or 28.1%),while the CBOE, PSE, and SSEexperienced slight decreases
from 1988 levels.
The aggregate net worth of the marketplace SROs rose to $633.1 million in
1989, an increase of 10.2%. All the SROs except the SSE experienced positive growth
in their net worth, with the Amex, the largest percentage gainer, at 43.8%. The
NYSE's net worth increased 2.7% from $229.4 million to $235.7 million. The SSE's net
worth decreased 45.3% from $75,000 to $41,000.
Clearing agency results have been presented in two charts by their respective
types; depositories and clearing corporations. Aggregate clearing agency service
revenue increased over 1%, or $3.9 million, in calendar year 1989 due to increases
in securities trading volume. All clearing agencies adjust fee structure and refunds
of fees to provide participants with attractively priced services, and to meet
expenses and provide the amount of earnings which they desire to retain.
The total of all depository revenues increased $18.8 million, $16.2 million by
the Participants Trust Company (PTC). PTe, organized to service the mortgagebacked securities industry, assumed the depository portion of the business formerly
managed by the MBS Clearing Corporation (MBSCC). Total depository pre-tax
income was down 26%, to $1.9 million. Again, the main factor was PTC's first year
loss of $644,000. The Midwest Securities Trust Company (MSTC) recorded a 67%
decrease in pre-tax income to $204,000.
The depositories continued to expand their base for service revenues by increasing the number of shares on deposit and the face value of debt securities in
custody. At the end of 1989, the total value of securities in the depository system
reached $4.3 trillion, of which the Depository Trust Company (DTC) alone held $4.0
trillion, including $1.8 trillion in certificates held by transfer agents as DTC's agent.
As in 1988, the movement of certificates into depositories was due to further
expansion of depository-eligible issues and the desire of participants to avail
themselves of depository services. The MSTC had 803,000 eligible issues at year end,
up 12%, and DTC had 724,000, up 19%. Eligibility for all types of securities
increased, including an increase of 30% in municipal bond issues. Currently, more
than 85% of the principal amount of all municipal bonds currently outstanding in
the United States is in the depository system.
Service revenue of clearing corporations increased $13 million, or 10%, to
almost $140 million, largely as a result of increases of $3.3 million at the Government
Securities Clearing Corporation (GSCC), $3.0 million at the National Securities
Clearing Corporation (NSCC), and $2.2 million at the Options Clearing Corpora tion
(OCC). As a group, the clearing corporations recorded a net increase in pre-tax
income of almost $1.8 million. The consolidated result for NSCC was a pre-tax
earnings increase of $670,000; ISCC, a wholly owned subsidiary of NSCC, posted a
loss of $733,000, and GSCC, in which NSCC has a 19%equity interest, recorded a loss
of $272,000. Stock Clearing Corporation of Philadelphia reported a pre-tax profit of
$189,000 after having a loss of $170,000 in 1988. The MBSCC reported a decrease of
135

$680,000 in pre-tax income from continuing operations, down 19%, to almost $3
million.
The combined Pacific Clearing Corporation (PCC) and Pacific Securities Depository Trust Company (PSDTC) had a pre-tax gain of $3.1 million after a gain of
$420,000 in 1988. In April 1987, the PSE announced the closure of the clearance and
depository functions not essential to PSE's trading operations. The 1988 pre-tax
figure included a $1 million provision for loss due to costs of discontinued operations. In 1989, payments charged against this reserve were $732,000. The remaining
reserve, including an additional $50,000 reserved by the PSE in 1989, was valued at
almost $1.4 million at year end. The combined stockholders' equity of PCC and
PSDTC was $2.9 million at the end of 1989. PSE, which guarantees the liabilities of
PCC and PSDTC, reported members' equity totaled $19.6 million at the end of 1989.
The aggregate net worth of all clearing corporations and depositories rose to
a new high of $87 million. Participant clearing fund contributions increased by $385
million, or 43%, to almost $1.3billion. These funds provide protection to the clearing
agencies in the event of a participant default by means of a pro- rata charge against
the participants' fund.

136

"'-C:O..-N

~~_&~.

i8Ji.ii?Jt

~!~~ ~~rei

~-~~~~~~~

~~re~

[;;~~Si

"'l:I"U')(W)ii)
N_~e

~a;N~

!H!Ei
l6':uiai
:;:g:;~

C"!,otcctCQ.

~~{;~

c;;reSiS

Ntl)C")(')

&q.~":.C'\I.

-:."'It"lC\!.

CD
..

"'
..... CO
<qCO)C\I(O)

C') Q) '"
CO) '"
C?

~8~~

C'":I

~~2i~

i~i~ g~~gf
~<?~

0"'$ ....

~-~"'-~1818:g:g
~~~~

"'

en

....
C"')

,..0).....
__

(I).

en.

0.......
_

-~~a;
:!!t ....

-

qco

I.t) I.t) __ CJ)

:g~~g

:g~!f!~

2cO~a
~:;ll>CO

"'~

~~~;

ll>ml8~
~~~H;
"ci':"",.~"'''''''

i318&l'"

tllS~-

~f8~~

~a~~~~~~
---

..... __
O)C'?C\I
Lt)
..,.,...

~~~~
..-CD"'
.......

S-"'
....
. ":."""':..
"l

Cb_NU)

~i.~~
:!g)(t~

~~C\I~

..,.

'"
~~fZ~

;f8g~

CD

m~~g

CO)

en

i~ii

~~Et:

~~~*!BHUi
~ti9~
~~~~

137

E~~

j;j

~:!-~

'"

0

~n ~
(1)0

III

::;Z~
:;j_N

~

;

ai!!

~

~~

iii'"

;;:
(l!

~ ~
~ ~
N

~ ~~

iii
N

;l\

~

~ ~

N

l~"

f~~ f!
~~!!~~

a
a:

C'

~~~~

iii

5~

~

!

:;lm

;:~

!

IO!

i)l

=0
1>.
~ii

8l8~

1'l"'!i

"i

;

!'!

';'i

':1

8 !'!

';'i

cCci

i

"I

....--

p~h
~H!~

as
a«

18::=
~ ~~ ~~

.

;!
Ie

~ ~
I:l
I'!

Ii!
Ie

LIJ en
....
...
0 a.

><
IW

ex> tn '0

I-

z

0

a: a:

a co

~....

;l

~~

:;;

;!

& :i!

1';8

l!i

~

i!!

'"

:3~h
:>.; ~~

~re ~

'"'8-

ill

1H

~

l1!

i":

N

\3
e,

~

>a: Q)
....

~ ~

!i"

HH~

iii

ili~

iii

N~

ill

l'l

....

tn

go~"

1iii ~~
s"8~

:<~;o;

° i\lO

!:i

ill

!:i

°

.! ~

!j

t~
~~

!~ H
;j!

g

jl'~
5~

<:...

5 ~

H
ri

~~08~

ill

~

~:!
~

111

i::

~

..

g

~

"

I

I II

~
J::

.:;;

~

i

1j

~~

i

~
.a

j

'"i
1i

i
j

iii

I

-g

..~

Ii

I

i~

g"

= l
.;;

~ ~

i

0;

s~

m

'!i

!~
.. i
q :3" ~ i
~

lii!H~

5

i~ fii 1j~
-1l~

li'~
0;

i
~
~
~

j

~~

;;-;1
e ,

l!
go

.2

11

11

,\1

!i0l

jPU

l'iCi

88"!~

m

-

is

!~~
~

~

;:J11I

.:

~

s~

l1!
N

I
~j
"goq

I

~

Uh

0 ...£0

~
~

!

-i

gppH

i" I~jH

w~

8

(3 ...

.:l

~

"I

&i

~

0

E

11
t ~ ~ ~

H ~
~.il ~

.l!

j
go

j

go

0

n

I 2a

.2

.

it
~

E

..

!i ~

01

" " "

~

i tf

~

1j-6

i;
:;"

" B- -g
~
~
~
go
5
iii'"
I !~
l!
"~
a g
"
1j
H A '" ~
~
;
.p
~
j
,,~ f ";;;'" 8 " ~~ ti
Ii ~~
"
~
Ii
"Ii
H 1j
~
~ ~ -•g ~~ ~
!
11
~~ " M "ll ~ j! •
I I i~ f ~~ "~~
~ i~
s
:: ~ ~
~i .ii j .e ~ H
l:l ~
~
~~ ~
o

i1!

f

~ R
;;;

~

i 5~~ i
• ~~
~g. "~ "i I "ll~ ~
1i
~
~ .s I 1j
il.Z
1! i -il~c~
•
Hi!
i
g.
~
=11
~ .s
-

~
~
go

.;;

"[ !

11

*ht~
.l!i~8:;:

138

1>
-g

~,

o~

11 ;

~,*'"'8~

0

UJ

~
.s
~
~

II
!i

~s
"

a:

u,

~.ll

,g;;-

:il

Q)

LIJ

~ii

811

q
li~

c 0
as en

c
~ :J en
N
:J
0
Zz
UJ s:
« LIJ
>
I.......C'

l;j~

'"'!~

(5

LIJ CIS

C'

i
i
i

U

" gog III
~
j ._,

.!!!

a tn "0

a
~
....
:J

lii'

-g

~I
~~

H

tn
«
UJ Z

CIS

~!

~~

Ii

a: UJ

(])

~
~
sa
~
~
~
~
~

1.
£U

8"5!~

~tn

:0

l1l

go
e

~>:

~

a
a.
a:
a
0

H
<D~

-u-

Z

e

~
~

~
g.
~
<

JI""

tn

I
r

I

8

gog

~
g
~

~
~
~
-e

i

~
j
~

i

'a

il

•
~

i=

'" "

Table 9
SELF-REGULATORY ORGANIZATIONS - DEPOSITORIES
1989 REVENUES AND EXPENSES 1/

(thousands of dollars)
Depository
Trust
Company
12131/89

Midwest
SecuntJes
Trust
Company
12131/89

Philadelphia
ParliClpants
Trust
Company
12131/89

Depository
Trust
Company
12131/89

$120,603

$ 30,401

$13,662

$ 7,584

$172,250

Interest
Other

127,199

2,448
1,708

2,591

757

132,995
1,708

Total revenues 21

247,802

34.557

16,253

8.341

306.953

Employee costs

148,371

12.427

4.439

3.616

168,853

Data processing and
communicatJons costs

19.903

2.377

5,859

1,143

29.282

Occupancy costs

39,523

4,378

2,948

378

47,227

Depository
services

Contracted
services cost
NI other expenses
Total expenses

Total

4,383

4,383
38.005

10,789

3.651

2,866

55,311

245,802

34,353

16,897

8,003

305,055

Excess of revenues
over expenses 3/

$ 2.000

$

204

$ (644)

$ 338

$ 1,898

Shareholders' Equrty

$ 17,497

$ 4.064

$14.337

$ 1,483

$ 37.381

Parncpants Fund

$471,760

$ 8.156

$ 74,058

$

$554,478

504

1/ Although efforts have been made to make the presentatJons comparable. any Single revenue or expense category may
not be completely comparable between any two c1eanngagenCIes because of (i) the varying classlf,catJonmethods
employed by the c1eanngagencies In reporling operating results and (II) the grouping methods employed by the Commission staff due to these varying classmcanon methods IndIVidualamounts are shown to the nearest thousand Totals are
the rounded result of the underlying amounts and may not be the anthmelJc sums of the parts
21 Revenues are net of refunds which have the effect of reducing a c1eanngagency's base fee rates
3/ This is the result of operatJonsand before the effect of Income taxes, which
net Income

may Significantly Impact a cleanng agency's

139

Exemptions
Section 12(h) Exemptions
Section 12(h) of the Exchange Act authorizes the Commission to grant a
complete or partial exemption from the registration provisions of Section 12(g) or
from other disclosure or insider trading provisions of the Act where such exemption
is consistent with the public interest and the protection of investors. Fifty-five applications were pending at the beginning of fiscal year 1990, and 120 applications were
filed during the year. During the year, 6 applications were granted and 17 were
withdrawn. In addition, approximately 35 issuers have informally advised the staff
that they intend to withdraw their applications.
Exemptions for Foreign Private Issuers
Rule 12g3-2 provides various exemptions from the registration provisions of
Section 12(g) of the Exchange Act for the securities of foreign private issuers. The
most significant of these exemptions is that contained in SUbparagraph (b), which
provides an exemption for certain foreign issuers that submit to the Commission on
a current basis the material specified in the rule. Such material includes that
information about which investors ought reasonably to be informed and which the
issuer: (1) has made public pursuant to the law of the country in which it is
incorporated or organized; (2) has filed with a foreign stock exchange on which its
securities are traded and which was made public by such exchange; or (3) has
distributed to its securityholders. Periodically, the Commission publishes a list of
those foreign issuers that appear to be current under the exemptive provision. The
most current list contains a total of 1,103 foreign issuers.
FINANCIAL INSTITUTIONS

There were 3,535 companies registered under the Investment Company Act of
1940 as of September 30,1990. New registrations totaled 249, with 116 registrations
being terminated during the fiscal year. This compares with fiscal year 1989 figures
of 3,544 total active registrants, 304 new registrations, and 157 terminations.

140

securities on Exchanges
Market Value and Share Volume
The market value of equity and option transactions (trading in stocks, options,
warrants, and rights) on registered exchanges totaled $2.0 trillion in 1989. Of this
total, $1.8 trillion, or 92%, represented the market value of transactions in stocks,
rights and warrants; $156 billion, 8%, were options transactions (including exercises
of options on listed stocks).
The value of equity/option transactions on the New York Stock Exchange
(NYSE) was $1.6 trillion, up 15% from the previous year. The market value of such
transactions on the American Stock Exchange (Amex) jumped 35% to $79.8 billion
and by 31% to $342.8 billion on all other exchanges. The volume of trading in stocks
on all registered exchanges totaled 54.2 billion shares, a 3% increase from the
previous year, with 81% of the total accounted for by trading on the NYSE.
The volume of options contracts traded on options exchanges (excluding
exercises) was 227 million contracts in 1989, 16% higher than in 1988. The market
value of these contracts increased 23% to $76.8 billion. The volume of contracts
executed on the Chicago Board Options Exchange rose 13% to 126.8 million; option
trading on the Amex increased 11%; contract volume on the Philadelphia Stock
Exchange rose 21%; and option trading on the Pacific Stock Exchange increased
36%.

141

,....,-lO-CO,.....
,...COONlllO

<tOOO<tc»,...OM
M
C»llllll
CO~1ll

0

co

0>

co

<tlllCOCOOlM
0)ai"':ailli":
IIINCO <tllllll
~OCO,...<tM
0) Ol',..:
lliIllcO
~N<tCOMM

00)":
0>,...0

~

co

ai

,...
,...
N

<J)o

-yo-

COOOOC»IllOOM
,...
O>IllM
MC»N

COOOlNCOM
NCOlllONO
OC»CO~~<t
ocoi"':cO"':coi
<tCON<t,...c»
CO~COOl<t<t
Ill'
c»'coilli..:0)
III<t,...CO Ill,...

",I
"C!

ex

ow

";;

<t

co

M

"':coicoi cO

<'II

.-MCO

<t

N~<t

"":"':ai

co
or:

Gi

~III
E

<J)o

Gl

'5
C»C»Nllllll,...
lllMCON~O
N,...NMOl<t
coicoi~MM'M
NllllllNCON
OOO)O
__ .q-

~OOO""Ill~OM
M
Nlll,...
,...
c»<to
0)
0>

o

M-O)OM"':O
MN<tlllN<t
o»
<tN<t<tMM
lllCOCO~""1ll

""~""M""O
c»'lli0) M ~ ai
NlllNlllN

<J)o

M

--

coiaiai

Ill<tCO
co<tco

~~

E
N
N

~

'"

Gl
Cl

e
~
III
III s:
o
0)

,...OOOCOCOOOO
o
OM
0>
MCO

COl

cO

'"e

Gl
Cl

N

III

s:
o

X

COOOOO~,...OO
N
~coco
COCO~

W

....

"tl

III

s

'"
2
n,

~

~

'"

....o

o

E

"51
Gl

a:
>
..c

'"Ol
Gl

c

~

e

s:

s

X

o

,...<t~IllCOCO~NO
~NM<tMllllll""
CO~NM,...<t~<t
o lli.: coiai cO llico'

0>

LO.-M-O)C")-

III

o

III

W

co

"C

e
s

MCOO>COCON,...
MaiolOcOcoicoi
<tN
O,...IllM
~lll

0>

-

'"Gl
01
a:

o
c

"tl
Gl

Ol

e
III

s:
o
c
Gl
Gl

..c

~

'"
s:

o

M~COlCCO""
COC»IllMCOCO
N,...OCO,...O
cOM"':O"':~
~IllCON<tM
,...MCO,...OO

2

III

"tl
.><

O<t~Ill""MlONO>
Gl
O>NM<t,...<t,...,...N
:0
~~NMOlll~<tC»
~
llilli":coio"':lliaiai
CO~M~COCOO>
,...
,...COO>CO<tMM
<t :c
olaiolO":~O
ai ~
,...N OCOCOlll
co
~lll

III
Gl

Iii

'"

o)ai"':":coi~

1ll0COC»00
OMCO<t,...O

"':~"":N~N
<J)o

Gl

:0
III

<tlllCO,...COC»
CO co co CO coco
C»C»0l0l0>0>

~

'"
Gl

Ol

e
III

s:

o

X
W

"tl
Gl

...
III

"tl

e

~

III

U

142

~

Gl
Gl

'"co
oe
Gl

o

.2
~

'"
01
Gl
a:

11.

<

z

CD

o

"OOON<ONOM
"
mNO
N
LDNN

NOvcom-mMmmlO
to-NCOO)-

05

,..:
..j".oo.o

10
00

'

"NLDOLDIO
--VNmco
mLDLDOMLD

en
W

~o..j"':":";

------

CJ
Z
c:(

J:

o
><
W

00
W

i=

a:

-

u)~

~"OI2!
"Of!
CllO

Ill-

.. c

1-0
U

C
III

X

LDM-NCOO
NLDMMNV
mLDmVmco

-.. ------

iii
II>
III

aJaJ":";";":
--vee-v

Q.

,g
-II>

-

.<::-

~
ii:~

Cll

~...I.~
c:(eu

a:

N--"NM
LD_OLDIOM
V-LDM<ON

". __
aJ .0aJ
aJ cD
N __

"omM-1O

<i:

i

000
z
........

o
i=

D.

LDOOO<OvOOO
LD

01
00
01

5

<om

..j

LD'
~

VOOONMVOO
01
NOOM
OM<O

"0

McO~

.0

c

N

~
o

-N

<f)o

t!
o

Co
Cll

a:
IV
.2

"0
.><
III
Cll

Iii

m<OM-m<OLDMO
N<o"NV-Nm
001"010"0100'

ai ~ ai 00"; M

11>11>

.><~

vOONLDvm,,NooNm-"m

o

III
0'<::

~

V

o

"t:J

o

'0

0;

W

Cll

~

0
01

2!
II>

III

s:
o

CD

M"':cO

"0

~

CI

~

OOOOMLDOIOM
co
N<OIO
LD
"00"

W

CD

C
III

~o 0
-cn.c
.oWl-

s:
o
x

a:

II>
Cll

x

::iffi
z~

ooCii

CI

III
Cll

>

COl
II>
Cll

e

:;)

o
W
cn

..j
<0

"-vvcoco

-en
en_

M'

N'..j~
V

!
III

iii
c

.g
~
o

e-o

u

o

Cl

c
.:

W

III
CD

u.

o

U

W

III
C

:;)

E-

::E

2

...I

o

>

O
VLD<o"com
000000000000

------

"t:J
C

010101010101

III
III

"
Cl
C
III

s:

o

..
III
Cll

..

>
III

"0
C
CD

iii
U

X

M

ri;
E

o

W

u,

"0

o
w

"

~


en

II>

o
Cll

a:

iD
o

:5
o

en

143

NASDAQ
(Volume and Market Value)

NASDAQ share volume and market value information for over-the-counter
trading has been reported on a daily basis since November 1, 1971. At the end of 1989
there were 4,963 issues in the NASDAQ system as compared to 5,144 a year earlier
and 2,582 at the end of 1978.
Share volume for 1989 was 33.5 billion as compared to 31.1 billion in 1988 and
3.6 billion in 1979. This trading volume encompasses the number of shares bought
and sold by market makers plus their net inventory changes. The market value of
shares traded in the NASDAQ system was $431.4 billion during 1989 as compared
to $347.1 billion in 1988 and $44.3 billion in 1979.
Share and Dollar Volume by Exchange

Share volume on all registered exchanges totaled 54.2 billion, an increase of 3%
from the previous year. The New York Stock Exchange accounted for 81% of the
1989 share volume; the American Stock Exchange, 6%; the Midwest Stock Exchange,
5%; and the Pacific Stock Exchange, 3%.
The market value of stocks, rights, and warrants traded was $1.8 trillion, 16%
higher than the previous year. Trading on the New York Stock Exchange contributed
86% of the total. The Midwest Stock Exchange and Pacific Stock Exchange contributed
6% and 3%, respectively. The American Stock Exchange accounted for 2% of dollar
volume.

144

Table 12
SHARE VOLUME BY EXCHANGES 1/
(In Percentage)
Year
1946 ...........
1960 ...........
1956 ............
1960 ..........
1961 ...........
1962 ...........
1963 ............
1964 ............
1965 ............
1966 ...........
1967 ............
1968 ...........
1969 ...........
1970 ...........
1971. ..........
1972 ............
1973 ...........
1974 ............
1976 ...........
1976 ...........
1977 ...........
1978 ..........
1979 ............
1980 ...........
1981 ...........
1982 ............
1983 ...........
1984 ..........
1985 ...........
1986 ...........
1987 ............
1988 ..........
1989 ..........

Total Share Volume
(Thousands)
769,018
893,320
1,321,401
1,441,120
2,142,623
1,711,946
1,880,793
2,118,326
2,671,012
3,313,899
4,646,663
6,407,923
6,134,866
4,834,887
6,172,668
6,618,132
6,899,678
4,960,842
6,376,094
7,129,132
7,124,640
9,630,066
10,960,424
16,686,986
16,969,186
22,491,936
30,316,014
30,648,014
37,187,667
48,680,624
64,082,996
62,666,664
64,416,790

1/ Share volume for exchangas
reported 'n this tabla.

2/

Includas aI/ exchanges

NYSE

AMEX

66.87
76.32
68.86
68.47
64.99
71.31
72.93
72.81
69.90
69.38
64.40
61.98
63.16
71.28
71.34
70.47
74.92
78.47
80.99
80.06
79.71
79.63
79.88
79.84
80.68
81.22
80.37
82.64
81.62
81.12
83.09
83.74
81.33

21.31
13.64
19.19
22.27
26.68
20.11
18.83
19.42
22.63
22.84
28.41
29.74
27.61
19.03
18.42
18.22
13.76
10.28
8.97
9.36
9.66
10.66
10.86
10.78
9.32
6.96
7.46
6.26
6.78
6.28
6.67
4.96
6.02

MSE
1.77
2.16
2.09
2.20
2.22
2.34
2.32
2.43
2.63
2.66
2.36
2.63
2.84
3.16
3.62
3.71
4.09
4.40
3.97
3.87
3.96
3.66
3.30
3.84
4.60
6.09
6.48
6.03
6.12
6.73
6.19
6.26
6.44

includas stocks, rights, and warrants;

PSE
2.98
3.11
3.08
3.11
3.41
2.96
2.82
2.66
2.33
2.68
2.46
2.64
3.47
3.68
3.72
4.13
3.68
3.48
3.26
3.93
3.72
3.84
3.27
2.80
2.87
3.62
3.66
3.31
3.66
3.68
3.23
3.03
3.34

PHLX
1.06
0.97
0.86
0.88
0.79
0.87
0.83
0.93
0.81
0.86
0.87
0.89
1.22
1.63
1.91
2.21
2.19
1.82
1.64
1.42
1.49
1.49
1.64
1.64
1.66
2.18
2.20
1.79
1.47
1.63
1.30
1.29
1.80

BSE
0.66
0.66
0.48
0.38
0.30
0.31
0.29
0.29
0.26
0.40
0.43
0.78
0.61
0.61
0.43
0.69
0.71
0.86
0.86
0.78
0.66
0.60
0.66
0.67
0.61
0.48
0.66
0.86
1.27
1.33
1.28
1.32
1.64

CSE

Other

0.06
0.09
0.06
0.04
0.04
0.04
0.04
0.03
0.06
0.06
0.02
0.01
0.00
0.02
0.03
0.03
0.04
0.06
0.13
0.44
0.64
0.16
0.28
0.32
0.37
0.38
0.19
0.18
0.16
0.30
0.30
0.39
0.41

6.30
3.16
6.41
2.66
2.67
2.07
1.94
1.44
1.49
1.23
1.06
1.33
1.19
0.69
0.63
0.64
0.62
0.64
0.29
0.16
0.26
0.17
0.23
0.21
0.10
0.07
0.10
0.04
0.03
0.02
0.04
0.02
0.02

11

calendar, father than flSC8l, yeaf data is

not listed Indivldual/y.

Source: SEC Form R-31

145

Table 13
DOLLAR VOLUME BY EXCHANGES
(In Percentage)

Year
1945 ............
1950 ............
1955 ............
1960 ............
1961 ...........
1962 ............
1963 ............
1964 ...........
1965 ............
1966 ............
1967 ............
1968 ..........
1969 ............
1970 ............
1971 ............
1972 ............
1973 ...........
1974 ............
1975 ............
1976 ...........
1977 ..........
1978 ...........
1979 ............
1980 ..........
1981 ............
1982 ...........
1983 ............
1984 ............
1985 ...........
1986 ...........
1987 ............
1988 ............
1989 ...........

Total Dollar Voluma
(Thousands)
16,284,552
21,808,284
38,039,107
45,309,825
84,071,623
54,865,293
84,437,900
72,461,684
89,549,093
123,697,737
162,189,211
197,116,367
176,389,769
131,707,946
186,376,130
206,966,263
178,863,622
118,828,270
167,266,676
196,224,812
187,393,084
261,618,179
300,476,610
476,600,688
491,017,139
603,094,266
958,304,168
951,318,448
1,200,127,848
1,707,117,112
2,286,902,788
1,587,960,769
1,847,766,971

11 Dollar volume for exchanges
reported in this table.

2/

Includes all exchanges

Source: SEC Form R.31

146

NYSE

AMEX

82.75
85.91
86.31
83.80
82.43
86.32
85.19
83.49
81.78
79.77
77.29
73.55
73.48
78.44
79.07
77.77
82.07
83.63
85.20
84.35
83.96
83.67
83.72
83.53
84.74
85.32
85.13
85.61
85.26
85.02
86.79
86.81
86.49

.81
6.85
6.98
9.35
10.71
6.81
7.61
8.45
9.91
11.84
14.48
17.99
17.59
11.11
9.98
10.37
6.06
4.40
3.67
3.88
4.60
6.13
6.94
7.33
6.41
3.27
3.32
2.26
2.23
2.66
2.32
1.96
2.36

MSE
2.00
2.35
2.44
2.72
2.76
2.76
2.72
3.16
3.44
3.14
3.08
3.12
3.39
3.76
4.00
4.29
4.54
4.90
4.64
4.76
4.79
4.16
3.83
4.33
6.04
6.83
6.28
6.57
6.59
6.00
6.32
5.46
6.46

PSE
1.78
2.19
1.90
1.94
1.99
2.00
2.39
2.48
2.43
2.84
2.79
2.65
3.12
3.81
3.79
3.94
3.66
3.60
3.26
3.83
3.63
3.64
2.78
2.27
2.32
3.06
2.86
2.93
3.06
3.00
2.63
2.62
2.84

1/

PHLX
0.96
1.03
1.03
1.03
1.03
1.05
1.06
1.14
1.12
1.10
1.13
1.13
1.43
1.99
2.29
2.66
2.46
2.03
1.73
1.69
1.62
1.62
1.80
1.61
1.60
1.69
1.65
1.68
1.49
1.67
1.35
1.33
1.77

BSE
1.16
1.12
0.78
0.60
0.49
0.46
0.41
0.42
0.42
0.56
0.66
1.04
0.67
0.67
0.68
0.76
1.00
1.24
1.19
0.94
0.74
0.61
0.66
0.62
0.49
0.61
0.66
0.85
1.20
1.44
1.33
1.34
1.66

CSE

Other

0.06
0.11
0.09
0.07
0.07
0.07
0.06
0.06
0.08
0.07
0.03
0.01
0.01
0.03
0.06
0.06
0.06
0.06
0.17
0.63
0.76
0.17
0.36
0.40
0.40
0.43
0.16
0.19
0.18
0.41
0.36
0.49
0.54

0.48
0.44
0.47
0.49
0.63
0.54
0.66
0.81
0.82
0.68
0.54
0.51
0.31
0.19
0.24
0.27
0.27
0.24
0.14
0.02
0.01
0.00
0.02
0.01
0.00
0.00
0.04
0.00
0.00
0.00
0.00
0.00
0.00

Includes stocks, rights and warrents; celendar, rather than fiscal, year data IS

not hsted individually.

y

I
~~j

COCOlt'l...
It'lNNN
O)f'

cOcO
MN

CJ)

0
M
r-.
It'l

o
c:

"0
CU

CO

.c

:::liU

....>.

u>
w ....

..

oS;

CJ)G)

'

...J~

«CU ...
I-~G)
o

.0

E
::l

I-

<.J
CU

OO)O)O)O)O)MM
...N
...Olt'lf'v
N...

Z

...
It'l

0...

co

It'l

cD

o:)CO......
0)CO

.E
.....

CO
CO
N

o
G)

III

::l

CU

<.J
G)

It'lMo) +It'lo)<(.o
O)MO
It'lM.
~
... ~~z
...
...o;t
NON
o;t

I
.Q

2~
encu

0>

M
It'l
,..:

.0

NCOOO
It'lo;t
CO

CO
CO

..;

o

0

s:
....

0)

CU

III

o;t

G)
0 ..

.-=:

Z ....

--,..
en

::l
<.J

O~

m'"cu ...
~G)

w

.0

E

C'

z
c(

::l

G)

III

COMlt'lM
f'

N

Z

......MO
COO)N

co

N

0...
00

N
co

o

N

...

"0

e

0

CU

...

M

CU
G)

:I:

>
G)
s:

00>

><CO

"'f"

w~
z -

""'0(;)
~C"'"

.ow

«l tI-

en-

0>

.DE

COo;t ...o;tO)Mr-.O
0)...
...o;tOO)
~
COM...
M
...

~~I

M

...

It'l
N
o;t

'0

N

"C

c:
G)

M

ffi>
u.. ....

..JU 0>

wG)

(1)0

Q,.CU

Q)

0lt'l00
ON
COO:)

co
f'
o;t
It'l

a:~

W

~G)

Ea:

G)

......

.c

...

NNOO

.0

CU
ClI

...

o;t

e
"5

E

......
E
...
.....°
CU

::l

Z

~
o
w
(I)

O:)OCONr-.o:)
...o:)
vo:)M
...O)O>r-.
o:)CO
f'COcoo;t

,..:...:

0)

...

r-.

It'l
It'l

o;tr-.lt'l
...
Olt'lNN
It'lo:)

M
f'

NN

N

CO

0)

N

N

.,;,..:

ClI
o~

X
w

c

.Q
:OE
CU

G)=

c:

u

III

....
It'l

N

«
::c

C.

It'l

E
~

CO

Z

e
G)

N

::l

0)

C)

G)

"0

"'f"

III

r-.

w

"0

r-.

o

o
u..

~
 ..

"O~
::l<.J

uS

-=en

== ......
~c:>

«CU'"
.c~............

°IllE
ZIIl:=
G)G)

II...Jll:

<i.

II II

Z+c.

CU

N

s:
....

0)

...

M

III
G)
0 ..

.-=:
::l

E
...

•

G)G)

o
u..

III

0

U

(,Jill

1Il::l
G)o-

w

en

"OG)

2:0

G)

~

::l
o
-->
... cu en
147
~.!!!

w'iij

Table 15
VALUE OF STOCKS LISTED ON EXCHANGES
(Billions of Dollars)

Dec 31
1938
1940
1941
1942
1943
1944
1945
1946
1947
1948
1949
1950
1951
1952
1953
1954
1955
1956
1957
1958
1959
1960
1961
1962
1963
1964
1965
1966
1967
1968
1969
1970
1971
1972
1973
1974
1975
1976
1977
1978
1979
1980
1981
1982
1983
1984
1985
1986
1987
1988
1989

New York
Stock
Exchange

American
Stock
Exchange

47.5
46.5
41.9
35.8
47.6
55.5
73.8
68.6
68.3
67.0
76.3
93.8
109.5
120.5
117.3
169.1
207.7
219.2
195.6
276.7
307.7
307.0
387.8
345.8
411.3
474.3
537.5
482.5
605.8
692.3
629.5
636.4
741.8
871.5
721.0
511.1
685.1
858.3
776.7
822.7
960.6
1,242.8
1,143.8
1.305.4
1,522.2
1,529.5
1,882.7
2,128.5
2,132.2
2,366.1
2,903.5

10.8
10.1
8.6
7.4
9.9
11.2
14.4
13.2
12.1
11.9
12.2
13.9
16.5
16.9
15.3
22.1
27.1
31.0
25.5
31.7
25.4
24.2
33.0
24.4
26.1
28.2
30.9
27.9
43.0
61.2
47.7
39.5
49.1
55.6
38.7
23.3
29.3
36.0
37.6
39.2
57.8
103.5
89.4
77.6
80.1
52.0
63.2
70.3
67.0
84.1
100.9

Source: SEC Form 1392
148

Exclusively
On Other
Exchanges

3.0
3.1
3.3
3.2
3.1
2.8
3.6
4.0
3.8
3.1
4.3
4.2
4.l
5.3
4.0
4.3
4.3
4.7
4.0
3.9
6.0
5.4
4.8
4.7
5.6
4.1
2.9
4.3
4.2
4.2
2.9
3.9
2.9
5.0
6.8
6.6
5.8
5.9
6.5
5.9
4.9
4.6

Total
58.3
56.6
50.5
43.2
57.5
66.7
88.2
81.8
80.4
81.9
91.6
111.0
129.2
140.5
135.4
194.8
238.8
254.0
224.2
312.7
337.3
335.3
426.1
374.2
441.7
506.8
573.1
514.4
652.7
759.5
682.6
680.7
795.6
932.7
763.8
537.3
718.7
898.5
818.5
864.8
1,022.3
1,349.2
1,238.2
1,389.7
1,608.8
1,587.3
1,951.8
2,205.3
2,205.1
2,455.1
3,009.0

Certificate Immobilization

Book-entry deliveries continued to outdistance physical deliveries in the
settlement of securities transactions among depository participants of the Depository Trust Company. This tendency is illustrated in table 16,CERTIFICATE IMM0BILIZA nON TRENDS. The table captures the relative significance of the mediums
employed, in a ratio of book-entry deliveries to certificates withdrawn from DTC.
The figures include Direct Mail by Agents and municipal bearer bonds. In 1989, the
total certificates withdrawn decreased over 16%, and the ratio of book-entry
deliveries to certificates withdrawn continued to grow. In 1989, the ratio was 2.5
times the 1984 ratio of 4.8 book-entry deliveries rendered for every certificate
withdrawn.

Table 16
CERTIFICATE IMMOBILIZATION TRENDS
Depository Trust Company
(Including Bearer Securities)

Book-entry Deliveries at OTC
(in thousands)
Total of All Certificates
Withdrawn (m thousands)
Book-entry Oelivenes per
Certificates Withdrawn

1989

1988

1987

1986

1985

1984

73,900

67,200

78,000

66,700

55,800

48,000

7,700

9,200

12,500

11,599

11,299

12,599

9.6

7.3

6.2

4.9

3.8

58

149

Table 17
TYPES OF PROCEEDINGS
ADMINISTRATIVE

Persons Subject to, Acts Constituting,
and Basis for, Enforcement Action

PROCEEDINGS

sanction

Broker-dealer, municipal securities
dealer, government securities dealer,
transfer agent, Investment adviser, or
associated person
Willful violation of secunties laws or rules;
aiding or abetting such violation; failure
reasonably to supervise others; Willful
misstatement or ornission In filing with the
Commission; conviction of or Injunction against
certain crimes or conduct.

Censure or limitation on activities;
revocation, suspension or denial of
registration; bar or suspension from
association (1934 Act, Sections 15(b)(4)(6), 15B(c)(2)-(5), 15(C)(c)(1 )-(2),
17A(c)(3)-(4); Advisers Act, Section
203(e)-(f)).

Registered securities association
Violation of or Inability to comply with the
1934 Act, rules thereunder, or ItS own rules;
unjustified failure to enforce compliance with
the toreqomq or with rules of the Municipal
Securities Rulemaking Board by a member or
person associated with a member.

Suspension or revocation of registration;
censure or limitation of activities,
functions, or operations (1934 Act,
Section 19(h)(1)).

Member of registered securities
association, or associated person
Entry of Commission order against person pursuant
to the 1934 Act, Section 15(b); Willful violation
of securities laws or rules thereunder or rules of
the Municipal Securities Rulemaking Board; effecting transaction for other person with reason to
believe that person was committing violations
of secunties laws.

Suspension or expulsion from the
association; bar or suspension from
association with member of association
1934 Act, Section 19(h)(2)-(3)).

National securities exchange
Violation of or inability to comply with 1934
Act, rules thereunder, or Its own rules;
unjustified failure to enforce compliance With
the foregoing by a member or person associated
With a member.

150

Suspension or revocation of registration;
censure or limitation of activities,
functions, or operations (1934 Act, Section
19(h)(1 )).

Member of national securities
exchange, or associated person
Entry of Commission order against person pursuant
to 1934 Act, Section 15(b); willful violation of
secunties laws or rules thereunder, effecting
transaction for other person with reason to
believe that person was t:ommitting violation
of securities laws.

Suspension or expulsion from exchange; bar
or suspension from assocranon with member
(1934 Act, Section 19{h){2)-{3))

Registered clearing agency
Violation of or inability to comply with 1934
Act, rules thereunder, or ItS own rules; failure
to enforce compliance with ItS own rules by
participants.

Suspension or revocation of registration;
censure or limitation of actvnies,
functions, or operations (1934 Act,
Section 19(h)(1 )).

Participant in registered clearing agency
Entry of Commission order against participant
pursuant to 1934 Act, Section 15(b)(4); willful
violation of clearing agency rules; effecting
transaction for other person with reason to
believe that person was committing Violations
of securities laws

Suspension or expulsion from clearing
agency (1934 Act. Section 19(h)(2)).

securities information processor
Violation of or inability to comply With
provisions of 1934 Act or rules thereunder

Censure or limitation of activities;
suspension or revocation of registration
(1934 Act, Section 11A(b)(6))

Any person
Willful violation of 1933 Act, 1934 Act,
Investment Company Act, or rules thereunder;
aiding or abetting such violation: Willful
misstatement in filing With Commission

Temporary or permanent prorublnon
against serving In certain capacities with
regIstered investment company (Investment Company Act, Section 9(b)).

Officer or director of selfregulatory organization
Willful violation of 1934 Act, rules thereunder,
or the organization's own rules; willful abuse
of authority or unjustified failure to enforce
compliance.

Removal from office or censure (1934
Act, Section 19(h){4)).

151

Principal

of broker-dealer

Officer, director, general partner, ten
percent owner or controlling person of a
broker-dealer for which a SIPC trustee has
been appointed.

1933 Act registration

Bar or suspension from being or
becoming associated with a broker-dealer
(SIPA, Section 14(b)).

statement

Statement materially inaccurate or incomplete.

Stop order refusing to permit or suspending effectiveness (1933 Act, Section

8(d».

Person subject to Sections 12,
13,14, or 15(d) of the 1934 Act
or associated person
Failure to comply with such provisions or having
caused such failure by an act or omission that
person knew or should have known would contribute
thereto.

Order directing compliance or steps
effecting compliance (1934 Act, Section
15(c)(4».

Securities registered
pursuant to Section 12
of the 1934 Act
Noncompliance
thereunder.

by Issuer with 1934 Act or rules

Public Interest requires trading suspension.

Registered

investment

Denial, suspension of effective date,
suspension, or revocation of regIstration
(1934 Act, Section 120».
Summary suspension of over-thecounter or exchange trading (1934 12
Act, Section 12(k)).

company

Failure to file an Investment Company Act
reqistratron statement or a required report,
filing a materially incomplete or misleading
statement or report.

Suspension
(Investment

Company has not attained $100,000 net worth
90 days after 1933 Act registration statement
became effective.

Stop order under 1933 Act; suspension
or revocation of registration (Investment
Company Act, Section 14(a».

152

or revocation of registration
Company Act, Section 8(e».

Attorney, accountant, or other
professional or expert
Lack of requisite qualifications to represent
others; lacking In character or integrity;
unethical or improper professional conduct;
willful vlolanon of securities laws or rules;
or aidIng and abetting such violation.

Permanent or temporary denial of
privilege of appearing or practicmq before
the Oomrnlssron (17 CFR Section
201.2(e)(1 )).

Attorney suspended or disbarred by court;
expert's license revoked or suspended;
conviction of a felony or of a misdemeanor
Involving moral turpitude.

Automatic suspension from appearance
or practice before the Commission (17
CFR Section 201.2(6)(2))

Permanent injunction against or finding of
securities violation in Commission-instituted
action; finding of securities violation by
Commission in administrative proceedings.

Temporary suspension from practlcmq
before the Commission, censure,
permanent or temporary disqualification
from practicing before the Commission
(17 CFR Section 201 2(e)(3».

Member or employee of Municipal securities
Rulemaking Board
Censure or removal from office
(1934 Act, Section 15B(c)(8)).

Willful violation of 1934 Act, rules thereunder,
or rules of the Board; abuse of authonty.

CIVIL PROCEEDINGS

IN FEDERAL DISTRiCT COURTS

Persons Subject to, Acts Constituting,
and BaSIS for, Enforcement Action

Sanction

Any person
Engaging
practices
or orders
registered

in or about to engage In acts or
violating secuntles laws, rules,
thereunder (including rules of a
self-regulatory orpanlzanon).

Noncompliance with provisions of the laws, rules,
or regulations under 1933, 1934, or Holding
Company Act, orders issued by the Commission,
rules of a registered self-regulatory organization, or undertaking In a regIstration
statement

Injunction against acts or practices
constitutmq violations (plus other
equrtable relief under court's
general equity powers) (1933 Act,
Section 20(b); 1934 Act, Section 21 (d);
Holding Company Act, Section 18(e), Investment Company Act, Section
42(d); Advisers Act, Section 209(d);
Trust Indenture Act, Section 321).
Writ of mandamus, injunction, or order
directing compliance (1933 Act, Section
20(c); 1934 Act, Section 21 (e); Holding
Company Act, Section 18(f)).

Trading while In possession of material
non-public information in a transaction on an
exchange or from or through a broker-dealer
(and transaction not part of a public
offering), aiding and abetting or directly
or indirectly controlling the person who
engages In such trading.

Maximum civil penalty: three times profit
gained or loss avoided as a result of
transaction (1934 Act, Section 21A(a)-(b».

Issuer subject to Section 12 or 15(d)
of the 1934 Act, officer, director,
employee or agent of issuer; stockholder
acting on behalf of Issuer
Payment to foreign official, foreign political
party or official, or candidate for foreign
political office, for purposes of seeking the
use of influence In order to assist Issuer in
obtaining or retaining business for or with,
or directing business to, any person.

Maximum CIVil penalty: $10,000 (1934
Act, Section 32(c».

Securities Investor Protection
Corporation
Refusal to commit funds or act for the
protection of customers.

Order directing discharge of obligations
and other appropnate relief (SIPA, Section

11(b».

National securities exchange or
registered securities association
Failure to enforce compliance by members or
persons associated with ItS members with the
1934 Act, rules or orders thereunder, or rules
of the exchange or association.

Wnt of mandamus, injunction or order
directing such exchange or association to
enforce compliance (1934 Act, Section

21 (e».

Registered clearing agency
Failure to enforce compliance by its
participants with ItS own rules.

Wnt of mandamus, Injunction or order
directing cleanng agency to enforce
compliance (1934 Act, Section 21(e».

Issuer subject to
Section 15(d) of 1934 Act
Failure to file required information,
documents, or reports.

Forfeiture of $100 per day (1934 Act,
Section 32(b».

Registered Investment company
Name of company or of security issued by it
deceptive or misleading.

154

Injunction against use of name (Investment
Company Act, Section 35(d».

Officer, director, member of advisory
board, adviser, depositor, or underwriter
of investment company
Engage In act or practice constituting breach
of fiduciary duty involving personal misconduct.

CRIMINAL

PROSECUTION

Persons Subject to, Acts Constituting,
and Basis for, Enforcement Action

InJunctton against acting in certain
capacities for Investment company and other
appropriate relief (Investment Company Act,
Section 36(a)).

BY DEPARTMENT

OF JUSTICE

Sanction

Any person
Willful violation of secunties laws or rules
thereunder; Willful misstatement In any document
required to be filed by secunties laws or rules,
Willful misstatement In any document required to
be filed by self-regulatory orqaruzanon In
connection With an applicatton for membership
or association with member

Maximum penalties. $1,000,000 fine and 10
years Imprisonment for individuals,
$2,500,000 fine for non-natural persons
(1934 Act, Sections 21 (d), 32(a)); $10,000
fine and 5 years irnpnsonrnsnt (or
$200,000 If a public utility holding
company for Violations of the Holding
Company Act) (1933 Act, Sections 20(b),
24; Investment Company Act,
Sections 42(e). 49; Advisers Act,
Sections 209(e), 217; Trust Indenture
Act, Secttons 321, 325, Holding Company
Act, Sections 18(f), 29).

Issuer subject to section 12 or 15(d)
of the 1934 Act; officer or director of
issuer; stockholder acting on behalf of
issuer; employee or agent subject to the
jurisdiction of the United States
Payment to foreign official, foreign political
party or official, or candidate for foreign
political office for purposes of seeking the
use of Influence In order to assist issuer In
obtaining or retaining busmsss for or With,
or directing business to, any person .

Issuer -- $2,000,000; officer, director,
employee, agent or stockholder -- $100,000
and 5 years impnsonment (Issuer may
not pay fine for others) (1934 Act,
Sectton 32(c))

• Statutory references are as follows: "1933 Act," the secunues Act of 1933, "1934 Act,"
the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, "Investment Company Act," the Investment Company Act of
1940, "Advisors Act," the Investment Advrssrs Act of 1940; "Holding Company Act," the Public
Utility Holding Company Act of 1935; "Trust Indenture Act," the Trust Indenture Act of 1939, and
"SIPA," the Secunties Investor Protection Act of 1970

Table 18
ENFORCEMENT CASES INITIATED BY THE COMMISSION
DURING FISCAL YEAR 1990 IN VARIOUS PROGRAM AREAS
(Each case initiated has been included in only one category listed below,
even though many cases involve multiple allegations and may fall under
more than one category)
Program Area In Which a
CIVil AcIIon or Admlnlslrabve
ProceedIng WeE>InllJated

OfIenng Cases
(a) Non-regulated
Entrty
(b) Regulated Entrty
Total Secunbes OfIenng Cases

Civil
AcIIons[FN,l]

[FN,2]

AdmlnlstralJVe
ProceedIngS

Total[FN,l]

%01
Total
C8E>8S

secormes

Broker-Dealer
Cases
(a) Back Office
(b) Fraud Against Customer
(c) Stock Loan
(d) Government
secunnes
(e) Other
Total Broker-Dealer
C8E>9S
Other Regulated Entity Cases
(a) Investment AdvIsers
(b) Investment Companies
(c) Transfer Agents
Total Other Regulated Entity C8E>9S
Issuer Rnanelal Statement and Reporting C8E>9S
(a) Issuer Rnanclal DISClosure
(b) Issuer Reporting Other
(c) Issuer FCPA VIOlation
Total Issuer Rnanc.aI Statement and Reporting C8E>9S
Insider Trading

Cases

Market ManIpulation

C8E>9S

Corporate

Control

C8E>9S

Contempt

Proceedings

Fraud Agaonst Regulated
Miscellaneous

Entrtles

DosclosureJReportlng

Delinquent FilIngs
(a) Issuer ReportIng
(b) Fomns 3 & 4
Total Delinquent Filings
GRAND

TOTALS

24(89)
23(89)

4 (4)
27(34)

47Tf7Sf

3fl3li)

28 (93)
50 (123)
78 (216)

1 (2)
11 (28)
(0)
1 (1)

4 (8)
9 (12)
1 (2)
2(2)
16(22)

5 (10)
20 (40)
1 (2)
3 (3)
22(28)

32l46f

-sn83f

20(35)
4(4)
1 (3)

31 (54)
8 (19)
1 (3)

~

40176f

13%

0(0)
8(11)

23 (56)
14(34)
2(4)
39(94)

130/0

31 (86)

7 (7)

38(93)

130/0

o

~

19 (37)

11 (19)
4(15)

~

15(34)

16(46)
13 (33)
2(4)
31 (83)

170/0

17(87)

7(7)

24(94)

8%

11 (20)

0(0)

11 (20)

4%

7 (11)

0(0)

7(11)

20/0

4 (9)

0(0)

4(9)

1%

1 (11)

0(0)

1 (11)

0%

~

1 (2)
10(12)
193 (568)

IS noted parenthetICally.
[FN,l]The
number of defendants and respondents
(FN,2]ThlS category Includes InJuncbve actions, and CIvil and cnminal contempt
[FN,3]Percentages
total more than 100"10 due to roUnding of figures

156

7(10)

uu,

260/.

..!J!l
0(0)

~
111 (152)

proceedings.

10 (11)

1l2f
11 (13)
304 (720)

4%
1010/0 [FN,3]

Table 19
INVESTIGATIONS OF POSSIBLE VIOLATIONS OF THE ACTS
ADMINISTERED BY THE COMMISSION

Pending as of October 1, 1989
Opened in fiscal year 1990
Total
Closed in fiscal year 1990
Pending as of September 30, 1990
Formal Orders of Investigation
Issued in Fiscal Year 1990

998
362
1,360
208
1,152

122

157

0
......

(\J
(")

(\J

(X)

0

~


0

0)
0)

.....

0
M

a:
W
m

"0
0)

E

ttl

W

Z

D.
W

e:

==
I-

en
ttl

rn

"0

CJ
Z

0)

(X)(X)<O(X)LO(X)(") .....
~ ......
m ..........
o(X)(X) ......
O
LO
(")""""L()(")""(")""""L()

e:

0)

Q

0

z

w
a:
et
w
>
..J

rn

et
0

z

rn

0

u:

i=

.....
0
C\let

oCJ
C\lZ
0)-0:

O)W

.:

:0>
coI-t)

c

.0::::)

Q)
0)

~Q
Q

-c
...
o!
en

w

I::J
l-

ci

m

0)

.....

...

e:

i=
rn

...
I-

~

e:

ttl

rn

ttl

e:

u::

0-

oS

>.

ttl

0

0
D.

w
>
~

0:
I-

en
0)
e:

i

Q)

:E

CD

CD

0

~

CD
~


e
rn
158

..:
Q)

CD

E
en
~
c

«

Z

Q)

en
0)
c

:c
Q)
Q)

0;:;

-

O

U

rn

.s

en
0)
e:

:c
... en
...
~
a; :¥
... e
e:
0

0
D-

Q
et

E
en
Q)
>
e:

e:

0

Q)

rn

Z

e:

0:

en

:;:;
0;::
:;:,

0

0

.".<o .....
m~(")~L()o<o
.....
(")L()......<0
C\I""(X)
,...,...,....,....,....,......,...,...,...,...

en
Q)

E

w

.c

~
1U
0
en

CJ
Z
W

0)

as
:;:;

ttl

"0

Q

Z

::»
...,

"0

Q)
Q)

0

D-

Q)

"E

0
Q.

.9
rn

-D-

CD

(\I

CD

"3

a:

0)

e:

~

...

0

>-

c

ttl
0

.2
en

u:

I-

en

e:

CD
0-

en
:;:,

rn

ttl

Q)

en

.....
N(").".LOco"ajmo
(X)(X)(X)co (X)(X)(X)(X)(X)m
mmmmmmmmmm
,.....-,...,....,....,...,...
,...

..........

Foreign Restricted List
The Securities and Exchange Commission maintains and publishes a Foreign Restricted List which is designed to put broker-dealers, financial institutions,
investors, and others on notice of possible unlawful distributions of foreign securities in the United States. The list consists of names of foreign companies whose
securities the Commission has reason to believe have been, or are being, offered for
public sale in the United States in possible violation of the registration requirement
of Section 5 of the Securities Act of 1933 (Securities Act). The offer and sale of
unregistered securities deprives investors of all the protections afforded by the
Securities Act, including the right to receive a prospectus containing the information required by the Act for the purpose of enabling the investor to determine
whether the investment is suitable. While most broker-dealers refuse to effect
transactions in securities issued by companies on the Foreign Restricted List, this
does not necessarily prevent promotors from illegally offering such securities
directly to investors in the United States by mail, by telephone, and sometimes by
personal solicitation. The following foreign corporations and other foreign entities
comprise the Foreign Restricted List.
1.
2.
3.
4.
5.
6.
7.
8.
9.
10.
11.
12.
13.
14.
15.
16.
17.
18.
19.
20.
21.
22.
23.
24.
25.
26.
27.
28.

Aguacate Consolidated Mines, Incorporated (Costa Rica)
Alan MacTavish, Ltd. (England)
Allegheny Mining and Exploration Company, Ltd. (Canada)
Allied Fund for Capital Appreciation (AFCA, S.A) (Panama)
Amalgamated Rare Earth Mines, Ltd. (Canada)
American Industrial Research S.A, also known as Investigation
Industrial Americana, S.A (Mexico)
American International Mining (Bahamas)
American Mobile Telephone and Tape Co., Ltd. (Canada)
Antel International Corporation, Ltd. (Canada)
Antoine Silver Mines, Ltd. (Canada)
ASCA Enterprisers Limited (Hong Kong)
Atholl Brose (Exports) Ltd. (England)
Atholl Brose Ltd. (England)
Atlantic and Pacific Bank and Trust Co., Ltd. (Bahamas)
Bank of Sark (Sark, Channel Islands, U.K.)
Briar Court Mines, Ltd. (Canada)
British Overseas Mutual Fund Corporation Ltd. (Canada)
California & Caracas Mining Corp., Ltd. (Canada)
Caprimex, Inc. (Grand Cayman, British West Indies)
Canterra Development Corporation, Ltd. (Canada)
Cardwell Oil Corporation, Ltd. (Canada)
Caribbean Empire Company, Ltd. (British Honduras)
Caye Chapel Club, Ltd. (British Honduras)
Central and Southern Industries Corp. (Panama)
Cerro Azul Coffee Plantation (Panama)
Cia. Rio Banano, S.A (Costa Rica)
City Bank AS. (Denmark)
Claw Lake Molybdenum Mines, Ltd. (Canada)
159

29.
30.
31.
32.
33.
34.
35.
36.
37.
38.
39.
40.
41.
42.
43.
44.
45.
46.
47.
48.
49.
50.
51.
52.
53
54.
55.
56.
57.
58.
59.
60.
61.
62.
63.
64.
65.
66.
67.
68.
69.
70.
71.
72.
73.
160

Claravella Corporation (Costa Rica)
Compressed Air Corporation, Limited (Bahamas)
Continental and Southern Industries, S.A. (Panama)
Crossroads Corporation, S.A. (Panama)
Darien Exploration Company, S.A. (Panama)
Derkglen, Ltd. (England)
De Veers Consolidated Mining Corporation, S.A. (Panama)
Doncannon Spirits, Ltd. (Bahamas)
Durman, Ltd. Formerly known as Bankers International Investment
Corporation (Bahamas)
Empresia Minera Caudalosa de-Panama, S.A. (Panama)
Ethel Copper Mines, Ltd. (Canada)
Euroforeign Banking Corporation, Ltd. (Panama)
Finansbanker a/s (Denmark)
First Liberty Fund, Ltd. (Bahamas)
General Mining S.A. (Canada)
Global Explorations, Inc. (Panama)
Global Insurance, Company, Limited (British West Indies)
Globus Anlage-Vermittlungsgesell-schaft
MBH (Germany)
Golden Age Mines, Ltd. (Canada)
Hebilla Mining Corporation (Costa Rica)
Hemisphere Land Corporation Limited (Bahamas)
Henry Ost & Son, Ltd. (England)
Hotelera Playa Flamingo, S.A.
Intercontinental Technologies Corp. (Canada)
International Communications Corporation (British West Indies)
International Monetary Exchange (Panama)
International Trade Development of Costa Rica, S.A.
Ironco Mining & Smelting Company, Ltd. (Canada)
James G. Allan & Sons (Scotland)
[ojoba Oil & Seed Industries S.A. (Costa Rica)
Jupiter Explorations, Ltd. (Canada)
Kenilworth Mines, Ltd. (Canada)
Klondike Yukon Mining Company (Canada)
KoKanee Moly Mines, Ltd. (Canada)
Land Sales Corporation (Canada)
Los Dos Hermanos, S.A. (Spain)
Lynbar Mining Corp. Ltd. (Canada)
Massive Energy Ltd. (Canada)
Mercantile Bank and Trust & Co., Ltd. (Cayman Island)
Multireal Properties, Inc. (Canada)
J.P. Morgan & Company, Ltd., of London, England (not to be confused
with J.P. Morgan & Co., Incorporated, New York)
Norart Minerals Limited (Canada)
Normandie Trust Company, S.A. (Panama)
Northern Survey (Canada)
Northern Trust Company, S.A. (Switzerland)

74.
75.
76.
77.
78.
79.
80.
77.
78.
79.
80.

Northland Minerals, Ltd. (Canada)
Obsco Corporation, Ltd. (Canada)
Pacific Northwest Developments, Ltd. (Canada)
Pan-Alaska Resources, S.A. (Panama)
Panamerican Bank & Trust Company (Panama)
Pascar Oils Ltd. (Canada)
Paulpic Gold Mines, Ltd. (Canada)
Pan-Alaska Resources, S.A. (Panama)
Panamerican Bank & Trust Company (Panama)
Pascar Oils Ltd. (Canada)
Paulpic Gold Mines, Ltd. (Canada)

161

Table 22
Fiscal 1990 Enforcement Cases
Listed by Program Area

Program Area-s-Offering

Violations (By Non-Regulated

Name of Case
In the Matter of Telco Payphone Ltd. Partnership II
In the Matter of Robert D. Sichta
In the Matter of Michael C. Beatty
In the Matter of National Car Care, Inc.
SEC v. R.W. Technology, Inc.
SEC v. William A. Thome
SEC v. Michael C. Beatty
SEC v. American Assurance Underwriters Group Inc.
SEC v. Advanced Viral Research Corp.
SEC v. William E. Rooney
SEC v. Eurobond Exchange Ltd.
SEC v. Steven G. Osguthorpe
SEC v. Dewani Lauro Marine Product
Development Corp.
SEC v. Herman J. Schannault
SEC v. Transwestem Oil & Gas Co., Inc.
SEC v. Thomas Hydrocarbons, Inc.
SEC v. Alan O. Melchior
SEC v. Arthur Jackson Curry
SEC v. P.B. Ventures,
SEC v. OMAC Inc.
SEC v. Reddington Investments, Inc.
SEC v. Maxwell C. Huffman, Jr.
SEC v. European Fidelity, S.A.
SEC v. Robert Gary Lewis
SEC v: Blaine Chambers
SEC v. Wayne A. Bossung
SEC v. Andrew B. Hendryx
SEC v. Arthur R. Condie

Entities)
Date Filed

Release No.

02-05-90
07-19-90
08-20-90
09-27-90
10-02-89
10-19-89
12-01-89
12-08-89
12-14-89
01-02-90
01-25-90
05-11-90

33-6855
34-28234
34-28356
33-6875

06-08-90
06-14-90
06-20-90
06-26-90
08-08-90
08-15-90
08-15-90
08-24-90
08-31-90
09-05-90
09-18-90
09-20-90
09-20-90
09-26-90
09-27-90
09-27-90

LR-I2271
LR-I2286
LR-12337
LR-12334
LR-12332
LR-12371
LR-12364

NONE
LR-12515
LR-12521
LR-12518
LR-12524
LR-12571
LR-12689
LR-12581
LR-12598
LR-12613
LR-1261O
LR-12627
LR-12630
LR-12625
LR-12640
LR-12658
LR-12638

Program Area-Offering Violations (By Regulated Entities)
Name of Case
In
In
In
In

the
the
the
the
In the
162

Matter
Matter
Matter
Matter
Matter

of Robert C. Grubbs
of F. Richard Bishop
of Thomas R. Dinnin
of Olen Dominy
of Charles Phillip Elliott

Date Filed

Release No.

10-03-89
10-10-89
10-10-89
10-23-89
10-23-89

34-27332
34-27348
34-27347
34-27375
34-27374

In the Matter of William E. Pohl
In the Matter of Rick E. Myers
In the Matter of Frank R. Grillo
In the Matter of William Flynn
In the Matter of Pietro Gattini
In the Matter of James B. Talman, Jr.
In the Matter of Bradley & Associates, Inc.
In the Matter of David K. Jeffers
In the Matter of Gregory T. Harry
In the Matter of Richard H. Van Eerden
In the Matter of Roger N. Arnold
In the Matter of Robert E. Lane
In the Matter of Royce Park Investments, Inc.
In the Matter of Laureen M. Farley
In the Matter of Richard L. Hoffman
In the Matter of Lawrence G. Zuliani
In the Matter of Benjamin J. Taormina
In the Matter of William D. Roszel
In the Matter of V. F. Minton Securities Inc.
In the Matter of Robert C. Gleave
In the Matter of Allen R. Asker
In the Matter of William Erwin Zilys
SEC v. Michael S. Douglas
SEC v. U.S. General Corp.
SEC v. Jeffers Investments Corp.
SEC v. RL Kotrozo Inc.
SEC v. Pegasus Entrepreneurial
Ventures
SEC v. ALIC Corp.
SEC v. Thomas James Associates, Inc.
SEC v. Phoenix Aviation Inc.
SEC v. John J. Marston
SEC v. Robert E. Lane
SEC v. Robert C. Gleave
SEC v. Beres Industries Inc.
SEC v. Lee Lon Williams
SEC v. Donald Bader
SEC v. Profit Enterprises Inc.
SEC v. Profit Enterprises, Inc.
SEC v. William Edward Kinzel
SEC v. Charles A. Oglebay
SEC v. Thomas D. Kienlen
SEC v. Wacker Marketing Inc.
SEC v. Kim G. Girdner
SEC v. William A. Bates
SEC v. Candace M. LaCasto

10-31-89
11-21-89
12-21-89
01-08-90
02-01-90
02-22-90
02-23-90
06-19-90
06-25-90
07-05-90
07-06-90
07-18-90
07-19-90
07-19-90
07-26-90
08-21-90
08-29-90
09-19-90
09-21-90
09-27-90
09-28-90
09-28-90
11-13-89
11-22-89
12-28-89
02-22-90
03-14-90
03-21-90
03-29-90
05-21-90
05-24-90
07-03-90
07-09-90
08-09-90
08-10-90
08-16-90
08-17-90
08-21-90
09-10-90
09-11-90
09-17-90
09-26-90
09-28-90
09-28-90
09-28-90

IA-1209
34-27457
34-27560
34-27595
34-27668
34-27725
34-27842
34-28135
34-28144
34-28187
34-28188
34-28231
34-28236
34-28235
34-28267
34-28359
34-28395
IA-1251
34-28457
34-28478
34-28483
34-28494
LR-12303
LR-12304
LR-12365
LR-12385
LR-12421
LR-12419
LR-12431
AAER259
LR-12491
LR-12538
LR-12546
LR-12575
LR-12595
LR-12584
LR-12588
LR-12588
LR-12624
LR-12615
LR-1271O
LR-12636
LR-12656
LR-12673
LR-12655

163

Program Area-s-Broker-Dealen

Back Office

Name of Case
In the Matter
In the Matter
In the Matter
In the Matter
SEC v. James

Release No.

01-16-90
01-16-90
09-25-90
09-28-90
09-26-90

34-27627
34-27626
34-28465
34-28490
NONE

Date Filed

Release No.

01-26-90
04-25-90
06-04-90
06-08-90
07-18-90
07-18-90
09-17-90
09-28-90
09-28-90
11-27-89
03-14-90
03-16-90
05-25-90
06-01-90
06-06-90
06-13-90
06-29-90
07-30-90
09-27-90

34-27646
34-27945
34-28091
34-28097
34-28229
34-28230
34-28444
34-28493
34-28485
LR-12308
LR-12411
LR-12736
LR-12488
LR-12494
LR-12504
LR-12511
LR-12534
LR-12567
LR-12639

Date Filed

Release No.

02-05-90

34-27674

Date Filed

Release No.

06-11-90
08-21-90
06-07-90

34-28103
34-28360
LR-12505

of Lyle Thomas Bachman
of Anthony Stoisich
of Theodore Len
of James P. Moran
P. Moran

Program Area-Broker

Dealer: Fraud Against Customer

Name of Case
In the Matter of Stamatios T. Kousisis
In the Matter of Walter F. Kusay, Jr.
In the Matter of Harry Abrams
In the Matter of Michael R. Vierra
In the Matter of Alexander Tihonow
In the Matter of Harry A. Kenning, Jr.
In the Matter of Ellwyn Fischbach
In the Matter of Marc Stuart Weiner
In the Matter of Waiter F. Curran
SEC v. Harry Abrams
SEC v. Wellshire Securities Inc.
SEC v. Growth Capital Securities Inc.
SEC v. Harbour Bay Financial Co.
SEC v. Oscar Ayala
SEC v. Lloyd Securities Inc.
SEC v. Bruce Black
SEC v. H.A. Kenning Investments Inc.
SEC v. Mark Stephen Benskin
SEC v. Joel M. County
Program Area-Braker-Dealer:

Stock Loan

Name of Case
In the Matter of Ernst & Co.

Program Area-i-Broker-Dealen Government
Name of Case
In the Matter of Frank Clarke and Co., Inc.
In the Matter of Stotler & Co.
SEC v. Frank Clarke & Co., Inc.
164

Date Filed

Securities

Program

Area-s-Broker-Dealen

Other

Name of Case
In the Matter of Paul Schoengold
In the Matter of S.B. Lewis & Co.
In the Matter of Philip A. Bernick
In the Matter of Herbert L. Cantley
In the Matter of William V. Frankel & Co
In the Matter of North Atlantic Corp.
In the Matter of Bagley Securities, Inc.
In the Matter of Donaldson, Lufkin & Jenrette
Securities Corp.
In the Matter of Robert D. Boose
In the Matter of Goodrich Securities Inc.
In the Matter of Philip M. Georgeson
In the Matter of Michael Z. Landy
In the Matter of Joseph M. McDonough
In the Matter of Barton Bereck
In the Matter of San Marino Securities, Inc.
In the Matter of Garth Orson Potts
SEC v. Philip M. Georgeson
SEC v. Joseph M. McDonough
SEC v. Toni S. Allen
SEC v. Carl Caserta
SEC v. Wellesley Mortgage Corop.
SEC v. San Marino Securities Inc.
Program

Area-Investment

Date Filed

ReleaseNc

10-03-89
12-07-89
12-28-89
01-16-90
01-26-90
02-02-90
02-05-90

34-27331
34-27515
34-27574
34-27628
34-27649
34-27670
34-27673

04-11-90
04-25-90
06-25-90
07-05-90
08-06-90
09-06-90
09-25-90
09-28-90
09-28-90
07-05-90
09-06-90
09-06-90
09-12-90
09-28-90
09-28-90

34-27889
34-27946
34-28141
34-28180
34-28314
34-28409
34-28469
34-28486
34-28487
LR-12533
LR-12607
LR-12606
LR-12633
LR-12660
LR-12644

Date Filed

Release No.

10-25-89
12-01-89
02-05-90

lA-1207
lA-1211
lA-I221

04-23-90
05-29-90
05-29-90
05-30-90
06-01-90
06-25-90
06-29-90

lA-I226
lA-I229
lA-I228
IA-1230
lA-I232
IA-1235
NONE

07-25-90

lA-1242

07-26-90

lA-1243

Adviser

Name of Case
In the Matter of The Blue Chip Market Advisor Inc.
In the Matter of JBT Management,
Inc.
In the Matter of Edward G. Kanavel, Jr.
In the Matter of Financial Managment Services of
Northern Virginia, Inc.
In the Matter of Longhorn Trading Inc.
In the Matter of Kelly Kirk Shryoc
In the Matter of Mysore S. Sundara
In the Matter of Liberty Securities Group, Inc.
In the Matter of Patterson Capital Corp.
In the Matter of Management
Intelligence Five Corp.
In the Matter of Goldberg & Associates Financial
Advisors, Inc.
In the Matter of Thomson McKinnon Asset
Management
Limited Partnership

165

In the Matter of Robert Schwarz Inc.
In the Matter of Robert Michael Lee
In the Matter of R.E.c. Investors Inc.
In the Matter of Phoenix Asset Management Inc.
In the Matter of David S. Quintana
In the Matter of Joanne M. Stroud
In the Matter of Michael J. Helvey
SEC v. Rita Baskin
SEC v. Gregory D. Govan
SEC v. Halford-Smith Associates Inc.
SEC v. Financial Management Services of Northern
Virginia, Inc.
SEC v. Richard H. Van Eerden
SEC v. William P. Dillon
SEC v. Goldberg & Associates Financial Advisors, Inc.
SEC v. Robert Schwarz Inc.
SEC v. William S. Gotchey
SEC v. David S. Quintana
SEC v. Jeffrey L. Gee
Program Area-Investment

In the Matter of Stein Roe & Farnham, Inc.
In the Matter of Fred Alger Management, Inc.
In the Matter of G. Richmond McFarland
In the Matter of Robert Scarpetti
SEC v. John V. Holmes
SEC v. Municipal Lease Securities Fund
SEC v. Dart Group Corp.
SEC v. Carl L. Lazzell

In the Matter of Rocky Mountain Securities
Transfer Co., Inc.

LR-12446
LR-12552
LR-12531
LR-12553
LR-12602
LR-12617
LR-12623
LR-12634

Date Filed

Release No.

01-22-90
02-26-90
07-30-90
09-04-90
10-18-89
12-18-89
02-28-90
08-08-90

IC-17316
IC-17358
AAER266
IC-I7724
LR-12276
LR-12331
LR-12392
LR-12576

Date Filed

Release No.

09-28-90

34-28495

Date Filed

Release No.

01-11-90
07-17-90

AAER251
AAER264

Financial Disclosure

Name of Case
In the Matter of Stephen L. Hochberg
In the Matter of Charles V. Moore, CPA
166

04-13-90
06-07-90
07-05-90
07-18-90
07-31-90
09-14-90
09-19-90
09-25-90

Agent

Name of Case

Program Area-Issuer

IA-1248
IA-1249
IA-1250
IA-1252
IA-1253
IA-1256
IA-1255
LR-12326
LR-12322
LR-12384

Company

Name of Case

Program Area-Transfer

08-31-90
09-17-90
09-18-90
09-25-90
09-27-90
09-28-90
09-28-90
12-05-89
12-13-89
02-15-90

In the Matter of Georgia McCarley
In the Matter of Bruce T. Andersen, CPA
In the Matter of Fluid Corp.
In the Matter of William G. Gaede, Jr.
In the Matter of Charles C. Lehman, Jr.
SEC v. Security National Bancorp, Inc.
SEC v. John E. Parigian
SEC v. Sundstrand Corp.
SEC v. Richard H. Towle
SEC v. Bombay Place Restaurants, Inc.
SEC v. R. Kelly Neal
SEC v. William T. Kelsey
SEC v. Circle Express, Inc.
SEC v. Desk Top Financial Solutions
SEC v. Barry Jay Minkow
SEC v. Rajiv P. Mehta
SEC v. Richard I. Berger
SEC v. Malibu Capital Corp.
SEC v. Fluid Corp.
SEC v. Dennis R. Trailer
SEC v. Crowell & Co., Inc.
Program Area-Issuer

AAER267
AAER268
AAER276
AAER274
AAER275
AAER253
AAER257
AAER261
AAER258
AAER260
AAER263
LR-12560
AAER272
AAER265
AAER269
AAER271
AAER273
LR-12635
LR-12661
AAER278
AAER277

Date Filed

Release No.

03-21-90
10-13-89
01-11-90
01-18-90
02-16-90
03-07-90
05-03-90
07-11-90
07-16-90
08-31-90
09-25-90
09-28-90
09-28-90
09-28-90

34-27832
LR-12279
LR-12361
LR-12368
LR-12381
LR-12416
LR-12465
LR-12537
LR-12543
LR-12608
LR-12662
LR-12653
LR-12652
LR-12651

Date Filed

Release No.

01-30-90
09-24-90

AAER252
AAER281

Reporting: Other

Name of Case
In the Matter of Gene Kazlow
SEC v. Robert D. Mercer-Falkoff
SEC v. Colin E. Tongs
SEC v. Robert Allen Krebs
SEC v. Bolar Pharmaceutical Co.
SEC v. Gene Kazlow
SEC v. H. Wayne Hayes, Jr.
SEC v. Allure Cosmetics, Ltd.
SEC v. R-2000 Corp.
SEC v. CherAmi Natural Pet Foods, Inc.
SEC v. Vista Management Inc.
SEC v. Wilbur J. Taylor
SEC v. Ronald N. Vance
SEC v. Carl W. Martin
Program Area-Issuer:

08-01-90
08-31-90
09-25-90
09-26-90
09-28-90
02-06-90
05-15-90
05-21-90
05-23-90
05-24-90
06-12-90
07-09-90
07-16-90
07-25-90
08-15-90
09-10-90
09-18-90
09-25-90
09-25-90
09-27-90
09-27-90

FCP A Violations

Name of Case
SEC v. Evergood Products Corp.
SEC v. Gulf Power Co.

1f17

Program Area-Insider

Trading

Name of Case
In the Matter of Robert Chestman
In the Matter of Douglas Ronald Yagoda
In the Matter of R. Charles Hack
In the Matter of John E. McCollough, Jr.
In the Matter of Peter Jeffer
In the Matter of Lori Glauberman
In the Matter of Anthony Correra
SEC v. Finacor Anstalt
SEC v. Richard W. Bangham
SEC v. John Joseph Lynch
SEC v. Charles Lindberg
SEC v. Kenneth H. Kuehne
SEC v. Robert Charles Troup
SEC v. Thaddeus Pencikowski
SEC v. Brian J. Callahan
SEC v. James H. O'Hagan
SEC v. Fondation Hai
SEC v. Richard W. Dutrisac
SEC v. Charles R. Hack
SEC v. Robert N. Brethen
SEC v. Suzanne Vuko
SEC v. Stuart A. Godfrey
SEC v. Barry N. Katz
SEC v. Morton S. Neiman
SEC v. B. Francis Saul III
SEC v. Joseph Behar
SEC v. Alan C. Goulding
SEC v. [iro Yamazaki
SEC v. Wolfgang Marcour
SEC v. Henry Arnold Singer
SEC v. Ortwin Heider
SEC v. Steven L. Glauberman
SEC v. Saul Bluestone
SEC v. Mary Bushbaum
SEC v. Dale T. Iabour
SEC v. Howard P. MarguIeas
SEC v. Jason M. Chapnick
SEC v. Richard M. Nault

168

Date Filed

Release No.

02-26-90
04-12-90
05-25-90
06-14-90
09-12-90
09-12-90
09-12-90
11-16-89
11-29-89
11-29-89
12-14-89
12-15-89
12-21-89
01-08-90
01-09-90
01-10-90
01-17-90
01-31-90
02-05-90
02-27-90
03-13-90
03-27-90
03-29-90
04-24-90
05-08-90
05-31-90
06-05-90
06-11-90
06-14-90
06-28-90
07-13-90
08-09-90
08-22-90
08-27-90
08-29-90
09-06-90
09-27-90
09-28-90

34-27735
34-27899
34-28051
34-28118
34-28428
34-28427
34-28426
LR-12296
LR-12309
LR-12311
LR-12323
LR-12341
LR-12329
LR-12338
LR-12343
LR-12344
LR-12353
LR-12362
LR-12372
LR-12388
LR-12408
LR-12420
LR-12430
LR-12455
LR-12469
LR-12492
LR-12500
LR-12507
LR-12513
LR-12523
LR-12542
LR-12574
LR-12589
LR-12594
LR-12597
LR-12604
LR-12657
LR-12672

Program Area-Market

Manipulation

Name of Case
Inthe Matter of Kirk A. Knapp
In the Matter of James T. Melton
In the Matter of Salim B. Lewis
In the Matter of Herbert Stone
In the Matter of Douglas Stowell
In the Matter of Suzanne Bosworth
Inthe Matter of George Salloum
SEC v. Leonard M. Tucker
SEC v. Lifeline Healthcare Group, Ltd.
SEC v. George T. Harry
SEC v. GAP Corp.
SEC v. Michael Kaufman
SEC v. Ahmad N. Bayaa
SEC v. Rosemary Grady
SEC v. Peter E. Butler
SEC v. Blinder Robinson & Co., Inc.
SEC v. Union National Mortgage Co.
SEC v. Salim B. Lewis
SEC v. Suzanne Bosworth
SEC v. Novaferon Labs, Inc.
SEC v. Douglas Stowell
SEC v. Power Securities Corp.
SEC v. Kevin L. Weakland
SEC v. Robert Schlien

Program Area-Corporate

Release No.

05-31-90
08-06-90
08-13-90
08-17-90
09-07-90
09-28-90
09-28-90
11-20-89
11-21-89
01-16-90
03-08-90
03-26-90
05-14-90
06-01-90
07-09-90
07-12-90
07-18-90
08-06-90
08-08-90
08-14-90
08-14-90
09-06-90
09-24-90
09-28-90

IA-1231
34-28313
34-28333
34-28350
34-28416
34-28491
34-28489
LR-12307
LR-12300

Date Filed

Release No.

09-28-90

LR-12650

NONE
AAER254
LR-12425
LR-12475
LR-12509
LR-12536
LR-12539
LR-12555
LR-12569
LR-12580
LR-12577
LR-12590
LR-12605
LR-12629
LR-12687

Control: Tender Offer

Name of Case
SEC v. BITInvestors Inc.
Program Area-Corporate

Date Filed

Control: Beneficial Ownership

Name of Case
SEC v. Don R. Daseke
SEC v. Edward P. Evans
SEC v. Francis Joseph Spillman
SEC v. Alan E. Clore
SEC v. Nortek Inc.
SEC v. John Simonelli
SEC v. John V. Hazleton

Date Filed

Release No.

11-13-89
12-06-89
12-13-89
02-13-90
03-12-90
09-28-90
09-28-90

LR-12293
LR-12315
LR-12321
LR-12377
LR-12406
LR-12648
LR-12647
1f;Q

Program Area-Corporate

Control: Proxy Violations

Name of Case
SEC v. Thomas Lee Oakes
SEC v. David Schardien
Program Area-Corporate

SEC v. Mesa Limited Partnership

SEC v. Thomas Quinn
SEC v. Frank R. Breitweiser
SEC v. Francis Joseph Spillman
SEC v. R.G. Reynolds Enterprises, Inc.
SEC v. Robert J. Palle, Jr.
SEC v. Unioil

SEC v. William H. Keller

Andrew Worden
Anthony Serivola
Glenn C. Jessen
REC Investors, Inc.

Program Area-Miscellaneous
Name of Case
SEC v. Joel Nadel

170

Date Filed

Release No.

09-27-90

LR-12637

Date Filed

Release No.

01-25-90
04-11-90
07-02-90
07-18-90
08-21-90
09-27-90

LR-12395
LR-12441
LR-12530
LR-12554
LR-12592
LR-12641

Date Filed

Release No.

11-03-89

LR-I2294

Date Filed

Release No.

03-15-90
08-07-90
09-17-90
09-18-90

LR-12415
LR-12573
LR-12621
LR-12622

Date Filed

Release No.

05-18-90

LR-12487

Against Regulated Entities

Name of Case
SEC v.
SEC v.
SEC v.
SEC v.

LR-12451
LR-12564

Criminal (Filed By SEC)

Name of Case

Program Area-Fraud

04-23-90
08-01-90

Civil

Name of Case

Program Area-Contempt:

Release No.

Control: Other

Name of Case

Program Area-Contempt:

Date Filed

DisdosurelReporting

Program Area-Delinquent

Filings: Issuer Reporting

Name of Case
In the Matter of Micromedical Devices Inc.
SEC v. New Age Industries, Inc.
SEC v. First Hartford Corp.
SEC v. Sequential Information Systems, Inc.
SEC v. American Educators Financial Corp.
SEC v. American Capital Group, Ltd.
SEC v. Electronic Clearing House Inc.
SEC v. Learning Annex Inc.
SEC v. Advanced Monitoring Systems, Inc.
SEC v. Ener-Mark Corp.
Program Area-Delinquent
Name of Case
SEC v. Joel M. Barry

Date Filed

Release No

09-25-90
10-24-89
11-21-89
12-11-89
12-19-89
04-19-90
04-25-90
05-21-90
06-20-90
07-03-90

34-28467
LR-12277
LR-12299
LR-12317
LR-12346
LR-12450
LR-12456
LR-12481
LR-12517
LR-12532

Date Filed

Release No.

08-21-90

LR-12587

Filings: Forms 3 & 4

171

Right to Financial Privacy
Section 21 (h) of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934 [15 U.S.C. 78u(h)(6)] requires that the Commission "compile an annual tabulation of the occasions on which
the Commission used each separate subparagraph or clause of [Section 21 (h)(2)]
orthe provisions ofthe Rightto Financial Privacy Act of 1978 [12 U.S.C. 3401-22 (the
RFPA)] to obtain access to financial records of a customer and include it in its annual
report to the Congress." During the fiscal year, the Commission made four applications to courts for orders pursuant to the subparagraphs and clauses of Section
21 (h)(2) to obtain access to financial records of a customer. The Commission
obtained access to the financial records of a customer using the procedures
provided by the following sections of the RFPA:

Section 1104(Customer Authorizations)
Section 1105(Administrative Subpoenas)
Section 1107(JudicialSubpoenas)

172

1
103
7

CORPORATE

REORGANIZATIONS

The Commission entered its appearance in 34 reorganization cases filed under
Chapter 11 of the Bankruptcy Code involving companies with aggregated stated
assets of over $33 billion and about 250,000 public investors. Counting these new
cases, the Commission was a party in a total of 167 Chapter 11 cases during the fiscal
year. In these cases, the stated assets totalled approximately $65 billion and
involved about 875,000 public investors. Also, 31 cases were concluded through
confirmation of a plan of reorganization, dismissal, or liquidation, leaving 136 cases
in which the Commission was a party at year-end.

173

Table 23
REORGANIZATION PROCEEDINGS UNDER CHAPTER 11 OF THE
BANKRUPTCY CODE IN 'WHICH THE COMMISSION ENTERED APPEARANCE

F.Y.
District

F.Y.

Opened

Closed

VA
CA
MI
NY

1985
1988
1990
1987

1990

PA
ED
W.O. PA
C.D CA
0
CO

1984
1988
1988
1990

0
KS
D.
AZ
N.D. TX
W.O. TX

1989
1989
1988
1990

American Monitor Corp.
Ames Department Stores, Inc., et aJ.
Anglcor Limited 1
Anglo Energy, Inc. 1

S.D.
SO.
D.
S.D.

IN
NY
MN
NY

1986
1990
1989
1988

Basix Corporation 1
Bay Financial Corp., et aJ.
Beehive International
Beker Industries Corp

S.D.
D.
D.
S.D.

NY
MA
UT
NY

1988
1990
1989
1986

1990

Berry Industries Corp. 1.
Birdvrew Satellite Comrnurucauons, Inc 1
Blinder Robinson & Company, Inc.
Boardroom Business Products, Inc.

C.D.
D.
D.
C.D.

CA
KS
CO
CA

1985
1988
1990
1989

1990
1990

Branch Industries, Inc.
Buttes Gas & 011 Co.
Calmark Real Estate 3
Calumet Industries

S.D.
S.D.
S.D.
N.D.

NY
TX
TX
IL

1985
1986
1989
1990

Camera Enterprises, Inc., et al.
Canton Industrial Corp.
Care Enterprises, Inc. 1
Chalet Gourmet Corp. 1

D.
C.D.
C.D
C.D

MA
IL
CA
CA

1989
1988
1988
1985

Charter Co. 1
CItywIde Securities Corp. 4
Coated Sales, Inc.
Coleca Industries, Inc. 1

MD.
S.D.
S.D.
S.D.

FL
NY
NY
NY

1984
1985
1988
1988

Colorado-Ute ElectriC Association
Commonwealth Oil Refining Co., Inc.
Consolidated Oil & Gas
Consolidated Companies

D.
W.D
D.
N.D.

CO
TX
CO
TX

1990
1984
1989
1989

Debtor
A.H. Robins Co., Inc. 1
Aca Joe, Inc. 1
Action Auto Stores
ADI Electronics
AlA Industries, Inc.
Allegheny International,
Allison's Place
Amdura Corporation
American
American
American
American

174

ED.
N.D.
EA.
ED

Inc.

Carriers, Inc.
Continental Corporation
Healthcare Mgmt, Inc. 1
Medical Technologies

1990

1990

1990

1990
1990
1990

1990

Table 23--Continued
REORGANIZATION PROCEEDINGS UNDER CHAPTER 11 OF THE
BANKRUPTCY CODE IN WHICH THE COMMISSION ENTERED APPEARANCE

Debtor

F.Y.
Opened

District

F.Y.
Closed

Conston Corporation
Continental Information Systems
Convenient Food Mart
Crazy Eddie, Inc., et al.

E.D.
S.D.
N.D.
S.D.

PA
NY
IL
NY

1990
1989
1989
1989

Crompton Co., Inc.
Dakota Minerals, Inc.
Dart Drug Stores, Inc.
Del.aurenths Entertainment

SO.
D.
D.
CD.

NY
WY
MD
CA

1985
1986
1989
1988

DeitaUS Corp. 1
Dest Corp.
Domain Technology, Inc.
Doskocil Companies, Inc.

E.D.
N.D.
N.D
D.

TX
CA
CA
KS

1989
1989
1989
1990

Drexel Burnham Lambert Group, Ltd
Eagle Clothes, Inc.
Eastern Air Lines, Inc., et al.
Engineered Systems & Development Corp. 2

S.D.
S.D
S.D.
N.D.

NY
NY
NY
CA

1990
1989
1989
1988

Enterprise Technologies, Inc.
Equestrian Ctrs. of Amer , Inc.
Fed Depart.lAlhed Stores et al.
Financial & Bus. Serv., Inc.

S.D.
C.D.
S.D.
W.D

TX
CA
OH
NC

1984
1985
1990
1986

Finest Hour, Inc.
First Repubhcbank Corp.
General Development Corporation
General Technologies Group

C.D.
N.D.
S.D
E.D

CA
TX
FL
NY

1988
1989
1990
1990

Global Manne, Inc. 1
Greyhound Lines, et al.
Hampton Healthcare, Inc.
Hehonetics, Inc.

S.D.
S.D.
M.D.
C.D.

TX
TX
FL
CA

1986
1990
1988
1986

1990

Hohday Resources, Inc. 1
Holland Industries, Inc.
ICX, Inc. 2
Inflight Services, Inc.

S.D.
S.D.
D.
S.D.

TX
NY
CO
NY

1987
1988
~987
1987

1990

Integrated Resources, Inc.
Intn'l Pharmaceutical Products, Inc.
Inter. American Homes, Inc., et al.
Jumping - Jacks Shoes, et al.

S.D. NY
C.D. CA
D.
NJ
W.O. MO

1990
1988
1990
1990

Kaiser Steel Corp.
King of Video, Inc.
Kurzweil Music Systems Inc.
LaPointe Industries, Inc.

D.
D.
D.
D.

1987
1989
1990
1989

1

CO
NV
MA
CT

1990
1990

1990

1990

17fi

Table 23--Continued
REORGANIZATION PROCEEDINGS UNDER CHAPTER 11 OF THE
BANKRUPTCY CODE IN WHICH THE COMMISSION ENTERED APPEARANCE
F.Y.

Opened

District

Debtor
Llvlngwell Incorporated
Lomas Financial Corp.
LTV Corporation
MacGregor Sportmg Goods, Inc
Marathon Office Supply, Inc.
Margaux, Inc. 1
Mars Stores, Inc., et al.
Marvin Leon Warner 1,4

S.D.
S.D.
S.D.
D.
C.D.
N.D.
D.
M.D.

TX
NY
NY
NJ
CA
CA
MA
FL

1990
1990
1986
1989
1988
1989
1989
1988

Maxicare Health Plus Inc. 1
McLean Industnes, Inc.
MCorp (MCorp Financial, Inc.
& MCorp Management)
Meridian Reserve, Inc.

C.D.
S.D

CA
NY

1989
1987

TX
S.D
W.O. OK

1989
1989

Michigan General Corp. 1
Midland Capital Corp.
MinlScnbe Corporation
MiSSion Insurance Group, Inc. 1

N.D
S.D
D.
C.D

TX
NY
CO
CA

1987
1986
1990
1987

Munson
Mustang
National
National

D.
S.D.
W.O.
S.D.

NV
TX
TX
IN

1988
1988
1990
1990

D.
S.D.
C.D.
C.D.

UT
NY
CA
CA

1989
1988
1989
1989

Occidental Development Fund V 4
Oliver's Stores
OLR Development Fund LP
OLR Development Fund 1/LP

C.D.
E.D
C.D.
C.D.

CA
NY
CA
CA

1989
1987
1989
1989

Overland Express, Inc.
Pacific Express Holding, Inc.
Pantera's Corp, et al.
Pengo Industnes, Inc.

S.D
E.D
N.D.
N.D

IN
CA
TX
TX

1988
1984
1990
1988

Peregnne Entertainment, Ltd.
Pettibone Corp 1
Public Service Co. of New Hampshire
QMax Technology Group, Inc.

C.D.
N.D
D.
S.D.

CA
IL
NH
OH

1989
1986
1988
1989

QT&T, Inc
Qubix Graphic Systems 1
Ramtek Corporation
Raytech Co.

E.D.
N.D.
N.D.

NY
CA
CA
CT

1987
1989
1989
1989

Geothermal, Inc
Resources Corp.
Bancshares Corp of Texas
Financial Realty Trust

Nltram Corporation 2
Nutri Bevco, Inc.
Occidental Development
Occidental Development

176

Fund 11/4
Fund IV 4

0

F.Y.
Closed

1990
1990

1990

1990

1990

Table 23--Continued
REORGANIZATION PROCEEDINGS UNDER CHAPTER 11 OF THE
BANKRUPTCY CODE IN WHICH THE COMMISSION ENTERED APPEARANCE
F.Y.
Reflnemet International, Inc.
Residential Resources Mortgage
Investment Corporation
Resorts International, Inc., et al.
Revco D.S. Inc. 4

C.D.

CA

1988

0

AZ.

D.
N.D.

NJ
OH

1989
1990
1988

Sahlen & Associates
Sal ant Corporation
Saratoga Standardbreds, Inc
SCientific Micro Systems, Inc. 1
S.E. Nichols
Seatrain Lines, Inc.
Servamatic Systems, Inc. 1
Sharon Steel Corp.

S.D.
S.D.
N.D.
N.D
S.D.
S.D.
N.D.

NY
NY
NY
CA
NY
NY
CA
W.O. PA

1989
1990
1990
1989
1990
1981
1986
1987

SIS Corporation
Sorg Incorporated, et al.
South mark Corporation 1
SpecIalty Retail Concepts,

N.D.
S.D.
N.D.

OH
NY
TX
W.O. NC

1989
1989
1989
1988

D.
CD.
D.
N.D.

MA
CA
CO
TX

1987
1988
1984
1989

Swanton Corp.
Systems for Health Care, Inc.
Telstar Satellite Corp. of America 4
Texas International Co. 1

NY
IL
CA
W.O. OK

1985
1988
1989
1988

Texas American Bancshares,
Texscan Corp. 1
TGX Corp.
The Circle K

N.D.
D.

TX

AZ.
W.O. LA
D.
AZ.

1989
1986
1990
1990

D.
D.
N.D.
D.

NV
NJ
AL
NJ

1990
1989
1986
1988

S.D.
C.D
C.D.
C.D.

NY
CA
CA
CA

1990
1988
1988
1988

FL

1989
1989
1989
1982

Inc.

Spencer Cos, Inc.
Spring Meadows Associates
Standard Metals Corp. 1
Summit Oilfield Corp.

4

Inc.

The Group, Inc
The Regina Co.
TIdwell Industries, Inc. 3
Todd Shipyards Corp.
Towle Manufact./Rosemar
Traweek Investment Fund
Traweek Investment Fund
Traweek Investment Fund

Silver.
No. 22, Ltd. 4
No. 21, Ltd.
No. 18, Ltd.

Twistee Treat Corporation
United Bldg. Service Corp. of DE 3
Uruvanon, Inc.
UNR Industries, Inc. 1

S.D.
N.D.
C.D.

M.D.
D.
N.D.
N.D.

F.Y.

Opened Closed

District

Debtor

AZ.
CA
IL

1990

1990

1990

1990

1990

1990
1990

1'7'7

Table 23--Continued
REORGANIZATION PROCEEDINGS UNDER CHAPTER 11 OF THE
BANKRUPTCY CODE IN WHICH THE COMMISSION ENTERED APPEARANCE
F.Y.
Debtor
Washington Bancorporation
Wedtech Corp.
Wespac Investors Trust II 1
Westworld Community Healthcare.
Wheeling-Pittsburgh
Steel Corp.
Zenith Corporation
ZZ2Z Best Co., Inc 2
Total Cases Opened (FY 1990)

District

Opened

D.

1990
19B7
19BB
19B7

DC

S.D. NY
Inc.

C.D.
C.D.

CA
CA

W.O. PA
D.
NJ
C.D.

CA

19B5
19B8
19B7

Plan of reorganization confirmed
Debtor hquidated under Chapter 7.
Chapter 11 case dismissed.
Debtor's securities not registered under Section 12(g) of the Exchange Act.

178

1990

1990

34

Total Cases Closed (FY 1990)
1.
2.
3.
4.

F.Y.
Closed

31

Table 24

Appropriated Funds vs Fees* Collected
$ Millions
300

77

FY1976 78

79

81
80

83
82

85
84

87
86

89
88

1990

"excludes disgorgements from fraud actions
179

..

"-

I'-

co

~

i;;

~

I~1

13
I'-

N

11.

~
~
co
~

-e

5l

N

f

0

~

to;
~
.lll

i3.
:!!!

.~

,~
''''

-

U>

U>

~

<1;1'-<1;-

~ -lE!-~

.(\I+N

."

Hj~~!U ~
N

'"
"'-

gf~:fg,.:~

~

...... + .....

N

.<\i+N.N

I'-

I'III

g

I'III

~I'-~!i:~:;;
-lll_ ..._",

!i:
...

N

~~:llg8'j~
! ~N~eD~
-,-,

N

:ll

~
~

q

I'-

I'III

.lE!

N

'"

,;!

..-

~ III
<D

l!l.

11.

i=

;;;

;;;
;;

!

r.
a:a

'"M

U>

::E

i'lI

I'-

~ 8~8~
!!! re!ireg

.....
+-

;;

11.

Z

g

8 '"
~ ~

I~il
en

Ii

N

'"

I'-

I'-

s

lE!
'"

~

a:
D.

0

a:

D.
D.

<I:

~
~
I'~

81
0

..;

I''"

J

Z g
:0<1:0

'"

0

.,;

'"
;;

]g

~C-

co

~

$

q

;!

ell

en-

~

...

::E

:::

<I:

!

i=

g"
a:a

:E

en
W

.,
., .,

$

'''' !
,q

0

N

co

~

11.

i'll

I'-

::6"""

~

.,.:g+g+~

.,:e:g~~_
co

+-

Ln 10

¥
~

18

$
0

s

N

8

l'!B

8

.....
..-

~~
~~

.2"
i!.2
~;l

~~
C"

~

.,

~~re8g~

~

0

~

+N"N'+C'\i

s;
.5ll'

h
2'e

8.g

~
~

w

m

'"
~

e

8
li

Ei:;'

fl

C'

::;)

I'-

;;

E

I-

C

M

0

I

+-.-+-

CD

I-Wt0'7
I-

..

~!Hl~~~ ~
-~":t t ';!

Ii!

I'-

~ lil
!
e
;;

~~~~
t\I~N8

"!.

0

~

]~

0

M

N

11.

.,
.,
'"

~
~ ~
..;

~
15

..

::E

;1;

i

I"'"

+..-

~!
~
Il'i"':
0

-

+

~

.,

U
"j

:~~~:i
'" '"

'"
~

,~

oj

N

'"

I'-lilglll8~8

~
!~liig~g~
+
+ ';1;

~
c;;

lil

¥'tl
~;
" e

+0),

h

!:~
IIi
~ ..

-~~
>'J!! ..
li"'i

.d'lii
"~i

j=lij

]8

N

s

~

11.

U>

~

~g~!~~
+N'''':+C'\i

~

N
0
'N

5_
f~o
aJ~!
~R
c~lij

~J!!l
"

~

-

: Ii

t
,',
s~ oaJ~i
,,'il1::...1
~~ '~~li&
i:
11 ).5
!i' Eli:, ~ s . 2' ,2'
iil

0

~
li

S

".Q

.5~~

2

25

~i~
1

~ t~i<~t~t)~s8~11~
~~:

so

lil_o

li

lioli~E

:;t ...
-'ll

~

-~
j~ijj~ij~~j~jlli~-~~~
;='""."

180

,--I

I

I

:

I

I

.

~a::

•'-. --

i~
~<

~

I~

-.

II

I~

:

I

•

~

~

'~
"

11 I

I

~.

-

..l

~~

8~

::

-

enen

2

I

:e

8
I

..
~
z

~~
~~

I

-:E.

.i ~
j:~

:I:

I

l

u

I

et

~~

.J.•
j----

l

w<

I

i=

•

a:

..:.

o

I

ILl

en

J

'
:

:,

lc

I __ ••

,
....•,

I
I

I

I
.,_

oo

:

~

~f3

•

I ~~~~

L

,

L

u

I

~<~~

:c

J

f.
,1_

ul:!

,

rp

iii~

:

I

_

J

I
I

-.

£:ti

_,

-

~

II ,-~~!~
i
If::l ~~~~
u:ti=-.. rj::
:

~:i:

,

,
I

~g
~z

L

::

I

"'J

-

I

~

-

1-- -

H:-

~

I
I
I

~
:::

:

r

~

I~.

J ·

~

I

II

~oo~

r;.::

~-l'

,---

:

~~~

......-

5~

-

1:-,

---,

I.

I

L

LE I

:

I
~

.-

~;!

:--.

;:)

J

l: '. I; ~

~~

:

Q

Z

I

:C~~

•

I

ILl

~

_

I

t::':,-

.-'.----1------- :

:r

I

J

:::J

:

:;;

~

z
~8

I:

w

wZ

I
I

:

I :_ _~:::
I
L ~

J

I,--_::

I.

CJ
Z
et

I
I

: I ~e
U-.!ii~

- ~~
'-'-1I ::
ZC

ILl

en
ILl

I

I

~

:!

:

s,
:c~

:-- -

I'";""'
I

_

:

I

g

~

'i--I

z
o

~
Zoo

•

-

~

~~

I

:....
I
I

•I

•

-

1.

I

I

'---L

1R1

