Table of Contents
Chairman's Transmittal Letter

v

Commission Members and Principal Staff Officers

vii

Biographies of Commission Members
ix
Richard C. Breeden .. Edward H. Fleischman .. Mary 1. Schapiro ..
Richard Y. Roberts
Regional and Branch Offices and Administrators

xiii

Enforcement
Key Results.

1
1

Enforcement Authority" Enforcement Activities" International
Enforcement"
Violations Relating to Financial Institutions"
Insider
Trading .. Market Manipulation .. Penny Stock Cases" Financial
Disclosure" Corporate Control" Securities Offering Cases" BrokerDealer Violations" Investment Adviser and Investment Company
Violations .. Sources for Further Inquiry
International Affairs
Key Results.....................................................................

20
20

Arrangements for Mutual Assistance and Exchanges of Information ..
Trilateral Communique"
International Organizations"
International
Requests for Assistance
Regulation of the Securities Markets
Key Results............................................

25
25

Securities Markets, Facilities, and Trading"
Market Reform Initiatives
.. Penny Stock Reforms" Major Market System Developments ..
National System for Oearance and Settlement .. Government Securities
Markets .. Internationalization"
Options and Other Derivative Products .. Regulation of Brokers, Dealers, Municipal Securities Dealers, and
Transfer Agents .. Broker-Dealer Examination Program .. Transfer
Agent Examinations .. Form BD Amendments .. Foreign BrokerDealers" International Offerings" Public Disclosure of Material Short
Positions" Financial Responsibility Rules" Lost and Stolen Securities
.. Oversight of Self-Regulatory Organizations"
National Securities
Exchanges .. National Association of Securities Dealers" Arbitration"
Oearing Agencies" Municipal Securities Rulemaking Board ..
Inspections of SRO Surveillance and Regulatory Compliance ..
Applications for Re-entry .. SRO Final Disciplinary Actions ..
Securities Investor Protection Corporation

Investment Companies and Advisers
Key Results

45
45

Investment Company and Adviser Inspection Program .. Redirection of Program Resources .. Results Achieved by the Program ..
Regulatory Policy .. Significant Investment Company Developments
.. Significant Insurance Products Developments"
Significant
Institutional Disclosure Program Developments"
Significant Public
Utility Holding Company Act Developments"
Significant Interpretations and Applications"
Investment Company Matters .. Insur
ance Company Matters .. Holding Company Act Matters
Full Disclosure
Key Results......................................

55
55

Review of Filings" Rulemaking, Interpretive, and Legislative Matters ..
Multijurisdictional Disclosure System .. Foreign Issuer Rights Offerings
.. International Tender and Exchange Offers" Roll-up Transactions ..
American Depositary Receipts" Transaction Reporting by Officers,
Directors and Ten Percent Holders--Section 16 .. Shareholder
Communications Rules" Blank Check Offerings" Proxy Review ..
Requirements Governing Age of Financial Statements of Foreign Private
Issuers .. Trust Indenture Rules .. Conferences" SEC GovemmentBusiness Forum on Small Business Capital Formation .. SEC/NASAA
Conference Under Section 19(c) of the Securities Act
Accounting and Auditing Matters
Key Results
Mark-to Market
Interpretations"
Oversight of the
Accounting and

62
62

Accounting" Accounting-Related Rules and
Oversight of Private Sector Standard-Setting ..
Accounting Profession's Initiatives .. International
Auditing Standards .. Independence

The EDGAR Project
Key Results

68
68

Pilot System .. Operational System
Other Litigation and Legal Activities
Key Results
Significant Litigation Developments"
Insider Trading" Definition
of a Security .. Liability in Private Actions" Actions Involving the
Proxy Antifraud Provisions .. Actions Against Professionals Under
Commission Rule 2(e)" Motions to Vacate Permanent Injunctions"
Actions Under the Right to Financial Privacy Act .. Significant

ii

71
71

Adjudication Developments ... Significant Adjudicatory Decisions
Concerning Broker-Dealers and Market Professionals-e- Significant
Legislative Developments-e- Jurisdictional Proposal
Bank-Related
Legislation and Testimony e- Roll-up Transactions
Government
Securities-e- RICO Reform ... Statute of Limitations Legislation ...
Corporate Reorganizations e- Committees-e- Estate Administration-sDisclosure Statements/Plans of Reorganization-s- Conduct Regulation Matters
Economic Research and Analysis
Key Results....................
Liaison, Planning, and Review
Assistance

84
84
Economic Studies

Technical

Management and Program Support
Key Results

86
86

The Executive Staff ... Office of the Secretary ... Office of Legislative
Affairs-e- Office of Public Affairs e- Office of the Executive Director ...
Administrative Support
Endnotes

,. 93

Appendix

104

Unconsolidated Financial Information for Broker-Dealers, 1986-1990 ...
Unconsolidated Annual Revenues and Expenses for Broker-Dealers
Doing a Public Business, 1986-1990 ... Unconsolidated Balance Sheet for
Broker-Dealers Doing a Public Business, Year End, 1986-1990 ...
Carrying/Clearing Firms
Securities Industry Dollar in 1990 for
Carrying/Clearing Firms
Unconsolidated Revenues and Expenses for
Carrying/Clearing Broker-Dealers
Unconsolidated Balance Sheet for
Carrying/Clearing Broker-Dealers
Self-Regulatory Organizations:
Expenses, Pre-tax Income, and Balance Sheet Structure-s- Consolidated
Financial Information of Self-Regulatory Organizations, 1987-1990 ...
Self-Regulatory Organizations--Clearing Corporations, 1990 Revenues
1990
and Expenses e- Self-Regulatory Organizations-Depositories,
Revenues and Expenses ... Exemptions ... Securities on Exchanges:
Market Value and Share Volume .. Market Value of Equity/Options
Sales on U.S. Securities Exchanges e- Volume of Equity / Options Sales
on U.S. Securities Exchanges ... NASDAQ ... Share and Dollar Volume
by Exchange e- Share Volume by Exchanges-e- Dollar Volume by
Exchanges e- Securities Listed on Exchanges ... Value of Stocks Listed on
Exchanges ... Certificate Immobilization ... Types of Proceedings ...

iii

Enforcement Cases Initiated by the Commission during Fiscal
Year 1991 in Various Program Areas. Investigations of Possible
Violations of the Acts Administered by the Commission.
Administrative Proceedings Instituted During Fiscal Year Ending September 30,
1991. Injunctive Actions. Foreign Restricted List. Fiscal 1991
Enforcement Cases Listed by Program Area. Right to Financial
Privacy. Corporate Reorganizations.
Appropriated Funds vs. Fees
Collected. Budget and Appropriations.
Securities and Exchange
Commission Organizational Chart

iv

UNITED STATES
SECURITIES AND EXCHANGE COMMISSION
WASHINGTON, D.C. 20549
THE CHAIRMAN

The Honorable Dan Quayle
President of the Senate
Washington, D.C 20510

The Honorable Thomas S. Foley
Speaker of the House
Washington, D.C 20515

Gentlemen:
Itis my pleasure to transmit to you the Annual Report of the Securities and
Exchange Commission for fiscal year 1991. The annual report has been prepared
in accordance with the provisions of Section 23(b) of the Securities Exchange Act of
1934, as amended; Section 23 of the Public Utility Holding Company Act of 1935;
Section 46(a) of the Investment Company Act of 1940; Section 216 of the Investment
Advisers Act of 1940; Section 3 of the Act of June 29,1949 amending the Bretton
Woods Agreement Act; Section 11(b) of the Inter- American Development Bank Act;
and Section 11(b) of the Asian Development Bank Act.
Sincerely,

\6L<;)C~_Richard C Breeden
Chairman

v

Commission Members and Principal Staff Officers
(As of NO\'l'l1lber 4,1991)

Commissioners*
Richard
Edward
Mary L.
Richard

Term Expires

C. Breeden, Chairman
H. Fleischman
Schapiro
Y. Roberts

Principal Staff Officers
Barbara Green, Executive Assistant and Senior Advisor to the Chairman
Mary Ann Gadziala, Counselor to the Chairman
James M. McConnell, Executive Director, Office of the Executive Director
Kenneth A. Fogash, Deputy Executive Director
James A. Clarkson, III, Director of Regional Office Operations
Linda C. Quinn, Director, Division of Corporation Finance
Elisse B. Walter, Deputy Director
Robert Bayless, Associate Director
Mary E.T. Beach, Associate Director
William Morley, Associate Director
Mauri Osheroff, Associate Director
Vacant, Associate Director
William R. McLucas, Director, Division of Enforcement
C. Gladwyn Goins, Associate Director
Joseph I. Goldstein, Associate Director
Bruce A. Hiler, Associate Director
Harry J. Weiss, Associate Director
Colleen P. Mahoney, Chief Counsel
Thomas C. Newkirk, Chief Litigation Counsel
William H. Heyman, Director, Division of Market Regulation
Brandon Becker, Deputy Director
Catherine McGuire, Special Assistant to the Director
Larry Bergmann, Associate Director
Mark D. Fitterman, Associate Director
Vacant, Associate Director

1993
1992
1994
1995

Marianne K. Smythe, Director, Division of Investment Management
Matthew Chambers, Associate Director
Gene A. Gohlke, Associate Director
Mary S. Podesta, Associate Director
William C. Weeden, Assistant Director, Office of Public Utility Regulation
Thomas S. Harman, Chief Counsel
James R. Doty, General Counsel, Office of the General Counsel
Paul Gonson, Solicitor
Phillip D. Parker, Deputy General Counsel
Richard Humes, Associate General Counsel
Jacob H. Stillman, Associate General Counsel
Vacant, Associate General Counsel
William S. Stem, Counselor for Adjudication
Michael D. Mann, Director, Office of International Affairs
Kathryn Fulton, Director, Office of Legislative Affairs
Vacant, Chief Accountant, Office of the Chief Accountant
Vacant, Chief Economist, Office of Economic Analysis
Jonathan G. Katz, Secretary, Office of the Secretary
Warren E. Blair, Chief Administrative

Administrative

Law

Law

Judge, Office of the

Judges

Wilson A. Butler, Jr., Director, Office of Filings, Information

and Consumer Services
Lawrence H. Haynes, Comptroller, Office of the Comptroller
John Innocenti, Director, Office of Human Resources Management
Gregory Jones, Sr., Director, Office of Information Systems Management
Richard J. Kanyan, Director, Office of Administrative Services
John O. Penhollow, Director, Office of EDGAR Management
Vacant, Director, Office of Public Affairs

J. Carter Beese, Jr. was confirmed as a member of the Securities and
Exchange Commission on February 27,1992. His term expires on June
5, 1996.
viii

Biographies of COlnmission Melnbers
Chairman
Following
his nomination
by
President Bush and his confirmation by
the Senate, Richard C. Breeden was sworn
in as the 24th Chairman of the Securities
and Exchange Commission on October
11, 1989. The SEC oversees trading
markets in stocks, options, bonds and
other securities with more than $10 trillion
in aggregate value. It is also responsible
for overseeing the activities of all securities
firms and mutual funds, as well as for
establishing disclosure and accounting
policies for the nation's 13,500 publiclyowned companies. The SEC also enforces U.S. laws against insider trading and
other market abuses.
As Chairman, Mr. Breeden directs a staff of more than 2,500 persons operating
in offices throughout the United States. During his tenure, Mr. Breeden has
emphasized improvements to the capital raising process for small and large
businesses, increased market stability, control of unlawful practices and fundamental
reform of the corporate governance system in America. Mr. Breeden has testified
before Congress on more than 40 occasions, and he regularly appears on news and
investment programs in the U.S. and foreign countries to discuss capital market
issues.
In addition to his domestic responsibilities, Mr. Breeden is actively involved
in international financial regulation. During his tenure as Chairman, he has signed
more than a dozen international agreements to promote cooperation in law
enforcement and to provide technical assistance to emerging securities markets
around the world. Mr. Breeden has held several leadership positions in the
International Organization of Securities Commissions, and he is one ofthe founders
and the first President of the Council of Securities Regulators of the Americas, a
group linking securities regulators of North, South and Central America and the
Caribbean.
Prior to assuming the Chairmanship,
Mr. Breeden served in several
governmental assignments, including most recently serving in the White House
under President Bush as Assistant to the President for Issues Analysis. From 19821985, Mr. Breeden also served as Deputy Counsel to then-Vice President Bush and
Staff Director of the President's Task Group on Regulation of Financial Services, a
cabinet-level group established to recommend improvements in federal financial
regulatory programs.
Mr. Breeden is a lawyer by training. His legal practice has included corporate
and financial transactions of all types. In his most recent period of private practice,
he was a corporate finance partner with the Washington, D.C. office of one of the
nation's largest law firms. Prior to his original government service, Mr. Breeden
practiced law in New York City from 1976-1981. This followed completion of an
ix

apoointment to teach constitutional law and federal jurisdiction at the University
of Miami School of Law.
Educated at Stanford University (B.A. with honors in international relations,
1972) and Harvard Law School (1975), Mr. Breeden is the author of articles in both
legal and financial publications. Mr. Breeden resides in Virginia with his wife,
Holly, and their three sons. The family is active in local church, school, athletic and
civic affairs.
Commissioner

Edward H. Fleischman was sworn in as
the 66th Member of the Securities and
Exchange Commission on January 6, 1986.
His current term expires in June 1992.
Mr. Fleischman was admitted to the New
York Bar in 1959 and to the bar of the u.s.
Supreme Court in 1980. He formerly practiced
law with Beekman & Bogue, where he
specialized in securities and corporate law
and related areas.
During his career, Mr. Fleischman has
been elected a member of the American Law
Institute, the American College of Investment Counsel (of which he was President
in 1990-1991) and the American Society of Corporate Secretaries, and has served as
an Adjunct Professor of Law teaching securities regulation at the New York
University Law School.
Mr. Fleischman was born in Cambridge, Massachusetts on June 25,1932. He
received his undergraduate education at Harvard College, served in the U.S. Army
from 1952 to 1955, and obtained his L1.B degree from Columbia Law School.
Mr. Fleischman is a member of the Council of the American Bar Association
Section of Business Law. He serves on that Section's Committee on Counsel
Responsibility and in 1987-1991 he chaired the Committee on Developments in
Business Financing, for which he co-drafted that Committee's 1979 paper on resale
of institutional privately-placed debt and chaired its Subcommittees on Simplified
Indenture and on Annual Review of Developments.
He also serves on the
Committee on Federal Regulation of Securities, for which he chaired Subcommittees
on Rule 144 and on Broker-Dealer Matters and co-drafted the Committee's 1973
letter on utilization and dissemination of "inside" information. In addition, he
serves on the Committee on Futures Regulation and the Committee on Developments
in Investment Services, and has been active in the Section on Administrative Law.
Mr. Fleischman is also a member of Committee E-Banking Law and of
Committee Q--Issues and Trading in Securities of the International Bar Association
Section on Business Law. In the International Law Association (American Branch),
he has been appointed to membership on the Committee on International Regulation
of Securities.

x

Commissioner
Mary L. Schapiro was sworn in as the 67th

member of the Securities
and Exchange
Commission on December 19, 1989 by the
Honorable Sandra Day O'Connor, Associate
Justice of the United States Supreme Court. Ms.
Schapiro was nominated to the Commission on
November 8, 1989 by President George Bush and
confirmed by the United States Senate on
November 18, 1989. Her term expires in June
1994. Ms. Schapiro had previously been appointed
by President Ronald Reagan for a one year term.
Ms. Schapiro was named chairman of the
SEC Task Force on Administrative Process in 1990, with responsibility for
comprehensive review and revision of the agency's rules for administrative
proceedings. Ms. Schapiro also serves on a clearance and settlement advisory
committee to the Developing Markets Committee ofthe International Organization
of Securities Commissions.
Before being appointed to the Commission, Ms. Schapiro was General
Counsel and Senior Vice President for the Futures Industry Association. While at
the FIA her work included regulatory, tax and international issues, including
extensive liaison with foreign government officials and analysis of state and Federal
legislation.
Ms. Schapiro carne to the PIA from the Commodity Futures Trading
Commission, where she spent four years. She joined the CFTC in 1980 as a Trial
Attorney in the Manipulation and Trade Practice Investigations Unit of the Division
of Enforcement, and later (from 1981 to 1984) served as Counsel and Executive
Assistant to the Chairman of the agency. In the latter position, Ms. Schapiro advised
on all regulatory and adjudicatory matters pending before the Commission and on
legislation. She also represented the Chairman with Federal and state officials,
Congress, and the futures industry, in addition to other duties.
A 1977 honors graduate of Franklin and Marshall College (Lancaster,
Pennsylvania), Ms. Schapiro earned a Juris Doctor degree (with honors) from The
National Law Center of George Washington University in 1980.
Commissioner

Richard Roberts was nominated to the
Commission by President Bush and confirmed
by the Senate on September 27, 1990. He was
sworn in as a Commissioner on October 1, 1990by
the Honorable Stanley Sporkin, Judge for the
United States District Court of the District of
Columbia. His term expires in June 1995.
Before being nominated to the Commission,
Mr. Roberts was in the private practice of law
with the Washington office of Miller, Hamilton,
Snider & Odom. Before joining the law firm in
April 1990, Mr. Roberts was administrative
xi

assistant and legislative director for Senator Richard Shelby (D., Ala.), a position
he assumed in 1987. Prior to that, Mr. Roberts was, for four years, in the private
practice of law in Alabama. From 1979 to 1982, Mr. Roberts was administrative
assistant and legislative director for then-Congressman Shelby.
Mr. Roberts is a 1973 graduate of Auburn University and a 1976 graduate
of the University of Alabama School of Law. He also received a Master of Laws
in taxation from the George Washington University National Law Center in 1981.
He is admitted to the bar in the District of Columbia and Alabama. Mr. Roberts
is a member of the Alabama State Bar Association and the District of Columbia
Bar Association.
He and his wife, the former Peggy Frew, make their home in Fairfax,
Virginia with their son and two daughters.
Mr. Roberts was born in Birmingham, Alabama on July 3, 1951.

xii

Regional and Branch Offices and Administrators
(r\.., of No\ ember -i, ]991)

REGION 1

Richard Walker
NEW YORK REGIONAL OFFICE
75 Park Place, 14th Floor
New York, NY 10007
212/264-1636
Region: New York and New Jersey

REGION 2

Douglas Scarff
BOSTON REGIONAL OFFICE
John W. McCormack Post Office
and Courthouse Building, Suite 700
Boston, MA 02109
617/223-9900
Region: Maine, New Hampshire, Vermont,
Massachusetts, Rhode Island, and Connecticut

REGION 3

Richard P. Wessel
ATLANTA REGIONAL OFFICE
3475 Lenox Road, N.E., Suite 1000
Atlanta, GA 30326-1232
404/842-7600
Region: Tennessee, Virgin Islands, Puerto Rico,
North Carolina, South Carolina, Georgia, Alabama,
Mississippi, Florida, and Louisiana east of the
Atchafalaya River
Charles C. Harper
MIAMI BRANCH OFFICE
Dupont Plaza Center
300 Biscayne Boulevard Way, Suite 500
Miami, FL 33131
305/536-5765

REGION 4

William D. Goldsberry
CHICAGO REGIONAL OFFICE
Northwestern Atrium Center
500 W. Madison Street, Suite 1400
Chicago,IL 60661
312/ 353-7390
Region: Michigan, Ohio, Kentucky, Wisconsin,
Indiana, Iowa, Illinois, Minnesota, and Missouri

REGION 5

T. Christopher Browne
FORT WORTH REGIONAL OFFICE
411 West Seventh Street, 8th Floor
Fort Worth, TX 76102
817/334-3821
Region: Oklahoma, Arkansas, Texas, Louisiana
west of the Atchafalaya River, and Kansas

REGION 6

Robert H. Davenport
DENVER REGIONAL OFFICE
1801 California Street, Suite 4800
Denver, CO 80202-2648
303/391-6800
Region: North Dakota, South Dakota,
Wyoming, Nebraska, Colorado,
New Mexico, and Utah
Donald M. Hoed
SALT LAKE CITY BRANCH OFFICE
500 Key Bank Building, Suite 500
50 South Main Street
Salt Lake City, UT 84144-0402
801/524-5796

REGION 7

Vacant
LOS ANGELES REGIONAL OFFICE
5757 Wilshire Boulevard, Suite 500 East
Los Angeles, CA 90036-3648
213/965-3998
Region: Nevada, Arizona, California, Hawaii, and
Guam
Vacant
SAN FRANCISCO BRANCH OFFICE
901 Market Street, Suite 470
San Francisco, CA 94103
415/744-3140

REGIONS

xiv

Jack H. Bookey
SEATILE REGIONAL OFFICE
3040 Jackson Federal Building
915 Second Avenue
Seattle, WA 98174
206/553-7990
Region: Montana, Idaho, Washington, Oregon,
and Alaska

REGION 9

James c. Kennedy
PHILADELPHIA REGIONAL OFFICE
The Curtis Center, Suite 1005 E.
601 Walnut Street
Philadelphia, PA 19106-3322
215/597-3100
Region: Pennsylvania, Delaware, Maryland,
Virginia, West Virginia, and District of Columbia

xv

Enforcelnent

The SEC's enforcement program is designed to protect investors and
foster investor confidence by preserving the integrity and efficiency of the
securities markets. To meet these goals, the Commission maintained a strong
presence in allareaswithin itsjurisdiction. The Commission also implemented
important new remedies and procedures authorized by Congress during the
year.
Key 1991 Results

In 1991, the Commission obtained court orders requiring defendants to
disgorge illicit profits of approximately $119 million. Included are disgorgement
orders in insider trading cases requiring the payment of approximately $12 million.
Civil penalties under the Insider Trading Sanctions Act of 1984 (ITSA) were
imposed by orders requiring the payment of almost $11 million. In some instances,
the payment of disgorgement and/ or civil penalties pursuant to a court order was
waived based upon the defendant's demonstrated inability to pay.
The Securities Enforcement Remedies and Penny Stock Reform Act of 1990
(Remedies Act) became effective on October 15, 1990. As of the end of 1991, the
Commission had sought sanctions authorized by the Remedies Act in 35 cases.
Seventy-five criminal indictments or informations and 112 convictions were
obtained by criminal authorities during 1991 in Commission-related cases. The
Commission granted access to its files to domestic and foreign prosecutoriaI
authorities in 192 cases.

Total Enforcement Actions Initiated

Total
Civil Injunctive Actions
Administrative Proceedings
Civil and Criminal
Contempt Proceedings
Reports of Investigation

1987

1988

1989

1990

1991

303
144
146
13

252
125
109
17

310
140
155
15

304
186
111
7

320
171
138
10

0

1

0

0

1

1

Enforcement Authority
The SEC has broad authority to investigate possible violations of the federal
securities laws and to obtain appropriate remedies through litigation. The SEC's
investigations may be conducted either informally or formally.
Informal
investigations are conducted on a voluntary basis, with the SEC requesting persons
with relevant information to cooperate by providing documents and testifying
before Commission staff. The federal securi ties laws also empower the Commission
to conduct formal investigations, in which the Commission has the authority to
issue subpoenas that compel the production of books and records and the appearance
of witnesses to testify. Both types of investigations are generally conducted on a
confidential, nonpublic basis. Enforcement actions initiated by the Commission
often are preceded by an examination pursuant to the Commission's inspection
powers. Under its inspection powers, the Commission is authorized to conduct
examinations of regulated entities, including broker-dealers, municipal securities
dealers, investment advisers, investment companies, transfer agents, and selfregulatory organizations (SROs).
The Commission's primary enforcement mechanism for addressing violative
conduct is the injunctive action filed in federal court. In these civil actions, the
Commission is authorized to seek temporary restraining orders and preliminary
injunctions as well as permanent injunctions against any person who is violating or
about to violate any provision of the federal securities laws. A federal court
injunction prohibits future violations. Once an injunction has been imposed,
conduct that violates the injunction will be punishable by either civil or criminal
contempt, and violators are subject to fines or imprisonment. In addition to seeking
such orders, the Commission often seeks other equitable relief such as an accounting
and disgorgement of illegal profits. Also, when seeking temporary restraining
orders, the Commission often requests a freeze order to prevent concealment of
assets or dissipation of the proceeds of illegal conduct. The Commission is
authorized to seek civil penalties in connection with insider trading violations
pursuant to ITSA, as amended by the Insider Trading and Securities Fraud
Enforcement Act of 1988 (ITSFEA). The Commission also is authorized to seek civil
penalties under the Remedies Act.
The Remedies Act adds significantly to the Commission's enforcement
authority in civil actions. The legislation authorizes the Commission to seek, and
the courts to impose, civil penalties for any violation of the federal securities laws
(with the exception of insider trading violations for which civil penalties are under
ITSA). The Remedies Act also affirmed the existing equitable authority of the
federal courts to bar or suspend individuals from serving as corporate officers or
directors.
In addition to civil actions in court, the Commission has the authority to
institute several types of administrative proceedings. The Commission may institute
administrative proceedings against regulated entities, in which the sanctions that
may be imposed include censure, limitation on activities, and suspension or
revocation of registration. The Commission may impose similar sanctions on
persons associated with such entities and persons affiliated with investment
companies.
For example, the Commission may bar or suspend individuals
associated with a broker or dealer from participating in an offering of penny stock.

2

In the context of these proceedings, the Remedies Act authorizes the Commission
to impose civil penalties and order disgorgement against regulated entities and
persons associated with such entities.
The Remedies Act authorizes the Commission to institute administrative
proceedings in which it can issue cease-and-desist orders. A permanent cease-anddesist order can be entered against any person violating the federal securities laws,
and the order can require disgorgement of illegal profits. The Commission also is
authorized to issue temporary cease-and-desist orders (if necessary, on an ex parte
basis) against regulated entities and persons associated with regulated entities, if
the Commission determines that the violation or threatened violation is likely to
result in Significant dissipation or conversion of assets, significant harm to investors,
or substantial harm to the public interest prior to completion of proceedings.
Section B(d) of the Securities Act of 1933(Securities Act) enables the Commission
to institute proceedings to suspend the effectiveness of a registration statement that
contains false and misleading statements. Administrative proceedings pursuant to
Section 15(c)(4) of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934 (Exchange Act) can be
instituted against any person who fails to comply, and any person who is a cause
of failure to comply, with reporting, beneficial ownership, proxy, and tender offer
requirements. Respondents can be ordered to comply or to take steps to effect
compliance with the relevant provisions. Pursuant to Rule 2(e) of the Commission's
Rules of Practice, administrative proceedings can be instituted against persons who
appear or practice before the Commission, such as accountants and attorneys. The
sanctions.that can be imposed in these proceedings include suspensions and bars
from practice before the agency.
The Commission is authorized to refer matters to other federal, state or local
authorities, or SROs such as the New York Stock Exchange or the National
Association of Securities Dealers (NASD). The staff often provides substantial
assistance to criminal authori ties, such as the Department ofJ ustice, for the criminal
prosecution of securities violations.
Enforcement Activities

The Commission maintained an aggressive enforcement presence in the areas
within its jurisdiction. Remedies and procedures newly-authorized by the Remedies
Act became key additions to the Commission's enforcement arsenal.
Unless otherwise noted in the discussion below, defendants or respondents
who consented to settlement of actions did so without admitting or denying the
factual allegations contained in the complaint or order instituting proceedings. See
Table 22 for a listing of enforcement actions instituted in 1991.

International Enforcement
A substantial number of investigations have international aspects, and the
staff took depositions in and obtained information from a number of persons and
entities of foreign countries. In conjunction with the Office of International Affairs,
the staff prepared more than 150 requests to obtain such information from foreign
authorities, pursuant to formal or informal agreements and understandings. Such
requests for assistance generally require detailed submissions describing the
investigation and setting forth the need for the requested information.

3

The staff worked on a substantial number of requests for assistance from
foreign securities authorities. Some of these requests involved extensive inquiries
or investigations in order to collect the requested information.
Pursuant to
authority granted by ITSFEA, subpoena power was used in certain investigations
conducted at the request of foreign securities authorities.
As part of its increasing emphasis on international coordination and
cooperation, the staff participated in a number of training and education programs.
Representatives from approximately 30 foreign securities agencies attended the
1991Enforcement Training Program at the invitation of the DivisionofEnforcement.
Violations Relating to Financial Institutions
In the wake of the difficulties in the financial institutions industry, the
Commission recently focused increased attention on possible securi ties law violations
by those institutions. A special unit within the Division of Enforcement is dedicated
to investigating, among other things, financial fraud encompassing false financial
statements, misleading disclosures in filings by publicly-held institutions and
holding companies, and insider trading by persons associated with financial
institutions.
The Commission took enforcement action against a number of financial
institutions for violation of the reporting, books and records, and internal accounting
control provisions of the federal securities laws. In SEC v. Bank of New England
Corporation,' the Commission alleged that Bank of New England Corporation
(BNEC) understated the allowance for loan and lease losses and the related
provision for loan and lease losses in financial statements for the quarter ended
September 30, 1989. The complaint further charged that BNEC failed to disclose in
a quarterly report for the second quarter of 1989 and in a September 1989
registration statement that certain adverse trends, indicating a deterioration in the
New England real estate market and in BNEC's portfolio, were reasonably likely to
have material adverse effects on BNEC' s future operations. BNEC consented to the
entry of an injunction in this case.
On December 12,1991, the Commission filed a civil injunctive action against
Charles Keating, [r., and nine other individuals charging multiple violations of the
federal securities laws arising from the operations of American Continental
Corporation (ACC) and its former subsidiary, Lincoln Savings and Loan Association
(Lincoln). Keating and eight other former officers, directors, and high-ranking
employees of ACC and Lincoln, including three attorneys and four accountants,
were charged with participating in a scheme that systematically and deliberately
defrauded thousands ofinvestors. The fraudulent scheme alleged by the Commission
includes (1) filing financial statements during the period 1985 through 1988 which
overstated ACC's earnings by an aggregate of more than $120 million; (2) fraud in
connection with the sale of $275 million of ACC's subordinated debentures to the
public at Lincoln branches during the period 1986 through 1989; (3) false and
inadequate disclosures in ACC's filings with the Commission during the same
period about ACes liquidity, cash flow, related party transactions and due
diligence procedures with regard to real estate loans and securities investments; (4)
insider trading by Keating, in which he sold $7.5 million worth of ACC common
stock during a period when the market was unaware of the fraud; (5) the issuance
of a false press release by Keating to affect the price of ACC's stock; and (6) the
4

failure of Lincoln and certain defendants to register as broker-dealers. In addition,
four other individuals, including three former Lincoln officers, were enjoined by
consent decree from further violations of the antifraud and other provisions of the
federal securities laws.
The Commission utilized its cease-and-desist authority in proceedings in
which it was alleged that Fleet/Norstar Financial Group, a bank holding company,
failed to account properly for declines in market values of certain marketable equity
securities (issued by other New England bank holding companies) in its portfolio
(In the Matter of Fleet/Norstar Financial Group, Inc.2). The order more particularly
alleges that Fleet/Norstar should have written down those securities to their
realizable values and recognized the corresponding losses in the appropriate
periods. Fleet / N orstar had previously restated its financial statements for 1990 to
reflect losses due to the other than temporary declines in the market values of those
securities. Fleet/ Norstar consented to the entry of a cease-and-desist order in these
proceedings. Similar issues were involved in the order, entered by consent, in the
Commission's cease-and-desist proceedings against Excel Bancorp, Inc. (In the
Matter of Excel Bancorp, Inc. 3).
The Commission filed a joint action with the Federal Deposit Insurance
Corporation (FDIC) involving materially false and misleading statements made in
filings with the FDIC by Brooklyn Savings Bank (BSB) (SEC and Federal DepOSIt
Insurance Corporation v. Robert]. Aulie4). The joint complaint alleged that for the
second and third quarters of 1989, Aulie, the former president, chief executive
officer and a director of BSB, failed to maintain an allowance for loan losses
adequate to cover probable and estimatable losses in BSB's loan portfolio, thereby
materially overstating net income for those periods. Aulie allegedly failed to
identify and provide adequately for probable loss on a real estate joint venture when
he knew materially adverse information concerning the value of the project.
In an action against an accounting firm, SEC v. Ernst & Young/' the Commission
alleged that, among other things, Ernst & Young and its predecessor, Arthur Young
& Co., caused and aided and abetted violations of the reporting and proxy
solicitation provisions by RepublicBank Corporation. The financial statements
filed with the SEC by RepublicBank and its corporate successor on Form lO-K for
1983 and 1988 included unqualified accountant's reports, and were allegedly
materially false and misleading because of a lack of independence on the part of
Arthur Young. Arthur Young allegedly lacked independence in the conduct of its
audits because RepublicBank had made loans of over $5 million to certain Arthur
Young partners and loans of at least $15.8 million to tax shelter, real estate
partnerships owned by Arthur Young partners. Certain of RepublicBank' s financial
statements and the related accountant's reports were included in a proxy statement
issued in connection with a merger by RepublicBank. At the close of the year, this
matter was pending.
In SEC v. Peoples' Bank of Brevard, Inc.r the Commission alleged that the
defendants offered to sell common stock issued by the financial institution prior to
filing a registration statement for an initial public offering with the SEC, conduct
referred to as "gun jumping." In addition, they engaged in an active publicity
campaign for the offering during the waiting period prior to the effectiveness of the
registration statement. The defendants consented to the entry of injunctions.

5

Related party transactions were at issue in SEC v. CapitalBanc Corporation/ in
which the SEC alleged fraudulent loan schemes undertaken with management's
involvement, as well as improper revenue recognition in connection with a sham
sale of certain assets. Multiple nominee loan schemes were used to conceal a
misappropriation
of approximately $2.7 million by the former chairman of
CapitalBanc Corporation and to repay the loan issued to the purported purchaser
in the sham sale of assets. In addition to other relief, the SEC's complaint seeks an
order barring the former chairman from acting as an officer or director of a public
company. At the close of the year, the action was still pending as to that individual
and CapitalBanc Corporation. Five other individual defendants consented to the
entry of injunctions.

Insider Trading
Insider trading refers generally to abuses of nonpublic information in the
securities markets. It encompasses more than trading and tipping by traditional
insiders, such as officers and directors, who are subject to a duty to disclose any
material, nonpublic information or abstain from trading in the securities of their
own company. Insider trading also includes the unlawful transmission or use of
material, nonpublic information by persons in a variety of other positions of trust
and confidence and by those who misappropriate such information. Insidertrading
cases are varied and, over the years, SEC cases have included actions against
investment bankers, risk arbitrageurs, attorneys, law firm employees, accountants,
bank officers, brokers, and financial reporters. Most insider trading cases are
brought under the general antifraud provisions of the securities laws--particularly
Section 10(b) of the Exchange Act and Rule lOb-5 thereunder. Exchange Act Rule
14e-3, promulgated under the Williams Act, separately proscribes most trading by
persons possessing material, nonpublic information concerning a tender offer.
The SEC ordinarily seeks permanent injunctions and ancillary relief, including
disgorgement of any profits gained or losses avoided, against alleged violators. The
ITSA penalty provisions authorize the SEC to seek a civil penalty, payable to the
United States, of up to three times the profit gained or loss avoided, against persons
who unlawfully trade in securities while in possession of material, nonpublic
information, or who unlawfully communicate material, nonpublic information to
others who trade. Civil penalties also can be imposed upon persons who control
insider traders. During the year, the SEC brought 42 civil and administrative
actions alleging insider trading violations.
The SEC filed an action against the former chief executive officer and chairman
of Ultrasystems Corporation (SEC v. Phillip]. Stevens8). The complaint alleged that
the defendant, to protect and enhance his reputation as a corporate officer, made
unsolicited telephone calls to securities analysts in which he disclosed material
nonpublic information concerning Ultrasystems' anticipated earnings for the first
quarter of 1988. Two of the analysts tipped this information to clients, who sold
130,800 shares of Ultrasystems common stock prior to the public announcement
that the company anticipated lower first quarter earnings. Stevens consented to the
entry of an order by which he was enjoined and ordered to disgorge $126,455,
representing the losses avoided by the analysts' clients.

6

In an action against a former securities analyst at Cowen & Co., the SEC
alleged that the defendant obtained material nonpublic information from an officer
of Apollo Computer Inc. concerning the financial performance of Apollo for the
second quarter of 1988. The defendant sold 10,623 shares of Apollo stock prior to
the company's public announcement of its expected financial results, without
disclosing this information to Cowen or Cowen's clients. The defendant consented
to the entry of an order by which he was enjoined and ordered to disgorge $45,163,
representing the loss avoided by his sales (SEC v. Baruch Rosenberg'). In related
administrative proceedings, Rosenberg consented to the entry of an order by which
he was suspended for 12 months.
Two cases involved insider trading by individuals who obtained information
misappropriated from pre-release issues of BusinessWeek magazine. In SEC v. John
1. Petit," it was alleged that Petit traded the securities of several companies while
in possession of such information, obtained from an employee of a BusinessWeek
printer, and tipped this information to others. Petit consented to an injunction and
to entry of an order requiring him to pay disgorgement, penalties, and interest of
approximately $195,529. Petit consented to a bar in related administrative
proceedings. The SEC also filed an action, SEC v. Stephen R. Basinski." which was
still pending at the end of the year, against two individuals who were alleged to have
received tips from Petit.
In SEC v. Robert H. Willis,12 the SEC alleged that a psychiatrist obtained
material nonpublic information, concerning a possible merger of Shearson Loeb
Rhodes and American Express Company, from a patient, the spouse of Shearson's
chief executive officer. The defendant traded while in possession of this information
and communicated it to his broker, who also traded and tipped others. The
Commission further alleged that the defendant traded while in possession of
material nonpublic information regarding a plan to change the management of
BankAmerica Corp., obtained in the course of his professional relationship with the
same patient. The psychiatrist allegedly tipped this information to his broker who
again traded and tipped others. The psychiatrist consented to the entry of an order
by which he was enjoined and ordered to disgorge $109,103.95 and to pay a civil
penalty under ITSA of $27,476. Injunctions were entered by consent against two
other defendants, one of whom was ordered to disgorge $5,047. At the end of the
year, this matter was pending as to one other defendant. Willis also was the subject
of related criminal proceedings.
Several cases involved insider trading by corporate officials, or their friends
and relatives, in advance of mergers and acquisitions. In SEC v. Ernesto Tinajero, 13
the Commission alleged that the five defendants traded in the stock of Anchor Glass
Container Corporation while in possession of material nonpublic information
about a planned acquisition of Anchor Glass by Vitro, S.A., a Mexican corporation.
After allegedly purchasing approximately 150,000 shares of Anchor Glass stock,
they realized an aggregate profit of approximately $1.2 million. One defendant, at
the time the action was filed, consented to the entry of an order by which he was
enjoined and required to disgorge $47,431. Another defendant subsequently
consented to the entry of an injunction and an order by which he was required to
disgorge $819,868 and to pay a like amount as a civil penalty under ITSA. As of the
close of the year, this action was pending as to three other defendants.

7

The SEC alleged in SEC v. Louis Ferrero," that Louis Ferrero, the chairman,
president and chief executive officer of Anacomp, Inc., communicated material
nonpublic information concerning Anacomp's proposed acquisition of Xidex
Corporation to a friend, who purchased Xidex stock, and tipped tootherindividuals
who also traded. The traders realized profits in excess of $450,000 as a result of their
purchases of Xide x stock, and avoided losses in excess of $100,000 as a result of their
sales of Anacomp stock. Ferrero consented to the entry of an order enjoining him
and requiring him to pay a civil penalty of $277,750. At the close of the year, this
action was pending as to other defendants.
The SEC alleged in SEC v. Robert F. Hoogstraien" that Robert F. Hoogstraten,
the vice president of European operations for Tandem Computers, Inc., learned of
Tandem's proposed acquisition of Un germann-Bass, Inc., and tipped this information
to the head of a Dutch brokerage firm who traded, and either traded for or caused
trades by the brokerage firm's employees and customers. This case was settled by
consent, and two defendants were ordered to disgorge a total of$142,160 and to pay
civil penalties totalling $83,000.
The SEC alleged in SEC v. Christopher ]. Moran" that the defendant, a
significant shareholder in the Zondervan Corporation, traded the securities issued
by Zondervan while in possession of material non public information concerning
the inability of Zondervan' s investment banker to find a purchaserfor the company.
At the end of the year, this matter was pending.
Market Manipulation
The Commission is charged with ensuring the integrity of trading on the
national securities exchanges and in the over-the-counter (OTC) markets. The
Commission staff, the exchanges, and the NASD engage in surveillance of these
markets.
In SEC v. Mark P. Malenfant,17 the Commission alleged that defendants were
about to engage in a scheme involving manipulation of the stock of Texscan
Corporation. The Commission's complaint alleged a prearranged matching of
purchases and sales of Texscan common stock at increasingly higher prices; the
complaint also alleged prior high-pressure promotion of the stock to induce
purchases that would drive up the price. In addition to other relief, the SEC's
complaint seeks civil penalties under the Remedies Act. At the close of the year, this
action was pending.
The SEC filed an action against Peter Gardiner, a former employee of the High
Yield and Convertible Bond Department (HYBD) of Drexel Burnham Lambert
Incorporated (SEC v. Peter R. Gardinervy. The complaint alleges that Gardiner
engaged in manipulative practices at the direction of his superiors in the HYBD, by
directing or inducing security trades in the accounts of certain customers. Among
other things, Gardiner often directed or induced customers, prior to the offering of
convertible securities, to sell short the associated common stock, thereby depressing
the price of the common stock and reducing the price at which the convertible
securities would be sold. Gardiner consented to the entry of an injunction, and, in
related administrative proceedings, consented to the entry of an order by which he
was barred from association with any regulated entity.

8

The SEC filed an action against a former chairman of Madison National Bank
of Virginia and a former director of James Madison, Limited, the holding com pany
for Madison National Bank (SEC v. John G. Broumasri. The complaint alleges that
Broumas attempted to manipulate the price of James Madison stock by "marking
the close" (i.e., placing the last trade of the day at a price higher than the previously
executed trade) and executing "wash trades" (i.e., transactions effectively involving
the purchase and sale of the same security at the same time). Broumas allegedly
attempted to support the price of James Madison stock to avoid margin calls and
prevent his accounts from being liquidated. Broumas consented to the entry of an
injunction.
The SEC exercised its cease-and-desist authority under the Remedies Act in
administrative proceedings involving an alleged manipulation of the price of stock
issued by Teleconcepts Corporation (In the Matter of Andrew Doherty20). Doherty and
his registered representative at Advest, Inc. engaged in the practice of marking the
close with respect to TeleConcepts stock. The purpose of this practice was to avoid
or reduce margin calls in Doherty's securities accounts. In addition to other relief
obtained in this matter, Doherty and his registered representative consented to the
entry of a cease-and-desist order.
In SEC v. Mark Sendo,21 the SEC alleged that the defendants engaged in a "freeriding" scheme, in which they ordered purchases of securities from broker-dealers
without possessing the funds to pay for the purchases, and ordered sales of
securities without owning the securities being sold. The defendants allegedly relied
on anticipated proceeds from offsetting matched trades to provide the means to
settle their transactions, and were therefore able to collectively order more than $50
million of securities trades without putting their own funds at risk. As a result of
their activities, 14 brokerage firms at which the defendants maintained accounts
lost more than $3.4 million. At the end of the year, this matter was pending.
In SEC v. Peter S. Adler,22 the SEC alleged that Adler opened numerous
brokerage accounts with various broker-dealers to conduct an elaborate free-riding
scheme. Adler repeatedly ordered securities and, if their price decreased, failed to
pay for them. If the price of the securities increased, however, he sold the securi ties,
used the proceeds to pay for the initial purchase, and retained the remaining profit.
Adler consented to the entry of an order by which he was enjoined and required to
disgorge $230,000.
Penny Stock Cases
The SEC continued to prosecute actions involving penny stock fraud. These
stocks, which were widely marketed over the last decade, may involve various
types of violative activities, such as market manipulation and offering violations.
On March 11, 1991, the SEC filed an action alleging an intricate scheme by
which certain shell corporations were restructured and their unregistered securi ties
sold to the public. The complaint alleged that the scheme involved the falsification
of corporate records, the rendering of false legal opinions by an attorney, and the
unlawful removal of restrictive legends from stock certificates by a transfer agent
(SEC v. David D. Sterns23). The complaint seeks, among other things, permanent
injunctive relief against all defendants, restitution, and, as to David Sterns, penalties
under the Remedies Act and a corporate bar. Sixteen defendants consented to

9

injunctions in this action. Default injunctions were entered against David Sterns
and six other defendants. At the end of the year, this litigation remained pending
as to two defendants.
The SEC filed an action against ten individuals associated with J. T. Moran &
Co., Inc., a penny stock broker-dealer (SEC v. Robert F. HashcJlA). The SEC's
complaint alleged that the defendants used fraudulent boiler room telephone sales
techniques in the offer, purchase, and sale of certain speculative OTC securities. The
defendants (1) made baseless predictions or guarantees of quick and substantial
price increases, (2) misrepresented their possession of "inside" information, their
earning of commissions on transactions, and the supply of securities, and (3)
engaged in unauthorized transactions. Six defendants consented to the entry of
injunctions. At the end of the year, a decision was pending in the trial of the
remaining four defendants.
In SEC v. Henry W. Lorin." the SEC alleged violations by Eugene K. Laff,
Stanley Aslanian, Jr., and others. According to the SEC's complaint, the defendants
engaged in a scheme to manipulate the markets for seven OTC stocks. The
defendants artificially increased the price of the stocks, and artificially prevented
declines following the publication of negative articles regarding the issuers,
substantial short selling, and Significant selling by corporate insiders. The scheme
collapsed when Haas Securities, Inc., in which Laff and Aslanian were principals,
ceased doing business as a result of its net capital deficiencies. Laff and Aslanian
had been previously convicted in criminal actions against them. Four defendants
consented to the entry of injunctions. At the end of the year, this matter remained
pending as to six other defendants. In a related action that was settled by consent,
SEC v. Frank Shannon." the SEC alleged that the defendant filed a false and
misleading Schedule 13D and amendment regarding ownership of a company
manipulated in Lorin.
The SEC filed an action against Kochcapi tal, Inc. for alleged violations of Rule
15c2-6, the "cold call" rule, which was designed to prevent high-pressure, boiler
room solicitations. The SEC alleged that the firm failed to follow procedures
required by the rule and failed to obtain required documentation (SEC v. Kochcapital,
Inc?'). Among other things, the SEC's complaint seeks civil penalties for violations
occurring after the effective date of the Remedies Act. One defendant consented to
the entry of an injunction. At the end of the year, this action remained pending as
to Kochcapital and an individual defendant.
In SEC v. Superior Resources, Inc.,J1Jthe SEC alleged that the defendants
fraudulently revived shell companies that were then sold by a penny stock
promoter. At the close of the year, this case was pending.

Financial Disclosure
Actions involving false and misleading disclosures concerning the financial
condition of companies and the issuance of false financial statements are often
complex and require more resources than other types of cases. Their effective
prosecution is essential to preserving the integrity of the disclosure system. The
SEC brought 39 cases containing significant allegations of financial disclosure
violations against issuers, regulated entities, or their employees. Many of these

10

cases included alleged violations of the accounting provisions of the Foreign
Corrupt Practices Act. The SEC also brought 13 cases alleging misconduct by
accounting firms or their partners or employees.
The Commission filed an action against Forst-Hunter International Trade
Corporation and three individuals, alleging that Forst-Hunter employed improper
revenue recognition practices that resulted in materially misstated financial
statements for the nine months ended January 31, 1987 (SEC v. Forst-Hunter
International Trade Corporationei. Forst-Hunter allegedly recognized revenue by
recording sales at the time a purchaser agreed verbally to purchase equipment,
irrespective of the date of shipment or the date of delivery. In addition, ForstHunter allegedly misled its auditors by falsely indicating that certain tractors were
loaded for shipment and that risk of loss had passed to the purchasers. After ForstHunter was advised by its independent auditor that the January 31,1987 financial
statements were materially overstated, the financial statements were nevertheless
included in proxy materials filed with the SEC by Forst-Hunter. Forst-Hunter and
two of the individual defendants consented to the entry of injunctions. At the close
of the year, this litigation was pending as to the remaining individual defendant.
The SEC filed an action, SEC v. Michaei S. Weinstein,30 arising from an alleged
multi-million dollar financial fraud involving Coated Sales, Inc. The complaint
alleges that Michael S.Weinstein, the chairman and chief executive officer of Coated
Sales, directed other officers and employees of Coated Sales to engage in a scheme
to inflate accounts receivable and inventory. As part of the scheme, the defendants
created phony invoices purporting to show sales of goods by Coated Sales, entered
phony invoices onto the company's accounts receivable records, and used funds
obtained from the sale by certain defendants of Coated Sales common stock to make
it appear that the phony invoices were being paid. As a result of the scheme, sales
and earnings were materially overstated in 1986 through 1988. The SEC's complaint
further alleges that Weinstein and two other defendants sold Coated Sales common
stock when they knew that the market price of the stock was based on materially
false representations regarding the company's financial condition, and that certain
of their sales constituted an unregistered distribution. In addition to injunctive
relief, the SEC's complaint seeks disgorgement and the payment of civil penalties
for insider trading violations. Two of the defendants consented to the entry of
injunctions. At the close of the year, this proceeding was pending as to seven other
defendants.
In SEC v. Michaell. Bitterman." the SEC alleged that former officers of Network
Control Corporation engaged in improper revenue recognition practices that led to
the material understatement of losses reported in Network's quarterly reports on
Forms 10-Q for the first three quarters of 1987. These improper sales practices
consisted of (1) recording transactions as sales when customers had not agreed to
purchase Network equipment and equipment had not been delivered to the
customers by quarter-end, (2)recording trials as sales transactions, and (3)removing
inventory from Network's premises to simulate delivery of goods sold to the
customer, when no such delivery had occurred. The defendants consented to the
entry of injunctions.
The SEC filed a complaint against 16 former senior officers and employees of
MiniScribe Corporation, alleging a series of fraudulent acts designed to inflate
materially MiniScribe' s reported net income (SEC v. Q. T. Wiles32). These fraudulent
11

acts resulted in MiniScribe overstating its net income for 1986by approximately $4.5
million, for 1987 by approximately $22 million, for its second quarter of 1988 by
approximately $14.4 million, and for its third quarter of 1988 by approximately
$17.2 million. Among a variety of acts allegedly committed by the defendants,
fictitious inventory was created by shipping boxes of bricks labeled as disk drives
to two distributors, and a computer program called "Cook Book" was created to
generate fictitious inventory numbers. Seven of the defendants consented to the
entry of orders by which they were enjoined and ordered to disgorge trading losses
avoided and bonuses received and to pay civil penalties under ITSA.
In an action against John R. Ward, the former chairman of Datamag, Inc., and
Thomas E. Weber, Datamag's former chief executive officer, the SEC alleged that
the defendants engaged in a fraudulent scheme to inflate Datamag's sales and
income for 1987. The company was required to show a profit as a condition to a
proposed underwriting of a public offering of its common stock. The complaint
alleged that Ward and Weber caused Datamag to ship defective products at the end
of 1987 to four entities and caused the company to report income from these
purported transactions in financial statements filed with the SEC. Among other
things, the defendants allegedly coerced Datamag's customers to falsely confirm
such sales to Datamag' s auditors, falsified checks, invoices and shipping documents
to support the transactions in question, and lied to Datamag' s independent audi tors
to conceal their fraud (SEC v. John R. Ward33). At the close of the year, this matter
was pending.
The SEC filed an action against Earthworm, Inc. and three individuals
associated with the company (SEC v. Earthworm, Inc.34). The Commission alleged
conduct that resulted in the material overstatement of Earthworm's net sales and
cost of sales in its financial statements for the year ended December 31, 1986.
According to the complaint, Earthworm overstated net sales by $4,461,000, or 22 %,
and overstated cost of sales by $4,394,425, or 25%, in its 1986 annual financial
statements. The defendants consented to the entry of injunctions. Among other
things, the court orderrequired Earthworm to file an amended Form 10-K for 1986
and amended Forms 10-Q for the first three quarters of 1988.
In SEC v. Ramtek Corporation." the SEC alleged that, in an effort to achieve
earning targets set by its senior management, the company improperly recognized
revenue from fictitious sales transactions, and prematurely recognized revenue
from other transactions. The complaint further charged that Ramtek materially
misstated its income (loss) and related financial statement captioned items in its
financial statements filed with the SEC. The misstated financial statements also
were included in a Form S-l registration statement filed with the SEC and declared
effective. Ramtek consented to the entry of an injunction in this case.
The SEC charged in SEC v. Malibu Capital Corporation" that Malibu Capital had
improperly treated an exchange of stock as a purchase of another company,
improperly adjusted the value of that company's assets, and omitted to state
historical cost of such assets, thereby overstating its consolidated assets in financial
statements filed with the SEC. This case was settled by consent. In SEC v. Joseph
Wolfer,37 the SEC alleged, among other things, improper recognition of revenue on
a fictitious bulk sale to another company. Two of the defendants consented to the
entry ofinjunctions. At the close of the year, this matter was pending as to two other
defendants.
12

Accountants were sanctioned in Rule 2(e) proceedings based on allegations of
Significant audit failures and/ or injunctions or convictions for alleged violations
related to their preparation or audit of financial statements. See, e.g., In the Matter
of Michael R. Ford, CPA;38 In the Matter of Raymond Baceki" In the Matter of Bruce F.
Kalem, CPA;40 and In the Matter of Merle E. Bright, CPA,41 The Commission also
instituted and settled Rule 2(e) proceedings against an attorney who allegedly
drafted periodic reports, filed with the Commission on behalf ofS. Taylor Com parties,
Inc., that contained material misstatements and omissions (In the Matter of Ronald
N. Vance42). See also SEC v. Norman Nouekajian" and SEC v. Michael A. Clark"
(consent orders enjoining two attorneys for corporations controlled by J. David
Oominelli from securities offering violations).
Corporate Control
The SEC's enforcement program scrutinizes corporate mergers, takeovers
and other corporate control transactions, and the adequacy of disclosures made by
acquiring persons and entities and their targets. The SEC recently brought cases
involving Sections l3and 14of the Exchange Act, which govern securities acquisition,
proxy, and tender offer disclosure. Increasingly, the SEC seeks orders requiring
violators to disgorge profits obtained from violations.
In SEC v. Burton R. Sugarman," the SEC alleged that a director of Rally's, Inc.
failed to make timely disclosure of his plan to acquire control of Rally's during its
initial public offering. A partnership formed by the director purchased 1.16 million
of the 1.745 million shares in the offering before the existence of the partnership was
disclosed in a Schedule 130. The director, in addition to consenting to an injunction,
agreed to disgorge $556,522, representing funds saved as a result of the failure to
make timely disclosure.
The SEC instituted administrative proceedings against Morgan Stanley & Co.,
Inc., alleging that Morgan Stanley sold over 2.4 million shares of KaiserTech, Ltd.
to satisfy margin deficiencies in an account owned by a Morgan Stanley client (In
the Matter of Morgan Stanley & Co., Inc. 46). The order alleges that Morgan Stanley,
at the time of these sales, knew, or had reason to know, that its client's stock was
control stock, and that it was subject to resale restnctions under Section 5 of the
Securities Act. Morgan Stanley consented to the entry of an order by which it was
required to adopt appropriate procedures to avoid future violations of the registration
provisions. These proceedings are related to an injunctive action filed and settled
in the previous year in which it was alleged that the client failed to make timely
amendments to his Schedule 130 to reflect his intent to take KaiserTech private
(SEC v. Alan E. Clor&").
In SEC v. Asher B. Edelman;" the SEC alleged that Edelman, the chairman of
the board of Oatapoint Corporation and a member of a Schedule 130 filing group
that beneficially owned approximately 10 percent of its outstanding stock, formed
a plan to defend against an attempt to replace him and the rest of Data point' s board
by purchasing additional Oatapoint shares. Edelman allegedly implemented this
plan by purchasing 3 million shares of Data point (approximately 30 percent of the
outstanding stock), without promptly amending the Schedule 130 to disclose the
acquisition plan. Edelman consented to the entry of an injunction.

13

The SEC exercised its cease-and-desist authority under the Remedies Act to
enforce the beneficial ownership requirements of the Exchange Act. The SEC
instituted cease-and-desist proceedings against Norman G. Baker, In the Matter of
Norman G. Baker." alleging that Baker had made false and misleading statements in
a Schedule 130 filed on January 29, 1990, to report his ownership of 4.979% of the
outstanding common stock of Oatamag, Inc. The allegedly false and misleading
statements concerned the source of the funds used by Baker for his purchases of
Oatamag stock, and Baker's intention and ability to purchase additional shares of
Oatamag. Baker consented to the entry of the cease-and-desist order.

Securities Offering Cases
Securities offering cases represent a significant portion of the SEC's enforcement
activities. These cases involve the offer and sale of securities in violation of the
registration provisions of the Securities Act. In some cases, the issuers attempt to
rely on exemptions to registration requirements that are not available. Offering
cases frequently involve material misrepresentations concerning, among other
things, use of proceeds, risks associated with investments, disciplinary history of
promoters or control persons, business prospects, promised returns, success of
prior offerings, and the financial condition of issuers. In appropriate cases,
disgorgement, restitution, civil penalties or other relief may be ordered by the
courts for offering violations.
The SEC filed an action against International Loan Network, Inc. (lLN) and
two individuals (SECv. International Loan Network, Inc. 50). The complaint alleges that
from October 1988 to the time of the filing, the defendants conducted a pyramid or
"Ponzi" scheme, inducing approximately 40,000 investors to invest in ILN. The
defendants made materially false and misleading statements and failed to state
material facts in connection with their sale of unregistered securities. Among other
things, the defendants falsely represented that investors would receive valuable
returns in the form of cash payments and/ or real estate with values greatly
exceeding the amount invested. The court granted a preliminary injunction and an
asset freeze. At the close of the year, this action was pending.
The SEC alleged in SEC v. Latin Investment Corporation" that the defendants
were engaged in offering and selling the securities of Latin Investment Corporation
to immigrants from Latin America. The complaint charges that these unregistered
securities were sold in the form of" pass books," and that Latin Investment, through
misrepresentation, induced 3,500 investors to invest $6.8 million. Investor funds
allegedly were used for the personal benefit of the defendants without disclosure
to investors. The Commission obtained emergency relief in the form of a temporary
restraining order and an asset freeze; the court subsequently entered a preliminary
injunction that strengthened the asset freeze. At the close of the year, this
proceeding was pending.
In SEC v. Eugene R. Karczewski and Eugene F. Karczewski,52 the Commission
alleged that the defendants, through Stockbridge Funding Corporation, sold more
than $34 million in unregistered, non-exempt securities to more than 1,200
individuals. While investors were informed that all funds invested with Stockbridge
were to be used for loans secured by mortgages on real estate, the complaint alleged
that, in fact, investor funds were misappropriated and used for purposes other than
secured mortgage lending. At the end of the year, this matter was pending.
14

In SEC v. Robert Elderkin,53 the SEC addressed allegedly fraudulent activity in
connection with a "roll-up" of a real estate limited partnership.
In a roll-up
transaction, limited partnerships of limited duration are restructured, typically
through a conversion to corporate form. In Elderkin, the SEC alleged that the five
defendants fraudulently induced the limited partners of Pacific West Investors,
Ltd. to approve a transaction in which over $4 million in real estate was exchanged
for unregistered, restricted stock in Asiamerica Equities, Ltd. Among other things,
the defendants allegedly made false representations concerning the true terms of
the transaction, and while the general partner and individuals associated with it
received over $500,000 in cash and other compensation in the transaction, the
limited partners did not receive the Asiamerica stock to which they were purportedly
entitled. At the end of the year, this action was pending.
The SEC alleged in SEC v. FSG Financial Service, Inc.54 that FSG Financial raised
at least $250,000 from investors through the sale of securities represented to be
municipal bonds. The bonds purportedly sold did not in fact exist. In addition to
false and misleading statements about the purchase of securi ties, FSG failed, among
other things, to disclose to investors that a predecessor firm had been expelled from
the NASD for antifraud violations. The court granted a preliminary injunction in
this action which, at the close of the year, was pending.
In SEC v. BFMF Corporation." the SEC alleged that BFMF Corporation (doing
business as FMF Corporation) and three individual defendants made false and
misleading statements concerning the business of FMF, including among other
things, that the government of Equatorial Guinea had awarded the company a
concession to dispose of radioactive waste on Guinean territory when no such
concession had been granted, and that FMF had entered into and was performing
under a contract with Eli Lilly & Company for the disposal of contaminated material
in Guinea when in fact Lilly had never done business wi th FMF. The court granted
the Commission a temporary restraining order and an asset freeze. In addition to
a permanent injunction, the Commission's complaint seeks restitution and the
imposition of civil penalties under the Remedies Act. At the close of the year, this
action was pending.
The SEC filed an action against Neil E. Regen, a former chairman of Memory
Metals, Inc., in SEC v. Neil E. Rogen56 alleging that Rogen caused the company to file
a registration statement for an initial public offering that contained materially false
or misleading statements with respect to the plan of distribution of the securities,
and other matters. While selling Memory Metals securities for his own account,
Rogen allegedly issued or caused to be issued to actual or prospective investors and
others materially false and misleading press releases and other materials. In
addition, the complaint alleged that Rogen caused Memory Metals to file an Annual
Report on Form lO-K for 1985 that was materially false and misleading in that it
overstated the amount of Memory Metals securities beneficially owned by Regen,
The complaint further alleges that Rogen sold at least 390,000 shares of Memory
Metals securities while in possession of material nonpublic information concerning
the materially false and misleading statements, press releases and other materials,
that he failed to file timely statements of changes in his beneficial ownership of
Memory Metals securities, and that he filed false and misleading statements of his

15

beneficial ownership.
In addition to injunctive relief, the complaint seeks
disgorgement and civil penalties under ITSA. At the close of the year, this action
was pending.
Broker-Dealer Violations
Each year the SEC files a significant number of enforcement actions against
broker-dealers. Typical broker-dealer cases may involve fraudulent sales practices,
net capital and customer protection violations, as well as violations of the books and
records provisions.
The SEC instituted administrative proceedings against Michael R. Milken
based upon his criminal conviction for conspiracy, aiding and abetting the failure
to file a truthful and accurate Schedule 13D, securities fraud, aiding and abetting
a registered broker-dealer's violation of the SEC's reporting requirements, mail
fraud, and assisting the filing of a false tax return, and upon the injunction entered
against him in the SEC's civil action (SEC v. Drexel Burnham Lambert, Incorporated'[).
On the same date, the SEC instituted administrative proceedings against Milken's
brother, Lowell Milken, based upon the injunction entered against him in the same
action. The Milkens consented to the entry of orders by which they were barred
from association with any broker, dealer, investment adviser, investment company,
or municipal securities dealer (In the Matter of Michael R. Milken58 and In the Matter
of Lowell]. Milken59).
The Commission issued a Report of Investigation pursuant to Section 21 (a) of
the Exchange Act concerning violations by five broker-dealers of Section 5 of the
Securities Act and/ or Section 15(c) of the Exchange Act and Rule 15c2-11, which
requires broker-dealers, among other things, to obtain specified information about
certain OTC securities before initiating or resuming quotations (In the Matter of Laser
Arms Corporationwi. The report discusses the failure by certain of these brokerdealers to conduct appropriate inquiries required prior to selling large amounts of
a relatively unknown security, and the conduct of those broker-dealers that became
market-makers for Laser Arms wi thout reviewing the information required by Rule
15c2-11(a)(5).
The SECutilized its cease-and-desist authority in proceedings against Dominick
& Dominick and Werner F. Ulrich, in which it was alleged that Dominick failed to
create certain required records, and failed to keep other required records accessible
and make them available upon the SEC's demand (In the Matter of Dominick &
Dominick, Inc.61). The SEC instituted related cease-and-desist proceedings against
Albert Dreyfuss, formerly a registered representative with Dominick, alleging that
the respondent assisted Dominick in failing to create and maintain current and
accurate books and records with respect to certain accounts (In the Matter of Albert
Dreyfuss62). Dominick and Ulrich consented to the entry of cease-and-desist orders.
At the end of the year, the proceedings against Dreyfuss were pending.
In In the Matter of Walter Capital Corporation." the SEC alleged that a brokerdealer, through its employees, made false and misleading statements during an
initial public offering for the securities of Regional Funding Corporation. The
broker-dealer consented to the entry of an order by which its registration was
revoked.

16

The SEC brought actions against persons associated with broker-dealers for
alleged misappropriations of customer funds in connection with the purchase or
sale of securities. In SEC v. Pilgrim Planning Associates, Inc. and John M. Mickner,64
the SEC alleged that Mickner, a registered representative formerly employed by
Pilgrim, misappropriated approximately $329,391 from Pilgrim customers, many
of whom he represented. Among other things, Mickner induced clients to write
checks payable to Pilgrim for the purchase of mutual fund shares or annuities.
Mickner then allegedly used all or part of the proceeds for his personal benefit. The
complaint further alleged that, as a result of Mickner's conduct, Pilgrim failed to
maintain the required net capital. Pilgrim consented to the entry of an injunction.
At the end of the year, this action was pending as to Mickner.
The SEC alleged that Robert F. Kurtz, an account executive associated with a
broker-dealer, misappropriated $1.5 million from two customer trust accounts
(SEC v. Robert F. Kurtz, Jr.65). Kurtz and a sales assistant acting at his direction,
allegedly forged customer signatures on checks as part of the scheme. The sales
assistant consented to the entry of an injunction against her. The injunctive action
was pending against Kurtz at the end of the year. In related administrative
proceedings, Kurtz consented to the entry of an order by which he was barred.
The SEC also brought enforcement actions against broker-dealers for failure
to supervise the activities of their employees. In proceedings against Dean Witter,
the SEC alleged that the firm failed reasonably to supervise four registered
representatives at a branch office who engaged in excessive, unauthorized, unsuitable
and unapproved options trading (In the Matter of Dean Witter Reynolds, Inc.66). Dean
Witter consented to the entry of an order by which it was censured and ordered to
comply with its undertakings respecting its supervisory practices and procedures.
In In the Matter of Richard Alan Lauerg;" the SEC alleged that the respondent, while
a branch manager for E.F. Hutton, failed reasonably to supervise four registered
representatives, two of whom engaged in unsuitable options trading and two of
whom engaged in excessive and unsuitable trading in government securities for
small municipalities and local agencies. Lavery consented to the entry of an order
by which he was suspended for a period of eight months. Proceedings were
instituted against a broker-dealer forfail ure to supervise a registered representative
who misappropriated client funds by, among other things, recommending purchase
of the securities of a fictitious entity. At the end of the year, these proceedings were
pending (In the Matter of Thomas F. White and Thomas F. White & Co., Inc.68).
Investment Adviser and Investment Company Violations
The SECinstituted several significant enforcement actionsinvolvinginvestment
advisers and investment companies.
In administrative proceedings against Home Capital Services, Inc., the SEC
alleged that the respondent, the former investment adviser to a money market fund
that used the amortized cost method to value its portfolio as permitted by Rule 2a7 under the Investment Company Act, caused the fund to purchase securities that
were not "high quality" as required by Rule 2a-7, and failed to determine whether
the best interests of the fund required the sale of the securities as required by the
rule (in the Matter of Home Capital Services, Inc. 69). The adviser was censured and
suspended for 60 days from conducting its business as an adviser (except to service
existing accounts at cost) and prohibited from acting as an adviser to a fund relying
17

on Rule 2a-7 until it adopted policies and procedures to ensure compliance with the
rule. In In the Matter of James L. Rapholz, Jr./o the SEC alleged, among other things,
that an adviser to a fund failed to follow the specified investment objective of the
fund. The adviser and its principal consented to the entry of an order by which the
adviser's registration was revoked and the principal was barred.
The Commission instituted administrative proceedings involving claims that
investment advisers permitted the interpositioning of broker-dealers between their
advisory clients and the market. In In the Matter of R.L. Kotrozo, Inc.,71 a firm
registered as both a broker-dealer and an investment adviser purchased certain
bonds in the market that were resold to a fund for which it acted as adviser and
exclusive broker. The fund was allegedly charged $319,216 in markups that would
have been avoided had the purchases been made directly from the sellers. The
SEC's order further alleged that the firm issued false and misleading proxies
regarding the payment of administrative expenses for one series of the fund, and
disseminated materially false and misleading advertising regarding that series'
earnings. The respondents in this matter consented to the entry of an order by which
the firm's registrations (as a broker-dealer, investment adviser, and transfer agent)
were revoked and the two individual respondents were barred.
In proceedings against the former president of an investment adviser, In the
Matter of Jack Allen Pirrie/? the SEC alleged that Pirrie, when informed that a
purchase for the adviser's largest client violated the client's investment guidelines,
redistributed the stock to other clients, not at its then current market price, but at
the higher price as of the original purchase date. Pirrie did not disclose the actual
market price to the other clients. Pirrie consented to the entry of an order by which
he was suspended for a period of nine months.
A scheme involving alleged kickbacks from certain corporations to a fund
adviser was the subject of administrative proceedings in In the Matter of Carl L.
Lazzell." The Commission's order also alleged that certain purchases by the fund
were in violation of limitations in the fund's prospectus, that the adviser sold
securities as principal to the fund, and that he embezzled from the fund. Lazzell
consented to the entry of an order by which he was barred.
SEC v. David B. Solomon" involved alleged activities by David B. Solomon, an
investment adviser, who had developed a business relationship with Michael
Milken, the manager of the High Yield Bond Department of Drexel Burnham
Lambert Incorporated. The Commission's complaint alleged that this relationship
involved a number of violative activities and transactions, some of which defrauded
Solomon's investment advisory clients and Drexel's investment banking clients.
Solomon consented to the entry of an order by which he was enjoined and ordered
to pay $7,292,307 as disgorgement and $661,674 as a civil penalty forinsider trading.
In related administrative proceedings, Solomon consented to the entry of an order
by which he was barred and his adviser's registration was revoked.
An injunction was obtained against the chairman of the board of an investment
company in SEC v. M. Wesley Groshans." The SEC's complaint alleged that the
defendant sold securities to the fund in violation of the fund's investment restrictions
and in violation of related party restrictions under the Investment Company Act.
In addition, the chairman artificially raised the price of the stock he had sold to the
fund, thereby causing an overstatement of the net asset values of four series of the
fund, and caused the fund to make unauthorized loans.
18

In SEC v. Renaissance Advisors, lnc.i" the SEC alleged that, among other things,
the defendants, the former president of a fund and the fund's investment adviser,
violated the antifraud provisions of the Investment Advisers Act of 1940 by
distributing advertisements for the fund that made various claims about performance
of amodel portfolio and an investment" formula," without cautioning recipients as
to limitations and risks inherent in the formula. The advertisements also failed to
account for advisory fees and commissions in calculating the performance of the
model portfolio. The defendants consented to the the entry of injunctions and, in
related administrative proceedings, consented to the entry of an order by which the
adviser's registration was revoked and its president was barred.
Sources For Further Inquiry

The SEC publishes the SEC Docket, which includes announcements regarding
enforcement actions. The SEC's litigation releases describe civil injunctive actions
and also report certain criminal proceedings involving securities-related violations.
These releases typically report the identity of the defendants, the nature of the
alleged violative conduct, the disposition or status of the case, as well as other
information. The SEC Docket also contains SEC orders instituting administrative
proceedings, orders making findings and imposing sanctions in those proceedings,
and initial decisions and significant procedural rulings issued by Administrative
Law judges.

19

International

Affairs

I


The Office of International Affairs (OlA) has primary responsibility for the
r-'

,'I

negotiation and implementation of information-sharing agreements and for
developing legislative and other initiatives tofadlitate international cooperation.
OlA coordinates and assists in making requests for assistance to, and responding
to requests for assistance from, foreign aut1writies. OlA also addresses other
international issues that arise in litigated matters, such as effecting service of
process abroad and gathering foreign-based evidence using various international
conventions, freezing assets located abroad, and enfordng judgments obtained by
the Commission in the United States against foreign-based parties. In addition,
OlA operates in aconsultative roleregarding the significant ongoing in ternational
programs and initiatives of the Commission's other divisions and offices.
Key 1991 Results

In September 1991, the Commission hosted the 16th Annual Conference of the
International Organization of Securities Commissions (lOSCO), in Washington, o.c.
Securities regulators from more than 50 nations attended the conference, which was a
successful and prominent forum for the exchange of information on a wide variety of
securities matters. During the annual conference, laSCO's Technical Committee
issued important reports relating to the negotiation and implementation of Memoranda
of Understanding (MOD) among nations and the adoption of international capital
adequacy standards.
During 1991, the Commission signed comprehensive MOUs for cooperation,
consultation, and the exchange of information with the United Kingdom Department
of Trade and Industry and the Securities and Investments Board, the Banking,
Insurance and Securities Commission of Norway, and the Comision Nacional de
Valores of Mexico. All three of these MOUs are being implemented pursuant to the
authority granted the Commission in the Insider Trading and Securities Fraud
Enforcement Act of 1988and the International Securities Enforcement Cooperation Act
of 1990. These MOUs dramatically strengthen the SEC's ability to obtain information
located in these countries and enhance international cooperation in regulatory matters.
During 1991,the Commission signed a Joint Statement with the Commission of
the European Communities, establishing a comprehensive framework for cooperation
and consultation on a variety of securities-related matters. The Commission also signed
a Communique with the Bank Inspection Board of Sweden and with its successor
agency, the Financial Supervisory Authority of Sweden. This Communique represents
a first step in developing a cooperative relationship for enforcement issues and
establishes a framework for consultations regarding market oversight and other
matters of mutual interest involving the United States and Swedish securities markets.
In addition, the Commission signed an Understanding with the Inter-American
Development Bank and the United Nations Economic Commission for Latin America

20

and the Caribbean to facilitate the provision of technical assistance to Latin American
nations. This assistance covers many aspects of the development, operation, and
regulation of the securities markets of Latin American countries.
Arrangements for Mutual Assistance and Exchanges of Information
The increasing internationalization of the world's securities markets has raised
many new and complex issues that affectthe Commission' s ability to enforce the United
States federal securities laws. For example, a central problem the Commission faces is
collecting information located abroad. The Commission has attempted to resolve this
problem by developing information-sharing arrangements on a bilateral basis with
various foreign authorities.
The information-sharing arrangements allow the Commission to obtain evidence
located abroad while avoiding the conflicts that may result from differences in legal
systems. In recent years, the Commission has entered into various arrangements with
foreign authorities from over 15 nations. These arrangements are an effective means
for obtaining information and developing cooperative arrangements betweenregulators.
In addition, the staff coordinates closely with the regulators with whom it has
information-sharing arrangements to develop ways to implement and improve the
arrangements. The Commission also cooperates on an informal basis with foreign
regulators with whom it does not have explicit information-sharing arrangements.
On October 18,1990, the Commission signed a comprehensive MOU with the
Comision Nacional de Valores of Mexico on consultation, technical assistance, and
mutual assistance for the exchange of information. The MOU provides for bilateral
assistance regarding enforcement matters, and specifies procedures for requesting and
providing assistance, and the permissible uses and confidential nature of information
provided and obtained. Further, the MOU provides for continuing consultations
regarding the MOD's operation and ways of enhancing bilateral cooperation. The
MOU also provides for technical assistance for the development of the Mexican
securities markets, and for the mutual provision of technical assistance to emerging
securities markets.
On September 23, 1991, the Commission and the Financial Supervisory Agency
of Sweden (FSA) entered into a Communique on the exchange of information and the
establishment of a framework for cooperation. This Communique reaffirmed the terms
of a June 27, 1991 Communique between the Commission and the predecessor agency
to the FSA,the BankInspectionBoard of Sweden. In the Communique, the Commission
and the FSA declared their intent to provide mutual assistance to the fullest extent
legally possible regarding enforcement matters, and to consult and coordinate about
market oversight and other matters of mutual interest. While the Communique is an
important step toward a comprehensive cooperative relationship with the FSA, the
signatories stated that the Communiqueis an interim measure, and that they contemplate
the development of a comprehensive MOU on cooperation in securities matters.
Also on September 23, 1991, the Commission issued a Joint Statement with the
Commission of the European Communities. Inthe Joint Statement, the parties declared
their intention to work together to (1) facilitate the exchange of information and the
provision of mutual assistance between the SEC and the relevant national authorities
of the European Community (EC), (2) cooperate in maintaining the financial integrity
of the participants in both securities markets, and (3) consult regularly on matters of
mutual interest concerning the operation and oversight of the securities markets of the
21

-

',-

U.S. and the Ee. In addition, the parties expressed their intent to commence a regular
dialogue to review developments in the U.5. securities markets and those of EC
member countries, and to discuss principles underlying securities regulation in both
the U.S. and Ee.
On September 24, 1991, the Commission signed an extensive MOU with the
Banking, Insurance and Securities Commission of Norway concerning consultation
and cooperation in the administration and enforcement of the U.S. and Norwegian
securities laws. The NorwegianMOU covers a broad range of issues for which bilateral
assistance can be provided, and establishes a framework for the fullest mutual
cooperation and communication concerning enforcement and other regulatory matters.
On September 25, 1991,the Commission entered into a comprehensive MOU on
mutual assistance and the exchange ofinformation with the United Kingdom Department
of Trade and Industry and the Securities and Investments Board. This MOU
supersedes the MOU signed in 1986, and makes assistance available in virtually all
types of cases that could arise under the securities and futures laws of the U.S. and the
U.K Further, thenewMOU enables the U.S.and U.K authorities to utilize the full range
of their investigative powers, induding compulsory means, to assist one another.
On September 26, 1991,the Commission entered into an Understanding with the
Inter-American Development Bank and the United Nations Economic Commission for
Latin America and the Caribbean to facilitate the provision of technical assistance and
training to the countries of Latin America for the development, administration,
operation, and regulation of those capital markets. In addition to specifying areas in
which technical assistance can be provided, the Understanding calls for the signatories
to conduct joint studies on a range of subjects aimed at fostering the growth and sound
regulation of the Latin American securities markets. Further, the Understanding
provides for periodic consultations to enhance cooperation and the promotion of
stability, efficiency, and integrity of the capital markets of the region.
Trilateral Communique

Since 1989,the staffhasorganized and actively been involved in the Commission's
bilateral and multilateral meetings with counterpart securities regulators. Some of
these periodic meetings have emerged as significant forums for the exchange of
information and agreement on matters affecting international securities regulation.
One of the most important of these meetings is the annual Trilateral Meeting between
the securities regulators of the United Kingdom, Japan, and the United States.
On July 19, 1991, the Commission, the U.K Department of Trade and Industry
and Securities and Investments Board, and the Securities Bureau of the Ministry of
Finance of Japan, met for the second time on a trilateral basis to consider issues of
importance to the world's three largest securities markets. At the conclusion of their
meetings, the parties issued a trilateral communique in which they:
 agreed that competition, openness, and disclosure are important for the
integrity of markets and investor confidence;
 agreed on the need to exchange information rapidly when problems appear
likely to affect the financial position of securities firms with multinational
operations;
 agreed that the development of common regulatory principles could
facilitate international business with institutional and other professional
investors;
22


 noted the growing need for exchange of information between market
authorities, particularly between cash markets and derivatives markets;
and

 considered questions involving international cooperation in the enforcement
of judgments, and agreed to investigate the possibility of improving
procedures under national law.
International Organizations

During 1991, the Commission participated in the following international
organizations:
The International Organization of Securities Commissions. The Commission hosted
the 16th Annual IOSCO Conference in Washington, O.c. The Conference was attended
by representatives of 54 nations and covered a wide range of topics, including (1)crossborder equity offerings, (2) investment management services and funds, (3) the
development of strong, stable, and efficient secondary markets, (4) the protection of
investors from international fraud, (5) international accounting standards, (6) the
interplay between banking and securities laws, (7) automation and electronic trading,
and transparency issues, and (8) challenges for international financial markets in the
1990s.
Chairman Breeden played an active leadership role in IOSCO by chairing the
Technical Committee, a position he has held since 1990. Under Chairman Breeden's
leadership, the Technical Committee has re-examined its mission and goals, and has
undergone a significant restructuring of its organization and functions. The Technical
Committee issued two significant documents during the IOSCO Annual Conference.
One report endorsed a set of principles that can serve as a blueprint for the negotiation
and implementation of MOUs among nations. This report reflects the Commission's
approach to promoting international cooperation through the use of regulator-toregulator MOUs. Further, the principles constitute an important step toward fulfilling
IOSCO's long-held goal of fostering reciprocal assistance among members in the areas
of market oversight and the prevention of fraud.
Also issued during the IOSCO Annual Conference was a Technical Committee
memorandum to the Basle Committee of Banking Supervision (the international body
of banking supervisors known as the Basle Committee) on capital adequacy standards.
This memorandum, which presented the positions of the international securities
regulators, was an important component of the efforts to establish common minimum
capital standards for international securities firms and banks. During the IOSCO
Annual Conference, Chairman Breeden announced that the Technical Committee
members were willing, in principle, toconelude an agreement with the BasleCommittee
to establish minimum capital levels for holding equity and debt securities, and the types
of capital that can be included as regulatory capital for international banks and
securities firms.
In addition to the Commission's accomplishments at the laSCa Annual
Conference, throughout 1991 the Commission participated actively in IOSCO
committees and working groups. The staff worked with its foreign counterparts to
develop sound and harmonized policies on a wide range of issues, including (1) the
development of international accounting standards, (2) market transparency issues
and the study of screen-based trading systems, (3) coordination of the relationship

23

,,-

"

between cash and derivatives markets, (4) the development
of minimum capital
adequacy standards, and (5) international efforts to combat money laundering and
international boiler room fraud.
The Organization for Economic Cooperation and Development (OECD). The
Commission staff participated in discussions at the OECD regarding the establishment
of international
standards governing illicit payments to government
officials, the
OECD codes relating to securities matters, and accounting issues.
The GeneralAgreement on Tariffs and Trade (GATT). The Commission is an active
participant in the effort, through the Uruguay Round of the GATT, to establish a
multilateral framework of principles and rules for trade in financial services. Throughout
1991, the Commission consulted and coordinated with the Office of the United States
Trade Representative, the Department ofTreasury, and other United States government
agencies, in connection with the GA IT negotiations and other international trade and
investmentinitiatives,
such as the North AmericanFree Trade Agreement negotiations.
The Wilton ParkGroup. This informal meeting is sponsored by the UK Department
of Trade and Industry and includes regulators from 12 countries. During this year's
meeting, the staff participated in extensive discussions to develop practical methods
for facilitating the exchange of information among securities regulators.
The European Community. The Commission also has been involved with other
United States governmental
agencies in reviewing the plans and directives of the
European Community, which is working toward achieving an internal market among
its 12-member countries by December 31,1992 (referred to as EC 92). The Commission
has been involved in several different studies, and provided assistance to other United
States government agencies, including the Department of the Treasury, in connection
with the impact of EC 92 on the U.S. financial services markets.
International Requests for Assistance
The table below summarizes the international
received by the Commission."
Fiscal
Year
1988
1989
1990
1991

24

SEC Requests to
Foreign Governments
84
101
177"8
15180

requests for assistance made and

Foreign Requests to
the SEC
81
150
13079
21181

Regulation of the Securities Markets

The Division of Market Regulation, together with regional office
examination staff, is charged with the responsibility of overseeing the
operations of the nation's securities markets and market professionals. In
1991, over 8,600 broker-dealers, 8 active registered securities exchanges, as
well as the over-the-counter (OTC) markets and 15 clearing agencies were
subject to the Commission's oversight.
Key 1991 Results

1987

1988

1989 1990

452

421

328

371

442

56

89

148

176

121

23

21

22

22

23

SRO Final Disciplinary
Actions

991

1,336

SRO Rule Changes

357

378

Broker/Dealer
Examinations

Oversight

Broker/Dealer
Examinations

Cause

Surveillance and Regulatory
Compliance Inspections
of Self-Regulatory
Organizations (SROs)

1991

1,508 1,605 1,490
370

492

444

In 1991, the division continued to direct its attention toward a number of
significant issues. The division took steps to implement market reform legislation
designed to address oversight problems identified in the 1987 market decline and
subsequent episodes of extreme market volatility. Rules were proposed to combat
"penny stock" fraud and to maintain the financial integrity of firms servicing
investors. Internationalization of the securities markets continued to influence
virtually all of the division's activities. Finally, the division worked to ensure that
fundamental changes in the markets, including growth in size and diversity of firms
and products, proceed in a sound and orderly way and without unnecessary
regulatory restraints on industry, innovation, or competition.

25

Securities Markets, Facilities, and Trading

Market Reform Initiatives
On September 25, 1990, Congress enacted the Market Reform Act of 1990
(Market Reform Act) to enhance the efficiency and fairness of the United States
capital markets and to address the causes of precipitous market declines. The
legislation authorizes the Commission to:
 establish rules for reporting pertinent financial information about
broker-dealer holding companies for purposes of risk assessment;
 promulgate rules providing for large trader reporting;
 facilitate development of coordinated clearance and settlement systems;
 promulgate uniform rules, preempting state law when necessary,
concerning the transfer and pledge of securities to facilitate the efficient
and safe operation of the national clearance and settlement system; and
 limit trading practices that contribute significantly to extraordinary
volatility.
In addition, the legislation provides the Commission, subject to disapproval
by the President, with the emergency authority to halt trading in securi ties markets.
On August 22, 1991, the Commission proposed for comment Rule 13h-1,
which would establish a large trader reporting system, as contemplated by the
Market Reform Act. Rule 13h-1 envisions an efficient activity-based system for
gathering information to be used by the Commission to perform time-sequenced
reconstructions of trading activity for the evaluation of market volatility and other
market surveillance purposes. The proposed rule would require large investors to
file a form with the Commission, upon receipt of which the Commission would
assign each such investor an identification number. Broker-dealers would be
required to maintain, and electronically report to the Commission, records of
transactions effected by large traders.
On August 3D,1991, the Commission proposed for comment Rules 17h-lT and
17h-2T, which, together with proposed Form 17-H, would establish a risk assessment
recordkeeping and reporting system for registered broker-dealers concerning
certain of their associated persons. The proposed rules are designed to give the
Commission access to information concerning the financial and securities activities
of those associated persons of the broker-dealer whose business activities are
reasonably likely to have a material impact on the broker-dealer. Proposed Rule
17h-1T is a recordkeeping rule that sets forth the records and other information
broker-dealers would be required to maintain with respect to their material
associated persons. Proposed Rule 17h-2T is a reporting rule that would require
broker-dealers to file with the Commission on proposed Form 17-H a quarterly
summary of certain of the information required to be maintained by Rule 17h-1T.
In January 1991, the Commission formed the Market Transactions Advisory
Committee pursuant to new Section 17A(f) of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934
(Exchange Act). The Commission also published for comment proposed Exchange
Act Rule 17Ad-IS, which would govern the acceptance of signature guarantees. The
advisory committee's responsibilities and the proposed rule are discussed in
greater detail below in the section entitled "National System for Clearance and
Settlement."

26

Penny Stock Reforms
The Securities Enforcement Remedies and Penny Stock Reform Act of 1990
(Remedies Act),82requires the Commission to: (1) establish criteria concerning
coverage of the category of penny stocks; (2) establish rules that bar disciplined
persons from participating in penny stock distributions; (3) specify additional
disclosure requirements or exemptions relating to transactions in penny stocks; (4)
generally prevent fraud and manipulation in penny stock transactions; and (5)
facilitate and oversee the establishment of self-regulatory organization (SRO)
operated automated quotations systems for penny stocks.
On April 17, 1991, the Commission proposed for public comment Rule 3aSl1, Rules 15g-1 through 15g-7, and Schedule 15G under the Exchange Act." The
proposed rules define the term penny stock and exempt certain transactions from
the disclosure requirements of the rules. The rules would require broker-dealers
effecting transactions in penny stocks to provide their customers with a document
describing the risks of investing in the penny stock market, information regarding
market quotations, if any, information on the compensation of the broker-dealer
and salesperson involved in the penny stock transaction, and monthly statements
giving the market value of penny stocks held in the customer's account.
Exchange Act Rule 15c2-11 prohibits, with certain exceptions, a broker or
dealer from publishing a quotation for a covered security in a quotation medium
unless it has in its records and reviews specific information concerning the security
and its issuer. The Commission adopted revisions to Rule 15c2-11 that require a
broker-dealer to review the specified information before publishing the quotation
and to have a reasonable basis under the circumstances for believing that the
information is accurate in all material respects and obtained from reliable sources.
The amendments also require a broker-dealer to have in its records a copy of any
trading suspension order, or Exchange Act release announcing a trading suspension,
issued by the Commission during the preceding 12 months respecting any of the
issuer's securities, and to review the required information together with the
information contained in the trading suspension order or release and any other
material information concerning the issuer in the broker-dealer's knowledge or
possession." In addition, the Commission published for comment revisions to Rule
15c2-11 to narrow the scope of the rule's piggyback provision that currently allows
broker-dealers under certain conditions to enter quotations without having the
information specified by the rule." The Commission also sought comment on the
possible repeal of the piggyback exception."
Congress also amended the Exchange Act by inserting new Section 17B,which
requires the Commission to facilitate the development of one or more quotation
systems for penny stocks and mandates that the Commission report in each of the
five subsequent annual reports on the progress that has been made inthe development
of such a system. In adopting Section 17B,Congress stated that a fully implemented
automated quotation system would further the information needs of investors and
market participants and would add transparency to the penny stockmarket, as well
as provide regulatory and surveillance data. Section 17B provides that the system
should collect and disseminate quotation and transaction information; provide
firm bid and ask quotations of participating broker-dealers, or comparable accurate

27

,

-,'

,

and reliable pricing information; and provide for the reporting of the volume of
penny stock transactions, including last sale reporting, when volume in the system
reaches appropriate levels."
The Commission worked closely with the National Association of Securities
Dealers Inc. (NASD) to develop a system that will ultimately meet all the requirements
of Section 17B. Even before the legislation was passed, the NASD had made a
substantial commitment to achieving the broad goals outlined in the Remedies Act
and had introduced the OTC Bulletin Board Service (Bulletin Board). The Bulletin
Board provides a real-time quotation medium for NASD members to enter and
display quotation information for securities traded over-the-counter that are not
included in the N ASD AQ System nor listed on a registered securities exchange. The
Commission first approved the implementation of the Bulletin Board for a pilot
term of one year," and subsequently granted further extensions of the pilot
program, most recently extending the pilot through March 31, 1992.89 As of
September 30, 1991, the Bulletin Board displayed quotations/ indications of interest
on 4,125 securities. Two hundred and thirty firms were registered as market
makers, with a total of 10,429 market making positions. On average, 2.5 market
making positions were displayed for each security.

Major Market System Developments
The Commission received 11 amendments to various National Market System
(NMS) Plans and approved 10. In addition, the Commission received a newly
adopted NMS Plan that, if approved, will govern the operation of a linkage among
the various options exchanges. Finally, the Commission received 36 proposed rule
changes involving NMS issues in 1991 and approved 35 during that period.
On October 10, 1991, the Commission approved a proposal submitted by the
NASD to implementthe NASDAQ International service for a two-year pilot period.
NASDAQ International will support an early trading session in London--it will be
available from 3:30 a.m. to 9:00 a.m. EST on each U.S. business day that coincides
wi th the business hours of the London financial markets." NASDAQ International
is primarily designed to accommodate international trading byinstitutional investors
in the United States, United Kingdom, and other parts of Europe. Itwill consist of
the basic automation services currently provided during the domestic session to
support market making by NASD members in NASDAQ, NASDAQ/NMS, and
exchange-listed securities.
On September 6,1991, the Commission released to the Chairman of the Senate
Committee on Banking, Housing, and Urban Affairs a staff report that explored the
issues associated with increasing the market information available for high-yield
debt securities. This report sought to identify whether transparency (the extent to
which information about trading is made available to the public) in the high-yield
debt market could be improved. The report concluded that, at least for the 40 to 50
most actively traded high-yield securities, a quote and/ or trade reporting system
is feasible at this time.
The Commission issued its second Automation Review Policy Statement
(ARP II) on May 9, 1991.91 ARP II provided, among other things, detailed guidelines
on the independent review process for the SROs' capacity planning, systems
development, contingency planning, and security review programs.
ARP II
represents the Commission's continuing efforts to promote safe and efficient
28

operation of the securities markets systems and provide further guidance to the
SROs for implementation of the recommendations found in the first Automation
Review Policy Statement (ARP 1).92 ARP I provided that the SROs, on a voluntary
basis, should establish comprehensive planning and assessment programs to
determine systems capacity and vulnerability.
On February 20, 1991, the Commission approved a request by Wunsch
Auction Systems Inc. (W ASI) to exempt its computerized single-price auction
system (Wunsch System) from exchange registration under the Exchange Act. 93 The
Wunsch System permits institutional and broker-dealer participants to enter buy
and sell orders for particular securities selected by WASI that are offered through
an auction format. The exemption was based on the limited volume of trades
expected to take place through the Wunsch System. In granting the exemption, the
Commission found that it was not practicable and not necessary or in the public
interest or for the protection of investors for W ASI to register under Section 6 of the
Exchange Act. WASI is the first proprietary system to receive such an exemption.
In response to a congressional inquiry, the Commission issued a letter
discussing the impact of computerized trading systems on the national market
system." In particular, the Commission's response explained that the emergence
of a large number and variety of computerized trading systems had furthered the
national market system goal of decreasing transaction costs, increasing the
transparency of U.S. markets, improving market linkages and best execution
opportunities, and enhancing competition in the markets. The Commission
recognized the possibility that the number and use of such systems could change,
and indicated that the Commission would reexamine the national market system
structure and the incentives that Commission regulations may create in light of the
burgeoning use of those systems. The Commission's response contemplated that
any re-examination would cover not only the current regulatory approach to offexchange systems, but also would review the Commission's overall approach to
current market structure.

National System for Clearance and Settlement
The Commission continued to work with clearing agencies, banks, brokerdealers and other federal regulators to enhance all components of the national
system for clearance and settlement. For example, on January 14, 1991, the
Commission formed the Market Transactions Advisory Committee pursuant to
Section 17A(f) of the Exchange Act.95 The Advisory Committee's responsibilities
include assisting the Commission in identifying state and federal laws that may
impede the safe and efficient clearance and settlement of securities transactions and
advising the Commission on whether and how to use its authority, under the
Market Reform Act, to adopt, in certain circumstances, uniform federal rules
regarding the transfer and pledge of securities.
Work continued between the Commission and the United States Group of
Thirty Working Committee concerning its recommendations aimed at improving
the efficiency and safety of securities markets. These recommendations included
moving settlement from the fifth day after trade date to the third day after trade
date, using same-day funds in settlement, and adopting direct registration.

29

Temporary clearing agency registration of Participants Trust Company (PTC),96
Government Securities Clearing Corporation (GSCc),97 and MBS Clearing
Corporation (MBSCC)98was extended by the Commission for another year. PTC
provides depository services for mortgage-backed securities, GSCC provides
automated trade comparison and netting services for U.S. government securities,
and MBSCC provides trade comparison and netting services for mortgage-backed
securities.
The Commission published for comment proposed Exchange Act Rule 17AdIS, which would govern the acceptance of signature guarantees." The rule prohibits
inequitable treatment of eligible guarantor institutions, requires transfer agents to
establish written standards for the acceptance of signature guarantees, and enables
transfer agents to reject a request for transfer because the guarantor is neither a
member of nor a participant in a signature guarantee program.

Government Securities Markets
In 1991, the Commission completed ajoint report required by the Government
Securities Act of 1986 (GSA) entitled Study of the Effectiveness of the Implementation
of the Government Securities Act of 1986 (October 1990). The report examined the
regulatory structure established under the GSA and concluded that the
implementation of regulations promulgated under the GSA had met the objectives
of Congress. 100 Further, the Commission supported legislative improvements in the
regulatory structure established by the GSA and undertook a joint study with the
Department of the Treasury and Federal Reserve System of the oversight of the
government securities market in light of allegations of abuse in that market. 101
Recognizing that the overall level of regulation in the market for government
securities is lower than for the equities markets, the Commission supported
legislation to increase the transparency of the government market, to eliminate gaps
in the regulation of abusive sales practices by government securities brokers and
dealers, and to prohibit misleading written statements to issuers of government
securities in connection with a primary offering.
The Commission supported legislation re-authorizing the Department of the
Treasury to promulgate rules in areas specified by the GSA. In addition, the
Commission advocated additional regulatory protection for the government market.
Specifically, the Commission sought backstop regulatory authority to improve
market transparency'" by requiring government securities brokers and dealers to
disseminate transaction and quotation information, on a real-time basis, to all those
willing to pay the appropriate fees. Such backstop authority would be triggered
only if private sector initiatives prove inadequate.
The Commission also supported legislation that would remove gaps in the
NASD's regulation of sales practices. Specifically, the Commission proposed that
Congress, by removing certain statutory restrictions on NASD regulation, permit
the NASD to apply its rules, induding sales practice standards, to transactions by
itsmembers in government securities. In supporting such legislation, the Commission
sought to allow the NASD to regulate government securities transactions on the
same basis as transactions in non-exempt securities.

30

Finally, the Commission recommended legislation that would amend the
general antifraud and antimanipulation provisions of the Exchange Act to specifically
define the use of false or misleading written information in connection with any
primary offering of government securities as an express violation of the federal
securities laws.

Internationalization
During 1991,the Commission continued its efforts to widenintemationalization
of financial markets. Many of these developments are discussed in other sections
such as" Major Market System Developments" and "National System for Clearance
and Settlement" above, as well as sections below on "Options and Other Derivative
Products," "Foreign Broker-Dealers,"
"International
Offerings," "Financial
Responsibility Rules," and "Oversight of Self-Regulatory Organizations."
In addition to the initiatives mentioned elsewhere, the Commission provided
technical assistance to several emerging market countries, including Greece,
Hungary, Bulgaria, and Poland. The Commission's assistance in this area has
centered on providing advice regarding regulatory structures for the government
and SROs, practical advice on clearance and settlement systems, and review of
proposed legislation and rules.
The Commission has been an active participant in the working groups of the
International Organization of Securities Commissions (IOSCO). In particular, as a
member of the Working Party on the Regulation of Secondary Markets, the
Commission discussed issues concerning the coordination between cash and
derivative markets, screen-based trading systems, and the importance of
transparency in order-driven and dealer markets. At the annual meeting of IOSCO
in September 1991, the Commission staff presented a paper discussing critical
issues raised by automation in the securities markets, including the nature of
regulatory structures appropriate for automated trading systems, market efficiency
goals in such an environment, and system integrity in computerized markets.'?"
The Commission also participated actively in the Working Party on Regulation
of Market Intermediaries.
The primary focus of this Working Party has been
determining capital adequacy standards for multinational securitiesintermediaries.
Capital adequacy rules are critical to the soundness of securities firms. With the
increasing amount of cross-border activities by such firms, the financial status of a
firm in one country may affect the firm or its affiliates' activities in other countries.

Options and Other Derivative Products
During 1991, the Commission approved changes to SRO rules intended to
address market volatility concerns, particularly those arising in the markets for
equity securities and derivative instruments related to the equity markets. For
example, the Commission extended the effectiveness of New York Stock Exchange
(NYSE) Rule BOA, which provides for a pilot program that places conditions on the
execution of index arbitrage orders to buy or sell component stocks of the Standard
& Poor's 500 Stock Price Index (S&P 500 Index) when the Dow Jones Industrial
Average (DJIA) advances or declines by 50 points or more from its closing value on
the previous day.'?'

31

The Commission also approved rule changes submitted by the American
Stock Exchange (Amex), Midwest Stock Exchange (MSE), NYSE, Philadelphia
Stock Exchange (Phlx), and NASD to extend the effectiveness oftheircircuit breaker
procedures. ios In general, the circuit breaker procedures provide that trading in all
markets will halt for one hour if the DJIA declines 250 points or more from the
previous day's closing level and, thereafter, trading will halt for an additional two
hours if the DJIA declines 400 points from the previous day's close.
A proposal by the Chicago Board Options Exchange (CBOE) to reduce from
15 minutes to five minutes the time interval that the CBOE can declare a delayed
opening in index options was approved by the Commission.P" Under the new
procedures, if an opening delay is declared by the CBOE, the CBOE can open at 8:35
a.m., 8:40 a.m., or at the end of any succeeding five-minute interval.
The Commission also approved proposals to permit trading of new financial
instruments, including:
 Trading in long-term equity options on the Amex and long-term equity
and stock index options on the Pacific Stock Exchange (PSE) and Phlx,
which options are designed to provide investors with additional means to
hedge investment portfolios against long-term market risk.!"
 Trading in long-term options on reduced value indexes on the CBOE, Phlx,
and Amex.
 Listing and trading warrants based on the CAC-40 Index on the Amex,
CBOE, MSE, NYSE, Phlx, and PSE. The CAC-40 is an internationally
recognized, capitalization-weighted index consisting of 40 leading stocks
listed and traded on the Paris Bourse and calculated by the Societe des
Bourses Francaises.''"
 Trading in warrants based on the Financial Times-Stock Exchange 100
Index (FT-SE 100 Index) on the CBOE and the MSE. The FT-SE 100 Index
is an internationally recognized capitalization-weighted stock index based
on the prices of 100 of the most highly capitalized British stocks traded on
the London Stock Exchange.'?"
 Listing and trading of currency warrants on the PSE, subject to the same
minimum listing and trading criteria that apply to index warrant issues."?
The Commission proceeded with several proposals relating to financial
futures. The divisionissued a letter to the Commodity Futures Trading Commission
(CFTC) indicating that the division would not object if the CFTC staff were to take
a no-action position to allow the offer and sale to U.s. citizens of futures contracts
overlying the All Ordinaries Stock Price Index, a broad-based index of Australian
stocks. III The division also sent a letter to the CFTC indicating that the SEC does
not object to designation of the Chicago Board of Trade (CBT) as a contract market
to trade options on Major Market Index (MMI) futures.!"
Finally, the Commission proposed amendments to Rule 3a12-8 under the
Exchange Act that would designate debt obligations issued by the Republics of
Ireland and Italy as exempted securities. The purpose of these proposed amendments
is to permit the marketing and trading of futures contracts on those securities in the
United States.1I3

32

Regulation of Brokers, Dealers, Municipal Securities Dealers,
and Transfer Agents

Broker-Dealer Examination Program
The primary purpose of the broker-dealer examination program is to provide
Commission oversight of the SROs responsible for the routine examination of those
broker-dealers conducting a public securities business. This oversight evaluation
process is accomplished primarily through the examination of broker-dealer firms
recently examined by a SRO. Additionally, cause examinations are conducted
when the Commission becomes aware of circumstances that warrant direct
Commission inquiry rather than a SRO review.
During 1991, 442 oversight examinations and 121 cause examinations were
completed. Findings from 65 examinations were referred to the Commission's
enforcement staff and referrals to SROs were made in 53 examinations.
The number of oversight examinations increased by 19% over the number of
oversight examinations completed in 1990. However, fewer cause examinations
were completed than in 1990 because that staff conducted more examinations of
penny stock firms on an oversight rather than a cause basis. In addi tion, the N ASD
examined a large number of penny stock broker-dealer branch offices that the staff
had planned to examine on a cause basis.
A significant aspect of the broker-dealer examination program involved
examinations of franchised branch offices of penny stock broker-dealers. Particular
concern focused on whether registered broker-dealers were exercising sufficient
control over the activities ofthese offices, and, if not, whether the franchised branch
office should be separately registered as a broker-dealer. In coordination with the
NASD, the staff reviewed supervisory procedures and recordkeeping at these
offices, looking particularly for evidence of unregistered salespersons and brokerdealer operations as well as sales practice abuses. An unregistered broker-dealer
was discovered during one of these examinations and legal action was promptly
instituted against the firm.
During 1991, the oversight examination staff examined 75 NYSE member
firms, including comprehensive financial and operational reviews of four of the
largest NYSE member firms. Several complex issues related to one firm's possession
and control of securities and the maintenance ofits special reserve bank account (for
the exclusive benefit of customers) arose during the examination. The issues were
resolved through the combined efforts of the Commission and other securities
industry regulators. At another firm, errors in net capital and customer reserve
formula computations were identified as well as serious systemic weaknesses in the
firm's compliance with credit restrictions of Regulation T. In addition to the above
4 examinations, the Commission's staff examined 71 other NYSE member firms.

33

Transfer Agent Examinations
The regional offices conducted 140 examinations of registered transfer agents
and 10 examinations of federally regulated banks. In total, the program resulted in
93 deficiency letters, 18 registration cancellations or withdrawals, 9 referrals to the
Division of Enforcement, 5 staff conferences with delinquent registrants, and 3
referrals to federal bank examiners.

Form BD Amendments
As the result of ongoing discussions between Commission staff, the North
American Securities Administrators Association's Forms Revision Committee,
representatives of the NASD and the securities industry, in September 1991 the
Commission published for comment amendments to Form BD, the uniform
registration form for broker-dealers under the Exchange ACt.114The amendments
would update the disciplinary background provisions of the form to reflect the
amendments to the federal securities laws made by the Market Reform Act and the
International Securities Enforcement Cooperation Act of 1990,115and eliminate
reporting of certain minor SRO rule violations. The amendments also would revise
the content and structure of the form's schedules to provide the Commission and
the SROs with more useful information concerning applicants for registration. In
addition, the amendments would eliminate duplication of information filed on
various forms with the N ASD through the Central Registration Deposi tory system
and clarify certain items contained in the form.

Foreign Broker-Dealers
The Commission issued several no-action letters in 1991 in response to
developments in the international capital markets. Of particular note is a no-action
letter issued to the NASD116permitting United Kingdom broker-dealers affiliated
with registered United States broker-dealers that are members of the NASD to
participate in the N ASD' s N ASD A Q International service during the period oftime
for which the Commission has approved the operation of the service.'? without
registering with the Commission as broker-dealers under Section 15(b) of the
Exchange Act. The NASD represented that approved U.K. affiliates would be
permitted to enter quotations in the service for certain eligible U.S. securities only
as agent for their sponsoring NASD member broker-dealers. Sponsoring NASD
member broker-dealers would be responsible, among other things, for ensuring
that their affiliated U.K. broker-dealers comply with the NA5D's rules governing
the service.

International Offerings
During 1991,the Commission addressed several types of transactions involving
concurrent U.S, and foreign distributions, rights offers and tender offers, including:
 Rule lOb-6, which proscribes certain conduct by persons participating in a
distribution to prevent artificial conditioning of the market for a security
to facilitate the distribution;
 Rule 10b-7, which governs market stabilization activities during an offering;
 Rule 10b-8, which governs the market activities of participants in a rights
offering; and

34


 Rule 10b-13,which prohibits participant purchases otherwise than pursuant
to a tender or exchange offer from the time such offer is publicly announced
until the offer expires.
The Commission granted relief under these antimanipulation rules for
multinational offerings to permit non-U.S. persons to continue certain customary
market activities in foreign jurisdictions during multinational transactions, subject
to certain conditions designed to prevent a manipulative impact on the U.S. market.
Several examples are listed below.
 An exemption was granted to permit distribution participants and their
affiliated purchasers (except issuer affiliates) to continue ordinary market
making activity in certain foreign markets, when the issuer is distributing
Rule 144A securities to qualified institutional buyers in the United States.l"
 Common share specialists affiliated with an underwriter were granted an
exemption to make bids for and to purchase shares on the Montreal
Exchange during a multinational distribution by a Canadian issuer.!'?
 Certain Mexican banks affiliated with the government of Mexico, a selling
shareholder, were permitted to continue their ordinary trading activity
prior to and during a multinational offering of a Mexican issuer' s securities.P'
 Affiliated market makers on the Paris Options Market were granted an
exemption to continue market making in standardized options during a
distribution of the underlying security, subject to certain conditions.!"
 In connection with a rights offering of a Danish issuer, underwriters were
permitted to bid for or purchase common shares and rights on the
Copenhagen Stock Exchange and on the London Stock Exchange's SEAQ
International system, subject to certain conditions.F'
In connection with the adoption by the Commission of the United StatesCanadian Multijurisdictional Disclosure System (MJDS), which is designed to
facilitate cross-border capital formation.F' the Commission granted exemptions
from Rules lOb-6 and 10b-13 to permit securities purchases that are allowed under
Canadian provincial tender offer rules, subject to certain conditions.P' Also, the
Commission permitted" passive market making" in specialist-type arrangements
on the Toronto Stock Exchange and the Montreal Exchange in connection with
cross-border distributions qualifying for MJDS.I25
In the context of cross-border rights offerings pursuant to certain proposed
Securities Act rules and forms, the Commission proposed to issue an order to
exempt distribution participants from Rules 10b-6, lOb-7, and lOb-8, subject to
certain conditions.P The Commission proposed exemptions from Rules lOb-6, lOb7, and lOb-I3 during tender and exchange offers conducted pursuant to certain
proposed rules and forms designed to facilitate the inclusion of United States
investors in tender and exchange offers for a foreign target's securities.F' The
Commission also proposed an exemption from Rule lOb-13 for tender and exchange
offers for United Kingdom issuers subject to certain United Kingdomregulations.!"

Public Disclosure of Material Short Positions
The Commission issued a concept release soliciting public comment on
whether to require public reporting of material short positions in publicly traded
securities in a manner analogous to the annual reporting requirement for material
long security positions.?"
35

Financial Responsibility

Rules

On February 28,1991, the Commission adopted final amendments to the net
capital rule that relate to the ability of an affiliate of a registered broker-dealer,
including its holding company, to withdraw capital from the broker-dealer. The
amendments stemmed from concerns raised in large part by the Commission's
experience in the liquidation of Drexel Burnham Lambert, Inc.
The amendments, which became effective May 5,1991:
 prohibit withdrawals of capital that would cause the broker-dealer's net
capital to decline below 25 percent of its deductions related to securities
positions under the rule, unless the broker-dealer has the prior approval of
the Commission;
 require the broker-dealer to notify the Commission two business days in
advance of withdrawals of capital that would exceed 30 percent of the
broker-dealer's excess net capital, or within two business days of
withdrawals that would exceed 20 percent of the broker-dealer' s excess net
capital (notice would not be required in the event of a withdrawal of less
than $500,000); and
 permit the Commission, by order, to prohibit withdrawals of capital for a
period of up to 20 business days if the proposed withdrawals would
exceed 30 percent of the broker-dealer's excess net capital and the
Commission believed such withdrawals would be detrimental to the
financial integrity of the firm or would unduly jeopardize the brokerdealer's ability to pay its customers or creditors.
In 1991, two rating agencies were added to the list of nationally recognized
statistical rating organizations (NRSROs): mCA Limited and its subsidiary, mCA
Inc., and Thomson Bankwatch, Inc. The staff specified in no-action letters issued
to the rating agencies the types of debt for which they may be considered NRSROs.l30
On July 9, 1991, the division issued a no-action letter to the Phlx and CBOE
indicating that broker-dealers computing charges under Rule 15c3-1(c)(2)(~ or
Rule 15c3-1a may, if in compliance with conditions set forth in the letter, (i) treat
foreign currency futures contract positions as underlying securities when such
positions are used to offset foreign currency option positions in the same underlying
currency, and (ii) treat options on foreign currency futures contracts as security
options.
On the same date, the Commission issued a no-action letter to the CBOE
indicating that broker-dealers may utilize a free allocation method in computing
certain net capital charges for options positions.
Lost and Stolen Securities

Rule 17f-1 under the Exchange Act sets forth participation, reporting, and
inquiry requirements for the Lost and Stolen Securities Program (Program). As of
September 31, 1991,23,402 institutions were registered in the Program. Statistics
for calendar year 1990 (the most recent year available) reflect the Program's
continuing effectiveness. During that year, registered institutions reported as lost
and stolen, missing or counterfeit 651,305 certificates valued at $2,593,031,073.
Those institutions also reported the recovery of 121,819 certificates valued at
$784,063,449. At the end of 1990, the aggregate value of securities contained in the
Program's database was $18,434,695,610. Program participants (e.g., banks and

36

broker-dealers) made inquiries concerning 2,695,945certificates. Inquiries concerning
13,418 certificates valued at $130,852,732 matched reports oflost, stolen, or missing
securities on file in the database.
Oversight of Self-Regulatory Organizations

National Securities Exchanges
As of September 30, 1991, there were eight active securities exchanges
registered with the Commission as national securities exchanges: Amex, Boston
Stock Exchange (BSE), CBOE, Cincinnati Stock Exchange (CSE), MSE, NYSE, Phlx
and PSE.131During 1991, the Commission granted exchange applications to delist
95 debt and equity issues and two options issues, and granted applications by
issuers requesting withdrawal from listing and registration for 37 issues. In
addition, the Commission granted 1,016 exchange applications for unlisted trading
privileges.
The exchanges submitted 248 proposed rule changes to the Commission
during 1991. Many of these filings are described in the section above entitled
"Securities Markets, Facilities, and Trading." Among the most notable other rule
filings that were approved by Commission were proposals by the Amex, BSE,MSE,
NYSE, Phlx, and PSE to initiate limited off-hours trading sessions. The NYSE' s OffHours Trading (OHT) facility extended the NYSE's daily trading hours beyond the
regular hours of 9:30 a.m. to 4:00 p.m. (eastern time) to establish two new trading
sessions: Crossing Session I, which permits the execution of single-stock, singlesided closing-price orders, and crosses of single-stock closing-price buy and sell
orders at 5:00 p.m. (eastern time); and Crossing Session II, which allows the
execution of crosses of multiple-stock aggregate-price buy and sell orders from 4:00
p.m. to5:15p.m. (eastern time). The Commission approved the OHTfacility onMay
20, 1991 for a two-year temporary period ending May 24, 1993. Itbegan operation
on June 13, 199V32
The Commission also approved an Amex proposal to permit the execution
after the close of single-sided, closing-price orders and crosses of closing-price buy
and sell orders.P' In response to the NYSE and Amex proposals, several of the
regional stock exchanges established requirements that their specialists provide
primary market protection to limit orders designated as executable after the close
of the regular trading session, based on volume that prints in the primary market's
after-hours sessions.P' In addition, the PSE's post-1:00 p.m. (pacific time) auction
trading market hours were extended to 1:50p.m. (pacific time), permitting the entry
and execution ofthe same types of orders as during the PSE's current 1:00-1:30 p.m.
(pacific time) trading session.P
The Commission approved a proposed rule change authorizing the CBOE to
trade stocks, warrants, and other securities instruments and contracts. The CBOE
was previously only a marketplace for options contracts.!"
The Division issued a report entitled Market Analysis of October 13 and 16, 1989
(December 1990) that contained a detailed analysis of market performance on these
two days of heavy trading volume and extreme price decline and volatility. The
report analyzes the performance of the U.S. securities and options markets in three
distinct areas: market maker and specialist performance, clearance and settlement,
and exchange operations. While the division found that performance in all three

37

areas has improved substantially as a result of the implementation of many of the
recommendations contained in the division's 1987 Market Break Report, the
division nevertheless made specific recommendations in several areas where
performance could be further improved.

National Association of Securities Dealers
The NASD, with over 5,800 member firms, is the only national securities
association registered with the Commission. It is the operator of the NASDAQ
System, the second largest stock market in the United States, and the third largest
in the world (after the Tokyo Stock Exchange and the NYSE). In 1991, the NASD
reported a total of 922 final disciplinary actions, which consisted of 781 formal and
summary disciplinary actions by its district committees and 141 formal and
summary actions by its NASDAQ and market surveillance committees.
In addition, the Commission received 68 proposed rule changes filed by the
NASD and approved 57 proposed rule changes in 1991. Among the significant
changes approved by the Commission was a proposal to revise the criteria forinitial
and continued inclusion for regular (non-NMS) NASDAQ securities.l" These
requirements were last amended in 1981. Since that time, significant changes in the
NASDAQ market and in the regulatory regime under which it operated, had
occurred. For example, since 1981 the number of issues included in the NASDAQ
system (regular and NMS) increased 28% from 3,687 issues in 1981 to 5,144 issues
in 1988. The revised initial authorization criteria include a minimum of two market
makers per issue, total issuer assets of at least $4 million, capital and surplus of at
least $2 million, a minimum bid price per share of $3, and a minimum public float
market value of $1 million. The revised maintenance criteria include a minimum
of two market makers per issue, a minimum of $2 million in total issuer assets,
minimum capital and surplus of $1 million, a minimum bid price per share of $1,
and a public float market value of at least $200,000.
The Commission also approved a series of four proposals to amend the
NASD's rules regarding the operation of the Small Order Execution System
(SOES).I38SOES was designed by the NASD as an efficient and economical system
for the automated execution of retail customer orders of limited size. The four rules:
(1) expand the definition of professional trading account; (2) expand the definition
of day trading; (3) establish a IS-second delay between SOES executions to permit
market makers to update their quotations; and (4) allow market makers to specify
the firms from which they are willing to receive preferenced orders.
In addition, the Commission approved a NASD proposed rule change that
grants permanent approval to the limit order capability for 50ES.139The limit order
processing capability serves the purpose of permitting NASD members, and in
particular members that do not have proprietary systems with such capability, to
enter and store limit orders. The limit order capability, as approved, contains the
following features: (1) an alert that will bring to the SOES market maker's attention
those limit orders that are priced within the inside market and that potentially
match another order already pending on the limit order file; (2) a take-out function
that allows a market maker to execute limit orders at a specific price without
changing its quote; and (3) a matching function that will automatically match and
execute orders in the limit file if after five minutes the matched order has not been
executed. The limit order file became operative in December 1990.
38

The Commission also approved a rule change that amended the NAsD ByLaws to incorporate, for NAsDAQ/NMs securities only, the language set forth in
SEC Rule 19c-4140regarding shareholder voting rights. The rule essentially prohibits
the quotation of a N AsDA Q / NMs issuer's common stock or other equity securities
if the issuerissues any class of stock or takes other corporate action that would have
the effect of nullifying, restricting or disparately reducing the per share voting
rights of outstanding common stock shareholders. Thus, the proposal prohibits the
disenfranchisement
of existing holders of an outstanding class or classes of
common stock of a NASDAQ/NMS issuer. The amended rule sets forth the
following actions, which are presumed to be disenfranchising: (1) time-phased
voting, (2) capped voting plans, (3) super voting stock distributions, and (4)
exchange offers. On the other hand, the following actions are presumed not to be
disenfranchising, and thus are permitted: (1) initial public offerings, (2) subsequent
issuances oflowervotingstock, (3)bonafide mergers and acquisitions, and (4) stock
dividends.
The Commission also approved a proposed rule change that prohibits NASD
members from receiving compensation for soliciting votes or tenders from
participants in connection with a roll-up of a direct participation program (OPP)
unless such compensation meets certain criteria.l" The compensation must be: (1)
payable and equal in amount regardless of whether the limited partner votes
affirmatively or negatively on the proposed roll-up; (2) in the aggregate, not in
excess of two percent of the exchange value of the newly created securities; and (3)
paid regardless of whether the participants reject the proposed roll-up. In addition,
the rule prohibits members or persons associated with a member firm from
participating in the solicitation of votes or tenders in conjunction with the roll-up
of a DPP unless the general partner or sponsor proposing the roll-up agrees to pay
all soliciting expenses related to the roll-up, including all prepatory work related
thereto, in the event the roll-up is not approved.

Arbitration
The Commission has approved proposed rule changes by both the N AsD and
national securities exchanges that strengthen the arbitration rules for disputes
between investors and broker-dealers.
The arbitration rules of the NAsD, the
Amex, the CBOE, and PsE were amended to facilitate the joinder and consolidation
of different parties' claims.l" The N AsD and CBOE also amended their arbitration
rules to clarify their ability to institute disciplinary actions against members and
associated persons of members that fail to honor awards issued by arbitrators.l"
The NASD and Amex expanded the required contents of arbitrators' awards to
include the name of counsel (if any) and the type of securities product(s) involved
in the dispute.!" The Amex, CBOE, and PSE also amended their rules to require the
prompt payment of arbitration awards and the payment of interest on those awards
in certain instances.l"

39

Clearing Agencies
During 1991, the Commission received 100 proposed rule changes from
registered clearing agencies. The Commission approved 98 such proposed rule
changes and three proposed rule changes were withdrawn by the clearing agencies.
The approved rules included the following proposals:

 Depository Trust Company's (DTC) establishment of a repurchase (repo)
agreements tracking system that allows DTC to isolate the portion of each
participant's position that is subject to a repo transaction.'"
 GSCC's comparison and netting of trades in Ll.S.Treasury securities that
occur prior to the U.S. Treasury auction.'?
 GSCC's expansion of its netting service to include book-entry zero coupon
securities.!"
 Options Clearing Corporation's (OCC) extension of its Theoretical
Intermarket Margin System to equities.'"
 OCC and Intermarket Clearing Corporation expansion of their respective
valued securities programs (i.e., the forms of acceptable margin) to include
certain preferred stock and corporate debt issues.'"
 PTC elimination of the pro rata charge to PTC participants for the cost of
financing principal and interest advances'!"
 permit PTC to join the Securities Clearing Group.'" and
 National Securities Clearing Corporation, Midwest Clearing Corporation
and PTC establishment of liability notice procedures for book-entry,
deliverable instruments that have exercise privileges.!"

Municipal Securities Rulemaking Board
The Commission received seven proposed rule changes from the Municipal
Securities Rulemaking Board (MSRB) and approved six. Of particular note, on] une
6, 1991, the Commission approved a proposed rule change that permits the MSRB
to establish and operate a central electronic facility, the Municipal Securities
Information Library, through which information regarding municipal securities
and their issuers would be made available to market participants and information
vendors. The Commission also approved a proposed rule change that amends
MSRB Rule G-36 to require underwriters to deliver advance refunding documents
to the MSRB.

Inspections of SRO Surveillance and Regulatory Compliance
The staff conducted an inspection of the NYSE oversight programs for
specialist trading. The inspection generally revealed improvement in all program
areas since the previous inspections in 1987 and 1988. In particular, the staff found
that the NYSE has developed effective automated surveillance programs for
specialist trading and specialist financial standing. Significant changes were made
in the allocation procedures for equity securities and in performance reviews.
Similarly, enhancements were made in the monitoring of the financial condition of
exchange specialists. Finally, the staff found that both the Member Trading
Analysis Department and the Enforcement Department were functioning adequately.

40

An inspection of the N ASD' s Market Surveillance Committee (MSC) revealed
that the MSC was performing its duties properly. Nonetheless, in connection with
investigations filed without action, the staff recommended that the NASD forward
additional information to the MSC, thereby facilitating its review. The inspection
team also suggested that the MSC consider the severity and repetitiveness of
violations as well as prior disciplinary history when determining appropriate
sanctions.
In March and April 1991, the staff evaluated the corporate bond markets
following discussions with broker-dealers, SROs, and institutional investors. The
staff recommended that bond trading surveillance systems be enhanced by the
SROs with responsibility for the most active bond markets, i.e., the NASD and the
NYSE.
An inspection of the surveillance, investigatory, and disciplinary programs of
the PSE found thatthese programs were fnnctioning adequately. Recommendations
made in the previous inspection had been implemented.
According to the
inspection staff, however, some areas warranted continued consideration and
improvement.
In particular, the staff recommended that the PSE improve the
accuracy of its audit trail information and the efficiency of its automated surveillance
capabilities, and make improvements to the PSE specialist financial surveillance
procedures.
The staff conducted an inspection of the BSE. The staff found that the BSE's
surveillance and compliance programs for primary issues were functioning
adequately, and that the exchange was currently establishing a comprehensive
surveillance program for its secondary issues. The staff suggested that the BSE
develop a formal case tracking system, routinely request information from member
firms concerning trade activity in the securities of certain issuers, and request issuer
chronologies in all insider trading investigations. The staff also recommended that
the BSE review its automated parameters for detecting possible marking-the-close
and prearranged trading. In a follow-up inspection of the Boston Stock Exchange
Clearing Corporation (BSECC), the staff recommended that the BSECC monitor its
specialists more closely, seeking additional clearing fund deposits where necessary,
and increase the specialists' minimum net capital requirements.
The staff also conducted routine inspections of the surveillance, investigatory,
and disciplinary programs of the MSE and CSE. While the programs were
functioning adequately at both exchanges, the staff recommended enhancements
to the surveillance reviews, improved documentation and coordination with other
SROs, as well as more stringent sanctions for trading violations.
The staff conducted two inspections of the NYSE's Division of Member Firm
Regulation. The first inspection evaluated the NYSE's Sales Practice Review Unit's
(SPRU) effectiveness in implementing NYSE examination procedures and the
adequacy of detection and disposition of sales practice abuses uncovered through
its routine and special examination program. The staff concluded that, overall,
SPRU generally conducts a satisfactory review of member firms' sales practice
activities.
Although the staff found that the NYSE had made significant
improvements in the review of member firms' sales practice activities, the staff
noted the need for additional work on improving the depth and quality of options
sales practice examinations. Other minor deficiencies were discovered concerning

41

implementation of examination procedures and the documentation of examination
findings. The staff made several recommendations and urged the NYSE to continue
to improve its programs for monitoring sales practice examinations.
The second inspection of the NYSE Division of Member Firm Regulation
evaluated the programs used by the exchange to monitor the transfer of customer
accounts by NYSE member firms. The staff concluded that, overall, the NYSE has
adequately addressed deficiencies noted in the staff's 1989 inspection of customer
account transfers and currently is conducting a satisfactory review of the transfer
of customer accounts by NYSE member firms. The staff cited the NYSE's continued
efforts to improve its transfer of accounts supervision through the improvement of
the existing programs and the implementation of new programs.
The staff
nevertheless found minor deficiencies in the NYSE's programs. These deficiencies
involved procedures for monitoring and enforcing compliance withNYSE governing
standards (Rule 412) and the documentation of the transfer of account process. The
staff made several recommendations to correct these deficiencies.
The Commission's 9 regional offices conducted routine oversight inspections
of regulatory programs administered by 9 of the N ASD' s 11 districts. In 1991, the
NASD reorganized and reconfigured its district offices. Although the number of
NASD offices remained at 14, the number of actual NASD districts has been
reduced from 14 to 11. Inspections of NASD district offices included evaluations
of the districts' broker-dealer examinations, their financial surveillance and formal
disciplinary programs, as well as investigations of customer complaints , terminations
of registered representatives for cause, and members' notices of disciplinary action.
Although the inspections disclosed minor deficiencies involving a variety of issues,
the inspections revealed that, overall, the NASD districts conduct effective regulatory
programs for member firms.
The staff conducted comprehensive inspections of the arbitration programs
administered by the arbitration departments at the PSE, MSRB, and CBOE. These
inspections were designed to evaluate the effectiveness of these SRO programs in
the processing and resolution of disputes between members and their customers.
In particular, the staff reviewed the adequacy of case documentation, the efficiency
ofthe case management systems, and the role each department played in processing
its cases.
The PSE arbitration inspection disclosed that the PSE generally administers a
satisfactory arbitration program. The staff, however, noted several deficiencies
relating to arbitrator disclosure and case processing methods. Arbitrator profiles
contained insufficient disclosure on employment history and were not updated
each time an arbitrator was used. With regard to case processing, the staff found
delays in executing service of the statement of claim on respondents, and noted that
requests for extension of time for filing an answer were made and granted after the
date the answer was due. The staff made several recommendations to remedy these
weaknesses.
The MSRBarbitration inspection revealed that the MSRB generally administers
its program satisfactorily. Nevertheless, the staff discovered certain deficiencies.
The more serious deficiencies were similar to those identified in the PSE arbitration
inspection, i.e., inadequate disclosure in arbitrator profiles and delay in the service

42

of process. Among other recommendations, the staff suggested that the MSRB have
another trained member of its staff help process claims when MSRB arbitration staff
members are absent.
The CBOE arbitration inspection disclosed that the CBOE generally administers
its arbitration program satisfactorily and revealed deficiencies similar to those
found in the PSE and MSRB arbitration inspections. The staff also discovered that
CBOE staff batches several simplified claims together before sending them to an
arbitrator for review. The staff found that this policy needlessly injected delay into
the processing of some simplified claims. Moreover, the CBOE used only a few
different arbitrators.
For example, only two arbitrators were used in all 28
simplified arbitration claims during the two-year span covered by the staff's
review. The staff made recommendations to remedy these and other minor
deficiencies found in the inspection.
During 1991, the staff continued to develop the automated data collection and
analysis capabilities for its MarketWatch program. Existing MarketWatch systems
were upgraded substantially, and new systems providing access to data regarding
the Wunsch Auction System and Instinet were added. Expanded programs were
implemented to monitor when-issued and regular-way trading and financing
activity in United States Treasury securities. In addition, stand-alone databases
have been established for monitoring significant positions in index options and
futures prior to expirations. Other databases have been developed in a variety of
other areas, such as futures-related data shared with the staff by the Tokyo Stock
Exchange. Finally, the staff updated frequently the Commission's Market Volatility
Contingency Plan (MVCP).

Applications for Re-entry
During 1991, the Commission received 47 SRO applications to permit persons
subject to disqualifications, as defined in Section 3(a)(39) of the Exchange Act, to
become or remain associated with broker-dealers. The distribution of filings among
the SROs was NASD, 39 and NYSE, 8. Of the filings processed in 1991, including
those received but not completed in 1990, 2 were subsequently withdrawn and 45
were completed. No applications were denied.

SRO Final Disciplinary Actions
Section 19(d)(1) of the Exchange Act and Rule 19d-1 thereunder require all
SROs to file reports with the Commission of all final disciplinary actions. A Rule
19d-1 filing reports the facts about a completed action that may have been initiated
at any time during the previous years. The time needed to complete a SRO
disciplinary action frequently reflects the severity and number of violations
charged, the number ofrespondents involved, and the complexity ofthe underlying
facts. SROs generally conclude cases alleging minor or technical violations by a
single respondent in less than a year. Cases involving serious trading violations
(e.g., price manipulation, insider trading, frontrunning, etc.) require more time to
complete because of the necessi ty of demonstrating specific intent to the disci plinary
panel that acts as trier of fact. Consequently, the absolute volume of Rule 19d-1
notices submitted by a SRO in a given year is not a precise measure of its proficiency
in market surveillance and compliance. Nevertheless, the number of actions

43

reported can be useful in assessing the regulatory effectiveness of different SROs
over similar time periods, and this information has proven useful in focusing
inspections of SRO regulatory programs.
In 1991, the Amex filed 32 Rule 19d-1 reports; the BSE filed 3; the CBOE filed
126; the MSE filed 8; the NYSE filed 290; the Phlx filed 47; the PSE filed 62; the
registered clearing agencies, the Cincinnati and Spokane Stock Exchanges filed
none; and the NASD filed 922.

SAO Final Disciplinary Actions

1986

1987

1988

1989

1990

1991

419

382

624

639

594

568

District Committees

252

415

542

794

893

761

NASDAQ and Market
Surveillance
Committees

174

194

170

75

118

141

845

991

1,336

1,508

1,605

1,490

Exchanges
NASD:

TOTALS

Securities Investor Protection Corporation (SIPC)
The SIPC Fund amounted to $662.5 million on September 30, 1991, an increase
of $105.1 million from September 30,1990. Further financial support for the SIPe
program is available through a $500 million confirmed line of credit established by
SIPe with a consortium of banks. In addition, SIPe may borrow up to $1 billion
from the United States Department of the Treasury, through the Commission.

44

Inveshnent

Companies and Advisers

The Division of Investment Management oversees the regulation of
investment companiesand investment advisers under two companion statutes,
the Investment Company Act of 1940 (Investment Company Act) and the
Investment Advisers Act of1940 (Investment Advisers Act), and administers
the Public Utility Holding Company Act of 1935 (Holding Company Act).
Key 1991 Results

In 1991, the Commission tightened the regulation of money market funds in
amendments to Rule 2a-7 under the Investment Company Act, redirected its
inspection resources to inspect funds in the 100 largest Investment company
complexes and all money market funds, and continued its reexamination of the
regulation of investment companies.
Investment Company and Adviser Inspection Program

The tables below show the number and size in terms of assets of registered
investment companies and investment advisers.
Number of Active Registrants
1987-1991
(end of year)

1987
Investment
Companies
Investment
Advisers

1988

1989

1990

1991

% Change
1987-91

3,305

3,499

3,544

3,535

3,660

10.7%

12,690

14,120

16,239

17,386

17,500

37.9%

Assets Under Management
1987-1991
($ in billions)

% Change

Investment
Companies
Investment
Advisers

1987

1988

1989

1990

1991

1987-91

$1,125

$1,125

$1,200

$1,350

$1,400

16.2%

$3,500

$3,400

$4,400

$4,900

$5,400

54.3%

45

The number of registered investment companies increased by nearly four
percent during 1991. Many investment companies combine several separate
portfolios or investment series in one investment company registration statement.
The number of series generally ranges from three to ten. However, some unit
investment trusts group as many as 900 separate series under one Investment
Company Act registration.
In addition, the Commission was responsible for
regulating 17,500 investment advisers at the end of 1991, a 28 percent increase since
1987.
Although the Investment Advisers Act establishes a system of registration
and regulation designed to disclose to clients the basic facts about an adviser and
to hold the adviser to the highest standards of honesty and loyalty expected of a
fiduciary, the primary means by which the SEC enforces the Investment Advisers
Act is through a program of periodic inspections.
Redirection of Program Resources
A program of annual inspection of funds in the largest 100 investment
company complexes and all money market funds was instituted in 1991. The
inspection program redirected its resources away from routine examination of all
investment companies and advisers. Investment advisers managing at least $1
billion of non-investment company money were put on a three-year inspection
cycle. These changes were made in response to the increasing concentration of
money under management by these large entities. In addition, the staff conducted
inspections of other investment companies and investment advisers in response to
customer complaints and other indications of possible problems.
Investment companies in the 100 largest complexes have approximately 87
percent ofthe investment company industry's assets while the 500 largest investment
advisers managed 61 percent of all the assets under management. Money market
mutual funds have approximately $550 billion of assets and have become a popular
alternative to insured bank deposits for the liquid savings of many Americans. By
focusing the Commission's examination resources on these large pools of capital,
the staff is able to monitor more closely those entities where a major problem could
have a significant negative impact on investor confidence and willingness to
participate in the nation's financial markets.
Results Achieved by the Program
The staff conducted inspections of funds within each of the 100 largest
investment company complexes, focusing on portfolio management activities.
Each of the 999 money market mutual funds also was inspected. Total assets of
funds inspected were $1.1 trillion. The staff inspected 574 investment advisers
managing nearly $1.6 trillion of non-investment company assets. These inspections
covered approximately 3 percent of registered investment advisers and about 39
percent of non-investment company assets under management. These inspections,
among other things, resulted in 427 deficiency letters and 37 references to the
Commission's Division of Enforcement.

46

Regulatory Policy

Significant Investment Company Developments
In February 1991, the Commission adopted amendments to rules and forms
affecting money market funds, including amendments to Rule 2a-7 under the
Investment Company Act, which permits money market funds to maintain a stable
price of $1.00 per share.!" The amendments require prominent disclosure that an
investment in a money market fund is nei ther insured nor guaranteed by the United
States government and that there is no assurance that the money market fund will
be able to maintain a stable price per share. The amendments reduce the maximum
dollar-weighted average portfolio maturity of money market funds from 120 days
to 90 days and require that no money market portfolio security (other than U.S.
government securities held by certain types of money market funds) have a
maturity in excess of 397 days.
Under the amendments, money market funds may invest only in eligible
securities. Eligible securities are those that have received at least the second highest
rating from a nationally recognized statistical rating organization (NRSRO) or, if
more than one NRSRO has rated the securities, from two NR5ROs, or are unrated
securities of comparable quality. In addition, money market funds (other than taxfree money market funds) may not invest (1) more than five percent of fund assets
in securities of anyone issuer, except for U .5. government securities and temporary
investments in securities of the highest quality, (2) more than five percent of total
fund assets in "second tier" securities, i.e., eligible securities that are not" first tier"
securities (eligible securities that have received the highest rating from a NRSRO
or, if more than one NR5RO has rated the securities, from two NR5ROs, or are
unrated securities of comparable quality), and (3) more than one percent of fund
assets in the second tier securities of anyone issuer. The amendments also specify
the actions that a money market fund must take if it holds securities that have gone
into default or the ratings of which have been downgraded and clarifies the
circumstances under which a money market fund board of directors may delegate
certain portfolio management responsibilities to the fund's investment adviser.
Finally, the rule prohibits any registered investment company from holding itself
out as a money market fund unless it meets the conditions of Rule 2a-7 relating to
portfolio diversification, quality, and maturity.
In October 1991, the Commission adopted new Rule 3a-6 (and amendments
to certain related rules) under the Investment Company Act to exempt foreign
banks and insurance companies from the definition of the term "investment
company" as used in the Investment Company Act.ISS The new rule eliminates the
need for these foreign entities and, subject to certain conditions, their holding
companies and finance subsidiaries to obtain exemptive orders from the Commission
in order to offer and sell their securities in the United States.
The division's task force, responsible for reexamining the regulation of
investment companies, is finalizing its recommendations. The division expects to
recommend both legislative and rule changes to reform the treatment of investment
companies under the Investment Company Act. During 1991, the task force
reviewed and analyzed over 200 comment letters received in response to the
Commission's request for comment on issues identified as meriting reexamination,
47

which included (1) internationalization
and cross-border sales of investment
company and investment advisory services, (2) alternative structuresforinvestment
companies, (3) securitization of assets under the Investment Company Act, (4)
distribution of the shares of open-end investment companies, (5) repurchase of
shares by closed-end investment companies, (6) advertising by open-end companies
under the Securities Act of 1933 and the prospectus delivery requirements for unit
investment trusts and open-end companies, (7) reform of insurance product
regulation, and (8) bank involvement with investment companies.!"
Significant Insurance Products Developments
During 1991, there were a number of insurance company insolvencies. In
those instances where the insurance companies were the sponsors of separate
accounts registered as investment companies that sell variable insurance contracts,
the insolvencies raised novel legal issues regarding the relationship between state
insurance law and the Investment Company Act. When a troubled insurance
company is placed under state supervision, a state court usually imposes restraints
on surrender and withdrawal rights under insurance contracts issued by the
company. Variable insurance contracts, however, are subject to the Investment
Company Act, which prohibits the suspension of redemptions for more than seven
days. When state regulators seized an insurance company, the staff conferred
directly with state insurance regulators to ensure that the responsible state court did
not impose any restraints on surrenders or withdrawals under variable insurance
contracts absent a Commission order.
Insurance companies that wish to maintain continuous offerings of variable
life insurance and variable annuity contracts must file post-effective amendments
to the registration statements of the separate accounts funding these contracts. On
November 15, 1991, the staff issued a letter to insurance company sponsors/
depositors of separate accounts registered as investment companies to assist
registrants in preparing disclosure documents. The letter included comments
about recent substantive and procedural developments.
For example, several
recent variable annuity registration statements have included a chart or graph
designed to demonstrate the advantages of tax-deferred investment. The letter
described those factors registrants should consider in developing tax-deferral
charts that are accurate and fair.
As a result of recent inspections of insurance company separate accounts, the
staff became concerned that agents of insurance companies were not promptly
forwarding applications and payments to the companies, and, hence, that investors
were not acquiring interests in the separate accounts at their current offering prices.
The staff also became concerned about the pricing and payments of death benefits
under variable insurance contracts. An industry comment letter advised registrants
that these practices will continue to be an important focus of separate account
inspections.
Significant Institutional Disclosure Program Developments
Section 13()(1)of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934 and Rule 13f-l require
"institutional investment managers" exercising investment discretion over accounts
holding certain equity securities with a fair market value of at least $100 million to
file quarterly reports on Form 13F. Under Rule 13f-2T, these managers may file the
48

report on magnetic tape submitted to the SEC's pilot Electronic Data Gathering,
Analysis, and Retrieval (EDGAR) system. For the quarter ended September 30,
1991,983 managers filed Form 13F reports, for total holdings of $1.7 trillion.
Form 13F reports are available to the public at the SEC's Public Reference
Room promptly after filing. Two tabulations of the information contained in these
reports are available for inspection--an alphabetical list of the individual securities
showing the number held by the managers reporting the holding, and an alphabetical
list of all reporting managers showing the total number of shares of securities held.
These tabulations are generally available two weeks after the date on which the
reports must be filed.

Significant Public Utility Holding Company Act Developments
The Commission regulates interstate public-utility holding company systems
engaged in the electric utility business and/ or the retail distribution of gas. The
Commission's jurisdiction also covers natural gas pipeline companies and other
non-utility companies that are subsidiary companies of registered holding companies.
There are three principal areas of regulation under the Holding Company Act which
include (1) the physical integration of public utility companies and functionally
related properties of holding company systems, including the simplification of
intercorporate relationships and financial structures of such systems, (2) the
financing operations of registered holding company systems, the acquisition and
disposition of securities and properties, and affiliate transactions, and (3)exemptive
provisions relating to the status under the Holding Company Act of persons and
companies.
As ofjune 30, 1991, 13public-utili ty holding com pany systems were registered
with the SEC. The 13 registered systems are comprised of 73 public-utility
subsidiaries, 113 non-utility subsidiaries, and 37 inactive companies, for a total of
223 companies operating in 24 states.!" These registered systems had aggregate
assets of $93.8 billion as of June 30,1991, an increase of $700 million over June 30,
1990. Total operating revenues for the 12 months ended June 30,1991 were $36.6
billion, a $1.2 billion increase from the 12 months ended June 30,1990.
During 1991,the Commission authorized registered holding company systems
to issue $5.5 billion in short-term debt, $2.5 billion in long-term debt, and $1.8 billion
in common and preferred stock. The Commission also approved pollution control
financings of $700 million, investments in qualified cogeneration facilities of $163
million, and nuclear fuel procurement financings of $470 million.
Total financing authorizations of $10.7 billion represented a 5.9 percent
increase over such authorizations during 1990. Whereas long-term debt decreased
by 36 percent in 1991 primarily as a result of fewer refinancings, short-term debt
increased by 20 percent and pollution control financing increased by 167 percent.
The SEC audits service companies and special purpose corporations. It also
reviews the fuel procurement activities, accounting policies, annual reports of
registered holding company subsidiary service companies and fuel procurement
subsidiaries, and quarterly reports by registered holding companies' non-utility

49

subsidiaries. The SEC's activities, which uncovered misapplied expenses and
inefficiencies, directly resulted in approximately $27 million in savings to consumers
during 1991.
Significant

Interpretations

and Applications

Investment Company Matters
The staff stated that it would not recommend enforcement action if the
Resolution Trust Corporation (RTC) organized certain wholly-owned entities
(Issuers) to purchase non-investment grade debt securities and issue senior and
subordinated notes collateralized by those securities without registering the RTC
or the Issuers under the Investment Company Act in reliance on Section 2(b). The
staff also stated that no integration would occur between the Issuers and certain
private investment companies with the same adviser as the Issuers.!"
The staff said that it would not recommend enforcement action if a company
that manages and services real estate loans acquired from other entities did not
register as an investment company in reliance on Section 3(c)(S)(C) under the
Investment Company Act. The staff stated that in order for loans to be included as
mortgages and other liens on and interests in real estate, each loan would have to
be secured by a mortgage or deed of trust on one or more tracts of real estate, 100
percent ofthe principal amount ofthe loan would have to have been secured by real
estate at the time the loan was originated, and 100 percent of the fair market value
of the loan would have to be secured by real estate at the time the company received
the loan. The staff noted that the value of the real estate securing the loans would
have to be determined by recent independent third party appraisals.i"
The staff stated that it would not recommend enforcement action if an entity
acted as a foreign custodian for registered investment companies. The staff's
position was based, in particular, on the entity being both a clearing agency and,
with the exception ofthe central system for certain Mexican Government securities,
the only central securities depository for all securities traded on the Mexican Stock
Exchange and other securities that are publicly traded in Mexico.P"
The staff concluded that institutional investment managers should continue
to report loaned securities on Form 13F as being held by the manager for purposes
of complying with Section 13(f) of the Exchange Act and Rule 13f-1 thereunder. The
staff said that it was more consistent with the purposes of Section 13(f) to consider
loaned securities to continue to be held in accounts under the investment discretion
of the lender.>'
For purposes of record keeping and reporting under Rule 17j-1(c)(l) under the
Investment Company Act and Rules 204-2(a)(12) and (13) under the Investment
Advisers Act, the staff stated that beneficial ownership should be determined in
accordance with both parts of the definition of beneficial ownerin Rule 16a-1 under
the Exchange Act.l62 The staff subsequently modified this position so that for
purposes of the rules, beneficial ownership would be determined in accordance
with the definition of beneficial owner in Rule 16a-1(a)(2) only, i.e., that a person
must have a " direct or indirect pecuniary interest" to have beneficial ownership.t"
The staff indicated that it would not recommend enforcement action if a bank
established and operated a collective trust fund without registering the fund under
the Investment Company Act in reliance on Section 3(c)(ll). The staff's position was
50

based, in particular, on the representation that group trusts would not participate
in the fund.P'
The Commission issued a conditional order on an application filed by The
Drexel Burnham Lambert Group, Inc. (Drexel), a holding company.!" The order
under Sections 6(c) and 6(e) of the Investment Company Act exempts Drexel from
all the provisions of the act except Sections 8(a), 9, lO(a), 17(a), 17(d), 17(e), 31 (as
modified), and 36 through 53. The order also exempts certain companies controlled
by Drexel from all provisions of the act except Sections 9, 17(a), 17(d), 17(e), and 36
through 53 as well as certain transactions from Sections 17(a) and 17(d) of the act
and Rule 17d-1 thereunder. Drexel and certain companies controlled by Drexel
filed petitions for reorganization under Chapter 11 of the Bankruptcy Code. The
order grants the exemptions to Drexel while its activities are subject to the
jurisdiction and supervision of the bankruptcy court, and permits the transactions
exempted from Sections 17(a) and 17(d) if they are authorized by Drexel's board of
directors and by either the bankruptcy court or its designee.
The Commission granted an order under Section 26(b) of the Investment
Company Act approving, prospectively only, the substitution of a government
bond fund sponsored by First Investors Corporation (First Investors) as the
investment vehicle for two periodic payment plan unit investment trusts, one of
which invested entirely in the shares of one open-end investment company
distributed by First Investors, and the other of which invested entirely in the shares
of another open-end investment company distributed by First Investors. The order
also, under Section 6(c) of the act, exempted the trusts from Section 12(d)(1) to
permit them to hold securities issued by two investment companies. Finally, under
Sections ll(a) and l1(c) of the act, the Commission approved certain offers of
exchange.v" The two open-end investment companies had suspended sales of new
shares in response to civil and administrative proceedings brought by the states of
New York and Massachusetts in November 1990 alleging unlawful sales practices
and failure to make proper disclosures. As a result, each trust was unable to
purchase more shares, and each trust would have been required to terminate if
shares of its underlying fund were unavailable for 90 days and First Investors did
not substitute shares of another fund as the trust's investment vehicle.
The Commission issued a conditional, permanent order relieving Robert W.
Baird & Co. Incorporated, a registered broker-dealer and investment adviser, from
any ineligibility under Section 9(a) of the Investment Company Act resulting from
its employment of an individual who is subject to a securities-related injunction.v"
The individual, one of Baird's directors, also is employed by Baird to provide
research and publish a newsletter concerning the oil and gas industry. One of the
investment companies advised by Baird sometimes invests in oil and gas securities.
In granting the relief, the Commission required Baird to agree to a number of
conditions that are usual for applicants under Section 9(c) and, in addition, to take
into account the individual's actions as a director of Baird and a supervisor of the
newsletter.
The Commission issued a temporary conditional order to the Emerging
Germany Fund, Inc. (Fund) and its investment advisers granting them an exemption
from Section 15(a) of the Investment Company Act to permit the advisers to
continue to provide advisory services to the Fund.t'" The Fund's initial advisory
contract provided that it would terminate unless approved at the Fund's first
51

meeting of public shareholders.
The Fund had a large percentage of foreign
shareholders, many of whom failed to vote on the advisory contract. Although over
90 percent of the shares cast on the advisory contract voted for approval, the Fund
was unable to obtain a "required majority" as mandated by the act. Relief was
granted to provide the Fund with additional time to solicit shareholders for
approval of the Fund's advisory contracts.
In connection with the issuance of securities by certain grantor trusts, the
Commission issued an order of exemption from all provisions of the Investment
Company Act, except Sections 26 (with certain exceptions), 36, 37, and, to the extent
necessary to implement the foregoing sections, 38 through 53.169 Each trust, which
holds a single note evidencing a loan to Israel, issues a single class of nonredeemable certificates of beneficial interest representing the right to receive a pro
rata share of the payments of principal and interest on the note held by that trust.
The trusts were established by the government of Israel to implement financing
authorized by the United States and contained in the Dire Emergency Supplemental
Appropriations Bill (Public Law 101-302) (May 1990). The bill in tum enabled the
Agency for International Development (AID) to guaranty up to $400 million in loans
to Israel for the purpose of providing housing and related infrastructure in Israel
for Soviet refugees. AID and Israel then developed a program for directing and
monitoring the use of the proceeds of the proposed financing.

Insurance Company Matters
The Commission approved, with certain conditions, several exchange
programs that permit investors to transfer investments among variable insurance
products and public mutual funds. In one application, the Commission approved
exchanges among public mutual funds, variable annuity contracts, and variable life
insurance policies. Although Rules lla-2 and lla-3 under the Investment Company
Act do not apply to exchange offers between variable life insurance policies and
variable annuity contracts, or to exchange offers between separate accounts and
public mutual funds, the Commission found that the exchange program was
consistent with the policies underlying these rules."? In another application, the
division, under delegated authority, approved an exchange program that allowed
variable annuity contract owners to make contract payments by requesting that
Scudder Fund Distributors, Inc. redeem shares of one of its public funds and apply
the proceeds to certain variable annuity contracts.l"
In two related cases, the staff considered the status under the Investment
Company Act of investment advisory contracts where the adviser's parent entered
court-ordered rehabilitation or bankruptcy.
In the first case, the investment
companies claimed that the appointment of a rehabilitator for the parent, an
insurance company, did not constitute an assignment of the investment advisory
agreement. Because there had been no change in the actual control of the adviser,
the staff granted no-action relief under Sections 2(a)(4), 15(a)(4) and 15(b)(2) of the
Investment Company Act to allow certain investment advisers and underwriters,
who were indirect subsidiaries or partners of the parent insurance company, to
perform under existing advisory and underwriting agreements without a new
shareholder vote.F?

52

In the second case, an investment company stated that an assignment of its
advisory contract occurred upon the appointment of a trustee in bankruptcy for the
investment adviser's parent corporation, an insurance company holding company.
The investment company asserted that the delay and uncertainty surrounding the
bankruptcy proceedings made it impossible to hold a shareholder vote within the
120-dayperiod specified in Rule 15a-4, or obtain an exemption from the Commission
within that time. The staff agreed not to recommend enforcement action if the
investment company did not obtain shareholder approval of the investment
advisory contract under these circumstances. However, the staff made clear that
in the future, investment companies seeking an extension of the 120-day period in
Rule 15a-4 should obtain an exemption through the application process.!" The staff
concluded that an investment company affected by bankruptcy proceedings could
anticipate that related events may delay a shareholder vote beyond 120 days.
Holding Company Act Matters
The Commission authorized Northeast Utilities (Northeast), a registered
holding company, to acquire the largest electric utility in New Hampshire, Public
Service Company of New Hampshire (PSNH).174PSNH, which is operating under
a confirmed plan of reorganization in bankruptcy, owns a 35.6 percent share of the
Seabrook Nuclear Power Generating Project (Seabrook). The City of Holyoke Gas
and Electric Department and the Massachusetts Municipal Wholesale Electric
Company petitioned the Commission for rehearing. They alleged, among other
things, that the Commission had failed to analyze sufficiently the anti-competitive
effects of the acquisition, particularly with respect to the allocation of excess
generating capacity and transmission access. Upon reconsideration, the Commission
reiterated its decision and issued a supplemental order in which it addressed these
issues more fully.!" The Commission's decision, as supplemented, has been
appealed to the United States Court of Appeals for the District of Columbia.!"
In a related decision, the Commission authorized Eastern Utilities Associates
(EUA), a registered holding company, to pay up to $8 million in common stock
dividends out of capital surplus. EUA experienced financial difficulties related to
its investment in Seabrook. A write-off of $147.7 million resulted in negative
retained earnings of $78.3 million,"?
The Commission authorized The Southern Company (Southern), a registered
holding company, and certain ofits subsidiary companies to acquire common stock
and other securities of Gulf States Utilities Company (Gulf States), a non-associate
public utility and exempt holding company, in the settlement of litigation involving
long-term power sales contracts.!" Under a voting agreement, the Secretary of Gulf
States will vote the shares, on behalf of the Southern companies, proportionately to
the votes cast by all shareholders on a given issue. The Commission reserved
jurisdiction over various issues, including the exercise of any rights that might
accrue to the Southern companies upon a default by Gulf States under the
settlement.
The Columbia Gas System, Inc. (Columbia), a registered holding company,
and its principal non-utility subsidiary, Columbia Gas Transmission Corporation,
filed for protection under Chapter 11 of the United States Bankruptcy Code.179The
Commission authorized Col umbia, as a debtor-in-possession, to borrow up to $275
million through September 1993, to fund the system's operating needs."?

53

The Commission issued a supplemental

memorandum

opinion and order in

WPL Holdings, Inc., finding that the formation of a new holding company over
Wisconsin Power and Light, a public utility and exempt holding company, tended
toward the efficient and economical development of an integrated public-utility
system.!"
The staff gave assurance in Nevada Sun-Peak Limited Partnership that it would
not recommend enforcement action with respect to the indirect acquisition by
SCEcorp, an exempt holding company, of a 50 percent limited partnership interest
in an electric generating facility near Las Vegas, Nevada.l82

54

Full Disclosure System
The full disclosure system is administered by the Division of Corporation
Finance (Division). The system is designed to provide investors with material
information, foster investor confidence, contribute to the maintenance offair and
orderly markets, fad1itatecapital formation, and inhibitfraud in thepublicoffering,
trading, voting, and tendering of securities.
Key 1991 Results
Capital raising activities were affected by the economic environment and
worldwide events in 1991.During the latter part of calendar year 1990,there were some
signs of recovery from the significant downturn that immediately followed Iraq's
invasion of Kuwait, with some sizable equity offerings completed and the market for
new debt issues strong. This potential was realized for both equity and debt during the
next six months, particularly in the second quarter when the new issues market was
particularly strong. Volume slowed somewhat in the next three months, although by
the end of the quarter investment grade debt issues had already surpassed record
levels. The dollar amount of securities registered with the SEC during the year reached
nearly $500 billion, the record amount since 1987. The decline in acquisition activity
continued during the year, with third party tender offer filings reaching an eight-year
low, and merger/proxy statements also dropping markedly. Blank check offerings
continued to constitute nearly half of the Form 5-18 registration statements processed
by the regional offices.
The staff reviewed 2,660publicly held issuers that file reports under the Securities
Exchange Act of 1934(Exchange Act). These reviews included over 360 issuer reviews
conducted by a special task group of accountants devoted to reviewing banks and
savings and loan associations. The task group reviews were in addition to reviews of
financial institutions making transactional filings.
The Commission also (1)issued an interpretive release emphasizing the necessity
for clear and concise disclosure in roll-ups and partnership offerings, (2)proposed and
adopted new roll-up disclosure rules, and (3)proposed amendments to the proxy rules,
which will be reproposed in the coming year. The proxy rule amendments were
designed to facilitate securityholder communication, and thus promote informed
proxy voting, and to reduce the costs of compliance for issuers, securityholders and
other persons engaged in proxy solicitation.
The implications of continued internationalization of the securities markets
continued to be a major focus of the full disclosure program in 1991. Inthe international
area, the Commission adopted a multijurisdictional disclosure system (MJDS) with
Canada, which permits eligible cross-border offerings and tender offers to proceed on
the basis of home country requirements. To address the problem of discriminatory
treatment of United States holders of foreign securities in rights, tender and exchange
offers on a more global basis, the Commission proposed small issue exemptive rules
and forms.

55

The Commission began a review of the American Depositary Receipts (ADR)
marketplace. It issued a concept release soliciting information and comment with
respect to the function and characteristics of the ADR marketplace and various
regulatory issues relating to ADRs.
The staff is actively involved in planning the transition from paper to electronic
filing, and is developing rules for the operational Electronic Data Gathering, Analysis
and Retrieval (EDGAR) system. The phase-in of the first group of mandated filers will
be accomplished during 1993.
Review of Filings

During 1991, the staff reviewed 2,660 reporting issuers' financial statements and
related disclosures. The reporting issuer reviews were accomplished through the full
review of 1,066registration statements and post-effective amendments to registration
statements filed under the Securities Act of 1933 (Securities Act), 1,557 annual and
subsequent periodic reports, and 188 merger and going private proxy statements. In
addition, the staff completed 712 full financial reviews of annual reports.
The table below describes the number of selected filings reviewed during the last
five years. The decline in reviews of initial public offerings (!POs), tender offers,
contested solicitations, and going private transactions, which are not subject to selective
review, reflects the reduction in the number of transactional filings received by the
agency.
The Division's financial institutions task group is conducting comprehensive
reviews of the financial statements, management's discussion and analysis (MD&A),
and other related disclosures in the Exchange Act reports of certain banks and savings
and loan associations selected for review on the basis of their financial condition.
During the year, the task group completed reviews of 390 filings by 367 financial
institutions, with 26 issuers being referred to the Division of Enforcement for further
inquiry or investigation, in addition to the other 119 referrals made by the Division.

56

FULL DISCLOSURE

REVIEWS

1987

1988

1989

1990

1991

1,729

3,097

2,734

1,907

2,660

1,949

1,444
640

1,1n

604

895
635

630

n5

707

1,045

929

708

583

1,389

2,166

1,949

1,129

1,557

60

567

388

292

712

Tender Offers
(14D-1)****

201

254

188

95

37

Going Private
Schedules

230

276

176

108

68

65

93

84

75

65

248
2,563

314
790

291
428

240
351

188
374

Reporting Issuer
Reviews*
Major Filing Reviews
Securities Act
Registrations
New Issuers
Repeat Issuers
Post-Effective
Amendments**
Annual Reports
Full Reviews'"
Full Financial
Reviews

Contested Proxy
Solicitations
Merger/Going Private
Proxy Statements
Other*****

..

....

......

........

..........

n6

Includes those issuers filing Exchange Act reports whose financial statements
and MD&A disclosures were reviewed in Securities Act and Exchange Act
registration statements, annual reports, merger and going private proxy
statements, and, for years beginning in 1988 when the information became
available, post-effective amendments to Securities Act registration statements.
Excludes issuers whose financial statements were reviewed in tender offer
filings.
Includes filings that contain new financial statements only .
Includes reports reviewed in connection with other filings .
Reflects limited partnership roll-up transactions as single filings regardless
of the number of Schedules 140-1 filed or the number of issuers involved
in the roll-up.
Excludes reviews of revised and additional preliminary proxy material .

57

RulemakJng, Interpretive, and Legislative Matters

Multijurisdictional Disclosure System
The Commission adopted its MJDS with Canada, including rules, forms, and
schedules intended to facilitate cross-border offerings of securities and continuous
reporting by specified Canadianissuers.l" Canadian securities regulators concurrently
adopted a parallel system for United States issuers. The MJDS permits Canadian
issuers meeting eligibility criteria to satisfy certain securities registration and reporting
requirements of the Commission by providing disclosure documents prepared in
accordance with the requirements of Canadian securities regulatory authorities. The
MJDS also allows cash tender and exchange offers for securities of Canadian issuers to
proceed in accordance with Canadian tender offer requirements, instead ofinaccordance
with Commission tender offer requirements, where no more than 40 percent of the
target's shares are held in the U.S. and other offeror eligibility conditions are met. In
connection with the adoption of the MJDS, the Commission also revised existing rules
and forms to permit registration and reporting by Canadian foreign private issuers on
the same basis as other foreign private issuers.

Foreign Issuer Rights Offerings
The Commission published for comment a release proposing adoption of a small
issue exemptive rule under Section 3(b) of the Securities Act, covering up to $5 million
of equity securities offered or sold in the U.S.in an eligible rights offering!" The release
also proposes adoption of a new registration form, which would permit registration of
rights offerings of any size under the Securities Act by eligible issuers on the basis of
home country disclosure and procedures. Finally, proposed amendments to Securities
Act registration Form F-3would permit foreign private issuers that file periodic reports
under the Exchange Act to register rights offerings and offerings in connection with
dividend or interest reinvestment plans, conversion of convertible securities, or
exercise of warrants on that Form without the requirement that the issuer satisfy the
reporting history or public float tests of Form F-3.

International Tender and Exchange Offers
The Commission published proposed tender offer exemptive rules and registration
procedures intended to facilitate the inclusion of U.S. investors in tender offers and
exchange offers for a foreign target company's securities. ISS Ifadopted, the tender offer
proposals will permit third-party and issuer tender offers for a foreign private issuer
that are predominately foreign to be made in the U.s. on the basis of the procedural
requirements and documentation mandated by the foreign target's home jurisdiction.
The proposed rules would implement a two-tier system to facilitate exchange offers for
foreign securities made to U.S. holders that would normally require compliance with
the SEC's registration procedures. The rules would provide a registration exemption
for the foreign issuer's securities offered in exchange for a foreign target company's
securities, provided that the aggregate dollar amount of the securities being offered in
the U.S. does not exceed $5 million. An exemption also would be provided for
registration on the basis of home country disclosure documents, if five percent or less
of the foreign target company's securities are held by U.S. holders and certain other
conditions are met. The release also proposed procedures to be made available for

58

tender and exchange offers for United Kingdom companies to allow for compliance
with both the Williams Act and the United Kingdom Oty Code on Takeovers and
Mergers.

Roll-Up Transactions
Interpretive Release. On June 17, 1991, the Commission issued an interpretive
release providing guidance on disclosure with respect to roll-Up transactions and the
offerings oflimited partnership interests.P' Specifically, the release provides guidance
on the presentation of information, quality of disclosure, updating information, and
regulatory requirements applicable to matching services and crossing arrangements.
The release notes that information should be presented in the disclosure document in
a clear and concise manner, preferably in short explanatory sentences or bullet lists.
With respect to roll-up transactions, investors in each partnership involved in a roll-up
must be provided information from which to evaluate the potential risks, adverse
effects and merits of the transaction for their particular partnership interests.
Rulemaking. On October 30,1991, the Commission adopted rules designed to
enhance the quality of information provided to investors in connection with roll-Up
transactions and to establish a minimum solicitation period for such offerings.t" Under
the new rules, aroll-up is defined as any transaction or series of transactions that directly
or indirectly, through acquisition or otherwise, involves the combination or
reorganization of one or more finite-life partnerships, provided securities of a successor
issuer will be issued in the transaction. The rules require distribution of disclosure
documents to investors at least 60 calendar days in advance of a meeting, unless under
applicable state law the maximum period permitted for giving notice is less than 60
calendar days. The rules also require inclusion of (1) separate disclosure supplements
for each partnership involved in the transaction, (2)a clear, concise and comprehensible
summary of the roll-up transaction, (3) disclosures concerning the risks and effects of
the transaction, (4)a brief description of the background of each partnership involved
in the transaction, (5) disclosure regarding the reasons for the transaction and
alternatives considered by the general partner, (6) information about the possibilities
of liquidating or continuing the partnerships, (7) information regarding the fairness of
the roll-up transaction, (8) information that reveals any possible" opinion shopping,"
(9) a clear and concise summary description of each material federal income tax
consequence, and (10) specified new financial information.

American Depositary Receipts (ADRs)
The Commission published a concept release soliciting public comment on a
variety of issues relating to ADRs and ADR market participants that arise under the
Securities Act and Exchange Act, including the effect of any changes in the regulatory
scheme on the operation of both the primary and secondary ADR markets.!" After
studying the information and comments received in response to this release, the
Commission will determine whether rulemaking or other action is appropriate.

Transaction Reporting by Officers, Directors and Ten Percent Holders-Section 16
The Commission adopted amendments to its rules and forms, as well as related
disclosure requirements for issuers, regarding the filing of ownership reports by
officers, directors, and principal securityholders, and the exemption of certain
transactions by those persons from the short-swing profit recovery provisions of
59

Section 16 of the Exchange Act and related provisions of the Investment Company Act
of 1940 (Investment Company Act) and the Public Utility Holding Company Act of
1935.189 The Commission also issued a separate interpretive release setting forth its
views regarding shareholder approval for amendments to employee benefit plans
intended to comply with Rule 16b-3under Section 16,as well as technical amendments
to the rules."?
Shareholder Communications Rules
The Commission adopted amendments to the shareholder communications and
informabonstatementrulestoimplementprovisionsoftheShareholderCommunications
Improvement Act of 1990.191 The amendments require (1) investment companies
registered under the Investment Company Act to distribute information statements to
shareholders in connection with a shareholder meeting where proxies, consents, or
authorizations are not solicited by or on behalf of the registrant, and (2) brokers and
banks that hold shares for beneficial owners of securities in nominee names to forward
to the beneficial owners the proxy statements of investment companies registered
under the Investment Company Act, as well as the information statements of both
Investment Company Act registrants and companies with a class of securities registered
under Section 12 of the Exchange Act.
Blank Check Offerings
The Commission proposed for comment new Rule 419 under the Securities Act,
new Rule 15g-8 under the Exchange Act, and an amendment to Securities Act Rule
174.192 As mandated by the Securities Enforcement and Remedies Penny Stock Reform
Act of 1990,these rules would provide special registration procedures for offerings by
blank check companies. A blank check company is a company that (1) is devoting
substantially all of its efforts to establishing a new business in which planned principal
operations have not commenced, or have commenced but have not generated any
significant revenue, (2) is issuing penny stock, and (3) either has no specific business
plan or purpose or has indicated that its business plan is to engage in a merger or
acquisition with an unidentified company or companies.
Proxy Review
On June 17, 1991, as part of its ongoing proxy rule review, the Commission
proposed amendments to its rules designed to facilitate securityholdercommunications
and informed proxy voting, and to reduce the costs of compliance with such rules for
issuers, shareholders, and all other persons engaged in a proxy solicitation.l" The
proposals would provide for (1) a new exemption from the filing and disclosure
requirements for solicitations by shareholders and other persons in response to a
proposal by management or other shareholders, so long as the soliciting party was not
seeking to act as a proxy or had a financial interest in the matter to be voted upon, (2)
elimination of the preliminary filing requirement for all soliciting materials other than
proxy statements and proxy cards, (3) elimination of nonpublic treatment of all
preliminary materials, and (4) enhanced access to securityholder lists and more
information about securityholders.

60

Over 800 comment letters were received in response to the proposals. The
Conunissionhas announced that, in light of suggestions contained in those letters, it will
revise the proposals and seek further comment prior to proceeding with the adoption
of new rules and exemptions.

Requirements Governing Age of Financial Statements ojForeign Private Issuers
The Commission published for comment proposed amendments to Regulation
S-X, Rule 3~19,Rule 15d-2, and Forms F-2 and F-3, relating to the age of financial
statements offoreign private issuers that register securities for sale under the Securities
Act.l94 The proposed amendments generallywould conform the requirements governing
the age of financial statements in registration statements to the financial statement
updating requirements of the home jurisdictions of a substantial majority of foreign
issuers.

Trust Indenture Act Rules
The Commission adopted new rules and a new form and revised existing rules
and forms to implement amendments to the Trust Indenture Act of 1939effected by the
Trust Indenture Reform Act of 1990.195 The new and revised rules and forms are to be
used in applying for (1) exemptions from one or more provisions of the act, (2) posteffective determinations of the eligibility of trustees under indentures relating to
securities to be offered on a delayed basis, (3) determination of the eligibility of foreign
persons to act as sole trustee under qualified indentures, and (4) orders staying a
trustee's duty to resign.
Conferences

SEC Government-Business Forum on Small Business Capital Formation
The tenth annual SEC Government-Business Forum on Small Business Capital
Formation was held in Washington, D.C. on September 30 and October 1, 1991.
Approximately 200 small business representatives, accountants, attorneys, and
govemment officialsattended the forum. Numerous recommendations were formulated
with a view toeliminatingunnecessmygovemmental
impediments to small businesses'
ability to raise capital. A final report setting forth a list of recommendations for
legislative and regulatory changes approved by the forum participants was prepared
and provided to interested persons, including Congress and regulatory agencies.

SEC/NASAA Conference Under Section 19(c) of the Securities Act
On April 19,1991,approximately 40 SEC senior officials met with approximately
40 representatives of the North American Securities Administrators Association in
Washington, D.C. to discuss methods of effecting greater Uniformity in federal and
state securities matters. After the conference, a final report summarizing the discussions
was prepared and distributed to interested persons.

61

Accounting

and Auditing

l\rlatters

I

The Chief Accountant is the principal advisor to the Commission on
accounting and auditing matters arising from the administration of the various
securities laws. TheprimaryCommissionactivities designed toachieoecompliance
with the accounting and financial disclosure requirements of thefederal securities
laws include:
 rulemaking that supplements private sector accounting standards,

implements financial disclosure requirements, and establishes independence
criteria for accountants;
 review and comment process for agency filings directed to improving
disclosures in filings, identifying emerging accounting issues (which may
result in rulemaking or private sector standard-setting), and identifying
problems that may warrant enforcement actions;
 enforcement actions that impose sanctions and seroe to deter improper
financial reporting by enhancing the care with which registrants and their
accountants analyze accounting issues; and
 oversight of private sector efforts, principally by the Financial Accounting
Standards Board (FASB) and the American Institute of Certified Public
Accountants (AICPA), which establish accounting and auditing standards
designed to imprave the quality of audit practice.
Key 1991 Results

The Commission oversaw a number of significant public and private sector
initiatives intended to enhance the reliability of financial reporting and to ensure that
the accounting profession meets its responsibilities under the federal securities laws.
Notably, the Commission continued to provide policy direction to the accounting
profession to move toward using appropriate market-based measures in accounting
for financial instruments. The Commission also continued to devote significant
resources toinitiativesinvolvingintemational
accounting, auditing, and independence
requirements. The accounting staff issued three Staff Accounting Bulletins (SABs) to
address certain accounting and financial disclosure issues.
Mark-to-Market Accounting

Inthe Commission' sannual report for 1990,the agency emphasized the importance
of the FASB's continuing project to improve accounting guidance for investments in
financial instruments.l" As part of this project, the FASBrecently issued Statement 107
to require disclosure of the fair value of financial instruments.l"

62

The FASB delayed action on the appropriateness of market value accounting for
investment securities, a project that Chairman Breeden encouraged in testimony before
the Senate Committee onBanking, Housingand Urban Affairs on September 10,1990.198
The accounting staff will closely monitor this project to ensure progress and to
determine whether additional agency initiatives are necessary.
Accounting-Related Rules and Interpretations
The agency's accounting-related rules and interpretations supplement private
sector accounting standards, implement financial disclosure requirements, and establish
independence criteria for accountants. The agency' s principal accounting requirements
are embodied in Regulation S-X, which governs the form and content of financial
statements filed with the SEC.
Staff Accounting Bulletins. The accountingstaffperiodical1y issues SABsto inform
the financial community of the staff's views on accounting and disclosure issues. Three
SABs were issued during 1991 concerning (1) required financial statements when a
troubled financial institution is acquired in a business combinatiort-" (2) certain
disclosure issues concerning the bankruptcy of an accounting firm with public
company clients, and relief that maybe sought byitsformerclientas" and (3)accounting
for the income tax benefits associated with the bad debts of thrifts pending adoption
of a new standard on accounting for income taxes.2Dl
Management Reports. The Commission proposed a rule that, if adopted, would
require a company's report on Form 10-K and its annual report to shareholders to
include areport from management. Theproposed report would describe management' s
responsibilities for preparing financial statements and for establishing and maintaining
a system of internal control directly related to financial reporting. Italso would provide
management's assessment of the effectiveness of that internal control system.202
Significant congressional interest in management reports continued during 1991.
Abill was introduced in the House of Representatives that would require a Commission
study of registrants' compliance with the accounting and internal control provisions of
the Foreign Corrupt Practices Act and Section 13(b)(2) of the Securities Exchange Act
of 1934. The study also would focus on the extent to which this compliance and
reliability of registrants' financial statements would be improved by a requirement for
annual public reports bymanagementand their auditors on the adequacy ofregistrants'
internal control structures.
Wan Splitting. In March 1991, the Federal Financial Institutions Examination
Council (FFIEq requested public comment on a proposed accounting rule for use in
regulatory reporting tobankingand thrift regulators. This proposed rule would permit
a non-accrual loan to be returned to accrual status if its recorded amount is reduced by
a partial charge-off. Use of the accounting method, referred to as "loan splitting,"
would have been optional and could have been selectively applied to different
qualifying loans. The Commission issued a request for public comment on the use of
loan splitting in filings with the agency because of questions concerning whether such
a method would comply with generally accepted accounting principles (GAAP) and
whether application of the method to only selected loans would depart from acceptable
accounting practice. After considering the views of commentators, the Commission
announced that the proposed accounting method would not be acceptable in agency
filin gs.203

63

Oversight of Private Sector Standard-Setting

The SEC monitors the structure, activity, and decisions of the private sector
standard-setting organizations. These organizations include the FASB and Financial
Accounting Foundation (F AF). The Commission and its staff work closely with the
FASB and the FAF in an ongoing effort to improve the standard-setting process,
including the need to respond to various regulatory, legislative, and business changes
in a timely and appropriate manner. An oversight committee formed by the FAF to
monitor the FASB's operations issued a report on the FASB's systems and procedures
for meeting the objectives of the FASB's mission statement. The committee found that
the FASB is generally achieving the objectives of its mission statement, and that the
mission statement continues to be appropriate for monitoring the effectiveness of the
accounting standard-setting process.
The FASBdeveloped and adopted a" strategic plan" foritsinternational activities
to achieve greater consistency between United States accounting standards and those
promulgated by other national standard-setters and by the International Accounting
Standards Committee (IASC)204.Consistent with that plan, the FASB developed and
implemented a policy of issuing comment letters to the lASC on amendments to
existing lASC standards.
The agency's Chief Accountant requested that the six largest accounting firms
survey and analyze certain accounting standards and practices as compared to IASC
standards and the standards employed by certain developed countries. The firms
conducted their surveys in late 1990and early 1991,in the context of then-Commissioner
Philip Lochner's inquiries concerning the cost and complexity of U.S. standards in a
global environment.e" The findings indicate that in several areas U.S. accounting
standards are more complex than those in other countries, and there are significant
differences in accounting methods used by enterprises in the surveyed countries that
may hamper comparative analysis by users of financial information.
The FASB issued a standard on employer's accounting for health care and other
forms of post-retirement benefits other than pensions.P Under the new accounting
standard, an obligation for health care and other post-employment benefits (OPEBs) is
recognized as services are performed. The new standard will result in a dramatic
change in the manner in which many public companies account for OPEBs and
generally is effective for years beginning after December 15, 1992. Prior to adoption of
the new standard, SECregistrants are expected to provide disclosure of the anticipated
impact of adopting the new standard as set forth in SAB No.7 4, Disclosure of the Impact

that Recently Issued Accounting Standards will have on the Financial Statements of the
Registrant when Adopted in a Future Period.
The FASB devoted substantial resources to a revised standard on accounting for
income taxes. The issue ofincome tax accounting has been controversial since the FASB
issued Statement 96 in December 1987 to supersede Accounting Principles Board
Opinion No. 11. The effective date of Statement 96has been delayed three times to allow
the FASBto consider possible amendments to (1)change the criteria for recognition and
measurement of deferred tax assets and (2) reduce complexity. Subsequent to yearend, the FASB issued a revised standard under which entities would recognize and
measure a deferred tax asset for an entity's deductible temporary differences and
operating loss and tax credit carry forward. A valuation allowance would be
recognized if it is more likely than not that some portion or all of the deferred tax asset
will not be realized.s"

64

Oversight of the Accounting Profession's Initiatives
The Commission oversees the process for setting auditing standards and various
other activities of the accounting profession. This includes oversight of initiatives by
the AICP A, ASB, SECPS, and AcSEC.
AICPA. The agency oversaw the following AICPA activities: (1) the Auditing
Standards Board (ASB), which establishes generally accepted auditing standards; (2)
the Accounting Standards Executive Committee (AcSEC), which provides guidance on
specific industry practices through its issuance of statements of position and practice
bulletins and prepares issue papers on accounting topics for consideration by the FASB;
and (3) the SEC Practice Section (SECPS), which seeks to improve the quality of audit
practice by member accounting firms that audit public companies through various
requirements, including peer review.
ASB. The staff worked closely with the ASB to enhance the effectiveness of the
auditprocess. With the encouragement of the Commission's staff, the ASB issued a new
auditing standard that establishes requirements for an auditor to inform management
and, in certain situations, audit committees of probable material misstatements
affecting interim financial information filed or to be filed with the SEC or the various
banking agencies.P The accounting staff also monitored a new auditing standard on
changes in the GAAP hierarchy-" and is continuing to monitor an ongoing project on
examination and reporting on management's
assertions about the effectiveness of an
entity's internal control structure.
The ASB also continued to issue Audit Risk Alerts to provide auditors with an
overview of recent economic, professional, and regulatory developments
that may
affect audits they perform. This procedure enables the AICP A to playa more visible
role in focusing auditor attention on high risk areas. A third series of annual A udit Risk
Alerts was issued to assist auditors in performing 1991 year-endaudits.
This procedure
was initially suggested by the agency's Chief Accountant.
SECPS. Two programs administered by the SECPS are designed to ensure that
the financial statements of SEC registrants are audited by accounting firms with
adequate quality control systems. A peer review of member firms by other accountants
is required every three years and the Quality Control Inquiry Committee (QCIC)
reviews on a timely basis the quality control implications of litigation against member
firms that involves public clients. In 1990, the AICPA adopted a bylaw that requires
firms that employ AICPA members and audit SEC clients' financial statements to be
members of the SECPS. This action caused an additional 631 firms, that are auditors
to approximately
1,170 SEC registrants, to join the SECPS.210
The agency oversaw the activities of the SECPS through frequent contact with the
Public Oversight Board (POB) and members of the executive, peer review, and quality
control inquiry committees of the SECPS. The staff reviews POB files and selected
working papers of the peer reviewers. This oversight has shown that the peer review
process contributes significantly to improving the quality control systems of member
firms and, therefore, enhances the consistency and quality of practice before the
Commission.
The staff also reviews POB files and closed case summaries of the QCIC. This
review and discussions with the POB provide the staff with a better understanding
of
the QCIC process. The SEC believes thatthe QCIC process provides added assurances,
as a supplement
to the SECPS peer review program, that major quality control
deficiencies, if any, are identified and addressed in a more timely fashion. Therefore,

65

the agency believes that the QOC process benefits the public interest. The SEC
understands that additional improvements are being implemented, such as more
frequent review of other work of the engagement teams involved in matters reported
to the QOC and better documentation of the POB's oversight of the QOC. The SEC
believes that ongoing improvements such as these will provide even greater assurance
of the efficacy of the QCIC process.
AcSEC. The AcSEChas a key role in identifying accounting practices, particularly
those that impact specialized industries, such as financial institutions, insurance, and
computer software. During 1991,for example, the AcSECissued statements of position
on the appropriate financial reportingby entities in reorganization under the bankruptcy
code-" and on accounting by continuing care retirement communities.i" AcSEC also
made significant progress during 1991towards developing a statement of position on
revenue recognition in the computer software industry. The statement of position was
completed shortly after year-ends" and should eliminate the diversity of practice
previously existing in this industry. Because of recent changes in the GAAP hierarchy
approved by the ASB,the agency's staff no longer requires accounting firms to furnish
preferability letters to support changes in accounting policies adopted by their clients
to conform with standards established in AcSEC documents that have been cleared by
FASB.
International Accounting and Auditing Standards

Significant differences in accounting and auditing standards currently exist
between countries. These differences serve asanimpedimentto multinational offerings
of securities. The SEC, in cooperation with other members of the International
Organization of Securities Commissions (IOSCO),actively participated in initiatives by
international bodies of professional accountants to establish appropriate international
standards that might be considered for use in multinational offerings. For example, the
staff worked with the IASC to reduce accounting alternatives as an initial movement
toward appropriate international accounting standards. The IASC also commenced
projects to address issues relating to the extent of implementation guidance, adequacy
of disclosure requirements, and the completeness of international accounting standards.
In 1991,the IASC issued five exposure drafts related to projects concerning cash flow
statements, research and development activities, inventories, capitalization ofborrowing
costs, and financial instruments.s"
The staffalso continued working with the International Federation of Accountants
(IFAq to revise international auditing guidelines. Auditors in different countries are
subject to different independence standards, perform different procedures, gather
varying amounts of evidence to support their conclusions, and report the results of their
work differently. The staff, as part of an IOSCO working group, worked closely with
the IFAC to expand and revise international auditing guidelines to narrow these
differences, and significant progress was made. For example, in October 1990the IFAC
revised International Auditing Guideline No. 12 to require the performance of
analytical review procedures in the planning phase of an audit and as an overall review
at the final stage of the audit.

66

Independence
The staffbegana study of the various national andintemational requirements for
auditor independence. The staffhasreceived detailed information about the nature and
extent of such requirements in several major countries. The IFAC issued a set of
guidelines to be used by national standard-setters in developing independence
requirements. Also, at the staff's request, the IFAC agreed to undertake a project to
develop a set of specific independence requirements that would apply to auditors of
transnational issuers.

67

The EDGAR Project
I

The primary purpose of the Electronic Data Gathering, Analysis, and
Retrieval (EDGAR) system is to increase the efficiency and fairness of the
securities markets for the benefit of investors, securities issuers, and the
economy. Under EDGAR, information currently submitted to the SEC on
paper will be transmitted and stored electronically using electronic
communication and data management systems. Once the electronicfiling is
accepted, public information will beavailable quickly to investors, the media,
and others on computer screens via the SEC's public reference rooms and
through electronic subscription services. When fully operational, EDGAR
will acceleratedramatically thefiling, processing, dissemination, and analysis
of time-sensitive corporate information filed with the SEC.
Key 1991 Results
The EDGAR pilot system completed its seventh full year of successful operation
on September 24, 1991. During these seven years, almost 100,000 filings were
electronically received. The pilot system has demonstrated dearly the feasibility of
receiving, processing, storing, and retrieving electronic filings.
The SECcontinued to develop the operational EDGAR system. Among the many
important milestones achieved during 1991 were:
 opening the first release of the operational system for test filings by pilot
participants on May 1;
 mailing the initial versions of the EDGAR Filer Manual and EDGARLink
filer assistance software to pilot filers, filing agents, and training agents;
 designing and programming substantial portions of the second release of
the operational system;
 delivering approximately 200 additional workstations to staff users and
continuing staff training on workstation applications;
 installing the remaining portions of the primary hardware and operating
software for the operational system;
 convening two public meetings (December 1990 and June 1991) for filers
and other persons interested in the status of operational EDGAR; and
 planning the successful move of the EDGAR system in November 1991 to
the new SEC Operations Center in Alexandria, Virginia.

68

Pilot System
The EDGAR pilot serves a group of volunteer companies whose filings are
processed by staff in the Office of Filings, Information, and Consumer Services and the
Divisions of Corporation Finance and Investment Management. At the end of 1991,624
registrants had participated fully in the pilot. In addition, numerous other registrants
had participated partially in the pilot by submitting electronic filings of certain forms.
This group of partial participants included:
 1,329 investment companies submitting semi-annual reports on Form NSAR;

 78 registered public utility holding company systems or subsidiaries
submitting forms required under the Public Utility Holding Company Act;
and
 16 institutional investment managers submitting Forms 13F-E to report
securities held in their managed accounts.
No enhancements have been or will be added to the EDGAR pilot since the award
of the operational system contract. The pilot system serves solely to permit the already
participating volunteer filers to continue to file and the staff to access filings until the
operational system is available in 1992. After the operational system becomes available,
the EDGAR pilot will be dismantled.
Operational System
The SEC is in the third year of an eight-year contract to design, implement, and
operate the EDGAR system. The primary contractoris BDM International. Disclosure
Information Services is the subcontractor under the EDGAR contract that provides the
SEC with microfiche and paper reproduction services. Bechtel Information Services,
the former subcontractor, was purchased by Disclosure in 1991.
At the agency's request, the National Institute of Standards and Technology
(NIS1) conducted a technology assessment of the EDGAR system. NIST concluded
that the project is generally on course and that the system is fundamentally sound. NIST
has suggested and the agency has agreed that additional research should be conducted
in several areas. Specifically, in order to ensure that the system will perform as expected
when live filing begins, the SEC will: (1)conduct a security assessment; (2)undertake
validation and verification of system architecture documentation; and (3) update an
earlier capacity analysis.
The initial version of the operational system opened for test filings on May I, 1991.
The agency provided access codes, filer manuals and the EDGARLink filer assistance
software to pilot filers, filing agents, and training agents. By the end of 1991, 1,021 test
filings had been received from 81 different filers. In addition, design and programming
of the next release of the EDGAR and EDGARLink software was begun.
The staff continued to develop and review proposed rules to accommodate
mandatory electronic filing. The Commission is expected to publish the initial EDGAR
rules for comment and modify and adopt the temporary rules for the EDGAR pilot
prior to the commencement of live filing, currently scheduled for July 1992.
Approximately200 additional workstations were installed for SECstaff members.
A total of 198 classes were held and attended by 1,307 staff members. The curriculum
included classes on the OS/2 operating system, Presentation Manager, WordPerfect
(word processing), EXCEL(spreadsheet), cc:Mail (electronic mail), and use of the local
area network (LAN).
69

Continuing its long-standing concern for the public interest in the EDGAR
system, the staff convened public meetings in December 1990 and June 1991for filers,
financial printers, and other persons interested in the status of operational EDGAR
Nearly 300 people attended each of these meetings.

70

Litigation and Legal Activities

The General Counsel represents the SEC in all litigation in the United States
Supreme Court and the courts of appeals. The General Counsel defends the
Commissionand its employees when sued in district courts, prosecutes administrative

disciplinary proceedings against securities professionals, appears amicus curiae in
significant private litigation involving thefederal securities laws, and oversees the
regional offices' participation in corporate reorganization cases. The General
Counsel analyzes legislation that would amend the federal securities laws, drafts
congressional testimony, prepares legislativecomments,andadvises theCommission
on all regulatory and enforcement actions under the securities acts. In addition,
the General Counsel advises the Commission in administrative proceedings under
various statutes.
Key 1991 Results
The office experienced a substantial increase in workload as reflected in the table
below.
Increase in Matters Handled

Litigation Matters Opened
Litigation Matters Closed
Adjudication
Cases Received
Cases Completed
Legislation
Testimony
Comments to Congress and Others
Corporate Reorganization
Disclosure Statements Reviewed
Disclosure Statements Commented On
Conduct RegUlation Matters

1990

1991 % Increase

185
126

263
247

42%
96%

22
18

30
3~15

36%
117%

18
26

29
29

56%
12%

93
57
87

152
92
249

63%
61%
186%

71

Significant Litigation Developments

Insider Trading
In United States v. Chesiman/" the U.S. Court of Appeals for the Second Circuit,
en bane, as urged by the Commission as amicus curiae, upheld Securities Exchange Act
(Exchange Act) Rule 14e-3 by a ten to one vote and affirmed defendant Robert
Chestman's conviction for violations of that rule. The court held that the Commission
acted within its authority under Section 14(e) of the act in promulgating a rule that
departs from common law fraud by omitting breach of fiduciary duty as an element.
The court, however, by a six to five vote, reversed Chestman's conviction under
Exchange Act Rule lOb-5, holding that the relationship of husband and wife does not,
in itself, create a fiduciary duty sufficient to establish criminal liability under the
misappropriation theory.
In SEC v. Cherif,217 the United States Court of Appeals for the Seventh Circuit,
joining three other courts of appeals, adopted the misappropriation theory of insider
trading. In doing so, the court affirmed a preliminary injunction entered against one
of two defendants, Cherif, whom the Commission alleged had violated the antifraud
provisions of Section 10(b) of the Exchange Act and Rule 101>-5by trading while in
possession of material nonpublic information which he stole from his former employer
after his employment had ended. Although the Commission did not allege that the
other defendant, Sanchou, violated the securities laws, it sought disgorgement from
him of illegal profits obtained from trades made by Cherif in Sanchou's account. The
court acknowledged that the Commission could obtain a freeze of anon-violator's
assets if it establishes that the party has no legitimate claim to them, but remanded the
case to permit the district court to make findings with respect to ownership of the funds
held by Sanchou. Agreeing with the Commission, the court also held that a defendant
has no constitutional right to use assets frozen in a civil case to pay attorneys fees.
Definition of a Security
In SEC v. Reynolds,2ls the United States Court of Appeals for the Ninth Circuit
agreed with the Commission that two programs that Reynolds sold to investors were
securities and expressly limited the reach ofits earlier decision against the Commission
in SEC v. Belmont Reid.219 The first program, the gold program, involved buyers
investing in a common fund by purchasing gold ore, and depending for their profits
on the efforts of others in developing a gold mining enterprise. The court found this
program governed by the investment contract analysis in SEC v. W.]. Howey CO.220
The second program, Managed Account Program, involved analysis of promissory
notes under the test established by the Supreme Court in Reves v. Ernst & Young.Z2.1 The
Ninth Circuit held that the notes were securities, not, as Reynolds had argued, personal
loans. The court said that the exception contained in the Securities Act of 1933
(Securities Act) and the Exchange Act for short-term notes of less than nine months
maturity should not be read literally, but, rather, should be read to effectuate
congressional purpose. In reaching this conclusion, the Ninth Circuit joins the Tenth
Circuit in disagreeing with the four-justice minority in Reves, who said that any note of
less than nine months maturity is excluded from the definition of a security in the
Exchange Act.

72

Liability in Private Actions
In Lampf, Pleva, Lipkind, Prupis & Petigraw v. Gilberison/" the Supreme Court
adopted a uniform limitations period for implied private actions under Section 10(b)
of the Exchange Act. The Commission, as amicus curiae, had urged the Court to adopt
a uniform five-year limitations period based on recently enacted Section 20A of the
Exchange Act (for insider trading actions by contemporaneous traders). Although
agreeing that a uniform federal period was preferable to one drawn from the law of the
state in which the district court sat, the Court adopted a rule drawn from Section 9(e)
of the Exchange Act, requiring plaintiffs to file actions within one year after discovery
of the facts constituting the violation, and no later than three years after the violation
occurred. The Court applied its holding to dismiss the action as time-barred, even
though the lawsuit had been timely filed under the established law of the circuit.
Legislation was enacted by Congress at the end of 1991 to prohibit retroactive
application of the holding to cases filed before the Court's decision.
InAnixterv. Home-Stake,= the Court of Appeals for the Tenth Circuit held that a
securities fraud lawsuit was time-barred because plaintiffs were put on inquiry notice
of the defendant's fraud by a prior consent judgment in an unrelated Commission
action against the defendants. In so holding, the court rejected the Commission's
argument that Section 9(e) of the Exchange Act does not include an inquiry notice
requirement.
As urged by the Commission in an amicus curiae brief, the Supreme Court in
Gollust v. Mendelf224 unanimously affirmed a decision of the United States Court of
Appeals for the Second Circuit. The Court of Appeals had held that a shareholder who
had properly instituted suit under Section 16(b) of the Exchange Act to recover shortswing profits from an issuer's statutory insiders, but who was subsequently divested
of his shares by a merger that resulted in an exchange of the plaintiff's stock for cash
and stock in the issuer' snew corporate parent, was not divested of standing to maintain
his suit. The decision holds that a plaintiff who properly institutes a Section 16(b) suit
may continue to prosecute that suit even when divested of his security, provided that
he maintains "some financial interest in the outcome of the litigation."

Actions Involving the Proxy Antifraud Pravisions
In Virginia Bankshares, Inc. v. Sandberg,225the Supreme Court held, as urged by the
Commission in an amicus curiae brief, that the statement of belief or reason by corporate
directors about a recommended course of action could be materially false and
misleading in violation of the federal proxy requirements of Section 14(a)and Rule 14a9 thereunder. The majority of the Court, however, concluded that where minority
shareholders were unable to block a proposed freeze-out merger, no causation had been
shown. In so doing, the Court rejected the argument that the plaintiffs could show
damages by demonstrating that they might have been able to pressure the majority
shareholders into abandoning or altering their plans. The Court left open the possibility
that minority shareholders in other cases could show damages by showing that they
might have obtained state court relief or preserved a state appraisal remedy if the true
facts had been disclosed.
In Kamen v. Kemper Financial Seroicesi" the Supreme Court, as urged by the
Commission as amicus curiae, unanimously reversed a decision by the United States
Court of Appeals for the Seventh Circuit in an action under the Investment Company
Act of 1940 (Investment Company Act) that had announced a new rule of federal
73

common law requiring a shareholder, prior to filing a complaint in a derivative lawsuit,
to make demand on the corporation, regardless of whether demand would be futile.
The Court held that the issue is governed by its decision in Burks o.Lasker, Zl.7 which held
that rules governing the allocation of power within a corporation shouldbe drawn from
state law, unless those rules are inconsistent with federal policy. The Court then held
that a futility exception is not inconsistent with the regulatory objectives of the
Investment Company Act, because the act imposes controls and restrictions on
directors of investment companies, but does not give such directors greater power over
shareholder suits than they have under state law.

Actions Against Professionals Under Commission Rule 2(e)
During 1991,the new group formed within the Office of the General Counsel to
litigate administrative professional disciplinary casesunder Rule2(e)of the Commission's
Rules of Practice concluded several important cases. In In re Combellick and Reynolds,228
the Administrative Law Judge found that the accounting firm of Combellick, Reynolds
& Russell, Inc. and two of its partners had engaged in improper professional conduct
by violating generally accepted auditing standards during 1983, 1984, and 1985audits
of George Risk Industries, Inc. Each respondent was suspended from appearing or
practicing before the Commission for three months. No appeal to the Commission was
taken from the ruling.
In In reFrederick S. Todman & Co., the accounting firm of Frederick S.Todman and
one of its partners, Victor Marchioni, consented to a Commission Order under Rule 2(e)
finding that they engaged in improper professional conduct during the 1984 audit of
Bevill Bresler & Schulman, Inc., a registered broker-dealerformerly engaged in trading
in government and municipal securities. The order found in part that the respondents
had failed to discover a shortfall of approximately $29 million in collateral in trading
accounts with a related party. The Commission censured the firm and suspended
Marchioni from appearing or practicing before it for six months.
Inln reCecil S.Mathis, the Commission, pursuant to Rule 2(e),permanently barred
attorney Cecil S. Mathis from appearing or practicing before it. The bar was based on
an antifraud injunction entered against Mathis in SEC v. Lifeline Healthcare Group, Inc.
The SECalleged that Mathis, a former Assistant Regional Administrator of the agency's
Fort Worth Regional Office, participated in the preparation of certain false and
misleading filings and press releases disseminated to the public by Lifeline as part of
an aggressive campaign to artificially inflate the price of Lifeline's stock.

Motions to Vacate Permanent Injunctions
In SEC v. Sloan, the United States District Court for the Southern District of New
York denied defendant Samuel H. Sloan's motion to vacate an injunction entered
against him 17years ago. This injunction enjoined him from violating bookkeeping and
net capital provisions of the securities laws. The court also found that, in light of Sloan's
long history of securities law violations and noncompliance with court orders, the
injunction continued to serve a useful pwpose.
In SEC v. Fabregas, the SEC successfully opposed defendant Stephen W. Porter's
motion to vacate a permanent injunction enjoining him from violating antifraud
provisions of the federal securities law. The United States District Court for the Central
District of California denied Porter's motion without opinion.

74

Actions Against the Commission and SMff
In FleetlNorstar Financial Group, Inc. v. SEC, the United States District Court for the
District of Maine denied Fleet' smotion to nullify a Commission investigative subpoena
served on Fleet to obtain bank records. The Court dismissed Fleet's motion, agreeing
with the Commission that the Court did not have subject matter jurisdiction to entertain
an action challenging a Commission investigative subpoena.
In SEC v. Henry Lorin, defendant Eugene K Laff, who previously had been
convicted for criminal violations of the federal securities laws, filed a counterclaim
against the Commission and six former and current SEC staff members alleging staff
misconduct in its handling of a Commission investigation into his trading of various
securities in the over-the-counter market. The United States District Court for the
Southern District of New York dismissed the counterclaim, finding that it was barred
by Section 21(g) of the Exchange Act, which prohibits the consolidation of Commission
injunctive actions with any private action without the Commission's consent. Thecourt
also found that the counterclaim against the Commission was barred by sovereign
immunity.

Requests for Access to Commission Records
The Commission received approximately 75 subpoenas for documents and/ or
testimony in 1991. In some of these cases, the Commission declined to produce the
requested documents or testimony because the information sought was privileged.
The Commission's assertions of privilege were upheld virtually 100%of the time when
the issuer of the subpoena challenged the assertion in court. On the one occasion in
which the Commission was ordered to produce documents, the court ordered the
documents produced under a strict confidentiality order. Among the most significant
of these challenges was United States v. Lnng,229 a criminal case. The defendants served
a pre-trial subpoena on the Commission, seeking production of several categories of
documents. The Commission moved to nullify the subpoena on the grounds that
disclosure of the documents could (1) reasonably be expected to impair an ongoing
Commission investigation and (2) reveal the staff's legal advice to the Commission, as
well as the policy and legal deliberations of the Commission and the work product of
its attorneys. The United States District Court for the District of Maryland agreed and
nullified the subpoena.
In In SIPC v. Blinder, Robinson & Co., Inc., the United States Bankruptcy Court for
the District of Denver denied Intercontinental Enterprises, Inc.' s motion for an order
to permit depositions of one former and three current SEC staff members and to obtain
agency documents. The court concluded that Intercontinental had inappropriately
sought to use Bankruptcy Rule 2004to discover information beyond the limit of the rule.
The court adopted the Commission's reasoning that the proposed depositions of the
agency officials would increase significantly the estate's fees and expenses without any
demonstrated benefit to the estate. The court also concluded that Intercontinental
sought without permission to obtain access to possibly privileged information to
support its proposed lawsuit against the SEC and that such information was irrelevant
to the bankruptcy case, as contended by the Commission.

75

InBanes v. SEC,230petitioners requested copies of the investigative transcripts of
prior testimony they had given during a Commission investigation. The Comission
denied their requests on the ground that providing copies at that time could impair the
investigation. The petitioners appealed this decision in the United States Court of
Appealsforthe Ninth Circuit, arguing that it was a final order, subject to direct appellate
review. The United States Court of Appeals for the Ninth Circuit Court held that the
Commission's decision to withhold the transcripts during the pendency of its
investigation was neither a final order nor a collateral order and dismissed the petition
for lack of subject matter jurisdiction.
The SEC received 1,799requests and appeals under the Freedom of Information
Act (FOIA) for access to agency records and 4,256 confidential treatment requests and
appeals from persons who submitted information. There were 126appeals to the SEC's
General Counsel from initial denials by the FOIA office. None resulted in court actions
against the agency.
The SEC obtained a favorable decision in a FOIA lawsuit filed against it in 1989.
In Safecard Services, Inc. v. SEC,231 the United States Court of Appeals for the District of
Columbia Circuit affirmed a district court decision granting summary judgment for the
SEC and denying access to attorney work-products. The court of appeals also agreed
with the agency that personal identifying information regarding persons whose names
appear in SECinvestigatory files is categorically exempt from release under Exemption
7(C).

Actions Under the Right to Financial Privacy Ad
Nine actions were filed against the SEC under the Right to Financial Privacy Act
(RFP A), to block Commission subpoenas for customer information from financial
institutions.P All of the challenges, except one which is still pending, were dismissed
after the courts found, in each case, that the agency was seeking the records for a
legitimate law enforcement inquiry, and the records were relevant to those investigations.
Of particular note is Kuhlman v. SEC,233in which the United States District Court for the
District of Nebraska was faced with the argument, by the law firm whose account was
subpoenaed, that the records were protected by the attorney-client privilege because
they were contained in a bank account maintained for the benefit of the firm's clients.
The court found that the challenger's claim of attorney-client privilege could not be
sustained.
Significant AdjUdication Developments
Substantial progress was made in addressing the backlog of appeals awaiting
staff review. The number of cases reviewed on the merits increased 117 percent over
FY1990,and there was a significantimprovementin the age of the staff's case inventory.
The case inventory was reduced by 16 percent, although the number of fully-briefed
cases received in 1991 increased by 36 percent over the number received in 1990.
Significant AdjudIcatory Decisions Concerning Broker-Dealers and Market Professionals
In Arthur J. HUff,234 the Commission, in two separate opinions, dismissed
proceedings against Huff, a vice president and senior registered options principal of
PaineWebber Incorporated (PW). Huff had been charged with failing to exercise

76

reasonable supervision over Dennis E. Greenman, a salesman in PW's Miami branch
office, who incurred heavy losses using customers' funds for options trading without
their authorization.
In James C. McIilmb,235 the Commission affirmed disciplinary action taken by the
New York Stock Exchange (NYSE) against McLamb, a former assistant vice president
and registered representative with Merrill Lynch, Pierce, Fenner & Smith, Inc. The
Commission found, as had the NYSE, that from October 1983to July 1984McLamb took
advantage of an in-house system for trading odd-lot market orders by executing 73
trades at prices that were more favorable to himself and his customers than the prices
allowed by the firm's procedures.
In Douglas Jerome Hellie,236 the Commission affirmed a National Association of
Securities Dealers (NASD) disciplinary action against Hellie, a partner in the investment
adviser firm of Hellie, Walch & Co. The Commission found, as had the NASD, that
Hellie made unsuitable recommendations with respect to a client's account. In
affirming the sanctions assessed by the NASD, the Commission stated that Hellie had
ignored his fundamental obligation of fair dealing, thereby causing his customer to
suffer a substantial loss.
In Brian G. Allen,237 the Commission affirmed disciplinary action taken by the
NASD against Allen for forging a check payable to himself from an affiliate of his
employer and converting the proceeds. In affirming the sanctions imposed by the
NASD, the Commission noted that" there can hardly be more serious misconduct in
the securities business than forgery and theft."
Significant Legislative Developments

Jurisdictional Proposal
On January 14,1991, Senators Leahy, Lugar, Kerrey, Bond, Dodd, and Heinz
introduced S. 207, the Futures Trading Practices Act of1991. Title III of the act consisted
of the Intermarket Coordination Act of 1991, a compromise on the intermarket and
jurisdictional issues reached by leaders of the Senate Agriculture, Nutrition, and
Forestry Committee and the Senate Banking, Housing, and Urban Affairs Committee.
Title I of S. 207 contained the Commodity Futures Trading Commission's five-year
authorization and Title ITconsisted of a package to reform trading practices on the
futures exchanges. On March 6, 1991, the Senate Agriculture Committee ordered
reported an amended version of S. 207. On April 18, 1991,the Senate passed S. 207 as
H.R. 707,which the House had previously passed without the IntermarketCoordination
Act of 1991. No further action was taken on the legislation in 1991.
Bank-Related Legislation and Testimony
On December 19,1991,the President signed into law the Comprehensive Deposit
Insurance Reform and Taxpayer Protection Act of 1991.238 Considerably narrower than
earlier versions of bank reform legislation considered by the 102nd Congress, the act
generally focused on bank supervision and took some steps toward limiting the
expansion of the federal deposit insurance system by reining in the too big to fail
doctrine.

77

In February 1991, the Department of the Treasury submitted its report on the
banking system to Congress. The Department subsequently submitted to Congress the
Administration's legislative proposal, the Financial Institutions Safety and Consumer
Choice Act of 1991, which was based on the report.
The Administration's proposal generally would have, among other things:
(1) provided for more stringent calculation of limits on insured deposits; (2) limited
pass-through deposit insurance; (3) permitted banks to affiliatewith securities, insurance,
and other financial services firms; (4) repealed the exemptions in the Securities Act for
securities issued by banks and thrifts; (5) removed the blanket exclusions from the
Exchange Act's definition of broker and dealer and from the definition of investment
adviser in the Investment Advisers Act; (6) codified limitations on the scope of the bank
common trust fund exclusion from the definition of investment company in the
Investment Company Act; (7) provided for prompt corrective action by banking
regulators; (8) authorized nationwide banking in three years; (9) established a new
bank regulatory agency within the Department ofthe Treasury and abolished the Office
of Thrift Supervision and the Office of the Comptroller of the Currency; and
(10) authorized the Federal Deposit Insurance Corporation to borrow funds from any
Federal Reserve System bank..
On March 20, 1991, Senators Riegle and Gam introduced the Administration's
proposal as S.713. The Senate Banking Committee produced a Committee Print based
on S. 713 and S. 543, the Comprehensive Deposit Insurance Reform and Taxpayer
Protection Act of 1991. The Committee marked up the Committee Print and reported
it out as S. 543 on August 2, 1991. Also on March 20, 1991,Congressmen Gonzalez and
Wylie introduced the proposal as H.R. 1505.
Chairman Breeden testified concerning H.R. 1505 before the Subcommittee on
Financial Institutions Supervision, Regulation and Insurance of the House Committee
on Banking, Finance and Urban Affairs on April 30, 1991 and before the Senate
Committee on Banking, Housing, and Urban Affairs on May 7,1991. After markup,
H.R. 1505 was reported out with amendments and renumbered as H.R. 6. On
November 4,1991, the House voted down H.R. 6. Chairman Breeden also discussed
H.R.1505inhis testimony before the House Subcommittee on Telecommunications and
Finance on June 20, 1991.

Roll-up Transactions
In response to concem about practices connected with so-called roll-up transactions,
which typically involve the combination of multiple limited partnerships into a single
public company, several legislative initiatives were introduced in 1991. Chairman
Breeden testified concemingroll-up transactions before the Subcommittee on Securities
ofthe Senate Committee on Banking, Housing and Urban Affairs and the Subcommittee
on Telecommunications and Finance ofthe House Committee on Energy and Commerce
on February 27 and April 23, 1991, respectively. James R. Doty, the SEC's General
Counsel, testified before the Subcommittee on Oversight and Investigations of the
House Committee on Energy and Commerce and the Subcommittee on Energy and
Agricultural Taxation ofthe Senate Committee on Finance concemingroll-up transactions
on July 10 and 16, 1991, respectively.

78

Government Securities
The Government Securities Act of 1986 authorized the Department of the
Treasury to adopt rules applicable to the government securities market and provided
that such authority be terminated after five years. Before congressional action to renew
the Department's rulemaking authority was taken, disclosures of certain abuses
received widespread publicity and triggered intense scrutiny of the market for
government securities. As a result, the Department's rulemaking authority expired on
October 1,1991.
On June 12, 1991, Chairman Breeden testified before the Subcommittee on
Securities of the Senate Committee on Banking, Housingand Urban Affairs concerning
possible amendments to the Government Securities Act. On September 4, 1991,
Chairman Breeden testified before the Subcommittee on Telecommunications and
Finance of the House Committee on Energy and Commerce concerning disclosures of
certain abuses in the government securities market and the implications of such
activities with respect to the regulation of transactions in government securities.
Chairman Breeden recommended several changes in law if Congress decided to
reauthorize the act pending a general evaluation of other changes. On September 11,
1991, Chairman Breeden testified again before the Subcommittee on Securities of the
Senate Committee on Banking, Housing and Urban Affairs concerning the government
securities market.
RICOReform
On April 25,1991,Commissioner Mary Schapiro testified before the Subcommittee
on Intellectual Property and Judicial Administration of the House Committee on the
Judiciary in support of H.R.1717, The RICO Amendments Act of 1991, which was
introduced in the House by Congressman Hughes.

Statute of Limitations Legislation
In LampI, Pleva, Lipkind, Prupis & Petigrow v. Gilbertson,239a case decided by the
Supreme Court on June 20,1991, the Court held that private actions brought under
Section 10(b) of the Exchange Act must be commenced within one year after discovery
of the alleged violation and not more than three years after the violation occurred. Prior
to the decision in Lampf, the relevant judicial precedents in a majority of circuits
provided a substantially longer period of time for filing private actions under Section
10(b).
On October 2, 1991, Chairman Breeden testified before the Subcommittee on
Securities of the Senate Banking, Housing, and Urban Affairs Committee in support of
legislation that would establish an express statute of limitations providing that private
antifraud actions may be brought within two years after discovery of the violation and
five years after the violation occurred. On November 21, 1991, Chairman Breeden
testified before the Subcommittee on Telecommunications and Finance of the House
Committee on Energy and Commerce in support of similar legislation.
InresponsetoLampf, the Comprehensive DepositInsurance Reform and Taxpayer
Protection Act, enacted on December 19, 1991, added a new Section 27A of the
Exchange Act to apply to" any private civil action implied under Section 10(b) ... that
was commenced on or before June 19, 1991." For those cases, the applicable statute of
limitations period is that" provided by the laws applicable in thejurisdiction, including
principles of retroactivity, as such laws existed on June 19, 1991." The statute also
79

allows the reinstatement of any case that may have been dismissed as the result of the
decision in l.Jlmpj. Such actions can be reinstated on motion of the plaintiff not later than
60 days after the enactment of Section 27A.
Corporate Reorganizations
The Commission acts as a statutory advisor in reorganization cases under
Chapter 11 of the Bankruptcy Code to see that the interests of public investors are
adequately protected. During a reorganization, the debtor generally is allowed to
continue business operations under court protection while negotiating a plan to
rehabilitate the business and to pay the company's debts. Although Chapter 11 relief
is available to businesses of all sizes, the Commission typically limits its participation
to cases involving debtors that have publicly traded securities registered under the
Exchange Act.
In 1990, the Commission authorized a review of its role in reorganization cases
and of the adequacy of public investor protections under Chapter 11. During 1991,the
staff completed its review of the bankruptcy program. Recommendations resulting
from the staff's review are expected to be considered by the Commission in 1992.

Committees
Officialcommittees are empowered tonegotiatewithadebtoron the administration
of a case and to participate in all aspects of the case, including formulation of a
reorganization plan. In addition to a committee representing unsecured creditors,
which must be appointed in all Chapter 11cases, the Bankruptcy Code allows the court
or a United States Trustee to appoint additional committees for stockholders and others
where necessary to assure adequate representation of their interests. During 1991,the
Commission moved for, and the court approved, the appointment of a committee to
represent investors in one Chapter 11 case.240
In a case having practical significance for the representation of both equity
securi tyholders and public debtholders by officialcommittees, In reFederatedDepartment
Stores, Inc. and Allied Stores COrp.,241the bankruptcy court adopted the position
advocated by the Commission and held that an institutional member of an official
committee did not violate its fiduciary duties as a committee member if it is engaged
in the trading of securities as a regular part of its business and has implemented an
appropriate information blocking device (commonly known as a Chinese Wall) that
was reasonably designed to prevent misuse of non public information obtained through
participation on the committee.

Estate Administration
The Commission protects the interests of public investors in reorganization cases
by participating in selected matters involving administration of the debtor's estate.
In Kaiser Steel Resources v. Action Traders, Inc.,242a case having major significance
for the protection of shareholders whose companies are taken over in leveraged
buyouts, the United States Court of Appeals for the Tenth Circuit, agreeing with the
position urged by the Commission, held that payments made to Kaiser's former
shareholders in a 1984leverage buyout (LBO)were protected from recovery under the
fraudulent conveyance laws by Section 546(e) of the Bankruptcy Code. That section

80

shields from the normal operation of the Code's avoidance provisions settlement
payments made "by or to" stockbrokers, financial institutions, or securities clearing
agencies.
The court first held that the Kaiser LBO payments were settlement payments for
purposes of Section 546(e), basing its analysis on the plain meaning of the term
settlement payments as understood in the securities industry. The court then rejected
Kaiser's argument that Section 546(e) does not protect a settlement payment made by
a stockbroker, financial institution, or clearing agency unless that payment is to another
participant in the securities clearance and settlement system. The court noted that the
provision on its face applies to payments "by or to" the entities enumerated in the
statute, and that nothing in the legislative history indicates that following the statute's
plain meaning would produce an unreasonable result. Inthis regard, the court noted
that Section 546(e) was designed to avoid disruption of the securities markets, which
would be an inevitable result if LBOs could be undone years after they occurred.
In In re Amdura COrp.,243 the Commission filed a brief in an appeal to the district
court expressing its view that class claims are permissible in bankruptcy.r" The
bankruptcy court had rejected a class proof of claim on the ground that the decision of
the Tenth Circuit in In re Standard Metals, 817F.2d 625 (10th Cir.1987), concluding that
a class claim is not permissible in bankruptcy, was controlling authority. The
Commission argued that that decision is dictum and the issue remains open in the Tenth
Circuit. The Commission also pointed out that the better reasoned view, represented
by several subsequent circuit and district court decisions.r" is to permit class proofs of
claim in bankruptcy cases. The matter is pending.
In In re LTV COrp.,246 the United States Court of Appeals for the Second Circuit
dismissed an interlocutory appeal on the class claim issue for lackofjurisdiction.-" The
Commission had filed abrief in the Second Circuit arguing that the district court's ruling
permitting the filing of class claims-" should be affirmed. The Second Circuit's
dismissal left intact the district court's decision.
In SIPC v. Blinder, Robinson & Co., Inc.,249 the Commission, in an appeal to the
United States Court of Appeals for the Tenth Circuit, filed a brief joining in the
arguments of the Securities Investor Protection Corporation (SIPC) that under the
bankruptcy laws and the Securities Investor Protection Act (SIPA), Blinder, a brokerdealer, was not eligible to utilize Chapter 11 of the Bankruptcy Code and was properly
placed in a SIPC liquidation. The district court found that, as a matter of law, Blinder
was a stockbroker and therefore expressly prohibited from reorganizing under
Chapter 11. The court further found that a trustee should be appointed pursuant to the
provisions of SIPA because Blinder, by placing itself in Chapter 11,became" unable to
meet its obligations as they mature," a statutory ground for liquidation pursuant to
SIPA. The appeal is pending.
InIn re Revco D.S., Inc.,250the Commission disagreed with the proposition that an
indenture and related debentures are executory contracts subject to assumption or
rejection under Section 365 of the Bankruptcy Code. The indenture trustee had moved
to require the debtor to assume the indenture and debentures, claiming they were
executory contracts. The Commission argued that assumption of the indenture as
requested by the indenture trustee, which would automatically secure an administrative
expense priority for its services, is contrary to the statutory scheme established in the

81

Bankruptcy Code for compensating indenture trustees for services rendered in
connection with reorganization proceedings.The bankruptcy court denied the debtor's
motion without reaching the executory contract question.

Disclosure Statements/Plans of Reorganization
A disclosure statement is a combination proxy and offering statement used to
solicit acceptances of a plan of reorganization. Such plans often provide for the issuance
of new securities to creditors and shareholders in exchange for part or all of their claims
or interests in the debtor, pursuant to an exemption in Section 1145 of the Bankruptcy
Code from registration under the Securities Act. Under the Code, the adequacy of
disclosure is to be determined without regard to whether the information provided
would otherwise comply with the disclosure requirements of the federal securities
laws. However, in recognition ofits special expertise on disclosure questions, the Code
gives the Commission the right to be heard, distinct from its special advisory role, on
the adequacy of disclosure. The staff limits its review to disclosure statements of
publicly-held companies or companies likely to be traded publicly after reorganization.
During 1991,the staff reviewed 152 disclosure statements and commented on 92. The
vast majority of the Commission's comments were adopted by debtors without the
need to file a formal objection.
The Commission filed a formal objection in In re Banyan COrp.251 to a disclosure
statement for a plan that sought to discharge claims of creditors of a substantially
assetless publicly-held shell corporation. The debtor sought through the plan to emerge
from Chapter 11asa publicly-traded company without assets or liabilities and to merge
with operating businesses at some unspecified time in the future. The Commission
contended that this would contravene Section 1141(d)(3) of the Bankruptcy Code,
which precludes a debtor from obtaining a discharge if it has liquidated all or
substantially all of its assets and does not engage in business after consummating the
reorganization plan. The matter is pending.
In In reAmdura COrp.252 and In re Banyan COrp.,253 the Commission filed objections
to the confirmation of proposed plans, arguing, as it has on several other occasions.P'
that plan provisions purporting to release non-debtor third parties from liability were
beyond the discharge of liability provided for debtors in the Bankruptcy Code. The
Commission argued that under Section524( e) of the Code, a bankruptcy court can affect
only the relationships of debtors and creditors, and cannot discharge the liabilities of
a non-debtor. InAmdura, the court overruled the Commission's objections in light of
a settlement between the debtor and securities law claimants. In Banyan, the matter is
pending.
In In re Southland Corp.,255 the Commission raised concerns about the discharge of
non-debtor parties as objections to the debtor's disclosure statement. Inresponse to the
Commission's objections, the debtor amended its plan and provided a separate vote,
unrelated to a vote on the plan itself, for those creditors who chose voluntarily to release
their claims against non-debtors.
Conduct Regulation Matters

The General Counsel oversees the agency's ethical conduct program. During
1991, the General Counsel implemented five new governmentwide ethics provisions
concerning procurement integrity, post-employment restrictions, an honorarium ban,
amendments to public financial disclosure provisions, and governmentwide host paid

82

travel. The General Counsel also submitted extensive comments on the proposed
Standards of Ethical Conduct for Employees of the Executive Branch to the Office of
Government Ethics. In addition. expansion of the Commission' s activities into the areas
of bank holding companies, government securities, and the internationalization of
securities markets resulted in a great increase in the volume and complexity of ethics
inquiries from members and senior staff. During 1991, the number of conduct
regulation matters handled by the staff rose from 87 in 1990 to 249.

~
l

~

i

IJ
I

1
j

i

~

83

Economic Research and Analysis

The Office of Economic Analysis provides technical support and analysis
to assist in evaluating the economic aspects of the Commission's regulatory
program. The economics staff provides the Commission with research and
advice on rule proposals, policy initiatives, and enforcement actions. The staff
also monitors developments in capital markets around the world and major
program initiatives affecting the United States financial services industry,
markets, and investors.
Key 1991 Results

The staff reviewed rule proposals encompassing the full range of the
Commission's regulatory program. The staff also provided advice, technical
assistance, and empirical analyses of issues of concern to the Commission and its
operating divisions. In addition, monitoring programs were maintained to study
the implementation of major rules, new trading facilities, and developments in the
domestic and international securities markets.
Liaison, Planning and Review

A comprehensive program of economic and policy analysis is provided by the
economics staff, focusing on issues related to corporate restructuring, stock price
volatility, mutual fund performance, financial disclosure, insider trading, and
market manipulation. During the year, the economics staff directed its attention
towards a number of issues. For example, debate in the securities market continued
over the effectiveness and economic consequences of circuit breaker mechanisms.
The Market Reform Act of 1990 required the staff to examine the practices found
to contribute significantly to market volatility. In the investment company area, the
proliferation of funds and fund types, coupled with marketing techniques by
investment companies, including the use of 12b-1 fees, resulted in complex
disclosure issues.
The number of bankruptcies and financial difficulties for firms that engaged
in going private transactions increased in 1991. Continued discussion of further
reforms, or outright repeal, of the Glass-Steagall Act required analysis of the
economic implications of merging banking, insurance, and broker-dealer activities.
The need for such analysis remained critical due to the deepening concerns over the
United States system of deposit insurance.
Economic Studies

The staff completed studies related to deposit insurance and institutional
ownership, among other things. The staff also studied the effects ofmark-to-market
accounting for banks, the effect of state merit regulation, and the performance of
limited partnership roll-up transactions.

84

Technical Assistance
The staff prepared capital markets briefing reports that assessed the economic,
institutional, and regulatory developments outside the U.S. that impact the
international competitiveness of the U.S. securities market and the Commission's
regulatory program. The staff evaluated the European Economic Community's
move toward a unified capital market by 1992, analyzed changes in the Japanese
and other capital markets around the world, and closely monitored developments
in the international bond and equity markets. The staff also provided technical
support to the Office of International Affairs concerning international securities
regulation and enforcement matters.
As a result of the Securities Enforcement Remedies and Penny Stock Reform
Act of 1990, the enforcement staff required additional technical assistance from the
economics staff in analyzing trading events. The Commission's effort to combat
fraud in the penny stock market also required increased attention by the staff. In
addition, the staff provided technical advice and assistance to the Commission's
operating divisions on a wide variety of issues. The Office of Economic Analysis,
for example, furnished the Commission and divisions with a quarterly report on the
financial health of the securities industry. In the enforcement area, the staff worked
ona wide variety of cases, including insider trading, disclosure violations, suitability,
and market manipulation.

I

I
i
i

II

85

Management

and Prograln Support

Management and Program Support provides the Commission and operating
divisions with management and administrative services in support of the agency's
objectives. Management support includes overseeing theallocationand expenditure
of agency funds, liaison with Congress, disseminating information to the press,
facilitating Commission meetings, and developing and executing management
policies. Administrative support includes services such as accounting, data
processing, staffing, and space management.
Key 1991 Results

A number of Significant activities were highlighted during 1991.In particular, the
Commission held 75 meetings and considered 335 matters. Major activities of the
Commission included: (1)establishing a multijurisdictional disclosure system intended
to facilitate cross-border offerings of securities and continuous reporting by spedfied
Canadian issuers; (2) proposing rules to establish an activity-based large trader
reporting system; (3)proposing temporary rules to establish a risk assessment system
pursuant to the Market Reform Act of 1990;and proposing amendments to the proxy
rules which will be reproposed in the coming year.
Among other significant accomplishments were the collection of fee revenue of
$259 million compared to a final appropriations level of $196 million-a $63 million net
gain to the United States Treasury. Additionally, a Memorandum of Understanding
with the General Services Administration (GSA) that transferred to the SEC several
GSA leases, including the headquarters' lease for approximately 300,000square feet of
office and related space, was completed.
The Executive Staff
The executive staff supported the Commission in fulfilling its leadership role with
respect to the globalization of securities markets. The staff assisted in preparing for the
Sixteenth Annual Meeting of the International Organization of Securities Commissions
(IOSCO) conference that was held during September 1991 in Washington, D.C. The
Commission played a key role in developing policy and technical recommendations
adopted by IOSCO. Also, the executive staff directed the Emerging Markets Advisory
Committee and programs offered by the International Institute for Securities Market
Development (Institute). The Institute, an intensive two-week program for foreign
regulators, consists of comprehensive training in all aspects of securities markets and
their regulation. Representatives from over 30 countries attended the inaugural session
in April.

86

Office of the Secretary

The Commission held 75 meetings in 1991, during which it considered 335
matters, including rule proposals, enforcement actions, and other items that affect
significantly the stability of the markets and the nation's economy. Significant actions
taken by the Commission included:
 adopting amendments to Rule 2a-7 under the Investment Company Act of
1940 to tighten requirements for portfolio quality, maturity, and diversity
of money market funds;
 adopting comprehensive amendments to long-standing Commission rules
on disclosure of securities transactions by officers, directors, and principal
securityholders of reporting companies;
 establishing a multijurisdictional disclosure system intended to facilitate
cross-border offerings of securities and continuous reporting by specified
Canadian issuers;
 proposing rules to establish an activity-based large trader reporting system;
 proposing temporary rules to establish a risk assessment system pursuant
to the Market Reform Act of 1990; and
 proposing amendments to the proxy rules, which will be reproposed in the
coming year.
Office of Legislative Affairs

I
1

i

I1

I

During 1991, the Congress actively considered a number of important pieces of
legislation relating to issues under the Commission's jurisdiction, all ofwhich remained
pending at the end of the year. These were most notably:
 omnibus reform of the regulation of financial services in the United States,
including modernization of the Glass-Steagall Act, the Bank Holding
Company Act, and other United States financial laws;
 government securities regulation coupled with the agency's inquiry into
the activities of Salomon Brothers and other participants in the government
securities market;
 problems with real estate partnership "roll-ups" and their impact on
limited partner investors;
 setting an explicit statute of limitations for implied rights of private action
in violations of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934 (an issue raised by the
decision of the Supreme Court in Lampj, Pleva, Lipkind, Prupis and Petigrow
v. Gilbertson, 111 S.Ct. 2773); and
 reforms relating to accountants' responsibilities and shareholders' rights
relative to executive compensation levels.
Congressional interest in the agency's activities and initiatives reached new
levels. The Commission and staff members testified at 29 congressional hearings
during the year, more than a 50 percent increase over the prior year.

)

I

87

Office of Public Affairs

The Office of Public Affairs communicates information on agency activities to
those interested in or affected by Commission actions, including the press, the general
public, regulated entities, and employees of the agency, through ongoing programs and
special projects. The office publishes the SEC News Digest daily, which provides
information on rule changes, enforcement actions against individuals or corporate
entities, acquisition reports, releases, decisions on requests for exemptions, upcoming
Commission meetings, upcoming testimony by Commission members and staff, lists
of Section 16letters, and other events ofinterest. Information on Commission activities
also is disseminated through notices of administrative actions, litigation releases, and
other materials.
Special projects, such as support for activities related to 10SCO, the Institute, and
meetings of the Emerging Markets Advisory Committee, the Market Transactions
Advisory Committee and the Market Oversight and Financial Services Advisory
Committee, also are undertaken by the office in support of the agency's mission.
Another important function is the coordination of the agency's interaction with
the press. Many of the agency's actions are of national and, increasingly, international
interest. When appropriate, these actions are brought to the attention of regional,
national, and international press. The office also issues press releases on upcoming
events, agency programs, and special projects. A total of 78 news releases were issued
during the year. Additionally, congressional testimony and speeches presented by
Commissioners and senior staff are retained and disseminated in response to requests
from the public. The office responded to over 85,000 requests for specific information
on the agency or its activities. Programs for 255 foreign visitors were coordinated
during the year.
Office of the Executive Director

The agency's management staff initiated or continued special projects such as
coordinating the effort to develop the automation systems mandated by the Market
Reform Act of 1990 and developing a plan to implement a comprehensive audit
followup program. The management staff worked closely with the Chairman and other
senior officials in formulating the agency's budget submissions for the Office of
Management and Budget and the Congress.
Equal Employment Opportunity. The Office of the Executive Director also
implemented improvements to the agency's Equal Employment Opportunity (EO)
programs. These improvements included:
 hiring an EEO Manager with specialized experience in managing and
developing EEO affirmative employment programs;
 establishing the Hispanic and Black Employment Programs and Committees
to provide advice and recommendations to the EEO Manager and EEO
Director;
 implementing a comprehensive evaluation program for the agency's
affirmative employment program to evaluate staffing patterns, promotions,
disciplinary actions, and other personnel areas monitored by the EEO office;
 publishing statements by Chairman Breeden on equal employment
opportunity and prevention of sexual harassment;

88

 distributing a model EEO and Human Resources Management performance
standard to provide managers and supervisors guidance in evaluating
performance in EEO and personnel management;
 developing an EEO Handbook titled Employee Guide to the Commission's
Equal Employment Opportunity Program to provide employees with
information about the SEC's Equal Employment Opportunity Program,
EEO counseling, and discrimination complaints processing;
 creating an EEO task force to plan sexual harassment awareness initiatives
and to make recommendations to the Commission on conducting sexual
harassment training for all agency employees;
 conducting special seminars under the sponsorship of the Federal Women's
Program Committee;
 creating a system to monitor data on senior vacancies within the agency;
and
 reestablishing an Upward Mobility Program within the agency to provide
career advancement opportunities to clerical and support personnel.
The agency continued to actively recruit minorities and women. At the end of the
year, women accounted for48.3 percent of the total agency workforce; Black Americans
accounted for 27 percent; Hispanic Americans accounted for approximately 3 percent;
and Asian-Americans made up 2.4 percent.
Administrative

Support

The administrative support offices provide the financial, data processing,
personnel, and facilities support necessary for the agency to carry out its mission.
Under the direction of the Office of the Executive Director, these support services are
provided by the Offices of the Comptroller, Information Systems Management,
Human Resources Management, Administrative Services, and Filings, Information
and Consumer Services.
Commission Operations. In 1991for the ninth consecutive year, the agency collected
revenue for the United States Treasury in excess of its appropriation. The agency
collected fee revenue of $259 million compared to a final appropriations level of $196
million--a $63 million net gain to the United States Treasury. The $196 million
appropriation level included an initial $157.5million in budget authority, a $1.6million
supplemental, and $36.9 million in offsetting fee collections. For 1991, offsetting
collections were generated as a result of a fee rate increase under Section 6(b) of the
Securities Act of 1933(Securities Act) to one-fortieth of one percent from one-fiftieth of
one percent.
Fee revenue is collected from four basic sources: registrations under Section b(b)
of the Securities Act (comprising 70 percent of total 1991fee revenue); transactions on
securities exchanges (24 percent); tender offer and merger filings (3.5 percent); and
miscellaneous filings (2.5 percent).
Financial Management. The agency completed its third year of operating the new
accounting system, the Federal Financial System (FFS). The FFS provided the agency
with significant automation improvements such as:

 entering voucher and payment data directly into the system;

 creating travel authorization and procurement documents;

 providing decentralized data throughout the agency;

89


 accomplishing voucher research on-line; and

 making management data more readily available.
The agency continued to improve its automated collection and processing of
annual fee revenue through electronic funds transfer and developed systems and
procedures to make the voluntary Treasury-designated "lockbox" fee collection
system mandatory. The agency received over 43,000separate fee payments of differing
amounts for transactions of exchange listed securities and required and elective reports
from about 15,000 companies. The staff processed a 10 percent increase in payroll
actions (10,710),an 8 percent increase in electronic fund transfers (82,498),a 112percent
increase in electronic fee deposits (4,500), a 20 percent increase in travel vouchers
(8,716), and an 8 percent increase in miscellaneous invoices (12,450).
The SEC's staff completed much of the work in the design of an automated fee
tracking, reporting, and accounts receivable system. The Office of the Comptroller also
developed a five-year plan to strengthen the agency's financial management system.
Information Systems Management. During 1991,the Office of Information Systems
Management continued to modernize the agency's automated data processing and
information services with a number of significant information initiatives that will
reduce the time spent by SEC staff in collecting and processing information. These
efforts included:
 implementing the development of the agency's Automated Correspondence
Tracking system to replace the Office of Consumer Affairs Complaints
System and the Chairman's Correspondence Tracking System;
 initiating system development for the new Entity Filing Fee System (EFF)
that will consolidate all entity information, filings, and their associated fees;
 completing the functional and data requirements for EDGAR/EFF interface
that will enhance the automatic acceptance functions in the EDGAR
system;
 completing the functional requirements for the Operational Interface
between the National Association of Securities Dealers' Central Registration
Depository system and the agency's Broker-Dealer system;
 developing and implementing the 6(b) Fee Collection Reporting system
that allows monitoring of fees collected for filings made pursuant to Section
6(b) of the Securities Act; and
 integrating the agency's two separate electronic mail services into a single
seamless system.
Human Resources Management. The Office of Human Resources Management
activities include employee compensation and benefits, recruitment and staffing,
training, position management and classification, labor relations, counseling, disciplinary
actions, employee recognition, and maintenance of official employee records. The staff
monitors turnover to assist in formulating hiring strategies to avoid personnel shortfalls
and their adverse effects on productivity.

90

I

i
J
1
I

During 1991, a new Personnel Operating Policies and Procedures Manual was
published to provide managers and employees with updated guidance to implement
various new authorities under the Federal Employee Pay Comparability Act (FEPCA)
of 1990. New policies were issued on recruitment bonuses, appointments above the
minimum of a grade based on superior qualifications, positions designated under the
performance management and recognition system, and performance standards on
EEO and human resources management for executives, managers and supervisors. As
part of FEPCA, interim geographic differentials and the new Administrative Law Judge
pay system were implemented.
Due to a significant increase in the agency's staffing level in 1991and continued
turnover at higher than the governmentwide average, the agency continued an
aggressive recruitment campaign. Particular emphasis was placed on the hiring of
attorneys, accountants, securities compliance examiners, computer specialists, and
secretaries through use of the agency's delegated examining authorities, special OPM
hiring programs, advertising, and attendance at Office of Personnel Management
(OPM) job fairs. Recruitment brochures and other materials also were redesigned. The
agency's upward mobility program was reactivated and restructured. A total of 26
positions, representing about one percent of the agency's total work force, was
approved for inclusion in the program.
In addition, 1991was the first full year that contract services under the employee
assistance program were available to all SEC employees and their families. Use of this
counseling ana referral service increased by 82 percent to 40 persons in 1991. The
employee assistance counselors also support the agency's drug-free workplace plan by
providing education, consultation, and referral services.
Despite budget constraints from October to early December 1990,SECemployees
attended 3,370 training courses during the year. Areas emphasized were computer
applications, the Electronic Data Gathering, Analysis and Retrieval system, EEO,
cultural diversity, and international securities regulation training. A survey and initial
plans were completed for a series of professional development symposia.
To recognize excellence in performance, more than $1.48million in incentive and
performance awards was paid to employees. In addition, the agency implemented the
new recertification requirements for members of the Senior Executive Service (SES).
The staff participated in a number of OPM task forces and external working
groups, such as the OPM interagency work group to simplify SES procedures, the
interagency advisory group committee on automated classification, a focus group on
revising the classification system, and an interagency interview team to identify key
human resources initiatives throughout the Federal Government.
Paciliiieslvumagemeni. The Officeof Administrative Services manages the agency' 5
facilities and provides a wide range of logistic and office support services. Since
obtaining independent leasing authority in November 1990, the agency has obtained
new space that is of higher quality and has resulted in improved working conditions
for several of its field offices, such as Atlanta, Chicago, Miami, Denver, and Salt Lake
City. In addition, an 81,000 square foot facility in Northern Virginia was obtained to
house the agency's computer operations and training facilities. A Memorandum of
Understanding with the GSA was completed. As a result, several GSAleases, including
the headquarters' lease for approximately 300,000 square feet of office and related
space, was transferred to the agency.

91

The agency awarded contracts and purchase orders in excess of $30 million
during 1991. The total number of actions was 2/613/a 5 percent increase over 1990. A
significant portion of the increase is attributed to computer equipment, software, and
support services acquisitions. In other areas, printing production increased from 60
million units to 61 million units; incoming mail increased by approximately 6 percent,
while outgoing mail increased by approximately 10 percent. A comprehensive
telecommunications
study was initiated to review and evaluate existing
telecommunications systems and to plan future systems.
Consumer Affairs. The Office of Filings, Information and Consumer Services is
responsible for: (1) responding to investor complaints and inquiries; (2) screening
information received to make referrals to SEC program divisions, self-regulatory
organizations, states, or other federal agencies; (3) collecting and analyzing complaint
information and trends to help target regulatory and enforcement activities; (4)
preparing educational materials to assist investors in protecting their interests; and (5)
developing and implementing the agency's consumer protection program.
The staff responded to41/216 contacts in 1991. Of the 41/216contacts, 19/280were
complaints, 11/636were inquiries, and 10/300were a combination of complaints and
inquiries. Approximately 44percent of the complaints (8/466)involved broker-dealers.
The remainder of the complaints was divided among issuers, mutual funds, banks,
transfer agents, and investment advisers. The single largest category of complaints
against broker-dealers (1/968)involved allegations of high pressure or fraudulent sales
tactics.
The new computerized correspondence tracking system, AgencyCorrespondence
Tracking System (ACTS), was implemented in June 1991. ACTS permits a more
thorough analysis of complaint information and trends and increases the timeliness of
the agency's response to investors and members of the public.
Public Reference. The Office of Filings, Information and Consumer Services is
responsible for making company filings, Commission rules, orders, studies, reports
and speeches available to the public in the public reference room. Visitors may review
and copy all public documents. In addition, copies may be ordered by writing the
agency, and/ or telephoning the agency's dissemination contractor.
During 1991,the staff answered questions and completed requests for documents
from 46,700visitors to the headquarters public reference room. A total of 334/944paper
documents and 363/941 microfiche records were added to the existing library of
publicly available information, which was maintained amid constant use by visitors.
A total of 4,816 requests for paper filings was processed while 114/897 telephone
inquiries regarding filings were answered. Inaddition, the staff processed 507 formal
requests for certifications of Commission filings.

92

Endnotes

f

lSEC v. Bank of New England Corp., Accounting and Auditing Enforcement
Release No. 286 (Dec. 21, 1990), 47 SEC Docket 2028.
2In the Matter of Fleet/Norstar Financial Group, Inc., Accounting and Auditing
Enforcement Release No. 309 (Aug. 14, 1991),49 SEC Docket 882.
3In the Matter of Excel Bancorp., Inc., Accounting and Auditing Enforcement
Release No. 316 (Sept. 11, 1991),49 SEC Docket 1325.
4SEC and Federal Deposit Insurance Corporation v. Robert]. Aulie, Litigation
Release No. 12899 auly 9,1991),49 SEC Docket 548.
5SEC v. Ernst & Young, Accounting and Auditing Enforcement Release No. 301
(Iune 13, 1991),49 SEC Docket 95.
6SEC v. Peoples' Bank of Brevard, Inc., Litigation Release No. 12753 (Ian. 14,
1991),47 SEC Docket 2284.
7SEC v. CapitalBanc Corp., Accounting and Auditing Enforcement Release No.
303 (Sept. 18, 1991),49 SEC Docket 0243.
8SEC v. Phillip J. Stevens, Litigation Release No. 12813 (Mar. 19, 1991),48 SEC
Docket 841.
9SEC v. Baruch Rosenberg, Litigation Release No. 12986 (Sept. 24, 1991), 49 SEC
Docket 1618.
JOSECv. John L. Petit, Litigation Release No. 12693 (Nov. 5, 1990), 47 SEC
Docket 1340.
llSEC v. Stephen R. Rasinski, Litigation Release No. 12701 (Nov. 13, 1990),47
SEC Docket 1396.
12SECv. Robert H. Willis, Litigation Release No. 12754 (Ian, 14, 1991),47 SEC
Docket 2285.
13SECv. Ernesto Tinajero, Litigation Release No. 12843 (Apr. 22, 1991),48 SEC
Docket 1363.
14SECv. Louis Ferrero, etal., Litigation Release No. 12799 (Mar. 7, 1991),48 SEC
Docket 614.
15SECv. Robert F. Hoogstraten, Litigation Release No. 12791 (Mar. 6, 1991),48
SEC Docket 606.
16SECv. Christopher l. Moran, Litigation Release No. 13013 (Sept. 30, 1991),49
SEC Docket 1734.
17SECv. Mark P. Malenfant, Litigation Release No. 12848 (May 1, 1991),48 SEC
Docket 1438.
18SECv. Peter R. Gardiner, Litigation Release No. 12818 (Mar. 27,1991),48 SEC
Docket 944.
19SECv. John G. Broumas, Litigation Release No. 12999 (Sept. 27,1991),49 SEC
Docket 1722.
2In the Matter of Andrew Doherty, Securities Exchange Act Release No. 29545
(Aug. 12, 1991),49 SEC Docket 859.
21SEC v. Mark Sen do, Litigation Release No. 12894 (Iune 27, 1991), 49 SEC
Docket 0408.

93

22SEC v. Peter S. Adler, Litigation Release No. 12945 (Aug. 15, 1991), 49 SEC
Docket 962.
23SEC v. David D. Sterns, Litigation Release No. 12802 (Mar. 11, 1991),48 SEC
Docket 705.
24SEC v. Robert F. Hasho, Litigation Release No. 12732 (Dec. 13, 1990),47 SEC
Docket 1749.
25SEC v. Henry W. Lorin, Litigation Release No. 12707 (Nov. 20,1990),47 SEC
Docket 1465.
26SEC v. Frank Shannon, Litigation Release No. 12708 (Nov. 20,1990),47 SEC
Docket 1467.
27SEC v. Kochcapital, Inc., Litigation Release No. 12847 (Apr. 22,1991),48 SEC
Docket 1437.
28SEC v. Superior Resources, Inc., Litigation Release No. 12898 (Iuly 5,1991),49
SEC Docket 0548.
29SEC v. Forst-Hunter International Trade Corp., Accounting and Auditing
Enforcement Release No. 311 (Aug. 20, 1991),49 SEC Docket 1074.
30SECv. Michael S. Weinstein, Accounting and Auditing Enforcement Release
No. 282 (Oct. 26,1990),47 SEC Docket 1284.
31SEC v. Michael 1. Bitterman, et al., Accounting and Auditing Enforcement
Release No. 279 (Oct. 11, 1990),47 SEC Docket 0879.
32SEC v. Q. T. Wiles, Accounting and Auditing Enforcement Release No. 308
(Aug. 14,1991),49 SEC Docket 957.
33SEC v. John R. Ward, Accounting and Auditing Enforcement Release No. 319
(Sept. 26,1991),49 SEC Docket 1624.
34SEC v. Earthworm, Inc., Accounting and Auditing Enforcement Release No.
291 (Feb. 28,1991),48 SEC Docket 531.
35SEC v. RamtekCorp., Accounting and Auditing Enforcement Release No. 280
(Oct. 23, 1990),47 SEC Docket 1120.
36SEC v. Malibu Capital Corp., Litigation Release No. 12635, (Sept. 26,1990),47
SEC Docket 0651.
37SEC v. Joseph Wolfer, Litigation Release No. 12758 (Ian, 17, 1991), 47 SEC
Docket 2289.
38Inthe Matter of Michael R. Ford, CPA, Accounting and Auditing Enforcement
Release No. 297 (May 6,1991),48 SEC Docket 1552.
39In the Matter of Raymond Bacek, Accounting and Auditing Enforcement
Release No. 296 (Apr. 22, 1991),48 SEC Docket 1368.
40In the Matter of Bruce F. Kalem, CPA, Accounting and Auditing Enforcement
Release No. 294 (Mar. 25,1991),48 SEC Docket 954.
41In the Matter of Merle E. Bright, CPA, Accounting and Auditing Enforcement
295, (Mar. 25, 1991),48 SEC Docket 0868.
42In the Matter of Ronald N. Vance, Securities Exchange Act Release No. 28625
(Nov. 19, 1990),47 SEC Docket 1404.
43SEC v. Norman Nouskajian, Litigation Release No. 13009 (Sept. 30, 1991),49
SEC Docket 1731.
44SEC v. MichaelA. Clark, Litigation Release No. 13010 (Sept. 30,1991),49 SEC
Docket 1732.
45SEC v. Burton R. Sugarman, Litigation Release No. 12914 Guly 18, 1991),49
SEC Docket 620.
94

46In the Matter of Morgan Stanley & Co., Inc., Securities Exchange Act Release
No. 28990 (Mar. 20, 1991), 48 SEC Docket 747.
47SEC v. Alan E. Clore, Litigation Release No. 12377 (Feb. 13, 1990),45 SEC
Docket 1114.
48SEC v. Asher B. Edelman, Litigation Release No. 12835 (Apr. 11, 1991),48 SEC
Docket 1107.
49In the Matter of Norman G. Baker, Securities Exchange Act Release No. 29108
(Apr. 22, 1991),48 SEC Docket 1297.
50SECv. International Loan Network, Inc.,Litigation Release No. 12858 (May 16,
1991),48 SEC Docket 1623.
51SEC u.Laiin Investment Corp., Litigation Release No. 12742 (Dec. 21,1990),47
SEC Docket 2027.
52SEC v. Eugene R. Karczewski and Eugene F. Karczewski, Litigation Release No.
12845 (Apr. 24, 1991),48 SEC Docket 1366.
53SEC v. Robert Elderkin, Litigation Release No. 12972 (Sept. 10, 1991),49 SEC
Docket 1382.
54SECv. FSG Financial Service, Inc., Litigation Release No. 12931 (Aug. 5, 1991),
49 SEC Docket 0828.
55SECv. BFMFCorp., Litigation Release No. 12725 (Dec. 6, 1990),47 SEC Docket
1661.
56SEC v. Neil E. Rogen, Litigation Release No. 12812 (Mar. 18, 1991),48 SEC
Docket 841.
57SEC v. Drexel Burnham Lambert, Inc., Litigation Release No. 11859 (Sept. 7,
1988), 41 SEC Docket 1294.
58Inthe Matter of Michael R. Milken, Securities Exchange Act Release No. 28951
(Mar. 11, 1991),48 SEC Docket 645.
59In the Matter of Lowell ]. MiIken, Securities Exchange Act Release No. 28950
(Mar. 11, 1991),48 SEC Docket 643.
WIn the Matter of Laser Arms Corp., Securities Exchange Act Release No. 28878
(Feb. 14, 1991),48 SEC Docket 292.
61In the Matter of Dominick & Dominick, Inc., Securities Exchange Act Release
No. 29243 (May 29,1991),48 SEC Docket 1740.
62In the Matter of Albert Dreyfuss, Securities Exchange Act Release No. 29242
(May 29,1991),48 SEC Docket 1740.
63In the Matter of WaIter Capital Corp., Securities Exchange Act Release No.
29028 (Apr. I, 1991),48 SEC Docket 0962.
64SEC v. Pilgrim Planning Associates Inc., and John M. Mickner, Litigation Release
No. 13117 (Dec. 10, 1991), 50 SEC Docket 0775.
65SEC v. Robert F. Kurtz, lr., Litigation Release No. 12989 (Sept. 23, 1991),49 SEC
Docket 1623.
66Inthe Matter of Dean Witter Reynolds, Inc., Securities Exchange Act Release No.
29447 Guly 18,1991),49 SEC Docket 578.
67In the Matter of Richard Alan Lauerv, Securities Exchange Act Release No.
28707 (Dec. 18, 1990),47 SEC Docket 1789.
68In the Matter of Thomas F. White & Co., Inc., Securities Exchange Act Release
No. 29745 (Sept. 27, 1991),49 SEC Docket 1638
69In the Matter of Home Capital Services, Inc., Investment Advisers Act Release
No. 1276 (May 8,1991),48 SEC Docket 1535.

95

7In the Matter of James L. Rapholz, [r., Investment Advisers Act Release No. 1265
(Jan. 9, 1991),47 SEC Docket 2185.
71In the Matter of R.L. Kotrozo, Inc., Investment Advisers Act Release No. 1257
(Oct. 3, 1990),47 SEC Docket 0722.
72In the Matter of Jack Allen Pirrie, Investment Advisers Act Release No. 1270
(Jan. 31, 1991),48 SEC Docket 154.
73Inthe Matter of Carl L. Lazzell, Investment Advisers Act Release No. 1260 (Oct.
18,1990),47 SEC Docket 0948.
74SECv. David B. Solomon, Litigation Release No. 12712 (Nov. 27,1990),47 SEC
Docket 1552.
75SEC v. M. Wesley Groshans, Litigation Release No. 12677 (Oct. 19, 1990),47
SEC Docket 1122.
76In the Matter of Renaissance Advisors, Inc., Investment Company Act Release
No. 18245 (July 22, 1991),49 SEC Docket 683.
77Figuresare approximate.
78The1990 total for SEC requests to foreign governments is composed of: 173
enforcement assistance requests; 2 enforcement referrals; and 2 technical assistance
requests. Prior to 1990, separate totals for enforcement referrals and technical
assistance requests were not maintained.
79'fhe1990 total for foreign requests to the SEC is composed of: 98 enforcement
assistance requests; 2 enforcement referrals; and 30 technical assistance requests.
BO'"fhe
1991 total for SEC requests to foreign governments is composed of: 145
enforcement assistance requests; and 6 enforcement referrals.
8lThe 1991total for foreign requests to the SEC is composed of: 160enforcement
assistance requests; 7 enforcement referrals; and 44 technical assistance requests.
82pub. L. No. 101-429, 104 Stat. 931 (1990).
83Securities Exchange Act Release No. 29093 (Apr. 17, 1991),48 SEC Docket
1168.
84Securities Exchange Act Release No. 29094 (Apr. 17, 1991),48 SEC Docket
1205.
85Securities Exchange Act Release No. 29095 (Apr. 17, 1991),48 SEC Docket
1215.
86Id.
8715USC S 78q-2 (1990).
88Securities Exchange Act Release No. 27975 (May 1,1990),55 FR 19124.
89Securities Exchange Act Release No. 29261 (May 31,1991),56 FR 29297.
90Securities Exchange Act Release No. 29812 (Oct. 11, 1991),56 FR 52082.
"Securities and Exchange Act Release No. 29185 (May 9,1991) 48 SEC Docket
1498.
92Securities Exchange Act Release No. 27445 (Nov. 16, 1989) 44 SEC Docket
2037.
93Securities Exchange Act Release No. 28899 (Feb. 20,1991) 48 SEC Docket 408.
94Letter from Edward
J. Markey,
Chairman,
Subcommittee
on
Telecommunications and Finance, Committee on Energy and Commerce, U.S.
House of Representatives, to Richard C. Breeden, Chairman, SEC, dated May 16,
1991; letter from Richard C. Breeden, Chairman, SEC, to Edward J. Markey,
Chairman, Subcommittee on Telecommunications and Finance, Committee on
Energy and Commerce, U.S. House of Representatives, dated July 11, 1991.
96

9SSecurities Exchange Act Release No. 29801 (Oct. 9, 1991),56 SEC Docket
52080.
96Securities Exchange Act Release No. 29024 (Mar. 28,1991),48 SEC Docket
0901.
97Securities Exchange Act Release No. 29236 (May 24, 1991),48 SEC Docket
1717.
98Securities Exchange Act Release No. 29751 (Sept. 27,1991),49 SEC Docket
1647.
99Securities Exchange Act Release No. 30146 (Ian, 10, 1992),50 SEC Docket 11.
lOO'fheReport, which was submitted jointly by the Department of the Treasury,
Federal Reserve System, and the Securities and Exchange Commission, did not
reach a conclusion whether additional regulation of the government securities
market was necessary. The Joint Report did conclude, however, that "expanded
access to government securities information would serve the public interest." See
Study of the Effectiveness of the Implementation of the Government Securities Act of 1986
(Oct. 1990), at 87.
101Department of the Treasury, Securities and Exchange Commission, and
Federal Reserve System, Joint Report on the Government Securities Market Gan. 1992).
l02Transparency is the degree to which real-time information about completed
transactions and firm quotations in a given market is made available to the public.
103Automated
Securities Trading: A Discussion of Selected Critical Issues, Prepared
by the Division of Market Regulation, for the 1991 IOSCO Annual Meeting, Panel
on Automated Trading, Washington D.C., Sept. 26,1991.
l04Securities Exchange Act Release No. 29498 (Iuly 30,1991),49 SEC Docket
0721.
lOsSecurities Exchange Act Release No. 28580 (Oct. 25, 1990), 55 FR 45895
(Amex, MSE, NYSE and Phlx) 47 SEC Docket 1078 and Securities Exchange Act
Release No. 28694 (Dec. 12, 1990), 55 FR 52119 (NASD) 47 SEC Docket 1688. The
CBOE, CSE, and PSE circuit breaker procedures previously had been approved on
a permanent basis while the BSE procedures had been approved through October
1991.
l06Securities Exchange Act Release No. 28767 Gan.11, 1991),56FR 1831,47SEC
Docket 2198.
l07Securities Exchange Act Release No. 28722 (Dec. 28,1990),47 SEC Docket
2070.
108SecuritiesExchange Act Release Nos. 28544 (Oct. 16, 1990),47 SEC Docket
0909 (AMEX, NYSE, Phlx and PSE); 28587 (Oct. 30, 1990),47 SEC Docket 1281; and
28701 (Dec. 13, 1990),47 SEC Docket 1695.
l09Securities Exchange Act Release No. 28627 (Nov. 19, 1990),46 SEC Docket
1410 (CBOE) and Securities Exchange Release No. 28634 (Nov. 20, 1990),46 SEC
Docket 1422 (MSE).
llOSecurities Exchange Act Release No. 29578 (Aug. 16, 1991),49 SEC Docket
0997.
111Letterfrom William H. Heyman, Director, Division of Market Regulation,
SEC, to Joanne T. Medero, General Counsel, CFTC, dated Aug. 23, 1991.
1l2Letterfrom William H. Heyman, Director, Division of Market Regulation,
SEC, to Joanne T. Medero, General Counsel, CFTC, dated Sept. 24,1991.

97

l13Securities Exchange Act Release No. 29929 (Nov. 12, 1991), 56 FR 58194
(Nov. 18, 1991),50 SEC Docket 0315.
l14Securities Exchange Act Release No. 29643 (Sept. 6, 1991),49 SEC Docket
1237.
115pub.1. No. 101-550, 104 Stat. 2713 (1990).
116Letterregarding NASDAQ International Service (Oct. 11,1991).
mThe Commission approved the service as a two-year pilot program in
Securities Exchange Act Release No. 29812 (Oct. 11, 1991),49 SEC Docket 1937.
118Letterregarding the Application of Rules 10b-6, lOb-7, and 10b-8 to Rights
Offerings and Rule 144A Transactions Involving Foreign Securities (Apr. 25,1991).
.
119Letterregarding TransCanada Pipelines Limited (june 4,1991).
12Letterregarding Telefonos de Mexico, S.A. de C.V. (May 10,1991).
121Letterregarding Societe Nationale Elf Aquitaine (june 7,1991).
122Letterregarding Novo Nordisk A/S (june 12, 1991).
123SecuritiesExchange Act Release No. 29354 (june 21,1991),49 SEC Docket
267.
1240rder of Exemption from Provisions of Rules lOb-6 and 10b-13 under the
Securities Exchange Act of 1934for Canadian Multijurisdictional Disclosure System,
Securities Exchange Act Release No. 29355 (Iune 21,1991),49 SEC Docket 351.
125Letterregarding Distributions of Certain Canadian Securities (Aug. 22,
1991).
126SecuritiesExchange Act Release No. 29274 (Iune 4, 1991),48 SEC Docket
1829.
127SecuritiesExchange Act Release No. 29275 (june 5, 1991),48 SEC Docket
1847.
128Id.

129SecuritiesExchange Act Release No. 29278 (june 7,1991),49 SEC Docket 3.
130Lettersdated Oct. 11, 1990 to David 1. Lloyd, [r., Esq., of Dewey, Ballantine,
Bushby, Palmer & Wood on behalf of mCA Limited and mCA Inc. and Nov. 27,
1990,to Robin Monro-Davies, President mCA Limited, from Michael A. Macchiaroli,
Assistant Director of the Division of Market Regulation. Letter dated Aug. 6, 1991
to Gregory A. Root, President of Bankwatch, from Michael A. Macchiaroli,
Assistant Director of the Division of Market Regulation.
131TheSSE withdrew its registration as a national securities exchange and
ceased operations on May 24, 1991.
132SecuritiesExchange Act Release No. 29237 (May 24,1991),48 SEC Docket
1718.
1335ecuritiesExchange Act Release No. 29515 (Aug. 2, 1991),49 SEC Docket
779.
134SecuritiesExchange Act Release Nos. 29301 (Iune 13, 1991),49 SEC Docket
45; 29297 (june 13, 1991),49 SEC Docket 26; 29300 (Iune 13, 1991),49 SEC Docket
42;29749 (Sept. 27, 1991), 49 SEC Docket 1644;29305 (Iune 13, 1991),49 SEC Docket
50; 29543 (Aug. 9,1991),49 SEC Docket 856.
135SecuritiesExchange Act Release No. 29631 (Aug. 30,1991),49 SEC Docket
1202.
136SecuritiesExchange Act Release No. 28556 (Oct. 19, 1990),47 SEC Docket
1049.

98

137Securities Exchange

Act Release No. 29638 (Aug. 30, 1991),49 SEC Docket

1222.
138Securities Exchange Act Release Nos. 29809 and 29810 (Oct. 10, 1991), 49 SEC
Docket 1835, 1841.
139Securities Exchange Act Release No. 28635 (Nov. 21, 1990),46 SEC Docket
1424.
140Securities Exchange Act Release No. 28517 (Oct. 5, 1990),47 SEC Docket
0802. Rule 19c-4 was adopted by the Commission
on July 7, 1988 and was
subsequently
vacated by the U.S, Court of Appeals for the District of Columbia
Circuit on August 3, 1990. See Business Roundtablev. S.E.c., 905 F.2d 406, Fed. Sec.
L. Rep. (CCH) ~ 95,291 (D.c. Cir. June 12,1990).
141Securities Exchange Act Release No. 29582 (Aug. 19, 1991),49 SEC Docket
1002.
142Securities Exchange Act Release Nos. 29166 (May 7,1991),48 SEC Docket
1468; 29087 (Apr. 15, 1991),48 SEC Docket 1162; 29151 (May 1, 1991),48 SEC Docket
1397; and 28783 (Ian. 15, 1991),47 SEC Docket 2219.
143Securities Exchange Act Release Nos. 29166 (May 7,1991),48 SEC Docket
1468, and 29151 (May 1, 1991),48 SEC Docket 1397.
144Securities Exchange Act Release Nos. 29132 (Apr. 26,1991),48 SEC Docket
1374, and 29087 (Apr. 15, 1991),48 SEC Docket 1162.
145SecuritiE!'sExchange Act Release Nos. 29087 (Apr. 15, 1991),48 SEC Docket
1162; 29151 (May 1,1991),48 SEC Docket 1397; and 28783 (Ian, 15, 1991),47 SEC
Docket 2219.
146Securities Exchange Act Release No. 28765 (Ian, 10,1991),47
SEC Docket
2161.
147Securities Exchange Act Release No. 29732 (Sept. 24, 1991),49 SEC Docket
1549.
14S5ecurities Exchange Act Release No. 28842 (Ian. 31, 1991),48 SEC Docket
0113.
149Securities Exchange Act Release No. 28928 (Mar. 1, 1991),48 SEC Docket
0542.
lSOSecurities Exchange Act Release No. 29576 (Aug. 16, 1991),49 SEC Docket
0994.
151Securities Exchange Act Release No. 29311 (Iune 14, 1991),49 SEC Docket
0135.
152Securities Exchange Act Release No. 29639 (Aug. 30, 1991),49 SEC Docket
1230.
153Securities Exchange Act Release Nos. 28845 (Feb. 1, 1991); 28855 (Feb. 5,
1991); and 29206 (May 17,1991),48 SEC Docket 0175, 0183, and 1647.
154Investment Company Act Release No. 18005 (Feb. 20, 1991),48 SEC Docket
433.
155Investment Company Act Release No. 18381 (Oct. 29, 1991),50 SEC Docket

3.
156Investment Company

Act Release No. 17534

Gune

15, 1990),46 SEC Docket

875.
157'fhe total does not include the seven power supply company
registered holding companies.
lSSResolution Trust Corporation
(pub. avail. Sept. 24,1991).

subsidiaries

of

99

159NABAsset Corporation (pub. avail. June 20, 1991).
160S.o.Indeval, S.A. de C.V. (pub. avail. Oct. 19, 1990).
161ClintonC. Hotaling (pub. avail. Nov. 16, 1990).
162Investment Company Institute (pub. avail. June 11, 1991).
163Investment Company Institute (pub. avail. July 31, 1991).
164TheProvident Bank (pub. avail. Sept. 24, 1991).
165Investment Company Act Release Nos. 18294 (Sept. 3, 1991),49 SEC Docket
1275 (Notice) and 18338 (Oct. 1, 1991),49 SEC Docket 1713 (Order).
166Investment Company Act Release Nos. 17942 (Ian, 10, 1991),47 SEC Docket
2179 (Notice) and 17981 (Feb. 5, 1991),48 SEC Docket 212 (Order).
167Jnvestment Company Act Release Nos. 18424 (Nov. 27, 1991), 50 SEC
Docket 588 (Notice) and 18457 (Dec. 24, 1991),50 SEC Docket 981 (Order).
168Investment Company Act Release Nos. 18323 (Sept. 18, 1991),49 SEC Docket
1481 (Notice) and 18492 (Oct. 16, 1991),50 SEC Docket 432 (Order); International
Series Release Nos. 316 (Sept. 18, 1991),49 SEC Docket 1495 (Notice) and 330 (Oct.
16,1991),50 SEC Docket 1432 (Order).
169JnvestmentCompany Act Release Nos. 18047 (Mar. 8, 1991), 48 SEC Docket
813 (Notice) and 18069 (Mar. 28, 1991),48 SEC Docket 943 (Order); International
Series Release Nos. 242 (Mar. 8, 1991),48 SEC Docket 846 (Notice) and 248 (Mar. 28,
1991),48 SEC Docket 951 (Order).
17QWesternLife Insurance Company, et al., Investment Company Act Release Nos.
18103 (Apr. 17, 1991),48 SEC Docket 1252 (Notice) and 18150 (May 15, 1991),48 SEC
Docket 1603 (Order).
17lCharter National Life Insurance Company, et al., Investment Company Act
Release Nos. 18083 (Apr. 8, 1991),48 SEC Docket 1082 (Notice) and 18130 (May 1,
1991),48 SEC Docket 1520 (Order).
172MutualBenefit Fund, et al. (pub. avail. Aug. 23,1991).
173VariableInvestors Series Trust (pub. avail. Oct. 24, 1991).
17Wortheast Utilities, Holding Company Act Release No. 25221 (Dec. 21,1990),
47 SEC Docket 1887.
17SNortheast Utilities, Holding Company Act Release No. 25273 (Mar. 15, 1991),
48 SEC Docket 776.
176City of Holyoke Gas & Elec. Dept. v. Securities and Exchange Commission, Case
No. 91-100l.
177Eastern Utilities. Assoc., Holding Company Act Release No. 25330 (june 13,
1991),49 SEC Docket 67.
178TheSouthern Company, Holding Company Act Release No. 25371 (Sept. 6,
1991),49 SEC Docket 134l.
179InreColumbia Gas Systems, Inc., Case No. 91-803, 804 (B.R.Del. July 31,1991).
180Columbia Gas System, Inc., Holding Company Act Release No. 25380 (Sept.
20,1991),49 SEC Docket 1570.
181WPL Holdings,Inc., Holding Company Act Release No. 25377 (Sept. 20,
1991),49 SEC Docket 1440, on remand from Wisconsin's Envtl. Decade, Inc. v. SEC, 882
F.2d 523 (D.c. Cir. 1989), aff'g in part and rev'g in part WPL Holdings, Inc., Holding
Company Act Release No. 24590 (Feb. 26,1988),40 SEC Docket 634.
182Nevada Sun-Peak Limited Partnership (pub. avail. May 14, 1991).
183SecuritiesAct Release No. 6902 (july 9,1991),49 SEC Docket 0267.
184SecuritiesAct Release No. 6896 (june 18, 1991), 48 SEC Docket 1829.
100

185Securities Exchange

Act Release No. 29275 (June 18, 1991),48 SEC Docket

1847.
186Securities
187Securities
188Securities
189Securities

Act Release No. 6900
Act Release No. 6922
Act Release No. 6894
Exchange Act Release

(July 2, 1991), 49 SEC Docket 0120.
(Nov. 12,1991),50 SEC Docket 12.
(June 4,1991),48 SEC Docket 1632.
No. 28869 (Feb. 26,1991),48 SEC Docket

0234.
1905ecurities Exchange

Act Release No. 29131 (May 14, 1991), 48 SEC Docket

1370.
1915ecurities Exchange Act Release No. 30147 (Jan. 6, 1992),49 SEC Docket.
1925ecurities Act Release No. 6891 (Apr. 30, 1991), 48 SEC Docket 1131.
1935ecurities Exchange Act Release No. 29315 (July 2, 1991),49 SEC Docket
0139.
1945ecurities Act Release No. 6895 (June 18, 1991), 48 SEC Docket 1827.
1955ecurities Act Release No. 6892 (May 21,1991),48
SEC Docket 1442.

1990 Annual Report, United States Securities and Exchange Commission, at 64.
1975tatement of Financial Accounting Standards No. 107, Disclosures About Fair
Value of Financial Instruments (Dec. 1991).
198TestimonyofRichard C.Breeden, Chairman, SEC, Concerning Issues Involving
Financial Institutions and Accounting Principles, before the Senate Committee on
Banking, Housing and Urban Affairs, Sept. 10, 1990 at 32.
1995taffAccounting Bulletin No. 89 (Jan. 7, 1991),47 SEC Docket 2189 (Financial
StatementRequirementsofTroubledFinancial
Institutions Acquired or to be Acquired).
2005taffAccounting Bulletin No. 90 (Jan. 31, 1991), 48 SEC Docket 158 (Specific
Matters Relating to the Bankruptcy of an Accounting Firm which had Public Company
Oients).
201
Staff AccountingBulletin
No. 91 (July 19, 1991), 49 SEC Docket 621 (Accounting
for Income Tax Benefits Associated with Bad Debts of Thrifts).
202Securities Act Release No. 33-6789 (July 19,1988),41 SEC Docket 681.
203Financial Reporting Release No. 37 (July 29,1991),49 SEC Docket 710.
204TheIASC was founded in 1973 by private professional accountancy bodies of
nine countries. Today, the accountancy bodies of 79 countries are members. These
accountancy organizations typically are not the standard-setting bodies of the countries
they represent.
2(61990Annual Report, United States Securities and Exchange Commission, at 66.
206Statement of Financial Accounting Standards No. 106, Employers Accounting
for Post-Retirement
Benefits Other than Pensions (Dec. 1990).
207Statement of Financial Accounting Standards No. 109, Accounting for Income
Taxes (Feb. 1992).
208Statement on Auditing Standards No. 66, Communication
of Matters about
Interim
Financial Information Filed or to be Filed with Specified
Regulatory
Agencies-An
Amendment of SAS No. 36, Review of Interim Financial Information
(June 1991).
209Statement on Auditing Standards No. 69, The Meaning of Present Fairly in
Conformity with Generally Accepted Accounting Principles in the Independent
Auditor's Report (Feb. 1992).
210Annual Report/1990-1991,
Public Oversight Board, SEC Practice Section,
American Institute of Certified Public Accountants.
196

101

211Statement of Position 90-7, Financial Reporting by Entities in Reorganization
Under the Bankruptcy Code (Nov. 19, 1990).
2UStatement of Position 90-8, Financial Accounting and Reporting by Continuing
Care Retirement Communities (Nov. 28, 1990).
213$tatement of Position 91-1, Software Revenue Recognition (Dec. 12, 1991).
214IASCE 36, Cash Flow Statements (Iuly 1991); E 37, Research and Development
Activities (Aug. 1991); E 38, Inventories (Aug. 1991); E 39, Capitalization of Borrowing
Costs (Aug. 1991); and E 40, Financial Instruments (Sept. 1991).
21SFiguressubmitted for earlier years were compiled usingadifferentmethodology.
Each case was included in inventory until the Commission issued a decision. For 1991,
a case was included in inventory until a draft opinion was provided to the Commission
by the General Counsel.
216947F.2d551 (2d Or. 1991)(en bane), petitionfor cert. filed, 60U.S.L.W. 3500 (U.S.
Jan. 21, 1992) (No. 91-1085).
217933F.2d 403 (7th Or. 1991),cert. denied, 60U.S.L.W. 3520 (U.S. Jan. 28, 1992) (No.
91-605).
218[Current] Fed. Sec. L. Rep. (CCH) ~
 96,464 (9th Or. 1991).
219794F2d 1388 (9th Cir. 1986).
2211328
U.S. 293 (1946).
221110S.Ct. 945 (1990).
222111S.Ct. 2773 (1991).
123947F2d 897 (10th Or. 1991).
224111 S.Ct. 2173 (1991).
225111 S.Ct. 2749 (1991).
226111 S.Ct. 1711 (1991).
227441 U.S. 471 (1979).
228Combellick, Reynolds & Russell Inc., Richard P. Angell, and Raymond R. Russell, Jr.,
Initial Decision Release No. 21 (june 19, 1990),49 SEC Docket 244.
229Crim. No. WN-90-0404 (D. Md.).
230No.91-70272 (9th Cir.).
231SafecardServices, Inc. v. SEC, 926 F.2d 1197 (D.C Or. 1991).
232Bolenv. SEC, Case No. 91-0108 HLH (GHKx) (CD. Cal. Feb. 5,1991); Swinkv.
SEC, Misc. No. 4-91-402A (Mar. 25, 1991); Sepe v. SEC, Misc. No. 91-0128 (Apr. 5, 1991);
Gotshalkv. SEC, Case No. C91-0064 TEMMisc. (N.D. Cal. Apr. 22, 1991); Greenev. SEC,
Case No. 91 N1413 (D. Colo. Sept. 9, 1991);Jacksonv. SEC, C.A.No. 91 N 1414 (D. Colo.
Sept. 9, 1991); Kuhlman v. SEC, 8: CV91-0652 (D. Neb. Dec. 19, 1991); Kupchynskyv. SEC,
Misc. No. Ml8-304 (S.D.N.Y. Nov. 25,1991); and Lavinev. SEC, ex. No. 91-8728 (S.D.
Fla.).
233
8: CV91-0652 (0. Neb. Dec. 19, 1991).
234Securities Exchange Act Release No. 29017 (Mar. 28, 1991),48 SEC Docket 878.
23S5ecurities Exchange Act Release No. 29446 (Iuly 17, 1991),49 SEC Docket 573.
236Securities Exchange Act Release No. 29468 (luly 23,1991),49 SEC Docket 635.
237Securities Exchange Act Release No. 28925 (Feb. 28,1991),48 SEC Docket 486.
238pub. L. No. 102-242, 105 Stat. 2236 (1991).
239
111 S.Ct. 2773 (1991).
240Inre Columbia Gas Systems, Inc., Case No. 91-803 (Bankr. D. Del.).
241Inre Federated Department Stores, Inc. and Allied Stores Corp., No. 1-90-00130
(Bankr. S.D. Ohio, Mar. 7, 1991).
102

242Kaiser Steel Resources, Inc. v.Action Traders, lnc., No. 90-1243 (10th Cir.) and Kaiser
Steel Resources, Inc. v. Pearl Brewing Co., No. 90-1245 (10th Cir.).
wIn re Amdura Corp., Case No. 90-3811-E et. seq. (Bankr. D. Colo.).
244Inre Amdura Corp., No. 91 N 1521 (D. Colo.).
24SInreAmerican Reserve Corp., 840 F.2d 487 (7th Cir.1988); In re The Charter Co., 876
F.2d866 (l1thCir. 1989),petitionforcert. dismissed, 110S.Ct. 3232 (1990); and Reidv. White
Motor Corp., 886 F.2d 1462 (6th Cir. 1989), cert. denied, 110 S.Ct. 1809 (1990). See also In
reChateaugayCorp., 104Bankr. 626 (S.D.N.Y.1989); and In reZenith Laboratories, lnc., 104
Bankr. 659 (D.N.]. 1989). Cf In re Mortgage & Realty Trust, 125 Bankr. 575 (Bankr. CD.
Cal. 1991).

246Inre LTV Corp., Case No. 86 B 11270 through 86 B 11334 Inclusive, 86 B 11402
and 86 B 11464 (BRL) (Bankr. S.D.N.Y.).
WIn re LTV Corp., 930 F.2d 245 (2d Cir. 1991).
248Inre LTV Corp., 104 B.R. 626 (S.D.N.Y 1989).
249SIPCv. Blinder, Robinson & Co., lnc., No. 90-1223 (10th Gr.).
2SOIn re Revco D.S., lnc., Nos. 588-1308 through 588-1321, 588-1305, 588-1761
through 588-1812, and 588-1820 Bankr. (N.D. Ohio).
251Inre Banyan Corp., Case No. 9112486(CB) (Bankr. S.D.N.Y.).
252Inre Amdura Corp., Case No 90-3811-E et. seq. (Bankr. D. Colo.).
253Inre Banyan Corp., Case No. 91 12486(CB) (Bankr. S.D.N.Y.).
254See,e.g., In re Southmark Corp. and In re SIS Corp., 56th Annual Report at 91
(objection to confirmation of reorganization
plan); In re Custom Laboratories, lnc., 53rd
Annual Report at 74 (objection to disclosure statement); In re Energy Exchange Corp. and
Vulcan Energy Corp. and In re Storage Technology Corp., 53rd Annual Report at 74-75
(objection to confirmation

of reorganization

plan).

255Inre Southland Corp., Case No. 390-37119-HCA-ll

(Bankr. ND. Tex.).

103

UNCONSOLIDATED

Table 2
ANNUAL REVENUES AND EXPENSES FOR BROKER-DEALERS
DOING A PUBLIC BUSINESS
1986-1990 jJ
($ in Millions)

1986

"
Reyenues
Securities Commissions
Gains (Losses) In Trading and
Investment Accounts
Profits (Losses) from Underwriting
and Selling Groups
Margin Interest
Revenues from Sale of
Investment Company Shares
All Other Revenues
Total Revenues

1987

1988

1990P

1989'

$13,513.2

$16,016.2

$11,5153

$13,012.7

$11,661.0

16,353.2

12,393.4

15,296.3

15,048.6

14,869.3

6,739.0
3,0058

5,718.5
3,467.0

5,605.6
3,1355

4,536.4
3,813.3

3,728.0
3,158.9

4,540.1
17.432.8
$61,584.0

4,069.5
21.450.2
$63,114.8

2,643.2
26,039.0
$64,235.0

3,037.8
35,189.4
$74,638.3

3,241.6
32,5784
$69,237.2

$10,675.4

$11,032.4

$ 8,993.3

$ 8,962.7

$ 8,245.9

10,7940

11,869.7

11,9009

12,1914

12,209.2

2,040.8

2,185.2

2,063.5

2,090.0

1,983.8

2,781.5
13,691.6
384.9
14,024.1
$54,392.3

3,355.8
16,179.1
3999
16,2841
$61,306.0

2,641.0
19,268.1
451.9
15,968.3
$61,287.0

2,8679
29,3546
5160
16,348.5
$72,331.0

2,796.4
27,630.6
509.4
15,581.0
$68,956.4

$ 7,191.7
11.7
29.0

$ 1,808.8
2,9
6.1

$ 2,948.0
4.6
9.0

$ 2,307.3
3.1
6.8

$

6,235

6,307

6,005

5,746

~
Registered Bepresentatves'
Compensation (Part" Only) 2/
Other Employee Compensation
and Benefits
Compensation to Partners and
Voting Stockholder Officers
Commissions and Clearance Paid
to Other Brokers
Interest Expenses
Regulatory Fees and Expenses
All Other Expenses 2/
Total Expenses
Income
Pre-tax
Pre-tax
Pre-tax

and profitability
Income
Profit Margin
Return on Equity

Number of Firms

280.8
04
0.8
5,424

Figures may not add due to rounding.
r = revised
p = preliminary
11 Calendar year data IS reported in this table.
2/ Registered representatives' compensanon for firms that neither carry nor clear is included in "other expenses.
as this expense Item is not reported separately on Part IIA of the Focus Report.
Source: Focus Report

106

Table 3
UNCONSOLIDATED
BALANCE SHEET FOR BROKER-DEALERS
DOING A PUBLIC BUSINESS
YEAR-END, 1986-1990 lJ
($ in Millions)

1986

1987

1988

1989'

1990P

~
Cash
Receivables from Other
Broker-Dealers
Receivables from Customers
Receivables from Non-customers
Long Positions In Securities
and Commodities
Securities and Investments
Not Readily Marketable
Securities Purchased Under
Agreements to Resell (Part" Only)
Exchange Membership
Other Assets 21
Total Assets
Liabilities and Equity CaPItal
Bank Loans Payable
Payables to Other Broker-Dealers
Payables to Non-Customers
Payables to Customers
Short Positions In Securities
and Commodities
Securities Sold Under Repurchase
Agreements (Part" Only) 21
Other Non-subordinated Liabilities
Subordinated Liabilities
Total Liabilities
Equity Capital
Number of Firms

$ 8,961.0

21

21

$ 7,538.9 $ 9,612.2

$ 9,870.8 $ 10,968.1

65,407.4
54,177.3
3,5758

61,9531
38,706.4
3,370.1

67,598.2
40,236.3
3,061.9

90,157.3
40,320.4
1,362.9

118,413.2
37,177.8
1,157.7

165,748.5

118,150.2

130,758.1

211,232.1

208,1663

490.4

4604

618.9

1,247.5

1,190.2

187,568.9
294.6
20.328.8
$506,552.7

213,935.0
345.4
21.339.1
$465,798.6

258,034.5
363.7
23,424.1
$533,707.8

257,235.0 237,235.6
360.5
332.3
26,356.5
26,014.3
$638,143.0 $640,655.5

$ 38,494.3
51,069.4
3,427.1
40,7472

$ 20,756.0
43,138.1
4,173.1
34,328.7

$ 22,953.6
46,336.5
4,143.7
39,312.9

$ 22,759.5 $ 18,342.2
49,6020
46,0389
4,610.4
7,510.5
46,969.3
55,5497

76,972.8

73,7258

92,414.4

93,682.7

104,690.0

223,832.2
34,158.4
9,955.3
$478,656.7

213,049.9 243,828.7
32,681.0
37,016.5
12,306.4
13,534.5
$434,158.9 $499,540.8

328,382.8 320,7733
43,067.2
40,973.2
14,991.9
14,763.0
$604,065.8 $608,640.8

$ 27,896.1

$ 31,639.6

$ 34,166.9

$ 34,077.2 $ 32,014.6

6,235

6,307

6,005

5,746

5,424

Figures may not add due to rounding.
r = revised
p = preliminary
jj Calendar year data is reported in this table.
21 Resale agreements and repurchase agreements for firms that neither carry nor clear are Included in "omer
assets. and "omar non-subordinated liabilities. respectively, as these items are not reported separately on
Part IIA of the Focus Report.
Source: Focus Report

107

Carrying and Clearing Firms
Data for carrying and clearing firms that do a public business is presented here
to allow for more detail as reporting requirements for firms that neither carry nor
clear differ and data aggregation of these two types of firms necessarily results in
loss of detail. Carrying and clearing firms are those firms that clear securities
transactions or maintain possession or control of customers' cash or securities. This
group produced 86% of the securities industry's total revenues in calendar year
1990.
Brokerage activity accounted for about 23 cents of each revenue dollar in 1990,
down slightly from the level in 1989. Securities commissions were the most
important component, producing 14 cents of each dollar of revenue, while margin
interest and revenues from mutual fund sales generated 5 cents and 3 cents,
respecti vel y.
The dealer side produced 62 cents of each dollar of revenue, also slightly lower
than that earned in 1989. Twenty-three cents came from trading and investments,
up from 21 cents in 1989. Six cents came from underwriting, down from 1989, and
34 cents came from other securities-related revenues, down from 37 cents in 1989.
The latter is comprised primarily of interest income from securities purchased
under agreements to resell and fees from handling private placements, mergers,
and acquisitions.
Expenses exceeded revenues in 1990, resulting in a profitless year, compared
to a pre-tax profit margin of 2 cents per revenue dollar in 1989.
Interest remained the most important expense category in 1990, consuming 45
cents of each revenue dollar, compared to 44 cents in 1989. Employee-related
expenses, registered representatives' compensation, and clerical and administrative employees' expenses increased slightly to 29 cents from 28 cents in 1989.
Total assets of broker-dealers carrying and clearing customer accounts were
$632.1 billion at year-end 1990, virtually unchanged from 1989. Thedistributionof
these assets changed substantially, however. Driven primarily by an increase in the
contract value of securities borrowed, receivables from other broker-dealers grew
by $27.3 billion to $116.5 billion. By contrast, reverse repurchase agreements
declined by $20.0 billion to $237.2 billion. Even with this decline, reverse repurchase
agreements and U.S. Government securities combined still account for 60% of all
assets. Holdings of corporate securities by broker-dealers declined sharply in 1990.
The dollar value of corporate debt securities fell $3.8 billion to $26.4 billion while
the value of stock and securities held in arbitrage accounts declined by $4.5 billion
to $11.6 billion.
Total liabilities increased slightly to $604.3 billion in 1990. A small decline in
repurchase agreements was more than compensated for by increases in short
positions and monies owed customers. Owners' equity fell 7%, from $30.0 billion
in 1989 to $27.8 billion in 1990.

108

en

~

<Ll

Q)",

>~

en

~~
'"~ =~
E

c

b

<Ll
0-

-0
'"
-0
C

><

W

0

C
Q)

CE
0

'" u

(ij -~

~~

'-'a.

E
Q)

-",

o
en
O'loo
T""":E

-oi
Co
C

Cl

~o:

~

C
iii

0>-

::!..
2

-

C

E ~
E

00:

>- w

'""'-C

~
~

0>
~

0

~~
~ '"

-0
0>
~

C
Q)
C-

~

0

o

C

~ E
ClU
Q)

a:

'":J

E

0: ...J

III
:510 ___

en

C

EM

o

Ce:(

I-

C-

o ~
O -0
'"

z

Ql

U

:J 0

e:(C}
...J
...J_

'<t

"

u '"

0:U:::

'"

~~

~

C}

::lz
0z>-0:
000:
We:(

j::0
-0:
0:
0
::lu.

o
w
en

<Ll
::J
C
<Ll

>
c:

<Ll

o
en

<Ll
(J

'-

::J

o
en

109

UNCONSOUDATED

Table 6
BALANCE SHEET FOR CARRYING/CLEARING
BROKER-DEALERS jJ
($ in Millions)

Year-end 1989'
Percent
of Total
Dollars
Assets

~

Cash
Receivables from Other
Broker-Dealers
(a) Securities Failed to Deliver
(b) Securities Borrowed
(c) Other
Receivables from Customers
Receivables from Non-customers
Long Positions In Secu rmes
and Commodities
(a) Bankers Acceptances,
Certificates of Deposit and
Commercial Paper
(b) U S. and Canadian Government
Obligations
(c) State and MUnicipal Government
Obligations
(d) Corporate Obligations
(e) Stocks and Warrants
(I) Options
(g) Arbitrage
(h) Other Securities
(I) Spot Commodities
Securities and Investments
Not Readily Marketable
Securities Purchased Under
Agreements to Resell
Exchange Membership
Other Assets
Total Assets

Year-end 1990P
Percent
of Total
Dollars
Assets

Percent
Change

1989-1990

$ 9,3188

1.5

$ 10,405.3

16

11.7

89,159.0
6,734.9
69,138.1
13,2859
40,3204
1,1265

142
1.1
11.0
21
64
02

116,4693
7,318.7
96,036.4
13,114.2
37,177 8
899.2

18.4
12
15.2
21
59
0.1

306
8.7
38.9
(1.3)
(78)
(20.2)

207,096.3

32.9

204,669.8

324

(1.2)

14,712.5

2.3

14,872.5

24

1.1

136,056.1

21.6

141,058.1

22.3

3.7

7,082.8
30,2232
13,400.8
8245
2,705.7
1,437.4
444.3

1.1
48
2.1
01
0.4
0.2
0.1

7,908.1
26,415.7
9,7075
8640
1,877.1
1,422.5
334.1

1.3
4.2
1.5
0.1
0.3
02
0.1

11.7
(126)
(27.6)
4.8
(306)
(1.0)
(24.8)

1,1320

02

1,052.1

0.2

(7.1)

257,235.0
324.1
24,3354
$630.047.3

40.8
0.1
3.9
1000

237,235.6
295.7
23,897.7
$632,1026

37.5

$ 22,745.3
48,921.5
9,545.1
31,060.0
8,316.4
4,481.2
46,969.3

3.6
7.8
1.5
49
1.3
0.7
7.5

$ 18,257.7

.

3.8
1000

(7.8)
(8.8)
(1.8\
03

45,371.6
5,923.1
31,181.8
8,266.7
7,287.4
55,5497

2.9
7.2
0.9
4.9
1.3
1.2
88

(19.7)
(7.3)
(37.9)
04
(0.6)
62.6
183

liabilities and Eguitv Capital
Bank Loans Payable
Payables to Other Broker-Dealers
(a) Securities Failed to Receive
(b) Securities Loaned
(c) Other
Payables to Non-customers
Payables to Customers
Short Positions In Securities
and Commodities
Securities Sold Under Repurchase
Agreements
Other Non-subordinated liabilities
Subordinated liabilities
Total liabilities

92,121.5

14.6

102,898.9

16.3

11.7

328,832.8
41,887.6
14.4886
$599,997.7

52.1
6.6
23
95.2

320,773.3
39,870.5
14.260.5
$604.269.7

50.7
6.3
2.3
95.6

(23)
(4.8)
(1.6\
07

Equity Capital

$ 30,049.5

48

$ 27,832.9

4.4

(7.4)

Number of Firms

1,053

947

Figures m~ not add due to rounding
 under .0 %
r = revised
p = srelimlnary
1/ alendar year data IS reported in this table.
Note: Includes information for firms dOing a public business that carry customer accounts or clear securities
transactions.
Source: Focus Report

111

Self-Regulatory Organizations:
Sheet Structure

Expenses, Pre-tax Income and Balance

In 1990, the total revenues of all self-regulatory organizations (SROs) with
marketplace jurisdiction fell approximately $6 million to $864 million, a decrease
of nearly one percent from 1989 (1989 recognized a 5.1% increase over 1988,1988
a 7.8% decrease over 1987). The New York Stock Exchange (NYSE), National
Association of Securities Dealers (NASD), American Stock Exchange (Amex), and
Chicago Board Options Exchange (CBOE) accounted for 82.3% of all SRO total
revenues, up from 79.5% in 1989. The SROs' revenues are earned primarily from
listing, trading, and market data fees. The NYSE reported total revenues of $348.6
million, virtually unchanged from 1989, of which $187.1 million or 54% consisted
of listing and trading fees while $52.5 million or 15% consisted of market data fees.
The Amex reported total revenues of $106.7 million, down 2.7% from 1989. The
CBOE reported total revenues of $73.1 million, up 3.8%from the previous year. The
NASD reported an increase in total revenues of $19.8 million, or 12.2%, to $182.6
million. Other SROs reporting revenue increases were the Boston Stock Exchange
(BSE), which reported a $100,000 increase, or nearly one percent, to $13.4 million;
and the Cincinnati Stock Exchange (eSE), which recorded a 15% increase, equating
to a $500,000 increase in total revenues to $3.8 million. Other SROs that reported
a decrease in revenues were the Midwest Stock Exchange (MSE), which reported
a $4.6 million, or 5.6% decrease, to $77 million; the Philadelphia Stock Exchange
(Phlx), which reported a $14.8 million decrease, or 42%, to $20.4 million; and the
Pacific Stock Exchange (PSE), which reported a $6.1 million decrease, or 13.7%, to
$38.4 million. The largest percentage increase in total revenues, 15%,was experienced
by the eSE. The largest magnitude increase, $19.8 million, was recorded by the
NASD. The largest percentage decrease, 42%, was recorded by the Phlx.
The total expenses of all marketplace SROs were $846.4 million in 1990, an
increase of $14.4 million, or 1.7%, over 1989. The NASD incurred the largest
magnitude increase in expenses, $20.7 million, while the eSE experienced the
largest percentage increase, 23%. The Phlx recorded both the largest magnitude and
percentage decreases in expenses, $11.8 million, or 35.6% With aggregate total
expenses increasing and aggregate total revenues decreasing, pre-tax income of the
SROs declined in 1990 by 81.2% from 1989 levels of $7 million. The NYSE
experienced the largest magnitude decrease in pre-tax income, $7.1 million, a 70.3%
decrease from 1989. The eBOE recorded the largest percentage decrease, 857%, or
$4.7 million as pre-tax losses increased from $549,000 in 1989 to $5.2 million in 1990;
the Phlx also reported a large decrease, 150%, or$3 million. Although all ofthe SROs
suffered decreases in pre-tax income, the NASD experienced the smallest decline,
$200,000 (2.5%). The Amex recorded a decrease of $6.4 million (94%); the BSE a
decrease of $597,000 (74.8%); the eSE a decrease of $75,000 (28%); the MSE a
decrease of $2.5 million (49%); and the PSE a decrease of $5.8 million (120%).
The total assets of all marketplace SROs were $1,287 million in 1990, nearly
unchanged from 1989. Both the largest percentage increase as well as the largest
magnitude increase in total assets was experienced at the MSE where total assets
increased $67.3 million (31%) from 1989 to 1990. The total assets of the BSE, eSE,
NASD, and PSE also increased. The largest decrease in total assets occurred at the
Phlx, where total assets decreased $69.3 million (71.4%). Slight decreases also were
112

experienced by the Amex (3.1%), CBOE (6.3%), and the NYSE (4.2%). The total
liabilities of marketplace SROs in 1990, $676.8 million, decreased .7% over 1989
levels. The greatest percentage and magnitude decrease in liabilities was recorded
by the Phlx--$68.3million (95.4%). The Amex (12.8%), CBOE (8.3%), andNYSE (7%)
also experienced decreases in total liabilities. The total liabilities of the MSE
increased $65.8 million (35%). The greatest percentage increase in liabilities
occurred at the NASD, whose liabilities increased 59.7% ($21.6 million). The BSE
(1.8%), CSE (7.1%), and PSE (5.3%) also recorded increased total liabilities in 1990.
The aggregate net worth of the marketplace SROs rose $6.8 million in 1990, an
increase of 1.1%. The largest percentage increase in net worth occurred at the CSE
(18%), representing an increase of $200,000 in net worth. The NASD's net worth
increased by $12.6 million (8.6%), the largest magnitude increase. The Amex (.4%),
BSE (2%), and MSE (5.4%) also experienced positive growth in their net worth. The
CBOE (4.6%), NYSE (1.3%), Phlx (3.5%), and PSE (6.1%) experienced decreases in
net worth.
Clearing agency results have been presented in two charts by their respective
types: depositories and clearing corporations. Aggregate clearing agency service
revenue increased almost 19% ($58 million) in calendar year 1990 due to increases
in income from services. This increase offset a reduction in interest income of 24%
($35 million). All clearing agencies adjust fee structure and refunds of fees to
provide participants with attractively priced services, and to meet expenses and
provide the amount of earnings which they desire to retain.
The total of all revenues at deposi tories increased $37 million (13%), incl uding
a $20 million increase at the PTC, a $4 million increase at DTC and a $2 million
reduction at MSTC due to a decrease in service revenues. Total depository pre-tax
income was up 2%, to almost $2.6 million. The PTC reported pre-tax net income of
$1.4 million as compared to a loss of $644,000 in 1989. MSTC recorded a dollar loss
of almost a half million in 1990 compared to $204,000 in pre-tax profits in 1989. The
Philadelphia Depository Trust Company had a loss of $343,000 in contrast with the
year earlier pre-tax net profit of $338,000.
The depositories continued to expand their base for service revenues by
increasing the number of shares on deposit and the face value of debt securities in
custody. This was made possible by the further expansion of depository eligible
issues and the desire of participants to avail themselves of depository services. The
MSTC had 891,000 eligible issues at year-end, up 11%, and the DTC had 828,000, up
14%. In general, eligibility for all types of securities increased. At the end of 1990,
the total value of securities in the depository system reached $4.3 trillion, of which
the DTC alone held $4.0 trillion, including$1.8 trillion in certificates held by transfer
agents as the D'I'C's agent. More than 87% of the principal amount of outstanding
municipal bonds and 67% of the shares of all NYSE-listed U.S. companies were in
the depository system at the end of 1990.
Service revenue of clearing corporations remained at $140 million. As a group,
the clearing corporations recorded a net decrease in pre-tax income of almost $1.2
million. The National Securities Clearing Corporation's (NSCC) consolidated pretax earnings decreased by $519,000. However, International Securities Clearing
Corporation (ISCC), a wholly owned subsidiary of NSCC, posted an increase of
almost $1.9 million and Government Securities Clearing Corporation (GSCC), in
which NSCC has a 19% equity interest, had an increase of over $2.5 million. NSCC
113

recorded a decrease of almost $2.4 million. Stock Clearing Corporation of
Philadelphia reported a pre-tax loss of $376,000 after having a profit of $189,000 in
1989. The MBS Clearing Corporation reported an increase of $708,000 in pre-tax
income from continuing operations, up 24%, to almost $3.7 million.
The combined Pacific Clearing Corporation (PCC) and Pacific Securities
Depository Trust Company (PSDTC) had a pre-tax gain of almost $3.1 million, off
$68,000 from 1989. In April 1987, the PSE announced the closure of the clearance
and depository functions not essential to PSE's trading operations. The 1988 pretax figure included a $1 million provision for loss due to costs of discontinued
operations. An additional $50,000 was reserved by the PSE in 1989. In 1990 and
1989,payments charged against this reserve were $13,000 and $732,000, respectively.
The remaining reserve was valued at almost $864,000 at year end. The combined
stockholders' equity of PCC and PSDTC was almost $4.7 million at the end of 1990.
PSE, the parent corporation of pec and PSDTC, which guarantees their liabilities,
reported members' equity of $18.4 million at the end of 1990.
The aggregate shareholders' equity of all clearing corporations and depositories
rose to a new high of $95 million. Participant clearing fund contributions increased
by $347 million (27%) to over $1.6 billion. These funds provided protection to the
clearing agencies in the event of a participant default by means of a pro-rated charge
against the participants' fund.

114

coC'\Jto
VOtOO'>
tOO
0'>0'>

t--...- COC")
OLD COr--..
",t--O')t"')

ee mcnm
co r-c es
___

coco

u-iN~cO
c.eCOMV
,.....,.....co co

c.6mLtii
COQCOCC
N..~N

0000

0;;0;;

cOaicncti
O)NCDc.o
COCO

W00W

MNom

..-..-0)0>

M..-..-~

OlOf'oo-CO

ai-.:i~r.D
C") C") co I"..N..

o
en
en

r-qtOtO

W000

.Ec::
o

~
w

~
Eo
~

en
en

~
w
en
c..

Q)

__ ov

mtOMCO
Ll)LDmO

NC'\JLntO
0'> to tOM

NNCOC"')

a5~mo

air--:~ai
VMvC")

(OL,(")VIO

to O'>N CO
LDC\JMm
co LOMCO

Maici"":

"0

MI"-..-O

cs cc co

e-

vr-LnV

-.:iLtia)cO

L,(")C"')C"')M

s

ec.
15
c::

"0

___
O

-0

N

(Or--.. M ___
r--..0l00l
C")r--..NM

LDV
"""
LOLl') MCO
vLONC")

f"'---NCON

ee ce ca eo

...-C'\J(OO
..-0> ......
(0
........- LO C\J

ctiaiu-ic:i

~aiM~

cnLtir--:,..:
tOMC'>N

Lti....:....:C"i M-.:iui~

.... ~ .....

NNNN

C'>..-tOv
..- co (0 Ll)
Ncom",

LONvtO
COMN..-

C")C'\JMN

t"')C\Jt"')C\J

OCOLON
tOOlOtO
c.cOLOLO

LJ..l

en
en
Q)

.c::
f-

c;;

~

w

en
>z

ON
r--..
ONr--..O')
vtONLn

0
___
0
Omc.cLO

~Nv~
C")MC")C")

COeMM
NC")MM

cnMcnai

0')
0')

~Ma;~

O
Or--..
OM...-Ll)
MU')...-O

cOciciM
<DN~

...-U')C\JM
COOl"""M

r--.."""vol
r--..N""" ___

,.....O,.....r.o

commco

a5et'ir--:r--:

V~CONN
VLl)(OCO

_...-..-~

LnN
tOtO
C\JVO')...tOvLOO

cON-""r--:

:;::1
w

en

""

r--..r--..oc.c
mt"')o...MCOLOv

COLl)tOO

u5~u5~

C'ir--:ll"iC'i

COCO COr--..

COt--r--..t--

co_mco

t"')...-mtO
COQ)NLD
NlDe(O

CDtOOlv
NCONCO

NNMM

Nome

0(,00(,0

en
VMOO

o..-m"'"
NMtOC'
uioa5"':
MMCOCO
v~vv

c.6oC'iLti

..-OIl')M
NNNN

Ll)t--NCO
O..-LON
OOl..-CO

OlLOtOO
001
0
NCO_v

MOOHC
1.00...- ......
COCONOl

tOlt'Jr--v
Lt>O>O>N
MOCOv

moc.6er->
o,........-co

-.:ill"icOM

~u-ir--"a)

CO -e- COlt'J
NLO..-C\J

NNNN

MLOOCO
...-MvLO
,.....C'>
co

NOvtO

..-U")tOO

...-...-...-...-

LDLOLnv

Lti Lti

i

MLnNN

aiu:>cO"":
C"') C"') C"') LO

U") co C"') ee
moco...Nr-Vee
"':~NN

NNMM

to...,.

IDvlDlD
C'>V
CO

oco,.....,.....
~

N~c:ia5
ee ee r-, ......

Vr--VrvvO')ol
C)LnC'\JC")

r--NtOtO
NOOlO'>
c.cC'>v
___

~(OO')...-

LOON..-

00010
OlMr--N

OlC\JvN

et'iC'\iC"iC"i

U;a5~N

"":-.:icJ5"":

lD

...----------

~~NC"i

~x

OLDOce
O)(DLOOl

1D00MM
",c.c~~
CONCOM

Nc.ct--M
c.cmOLn
c.cvO::Hor')

mCONv
LO U')...- LO
Nr--CON

MtOCCN
OOlCCCO

u-)McO

MM"':cr:5

_m"""O)
o:iu-imu->

WWW.w.

Co4 (,4 Co4 Co4

N
w
en

cOmmN

..-NMM
NNNN

,....,mMN
C\JOCON
0..-0(1')
C\J~
tOr-- co.,....
...-...- N

ol
tOCO
c.cc.c
tOVC")O

-""~c:iM

mv .......
,.....

C"')

to..-CO

ec r-c eo r-,
_________
0
co"cOll"i"":
aiai~m

NC\JO'>N

...-...-NN

0l00lC"')

COr--N ........
O..-C:OO

maicia5
I.l")LOtCLD

OltOr--O
0)(.0
C"')
mNr--Ol

M~ot:i~

~

e

'"
E

-0:

"0

v,..... ecce
~Na;u5
___
000

------------

"4W-.w.W-

Na;Nc.O
0)0'>00

Wf.4"4"'9-

00_0

NNNN

tONr.DC'\J
LOCOVr--..
...-r--..ON

u-i"":NN
r-

t-- 0::> co

~C04(,ol)-4Il9

:::
3:
Q)

C>

~

.c::
u
x
LJ..l

.><
u

E
en
Q)

c::

'"o

.><

c.

en
Q)

.c::

:-

115

..., on co co
o Cl CD r-.
<n..,. (") N

;;

l::t

en
Z

o
~

0:

o
a...

<O<.Dr--.cn
",":q""-~
~NCO~

0:

o
o

<!J~
Zen

~~o~

;ion

~
w

o:W

en

WZ-....
(/)
...JW

oa...~

,xo

coen-o

Wo

a>ZCO

.....

ro(/)
::co
ro-en"O

..........
WC

~::>m
-Z:J

ZWo

<3Gj~
0:0:

&
m;~~~
w
~

00

>-0>
0:0>

en a co
co
(")

M

<n

~

::>
<!J
W

0:

<ON

m~
me
Iri ....
-

0

CO

~
e
.....
-

u,
...J
W

en

~

~~<;>~~

;;;

(lOcoco..-1'-

onCO"lon

..,.

-\DClOlO
""'

-';

r.i
W

~

N

Ih~j
116

..... 1'-(0_

","NW"J

N~

en
Pi
w

Table 9
SELF-REGULATORY
ORGANIZATIONS-DEPOSITORIES
REVENUES AND EXPENSES AS OF DECEMBER 31 , 199011
($ in thousands)

Depository
Trust
Company

Midwest
Securities
Trust
Company

Participants
Trust
Company

Philadelphia
Depository
Trust
Company

Total

Revenues
Depository Services

$164,290

$28,205

$ 29,549

$7,110

$229,154

87,714

2,767

6,467

601

97,549

Interest

o

o

o

o

1,464

$252,004

$32,436

$ 36,016

$7,711

$328,167

$154,401

$14,208

$

7,477

$3,770

$179,856

16,590

1,735

14,443

1,128

33,896

40,633

4,377

7,183

383

52,576

o

2,631

o

o

2,631

38,380

9,977

5,490

2,773

56,620

$250,004

$32,927

$ 34,593

$8,054

$325,578

Other
Total Revenues 21

~

Employee Costs
Data Processing and
Communications

Costs

Occupancy Costs
Contracted Services Cost
All Other Expenses
Total Expenses

Excess of Revenues
Over Expenses

'JI

1,423

($ 343)

$ 3,745

$ 15,019

$1,257

$ 38,779

$ 6,385

$178,503

$ 466

$813,971

2,000

($ 492)

Shareholders' EQuity

$ 18,758

Participant's Fund

$628,617

11

21
'JI

$

$

$

2,588

Although efforts have been made to make the presentations comparable, any single revenue or expense
category may not be completely comparable between any two clearing agencies because of (i) varying
classification methods employed by the cleanng agencies in reporting operating results and (II) the grouping
methods employed by the SEC staff due to these varying classmcation methods IndiVidual amounts
are shown to the nearest thousand Totals are the rounded result of the underlying amounts and may not be
the anthmetic sum of the parts.
Revenues are net of refunds which have the effect of reducma a clearing agency's base fee rates.
This is the result of operations and before the effect of Income taxes, which may SignifIcantly impact a clearing
agency's net income.

117

Exemptions
Section 12(h) Exemptions
Section 12(h) of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934 (Exchange Act) authorizes
the Commission to grant a complete or partial exemption from the registration
provisions of Section 12(g) or from other disclosure or insider trading provisions
of the act where such exemption is consistent with the public interest and the
protection of investors. A total of 175 applications were pending at the beginning
of 1991 and 16 applications were filed during the year. Of the 191 applications, 5
were granted and 36 were withdrawn.
In addition, approximately 40 issuers
informally advised the staff that they intend to withdraw their applications.
Exemptions for Foreign Private Issuers
Rule 12g3-2 provides various exemptions from the registration provisions of
Section 12(g) of the Exchange Act for the securities of foreign private issuers. The
most significant of these exemptions is that contained in subparagraph (b), which
provides an exemption for certain foreign issuers that submit to the Commission
on a current basis the material specified in the rule. Such material includes that
information about which investors ought reasonably to be informed and which the
issuer: (1) has made oris required to make publicpursuantto
the law of the country
in which it is incorporated or organized; (2) has filed or is required to file with a
foreign stock exchange on which its securities are traded and which was made
public by such exchange; or (3) has distributed or is required to distribute to its
securityholders. Periodically, the SEC publishes a list of those foreign issuers that
appear to be current under the exemptive provision. The most current list contains
a total of 1,066 foreign issuers.

118

Securities on Exchanges
Market Value and Share Volume

The market value of equity and option transactions (trading in stocks, options,
warrants, and rights) on registered exchanges totaled $1.7 trillion in 1990. Of this
total, $1.6 trillion, or 93%, represented the market value of transactions in stocks,
rights and warrants; $130 billion, 7%, were options transactions (including exercises
of options on listed stocks).
The value of equity and option transactions on the New York Stock Exchange
(NYSE) was $1.4 trillion, down 12% from the previous year. The market value of
such transactions on the American Stock Exchange (Amex) fell 19% to $64.8 billion
and by 16% to $287.7 billion on all other exchanges. The volume of trading in stocks
on all registered exchanges totaled 53.3 billion shares, a 2% decrease from the
previous year, with 82% of the total accounted for by trading on the NYSE.
The volume of options contracts traded on options exchanges (excluding
exercises) was 210 million contracts in 1990, 8% lower than in 1989. The market
value of these contracts increased 3% to $79.0 billion. The volume of contracts
executed on the Chicago Board Options Exchange fell 2% to 129.5 million; option

119

c:> <:> <:> <:> <C
In -e- '"

-r

'" '" ....

cOocC
<0

"C

'"

"""Na5
.... 0> In

'"

~~~

<J)

........

~
<J)

c:
o

x

UJ

<:>

'"
~


c:> <:>

eo In
<:> (")
-e- <:>

Mf

'"

<:>

a
o
.::::;

In

r:r

....

<C

C;;~~
Mrna:i

UJ

<0

.... '"
'"

~

r--:ci"":
'" -e- '"

oct"

.,-. C"')
r-;

N

&l')

("'),.....0

M~a50
C'J

ll')

C\I

&l')
,...,.

-e0

'"

LOLO"od"'O)Vr--

...... O)U":ItOCOC")
,..... C")
en N ,...,N

~MM-.:r-oci

~~r::~~~
- N

<C
<0

....

N ~

<C
<C

<:>

0>
In
In

.......
-~a:;j
....

("'l

<:> <:>

C"Jociu5

~g~
ON

120

<0
<C

<0

<:> <:> <:>

'"
'"
N
'"
as
In

.,.
vOOOMOOOOO

~

r!~

~

~N-

~
.,.

~;r;~oo

'" '"
co
-.:i
tn- en
~

....

<C

~

N

("'l

<:>

<C
<0

C"')..-NCOOc.o
Lt')('l')C')N"III:J"N
LOC)v(7)CC<q"

r:r5"':~.:i~~
...-vCO
__

"III:J" __

.....

T"""

T"""

.....

T'""

.....

Lnooor-cnooo
.....

q-

o
N

('l')

C)
Ll')

N
M

N
t::
o
c.
a>
a::

..
~

l/)

r-

N ('l')
..... OLOtO('l')CX)
,...

T"""

Ll')

..-Lt')C"')tONC')

ai

..n a:i c:o- cD ~

..-

T"""

OO)('I')

..... tOCC

N

T"""

T"""

C")

moC"')T"""T'""

0> ..... 00

CO

OONte

o
o

~N-ai~

r-,
N

OLOr-m
CO ~
~

~
<::

o

~o
E:O
u

~cn
cna>
~~
u'"
0'::
_en

en~

""
'"
C3
c:
l::
a>

l/)

<::

o

~

o
"C

c:

'"

C;;

ci:

E
~

u
w
en
a>

~

:>

o

en

121

NASDAQ (Share and Dollar Volume)

NASDAQ share and dollar volume information for over-the-counter trading
has been reported on a daily basis since November 1, 1971. At the end of 1990, there
were 4,706 issues in the NASDAQ system as compared to 4,963 a year earlier and
3,050 at the end of 1980.
Share volume for 1990 was 33.4 billion as compared to 33.5 billion in 1989 and
6.7 billion in 1980. This trading volume encompasses the number of shares bought
and sold by market makers plus their net inventory changes. The dollar volume of
shares traded in the NASDAQ system was $452.4 billion during 1990 as compared
to $431.4 billion in 1989 and $68.7 billion in 1980.
Share and Dollar Volume by Exchange

Share volume on all registered exchanges totaled 53.7billion, a decrease of 1%
from the previous year. The New York Stock Exchange accounted for 82% of the
1990share volume; the American Stock Exchange, 6%; the Midwest Stock Exchange,
5%; and the Pacific Stock Exchange, 3%.
The dollar value of stocks, rights, and warrants traded was $1.6 trillion, 12%
lower than the previous year. Trading on the New York Stock Exchange accounted
for 86% of the total. The Midwest Stock Exchange and Pacific Stock Exchange
contributed 5% and 3%, respectively. The American Stock Exchange accounted for
2% of dollar volume.

122

Table 12
SHARE VOLUME BY EXCHANGES
(In Percentage)

11

Year

Total Share
Volume
(In Thousands)

NYSE

AMEX

MSE

PSE

PHLX

SSE

CSE

Others

1945
1950
1955
1960
1961
1962
1963
1964
1965
1966
1967
1968
1969
1970
1971
1972
1973
1974
1975
1976
1977
1978
1979
1980
1981
1982
1983
1984
1985
1986
1987
1988
1989
1990

769,018
893,320
1,321,401
1,441,120
2,142,523
1,711,945
1,880,793
2,118,326
2,671,012
3,313,899
4,646,553
5,407,923
5,134,856
4,834,887
6,172,668
6,518,t32
5,899,678
4,950,842
6,376,094
7,129,132
7,124,640
9,630,065
10,960,424
15,587,986
15,969,186
22,491,935
30,316,014
30,548,014
37,187,567
48,580,524
64,082,996
52,665,654
54,416,790
53,746,087

65.87
76.32
6885
68.47
64.99
71.31
72.93
72.81
69.90
6938
64.40
6198
63.16
71.28
71.34
70.47
74.92
78.47
80.99
80.05
79.71
79.53
79.88
79.94
80.68
81.22
80.37
82.54
81.52
81.12
83.09
83.74
81.33
81.86

21.31
13.54
1919
22.27
2558
2011
18.83
19.42
22.53
2284
28.41
29.74
27.61
1903
1842
18.22
1375
10.28
8.97
9.35
956
10.65
1085
10.78
932
696
7.45
5.26
5.78
6.28
5.57
4.95
6.02
6.23

1.77
2.16
209
2.20
222
2.34
232
2.43
2.63
256
2.35
2.63
284
316
352
3.71
4.09
440
3.97
3.87
3.96
356
330
3.84
460
509
5.48
6.03
6.12
5.73
519
5.26
5.44
4.68

2.98
311
308
3.11
341
295
282
2.65
233
268
246
264
3.47
3.68
3.72
4.13
368
3.48
3.26
393
372
3.84
3.27
280
287
3.62
3.56
3.31
366
3.68
3.23
3.03
3.34
316

1 06
0.97
0.85
0.88
0.79
0.87
083
093
0.81
0.86
0.87
0.89
1.22
163
1.91
2.21
219
182
1 54
1.42
149
149
164
1.54
1 55
2.18
2.20
1.79
1.47
1.53
1.30
1.29
180
182

0.66
0.65
048
038
0.30
031
0.29
029
0.26
040
043
0.78
0.51
0.51
043
0.59
071
086
0.85
0.78
066
0.60
0.55
057
0.51
048
0.65
085
1.27
1.33
128
132
1.64
1.71

005
009
0.05
004
004
0.04
004
003
0.05
0.05
002
0.01
0.00
002
003
0.03
004
005
013
044
0.64
0.16
028
032
037
0.38
019
0.18
015
0.30
0.30
0.39
041
053

630
316
541
265
267
207
1.94
144
1.49
1.23
106
133
119
069
063
064
0.62
064
029
016
0.26
017
023
021
010
007
010
0.04
0.03
0.02
0.04
0.02
0.02
0.01

11
2J

Share volume for exchanges includes stocks, rights and warrants; calendar year data is reported in this table
Includes all exchanges not listed individually.

Source SEC Form R-31

123

2J

I

.1

t...J ,.....,

1

.1

Cl.

~~Ll')C")Zr:::

....

~

.1

..n

~
"Q"'ION

C")vO)C"?C")OOC")Ll')
CDC")
..... OO"N~C")
,... ,....
CO ,... ,....

I

I"-

Lt')

cD

UJ

o
z
o
a:l

...

C1>

.c

E
:::>
z

O'JNLOom
Ll')

N

('I')

..... COO"Q'"
0
CD Lon
,...
l"-

N

Ll')N,....C\JOMcoom
m
MNN""'"
10

,....

,...

M

c::(

0

o

N

Ll)

ZO

N

co

Ll'),......COM,...
f'.C")Ll')C"')ZO
N I"-

cOM

N N
....

....

0

10
....

...
C1>

.c
E
:::>

z

<Ii

.:.:

N

en
C")

<..'>

a

CiS
c:

C>

w

t!:l

Z

ex:

:t:

u
X

w

"E
a

u..

en

C1>
"0
:::>

c:;

-=

cD

~

:::>

a
UJ

125

Certificate Immobilization
l

i

i

t

1

!

Book-entry deliveries continued to outdistance physical deliveries in the
settlement of securities transactions among depository participants of the Depository Trust Company (DTC). This tendency is illustrated in Table 16, Certificate
Immobilization Trends. The table captures the relative significance of the mediums
employed, in a ratio of book-entry deliveries to certificates withdrawn from DTC.
The figures include direct mail by agents and municipal bearer bonds. In 1990, the
total certificates withdrawn decreased 13%, and the ratio of book-entry deliveries
to certificates withdrawn continued to grow. Also, the ratio was 6 times the 1980
ratio of 1.8 book-entry deliveries rendered from every certificate withdrawn.

Table 16
CERTIFICATE IMMOBILIZATION TRENDS
Depository Trust Company
(Including Bearer Certificates)

1990

1988

1986

1984

1982

1980

72,600

67,200

66,700

48,000

37,000

28,000

6,700

9,200

11,600

12,600

12,500

15,800

10.8

7.3

5.8

38

30

1.8

Book-entry Deliveries
at DTC (m thousands)

Total of All Certificates
Withdrawn (m thousands)

Book-entry Deliveries per
Certificates Withdrawn

127

Table 17

TYPES OF PROCEEDINGS
ADMINISTRATIVE

-r

Persons Subject to, Acts Constituting,
Basis for, Enforcement Action

PROCEEDINGS

and
Sanction

Any person
Violation of the federal securities laws

Cease-and-desist order, which may also
require a person to comply or take steps to
effect compliance wIth federal securities laws;
accounting & dlsgorgement of Illegal profits.
(1933 Act Sacnon SA, 1934 Section 21 C(a);
Investment Company Act Section 9(f);
Advisors Act secnon 203(k).

Broker-dealer,
municipal securities dealer,
government securities dealer, transfer
agent, Investment adviser or associated
person
Willful Violation of securmes laws or rules;
BIding or abetting such violanon: failure
reasonably to supervise others, Willful
misstatement or orrussion in filing with the
Commission, convicnon of or In/unctIon
against certain crimes or conduct.

Censure or hrnltation on activities; revocation.
suspension or denial of regIstration; bar or
suspension from association (1934 Act,
Sections 15(b)(4)-(6), 15B(c)(2)-(5),
15(C)(c)(1 )-(2). 17A(c)(3)-(4); Advisers Act,
Section 203(e)-(f)).
CIVIl penalty up to $100,000 for a natural
person or $500,000 for any other person;
accounting and dlsgorgement of illegal profits.
Penalties are subject to other lmutatlons
depending on the nature of the Violation.
(1934 Act Section 21 B, Investment Company
Act Section 9. AdVisers Act Section (203).
Temporary cease-and-desist order, which
may. in appropriate cases, be issued ~ ~.
(1934 Act, Section 21 C).

Registered

securities

association

Violation of or Inability to comply with the 1934
Act, rules thereunder, or its own rules;
unjustified failure to enforce compliance with
the foregOing or With rules of the MUnicipal
Securities Rulemaklng Board by a member or
person associated with a member.

128

Suspension or revocation of registration;
censure or limitation of activities, functions, or
operations (1934 Act, Section 19(h)(1)).

Member of registered securities
association, or associated person
Entry of Commission order against person
pursuant to 1934 Act, Section 15(b): willful
VIolation of securities laws or rules thereunder
or rules of Municipal Securities Rulemaklng
Board, effecting transaction for other person
with reason to believe that person was
cornrmtnnq violations of securities laws.

Suspension or expulsion from the assccratron,
bar or suspension from assocratron wrth
member of association (1934 Act, Section
19(h)(2)-(3))

National securities exchange
Violation of or Inability to comply wrth 1934
Act, rules thereunder or its own rules,
unjustified failure to enforce compliance with
the foregOing by a member or person
associated with a member.

Suspension or revocation of registration:
censure or limitation of activmes, functions, or
operations (1934 Act, Section 19(h) (1))

Member of national securities exchange. or
associated person
Entry of Commission order against person
pursuantto 1934 Act, Section 15(b), WIllful
violation of securities laws or rules thereunder,
effecting transaction for other person with
reason to believe that person was cornrmttmq
violation of secuntres laws.

Suspension or expulsion from exchange, bar
or suspension from association with member
(1934 Act, Section 19(h)(2)-(3))

Registered clearing agency
Violation of or inability to comply with 1934
Act, rules thereunder, or ItS own rules, failure
to enforce compliance with rts own rules by

Suspension or revocation of registration,
censure or limitation of acnvmes, functions, or
operations (1934 Act, Section 19(h)(1)

parncipants
Participant In registered clearing agency
Entry of Commission order against participant
pursuant to 1934 Act, Section 15(b)(4), willful
violation of clearing agency rules, effecting
transaction for other person with reason to
believe that person was committing VIolations
of securities laws.

Securities Information

Sanction
Suspension or expulsion from clearing agency
(1934 Act, Section 19(h)(2)).

processor

Violation of or inability to comply with
provislons of 1934 Act or rules thereunder.

Censure or limitation of actrvrtres, suspension
or revocation of registration (1934 Act. Section
11A(b)(6))

129

Any person
Willful Violation of 1933 Act, 1934 Act,
Investment Company Act or rules thereunder;
aiding or abetting such violation; WIllful
misstatement in filing with Commission.

Officer or director
organization

of self-regulatory

Willful violation of 1934 Act, rules thereunder
or the organization's own rules, willful abuse of
authority or unjustified failure to enforce
compliance.

Principal

Temporary or permanent prohibition against
serving in certain capacities with registered
Investment company (Investment Company
Act, Section 9(b)).

Removal from office or censure (1934 Act,
Section 19(h)(4)).

of broker-dealer

Officer, director, general partner, ten-percent
owner or controlling person of a broker-dealer
for which a SIPC trustee has been appomted,

1933 Act registration

Bar or suspension from being or becoming
associated WIth a broker-dealer (SIPA,
Section 14(b)).

statement

Statement materially Inaccurate or Incomplete.

Stop order refuSing to permit or suspending
effectiveness (1933 Act, Section 8(d.

Person subject to Sections 12. 13. 14 or
15(d) of the 1934 Act or associated person
Failure to comply with such provisions or
haVing caused such failure by an act or
omission that person knew or should have
known would contribute thereto.

Securities registered
12 of the 1934 Act

pursuant

Order directing compliance or steps effecting
compliance (1934 Act, Section 15(c)(4)).

to Section

Noncompliance by issuer with 1934 Act or
rules thereunder.

Denial, suspension of effective date,
suspension or revocation of registration (1934
Act, Section 120.

Public interest requires trading suspension.

Summary suspension of over-the-counter or
exchange trading (1934 Act, SectJon 12(k.

Registered

Investment

company

Failure to file Investment Company Act
registration statement or required report: filing
matenally incomplete or misleading statement
or report.

Suspension or revocation of registration
(Investment Company Act, Section 8(e.

Company has not attained $100,000 net worth
90 days after 1933 Act registration statement
became effectIVe.

Stop order under 1933 Act: suspension or
revocation of registration (Investment
Company Act, SeetJon 14(a.

130

Attorney, accountant, or other professional
or expert
Lack of requisite qualifications to represent
others; lacking in character or integrity;
unethical or improper professional conduct;
willful violation of securities laws or rules; or
BIdIng and abetting such violation.

Permanent or temporary denial of pnVllege of
appeanng or practicing before the Commission
(17 CFR Section 201.2(e)(1 )).

Attomey suspended or disbarred by court;
expert's license revoked or suspended;
conviction of a felony or of a misdemeanor
Involving moral turpitude

Automatic suspension from appearance or
practice before the Commission (17 CFR
Section 201.2(e)(2)).

Permanent Injunction against or finding of
securities Violation in Commission-mstituted
action; finding of secunties violation by
Cornrnissron in administrative proceedmgs.

Temporary suspension from practicing before
the Commission; censure; permanent or
temporary disqualification from practicinq
before the Comrrussron (17 CFR Section
201.2(e)(3)).

Member or employee of Municipal
Securities Rulemaklng Board
Willful Violation of 1934 Act, rules thereunder,
or rules of the Board; abuse of authority.

Censure or removal from office (1934 Act,
Section 15B(c)(8)).

CML PROCEEDINGS IN FEDERAL DISTRICT COURTS

Persons Subject to, Acts Constituting, and
Basis for, Enforcement Action

Sanction

Any person
Engaging in or about to engage In acts or
practices violating securities laws, rules or
orders thereunder (Including rules of a
registered self-regulatory organization).

Injunction against acts or practices
constituting violations (plus other equitable
rehef under court's general equity powers)
(1933 Act, SectIon 20(b); 1934 Act, Section
21 (d); Holding Company Act, Section 18(e);
Investment Company Act, Section 42(d);
Advisers Act, Section 209(d), Trust Indenture
Act, Section 321).

Noncompliance with provisions of the laws,
rules, or regulations under 1933, 1934, or
Holding Company Act, orders issued by
Commission, rules of a registered selfregulatory organization, or undertaking In a
registration statement.

Writ of mandamus, injunction, or order
directing compliance (1933 Act, Section 20(c);
1934 Act, Section 21 (e); Holding Company
Act, Section 18(f)).

131

Violating the securities laws or a cease-anddesist order (other than through Insider
trading).

CIVIl penalty up to $100,000 for a natural
person or $500,000 for any other person QL If
greater, the gross gain to the defendant.
Penalties are subject to other limitations
dependent on nature of violation (1933 Act,
Section 20(d); 1934 Act, Section 21 (d) (3);
Investment Company Act, Section 42(e);
Advisers Act, Section 209(e.

Trading whIle in possession of matenal nonpublic Information In a transaction on an
exchange or from or through a broker-dealer
(and transaction not part of a public offering),
aiding and abetting or directly or Indirectly
controlling the person who engages In such
trading.

Maximum Civil penalty. three times profit
gamed or loss avoided as a result of
transaction (1934 Act, Section 21A(a)-(b.

Violating 1933 Act Section 17(a)(1) or 1934
Act section 10(b), when conduct demonstrates
substantial unfitness to serve as an officer or
director

Prohibition from acting as an officer or director
of any public company. (1933 Act, Section
20(e), 1934 Act, Section 21 (d) (2

t
"l "

Issuer SUbject to Section 12 or 15(d) of the
1934 Act, officer. director. employee or
agent of issuer; stockholder acting on
behalf of Issuer
Payment to foreign officral, foreign political
party or offiCial, or candidate for foreign
political office, for purposes of seeking the use
of Influence in order to assist Issuer In
obtaining or retaining busmess for or with, or
directing business to, any person

Maximum CIVilpenalty.
Section 32(c.

$10,000 (1934 Act,

Securities Investor Protection Corporation
Refusal to commit funds or act for the
protection of customers.

Order directing discharge of obligations and
other appropriate relief (SIPA, Section 11 (b

National securities exchange or registered
securities association
Failure to enforce compliance by members or
persons associated WIth ItS members with the
1934 Act, rules or orders thereunder, or rules
of the exchange or association.

Writ of mandamus, injunction or order directing
such exchange or association to enforce
compliance (1934 Act, Section 21 (e.

Registered clearing agency
Failure to enforce compliance by Its
parncipants With ItS own rules

132

Writ of mandamus, Injunction or order directing
clearing agency to enforce compliance (1934
Act, Section 21 (e

Issuer sUbject to Section 15(d) of 1934 Act
Failure to file required Information, documents
or reports.

Forfeiture of $100 per day (1934 Act, Section

32(b.

Registered Investment company
Name of company or of security Issued by It
deceptive or misleading.

injunction against use of name (Investment
Company Act, Section 35(d

Officer, director, member of advisory
board, adviser, depositor, or underwriter of
Investment company
Engage In act or practice constituting breach
of fiduciary duty involving personal
misconduct.

Injunction against acting In certain capacitres
for Investment company and other appropnate
rehef (Investment Company Act, Section

36(a.

CRIMINAL PROSECUTION BY DEPARTMENT OF JUSTICE
Persons Subject to, Acts Constituting, and
Basis for, Enforcement Action

Sanction

Any person
Willful violation of securmes laws or rules
thereunder; WIllful misstatement In any
document required to be filed by secunties
laws or rules. Willful misstatement In any
document required to be filed by selfregulatory organizallon In connection WIth an
application for membership or association WIth
member.

Maximum penalties. $1,000,000 fine and ten
years irnpnsonrnent for mdivrduals, $2,500,000
fine for non-natural persons (1934 Act,
Sections 21 (d), 32(a; $10,000 fine and five
years Impnsonment (or $200,000 If a public
utility holding company for Violations of the
Holding Company Act) (1933 Act, Sections
20(b), 24; Investment Company Act, Sections
42(e). 49. Advisers Act, Sections 209(e), 217,
Trust Indenture Act, Sections 321, 325,
Holding Company Act, Sections 18(t), 29).

Issuer SUbject to Section 12 or 15(d) of the
1934 Act; officer or director of Issuer;
stockholder acting on behalf of Issuer;
employee or agent subject to the
Jurisdiction of the United States
Payment to foreign official, foreign political
party or official, or candidate for foreign
political office for purposes of seeking the use
of influence In order to assist issuer In
obtaining or retaining business for or with, or
directing busmess to, any person

Issuer - $2,000,000; officer, director,
employee. agent or stockholder - $100,000
and five years nnpnsonrnent (Issuer may not
pay fine for others) (1934 Act, Section 32(c

* Statutory references are as follows. "1933 Act," the Secunties Act of 1933; "1934 Act,  the
Secunties Exchange Act of 1934; "Investment Company Act," the Investment Company Act of 1940,
"Advisers Act," the Investment AdVIsers Act of 1940; "Holding Company Act," the Public Utility Holding
Company Act of 1935, "Trust Indenture Act," the Trust Indenture Act of 1939; and "SIPA," the Securities
Investor Protection Act of 1970.
133

Table 18
ENFORCEMENT CASES INITIATED BY THE COMMISSION
DURING FISCAL YEAR 1991 IN VARIOUS PROGRAM AREAS

. ~~

~'
~'

(Each case initiated has been included in only one category listed below
even though many cases involve multiple allegations and may fall under
more than one category)

,

r.'4, ,-'_
t

:l
,,-

i'

if ;
r'
>

Program Area m which a
Civil Acnon or Admmistratlve
Proceeding was Initiated

Civil
Action

Securities Offenng Cases
(a) Non-regulated Entity
(b) Regulated Entity
Total Secunties Offenng Cases
Broker-Dealer Cases
(a) Back Office
(b) Fraud Against Customer
(c) Municipal Securities
(d) Other
Total Broker-Dealer Cases
Issuer Fmancial Statement
and Reportmg Cases
(a) Issuer Financial
Disclosure
(b) Issuer Reportmg Other
(c) Issuer Related Party
Transactions
Total Issuer Fmancial Statement
and Reportmg Cases

Total

28( 85)
22 (115)
50 (200)

12 ( 12)
31 ( 39)
43 ( 51)

40 ( 97)
53 (154)
93 (251)

29%

3(
17 (
1(
2(
23 (

7
26
1
12
46

10
43
2
14
69

22%

JJ

7)
27)
2)
4)
40)

(
(
(
(
(

11)
33)
1)
12)
57)

(
(
(
(
(

18)
60)
2)
16)
97)

27 ( 91)
2( 2)

13 ( 13)
2 ( 2)

40 (104)
4 ( 4)

1 ( 7)
30 (100)

O( 0)
15 ( 15)

7( 7)
45 (115)

14%

3)

34 ( 76)

11%
9%

Insider Tradmg Cases

31 ( 73)

Market Manipulation Cases

13 ( 50)

16 ( 18)

29 ( 68)

4( 9)
2( 4)
6 ( 13)

10 ( 4)
4 ( 6)
14 ( 10)

14 ( 25)
6 ( 10)

Other Regulated Entity Cases
(a) Investment Advisers
(b) Investment Companies
Total Other Regulated Entity Cases
Contempt Proceedings

%of
Total
Cases 2/

Adrmmstrative
Proceedmgs

10 ( 13)

3(

o(

0)

20 ( 35)

7%

10 ( 13)

3%

Corporate Control Cases

5(

7)

1(

1)

6(

8)

2%

Fraud Agamst Regulated Entitles

4 ( 10)

O(

0)

4 ( 10)

1%

Miscellaneous Disclosure! Reporting

3 ( 4)

O(

0)

3 ( 4)

1%

Delinquent Filings
(a) Issuer Reporting
(b) Forms 3 & 4
Total Deliquent Filing Cases

6 ( 6)
O( 0)
6( 6)

O(

0)
1)
1)

6 ( 6)
1 ( 1)
7( 7)

2%

139 (168)

320 (684)

101%

GRAND TOTAL

JJ
2/

181 (516)

1(
1(

This category includes injunctive actions and civil and crimmal contempt proceedings.
defendants and respondents is noted parenthetIcally.
Percentages total more than 100% due to roundmg of figures.

134

The number of

Table 19
INVESTIGATIONS OF POSSIBLE VIOLATIONS OF THE ACTS
ADMINISTERED BY THE COMMISSION

Pending as of October 1, 1990
Opened in fiscal year 1991
Total
Closed in fiscal year 1991
Pending as of September 30, 1991

1,15
33
1,49
22
1,26

Formal Orders of Investigation
Issued in fiscal year 1991

13'

Table 20
ADMINISTRATIVE PROCEEDINGS INSTITUTED
DURING FISCAL YEAR ENDING SEPTEMBER 30, 1991
Broker-Dealer Proceeding

9

Investment Adviser and Investment Company

2

Stop Order Proceedings

1(

Rule 2(e) Proceedings

t:

Suspensions of Trading in Securities in fiscal year 1991

:

135

Table 21
INJUNCTIVE ACTIONS
FiscalYear


ActionsInitiated

Defendants Named

,#

"...,~ :'

1982
1983
1984
1985
1986
1987
1988
1989
1990
1991

..;; :~..
'

:~
..... ....
"

"

r ..
".

i""' -'

136

136
151
179
143
163
144
125
140
186
171

418
416
508
385
488
373
401
422
557
503

Foreign Restricted List

The Securities and Exchange Commission maintains and publishes a Foreign
Restricted List which is designed to put broker-dealers, financial institutions,
investors and others on notice of possible unlawful distributions of foreign
securities in the United States. The list consists of names of foreign companies
whose securities the Commission has reason to believe have been, or are being
offered for public sale in the United States in possible violation of the registration
requirement of Section 5 of the Securities Act of 1933. The offer and sale of
unregistered securities deprives investors of all the protections afforded by the
Securities Act of 1933, including the right to receive a prospectus containing the
information required by the act for the purpose of enabling the investor to
determine whether the investment is suitable. While most broker-dealers refuse to
effect transactions in securities issued by companies on the Foreign Restricted List,
this does not necessarily prevent promoters from illegally offering such securities
directly to investors in the United States by mail, telephone, or personal solicitation.
The following foreign corporations and other foreign entities comprise the Foreign
Restricted List.
1
2.
3.
4.
5.
6.
7.
8.
9.
10.
11.
12.
13.
14.
15.
16.
17.
18.
19.
20.
21.
22.
23.
24.
25.
26.
27.
28.

Aguacate Consolidated Mines, Incorporated (Costa Rica)
Alan Mactavish, Ltd. (England)
Allegheny Mining and Exploration Company, Ltd. (Canada)
Allied Fund for Capital Appreciation (AFCA, S.A.) (Panama)
Amalgamated Rare Earth Mines, Ltd. (Canada)
American Industrial Research S.A., also known as Investigation Industrial
Americana, S.A. (Mexico)
American International Mining (Bahamas)
American Mobile Telephone and Tape Co., Ltd. (Canada)
Antel International Corporation, Ltd. (Canada)
Antoine Silver Mines, Ltd. (Canada)
ASCA Enterprisers Limited (Hong Kong)
Atholl Brose (Exports) Ltd. (England)
Atholl Brose Ltd. (England)
Atlantic and Pacific Bank and Trust Co., Ltd. (Bahamas)
Bank of Sark (Sark, Channel Islands, U.K.)
Briar Court Mines, Ltd. (Canada)
British Overseas Mutual Fund Corporation Ltd. (Canada)
California & Caracas Mining Corp., Ltd. (Canada)
Caprimex, Inc. (Grand Cayman, British West Indies)
Canterra Development Corporation, Ltd. (Canada)
Cardwell Oil Corporation, Ltd. (Canada)
Caribbean Empire Company, Ltd. (British Honduras)
Caye Chapel Club, Ltd. (British Honduras)
Central and Southern Industries Corp. (Panama)
Cerro Azul Coffee Plantation (Panama)
Cia. Rio Banano, S.A. (Costa Rica)
City Bank A.S. (Denmark)
Claw Lake Molybdenum Mines, Ltd. (Canada)
137

29.
30.
31.
32.
33.
34.
35.
36.
37.
38.
39.
40.
41.
42.
43.
44.
45.
46.
47.
48.
49.
50.
51.
52.
53.
54.
55.
56.
57.
58.
59.
60.
61.
62.
63.
64.
65.
66.
67.
68.
69.
70.
71.
72.
73.
74.
138

Claravella Corporation (Costa Rica)
Compressed Air Corporation, Limited (Bahamas)
Continental and Southern Industries, S.A. (Panama)
Crossroads Corporation, S.A. (Panama)
Darien Exploration Company, S.A. (Panama)
Derkglen, Ltd. (England)
De Veers Consolidated Mining Corporation, S.A. (Panama)
Doncannon Spirits, Ltd. (Bahamas)
Durman, Ltd. Formerly known as Bankers International Investment
Corporation (Bahamas)
Empresia Minera Caudalosa de-Panama, S.A. (panama)
Ethel Copper Mines, Ltd. (Canada)
Euroforeign Banking Corporation, Ltd. (Panama)
Finansbanker a/ s (Denmark)
First Liberty Fund, Ltd. (Bahamas)
General Mining S.A. (Canada)
Global Explorations, Inc. (Panama)
Global Insurance, Company, Limited (British West Indies)
Globus Anlage-Vermittlungsgesell-schaft MBH (Germany)
Golden Age Mines, Ltd. (Canada)
Hebilla Mining Corporation (Costa Rica)
Hemisphere Land Corporation Limited (Bahamas)
Henry Ost & Son, Ltd. (England)
Hotelera Playa Flamingo, S.A.
Intercontinental Technologies Corp. (Canada)
International Communications Corporation (British West Indies)
International Monetary Exchange (Panama)
International Trade Development of Costa Rica, S.A.
Ironco Mining & Smelting Company, Ltd. (Canada)
James G. Allan & Sons (Scotland)
[ojoba Oil & Seed Industries S.A. (Costa Rica)
Jupiter Explorations, Ltd. (Canada)
Kenilworth Mines, Ltd. (Canada)
Klondike Yukon Mining Company (Canada)
KoKanee Moly Mines, Ltd. (Canada)
Land Sales Corporation (Canada)
Los Dos Hermanos, S.A. (Spain)
Lynbar Mining Corp. Ltd. (Canada)
Massive Energy Ltd. (Canada)
Mercantile Bank and Trust & Co., Ltd. (Cayman Island)
Multireal Properties, Inc. (Canada)
J.P. Morgan & Company, Ltd., of London, England (not to be confused with
J.P. Morgan & Co., Incorporated, New York)
Norart Minerals Limited (Canada)
Normandie Trust Company, S.A. (Panama)
Northern Survey (Canada)
Northern Trust Company, S.A. (Switzerland)
Northland Minerals, Ltd. (Canada)

75.
76.
77.
78.
79.
80.
81.
82.
83.
84.
85.
86.
87.
88.
89.
90.
91.
92.
93.
94.
95.
96.
97.
98.
99.
100.
101.
102.
103.
104.
105.
106.
107.
108.

Obsco Corporation, Ltd. (Canada)
Pacific Northwest Developments, Ltd. (Canada)
Pan-Alaska Resources, S.A. (panama)
Panamerican Bank & Trust Company (panama)
Pascar Oils Ltd. (Canada)
Paulpic Gold Mines, Ltd. (Canada)
Pyrotex Mining and Exploration Co., Ltd. (Canada)
Radio Hill Mines Co., Ltd. (Canada)
Rancho San Rafael, S.A. (Costa Rica)
Rodney Gold Mines Limited (Canada)
Royal Greyhound and Turf Holdings Limited (South Africa)
S.A. Valles & Co., Inc. (Philippines)
San Salvador Savings & Loan Co., Ltd. (Bahamas)
Santack Mines Limited (Canada)
Security Capital Fiscal & Guaranty Corporation S.A. (Panama)
Silver Stack Mines, Ltd. (Canada)
Societe Anonyme de Refinancement (Switzerland)
Strathmore Distillery Company, Ltd. (Scotland)
Strathross Blending Company Limited (England)
Swiss Caribbean Development & Finance Corporation (Switzerland)
Tam O'Shanter, Ltd. (Switzerland)
Timberland (Canada)
Trans-American Investments, Limited (Canada)
Trihope Resources, Ltd. (West Indies)
Trust Company of Jamaica, Ltd. (West Indies)
United Mining and Milling Corporation (Bahamas)
Unitrust Limited (Ireland)
Vacationland (Canada)
Valores de Inversion, S.A. (Mexico)
Victoria Oriente, Inc. (Panama)
Warden Walker Worldwide Investment Co. (England)
Wee Gee Uranium Mines, Ltd. (Canada)
Western International Explorations, Ltd. (Bahamas)
Yukon Wolverine Mining Company (Canada)

13E

Table 22
FISCAL 1991 ENFORCEMENT CASES
LISTED BY PROGRAM AREA
~,

,

...

.;



...

.;

'"

-1

Date Filed

Release No.

03/04/91
06/27/91
06/27/91
OS/29/91
09/25/91
09/27/91
OS/29/91
06/11/91
11/20/91
05/01/91

34-28939
34-29375
34-29374
34-29243
34-29735
34-29745
34-29242
LR-12897
LR-12982
LR-12853

12/18/90
11/07/90
12/04/90
10/19/90
01/09/91
03/15/91
03/08/91
03/25/91
06/17/91
06/21/91
04/16/91
07/01/91
07/01/91
07/18/91
07/18/91
07/18/91
09/27/91
08/20/91
09/12/91
08/13/91
08/13/91
08/13/91
09/30/91
09/25/91
09/26/91
06/18/91

34-28938
34-28596
34-28675
34-28555
34-28755
34-28975
34-29059
34-29010
34-29317
34-29357
34-29082
34-29391
34-29392
34-29450
34-29449
34-29448
34-29744
34-29585
34-29678
34-29554
34-29552
34-29553
34-29757
34-29734
34-29739
IA-1280

Broker-Dealer: Back Office
In the Matter of Michael S. Taylor
In the Matter of Brenda Kross
In the Matter of Norman L. Vance
In the Matter of Domiruck & Dominick Inc., et al.
In the Matter of Habersheir Securities lnc., et al.
In the Matter of Thomas F. White & Co., Inc., et al.
In the Matter of Albert Dreyfuss
SEC v. Dennis J. Easter, et al.
SEC v. Dierdre C. Steinhaus, et al.
SEC v. First Ohio Equities, Inc.

Broker-Dealer: Fraud Against Customer
In the Matter of Oscar Ayala
In the Matter of Robert L. Ridenour
In the Matter of Joseph Jenkins, Jr., et al.
In the Matter of Joel M. County
In the Matter of Mark Stephen Benskin
In the Matter of Eric R. Bryen
In the Matter of Bruce Black
In the Matter of Nicodemus E. Faitos
In the Matter of Arthur L. DeMartme
In the Matter of R. Michael Fagerlie
In the Matter of Timothy Sirmer
In the Matter of Great Lakes Equities Co., et al.
In the Matter of Lawrence M. Kowal
In the Matter of Steven Erik Johnston, et al.
In the Matter of Prakash Rameshchandra Shah
In the Matter of Roger WIlliam Ballou
In the Matter of Steven M. Roberta
In the Matter of Robert Killen
In the Matter of Gregory Herbert
In the Matter of Robert F. Hasho
In the Matter of Kevin B. Sullivan
In the Matter of Richard A. Chen nisi
In the Matter of Lloyd Securities Inc., et al.
In the Matter of Robert F. Kurtz, Jr.
In the Matter of Natalie A. Causerano
In the Matter of Edgemont Asset
Management Corp., et al
140

SEC
SEC
SEC
SEC
SEC
SEC
SEC
SEC
SEC
SEC
SEC
SEC
SEC
SEC
SEC
SEC
SEC

v. Robert A. White
v. Nicodemus E. Faitos, et al.
v. Arthur L. DeMartine
v. Walter L. Twiste
v. Gregory Anders, et al.
v. Carl V. May, Jr.
v. Jay Kenneth Cox
v. Richard Sol Rosen
v. Joseph A. Hurton
v. Gwendolyn Biggs
v. Steven M. Roberta
v. Money Systems Inc., et al.
v. Conrad Topacio
v. Robert F. Kurtz Jr., et al.
v. Molly C. Wilson
v. Pilgrim Planning Associates, Inc., et al.
v. Carolina First Securities Group, et al.

Broker-Dealer:

Release No.

02/01/91
02/27/91
06/27/91
05/02/91
09/13/91
09/27/91
09/30/91
09/23/91
09/04/91
09/09/91
08/14/91
08/23/91
09/26/91
09/23/91
08/15/91
OS/22/91
09/27/91

LR-12787
LR-12786
LR-12912
LR-12890
NONE
LR-13036
LR-13057
LR-13054
LR-13017
34-30042
LR-12953
LR-12958
LR-13025
LR-12989
LR-12947
LR-13117
LR-13046

07/23/91
11/02/90

LR-12931
34-28593

02/14/91
12/06/90
12/13/90
12/18/90
05/15/91
07/01/91
09/09/91
07/18/91
09/23/91
09/23/91
08/02/91
09/30/91
04/22/91
09/25/91

34-28878
34-28680
34-28695
34-28707
34-29192
34-29395
34-29658
34-29447
34-29719
34-29718
34-29517
34-29754
LR-12847
LR-13014

10/23/90
01/11/91
01/15/91

LR-12679
LR-12760
NONE

Municipal Securities

SEC v. FSG Financial Service Inc., et al.
In the Matter of Arthur Abba Goldberg

Broker-Dealer:

Date Filed

Other

In the Matter of Laser Arms Corp.
In the Matter of Henry H. Winkler, Jr.
In the Matter of Wainwright Austin Stone & Co.
In the Matter of Alan Lavery
In the Matter of John A. Mulheren, Jr.
In the Matter of Lisa A. Jones
In the Matter of San Marino Securities
In the Matter of Dean Witter Reynolds, Inc.
In the Matter of Tim Eugene Reigel
In the Matter of Kenneth Mason Jones
In the Matter of Carl Caserta
In the Matter of Donald W. Jones
SEC v. Kochcapital, Inc., et al.
SEC v. G. Wesley Sodorff, Jr.

Contempt-Civil
SEC v. Thomas L. Powers, et al.
SEC v. Michael Kaufman
SEC v. Adrienne Wailes

141

Date Filed

.~~

-

<~
I'"

.~
.'"
~?

'"

SEC
SEC
SEC
SEC
SEC
SEC
SEC

v.
v.
v.
v.
v.
v.
v.

Eurell V. Potts
Robert L. Ridenour
Rosemary Grady
Mark Eames, et al .
United Services Advisors
Edward J. Carter
William B. Clark

05/16/91
04/11/91
08/23/91
07/22/91
09/09/91
09/09/91
10/16/90

Release No.
LR-12866

NONE
NONE
NONE
NONE
LR-12894
LR-12703

 -l

Corporate

Control:

Beneficial

Ownership

In the Matter of Norman C. Baker
SEC v. Frank Shannon
SEC v. Asher B. Edelman, et al.
SEC v. Burton R. Sugarman

Corporate

Control:

Filings:

SEC
SEC
SEC
SEC
SEC
SEC

v.
v.
v.
v.
v.
v.

Filings:

SEC
SEC
SEC
SEC

142

v.
v.
v.
v.

LR-12839
LR-13013

08/26/91

34-29609

11/28/90
01/07/91
06/20/91
06/17/91
09/30/91
09/20/91

LR-12719
LR-12750
LR-12891
LR-12886
LR-13003
LR-12983

01/10/91
06/27/91
09/10/91
08/15/91

LR-12755
LR-12894
LR-12975
LR-12945

Issuer Reporting

Triumph Capital Inc.
International Meta Systems, Inc.
Envirosure Management Corp.
NPS Technologies Group, Inc.
Direct Pharmaceutical Corp.
Cezar Industries Ltd.

Fraud Against

04/15/91
09/30/91

Forms 3 & 4

In the Matter of Michael R. Henson

Delinquent

34-29108
LR-12708
LR-12835
LR-12914

Other

SEC v. The Westwood Group, Inc.
SEC v. Christopher J. Moran

Delinquent

04/22/91
11/20/90
04/11/91
07/18/91

Regulated

Entities

Kiyoyuki Yasutomi
Mark Sendo, et al.
Jimmy Dale Swink, Sr., et al.
Peter S. Adler

1
I
1

i

Date Filed

Release No.

01/14/91
06/27/91
09/30/91
11/03/90
11/13/90
11/20/90
12/17/90
03/08/91
01/17/91
01/17/91
01/14/91
03/19/91
02/04/91
03/07/91
03/06/91
02/14/91
03/06/91
06/26/91
05/16/91
05/16/91
06/10/91
OS/28/91
06/24/91
04/22/91
08/08/91
09/24/91
09/27/91
07/26/91
07/03/91
07/01/91
07/09/91
07/09/91
09/27/91
09/27/91

34-28798
34-29581
34-29756
LR-12693
LR-12701
LR-12709
LR-12733
LR-12800
LR-12757
AAER 290
LR-12754
LR-12813
LR-12772
LR-12799
LR-12792
LR-12777
LR-12791
LR-12895
LR-12860
LR-12859
LR-12882
LR-12865
LR-12892
LR-12843
LR-12936
LR-12986
LR-13001
LR-12933
LR-12908
LR-12895
LR-12904
LR-12905
LR-12998
LR-13000

11/29/90

IA-1261

05/30/91
09/30/91
10/03/90
12/04/90
01/09/91
01/31/91

IA-1279
34-29758
IA-1257
IA-1262
IA-1265
IA-1270

Insider Trading
In the Matter John L. Petit
In the Matter of Kenneth L. Mick
In the Matter of Baruch Rosenberg
SEC v. John L. Petit
SEC v. Stephen R. Rasinski, et al.
SEC v. Mollie E. Raab, et al.
SEC v. William Bronec, et al.
SEC v. Victor Teicher, et al.
SEC v. Jack Trachtman
SEC v. Joseph Wolfer, et al.
SEC v. Robert H. Willis, et al.
SEC v. Phillip J. Stevens
SEC v. Edward L. Ruggiero, et al.
SEC v. Louis Ferrero, et al.
SEC v. Marc J. Dworkin, et al.
SEC v. Robert L. M. Louis-Dreyfus, et al.
SEC v. Robert F. Hoogstraten, et al.
SEC v. S. Jay Goldinger, et al.
SEC v. Edwin J. Kleiman
SEC v. Bernard Korn
SEC v. Anthony M. Morelli, et al.
SEC v. Anthony R. Tavani
SEC v. Michael Trikilis, et al.
SEC v. Ernesto Tinajero, et al.
SEC v. Albert M. Harris
SEC v. Baruch Rosenberg
SEC v. Bruce Hegedorn, et al.
SEC v. Frederick J. Deangelis
SEC v. Charles H. Howard III
SEC v. Jay S. Goldinger, et al.
SEC v. Bettyann Lin
SEC v. Mark D. Cohen
SEC v. Howard F. Rubin
SEC v. Jerry A. Seifert

Investment Adviser
In the Matter
etal.
In the Matter
In the Matter
In the Matter
In the Matter
In the Matter
In the Matter

of Halford Smith Associates
of Walter L. Twiste, et al.
of James M. Hardin
of R.L. Kotrozo Inc., et al.
of David B. Solomon
of James L. Rapholz, Jr.
of Jack Allen Pirrie

Inc.,

143

Date Filed

"

...

:.-~

~:
>'.~

;1..1

:~
~

,,'"
1'" ..

"'":

l-'-<

In the Matter of Kingsley Jennison McNulty &
Morse Inc., et al.
In the Matter of First American Financial
Consultants, Inc., et al.
In the Matter of Raymond Bacek
SEC v. David B. Solomon
SEC v. Douglas W. Polite, Jr., et al.
SEC v American Foresight Inc., et al.
SEC v. Wesley Allen Campbell, et al.

Release No.

01/25/91

IA-1268

09/30/91

IA-1288

04/22/91
11/27/90
08/29/91
08/08/91
02/01/91

AAER 296
LR-12712
LR-12978
LR-12935
LR-13038

05/08/91
07/22/91

IA-1276
IC-18245

08/20/91
10/18/90
10/19/90
03/25/91

IA-1286
IA-1260
LR-12677
LR-12823

09/30/91
09/26/91
09/11/91
08/14/91

AAER
AAER
AAER
AAER

03/12/91
03/25/91
03/25/91
03/20/91
05/06/91
09/30/91
08/29/91
09/09/91
08/26/91
10/15/90
12/21/90
10/26/90
10/11/90
03/01/91
03/14/91
02/28/91
OS/28/91
05/09/91
05/09/91

33-6890
AAER 295
MER 294
NONE
MER 297
AAER 321
AAER 314
AAER 315
AAER 312
AAER 280
AAER 286
AAER 282
AAER 279
NONE
LR-12803
AAER 291
LR-12896
AAER 298
AAER 299

Investment Company
In the Matter of Home Capital Services
In the Matter of Renaissance Advisors
etal.
In the Matter of Howard H. Hutchinson,
In the Matter of Carl L. Lazzell
SEC v. M. Wesley Groshans, et al.
SEC v. Renaissance Advisers, Inc., et

Inc.
Inc.,
et al.

al.

Issuer Financial Disclosure
In
In
In
In

the Matter of Fred Engelbrechten
the Matter of Richard D. Lemmerman
the Matter of Excel Bancorp., Inc.
the Matter of Fleet/Norstar
Financial Group, Inc.
In the Matter of Mast/Keystone, Inc.
In the Matter of Merle E. Bright
In the Matter of Bruce F. Kalem, CPA
In the Matter of Cecil S. Mathis
In the Matter of Michael R. Ford, CPA
In the Matter of Terrance M. Wahl
In the Matter of Edward Anchel, CPA
In the Matter of Rodney Sparks, CPA
In the Matter of Samuel George Greenspan, CPA
SEC v. Ramtek Corp.
SEC v. Bank of New England Corp.
SEC v. Michael S. Weinstein, et al.
SEC v Michael I. Bitterman, et al.
SEC v. Arthur G. Lang, III, et al.
SEC v. Peter Franzen, et al.
SEC v. Earthworm, Inc., et al.
SEC v. Michael Gruenberg, et al.
SEC v, Samuel George Greenspan
SEC v. Larry G. Baker
144

326
320
316
309

Date Filed
SEC v. Ernst & Young
SEC v. Forst-Hunter International Trade
Corp., et al.
SEC v. Bernard Korostoff
SEC v. Q. T. Wiles, et al.
SEC v. John R. Ward, et al.
SEC v. Robert J. Aulie
SEC v. Louis J. Borget, et al.
SEC v. Robert M. Sauls, et al.
SEC v. Wedgestone Financial
SEC v. Qmax Technology Group Inc., et al.
SEC v. David T. Marantette III, et al.
SEC v. Robert D. Sparrow
SEC v. EDP of California tnc., et al.
SEC v. Lawrence J. Stern, et al.
SEC v. Douglas Matthews
SEC v. Delta Rental Systems Inc., et al.

Issuer Related Party Transactions

Release No.

06/13/91
08/20/91

AAER 301
AAER 311

08/21/91
08/14/91
09/26/91
07/09/91
07/11/91
09/27/91
07/12/91
09/27/91
09/05/91
09/27/91
09/30/91
09/30/91
09/27/91
09/30/91

AAER 313
AAER 308
AAER 319
AAER 305
AAER 306
AAER 343
AAER 307
AAER 325
LR-12977
AAER 323
AAER 322
AAER 327
LR-13043
LR-13073

09/18/91

AAER 303

09/09/91
11/19/90
09/27/91
09/26/91

34-29660
34-28625
LR-13018
LR-13019

06/21/91
12/04/90
12/04/90
03/11/91
03/11/91
03/11/91
03/11/91
03/15/91
01/16/91
03/28/91
06/27/91
08/12/91
09/03/91
08/23/91

IA-1281
34-28673
34-28674
34-28954
34-28953
34-28955
34-28952
34-28976
34-28785
34-29019
34-29376
34-29545
34-29644
34-29602

Disclosure

SEC v. Capitalbanc Corp., et al.

Issuer Reporting: Other
In the Matter of Karen L. Galvin
In the Matter of Ronald N. Vance
SEC v. Karl R. Huber, Jr.
SEC v. Printron, Inc., et al.

Market Manipulation
In
In
In
In
In
In
In
In
In
In
In
In
In
In

the
the
the
the
the
the
the
the
the
the
the
the
the
the

Matter
Matter
Matter
Matter
Matter
Matter
Matter
Matter
Matter
Matter
Matter
Matter
Matter
Matter

of Toni Vailen
of Michael Wright
of Arnold Kimmes
of Brett A. Bernstein
of Sheldon G. Kanoff
of Glenn Siesser
of Robert W. Humphrey
of Jack Ringer
of Dale R. Dargie
of Peter R. Gardiner
of Randy Gleich
of Andrew Doherty, et al.
of Richard C. Avon
of Elliott L. Bellen

145

..-

..~:~
"
;1'"
..;..-

)7

('~

"

r''i

In the Matter of Michael R. Milken
In the Matter of Lowell J. Milken
SEC v. Mandrake Capital lnc., et al .
SEC v. Kevin L. Weakland
SEC v. Henry W. Lorin, et al.
SEC v. Dale R. Dargie
SEC v. Peter R. Gardiner
SEC v. Robert A. Dworkin, et al.
SEC v. Mark P. Malenfant, et al.
SEC v. Bernard Deutsch, et al.
SEC v. Mark Creamer, et al.
SEC v. Phillip G. Wagers, et al.
SEC v. Gemini Energy Corp., et al.
SEC v. John G. Broumas
SEC v. John L. Vidakovich

Date Filed

Release No.

03/11/91
03/11/91
10/10/90
10/01/90
11/20/90
12/18/90
03/27/91
06/06/91
05/01/91
09/25/91
08/29/91
08/27/91
07/30/91
09/27/91
09/29/91

34-28951
34-29850
NONE
NONE
LR-12707
LR-12739
LR-12818
LR-12898
LR-12848
LR-12992
NONE
LR-12955
LR-12927
LR-12999
NONE

03/06/91
02/07/91
03/18/91

LR-12806
LR-12775
LR-12811

08/01/91
09/09/91
09/24/91
09/23/91
09/23/91
09/23/91
09/23/91
09/23/91
09/23/91
09/23/91
09/23/91
03/14/91
12/05/90
12/21/90
03/18/91
01/14/91
06/06/91
04/12/91
06/03/91
04/24/91
05/16/91
09/24/91

NONE
NONE
34-29726
33-6918
33-6916
33-6915
33-6914
33-6912
33-6913
33-6911
33-6917
34-28974
LR-12725
LR-12742
LR-12812
LR-12753
LR-12898
NONE
LR-12880
LR-12845
LR-12858
LR-12987

Miscellaneous Disclosure Reporting
SEC v. E. Ronald Atkinson
SEC v. Michael Stern, et al.
SEC v. Paul Borman

Offering Violations (By Non-Regulated Entities)
In the Matter of Roger J. Houdek
In the Matter of Stephen T. Haley
In the Matter of Stephen D. Replin
In the Matter of Laur Corp.
In the Matter of Standish Corp.
In the Matter of Kaila J Corp.
In the Matter of Scott J Corp.
In the Matter of Mazell Corp.
In the Matter of Mazelll Corp.
In the Matter of Stelar Corp.
In the Matter of Alicia J Corp.
In the Matter of Simone V. Palazzolo
SEC v. BFMF Corp., et al.
SEC v. Latin Investment Corp., et al.
SEC v. Neil E. Ragen
SEC v. Peoples Bank of Brevard Inc., et al.
SEC v. Superior Resources, Inc., et al.
SEC v. Sam J. Recile, et al.
SEC v. Gary T. McWhorter, et el:
SEC v. Eugene R. Karczewski, et al.
SEC v. International Loan Network, Inc., et al.
SEC v. Robin Symes, et al.
146

f'
I

~
II

SEC
SEC
SEC
SEC
SEC
SEC
SEC
SEC
SEC
SEC
SEC
SEC
SEC
SEC
SEC
SEC
SEC

v. The Crown Companies Group, Ltd., et al.
v. Compact Discounters, Inc., et al.
v. Rogers Manufacturing Co.
v. Raymond E. Tienter, et al.
v. Charles E. Alfano
v. Joseph Michael Haddad, Jr.
v. Lester Edward Carroll
v. PDS Securities International Inc., et al.
v. Loi H. Tran
v. Robert C. Lund
v. Richard H. Steinberg, et al.
v. Larson Myers Financial Inc., et al.
v. Michael A. Clark
v. Norman Nouskajian
v. Robert Elderkin, et al.
v. Sonic Electric Energy Corp., et al.
v. James Lynn Averett, et al.

Date Filed

Release No.

09/26/91
09/23/91
09/18/91
09/30/91
09/20/91
07/18/91
09/30/91
08/26/91
07/11/91
09/17/91
09/27/91
09/30/91
09/30/91
09/30/91
09/09/91
09/26/91
09/21/91

LR-12996
LR-12988
NONE
LR-13032
LR-12994
LR-12921
LR-13024
LR-13022
LR-12910
LR-13027
LR-12997
NONE
LR-13010
LR-13009
LR-12972
LR-13076
AAER329

12/03/90
12/20/90
02/26/91
03/26/91
03/26/91
03/26/91
03/11/91
03/20/91
06/27/91
04/19/91
04/19/91
04/19/91
04/01/91
06/14/91
06/14/91
09/30/91
09/30/91
09/23/91
09/23/91
09/23/91
09/23/91
09/27/91
09/30/91
12/20/90
07/09/91
03/11/91

34-28875
34-28710
34-28920
34-29013
34-29012
34-29014
34-28949
34-29625
34-29373
34-29107
34-29107
34-29107
34-29028
34-29310
34-29309
IA-1289
34-29759
34-29720
34-29716
34-29717
34-29715
34-29746
34-30190
34-28711
34-29423
34-28956

r~
I

li

f~

~~
~

Offering Violations (By Regulated Entities)

I.

t~

~
"p"

~

r,
"
I",
I<

1~
!:

Ii

::
"

j

i

]

j
I

~
I

J

In
In
In
In
In
In
In
In
In
In
In
In
In
In
In
In
In
In
In
In
In
In
In
In
In
In

the Matter
the Matter
the Matter
the Matter
the Matter
the Matter
the Matter
the Matter
the Matter
the Matter
the Matter
the Matter
the Matter
the Matter
the Matter
the Matter
the Matter
the Matter
the Matter
the Matter
the Matter
the Matter
the Matter
the Matter
the Matter
the Matter
Inc., et al.

of /Vthur Jackson Curry
of Paul Wagner, et al.
of Kim G. Girdner
of Boyd R. Bader
of Clark R. Bader
of David G. Wilks
of William Edward Kinzel
of Morgan Stanley & Co., Inc.
of Ronald D. Wheeler, Sr., et al.
of Philip Falcone
of Michael F. Umbro
of David C. Dever
of Walter Capital Corp.
of David N. Gliksman
of Norman L. Dixon
of John A. Whitley
of Charles E. Alfano
of J. Paul Carter
of Bradley & Associates Inc.
of Prudential Securities Inc.
of Gregory J. Simonds, et al.
of Arden R. Brown
of Steven M. Sanders
of Victor S. Fishman
of Candace M. Lacasto
of Asset Growth Management

147

Date Filed

,.-

...-.

,'"

, ~'

 r""

. r:

: :t;>

.......
. r'


,

.,A

: t",\

In the Matter of Alan D. Karr
In the Matter of Ehrman Investment Group
Inc., et al .
In the Matter of K Alan Russel
In the Matter of Reddington Securities Inc., et al.
In the Matter of David J. Kury, et al.
SEC v. Institute for Financial Planning, et al.
SEC v. Victor S. Fishman
SEC v. Robert F. Hasho, et al.
SEC v. David G. Wilks
SEC v. Blazo Corp., et al.
SEC v. David D. Sterns, et al.
SEC v. L. George Reynolds, et al.
SEC v. Gary R. Slaughter, et al.
SEC v. Graystone Nash, tnc., et el.
SEC v. First Fidelity Financial Corp., et al.
SEC v. John Michael Pratt, et al.
SEC v. Michael J. Liskiewicz, et al.
SEC v. AEI Group lnc., et al.
SEC v. First Federated Capital Corp. of
Texas, et al.
SEC v. Deep Sands lnc., et al.
SEC v. Robert Killen
SEC v. Cardinal Financial Services tnc., et al.
SEC v. Kurt L. Hagerman
SEC v. Stephen Klos, et al.
SEC v. Robert I, Dowd
SEC v. Eric J. Walfoga, et al.
SEC v. Kenneth J. Adams, et al.
SEC v. Joseph E. Rusnock, et al.

148

Release No.

08/16/91
07/19/91

IA-1285
IA-1282

02/26/91
02/26/91
03/28/91
10/03/90
12/11/90
12/13/90
03/01/91
03/07/91
03/11/91
06/12/91
04/01/91
09/30/91
08/21/91
09/23/91
09/18/91
09/18/91
08/19/91

34-28922
34-28921
IA-1275
LR-12730
LR-12729
LR-12732
LR-12798
LR-12807
LR-12802
LR-12887
LR-12826
LR-13002
LR-12951
NONE
LR-13020
LR-13015
LR-12951

07/19/91
07/31/91
09/27/91
08/27/91
09/18/91
09/20/91
09/25/91
09/25/91
09/30/91

LR-12929
LR-12934
LR-13029
LR-13056
LR-13065
NONE
LR-13072
LR-13078
LR-13031

Right to Financial Privacy

Section 21(h) of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934 [15 V.S.c. 78u(h)(6)]
requires that the Commission" compile an annual tabulation of the occasions on
which the Commission used each separate subparagraph or clause of [Section
21(h)(2)] or the provisions of the Right to Financial Privacy Act of 1978 [12 V.S.c.
3401-22 (the RFPA)] to obtain access to financial records of a customer and include
it in its annual report to the Congress." During the year, the Commission made one
application to a court for an order pursuant to the subparagraphs and clauses of
Section 21(h) (2) to obtain access to financial records of a customer. Set forth below
are the number of occasions on which the Commission obtained customer records
pursuant to the provisions of the RFP A:
Section 1104 (Customer Authorizations)
Section 1105 (Administrative

Subpoenas)

Section 1107 (Iudicial Subpoenas)

16
353
24

I

r

I,
I

I:

149

Corporate Reorganizations

.- -

During 1991, the SEC entered its appearance in 50 reorganization cases filed
under Chapter 11 of the Bankruptcy Code involving companies with aggregated
stated assets of almost $27 billion and about 330,000 public investors. Counting
these new cases, the agency was a party in 186 Chapter 11 cases during the year. In
these cases, the stated assets totalled approximately $85 billion and involved about
1.1billion public investors. Thirty-seven cases were concluded through confirmation
of a plan of reorganization, dismissal, or liquidation, leaving 149 cases in which the
Commission was a party at year-end.

150

Table 23
REORGANIZATION
PROCEEDINGS UNDER CHAPTER 11
OF THE BANKRUPTCY CODE IN WHICH
THE SEC ENTERED APPEARANCE

Debtor

District

FY
Opened

FY.
Closed

1991

Aca Joe, Inc'
Action Auto Stores
ADI Electronics
AlA Industries, Inc.
AI Copeland Enterpnses, Inc.
Allegheny Internanonal, Inc.
Allison's Place'
Amdura Corporation
Amencan Carriers, Inc.
Amencan Continental Corporation'
Amencan Medical Technologies
Amencan Monitor Corp.'
Amencan West Airlines, Inc.
Ames Department Stores, Inc., et al.
Anglo Energy, Inc.'

N.D
EA.
E.D.
ED.
WD
WD
C.D.
D
D
D
WD
S.D
D
SD
S.D.

CA
MI
NY
PA
TX
PA
CA
CO
KS
AZ
TX
IN
AZ
NY
NY

1988
1990
1987
1984
1991
1988
1988
1990
1989
1989
1990
1986
1991
1990
1988

BankEast Corporation
Banyon Corp.
Barton Industries Inc.
Bay Financial Corp., et al.
Beehive International
Beker Industries Corp
Blinder Robinson & Company, Inc.3
Boardroom Business Products, Inc.2
Branch Industries, Inc
Buttes Gas & 011Co '

D
SD
WD
D
D
S.D.
D
C.D.
S.D
SD

NH
NY
OK
MA
UT
NY
CO
CA
NY
TX

1991
1991
1991
1990
1989
1986
1990
1989
1985
1986

Calumet lndustrles"
Camera Enterpnses, Inc., et al
Canton Industrial Corp.'
Carter Hawley Hale Stores Inc.
C F & I Corporation
Citywide Securities Corp .
Coated Sales, Inc.
Colorado-Ute Electric Association'
Columbia Gas System, Inc.
Commonwealth Oil Refimng Co., Inc'
Consolidated Oil & Gas
Consolidated Companies'
Conston Corporation
Continental Airlines Holdings, Inc.
Oonnnentat lntormauon Systems
Convenient Food Mart'
CPT Corp
Crazy Eddie, Inc., et al.
Crompton Co., Inc.
Chyron Corporation

ND
D
CD.
CD
D
S.D.
S.D.
D.
D
W.D.
D.
N.D.
ED
D
S.D.
N.D.
D
S.D
S.D.
ED

IL
MA
IL
CA
UT
NY
NY
CO
DE
TX
CO
TX
PA
DE
NY
IL
MN
NY
NY
NY

1990
1989
1988
1991
1991
1985
1988
1990
1991
1984
1989
1989
1990

Damson Oil Co.
Dakota Minerals, Inc
Dart Drug Stores, Inc

SD
D.
D.

TX
WY
MD

1991
1986
1989

1991
1991
1991

1991
1991
1991
1991
1991

1991
1991
1991

1989
1989
1991
1989
1985
1991

1991

151

Table 23 - continued
REORGANIZATiON
PROCEEDINGS UNDER CHAPTER
OF THE BANKRUPTCY CODE IN WHICH
THE SEC ENTERED APPEARANCE

.~~
.-

,'"

. r;;
~
,.....

.

F.Y
Opened

, ('"

: :t"
,

Debtor

"'~

. r fi".

,

: ~'1

152

Dlstnct

Dest Corp
Domain Technology, Inc
Doskocu Companies, Inc.
Drexel Burnham Lambert Group, ltd

NO
N.D
0
S.D

CA
CA
KS
NY

1989
1989
1990
1990

Eagle Clothes, Inc.
Eagle-Pitcher tndusnres, Inc
Eastern Air Lines, Inc, et al
Enterpnse Technologies, Inc.
Equestrian Ctrs of Amer , Inc
EUA Power Corporation

SO.
SO
S.D.
S.D.
CD
0

NY
OH
NY
TX
CA
NH

1989
1991
1989
1984
1985
1991

Fairfield Communities Inc
Fed Oepart.lAllied Stores et al
Financial & Bus. Serv., Inc 1
Financial News Network, Inc
Finest Hour, Inc.
Flnevest Foods, Inc.
First Executive Corporation
First Republicbank Corp
Forum Group Inc. et aJ.

ED
SO.
W.O
SO
e.D.
0
CD
NO
NO

AR
OH
NC
NY
CA
FL
CA
TX
TX

1991
1990
1986
1991
1988
1991
1991
1989
1991

General Development Corporation
General Homes Corp (Texas)
General Technologies Group
Greyhound Lines, et al.

S D.
NO
ED
SO

FL
TX
NY
TX

1990
1991
1990
1990

Hampton Healthcare, Inc,3
Helionetlcs, Inc
Hills Department Stores
Holland Industries, Inc 1

MD
CD
SD
SO

FL
CA
NY
NY

1988
1986
1991
1988

Infotechnology Inc.
Infllght Services, Inc.
insnco Corp.
Integrated Resources, Inc
Interco Inc
Intn'l Pharmaceutical Products, Inc.
Inter. Amencan Homes, Inc., et al
Ironestone Group, Inc.

SO
SO.
WD
SO
ED
C.D.
0
NO

NY
NY
TX
NY
MO
CA
NJ
CA

1991
1987
1991
1990
1991
1988
1990
1991

Jumping-Jacks Shoes et all

WO

MO

1990

Kaiser Steel Corp.
King of Video, Inc
Kurzwell Music Systems Inc

0
0
0

CO
NV
MA

1987
1989
1990

LaPointe Industnes, Inc 1
Laventhol & Horwath
Leisure Technology, Inc.
Llvlngwell Incorporated 2

D
SD
CD
S D.

CT
NY
CA
TX

1989
1991
1991
1990

11

F.Y
Closed

1991

1991

1991

1991

1991

1991

Table 23 - continued
REORGANIZATION
PROCEEDINGS UNDER CHAPTER 11
OF THE BANKRUPTCY CODE IN WHICH
THE SEC ENTERED APPEARANCE

Debtor

F.Y
Opened

District

Lone Star Industries, Inc
Lomas Financial Corp.
LTV Corporation

SD
SD
S.D

NY
NY
NY

1991
1990
1986

MacGregor Sporting Goods, Inc
Marathon Office Supply, Inc.
Mars Stores, Inc., et al '
Maxtcare Health Plus Inc'
Metro Airlines, Inc et al.
McLean Industries, Inc
MCorp (MCorp Financial, Inc
& MCorp Management)
Meridian Reserve, Inc
Midland Capital Corp.
Midway Airlines Inc.
Midwest Communications Corp.
MlmScribe Corporationt
Monarch Capitol Corp.
Munslngwear Inc
Munson Geothermal, Inc.'
Mustang Resources Corp.'

D
C.D.
D.
CD
ND
SD

NJ
CA
MA
CA
TX
NY

1989
1988
1989
1989
1991
1987

SD
W.D.
S.D.
N.D.
E.D
D
D
D
SD

TX
OK
NY
IL
KY
CO
MA
MN
NV
TX

1989
1989
1986
1991
1991
1990
1991
1991
1988
1988

National Bancshares Corp. of Texas'
National Financial Realty Trust
National Gypsum Company
Newmark & Lewis
NBlinc
Nltram Oorporatront
Nutn Bevco, Inc

W.D.
SD
ND
SD
D
D
SD

TX
IN
TX
NY
CO
UT
NY

1990
1990
1991
1991
1991
1989
1988

Fund 1114
Fund IV4
Fund V4

CD
CD
CD
ED
C.D.
CD.
SD

CA
CA
CA
NY
CA
CA
IN

1989
1989
1989
1987
1989
1989
1988

Pacific Express Holding, Inc.
PanAm Corporation
Paul Harris Stores, Inc.
Pantera's Corp .. et al.'
Pengo Industries, Inc.'
Peregrine Entertainment, Ltd.
Prime Motors Inns, Inc.
PubliC Service Co of New Hampshire

ED
SD
SD
N.D.
N D.
C.D.
SD
D

CA
NY
IN
TX
TX
CA
FL
NH

1984
1991
1991
1990
1988
1989
1991
1988

aMax Technology Group, Inc

SD
ED
ND

OH
NY
CA

1989
1987
1989

OCCidental Development
OCCidental Development
OCCidental Development
Oliver's Stores
OLR Development Fund
OLR Development Fund
Overland Express, Inc.'

crsr.me.

aublx GraphiC Systems'

LP
II LP

F.Y
Closed

1991

1991
1991
1991
1991

1991

1991

1991
1991

153

Table 23 - continued
REORGANIZATION
PROCEEDINGS UNDER CHAPTER 11
OF THE BANKRUPTCY CODE IN WHICH
THE SEC ENTERED APPEARANCE

..-

... ~:
: :t~
.. ~-

t

~

 loti

,

(""
.A

NO
0
CD

CA
CT
CA

1989
1989
1988

0
0
NO.

AI.
NJ
OH

1989
1990
1988

Sahlen & Associates
Salant Corporation
Saratoga Standardbreds, Inc.
S.E. Nichols
Seatram Lines, Inc.
Sharon Steel Corp.
SIS corporanon
Sorg Incorporated, et al.
Southmark cornoranon'
Southland Corporation
Specialty Retail Concepts, Inc.'
Spencer Cos., Inc.
Spring Meadows Associates.
Standard Oil and Exploration of
Delaware, Inc
Statewide Bancorp
Summit Oilfield Corp ,
Swanton Corp.
Systems for Health Care, Inc.

S.D
SO
NO
SO
S.D.
W.O.
N.D.
S.D.
N.D.
NO
W.D
O.
C.D.

NY
NY
NY
NY
NY
PA
OH
NY
TX
TX
NC
MA
CA

1989
1990
1990
1990
1981
1987
1989
1989
1989
1991
1988
1987
1988

WD

MI
NJ
TX
NY
Il

1991
1991
1989
1985
1988

Telstar Satellite Corp. of America.
Texas American Bancshares, Inc.'
TGXCorp.
The Circle K
The Group, Inc.
The First Connecticut Small
Business Investments Company
The lionel Corp.
The Regina Co.
Tidwell Industries, Inc.3
Todd Shipyards Corp.
Towle ManufactJRosemar Silver
Traweek Investment Fund No. 22, ltd .
Traweek Investment Fund No. 21, ltd.
Traweek Investment Fund No. 18, ltd.'
Trump Taj Mahal Funding, Inc.
TWlstee Treat Corporation 1

C.D.
N.D.
WD
O.
D.

CA
TX

1989
1989
1990
1990
1990

0
SO
D.
N.D.
D.
SO
C.D.
C.D.
C.D.

CT

Ramtek Corporation
Raytech CO.l
Refinemet International, Inc.
Residential Resources Mortgage
Investment Corporation
Resorts International, Inc. et al.
Revco O.S Inc .

: r'"

Univation, Inc
United Merchants & Mfg., Inc.
U.S. Home Corp.

154

F.Y.
Opened

District

Debtor

0
N.D.
SO.
N.D.

LA
AZ
NV

NY
NJ
Al
NJ

NY

M.D.

CA
CA
CA
NJ
Fl

0
N.D.

CA

0

DE

SO

NY

1991
1991
1989
1986
1988
1990
1988
1988
1988
1991
1989
1989
1991
1991

FY.
Closed

1991

1991
1991

1991

1991

1991
1991

Table 23 - continued
REORGANIZATION
PROCEEDINGS UNDER CHAPTER 11
OF THE BANKRUPTCY CODE IN WHICH
THE SEC ENTERED APPEARANCE
FY
Opened

District

Debtor

0

Washington Bancorporanon
Wedgestone Financial
Wedtech Corp.
Westworld Community Healthcare, Inc.
Wheeling-Pittsburgh Steel Corp.
Worthington Co 1
WTD Industries, Inc.

0
S.D.
C.D
W.O.
NO
WD

DC
MA
NY
CA
PA
OH
WA

1990
1991
1987
1987
1985
1991
1991

Zenth Corporation'

D.

NJ

1988

FY.
Closed

1991

1991

Total Cases Opened (FY 1991): 50
Total Cases Closed (FY 1991): 37

lPlan of reorganization confirmed
2Debtor liquidated under Chapter 7
3Chapter 11 case dismissed.
4Debtor's securities not registered under Section 12(g) of the Exchange Act.
"

155

Table 24

APPROPRIATED

FUNDS vs FEES* COLLECTED

$ MIllions

300

259
250

200

196

150

100

50

a
tt
FY1976

79
78

81
80

83
82

85
84

87
86

* Excludes disgorgements from fraud actions.
156

89
88

1991
90

~


en

=


Z

N

o

N

~

a:
n,

o

a:

n,
n,

-c

~OO
Q)ZO
:c8.
t1len~

I-w

~
~
~

w
I-

~

Ii'i

.

w
CJ

o

::>
rn

~

'"
.,;

oj

.,

~
'"

==

N

157

...

.

:~
J

...

,,;:;
.

(-

:;:~7
.'::r:

..E

/".

::I

.:r<

~
"
~

..~
I<

C

.. !<

~~~

~
~
~
c

ig~
il!;

.2

c
>

.!
E
E

ffiz

0

c

0

I
j

~

!em

~u
1Il~
z ...
i"

2

;
~
u

""

..~

~;ffi

"9

Q)

..

en

..

;)

C
CO
J:

o
><

W
'a

~crJ;

z

;l

..:
::::J

o
Q)

Ii

~
e
~
~

a:

~
8

~
~
~
u
III

en
..

~
;
~
e
U

~~

.....
......

..
z
!;"

158

e

c

U

ffiz

U)

::J

"....
~
I<

I<

~
u

tn

;0

l!l
z

Jt!!~
!iJ!~

C
CO
Q)

"
~
...z
I<

tn

,

3~

