Table of Contents
Chairman's Transmittal
Commission

Letter ........................•...................................................

Members and Principal Staff Officers

Biographies of Commission
Richard C. Breeden.
Richard Y. Roberts.

v
x

Members

xiii

Edward H. Fleischman.
J. Carter Beese, Jr.

Mary L. Schapiro.

Regional and Branch Offices and Administrators

xviii

Enforcement
Key 1992 Results

1
1

Enforcement Authority.
Enforcement Activities. International
Enforcement.
Violations Relating to the Government Securities
Markets. Violations Relating to Financial Institutions.
Insider
Trading. Financial Disclosure.
Securities Offering Cases. Market
Manipulation.
Corporate Control. Broker-Dealer Violations •
Investment Adviser and Investment Company Violations. Sources for
Further Inquiry
International Affairs .......................•....................................................................
Key 1992 Results

20
20

Arrangements for Mutual Assistance and Exchanges of Information •
Enforcement Matters. International Organizations and Multilateral
Initiatives • International Requests for Assistance
Regulation of the Securities Markets
Key 1992 Results

26
26

Securities Markets, Facilities, and Trading. Regulation of Brokers,
Dealers, Municipal Securities Dealers, and Transfer Agents. Lost and
Stolen Securities. Oversight of Self-Regulatory Organizations
Investment Companies and Advisers ........................•.........................•.............
Key 1992 Results
Program Overview.
and Applications

Regulatory Policy.

Significant Interpretations

40
40

Full Disclosure ...........................................................................••...........•............
Key 1992 Results

52
52

Review of Filings .. Rulemaking, Interpretive, and Legislative Matters ..
Conferences
Accounting and Auditing Matters
Key 1992 Results

62
62

Mark-to-Market Accounting" Accounting Related Rules and
Interpretations"
Oversight of Private Sector Standard Setting ..
Oversight of the Accounting Profession's Initiatives .. International
Accounting and Auditing Standards
Other Litigation and Legal Activities
Key 1992 Results

67
67

Significant Litigation Developments"
Significant Adjudication
Developments .. Significant Legislative Developments"
Corporate
Reorganizations
Economic Research and Analysis ........................•..............................................
Key 1992 Results

79
79

Economic Analysis and Technical Assistance
Policy Management
Key 1992 Results

and Administrative

Support

Policy Management .. Administrative

81
81

Support

Endnotes

89

Appendix ................................................................................................•..............

102

Types of Proceedings" Enforcement Cases Initiated by the Commission
During Fiscal Year 1992 in Various Program Areas .. Investigations of
Possible Violations of the Acts Administered by the Commission ..
Administrative Proceedings Instituted During Fiscal Year Ending
September 30,1992" Injunctive Actions" Fiscal 1992 Enforcement
Cases Listed by Program Area .. Right to Financial Privacy .. Foreign
Kestricted List .. Self-Regulatory Organizations: Expenses, Pre-tax
Income and Balance Sheet Structure"
Consolidated Financial
Information of Self-Regulatory Organizations"
Self-Regulatory
Organizations-Clearing
Corporations, 1991 Revenues and Expenses ..
Self-Regulatory Organizations-Depositories,
1991 Revenues and
Expenses" Certificate Immobilization"
Exemptions"
Corporate
Reorganizations"
Other Legislative Developments"
The Securities
ii

Industry: Revenues, Expenses, and Selected Balance Sheet Items.
Unconsolidated Financial Information for Broker-Dealers.
Unconsolidated Annual Revenues and Expenses for Broker-Dealers
Doing a Public Business, 1987-1991. Unconsolidated Balance Sheet for
Broker-Dealers Doing a Public Business Year-end, 1987-1991. Carrying
and Clearing Firms. Securities Industry Dollar in 1991 for Carrying/
Clearing Firms • Unconsolidated Revenues and Expenses for
Carrying/ Clearing Broker-Dealers.
Unconsolidated Balance Sheet for
Carrying/ Clearing Broker-Dealers.
Securities on Exchanges: Market
Value and Share Volume.
NASDAQ (Share Volume and Dollar
Volume) • Share and Dollar Volume by Exchange. Market Value of
Equity/Options Sales on U.S. Exchanges. Volume of Equity/Options
Sales on U.S. Securities Exchanges. Share Volume by Exchanges.
Dollar Volume by Exchanges. Securities Listed on Exchanges. Value
of Stocks Listed on Exchanges. Appropriated Funds vs. Fees Collected
• Budget Estimates and Appropriations.
Securities and Exchange
Commission Organizational Chart

iii

UNITED STATES
SECURITIES AND EXCHANGE COMMISSION
WASHINGTON, D.C. 20549
THE CHAIRMAN

The Honorable Albert Gore, Jr.
President of the Senate
Washington, D.C. 20510

The Honorable Thomas S. Foley
Speaker of the House
Washington, D.C. 20515

Gentlemen:
I am honored to transmit the Securities and Exchange Commission's
annual report for fiscal year 1992. During the past year, the Commission:
• presided over by far the largest volume of securities registrations
in history, and the largest volume of securities offerings of all types;
• substantially expanded the rights of shareholders to communicate
without unnecessary restrictions under the federal proxy rules;
• expanded the disclosure requirements of proxy rules concerning
executive compensation to provide comprehensive information in
clear presentations using charts and graphs, together with mandated
descriptions of performance factors relied on by a company's
compensation committee in making compensation awards;
• simplified the process of raising capital and reduced the cost of
complying with federal regulations for small businesses, leading
to a substantially increased rate of offerings by small businesses;
• modified regulations to permit offerings of securities backed by
pools of non-mortgage financial assets such as small business loans
to facilitate growth of new liquidity for small business loans;
• obtained court orders requiring defendants to pay a total of
approximately $558 million, including disgorgement of $51 million
to reimburse injured parties and civil penalties of $221 million to
the U.S. Treasury;
• reached a settlement with Salomon Brothers requiring that firm to
pay $290 million in monetary sanctions;
• released the report Protecting Investors: A Half Century of Investment
Company Regulation, the first comprehensive review of the Investment
Company Act in its 52 years of existence;

v

• entered into new agreements with four countries providing for
exchange of investigative information, technical assistance and
other matters; and
• collected $406 million in fee revenue, almost twice as much as its
annual funding level of $226 million.
Enforcement

The strength of the Commission's enforcement program has been its
diversity and its capacity to deal with the most current and pressing
problems of the marketplace.
While the traditional program areas-accounting, financial disclosure / financial fraud, regulated entity cases,
market manipulation and insider trading cases--remain a core component
of the program, the Commission has taken a much more visible role in
cases involving the government securities markets, fraud by investment
advisers, and affinity fraud.
In fiscal year 1992, the Commission instituted a record 394 enforcement
actions involving insider trading, fraud, market manipulation, securities
offerings, broker-dealer and investment company violations, and other
matters.
The Commission obtained court orders requiring defendants to pay
approximately $558 million. This included court orders in insider trading
cases requiring defendants to contribute approximately $51 million to
funds created to reimburse injured parties. Civil penalties authorized by
the Securities Enforcement Remedies and Penny Stock Reform Act of 1990,
the Insider Trading Sanctions Act of 1984 and the Insider Trading and
Securities Fraud Enforcement Act of 1988 totalled over $221 million.
The Securities Enforcement Remedies and Penny Stock Reform Act
of 1990, which empowered the Commission to seek and impose fines and
to issue cease and desist orders, added considerably to the strength and
flexibility of the Commission's enforcement arsenal. The new cease and
desist powers have become a key component of the Commission's
enforcement program.
In SEC v. Salomon Inc, the Commission settled one of the largest fraud
cases in history. The SEC charged Salomon with committing multiple
violations of the antifraud and recordkeeping provisions of the federal
securities laws through false bids in Treasury auctions and other activities.
Under the settlement agreement, Salomon paid a monetary sanction of $290
million. Of this amount, $100 million was placed in a "claims fund" to
provide compensatory damages to persons with claims resulting from
Salomon's conduct. In addition, Salomon paid $122 million in civil fines
under the securities laws and $68 million in fines and forfeitures in
settlement of claims by the Department of Justice. The settlement included
a permanent injunction against violations by Salomon of the antifraud and
recordkeeping provisions of the federal securities laws. The settlement
also required Salomon to maintain appropriate procedures to prevent
similar violations in the future.
vi

International

Affairs

In june 1992/ the SECjoined with other securities regulatory authorities
of North, South, and Central America and the Caribbean to create the
Council of Securities Regulators of the Americas. COSRA will provide
a forum for mutual cooperation and communication among regulatory
authorities throughout the Americas. In addition, COSRA will enhance
the efforts of each country in the region to develop and foster the growth
of fair and open securities markets.
During 1992/ the Commission signed comprehensive Memoranda of
Understanding for consultation and cooperation with Argentina and Spain.
The Argentina MOU also contains provisions for technical assistance. The
SEC also signed more limited understandings, involving technical assistance
and mutual cooperation, with securities authorities in Costa Rica and
Indonesia. In addition, the SEC now has a senior staff person working
as a full-time resident advisor to the Polish Securities Commission. The
costs of our assistance in Warsaw have been fully paid by a grant from
the Agency for International Development.
In addition, the Commission continued to provide technical assistance
to many emerging market countries and worked closely with international
regulatory bodies to strengthen market inter-relationships, capital adequacy
and other regulatory standards.
Regulation of the Securities Markets

In 1992/ the Division of Market Regulation undertook the Market 2000
Study. The study is intended to provide an understanding of how the
equity markets have changed over the past 20 years. The Division will
study the overall structure of equity market regulation, including its
impact on the primary and regional exchanges, exempt exchanges, the
over-the-counter market and proprietary trading systems. Among the
issues the report will explore are the allocation of regulatory responsibilities,
the need for enhanced transparency, and transaction costs and market
fragmentation.
The Commission continued in its efforts toward implementing major
legislative initiatives enacted by Congress in 1990. The Commission
approved a large trader reporting system, which will monitor material
financial exposures of holding company systems with broker-dealer
affiliates. In addition, the SEC promulgated seven investor disclosure
rules designed to address abuses in the penny stock market. The Commission
also reviewed a substantial number of new securities and derivative
products introduced by the industry.
Investment Companies and Advisers

The SEC' s Division of Investment Management completed its twoyear study of the Investment Company Act--the first comprehensive review
of the Act in its 52 years of existence. Protecting Investors: A Halj Century
vii

of Investment

Company Regulation examined the regulation of investment
companies to see where the law could be more flexible and where regulatory
costs could be reduced without sacrificing the quality of investor protection.
The Commission has already begun to implement some of the report's
recommendations.
The Commission also proposed amendments to Regulation E under
the Securities Act that are intended to enhance the ability of small business
investment companies to raise capital and to increase the liquidity of
investments in small business investment companies and in business
development companies.
Full Disclosure System

The Commission adopted major initiatives to streamline regulations
and reduce the cost of compliance for small businesses. The small business
initiatives reflect the Commission's recognition that traditional sources of
funding for small companies have decreased substantially.
The actions
taken include tripling the limit for simplified stock offerings not required
to be filed with the SEC and creating simpler forms for small offerings
and financial reports.
The Commission adopted significant revisions of the proxy rules to
facilitate effective communications
among shareholders
and between
shareholders and their corporations.
The reforms will encourage greater
participation
by shareholders
in corporate governance by removing
unnecessary regulatory barriers, reducing the costs of complying with the
proxy rules and improving disclosure.
In addition,
the Commission
revised its rules to ensure that
shareholders receive better information about executive compensation.
Among other things, the new executive compensation disclosure rules
require new tables that will disclose clearly and concisely the compensation
received by a corporation's highest paid executives.
Accounting and Auditing Matters
The Commission continued
to provide policy direction to the
accounting profession to move toward using appropriate market-based
measures in accounting for financial instruments. Through the review and
comment process, the accounting staff ensured compliance with existing
rules during the interval.
The Commission also continued to devote
significant resources to initiatives involving international accounting and
auditing independence requirements.
Other Litigation and Legal Activities
The Office of the General Counsel continued both to advise the
Commission on all pending legal questions and to handle the Commission's
appellate and certain other litigation.
The staff opened 264 litigation

viii

matters and received 56 adjudication cases. In addition, the General
Counsel's Office worked extensively on legislative proposals concerning
financial services, litigation reform and other issues.
Economic Research and Analysis
The economics staff reviewed proposals encompassing the full range
of the Commission's regulatory program. Notably, the staff directed its
attention towards a number of issues including executive compensation,
the impact of banking reforms on the securities markets, market value
accounting, and bond market efficiency. Analysis and technical assistance
provided to the agency included a quarterly report on the financial health
of the securities industry, reports on trends in the composition of bank
asset portfolios, assessments of materiality and monetary penalties in
matters of securities violations, and analysis of trading events as a result
of the Securities Enforcement Remedies and Penny Stock Reform Act of
1990.
Management and Program Support
The SEC collected $406 million in fees. The agency received budget
authority of $271 million but had spending authority of $226 million. The
fee collections less budgeted funds created a net gain of $135 million to
the United States Treasury.

The Commission held 60 meetings and considered 323 matters on a
wide-range of securities issues.
A variety of changes occurred in the administrative support functions
of the agency. They included the reorganization of the Office of Equal
Employment Opportunity and the creation of the Office of Information
Technology to consolidate and manage the agency's increasingly complex
information systems.
The past year's accomplishments
are a result of the ability and
dedication of the staff and Commissioners. Our success in enhancing our
system of corporate governance,
dealing with internationalization,
facilitating access to capital for small businesses, as well as the ongoing
battle against market manipulation and fraud was also the result of the
excellent cooperation
and support from the business and financial
community, the investing public, the Administration and the Congress.

Richard C. Breeden
Chairman

ix

Commission
(:\'ol\1 Nl\\l'mbL'r-l,

Members and Principal Staff Officers
Il)l)2)

Commissioners

Term Expires

Richard C. Breeden, Chairman
Edward H. Fleischman 11
Mary L. Schapiro
Richard Y. Roberts
J. Carter Beese, Jr.

1993
1992
1994
1995
1996

Principal Staff Officers

Barbara Green, Executive Assistant and Senior Advisor to the Chairman
Mary Ann Gadziala, Counselor to the Chairman
Linda C. Quinn, Director, Division of Corporation Finance
Elisse B. Walter, Deputy Director
Mary E.T. Beach, Senior Associate Director
Abigail Arms, Associate Director
Robert Bayless, Associate Director
Teresa Iannaconi, Associate Director
Howard Morin, Associate Director
William Morley, Associate Director Ch .
airman
Mauri Osheroff, Associate Director
William R. McLucas, Director, Division of Enforcement
C. Gladwyn Goins, Associate Director
Joseph I. Goldstein, Associate Director
Bruce A. Hiler, Associate Director
Harry J. Weiss, Associate Director
Colleen P. Mahoney, Chief Counsel
Thomas C. Newkirk, Chief Litigation Counsel
George Diacont, Chief Accountant
Marianne K. Smythe, Director, Division of Investment Management
Matthew Chambers, Associate Director
Gene A. Gohlke, Associate Director
Thomas S. Harman, Associate Director
William C. Weeden, Associate Director
Vacant, Associate Director

1/ Edward H. Fleischman resigned from the Commission on March 31,1992.
xi

William H. Heyman, Director, Division of Market Regulation
Brandon Becker, Deputy Director
Larry Bergmann, Associate Director
Robert Colby, Associate Director
Mark D. Fitterman, Associate Director
Jonathan Kallman, Associate Director
Michael Macchiaroli, Associate Director
Catherine McGuire, Special Assistant to the Director
James R. Doty, General Counsel, Office of the General Counsel
Paul Gonson, Solicitor and Deputy General Counsel
Phillip D. Parker, Deputy General Counsel
Anne E. Chafer, Associate General Counsel
Richard Humes, Associate General Counsel
Diane Sanger, Associate General Counsel
Jacob H. Stillman, Associate General Counsel
William S. Stem, Counselor for Adjudication
Walter P. Schuetze, Chief Accountant, Office of the Chief Accountant
Warren E. Blair, ChiefAdministrative Law Judge, Office of the Administrative Law Judges
Susan Woodward, Chief Economist, Office of Economic Analysis
Faith D. Ruderfer, Director, Office of Equal Employment Opportunity
James M. McConnell, Executive Director, Office of the Executive Director
Kenneth A. Fogash, Deputy Executive Director
James A. Clarkson, III, Director of Regional Office Operations
Lawrence H. Haynes, Associate Executive Director for Financial Management
Wilson A. Butler, Jr., Associate Executive Director for Filings, Information and

Consumer Services
John Innocenti, Associate Executive Directorfor Human Resources Management
John J. Lane, Associate Executive Director for Information Technology
Fernando L.Alegria, Jr., Assistant Executive Director for Administrative and

Management Support
Michael D. Mann, Director, Office of International Affairs
Kathryn Fulton, Director, Office of Legislative Affairs
Peter M. Robinson, Director, Office of Public Affairs, Policy Evaluation and Research
Jonathan G. Katz, Secretary, Office of the Secretary

xii

Biographies of COlnmission Members
Chairman

Following his confirmation by
the Senate, Richard C. Breeden was
sworn in as the 24th Chairman of the
Securities and Exchange Commission
on October 11, 1989.
The SEC
oversees trading markets in stocks,
options, bonds and other securities
with more than $10 trillion
in
aggregate value. Itis also responsible
for overseeing the activities of more
than 10,000 registered broker-dealers
and investment
companies,
and
approximately
18,000 investment
advisors.
The SEC also is responsible for establishing disclosure and
accounting policies for the nation's 13,500 publicly-owned companies. The
SEC also enforces U.S. laws against insider trading and other market
abuses.
As Chairman, Mr. Breeden directs a staff of more than 2,600 persons
operating in offices throughout the United States. During his tenure, Mr.
Breeden has emphasized improvements to the capital raising process for
small and large businesses, increased market stability, control of unlawful
practices and fundamental reform of the corporate governance system in
America. Mr. Breeden has testified before Congress on more than 40
occasions, and he regularly appears on news and investment programs
in the U.S. and foreign countries to discuss capital market issues.
In addition to his domestic responsibilities, Mr. Breeden is actively
involved in international
financial regulation.
During his tenure as
Chairman, he has signed more than 15 international agreements to promote
cooperation in law enforcement and to provide technical assistance to
emerging securities markets around the world. Mr. Breeden has held
several leadership positions in the International Organization of Securities
Commissions, and he is the first President of the Council of Securities
Regulators of the Americas, a group linking securities regulators of North,
South and Central America and the Caribbean.
Prior to assuming the Chairmanship, Mr. Breeden served in several
governmental assignments, including serving in the White House under
President Bush as Assistant to the President for Issues Analysis. From
1982-1985, Mr. Breeden also served as Deputy Counsel to then-Vice President
Bush and Staff Director of the President's Task Group on Regulation of
Financial Services, a cabinet-level
group established
to recommend
improvements in federal financial regulatory programs.

xiii

Mr. Breeden is a lawyer by training. His legal practice has included
corporate and financial transactions of all types. In his most recent period
of private practice, he was a corporate finance partner with the Washington,
D.C. office of one of the nation's largest law firms. Prior to his original
government service, Mr. Breeden practiced law in New York City from
1976-1981.
This followed completion
of an appointment
to teach
constitutional law and federal jurisdiction at the University of Miami
School of Law.
Educated at Stanford University (B.A. with honors in international
relations, 1972) and Harvard Law School (1975), Mr. Breeden is the author
of articles in both legal and financial publications.
Mr. Breeden resides
in Virginia with his wife, Holly, and their three sons. The family is active
in local church, school, athletic and civic affairs.
Commissioner

Edward H. Fleischman was sworn in
as the 66th Member of the Securities and
Exchange Commission on January 6, 1986.
He resigned from the Commission on
March 31, 1992 to return to private
practice.
Mr. Fleischman was admitted to the
New York Bar in 1959 and to the bar of
the U.S. Supreme Court in 1980. He
formerly practiced law with Beekman &
Bogue, where he specialized in securities
and corporate law and related areas.
During his career, Mr. Fleischman has been elected a member of the
American Law Institute, the American College of Investment Counsel (of
which he was President in 1990-1991) and the American Society of Corporate
Secretaries, and he serves as an Adjunct Professor of Law teaching securities
regulation at the New York University Law School.
Mr. Fleischman was born in Cambridge, Massachusetts on June 25,
1932. He received his undergraduate education at Harvard College, served
in the U.S. Army from 1952 to 1955, and obtained his LL.B degree from
Columbia Law School.
Mr. Fleischman is a member of the Council of the American Bar
Association Section of Business Law. He serves on that Section's Commi ttee
on Counsel Responsibility and in 1987-1991 he chaired the Committee on
Developments
in Business Financing, for which he co-drafted that
Committee's 1979 paper on resale of institutional privately-placed debt
and chaired its Subcommittees on Simplified Indenture and on Annual
Review of Developments.
He also serves on the Committee on Federal
Regulation of Securities, for which he chaired Subcommittees on Rule 144
and on Broker-Dealer Matters and co-drafted the Committee's 1973 letter
on utilization and dissemination of "inside" information. In addition, he

xiv

serves on the Committee on Futures Regulation and the Committee on
Developments in Investment Services, and has been active in the Section
on Administrative
Law.
Mr. Fleischman is also a member of Committee E--Banking Law and
of Committee Q--Issues and Trading in Securities of the International Bar
Association Section on Business Law. In the International Law Association
(American Branch), he has been appointed to membership on the Committee
on International Regulation of Securities.
Commissioner
Mary L. Schapiro was sworn in as the
67th member of the Securities and Exchange
Commission on December 19, 1989 by the
Honorable Sandra Day O'Connor, Associate
Justice of the United States Supreme Court.
Ms. Schapiro
was nominated
to the
Commission
on November
8, 1989 by
President George Bush and confirmed by the
United States Senate on November 18, 1989.
Her term expires in June 1994. Ms. Schapiro
had previously been appointed by President
Ronald Reagan for a one year term.
Ms. Schapiro was named chairman of the SEC Task Force on
Administrative
Process in 1990, with responsibility for comprehensive
review and revision of the agency's rules for administrative proceedings.
Ms. Schapiro also serves on the Developing Markets Committee of the
International Organization of Securities Commissions.
Before being appointed to the Commission, Ms. Schapiro was General
Counsel and Senior Vice President for the Futures Industry Association.
While at the PIA her work included regulatory, tax and international
issues, including extensive liaison with foreign government officials and
analysis of state and Federal legislation.
Ms. Schapiro came to the FIA from the Commodity Futures Trading
Commission, where she spent four years. She joined the CFTC in 1980
as a Trial Attorney in the Manipulation and Trade Practice Investigations
Unit of the Division of Enforcement, and from 1981 to 1984 served as
Counsel and Executive Assistant to the Chairman of the agency. In the
latter position, Ms. Schapiro advised on all regulatory and adjudicatory
matters pending before the Commission and on legislation.
She also
represented the Chairman with Federal and state officials, Congress, and
the futures industry, in addition to other duties.
A 1977 honors graduate of Franklin and Marshall College (Lancaster,
Pennsylvania), Ms. Schapiro earned a Juris Doctor degree (with honors)
from The National Law Center of George Washington University in 1980.

xv

Commissioner

Richard Roberts was nominated to
the Commission by President Bush and
confirmed by the Senate on September 27,
1990. He was sworn in as a Commissioner
on October 1, 1990by the Honorable Stanley
Sporkin, Judge for the United States District
Court of the District of Columbia.
His
term expires in June 1995.
Before being nominated
to the
Commission, Mr. Roberts was in the private
practice of law with the Washington office
of Miller, Hamilton, Snider & Odom.
Before joining the law firm in April 1990, Mr. Roberts was administrative
assistant and legislative director for Senator Richard Shelby (D., Ala.),
a position he assumed in 1987. Prior to that, Mr. Roberts was, for four
years, in the private practice of law in Alabama. From 1979 to 1982,
Mr. Roberts was administrative assistant and legislative director for
then-Congressman Shelby.
Mr. Roberts is a 1973 graduate of Auburn University and a 1976
graduate of the University of Alabama School of Law. He also received
a Master of Laws in taxation from the George Washington University
National Law Center in 1981. He is admitted to the bar in the District
of Columbia and Alabama. Mr. Roberts is a member of the Alabama
State Bar Association and the District of Columbia Bar Association.
He and his wife, the former Peggy Frew, make their home in Fairfax,
Virginia with their son and two daughters.
Mr. Roberts was born in Birmingham, Alabama on July 3, 1951.
Commissioner

J. Carter Beese, Jr. was nominated to
the U.S. Securities
and Exchange
Commission in October 1991 by President
George Bush. He was recommended for
confirmation by the Senate Committee on
Banking, Housing, and Urban Affairs by
a vote of 21-0, and confirmed by the U.S.
Senate by unanimous
voice vote on
February 27, 1992. In a private ceremony
held on March 10, 1992, Mr. Beese was
sworn in as the 71st member of the
Commission by the Honorable Stanley
Sporkin, Judge for the U.S. District Court for the District of Columbia.
On April 20, 1992, Mr. Beese was formally sworn in at the White House
by Vice President Dan Quayle. Mr. Beese's term expires in June of 1996.
Before being appointed to the Commission, Mr. Beese was a partner
of Baltimore-based Alex Brown & Sons, the oldest investment banking
firm in the U.S. Mr. Beese's corporate responsibilities included business
xvi

development in the areas of corporate finance, investment management,
and institutional brokerage. Mr. Beese joined Alex Brown in 1978, became
an officer of the firm in 1984 and was named partner in 1987. Mr. Beese
was also active in the founding of the Carlyle Group, a Washington based
merchant bank, and served as an advisory director from 1986 to 1989. In
1990, in a poll of 250 senior financial industry executives conducted by
Institutional Investor magazine, Mr. Beese was named as one of the next
generation's financial leaders.
Before becoming a Commissioner, Mr. Beese was appointed by
President Bush to serve as a Director of the Overseas Private Investment
Corporation (OPIC), a U.S. Government agency that assists American
private business investment in over 120 countries by financing direct loans
and loan guarantees and by insuring investments against a broad range
of political risks. Mr. Beese was appointed to this position in April 1990,
recommended for confirmation without dissent by the Senate Foreign
Relations Committee, and unanimously confirmed by the U.S. Senate.
In addition, Mr. Beese also served on the Securities and Exchange
Commission's Emerging Markets Advisory Committee and was a member
of the SEC delegation to Hungary and Mexico. As part of his responsibilities,
Mr. Beese provided technical assistance on the formation and regulatory
oversight of financial markets. Further during 1991, Mr. Beese served as
a member of the Committee on Financing Technology in the U.S., a joint
project between the Treasury and Commerce Departments initiated to
study the adequacy of investment in technology needed by U.S. companies
to meet global competition.
Mr. Beese is active in a number of civic organizations, including the
American Center for International Leadership (ACIL) of which he is a
director.
ACIL brings young American leaders together with their
counterparts in various foreign countries. Mr. Beese participated in ACIL
missions to the Peoples Republic of China in 1988 and to the former USSR
in 1990. He is a committee member of CHILDHELP USA and serves on
the boards of Preservation Maryland, The Palm Beach Maritime Museum
and Ocean Engineering Institute, and the Advisory Board of National
Rehabilitation Hospital. Mr. Beese resides in Baltimore, Maryland with
his wife, Natalie, and two children, Courtney and John Carter.

xvii

Regional and Branch Offices and Administrators
(i\.., (11 Nm

L'l1lber

u IlJlJ2)

REGION 1

Richard Walker
NEW YORK REGIONAL OFFICE
75 Park Place, 14th Floor
New York, NY 10007
212/264-1636
Region: New York and New Jersey

REGION 2

Douglas Scarff
BOSTON REGIONAL OFFICE
John W. McCormack Post Office
and Courthouse Building, Suite 700
Boston, MA 02109
617/223-9900
Region: Maine, New Hampshire, Vermont,
Massachusetts, Rhode Island, and Connecticut

REGION 3

Richard P. Wessel
ATLANTA REGIONAL OFFICE
3475 Lenox Road, N.E., Suite 1000
Atlanta, GA 30326-1232
404/842-7600
Region: Tennessee, Virgin Islands, Puerto Rico,
North Carolina, South Carolina, Georgia, Alabama,
Mississippi, Florida, and Louisiana east of the
Atchafalaya River
Charles C Harper
MIAMI BRANCH OFFICE
Dupont Plaza Center
300 Biscayne Boulevard Way, Suite 500
Miami, FL 33131
305/536-5765

REGION 4

xviii

William D. Goldsberry
CHICAGO REGIONAL OFFICE
Northwestern Atrium Center
500 W. Madison Street, Suite 1400
Chicago, IL 60661
312/353-7390
Region: Michigan, Ohio, Kentucky, Wisconsin,
Indiana, Iowa, lllinois, Minnesota, and Missouri

REGION 5

T. Christopher Browne
FORT WORTH REGIONAL OFFICE
411 West Seventh Street, 8th Floor
Fort Worth, TX 76102
817/334-3821
Region: Oklahoma, Arkansas, Texas, Louisiana
west of the Atchafalaya River, and Kansas

REGION 6

Robert H. Davenport
DENVER REGIONAL OFFICE
1801 California Street, Suite 4800
Denver, CO 80202-2648
303/391-6800
Region: North Dakota, South Dakota,
Wyoming, Nebraska, Colorado,
New Mexico, and Utah
Donald M. Hoed
SALT LAKE CITY BRANCH OFFICE
500 Key Bank Tower
50 South Main Street, Suite 500
Salt Lake City, UT 84144-0402
801 /524-5796

REGION 7

Elaine Cacheris
LOS ANGELES REGIONAL OFFICE
5670 Wilshire Boulevard, 11th Floor
Los Angeles, CA 90036-3648
213/965-3900
Region: Nevada, Arizona, California, Hawaii, and
Guam
Vacant
SAN FRANCISCO BRANCH OFFICE
901 Market Street, Suite 470
San Francisco, CA 94103
415/744-3140

REGION 8

Jack H. Bookey
SEATTLE REGIONAL OFFICE
3040 Jackson Federal Building
915 Second Avenue
Seattle, WA 98174
206/553-7990
Region: Montana, Idaho, Washington, Oregon,
and Alaska
xix

REGION 9

xx

Vacant
PHILADELPIDA REGIONAL OFFICE
The Curtis Center, Suite 1005 E.
601 Walnut Street
Philadelphia, PA 19106-3322
215/597-3100
Region: Pennsylvania, Delaware, Maryland,
Virginia, West Virginia, and District of Columbia

Enforcement

1

The Commission's enforcement program is designed to protect investors
and foster investor confidence by preserving the integrity and efficiency of the
securities markets. Last year, as in prior years, the Commission maintained
a strong presence in all areas within its jurisdiction. The deterrent impact of
the program was enhanced, by, among other things, the Commission's
extensive use of important new remedies during the year.
Key 1992 Results

In 1992, the Commission instituted a record number of enforcement
actions, responding to a wide range of securities law violations. Remedies
and procedures authorized by the Securities Enforcement Remedies and
Penny Stock Reform Act of 1990 (Remedies Act) strengthened
the
Commission's enforcement arsenal.
The Commission obtained court orders requiring defendants to
disgorge illicit profits of approximately
$558 million.
This included
disgorgement orders in insider trading cases requiring the payment of
approximately $51 million. Civil penalties authorized by the Remedies
Act and the Insider Trading Sanctions Act of 1984 (ITSA) and the Insider
Trading and Securities Fraud Enforcement Act of 1988 (ITSFEA) totalled
over $221 million.
Ninety criminal indictments or informations and 86 convictions were
obtained by criminal authorities during 1992 in Commission-related cases.
The Commission granted access to its files to domestic and foreign
prosecutorial authorities in 280 cases.

Total Enforcement Actions Initiated

Civil Injunctive Actions
Administrative Proceedings
Civil and Criminal Contempt
Proceedings
Reports of Investigation
Total

1988

1989

1990

1991

1992

125
109

140
155

186
111

172
138

156
226

17

J
252

9

11

15

7

.Jl

-..0.

J

J

310

304

320

394

1

Enforcement Authority

The Commission has broad authority to investigate possible violations
of the federal securities laws. Informal investigations are conducted on
a voluntary basis, with the Commission requesting persons with relevant
information to cooperate by providing documents and testifying before
the staff. The federal securities laws also empower the Commission to
conduct formal investigations, in which the Commission has the authority
to issue subpoenas that compel the production of books and records and
the appearance of witnesses to testify. Both types of investigations generally
are conducted on a confidential, nonpublic basis.
Traditionally, the Commission's primary enforcement mechanism for
addressing violative conduct has been the federal court injunction. In civil
actions for injunctive relief, the Commission is authorized to seek temporary
restraining orders and preliminary injunctions as well as permanent
injunctions against any person who is violating or about to violate any
provision of the federal securities laws. A federal court injunction prohibits
future violations.
Once an injunction has been imposed, conduct that
violates the injunction will be punishable by either civil or criminal contempt,
and violators are subject to fines or imprisonment. In addition to seeking
such orders, the Commission often seeks other equitable relief such as an
accounting and disgorgement of illegal profits. When seeking temporary
restraining orders, the Commission often requests a freeze order to prevent
concealment of assets or dissipation of the proceeds of illegal conduct.
The Remedies Act authorized the Commission to seek, and the courts to
impose, civil penalties for any violation of the federal securities laws (with
the exception of insider trading violations for which penalties are available
under ITSA). The Remedies Act also affirmed the existing equitable
authority of the federal courts to bar or suspend individuals from serving
as corporate officers or directors.
In addition to civil injunctive actions, the Commission has the authority
to institute several types of administrative proceedings. The Commission
may institute administrative proceedings against regulated entities, in
which the sanctions that may be imposed include a censure, limitation on
activities, and suspension or revocation of registration. The Commission
may impose similar sanctions on persons associated with such entities and
persons affiliated with investment companies. For example, the Commission
may bar or suspend individuals associated with a broker or dealer from
participating in an offering of penny stock. In these proceedings, the
Remedies Act authorizes the Commission to impose penalties and order
disgorgement against regulated entities and persons associated with such
entities.
The Remedies
Act authorizes
the Commission
to institute
administrative proceedings in which it can issue cease-and-desist orders.
A permanent cease-and-desist order can be entered against any person
violating the federal securities laws, and the order can require disgorgement
of illegal profits. The Commission also is authorized to issue temporary
cease-and-desist orders, if necessary on an ex parte basis, against regulated
entities and persons associated with regulated entities, if the Commission
2

'l

,;

~


determines that the violation or threatened violation is likely to result in
significant dissipation or conversion of assets, significant harm to investors,
or substantial harm to the public interest prior to completion of proceedings.
Section 8(d) of the Securities Act of 1933 (Securities Act) enables the
Commission to institute proceedings to suspend the effectiveness of a
registration statement that contains false and misleading statements.
Administrative proceedings pursuant to Section 15(c)(4) of the Securities
Exchange Act of 1934 (Exchange Act) can be instituted against any person
who fails to comply, and any person who is a cause of failure to comply,
with reporting, beneficial ownership, proxy, and tender offer requirements.
Respondents can be ordered to comply or to take steps to effect compliance
with the relevant provisions. Pursuant to Rule 2(e) of the Commission's
Rules of Practice, administrative proceedings can be instituted against
persons who appear or practice before the Commission, such as accountants
and attorneys.
The sanctions that can be imposed in these proceedings
include suspensions and bars from practicing before the agency.
The Commission is authorized to refer matters to other federal, state,
or local authorities or self-regulatory organizations such as the New York
Stock Exchange or the National Association of Securities Dealers (NASD).
The staff often provides substantial assistance to criminal authorities, such
as the Department of Justice, for the criminal prosecution of securities
violations.
Enforcement Activities

Set forth below are summaries of Significant enforcement actions
initiated in various program areas during 1992. Defendants or respondents
who consented to settlements of actions did so without admitting or
denying the factual allegations contained in the complaint or order
instituting proceedings. See Table 6 for a listing of all enforcement actions
instituted in 1992.

International Enforcement
A substantial number of investigations have international aspects,
and the staff took depositions in and obtained information from a number
of foreign countries. In conjunction with the Office of International Affairs,
the staff prepared more than 180 requests to obtain information from
foreign authorities,
pursuant to formal or informal agreements and
understandings,
and worked on a substantial number of requests for
assistance from agencies of foreign nations.
As part of its increasing emphasis on international coordination and
cooperation, the staff participated in a number of training and education
opportunities. Representatives from 38 foreign securities agencies attended
the 1992 Enforcement Training Program at the invitation of the Division
of Enforcement.

3

Violations Relating To The Government Securities Markets
During the year, the Commission focused increased attention on
violative activities affecting the conduct and fairness of the market for
securities issued by the U.S. Treasury and various government-sponsored
entities.
The Commission instituted proceedings, jointly with the Comptroller
of the Currency and the Board of Directors of the Federal Reserve System,
against 98 registered broker-dealers, registered government securities
brokers and/ or dealers and banks (In the Matter of the Distribution of Certain
Debt Securities Issued by Government Sponsored Enterprises's,
The
administrative proceedings arose from the respondents' alleged violations
of record-keeping provisions in connection with their participation in
certain primary distributions of unsecured debt securities issued by one
or more of the following government-sponsored
enterprises: the Federal
Home Loan Banks, the Federal Home Loan Mortgage Corporation, the
Federal National Mortgage Association, and the Student Loan Marketing
Association. The sanctions imposed in the proceedings included cease and
desist orders, and orders requiring the payment of civil penalties totalling
$5.2 million. In addition, the Commission issued a report regarding this
matter pursuant to Section 21(a) of the Exchange Act.
In an action against Salomon Inc. and Salomon Brothers Inc., the
Commission alleged that between August 1989 and May 1991, Salomon
repeatedly submitted false bids in auctions for U.S. Treasury securities
(SEC v. Salomon Inc.2).
These activities allowed Salomon to circumvent
the limitations imposed by the Treasury Department on the amount of
securities anyone person or entity may obtain from auctions of U.S.
Treasury securities.
Salomon also created numerous false books and
records in connection with these bids. Salomon consented to the entry
of an order by which it was enjoined, and also entered into settlement
agreements with respect to civil claims of the Department of Justice. In
addition, Salomon consented to the entry of an order requiring the payment
of $290 million, of which $122 million represents the payment of civil
penalties under the Remedies Act, $50 million represents a forfeiture to
the Department of Justice Asset Forfeiture Fund, and $18 million represents
payment to the United States in respect of potential claims under the False
Claims Act and common law. The remaining $100 million was paid into
the registry of the court for the satisfaction of private civil claims against
Salomon.
Related administrative
proceedings also were instituted against
Salomon Brothers Inc. (In the Matter of Salomon Brothers Inc.3). In addition
to finding that Salomon Brothers had been enjoined, the order instituting
proceedings alleged that senior management of Salomon Brothers had
learned in late April 1991 that a managing director of the firm had
submitted a false bid in an auction of U.S. Treasury securities in February
1991. Despite this information, Salomon Brothers took no action over the
next several months to investigate the matter or to discipline the managing
director.
The Commission thus alleged that Salomon Brothers failed

4

reasonably to supervise the managing director with a view toward
preventing his violations. Salomon consented to the entry of an order by
which it was censured and ordered to comply with its undertaking to
maintain policies reasonably designed to prevent a recurrence of its
violations.
The Commission brought an action against Stotler and Company,
formerly a registered broker-dealer engaged in the government securities
business, and four individuals associated with Stotler, its parent or affiliates,
alleging that they participated in a scheme to defraud public investors and
to deceive the Commission and other regulatory agencies concerning the
financial condition of Stotler and its parent and affiliates (SEC v. Thomas
M. Egan4).
Among other things, the defendants engaged in a series of
unlawful transactions to conceal self-dealing and create the false appearance
of regulatory capital compliance and profitability.
At the end of 1992,
this action was pending.

Violations Relating To Financial Institutions
The Commission has focused increased attention on possible securities
law violations by financial institutions and persons associated with them.
A special unit within the Division of Enforcement is dedicated to
investigating, among other things, financial fraud encompassing false
financial statements and misleading disclosures in filings by publicl y-held
financial institutions and holding companies, and insider trading by persons
associated with financial institutions.
The Commission brought an enforcement action against Charles
Keating, Jr., and eight other former officers, directors, and high-ranking
employees of American Continental Corporation (ACe) and its former
subsidiary, Lincoln Savings and Loan Association, and against the former
chairman and chief executive officer of CenTrust Savings Bank, alleging
violations of the federal securities laws arising from the operations of ACC
and Lincoln (SEC v. Charles H. Keating, Ir.5). The charges involve: ACC's
improper recognition of over $120 million in income between 1985 and
1988 from nine real estate and securities transactions that were structured
to create the false appearance that gain recognition was appropriate; the
fraudulent sale of approximately $275 million worth of ACC' s subordinated
debentures in the branches of Lincoln; false and misleading disclosures
about ACC's liquidity, cash flow, related party transactions and due
diligence procedures; the issuance of a false press release to bolster the
price of ACC's stock; insider trading by Keating; and violation of the
broker-dealer registration requirements. In addition to seeking permanent
injunctions against the defendants, the Commission is seeking to bar
Keating and another defendant from serving as officers or directors of any
publicly-traded company, and is seeking disgorgement of losses avoided
by Keating through his insider trading activities, along with ITSA penalties
of up to three times that amount. Four of the defendants consented to
the entry of injunctions. At the end of the year, this action was pending
as to Keating and the other defendants.

5

The Commission instituted cease and desist proceedings against
Abington Bancorp, Inc., a savings bank holding company (In the Matter
of Abington Bancorp, Inc.6). During 1989 and 1990, Abington allegedly failed
to classify as other than temporary" the declines in market values below
cost bases of certain noncurrent marketable equity securities of various
issuers. The order instituting proceedings concluded that Abington should
have written down these securities to their realizable values and recognized
the corresponding losses in the appropriate periods as required by generally
It further concluded that
accepted accounting principles (GAAP).
Abington's financial statements for the reporting periods in which it failed
to recognize such losses were materially inaccurate with respect to net
after-tax income. Abington consented to the entry of a cease and desist
order.
In SEC v. Donald Coleman,' the Commission alleged violations by
Donald J. Coleman, the former chief financial officer of Washington
Bancorporation (WBC); W. Thomas Fleming III, the former president of
National Bank of Washington (NBW), a WBC subsidiary; and a former
NBW salesperson. The complaint alleged that prior to WBC's default on
$37 million in commercial paper sold through NBW, Coleman and Fleming
failed to disclose material information relating to WBC's inability to repay
its commercial paper obligations.
The complaint further alleged that
Coleman aided and abetted the filing of a false and misleading Form 10K for fiscal year 1989, and that he allowed continued sales of unregistered
commercial paper. The complaint further alleged that the former NBW
salesperson invested customers' funds in WBC commercial paper (since
repaid) without the customers' knowledge, authorization
or consent.
Coleman and the former NBW salesperson consented to the entry of orders
enjoining them. At the end of the year, the action against Fleming was
pending.
The Commission filed an action against seven defendants, alleging
a scheme to defraud in the offer and sale of approximately $10 million
of uninsured subordinated capital notes issued by Germania Bank, a
federal savings institution subsequently placed in receivership by the
Resolution Trust Corporation (SEC v. Edward MorrisS). The alleged violations
included Germania's issuance of false financial statements in a quarterly
report that understated loan loss reserves by at least $4.1 million; Germania's
false statement in its offering circular that no commissions would be paid
to salespeople when in fact such commissions were paid for sales of the
notes; and misrepresentations concerning whether the notes were insured,
the risk associated with an investment in the notes, and the liquidity of
an investment in the notes. At the end of 1992, this action was pending.
The Commission instituted administrative proceedings pursuant to
Rule 2(e) against Robert J. Iommazzo, a former partner in the accounting
firm of Coopers & Lybrand, alleging improper professional conduct in that
he failed to maintain his independence during audits of Citizens First
Bancorp, Inc., for fiscal years 1986, 1988 and 1989 (In the Matter of Robert
[. Iommazzo, CPA9). Iommazzo, the concurring partner on the audits, was
responsible, among other things, for performing a review of the audits
If

6

and ensuring that the audits were conducted in accordance with the rules
of professional conduct. During the years at issue, Iommazzo directly or
indirectly obtained numerous loans from Citizens, many of which were
unsecured. Despite the lack of independence allegedly arising from his
receipt of the loans, Iommazzo concurred in Coopers' unqualified reports
on Citizens financial statements, and did not cause Coopers' reports to
contain a disclaimer of opinion or to reference the lack of independence.
At the end of the year, this matter was pending.
Insider Trading
Insider trading occurs when a person in possession of material
nonpublic information engages in securities transactions or communicates
such information to others who trade. Insider trading encompasses more
than trading and tipping by traditional insiders, such as officers and
directors who are subject to a duty to disclose any material nonpublic
information or abstain from trading in the securities of their own company.
Violations may also arise from the transmission or use of material nonpublic
information by persons in a variety of other posi tions of trust and confidence,
or by those who misappropriate such information.
The Commission ordinarily seeks permanent injunctions and ancillary
relief, including disgorgement of any profits gained or losses avoided,
against alleged violators. In addition, the ITSA penalty provisions authorize
the Commission to seek a civil penalty, payable to the United States, of
up to three times the profit gained or loss avoided, against persons who
unlawfully trade in securities while in possession of material nonpublic
information,
or who unlawfully
communicate
material nonpublic
information to others who trade. Civil penalties also can be imposed upon
persons who control insider traders. During 1992, the Commission brought
41 civil and administrative actions alleging insider trading violations.
In an action against Edward R. Downe, [r., a member of the board
of directors of both Kidde, Inc., and Bear, Stearns Companies, Inc., six
other individual defendants and a corporate defendant, the Commission
alleged a scheme involving numerous instances of insider trading occurring
between 1987 and 1989 (SEC v. Edward R. Downe, Jr.10). The Commission
alleged that Downe learned material nonpublic information concerning
mergers, leveraged buyouts, tender offers, and other extraordinary
corporate events, through his employment or tips from other defendants.
Downe traded while in possession of such information and also provided
information to other defendants who traded.
The complaint seeks
disgorgement of more than $23 million plus prejudgment interest, ITSA
penalties, and an order prohibiting Downe from acting as an officer or
director of a publicly-held company. One of the defendants consented
to the entry of an order enjoining him and requiring him to pay an ITSA
penalty of $58,000. At the end of 1992, this case was pending as to Downe
and all other defendants.
A number of cases were brought involving violative conduct by
traditional corporate insiders. In SEC v. Hugh Thrasher," the Commission
alleged violations by eighteen individuals and a broker-dealer firm in
7

connection with transactions in the stock of Motel 6, L.P. According to
the complaint, Hugh Thrasher, the executive vice president in charge of
corporate communications at Motel 6, tipped material nonpublic information
regarding a proposed tender offer for Motel 6 stock to a friend who in
turn tipped numerous relatives and acquaintances.
The complaint seeks
disgorgement of $4.5 million plus prejudgment interest, ITSA penalties,
and an order prohibiting Thrasher from acting as an officer or director
of a publicly-held company. Four of the defendants consented to the entry
of injunctions and agreed to disgorge a total of $467,685 plus prejudgment
interest, and to pay ITSA penalties totalling $426,603. At the end of the
year, this action was pending as to Thrasher and the other defendants.
Two actions involved allegations that government officials had engaged
in illegal trading while in possession of material nonpublic information
obtained in the course of their employment.
In SEC v. John Acree,12 the
Commission alleged that two employees of the Office of the Comptroller
of the Currency (OCC) and a former OCC employee who was then working
for a private consulting firm, misappropriated
information from their
employers, including information concerning a planned bank examination
and two proposed mergers of financial institutions. Trades were in some
instances concealed by being executed through the account of a fourth
defendant, the manager of a diner, who subsequently consented to the
entry of an order enjoining him and requiring him to disgorge $26,336,
plus prejudgment interest, and to pay an ITSA penalty equal to the
disgorgement amount. This action was pending at the end of the year
against the other defendants.
In SEC v. N. Donald Morse, 11,13the Commission for the first time
brought charges of insider trading in the municipal bond market. The
defendant, the secretary / treasurer of the Kentucky Infrastructure Authority,
was responsible for selecting certain bonds for redemption by the agency,
and for soliciting tenders from bondholders.
In its complaint, the
Commission alleged that the defendant, while in possession of material
nonpublic information regarding the quantity of bonds that the agency
needed to repurchase, obtained bonds selling at 94 which he then tendered,
through a local bank to conceal his identity, at 99 7/8, the highest amount
paid to any tendering bondholder.
When his bonds were purchased by
the agency, the defendant failed to disclose either his ownership or the
fact that bonds were available at a lower price. The defendant consented
to the entry of an order enjoining him, and requiring him to disgorge
$6,462, plus pre-judgment interest.
With the Commission's assistance, Eddie Antar, a fugitive from justice
since 1989, was located and arrested in Israel. The Commission obtained
access to extensive banking records related to Antar's financial transactions,
leading to the entry of freeze orders affecting more than $50 million subject
to Antar's control in six foreign countries. In addition to federal criminal
actions against him, Antar was named as a defendant in a Commission
civil action filed in 1989. According to the complaint, Antar, the founder
and chairman of Crazy Eddie, Inc., and others engaged in a fraud involving
the falsification of financial records and the overstatement of the company's
8

financial condition by tens of millions of dollars. Antar made more than
$60 million by selling his Crazy Eddie stock at artificially high prices
caused by the company's falsified financial performance. An order was
entered in 1990 that required Antar to disgorge $73 million.
In an action against a Swiss attorney, related to the Commission's
prior action against Finacor Anstalt and Christian Norgren involving
insider trading in the common stock and options for the common stock
of Combustion Engineering, Inc., the Commission alleged that the defendant,
who acted as counsel to Norgren and as a business agent for Norgren and
Finacor, recommended that Norgren proceed with the insider trading
scheme and that the purchases be made through Finacor (SEC v. Kurt
Naegeli14). The Commission also alleged that the defendant received an
explicit warning from another associate of Norgren's that the planned
activities would be illegal in the United States. The defendant opened
an account for Finacor at a Liechtenstein bank, transferred approximately
$1.8 million from his own bank account in Switzerland to the new account,
and placed orders which caused the new account to purchase a total of
55,000 shares of Combustion Engineering common stock and 1,700 call
option contracts for Combustion Engineering common stock, prior to the
public announcement of the tender offer. At the end of the year, this case
was pending.

Financial Disclosure
Actions involving false and misleading disclosures concerning matters
that affect the financial condition of companies or involving the issuance
of false financial statements often are complex, and, in general, demand
more resources than other types of cases. Effective prosecution in this
area is essential to preserving the integrity of the full disclosure system.
The Commission brought 54 cases containing significant allegations of
financial disclosure violations against issuers, regulated entities, or their
employees. Many of these cases included alleged violations of the books
and records and internal accounting control provisions of the Foreign
Corrupt Practices Act. The Commission also brought 15 cases alleging
misconduct by accounting firms or their partners or employees.
In SEC v. College Bound, Inc.,15 the Commission brought an emergency
action alleging, among other things, that the defendants engaged in conduct
resulting in the material overstatement of College Bound's earnings. The
annual pre-tax income of $8.7 million reported by College Bound for fiscal
year 1991 was overstated by at least $5.2 million. The case involved, in
part, transfers to an off-the-books bank account of millions of dollars of
funds derived primarily from the proceeds of various offerings of College
Bound's convertible notes in Europe. Those funds were transferred to
College Bound centers around the country and then retransmitted to
College Bound headquarters and improperly recognized as revenues. The
Commission obtained a temporary
restraining
order, preliminary
injunctions, and asset freezes as to College Bound and the two individual
defendants. The Commission also secured the appointment of a receiver
for the company. The company consented to the entry of an injunction.
9

Cease and desist proceedings also were instituted against Presidential
Life Corporation, a holding company engaged primarily in the annuity
contracts business through a life insurance subsidiary (In the Matter of
Presidential Life CorpP). The Commission alleged that Presidential
improperly accounted for its investments in high yield bonds and other
securities, which resulted in a material overstatement of its pre-tax income
for the year ended December 31, 1989. The overstatement allegedly was
caused by the company's failure to account properly for securities that
had declined in market value by approximately $25 million, roughly 37
percent of the company's reported pre-tax income. Of this amount, $20.7
million was attributable to "other than temporary" declines in the market
value of Presidential's high yield bond portfolio, declines which, under
generally accepted accounting principles, require a write-down of securities
to their realizable values. Among other things, the Commission
also
alleged that the management
discussion
and analysis portion of
Presidential's Form 10-K for fiscal year 1989 contained materially false and
misleading statements regarding the effects of its high yield bond portfolio.
At the end of the year, this proceeding was pending.

Securities Offering Cases
Securities offering cases involve the offer and sale of securities in
violation of the registration provisions of the Securities Act. In some cases,
the issuers attempt to rely on exemptions from the registration requirements
that are not available under the circumstances. Offering cases frequently
involve material misrepresentations concerning, among other things, use
of proceeds, risks associated with investments, disciplinary history of
promoters or control persons, business prospects, promised returns, success
of prior offerings, and the financial condition of issuers.
A number of offering cases involved the operation of "Ponzi" schemes,
in which funds obtained from new investors are used to meet obligations
to earlier investors, thereby creating the illusion of profitability. In SEC
v. Metro Display Advertising, Inc.,22 the Commission alleged that Metro
Display Advertising, Inc., doing business as Bustop Shelters, Inc., Jean
Claude LeRoyer, Metro Display's founder and chief executive officer,
Karen LeRoyer, and two related companies raised more than $45 million
in a fraudulent scheme. Investors were told that for an investment of
$10,000, they would each become the owner of a bus stop shelter that could
be leased back to Metro Display for a period of five years, with the company
repurchasing the shelter at the investor's option at the end of the lease
term. Lease payments were to be made out of advertising revenues
generated by the shelters. The complaint alleged however, that the lease
payments were made from other investor funds as part of a Ponzi scheme.
The complaint further alleges that the LeRoyers misappropriated company
and investor funds for personal uses. This case was pending at the end
of the year.
Other cases involving alleged Ponzi schemes included SEC v. Deepak
Gulati,23 a settled case involving the sale of $4 million in unregistered
securities and limited partnership
interests in Indian and Pakistani
11

communities in the U.S. Northeast; In the Matter of Stephen]. Klos,24 a settled
case involving the sale of more than $3 million in unregistered promissory
notes and investor bonds; and SEC v. Custom Trading International Corp.,25
a pending action involving the sale of $10 million in unregistered securities
in the form of joint venture interests in an investment pool.
In SEC v. Current Financial Services, Inc.,26 the Commission filed a
complaint against Current Financial Services, Inc., ten individuals and six
other corporate defendants. Current Financial offered and sold unregistered
debt securities to the other corporate defendants who financed their
purchases by selling their own unregistered debt securities to the public.
The Commission alleged that investors were told, falsely, that they would
receive extraordinary annual rates of return, typically between 12 and 60
percent annually.
Defendants also failed to disclose the risks of the
investments, representing in some instances that the debt securities were
as risk-free as certificates of deposit, treasury notes or blue chip stocks.
At the end of the year, this action was pending.
The Commission filed an action against AMI Securities, Inc., a registered
broker-dealer, and seven present or former AMI officers (SEC v. AMI
Securities, Inc.27). The complaint alleged that AMI fraudulently offered and
sold in excess of $250 million in church and non-profit corporation bonds.
Offering documents and sales presentations misrepresented, among other
things, the financial condition of the issuers, the value of underlying
collateral, the misapplication of certain proceeds, and the relationship
between AMI and one of the issuers. At the end of 1992, this action was
pending.
The Commission instituted cease and desist proceedings against the
State Bank of Pakistan, alleging that it violated Section 5(c) of the Securities
Act by participating in and directing the offer in the United States of bearer
certificates issued by the Government of Pakistan (In the Matter of State
The order instituting proceedings alleged that the
Bank of Pakistan28).
unregistered certificates were not subject to any exemption from registration.
In addition, the bank was alleged to have arranged for United States
newspapers to run advertisements for the certificates claiming, among
other things, that there would be no questions asked about the source of
purchasers' funds, and that the certificates were not subject to taxation.
The bank consented to the entry of a cease and desist order.
The Commission's action against Westdon Holding & Investment,
Inc., was the first enforcement action involving purported reliance on
Regulation
S, adopted by the Commission
in 1990 to clarify the
extraterritorial application of the registration provisions of the Securities
Act (SEC v. Westdon Holding & Investment, Inc.29). The safe harbors of
Regulation 5 apply to offers and sales of securities abroad, and are not
available for transactions within the United States. The complaint alleged,
among other things, that the defendants sought to distribute unregistered
shares of Work Recovery, Inc., which they had purchased abroad
purportedly in reliance on Regulation 5, within the United States and

12

without the benefit of any valid exemption from registration. One of the
individual defendants consented to the entry of an injunction. At the end
of the year, this matter was pending as to the other defendants.

Market Manipulation
The Commission is charged with ensuring the integrity of trading on
the national securities exchanges and in the over-the-counter markets. The
Commission staff, the exchanges, and the NASD engage in surveillance
of these markets.
In an action against Paul Kutik, an international investor residing in
London, the Commission alleged a scheme to support artificially the price
of the common stock of Columbia Laboratories, Inc., by placing purchase
orders for millions of dollars worth of Columbia common stock without
the intent or ability to pay on a timely basis, and by effecting wash sales
and matched orders (SEC v. Paul Kutik30). Kutik's scheme allegedly was
intended to maintain Columbia's stock at or above $9 per share, in order
to avoid the sale of stock pledged as collateral or the need for additional
collateral, under the terms of certain loan agreements. Kutik's broker's
incurred losses totalling nearly $1.3 million on the sale of stock that Kutik
ordered but for which he did not pay. At the end of the year, this case
was pending.
Related administrative proceedings were instituted and
settled with respect to registered representatives who facilitated the scheme,
In the Matter of Jeffrey R. Leach;" In the Matter of Matthew L. Wager,32 and
a branch manager who failed to supervise
one of the registered
representatives, In the Matter of Buddy S. Cohen,»
The Commission alleged that Edward A. Accomando, a registered
representative employed by a broker-dealer, aided and abetted by one of
his customers, Charles C. Patsos, manipulated the stock of Central CoOperative Bank by executing sixty-four wash sales and matched orders
in customer accounts under his control (SEC v. Edward A. Accomandows.
During a three week period in March and April, 1989, the reported volume
of cross trades alone represented approximately 63 percent of the total
trading volume in Central's shares. Patsos held Central stock in ten
accounts, including eight nominee accounts, that were either the purchaser
or seller, or both, in fifty-three of the sixty-four cross trades. The complaint
also alleged that Accomando converted $129,500 from the margin account
of another customer. Pats as consented to the entry of an order enjoining
him. At the end of 1992, this action was pending as to Accomando.
In SEC v. Maurice A. Halperin," the Commission alleged a manipulation
of the price of the common stock of HMG Courtland Properties, Inc., a
Florida real estate investment trust. Halperin effected a series of purchases
of HMG common stock, which allegedly caused the price of the stock to
increase from $9.625 to $12.25 per share. Halperin, his son and a corporation
controlled by his son also allegedly violated beneficial ownership provisions
of the Exchange Act by, among other things, falsely reporting a divestment
of HMG stock in which the defendants retained a beneficial interest. The
defendants consented to the entry of an order enjoining them and requiring
them to pay total civil penalties of $200,000.
13

In SEC v. Joseph Dandolfino, Jr.,% the Commission alleged that the
defendant, between January and April 1991, engaged in a scheme to
manipulate the market price of two NASDAQ securities. The defendant
effected a mass mailing of anonymous letters urging purchase of the
securities based upon false and misleading information, including the
claim that one of the companies would be the subject of a tender offer.
The defendant purchased stock in both companies prior to the mailings
and liquidated his positions at a profit thereafter. He consented to the
entry of an order enjoining him, and requiring him to disgorge $23,979,
plus prejudgment interest, and to pay a civil penalty in an amount equal
to the disgorgement sum.

Corporate Control
The Commission's enforcement program scrutinizes corporate mergers,
takeovers and other corporate control transactions, and the adequacy of
disclosure made by acquiring persons and entities and their targets. The
Commission brought cases involving Sections 13 and 14 of the Exchange
Act, which govern securities acquisition, proxy, and tender offer disclosure.
The Commission on a number of occasions exercised its cease and desist
authority under the Remedies Act to respond to violations in this area.
Two separate cease and desist proceedings were instituted against
The Lionel Corporation and against RIT Acquisition Corporation and its
parent, Robert I. ToussieLimited Partnership, allegingviolations occurring
during a tender offer by RIT for Lionel (In the Matter of The Lionel C ~ r p . ; ~ '
In the Matter of RIT Acquisition C ~ r p . ~ The
~ ) . Commission alleged in the
Lionel proceedings that the company failed to amend its Schedule 14D9 to disclose as negotiations certain telephone conversations with the
bidder, a board resolution in response to the tender offer, or that the sale
of half the bidder's position in connection with the termination of the
tender offer had been made to a third party identified by Lionel. In the
proceedings against RIT and Toussie, the Commission alleged a failure
to disclose the discussions with the target. Respondents in both proceedings
consented to the entry of cease and desist orders.
The Commission's cease and desist proceedings against the general
partners of four limited partnerships that were the subject of a "roll-up"
transaction (i.e., a restructuring from a partnership to a corporate form)
involved allegations of various delaying tactics during the solicitation of
proxies to avoid responding to requests by limited partners for lists of
the names and addresses of other limited partners (In the Matter of The
Krupp C ~ r p . ' ~ )Under
.
Rule 14a-7, a registrant must respond promptly to
such requests either by providing the requested list of investors or by
offering to do a mailing to all investors on behalf of the requestor. The
Commission alleged that the respondents failed promptly to comply with
the rule's requirements. The respondents consented to the entry of a cease
and desist order.
The Commission also instituted and r settled cease and desist
proceedings alleging. failure to make adequate or timely disclosure of
changes in beneficial ownership of securities as required by Section 13(d)

of the Exchange Act. These included In the ~ a t t e o
rf Douglas A. Kass,"'
which involved deficient and untimely disclosure on Schedules 13D and
amendments thereto regarding holdings of H.H. Robertson Company; and
In the Matter of BGC Special Equity Ltd. P~rtnership,~'
which involved
inaccurate disclosure with respect to the acquisition of shares issued by
Kentucky Medical Insurance Company.
Broker-Dealer Violations
Each year, the Commission files a significant number of enforcement
actions against broker-dealer firms and persons associated with them. The
Commission's actions against broker-dealers often focus on violations of
the net capital and customer protection rules, as well as violations of books
and records provisions.
The Commissioninstituted administrative proceedings against Michael
S. Shapiro, the chief financial officer of Thomson McKinnon Securities, Inc.,
and a member of its executive committee (In the Matter of Michael S.
Shapiro"). Shapiro allegedly caused Thomson McKinnon to violate net
capital and other provisions of the securities laws by engaging in
transactions by which checks drawn on a bank account with ins fficient
funds to cover them were routinely used to obtain funds from another
bank. The funds so obtained were then used to cover overdrafts from
the previous day. A series of such transactions continued on a daily basis
until approximately the end of September 1989, with the size of the daily
checks reaching over $126.5 million. The purpose of the scheme was
ultimately to inflate Thomson McKinnon's net capital, which permitted
the firm to operate in violation of net capital requirements from December
1988 until June 1989. Shapiro consented to the entry of the cease and desist
order and a n order that barred him from association with any regulated
entity.
The Commission instituted administrative proceedings against Kevin
Upton, the former chief financial officer of Financial Clearing and Services
Corporation, a now defunct clearingbroker-dealer, and JohnDolcemaschio,
Financial Clearing's former money manager (In the Matter of Kevin Upton").
The order instituting proceedings alleged that Financial Clearing routinely
paid-down a bank loan collateralized by customer securities at the end
of each business week with substitute financing, and reinstated the loan
at the beginning of the following business week. This practice enabled
Financial Clearing to avoid including the loan in its reserve formula
computation and resulted in a deficient reserve bank account averaging
$20 million per week. Dolcemaschio allegedly aided and abetted the firm's
violations, and Uptonallegedly failedreasonably to superviseDolcemaschio.
At the end of the year, this case was pending.
The Commission instituted cease and desist proceedings against
Shearson Lehman Brothers, Inc., in which violations of Regulation T were
alleged, arising from Shearson's borrowing of securities to take advantage
of reduced stock prices available under dividend reinvestment plans,
commonly referred to as DRIPS, offered by various issuers (In the Matter
of Shearson Lehman Brothers, Inc."). Pursuant to DRIPS, shareholders may

Y


receive dividends in the form of additional stock from the issuer at a
discount to market price. The Board of Governors of the Federal Reserve
System issued two opinions in 1984interpreting Regulation T as proscribing
the borrowing of securities solely for the purpose of taking advantage of
reduced stock prices available under DRIPS. Between January 1986 and
October 1988, Shearson and Princeton Newport Partners, L.P., a Shearson
customer, engaged in a series of transactions designed to create the
appearance that certain borrowing by Shearson was for purposes permitted
by the Federal Reserve Board when in fact the transactions were intended
solely to take advantage of DRIPS. Shearson consented to the entry of
the cease and desist order and agreed to adopt procedures reasonably
designed to assure, among other things, that the firm complied with
Regulation T.
The Commission filed an action against Donald W. Wright, chairman
of Nevatech Industries, Inc., and Kenneth Y. Kimura, Nevatech's president,
alleging that the defendants attempted to close Nevatech's mini-max initial
public offering by entering into an arrangement whereby a Swiss Bank
would purchase the required minimum number of shares in exchange for
a guaranty against any loss incurred in reselling the shares (SEC v. Donald
W. Wright45).
Nevatech's initial public offering failed to close when the
Swiss Bank failed to pay for the Nevatech shares by the last day of the
offering. Wright and Kimura consented to the entry of injunctions.
Other Commission actions addressed various abusive sales practices,
particularly with respect to penny stocks. For example, in SEC v. Stratton
Oakmont, Inc.,46 the Commission filed a complaint against a broker-dealer
firm and five individual defendants. The complaint alleged that Stratton
Oakmont, Inc., operated a boiler room selling speculative over-the-counter
securities issued by unseasoned companies. The defendants were charged,
variously, with making misrepresentations or omitting to state material
facts, engaging in unlawful sales practices such as the making of price
predictions without a reasonable basis, and manipulation of the price of
certain securities. At the end of the year, this case was pending. Other
penny stock related cases included In the Matter of Wells hire Securities, Inc.;47
In the Matter of Patrick Raymond Comerford;" In the Matter of Martin Herer
Engelman'? (pending proceedings); In the Matter of Linda K. Rees.50
The Commission also took action in several cases in which it was
alleged that supervisory and compliance personnel failed reasonably to
supervise broker-dealer employees with a view to preventing the employees'
securities law violations. The Commission instituted proceedings against
First Albany Corporation, a registered broker-dealer, and against two
individuals, a First Albany branch manager, and First Albany's chief
compliance officer (In the Matter of First Albany Corp. 51). Allegedly, a
registered representative associated with First Albany had engaged in a
manipulation of securities issued by Central Co-Operative Bank, and had
misappropriated funds from a customer's account. The order instituting
proceedings alleged that First Albany and the individual respondents had
failed reasonably to supervise the registered representative.
The
respondents consented to the entry of an order by which First Albany was
16

censured and ordered to comply with certain undertakings, the branch
manager and the compliance officer were censured and suspended from
association with any regulated entity for thirty days and one year,
respectively, and the branch manager was barred from association with
any regulated entity in a supervisory capacity.

Investment Adviser and Investment Company Violations
The Commission instituted
several significant cases involving
investment advisers and investment companies.
The Commission sought emergency relief in an action against
Institutional Treasury Management, Inc. (ITM), its corporate predecessor,
Denman & Company, and their principal and sole owner, Steven Wymer
(SEC v. Institutional Treasury Management, Inc. 52). ITM was an investment
adviser, primarily to small municipalities and counties and certain financial
institutions.
The alleged fraudulent activity involved more than $100
million in client funds. Among other things, Wymer allegedly defrauded
two advisory clients by selling U.S. Treasury Notes to them at inflated
prices, thereby obtaining $10 million to cover funds missing from another
client's account. Wymer also sold U.S. Treasury Notes from a client's
account, without the client's consent, thereby obtaining $65 million, part
of which was funnelled to other advisory clients' accounts. The defendants
consented to the entry of injunctions. In addition, in a global settlement
of civil and criminal charges against him, Wymer agreed to plead guilty
to a nine count felony information and to an order requiring the payment
of approximately $209 million in restitution to his defrauded advisory
clients. In related administrative proceedings, Wymer consented to a bar
from association with any regulated entity, and ITM's registration as an
investment adviser was revoked.
In SEC v. First Investors COrp.,S3 the Commission alleged that First
Investors authorized and permitted some of its sales representatives to
sell certain high yield funds by making material oral misrepresentations
and omissions concerning the risk and performance of the funds. The
complaint also alleged that First Investors recommended and sold the
Funds to some investors for whom they were unsuitable. First Investors
consented to the entry of an injunction and an order requiring the
disgorgement of $24.7 million.
In the action against Cheshire Hall Advisors, Inc., an investment
adviser, John T. Hall, the president and sole officer and director of Cheshire,
and Treasury First, Inc., a mutual fund managed by Cheshire and Hall,
the Commission alleged that Hall, through Cheshire, misappropriated
approximately $2.1 million of Treasury's assets (SEC v. Treasury First,
Inc.54). Hall allegedly accomplished the misappropriation by creating
bogus securities that Treasury then purportedly purchased. The complaint
further alleges that Hall intended to use $2 million of the misappropriated
funds to purchase the management contracts of other mutual funds, the
Strategic Funds. This use was not disclosed to Treasury's shareholders.
The defendants consented to the entry of injunctions and to orders requiring
the disgorgement of Illegal profits and the payment of civil penalties to
17

be determined by the court. In a related action that was pending at the
end of the year, the adviser for the Strategic Funds and its two principals
consented to the entry of injunctions based on their failure to disclose to
shareholders the $2 million payment from Hall (SEC v. Leroy S . Brenna").
The Commission filed an action against G. Albert Griggs, a former
analyst /assistant portfolio manager with a registered investment adviser,
and John D. Collins 11, a friend of Griggs (SEC v. G. Albert Griggs, Jr.56).
The complaint alleged that Griggs and Collins engaged in a fraudulent
kickback scheme with a senior officer of The Cooper Companies, Inc.
Griggs allegedly told the Cooper officer which high yield bonds he was
recommending for the funds. The Cooper officer caused accounts under
the control of Cooper and members of his immediate family to purchase
such bonds, which then were sold to the funds at inflated prices. In
addition, the Cooper officer diverted Cooper corporate funds, representing
a portion of the bonds' trading profits, to Griggs and Collins. The scheme
generated illicit profits for members of the Cooper officer's family and
Cooper in excess of $3 million; Cooper paid in excess of $700,000 in
corporate funds to Griggs and Collins. Griggs and Collins consented to
the entry of injunctions and orders requiring Collins to disgorge $224,904
plus any tax refunds received on tax returns for 1992. In related
administrative proceedings, Griggs and Collins consented to the entry of
orders barring them from association with any registered entity.
In an action against Public Funding Group, Inc., aregistered investment
adviser, V. Thayne Whipple 11, its president and sole shareholder, and two
registered investment companies, Public Funding Portfolios, Inc., and
American Vision Funds, Inc., the Commission alleged that Public Funding
and Whipplesold the investment companies' shares inexchange transactions
with shareholders at grossly inflated net asset values and in violation of
the investment companies' policies (SEC v . Public Funding Group, Inc.").
Shareholders then used the shares, at their inflated values, as collateral
for margin loans from broker-dealers. The defendants consented to the
entry of injunctions. In related administrative proceedings, Public Funding's
investment adviser registration was revoked, and Whipple was barred
from association with any regulated entity.
The Commission instituted administrative proceedings against William
H. Pike, a former employee of Fidelity Management &Research Company,
an investment adviser to the Fidelity group of mutual funds (In the Matter
of William H. Pikes8). On three occasions during 1985 and 1986, Pike
engaged in securities transactions pursuant to an undisclosed arrangement
with the High Yield and Convertible Bond Department of Drexel Burnham
Lambert Incorporated. Pursuant to the arrangement, Pike purchased high
yield bonds for a Fidelity high yield fund and, at the time of purchase,
agreed to sell the bonds back to Drexel on a specified date and at an
understood price. Pike did not record the terms of the arrangement on
the fund's books and records but instead caused the subject transactions
to be recorded as unrelated purchases and sales of the underlying securities.
Pike consented to the entry of a cease and desist order and a suspension
from association with any regulated entity for a period of three months.

Sources For Further Inquiry
The Commission publishes the SEC Docket, which includes
announcements regarding enforcement actions. The Commission's litigation
releases describe civil injunctive actions and also report certain criminal
proceedings involving securities-related violations. These releases typically
report the identity of the defendants, the nature of the alleged violative
conduct, and the disposition or status of the case, as well as other
information. The SEC Docket also contains Commission orders instituting
administrative proceedings, making findings and imposing sanctions in
those proceedings, and initial decisions and significant procedural rulings
issued by Administrative Law Judges.

International

Affairs

The Office of International Affairs (OIA) has primary responsibility for
the negotiation and implementation of information-sharing arrangements
and for developing legislative and other initiatives tofacilitate international
cooperation. OIA coordinates and assists in making requests for assistance
to, and responding to requests for assistance from, foreign authorities. OIA
also addresses other international issues that arise in litigated matters, such
as effecting service of process abroad and gathering foreign-based evidence
using various international conventions, freezing assets located abroad, and
enforcingjudgments obtained by the SEC in the United States against foreign
parties. In addition, OIA operates in a consultative role regarding the
significant ongoing international programs and initiatives of the SEC's other
divisions and offices.
Key 1992 Results

In June 1992, the SEC and other securities regulatory authorities of
North, South and Central America, and the Caribbean announced the
creation of a new organization, the Council of Securities Regulators of the
Americas (COSRA), to provide a forum for mutual cooperation and
communication in the Americas and to enhance efforts of each country
in the region to develop and foster the growth of fair and open securities
markets.
The SEC signed comprehensive Memoranda of Understanding (MOUs)
for consultation and cooperation with the Comision Nacional de Valores
of Argentina and the Comision Nacional del Mercado de Valores of Spain.
The Argentine MOU also contains provisions for technical assistance.
In addition,
the SEC signed more limited communiques
and
understandings
involving technical assistance and mutual cooperation
with securities authorities in Costa Rica and Indonesia.
Arrangements for Mutual Assistance and Exchanges of Information
The increasing internationalization
of the world's securities markets
has raised many new and complex issues that affect the SEC's ability to
enforce the United States federal securities laws. For example, a central
problem the SEC faces is collecting information located abroad. The SEC
has attempted to resolve this problem by developing information-sharing
arrangements on a bilateral basis with various foreign authorities.
The information-sharing
arrangements
allow the SEC to obtain
information located abroad while avoiding the conflicts that may result
from differences in legal systems. In recent years, the SEC has entered
into various arrangements with foreign authorities from over 15 nations.
These relationships are an effective means for obtaining information and

20

developing cooperative relationships between regulators. In addition, the
staff coordinates closely with the regulators with whom it has informationsharing arrangements to develop ways to implement and improve the
arrangements. The SEC also cooperates on an informal basis with foreign
authorities with whom it does not have explicit information-sharing
arrangements.
On December 9, 1991, the SEC signed an MOU with the Comision
Nacional de Valores of Argentina. On July 8, 1992, the SEC signed an
MOU with the Comision Nacional del Mercado de Val ores of Spain. Those
MOUs contain comprehensive provisions for consultation and the provision
of mutual assistance in the administration and enforcement of United
States and Argentine and Spanish securities laws, respectively. The MOUs
also provide for consultations between the parties on all matters relating
to the operation of the securities markets of their respective countries, and
for consultation on questions related to the operation of the MOUs. The
enforcement aspects of the MOUs follow closely the SEC's previous MOUs.
The MOUs express each signatory's
intent to gather information when
requested on all matters relating to possible violations of the requesting
authority's securities laws or regulations, and when voluntary measures
fail, to use compulsory (subpoena) powers, if necessary. The comprehensive
scope of the MOUs assures that the fullest measure of assistance will be
available to administer and enforce the respective countries' securities
laws or regulations. The Argentine MOU includes provisions for technical
assistance. Such provisions are intended to assist authorities responsible
for emerging markets. Areas of assistance in the Argentine MOU include
training and advice relating to development of securities markets and
procedures and practices to protect investors.
On October 10, 1991, the SEC signed a Communique on technical
assistance and international cooperation with the Costa Rican Comision
Nacional de Valores (CNV). The Communique creates a framework for
the provision of technical assistance, exchange of information,
and
consultation involving the operation of the securities markets in the United
States and Costa Rica.
On March 24, 1992, the SEC entered into an Understanding with the
Capital Market Supervisory Agency of Indonesia (the BAPEPAM) regarding
mutual cooperation and the provision of technical assistance for the
development of the Indonesian securities markets. The Understanding
also recognizes that the SEC and the BAPEPAM intend to use their best
efforts to provide each other assistance to facilitate the effective
administration and enforcement of their respective laws and the regulations
relating to securities matters.

21

government officials, the OECD Codes of Liberalization relating to securities
matters, and accounting issues.
The General Agreement on Tariffs and Trade (GATT). The SEC is an active
participant in the effort, through the Uruguay Round of the GAIT, to
establish a multilateral framework of principles and rules for trade in
financial services. Throughout 1992, the SEC has consulted and coordinated
with the Office of the United States Trade Representative, the Department
of Treasury, and other United States government agencies, in connection
with the GATT negotiations and other international trade and investment
initiatives, such as the North American Free Trade Agreement (NAFTA)
negotiations.
NAFTA.
On August 12, 1992, President Bush announced that the
United States, Canada and Mexico reached a "handshake" agreement on
the North American Free Trade Agreement (NAFTA), which was signed
by President Bush, President Salinas and Prime Minister Mulroney on
December 17, 1992. The agreement contains a Financial Services Chapter,
which will encompass activities of financial service providers, such as
broker-dealers and investment advisors, within NAFTA countries. The
Financial Services Chapter allows a strong "prudential carve-out," which
enables the SEC to adopt or modify measures for the protection of investors
or the securities markets. The SEC staff provided technical assistance and
advice to the Department of Treasury, the lead negotiator in the Financial
Services Chapter, during the negotiation process.
The Wilton Park Group. The United Kingdom Department of Trade
and Industry sponsors this informal meeting which includes regulators
from 12 countries. During this year's meeting, the SEC tabled for discussion
the regulatory concerns posed by the use of bearer share corporations to
conceal the identities of participants in fraudulent schemes.
The European Community.
The SEC has been involved with other
United States government agencies in reviewing the plans and directives
of the European Economic Community.
The SEC has been involved in
several different studies, and provided assistance to other United States
government agencies, including the Department of the Treasury, in
connection with the impact of EC 92 on the United States financial services
markets.
International Requests for Assistance
The following table summarizes the international requests for assistance
made and received by the Commission.

24

Fiscal Year
Type of Request

SEC Requests to
Foreign Governments
Enforcement Assistance
Enforcement Referrals
Technical Assistance
Total

19881 19891

84

1990

1991

1992

173
2
2

1n

145
6
0
151

191
7
2
200

98
2
30
130

160
7
44
211

184
11
58
253

101

84

101

81

150

Foreign Requests to

the SEC
Enforcement Assistance
Enforcement Referrals
Technical Assistance
Total

81

Figures are approximate.
lSeparate totals for enforcement
requests were not maintained.

150

referrals and technical assistance

participants, industry associations, self-regulatory organizations (SROs),
and information processors, in order to identify alternatives that would
minimize the burdens of the proposed system.
On July 16, 1992, the Commission adopted Rules 17h-1T and 17h-2T
which, together with new Form 17-H, establish a risk assessment
recordkeeping and reporting system for registered broker-dealers
concerning certain of their associated persons in accordance with provisions
of the Market Reform Act.S9 Rule 17h-IT sets forth the records and other
information broker-dealers are required to maintain with respect to their
material associated persons. Rule 17h-2T requires broker-dealers to file
with the SEC on Form 17-H a quarterly summary of the information
required to be kept by Rule 17h-IT.
Market 2000 Study
In 1992, the division began a study of the United States equity markets
entitled, Market 2000. The study will explore the role that the SEC and
SRO rules play in maintaining the fairness, efficiency and competitiveness
of our equity markets. In conducting the study, the division will examine
equity market issues such as market fragmentation, fair competitionbetween
markets, payment for order flow, market transparency, and proprietary
trading systems, among others. The study also will focus on the equitable
allocation of regulatory costs.60

Penny Stock Disclosure Rules
On April 10, 1992, the Commission adopted Rules 3a.51-1 and 15g-1
through 15g-6 pursuant to the Securities Enforcement Remedies and Penny
Stock Reform Act of 1990, as part of a comprehensive effort to reduce fraud
and manipulation in the penny stockmarket and to provideinvestors with
important information concerning that market.61Penny stocks are generally
defined under Rule 3a51-1 as equity securities below $5 that are not listed
and traded on an exchange or quoted on NASDAQ.62Rules 15g-2 through
15g-5 require a broker-dealer effecting a penny stock transaction to make
disclosures to its customers of bid and ask quotations as well as brokerdealer and associated person compensation. Rule 15g-6 requires a brokerdealer to provide monthly account statements to its customers giving the
market value of the penny stocks held in the customer's account. Rule
15g-2 further requires a broker-dealer, prior to effecting a penny stock
transaction, to distribute to its customers a risk disclosure document that
describes the risks of investing in the penny stock market and other
relevant information.

Options and Other Derivative Products
During 1992, the Commission approved several significant SRO
proposals to strengthen market stability and integrity, including the
following:
• extension of the American Stock Exchange (AM EX), Boston Stock
Exchange (BSE), Midwest Stock Exchange (MSE), New York Stock
Exchange (NYSE), Philadelphia Stock Exchange (Phlx), and NASD
pilot programs for circuit breaker provisions during volatile
markets."
• permanent approval of NYSE Rule BOA, which imposes certain
conditions on the execution of index arbitrage orders during
unusually volatile markets."
• requirements that Chicago Board Options Exchange (CBOE)
members who clear market maker trades provide the CBOE prior
written notice of a significant business transaction and, in some
instances, obtain prior approval by the CBOE before engaging in
such transactions."
• establishment of CBOE procedures for the intraday trade match
system;" and
• expedited opening procedures for certain equity and index option
series on the Phlx."
The Commission also approved several other significant rule changes
submitted by options SROs, including the following that:
• raise CBOE position and exercise limits for European-style S&P 500
Index Options that settle based on the opening prices of the
underlying securities, and gradually phase out all closing-price
settled S&P 500 Index Options on the CBOEi68
• create a CBOE minor rule violation fine planr" and
• institute pilot programs on AMEX and CBOE that allow investors
to effect in cash accounts debit put spreads in broad-based stock
index options with European-style exercise."
In addition, the Commission approved several proposals by the SROs
to trade new financial instruments, including the following:
• capped-style index options on the S&P 100 and 500 Indexes to trade
on the CBOE, and on the Major Market Index, the Institutional
Index, and the MidCap 400 Index to trade on the AMEX;71
• warrants based on the Nikkei Stock Price Average to trade on the
NYSE, MSE, PSE, and Phlx; warrants based on the Tokyo Stock
Price Index to trade on the Phi Xi and warrants based on the Japan
Index to trade on the AMEXi72
• equity long term options (LEAPS) and LEAPS on reduced value
indexes to trade on the NYSE;73and
• warrants based on foreign and domestic stock market indexes to
trade on NASDAQ.74

28

a

1

The SEC also acted on several futures-related
matters, including the
following:
• amendments to Rule 3a12-8 under the Exchange Act that expanded
the list of countries included in the rule whose debt obligations
are exempted securities for purposes of futures trading to include
the Republics of Ireland and Italy;"
• division letters to the Commodity Futures Trading Commission
(CFTC) not objecting to the designation of the following
boards of trade as contract markets for futures and stock index
futures options on the following indexes: Chicago Mercantile
Exchange, MidCap 400 Stock Price Index and Financial Times-Stock
Exchange 100 Index;" and Commodity Exchange, Eurotop 100
Stock Index;" and
• division letters to the CFTC not objecting to the offer and
sale to U.S. persons on the following markets of the following
foreign stock index products:
Sydney Futures Exchange, All
Ordinaries Share Price Index Futures Option;" Marche a Terme
International
de France, CAC-40 Index Futures:" Singapore
International Monetary Exchange, Nikkei Price Average Futures
Options:" Osaka Stock Exchange, Nikkei Index Futures." and Tokyo
Stock Exchange, TOPIX Index Futures."

Automation Review
In response to the Commission's second Automation Review Policy
Statement," the SROs commenced independent reviews of the controls in
place for their automated trading and information dissemination systems
and risk analyses of those controls. To facilitate Commission oversight
of this area, the division formed the Branch of Electronic Data Processing
Review and instituted an on-site inspection program of SRO automation
review procedures.

National Clearance and Settlement System
The staff continued to work to enhance all components of the national
clearance and settlement system. In July 1991, a task force was formed
by John Bachmann, a prominent securities industry leader, to evaluate the
clearance and settlement
system and to make recommendations
for
improvements. In May 1992, this task force issued its report recommending,
among other things, that the settlement cycle for securities transactions
be reduced from the current five days to three days after the trades." The
Commission published the report for public comment and has received
over 1,000 comment letters in response."
The Market Transactions Advisory Committee (MTAC), formed by
the Commission pursuant to Section 17A(f) of the Exchange Act86 to assist
the SEC in assessing the need for greater uniformity in existing state and
federal laws regarding the transfer and pledge of securities, held its
inaugural meeting on October 29, 1991, and has met regularly since then.
MTAC established three working subgroups (the broker-dealer/futures

29

commission merchant

bankruptcy/liquidation
subgroup, the financial
gridlock subgroup, and the crisis financing subgroup) to explore issues
in particular areas.

Government Securities Mflrkets
In January 1992, the SEC, the U.S. Department of the Treasury, and
the Board of Governors of the Federal Reserve System issued the Joint
Report on the Government Securities Market. H.R. 3927, the Government
Securities Reform Act, which was reported by the House Energy and
Commerce Committee in June 1992, incorporated in different respects
certain recommendations
made by the SEC. Specifically, among other
provisions, the bill: (1) would grant the SEC authority to promulgate
uniform recordkeeping rules for all government securities firms and to
require non-routine trade reports for investigatory purposes; (2) would
remove existing limitations on application of NASD sales practice rules
to government securities transactions; and (3) called for two-tiered backup authority to the SEC to assure that information reported through broker
screens was made publicly
available
on a fair, reasonable,
and
nondiscriminatory basis and allowed investors to determine the prevailing
market price of securities quoted on the screens."
In response to a congressional inquiry, the staff issued a letter discussing
the effects of price competition among government securities brokers on
the liquidity and efficiency of the market for government securities." The
response suggested that commission-free
trading does not unfairly
disadvantage smaller dealers and is not a main component of manipulative
trading strategy.

Internationalization
During 1992, the SEC provided information and technical assistance
to several emerging market countries, including Costa Rica and Thailand.
As a member of the International Organization of Securities Commissions
(lOSCO), the agency participated in the Working Party on the Regulation
of Secondary Markets, which discussed issues concerning measures to
minimize market disruption, contract design of derivative products on
stock indices, regulation of screen-based trading systems, and transparency
of markets.
The SEC also participated actively in the Working Party on the
Regulation of Market Intermediaries, which focused its efforts on issues
relating to development of common capital adequacy standards for securities
firms and banks, and on principles for the supervision of financial
conglomerates. In the area of capi tal adequacy, this working party addressed
issues relating to (1) the appropriate level of capital requirements for
positions in equity and debt securities and (2) the appropriate definition
of capital. In the area of supervision of conglomerates, the working party
produced a paper setting forth principles for the supervision of financial
conglomerates. The paper was approved by the IOSCO Technical Committee
and endorsed by IOSCO at its 1992 annual meeting.

30

1

j
!

I

Regulation of Brokers, Dealers, Municipal Securities Dealers, and Transfer
Agents

Broker-Dealer Examination
The primary purpose of the broker-dealer examination program is
to provide oversight of the SROs responsible for the routine examination
of those broker-dealers
conducting a public securities business.
This
oversight is accomplished primarily through the examination of brokerdealer firms recently examined by a SRO. Additionally, cause examinations
are conducted when the agency becomes aware of circumstances that
warrant direct SEC inquiry rather than SRO review.
In 1992, the agency completed a total of 550 examinations. Specifically,
the staff completed 419 oversight examinations, a 5 percent decrease from
1991, and 131 cause examinations, an 8 percent increase from 1991. Findings
from 73 examinations were referred to regional office enforcement staff,
representing 13 percent of all completed examinations. Referrals to SROs
were made in 45 examinations.
During 1992, oversight examinations were conducted at 10 of the
largest NYSE member firms, which included comprehensive financial and
operational
reviews at each firm.
In addition to these large firm
examinations, 71 other self-clearing NYSE member firms were examined.
Finally, in conjunction with the Division of Enforcement, hiring, retention
and supervisory practices at large NYSE member firms were reviewed.

Broker-Dealer Regulation
The Commission published for comment a release proposing adoption
of a rule that would permit passive market making during distributions
of certain NASDAQ securities designated as National Market System
(NASDAQ/NMS) securities, where application of Rule 10b-6 would result
in significant market degradation."
In general, the proposed rule would
limit a passive market maker's bids by the level of bids of market makers
who are not participating in the distribution.
Exchange Act Rule 10b-2, subject to certain exceptions, prohibits any
person participating in, or financially interested in, a distribution of a
security from paying compensation to induce the purchase on a national
securities exchange of any security of the issuer whose security is the
subject of a distribution. In view of other antifraud and anti-manipulation
provisions of the securities laws that provide coverage of the types of
abuses that Rule 10b-2 addresses, and the significant changes that have
taken place in the securities markets since the rule's adoption, the
Commission issued a release soliciting public comment on a proposal to
rescind Rule 10b-2.90
The Commission published for comment proposed amendments to
Rule 10a':1, the short sale rule, which would: (1) provide an exception
for a short sale that equalizes the opening price of a foreign security on
a U.S. exchange with its price in the principal foreign market for the

31

security; (2) exclude from application of Rule 10a-1 transactions in corporate
bonds and debentures effected on an exchange; and (3) codify a staff noaction position related to certain liquidations of index arbitrage positions."
Exchange Act Rule 15c2-11, with certain exceptions, prohibits a broker
or dealer from publishing a quotation for a covered security in a quotation
medium unless it has in its records and reviews specified information
concerning the security and the issuer.
The Commission granted an
exemption under Rule 15c2-11to permit broker-dealers to publish quotations
immediately in another quotation medium for NASDAQ securities that
were no longer authorized for quotation in NASDAQ, as a result of the
implementation of revised maintenance standards for NASDAQ securities
approved by the Commission."
In 1992, the staff issued a series of no-action letters concerning the
term "ready market" under Exchange Act Rule 15c3-1 regarding certain
commercial paper, money market instruments, debt securities, preferred
stock, and equities listed on the Mexican Stock Exchange.?"
When an
instrument is deemed to have a "ready market," it becomes subject to lower
regulatory capital requirements under the Commission's net capital rule.

Broker-Dealer Registration
The SEC implemented several initiatives in 1992 designed to reduce
the costs associated with broker-dealer registration. Specifically, in July
1992, the Commission adopted amendments to Form BD, the uniform
registration form for broker-dealers under the Exchange Act.94 These
amendments, which were developed in consultation with the North
American Securities Administrators Association, Inc., the NASD, and
members of the securities industry, updated the disciplinary history
provisions and narrowed the scope of disclosure required by the schedules
to the form. The Commission also proposed amendments to the brokerdealer registration rules and filing instructions under the Exchange Act
in order to facilitate SEC participation in the Central Registration Depository
(CRD) system." CRD is a computer system operated by the NASD that
maintains registration information regarding NASD member firms and
their registered personnel and is used for licensing broker-dealers and
their agents with SROs and the states. The agency's primary objective
in joining the CRD system is to provide "one-stop filing" for brokerdealers.

Transfer Agent Examinations and Regulation
The regional office staff completed 210 transfer agent examinations,
including 58 examinations of federally regulated banks. Thirty-six of the
58 bank examinations were cause examinations prompted by the incomplete
cancellation and destruction of redeemed certificates circulating in the
financial industry.
The program resulted in 134 deficiency letters, 7
registration cancellations or withdrawals, 8 referrals to the Division of
Enforcement, 2 staff conferences with delinquent registrants, and one
referral to federal bank examiners.

32

The Commission adopted Rule 17Ad-1596 under the Exchange Act
governing transfer agent acceptances of signature guarantees."
The
Commission also published for comment Rule 17Ad-16 under the Exchange
Act.98 The proposed rule, if adopted, would address problems of transfer
delays resulting from unannounced changes in the transfer agent's services
or its name or address.

Application of Rules lOb-6 and 1Ob-7 to International Distributions
The SEC granted relief under anti-manipulation Rules 10b-6 and 10b7 for multinational offerings. This action was taken to permit non-United
States persons to continue customary
market activities in foreign
jurisdictions until nine business days prior to the commencement of offerings
in the United States by issuers in Mexico;" Venezuela,'?" and Portugal,'?'
subject to certain conditions designed to prevent a manipulative impact
on the U.S. market. In other multinational offerings, based on the issuers'
total market capitalization, public float, and the trading volume of the
securities in the offering, distribution participants and their affiliated
purchasers were permitted to continue customary market activities in the
securities until two business days prior to the commencement of the
offerings.t'"
Certain market makers on the London Stock Exchange that were
affiliated with underwriters in a global offering of ordinary shares and
American Depositary Shares of a British company by the United Kingdom
government were permitted to continue normal market making on the
London Stock Exchange's SEAQ system, based on the magnitude of the
offering, the volume of trading by the affiliated market makers, and the
process of setting the offering price through a tendering process rather
than based on the secondary market price.!" Similarly, equity market
makers on the London Stock Exchange and options market makers on the
London International Financial Futures and Options Exchange or the Paris
Options Market that were affiliated with distribution participants were
permitted to continue making a market during certain multinational
distributions, subject to certain conditions.P'
Lost and Stolen Securities

Rule 17f-1 under the Exchange Act sets forth participation, reporting,
and inquiry requirements for the SEC Lost and Stolen Securities Program
(programj.l"
Statistics for calendar year 1991 (the most recent data
available) reflect the program's continuing effectiveness. As of December
31, 1991,23,403 institutions were registered in the program. The number
of securities certificates reported as lost, stolen, missing, or counterfeit
increased from 651,305 in 1990 to 876,519 in 1991, a 35 percent increase.
The dollar value of these securities decreased 12 percent, from $2.6 billion
to $2.3 billion. The aggregate dollar value of the securities contained in
the program's database increased from $18.4 billion in 1990 to $20.1 billion
in 1991, a 9 percent increase. Program participants (e.g., banks and brokerdealers) made inquiries concerning 3.9 million certificates, an increase of

33

44 percent over 1990. Inquiries concerning 11,378 certificates valued at
$192 million matched reports of lost, stolen, missing, or counterfei t securities
on file in the database.
Oversight

ot

Self-Regulatory

Organizations

National Securities Exchanges
As of September 30,1992, there were eight active securities exchanges
registered with the SEC as national securities exchanges: AMEX, BSE,
CBOE, Cincinnati Stock Exchange (CSE), MSE, NYSE, Phlx and Pacific
Stock Exchange (PSE).l06 During 1992, the agency granted exchange
applications to delist 104 debt and equity issues, and granted applications
by issuers requesting withdrawal from listing and registration for 56
issues. In addition, the SEC granted 1,713 exchange applications for
unlisted trading privileges.
The exchanges submitted 249 proposed rule changes to the SEC
during 1992. Many of these filings are described in the section above
entitled "Securities Markets, Facilities, and Trading." Other notable rule
filings approved by the Commission included proposals to:
• establish listing criteria for the new AMEX Emerging Company
Marketplace (ECM);l07
• adopt listing standards for new hybrid securities on the
Phlx;108
• modify the procedures by which the NYSE reviews subsequent
listing applicationsr!"
• extend for one year NYSE Rule 103A relating to specialist stock
reallocattonsr"? and
• amend the NYSE basic Floor Member (Series 15) Examination to
revise the content outline and specifications for the examination."!

National Association of Securities Dealers, Inc.
The N ASD, with over 5,200 member firms, is the only national securities
association registered with the SEC. It is the operator of NASDAQ, the
second largest stock market in the United States, and the third largest in
the world (after the NYSE and the Tokyo Stock Exchange). In 1992, the
NASD reported a total of 1,126 final disciplinary actions, which consisted
of 966 formal and summary disciplinary actions by its district committees
and 160 formal and summary actions by its market surveillance committee.
A total of 63 proposed rule changes were submitted to the Commission
by the NASD in 1992. The Commission approved 66 proposed rule
changes, which includes many of the submissions received during the year
and in several received prior years. Among the significant changes approved
by the Commission were:
• codification of the practices and policies of the NASD's Corporate
Financing Department for review of underwriting compensation
arrangements of N ASD members participating in a public offering; 112

34

• extension of the hours of operation for the NASD's screen-based
trading system, SelectNet, to include a one-half hour pre-opening
session from 9:00 a.m. to 9:30 a.m. eastern timejl13
• the NASD's Investor Inquiry Program proposal, which implements
the newly-enacted provisions of Section 15A(i) of the Exchange

Actj114
• requirements that the NASD review, prior to granting NASDAQ/
NMS designation, an issuer's past corporate governance activities
when the issuer's securities were traded on, or after withdrawal
from, the NASDAQ/NMS or a securities exchange that imposes
corporate governance requirements.'"
• requirements that NASD member firms forward proxy material to
beneficial owners at the request of persons other than the issuer,
i.e., shareholdersj!"
• requirements for real-time last sale trade reporting for NASDAQ
Small Cap securities."? and
• offering, on a pilot basis, the NASDAQ International service, which
will support an early trading session in London to be available from
3:30 a.m. to 9:00 a.m. eastern time on each business day that
coincides with the business hours of the London financial markets.':"
Arbitration
Each SRO that administers an arbitration program has been asked
by the SEC to initiate refinements to procedures for selecting and training
arbitrators, in response to a report by the General Accounting Office (GAO)
entitled Securities Arbitration: How Investors Fare.1l9 In its report, which
found no indication of a pro-industry bias in decisions at the SRO forums,
the GAO accepted the approaches for improving arbitrator selection and
training recommended by the SEC in its comments on a draft of the
report.P"
The SEC approved proposed rule changes by the NASD and national
securities exchanges that strengthen the arbitration rules for disputes
between investors and broker-dealers, and among broker-dealers.
The
arbitration rules of the NYSE and the NASD were amended to exclude
class action claims from arbitration, and to enable investors to pursue class
actions through the courts.P' The NYSE and NASD amended their rules
to clarify the authority of arbitrators to take appropriate action to enforce
their own interim orders during an arbitration proceeding.P' The Phi x
amended its rules to Simplify its procedures for composing the arbitration
panel in cases among its members.r"

Clearing Agencies
Sixteen clearing agencies were registered with the SEC at the end of
1992, 12 of which were active. During 1992, these registered clearing
agencies submitted 127 proposed rule changes and withdrew one. The
SEC approved 81 proposed rule changes, including the following:

35

• implementation by the Depository Trust Company (DTC) of a
commercial paper program to permit participants to settle
commercial paper trades through DTe' s same-day funds settlement

system.'"
• enhancements to the Government Securities Clearing Corporation's
(GSCC) clearance and settlement system to allow GSCC to net, prior
to the U.S. Treasury auction, trades in Treasury securities submitted
by participating membersj?"
• expansion of the Options Clearing Corporation (OCC) and the
Intermarket Clearing Corporation (ICC) cross-margining program 126
to include non-proprietary,
market maker positions; expansion of
the OCC / Chicago Mercantile Exchange cross-margining program 127
to include non-proprietary, market maker positions; establishment
of the OCC/Board of Trade Clearing Corporation proprietary crossmargining prograrru!" and establishment of the OCC/Kansas City
Board of Trade Clearing Corporation proprietary cross-margining
program; 129 and
•
 extension of temporary clearing agency registration of the
Participants Trust Company.!" the International Securities Clearing
Corporation.P' and ICC.132

Municipal Securities Rulemaking Board
The SEC received seven proposed rule changes from the MSRB and
approved eight. Of particular note, on April 6, 1992, the Commission
approved an 18-month continuing disclosure information pilot system.
The system creates a central repository for timely dissemination
of
continuing disclosure information under which customers who buy and
sell municipal securities in the secondary market are expected to have
greater access to information regarding the financial health of an issuer.!"

Securities Investor Protection Corporation (SIPC)
The SIPC Fund amounted to $713.5 million on September 3D, 1992,
an increase of $51 million from September 3D, 1991. Further financial
support for the SIPC program is available through a $1 billion confirmed
line of credit established by SIPC with a consortium of banks. In addition,
SIPC may borrow up to $1 billion from the U.S. Department of the Treasury,
through the SEC.

Inspections of SRO Surveillance and Regulatory Compliance Programs
The staff conducted two inspections of the NYSE' s Division of Member
Firm Regulation, including an evaluation of the NYSE's program for
investigating
customer complaints against NYSE member firms and
associated persons.
That inspection revealed that most investigations
reviewed were conducted in a satisfactory manner, but also recommended
improvements in procedures to ensure full and timely investigation of all
relevant issues. The staff also conducted an inspection of the NYSE's
financial surveillance program. A substantial part of that program involves
the use by NYSE personnel of information produced by an automated

36

financial system developed by the NYSE to detect abnormal fluctuations
in the financial condition of NYSE member firms. This system provides
the NYSE with a mechanism to detect member firms experiencing financial
difficulty and to take remedial action when appropriate. The staff found
that the NYSE financial surveillance program is functioning in a very
satisfactory manner.
The staff conducted an inspection of the NASD's program for
monitoring transfers of customer accounts between member firms for
compliance with requirements contained in the NASD's Uniform Practice
Code. While no major deficiencies were found in the NASD's program,
the inspection revealed minor delays which could be addressed by closer
monitoring by NASD personnel.
The regional office staff conducted routine oversight inspections of
regulatory programs administered by 10 of the NASD's 14 district offices.
These inspections included evaluations of the districts' broker-dealer
examination, financial surveillance and formal disciplinary action programs
as well as investigations of customer complaints, terminations of registered
representatives
for cause and members' notices of disciplinary action
against their own employees. Although these inspections disclosed several
deficiencies involving a variety of issues, most were characterized as less
serious in degree and magnitude. Overall, these inspections revealed that
the N ASD was meeting its regulatory responsibilities in an effecti ve manner.
The staff undertook comprehensive inspections of the arbitration
programs administered at the MSE, AMEX, NASD and Phi x arbitration
programs. These inspections were designed to evaluate the effectiveness
of these SRO programs in the processing and resolution of disputes
between SRO members and their customers. In particular, the staff reviewed
the adequacy and thoroughness of case documentation, the efficiency of
the case management systems, and the role each department played in
processing its cases. In addition, consideration was given to whether major
rule changes, adopted by the AMEX and the NASD in 1989, and by the
Phlx in 1991 in response to Commission concerns regarding the rules and
procedures governing SRO-sponsored arbitration, were successful in
improving the documentation and fairness of cases administered by these
SROs.
The MSE arbitration inspection revealed a minor inconsistency between
MSE published rules and administrative practice relating to the handling
of customer related claims. The staff recommended that the MSE file with
the SEC a proposed rule change so that the MSE's practices are consistent
with its rules. The AMEX arbitration inspection revealed that the AMEX
generally administers its arbitration program satisfactorily. Nevertheless,
the staff discovered certain deficiencies involving arbitrator disclosure and
case processing. The staff made several recommendations to remedy the
weaknesses. The inspections of the NASD and Phlx arbitration programs
were still in progress at the end of the year.
The staff continued
its inspections
of SRO securities
listing
departments. These inspections focused on SRO determination of securities
qualifying for initial listing and continued trading. The staff conducted
37

inspections of the AMEX and the BSE. In the AMEX inspection, which
focused on AMEX listing of securities issued in roll-up transactions, the
staff found that the AMEX generally implemented adequately its quantitative
listing standards.
The BSE inspection found that while the program for
the initial listing of securities was acceptable, deficiencies existed in the
program to assure that companies with listed securities comply with BSE
maintenance standards.
In December 1991, the staff conducted an inspection of the NASD
Corporate Finance Department.
The staff found that the department
reviewed offerings filed with the NASD in a diligent, timely and efficient
manner. An inspection of AMEX surveillance and investigatory programs
for monitoring options and equities trading conducted in April and May
1992 found these programs to be functioning adequately.
With respect
to the AMEX's Enforcement Department. The inspection revealed some
deficiencies in the timeliness of cases, and the staff found that a deterioration
in the overall quality of its program. In addition, the Financial Regulatory
Services Department had failed to implement several recommendations
from the staff's 1988 inspection.
The SEC published a staff overview of the market decline on November
15,1991, analyzing the effects of hedging activities related to OTC derivative
products and unwinding activities related to expirations of options and
futures. Finally, at the staff's request, the NYSE, CBOE, AMEX, and NASD
formed a task force to study the scope of member firms' activities in OTC
derivatives in general, and OTC options on U.S. stock indexes in particular.
During 1992, the staff also expanded access to data concerning Treasury
securities, including programs to access and compile Treasury market
data.

Applications for Re-entry
As a result of the expanded definition of statutory disqualification
contained in the International Securities Enforcement Cooperation Act, the
number of SRO filings under Rule 19h-l under the Exchange Act processed
by the staff increased 68 percent, from 47 in 1991 to 79 in 1992. The
distribution of filings among the SROs was: NASD, 57; NYSE, 19; and
AMEX, 3. No applications were denied, but two were withdrawn and
the staff declined to take a no-action position for three other applications.

SRO Final Disciplinary Actions
Section 19(d)(1) of the Exchange Act and Rule 19d-l thereunder
require all SROs to file reports with the SEC of all final disciplinary actions.
A Rule 19d-1 filing reports the facts about a completed action that may
have been initiated at any time during the previous years. The time needed
to complete a SRO disciplinary action frequently reflects the severity of
the violations charged, the number of respondents involved, and the
complexity of the underlying facts. SROs generally conclude cases involving
minor or technical violations by a single respondent in less than a year.
Cases involving serious trading violations (e.g., price manipulation, insider
trading, frontrunning, etc.) often require more time to complete because

38

of the necessity of demonstrating specific intent to the disciplinary panel
that acts as trier of fact. Consequently, the absolute volume of Rule 19d-1 notices
submitted by a SRO in a given year is not a precise measure of its proficiency
in market surveillance and compliance.
Nevertheless, the number of
actions reported can be useful in assessing the regulatory effectiveness
of different SROs over similar time periods, and this information has
proven useful in focusing inspections of SRO regulatory programs.
In 1992, the AMEX filed 26 Rule 19d-1 reports; the CBOE filed 173;
the NYSE filed 202; the Phlx filed 66; the PSE filed 31; the registered
clearing agencies and the Boston, Cincinnati and Midwest Stock Exchanges
filed none; and the NASD filed 1,126.

39

Inveshnent Companies and Advisers
The Division of Investment Management oversees the regulation of
investment companiesand investment advisers under two companion statutes,
the Investment Company Act of 1940 (Investment Company Act) and the
Investment Advisers Act of1940 (Investment Advisers Act), andadministers
the Public Utility Holding Company Act of 1935 (Holding Company Act).
Key 1992 Results

In 1992, the Division of Investment Management released a report
on the regulation of investment companies, Protecting Investors: A Half
Century of Investment Company Regulation. The Commission and the staff
implemented some of the report's recommendations during the year. The
Commission proposed amendments to Regulation E under the Securities
Act of 1933 (Securities Act) that are intended to enhance the ability of small
business investment companies to raise capital for small business and to
increase the liquidity of investments in small business investment companies
and in business development companies. In connection with the SEC's
efforts to remove unnecessary barriers to capital formation and to facilitate
access to the capital markets by small business, the SEC announced that
mutual funds generally would be permitted to increase the amount of
illiquid assets they may hold from 10 percent to 15 percent of their net
assets. The staff also responded to the growing globalization of investment
and securities markets.
Program Overview

The tables below show the number of registered investment companies
and investment advisers and the amounts of assets under management.
All figures are reported for year end.
Number of Active Registrants

Investment
Companies
Investment
Company
Portfolios
Investment
Advisers
* Estimate

40

1992

% Change
1988-92

3.850

10.0%

16,000* 18.700

NA

1988

1989

1990

1991

3,499

3.544

3.535

3,660

NA

NA

NA

14.120

16,239

17,386 17,500

18,000

27.5%

Assets Under Management
($ in billions)

Investment
Companies
Investment
Advisers

% Change
1988-92

1988

1989

1990

1991

1992

$1,125

$1,200

$1,350

$1,400

$1,800

60.0%

$3,400

$4,400

$4,900

$5,400

$8,100

138.2%

The number of registered investment companies increased by over
5 percent during 1992. Many investment companies combine several
separate portfolios or investment series in one investment company
registration statement. The number of portfolios generally ranges from
three to ten. However, some unit investment trusts group as many as
900 separate portfolios under one Investment Company Act registration.
The number of portfolios increased by nearly 17 percent during 1992. In
addition, the agency was responsible for regulating 18,000 investment
advisers at the end of 1992, over a 27 percent increase since 1988.

Investment Company and Adviser Inspection Program
During 1992, program resources were focused on inspections of funds
in the largest 100 investment company complexes, all money market
mutual funds, and investment advisers with assets under management in
excess of $1 billion.
The 100 largest investment company complexes
managed $1.4 trillion in assets, which represented 77 percent of total
investment company industry assets of $1.8 trillion. The total assets under
management of the over 1,000 money market portfolios were $580 billion,
which represented 32 percent of all investment company assets.
Although the Investment Advisers Act establishes a system of
registration and regulation designed to disclose to clients basic facts about
an adviser and to hold the adviser to the highest standards of honesty
and loyalty expected of a fiduciary, the primary means by which the SEC
enforces the Investment Advisers Act is through a program of periodic
inspections.

Results Achieved by the Program
The division and regional office staff conducted inspections of funds
within each of the 100 largest investment company complexes as well as
125 other complexes. These inspections focused on portfolio management
activities.
Each of the 1,048 money market funds were reviewed for
compliance with Rule 2a-7, which specifies the quality and maturity of
permissible instruments that may be held by money market funds and
requirements
for portfolio diversification.
The staff inspected 614
investment advisers, of which 210 managed more than $1 billion. These

41

inspections focused on the portfolio management and trading activities
of advisers. As a result of all inspections conducted during 1992, the staff
sent 782 deficiency letters to registrants requiring that they eliminate
violative activities. In 49 inspections, where the registrant appeared to
be engaged in serious misconduct, the staff referred the inspection results
to the enforcement program for further investigation.
Regulatory Policy

Significant Investment Company Developments
In May 1992, the Division of Investment Management released its
report, Protecting Investors: A Half Century of Investment Company Regulation
(Protecting Investors),l34 culminating a two-year special study of the
regulation of investment companies. The report, while concluding that
the basic investment company regulatory structure remains sound,
contained many recommendations to modernize the regulatory structure,
increase investor protection, and promote increased competition in the
industry. In many instances, the regulatory structure has not kept pace
with the tremendous changes that have occurred in the financial markets.
The report contained a number of proposals for regulatory and legislative
reform in three major areas: the scope of the Investment Company Act;
barriers to cross-border sales of investment management services; and
regulation of investment companies. Some of the report's recommendations
can be accomplished by rulemaking while others require legislative changes.
Many of the rulemaking initiatives to implement report recommendations
are discussed in the material that follows.
In November 1992, the Commission adopted Rule 3a-7 under the
Investment Company Act to exempt from the definition of investment
company, and hence from regulation under the Investment Company Act,
structured financings that meet certain conditions.l"
In structured
financings, income-producing,
often illiquid assets--such as credit card
receivables, automobile loans, and corporate bonds--are pooled and
converted into capital market instruments. Although structured financings
fall within the Investment Company Act definition of investment company,
they cannot, as a practical matter, register as investment companies because
they cannot operate under the statutory provisions.
Some structured
financings have not been regulated under the Investment Company Act
based on statutory exceptions that were intended for very different
businesses.
Other financings, primarily involving mortgage products,
have received exemptions by Commission order. Financings that were
unable to rely on an exception or obtain an exemptive order were sold
offshore or in private placements to not more than 100 investors.
In August 1992, the Commission proposed a rule to permit closedend management
investment
companies to repurchase
their shares
periodically at net asset value. At the same time, the Commission proposed
a rule to permit open-end management investment companies to operate
either as extended payment companies, which would redeem shares
continuously but take longer to make payments than the seven days
42

currently mandated for open-end companies, or as interval companies,
whose shareholders
could redeem at fixed, regular intervals, such as
monthly.P' These proposed rules were among the recommendations made
in the Protecting Investors report. Funds operating under the proposed
rules would provide alternatives to the traditional open-end and closedend companies.
To prevent investor confusion, the new rule for openend companies would require prominent disclosure of a fund's limits on
redeemability and prohibit the use of the label "mutual fund:'
In March 1992, the Commission
proposed for public comment
amendments to Regulation E under the Securities Act,137which exempts
from registration under the Securities Act certain securities offerings by
small business investment
companies
(SBICs) registered
under the
Investment Company Act and business development companies (BDCs).138
The amendments would increase, from $5 million to $15 million, the
aggregate offering price of SBIC securities that may be sold annually
without registration under the Securities Act. The amount of SBIC or BDC
securities that may be sold annually by any person other than the issuer
would increase from $100,000 to $1,500,000. In addition, certain other
revisions were proposed to modify procedural
requirements
under
Regulation E. The proposed amendments are intended to enhance the
ability of small business investment companies to raise capital for small
businesses and to increase the liquidity of investments in SBICs and BDCs.

Significant Disclosure Program Developments
In March 1992, the Commission published reVISIOns to the staff
guidelines
to Form N-IA, the registration
form used by open-end
management
investment companies to register under the Investment
Company Act and to register their securities under the Securities Act. The
revised guidelines generally permit mutual funds, other than money market
funds, to increase, from 10 percent to 15 percent of net assets, the amount
of illiquid assets they may hold!" and thereby permit mutual funds more
flexibility to make investments in illiquid securities of small businesses,
resulting in better access to capital markets for small businesses.
In November 1992, the Commission adopted amendments to Form
N-2, the registration form used by closed-end management investment
companies under the Investment Company Act and the Securities Act, and
related rules.>"
The amendments shorten and simplify the prospectus
provided to investors by adopting the two-part disclosure format used
by mutual funds and update disclosure standards for closed-end funds
including companies electing to be regulated as BDCs. Amendments to
Rule 8b-16 under the Investment Company Act exempt closed-end funds
from the requirement to update their Investment Company Act registration
statements annually, provided certain disclosures are made to fund
shareholders annually. The Commission also published staff guidelines
for the preparation of Form N-2.
During the year, the staff devoted considerable attention to the
increased use of "hub and spoke" arrangements in which several openend investment companies, or "spokes," invest in one large investment
43

company, or "hub."
The structure permits a spoke fund to tailor its
distribution and shareholder services to a particular group, while it takes
advantage of professional advisory services and economies of scale that
might not otherwise be available to smaller investment companies. These
structures were scrutinized to ensure that they do not result in undue
duplication
of fees or deprive the ultimate investors--the
spoke
shareholders--of any rights otherwise provided by the federal securities
laws.
During 1992, the staff reviewed new registration statements or
amendments to existing registration statements for: 991 new open-end
fund portfolios; 6,962 existing open-end fund portfolios; 184 new closedend fund portfolios; 347 existing closed-end fund portfolios; 964 new unit
investment trust portfolios; and 9,099 existing unit investment trust
portfolios.
Section 13(f)(1) of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934 (Exchange Act)
and Rule 13f-1 require "institutional investment managers" exercising
investment discretion over accounts holding certain equity securities with
a fair market value of at least $100 million to file quarterly reports on
Form 13F. For the quarter ended September 30, 1992, 1,048 managers filed
Form 13F reports, for total holdings of nearly $2 trillion. Under Rule 13f2T, these managers may elect to file the report on magnetic tape submitted
to the SEC's Electronic Data Gathering, Analysis, and Retrieval (EDGAR)
system.
Form 13F reports are available to the public at the agency's Public
Reference Room promptly after filing. Two tabulations of the information
contained in these reports are available for inspection: an alphabetical
list of the individual securities showing the number held by the managers
reporting the holding, and an alphabetical list of all reporting managers
showing the total number of shares of securities held. These tabulations
are generally available two weeks after the date on which the reports must
be filed.
Significant Insurance Products Developments
On October 23, 1992, the staff issued a letter to insurance company
sponsors/ depositors
of separate accounts registered
as investment
companies to assist the sponsors/ depositors in preparing post-effective
amendments and other disclosure documents. The letter included comments
about recent substantive and procedural developments.
For example,
several insurance companies issuing variable life insurance contracts have
sought to advertise fund performance based on certain assumptions about
contract charges. The letter described staff concerns about the use of these
assumptions because of the difficulty of reflecting in any standardized
form the cost of insurance charge, which varies depending on the age,
gender (in some states), health and smoking/non-smoking
status of the
individual purchaser.

44

Significant Public Utility Holding Company Act Developments
Title VII of the Energy Policy Act of 1992 (Energy Policy Act), enacted
on October 24, 1992, amends the Holding Company Act by creating new
classes of exempt entities, exempt wholesale generators (EWGs) and foreign
utility companies.!"
The legislation also permits registered holding
companies to acquire small power production facilities, in addition to
cogeneration
facilities, anywhere in the United States.t?
Although
acquisitions of EWGs and foreign utility companies no longer require SEC
approval, related financings and guarantees by a registered holding
company or its subsidiaries remain subject to SEC jurisdiction. Further,
the legislation directs the SEC, within six months of the date of enactment
of the legislation, to adopt rules for the protection of consumers of the
registered holding-company
systems.
The Commission amended Rule 52 of the Holding Company Act to
broaden the current exemption for certain financings by public utility
subsidiary companies, and proposed for comment amendments that would
further expand the scope of exemption under the rule.'? The Commission
also proposed for public comment amendments to various rules and forms
under the Holding Company Act.!" The proposed amendments would
generally reduce the regulatory burdens for companies in a registered
holding-company system by expanding existing exemptions for, inter alia,
certain acquisitions and sales, financings, investments in non-utility
enterprises, and the provision of services to foreign associate companies.
In addition, the Commission proposed rescission of a rule that requires
competitive bidding for the issue and sale of securities by companies in
a registered holding-company
system.>"
As of September 3D, 1992, 14 public utility holding company systems
were registered with the SEC. The 14 registered systems were comprised
of 91 public utility subsidiaries, 125 non-utility subsidiaries, and 30 inactive
companies, for a total of 246 companies operating in 26 states. These
registered systems had aggregate assets of approximately $99.1 billion as
of September 3D, 1992, an increase of $4.9 billion over September 3D, 1991Total operating revenues for the 12 months ending September 3D, 1992 were
approximately $38.1 billion, a $1.2 billion increase from the 12 months
ending September 3D, 1991.
During 1992, the agency authorized registered holding-company
systems to issue $6.7 billion in short-term debt, $8.3 billion in long-term
debt, and $1.3 billion in common and preferred stock. Long-term debt
increased by 232 percent in 1992, primarily as a result of an increase in
the sale of medium-term
notes and debentures, and short-term debt
increased by 22 percent. The SEC also approved pollution control financings
of $267 million, nuclear fuel and oil procurement financings of $245 million,
and investments in qualified cogeneration facilities of $488 million, an
increase of $325 million over 1991. Total financing authorizations
of
approximately $17.4 billion represented an approximate 63 percent increase
over such authorizations in 1991.

45

The SEC audits service companies and special purpose corporations.
In the future, this audit program also will be used to audit EWGs and
foreign utility companies.
In addition, the agency reviews the fuel
procurement
activities, accounting policies, annual reports of service
company subsidiaries and fuel procurement subsidiaries of registered
holding companies, and quarterly reports filed by non-utility subsidiaries
of registered holding companies. By uncovering misapplied expenses and
inefficiencies, the agency's activities during 1992 resulted in savings to
consumers of approximately $10.2 million.
Significant Interpretations

and Applications

Investment Company Act Matters
The staff stated that Section 11(a) of the Investment Company Act
prohibits a mutual fund from offering to waive its front-end sales load
to attract shareholders of unaffiliated funds that charge contingent deferred
sales loads, absent a Commission order. The purpose of Section ll(a) is
to protect mutual fund shareholders from paying multiple sales loads
through the churning of their investments. Since salespersons may receive
compensation for moving shareholders from fund to fund, they may have
an incentive to switch shareholders even when no front-end load is imposed
by the new fund. The staff concluded that inducements to shareholders
to switch their investments should continue to require a Commission order
where the exchange is not made at net asset value.!"
In two no-action letters under Section 17(f) of the Investment Company
Act and Rule 17f-5 thereunder, the staff stated that it would not recommend
enforcement action if various entities acted as eligible foreign custodians
for registered investment companies. These positions were based in part
on representations
that each entity operated the central system in its
country for the handling of certain types of securities, i.e., Commonwealth
Government securities issued in Australia and securities listed on the Stock
Exchange of Hong Kong Limited. The staff also considered whether, and
to what extent, a foreign government operated or regulated the entities.!"
The staff declined to take a no-action position where a fund proposed
to treat an affiliate of a foreign broker-dealer as a disinterested person
of the fund for the purposes of Section 10(a) of the Investment Company
Act. Section 10(a) provides that no more than 60 percent of the members
of a registered investment company's board of directors may be interested
persons of the registered investment company. The individual in question
was a director of a major foreign broker-dealer in a country in which the
fund made investments.
Section 2(a)(19)(v) of the Investment Company
Act provides that a person is an interested person of an investment
company if the person is a broker or dealer registered under the Exchange
Act or an affiliate of such a broker or dealer. While the foreign brokerdealer was not registered under the Exchange Act, the staff took the
position that the individual's position as a director of the broker-dealer

4S

posed the same conflicts of interest that Section 2(a)(19)(v) was designed
to address. The staff, therefore, refused to provide no-action assurance
to the fund. us
The Commission issued a conditional order under Section 10(f) of the
Investment Company Act to permit the First Philippine Fund, Inc. (First
Philippine) to purchase foreign securities in public offerings in which an
affiliate of First Philippine's
investment adviser participates
in the
underwriting syndicate.r" First Philippine agreed to comply with all of
the conditions in Rule 10f-3, except the requirement that the securities be
registered under the Securities Act. Prior orders had required that the
foreign securities be registered under the laws of the foreign country,
which were" substantially equivalent" to the Securities Act. The Commission
granted the order to First Philippine notwithstanding
the fact that the
securities laws of the Philippines may not be "substantially equivalent"
to the Securities Act. Instead, the order requires that any securities
purchased by First Philippine be sold in public offerings conducted in
accordance with Philippine law, the securities be listed on the Philippine
exchanges, and financial statements of the issuers of the securities be
available.
The Commission issued a conditional order exempting SPDR Trust,
Series 1 (Trust) and its sponsor, a wholly-owned subsidiary of the AMEX,
from numerous provisions of the Investment Company Act and the rules
thereunder.!"
The Trust invests in a portfolio of securities designed to
mirror the Standard & Poor's 500 Index. The Trust's securities, known
as SPDRs, can be purchased from and tendered for redemption to the Trust
only in lots of 50,000. Transactions involving fewer than 50,000 SPDRs
must be effected in the secondary market. To facilitate secondary market
trading, SPDRs will be listed on the AMEX. Among other things, the order
provides an exemption from Section 24(d), enabling dealers effecting
certain secondary market transactions in SPDRs to do so without delivering
a prospectus, and from Section 26(a)(2)(C), to permit the Trust to pay
certain expenses associated with the creation and maintenance of the Trust.
In response to an application filed by Merrill Lynch Ready Assets
Trust and other taxable money market funds whose investment advisers
are direct or indirect wholly-owned subsidiaries of Merrill Lynch & Co.,
Inc. (Merrill), the Commission issued an order under Sections 6(c) and
17(b) of the Investment Company Act that permits those funds to engage
in principal transactions in money market securities with dealers in money
market securities that are directly or indirectly wholly-owned by Merrill,
subject to conditions with respect to pricing, quality, volume, and
recordkeeping.v"
The Commission issued an order on an application filed by Paine Webber
T.C, Inc. (PaineWebber), the investment adviser to a limited partnership
(the Partnership), to invest primarily in other limited partnerships owning
low-income
and moderate-income
housi ng.v" The order exempts
PaineWebber from Section 205(a)(l) of the Investment Advisers Act to
permit it to receive a portion of the proceeds that the Partnership receives
from the sale, refinancing, or disposition of apartment complexes. Because

47

Paine Webber is a registered investment adviser, it is prohibited from
receiving compensation based on a share of the capital gains upon or
capital appreciation of any portion of a client's funds. Prior Commission
orders granting relief from Section 205(a)(I) to advisers of real estate
limited partnerships have required the investors in those partnerships to
meet stringent net worth standards, a requirement that the investors in
the Partnership did not meet. In granting relief, the Commission considered
the following factors: (1) Section 205(a) (1) was nei ther designed nor intended
to apply to long-term investments in real estate; (2) compensation based
on capital appreciation is common among entities investing in real estate;
and (3) the Partnership was promoted and its investments selected primarily
as a means for providing tax benefits to the limited partners over several
years.
The Commission issued a conditional order on an application filed
by the Drexel Burnham Lambert Group Inc. (DBL Group).153 DBL Group
and certain of its subsidiaries,
including Drexel Burnham Lambert
Incorporated, were engaged in a broad range of securities related businesses.
In 1990, DBL Group and certain companies controlled by DBL Group filed
petitions for reorganization under Chapter 11 of the Bankruptcy Code. The
order under Sections 6(c) and 6(e) of the Investment Company Act and
Section 206A of the Investment Advisers Act exempts companies, escrows,
and reserves that were created pursuant to the reorganization of DBL
Group and of certain controlled companies from many, and in some cases
all, provisions of the Investment Company Act and exempts New Street
Capital Corporation, the successor to DBL Group, from Section 203 of the
Investment Advisers Act for limited purposes.
The Commission issued a temporary order under Section 9(c) of the
Investment Company Act on an application filed by First Investors
Corporation (FIC), a registered broker-dealer and the co-underwriter of
several open-end investment cornpanies.P' FIC consented to the entry of
a final judgment by the United States District Court for the Southern
District of New York enjoining and restraining FIC from further violations
of Section 10(b) of the Exchange Act, and Rule 10b-5 thereunder, and
Section 17(a) of the Securities Act in connection with the sale of the
securities of two investment companies. Section 9(a) of the Investment
Company Act prohibits persons who are subject to a securities related
injunction, or affiliates of such persons, from engaging in investment
company related activities.
The Commission order exempts FIC and
certain affiliated entities from Section 9(a). The Commission required FIC
to agree to a number of conditions, including the submission of reports
relating to FIC's investment company operations.
On an application filed by Salomon Brothers Asset Management Inc.
(Salomon) and Salomon Brothers Inc. (SBI), the Commission issued an
order under Section 9(c) of the Investment Company Act that exempts
Salomon, SBI, and their affiliated persons from Section 9(a) of the Investment
Company Act.IsS Salomon, SBI, and their affiliates became subject to the
provisions of Section 9(a) as a result of an injunction entered against
Salomon and SBI in connection with the May 1991 auction of two-year
48

United States Treasury notes. The Commission required the Salomon
entities to agree to a number of conditions, including the submission of
reports relating to Salomon's and SBl's procedures.

Investment Advisers Act Matters
The staff stated that it would not recommend enforcement action if
a foreign bank shared personnel and research with a wholly-owned
subsidiary, a United States registered adviser located abroad, without
registering itself under the Investment Advisers Act. The staff further
stated that it would not recommend enforcement action if the registered
advisory subsidiary provided investment advisory services to non-United
States clients solely in accordance with foreign law. The staff granted the
no-action request on the general conditions that (1) the bank provide the
SEC with access to trading and other records and to all of its employees
to the extent necessary for the SEC to monitor and police conduct that
might harm United States clients or markets, and (2) the registered subsidiary
agree to keep records in accordance with Investment Advisers Act
requirements and to provide the SEC with access to its employees. The
no-action response is the first to implement the proposal in the Protecting
Investors report regarding the jurisdictional reach of the Investment Advisers
Act. This approach should make it easier for foreign advisers to offer
advisory services to United States investors.!"

Insurance Company Matters
On February 26, 1992, the staff issued an order pursuant to delegated
authority to permit a separate account and other affiliated and unaffiliated
insurance company separate accounts to invest in shares of an underlying
fund whose shares also would be sold directly to qualified pension and
retirement plans. The order was based on representations by applicants
that the applicable tax regulations allow shares in an investment company
to be held by the trustee of a qualified pension or retirement plan and
by the separate accounts of insurance companies in connection with their
variable contracts. Applicants also made representations that provisions
had been made to avoid potential conflicts of interest between the plans
and the separate accounts.!"
On December 4, 1992, the staff issued a notice of an application,
pursuant to delegated authority, for an order granting an exemption from
certain provisions of the Investment Company Act to permit an insurance
company to deduct a mortality and expense risk charge from the assets
of the separate account at a rate higher than permitted in the past. The
higher charge is attributable to the payment of an enhanced death benefit. ISS
The staff stated that it would not recommend enforcement action
against an insurance company offering variable life insurance policies to
a law firm partnership without registering the separate account that
funded the policies under the Investment Company Act. The insurance
company asserted that the law firm rather than its individual partners
should be considered the beneficial owner of the policies. The separate

49

account's securities would then be owned by less than 100 persons and
come within the exclusion from the definition of investment company in
Section 3(c)(1) of the Investment Company Act. In addition, the insurance
company stated that the policies should not be deemed voting securities
because of the law firm's limited rights with respect to the separate
account.!"

Holding Company Act Matters
Prior to enactment of the Energy Policy Act, the SEC issued orders
permitting exempt and registered holding companies to acquire foreign
utility operations.l'" The Energy Policy Act added Sections 32 and 33 to
the Holding Company Act, which provides that prior SEC approval is no
longer required for the acquisition of exempt wholesale generators and
foreign utility companies.>' However, certain other related transactions,
including financings and guarantees by a registered holding company
remain jurisdictional, as do transactions between companies in a registered
holding-company system.l"
In its first orders under new Section 33 of the Holding Company Act,
the Commission authorized certain transactions related to the acquisitions
by Entergy Corporation (Entergy), a registered holding company, of interests
in Argentine electric generation and transmission operations.r" State and
local regulators initially had intervened in the matter in opposition to SEC
authorization of the transaction, arguing that they would be unable to
protect domestic consumers if there were any adverse effects from the
foreign activities. They subsequently withdrew their interventions pursuant
to a settlement agreement with Entergy. The Commission denied the joint
request for a hearing by the Environmental Action Foundation and Alliance
for Affordable Energy on the grounds that new Section 33 had mooted
the challenge to the legality of the acquisition and, further, that concerns
about consumer protection were met by the settlement agreement between
state and local regulators and Entergy.
In 1990, the Commission had authorized Entergy to organize and
capitalize Entergy Power, Inc. (EPI), a wholly-owned public utility subsidiary
company, for the purpose of participating as a supplier in bulk power
markets. 1M The Commission also had authorized Arkansas Power & Light
Company (AP&L), an associated public utility company, to sell two of its
generating units (Units) to EPI for use in its business. The United States
Court of Appeals for the District of Columbia Circuit recently held that
the Commission properly had determined that the Holding Company Act
did not prohibit Entergy's proposed transaction, but remanded the case
to the SEC to develop further the administrative record regarding certain
capacity and energy costs to the system associated with AP&L's transfer
of the Units to EPI.165
The Commission approved a corporate reorganization which resulted
in the formation of a new public utility holding company over Kentucky
Utilities Company, and exempted the new holding company, KU Energy
Corporation, under Section 3(a)(1) of the Holding Company Act.166 The
reorganization involved the dual incorporation of a public utility subsidiary
50

company in Kentucky and Virginia.
The Commission found that the
corporate reorganization was consistent with the economical and efficient
development
of an integrated holding-company
system and that the
exemption was not detrimental to the interests protected by the Holding
Company Act.
The Commission authorized UNITIL Corporation (UNITIL), an electric
public utility company, and Charles H. Tenney II to acquire Fitchburg Gas
and Electric Light Company, a combination electric and gas public utility
company.!" Following the acquisition, UNITIL became the first company
in more than a quarter of a century to register as a holding company under
Section 5 of the Holding Company Act. The Commission also determined
that UNITIL could retain the Fitchburg gas properties as an additional
integrated system.
The Commission
authorized
Northeast
Utilities (Northeast),
a
registered holding company, to form a new wholly-owned subsidiary
company, North Atlantic Energy Service Corporation (NAESCO), that will
assume operating responsibility for the Seabrook Nuclear Power Project
(Seabrook) in Seabrook, New Hampshire.!" The formation of NAESCO
was part of the reorganization
of the Public Service Company of New
Hampshire (PSNH), a New Hampshire electric utility company.v" The
Commission's decision regarding Northeast's acquisition of PSNH was
recently upheld on appeal by the United States Court of Appeals for the
District of Columbia Circuit.F"
The United States Court of Appeals for the District of Columbia
Circuit, on remand from the Supreme Court, found that Section 13(b) of
the Holding Company Act empowered the Commission to approve the
price of affiliate sales of goods, such as coal, and that the Federal Energy
Regulatory Commission (FERC) was constrained from altering that price
under its "just and reasonable" rate-setting authority."! The case involved
the cost of coal charged by Southern Ohio Coal Company (SOCCO), to
its parent Ohio Power Company (Ohio Power), a public utility subsidiary
company of American Electric Power Company, a registered holding
company. In a series of orders, the Commission had authorized SOCCO
to sell its coal to Ohio Power at cost."> Certain industrial and municipal
customers of Ohio Power intervened in a rate proceeding before FERC,
asserting that the cost of coal charged to Ohio Power exceeded the market
price for such coal. FERC initially had agreed with the intervenors and
excluded the excess costs from rates. The Court of Appeals remanded
the matter to FERC for further findings consistent with its opinion. On
November 9, 1992, the United States Supreme Court denied a petition for
certiorari filed by FERC.

51

Full Disclosure System

Thefull disclosure system isadministered by the Division of Corporation
Finance (Division). The system is designed to provide investors with material
information, foster investor confidence, contribute to the maintenance offair
and orderly markets, facilitate capital formation, and inhibit fraud in the
public offering, trading, voting, and tendering of securities.
Key 1992 Results
Despite general economic conditions, the total dollar amount of
securities filed for registration with the SEC during 1992 reached a record
of over $700 billion, a 40 percent increase from the approximately $500
billion registered last year. The number of issuers accessing the public
markets for the first time soared, with initial public offering (IPO) filings
of equity or debt reaching $66.5 billion, an increase of about 53 percent
from the $43.6 billion filed in 1991.

REGISTRATION STATEMENTS FILED
DOLLAR VALUE ($BIWONS)
OTHEREQ

OTHEREQ
16.6
3%

1991
TOTAL - $495.7

35.6
5%

1992
TOTAL - $702.1

Foreign issuers' participation in the U.S. markets continued to show
strong growth. More than $34.6 billion of securities of foreign issuers filed
for registration under the Securities Act of 1933 (Securities Act). In 1992,
87 new foreign companies from 21 countries, including the United Kingdom,
France, Italy, Australia, Brazil, Korea, and Singapore, entered the U.S.
public market. At the end of 1992, there were 496 foreign companies from
35 countries filing reports with the SEC.

52

The Division's rulemaking program was extraordinarily active in
1992. During the year, the Commission proposed and adopted a set of
major initiatives to streamline regulations affecting small businesses. The
Commission expanded the small offerings exemptions under the Securities
Act and provided a simplified, integrated disclosure system for small
businesses (companies with less than $25 million revenues and a public
float of less than $25 million). As part of its Small Business Initiatives,
the Commission also proposed legislation to increase its small offering
exemptive authority to $10 million.
The Commission adopted important amendments to its executive
compensation disclosure requirements. The amendments are designed to
(1) ensure that shareholders receive comprehensible, relevant, and complete
information about compensation paid to executives upon which to base
their voting and investment decisions; and (2) foster accountability of
directors to shareholders by permitting shareholders to vote on the proposals
of other shareholders with regard to executive and director compensation,
and thereby advise the board of directors of the shareholders' assessment
of the compensation policies and practices applied by the board.
After three years of study, two releases for public comment, a twoday public conference, and more than 1,700 public comment letters, the
Commission substantially revised its rules governing proxy solicitations.
The revisions were adopted to (1) facilitate effective communications
among shareholders and between shareholders and their corporations, as
well as participation by shareholders in corporate governance, by removing
unnecessary regulatory barriers, (2) reduce the costs of complying with
the proxy rules, (3) improve disclosures to shareholders, and (4) restore
a balance between the free speech rights of shareholders and Congress'
concern that solicitation of proxy voting authority be conducted on a fair,
honest and informed basis.
To facilitate capital raising and the securitization of financial assets,
such as small business loans, the Commission adopted amendments to
Form S-3 under the Securities Act to (1) expand the classes of issuers
eligible to use these short-form registration statements, (2) increase the
availability of shelf registration under Securities Act Rule 415, and (3)
provide increased flexibility in the raising of equity capital by permitting
eligible companies to file one shelf registration covering all types of
securities without requiring a specific allocation of offering amounts
among the securities. It is estimated that approximately 450 additional
issuers with an aggregate public float of about $88 billion became eligible
to use short-form registration as a result of the changes.
The Commission adopted amendments to the Rule 144A safe harbor
from registration requirements for institutional resales that expanded the
definition of qualified institutional buyer. The amendments are estimated
to qualify additional institutions with $1 trillion of assets. Since the
adoption of the rule in April 1990,there have been 212 Rule 144A placements,
totaling approximately $25 billion, involving the securities of 210 issuers
(including 130 foreign issuers).

53

Review of Filings

During 1992, the staff conducted 3,058 reporting issuer reviews. The
reporting issuer reviews were accomplished through the full review of
1,180 registration statements and post-effective amendments to registration
statements filed under the Securities Act; 1,450 annual and subsequent
periodic reports; 141 merger and going private proxy statements; and 1,126
full financial reviews of annual reports. The number of documents reviewed
exceeded the number of reporting issuer reviews because in many cases
more than one document filed by the same issuer received a full review
during the year.
The following table summarizes filings reviewed during the last five
years. The decline in reviews of IPOs, tender offers, contested solid tations,
and going private transactions, all of which are subject to review, reflects
the reduction in the transactional filings received.

54

FULL DISCLOSURE

1988

REVIEWS

1989

1990

3,097

2,734

1,907

2,660

Home Office
New Issuers
Repeat Issuers
PIE Amdts. 'QJ

777
599
409

684
564
320

568
635
203

465
758
308

831
970
210

Regions
Registrations
PIE Amdts. 'QJ

708
486

533
609

327
505

183
275

158
137

2,166

1,949

1,129

1,557

1,450

567

388

292

712

1,126

254

188

95

37

27

276

176

108

68

61

93

84

75

65

58

314
790

291
428

240
351

188
374

141
395

Reporting Issuer
Reviews gJ

1991

1992
3,058

Major Filing Reviews
Securities Act
Registrations

Annual Reports
Full Reviews ~

Full Financial
Reviews
Tender Offers

(140-1)Q/
Going Private
Schedules
Contested Proxy
Solicitations
Proxy Statements
Merger/Going
Private
Other eJ

Includes reporting Securities Exchange Act of 1934 (Exchange Act) issuers
whose financial statements and Management Discussion and Analysis
disclosures were reviewed in Securities Act and Exchange Act registration
statements, annual reports, merger and going private proxy statements,
and post-effective amendments (PIE) to Securities Act registration
statements.
QI Includes PIE amendment filings that contain new financial statements
only.
£1 Includes reports reviewed in connection with other filings.
Q./ Reflects limited partnership roll-up transactions as single filings
regardless of the number of Schedules 14D-1 filed or the number
of issuers involved in the roll-up.
gj Excludes reviews of revised and additional preliminary proxy material.

!I

55

Rulemaklng,

Interpretive, and Legislative Matters

Small Business Initiatives
The Commission adopted revisions to the rules and forms under the
Securities Act, Exchange Act, and Trust Indenture Act of 1939 (Trust
Indenture Act) intended to reduce compliance burdens for small businesses
and assist capital raising."? To facilitate the raising of seed capital, the
Small Business Initiatives included revisions to small offering exemptive
Rule 504 of Regulation D, which permits nonpublic companies to raise up
to $1 million from any number or type of investors subject only to antifraud
prohibitions. The revisions allow such offerings to use general advertising
and offering activity and permit investors to freely resell such securities.
The amendments also foreclosed the exemption to blank check companies,
i.e., companies with no business plan.
In addition, to make it easier for nonpublic developing small businesses
to raise greater amounts of capital without incurring the substantial legal
and accounting expenses of a registered offering, the Commission revised
its small public offering registration exemption, Regulation A. The revisions:
(1) increase the amount that may be raised under the exemption from $1.5
million to $5 million; (2) permit the use of a simple and easily comprehended
question-and-answer
form developed by state securities regulators; and
(3) permit companies to "test the waters" for potential interest in the
company before preparing and filing the offering circular with the SEC.
In the first four months of the revised rules, approximately $65 million
of Regulation A offerings were filed with the SEC, as compared to $15.4
million in the comparable period of the prior year.
An integrated disclosure system--consisting of simplified disclosure
requirements, reduced financial statement requirements and a new series
of rules and forms--also was adopted for small business issuers. Small
business issuers are defined as those companies with revenues of less than
$25 million, provided that their public float does not exceed $25 million.
Conforming changes were made to the rules under the Trust Indenture
Act, increasing the dollar amount of debt securities that may be offered
without full compliance with that act. In the first four months of the new
system, approximately $350 million of offerings were filed on the new
form.
In response to favorable comment on the Small Business Initiatives,
the Commission published for comment, rule and form proposals that
would permi t small businesses to transition from non-reporting to reporting
status using the Regulation A disclosure format, with the added requirement
that the requisite financial statements be audited for both reporting and
registration of small offerings ($5 millionl.!" Changes to the financial
statement requirements applicable to small business issuers also were
proposed.
The Commission proposed to exclude a "test the waters"
document that complies with applicable requirements from the definition
of a prospectus. Finally, the Commission proposed that the informational
and financial statement requirements
of Regulation D be revised to
substantially parallel those in Regulation A.
56

Executive Compensation
The amendments
to the executive
compensation
disclosure
requirements
of Item 402 of Regulation S-K are designed to make
compensation disclosure clearer and more concise, and of greater utility
to shareholders.l" Specific provisions were made for small businesses to
minimize costs of compliance with the compensation disclosures where
consistent with shareholder interests.!"
Previous narrative disclosure regarding executive compensation has
been replaced with a series of tables. Specifically, the rules provide for
a new, comprehensive table disclosing the annual salaries, bonuses and
other compensation awards and payouts to the five highest paid executives,
including the chief executive officer (CEO), for each of the last three fiscal
years. The other tables require more detailed disclosure for the last fiscal
year with respect to, among other things, information bearing on the
potential values of stock options and stock appreciation rights (SARs)
granted to and exercised by the named executives, the repricing of executive
options and SARs, long-term incentive compensation awards, and defined
benefit and actuarial plans.
In addition to these tables, the annual meeting proxy statement is
required to include a report on the registrant's compensation policies with
respect to executive officers, the basis for the decisions made with respect
to the CEO's compensation for the last fiscal year, and the relationship
between executive compensation and the registrant's performance.
The
report must be made over the individual names of the Compensation
Committee members. To complement this discussion of the relationship
of executive compensation to performance, companies are required to
include with the report a line graph presentation comparing the registrant's
cumulative total shareholder
return over the prior five years with a
performance indicator of overall stock market return, and either a published
industry index, or registrant-determined
peer comparison. Disclosure also
is required of specific interlocking relationships of directors involved in
compensation decisions and potential conflicts of interest.
In February
1992, the Commission
announced
that precatory
shareholder proposals concerning executive and director compensation
would no longer be considered matters relating to the ordinary business
operations of the issuer for purposes of determining whether the proposals
must be included in a company's proxy statement under the Commission's
shareholder proposal rule, Rule 14a-8. As a result, such shareholder
proposals, not otherwise excludable under Rule 14a-8, would have to be
included in the company's proxy statement and submitted to shareholders
for a vote. During the 1992 proxy season, 10 shareholder proposals with
respect to executive and director compensation were included under the
new policy and subject to a shareholder
vote. Reported results on
compensation proposals were as follows.

57

Aetna Life & Casualty Co.
Baltimore Gas & Electric Co.
Bell Atlantic Corp.
Black Hills Corp.
Chrysler Corp.
Eastman Kodak Co.
Equimark Corp.
Int'I Business Machines Corp.
Reebok Inc.
Gerber Products Company

For

Against

Abstain

7.5%
12.2
10.9
36.9
5.6
15.9
16.5
16.7
19.2
4.8

80.3%
83.6
74.6
47.6
79.5
67.8
81.4
83.3
51.9
86.4

12.2%
4.2
14.5
15.5
14.9
16.3
2.1
Not Avail.
28.9
11.8

Proxy Reform
The amendments, initially proposed in June 1991,177were reproposed
in June 1992,178and adopted in October 1992.179 The amendments (1)
provide an exemption from the filing and disclosure requirements for
solicitations by persons not seeking proxy authorization and who do not
have a disqualifying interest; (2) provide a safe harbor to allow shareholders
to announce how they intend to vote without having to comply with the
proxy rules; (3) eliminate preliminary filing requirements for all soliciting
materials other than proxy statements and proxy cards; (4) eliminate the
non public treatment of virtually all preliminary materials; (5) require a
separate vote on each matter to be approved by shareholders; and (6)
improve the shareholder list or mailing rule.

Simplification of Registration Procedures for Primary Securities Offerings
The Commission adopted amendments to Form 5-3 to expand the
classes of companies eligible to use short-form registration and primary
delayed shelf offerings pursuant to Rule 415.180 The amendments shortened
the minimum issuer reporting requirement from 36 to 12 months for
offerings of non-asset-backed
securities,
reduced the public float
requirement for primary offerings of non-investment grade securities from
$150 million to $75 million, and eliminated the trading volume test.
Investment grade asset-backed securities, such as small business loans,
are now eligible for shelf registration on Form 5-3 without any reporting
history requirement.
The amendments also: (1) provide for same-day,
automatic
effectiveness
of dividend
or interest reinvestment
plan
registration statements; (2) permit the registration of debt, equity and other
securities on a single shelf registration statement, without having to specify
the amount of each class of securities to be offered; and (3) permit changes
in the offering price and decreases in the amount of the securities to be
reflected after effectiveness without the need to file a post-effective
amendment if the changes would not materially change the disclosure in
the registration statement at effectiveness.

58

Private Resales of Securities to Institutions
The Commission adopted amendments to Rule 144A, expanding the
definition of qualified institutional buyer to include collective and master
trusts, and legal forms commonly used for the collective investment of
the funds of employee benefit plans.?" The amendments also recognize
purchases by an insurance company for separate accounts not required
to be registered under the Investment Company Act of 1940 as purchases
for the account of the insurance company. Finally, the amendments allow
the inclusion of U.S. Government and similar securities in calculating the
amount of securities owned or invested by a particular institutional investor
for purposes of determining qualified institutional buyer status.

Blank Check Offerings
Pursuant to the Securities Enforcement Remedies and Penny Stock
Reform Act of 1990, the Commission adopted new rules to provide special
registration
procedures
for offerings by blank check cornpanies.i"
Specifically, the rules require that the proceeds received and securities
issued in a blank check offering be deposited
(with permissible
disbursements to underwriters and the issuer) into an escrow account
maintained by an insured depository institution or trust account maintained
at a bank. Funds and securities must be held for the sole benefit of
purchasers in the offering and deposited funds can only be invested in
insured deposits as defined under the Federal Deposit Insurance Act,
obligations of or guaranteed by the United States, or money market funds.
Upon execution of a business acquisition agreement accounting for at least
80 percent of the maximum offering proceeds, the blank check company
must furnish to each purchaser a copy of the prospectus describing the
acquisition.
The purchaser would have no fewer than 20 business days
to either confirm an intent to invest or request a refund of funds held in
the escrow account.

Roll-Up Transactions
The Commission adopted rules designed to enhance the quality of
information provided to investors in connection with roll-up transactions
and to establish a minimum solicitation period for such offerings.!" A
roll-Up is defined as any transaction or series of transactions that directly
or indirectly, through acquisition or otherwise, involves the combination
or reorganization of one or more fini te-life partners hi ps, provided securities
of a successor issuer will be issued in the transaction. The rules require
distribution of disclosure documents to investors at least 60 calendar days
in advance of a meeting, unless under applicable state law the maximum
period permitted for giving notice is less than 60 calendar days. The rules
also require inclusion of (1) separate disclosure supplements for each
partnership
involved in the transaction;
(2) a clear, concise and
comprehensible
summary of the roll-Up transaction;
(3) disclosures
concerning the risks and effects of the transaction; (4) a brief description

59

of the background of each partnership involved in the transaction; (5)
disclosure regarding the reasons for the transaction and alternatives
considered by the general partner; (6) information about the possibilities
of liquidating or continuing the partnerships; (7) information regarding
the fairness of the roll-up transaction; (8) information that reveals any
possible opinion shopping"; (9) a clear and concise summary description
of each material federal income tax consequence; and (10) specified new
financial information.
The Commission also amended its proxy rules to
require that investors subject to roll-up transactions have a right to a list
of investors pursuant to Rule 14a-7.
II

Electronic Data Gathering Analysis and Retrieval System (EDGAR)
The Commission issued for public comment proposed amendments
to its rules, forms, schedules and procedures to implement the agency's
EDGAR system. Under EDGAR, registrants and others will be required
to submit most filings and related correspondence processed by the Division
of Corporation Finance to the SEC electronically.t'" In addition, comment
was solicited on proposed phase-in schedules indicating when companies
would be brought onto the EDGAR system.
Earlier in the year, the Commission adopted amendments to the
temporary rules and forms applicable to the Pilot electronic disclosure
program of EDGAR.18s These amendments permitted the transition to the
operational phase of EDGAR by Pilot participants who elect to convert
to the operational system in advance of their mandated phase-in date. The
rules became effective upon closure of the Pilot and opening of the
operational EDGAR system on July 15, 1992.
Conferences

Corporate Governance Conference
In March 1992, the Commission held a two-day public forum on the
interplay between the United States corporate governance system and the
competitiveness of United States issuers in a rapidly globalizing economy.
The conference on Corporate Governance and American Economic
Competitiveness: The Role of Shareholders, Directors and Management"
brought together a variety of distinguished speakers from the corporate,
shareholder, academic and governmental sectors. The fundamental question
addressed was whether the board-centered model of corporate governance
that predominates in this country provides a sound foundation for the
continued international competitiveness
of domestic companies. Topics
discussed included the nature and scope of the relationship between
corporate governance and corporate performance, executive compensation
and competitiveness, the role of management, directors and shareholders
in our governance
system, the relative merits of foreign corporate
governance
systems,
and the implications
of the increasing
institutionalization
of the United States equity markets.
II

60

SEC/NASAA Conference Under Section 19(c) of the Securities Act
On March 30, 1992, approximately 60 SEC senior officials met with
approximately
80 representatives
of the North American Securities
Administrators Association in Washington, D.C. to discuss methods of
effecting greater uniformity in federal and state securities matters. After
the conference, a final report summarizing the discussions was prepared
and distributed to interested persons.
SEC Government-Business Forum on Small Business Capital Formation
The eleventh annual SEC Government-Business
Forum on Small
Business Capital Formation was held in Scottsdale, Arizona on September
10 and 11, 1992. Approximately 250 small business representatives,
accountants, attorneys, and government officials attended the forum.
Numerous recommendations were formulated with a view to eliminating
unnecessary governmental impediments to small businesses' ability to
raise capital. A final report setting forth a list of recommendations for
legislative and regulatory changes approved by the forum participants was
prepared and provided to interested persons, including Congress and
regulatory agencies.

61

Accounting and Auditing Matters

The Chief Accountant is the principal advisor to the Commission on
accounting and auditing matters arising from the administration of the
various securities laws. The primary Commission activities designed to
achieve compliance with the accounting andfinancial disclosure requirements
of thefederal securities laws include:
• rulemaking that supplements private sector accounting standards,
implements financial disclosure requirements, and establishes independence
criteria for accountants;
• review and comment process for agency filings directed to improving
disclosures in filings, identifying emerging accounting issues (which may
result in rulemaking or private sector standard-setting), and identifying
problems that may warrant enforcement actions;
• enforcement actions that impose sanctions and serve to deter improper
financial reporting by enhancing the care with which registrants and their
accountants analyze accounting issues; and
• oversight of private sector efforts, principally by the Financial Accounting
Standards Board (FASB) and the American Institute of Certified Public
Accountants (AICPA), which establish accounting and auditing standards
designed to improve financial accounting and reporting and the quality
of audit practice.
Key 1992 Results
The Commission oversaw a number of significant public and private
sector initiatives intended to enhance the reliability of financial reporting
and to ensure that the accounting profession meets its responsibilities
under the federal securities laws. Notably, the Commission continued to
provide policy direction to the accounting profession to move toward
using appropriate market-based measures in accounting for financial
instruments. Through the review and comment process, the staff endeavored
to ensure compliance with existing rules during the interval.
The
Commission also continued to devote significant resources to initiatives
involving international accounting and auditing independence requirements.
Mark-to-Market Accounting
In previous annual reports, the agency has emphasized the importance
of initiatives directed toward improving the accounting guidance for
investments in financial instruments.
The importance of considering
market value accounting for investment securities was demonstrated during
the savings and loan crisis, when historical cost accounting, among other
factors, led to the delayed recognition of the deteriorating condition of
loan and corporate bond portfolios.!"

62

The FASB issued an exposure draft of a proposed accounting standard
to address the accounting and reporting for investments in equity securities
that have determinable
fair values and for all investments in debt
securities.J"
The proposed standard represents a limited scope project
since it does not address the comprehensive use of market value accounting
for all securities and other financial instruments and related liabilities.
The question of the appropriate accounting for investment securi ties
was a pervasive issue in the context of the staff's review of registrants'
filings. Where the volume of a particular registrant's trading activity
demonstrated that its accounting practices did not conform to existing
authoritative literature, the staff sought the correction of that entity's
financial statements. In this regard, the staff required several registrants
in the banking, thrift, and insurance industries to reclassify portions of
their debt security portfolios as "trading" or as "available for sale" to be
accounted for at market value or lower of cost or market, respectively.
Accounting-Related

Rules and Interpretations

The agency's accounting-related rules and interpretations supplement
private sector accounting standards, implement financial disclosure
requirements, and establish independence criteria for accountants.
The
agency's principal accounting requirements are embodied in Regulation
S-X, which governs the form and content of financial statements filed with
the SEC.
Technical Amendments.
During 1992, the staff reviewed each rule in
Regulation S-X to identify rules that are obsolete or in conflict with
professional standards.
Consistent with this review, the Commission
adopted technical amendments to its accounting-related rules for purposes
of eliminating duplicative and obsolete disclosures and conforming these
rules with recent changes in generally accepted accounting principles
(GAAP).188The amendments should reduce confusion and costs associated
with registrants' compliance with Regulation S-X.
Oversight of Private Sector Standard Setting

The SEC monitors the structure, activity, and decisions of the private
sector standard-setting
organizations.
These organizations include the
FASB and the Financial Accounting Foundation (FAF). The Commission
and its staff worked closely with the FASB and the FAF in an ongoing
effort to improve the standard-setting
process, including the need to
respond to various regulatory, legislative, and business changes in a timely
and appropriate manner. A description of FASB activities in which the
staff was involved is provided below.
In light of the North American Free Trade Agreement, the FASB
undertook a joint project with standard setters in Canada and Mexico to
compare accounting standards in the three countries.
The goal of this
project is to develop recommendations
for consideration by standard

63

setters in the U.S., Canada, Mexico, and the International Accounting
Standards Committee on what action can and should be taken to move
towards greater comparability.
The recent FASB standard on employer's accounting for health care
and other forms of post retirement benefits other than pensions will result
in a dramatic change in the manner in which many public companies
account for other post employment benefits. The standard generally is
effective for the fiscal years beginning after December 15, 1992.
The FASB completed work on a revised standard on accounting for
income taxes.!" Under the revised standard, entities may recognize and
measure a deferred tax asset for an entity's deductible temporary differences
and operating loss and tax credit carry forward. A valuation allowance
is recognized if it is more likely than not that some portion or all of the
deferred tax asset will not be realized.
Although application of the
standard is not mandatory until fiscal years beginning after December 15,
1992, the staff encountered circumstances involving early adoption where
it was not apparent that a particular registrant's existing level of operations
would be sufficient for the registrant to realize the deferred tax assets
recorded pursuant to the revised standard. In circumstances where it was
reasonably likely that realization of a material deferred tax asset would
require significant improvements in profitability, changes in trends, changes
in relationship between pretax accounting and taxable income, or asset
sales, the staff requested that registrants disclose the assumptions relied
upon by management in concluding that realization of the asset was "more
likely than not."
On January 31, 1992, the SEC's Chief Accountant testified before the
Subcommittee on Oversight of Government Management of the Senate
Committee on Governmental Affairs concerning the existing accounting
rules for employee stock compensation.
The Chief Accountant testified
that the existing accounting requirements for stock and option awards can
be improved to provide more consistent accounting treatment for different
plans with similar economic effects and more realistically and appropriately
measure the value of benefits provided by employers to employees, and
expense to the employer.?" He also emphasized that the most effective
way to seek these improvements is through the existing process for setting
accounting standards by the FASB, rather than by SEC rule or through
proposed legislation.
The FASB resumed work on its stock compensation project. During
1992, the FASB reached tentative agreement that compensation expenses
arising from awards of stock or options under both fixed and performance
stock compensation plans should be measured as the fair value of the
award at the date it is granted. The estimated value at the grant date
would be subsequently adjusted, if necessary, to reflect the outcome of
performance conditions and service-related factors such as forfeitures
before vesting.
The FASB also issued an exposure draft (ED) on accounting for loan
impairment by creditors.!" Under the ED's provisions, a loss on impairment
of a loan would be recognized when it is probable that a creditor will be
64

unable to collect all principal and interest due under the terms of the loan
agreement.
Oversight of the Accounting Profession's Initiatives
The Commission and its staff continued to be active in overseeing
the audit standard-setting
process and other activities of the accounting
profession.
A discussion of the activities in which the SEC staff was
involved follows.
A/CPA.
The SEC oversaw various activities of the accounting
profession conducted primarily through the AICPA. These included (1)
the Auditing Standards Board (ASB), which establishes generally accepted
auditing standards; (2) the Accounting Standards Executive Committee
(AcSEC), which provides guidance on specific industry practices through
its issuance of statements of position and practice bulletins and prepares
issue papers on accounting topics for consideration by the FASB; and (3)
the SEC Practice Section (SECPS), which seeks to improve the quality of
audit practice by member accounting firms that audit the financial statements
of public companies through various requirements, including peer review.
ASB. The staff continued to work closely with the ASB to enhance
the effectiveness of the audit process. During 1992, the staff met with
ASB representatives concerning a proposed auditing standard that, among
other things, would govern the availability of comfort letters, which are
provided to underwriters in relation to the underwriters' due diligence
reviews pertaining to securities offerings.!" The staff's primary concern
has been that such letters continue to be available in private securities'
offerings. The ASB also (1) adopted a new auditing standard on changes
in the GAAP hierarchy.!" (2) continued its work on an ongoing project
on examination and reporting on management's
assertions about the
effectiveness of an entity's internal control structure, and (3) issued a series
of annual Audit Risk Alerts to provide auditors with an overview of recent
economic, professional, and regulatory developments that may affect 1992
year-end audits.
SECPS. Two programs administered by the SECPS are designed to
ensure that the financial statements of SEC registrants are audited by
accounting firms with adequate quality control systems. A peer review
of member firms by other accountants is required every three years and
the Quality Control Inquiry Committee (QCIC) reviews on a timely basis
the quality control implications of litigation against member firms that
involves public clients. The most recent report shows 1,203 SECPS member
firms that audit the financial statements of over 14,000 SEC clients.!" An
estimated 300 accounting firms that are not SECPS members audit the
financial statements of approximately 500 SEC registrants.
The SECPS peer review and QCIC programs are closely monitored
by the Public Oversight Board (POB), which is independent of the AICPA
(except for funding). The SEC oversaw the activities of the SECPS through
frequent contact with the POB and members of the executive, peer review,
and quality control inquiry committees of the SECPS. The staff reviewed
POB files and selected working papers of the peer reviewers. This oversight
65

has shown that the peer review process contributes
significantly
to
maintaining the quality control systems of member firms and, therefore,
enhances the consistency and quality of practice before the Commission.
AcSEC. During 1992, the AcSEC issued statements of position on
revenue recognition
in the computer
software industry!"
and the
appropriate balance sheet treatment of foreclosed assets.!" The AcSEC
also began working on a statement of position on the appropriate treatment
of operating results relating to foreclosed assets.!"
AcSEC also made significant progress during 1992 on statements of
position which would (1) establish appropriate accounting for advertising
costs!" and (2) revise the existing guidance on accounting for employee
stock ownership plans. Also, the AcSEC proposed three separate statements
of position on accounting issues unique to investment companiest" and
initiated a project to enhance disclosures about risks and uncertainties by
entities generally.
International

Accounting

and Auditing Standards

Significant differences in accounting and auditing standards currently
exist between countries.
These differences
are an impediment
to
multinational offerings of securities. The SEC, in cooperation with other
members of the International
Organization of Securities Commissions
(IOSCO), actively participated in initiatives by international
bodies of
professional accountants to establish appropriate international standards
that might be considered for use in multinational offerings. For example,
the staff worked with the IASC to reduce accounting alternatives as an
initial movement toward appropriate international accounting standards.
The SEC staff also monitored the IASC's projects to address issues relating
to the extent of implementation
guidance,
adequacy
of disclosure
requirements, and the completeness of international accounting standards.
In 1992, the IASC issued seven exposure drafts related to projects concerning
revenue recognition, construction contracts, property, plant, and equipment,
the effects of changes in foreign exchange rates, business combinations,
extraordinary items, fundamental errors and changes in accounting policies,
and retirement benefit costs.P" Four final standards were approved
concerning cash flow statements, research and development activities,
inventories, and capitalization of borrowing costs.s"
The staff also continued working with the International Federation
of Accountants (IFAC) to revise international auditing guidelines. Auditors
in different countries are subject to different independence
standards,
perform different procedures,
gather varying amounts of evidence to
support their conclusions, and report the results of their work differently.
The staff, as part of an IOSCO working group, worked closely with IFAC
to expand and revise international auditing guidelines to narrow these
differences, and significant progress was made.

66

Other Litigation

and Legal Activities

The General Counsel represents the SEC in all litigation in the United
States Supreme Court and the courts ofappeals. The General Counsel defends
the Commission and its employees when sued in district courts, prosecutes
administrative disciplinary proceedings against securities professionals,
appears amicus curiae in significant private litigation involving the federal
securities laws, and oversees the regional offices' participation in corporate
reorganization cases. The General Counsel analyzes legislation that would
amend the federal securities laws, drafts congressional testimony, prepares
legislative comments, and advises the Commission on all regulatory and
enforcement actions under thefederal securities laws. In addition, the General
Counsel advises the Commission in administrative proceedings under various
statutes.
Key 1992 Results
Much of the General Counsel's Office continued to experience
substantial increases in workload while the litigation workload continued
to maintain the high level experienced in 1991.
Increase in Selected Workload

Litigation Matters Opened
Litigation Matters Closed
AdjUdication
Cases Received
Cases Completed
Legislation
Testimony
Comments to Congress and Others
Ethics Matters

1991

1992

%
Change

263
247

264
267

0%
8%

30
39

56
52

87%
33%

29
29
249

16
64
247

-45%
120%
-1%

Significant Litigation Developments

Insider Trading
In SEC v. Peiers.i" a case involving the validity of the Securities
Exchange Act (Exchange Act) Rule 14e-3, the U.S. Court of Appeals for
the Tenth Circuit, agreeing with U.S. v. Chestman,203upheld the Commission's
authority to proscribe insider trading in Rule 14e-3 without including
breach of fiduciary duty as an element of the offense. The court of appeals

67

reversed a jury verdict for the defendant, holding that the jury was
improperly instructed that it had to find a breach of fiduciary duty to find
a Rule 14-3 violation.

Definition of a Security
In SEC v. International Loan Network, Inc.,2M the U.S. Court of Appeals
for the D.C. Circuit agreed with the Commission that investment programs
offered by International Loan Network, Inc. in a nationwide pyramid
scheme were securities under the Supreme Court's "investment contract"
test set forth in SEC v. W.j. Howey CO.20STypically, the company induced
investors to invest money in it and then become sponsors of others placing
money with the company. The sponsors were paid a percentage of the
money brought in by the new members.
The company never had a
significant source of income other than money from new members or
members buying into new programs.
Likewise, in Gomez v. Leonzo.i" a private action related to the
Commission's action in SEC v. Latin Investment Corp. pending before the
same judge, the U.S. District Court for the District of Columbia agreed
with the Commission, which filed an amicus curiae brief at the court's
request, arguing that" savings passbooks" issued in exchange for" deposits"
by Latin Investment Corporation, a company that held itself out as a bank
but in fact was neither chartered nor regulated as a bank, were securities.
The Commission argued that the savings passbooks were securities under
both the "note" test enunciated by the Supreme Court in Reves v. Ernst
& Young,207 and the Howey investment contract" test.
On the other hand, in Banco Espanol de Credito v. Security Pacific
National Bank,2oB a divided U.S. Court of Appeals for the Second Circuit
held, contrary to the position urged by the Commission, that certain debt
instruments sold by Security Pacific National Bank which Security Pacific
called "loan notes" are not securities under the Securities Act of 1933
(Securities Act). Dissenting, Chief}udge Oakes agreed with the Commission,
which had filed an amicus curiae brief at the court's request, that these
loan notes are securities. In its loan note program, Security Pacific makes
short-term unsecured loans to corporations, takes back a note from the
corporation, and then immediately sells all or part of the note to mostly
non-financial entities such as corporations, pension funds, and mutual
funds, as well as some financial institutions. The Commission filed a brief
in support of rehearing that prompted the court to amend its decision to
as marketed
clarify that its ruling applies only to the specific instruments
in this case," thus reducing the adverse precedential impact.
In re NBW Commercial Paper Litigation,209 a private civil action alleging
registration and antifraud violations through sales of commercial paper,
the Commission filed an amicus curiae brief to address two issues of
significance to the Commission's parallel enforcement action, SEC v.
Coleman.P" which is currently pending before the same judge.
The
Commission's brief argued first, that the commercial paper was a security
under the Reves test, and second, that it did not qualify for a registration
exemption because it was not "prime quality," and was sold to customers
II

II

68

without regard to their investment expertise or financial situation.
On
December 11, 1992 the district court agreed with the Commission's legal
analysis and held that the commercial paper was a security.

Statutes of Limitations
The Commission as amicus curiae defended newly-enacted Section 27A
of the Exchange Act against constitutional attack in numerous cases.
Section 27A eliminates retroactive application of the new statute of
limitations for Section lO(b) private damages claims announced by the
Supreme Court in Lampf, Pleva, Lipkind, Prupis & Pettigrow v. Gilbertsonr"
by preserving the pre-Lampf statute in cases that were filed before Lamp].
In Anixter v. Home-Stake Production Co.212 and Henderson v. Scientific
Atlanta,213 the U.S. Courts of Appeals for the Tenth and Eleventh Circuits
sustained Section 27A as applied to Section 10(b) claims that were pending
when Section 27A was enacted. The courts rejected defendants' arguments
that Congress had violated the separation of powers and encroached on
the judicial function by directing a particular outcome in certain cases,
holding that Section 27A was an exercise of the legislative function to
change the governing law. The Tenth Circuit also rejected the argument
that Section 27A contravenes James B. Beam Distilling Co. v. Georgiar"
wherein the Supreme Court rejected selective prospectivity, the practice
of applying a new rule of law to the parties before the court but not to
other pending cases, holding that Beam was not a constitutional decision
and thus placed no constraint on Congress' enactment of Section 27A. Both
courts also ruled that Section 27A did not violate due process or equal
protection.
Constitutional challenges to Section 27A remain pending in
the Second, Fifth, Sixth, Seventh, and Ninth Circuits.
In SEC v. Rind215 and SEC v. Hayes,216 appeals pending in the U.S.
Courts of Appeals for the Ninth and Fifth Circuits respectively, defendants
asserted that the Commission's actions were time-barred by the one and
three year statute of limitations held applicable in Lampf. The Commission
filed briefs in both cases arguing that the limitations period enunciated
in Lampf applies only to implied private rights of action for damages
brought under Section lO(b), and not to Commission cases, which are
brought to vindicate public rights pursuant to an express right of action
that contains no limitations period.

Disgorgement and Related Issues
In SEC v. AMX International,

Inc.217and SEC v. Maxwell C. Huffman,218

the U.S. District Court for the Northern District of Texas applied the
Federal Debt Collection Procedures Act of 1990219 to disgorgement orders
in Commission enforcement actions. The decision permitted defendants
to invoke certain state law property exemptions to debt collection, thereby
sheltering assets otherwise available to pay disgorgement. The Commission
has appealed both cases to the U.S. Court of Appeals for the Fifth Circuit,
arguing that a disgorgement order in a Commission action is not a "debt"
as defined in the Act.

69

Market Manipulation
The Supreme Court declined to review the U.S. Court of Appeals for
the Second Circuit's decision in U.S. v. Regan220 addressing an important
aspect of market manipulation under Section 10(b) of the Exchange Act
and Rule 10b-5. Petitioner Zarzecki was convicted for engaging in short
sales as part of a scheme with the Drexel Burnham Lambert Group, Inc.
to drive down the price of a Drexel client's stock in order to influence
the pricing of the client's upcoming offering of convertible notes. In his
petition, Zarzecki argued that because his short sales were actual
transactions and not fictitious, they were lawful, and that any violation
caused by his trading would have to be based on a fiduciary duty to the
persons with whom he traded. The government's brief responded that
Congress intended to outlaw trades made to artificially alter the price of
a security, and that their illegality does not depend on the existence of
a fiduciary duty because such transactions are affirmative acts of deception
designed to rig securities prices, rather than mere silence about a trader's
subjective intent.

Liability in Private Actions
The Commission filed an amicus curiae brief in Musick, Peeler & Garrett
v. Employers Insurance ofWausau,221 urging the Supreme Court to recognize
the existence of a right to contribution in private civil actions brought
under Section 10(b) of the Exchange Act and Rule 10b-5. The Commission's
brief argues that the implied right of action under Section 10(b) and Rule
10b-5 should be interpreted consistently with the analogous express private
rights of action in the Exchange Act, which contain explicit rights to
contribution, in order to conform the implied right of action as closely
as possible to the congressional policy expressed in the statute.

Inclusion of Shareholder Proposal in Proxy Materials
In Roosevelt v. E.I. Du Pont de Nemours & CO.,222the U.S. Court of
Appeals for the D.C. Circuit agreed with the Commission, as amicus curiae
in a brief filed at the request of the court, that a Du Pont shareholder had
an implied right of action under Exchange Act Section 14(a) and Rule 14a8 against Du Pont for its refusal to include her shareholder proposal in
its proxy materials. However, the court ruled that the proposal, which
would have instructed Du Pont to accelerate its target date for the phaseout of the production of chlorofluorocarbons, did not have to be included
in the proxy materials because it fell within the exception in the proxy
rules for" ordinary business."

Motions to Vacate Permanent Injunctions
In SEC v. American Bancshares P" James Sullivan, a former officer of
American Bancshares, moved in the United States District Court for the
Eastern District of Wisconsin to vacate an injunction entered against him
in 1978. The injunction enjoins Sullivan from violating antifraud and
reporting provisions of the federal securities laws. Sullivan based his

70

motion on his claims that he was a minor participant in the fraudulent
scheme, the injunction was entered against him by default, and he has not
violated any laws since that time. The Commission opposed Sullivan's
motion asserting that he failed to meet his substantial burden to demonstrate
that the injunction is working a "grievous wrong" (United States v. Swift224).
A decision is pending.

Actions Against the Commission and Staff
In Yeaman v. SEC,225 plaintiff David Yeaman and others sued the SEC
and several staff members, charging violations of their constitutional and
statutory rights. Plaintiffs alleged that the staff had illegally harassed them
during an SEC investigation of plaintiffs' activities in the penny stock
market. The lawsuit also alleged that the plaintiffs' attempts to register
the stock of certain "shell" corporations were illegally "stonewalled" by
the staff. The Commission moved to dismiss the lawsuit primarily on the
grounds that it was barred by sovereign and official immunity. Agreeing
with the Commission that plaintiffs had failed to state a claim, the United
States District Court for the District of Utah dismissed the lawsuit in its
entirety.

Requests for Access to Commission Records
The SEC received approximately 80 subpoenas for documents and/
or testimony in 1992. In some of these cases, the SEC declined to produce
the requested documents or testimony because the information was
privileged. The SEC's assertions of privilege were upheld in every case
when the party issuing the subpoena challenged the assertion in court.
For example, in In re United Telecommunications, Inc., Securities Litigation,226
the SEC asserted the law enforcement privilege in response to a subpoena
for documents from an on-going SEC investigation.
In response to a
subsequent motion to compel their production, the Commission argued
that release of the documents could impair the investigation and that most
of the documents could be obtained from other parties in the litigation
or from third party witnesses. The court denied the motion, finding that
the movants had made no showing of need sufficient to overcome the SEC's
privilege, particularly since the documents were available from other
sources.
In Scholes v. Stone, McGuire & Benjamin F' the defendants subpoenaed
internal staff notes and memoranda concerning a recently concluded SEC
investigation.
The SEC declined to produce these documents on the
grounds that they were protected from disclosure by the deliberative
process, attorney-client
and attorney work product privileges.
The
defendants argued that because the SEC was not a party to the proceeding,
it was precluded from asserting these privileges.
The court ruled that
the SEC was not required to be a party to assert a claim of privilege and
that the SEC properly withheld the requested documents.

71

The SEC received 1,724 requests under the Freedom of Information
Act (FOIA) for access to agency records and 5,390 confidential treatment
requests from persons who submitted information. There were 55 appeals
to the SEC's General Counsel from initial denials by the FOIA office. One
such appeal resulted in litigation.
In Alexander & Alexander Services, Inc. v. SEC,22s plaintiff brought an
action against the SEC under the Administrative Procedure Act, 5 V.S.c.
701-06, seeking to enjoin the SEC from disclosing certain documents to
a law firm under the FOIA, 5 V.S.c. 552. Alexander claims that the
documents are exempt from disclosure by 5 V.S.c. 552(b)(4) because the
documents contain confidential commercial information, the disclosure of
which would allegedly harm its competitive position. Alexander alleges
that the SEC did not afford it an adequate opportunity to substantiate its
claim for confidential treatment. The SEC has moved for summary judgment
on the grounds that plaintiff failed to substantiate its claim that disclosure
of these documents would harm its competitive position.

Actions Under the Right to Financial Privacy Act
Three actions were filed under the Right to Financial Privacy Act to
block SEC subpoenas for customer information from financial institutions.P"
All three challenges were dismissed after the courts found, in each case,
that the records were relevant to legitimate law enforcement inquiries.

Actions Against Professionals Under Commission Rule 2(e)
During 1992, the SEC issued an important ruling under Rule 2(e) of
the SEC's Rules of Practice, in In re Checkosky and Aldrich P" In that case
the Commission affirmed the decision of an Administrative Law Judge
that two partners of the accounting firm of Coopers & Lybrand had
engaged in improper professional conduct during five audits of Savin
Corporation.
The Commission found that respondents had failed to
employ an "appropriate degree of skepticism" in testing whether Savin
had improperly deferred costs of research and development associated
with the com pany' s ul tima tely unsuccessful efforts to manufacture a copier.
The Commission accordingly suspended each respondent from appearing
or practicing before the SEC for two years. The Commission also affirmed
prior SEC precedent that proof of bad faith or wiIIful misconduct is not
a prerequisite for the imposition of sanctions pursuant to Rule 2(e)(1)(ii).
The respondents have appealed the ruling to the Court of Appeals for the
District of Columbia.
The staff also prosecuted
successfully
certain other Rule 2(e)
disciplinary proceedings.
In In re Kagan231 and In re Lamoreauxr" the
Commission "forthwith" suspended from practice before the Commission
an attorney and an accountant, respectively, based on prior felony
convictions. In In re Domingues and Brimhallr" two accountants consented
to a Commission order under Rule 2(e) finding that they engaged in
improper professional conduct during the 1985 audit of Fluid Companies,
a small-business investment company. The Commission censured both
accountants and suspended Domingues from appearing or practicing before
72

the Commission for ten months. In In re Denkensohn and Schoemer2J4 the
Commission censured two accountants who consented to the issuance of
an order finding that they engaged in improper professional conduct
during the 1983 audit of Marsh & McLennan.
Significant Adjudication Developments
The backlog of older appeals awaiting staff review was essentially
eliminated.
This development occurred while the number of appeals
entering the staff's inventory rose from 30 to 56, an increase of 87 percent.
The number of cases reviewed by the staff on the merits increased
from 39 to 52, and the post-briefing age of the staff's case inventory was
cut in half. As a result of such recent improvements, the Commission
decided nearly twice the number of appeals on the merits as it had 1991.
Although the staff's increased production was a factor in offsetting the
upsurge in new cases, the year-end inventory grew by about 11 percent.

Significant Adjudicatory Decisions Involving Broker-Dealers and Market Professionals
A number of the most significant opinions issued by the Commission
have involved the setting of prices for securities:
In Kevin B. Wade,235 the Commission articulated for the first time
special restrictions on a dealer's percentage markup in riskless retail sales.
The basis for the percentage may not exceed the firm's wholesale cost,
even if the wholesale market price is higher. The Commission nevertheless
reversed National Association of Securities Dealers Inc. (NASD) action
against Wade and others because published industry guidelines had made
it appear that market price would control.
Other cases explored the means of establishing the wholesale market
price, which is the proper basis of markups when dealers maintain an
inventory and hence are at risk. For example, in Meyer Blinder P' the
Commission re-affirmed its view that, where a dealer controls trading in
a security, "market" price is best reflected by the dealer's recent cost. That
measure prevails over asked quotations, and even over prices the dealer
has actually charged other firms. The Commission accordingly sustained
the NASD's imposition of substantial suspensions and fines upon several
brokerage firm officials. Also, in Century Capital Corp. of South Carolinar"
the Commission elaborated on its previous statements to the effect that
a marketmaker's quotations may constitute reliable evidence of the market
price. The Commission explained that a firm does not constitute a
marketmaker for that purpose even if it is a "marketmaker" as defined
in Section 3(a)(38) of the Exchange Act.
In Lake Securities, Inc.,238the Commission sustained the NASD' s finding
that a firm and its president committed fraud by charging a 7.4 percent
markdown in buying an interest-only mortgage-backed security from a
customer. Fraudulent intent was found because the firm did not try to

73

discern the market at the time of the transaction and because the president
later refused to revise the price despite being warned that the markdown
was excessive.
In Michael David Sweeney,239 the Commission elaborated on the
appropriate standards for finding an excessive trading violation under
NASD rules and for assessing disgorgement. The Commission explained
that, even assuming that investors
wanted their accounts traded
aggressively, it would still be possible to find excessive trading. Because
transaction costs were so frequently incurred, customers in this case
needed to earn rates of return ranging from 22 to 44 percent just to break
even. On disgorgement, the Commission urged that in future cases the
NASD: 1) assess prejudgment interest or explain why such need not be
done; 2) ensure that the total wrongful gain is properly computed; and
3) remit the disgorged amounts to customers who have been harmed, and
not to the NASD. In this case, the Commission directed the NASD to order
the distribution of specific amounts to four customers.
Shortly after the end of the 1992, the Commission addressed a number
of serious violations in Donald T. Sheldon P" The Commission barred
Sheldon, former president of former municipal and government securities
firms and Bruce Reid, the manager of the firms' Houston branch office.
It also suspended Gregory Pattison, a salesman in the Houston office. The
Commission found that the respondents defrauded municipal securities
customers (and government securities customers, in the case of Sheldon
and Reid). In addition, Sheldon and Reid failed to exercise proper
supervision and charged, or aided and abetted the charging of, excessive
markups. Sheldon was further found to have aided and abetted the firms'
misuse of customers' fully-paid securities and a violation of the net capital
rule.
Significant Legislative Developments
The second session of the 102nd Congress adjourned in October 1992
without enactment of significant securities legislation. Although the major
securities bills considered by the 102nd Congress relating to regulation
of the government securities market and investment advisers did not pass
in 1992, Congress did pass other legislation that affects the Commission
and its work. For example, Congress amended the Public Utility Holding
Company Act of 1935 (PUHCA) in the context of broader energy legislation
(P.L. 102-486). Although the PUHCA amendments will eliminate the
Commission's authority to approve: (i) the acquisitions of independent
power producers by registered holding companies; and (ii) the ownership
of foreign utility companies by registered
holding companies, the
Commission will retain its authority to approve financing arrangements
with respect to such acquisitions and also is directed to promulgate rules
with respect to such acquisitions.
In the commodities area, the "Futures Trading Practices Act of 1992,"
was passed by both Houses in early October, and signed into law by the
President on October 28, 1992 (P.L. 102-546). Included in the law is Title
V, a compromise on various jurisdictional proposals considered by Congress
74

earlier in the 102nd Congress.
The Title V compromise includes:
(1)
Federal Reserve Board oversight authority with respect to margin levels
on stock index futures (a proposal strongly advocated by the Commission
since the 1987 Market Break); (2) broad Commodity Futures Trading
Commission (CFTC) exemptive authority, including authority with respect
to certain hybrid and derivative products; and (3) a comprehensive study
of the markets for swaps and other off-exchange derivative products to
be conducted by the CFTC, in cooperation with the Commission and the
Federal Reserve Board.
Additionally, Congress actively considered securities legislation in
a number of other areas, including executive compensation,
limited
partnership "roll-ups," accounting reforms, and the Commission's small
business initiative. Efforts to legislate in these areas ultimately were not
successful.
Details regarding legislative developments
during the year are
discussed in the appendix.
Corporate Reorganizations

The Commission acts as a statutory advisor in reorganization cases
under Chapter 11 of the Bankruptcy Code to see that the interests of public
investors are adequately protected. During a reorganization,
the debtor
generally is allowed to continue business operations under court protection
while negotiating a plan to rehabilitate the business and to pay the company's
debts. Although Chapter 11 relief is available to businesses of all sizes,
the Commission typically limits its participation to cases involving debtors
that have publicly traded securities registered under the Exchange Act.
In 1990, the Commission authorized a review of its role in reorganization
cases and of the adequacy of public investor protection under Chapter
11. During 1991, the staff completed its review of the bankruptcy program.
Commission consideration of the staff's recommendations
was deferred.
Committees
Official committees are empowered to negotiate with a debtor on the
administration
of a case and to participate in all aspects of the case,
including formulation of a reorganization plan. In addition to a committee
representing unsecured creditors, which must be appointed in all Chapter
11 cases, the Bankruptcy Code allows the court or a United States Trustee
to appoint additional committees for stockholders
and others where
necessary to assure adequate representation
of their interests.
During
1992, the Commission moved for, and the court approved, the appointment
of a committee to represent investors in two Chapter 11 cases.!" In a case
having practical significance for the representation of both equi ty securityholders and public debt-holders by official committees, In re El Paso Electric
CO.,242 the bankruptcy
court adopted the position advocated by the
Commission.
The court held that an institutional member of an official
committee did not violate its fiduciary duties as a committee member by
trading in the debtor's securities if the committee member is engaged in
the trading of securities as a regular part of its business and the entity
75

has implemented an appropriate information blocking device (commonly
known as a Chinese Wall). The Chinese Wall is designed to prevent misuse
of nonpublic information obtained through participation on the committee.

Estate Administration
The Commission
protects the interests of public investors
in
reorganization
cases by participating
in selected matters involving
administration of the debtor's estate.
In a matter still pending from 1991, In re Amdura Corp.,243the Commission
had filed a brief in an appeal to the district court expressing its view that
class claims are permissible in bankruptcy.r"
The bankruptcy court had
rejected a class proof of claim on the ground that the decision of the Tenth
Circuit in In re Standard Metals, 817 F.2d 625 (10th Cir. 1987), concluding
that a class claim is not permissible in bankruptcy, was controlling authority.
The Commission argued that that decision is dictum and the issue remains
open in the Tenth Circuit. The Commission also pointed out that the better
reasoned view, represented by several subsequent circuit and district court
decisions.>" is to permit class proofs of claim in bankruptcy cases.
In SIPC v. Blinder, Robinson & Co., Inc.,246 the United States Court of
Appeals for the Tenth Circuit, agreeing with the position urged jointly
by the Commission and the Securities Investor Protection Corporation
(SIPC), held that under the bankruptcy laws and the Securities Investor
Protection Act (SIPA), Blinder, a broker-dealer, was not eligible to utilize
Chapter 11 of the Bankruptcy Code and was properly placed in a SIPC
liquidation. The Court of Appeals agreed with the findings of the district
court that, as a matter of law, Blinder was a stockbroker and therefore
expressly prohibited from reorganizing under Chapter 11. Moreover, the
Court found that a trustee had been properly appointed pursuant to the
provisions of SIPA because Blinder, by placing itself in Chapter 11, became
"unable to meet its obligations as they mature," a statutory ground for
liquidation pursuant to SIPA.

Disclosure Statements/Plans of Reorganization
A disclosure statement is a combination proxy and offering statement
used to solicit acceptances of a plan of reorganization.
Such plans often
provide for the issuance of new securities to creditors and shareholders
in exchange for part or all of their claims or interests in the debtor, pursuant
to an exemption in Section 1145 of the Bankruptcy Code from registration
under the Securities Act. Under the Code, the adequacy of disclosure is
to be determined without regard to whether the information provided
would otherwise comply with the disclosure requirements of the federal
securities laws. However, in recognition of its special expertise on disclosure
questions, the Code gives the Commission the right to be heard on the
adequacy of disclosure. The staff limits its review to disclosure statements
of publicly-held companies or companies likely to be traded publicly after
reorganization.
During 1992, the staff reviewed 146 disclosure statements
and commented on 104. Most of the Commission's comments were adopted
by debtors without the need to file a formal objection.
76

In In re I.M. T. Inc.,247 the Commission filed a formal objection to a
disclosure statement for a plan that sought to discharge claims of creditors
of a substantially assetless publicly-held shell corporation.
The debtor
sought through the plan to emerge from Chapter 11 as a publicly-traded
company without assets or liabilities and to merge with operating businesses
at some unspecified time in the future. The Commission contended that
this would contravene Section 1141(d)(3) of the Bankruptcy Code, which
precludes a debtor from obtaining a discharge if it has liquidated all or
substantially
all of its assets and does not engage in business after
consummation of the reorganization plan. The Commission also pointed
out that the disclosure statement was deficient in numerous areas. Following
the filing of the Commission's
objection, the debtor withdrew
its
reorganization
plan.
In In re Prime Motor Inc.,248 In re Servico Corp.,249 In re Washington
Corp.,250 and In re Lomas Financial Corp.,251 the Commission filed objections
to the confirmation of proposed plans, arguing, as it has on several other
occasions.i" that plan provisions purporting to release non-debtor third
parties from liability were beyond the discharge of liability provided for
debtors in the Bankruptcy Code. The Commission argued that under
Section 524(e) of the Code, a bankruptcy
court can affect only the
relationships of debtors and creditors, and cannot discharge the liabilities
of a non-debtor, unless separate consideration is supplied by the third
parties or unless the releases are voluntary.
In Prime Motor Inc., the
bankruptcy
court approved the releases following a finding that the
consideration provided by third parties was fair and that the settlements
also would be subject to approval by the District Court supervising two
class action proceedings pending against the third parties. In Servico Corp.,
the court overruled the Commission's objections, noting that 99 percent
of creditors holding 92 percent of the company's debt had voted in favor
of the plan and releases and that the debtor had agreed to permit creditors
to opt out of the releases in a post-confirmation solicitation. In Washington
Corp., the court held the releases invalid as to claimants and interestholders who did not vote or who voted against the plan, except for claims
subject to indemnification
or contribution rights against the debtor or
for which the debtor may be jointly liable. In Lomas Financial Corp, the
debtor agreed voluntarily to delete the third-party
releases from the
reorganization
plan.
Ethics Matters

The agency's ethical conduct program is administered by the Ethics
Counsel under the oversight and supervision of the General Counsel.
Three major new government-wide
ethics regulations, upon which the
Ethics Counsel had previously filed comments, were issued by the Office
of Government Ethics in the past year. Implementation of these regulations
is in progress.
Specifically, the new Standards of Ethical Conduct for
Employees of the Executive Branch become effective February 3, 1993, and
will supersede most of the Commission's existing Conduct Regulation. In
connection with implementation of the new Standards, substantial revisions

n

are underway with respect to Rule 5 of the Commission's Conduct Regulation
which restricts the securities transactions
of Commission members,
employees, and their families; to Rule 4 which relates to conflicts of interest
associated with outside employment and activities of employees; and to
Rule 3 which prohibits disclosure of nonpublic information.
Implementation of the new government-wide
confidential financial
disclosure system, which parallels the public disclosure system, is
proceeding.
Under the new system, the number of confidential filers at
the agency has increased from 235 filers to approximately 900 filers.
In anticipation of these developments, a field system, consisting of
an ethics liaison officer and one or more deputies in each division or office,
was established during the past year, to handle the overflow of requests
for counseling and to ensure a smooth transition under the new regulations.
The Ethics Counsel and staff conducted a series of intensive training
sessions for these ethics officers, and prepared and distributed ethics
manuals and binders to all employees. During 1992, the Ethics Counsel
and staff alone handled 247 matters.
This total does not reflect the
additional matters handled by the individual Ethics Liaison Officers and
deputies throughout the Commission's Divisions, Offices and Regions, all
of whom depend on the Ethics Counsel and staff for guidance and support
on novel, unique, and difficult issues.

78

Econonlic Research and Analysis

The Office ofEconom icAna lys is provides technical support and analysis
to assist in evaluating the economic aspects of the Commission's regulatory
program. The economics staff provides the Commission with research and
advice on rule proposals, policy initiatives, and enforcement actions. The staff
also monitors developments in capital markets around the world and major
program initiatives affecting the United States financial services industry,
markets, and investors.
Key 1992 Results

The staff reviewed rule proposals encompassing the full range of the
Commission's regulatory program. The staff also provided advice, technical
assistance, and empirical analyses of issues of concern to the Commission
and its operating divisions.
In addition, monitoring programs were
maintained to study the implementation
of major rules, new trading
facilities, and developments in the domestic and international securities
markets.
Economic Analysis and Technical Assistance

The staff directed its attention towards a number of issues including
executive compensation, the impact of banking reforms on the securities
markets, market value accounting, and bond market efficiency. Analysis
and technical assistance provided to the agency included:
• a quarterly report on the financial health of the securities industry
and reports on trends in the composition of bank asset portfolios;
• advice to the Commission on the impact of banking reforms on the
securities and financial industries;
• assessments of materiality and monetary penalties in matters of
securities violations, such as insider trading, market manipulation,
and disclosure violations;
• analysis of trading events as a result of the Securities Enforcement
Remedies and Penny Stock Reform Act of 1990;
• work on regulatory reform initiatives that helped to provide
estimated cost savings from the reform initiatives;
• assistance on projects related to limited partnership roll-ups and
option market trade-throughs;
• capital markets briefing reports that assessed the economic,
institutional, and regulatory developments outside the United States;
and
• support to the Office of International Affairs concerning international
securities regulation and enforcement matters.

79

The staff also assisted the U.S. Attorney's Office in its successful
prosecution of a bribery case involving an investment manager, and worked
with the Department of the Treasury's interagency planning group on
international portfolio investment.

80

Policy Managenlent

and Adlninistrative

Support

Policy management and administrative support provide the Commission
and operating divisions with the necessary services to accomplish the agency's
mission. Policy management is provided by the executive staff (including the
Office of Legislative Affairs); the Office of the Secretary; the Office of Public
Affairs, Policy Evaluation and Research; and the Office of the Executive
Director. The responsibilities and activities of policy management include
developing and executing management policies, formulating and
communicating program policy, overseeing the allocation and expenditure of
agency funds, maintaining liaison with the Congress, disseminating
information to the press, and facilitating Commission meetings.
Administrative support includes services such as accounting, financial
management, fee collection, technology management, data processing, staffing,
space and facilities management, and consumer affairs. Under the direction
of the Office of the Executive Director, these support services are provided by
the Offices of the Comptroller; Information Technology; Human Resources
Management; and Filings, Information and Consumer Services.
Key 1992 Results

The Commission held 60 meetings and considered 323 matters. Major
activities of the Commission included proposing comprehensive revisions
to the Commission's
shareholder
communications
rules, proposing
regulations on disclosure of executive compensation, and adopting a wideranging initiative to facilitate small business access to capital markets.
For the tenth consecutive year, the agency collected fees for the United
States Treasury in excess of its appropriation.
Further, an interagency
agreement was signed with the U.S. Agency for International Development
(AID) that provides the Commission up to $2.8 million over three years
to support technical assistance programs related to the development and
regulation of capital markets in Central and Eastern European countries.
An agency representative was sent to Poland on a one-year technical
assistance assignment.
Policy Management

Commission Activities. The Commission held 60 meetings in 1992,
during which it considered 323 matters, including the proposal and adoption
of Commission rules, enforcement actions, and other items that affect the
stability of the nation's capital markets and the economy. Significant
regulatory actions taken by the Commission included:
•
 revising its rules governing proxy solicitations,
•
 adopting amendments to the Commission's executive compensation
disclosure requirements,
81

• adopting a wide-ranging initiative to facilitate small business access
to the capital markets, and
• proposing the exclusion of certain structured financings from
coverage under the Investment Company Act of 1940.
During 1992, the Congress actively considered a number of important
issues under the Commission's jurisdiction.
These were most notably:
• proposed amendments to the Investment Advisers Act of 1940,
including fee provisions to fund more frequent Commission
inspections of investment advisers;
• the government securities market, coupled with the agency's inquiry
into the activities of Salomon Brothers and other participants in
the government securities market;
• limited partnership "roll-ups" and their impact on limited partner
investors;
• explicit statute of limitations for implied rights of private action
in violations of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934 (an issue raised
by the decision of the Supreme Court in Lampl, Pleva, Lipkind, Prupis
and Petigrow v. Gilbertson, 111 S.Ct. 2773);
• reforms relating to accountants' responsibilities and shareholders'
rights including issues pertaining to executive compensation levels;
• the treatment of hybrid instruments, swaps, off-exchange derivative
markets, and margin requirements as part of the budget
reauthorization
of the Commodity Futures Trading Commission;
and
• omnibus energy legislation which would amend the Public Utility
Holding Company Act to make it easier for utilities and independent
producers to compete in the wholesale electric power market and
enable domestic utilities to purchase foreign utility interests.
Congressional
interest in the agency's activities and initiatives
remained at a high level. The Commission and staff members testified
at 17 congressional hearings during the year.
Public Affairs. The Office of Public Affairs, Policy Evaluation and
Research (OP APER) communicated information on agency activities to
those interested in or affected by Commission actions, including the press,
the general public, regulated entities, and employees of the agency, through
ongoing programs and special projects. The office published daily the SEC
News Digest which provided information on rule changes, enforcement
actions against individuals or corporate entities, registration statements,
acquisition filings, interim reports, releases, decisions on requests for
exemptions, Commission meetings, upcoming testimony by Commission
members and staff, lists of Section 16 letters, and other events of interest.
Information on Commission activities also was disseminated through
notices of administrative actions, litigation releases, and other materials.
Many of the agency's actions are of national and, increasingly,
international interest. When appropriate, these actions are brought to the
attention of regional, national, and international press. During the year,
a total of 52 news releases on upcoming events, agency programs, and
special projects were issued. Additionally, congressional testimony and
82

speeches presented by Commissioners and senior staff were maintained
on file and disseminated in response to requests from the public. The
staff responded to over 86,000 requests for specific information on the
agency or its activities. Programs for 295 foreign visitors were coordinated
during the year.
OPAPER also provided support for activities related to the International
Organization of Securi ties Commissions (IOSCO) and the SEC's International
Institute for Securities Markets Development and meetings of the Emerging
Markets Advisory
Committee,
the Market Transactions
Advisory
Committee, and the Market Oversight and Financial Services Advisory
Committee.
Management Activities. The Office of the Executive Director coordinated
special projects such as the development of the automation systems
mandated by the Market Reform Act and the implementation
of a
comprehensive audit follow-up program and tracking system. The staff
worked closely with the Chairman and other senior officials in formulating
the agency's budget submissions for the Office of Management and Budget
and the Congress.
Equal Employment Opportunity (EEO). The Office of Equal Employment
Opportunity was reorganized, an attorney experienced in EEO matters was
appointed director, and additional resources were allocated to expand the
office's complaint processing and affirmative employment capabilities. In
addition, the EEO office accomplished the following in 1992:
• issued a comprehensive set of internal regulations detailing the
complaint process and the equal employment opportunity rights/
responsibilities of all employees,
• completed an analysis of the agency's EEO program (1988 to 1992)
for the Civil Rights Commission,
• implemented an agencywide mandatory training course in sexual
harassment awareness and issued a sexual harassment policy
statement detailing expectations for appropriate workplace behavior,
• held town meetings of two special emphasis programs (the Hispanic
and Black Employment Programs), and
• improved the ability to conduct in-house investigations.
The agency continued actively to recruit minorities and women. At
the end of the year, women accounted for 48.7 percent of the total agency
work force, blacks accounted for 26.2 percent, Hispanics accounted for
approximately 3 percent, and Asians made up 2.7 percent.
Freedom of Information Act (FOIA) and Privacy Act. The Office of
Freedom of Information Act and Privacy Act Operations responded to
requests for access to information pursuant to FOIA, the Privacy Act, and
the Government in the Sunshine Act and processed requests under the
agency's confidential treatment rules. Confidential treatment requests
were generally made in connection with proprietary corporate information
and evaluated
in conjunction
with access requests to prevent the
unwarranted disclosure of information exempt under the FOIA.

83

In 1992, the agency received 1,779 FOIA requests and appeals, 4
Privacy Act requests, 36 Government in the Sunshine Act requests, 13
government referrals, and 5,394 requests and appeals for confidential
treatment. All FOIA/Privacy Act requests were responded to within the
statutory timeframe.
Administrative

Support

Financial Management and Operations. For the tenth consecutive year,
the agency collected fees for the United States Treasury in excess of its
appropriation.
In 1992, the SEC's total fee collections were $406 million,
180 percent of the agency's spending authority of $226 million (which
consisted of $158 million in appropriations and $68 million in offsetting
Section 6(b) filing fees). The $406 million in total fee collections, minus
the SEC's spending authority and $45 million in offsetting fee collections,
resulted in a net gain of $135 million to the United States Treasury.
In 1992, offsetting fee collections were generated as a result of a fee
rate increase under Section 6(b) of the Securities Act of 1933 to one-thirtysecond of one percent from one-fiftieth of one percent.
Fee revenue was collected from four basic sources: registrations under
Section 6(b) of the Securities Act (comprising 79 percent of total 1992 fee
collections), transactions on securities exchanges (17 percent), tender offer
and merger filings (2 percent), and miscellaneous filings (2 percent).
The agency completed its fourth year of operating the Federal Financial
System which allowed for direct entry of voucher and payment data,
creation of travel authorization and procurement documents, decentralized
data throughout the agency, on-line voucher research, and readily available
management data.
The staff continued work on the development of an automated fee
tracking, reporting, and accounts receivable system. In addition, the
agency continued to improve its automated collection and processing of
annual fees through electronic funds transfer and the implementation of
an account system and a lockbox depository system. In 1992, the agency
received over 41,000 separate fee payments of differing amounts for
transactions by regulated and registered entities. The Comptroller's staff
processed a 15 percent increase in payroll actions (12,289), a 9 percent
increase in electronic fund transfers (89,674), a 10 percent increase in travel
vouchers (9,628), and a 17 percent increase in miscellaneous invoices
(14,585).
The Office of the Comptroller completed a five-year plan to strengthen
the agency's financial management system and published a new Travel
Handbook. Direct on-line access to the agency's core financial accounting
system was made available throughout headquarters in 1992 and regional
office access is planned for next year. The development of improved
payroll, personnel, disgorgement, and property systems began in 1992.
Information Resources Management. In order to manage more effectively
the SEC's rapidly growing information systems, a Chief Information Officer
was appointed and the Office ofInformation Technology (OIT) was created

84

in 1992 through the merger of the Office of EDGAR (Electronic Data
Gathering, Analysis, and Retrieval) Management
and the Office of
Information Systems Management.
During 1992, the Office of Information Technology continued to assist
SEC staff by providing technical assistance to personal computer users
and by managing local area networks. OIT completed installation of the
agency's integrated office automation network in the headquarters building
and several regional offices and established data communication links
between the SEC and the Securities Industry Automation Corporation.
Additionally, OIT initiated several major system development or
enhancement projects during 1992 which included:
• completing the requirements for the first phases of both the large
trader reporting system and the risk assessment system,
• implementing the Entity Filing Fee System (EFF) and the EDGAR/
EFF interface that enhances the automatic fee acceptance functions
in EDGAR,
• developing an insurance products tracking system, and
• modifying the payroll system to conform with new regulations.
In November 1991, the SEC's primary computer facilities and
operational staff were relocated to the new SEC Operations Center in
Alexandria, Virginia. In conjunction with this move, OIT initiated work
on a contingency plan to use headquarters as a backup site in the event
of a failure at the Operations Center.
On July 14, 1992, the EDGAR pilot project was closed after operating
for nearly eight years. During this period, the pilot demonstrated the
feasibility of electronic filing by successfully receiving, processing, and
storing more than 100,000 electronic filings submitted voluntarily by more
than 1,500 pilot filers.
The operational EDGAR system was opened on July 15, 1992 for live
filing by the pilot participants on a voluntary basis. The new system
performed well with the exception of initial difficulties with the electronic
fee payment process and a temporary failure of the EDGAR disk storage
system.
Significant progress was made on the design and development of an
updated release of EDGAR during 1992. This release of EDGAR is scheduled
for completion in April 1993, and mandatory electronic filing by the pilot
filers will commence shortly thereafter.
Following the 1991 review of EDGAR by the National Institute of
Standards
and Technology,
the SEC asked the General Services
Administration (GSA) to conduct an information resources management/
security review of the EDGAR project. OIT also had previously requested
a risk assessment of EDGAR by GSA. Both reviews (which were contracted
out by GSA) were completed in 1992 and produced several recommendations
which the SEC plans to implement in 1993.
The General Accounting Office (GAO) also conducted an audit of the
EDGAR project during 1992. The final report, entitled Securities and
Exchange Commission: Effective Development of the EDGAR System Requires
Top Management
Attention
(GAO/IMTEC-92-85),
noted that EDGAR
85

requirements and costs have increased since the contract was awarded
in January 1989. As a result of this audit, the SEC's Executive Director
modified the EDGAR Change Control Board and established the EDGAR
Executive Steering Committee to set policy for system development and
review and approve all changes that impact the cost, schedule, or
functionality of the EDGAR system.
The SEC continued to keep the filing and investment communities
informed of EDGAR developments by holding conferences in January and
August 1992 to review the system status, the development schedule, and
the EDGAR rule proposal.
In addition, SEC staff reviewed plans for implementing one-stop filing
with representatives from the North American Securities Administrators
Association and the self-regulatory organizations.
Human Resources Management.
The Office of Human Resources
Management managed recruitment and staffing, position management and
classification, employee compensation and benefits, training, labor relations,
counseling,
disciplinary
actions, personnel
action processing,
and
maintenance of official employee records. The staff monitored turnover
to assist in formulating hiring strategies and developed and administered
programs to meet a broad range of employee and management needs as
well as federal regulatory requirements.
During 1992, fifteen new or revised policies were published in the
Personnel Operating Policies and Procedures Manual, which provided managers
and employees with updated human resources program guidance.
To
implement new authorities under the Federal Employee Pay Comparability
Act of 1990 (FEPCA), new policies were issued on relocation bonuses,
retention allowances, advances in pay, and time-off awards. New policies
were written to establish a structured approach for assuring position
description accuracy, establish consistent procedures for proposing and
processing reorganizations, document and clarify compensatory time policy,
establish formal procedures for handling requests for representation before
the Commission by former Commission members and SEC employees, and
establish a formal Personnel Management Evaluation program.
The agency undertook an effort to revamp the performance appraisal
systems for general schedule, wage grade, Performance Management and
Recognition
System, and Senior Executive Service employees.
In
conjunction, a review of the agency's incentive awards program policy was
initiated
with the intent of incorporating
regulatory
changes and
streamlining documentation requirements. Policy revisions for the appraisal
systems and incentive awards program should be issued in 1993 following
OPM review and approval. In 1992, more than $1.54 million in incentive
and performance awards was paid and eight time-off awards were granted
to employees.

86

Major occupational studies of securities compliance examiners (SCEs),
attorneys, accountants, investigators, and administrative program support
personnel were completed.
As a result:
• the SEC received Office of Personnel Management (OPM) approval
for special pay rates for attorneys and accountants with securities
industry expertise,
• investigator positions were reclassified as criminal investigators
and OPM subsequently approved the positions for coverage under
the law enforcement officer retirement and FEPCA special pay
provisions, and
• a modified career ladder and a crossover path to accountant posi tions
were established for SCEs.
The recruitment program, particularly for attorneys, accountants,
SCEs, computer specialists, and administrative/ clerical support personnel,
continued to be emphasized through active participation in job fairs; oncampus interviews at law schools; advertising; and the use of merit
promotion, the outstanding
scholars program, delegated examining
authorities, and OPM certification authorities.
Under the SEC's reactivated Upward Mobility Program, 26 participants
were selected from 620 applicants in 1992. In June 1992, the 26 participants
began their career advancement training programs which will lead to
paraprofessional
and professional positions.
Approximately 1,800 agency employees attended 3,100 training courses
during the year. The training areas emphasized were litigation skills,
international securities regulation, computer applications, the EDGAR
system, EEO, and cultural diversity.
Facilities Management. The Office of Administrative and Management
Support managed the agency's facilities and provided a wide range of
logistical and office support services including lease administration,
procurement and contracting, space management, printing, mail services,
and property management.
The agency continued to exercise its independent leasing authority
and obtained new space and improved working conditions for several field
offices such as Los Angeles, Fort Worth, and New York. In 1992, the agency
administered 23 leases including the headquarters' leases for an approximate
total of 750,000 square feet of office and related space.
The agency awarded contracts and purchase orders in excess of $31
million during 1992. Also, printing production increased from 61 million
units to 67 million units, incoming mail increased by approximately 9
percent, and outgoing mail increased by approximately 2 percent.
Consumer Affairs. The Office of Filings, Information and Consumer
Services (OFICS) was responsible for:
• responding to investor complaints and inquiries;
• screening information received for referrals to SEC program
divisions, self-regulatory agencies, states, or other federal agencies;
• preparing educational materials to assist investors in protecting
their interests; and

87

•
 developing and implementing the agency's consumer protection
program.
In 1992, the staff received 35,490 contacts (i.e., letters, telephone calls,
or walk-in visits). Of those contacts, 17,541 were complaints and 17,949
were inquiries.
Approximately 36 percent of the complaints involved
broker-dealers, while the remainder involved issuers, mutual funds, banks,
transfer agents, clearing agents, and investment advisers. The two most
frequent complaints
against broker-dealers
involved allegations
of
unauthorized
transactions
executed
in customer
accounts
and
recommendations by the broker-dealers of unsuitable investments. Over
800 complaints were referred to SEC program divisions, self-regulatory
agencies, or other regulatory entities for review and/ or action.
Public Reference. OFICS also was responsible for making available
to the public all company filings and Commission rules, orders, studies,
reports, and speeches. These documents (dating from 1933 through the
present) were available in the public reference room and could be obtained
by writing the agency or contacting the agency's dissemination contractor.
In 1992, the staff provided assistance to 45,370 visitors to the public
reference room, answered 4,467 written requests for documents, and
responded to 114,252 telephone inquiries.
A total of 322,856 paper
documents and 397,122 microfiche records were added to the existing
library of publicly available information. In addition, the staff processed
559 formal requests for certifications of filings and records.

88

Endnotes

'In the Matter of the Distribution of Certain Debt Securities Issued by
Government Sponsored Enterprises, Exchange Act Release No. 30255 (Jan. 16,
1992), 50 SEC Docket 1308; In the Matter of the Distribution of Certain Debt
Securities Issued by Government Sponsored Enterprises, Exchange Act Release
No. 30191 (Jan. 16, 1992), 50 SEC Docket 1174.
2SEC v. Salomon Inc., Litigation Release No. 13246 (May 20, 1992), 51
SEC Docket 1133.
3In the Matter of Salomon Brothers Inc., Exchange Act Release No. 30721
(May 20, 1992), SEC Docket 1025.
'SEC v. Thomas M. Egan, Accounting and Auditing Enforcement Release
No. 387 (May 27, 1992), 51 SEC Docket 1213.
5SEC v. Charles H. Keating, tr.. Litigation Release No. 13118 (Dec. 12,
1991), 50 SEC Docket 776.
6In the Matter of Abington Bancorp, lnc., Accounting and Auditing
Enforcement
Release No. 370 (Apr. 22, 1992), 51 SEC Docket 0599.
7SEC v. Donald Coleman, Accounting and Auditing Enforcement Release
No. 330 (Oct. 9, 1991), 49 SEC Docket 1887.
8SEC v. Edward Morris, Accounting and Auditing Enforcement Release
No. 352 (Jan. 27, 1992), 50 SEC Docket 1543.
9In the Matter of Robert J. lommazzo, CPA, Accounting and Auditing
Enforcement
Release No. 385 (May 22, 1992), 51 SEC Docket 1157.
JOSEC v. Edward R. Downe, [r., Litigation Release No. 13260 (June 4,
1992), 51 SEC Docket 1354.
uSEC v. Hugh Thrasher, Litigation Release No. 13381 (Sept. 24, 1992),
52 SEC Docket 2393.
12SEC v. John Acree, Litigation Release No. 13219 (Apr. 9, 1992), 51
SEC Docket 0376.
13SEC v. N. Donald Morse, II, Litigation Release No. 13280 (June 24,
1992), 51 SEC Docket 1680.
I'SEC v. Kurt Naegeli, Litigation Release No. 13227 (June 23, 1992),
51 SEC Docket 1677.
15SEC v. College Bound, Inc., Accounting and Auditing Enforcement
Release No. 371 (Apr. 24, 1992), 51 SEC Docket 0670.
16SECv. Albert Barette, Accounting and Auditing Enforcement Release
No. 389 (June 17, 1992), 51 SEC Docket 1561.
17SEC v. George R. Thompson, Accounting and Auditing Enforcement
Release No. 366 (Apr. 6, 1992), 51 SEC Docket.
18Inthe Matter of Agnes E. Jenkins, Accounting and Auditing Enforcement
Release No. 421 (Sept. 29, 1992), 52 SEC Docket 2424.
19SECv. James N. Von Germeien, Accounting and Auditing Enforcement
Release No. 426 (Sept. 3D, 1992), 52 SEC Docket 2655.
2°Inthe Matter of Caterpillar Inc., Accounting and Auditing Enforcement
Release No. 363 (Mar. 31, 1992), 51 SEC Docket 300.

89

21In the Matter of Presidential Life Corp., Accounting and Auditing
Release No. 416 (Sept. 22, 1992), 52 SEC Docket 2441.
22SEC v. Metro Display Advertising, lnc., Litigation Release No. 13162

Enforcement

(Feb. 7, 1992), 50 SEC Docket 1735.
23SEC v. Deepak Gulati, Litigation Release No. 13171 (Feb. 20, 1992),
50 SEC Docket 1806.
24Inthe Matter of Stephen f. Klos, Exchange Act Release No. 30723 (May
21, 1992), 51 SEC Docket 1030.
25SEC v. Custom Trading International Corp., Litigation Release No.
13229 (Apr. 24, 1992), 51 SEC Docket 0829.
26SEC v. Current Financial Services, Inc., Litigation Release No. 13112
(Dec. 9, 1991), 50 SEC Docket 770.
27SEC v. AMI Securities, lnc., Litigation Release No. 13258 (June 2,
1992), 51 SEC Docket 1352.
28Inthe Matter of State Bank of Pakistan, Securities Act Release No. 6937
(May 6, 1992), 51 SEC Docket 0834.
29SEC v. Westdon Holding & Investment, Inc., Litigation Release No.
13085 (Nov. 7, 1991), 50 SEC Docket 270.
30SEC v. Paul Kutik, Litigation Release No. 13240 (May 14, 1992), 51
SEC Docket 0997.
31Inthe Matter of Jeffrey R. Leach, Exchange Act Release No. 31007 (Aug.
6, 1992), 52 SEC Docket 838.
32In the Matter of Matthew 1. Wager, Exchange Act Release No. 31009
(Aug. 6, 1992), 52 SEC Docket 848.
33Inthe Matter of Buddy S. Cohen, Exchange Act Release No. 31008 (Aug.
6, 1992), 52 SEC Docket 845.
34SEC v. Edward A. Accomando, Litigation Release No. 13222 (Apr. 9,
1992), 51 SEC Docket 0379.
35SEC v. Maurice A. Halperin, Litigation Release No. 13052 (Oct. 21,
1991), 49 SEC Docket 2116.
36SEC v. Joseph Pandolfino, lr-, Litigation Release No. 13250 (May 26,
1992), 51 SEC Docket 1211.
37In the Matter of The Lionel Corp., Exchange Act Release No. 30121
(Dec. 30, 1991), 50 SEC Docket 990.
38Inthe Matter of RIT Acquisition Corp., Exchange Act Release No. 30732
(May 22, 1992), 51 SEC Docket 1152.
39In the Matter of The Krupp Corp., Exchange Act Release No. 30566
(Apr. 8, 1992), 51 SEC Docket 0334.
4°In the Matter of Douglas A. Kass, Exchange Act Release No. 31046
(Aug. 17, 1992), 52 SEC Docket 1119.
41In the Matter of BGC Special Equity Ltd. Partnership, Exchange Act
Release No. 30875 (June 30, 1992), 51 SEC Docket 1730.
42In the Matter of Michael S. Shapiro, Accounting and Auditing
Enforcement Release No. 358 (Mar. 4, 1992), 50 SEC Docket 2036.
43In the Matter of Kevin Upton, Exchange Act Release No. 29842 (Oct.
21, 1991), 47 SEC Docket 2061.
44Inthe Matter of Shearson Lehman Brothers, Inc., Exchange Act Release
No. 31196 (Sept. 17, 1992), 52 SEC Docket 1995.
90

45SEC v. Donald W. Wright, Litigation
50 SEC Docket

Release No. 13110 (Dec. 5, 1991),

680.

46SEC v. Stratton Oakmont, Inc., litigation
1992), 51 SEC Docket

Release No. 13195 (Mar. 20,

176.

47In the Matter of Wellshire Securities, Inc., Exchange
30544 (Apr. 1, 1992), 51 SEC Docket

Act Release No.

0242.

48In the Matter of Patrick Raymond Comerford, Exchange

Act Release
1494.
49In the Matter of Martin Herer Engelman, Exchange Act Release No.
30635 (Apr. 27, 1992), 51 SEC Docket 0743.
50In the Matter of Linda K. Rees, Exchange Act Release No. 30612 (Apr.
22, 1992), 51 SEC Docket 0595.
51In the Matter of First Albany Corp., Exchange Act Release No. 30515
(Mar. 25, 1992), 51 SEC Docket 106.
52SECv. Institutional Treasury Management, Inc., Litigation Release No.
13121 (Dec. 12, 1991), 50 SEC Docket 0783.
53SEC v. First Investors Corp., Litigation Release No. 13267 (June 11,
1992), 51 SEC Docket 1448.
54SEC v. Treasury First, Inc., Litigation Release No. 13094 (Nov. 19,
1991), 50 SEC Docket 485.
55SEC v. Leroy S. Brenna, et al., Litigation Release No. 13116 (Dec. 10,
1991), 50 SEC Docket 774.
56SEC v. G. Albert Griggs, lr.. Litigation Release No. 13247 (May 21,
1992), 51 SEC Docket 1136.
57SEC v. Public Funding Group, Inc., Litigation Release No. 13192 (Mar.
18, 1992), 51 SEC Docket 76.
58In the Matter of William H. Pike, Investment Company Release No.
18601 (Mar. 5, 1992), 50 SEC Docket 2023.
59Exchange Act Release No. 30929 (July 16, 1992), 57 FR 32159 (July
21, 1992).
6°Exchange Act Release No. 30920 (July 14, 1992), 57 FR 32587 (July
22, 1992).
61Exchange Act Release No. 30608 (Apr. 20, 1992), 57 FR 18004 (Apr.
28, 1992).
62Exchange Act Release No. 30610 (Apr. 28, 1992),57 FR 18046 (Apr.
28, 1992).
63Exchange Act Release Nos. 29868 (Oct. 28, 1991),56 FR 56535 (Nov.
5, 1991) and 30304 (Jan. 29, 1992), 57 FR 4658 (Feb. 6, 1992).
64Exchange Act Release No. 29854 (Oct. 24, 1991), 56 FR 55963 (Oct.
30, 1991).
65Exchange Act Release No. 29797 (Oct. 8, 1991), 56 FR 51945 (Oct.
16, 1991).
66Exchange Act Release No. 30000 (Nov. 26, 1991),56 FR 63531 (Dec.
4, 1991).
67Exchange Act Release No. 29869 (Oct. 28, 1991),56 FR 56537 (Nov.
5, 1991).
68Exchange Act Release No. 30944 (July 21, 1992), 57 FR 33376 (July
28, 1992).
No. 30820 (June 17, 1992), 51 SEC Docket

91

69Exchange Act Release No. 30369 (Feb. 13, 1992), 57 FR 6148 (Feb.
20, 1992).
7°Exchange Act Release No. 29992 (Nov. 26, 1991),56 FR 63526 (Dec.
4, 1991).
71Exchange Act Release Nos. 29865 (Oct. 28, 1991), 56 FR 56255 (Nov.
1, 1991) (CBOE); 29934 (Nov. 13, 1991), 56 FR 58593 (Nov. 20, 1991)
(AMEX), and 29876 (Oct. 28, 1991), 56 FR 56435 (Nov. 4, 1991).
72Exchange Act Release No. 30256 (Jan. 16, 1992),57 FR 2797 (Jan. 23,
1992) (Nikkei and TOPIX); Exchange Act Release No. 31016 (Aug. 11, 1992),
57 FR 37012 (Aug. 17, 1992) (Japan Index).
73Exchange Act Release No. 30159 (Jan. 7, 1992), 57 FR 1506 (Jan. 14,
1992).
74Exchange Act Release No. 30773 (June 3, 1992), 57 FR 24835 (June
11, 1992).
75Exchange Act Release No. 30166 (Jan. 8, 1992),57 FR 1375 (Jan. 14,
1992); International Series Release No. 357 (Jan. 8, 1992).
76Letter from William H. Heyman, Director, Division of Market
Regulation, SEC, to Joanne T. Medero, General Counsel, CFTC, dated Jan.
23, 1992 (Midcap 400 Letter) and letter from William H. Heyman to Brian
Folkerts, Director, Office of Congressional and Government Affairs, CFTC,
dated Mar. 27, 1992 (FT-SE 100 Letter).
nLetter from William H. Heyman, Director, Division of Market
Regulation, SEC, to Brian Folkerts, Director, Office of Congressional and
Governmental Affairs, CFTC, dated May 27, 1992.
78Letter from William H. Heyman, Director, Division of Market
Regulation, SEC, to Joanne T. Medero, General Counsel, CFTC, dated Oct.
7, 1991.
79Letter from William H. Heyman, Director, Division of Market
Regulation, SEC, to Joanne T. Medero, General Counsel, CFTC, dated Oct.
16, 1991.
8°Letter from William H. Heyman, Director, Division of Market
Regulation, SEC, to Joanne T. Medero, General Counsel, CFTC, dated Jan.
16, 1992.
81Letter from William H. Heyman, Director, Division of Market
Regulation, SEC, to Joanne T. Medero, General Counsel, CFTC, dated Jan.
16, 1991.
82Id.
83Exchange Act Release No. 29185 (May 9, 1991), 56 FR 22490 (May
15, 1991).
84Report of the Bachmann Task Force on Clearance and Settlement
Reform in U.S. Securities Markets (May 1992).
85Exchange Act Release No. 30802 (June 15, 1992), 57 FR 27812 (June
22, 1992).
8615 U.S.C.A. S 78q-1 (f) (West Supp. 1992).
87Testimony of Richard C. Breeden, Chairman,
SEC, before the
Subcommittee on Domestic Monetary Policy of the House Committee on
Banking, Finance, and Urban Affairs, Apr. 28, 1992. Chairman Breeden
restated the Commission's position in a June 1, 1992 letter to Chairman

92

Dingell of the House Committee on Energy and Commerce. The Commission
also strongly supported a provision of the type contained in S. 1699, the
Government Securities Offering Enforcement Act, which had been passed
by the Senate in September 1992, making it explicitly unlawful to knowingly
or wilfully make a false or misleading written statement to an issuer of
government securities in a primary offering.
88Letter from Edward J. Markey, Chairman,
Subcommittee
on
Telecommunications
and Finance, Committee on Energy and Commerce,
U.S. House of Representatives,
to Richard C. Breeden, Chairman, SEC,
dated Oct. 23, 1991; letter from Richard C. Breeden, Chairman, SEC, to
Edward J. Markey, Chairman, Subcommittee on Telecommunications and
Finance,
Committee
on Energy and Commerce,
U.S. House of
Representatives,
dated Dec. 23, 1991.
89Exchange Act Release No. 31347 (Oct. 22, 1992), 57 FR 49039 (Oct.
29, 1992).
"Exchange Act Release No. 31520 (Nov. 25, 1992),57 FR 57397 (Dec.
4, 1992).
91Exchange Act Release No. 30772 (June 3, 1992), 57 FR 24415 (June
9, 1992).
92Letter regarding
Rule 15c2-11: NASDAQ Initial Listing and
Maintenance Standards (Feb. 28, 1992).
93Letters from Michael A. Macchiaroli, Assistant Director of the Division
of Market Regulation to Mr. Guillermo T. Prieto, Vice-Chairman of Market
Development, Commission Nacional de Val ores, dated Aug. 28, 1992;
Douglas G. Preston, Attorney, SIA, dated Aug. 21, 1992; Dominic A.
Carone, Chairman, SIA's Capital Committee, dated June 12, 1992; Douglas
G. Preston, Attorney, SIA, dated Mar. 10, 1992.
94Exchange Act Release No. 30958 (July 27, 1992), 57 FR 34028 (July
31, 1992). The Commission also adopted clarifying amendments to Form
BD in Securities Exchange Act Release No. 31398 (Nov. 4, 1992), 57 FR
53261 (Nov. 9, 1992).
95Exchange Act Release No. 30959 (July 27, 1992), 57 FR 34048 (July
31, 1992).
9617C.F.R. S 240.17 Ad-15 (1992).
97Exchange Act Release No. 30146 (Jan. 9, 1992),57 FR 1082 (Jan. 10,
1992). Rule 17Ad-IS prohibits inequitable treatment of eligible guarantor
institutions, requires transfer agents to establish written standards for the
acceptance of signature guarantees, and allows transfer agents to reject
a request for transfer because the guarantor is neither a member of nor
a participant in a signature guarantee program.
98Exchange Act Release No. 30148 (Jan. 6, 1992),57 FR 1128 (Jan. 10,
1992). Rule 17Ad-16 would require a registered transfer agent to send
notice to the appropriate qualified securities depository when assuming
or terminating transfer agent services on behalf of an issuer or when
changing its name or address.
99Letter regarding Transportacion Maritima Mexicana, S.A. de C. V.,
dated June 8, 1992.

93

1°OLetterregarding C.A. Venezolana de Pulpa y Papel S.A.C.A., dated
Jan. 3, 1992.
101Letterregarding Banco Comercial Portugues, S.A., dated June 11,
1992.
l02Letter regarding Vitro, Sociedad Anonima, dated Nov. 19, 1991;
Letter regarding Orbital Engine Corporation Limited, dated Nov. 21,1991;
Letter regarding CEMEX, Sociedad Anonima, dated Mar. 12, 1992; Letter
regarding China Steel Corporation, dated May IS, 1992; Letter regarding
Grupo Financiero Banamex Accival, S.A. de C.V., dated June 23, 1992. See
also Letter regarding Istituto per la Ricostruzione Industrialel Credito
Italiano S.p.A., dated Oct. 17, 1992; Letter regarding Telefonos de Mexico,
S.A. de C.V., dated May 7, 1992.
l03Letter regarding British Telecommunications
plc, dated Dec. 3,
1991).
104Letterregarding Wellcome pIc, dated July 21,1992; Letter regarding
Total, dated June 23, 1992; Letter regarding AIcatel Alsthom Compagnie
Generale d'Electricite, dated May 15, 1992.
10517C.P.R. 9 240.17f-1 (1992).
l06TheSpokane Stock Exchange withdrew its registration as a national
securities exchange and ceased operations on May 24, 1991.
l07Exchange Act Release No. 30445 (Mar. 5, 1992), 57 FR 8693 (Mar.
11, 1992). This new marketplace was designed to accommodate the listing
of companies currently too small to meet the regular AMEX listing
requirements.
lOBExchangeAct Release No. 30466 (Mar. 11, 1992),57 FR 9301 (Mar.
17, 1992). The proposal revised Phlx listing standards to incorporate
criteria for certain new products not easily categorized under existing Phlx
rules for common or preferred stock, bonds or warrants.
109Exchange Act Release No. 30662 (May 1, 1992), 57 FR 19655 (May
7, 1992). Among other things, these procedures enable the NYSE to review
formally increases in the amount of securities listed, changes in a listed
security or issuer requests to list another class or series of securities.
l1°Exchange Act Release No. 30676 (May 7, 1992), 57 FR 20544 (May
13, 1992).
1l1Exchange Act Release No. 30464 (Mar. 11, 1992),57 FR 9300 (Mar.
17, 1992).
112Exchange Act Release No. 30587 (Apr. 15, 1992),57 FR 14597 (Apr.
21, 1992).
113ExchangeAct Release No. 30581 (Apr. 14, 1992),57 FR 14596 (Apr.
21, 1992). The rule change also implemented real-time trade reporting
within 90 seconds of execution of the trade for off-hours trading sessions
on SelectNet.
114ExchangeAct Release No. 30629 (Apr. 23, 1992),57 PR 18535 (Apr.
30, 1992). The program makes available to the public on request certain
information contained in the Central Registration Depository System
regarding the employment and disciplinary history of N ASD members and
their associated persons. The public can obtain this information by calling
a toll-free number established by the NASD for this purpose. Information
94

available to the public includes final disciplinary actions taken by federal
or state securities agencies and self-regulatory organizations which relate
to securities or commodities transactions.
115Exchange Act Release No. 30840 (June 19, 1992), 57 FR 29109 (June
30, 1992). This review is designed to determine whether an issuer's
withdrawal from NASDAQ / NMS or a securities exchange and a subsequent
application to NASDAQ/NMS was for the purpose of evading corporate
governance criteria.
116Exchange Act Release No. 30478 (Mar. 16, 1992),57 FR 10051 (Mar.
23, 1992). Previously, NASD members were required only to forward
proxy material to beneficial owners upon the request of the issuer.
1l7Exchange Act Release No. 30569 (Apr. 10, 1992),57 FR 13396 (Apr.
16, 1992).
118Exchange Act Release No. 29812 (Oct. 11, 1991),56 FR 52082 (Apr.
17, 1991). NASDAQ International consists of the basic automation services
currently provided during the domestic session to support market making
by NASD members in NASDAQ/NMS,
non-Canadian,
foreign equity
securities or ADRs included in NASDAQ but not designated as NASDAQ/
NMS, and exchange-listed
securities.
119See i.e., letter from William H. Heyman, Director, Division of Market
Regulation, SEC, to Richard A. Grasso, Executive Vice Chairman, President
and Chief Operating Officer, NYSE, dated July 6, 1992.
120Letter from William H. Heyman, Director, Division of Market
Regulation, SEC, to Richard L. Fogel, Assistant Comptroller General, GAO,
dated Mar. 12, 1992.
121Exchange Act Release Nos. 31097 (Aug. 21,1992),57 FR 40235 (Sept.
2, 1992), and 31371 (Oct. 28, 1992), 57 FR 52659 (Nov. 4, 1992).
122Exchange Act Release Nos. 31097 (Aug. 21,1992),57 FR 40235 (Sept.
2, 1992) and 31464 (Nov. 16, 1992), 57 FR 55011 (Nov. 23, 1992).
123Exchange Act Release No. 30400 (Feb. 24, 1992), 57 FR 7420 (Mar.
2, 1992).
124Exchange Act Release No. 30986 (July 31, 1992),57 FR 35856 (Aug.
11, 1992).
125Exchange Act Release No. 30170 (Jan. 8, 1992),57 FR 1774 (Jan. 15,
1992).
126Exchange Act Release No. 30041 (Dec. 5, 1991), 56 FR 64824 (Dec.
12, 1991).
127Exchange Act Release No. 29991 (Nov. 26, 1991),56 FR 61458 (Dec.
3, 1991).
128Exchange Act Release No. 29888 (Oct. 31, 1991),56 FR 56680 (Nov.
6, 1991).
129Exchange Act Release No. 30413 (Feb. 16, 1992), 57 FR 7830 (Mar.
4, 1992).
130Exchange Act Release No. 30537 (Mar. 31, 1992),57 FR 17947 (Apr.
28, 1992).
131Exchange Act Release No. 30005, International Series Release No.
347 (Nov. 27, 1991), 56 FR 63747 (Dec. 5, 1991).

132Exchange Act Release No. 29781 (Oct. 3, 1991), 56 FR 50959 (Oct.
9, 1991).
133Exchange Act Release No. 30556 (Apr. 6, 1992), 57 FR 12534 (Apr.
10, 1992).
134Division of Investment Management,
SEC, Protecting Investors: A
Half Century of Investment Company Regulation (May 1992).
135Investment Company Act Release No. 19105 (Nov. 19, 1992),57 FR
56248, 52 SEC Docket 17.
136Investment Company Act Release No. 18869 (July 28, 1992),51 SEC
Docket 2587.
13717CFR 230.601 et seq.
138Investment Company Act Release No. 18611 (Mar. 12, 1991), 50 SEC
Docket 2116.
139Investment Company Act Release No. 18612 (Mar. 12, 1992), 50 SEC
Docket 2119.
14°Investment Company Act Release No. 19115 (Nov. 20, 1992),52 SEC
Docket 4079.
l4lSection 711 of the legislation designates Sections 32 and 33 of the
Holding Company Act as Sections 34 and 35, and adds a new Section 32,
"Exempt Wholesale Generators."
Section 715 of the legislation adds a new
Section 33, "Treatment
of Foreign Utilities."
142Section 713 of the Energy Policy Act.
143Holding Company Act Release No. 25573 (July 7, 1992), 51 SEC
Docket 2004.
144Holding Company Act Release No. 25668 (Nov. 4, 1992), 52 SEC
Docket 3545.
145Id.
146Investment Company Institute (pub. avail. Aug. 7, 1992).
147Reserve Bank of Australia (pub. avail. Sept. 2, 1992) and Hong Kong
Securities Clearing Co. Ltd. (pub. avail. Sept. 8, 1992).
148Founders Funds, Inc. (pub. avail. Aug. 4, 1992).
149Investment Company Act Release Nos. 19034 (Oct. 16, 1992), 52
SEC Docket 3195 (Notice) and 19096 (Nov. 12, 1992),52 SEC Docket 3745
(Order); International
Series Release No. 475 (Oct. 16, 1992),52 SEC Docket
3195 (Notice).
150Investment Company Act Release Nos. 18959 (Sept. 17, 1992), 52
SEC Docket 2107 (Notice) and 19055 (Oct. 26, 1992), 52 SEC Docket 3380
(Order).
151Investment Company Act Release Nos. 18693 (May 6,1992),51 SEC
Docket 900 (Notice) and 18748 (June 2, 1992),51 SEC Docket 1331 (Order).
152Investment Advisers Act Release Nos. 1310 (May 18, 1992),51 SEC
Docket 1094 (Notice) and 1317 (June IS, 1992),51 SEC Docket 1523 (Order).
153Investment Company Act Release Nos. 18643 (Apr. 1, 1992),51 SEC
Docket 290 (Notice) and 18675 (Apr. 24, 1992),51 SEC Docket 798 (Order).
154Investment Company Act Release No. 18778 (June 12, 1992),52 SEC
Docket 1524 (Notice and Temporary Order).

96

155Investment Company Act Release Nos. 18717 (May 20,1992),51 SEC
Docket 1112 (Notice and Temporary Order) and 19051 (Oct. 21, 1992), 52
SEC Docket 3365 (Order).
156Uniao de Bancos de Brasileiros S.A. (pub. avail. July 28, 1992).
157Neuberger & Berman Advisers Management Trust, Investment Company
Act Release Nos. 18506 (Jan. 29, 1992), 50 SEC Docket 1528 (Notice) and
18573 (Feb. 26, 1992), 50 SEC Docket 1917 (Order).
158Anchor National Life Insurance Company, Investment Company Act
Release No. 19147 (Dec. 4, 1992), 52 SEC Docket 20.
159MML Bay State Life Insurance Company (pub. avail. Sept. 9, 1992).
160See, e.g., SCEcorp, Holding Company Act Release No. 25564,
International Series Release No. 405 (June 29, 1992), 51 SEC Docket 1763
(acquisition by an exempt holding company of Australian public-utility
operations); Southern Co., Holding Company Act Release No. 25639,
International Series Release No. 460 (Sept. 23, 1992), 52 SEC Docket 2300
(acquisition by registered holding company of Australian operations).
161SeeSections 711 and 715 of the Energy Policy Act.

162Id.
163Entergy Corp., Holding Company Act Release No. 25673, International
Series Release No. 487 (Nov. 10, 1992), 52 SEC Docket 16; Entergy Corp.,
Holding Company Act Release No. 25706, International Series Release No.
510 (Dec. 14, 1992), 53 SEC Docket 1; Entergy Corp., Holding Company
Act Release No. 25705, International Series Release No. 511 (Dec. 14, 1992),
53 SEC Docket 1.
164Entergy Corp., Holding Company Act Release No. 25136 (Aug. 27,
1990), 46 SEC Docket 1911.
165New Orleans v. S.E.C., 969 F.2d 1163 (D.C. Cir. 1992).
166KUEnerg!l Corp., Holding Company Act Release No. 25409 (Nov.
13, 1991), 50 SEC Docket 349.
167UNITIL Corp., Holding Company Act Release No. 25524 (Apr. 24,
1992), 51 SEC Docket 764.
168Northeast Utils., Holding Company Act Release No. 25565 (June 29,
1992), 51 SEC Docket 1775.
169Northeast Utils., Holding Company Act Release No. 25221 (Dec. 21,
1990), 47 SEC Docket 1887, supplemented, Holding Company Act Release
No. 25273, (Mar. 15, 1991), 48 SEC Docket 776.
17°City of Holyoke Gas & Elec. Dept. v. SEC, Nos. 91-1001 et al., (D.C.
Cir. July 24, 1992).
1710hio Power Co. v. FERC, No. 88-1293 (D.C. Cir. Feb. 4, 1992), cert.
denied, No. 92-280 (Nov. 9, 1992).
1720hio Power Co., Holding Company Act Release No. 17383 (Dec. 2,
1971); Holding Company Act Release No. 20515 (Apr. 24, 1978), 14 SEC
Docket 928; Southern Ohio Coal Co., Holding Company Act Release No.
21008 (Apr. 17, 1979), 17 SEC Docket 310; Holding Company Act Release
No. 21537 (Apr. 25, 1980), 19 SEC Docket 1309.
173Securities Act Release No. 33-6949 (July 30, 1992), 51 SEC Docket
2613.

97

174Securities Act Release No. 33-6950 (July 30, 1992), 51 SEC Docket
2673.
17sSecurities Act Release No. 6962 (Oct. 15, 1992),52 SEC Docket 2980.
176Securities Act Release No. 6940 (June 23,1992),51 SEC Docket 1570,
as modified; Securities Act Release No. 6941 (July 10,1992),51 SEC Docket
2046.
177Exchange Act Release No. 29315 (June 17,1991),49 SEC Docket 0139.
17BExchange Act Release No. 30849 (June 23,1992),51 SEC Docket 1619.
179Exchange Act Release No. 34-31326 (Oct. 16, 1992), 52 SEC Docket
3022.
IBoSecurities Act Release No. 33-6964 (Oct. 22, 1992), 52 SEC Docket
3014.
IBISecurities Act Release No. 33-6963 (Oct. 22, 1992), 52 SEC Docket
3013.
IB2Securities Act Release No. 6932 (Apr. 13, 1992),51 SEC Docket 382.
IB3Securities Act Release No. 6922 (Oct. 30, 1991), 50 SEC Docket 12.
IB4Securities Act Release No. 33-6944 (July 23, 1992), 51 SEC Docket
2163.
IBsSecurities Act Release No. 33-6933 (Apr. 20, 1992), 51 SEC Docket
503.
IB6See Testimony
of Richard C. Breeden, Chairman, SEC, Concerning
Issues Involving Financial Institutions and Accounting Principles, before
the Senate Committee on Banking, Housing and Urban Affairs, Sept. 10,
1990 at 32.
IB7Proposed Statement of Financial Accounting Standards, Accounting
for Certain Investments
in Debt and Equity Securities (Sept. 9, 1992).
IBBFinancial Reporting Release No. 40 (Oct. 6, 1992), 52 SEC Docket
1914.
189Statement of Financial Accounting Standards No. 109, Accounting
for Income Taxes (Feb. 1992).
190Testimony of Walter P. Schuetze, Chief Accountant, SEC, Concerning
Accounting for Employee Stock Compensation, before the Senate Committee
on Governmental
Affairs, Jan. 31, 1992 at 15.
191Proposed Statement of Financial Accounting Standards, Accounting
for Creditors for Impairment of a Loan, An Amendment of FASB Statements
No.5 and 15 (June 30, 1992).
192Proposed Statement on Auditing Standards, Letters to Underwriters
in Conjunction with Filings Under the Securities Act of 1933 and Letters
Issued to a Requesting
Party in Conjunction
with Other Financing
Transactions
(May 1991).
1935tatement of Auditing Standards No. 69, The Meaning of Present
Fairly in Conformity with Generally Accepted Accounting Principles in
the Independent
Auditor's Report (Feb. 1992).
194Annual Report/1991-1992,
Public Oversight Board, SEC Practice
Section, American Institute of Certified Public Accountants.
19S5tatement of Position 91-1, Software Revenue Recognition (Dec. 12,
1991).

98

1965tatement of Position 92-3, Accounting for Foreclosed Assets (Apr.
28, 1992).
197proposed Statement of Position, Accounting for the Results of
Operations of Foreclosed Assets Held for Sale (Nov. 10, 1992).
198Proposed Statement of Position, Reporting on Advertising Costs
(June 22, 1992).
199ProposedStatements of Position titled Foreign Currency Accounting
and Financial Statement Presentation for Investment Companies (June 5,
1992); Determination, Disclosure, and Financial Statement Presentation of
Income, Capital Gain, and Return of Capital by Investment Companies
(Feb. 10, 1992); and Financial Accounting and Reporting for High Yield
Securities by Investment Companies (Mar. 4, 1992).
200IASCE41, Revenue Recognition (May 1992); E42, Construction
Contracts (May 1992); E43, Property, Plant and Equipment (May 1992);
E44, The Effects of Changes in Foreign Exchange Rates (May 1992); E45,
Business Combinations (June 1992); E46, Extraordinary Items, Fundamental
Errors and Changes in Accounting Policies (July 1992); and E47, Retirement
Benefit Costs (Dec. 1992).
201IAS7 (revised 1992), Cash Flow Statements (Dec. 1992). Final
standards for research and development
activities, inventories,
and
capitalization of borrowing costs will not be formally adopted until late
in 1993 as a package with seven other standards
consti tu ting the
improvements project, although approved in 1992.
202SEC v. Peters, No. 90-3346 (10th Cir. Oct. 26, 1992).
203U.S. v. Chestman, 947 F.2d 551 (2d Cir. 1991) (en bane), cert. denied,
112 S.Ct. 1759.
204SEC v. International Loan Network, Inc., Fed. Sec. L. Rep. (CCH) '\I
96,886 (D.C. Cir. 1992).
205SEC v. W,J. Howey Co., 328 U.S. 293 (1946).
206Gomez v. Leonzo, 788 F. Supp. 604 (D.D.C. 1992).
207Reves v. Ernst & Young, 110 S. Ct. 945 (1990).
208BancoEspanol de Credito v. Security Pacific National Bank, 973 F.2d
51 (2d Cir. 1992), petition for cert. filed Nov 25, 1992.
209Inre NBW Commercial Paper Litigation, Fed. Sec. L. Rep (CCH), No.
97,278 (D.D.C.1992).
210SEC v. Coleman, No. 91-2526 (D.D.C.).
2llLampf, Pleva, Lipkind, Prupis & Pettigrow v. Gilbertson, 111 S.Ct. 2773
(1991).
212Anixter v. Home-Stake Production Co., 977 F.2d 1533 (10th Cir. 1992),
petition for cert. filed, Jan. 6, 1993.
213Henderson v. Scientific Atlanta, 971 F.2d 1567 (11th Cir. 1992).
214James B. Beam Distilling Co. v. Georgia, 111 S.Ct. 2439 (1991).
215SEC v. Rind, No. 91-55972 (9th Cir.).
216SEC v. Hayes, No. 92-1027 (5th Cir.).
217SEC v. AMX International, Inc., No. 92-1376 (5th Cir.).
218SEC v. Maxwell C. Huffman, No. 92-1363 (5th Cir.).
219Federal Debt Collection Procedures Act of 1990, 28 U.S.c. 93001

et. seq.
99

220U.S. v. Regan, 937 F.2d 823 (2d Cir. 1991), cert. denied sub nom.
Zarzecki v. United States, 112 S.Ct. 2773 (1992).
221Musick, Peeler & Garrett v. Employers Insurance of Wausau, No. 9234 (U.S. S.Ct.).

222Roosevelt v. E.I. Du Pont de Nemours & Co., 958 F.2d 416 (D.C. Cir.
1992).

223SEC v. American Bancshares, No. 77-C-750.
224United States v. Swift, 286 U.S. 106, 119 (1932).
22SYeaman v. SEC, No. 91-C-805-J (D. Utah 1991).
226In re United Telecommunications, Inc., Securities Litigation, Misc. No.
92-105 (D.D.C.).

227Scholes v. Stone, McGuire & Benjamin, 90 C 7201 (N.D. 111.).
228Alexander & Alexander Services, Inc. v. SEC, No. 92-1112 (D. D.C.
1992).

229Bachv. SEC, Case No. CV-92-1288 (ADS) (E.D.N.Y. May 9, 1992);
Donald v. SEC, No. MC 92-32-PHX-SMM (D. Ariz. June 16, 1992); Whitten
v. SEC, No. MC 92-33-PHX-SMM (D. Ariz. June 16, 1992).
230Inre Checkosky and Aldrich, Exchange Act Release No. 31094 (Aug.
16, 1992), 52 SEC Docket 1389.
231Inre Kagan, Exchange Act Release, No. 34-31205 (Sept. 18, 1992),
52 SEC Docket 1548.
232Inre Lamoreaux, Exchange Act Release, No. 429 (Oct. 14, 1992), 52
SEC Docket 2845.
233Inre Domingues and Brimhall, Exchange Act Release No. 30978 (July
30, 1992), 51 SEC Docket, 2771.
234Inre Denkensohn and Schoemer, Exchange Act Release No. 3656 (Mar.
31), 1992, 51 SEC Docket 0221.
23sKevin B. Wade, Exchange Act Release No. 30561 (Apr. 7, 1992), 51
SEC Docket 323.
236Meyer Blinder, Exchange Act Release No. 31095 (Aug. 26, 1992), 52
SEC Docket 1436.
237Century Capital Corp. of South Carolina, Exchange Act Release No.
31206 (Sep. 21, 1992), 52 SEC Docket 2023.
238LakeSecurities, lnc., Exchange Act Release No. 31283 (Oct. 2, 1992),
52 SEC Docket 2662.
239Michael David Sweeney, Exchange Act Release No. 29884 (Oct. 30,
1991), 50 SEC Docket 59.
24°Donald T. Sheldon, Exchange Act Release No. 31475 (Nov. 18, 1992)
52 SEC Docket 3826.
241In re EI Paso Electric Co., Case No. 92-10148-FM (W.O. Tex.) and
In re Orion Pictures lnc., 91B15635 (BRL) (S.D.N.Y.).
242In re EI Paso Electric Co., Case No. 92-10148-FM (W.O. Tex.).
243In re Amdura Corp., Case No. 90-3811-E et. seq. (Bankr. D. Colo.).
244In re Amdura Corp., No. 91 N 1521 (D. Colo.).
24sIn re American Reserve Corp., 840 F.2d 487 (7th Cir. 1988); In re The
Charter c«, 876 F.2d 866 (11th Cir. 1989), petition for cert. dismissed, 110
S.Ct. 3232 (1990); and Reid v. White Motor Corp., 886 F.2d 1462 (6th Cir.
1989), cert. denied, 110 S.Ct. 1809 (1990). See also In re Chateaugay Corp.,
100

104 Bankr. 626 (S.D.N.Y. 1989); and In re Zenith Laboratories, Inc., 104 Bankr.
659 (D.N.J. 1989). Cf. In re Mortgage & Realty Trust, 125 Bankr. 575 (Bankr.
C.D. Cal. 1991).
2.46SIPCv. Blinder, Robinson & Co., Inc., 962 F. 2d 960 (10th Cir. 1992).
2.47Inre I.M. T. lnc., 89-4-0746 PM (Bankr. D. Md.).
2.48Inre Prime Motor lnc., 90-16604-BKC-AJC (Bankr. S.D. Pla.),
2.49Inre Servico Corp., 90-36655 -
 BKC-AJC (Bankr. S.D. Pla.),
2.50Inre Washington Corp., 90-00597 (Bankr. D. D.C.).
2.51Inre Lomas Financial Corp., 89B12471-89B 12478 (Bankr. S.D.N.Y.).
2.52.See,
e.g., In re Southmark Corp. and In re SIS Corp., 56th Annual Report
at 91 (objection to confirmation of reorganization
plan); In re Custom
Laboratories, lnc., 53rd Annual Report at 74 (objection to disclosure
statement); In re Energy Exchange Corp. and Vulcan Energy Corp. and In re
Storage Technology Corp., 53rd Annual Report at 74-75 (objection to
confirmation of reorganization
plan).

101

Table 1
TYPES OF PROCEEDINGS
ADMINISTRATIVE PROCEEDINGS

Persons SUbject to, Acts Constituting, and
Basis for, Enforcement Action

Sanction

Any person
Violation of the federal securities laws

Cease-and-desist order, which may also
require a person to comply or take steps to
effect compliance WIthfederal securities laws;
accounting & disgorgement of illegal profits.
(1933 Act Section 8A; 1934 Section 21C(a);
Investment Company Act Section 9(f);
Advisers Act Section 203(k».

Broker-dealer, municipal securities dealer,
government securities dealer, transfer
agent, Investment adviser or associated
person
Willful VIolation of securmes laws or rules;
aiding or abetting such VIolation; failure
reasonably to supervise others; willful
misstatement or omission In filing with the
Commission, conviction of or injunction
aqamst certain cnmes or conduct.

Censure or Iimrtation on activities; revocation,
suspension or denial of registration; bar or
suspension from association (1934 Act,
Sections 15(b)(4)-(6), 15B(c)(2)-(5),
15(C)(c)(1)-(2), 17A(c)(3)-(4), Advisers Act,
Section 203(e)-(f».
CIVIlpenalty up to $100,000 for a natural
person or $500,000 for any other person;
accounting and dlsgorgement of Illegal profits.
Penalties are subject to other limitations
depending on the nature of the violation.
(1934 Act Section 21B; Investment Company
Act Section 9; Advisers Act Section (203).
Temporary cease-and-desist order, which
may, In appropriate cases, be Issued iUS. ~
(1934 Act. Section 21C).

Registered securities assocIation
Violation of or inability to comply with the 1934
Act, rules thereunder, or its own rules,
unjustified failure to enforce compliance with
the foregOing or WIth rules of the MUnicipal
Securities Rulemaklng Board by a member or
person associated WIth a member.

102

Suspension or revocation of registration;
censure or IimrtatlOn of activities, functions, or
operations (1934 Act, Section 19(h)(1».

Member of registered securities
association, or associated person
Entry of Commission order against person
pursuant to 1934 Act, Section 15(b); willful
violation of secuntles laws or rules thereunder
or rules of Municipal Securities Rulemaklng
Board; effecting transaction for other person
with reason to believe that person was
committing violations of secuntles laws.

Suspension or expulsion from the assocrauon;
bar or suspension from association with
member of assocranon (1934 Act, Section
19(h)(2)-(3)).

National securities exchange
Violation of or Inability to comply with 1934
Act, rules thereunder or its own rules;
unjustified failure to enforce compliance WIth
the foregOing by a member or person
associated with a member

Suspension or revocation of registration;
censure or limitation of activmes, functions, or
operations (1934 Act, Section 19(h) (1)).

Member of national securities exchange, or
associated person
Entry of Commission order against person
pursuant to 1934 Act, Section 15(b); Willful
violation of securmes laws or rules thereunder,
effecting transaction for other person with
reason to believe that person was committing
violation of eecurmes laws.

Suspension or expulsion from exchange, bar
or suspension from association with member
(1934 Act, SectIOn 19(h)(2)-(3))

Registered clearing agency
Violation of or Inability to comply with 1934
Act, rules thereunder, or its own rules; failure
to enforce compliance with its own rules by
participants.

Participant In registered clearing agency
Entry of Commission order against participant
pursuant to 1934 Act, Section 15(b)(4); willful
violation of cleanng agency rules; effecting
transaction for other person with reason to
believe that person was committing violations
of securities laws.

Suspension or revocation of reqrstranon;
censure or limitation of acnvmes, functions, or
operations (1934 Act, Section 19(h)(1)).

Sanction
Suspension or expulsion from c1eanng agency
(1924 Act, Section 19(h)(2)).

Securities Information processor
Violation of or inability to comply WIth
provisions of 1934 Act or rules thereunder.

Censure or limitation of activities; suspension
or revocation of registration (1934 Act, secnon
11A(b)(6))

103

Any person
Willful VIolation of 1933 Act, 1934 Act,
Investment Company Ad or rules thereunder;
aiding or abetting such violation; willful
misstatement in filing with Commission.

Temporary or permanent prohibition against
serving in certain capacities with registered
investment company (Investment Company
Ad, Section 9(b».

OffIcer or director of self-regulatory
organization
Willful violation of 1934 Ad, rules thereunder
or the organization's own rules; WIllful abuse of
authority or unjustified failure to enforce
compliance.

Removal from office or censure (1934 Ad,
Sedlon 19(h)(4».

Principal of broker-deaJer
Officer, diredor, general partner, ten-percent
owner or controlling person of a broker-dealer
for which a SIPC trustee has been appointed.

1933 Act registration

Bar or suspension from being or becoming
assooated with a broker-dealer (SIPA,
Sedion 14(b».

statement

Statement materially inaccurate or incomplete.

Stop order refusing to permit or suspending
effectiveness (1933 Ad, secnon 8(d».

Person subject to Sections 12, 13, 14 or
15(d) of the 1934 Act or associated person
Failure to comply with such provisions or
having caused such failure by an ad or
omission that person knew or should have
known would contribute thereto.

Order directing compliance or steps effecting
compliance (1934 Act, Section 15(c)(4».

Securities registered pursuant to Section
12 of the 1934 Act
Noncompliance by issuer with 1934 Act or
rules thereunder.

Denial, suspension of effective date,
suspension or revocation of registration (1934
Ad, Section 120».

Public interest requires trading suspension.

Summary suspension of over-the-counter or
exchange trading (1934 Ad, Sedion 12(k».

Registered Investment company
Failure to file Investment Company Act
registration statement or required report; filing
materially incomplete or misleading statement
or report.

Suspension or revocation of registration
(Investment Company Act, Sadion 8(e».

Company has not attained $100,000 net worth
90 days after 1933 Act registration statement
became effedrve.

Stop order under 1933 Act; suspension or
revocation of registration (Investment
Company Act, Section 14(a».

104

Attorney, accountant, or other professional

or expert
Lack of requisite qualifications to represent
others; lacking in character or integrity;
unethical or improper professional conduct;
willful violation of securities laws or rules; or
aiding and abetting such violation.

Permanent or temporary denial of privilege of
appearing or practiCIng before the Commission
(17 CFR Section 201.2(e)(1».

Attorney suspended or disbarred by court;
expert's license revoked or suspended;
conviction of a felony or of a misdemeanor
involving moral turpitude.

Automatic suspension from appearance or
practice before the Commission (17 CFR
Section 201.2(e)(2».

Permanent injunction against or finding of
securities VIolation in Commission-instituted
action; finding of securities violation by
Commission in administrative proceedings.

Temporary suspension from practicing before
the Commission; censure; permanent or
temporary disqualification from practiCing
before the Commission (17 CFR Section
201.2(e)(3».

Member or employee of Municipal
Securities Rulemeklng Board
Willful violation of 1934 Act, rules thereunder,
or rules of the Board; abuse of authonty.

Censure or removal from office (1934 Act,
Section 15B(c)(8».

CML PROCEEDINGS IN FEDERAL DISTRICT COURTS
Persons SUbject to, Acts Constituting, and
BasIs for, Enforcement Action

Sanction

Any person
Engaging in or about to engage In acts or
practices violating securities laws, rules or
orders thereunder (including rules of a
registered self-regulatory organization).

Injunction against acts or practices
constituting violations (plus other equitable
rehef under court's general equity powers)
(1933 Act, Section 20(b); 1934 Act, Section
21 (d); Holding Company Act, Section 18(e);
Investment Company Act, Section 42(d);
Advisers Act, Section 209(d); Trust Indenture
Act, Section 321).

Noncompliance with provisions of the laws,
rules, or regulations under 1933, 1934, or
Holding Company Act, orders issued by
Commission, rules of a registered selfregulatory organization, or undertaking in a
registration statement.

Writ of mandamus, injunction, or order
directing compliance (1933 Act, Section 20(c);
1934 Act, Section 21 (e); Holding Company
Act, Section 18(f».

105

Violating the secunties laws or a cease-anddesist order (other than through Insider
trading).

Civil penalty up to $100,000 for a natural
person or $500,000 for any other person .QI, if
greater, the gross gain to the defendant.
Penalties are subject to other limitations
dependent on nature of violation. (1933 Act,
Section 20(d); 1934 Act, Section 21 (d) (3);
Investment Company Act, Section 42(e);
AdVIsers Act, secnon 209(e».

Trading while In possession of material nonpublic Information in a transaction on an
exchange or from or through a broker-dealer
(and transaction not part of a public offering),
aiding and abetting or dIrectly or Indirectly
controlling tr.e person who engages In such
trading.

Maximum civil penalty. three times profit
gaIned or loss avoided as a result of
transaction (1934 Act, Section 21A(a)-(b».

Violating 1933 Act Section 17(a)(1) or 1934
Act section 1O(b), when conduct demonstrates
substantial unfitness to serve as an officer or
director.

Prohibition from acting as an officer or director
of any public company (1933 Act, Section
20(e); 1934 Act, Section 21 (d)(2».

Issuer subject to Section 12 or 15(d) of the
1934 Act, officer, director, employee or
agent of Issuer; stockholder acting on
behalf of issuer
Payment to foreign official, foreign political
party or OffiCial, or candidate for foreign
political office, for purposes of seeking the use
of Influence in order to assist Issuer in
obtaining or retaining business for or with, or
directing busmess to, any person.

Maximum civil penalty. $10,000 (1934 Act,
Section 32(c».

Securities Investor Protection Corporation
Refusal to commit funds or act for the
protection of customers

Order directing discharqe of obligations and
other appropriate relief (SIPA, Section 11 (b».

National securities exchange or registered
securities association
Failure to enforce compliance by members or
persons associated with its members with the
1934 Act, rules or orders thereunder, or rules
of the exchange or assoclauon,

Writ of mandamus, injunction or order directing
such exchange or association to enforce
compliance (1934 Act, Section 21 (e».

Registered clearing agency
Failure to enforce compliance by its
parucipants with its own rules.

106

Writ of mandamus, injunction or order directing
clearing agency to enforce compliance (1934
Act, Section 21 (e».

Issuer subject

to Section

15(d) of 1934 Act

Failure to file required information, documents
or reports.

Registered

Investment

Forfeiture of $1 00 per day (1934 Act, Section
32(b».

company
injunction against use of name (Investment
Company Act, Section 35(d».

Name of company or of security issued by it
deceptive or misleading.

Officer, director, member of advisory
board, adviser, depositor, or underwriter
Investment company

of

Engage in act or practice constituting breach
of fiduciary duty InvolVing personal
misconduct.

CRIMINAL

PROSECUTION

Persons Subject to, Acts Constituting,
Basis for, Enforcement Action

and

Injunction against acting In certain capacmes
for Investment company and other appropriate
relief (Investment Company Act, Section
36(a».

BY DEPARTMENT

OF JUSTICE
Sanction

Any person
Willful Violation of securities laws or rules
thereunder; willful misstatement In any
document reqinrsd to be filed by securities
laws or rules; Willful misstatement In any
document required to be filed by selfregulatory organization in connection with an
application for membership or association With
member

Maximum penalties' $1,000,000 fine and ten
years irnpnsonrnent for lndividuals, $2,500,000
fine for non-natural persons (1934 Act,
Sections 21 (d), 32(a»; $10,000 fine and five
years impnsonment (or $200,000 if a public
utility holding company for VIolations of the
Holding Company Act) (1933 Act, Sections
20(b), 24; Investment Company Act, Sections
42(e), 49, Advisers Act, Sections 209(e), 217,
Trust Indenture Act, Sections 321, 325;
Holding Company Act, Sections 18(f), 29)

Issuer subject to Section 12 or 15(d) of the
1934 Act; officer or director of Issuer;
stockholder
acting on behalf of Issuer;
employee or agent sUbj"'ct to the
jurisdiction
of the United States
Payment to foreign official, foreign political
party or official, or candidate for foreign
political office for purposes of seeking the use
of Influence in order to assist issuer In
obtaining or retaining business for or with, or
directing business to, any person.

Issuer - $2,000,000; officer, director,
employee, agent or stockholder - $100,000
and five years imprisonment (issuer may not
pay fine for others) (1934 Act, Section 32(C»

* Statutory references are as follows: "1933 Act, • the Securities Act of 1933; "1934 Act, • the
Secunties Exchange Act of 1934; "Investment Company Act," the Investment Company Act of 1940,
"AdVIsers Act," the Investment Advisers Act of 1940, "Holding Company Act," the Public Utility Holding
Company Act of 1935; "Trust Indenture Act," the Trust Indenture Act of 1939, and .SIPA,. the Secuntles
Investor Protection Act of 1970.

107

Table 2
ENFORCEMENT CASES INITIATED BY THE COMMISSION
DURING FISCAL YEAR 1992 IN VARIOUS PROGRAM AREAS
(Each case initiated has been included in only one category listed below
even though many cases involve multiple allegations and may fall under
more than one category)
Program Area in which a
Civil Action or Administrative
Proceedmg was lnmated

Civil
Actions

v

AdministratIVe
Proceedmgs

21(a)
Reports

Total

% of
Total
Gases

Securities Offering Gases
(a) Non-regulated EntIty
(b) Regulated EntIty
Total Securities Offermg Gases

31 (130)
14 ( 77)
45 (207)

10 ( 12)
35 ( 43)
45 ( 55)

0(0)
o (0)
0(0)

41 (142)
49 (120)
90 (262)

23%

Broker-Dealer Gases
(a) Back Office
(b) Fraud Agamst Customer
(c) Failure to Supervise
(d) Government Securities
(e) Other
Total Broker-Dealer Gases

4 ( 12)
14 ( 22)
o ( 0)
1( 2)
3( 3)
22 ( 39)

6 ( 8)
27 ( 31)
6 ( 9)
1 ( 2)
11 ( 71)
51 (121)

0(0)
0(0)
0(0)
0(0)
1 (5)
1 (5)

10 ( 20)
41 ( 53)
6 ( 9)
2 ( 4)
15 ( 79)
74 (165)

19%

Issuer Financial Statement
and Reporting Gases
(a) Issuer Fmanclal
Disclosure
(b) Issuer Reportmg Other
(c) Issuer Related Party
Transactions
Total Issuer Financial Statement

24 ( 54)
5 ( 11)

34( 38)
4 ( 4)

0(0)
0(0)

58 ( 92)
9 ( 15)

2 ( 3)
31 ( 68)

1 ( 2)
39 ( 44)

0(0)
0(0)

3 ( 5)
70 (112)

18%

Other Regulated Entity Gases
(a) Investment Advisers
(b) Investment Companies
(c) Transfer Agent
Total Other Regulated Entity Gases

15 ( 43)
1 ( 1)
O(
0)
16 ( 44)

24 (
4(
8(
36 (

32)
5)
10)
47)

0(0)
0(0)
0(0)
0(0)

39 (
5(
8(
52 (

75)
6)
10)
92)

13%

Market Manipulation Gases

10 ( 25)

31 ( 33)

0(0)

41 ( 58)

10%

insider Trading Gases

27 ( 94)

5(

5)

0(0)

32( 99)

8%

Contempt Proceedings

11 ( 35)

O(

0)

0(0)

11 ( 35)

2%

Corporate Control Gases

O(

0)

9 ( 17)

0(0)

9 ( 17)

2%

Fraud Against Regulated Entities

3(

8)

1(

1)

0(0)

4(

9)

1%

2)
0)
2 ( 2)

2(
7(
9(

2)
7)
9)

0(0)
0(0)
0(0)

4 ( 4)
7 ( 7)
11 ( 11)

3%

Delinquent Fllmgs
(a) Issuer Reporting
(b) Forms 3 & 4
Total Delinquent Filings Gases
GRAND TOTAL

v
21

2(

o(

167 (522)

226 (332)

1 (5)

This category includes injunctIVe actions and civil and criminal contempt proceedings
defendants and respondents IS noted parenthetically.
Percentage totals more than 100% due to roundmg of figures.

108

394 (859)
The number of

101%21

Table 3
INVESTIGATIONS OF POSSIBLE VIOLATIONS OF THE ACTS
ADMINISTERED BY THE COMMISSION

Pending as of October 1, 1991
Opened in Fiscal Year 1992
Total

1,259
334

Closed in Fiscal Year 1992

1,593
323

Pending as of September 30, 1992

1,270

Formal Orders of Investigation
Issued in Fiscal Year 1992

133

Table 4
ADMINISTRATIVE PROCEEDINGS INSTITUTED
DURING FISCAL YEAR ENDING SEPTEMBER 30, 1992
Broker-Dealer Proceedings

115

Investment Adviser, Investment Company and Transfer Agent Proceedings

51

Stop Order Proceedings

6

Rule 2(e) Proceedings

31

Suspensions of Trading in Securities in Fiscal Year 1992

7

109

i able e
INJUNCTIVE ACTIONS

Fiscal Year

1983
1984
1985
1986
1987
1988
1989
1990
1991
1992

110

Actions Initiated

Defendants Named

151

416
508

179
143
163

385
488

144

373

125

401
422
557

140
186
171
156

503
487

Table 6
FISCAL 1992 ENFORCEMENT CASES
LISTED BY PROGRAM AREA

Name of Case
Broker-Dealer:

Broker-Dealer:

Failure to Supervise

In
In
In
In
In
In

Richard A. Kahn
Michael Hume
First Albany Corp., et al.
Graig & Associates Inc., et al.
James Oberweis
Buddy S. Cohen

of
of
of
of
of
of

Broker-Dealer:

Dated Filed

34-29842
AAER 339
AAER 340
LR-13103
34-30308
LR.13166
AAER 358
NONE
34-30775
LR-13312

10/21/91
11/04/91
11/04/91
11/26/91
01/30/92
02/14/92
03/04/92
04/01/92
06/04/92
07/14/92

34-30108
34-30335
34-30515
34-30847
34-30866
34-31008

12/20/91
02/04/92
03/25/92
06/22/92
06/29/92
08/06/92

34-29830
34-29918
34-29968
34-30042
34-30133
34-30175
34-30300
34-30533
34-30635
34-30691
34-30690

10/17/91
11/07/91
11/20/91
12/06/91
12/31/91
01/10/92
01/29/92
03/31/92
04/27/92
05/12/92
05/12/92

LR-13262
34-30777
34-30776
34-30786
LR-13267

06/01/92
06/04/92
06/04/92
06/08/92
06/11/92

Back Office

In the Matter of Kevin Upton, et al.
In the Matter of Frederick S. Todman & Co., et al.
In the Matter of Andrew L. Epstein
SEC v. H.K Freeland & Co., lnc., et al.
In the Matter of H.K Freeland & Co., Inc.
SEC v. The Riverview Corp., et al.
In the Matter of Michael S. Shapiro
SEC v. Peter G. Schwartz
In the Matter of Walter Alfred Heyman
SEC v. John T. Moran, et al.

the Matter
the Matter
the Matter
the Matter
the. Matter
the Matter

Release No.

Fraud Against Customer

In the Matter of Carl V. May, Jr.
In the Matter of Jay Kenneth Cox
In the Matter of Ernest E. Michuad, et al.
In the Matter of Gwendolyn Biggs
In the Matter of Jerry M. Thomson
In the Matter of Lynn F. Dickinson
In the Matter of Molly C. Wilson
In the Matter of Conrad B. Topacio
In the Matter of Martin Herer Engelman, et al.
In the Matter of David W. Schamens
In the Matter of Carolina First Securities
Group, Inc.
SEC v. Clement W. McLaughlin, Jr.
In the Matter of Thomas M. Waller
In the Matter of John R. Frye, Jr.
In the Matter of Joseph L. Gaither
SEC v. First Investors Corp.

111

Release No.
In the Matter of First Investors Corp.
In the Matter of Patrick R. Comerford
In the Matter of Clement W. McLaughlin, Jr.
In the Matter of Carlos Fontecilla
In the Matter of Michael J. Liskiewicz
In the Matter of John M. Mickner
SEC v. M. W. Campbell & Co., Ltd., et al.
SEC v. Nicholas Zahareas, et al.
SEC v. Paul Anthony Graver
SEC v. William Joseph Caltabiano, Jr., et al.
SEC v. Karen L. Scherm, et al.
In the Matter of John Mark Hancock
In the Matter of Andrew E. Cafferky, Jr.
In the Matter of Paul Anthony Graver, et al.
SEC v. John L. Morgan, et al.
In the Matter of Gary J. Todryk
SEC v. John E. Arnold
In the Matter of Karen L. Scherm
SEC v. Mark L. Rosenberg
SEC v. Jerry M. Thompson
In the Matter of Dennis Easter
SEC v. Neeraj Bery
SEC v. Jeffrey E. Bonham
In the Matter of Jeffrey E. Bonham
Broker-Dealer:

34-30799
34-30820
34-30827
34-30828
34-30831
34-30853
LR-13290
LR-13293
LR-13292
LR-13298
LR-13313
34-30937
34-30938
34-30939
NONE
34-31017
LR-13356
34-31132
LR-13369
LR-13387
34-31260
LR-13391
LR-13394
34-31270

06/12/92
06/17/92
06/18/92
06/18/92
06/19/92
06/24/92
06/30/92
07/01/92
07/01/92
07/02/92
07/14/92
07/17/92
07/17/92
07/20/92
08/06/92
08/11/92
08/31/92
09/01/92
09/17/92
09/29/92
09/29/92
09/29/92
09/30/92
09/30/92

34-30255

01/16/92

4-30191

01/16/92

LR-13183
34-30612
34-30641
34-30586

03/09/92
04/22/92
04/28/92
04/15/92

LR-13230
34-30721
LR-13246
34-30741
34-31033
LR-13344
34-31193
34-31199
34-31196

05/01/92
OS/20/92
OS/20/92
OS/27/92
08/13/92
08/20/92
09/16/92
09/17/92
09/17/92

Other

In the Matter of Certain Government
Sponsored Enterprises
In the Matter of Certain Government
Sponsored Enterprises
SEC v. Linda K. Rees
In the Matter of Linda K. Rees
In the Matter of Printon, Kane Group, Inc.
In the Matter of National Investment Fund
Inc., et al.
SEC v. Richard Dale Radcliffe
In the Matter of Salomon Brothers Inc.
SEC v. Salomon lnc., et aI.
In the Matter of Kochcapitallnc.,
et al.
In the Matter of Richard Dale Radcliffe
SEC v. James Gordon Rogers
In the Matter of G. Wesley Sodorff, Jr.
In the Matter of Ronald Sunshine
In the Matter of Shearson Lehman Brothers, Inc.

112

Date Filed

Release

~
~
I

In the Matter of Donaldson, Lufkin &
Jenrette Securities Corp.
In the Matter of Richard H. Rutherford

No.

Date Filed

34-31207

09/22/92

34-31246

09/29/92

LR-13062
LR-13102
LR-13377

LR-13377
LR-13405

10/24/91
11/26/91
12/09/91
01/03/92
03/03/92
07/15/92
09/23/92
09/23/92
10/08/92

NONE
NONE

04/23/92
08/07/92

34-30121
34-31261
34-31269
34-31046
34-30878
34-30874
34-30875

12/30/91
09/29/92
09/30/92
08/17/92
07/01/92
06/30/92
06/30/92

34-30732
34-30566

OS/22/92
04/08/92

34-30633
34-30666
34-30715
34-31186
34-31198
34-31250
34-31263

04/27/92
05/06/92
05/19/92
09/16/92
09/17/92
09/29/92
09/30/92

Contempt-Civil
SEC
SEC
SEC
SEC
SEC
SEC
SEC
SEC
SEC

v. Money Systems Inc., et al.
v. Arthur F. Nugent 1/1, et al.
v. Current Financial Services, et al.
v. Vincent Filippazzo Sr.
v. Joseph A. DiBruno
v. Harry Hone
v. Sam J. Recile
v. John Allen Chalk
v. Walter H. Cushman, 1/1

NONE
NONE
NONE
NONE

Contempt-Criminal
U.S. ex rei SEC v. Arden R. Brown
U.S. ex rei SEC v. John A. Meatte

Corporate Control:
In
In
In
In
In
In
In

the Matter of The Uonel Corp.
the Matter of Milo L. Pike
the Matter of Leslie T. Uvingston, et al.
the Matter of Douglas A. Kass
the Matter of In vesco MIM, PLC
the Matter of Leonard P. Bogdan, Jr.
the Matter of BGC Special Equity
Ltd. Partnership, et al.
In the Matter of RIT Acquisition Corp., et aI.
In the Matter of The Krupp Corp., et al.

Delinquent Filings: Forms 3 & 4
In
In
In
In
In
In
In

the
the
the
the
the
the
the

Matter
Matter
Matter
Matter
Matter
Matter
Matter

of
of
of
of
of
of
of

Genesis Investment Corp.
Maximiliam DeClara
Warren C. Cook
Herbert L. Luxenburg
R. Taylor Matthews, Jr.
Ralph R. Shaw
Jacob Y. Temer

113

Release No.
Delinquent

Date Filed

Filings: Issuer Reporting

SEC v. Kenilworth Systems Corp.
SEC v. Physicians Pharmaceutical Services Inc.
In the Matter of Hughes Homes Inc.
In the Matter of U.S. Mint Inc.

LR-13079
LR-13120
34-31036
34-31265

11/06/91
12/12/91
08/13/92
09/30/92

34-30332
LR-13240
LR-13340
LR-13342

02/03/92
05/14/92
08/20/92
08/20/92

LR-13041
34-29836
LR-13053
LR-13129
LR-13135
LR-13145
34-30321
LR-13178
LR-13181
LR-13191
34-30504
LR-13196
LR-13213
LR-13219
34-30674
LR-13248
34-30746
LR-13260
LR-13274
LR-13273
LR-132n
LR-13280
LR-13288
LR-13309
LR-13321
LR-13335
LR-13335
LR-13364
LR-13372
LR-13376
LR-13381
LR-13407

10/10/91
10/18/91
10/21/91
12/23/91
01/02/92
01/24/92
01/31/92
03/02/92
03/09/92
03/18/92
03/20/92
03/20/92
04/06/92
04/09/92
05/07/92
OS/21/92
OS/28/92
06/04/92
06/18/92
06/18/92
06/23/92
06/24/92
06/29/92
07/10/92
07/23/92
08/11/92
08/11/92
09/16/92
09/17/92
09/22/92
09/24/92
10/13/92

Fraud Against Regulated Entities

In the Matter of Peter S. Adler
SEC v. Paul Kutik
SEC v. Edward L. Scherer, et el.
SEC v. Brown & Mueller Investments, Ltd., et al.
Insider Trading

SEC v. Rushton Leigh Ardney, Jr.
In the Matter of Rushton Leigh Ardrey, Jr.
SEC v. Shared Medical Systems Corp., et al.
SEC v. Thomas Roberts, et al.
SEC v. Ernest W. Swanson, et al.
SEC v. Benalder Bayse, Jr.
In the Matter of Brian J. Callahan
SEC v. Robert Toomey, et al.
SEC v. Keith Baity
SEC v. Dilip Shah
In the Matter of Keith Baity
SEC v. Frank Wagner, et aI.
SEC v. Barry H. Glandt, et al.
SEC v. John Acree, et al.
In the Matter of Charles H. Howard, '"

SEC v. Robert W. Navarre /I, et al.
In the Matter of John D. Collins, /I
SEC v. Edward R. Downe, Jr., et aI.
SEC v. Barbara C. Jarvis, et aI.
SEC v. Robert A. Hess
SEC v. Kurt Naegeli
SEC v. N. Donald Morse /I
SEC v. John G. Decker, et al.
SEC v. Albert Laboz, et al.
SEC v. Michael N. Graham, et al.
SEC v. Andrew M. Coden
SEC v. Robert T. Ricketts, et al.
SEC v. Robert Falbo, et aI.
SEC v. Melvin J. Gardner
SEC v. Armondo Felicetti, et al.
SEC v. Hugh Thrasher, et aI.
SEC v. T. B. Strickland, Jr; et al.
114

Release No.

Date Filed

Investment Adviser
SEC v. Denman & Co., et al.
SEC v. G&H Capital Partners Ltd., et al.
In the Matter of Wesley Allen Douglas
Campbell, et al.
SEC v. Treasury First Inc., et al.
SEC v. Leroy S. Brenna, et al.
In the Matter of Frank Rollins Maxwell
SEC v. Public Funding Group, Inc., et al.
In the Matter of Institutional Treasury
Management Inc., et al.
SEC v. G. Albert Griggs, Jr., et al.
In the Matter of G. Albert Griggs, Jr.
In the Matter of Summit Financial
Advisory, Inc., et al.
In the Matter of Steven D. Wymer
In the Matter of First Investors
Management Co., Inc.
In the Matter of M&llnvestment
Management Corp.
In the Matter of William Gumerman
SEC v. David T. Le Vaughn, et al.
In the Matter of Specialty Advisors Corp.
SEC v. Harrah Associates Ltd., et al.
In the Matter of Dimitri Balatsos
In the Matter of John T. Hall
In the Matter of Cheshire Hall Advisors, Inc.
SEC v. Bonnie Mae White
In the Matter of James Douglas Donahue
SEC v. Shield Group Inc., et al.
SEC v. Ashland Capital Management, Inc., et al.
In the Matter of Earl Fallen
In the Matter of Alisandro Aponte
In the Matter of Stephen C. Schulmerich, et al.
In the Matter of Lynn Elgert, Inc., et al.
In the Matter of Ashland Capital Management, Inc.
In the Matter of Douglas W. Polite, Jr., et al.
In the Matter of Walter L. Harrah, 1/1
In the Matter of J. H. Ayres & Co., Inc., et al.
SEC v. Khalsa Financial Services, Inc., et al.
In the Matter of American Foresight, Inc.
In the Matter of Thomas F. Heffernan
SEC v. Carona & Hodges Management, Inc., et al.
SEC v. Michael A. Whelchel, et al.

NONE
LR-13044
IA 1291

12/09/91
10/15/91
10/22/91

LR-13094
LR-13116
IA 1300
LR-13192
A-1309

11/19/91
12/10/91
02/24/92
03/18/92
04/27/92

LR-13247
IA-1311
IA-1312

OS/21/92
OS/28/92
06/04/92

IA-1315
IA-1316

06/09/92
06/12/92

IA-1318
IA-1319
LR-13316
IA-1321
LR-13334
IA-1324
IA-1327
IA-1326
NONE
IA-1331
NONE
LR-13367
IA-1337
IA-1341
IA-1338
IA-1339
IA-1340
IA-1342
IA-1344
IA-1348
NONE
IA-1350
IA-1351
LR-13395
LR-13399

06/30/92
06/30/92
07/15/92
07/20/92
08/10/92
08/18/92
08/25/92
08/25/92
08/25/92
09/01/92
09/15/92
09/16/92
09/17/92
09/21/92
09/21/92
09/21/92
09/21/92
09/23/92
09/24/92
09/29/92
09/29/92
09/30/92
09/30/92
10/02/92
10/06/92

115

Release No.

Date Filed

Investment Company
SEC v. Alpine Mutual Fund Trust
In the Matter of Benalder Bayse, Jr.
In the Matter of William H. Pike
In the Matter of Thomas G. Cummings
In the Matter of Public Funding Group

tnc., et al.

LR-13101
IC 18570
IC 18601
IC 18624
JA-1346

11/21/91
02/26/92
03/05/92
03/23/92
09/25/92

AAER 334
AAER 336
AAER335
AAER 337
AAER 350
AAER344
34.30069
AAER346
AAER347
AAER 353
AAER354
AAER 356
LR-13179
AAER357
LR-13191
LR-13191
AAER363
AAER364
AAER 365
AAER 366
AAER368
AAER369
AAER370
AAER371
AAER380
AAER 381
AAER387
AAER389
AAER 391
AAER394
AAER395
AAER398
AAER433
AAER400
AAER 401
AAER402
LR-13333
AAER404

10/24/91
10/28/91
10/28/91
10/31/91
11/15/91
12/10/91
12/12/91
12/12/91
12/12/91
01/31/92
01/31/92
03/02/92
03/03/92
03/03/92
03/18/92
03/18/92
03/31/92
03/31/92
03/31/92
04/06/92
04/14/92
04/16/92
04/22/92
04/24/92
05/06/92
05/06/92
OS/27/92
06/17/92
06/22/92
06/30/92
07/01/92
07/13/92
07/16/92
07/30/92
08/04/92
08/04/92
08/06/92
08/11/92

Issuer Financial Disclosure
SEC v. Walter F. Buce
SEC v. Richard B. Hayes
SEC v. NECO Enterprises Inc., et al.
In the Matter of Walter F. Buce
SEC v. Specialty Retail Concepts Inc., et al.
In the Matter of Steven C. Wolfe, Sr.
In the Matter of Ernest C. Garcia
SEC v. Charles H. Keating Jr., et al.
SEC v. Ernest Garcia 11/
In the Matter of Kenneth A. Huff
In the Matter of William P. Lorea
In the Matter of Amre, lnc., et al.
SEC v. Byron Woody Conradt
SEC v. Robert Levin, et al.
SEC v. Ashok Patel
SEC v. Pharmaceutical Resources, Inc.
In the Matter of Caterpillar Inc.
In the Matter of D. Spencer Nilson
In the Matter of John R. Schoemer, et al.
SEC v. George R. Thompson
In the Matter Artie S. Hope, CPA
In the Matter of Kenneth E. Hassebroek
In the Matter of Abington Bancorp, Inc.
SEC v. College Bound Inc., et aI.
In the Matter of James Dougan, CPA
In the Matter of Michael Briggs, CPA
SEC v. Thomas M. Egan, et al.
SEC v. Albert Barette, et al.
In the Matter of Jerry Bernstein, CPA
In the Matter of Mac M. Martirossian
SEC v. Programming & Systems, Inc.
In the Matter of Leroy P. Studer, CPA
SEC v. G. William Theriault, et al.
In the Matter of Robert A. Dominques, et al.
In the Matter of Mark Sauter
In the Matter of JUdy Wischer
SEC v. Southeast First Capital Corp., et al.
In the Matter of Denis Lustig, CPA
116

In the Matter of Wayne F. Sloop, CPA
In the Matter of Andrew Ugget, CPA
SEC v. NRG International, Inc., et aI.
In the Matter of Matthew Grant, et al.
SEC v. Harold Fischman
In the Matter of Harold Fischman
In the Matter of Mark Baker
In the Matter of Larry G. Baker, CPA
In the Matter of Philip Kagan
SEC v. Barry J. Kaplan
In the Matter of Presidential Life Corp.
SEC v. William Menyhert, et al.
SEC v. Raymond Goulet, et al.
In the Matter of Thomas Page Taylor, CPA
In the Matter of Agnes E. Jenkins
In the Matter of Lexington Precision Corp.
In the Matter of James C. Andrus, CPA
SEC v. Joseph F. Murphy
SEC v. James N. Von Germeten
In the Matter of Milton M. Trujillo, CPA
SEC v. Information Management
Technologies, et al
SEC v. Burton A. Waisbren, Jr.

Release No.

Date Filed

AAER 406
AAER 408
AAER407
AAER 410
AAER411
AAER413
AAER414
AAER415
34-31205
NONE
AAER 416
AAER417
LR-13468
AAER420
AAER421
AAER 422
AAER424
AAER425
AAER 426
AAER 423
AAER 427

08/13/92
08/18/92
08/20/92
08/24/92
08/25/92
09/03/92
09/03/92
09/16/92
09/18/92
09/21/92
09/22/92
09/22/92
09/25/92
09/28/92
09/29/92
09/29/92
09/30/92
09/30/92
09/30/92
09/30/92
10/06/92

AAER434

12/04/92

LR-13100
NONE
NONE

11/21/91
12/02/91
02/24/92

LR-13028
AAER 385
AAER 390
34-31257
34-31259
LR-13390
34-31258

10/07/91
OS/22/92
06/15/92
09/29/92
09/29/92
09/29/92
09/30/92

34-29829
LR-13052
34-29942
34-30059
34-30061
34-30060
34-30302

10/17/91
10/21/91
11/14/91
12/10/91
12/10/91
12/10/91
01/29/92

Issuer Related Party Transactions Disclosure
SEC v. Richard Grassgreen, et al.
In the Matter of Richard Grassgreen
SEC v. International Communications

Specialists

Issuer Reporting: Other
SEC v. ICN Pharmaceuticals, Inc., et al.
In the Matter of Robert J. lommazzo, CPA
SEC v. Gary C. Hughes, et aI.
In the Matter of Michael P. Neary
In the Matter of Robert F. Conley
SEC v. Philip H. Talbert, et aI.
In the Matter of James F. Ferguson

Market Manipulation
In the Matter of
SEC v. Maurice
In the Matter of
In the Matter of
In the Matter of
In the Matter of
In the Matter of

Mildred Faye Breuer
A. Halperin, et aI.
Roth Securities Co., Inc.
Martin Hirsh
Raymond Morris
Patrick Moore
Charles M. Zsrzecki

117

Release No.
In the Matter of Bruce L. Newberg
In the Matter of Raphael Bloom, et al.
SEC v. Eldon Weber
SEC v. Harold L. Fisher
In the Matter of Harold L. Fisher
SEC v. Edward A. Accomando, et al.
SEC v. Victor M. Wexler, et al.
In the Matter of Peter G. Schwartz
In the Matter of Alan M. Stern
In the Matter of David S. Borsak
SEC v. Joseph Pandolfino, Jr.
In the Matter of Gary Ira Tucker
In the Matter of Randal C. Forman
In the Matter of Peter E. Butler
In the Matter of Alan Diamond
In the Matter of Dennis Denoble
In the Matter of Richard Arale, et al.
In the Matter of Securities Settlement Corp.
In the Matter of Paul L. Miano
In the Matter of Barry W Fortner
In the Matter of Matthew L. Wager
In the Matter of Jeffrey R. Leach
In the Matter of Mark P. Malenfant
In the Matter of Myron S. Levin
In the Matter of Scott Segal
In the Matter of Robert Schlien
In the Matter of Rene Philippart
SEC v. Robert C. Valerius
In the Matter of Robert C. Valerius
In the Matter of Victor Goldman
SEC v. Randal C. Forman
SEC v. Troy C. Burninshaw
In the Matter of Robert Gary Lewis
SEC v. James H. Fors, et al.

34-30301
34-30373
LR-13177
LR-13184
34-30546
LR-13222
LR-13225
34-30631
34-30707
34-30708
LR-13250
34-30745
34-30742
34-30788
34-30791
34-30846
34-30869
34-30868
34-30915
34-30931
34-31009
34-31007
34-31035
34-31124
34-31144
34-31147
34-31158
LR-13363
34-31180
34-31210

NONE
NONE
34-31224

NONE

Date Filed
01/29/92
02/14/92
02/28/92
03/09/92
04/01/92
04/09/92
04/22/92
04/23/92
05/18/92
05/18/92
OS/26/92
OS/27/92
OS/27/92
06/08/92
06/10/92
06/22/92
06/30/92
06/30/92
07/13/92
07/16/92
08/06/92
08/06/92
08/13/92
09/01/92
09/03/92
09/03/92
09/04/92
09/09/92
09/14/92
09/22/92
09/22/92
09/23/92
09/23/92
09/30/92

Offering Violations (By Non-Regulated Entities)
SEC v. Donald Coleman, et al.
SEC v. Westdon Holding & Investment, Inc., et al.
SEC v. Ray H. Kobayashi, et aI.
SEC v. Donald W Wright
In the Matter of Norman Nouskajian
SEC v. Caribbean Select, Inc., et al.
SEC v. Edward Morris, et al.
SEC v. Great Southwest Energy Inc., et al.
SEC v. Oxford Capital Securities tnc., et aI.
SEC v. Metro Display Advertising, Inc., et aI.
In the Matter of Howard K Schwartz
118

AAER330
LR-13085
LR-13111
LR-13110
33-6923
LR-13139
AAER352
LR-13158
LR-13160
LR-13162

NONE

10/09/91
11/07/91
12/05/91
12/05/91
01/16/92
01/16/92
01/27/92
02/05/92
02/06/92
02/07/92
02/26/92

Release No.
In the Matter of DG Bank (Schweiz) AG
SEC v. Jimmie F. Straw, et al.
In the Matter of Irving Technology Inc.
In the Matter of Cross Research Corp.
SEC v. Gary L. Blatter
SEC v. Jedi Group Umited, et al.
SEC v. Lexco Operating Co., et al.
SEC v. Custom Trading International Corp., et al.
In the Matter of Michael A. Clark
In the Matter of State Bank of Pakistan
In the Matter of Daniel C. Montano, et al.
SEC v. Silver Bow Resources &
Chemical Corp., et al.
In the Matter of David R. Yeaman, et al.
SEC v. Thomas C. Hollenshead
SEC v. Bach Energy Corp., et al.
SEC v. Harry E. Fleischhauer, et al.
SEC v. Jan W. Olson
In the Matter of Benjamin G. Sprecher
SEC v. William J. Fritz, et al.
SEC v. Q Consulting Inc., et al.
SEC v. Interactive Medical Technologies,
Ltd., et al.
SEC v. Marvin H. Katz
SEC v. Donald M. Greth
SEC v. Herbert M. Schneider, et al.
SEC v. Michael D. Wozniak, et al.
SEC v. Chaparral Mining Corp., et aI.
SEC v. Anthony J. Anello
SEC v. Richard H. Wright, Sr., et al.
SEC v. Karl L. Dahlstrom, et al.
SEC v. Electronic Medical Management Inc., et al.

Date Filed

34-30446
LR-13189
33-6930
33-6929
LR-13207
LR-13206
LR-13208
LR-13229
33-6936
33-6937
33-6938
LR-13257

03/05/92
03/13/92
03/20/92
03/20/92
03/27/92
03/27/92
04/06/92
04/24/92
04/27/92
05/06/92
05/13/92
06/01/92

34-30845
LR-13284
LR-13328
LR-13324
NONE
34-30985
LR-13338
NONE
LR-13354

06/22/92
06/29/92
07/16/92
07/26/92
07/29/92
07/31/92
08/13/92
08/17/92
08/26/92

LR-13365
NONE
LR-13381
LR-13383
AAER428
LR-13402
LR-13419
LR-13429
LR-13437

09/16/92
09/21/92
09/29/92
09/29/92
10/06/92
10/07/92
10/28/92
11/10/92
11/18/92

34-30165

01/08/91

34-29838

10/18/91

34-29943
LR-13104
34-29999
IA 1297

11/14/91
11/26/91
11/26/91
12/19/91

LR-13131
34-30307
LR-13171
LR-13172

12/20/91
01/30/92
02/20/92
02/20/92

Offering Violations (By Regulated Entities)
In the Matter of PDS Securities International,
Inc., et al.
In the Matter of Cardinal Financial Planning,
Inc., et al.
In the Matter of Paulson Investment Co., et al.
SEC v. Rebecca M. Mendenhall, et aI.
In the Matter of John J. Marston
In the Matter of Baskin Planning Consultants, Ltd.,
etal.
SEC v. Condrin Oil Corp., et al.
In the Matter of Hovhanness K. Freeland
SEC v. Deepak Gulati, et al.
SEC v. Guy S. Cohen, et al.

119

Release No.
In the Matter of Joseph A. Hurton
In the Matter of Thomas D. Kienlen Corp., et al.
In the Matter of Joseph-Sep Salduk Graham
SEC v. Stratton Oakmont Inc., et al.
In the Matter of Robert E. Cohen
In the Matter of Carol Catherine Martino
In the Matter of Wellshire Securities Inc.
In the Matter of Robert I. Dowd
In the Matter of Guy S. Cohen
In the Matter of Gregory Christian
In the Matter of Herbert M. Schneider
In the Matter of Stephen J. Klos
SEC v. AMI Securities Inc., et al.
In the Matter of Louis Soqui
SEC v. Bassam Haje, et al.
SEC v. James Douglas Donahue, et al.
SEC v. Wiliam E. Tully, et al.
SEC v. Omni Capital Group, Ltd., et al.
SEC v. Randall Craig Hutchens
SEC v. Sunaco Energy Inc., et al.
In the Matter of Paul A. Wilbur
In the Matter of Rosemary Grady
In the Matter of David
Williams
In the Matter of DTI Financial, Inc.
In the Matter of D. Gulati & Associates, Inc.
In the Matter of Deepak Gulati
In the Matter of Broker Services, Inc.
In the Matter of David T. Marantette, //I
In the Matter of Philip R. Gratz
In the Matter of Peter C. Calcutta
In the Matter of Roger L. Main
In the Matter of Glenn A. Main, //I
In the Matter of Robert Elderkin
In the Matter of Gregory Maxcy
In the Matter of Managed Advisory Services,
tnc., et al.
In the Matter of Barry Alan Larson
In the Matter of Foster Brawner Financial
Services inc., et al.
SEC v. Dana L. Anderson, et al.

w:

Date Filed

34-30397
IA 1302
34-30483
LR-13195
34-30543
34-30545
34-30544
34-30567
34-30578
34-30632
34-30713
34-30723
LR-13258
34-30790
LR-13272
LR-13276
LR-13275
LR-13295
LR-13331
LR-13352
34-31067
34-31073
34-31068
34-31109
IA-1328
JA-1329
JA-1330
34-31136
34-31192
34-31200
34-31231
34-31230
34-31239
34-31232
34-31229

02/24/92
03/04/92
03/17/92
03/20/92
04/01/92
04/01/92
04/01/92
04/08/92
04/13/92
04/27/92
05/18/92
OS/21/92
06/02/92
06/10/92
06/17/92
06/18/92
06/18/92
07/01/92
08/05/92
08/20/92
08/24/92
08/24/92
08/24/92
08/27/92
08/27/92
08/27/92
09/01/92
09/02/92
09/16/92
09/17/92
09/24/92
09/24/92
09/24/92
09/24/92
09/24/92

34-31256
IA-1349

09/29/92
09/30/92

LR-13406

10/08/92

34-29902
34-30601
34-30600
34-30599

11/05/91
04/20/92
04/20/92
04/20/92

Transfer Agent
In
In
In
In

the
the
the
the

120

Matter
Matter
Matter
Matter

of
of
of
of

James F. Morphew
Linda James Marriott
Gena Marie Laiacona
James A. Laiacona

Release No.
In the Matter of American Registrar and
Transfer Company
In the Matter of Kent Knigge
In the Matter of General Securities Transfer Agency
Inc, et al.
In the Matter of Over the Counter Stock
Transfer, Inc.

Date Filed

34-30765

06/01/92

34-30764
34-31185

06/01/92
09/16/92

34-31214

09/22/92

121

Right to Financial Privacy

Section 21(h) of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934 [15 U.S.c. 78u(h)(6)]
requires that the Commission "compile an annual tabulation of the occasions
on which the Commission used each separate subparagraph or clause of
[Section 21(h)(2)] or the provisions of the Right to Financial Privacy Act
of 1978 [12 U.S.c. 3401-22 (the RFPA)] to obtain access to financial records
of a customer and include it in its annual report to the Congress." During
the fiscal year, the Commission made two applications to a court for an
order pursuant to the subparagraphs
and clauses of Section 21(h)(2) to
obtain access to financial records of a customer. Set forth below are the
number of occasions on which the Commission obtained customer records
pursuant to the provisions of the RFP A:
Section 1104 (Customer

Authorizations)

Section 1105 (Administrative

Subpoenas)

Section 1107 (Judicial Subpoenas)

122

2
288
33

Foreign Restricted List

The Securities and Exchange Commission maintains and publishes
a Foreign Restricted List which is designed to put broker-dealers, financial
institutions, investors and others on notice of possible unlawful distributions
of foreign securities in the United States. The list consists of names of
foreign companies whose securities the Commission has reason to believe
have been, or are being offered for public sale in the United States in
possible violation of the registration requirement of Section 5 of the
5ecuri ties Act of 1933. The offer and sale of unregistered securi ties depri ves
investors of all the protections afforded by the Securities Act of 1933,
including the right to receive a prospectus containing the information
required by the Act for the purpose of enabling the investor to determine
whether the investment is suitable. While most broker-dealers refuse to
effect transactions in securities issued by companies on the Foreign
Restricted List, this does not necessarily prevent promoters from illegally
offering such securities directly to investors in the United States by mail,
by telephone, and sometimes by personal solicitation. The following foreign
corporations and other foreign entities comprise the Foreign Restricted
List.
1.
2.
3.
4.
5.
6.
7.
8.
9.
10.
11.
12.
13.
14.
15.
16.
17.
18.
19.
20.
21.
22.
23.
24.
25.
26.

Aguacate Consolidated Mines, Incorporated (Costa Rica)
Alan MacTavish, Ltd. (England)
Allegheny Mining and Exploration Company, Ltd. (Canada)
Allied Fund for Capital Appreciation (AFCA, S.A.) (Panama)
Amalgamated Rare Earth Mines, Ltd. (Canada)
American Industrial Research S.A., also known as
Investigation Industrial Americana, 5.A. (Mexico)
American International Mining (Bahamas)
American Mobile Telephone and Tape Co., Ltd. (Canada)
Antel International Corporation, Ltd. (Canada)
Antoine Silver Mines, Ltd. (Canada)
ASCA Enterprisers Limited (Hong Kong)
Atholl Brose (Exports) Ltd. (England)
Atholl Brose Ltd. (England)
Atlantic and Pacific Bank and Trust Co., Ltd. (Bahamas)
Bank of Sark (Sark, Channel Islands, U.K.)
Briar Court Mines, Ltd. (Canada)
British Overseas Mutual Fund Corporation Ltd. (Canada)
California & Caracas Mining Corp., Ltd. (Canada)
Caprimex, Inc. (Grand Cayman, British West Indies)
Canterra Development Corporation, Ltd. (Canada)
Cardwell Oil Corporation, Ltd. (Canada)
Caribbean Empire Company, Ltd. (British Honduras)
Caye Chapel Club, Ltd. (British Honduras)
Central and Southern Industries Corp. (Panama)
Cerro Azul Coffee Plantation (Panama)
Cia. Rio Banano, S.A. (Costa Rica)
123

27.
28.
29.
30.
31.
32.
33.
34.
35.
36.
37.
38.
39.
40.
41.
42.
43.
44.
45.
46.
47.
48.
49.
50.
51.
52.
53.
54.
55.
56.
57.
58.
59.
60.
61.
62.
63.
64.
65.
66.
67.
68.
69.
70.
71.
72.
124

City Bank A.5. (Denmark)
Claw Lake Molybdenum Mines, Ltd. (Canada)
Claravella Corporation (Costa Rica)
Compressed Air Corporation, Limited (Bahamas)
Continental and Southern Industries, S.A. (Panama)
Crossroads Corporation, 5.A. (Panama)
Darien Exploration Company, S.A. (Panama)
Derkglen, Ltd. (England)
De Veers Consolidated Mining Corporation, S.A. (Panama)
Doncannon Spirits, Ltd. (Bahamas)
Durman, Ltd. Formerly known as Bankers International
Investment Corporation (Bahamas)
Empresia Minera Caudalosa de-Panama, S.A. (Panama)
Ethel Copper Mines, Ltd. (Canada)
Euroforeign Banking Corporation, Ltd. (Panama)
Finansbanker a/ s (Denmark)
First Liberty Fund, Ltd. (Bahamas)
General Mining S.A. (Canada)
Global Explorations, Inc. (Panama)
Global Insurance, Company, Limited (British West Indies)
Globus Anlage-Vermittlungsgesell-schaft
MBH (Germany)
Golden Age Mines, Ltd. (Canada)
Hebilla Mining Corporation (Costa Rica)
Hemisphere Land Corporation Limited (Bahamas)
Henry Ost & Son, Ltd. (England)
Hotelera Playa Flamingo, S.A.
Intercontinental Technologies Corp. (Canada)
International Communications Corporation (British West Indies)
International Monetary Exchange (Panama)
International Trade Development of Costa Rica, S.A.
Ironco Mining & Smelting Company, Ltd. (Canada)
James G. Allan & Sons (Scotland)
[ojoba Oil & Seed Industries S.A. (Costa Rica)
Jupiter Explorations, Ltd. (Canada)
Kenilworth Mines, Ltd. (Canada)
Klondike Yukon Mining Company (Canada)
KoKanee Moly Mines, Ltd. (Canada)
Land Sales Corporation (Canada)
Los Dos Hermanos, S.A. (Spain)
Lynbar Mining Corp. Ltd. (Canada)
Massive Energy Ltd. (Canada)
Mercantile Bank and Trust & Co., Ltd. (Cayman Island)
Multireal Properties, Inc. (Canada)
J.P. Morgan & Company, Ltd., of London, England (not to
be confused with J.P. Morgan & Co., Incorporated, New York)
Norart Minerals Limited (Canada)
Normandie Trust Company, S.A. (Panama)
Northern Survey (Canada)

73.
74.
75.
76.
77.
78.
79.
80.
81.
82.
83.
84.
85.
86.
87.
88.
89.
90.
91.
92.
93.
94.
95.
96.
97.
98.
99.
100.
101.
102.
103.
104.
105.
106.
107.
108.

Northern Trust Company, S.A. (Switzerland)
Northland Minerals, Ltd. (Canada)
Obsco Corporation, Ltd. (Canada)
Pacific Northwest Developments, Ltd. (Canada)
Pan-Alaska Resources, S.A. (Panama)
Panamerican Bank & Trust Company (Panama)
Pascar Oils Ltd. (Canada)
Paul pic Gold Mines, Ltd. (Canada)
Pyrotex Mining and Exploration Co., Ltd. (Canada)
Radio Hill Mines Co., Ltd. (Canada)
Rancho San Rafael, S.A. (Costa Rica)
Rodney Gold Mines Limited (Canada)
Royal Greyhound and Turf Holdings Limited (South Africa)
S.A. Valles & Co., Inc. (Philippines)
San Salvador Savings & Loan Co., Ltd. (Bahamas)
Santack Mines Limited (Canada)
Security Capital Fiscal & Guaranty Corporation S.A. (Panama)
Silver Stack Mines, Ltd. (Canada)
Societe Anonyme de Refinancement (Switzerland)
Strathmore Distillery Company, Ltd. (Scotland)
Strathross Blending Company Limited (England)
Swiss Caribbean Development & Finance Corporation
(Switzerland)
Tam O'Shanter, Ltd. (Switzerland)
Timberland (Canada)
Trans-American Investments, Limited (Canada)
Trihope Resources, Ltd. (West Indies)
Trust Company of Jamaica, Ltd. (West Indies)
United Mining and Milling Corporation (Bahamas)
Unitrust Limited (Ireland)
Vacationland (Canada)
Valores de Inversion, S.A. (Mexico)
Victoria Oriente, Inc. (Panama)
Warden Walker Worldwide Investment Co. (England)
Wee Gee Uranium Mines, Ltd. (Canada)
Western International Explorations, Ltd. (Bahamas)
Yukon Wolverine Mining Company (Canada)

125

Self-Regulatory Organizations:
Sheet Structure

Expenses, Pre-tax Income and Balance

In 1991, the total revenues of all self-regulatory organizations (SROs)
with marketplace jurisdiction rose approximately $52.7 million, an increase
of approximately 6.1 % from 1990 (1990 recognized a .7% decrease below
1989; 1989 a 5.1% increase over 1988). The New York Stock Exchange
(NYSE), National Association of Securities Dealers (NASD), American
Stock Exchange (Am ex) and the Chicago Board Options Exchange (CBOE)
accounted for 83.8% of all SRO total revenues, up from 82.3% in 1990, which
was up from 79.5% in 1989. The SROs' revenues were earned primarily
from listing, trading and market data fees. The NYSE reported total
revenues of $374.5 million, up 7.4% from 1990, of which 37% consisted
of listing fees, 20% consisted of trading fees, and 14% consisted of market
data fees. The Amex reported total revenues of $100.9 million (of which
11% consisted of listing fees), down 5.4% from 1990. The CBOE reported
total revenues of $77.5 million, up 6.1 % from the previous year. The NASD
reported an increase in total revenues of $33 million, or 18%, to $215.6
million. Other SROs reporting revenue increases were the Philadelphia
Stock Exchange (Phlx) which reported a $280,000 increase, or 1.4%, to $20.7
million, and the Pacific Stock Exchange (PSE), which reported a $1.4 million
increase in revenues, or 3.6%, to $39.7 million. Other SROs that reported
a decrease in revenues were the Midwest Stock Exchange (MSE), which
reported a $5.9 million decrease, or 7.6%, to $71.1 million; the Boston
Stock Exchange (BSE) which reported a $575,000, or 4.3%, decrease to $12.8
million; the Cincinnati Stock Exchange (CSE), which reported a $138,000,
or 3.6% decrease, to $3.7 million. The largest percentage increase in total
revenues, 18%, was experienced by the NASD. The NASD also reported
the largest magnitude increase of $33 million. The largest percentage
decrease, 7.6%, was recorded by the MSE.
The total expenses of all marketplace SROs were $832.7 million in
1991, a decrease of $13.7 million (1.6%) below 1990. The NASD incurred
the largest magnitude increase in expenses, $10.9 million.
The MSE
incurred an increase of $106,000, or.1 %, in expenses, and the CSE incurred
a $41,000, or 1.1%, increase in expenses. All other SROs reported decreases
in expenses, with the NYSE reporting the largest percentage and magnitude
decreases, equalling 5.2% and $17.5 million. With an increase in aggregate
revenues and a decrease in aggregate expenses, aggregate pre-tax income
of the SRO's rose drastically in 1991 by $76.9 million, or 1090%. The NYSE
experienced the largest magni tude increase of $54 million, and also reported
the largest percentage increase in pre-tax income of 1770%. The NASD
also showed a large increase in pre-tax income of $22 million, or 282%.
The BSE, CBOE, Phlx, and PSE all reported increases in pre-tax income.
The MSE reported a decrease of $5.98 million in pre-tax income, the CSE
reported a $180,000 pre-tax income decrease (resulting in pre-tax income
of $12,000) and the Amex showed a decrease of $2.7 million in pre-tax
income. The MSE ($3.4 million), the Amex ($2.3 million), and the Phlx
($652,800) reported pre-tax losses.
126

The total assets of all marketplace SROs were $1,543 million, an
increase of $256 million, or 20%. The MSE showed both the largest
magnitude and percentage increase in total assets, equalling $279 million,
or 98.5%. The NASD reported a large increase in assets of $38.9 million,
or 18%. The NYSE also reported a large increase in assets, equalling $81.4
million or 17.4%. The PSE reported the largest percentage decrease, 15.1%,
in assets and the largest magnitude drop of $7.6 million. The Amex and
the CBOE also reported decreases in total assets. The total liabilities of
marketplace SROs in 1991, increased $220.9 million, or 32.6%, over 1990
levels. The MSE showed the greatest magnitude increase in liabilities of
$151.7 million or 59.7%. The Phi x reported the greatest percentage increase
in liabilities of 71.3%. The NYSE also reported a large increase in liabilities,
equalling $69.6 million or 29.6%. The NASD increased liabilities by $12.4
million, an increase of 21.5%. The CSE and BSE also reported increases
in liabilities. The PSE reported the largest decrease in liabilities of $8.4
million (26.2%), while the Amex reported a 9.9% decrease in liabilities and
the CBOE reported a 9.4% decrease in liabilities.
The aggregate net worth of the marketplace SROs rose $35.2 million
in 1991, an increase of 5.8%. The largest percentage and magnitude
increase in net worth occurred at the NASD, 16.7%, representing an
increase of $26.5 million. The NYSE's net worth increased by $11.8 million
(5.1%). The PSE (4.2%), CBOE (2.4%), BSE (2.2%), and the CSE (1%) also
experienced positive growth in their net worth. The MSE (10.7%), the Phlx
(3%) and the Amex (1.7%) experienced a decrease in net worth.
Clearing agency results have been presented in two charts by their
respective types: depositories and clearing corporations. Aggregate clearing
agency service revenue increased 11%, almost $41 million, in calendar year
1991, due to increases in income from services. This increase offset a
reduction in interest income of 22%, or $24 million. All clearing agencies
adjust fee structures and refunds of fees to provide participants with
attractively priced services, and to meet expenses and provide the amount
of earnings which they desire to retain.
All service revenues at depositories totaled $259 million, up 13%. This
included $31.6 million increase by the Depository Trust Company (DTC)
and a $1.5 million reduction at the Midwest Securities Trust Company
(MSTC), both due to changes in service revenues. Total depository pretax income was down 83%, to almost $448,000. The Participants Trust
Company reported pre-tax net income of $4.1 million, as compared to $1.4
million in 1990. MSTC recorded a loss of $3.7 million in 1991, compared
to a loss of $492,000 in pre-tax profits in 1990. The Philadelphia Stock
Exchange (PSE) had a loss of $172,000 in contrast with the year-earlier
pre-tax loss of $343,000.
The depositories continued to expand their base for service revenues
by increasing the number of shares on deposit and the face value of debt
securities in custody. This was made possible by the further expansion
of depository-eligible
issues and the desire of participants
to avail
themselves of depository services. The MSTC had 987,000 eligible issues
at year-end, up 11%, and DTC had 929,000, up 12%. In general, eligibility
127

for all types of securities increased. At the end of 1991, the total value
of securities in the depository system reached $5.6 trillion, of which DTC
alone held over $5.0 trillion, including almost $2.4 trillion in certificates
held by others as DTC's agent. More than 67% of the shares of all New
York Stock Exchange, 46% of NASDAQ and 42% of American Stock Exchange
listed U. S. companies were in the depository system at the end of 1991.
In addition, more than 89% of the principal amount of all outstanding
municipal bonds were in the depository system.
Service revenue of clearing corporations increased to over $150 million,
up 8%. As a group, the clearing corporations recorded a net decrease in
pre-tax income of almost $1 million, down 9%. The Midwest Clearing
Corporation's pre-tax income was down over $4 million as a result of a
$3.2 million provision for legal, audit and other expenses pursuant to a
lawsuit relating to certain clearance and settlement practices.
The
Government Securities Clearing Corporation,
in which the National
Securities Clearing Corporation (NSCC) has an 18% equity interest, had
an increase of almost $2 million, compared to a loss of $1.2 million the
previous year. The Options Clearing Corporation refunded its pre-tax gain
to its participants, as opposed to a $1.5 million pre-tax income in the prior
year. NSCC's pre-tax earnings increased almost $1.2 million.
The combined Pacific Clearing Corporation (PCC) and Pacific Securities
Depository Trust Company (PSDTC) had a pre-tax gain of over $1 million,
up 36%. In April 1987, the PSE announced the closure of the clearance
and depository functions not essential to PSE's trading operations.
An
orderly transition of participant activities to other clearing agencies occurred
with most of the securities held by PSDTC transferred to DTe. An initial
$1 million reserve for potential claims was established and increased in
subsequent years by $355,000. The remaining reserve was $921,000 as of
the end of 1991. The combined stockholders' equity of PCC and PSDTC
was almost $7.2 million at the end of 1991. Their parent corporation, PSE,
which guarantees the liabilities of PCC and PSDTC, reported members'
equity of $19.2 million at the end of 1991.
The aggregate shareholders' equity of all clearing corporations and
depositories rose to almost $102 million in 1991. Participant clearing fund
contributions, which provide protection to the clearing agencies in the
event of a participant default, increased by $397 million, or 24%, to over
$2 billion.

128

.....

N~cDN

~"":cD"":

::e~~~

C"')CCf'.m

q(QCQCO

~~~~

w

en

en

::e~ I I

II

~s;

CJ)

c;r:::~~

......cnC")~

~


en co

..... COMN
IOCOr-O

M.696969

aa I I

~g

II

I I :e:;;: I I

N~

C/)

z

......
.,...OLl)
Nco..CD

..... "'Il:I"LnN
N('l")"'Il:I" .....

o

..... U)C"')O)

,....1.1)..,. .....

C")("')C")C")

&rioicOa;
......................

«im cD a:J-

~
Z
~

NCQOCO

en,.....

a:
o
>a:

<c

..... U')NLn

co

""':~C"iLri

~
~ .....

0;

~

;:::.

.....O ......
N

w
:>

10

C')

a

II) 0
0 .....

ooC"ir...:
N~
..,

en

::J

~
'"

z

a:

~I
'0

alo~-g
!;;(,...

o

s

('I')C")Ll)f'-

NCO

Ul

~Q)

~LnO

(Q....... ""II:t

N'.,..:,...:

Ul

Q)

.....

..

CO ...... ,....,

C\I ..... "l:1' .....
(J)C")O)(,D
..... 0)"l:1'0)

o;;LtiOQ"~

....................co
C") ~

.................
N

~ 5
a:
E
o
~
u,
...J

cD cD"": 0

cDNN..n
Ll) co CO..-

1--CJ)al

~

..-cn
cal.n

N

r--lL.CJ)

dlO~O
:t5z '

...... NCX)O
..... U')NCD
cn .....CON

""'''''II:tc:.nC')

w
C/),...c

U')

"""O(OC'\I
(I') 0 .....
C\I
co U') ~ In

-.t:irD~~
,.... ..................

;:::.

w
en
u

U
Z

ocr Ll) Ll) N
..:r....- coco

~

O"'l:tCDC")
CD ,.... co en
r-, ('11')1" 0

NO)NN

..-"
0
co
,.....r:C
........n
,......

i:L

c

ai~o).n
U') It) ..,. "'Il:I"

w

~

:J

o
C/)
z
o
o

...

w

en
l:D

NCOCQCC

omeno
O)""II:t

.....

CO

~NC"iN

........................

cc ......
C")c;)
cnOLnO
"'Il:I"COC"')C"')

(")cD ~

~~~

~l8~;g
CD ...... cn"'ll:l"
N N C\I '"

~~

NCONCD

.. .. ..

LLiai'ariri

~

~;g~:£

........
NNO
r- co co co

~

~

129

C/)

Z

o
~

o
a.

a:

o
o

~N~
~~~
~""2

..

C)~
Zc/)

a:W

«c/)

WZCI)

...JW

ua.~

....

,xo

Wo

COc/)-o_

<DZC:O
lOCI)

:CO

~i=f3-g

r5::Jm
-Z:J

ZWO

C3[ij~
a: a:
0,..

>-m

a:,..

o
~

::J

C)
W

a:
Ii..
....J

W
c/)

130

Table 9
SELF-REGULATORY
ORGANIZATIONS-DEPOSITORIES
1991 REVENUES
and EXPENSES
lJ
(Thousands

Depository
Trust
Company
12/31191

of Dollars)

Midwest
Securities
Trust
Company
1213119121

Participants
Trust
Company
12/31191

Philadelphia
Depository
Trust
Company
12131191 'JI

Total

Reyenues
Depository Services
Interest
Other
Total Revenues M

$195,869
68,653
$264,522

$26,685
540
1,386
$28,611

$ 28,947
6,987

$

$259,364
76,896
2,589

$ 35,934

$7,864
716
1,202
$9,782

$338,849

8,800

$3,913

$190,814

9,234
7,067

1,416
412

6,733

Expenses
Employee Costs

$165,210

$12,891

Data Processing and
Communications Costs
Occupancy Costs

16,807
44,742

Contracted Services Cost
JUIOtherExpenses
Total Expenses

$ 37,513
$264,272

2,605
3,915
1,952
$10,978

$

$32,341

$ 31,834

$4,213
$9,954

30,062
56,136
1,952
$ 59,437
$338,401

Excess of Revenues
Over Expenses fJI

$

250

$(3,731)

$

4,100

$(172)

$

Shareholders' Equity
Particlpanfs Fund

$ 18,826
$632,013

$ 3,359
$ 5,870

$ 15,993
$234,372

$2,600
$ 849

$ 40,778
$873,104

448

jJ Although efforts have been made to make the presentations comparable, any single revenue or expense

category may not be completely comparable between any two clearing agencies because of (i) the varying
classification methods employed by the clearing agencies in reporting operating results and (Ii) the grouping
methods employed by the Commission staff due to these varying classification methods. Individual amounts
are shown to the nearest thousand. Totals are the rounded result of the underlying amounts and may not be
the arithmetic sums of the parts.
21 During 1991, MSE contributed $2,000,000 as a capital contribution On January 31, 1992, MSE contributed
$1,000,000 as a capital contribution.
'JI During 1991, PHLX committed an additional capital contribUtion to PDTC of $1 ,456,030.
M Revenues are net pf refunds which have the effect of reducmg a clearing agency's base fee rates.
fJI This is the result of operations and before the effect of Income taxes, which may significantly impact a clearing
agency's net Income.

131

Certificate Immobilization
Book-entry deliveries continued to outdistance physical deliveries in
the settlement of securities transactions among depository participants of
the Depository Trust Company (DTC). This tendency is illustrated in Table
16, CERTIFICATE IMMOBILIZATION TRENDS. The Table captures the
relative significance of the mediums employed, in a ratio of book-entry
deliveries to certificates withdrawn from DTe. The figures include Direct
Mail by Agents and municipal bearer bonds. In 1991, the total certificates
withdrawn
decreased 5%, and the ratio of book-entry deliveries to
certificates withdrawn continued to grow. In 1991, the ratio was almost
five times the 1981 ratio of 2.4 book-entry deliveries rendered for every
certificate withdrawn.
Table 10
CERTIFICATE IMMOBILIZATION TRENDS
Depository Trust Company
(Including Bearer Certificates)

1991

1989

1987

1985

1983

1981

73,200

68,800

73,800

53,600

48,500

34,200

6,314

7,700

12,300

11,300

17,600

14,400

11.6

8.9

6.0

4.7

2.8

2.4

Book-entry Deliveries
at DTC (10 thousands)

Total of All Certificates
Withdrawn (in thousands)

Book-entry Deliveries per
Certificates Withdrawn

132

Exemptions
Section 12(h) Exemptions
Section 12(h) of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934 (Exchange Act)
authorizes the Commission to grant a complete or partial exemption from
the registration provisions of Section 12(g) or from other disclosure or
insider trading provisions of the act where such exemption is consistent
with the public interest and the protection of investors. A total of 150
applications were pending at the beginning of 1992 and 2 applications were
filed during the year. Of the 152 applications, none was granted and 85
were withdrawn. In addition, 12 issuers have informally advised the staff
that they intend to withdraw their applications.
Exemptions for Foreign Private Issuers
Rule 12g3-2 provides various exemptions from the registration
provisions of Section 12(g) of the Exchange Act for the securities of foreign
private issuers. The most significant of these exemptions is that contained
in subparagraph
(b), which provides an exemption for certain foreign
issuers that submit to the SEC on a current basis the material specified
in the rule. Such material includes that information material to an investment
decision which the issuer: (1) has made or is required to make public
pursuant to the law of the country in which it is incorporated or organized;
(2) has filed or is required to file with a foreign stock exchange on which
its securities are traded and which was made public by such exchange;
or (3) has distributed or is required to distribute to its securityholders.
Periodically, the SEC publishes a list of those foreign issuers that appear
to be current under the exemptive provision. The most current list contains
a total of 814 foreign issuers.

133

Corporate Reorganizations
During 1992, the Commission entered its appearance
in 27
reorganization cases filed under Chapter 11 of the Bankruptcy Code
involving companies with aggregated stated assets of over $18 billion and
about 175,000 public investors. Counting these new cases, the Commission
was a party in a total of 176 Chapter 11 cases during the year. In these
cases, the stated assets totalled approximately $98 billion and involved
about one million public investors. During 1992, 22 cases were concluded
through confirmation of a plan of reorganization, dismissal, or liquidation,
leaving 154 cases in which the Commission was a party at year-end.
Table 11
REORGANIZATION
PROCEEDINGS
UNDER CHAPTER
OF THE BANKRUPTCY
CODE IN WHICH
THE SEC ENTERED APPEARANCE

Debtor
Action Auto Stores
ADI Electronics
AlA Industries, Inc.
AI Copeland Enterprises,

134

F.Y.
Opened

District
E.A.
E.D.
E.D.
W.O.

MI
NY
PA
TX

1990
1987
1984
1991

Alexander's Inc.
Alleco Inc.
Allegheny International, Inc.
Alliant Computer Systems Corp.

S.D.
D.
W.O.
E.D.

NY
MD
PA
MA

1992
1992
1988
1992

Amdura Corporation
American Carriers, Inc.lI
American Medical Technologies2!
American West Airlines, Inc.

D.
D.
W.O.
D.

CO
KS
TX

AZ

1990
1989
1990
1991

Ames Department Stores, Inc., et al.
Anglo Energy, Inc.
Appletree Markets, Inc.
BankEast Corporationl/

S.D.
S.D.
S.D.
D.

NY
NY
TX
NH

1990
1988
1992
1991

Banyon Corp.
Barton Industries Inc.
Bay Financial Corp., et al,
Beehive International

S.D.
W.O.
D.
D.

NY
OK
MA
UT

1991
1991
1990
1989

Beker Industries Corp.
Branch Industries, Inc.
Bonneville Pacific Corporation
Camera Enterprises, Inc., et al.

S.D.
S.D.
D.
D.

NY
NY
UT
MA

1986
1985
1992
1989

Carter Hawley Hale Stores Inc.
Casacade International Inc.
C F & I Corporation
Citywide Securities Corp.M

C.D.
S.D.
D.
S.D.

CA
FL
UT
NY

1991
1992
1991
1985

Inc.

11

F.Y.
Closed

1992
1992

1992

Table 11 - continued
REORGANIZATION
PROCEEDINGS
UNDER CHAPTER
OF THE BANKRUPTCY
CODE IN WHICH
THE SEC ENTERED
APPEARANCE
Debtor

F.Y.
Opened

District

Coated Sales, Inc.
Colorado-Ute Electric Assoclatronjy
Columbia Gas System, Inc.
Consolidated Oil & Gas1l

S.D.
D.
D.
D.

NY
CO
DE
CO

1988
1990
1991
1989

Conston Corporation
Continental Information Systems
CPT Corp.
Crazy Eddie, Inc., et al.

E.D.
S.D.
D.
S.D.

PA
NY
MN
NY

1990
1989
1991
1989

Crompton Co., Inc.
Charter Medical corporauonj/
Chyron Corporation
Damson Oil Co.

S.D.
D.
E.D.
S.D.

NY
DE
NY
TX

1985
1992
1991
1991

Dakota Minerals, Inc.
Dart Drug Stores, Inc 'JJ
Dest Corp.
Domain Technology, Inc.

D.
D.
N.D.
N.D.

WY
MD
CA
CA

1986
1989
1989
1989

Doskocil Companies, Inc.1I
Drexel Burnham Lambert Group, Ltd.
Eagle Clothes, Inc
Eagle-Pitcher Industries, Inc.

D.
S.D.
S.D.
S.D.

KS
NY
NY
OH

1990
1990
1989
1991

Eastern Air Lines, Inc., et al.
EI Paso Electric Co.
Enterprise Technologies, Inc.
Equestrian Ctrs. of Amer., Inc.

S.D.
W.O.
S.D.
C.D.

NY
TX
TX
CA

1989
1992
1984
1985

EUA Power Corporation
FairfIeld Communities Inc.
Fed Depart.lAllied Stores et al.
Financial News Network, Inc.

D.
E.D.
S.D.
S.D.

NH
AR
OH
NY

1991
1991
1990
1991

Finest Hour, Inc.1I
Finevest Foods, Inc.1I
First Executive Corporation1l
First Republlcbank Corp.

C.D.
M.D.
C.D.
N.D.

CA
FL
CA
TX

1988
1991
1991
1989

Forum Group Inc. et al.
Gaylord Container Corp.
General Development Corporation1l
General Homes Corp.1I

N.D.
E.D.
S.D.
N.D.

TX
LA
FL
TX

1991
1992
1990
1991

General Technologies Group
Greyhound Lines, et al.
Healthcare International, Inc.
Helionetics, Inc.

E.D.
S.D.
W.O.
C.D.

NY
TX
TX
CA

1990
1990
1992
1986

11

F.Y.
Closed

1992
1992

1992

1992

1992

1992
1992
1992

1992
1992

135

Table 11 - continued
REORGANIZATION PROCEEDINGS UNDER CHAPTER
OF THE BANKRUPTCY CODE IN WHICH
THE SEC ENTERED APPEARANCE

Debtor

136

F.Y.
Opened

District

Hills Department Stores
Infotechnology Inc.
I.M.T., Inc
Inflight services. Inc.

S.D.
S.D.
O.
S.D.

NY
NY
MO
NY

1991
1991
1992
1987

Insilco Corp.
Integrated Resources, Inc.
Interco Inc.
Intn'l Pharmaceutical Products, tnc.j/

W.O.
S.D.
E.D.
C.D.

TX
NY
MO
CA

1991
1990
1991
1988

Inter. American Homes, Inc., et aI.
Ironestone Group, Inc.
Kaiser Steel Corp.
King of Video, Inc.

D.
N.D.
D.
D.

NJ
CA
CO
NV

1990
1991
1987
1989

Koger Properties, Inc.
Kurzweil Music Systems Inc.
Laventhol & Horwath
leisure Technology, Inc.

M.D.
O.
S.D.
C.O.

Fl
MA
NY
CA

1992
1990
1991
1991

lone Star Industries, Inc.
lomas Financial Corp.
l TV Corporation
MacGregor Sporting Goods, Inc.

S.D.
S.D.
S.D.
D.

NY
NY
NY
NJ

1991
1990
1986
1989

Marathon Office Supply, Inc.
Maxicare Health Plus Inc.lI
Metro Airlines, Inc. et aI.
Mclean Industries, Inc.

C.D.
C.D.
N.D.
S.D.

CA
CA
TX
NY

1988
1989
1991
1987

MCorp (MCorp Financial, Inc.
& MCorp Management)
McCroy Corp.
McCrory Parent Corp.
Meridian Reserve, Inc.

S.D.
S.D.
S.D.

W.O.

TX
NY
NY
OK

1989
1992
1992
1989

Midland Capital Corp.
Midway Airlines Inc.l!
Midwest Communications
Monarch Capitol Corp.

S.D.
N.D.
E.D.
D.

NY
Il
KY
MA

1986
1991
1991
1991

MSR Exploration, ltd.
Munsingwear Inc.I/
National Financial Realty Trust
National Gypsum Company

D.
D.
S.D.
N.D.

MT
MN
IN
TX

1992
1991
1990
1991

Newmark & lewis
NBI Inc.
Nutri Bevco, Inc.
N.V.R., lP

S.D.
D.
S.D.
E.D.

NY
CO
NY
VA

1991
1991
1988
1992

Corp.

11

F.Y.
Closed

1992

1992

1992

Table 11 - continued
REORGANIZATION PROCEEDINGS UNDER CHAPTER 11
OF THE BANKRUPTCY CODE IN WHICH
THE SEC ENTERED APPEARANCE

Debtor
Occidental Development
Occidental Development
Occidental Development
Oliver's Stores

F.Y.
Opened

District
Fund III!!
Fund IV!!
Fund V!!

C.D.
C.D.
C.D.
E.D.

CA
CA
CA
NY

1989
1989
1989
1987

OlR Development Fund lP
OlR Development Fund II lP
Orion Pictures Corp.
Pacific Express Holding, Inc.

C.D.
C.D.
S.D.
E.D.

CA
CA
NY
CA

1989
1989
1992
1984

PanAm Corporation
Paul Harris Stores, Inc.
Peregrine Entertainment, ltd.
Prime Motors Inns, Inc.l/

S.D.
S.D.
C.D.
S.D.

NY
IN
CA
Fl

1991
1991
1989
1991

Public
OMax
aT&T,
Oubix

D.
S.D.
E.D.
N.D.

NH
OH
NY
CA

1988
1989
1987
1989

Ramtek Corporation
Refinemet International, Inc.
Residential Resources Mortgage
Investment Corporation
Resorts International, Inc. et al.

NO
C.D.

CA
CA

1989
1988

D.
D.

AZ
NJ

1989
1990

Revco D.S. Inc.!!
R.H. Macy & Co. Corp.
Sahlen & Associates
Salant Corporation

N.D.
S.D.
S.D.
S.D.

OH
NY
NY
NY

1988
1992
1989
1990

N.D.
S.D.
S.D.
S.D.

NY
NY
NY
Fl

1990
1990
1981
1992

Schepps Food Stores, Inc.
Sharon Steel Corp.
SIS Corporation
Sorg Incorporated, et al.

S.D.
W.O.
N.D.
S.D.

TX
PA
OH
NY

1992
1987
1989
1989

Southland Corporation
Spencer Cos., Inc.
Spring Meadows Associates!!
Standard Brands Paint Company

N.D.
D.
C.D.
C.D.

TX
MA
CA
CA

1991
1987
1988
1992

Standard Oil and Exploration
Delaware, Inc.
Statewide Bancorp.
Sterling Optical Corp.
Sudbury, Inc.

W.O.
D.
S.D.
N.D.

MI
NJ
NY
OH

1991
1991
1992
1992

Service Co. of New Hampshire
Technology Group, Inc.
Inc.
Graphic Systemsll

Saratoga Standardbreds,
S.E. Nicholsll
Seatrain lines, Inc.
Servico, Inc.l/

Inc.

F.Y.
Closed

1992

1992
1992

of

137

Table 11 - continued
REORGANIZATION
PROCEEDINGS
UNDER CHAPTER
OF THE BANKRUPTCY CODE IN WHICH
THE SEC ENTERED APPEARANCE

Debtor

Swanton Corp.
Systems for Health Care, Inc.
Telstar Satellite Corp. of America!,
TGX Corp.

S.D.
N.D.
C.D.
W.D.

NY
IL
CA
LA

1985
1988
1989
1990

The Centennial Group, Inc.
The Circle K
The Group, Inc.
The First Connecticut Small
Business Investments Company

C.D.
D.
D.

CA
AZ
NV

1992
1990
1990

D.

CT

1991

The Lionel Corp.
The Regina Co.
The Washington Corporationl/
Tidwell Industries, Inc.

S.D.
D.
D.
N.D.

NY
NJ
MD
AL

1991
1989
1992
1986

Todd Shipyards Corp.
Towle Manufact /Rosemar Silver
Traweek Investment Fund
No 22, Ltd.!,
Traweek Investment Fund
No 21, Ltd.

D
S.D.

NJ
NY

1988
1990

C.D.

CA

1988

C.D.

CA

1988

Trump Taj Mahal Funding, Inc.
Univation, Inc.2/
United Merchants & Mfg., Inc.l/
U S. Home Corp.

D.
N.D.
D.
S.D.

NJ
CA
DE
NY

1991
1989
1991
1991

Wang Laboratories, Inc.
Washington Bancorporatron
Wedgestone Financial
Wedtech Corp.

D.
D.
D.
S.D.

MA
DC
MA
NY

1992
1990
1991
1987

Westworld Community Healthcare,
Inc.
Wheeling-Pittsburgh
Steel Corp.
WTD Industries, Inc.
Zale Corporation, Inc.

C.D.
W.O.
W.O.
N.D.

CA
PA
WA
TX

1987
1985
1991
1992

Total Cases Opened (FY 1992):
Total Cases Closed (FY 1992):

11
2/

a/
!'

138

F.Y.
Opened

District

11

F.Y.
Closed

1992

1992
1992

27
22

Plan of reorganization confirmed.
Debtor liquidated under Chapter 7.
Chapter 11 case dismissed.
Debtor's securities not registered under Section 12(g) of the Exchange Act.

Other Legislative Developments
This section contains more detailed information regarding legislative
activity that occurred during the second session of the 102nd Congress.

Government Securities
During the 102nd Congress, a number of bills were considered that
would have amended the Government Securities Act of 1986 ("GSA"). The
GSA consists of a limited regulatory scheme, focusing primarily on financial
responsibility and recordkeeping rules, which was adopted in response
to the failures, in the mid-1980's, of several unregulated government
securities dealers that had engaged in financial and recordkeeping
irregularities and fraudulent practices.
In the Senate, two bills amending the GSA were passed in 1991,
S. 1247 and S. 1699. The primary objective of these bills was to reauthorize
the U. S. Treasury (Treasury) rulemaking authority under the GSA prior
to its expiration date in October 1991. However, the August 1991 revelations
by Salomon Brothers Inc. (Salomon) regarding its misconduct in connection
with certain auctions of government securities dramatically influenced
Congressional deliberations regarding the need for more comprehensive
government securities reform legislation.
As a result of the Salomon
incident, and the subsequent Joint Report on the Government Securities
Market issued in January 1992 by the Treasury, the Federal Reserve Board,
and the Commission (Joint Report), two bills were actively considered in
the House in 1992 that would have made more substantive changes to the
government securities regulatory scheme: H.R. 4450, which aimed at
reform of the auction process for government securities, and H.R. 3927,
a comprehensive bill designed to reform regulation of the government
securities markets generally.
During 1992, the Commission testified numerous times before Congress
regarding the need for reform of the regulation of the government securi ties
market, particularly regarding the legislative and other recommendations
contained in the Joint Report. Specifically, Chairman Breeden testified
before the Subcommittee on Telecommunications and Finance of the House
Energy and Commerce Committee regarding the government securities
market on October 25, 1991; before the Subcommittee on Securities of the
Senate Banking Committee on January 23,1992 regarding the Joint Report;
before the Subcommittee on Domestic Monetary Policy of the House
Banking Committee on February 6, 1992 and April 28, 1992 regarding the
Joint Report, and H.R. 3927 and H.R. 4450, respectively.
William H.
Heyman, Director of the Division of Market Regulation testified before
the Subcommittee on Oversight of the House Ways and Means Committee
regarding the Joint Report on February 3, 1992. In addition, Chairman
Breeden also testified before the Oversight Subcommittee of the House
Ways and Means Committee regarding the Salomon settlement on September
29, 1992.

139

Due to jurisdictional issues in the House and timing constraints as
the end of the 102nd Congress drew to a close, the full House did not
vote on the substance of any government securities reform bill during 1992.
During the final days of the 102nd Congress, an effort was made to link
government securities reform legislation with other pending securities
legislation that had been passed by both houses of Congress. However,
the House and the Senate staff were unable to resolve the significant
differences between the House and Senate bills and agree on a compromise
bill before the close of the 102nd Congress.

Investment Advisers
Two bills were introduced during 1992 that would have amended the
Investment Advisers Act of 1940 to address current limitations in the SEC's
oversight and inspection program for investment advisers. The Senate
bill, S. 2266, focused primarily on establishing a fee structure that would
require registered investment advisers to pay initial registration and
annual fees to the agency, which would be used for costs associated with
investment adviser registration and inspection activities. As passed by
the Senate, S. 2266 also included provisions relating to fidelity bonding,
one-stop filing for investment advisers, and amendments to the managed
account provisions contained in section ll(a) of the Securities Exchange
Act of 1934 (Exchange Act). The House bill, H.R. 5726, contained similar
fee, bonding, and one-stop filing provisions, but was significantly more
comprehensive in nature, containing additional regulatory provisions in
areas such as suitability and transaction reporting requirements
for
investment advisers.
On February 20, 1992, Chairman Breeden testified on behalf of the
Commission before the Subcommittee on Securities of the Senate Banking
Committee in support of legislation containing fee, one-stop filing,
suitability, and bond requirement provisions for investment advisers.
On June 10, 1992, Chairman Breeden testified on behalf of the
Commission before the Subcommittee on Telecommunications and Finance
of the House Energy and Commerce Committee
concerning
the
comprehensive House proposal to amend the Advisers Act. Specifically,
Chairman Breeden testified in support of the fee, fidelity bonding, onestop filing, suitability,
broadened
enforcement
(including
felony
disqualification),
risk-based scheduling of inspections,
and certain
disclosure provisions contained in the House proposal. His testimony did
not support, however, provisions that would have required periodic surveys
of unregistered advisers and imposed a duty to report commissions prior
to transactions.
S. 2266 was passed by the Senate on August 12, 1992. The House
bill, H.R. 5726, passed the House on September 22, 1992 and was combined
with H.R. 4313, the Financial Fraud Detection and Disclosure Act, and H.R.
3047, a bill designed to relax restrictions on managed accounts contained
in section l1(a) of the Exchange Act.

140

Although many in the adviser industry favored the adoption of an
adviser bill during the 102nd Congress, other securities groups objected
to many of the provisions contained in the House bill. The substantial
differences between the bills, coupled with the debate within the industry,
resulted in the House and Senate staff being unable to reach agreement
on the substantive provisions of a compromise adviser bill. Further, the
House's addition of the accounting bill (which had not been considered
by the Senate) further complicated the discussions.
Finally, as noted
previously, the Senate wanted to add substantive government securities
provisions to the adviser bill.
As a result of the substantive differences between the House and
Senate bills, the end of the session timing crunch, and various procedural
issues, the advisers bill died. Even an 11th hour effort to move only the
increased fee provisions was unable to get off the ground, due chiefly to
political concerns.

Limited Partnership Roll-ups
In the 102nd Congress, several bills designed to address abuses in
limited partnership roll-up transactions were considered.
Roll-ups are
limited partnership reorganizations that usually involve the merger of
limited partnerships into new, larger, corporate entities. During the past
several years, both the Commission and Congress have expressed concern
that many of the advantages generally enjoyed by limited partners in their
original investment were being reduced, or done away with completely,
as a consequence of such mergers. Furthermore, investors have expressed
concerns with respect to abuses in the roll-up transactions themselves, such
as confusing disclosure and a lack of dissenters' rights.
In the House, a bill regarding roll-Up reform, H.R. 1885, was passed
in 1991. In 1992, the focus of Congressional action was on S. 1423, the
Senate counterpart bill.
Although the Commission had testified before Congress several times
regarding roll-Up legislation in 1991, it did not testify before the Senate
regarding S. 1423 in 1992. However, in a letter to Senator Gramm dated
April 8, 1992, Chairman Breeden expressed the view of the Commission
that, as a result of Commission and NASD rulemaking with respect to rollup transactions, the Commission "see[s] no reason to proceed at this time
with legislation." In addition, Chairman Breeden's letter also expressed
the Commission's concerns with particular provisions of S. 1423.
Notably, although S. 1423 had a large number of co-sponsors, the
committee markup of the bill was blocked twice on procedural grounds,
which prevented S. 1423 from reaching the Senate floor for a vote in 1992.
While S. 1423 was later offered and accepted by the Senate on July 1, 1992
as an amendment to an unrelated bill to regulate government sponsored
enterprises, it was ultimately deleted from that bill, and consequently was
not enacted in the 102nd Congress.

141

Accountants and Auditors
Congress has considered a number of bills over the last six years that
would require auditors of companies registered with the Commission to
detect and report certain of their audit clients' illegal acts directly to the
Commission. H.R. 4313, introduced by Representative Wyden in 1992,
was the most recent bill in this area.
Although the Commission did not testify in 1992 regarding H.R. 4313,
it expressed its views regarding the bill in response to a request by
Chairman Dingell of the House Energy and Commerce Committee. In its
letter of August 12, 1992, the Commission stated that: (i) it did not believe
that H.R. 4313 would dramatically change existing law, but rather would
codify present accounting standards and practices; (ii) the principal
provision of H.R. 4313 was its requirement of earlier warning to the
Commission of certain illegal acts by companies registered with the
Commission; (iii) the bill would restate, in certain specified areas, the
Commission's implied authority to set auditing standards; and (iv) the
bill attempted to strike a reasonable balance with respect to the enforcement
of H.R. 4313's new requirements.
H.R. 4313 was passed by the House on September 22,1992 and added
to H.R. 5726, the House Investment Advisers bill. However, no similar
legislation was introduced in the Senate during the 102nd Congress.
Consequently, when the House and the Senate failed to reach agreement
on compromise advisers legislation, the accounting measure died without
further consideration by the Senate.

Securities Litigation Reform/Statute of Limitations
The issue of securities litigation reform arose in 1992 in the context
of Congressional
consideration
of legislation regarding a statute of
limitations for private actions implied under Section 10(b) of the Exchange
Act and Rule 10b-5 thereunder. Congressional consideration of the private
right of action issue was spurred by the Supreme Court's decision on June
In
20, 1991, in Lamp], Pleva, Lipkind, Prupis & Petigrow v. Gilbertson.
response to Lamp], legislation creating new Section 27A of the Exchange
Act was enacted in December 1991 as part of the Federal Deposit Insurance
Corporation Improvement -Act of 1991. Section 27A contains a limited
statute of limitations provision that prevents the retroactive application
of the new statute of limitations for Rule 10b-5 private damages actions
announced in Lampf.
Prior to the adoption of Section 27A in connection with Congressional
consideration of the statute of limitations issue, Chairman Breeden testified
before the Subcommittee on Securities of the Senate Banking Committee
on October 2, 1991, regarding proposed statute of limitations legislation
(5. 1533). As part of his testimony, he suggested that Congress consider
a number of additional litigation reforms, including: (i) a provision shifting,
under certain circumstances, liability for the prevailing party's attorney's
fees to the non-prevailing party; (ii) amendment of the Racketeer Influenced
and Corrupt Organizations Act to delete securities fraud as a predicate

142

offense for purposes of civil actions; (iii) limitation of certain conflicts of
interest between counsel in a class action and members of the class; (iv)
restrictions on the use of disgorgement funds for payment of counsel fees;
and (v) a cap on the personal liability of corporate directors who are not
found to be involved in intentional or deliberate misconduct. On November
21, 1991, Chairman Breeden testified before the Subcommittee
on
Telecommunications
and Finance of the House Committee on Energy and
Commerce, also regarding statute of limitations legislation (H.R. 3185),
stating that the Commission "believes that legislation to curtail meritless
or unjustified securities litigation would be appropriate."
Legislation consequently was introduced in August 1992, in the House
as H.R. 5828 and in the Senate as S. 3181, proposing various forms of the
reforms suggested by Chairman Breeden as well as several additional
proposals. There were no hearings held on the proposed litigation reforms
during the rest of the 102nd Congress, and both the House and Senate
litigation reform bills subsequently died.

Executive Compensation
Public discussion
of issues relating to executive compensation
prompted a number of legislative proposals that were considered during
the 102nd Congress. These included the Corporate Pay Responsibility Act
(5.1198 and H.R. 2522), which, among other things, would have: (i) deemed
any securityholder proposal related to executive compensation a proper
subject for securityholder action; and (ii) required issuers to disclose in
their proxy statements with respect to each director and senior executive,
(A) a single figure for total compensation paid during the period covered
by the proxy statement, including any form of deferred, future or contingent
pay, and (B) a comparison table, comparing the estimated present value
in dollars of any form of deferred, contingent or future compensation, with
comparable figures for compensation paid during the previous two years
and projections of total compensation to be paid in each of the succeeding
five years.
On October 17, 1991, Chairman
Breeden testified
before the
Subcommittee on Securities of the Senate Committee on Banking, Housing
and Urban Affairs that the Commission was not prepared to support S.
1198 at that time, and was in the process of reviewing its own rules relating
to executive compensation disclosure. Subsequently, on January 31, 1992,
the Chief Accountant of the Commission, Walter P. Schuetze, testified
before the Subcommittee on Oversight of Government Management of the
Senate Committee on Governmental Affairs concerning accounting for
employee stock compensation. On June 4,1992, Chairman Breeden testified
before the Subcommittee on Taxation of the Senate Committee on Finance
and stated that the Commission opposed direct government regulation of
compensation and the indirect use of the tax code or legislatively mandated
accounting rules to try to accomplish the same objective.

143

Shortly after Chairman Breeden's June 4, 1992 testimony,
the
Commission proposed new rules designed to improve the public disclosure
of information concerning executive compensation. Notably, on October
16, 1992, the Commission issued final rules designed to make executive
compensation
disclosure clearer, more concise, and more useful to
shareholders in the context of proxy and information statements, registration
statements and periodic reports under the Exchange Act, and registration
statements under the Securi ties Act of 1933. As a resul t of the Commission's
consideration and adoption of final rules to improve disclosure of executive
compensation arrangements, the momentum behind legislation in this area
was significantly reduced, and the legislation that had been introduced
subsequently died.

The Public Utility Holding Company Act of 1935
On October 24,1992, the President signed H.R. 776, the Energy Policy
Act of 1992 (P.L. 102-486). Title VII of the Act contains amendments to
the Public Utility Holding Company Act of 1935 (PUHCA).
Although the Commission testified twice before Congress in 1991
regarding predecessor bills to H.R. 776, it did not testify or take a position
on H.R. 776 as enacted.
Generally, the Commission's 1991 testimony
supported
amendments
to PUHCA that would have limited the
Commission's review of acquisitions of independent power producers by
registered holding companies.
As enacted, Title VII of the Energy Act amends PUHCA by creating
two new classes of entities that are exempted from PUHCA. Specifically,
to faciIita te the development of a com peti tive independen t power prod uction
industry, the Act creates an exemption from PUHCA for" exempt wholesale
generators," as defined in H.R. 776. In addition, the Act creates an
exemption for "foreign utility companies" in order to facilitate overseas
investments by domestic companies.

Small Business Initiative
In March 1992, the Commission submitted legislation to Congress
designed to promote capital formation for small businesses.
The
Commission's legislative package would have increased the statutory
exemption for small offerings under the Securities Act. In addition, it
would have amended the Investment Company Act to remove certain
restrictions on the ability of private investment companies to raise capital
and to facilitate investments by investment companies, including business
development companies, in small businesses.
Three bills were subsequently introduced in Congress in 1992 based
on the Commission's proposals:
S. 2518, S. 2727, and H.R. 4938.
Chairman Breeden testified before the Subcommittee on Securities of
the Senate Banking Committee on March 26, 1992 at a hearing to consider
the Commission's small business legislative proposals.
The Chairman
expressed the Commission's strong support for enactment of the proposed
legislation. He stated that the Commission's proposals would promote

144

the ability of small businesses to raise capital in the securities markets
directly, and improve flexibility for venture capital funds and other pooled
investment vehicles, without impairing investor protection.
Although hearings were held regarding the Commission's proposed
legislation, none of the three bills that were introduced in Congress in 1992
was reported out of committee.
Jurisdiction Over Stock Index Futures and Margins
Various legislative proposals concerning the Commodity Futures
Trading Commission (CFTC) and jurisdiction over stock index futures and
margins have been considered by Congress since 1989, when alleged
misconduct by commodities brokers in Chicago was revealed. The two
principal legislative proposals in the 102nd Congress were the "Futures
Trading Practices Act of 1991" (5.207) and the "Commodity Futures
Improvement Act" (H.R.707).
A conference report on H.R. 707, the
"Futures Trading Practices Act of 1992," was passed by both Houses in
early October, and signed into law by the President on October 28, 1992
(P.L. 102-546).

145

The Securities Industry
Revenues, Expenses, and Selected Balance Sheet Items

Broker-dealers that are registered with the Commission earned a pretax profit of $8.6 billion in calendar year 1991. This was $7.8 billion more
than the previous year, and the largest pre-tax profit reported since the
Commission began collecting this information. Broker-dealers had a pretax return on equity capital of 23.6%, an above average return after four
years of sub-par performance.
Broker-dealers produced revenues of $81.2 billion in 1991, 14% above
the 1990 level. Volume expanded in most lines of business.
Revenues from the traditional dealer businesses were higher after
three years of stagnation. Driven by record trading volume in over-thecounter equities, government securities, and corporate debt, gains from
principal transactions set a new record of $22.5 billion in 1991. This was
an increase of almost $6.8 billion (43%) over the 1990 level. Underwriting
profits of $6.6 billion were at near-record levels, $2.9 billion (77%) higher
than in 1990. Low interest rates encouraged corporations, municipalities,
and individuals with callable debt to refinance, resulting in a record
volume of new issues of investment-grade debt. Also, high price-earnings
ratios may have been the driving force behind the large increase in initial
public offerings and new issues of seasoned equities.
Revenues from the brokerage business rose by 15% in 1991. An
increase in exchange volume contributed to a $2.2 billion increase in
brokerage
commissions
to $14.2 billion.
Declining interest rates
overwhelmed the increase in volume of margin debt outstanding and
margin interest fell by $400 million to $2.8 billion. Revenues from retailing
mutual funds grew by $900 million to $4.2 billion, in part as individuals
responded to low rates on bank certificates of deposit by investing in
corporate and government bond funds.
"All other revenues," which are dominated by interest income from
securities purchased under agreements to resell and fees from handling
private placements, mergers, and acquisitions, fell $2.5 billion (7%) in 1991.
Each of these major component businesses of this revenue item declined
or was stagnant in 1991. Mergers & Acquisitions activity in 1991 fell 25%
from the level of the previous year, while the value of new private
placements dropped 8%. The value of reverse repurchase agreements
outstanding rose slightly during 1991, but the interest rate paid on these
instruments dropped sharply.
Expenses rose 3% to $72.7 billion in 1991. Employee compensation
showed the largest relative increase (17%). Total assets and liabilities
both rose sharply in 1991 to $760.6 billion and $722.1 billion, respectively.
Equity capital increased by $4.1 billion (12%) to $38.5 billion.

146

Table 12
UNCONSOLIDATED

FINANCIAL

INFORMATION

FOR BROKER-DEALERS

1987-1991 jJ
($ in Millions)

1987
Reyenues
securities Commissions
Gams (Losses) 10 TradlOg and
Investment Accounts
Profits (Losses) from Underwriting
and selling Groups
MarglO Interest
Revenues from sale of Investment
Company Shares
All Other Revenues
Total Revenues

1988

1989

1990'

1991P

$ 16,574.1

$ 11,932.4

$ 13,452.0

$ 12,032.2

$ 14,209.3

14,423.0

16,667.0

16,246.6

15,746.5

22,529.9

5,719.4
3,4933

5,606.8
3,154.6

4,5366
3,859.7

3,728.3
3,179.4

6,592.6
2,771.1

4,069.3
21,825.3
$ 66,104.4

2,644.0
26,095.5
$ 66,100.4

3,038.1
35,731.1
$ 76,864.0

3,241.6
33,428.3
$ 71,3562

4,176.3
30,946.5
$ 81,225.7

$ 11,042.2

$ 9,004.4

$ 8,975.2

$ 8,267.2

$ 9,830.6

12,110.9

12,1500

12,497.6

12,5128

14,382.9

2,429.6

2,263.8

2,267.6

2,150.6

2,560.3

3,562.6
16,473.4
432.4
16,843.4
$ 62,894.5

2,8038
19,502.0
4900
16,409.2
$ 62,6230

3,0568
29,822.5
573.7
16,847.8
$ 74,0411

2,959.4
28,093.1
564.3
16,0186
$ 70,566.1

3,1993
24,1452
5771
17,956.8
$ 72,6520

$ 3,209.9
4.9
9.8

$ 3,477.3
5.3
9.8

$ 2,822.9
37
7.7

$

790.1
1.1
2.2

$ 8,573.7
10.6
23.6

$477,4424

$546,2157

$652,177.0

$657,226.5

$760,587.0

430,498.3
12,686.8
443,185.1

495,705.6
13,974.2
509,679.8

600,440.7
15,354.7
615,795.4

607,803.0
15,090.8
622,893.8

$705,922.5
16,197.6
722,1201

Ownership Equity

$ 34,257.3

$ 36,535.9

$ 36,381.5

$ 34,332.7

$ 38,466.9

Number of Firms

9,515

9,217

8,832

8,437

7,754

~
Registered Representatives'
Compensation (Part" Only) 21
Other Employee Compensation
and Benefits
Compensation to Partners and
Voting Stockholder Officers
Commissions and Clearance Paid
to Other Brokers
Interest Expenses
Regulatory Fees and Expenses
All Other Expenses 21
Total Expenses
Income
Pre-tax
Pre-tax
Pre-tax

and profitabilitY
Income
Profit Margin
Return on Equity

Assets LlabiljtJes and caonal
Total Assets
Liabilities
(a) Unsubordinated liabilities
(b) SUbordinated liabilities
(c) Total Liabilities

Figures may not add due to rounding.
r = revised
p = preliminary
1/ calendar, rather than fiscal, year data is reported in this table.
2/ Registered representatives' compensation for firms that neither carry nor clear is included
as this expense item is not reported separately on Part IIA of the Focus Report.

10

.other expenses"

Source: Focus Report

147

UNCONSOLIDATED

Table 13
ANNUAL REVENUES AND EXPENSES FOR BROKER-DEALERS
DOING A PUBLIC BUSINESS
1987-1991
jJ
($ in Milions)

1987
Reyenues
securities Commissions
$16,016.2
Gains (losses) in Trading and
Investment Accounts
12,393.4
Profits (losses) from Underwrltmg
and Selling Groups
5,718.5
Margin Interest
3,467.0
Revenues from sale of Investment
4,069.5
Company Shares
21,450.2
All Other Revenues
Total Revenues
$63,114.8
Expenses
Registered Representatives'
Compensation (Part II only) 21
Other Employee Compensation
and Benefits
Compensation to Partners and
Votmg Stockholder Officers
commtssions and Clearance Paid
to Other Brokers
Interest Expenses
RegUlatory Fees and Expenses
All Other Expenses 21
Total Expenses
Income
Pre-tax
Pre-tax
Pre-tax

and profitability
Income
Profit Margin
Return on Equity

Number of Firms

1988

1989

1990'

1991P

$11,515.3

$13,012.7

$11,659.7

$13,710.5

15,296.3

15,048.6

14,869.5

21,257.5

5,605.6
3,135.5

4,5364
3,813.3

3,728.0
3,158.8

6,591.4
2,732.4

2,643.2
26,039.0
$64,235.0

3,037.8
35,1894
$74,638.3

3,241.6
32,578.0
$69,235.6

4,176.2
30,194.8
$78,6628

$11,032.4

$ 8,993.3

$ 8,962.7

$ 8,245.3

$ 9,819.5

11,869.7

11,9009

12,191.4

12,209.2

14,005.2

2,185.2

2,063.5

2,090.0

1,983.5

2,375.9

3,355.8
16,179.1
399.9
16,284.1
$61,306.0

2,641.0
19,2681
451.9
15,968.3
$61,287.0

2,867.9
29,354.6
5160
16,348.5
$72,331.0

2,7962
27,6306
509.4
15,580.4
$68,954.4

3,001.8
23,721.4
510.9
17,385.8
$70,820.5

$ 1,808.8
2.9
6.1

$ 2,948.0
4.6
9.0

$ 2,307.3
31
6.8

$

281.2
0.4
0.9

$ 7,842.3
10.0
23.2

6,005

5,746

5,424

5,111

6,307

Figures may not add due to roundmg.
r = reVised
p = preliminary
11 calendar, rather than fiscal, year data IS reported in thiS table.
21 Registered representatives' compensanon for firms that neither carry nor clear is included in "other expenses"
as ttns expense item is not reported separately on Part IIA of the Focus Report.
Source' Focus Report

148

Table 14
UNCONSOLIDATED
BALANCE SHEET FOR BROKER-DEALERS
DOING A PUBLIC BUSINESS
YEAR-END, 1987-1991 1/
($ in Millions)

1987

1988

1989

1990'

1991P

~
cash
$ 7,538.9
Receivables from Other
Broker-dealers
61,953.1
Receivables from Customers
38,706.4
Receivables from Non-customers
3,370.1
Long Positions In securities
and Commodities
118,150.2
securities and Investments
not Readily Marketable
4604
Securities Purchased Under Agreements
to Resell (Part II only) 21
213,935.0
Exchange Membership
345.4
21,339.1
Other Assets 21
Total Assets
$465,798.6
Liabilities and EquitY capital
Bank Loans Payable
Payables to Other Broker-dealers
Payables to Non-customers
Payables to Customers
Short Positions in securities
and Commodities
Securities Sold Under Repurchase
Agreements (Part II only) 21
Other Non-subordinated LiabilltJes
Subordinated LiabilltJes
Total Liabilities
Equity capital
Number affirms

21

9,870.8

$ 10,9681

$ 10,274.1

67,598.2
40,236.3
3,061.9

90,157.3
40,3204
1,362.9

118,413.1
37,177.8
1,157.7

160,963.7
50,4654
2.1258

130,758.1

211,232.1

208,166.3

237,443.7

6189

1,247.5

1,190.2

1,863.9

258,034.5
363.7
23.424.1
$533,707.8

257,235.0
360.5
26.3565
$638,143.0

237,235.6
332.3
26,014.3
$640,655.5

254,008.1
3134
23,325.7
$740,783.7

$ 20,756.0
43,138.1
4,173.1
34,328.7

$ 22,9536
46,336.5
4,143.7
39,3129

$ 22,759.5
49,602.0
4,6104
46,969.3

$ 18,342.2
46,0389
7,5105
55,549.7

$ 24,778.4
62,5767
13,730.6
71,616.1

73,725.8

92,414.4

93,6827

104,690.0

109,670.1

213,049.9
32,681.0
12,306.4
$434,158.9

243,828.7
37,016.5
13,534.5
$499,540.8

328,382.8
43,067.2
14,991 9
$604,065.8

320,773.3
40,973.2
14,763.0
$608,640.8

364,172.3
43,389.9
15,314.0
$705,2481

$ 31,639.6

$ 34,166.9

$ 34,077.2

$ 32,0146

$ 35,535.6

6,307

6,005

5,746

5,424

$

9,612.2

$

5,111

Figures may not add due to rounding.
r = revised
p = preliminary
1/ calendar, rather than fiscal, year data is reported in this table.
21 Resale agreements and repurchase agreements for firms that neither carry nor clear are included In "other
assets" and "other non-subordinated liabilities," respectively, as these Items are not reported separately on
Part IIA of the Focus Report.
Source: Focus Report

149

Carrying and Clearing Firms
Data for carrying and clearing firms that do a public business is presentee'
here to allow for more detail as reporting requirements for firms that neither carry
nor clear differ and as data aggregation of these two types of firms results in
loss of detail. Carrying and clearing firms are those firms that clear securities
transactions or maintain possession or control of customers' cash or securities.
This group produced 85 percent of the securities industry's total revenues in
calendar year 1991.
Brokerage activity accounted for about 23 cents of each revenue dollar in
1991, about the same as the level in 1990. Securities commissions were the most
important component, producing 15 cents of each dollar of revenue, while margin
interest and revenues from mutual fund sales each generated four cents.
The dealer side produced 66 cents of each dollar of revenue, up from the
62 cents earned in 1990. Twenty-nine cents came from trading and investments,
an increase from 23 cents in 1990, as trading volume in securities that typically
are traded over-the-counter reached new highs in 1991. Nine cents came from
underwriting, up sharply from six cents in 1990. Only 29 cents came from other
securities-related revenues, a decline from the 34 cents in 1990. This revenue
item is comprised primarily of interest income from securities purchased under
agreements to resell and fees from handling private placements, mergers, and
acquisitions.
Expenses accounted for 90 cents of each revenue dollar in 1991, resulting
in a pre-tax profit margin of ten cents per revenue dollar. Interest remained the
most important expense category in 1991, consuming 34 cents of each revenue
dollar, even though this item was down significantly from 45 cents in 1990.
Employee-related expenses-registered representatives' compensation and clerical
and administrative employees' expenses-increased
to 31 cents from 29 cents in
1990.
Total assets of broker-dealers carrying and clearing customer accounts were
$730.2 billion at year-end 1991, a 16% increase from 1990. The distribution of
these assets also changed. Higher trading volume contributed to an increase in
receivables. By contrast, reverse repurchase agreements, U.S. government securities,
and other money market instruments showed relative declines.
Total liabilities increased significantly to $699.3 billion in 1991. Bank loans
and payables showed the most substantial increase, while the growth of repurchase
agreements and short positions was more modest. Owners' equity rose 11 % from
$27.8 billion in 1990 to $31.0 billion in 1991.

150

Ii
M
rIl

1ij

rIl

c:

8X

c
eI)
CL

><

.. >CD

",-

CD

(I)
eI)
(I)

Ii
CD'"

;
CD

1ij

~
~

~ c:
0

:Ej
E c:
~8l!

E

i-

I

.,8
B"

>.

0.2
Q.
E
w

W

151

Table 16
UNCONSOLIDATED REVENUES AND EXPENSES FOR
CARRYING/CLEARING BROKER-DEALERS 11
($ in Millions)

1990'
Dollars

~
SecuntJes Commissions
Gains (Losses) in Trading and
Investment Accounts
Profits (Losses) From Underwriting
and Seiling Groups
Margin Interest
Revenues from sale of Investment
Company Shares
Miscellaneous Fees
Revenues from Research
Other Securities Related Revenues
CommodltJes Revenues
All Other Revenues
Total Revenues

$ 8,758.3

1991'

Percent
ofT01aI
Revenues

14.3%

Percent

Dollars

Percent
ofTolal
Revenues

1990-1991

$10,3404

15.0%

18.1%

Change

14,060.8

23.0

19,657.1

28.6

39.8

3,496.5
3,158.8

57
52

6,2755
2,732.4

9.1
4.0

79.5
(13.5)

2,077 4
2,5259
20.1
20,600.1
1,8197
4,659.3
$61,176.9

34
4.1

2,710.5
2,702.9
25.1
19,699.1
881.7
3,731.1
$68,755.8

39
3.9

30.5
7.0
24.9
(4.4)
(51.5)
(19.9)
124%

33.7
30
7.6
100.0%

28.7
1.3
5.4
100.0%

~
Registered Representatives' Compensation
Other Employee Compensation and Benefits
Compensation to Partners and Voting
Stockholder Officers
Commissions and Clearance Paid to
Other Brokers
Communications
Occupancy and Equipment Costs
Data Processing Costs
Interest Expenses
Regulatory Fees and Expenses
Losses in Error Accounts and Bad Debts
All Other Expenses
Total Expenses
Income
Pre-tax
Pre-tax
Pre-tax

and Profitabilnv
Income
Profit Margin
Return on Equity

Number of Firms

$ 8,245.3
9,732.6
1,231.8
1,9353
2,430.1
3,3901
797.1
27,439.2
438.4
3388
5,278.7
$61,257.5
$

(80.6)
(0.1)
(0.3)
947

13.50/0 $ 9,819.5
15.9
11,155.2
2.0
3.2
4.0
5.5
1.3
44.9
0.7
0.6
8.6
100.1%

1,569.6
1,973.6
2,292.8
3,196.7
768.0
23,567.7
436.2
412.7
6,978.6
$62,170.6

14.30/0
16.2
2.3
2.9
3.3
4.6
1.1
34.3
0.6
0.6
10.1
90.40/0

19.1%
14.6
274
2.0
(5.6)
(5.7)
(3.7)
(14.1)
(0.5)
21.8
32.2
1.5%

$ 6,585.2
9.6
22.4
885

Figures may not add due to rounding .
• under .05%.
r = revsed
p = preliminary
11 Calendar, rather than fiscal, year data is reported in this table.
Note: InclUdes information for firms doing a public business that carry customer accounts or clear securities
transactions
Source Focus Report

152

I able

UNCONSOUDATED

1/

BALANCE SHEET FOR CARRYING/CLEARING
BROKER-DEALERS jJ
($ in Millions)
Year-end 1990'
Percent
ofTotal
Dollars
Assets

~

cash
Receivables from Other Broker-dealers
(a) securities Failed to Deliver
(b) securities Borrowed
(c) Other
Receivables from Customers
Receivables from Non-customers
long Positions in securities and
Commodities
(a) Bankers Acceptances, Certificates
of Deposit and Commercial Paper
(b) U.S. and canadian Government
Obligations
(c) State and Municipal Government
Obligations
(d) Corporate Obligations
(e) Stocks and Warrants
(1) Options
(g) Arbitrage
(h) Other securities
(i) Spot Commodities
securities and Investments Not Readily Marketable
securities Purchased Under Agreements to Resell
Exchange Membership
Other Assets
Total Assets

$ 10,405.3
116,469.3
7,318.7
96,036.4
13,114.2
37,177.8
899.2

1.6%
18.4
1.2
15.2
2.1
5.9
0.1

Year-end 1991p
Percent
ofTotal
Dollars
Assets

$ 9,596.7
158,542.5
13,066.5
132,477.1
12,998.8
50,465.4
1,881.8

1.3%
21.7
1.8
18.1
1.8
6.9
0.3

Percent
Change

1990-1991
(7.8)%
36.1
78.5
37.9
(0.9)
35.7
109.3

204,669.8

32.4

232,545.2

31.8

13.6

14,872.5

2.4

10,366.8

1.4

(30.3)

141,058.1

22.3

156,188.3

21.4

10.7

7,908.1
26,415.7
9,107.5
864.0
1,877.1
1,422.5
334.1
1,052.1
237,235.6
295.7
23,897.7
$632,102.6

1.3
4.2
1.5
0.1
0.3
0.2
0.1
0.2
37.5
3.8
100.0%

9,428.1
37,114.4
13,118.5
1,243.4
3,127.9
1,547.2
196.2
1,758.2
254,008.1
283.3
21,130.4
$730,211.4

1.3
5.1
1.8
0.2
0.4
0.2
0.0
0.2
34.8
0.0
2.9
100.0%

19.2
40.5
35.1
43.9
66.6
8.8
(41.3)
67.1
7.1
(4.2)
(11.6)
15.5%

Liabillties and Equjty capital
Bank loans Payable
Payables to Other Broker-dealers
(a) securities Failed to Receive
(b) securities loaned
(c) Other
Payables to Non-customers
Payables to Customers
Short Positions in securities and Commodities
securities Sold Under Repurchase Agreements
Other Non-subordinated liabilities
SUbordinated liabilities
Total liabilities

$ 18,257.5
45,371.6
5,923.1
31,181.8
8,266.7
7,287.4
55,549.7
102,898.9
320,773.3
39,870.5
14,260.5
$604,269.7

29%
7.2
0.9
4.9
1.3
1.2
8.8
16.3
50.7
6.3
2.3
95.6

$ 24,688.9
61,407.2
12,695.5
36,794.8
11,916.9
13,360.7
71,616.1
107,245.4
364,172.3
42,017.9
14,743.8
$699,252.2

3.40/.
8.4
1.7
5.0
1.6
1.8
9.8
14.7
49.9
5.8
2.0
95.8

35.2%
35.3
114.3
18.0
44.2
83.3
28.9
4.2
13.5
5.4
3.4
15.7

Equity capital

$ 27,832.9

4.4%

$ 30,959.2

4.2%

11.2%

Number of Firms

947

885

Figures may not add due to rounding.
* under .05%
r = reVised
p = preliminary
11 calendar, rather than fiscal, ~ear data is reported in this table.
Note: Includes information for rms doing a public business that carry customer accounts or clear securities
transactions.
Source: Focus Report
153

Securities on Exchanges
Market Value and Share Volume
The market value of equity and option transactions (trading in stocks,
options, warrants, and rights) on registered exchanges totaled $1.9 trillion
in 1991. Of this total, approximately $1.8 trillion, or 93%, represented
the market value of transactions in stocks, rights and warrants; $125
billion, 7%, were options transactions (including exercises of options on
listed stocks).
The value of equity and option transactions on the New York Stock
Exchange (NYSE) was $1.5 trillion, up 10% from the previous year. The
market value of such transactions on the American Stock Exchange (AMEX)
increased 7% to $69.1 billion and by 4% to $300.1 billion on all other
exchanges. The volume of trading in stocks (excluding rights and warrants)
on all registered exchanges totaled 58.0 billion shares, a 9% increase from
the previous year, with 82% of the total accounted for by trading on the
NYSE.
The volume of options contracts traded (excluding exercised contracts)
was 199 million contracts in 1991, 5% lower than in 1990. The market value
of these contracts decreased 4% to $76.1 billion. The volume of contracts
executed on the Chicago Board Options Exchange fell 6% to 121.7 million;
trading in options on the AMEX fell 5%; contract volume on the Philadelphia
Stock Exchange fell 2 %; and trading in options on the Pacific Stock Exchange
increased 0.2%.

154

NASDAQ (Share Volume and Dollar Volume)
NASDAQ share volume and dollar value information for over-thecounter trading has been reported on a daily basis since November 1,1971.
At the end of 1991, there were 4,684 issues in the NASDAQ system, as
compared to 4,706 a year earlier and 3,050 at the end of 1980.
Share volume for 1991 was 41.3 billion, as compared to 33.4 billion
in 1990 and 6.7 billion in 1980. This trading volume encompasses the
number of shares bought and sold by market makers plus their net inventory
changes. The dollar volume of shares traded in the NASDAQ system was
$693.9 billion during 1991, as compared to $452.4 billion in 1990 and $68.7
billion in 1980.
Share and Dollar Volume by Exchange
Share volume on all registered exchanges totaled 58.3 billion, an
increase of 8% from the previous year. The New York Stock Exchange
accounted for 82% of the 1991 share volume; the American Stock Exchange,
6%; the Midwest Stock Exchange, 5%; and the Pacific Stock Exchange, 4%.
The dollar value of stocks, rights, and warrants traded was $1.8
trillion, 10% higher than the previous year. Trading on the New York
Stock Exchange contributed 86% of the total. The Midwest Stock Exchange
and Pacific Stock Exchange contributed 4% and 3%, respectively.
The
American Stock Exchange accounted for 2% of dollar volume.

155

o

CO0010NLnOQOO
C')

c:i

""
;;

156

co

-~
N ..,

......n ~,...,."

~
en
w
C,!)

"CU>
",-

-

~f!
...

"'c:
)(0

~

~

J:

~

f3
i=

it
=>

o
w
en

c4'ii)
=>"0

zc:

oll!
en;:'
WO

...JF

",-

= =='"
0> c:
-:;:,
a:_

m

N
(I')

'IIIl:I"mco.,...Cb
.,...0 co,......,.....
c,...... en ('I).,...

,...:
~~~trir.n N co
'IIIl:I" ,......,....,...

('1)000<000000
ll'l

co
d
C")

ll'l

co

en co
"":cJ
C")

«c:

en=
en
z

o

1::

il:
o

o
c.

a:
'"

B

~

~
~

5

o
W

c:
o

u,

o
W

~

3

g

~o

~U>
j2!!

Eo

u ...
0=

_en
en-

(.)

0>

c:

~
zs

'"c:o

a
o
"C

...
c:

~

'?
a:

E

.£
(.)

w

en

~
::l
o

en

157

Table

20

SHARE VOLUME BY EXCHANGES

u

(In Percentage)

Year

Total Share
Volume
(in Thousands)

1945
1950
1955
1960
1961
1962
1963
1964
1965
1966
1967
1968
1969
1970
1971
1972
1973
1974
1975
1976
1977
1978
1979
1980
1981
1982
1983
1984
1985
1986
1987
1988
1989
1990
1991

769,018
893,320
1,321,401
1,441,120
2,142,523
1,711,945
1,880,793
2,118,326
2,671,012
3,313,899
4,646,553
5,407,923
5,134,856
4,834,887
6,172,668
6,518,132
5,899,678
4,950,842
6,376,094
7,129,132
7,124,640
9,630,065
10,960,424
15,587,986
15,969,186
22,491,935
30,316,014
30,548,014
37,187,567
48,580,524
64,082,996
52,665,654
54,416,790
53,746,087
58,296,284

NYSE

AMEX

MSE

PSE

PHLX

BSE

CSE

6587
76.32
68.85
68.47
6499
71.31
72.93
72.81
69.90
69.38
6440
61.98
63.16
71.28
71.34
70.47
74.92
7847
80.99
80.05
79.71
79.53
79.88
79.94
80.68
81.22
80.37
82.54
81.52
81.12
83.09
83.74
81.33
81.86
82.00

21.31
13.54
19.19
22.27
25.58
20.11
18.83
19.42
22.53
22.84
28.41
29.74
27.61
19.03
18.42
18.22
13.75
10.28
8.97
9.35
9.56
10.65
10.85
10.78
9.32
6.96
7.45
5.26
5.78
628
5.57
4.95
6.02
6.23
5.52

1.77
2.16
2.09
2.20
2.22
2.34
2.32
2.43
2.63
2.56
2.35
2.63
2.84
3.16
3.52
3.71
4.09
4.40
3.97
3.87
3.96
3.56
3.30
3.84
4.60
5.09
5.48
6.03
6.12
5.73
5.19
5.26
5.44
4.68
4.66

298
3.11
3.08
3.11
3.41
2.95
2.82
2.65
2.33
2.68
2.46
264
3.47
3.68
3.72
4.13
3.68
3.48
3.26
3.93
3.72
3.84
3.27
2.80
2.87
3.62
3.56
3.31
3.66
3.68
3.23
3.03
3.34
3.16
3.58

1.06
0.97
0.85
0.88
0.79
0.87
0.83
0.93
0.81
0.86
0.87
0.89
1.22
1.63
1.91
2.21
2.19
1.82
1.54
1.42
1.49
1.49
1.64
1.54
1.55
2.18
2.20
1.79
1.47
1.53
1.30
1.29
1.80
1.82
1.60

0.66
0.65
0.48
0.38
0.30
0.31
0.29
0.29
0.26
0.40
0.43
0.78
0.51
0.51
0.43
0.59
0.71
0.86
0.85
0.78
0.66
0.60
0.55
0.57
0.51
048
0.65
0.85
1.27
1.33
1.28
1.32
1.64
1.71
1.77

0.05
0.09
0.05
0.04
0.04
0.04
0.04
0.03
0.05
0.05
0.02
001
0.00
0.02
0.03
0.03
0.04
0.05
0.13
0.44
0.64
0.16
0.28
0.32
0.37
0.38
0.19
0.18
0.15
0.30
0.30
0.39
0.41
0.53
0.86

Others 2/

6.30
3.16
5.41
2.65
2.67
2.07
1.94
144
1.49
1.23
106
133
119
0.69
0.63
0.64
0.62
064
0.29
0.16
0.26
0.17
0.23
0.21
0.10
0.07
0.10
0.04
0.03
0.02
0.04
0.02
0.02
0.01
0.01

1/ Share volume for exchanges includes stocks, rights and warrants; calendar, rather than fiscal, year data is reported in
thiS table.
2/lncludes all eXchanges not listed individually.
Source. SEC Form R-31

158

Table 21
DOLLAR VOLUME BY EXCHANGES

11

(In Percentage)

Year

Total Dollar
Volume
($ in Thousands) NYSE

1945 $ 16,284,552
21,808,284
1950
38,039,107
1955
45,309,825
1960
64,071,623
1961
54,855,293
1962
64,437,900
1963
72,461,584
1964
89,549,093
1965
123,697,737
1966
162,189,211
1967
197,116,367
1968
1969
176,389,759
1970
131,707,946
1971
186,375,130
205,956,263
1972
1973
178,863,622
118,828,270
1974
157,256,676
1975
1976
195,224,812
187,393,084
19n
251,618,179
1978
300,475,510
1979
476,500,688
1980
1981
491,017,139
603,094,266
1982
958,304,168
1983
951,318,448
1984
1985 1,200,127,848
1986 1,707,117,112
1987 2,286,902,788
1988 1,587,950,769
1989 1,847,766,971
1990 1,616,798,075
1991 1,778,398,022

82.75
85.91
86.31
83.80
82.43
86.32
8519
83.49
81.78
79.n

77.29
73.55
73.48
78.44
79.07
77.n

82.07
83.63
85.20
84.35
83.96
83.67
83.72
83.53
84.74
85.32
85.13
85.61
85.25
85.02
86.79
86.81
85.49
86.15
86.20

AMEX

MSE

PSE

PHLX

BSE

CSE

Others 21

0.81
6.85
6.98
9.35
10.71
6.81
7.51
8.45
991
11.84
14.48
17.99
17.59
11.11
9.98
10.37
6.06
4.40
3.67
3.88
4.60
613
6.94
7.33
5.41
327
3.32
226
2.23
2.56
2.32
1.96
2.35
2.33
2.31

2.00
2.35
2.44
2.72
2.75
2.75
2.72
3.15
3.44
3.14
3.08
3.12
3.39
3.76
4.00
4.29
4.54
4.90
4.64
4.76
4.79
4.16
3.83
4.33
5.04
5.83
6.28
6.57
6.59
6.00
5.32
5.46
5.46
4.58
4.34

1.78
219
1.90
1.94
1.99
2.00
2.39
2.48
2.43
2.84
279
2.65
3.12
381
3.79
3.94
3.55
3.50
3.26
3.83
3.53
3.64
278
2.27
2.32
3.05
2.86
2.93
3.06
3.00
2.53
2.62
2.84

0.96
1.03
1.03
1.03
1.03
1.05
1.06
1.14
1.12
110
1.13
1.13
1.43
1.99
2.29
2.56
2.45
2.03
1.73
1.69
1.62
1.62
1.80
1.61
1.60
1.59
1.55
1.58
1.49
1.57
1.35
1.33

1.16
1.12
0.78
0.60
0.49
0.46
0.41
0.42
0.42
0.56
0.66
1.04
0.67
0.67
0.58
0.75
1.00
1.24
1.19
0.94
0.74
0.61
0.56
0.52
0.49
0.51
0.66
0.85

2.n

1.79
1.54

0.06
0.11
0.09
0.07
0.07
0.07
0.06
0.06
0.08
0.07
0.03
0.01
0.01
0.03
0.05
0.05
0.06
0.06
0.17
0.53
0.75
0.17
0.35
0.40
0.40
0.43
016
0.19
0.18
0.41
0.35
0.49
0.54
0.74
0.83

0.48
0.44
0.47
0.49
0.53
0.54
0.66
0.81
0.82
0.68
0.54
0.51
0.31
0.19
0.24
0.27
0.27
024
014
0.02
0.01
0.00
0.02
001
0.00
0.00
0.04
0.00
0.00
0.00
0.00
0.00
0.00
0.00
0.01

3.05

1.n

120

1.44
1.33
1.34
1.56
1.63
1.72

lJ Dollarvolume for exchanges includes stocks, rllJhtsand warrants; calendar, rather than fiscal, year data is
reported in this table.
21 Includes all exchanges not listed individually.
Source: SECForm R-31
159

r-.<coa>enr-.",en
MM'o:t"''''''''o:tM
"""'CO,...c.oc.c"""'C\lO)

cri~

o
,....

io't

PiLri

ll'>
r-.

Lti

ll'>r-.<CM<C

"r-Lt)"""MZ
0

r-.
a>
ll'>

'"

,....
cD

cD

,....
a>

'"

io't

N

'o:t

.,....

'"
'"

CDN,..."NNO)ClCICD
,...N
..-(CC\I,..."N

,... ,...

c:a ,...

('f')

~

<C

en
o
z
o

<Xl

...

.,....
r-.
.,....

G>
.Q

E
::>

z

.,....

a>
ll'>
M

o
w

a:

a:

~

w
a:
e,

...

G>
.Q

E

ll'>

en
.,....
,....
Z

MO<CO<C

<CC'\I,...C\lO"""NO
L(),...,...,..."

co

<C

::>

Z

...

G>
.Q

E
::>

z

Sl
M

.,....

160

Table 23
VALUE OF STOCKS LISTED ON EXCHANGES
($ in Billions)

As of
Dec 31
1938
1940
1941
1942
1943
1944
1945
1946
1947
1948
1949
1950
1951
1952
1953
1954
1955
1956
1957
1958
1959
1960
1961
1962
1963
1964
1965
1966
1967
1968
1969
1970
1971
1972
1973
1974
1975
1976
1977
1978
1979
1980
1981
1982
1983
1984
1985
1986
1987
1988
1989
1990
1991

New York
Stock
Exchange
$ 47.5
46.5
41.9
358
47.6
555
738
68.6
683
67.0
76.3
938
1095
1205
117 3
1691
207.7
219.2
1956
2767
307.7
3070
387.8
3458
411.3
474.3
537.5
482.5
6058
6923
629.5
6364
741.8
871.5
7210
511.1
6851
858.3
776.7
8227
960.6
1,242.8
1,143.8
1,305.4
1,522.2
1,529.5
1,882.7
2,128.5
2,132.2
2,366.1
2,903.5
2,6921
3,547.5

American
Stock
Exchange
$ 108
10.1
86
74
99
11 2
14.4
132
12.1
11.9
122
139
165
169
15.3
22.1
271
310
255
31.7
254
242
330
244
261
28.2
309
27.9
43.0
612
47.7
395
491
55.6
38.7
23.3
29.3
36.0
37.6
39.2
578
1035
89.4
776
80.1
52.0
63.2
70.3
67.0
84.1
1009
69.9
90.3

ExclUSively
On Other
Exchanges

Total
583
566
50.5
432
57.5
667
882
81.8
804
81.9
916
111.0
1292
1405
1354
1948
2388
2540
2242
3127
337.3
3353
426.1
3742
441.7
506.8
5731
5144
652.7
7595
6826
6807
7956
9327
7638
537.3
7187
8985
818.5
864.8
1,0223
1,3492
1,2382
1,3897
1,608.8
1,5873
1,951 8
2,2053
2,2051
2,4551
3,009.0
2,7659
3,6421

$

30
3.1
3.3
32
3.1
2.8
3.6
4.0
3.8
31
4.3
4.2
41
5.3
40
4.3
4.3
47
40
39
60
5.4
48
4.7
5.6
4.1
2.9
4.3
42
4.2
2.9
3.9
29
5.0
68
6.6
5.8
5.9
6.5
5.9
4.9
4.6
3.9
43

Source' SECForm 1392
161

Table 24

APPROPRIATED

FUNDS vs FEES. COLLECTED

$ Millions
450

406

400

350

300

250

226
200

150

100

APPROPRIATED
FUNDING

.-

~.'

... r*'

50

o

FY1976

78

n

80

~

82

~

84

~

86

~

88

~

90

~

• Excludes dlsgorgements from fraud actions.
funding has been adjusted to exclude
offsetting collections not In appropriated estimates.

rJ FY1991 appropriated

162

92

~

(J)

Z

o
~

a:

a..

o
a:
a..
a..
-c

~Oo

Q)Zo
:0<8as (J) ~
f-w

~
~
~

W
IW

o

o
::::>
II)

163

164

