1 9 9 3
Annual Report

United States
Securities and Exchange Commission

SECURITIES AND EXCHANGE COMMISSION
Mission
Under the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, Congress created the Securities and
Exchange Commission (SEC). The SEC is an independent, nonpartisan, quasijudicial regulatory agency. The agency's mission is to administer the federal
securities laws that seek to provide protection for investors. The purposes of these
laws are to ensure that the securities markets are fair and honest and to provide the
means to enforce the securities laws through sanctions where necessary.
Under the direction of the Chairman and Commissioners, the staff ensures that
publicly held entities, broker-dealers in securities, investment companies and
advisers, and other participants in the securities markets comply with federal
securities laws. These laws were designed to facilitate informed investment
analyses and decisions by the investing public, primarily by ensuring adequate
disclosure of material information.

Table of Contents
..
Chairman's Transmittal Letter ............................................................................... vli

........................................ ix
Biographies of Commission Members ................................................................. xi
Arthur Levitt + Mary L. Schapiro + Richard Y. Roberts +
Commission Members and Principal Staff Officers

J. Carter Beese, Jr.

Regional and District Offices

................................................................................. xv

Enforcement
Key 1993 Results ......................................................................................................

Enforcement Authority
Inquiry

1

+ Enforcement Activities 4 Sources for Further

International Affairs
Key 1993 Results ........................................................................................................

18

+

Arrangements for Mutual Assistance and Exchanges of Information
Enforcement Matters Technical Assistance International
Organizations and Multilateral Initiatives International Requests for
Assistance

+

+

+

Regulation of the Securities Markets
Key 1993 Results ........................................................................................................24

+

Securities Markets, Trading and Significant Regulatory Issues
Examination and Oversight of Brokers, Dealers, Municipal Securities
Dealers, and Transfer Agents Oversight of Self-Regulatory
Organizations

+

Investment Companies and Advisers
Key 1993 Results ........................................................................................................37

Program Overview
Interpretations

+ Regulatory Policy + Significant Applications and

Full Disclosure
Key 1993 Results ........................................................................................................51

Review of Filings
Conferences

+ Rulemaking, Interpretive, and Legislative Matters +

Accounting and Auditing Matters
Key 1993 Results .....................................................................................................
5 8

+

Accounting Related Rules and Interpretations Oversight of Private
Sector Standard Setting Oversight of the Accounting Profession's
Initiatives International Accounting and Auditing Standards

+

+

Other Litigation and Legal Activities
Key 1993 Results ......................................................................................................
63

+

Significant Litigation Developments Significant Adjudication
Developments Task Force on Administrative Proceedings
Counselling and Regulatory Policy Services Significant Legislative
Developments Foreign Technical Assistance Corporate
Reorganizations Ethical Conduct Program Workload Increases

+
+
+

+

+
+
+

Economic Research and Analysis
Key 1993 Results ..................................................................................................7 5
Economic Analysis and Technical Assistance
Policy Management and Administrative Support
Key 1993 Results ...................................................................................................7 7
Policy Management

+ AdministrativeSupport

........
Appendix
................
Endnotes

84

93

Enforcement Cases Initiated by the Commission During Fiscal Year
1993 in Various Program Areas Fiscal 1993Enforcement Cases
Listed by Program Area Investigations of Possible Violations of
the Acts Administered by the Commission Administrative
Proceedings Instituted During Fiscal Year Ending September 30,
1993 Injunctive Actions Right to Financial Privacy Types of
Proceedings Foreign Restricted List Self-Regulatory
Organizations: Expenses, Pre-tax Income and Balance Sheet
Structure Consolidated Financial Information of Self-Regulatory
Organizations Self-Regulatory Organization<Iearing
Corporations, 1992 Revenues and Expenses Setf-Regulatory
Organizations-Depositories, 1992 Revenues and Expenses
Certificate Immobilization Exemptions Corporate Reorganizations The Securities Industry: Revenues, Expenses, and Selected
Balance Sheet Items Unconsolidated Financial Information for
Broker-Dealers Unconsolidated Annual Revenues and Expenses
for Broker-Dealers Doing a Public Business, 1988-1992
Unconsolidated Balance Sheet for Broker-Dealers Doing a Public

+

+

+

+

+

+

+

+

+

+

+

+

+

+

+

+

+

+

+

+
+

Business Year-end, 1988-1992 Carrying and Clearing Firms
Securities Industry Dollar in 1992 for Carrying/Clearing Firms
Unconsolidated Revenues and Expenses for Canying/Clearing
Broker-Dealers Unconsolidated Balance Sheet for Carrying/
Clearing Broker-Dealers Securities Traded on Exchanges: Market
Value and Volume NASDAQ (Share Volume and Dollar Volume)
Share and Dollar Volume by Exchanges Market Value of
Equity/Options Sales on U.S. Exchanges Volume of Equity/
Options Sales on U.S. Securities Exchanges Share Volume by
Exchanges Dollar Volume by Exchanges Securities Listed on
Exchanges Value of Stocks Listed on Exchanges Appropriated
Funds vs. Fees Collected Budget Estimates and Appropriations
Securities and Exchange Commission Organizational Chart

+

+

+

+

+

+

+
+

+

+

+

+

+

UNITED STATES
SECURITIES AND EXCHANGE COMMISSION
WASHINGTON, D.C. 20549
THE CHAIRMAN

The Honorable Albert Goye, Jr.
President of the Senate
Washington, D.C. 20510

The Honorable Thomas S. Foley
Speaker of the House
Washington, D.C. 20515

Gentlemen:
I am pleased to submit the annual report of the Securities and
Exchange Commission for fiscal year 1993. The report has been prepared
in accordance with the provisions of Section 23@)of the Securities Exchange
Act of 1934, as amended; Section 23 of the Public Utility Holding Company
Act of 1935; Section 46(a) of the Investment Company Act of 1940; Section
216 of the Investment Advisers Act of 1940; Section 3 of the Act of June 29,
1949 amending the Bretton Woods Agreement Act; Section Il(b) of the
Inter-American Development Bank Act; and Section 11@) of the Asian
Development Act.
Sincerely,

klnn

Arthur Levitt
Chairman

Commissionen

Term Expires

Arthur Levitt, Chaiman
Mary L. Schapiro
Richard Y. Roberts
J. Carter Beese, Jr.
Principal Staff Officers

Colleen P. Mahoney, Executive Assistant
Linda C. Quinn, Director, Division of Corporation Finance
Elisse B. Walter, Deputy Director
William E. Morley, Senior Associate Director
Abigail Arms, Associate Director
Teresa E. Iannaconi, Associate Director
Richard M. Kosnik, Associate Director
Howard F. Morin, Associate Director
Mauri L. Osheroff, Associate Director
Robert A. Bayless, Chief Accountant
David A. Sirignano, Senior Legal Advisor
William R. McLucas, Director, Division of Enforcement
Joseph I. Goldstein, Associate Director
Bruce A. Hiler, Associate Director
Thomas C. Newkirk, Associate Director
Vacant, Associate Director
Joan E. McKown, Chief Counsel
Barry R. Goldsmith, Chief Litigation Counsel
Stephen J. Crimmins, Deputy Chief Litigation Counsel
George H. Diacont, Chief Accountant
James A. Clarkson, 111, Director of Regional Office Operations
Barry Barbash, Director, Division of Investment Management
Barbara J. Green, Deputy Director
Matthew A. Chambers, Associate Director
Gene A. Gohlke, Associate Director
C Gladwyn Goins, Associate Director
William C. Weeden, Associate Director
Thomas S. Harman, Chief Counsel

Brandon Becker, Director, Division @Market Regulation
Robert L.D. Colby, Deputy Director
Larry E. Bergmann, Associate Director
Mark D. Fitterman, Associate Director
Jonathan Kallman, Associate Director
Howard Kramer, Associate Director
Michael A. Macchiaroli, Associate Director
Catherine McGuire, Chief Counsel
Mary Ann Gadziala, Senior Advisor
Vacant, Special Assistant to the Director
Simon M. Lome, General Counsel, Office of the General Counsel
Paul Gonson, Solicitor and Deputy General Counsel
Phillip D. Parker, Deputy General Counsel (Legal Policy)
Anne E. Chafer, Associate General Counsel
Richard M. Humes, Associate General Counsel
Diane Sanger, Associate General Counsel
Jacob H. Stillman, Assoahte G m a l CatnseI
William S. Stern, Counselor for Adjudication
Walter P. Schueke, Chief Accountant, Ofice of the Chief Accountant
John P. Riley, Deputy Chief Accountant
Warren E. Blair, Chief Administrative Law Judge,Officeof the Administrative Law Judges
Susan E. Woodward, Chief Economist, m c e of Economic Analysis
Jeffry L. Davis, Director, Economic and Policy Research
Faith D. Ruderfer, Director, Office of Equal Employment Opportunity
James M. McConnell, Executive Director, Office of the Executive Director
Vacant, Deputy Executive Director
Fernando L. Alegria, Jr., Associate Executive Director
Wilson A. Butler, Jr., Associate Executive Director
Lawrence H. Haynes, Associate Executive Director
John J. Lane, Associate Executive Director
Michael D. Mann, Director, OJJlceof lnternatianal Affairs
Kathryn Fulton, Director, Office of Legislative Affairs
Jennifer Kimball, Director, Ofice of Public Affairs, Policy Evaluation and Research
Jonathan G. Katz, Secretary of the Commission

Chairman
Following his nomination by
President Clinton and his confirmation
by the Senate, Arthur Levitt, Jr. was
sworn in as the 25th Chairman of the
Securities and Exchange Commission
on July 27, 1993.
Before being nominated to the
Commission, Mr. Levitt served as the
Chairman of the New York City
Economic Development Corporation
and, from 1978 to 1989, the Chairman
of the American Stock Exchange
(Amex).
Throughout his career, Mr. Levitt has been called upon to serve on
many governmental task forces and boards of directors. At the federal
level, he has served on four executive branch commissions, including
chairing the White House Small Business Task Force from 1978 to 1980.
Most recently, he was a member of the President's Base Closure and
Realignment Commission and the Defense Department Task Force on the
National Industrial Base. In addition to heading the New York City
Economic Development Corporation, he chaired the Special Advisory Task
Force on the Future Development of the West Side of Manhattan and the
Committee on Incentives and Tax Policy of the New York City Mayor's
Management Advisory Task Force.
Mr. Levitt has served on 10 corporate and philanthropic boards,
including those of the Equitable Life Assurance Society of the United
States, East New York Savings Bank, First Empire State Corporation, the
Revson Foundation, the Rockefeller Foundation, the Solomon R. Guggenheim
Foundation and Williams College.
Mr. Levitt founded Levitt Media Company in 1990. Its primary
holding is Roll Call, the Newspaper of Congress.
Prior to accepting the Amex chairmanship, Mr. Levitt worked for 16
years on Wall Street. From 1969 to 1978, he was President and Director
of Shearson Hayden Stone, Inc. (today Smith Barney Shearson) whose
predecessor firm he joined as a partner in 1962. It was during this period
that Mr. Levitt first invoIved himself with Amex, becoming one of its
governors in 1975 and in 1977 accepting the additional position of Vice
Chairman.
From 1959 to 1962, Mr. Levitt worked at the Kansas-based agricultural
management firm Oppenheimer Industries, where he rose to the position
of Executive Vice President and Director. From 1954 to 1959, Mr. Levitt
was assistant promotion director at Time, Inc.

Mr. Levitt, 62, graduated Phi Beta Kappa from Williams College in
1952 before serving two years in the Air Force. Married since 1955 to the
former Marylin Blauner, Mr. Levitt has two children, Arthur 111and Lauri.

Commissioner
Mary L. Schapiro was sworn in as
the 67th member of the Securities and
Exchange Commission on December 19,
1989 by the Honorable Sandra Day
O'Connor, Associate Justice of the United
States Supreme Court. Ms. Schapiro was
nominated to t h e Commission on
November 8, 1989 by President George
Bush and confirmed by the United States
Senate on November 18, 1989. Her term
expires in June 1994. Ms. Schapiro had
prkviously-been appointed by president
Ronald Reagan for a one year term. She was designated Acting Chairman
of the SEC by President Clinton in May 1993 and served in that capacity
until the confirmation of Chairman Arthur Levitt.
Ms. Schapiro was named chairman of the SEC Task Force on
Administrative Process in 1990, with responsibility for comprehensive
review and revision of the agency's rules for administrative proceedings.
The Task Force Report was published in March 1993. Ms. Schapiro also
serves on the Developing Markets Committee of the International
Organization of Securities Commissions.
Before being appointed to the Commission, Ms. Schapiro was General
Counsel and Senior Vice President for the Futures Industry Association.
While at the FIA her work included regulatory, tax and international
issues, including extensive liaison with foreign government officials and
analysis of state and Federal legislation.
Ms. Schapiro came to the FIA from the Commodity Futures Trading
Commission, where she spent four years. She joined the CFTC in 1980
as a Trial Attorney in the Manipulation and Trade Practice Investigations
Unit of the Division of Enforcement, and from 1981 to 1984 served as
Counsel and Executive Assistant to the Chairman of the agency. In the
latter position, Ms. Schapiro advised on all regulatory and adjudicatory
matters pending before the Commission and on legislation. She also
represented the Chairman with Federal and state officials, Congress, and
the futures industry, in addition to other duties.
A 1977 honors graduate of Franklin and Marshall College (Lancaster,
Pennsylvania), Ms. Schapiro earned a Juris Doctor degree (with honors)
from The National Law Center of George Washington University in 1980.

Commissloner
Richard Roberts was nominated to the
Commission by President Bush and
confirmed by the Senate on September 27,
1990. He was sworn in as a Commissioner
on October 1,1990 by the Honorable Stanley
Sporkin, Judge for the United States District
Court of the District of Columbia. His term
expires in June 1995.
Before being nominated to t h e
Commission, Mr. Roberts was in the private
practice of law with the Washington office
of Miller, Hamilton, Snider &-0dom. Before joining the law firm in April
1990, Mr. Roberts was administrative assistant and legislative director for
Senator Richard Shelby (D., Ala.), a position he assumed in 1987. Prior
to that, Mr. Roberts was, for four years, in the private practice of law in
Alabama. From 1979 to 1982, Mr. Roberts was administrative assistant
and legislative director for then-Congressman Shelby.
Mr. Roberts is a 1973 graduate of Auburn University and a 1976
graduate of the University of Alabama School of Law. He also received
a Master of Laws in taxation from the George Washington University
National Law Center in 1981. He is admitted to the bar in the District
of Columbia and Alabama. Mr. Roberts is a member of the Alabama State
Bar Association and the District of Columbia Bar Association.
He and his wife, the former Peggy Frew, make their home in Fairfax,
Virginia with their son and two daughters.
Mr. Roberts was born in Birmingham, Alabama on July 3, 1951.
Commissloner
J. Carter Beese, Jr. was nominated to the
U.S. Securities and Exchange Commission in
October 1991 by President George Bush and
confirmed by the U.S. Senate on February 27,
1992. Mr. Beese was sworn in as the 71st
member of the Commission in a private
ceremony held on March 10, 1992, by the
Honorable Stanley Sporkin, Judge for the
U.S. District Court for t h e District of
Columbia. On April 20,1992, Mr. Beese was
formally sworn in a t the White House by Vice
President Dan Quayle. Mr. ~eese's-term expires in June of 1996..
During his tenure at the Commission, Commissioner Beese has been
particularly active in the areas of investment management, the derivatives
markets and cross-border capital flows. Commissioner Beese's focus on
these areas is centered on his belief that the transformation of savers into
investors through mutual funds, the development of new financial
instruments to reallocate risk, and the globalization of the world's capital
xiii

markets are fundamentally remaking our markets. Commissioner Beese
is committed to maintaining the competitiveness of U.S. capital markets
and readying the securities markets and securities regulators for the
challenges of the next century.
Before joining the Commission, Mr. Beese was a partner of Alex.
Brown & Sons, the oldest investment banking firm in the United States.
Mr. Beese's corporate responsibilities included business development in
the areas of corporate finance, investment management, and institutional
brokerage. Mr. Beese joined Alex. Brown in 1978, became an officer in
1984, and was named partner in 1987. Mr. Beese was also active in the
founding of the Carlyle Group, a Washington based merchant bank, and
served as an advisory director from 1986 -
 1989.
Mr. Beese has also served in other capacities in government, each
related to enhancing the competitiveness of U.S. industries and markets.
In 1990, Mr. Beese was appointed by President Bush, and confirmed by
the U.S. Senate, as a Director of the Overseas Private Investment
Corporation (OPIC). OPIC is a U.S. government agency that assists
American private business investment in over 120 countries by financing
direct loans and loan guarantees and by insuring investments against
a broad range of political risks. OPIC plays a vital role in the effort
to gain access to new markets for U.S. products and businesses.
Mr. Beese also served as a member of the Securities and Exchange
Commission's Emerging Markets Advisory Committee. As part of his
responsibilities, Mr. Beese provided technical assistance on the formation
and regulatory oversight of financial markets. Further, during 1991 Mr.
Beese also served as a member of the Committee on Financing Technology
in the U.S., a joint project between the Treasury and Commerce
Departments initiated to study the adequacy of investment in the
technology needed by U.S. companies to meet the challenges of global
competition.
Mr. Beese is active in a number of civic organizations, including
the American Center for International Leadership (ACIL), of which he
is a director. AClL brings young American leaders together with their
counterparts in various foreign countries.
Mr. Beese participated in
ACIL missions to the Peoples Republic of China in 1988 and to the former
Soviet Union in 1990. He is a committee member of CHILD HELP USA,
and serves on the boards of Preservation Maryland, the Palm Beach
Maritime Museum and Ocean Engineering Institute, and the Advisory
Board of National Rehabilitation Hospital. Mr. Beese resides in Baltimore,
Maryland with his wife, Natalie, and three children, Courtney, John
Carter and Wilson.

xiv

~u

(J)

Ql

U

D

~£

a:

!!!

inc

'" '"
Q)-

.s:
c
_.!!1
:>-

oct:

Ul

:i=

o
U)

w
o

u:::

11.

o
~


(J)

Ql

U

:i=

o

o

~


.2

-a:

c
U)

c

z
ct

as
c::

Cl
Ql

a:

*

-'

ct

z

Q

G

w

a:

o
w

U)

•"
-c
e
::>

xv

Cenhal Regional Office
Robert H. Davenport, Regional Director
1801 California St., Suite 4800
Denver, CO 80202-2648
(303) 391-6800

Pacific Regional Office
Elaine M. Cacheris, Regional Director
5670 Wihire Blvd, 11th Floor
Los Angeles, CA 9W36-3648
(213) %5-3998

Fort Worth District Office
T. Christopher Browne, District Administrator
801 Cherry Sh.eet, 19thFloor
Fort Worth, TX 76102
(817) 334-3821

San h c i s c o Dkhict Office
Vacant, District Administrator
44 Montgomery Street, 11th Floor
San Francisco,CA 94104
(415) 762500

Salt Lake Dishict Office
Vacant, DistrictAdministrator
500 Key Bank Tower
50 S. Main Skeet, Suite500
Box 79
Salt Lake City, UT 84144-0402
(801)5245796

Seattle District Office
Jack H.Bookey, District Administrator
3040 Jackson Federal Building
915 Second Avenue
Seattle, WA 98174
(206) 220-7500

Midwest Regional Office
William D. Goldsberry, Regional Director
Northwestern Atrium Center
500W. Madison St., Suite 1400
Chicago, K 60661-2511
(312) 35X7390

Northeast Regional Office
Richard H. Walker, Regional Direaor
7 World Trade Center, Suite 1300
New York, NY 1W
(212) 7488000
Boston D i d Office
JuanM. h l i n o , District Administrator
73 Tremont Sh.eet
Sixth Floor, Suite 600
Boston, MA 02108
(617) 424-5900

Philadelphia District Office
Donald M. Hoerl, District Administrator
The Curtis Center, Suik 1005 E.
601Walnut Street
Philadelphi* PA 191Uf5-3322
(215) 597-3100

SoutheastRegional Office
Vacant, Regional Director
1401 Brickell Avenue, Suite 2
W
Miami, FL 33131
(305)536-5765
Atlanta W c t Office

Richard P.Wessel, DistrictAdministrator
3475 Lenox Road, N.E.
Suite 1000
Atlanta, GA 30326-1232
(404)842-7600

The Commission's enforcement program is designed to protect investors
and foster investor confidence by preserving the integrity and effzciencyofthe
securities markets. The enforcement program's principal legislativemandates
contain explicit authority for the agency to conduct investigations and
prosecute violations ofthe securities laws by bringing enforcement actions in
afederal court m instituting administrativeproceedings before the Commission.
Last year, as in prior years, the Commission maintained a strong presence in
all areas within its jurisdiction.
Key 1993 Results
In 1993, the Commission instituted a significant number of enforcement
actions in response to a wide range of securities law violations. In its
administrative and judicial proceedings, the Commission sought and
obtained relief from a broad and flexible array of remedies designed to
protect investors and the public interest.
The Commission obtained court orders requiring defendants to
disgorge illicit profits of approximately $225 million. This included
disgorgement orders in insider trading cases requiring the payment of
approximately $12 million. Civil penalties authorized by the Securities
Enforcement Remedies and Penny Stock Reform Act of 1990 (Remedies
Act), the Insider Trading Sanctions Act of 1984 (ITSA) and the Insider
Trading and Securities Fraud Enforcement Act of 1988 (ITSFEA) totalled
over $29 million.
In Commission-related cases, criminal authorities obtained 67 criminal
indictments or informations and 58 convictions during 1993. The
Commission granted access to its files to domestic and foreign prosecutorial
authorities in 205 instances.

Total Enforcement Actions Initiated

Total
Civil Injunctive Actions
Administrative Proceedings
Civil and Criminal Contempt
Proceedings
Reports of Investigation

310
140
155

304
186
111

320
172
138

394
156
226

416
172
229

15
0

7
0

9
1

11
1

15
0

Enforcement Authority
The Commission has broad authority to investigate possible violations
of the federal securities laws. Informal investigations are conducted on
a voluntary basis, with the Commission requesting persons with relevant
information to cooperate by providing documents and testifying before
Commission staff. The federal securities laws also empower the Commission
to conduct formal investigations, in which the Commission has the authority
to issue subpoenas that compel the production of books and records and
the appearance of witnesses to testify. Both types of investigations generally
are conducted on a confidential, nonpublic basis.
Traditionally, the Commission's primary enforcement mechanism for
addressing violative conduct has been the federal court injunction, which
prohibits future violations. In civil actions for injunctive relief, the
Commission is authorized to seek temporary restraining orders and
preliminary injunctions as well as permanent injunctions against any
person who is violating or about to violate any provision of the federal
securities laws. Once an injunction has been imposed, conduct that violates
the injunction will be punishable by either civil or criminal contempt, and
violators are subject to fines or imprisonment. In addition to seeking such
orders, the Commission often seeks other equitable relief such as an
accounting and disgorgement of illegal profits. When seeking temporary
restraining orders, the Commission often requests a freeze order to prevent
concealment of assets or dissipation of the proceeds of illegal conduct.
The Remedies Act authorized the Commission to seek, and the courts to
impose, civil penalties for any violation of the federal securities laws (with
the exception of insider trading violations for which penalties are available
under ITSA). The Remedies Act also affirmed the existing equitable
authority of the federal courts to bar or suspend individuals from serving
as corporate officers or directors.
In addition to civil injunctive actions, the Commission has the authority
to institute several types of administrative proceedings. The Commission
may institute administrative proceedings against regulated entities, in
which the sanctions that may be imposed include a censure, limitation on
activities, and suspension or revocation of registration. The Commission
may impose similar sanctions on persons associated with such entities and
persons affiliated with investment companies. In addition, individuals
participating in an offering of penny stock may be barred by the Commission
from such participation. In administrative proceedings against regulated
entities and their associated persons, the Remedies Act also authorizes
the Commission to impose penalties and order disgorgement.
The Remedies Act further authorizes the Commission to institute
administrative proceedings in which it can issue cease and desist orders.
A permanent cease and desist order can be entered against any person
violating the federal securities laws, and may require disgorgement of
illegal profits. The Commission also is authorized to issue temporary cease
and desist orders (if necessary, on an ex parte basis) against regulated
entities and their associated persons, if the Commission determines that

the violation or threatened violation is likely to result in significant
dissipation or conversion of assets, significant harm to investors, or
substantial harm to the public interest prior to thecompletion of proceedings.
Section 8(d) of the Securities Act of 1933 (Securities Act) enables the
Commission to institute proceedings to suspend the effectiveness of a
registration statement that contains false and misleading statements.
Administrative proceedings pursuant to Section 15(c)(4) of the Securities
Exchange Act of 1934 (Exchange Act) can be instituted against any person
who fails to comply, and any person who is a cause of failure to comply,
with reporting, beneficial ownership, proxy, and tender offer requirements.
Respondents can be ordered to comply or to take steps to effect compliance
with the relevant provisions. Pursuant to Rule 2(e) of the Commission's
Rules of Practice, administrative proceedings can be instituted against
professionals who appear or practice before the Commission, including
accountants and attorneys. The sanctions that can be imposed in these
proceedings include suspensions and bars from appearing or practicing
before the Commission.
The Commission is authorized to refer matters to other federal, state,
or local authorities or self-regulatory organizations (SROs) such as the New
York Stock Exchange (NYSE) or the National Association of Securities
Dealers (NASD). The staff often i rovides substantial assistance to criminal
authorities, such as the Department of Justice, for the criminal prosecution
of securities violations.
Enforcement Activities
Set forth below are summaries of significant enforcement actions
initiated in various program areas in 1993. Defendants or respondents
who consented to settlement of actions did so without admitting or denying
the factual allegations contained in the complaint or order instituting
proceedings. See Table 2 for a listing of all enforcement actions instituted
in 1993.

Violations Relating to the Government Securities Markets
During the year, the Commission continued its focus on violations
affecting the conduct and fairness of the market for government securities.
The Commission instituted administrative proceedings against three
members of the senior management of Salomon Brothers Inc., alleging that
they had become aware that Paul W. Mozer, head of the firm's government
trading desk, had submitted a false bid in an auction of U.S. Treasury
securities (In the Matter of John H . Gutfreund'). The Commission found that
the respondents, Gutfreund, Salomon's former chairman and chief executive
officer, Thomas W. Strauss, Salomon's former president, and John W.
Meriwether, Salomon's former vice chairman, failed adequately to supervise
Mozer in that they took no action to investigate the matter, to discipline
him, or to report the matter to the government for a period of several
months, during which time Mozer committed additional violations. The
respondents consented to the entry of the order by which Gutfreund was
barred from holding the positions of chairman or chief executive officer

with any regulated entity and was required to pay a civil penalty of
$100,000. Strauss was suspended from association with any regulated
entity for a period of six months and ordered to pay a civil penalty of
$75,000. Meriwether was suspended from association for a period of three
months and ordered to pay a civil penalty of $50,000. The order also
included a report of investigation under Section 21(a) of the Exchange Act
with respect to the responsibilities of legal and compliance officers,
addressing the activities of Donald M. Feuerstein, Salomon's chief legal
officer.
The Gutfreund matter was related to the Commission's injunctive and
administrative proceedings previously initiated against Salomon in
connection with the firm's activities in the market for U.S. Treasury
securities, and to SEC v. Paul W. MozerI2a pending action against Mozer
and Thomas F. Murphy, a former managing director of the firm, arising
from the defendants' submission of false bids in Treasury auctions.
The Commission also instituted cease and desist proceedings against
Daiwa Securities America, Inc., a registered broker-dealer and governmentdesignated primary dealer in U.S. Treasury securities (In the Matter of
Daiwa Securities, I ~ c . ~ The
) . Commission found that Daiwa submitted a
false bid in an auction for U.S. Treasury securities in August 1989. While
the tender form indicated that the bid was for Daiwa, the bid was in fact
for Salomon Brothers Inc., and permitted Salomon to circumvent Treasury
regulations regarding, among other things, the maximum amount that any
person could purchase in the auction. The respondents, Daiwa and William
M. Brachfeld, an executive vice president of the firm, consented to the
entry of the cease and desist order. In addition, Daiwa consented to the
entry of an order censuring the firm and ordering it to pay disgorgement
and prejudgment interest of $249,340, and Brachfeld consented to the entry
of an order suspending him from association with any regulated entity
for a period of three months and requiring him to pay disgorgement and
prejudgment interest of $41,918.
In the administrative proceedings In the Matter of Donaldson, Lufkin
I3 jenrette Securities C ~ r p . the
, ~ Commission found violative conduct with
respect to bids in U.S. Treasury auctions. Purportedly to avoid paperwork
burdens, Donaldson Lufkin caused bids to be filed that did not accurately
reflect the identity of customers seeking to purchase Treasury securities.
In addition, bids were submitted in a form that permitted Donaldson
Lufkin to purchase approximately $107 million in Treasury securities for
its own account in excess of permitted amounts. Donaldson Lufkin
consented to the entry of a cease and desist order, and an order requiring
the firm to pay disgorgement and prejudgment interest of $100,000 and
a civil money penalty of $50,000. In a related action, In the Matter of Carroll
McEntee I3 McGinley Securities, I ~ c . a, ~government-designated primary
dealer through which Donaldson Lufkin had placed its bids consented to
the entry of a cease and desist order and an order requiring it to pay a
civil penalty of $30,000.

The Commission alleged that Daniel 0. Teyibo and his company, JFM
Government Securities, Inc., defrauded broker-dealer firms in transactions
in U.S. Treasury notes and bonds by engaging in free-riding, i.e., the
fraudulent practice of ordering securities without the ability or intent to
pay (SEC v. Daniel 0. Teyibo6). In the course of soliciting numerous brokerdealer firms to engage in such transactions, Teyibo, among other things,
provided phony financial statements, and falsely represented that JFM had
accounts with the firms being solicited and that JFM was a registered
government securities dealer. Teyibo and JFM also used more than two
dozen aliases in connection with the scheme. While Teyibo and JFM
accepted profits of approximately $165,000 from successful trades, they
reneged on transactions that resulted in losses, defaulting on at least
$550,000 owed to 27 broker-dealer firms. The Commission obtained a
preliminary injunction, an asset freeze and other emergency relief in this
matter, which was pending at the end of the year.
Violations Relating to Financial lnstitutwns
The Commission continued to investigate possible securities law
violations by financial institutions and persons associated with them.
The Commission filed an action against Bruce Dickson, formerly the
chief lending officer and president of Lincoln Savings and Loan Association
and senior vice president and director of Lincoln's parent, American
Continental Corporation (ACC) (SEC v. Bruce Dickson7). This case was
related to the Commission's earlier action against Charles H. Keating and
other persons associated with Lincoln and ACC. Dickson allegedly aided
and abetted ACC in inflating its reported earnings in connection with two
real estate transactions that were improperly treated as sales. Dickson
consented to the entry of an injunction.
The Commission instituted cease and desist proceedings arising out
of violations by Amfed Financial Corporation, a savings and loan holding
company which was the parent of American Federal Savings and Loan
; ~the Matter
Association of Colorado (AFS) (In the Matter of Paul K. C l ~ r k i nIn
of Douglas R. Gulling9). Amfed's report on Form 10-K for the fiscal year
ended December 31,1987, and its reports on Forms 10-Q for the first three
quarters of 1988 contained misrepresentations, and omitted material
information regarding, among other things, Amfed's financial condition,
the adequacy of AFS's loan and real estate loss reserves, transfers of
interests in real estate improperly recorded as sales, and the status and
value of assets that had been foreclosed in substance. Four of Amfed's
former officers and directors consented to the entry of cease and desist
orders.
The defendant in SEC o. Joseph Zilberlo was a major shareholder in
Federated Bank, S.S.B. Senior officers of Firstar Corp. and its subsidiary,
First Wisconsin National Bank of Milwaukee, told Zilber of negotiations
to acquire Federated, on the assumption that he was already aware of the
discussions. Although Zilber allegedly agreed to treat the material
nonpublic information as confidential, he nonetheless purchased 26,000

shares of Federated common stock while in possession of the information.
Zilber consented to the entry of an injunction and an order requiring him
to pay disgorgement of $184,500 and an ITSA penalty of $92,250.

Insider Trading
Insider trading occurs when a person in possession of material
nonpublic information engages in securities transactions or communicates
such information to others who trade. Insider trading encompasses more
than trading and tipping by traditional insiders, such as officers or directors
who are subject to a duty to disclose any material nonpublic information
or abstain from trading in the securities of their own company. Violations
also may arise from the transmission or use of material nonpublic
information by persons in a variety of other positions of trust and confidence
or by those who misappropriate such information.
In addition to permanent injunctions, the Commission often seeks
ancillary relief, including disgorgement of any profits gained or losses
avoided, against alleged violators. In addition, the ITSA penalty provisions
authorize the Commission to seek a civil penalty, payable to the United
States, of up to three times the profit gained or loss avoided, against
persons who unlawfully trade in securities while in possession of material
nonpublic information, or who unlawfully communicate material nonpublic
information to others who trade. Civil penalties also can be imposed upon
persons who control insider traders. During 1993, the Commission brought
34 cases alleging insider trading violations.
In SEC v. C . Robert Dudgeon," the Commission alleged that the
defendant, while employed in the corporate strategy and development
department of AT&T, obtained material nonpublic information about his
employer's plans to make a tender offer for NCR Corporation, and,
subsequently, to pursue an acquisition of Teradata Corporation. Dudgeon
earned a profit of approximately $186,000 from his transactions in NCR
call options, and over $76,000 from his transactions in Teradata call
options. Dudgeon consented to the entry of an injunction and an order
by which he was ordered to disgorge $262,314, to pay prejudgment interest
of $44,454 and to pay an ITSA penalty of $262,314.
Insider trading in the shares of The Foxboro Company was alleged
in SEC v. Purnendu Chatterjee.12 The Commission alleged that Chatterjee,
a former director of Foxboro, communicated material nonpublic information
concerning possible tender offers for Foxboro to Sukumar Shah and Anjan
Chatterjee. The defendants consented to the entry of injunctions and
orders requiring them to disgorge a total of $643,855 plus prejudgment
interest of $170,362 and to pay total ITSA penalties of $1,287,710.
The prohibition against insider trading applies to relatives and friends
of traditional insiders who trade or tip in breach of a relationship of trust
and confidence. The Commission alleged in SEC v. Jonathan J. Sheinberg13
that Sheinberg overheard his father, the president of MCA Inc., talking
about acquisition discussions concerning MCA. Despite his father's
instructions to keep the information confidential, Sheinberg tipped the
information to others who traded MCA securities. The defendants consented

to the entry of injunctions, and Sheinberg consented to the entry of an
order requiring him to pay an ITSA penalty of $417,988. The three other
defendants in the action consented to pay disgorgement plus prejudgment
interest totalling $491,088 and civil penalties totalling $417,988.
The controlling person liability provisions of ITSFEA were applied
for the first time in SEC v. Lee A. Haddad.I4 In that case, it was alleged
that Haddad, a former financial analyst with Morgan Stanley & Co., tipped
material nonpublic information to a friend who, in turn, tipped others,
including a registered representative at Jeffrey Brooks Securities. The
salesman's supervisors at Jeffrey Brooks failed to inquire into his purchases
prior to the announcements of two takeovers for which Haddad had
provided tips, but instead made trades of their own that followed the
salesman's trading patterns on transactions arising from three subsequent
tips. The defendants consented to the entry of injunctions. In addition,
Haddad consented to the entry of an order imposing an ITSA penalty of
over $2 million, and the salesman consented to pay disgorgement and
penalties totalling over $800,000. Jeffrey Brooks and its principals consented
to the payment of a civil penalty of $405,000 as controlling persons.
A Commission action was filed against an attorney retained by
Minnetonka Corporation to provide advice regarding a possible sale of
the company (SEC v. Dean Ambrose Olds15). While in possession of material
nonpublic information, Olds purchased 6,000 shares of Minnetonka common
stock, which he sold for a profit of approximately $40,909 after Minnetonka's
public announcement of its retention of an investment adviser to explore
alternatives including possible sale of the company. Olds consented to
the entry of an injunction and an order requiring him to pay $40,909 as
disgorgement, plus prejudgment interest, and a civil penalty of $40,909.
Financial Disclosure
Actions involving false and misleading disclosures concerning matters
that affect the financial condition of an issuer or involving the issuance
of false financial statements often are complex, and, in general, demand
more resources than other types of cases. Effective prosecution in this
area is essential to preserving the integrity of the full disclosure system.
The Commission brought 36 cases containing significant allegations of
financial disclosure violations against issuers, regulated entities, or their
employees. Many of these cases included alleged violations of the books
and records and internal accounting control provisions of the Foreign
Corrupt Practices Act. The Commission also brought 17 cases alleging
misconduct by accounting firms or their partners or employees.
The Commission filed an action against four former officers of Financial
News Network Inc. (FNN), C. Stephen Bolen, Earl W. Brian, Gary A. Prince
and Mitchel H. Young, alleging that they participated in a scheme to inflate
FNN1s reported revenues and earnings for fiscal year 1989 and the first
three quarters of 1990, and to conceal and perpetuate the fraud during
FNN1s 1990 audit (SEC v. C. Stqhen Bolen16). The inflation of revenues
was primarily accomplished through the manipulation of revenues from
two companies related to FNN, United Press International, Inc., and

Institutional Research Network, Inc. Among other things, the Commission
alleged that Bolen caused FNN to pay approximately $800,000 in
unauthorized compensation to a company under his control, and sold FNN
stock while in possession of material nonpublic information concerning
the inflation of FNN's financial results. In addition to injunctive relief,
the Commission is seeking disgorgement and ITSA penalties from Bolen
and an order prohibiting him from acting as an officer or director of a
public company. Brian consented to the entry of an injunction. This case
was pending at the end of the year as to the remaining defendants.
The Commission's complaint in SEC v. The Software Toolworks, Inc.,17
alleged that Software Toolworks misled investors in connection with an
$82 million secondary offering. The company made misrepresentations
and omissions regarding, among other things, the deterioration in sales
of software for Nintendo Entertainment Systems, the offer of $3.9 million
in price concessions to Nintendo customers, and the shipment of $5.2
million of Nintendo product to certain customers as conditional or fictitious
sales. Software Toolworks also overstated its revenues and gross profit
for the quarter ended June 30, 1990 by approximately $7 million and $2.6
million respectively. Four corporate officers also sold a total o f
approximately 1.35 million shares of Software Toolworks stock while in
possession of material nonpublic information concerning t h e
misrepresentations and omissions in the company's filings. Software
Toolworks and three of the individual defendants consented to the entry
of injunctions. Software Toolworks also consented to implement certain
accounting procedures and measures to prevent insider trading by its
employees. In addition, individual defendants consented to the entry of
orders requiring them to disgorge over $2 million, and one consented to
the entry of a bar from acting as an officer or director of a publicly-held
company. At the end of the year, this case was pending as to one remaining
individual defendant.
In SEC v. Larry E. Leslie,l8the Commission alleged violations of Section
13(b)(5)of the Exchange Act, which explicitly prohibits circumvention of
a public company's internal accounting controls. The defendant, a former
executive of a subsidiary of the American Express Company, allegedly
delayed the write-off of uncollectible Optima credit card accounts, thereby
causing the overstatement of American Express's pretax income by $36.3
million for three quarterly periods. Leslie consented to the entry of an
injunction and an order requiring him to pay a civil penalty of $10,000.
the Commission alleged that Harold Sahlen,
In SEC v. Harold S~hlen,'~
the chairman and chief executive officer of Sahlen and Associates, Inc.
(SAI) determined, prior to the end of each fiscal quarter from June 1985
to February 1989, the amount of fictitious revenue to report in SAI's
financial statements. Other defendants implemented the scheme by, among
other things, recording on SAI's books fictitious revenue attributed to work
in process and accounts receivable. The scheme created the appearance
that SAI was profitable when, in fact, it was consistently losing money.
On the basis of its false financial statements, SAI raised millions from

public and private offerings of debt and equity securities and through bank
loans. Four defendants consented to the entry of injunctions. This case
was pending as to Sahlen and one other defendant at the end of the year.
The Commission filed an action against an accountant based on his
improper 1991 audit of College Bound, Inc. (SEC v . Gordon K . Goldman,
C.P.A20).The Commission alleged that Goldman's deficient audit resulted
in a failure to discover that the principals of College Bound had, among
other things, materially inflated College Bound's income by counting the
proceeds of note offerings as revenues, and that the principals also had
materially inflated College Bound's fixed assets. This case, which was
related to an action against College Bound and its principals filed the
previous year, was pending at the end of the year.
Securities Offering Cases
Securities offering cases involve the offer and sale of securities in
violation of the registration provisions of the Securities Act. In some cases,
the issuers attempt to rely on exemptions from the registration requirements
that are not available under the circumstances. Offering cases frequently
involve material misrepresentations concerning, among other things, use
of proceeds, risks associated with investments, disciplinary history of
promoters or control persons, business prospects, promised returns, success
of prior offerings, and the financial condition of issuers.
' Commission alleged an illegal,
In SEC v. Towers Financial C ~ r p . , ~the
unregistered offering of over $215 million of promissory notes issued by
Towers Financial. Among other things, the principal defendants allegedly
overstated Towers' collection receivables and fee income, and
misrepresented the use Towers would make of the proceeds from its sales
of debt to the public. The Commission further alleged that activities by
the principal defendants were in violation of an injunction entered against
them in 1988. The Commission's complaint was amended to name five
subsidiaries of Towers as additional defendants, and to name three other
entities as relief defendants. This case was pending at the end of the year.
The Commission alleged that Premium Sales Corp. and Kenneth
Thennen, the president and a director of Premium Sales, raised
approximately $515 million from investors by falsely representing that they
were engaged in a form of arbitrage intended to take advantage of variations
in grocery prices in different regions of the country (SEC v. Premium Sales
C ~ r p . ~ Among
~).
other things, it was represented that the business could
make upwards of a 60 percent annualized return on investments. The
complaint alleged that a material portion of the claimed transactions were
shams or overstated, and that Premium Sales never made the large profits
reported to investors. The court entered a temporary restraining order,
and imposed an asset freeze and other emergency relief.
In SEC v. International Quarter
the Commission alleged that
the defendants raised approximately $10 million from more than 3,000
investors through the sale of unregistered securities in the form of interests
in coin-operated pay telephones. The complaint alleged misrepresentations
concerning, among other things, the profitability and business prospects

of International Quarter Phones, contracts with third parties, the use or
application of investor proceeds, and the financial condition and results
of operations of International Quarter Phones. The court entered a temporary
restraining order and an asset freeze. This case was pending at the end
of the year.
The Commission alleged the fraudulent sale of over $2 million in
securities in at least three unregistered offerings of securities in SEC v.
Sam S. Brown.24 One offering raised more than $1.2 million from investors
by promising returns of $2 million to $10 million per $1,000 invested,
purportedly to be paid from the profits of a European financier whose
fortune was variously claimed to be worth between $1.2 trillion and $157
trillion. This case was pending at the end of the year.
The Commission filed an action against Bosque Puerto Carrillo, a
Costa Rican corporation, and two of its officers, Ralf Stefan Jaeckel and
Terence James Ennis (SEC v. Bosque Puerto Carril10~~).
The complaint alleges
that the defendants placed advertisements for unregistered securities
issued by Bosque in in-flight magazines published by two airlines, and
sold such securities to at least forty investors in the United States. Among
other things, the defendants failed to disclose that Costa Rican law prohibits
the export of unprocessed wood, Bosque's sole product. This case was
pending at the end of the year.

Market Manipulation
The Commission is charged with ensuring the integrity of trading on
the national securities exchanges and in the over-the-counter markets. The
Commission staff, the exchanges, and the NASD engage in market
surveillance to detect possible violations of the federal securities laws.
Among other things, market surveillance looks for signs of possible stock
manipulation, such as purchases or sales intended to affect the price of
a security.
The Commission filed an action against Ramon DIOnofrio, eleven
other individual defendants, and four corporate entities, alleging a scheme
to inflate the price of the stock of Kinesis, Inc., in the over-the-counter
market and to create the appearance of an active market through
).
other
manipulative trading practices (SEC v. Ramon D ' O n o f ~ i o ~ ~Among
things, the complaint alleged a series of prearranged trades through
Canadian brokerage accounts designed to inflate the price of Kinesis stock
from $5.00 to $22.00 per share. As a result of the scheme, over 100,000
shares of Kinesis stock were sold for profits to D1Onofrio and others of
approximately $1.6 million. The complaint also alleged, among other
things, that DIOnofrio and others sold Kinesis stock without filing a
registration statement with the Commission. This case was pending at
the end of the year.
In cease and desist proceedings, the Commission alleged that Bruce
B. Bowen, a registered representative associated with PaineWebber, Inc.,
and Thomas Q. Canon, a registered representative associated with WilsonDavis, Inc., aided and abetted a scheme by Richard Warner, the chairman
of the board of Alpnet, Inc., to manipulate the price of Alpnet stock (In

the Matter of Bruce B. Bowen2'). Warner's scheme involved marking the
close, specifically, the purchase of Alpnet stock at or near the end of the
trading day to affect the closing price. Bowen and Canon were account
executives for certain nominee accounts through which Warner executed
illegal transactions. This case was pending at the end of the year.
The Commission instituted administrative proceedings against Harry
S. Pack, the former president and chairman of Jefferson National Bank,
and his brother, Philip Pack, in which it was found that they engaged in
the practice of marking the close to manipulate the price of Jefferson
National stock and thereby prevent margin calls in certain accounts in
which they held Jefferson National stock (In the Matter of Harry S. Pack2*).
The Packs consented to the entry of cease and desist orders.
In SEC v. The Cooper C ~ m p a n i e s the
, ~ ~ Commission alleged, among
other things, a manipulation by The Cooper Companies and Gary Alan
Singer, Cooper's former co-chairman, of the trading price of certain
convertible subordinated reset debentures to avoid an interest rate reset
that would otherwise have been required. This case was pending at the
end of the year.
Corporate Control
The Commission's enforcement program scrutinizes corporate mergers,
takeovers and other corporate control transactions, and the adequacy of
disclosure made by acquiring persons and entities and their targets. The
Commission brought cases involving Sections 13 and 14 of the Exchange
Act, which govern securities acquisition, proxy, and tender offer disclosure.
The Commission on a number of occasions exercised its cease and desist
authority under the Remedies Act to respond to violations in this area.
The Commission instituted administrative proceedings to remedy
violations found by the order, arising from the 1990 tender offer by Kelso
& Company, an investment banking firm, for the shares of Earle M.
Jorgensen Company (In the Matter of Kelso 6 Company, I ~ c . ; ~ In
O the Matter
of William A. Wilson3'). At the time of the tender offer, Kelso's chairman
and chief executive officer, Joseph S. Schuchert, was engaged in a business
relationship with William A. Wilson, an outside director of Jorgensen.
Wilson served on the committee formed by Jorgensen to evaluate the Kelso
offer and a competing offer, but the relationship between Schuchert and
Wilson was not disclosed to the public or in filings with the Commission.
Kelso, Schuchert and Wilson consented to the entry of cease and desist
orders.
In SEC v. Furr's/Bishopfs I ~ C .the
, ~Commission
~
alleged that Furrrs/
Bishop's, the successor holding company to Furrrs/Bishop's Limited
Partnership, made false and misleading statements in certain filings relating
to its conversion from limited partnership to corporate form. According
to the complaint, filings made with respect to the conversion indicated
that Furr1s/Bishop's would commence a self tender offer, to be financed
by a stock subscription agreement with Michael Levenson, the corporation's
chairman. The defendants failed to disclose that Levenson had not obtained
sufficient financing to satisfy the maximum amount needed under the stock

subscription, that Furr's/Bishop's might have to provide some of the
financing, and that the self tender offer might not be concluded on schedule
because Furr's/Bishop's recent operating results had been poor. FurrJs/
Bishop's and Levenson consented to the entry of injunctions, and Levenson
consented to the entry of an order requiring him to pay a civil penalty
of $50,000.
The Commission concluded administrative proceedings that had been
instituted at the end of the previous year against Leslie T. Livingston and
two entities under his control, including a registered broker-dealer firm
The proceedings arose out of the
(In the Matter of Leslie T . Li~ingston~~).
change of control of Comprehensive Care Corporation (CompCare). The
order instituting proceedings found that the respondents failed to promptly
disclose their beneficial ownership of CompCare securities, as well as the
existence and share ownership of various partnerships in which they had
an interest, at a time when Livingston was leading efforts by a shareholder
group to effect a change in control. The Commission further found that
the respondents failed promptly to amend the group's Schedule 13D to
reflect changes in the intent of the group with respect to CompCare. The
respondents consented to the entry of the cease and desist order.
The Commission also instituted and settled cease and desist
proceedings alleging failure to make adequate or timely disclosure of
changes in beneficial ownership of securities as required by Section 13(d)
of the Exchange Act. These included In the Matter of Bettina B a n ~ r o f t , ~
in which the Commission found that a director of Dow Jones & Company,
Inc., failed promptly to file seventeen Forms 4 reporting her sales of Dow
Jones' stock totalling over $16.8 million. The reports were filed from over
one year to over five and one half years late. The respondent consented
to the entry of the cease and desist order.
The Commission filed administrative proceedings against Harry
Hagerty, Jr., an officer, director and holder of at least ten percent of the
stock of CCAIR, Inc., and a director and holder of at least ten percent
of the stock of Air Transportation Holding Company (In the Matter of Harry
).
failed in thirty-three instances to make timely
E. Hagerty, J T . ~ ~Hagerty
filings on Forms 4 and 5 to reflect his transactions in the stock of CCAIR
and Air Transportation. The transactions involved more than $2.76 million
of those issuers1 stock. Hagerty consented to the entry of a cease and
desist order. In a related civil proceeding for imposition of a civil penalty,
Hagerty consented to the entry of an order requiring payment of a $15,000
penalty (SEC v. Harry E. Hagerty, Jr.36).
Broker-Dealer Violations
Each year, the Commission files a significant number of enforcement
actions against broker-dealer firms and persons associated with them. The
Commission's actions against broker-dealers often focus on violations of
the net capital and customer protection rules, as well as violations of books
and records provisions. The Commission also takes action against brokerdealer firms and their senior management for failure to supervise employees
with a view to preventing violations of the federal securities laws.

In October 1993, the Commission filed a civil action and instituted
administrative proceedings against Prudential Securities, lnc., in which
it was alleged that Prudential had defrauded investors in connection with
the offer and sale of limited partnership interests between January 1, 1980
and December 31,1990; in addition, Prudential allegedly failed to reasonably
supervise its sales personnel (SEC v. Prudential Securities l n ~ . ~ ' Materially
).
false and misleading statements and omissions were made in connection
with Prudential's sale of about $8 billion in limited partnership interests.
The Commission further alleged that Prudential failed to comply with a
Commission order entered in 1986 arising from its failure to adequately
supervise certain former registered representatives. Prudential consented
to the entry of an order requiring the payment of all valid investor claims
presented through a court-supervised claims resolution process, the
payment of $330 million to establish a fund for the benefit of defrauded
investors, and the payment of all additional valid claims in excess of that
amount. Prudential also consented to the entry of a cease and desist order
in the administrative proceedings, in which the Commission imposed a
$10 million penalty and ordered Prudential to adopt remedial measures
designed to prevent future violations. In addition to the penalty to be
paid in the Commission's action, Prudential agreed to pay $26 million in
fines to various states, and a $5 million fine to the NASD.
' Commission found that
In In the Matter of PaineWebber I ~ c . , ~the
various registered representatives employed at four PaineWebber branch
offices engaged in sales practice abuses, including unsuitable and excessive
trading, and misappropriated funds from customer accounts. The
Commission found that PaineWebber had failed to supervise the registered
representatives. PaineWebber consented to the entry of an order by which
it was censured and required to comply with several undertakings, including
a prohibition against opening new accounts for thirty days at the offices
involved in the sales practice violations and the hiring of an independent
consultant to review procedures relating to sales practices and sales of
restricted securities.
In In the Matter of Frederick H . ]0seph,3~the Commission found that
the respondent, a former chief executive officer and vice chairman of
Drexel Burnham Incorporated, failed to supervise Michael Milken, the
former manager of Drexel's high yield and convertible bond department,
with a view to preventing Milken's violations (1)in a scheme to manipulate
prices and to cause misrepresentations, through Milken-controlled entities,
in connection with eighteen new issues of Drexel underwritten securities,
and (2) in a scheme to cause a fund manager to use client assets to make
improper payments to Drexel. Edwin Kantor, a former senior executive
vice president and director of Drexel, also was charged in separate
proceedings with failure to supervise Milken with a view to preventing
the same violations (In the Matter of Edwin Kantor40). Both Joseph and
Kantor consented to the entry of orders by which they were barred from
association in a supervisory capacity.

In the Matter of The Nikko Securities Co. International, I ~ c . , arose
~'
from
Nikko's undisclosed loss of $18 million through speculative foreign exchange
trading. Nikko's foreign exchange trader concealed the losses by making
repeated false entries in the firm's accounting books and records. Three
former executives named as respondents in the proceedings learned of the
loss, but decided to restrict knowledge of the loss to a select group of
Nikko employees and Nikko's parent corporation in Japan. For
approximately five months, Nikko failed to disclose the loss to its own
legal or compliance department or its outside auditors, and concealed the
loss from the Commission, the NYSE and the public. The respondents
consented to the entry of cease and desist orders. Nikko also consented
to the entry of orders by which it was censured and required to undertake
a compliance review. In addition, two of the individual respondents
consented to bars from association, and the third individual respondent
consented to a suspension for a period of one year.
A number of cases involved violations arising from the sale of penny
stocks. In SEC v. Leslie M e r ~ k y the
, ~ ~Commission alleged that thirteen
individuals and four corporate entities engaged in a fraudulent scheme
to sell approximately $3.4 million of worthless securities issued by two
public shell corporations, Amglo Industries, Inc., and Amglobal Corporation.
Certain defendants utilized a fraudulent broker-dealer network and
manipulated the market to sell Amglo and Amglobal securities at a
substantial profit. The complaint also alleged that certain defendants
prepared false and misleading information about the companies that was
disseminated through a series of high pressure sales campaigns. Two of
the corporate entities consented to the entry of injunctions. Two of the
individual defendants also consented to the entry of injunctions and orders
requiring them to disgorge a total of $50,167, plus prejudgment interest
totalling $21,907. In addition, these two defendants consented to the entry
of bar orders in related administrative proceedings. Two other individual
defendants consented to the entry of bar orders in related proceedings.
The injunctive action was pending at the end of the year.
that the
The Commission alleged in SEC v. Midwest In~estrnents,~~
defendants engaged in a scheme to charge excessive undisclosed markups
and to manipulate the price of the stock of Reitz Data Communications,
Inc. Using high pressure, "boiler room" sales techniques, the defendants
solicited purchases of Reitz stock at arbitrarily inflated prices with markups
as high as 215 percent. The defendants also violated the Commission's
cold-calling and penny stock disclosure rules in connection with their sales
of Reitz stock. The Commission obtained a preliminary injunction, an asset
freeze and other ancillary relief in this action, which was pending at the
end of the year.
The Commission also instituted actions against other regulated entities
involved in the settlement of securities transactions. In SEC v. Midwest
Clearing C~rporation,~~
the Commission filed an action against Midwest
Clearing Corporation (MCC), a registered clearing agency, and the Midwest
Securities Trust Company (MSTC), a registered clearing agency for which
the Board of Governors of the Federal Reserve System is the primary

regulatory agency. The complaint alleges that MCC and MSTC created
false securities positions in their integrated computer records that were
transferred to contra clearing corporations before MSTC had actual
possession of the securities. As a result, MCC obtained substantial amounts
of cash, at times as much as $35 million, that could be invested for its
own benefit. The defendants consented to the entry of injunctions and
an order requiring the payment of a civil penalty of $2 million. MCC also
consented to the entry of an order in related administrative proceedings
by which it was censured and required to comply with certain remedial
undertakings. MSTC consented to the entry of a cease and desist order
in related administrative proceedings instituted by the Federal Reserve
Board.

investment Adviser and Investment Company Violations
The Commission instituted several significant cases involving
investment advisers and investment companies.
In October 1993, the Commission instituted administrative proceedings
against Kemper Financial Services, Inc., in which it was found that a
Kemper portfolio manager had delayed designation of the account for
which certain trades were being conducted until after the trades were
effected (In the Matter of Kemper Financial Services, l n ~ . ~ ~The
) . more
favorable trades were allocated to a private profit-sharing plan for Kemper's
employees, while less favorable trades were allocated to two public mutual
funds managed by Kemper. The Commission also found that Kemper
failed to reasonably supervise the portfolio manager with a view to
preventing violations. Kemper consented to the entry of the cease and
desist order and an order by which it was censured. Kemper also consented
to pay $9.2 million into an escrow account for distribution to investors,
and to retain an independent consultant to review its policies and procedures
related to trading in connection with its investment adviser and investment
company operations.
The Commission instituted proceedings against USAA Investment
Management Company, the investment adviser for USAA Tax Exempt
Fund, Inc., a registered investment company (In the Matter of USAA
) . Commission found that the Tax Exempt
Investment Management C O . ~ ~The
Fund sold, redeemed or repurchased securities issued by one of its series,
the Tax Exempt Money Market Fund, without calculating its net asset value
in a manner permitted by rules under the Investment Company Act. In
particular, the board of directors of the Tax Exempt Fund did not make
the required minimal credit risk and comparable quality determinations
required by the Investment Company Act with respect to $177 million in
unrated securities. The respondents consented to the entry of orders by
which they were censured and USAA was ordered to certify that Tax
Exempt Fund's board had undertaken certain measures, policies and
procedures. In addition, USAA consented to an order requiring it to pay
a civil penalty of $50,000, and respondent Steven D. Harrop, an officer
and portfolio manager, consented to the entry of a cease and desist order.

The Commission found violations arising from undisclosed
compensation arrangements in In the Matter of Aetna Capital Management,
Between 1983 and 1991, Aetna Capital Management, Inc. (ACM) and
Aetna Life Insurance Company (Aetna Life) paid approximately $1-8 million
in sales commissions and consulting fees to a broker-dealer who provided
Aetna with advice regarding the public pension market and product
development. The broker also solicited purchasers for Aetna Life's group
annuity contracts and ACM's investment advisory service; entities solicited
eventually invested approximately $240 million with Aetna Life and ACM.
The fees paid to the broker were not disclosed to investors or in reports
filed with the Commission. Aetna Financial Services, Inc., also offered
and sold one of Aetna Life's securities products without disclosing to
investors that Aetna paid the broker in part for soliciting purchasers for
the product. The respondents consented to the entry of cease and desist
orders. In addition, ACM consented to pay a civil penalty of $500,000.
The Commission alleged that Corporate Capital Resources, Inc., a
business development company, issued false and misleading financial
statements that materially overstated the value of its holdings of restricted
securities (SEC v. Corporate Capital Resources, I ~ C . ~ ~The
) . resulting
overvaluation of Capital Resources net asset value allegedly ranged from
7 percent to 53 percent over an eighteen month period. The overvaluations
were contained in periodic reports filed with the Commission that were
used by the defendants in connection with a public offering of Capital
Resources' stock. Among other things, the Commission alleged that
Capital Resources' valuation committee did not follow the company's
valuation procedures, and knew or were reckless in not knowing that the
proposed valuations were insupportable. Capital Resources and the four
individual defendants consented to the entry of injunctions.
In administrative proceedings, the Commission found that The Bank
of California had improperly calculated the net asset value per share of
the Tax-Free Fund, a money market fund and a series of The HighMark
Group. The bank served as accountant and investment adviser to the fund
(In the Matter of The Bank of C a l i f ~ r n i a ~While
~ ) . determining the value of
the fund's holdings on July 25, 1991, the bank received from the fund's
pricing service a market price of 70 for a tax-exempt bond originally
purchased for $1 million. The bank treated the reduced price as a
transmission error, and valued the bond at par, for a number of weeks,
even though the pricing service continued to quote a price of 70. When
the error was finally recognized, the bank purchased the bond from the
fund at par plus interest. The bank consented to the entry of a cease and
desist order.
The Commission instituted administrative proceedings, In the Matter
of Merrill Lynch, Pierce, Fenner b Smith,50 alleging that Merrill Lynch
repurchased hundreds of thousands of units issued by 570 unit investment
trusts (UITs) sponsored by the firm at a price not based on the current
net asset value of such securities. Merrill Lynch's formula for calculating
the unit price did not include certain sums of cash held by the trustees
accumulated in the UITs' income accounts as a result of bonds that were

called, sold, or had matured from the UITs' portfolios. Merrill Lynch
consented to the entry of a cease and desist order, and an order requiring
it to comply with certain undertakings, including an undertaking to
compensate customers whose securities were repurchased at less than net
asset value.

Sources For Further Inquiry
The Commission publishes the SEC Docket, which includes
announcements regarding enforcement actions. The Commission's litigation
releases describe civil injunctive actions and also report certain criminal
proceedings involving securities-related violations. These releases typically
report the identity of the defendants, the nature of the alleged violative
conduct, and the disposition or status of the case, as well as other
information. The SEC Docket also contains Commission orders instituting
administrative proceedings, making findings and imposing sanctions in
those proceedings, and initial decisions and significant procedural rulings
issued by Administrative Law Judges.

International

Affairs

I


The Office of International Affairs (alA) has primary responsibility for
the negotiation and implementation of information-sharing arrangements,
and for developing legislative and other initiatives tofacilitate international
cooperation. alA coordinates and assists in making requests for assistance
to, and responding to requests for assistance from, foreign authorities. alA
also addresses other international issues that arise in litigated matters, such
as effecting service of process abroad and gathering foreign-based evidence
under various international conventions, freezing assets located abroad, and
enforcing judgments obtained by the SEC in the United States against
foreign parties. In addition, alA operates in a consultative role regarding the
significant ongoing international programs and initiatives of the SEC's other
divisions and offices. Since August 1993, alA has been responsible for
coordinating the SEC's technical assistance program for training and advice
in countries with developing securities markets. alA also consults with and
provides technical assistance to other Federal agencies regarding traderelated issues relevant to the regulation of securities markets in the United
States.
Key 1993 Results
In 1993, the SEC signed comprehensive Memoranda of Understanding
(MOUs) for consultation and cooperation in enforcement-related matters
with the Commissione Nazionale per le Societa e la Borsa (CONSOB) of
Italy and the Superintendencia de Val ores y Seguros (SVS) of Chile.
Significant progress was made in the second annual meeting of the
Council of Securities Regulators of the Americas (COSRA), which promotes
cooperation and communication among securities regulators in the Americas.
Agreement was reached on important principles relating to regulation of
the secondary markets and investment advisers.
Arrangements for Mutual Assistance and Exchanges of Information
The increasing internationalization
of the world's securities markets
has raised many new and complex issues that affect the SEC's ability to
enforce federal
securities
laws.
For example,
because
of the
internationalization
of the markets, it is critical that the SEC be able to
collect information located abroad. Ordinarily, this is not possible using
the SEC's domestic investigative authority.
The SEC has attempted to
resolve this problem by developing information-sharing arrangements on
a bilateral basis with various foreign authorities.

18

The information-sharing arrangements allow the SEC to obtain
information located abroad while avoiding the conflicts that may result
from differences in legal systems. In recent years, the SEC has entered into
various arrangements with foreign authorities from nearly 20 nations.
These relationships are effective means for obtaining information and
developing cooperative relationships between regulators. In addition, the
staff works closely with the parties to these information-sharing
arrangements to develop ways to implement and improve the arrangements.
The SEC also cooperates on an informal basis with foreign authorities with
whom it does not have explicit information-sharing arrangements.
In May 1993, the SEC signed an MOU with the Italian securities
regulator, CONSOB. On June 3, 1993, the SEC entered into an MOU with
the SVS of Chile. These MOUs concern consultation and cooperation in the
administration and enforcement of United States and Italian and Chilean
securities laws. The MOUs declare the intent of the SEC and the CONSOB
and SVS to provide extensive mutual assistance on a broad range of securities
matters to secure compliance with their respective laws and regulations.
The MOUs cover matters relating to enforcement and market surveillance,
and provide that the SEC and the foreign authorities will utilize their
compulsory powers to assist one another. The MOUs also provide for
consultations between the parties on all matters relating to the operation
of the securities markets of their respective countries, and on the operation
of the MOUs. The MOU with the CONSOB built on an earlier Communique
that had been signed by the SEC and the CONSOB on September 20,1989.
Examples of the mutual assistance and cooperation provided for by
the MOUs include: assistance in securities matters involving insider trading
and other fraudulent or manipulative practices; disclosure requirements
for issuers, persons and regulated entities; and the financial or other
qualifications of those involved in the securities industry. Each party also
represents its intention to engage in consultations to enhance the coordination
of their respective market oversight functions. The MOUs identify the type
of mutual assistance contemplated by the SEC and the CONSOB and SVS.
For example, the parties will provide access to agency files; take testimony
and obtain information and documents from persons; and conduct
compliance inspections or examinations of investment businesses. Such
assistance is intended to facilitate the investigation, litigation or prosecution
of securities matters where information needed by one authority is located
in the territory of the other.

Enforcement Matters
Some of the more significant matters in which OIA provided assistance
to the Division of Enforcement during 1993, listed with the countries that
provided substantial assistance to the SEC, were SEC v. Antar, et al., 89
Civ. 3773 (D.N.J.)(Switzerland, Canada, France, Israel and the United
Kingdom); In the Matter of Bosque Puerto Carillo, S.A., Civ. No. 33-685 (S.D.
Fl.)(Costa Rica); SEC v. D'Onofrio et al., Civil Action No. 93-2628
SVW(Ex)(C.D. Cal.)(Canada, Andorra, Spain, and the United Kingdom);

SEC v. Pacific Waste Management, Inc. et al., Civ. No. CV-N-93-232-ECR (D.
Nev.)(Guernsey); SEC v. Premium Sales Corp. et al., Case No. 93-1092-Civ.
(S.D. Fla. 1993)(Switzerland);SEC v. Southwest International Exchange, et al.,
Civil Action No. 93-1285 AAH (SHx)(C.D. Cal.)(Switzerland).
Of particular importance to the SEC's international program are the
SEC's recent efforts to freeze and obtain repatriation of funds from abroad.
In Antar, for example, $32 million was frozen in Switzerland through the
cooperation of the Swiss authorities, and authorities in Canada, France,
Israel and the U.K. have assisted in either freezing or obtaining information
about the location of assets in those countries. In particular, in May 1993,
the SEC was successful, with the assistance of the Quebec Securities
Commission, in having over $1.1 million of Antar's ill-gotten gains
repatriated to the United States for eventual distribution to defrauded
investors. In another example of extraordinary cooperation, Pacific Waste
Management, the SEC obtained key information through the assistance of
criminal authorities in Guernsey which led to the discovery of a bank
account in Guernsey holding some of the defendants' ill-gotten profits. The
SEC successfully froze that money through an ancillary proceeding filed
in the Royal Court of Guernsey.

Technical Assistance
The SEC has an active technical assistance program, utilizing various
means to provide both United States-based and overseas technical assistance
to emerging market countries. Such technical assistance is intended to
develop a regulatory infrastructure to promote investor confidence in
developing markets.
The SEC International Institute for Securities Market Development
(the SEC Institute) is the SEC's flagship technical assistance program. The
SEC Institute is a two-week, management-level training program covering
a full range of topics relevant to the development and oversight of securities
markets. The third annual SEC Institute was held in the spring of 1993.
Over 265 persons from 62 emerging market countries have participated in
the first three SEC Institutes. The SEC's technical assistance efforts in
Eastern Europe have included sending SEC staff as advisers to several
countries in the region under a program funded by the United States Agency
for International Development. The SEC has also participated in a number
of short-term assistance projects for the countries of Latin America and the
Caribbean, as well as several countries in other regions. In addition, the
SEC's MOUs with developing countries include provisions whereby the
SEC may agree to provide technical assistance to a signatory country's
securities regulatory or self-regulatory authorities. The SEC also invites
foreign securities regulators to participate in the SEC's Annual Enforcement
Training Program held in the fall. This year, there were 45 foreign participants
from 26 countries, including 18 representatives from 11 emerging market
countries.

international Organizationsand Multilateral Initiatives
During 1993, the SEC contributed to the work of the following
international organizations and multilateral initiatives:
The International Organization of Securities Commissions (IOSCO). The
SEC is an active participant in IOSCO. IOSCO is an international forum
created to promote cooperation and consultation among regulators
overseeing the world's securities markets. IOSCO has over 100 members,
including most of the world's securities regulators.
During 1993, IOSCO made substantial progress toward the development
of international accounting standards. IOSCO passed a resolution
recommending that its members take all steps that are necessary and
appropriate in their respective home jurisdictions to accept cash flow
statements prepared in accordance with International Accounting Standard
(IAS) 7, a s amended, in connection with cross-border offerings and
continuous reporting by foreign issuers. IAS 7, which would bean alternative
to statements prepared in accordance with a country's domestic accounting
standards, is the first such standard developed by the International
Accounting Standards Committee to be endorsed by IOSCO.
IOSCO working groups prepared several significant documents which
were issued during the IOSCO Annual Conference in October 1993.
Significant topics studied by the working groups during the year include
communication between regulators of related cash and derivative markets
during periods of market disruption and protecting investors against
international retail securities fraud.
During 1993, the IOSCO Working Party on Enforcement and the
Exchange of Information prepared a report entitled Protecting the Small
Investor: Combatting Transnational Retail Securities and Futures Fraud, which
was released at the IOSCO Annual Conference. The SEC made significant
contributions to this report. Based on the report, IOSCO adopted a resolution
defining a number of measures that should be taken by IOSCO members
to enhance protection against international retail securities and futures
fraud. The report considers problems and challenges that regulators face
in the investigation and prosecution of transnational boiler-room fraud. It
reviews various domestic measures that countries have adopted to protect
investors from boiler-room fraud. Further, it explores the role of international
cooperation in combatting transnational boiler-room fraud and identifies
additional measures that may assist regulators in their efforts to combat
the problem.
The IOSCO Working Party on Regulation of Securities Markets prepared
a report entitled Mechanisms to Enhance Open and Timely Communication
Between Market Authorities of Related Cash and Derivative Markets During
Periods of Market Disruption, which was released at the IOSCO Annual
Conference. The report completes the work of the Working Party on the
coordination between cash and derivative markets. On the basis of the
report issued this year and related reports issued previously, IOSCO adopted
a resolution to enhance the effective oversight of related cash and derivative
markets. This resolution identifies issues which should be considered in
the design of derivative product contracts based on stock indices, defines

ways to implement measures to minimize market disruption and establishes
a number of voints of consensus concerning communications between
market authorhies of related cash and derivative markets during periods
of market disruption.
Council of Securities Regulators of the Americas (COSRA). On June 3-4,
1993, the members of COSRA held their Second Annual Meeting in Buenos
Aires, Argentina. The meeting was chaired by then Acting SEC Chairman
Mary Schapiro. During the meeting, COSRA broke new ground by reaching
agreement on important principles for the regulation of secondary markets
and international cooperation in the supervision of investment advisers.
These principles focus on the development of programs and marketstructures
that will foster the growth and openness of the securities markets of the
Americas, and will advance market consistency within the Americas.
The principles considered and adopted by the membership were in
four areas vital to the functioning of securities markets. These are
transparency in transaction reporting;audit trails; clearanceand settlement;
and cross-border surveillance of investment advisers. Each of these principles
is intended to promote and enhancemarket integrity and investor confidence,
while advancing market development within an international market
economy.
The COSRA principles on market transparency focus on the
development of systems that provide for the full and immediate
dissemination to investors of transaction and quotation information and
other essential trading information in individual securities markets. The
principles on audit trails focus on the development of systems that monitor
market activity, including the market surveillance activities of self-regulatory
organizations. The principles on clearance and settlement focus on the
development of systems that provide for the rapid and efficient transfer,
recordation, and custody of securities that are traded. The COSRA principles
on surveillance of investment advisers identify as a priority the need to
develop methods for joint information-sharing and surveillance programs.
The Organizationfor Economic Cooperation and Development (OECD). The
SEC staff, in conjunction with representatives of the Departments of State
and Justice, participated in OECD discussions regarding the establishment
of international standards to combat illicit payments to government officials
and other practices that may affect foreign investment. The SEC also
provided technical assistance to other Federal agencies with respect to
various work programs of the OECD.
The General Agreement on Tariffs and Trade (GATT). The SEC is an active
participant in the effort, through the Uruguay Round of the GATT, to
establish a multilateral framework of principles and rules for trade in
financial services. Throughout 1993, the SEC has consulted and coordinated
with the Office of the United States Trade Representative, the Department
of Treasury, and other United States government agencies, in connection
with the GATT negotiations.

-

'

1

I
I

1

I

1

22
I

1

The North American Free Trade Agreement (NAFTA). As with GATT,
the SEC provided Federal agencies with technical assistance in connection
with NAFTA. Among other things, the agreement contains a Financial
Services Chapter, which will encompass activities (including cross-border
activities) of financial service providers, such as broker-dealers and
investment advisers, within NAFTA countries. This Chapter sanctions a
strong "prudential carve-out," which enables the SEC to adopt or modify
measures for the protection of investors or the securities markets,
notwithstanding any other provision of NAFTA.
The Wilton Park Group (The Group). Her Majesty's Treasury of the
United Kingdom sponsors this informal meeting which includes securities
regulators from 12 countries. During this year's meeting in May the SEC
raised the issue of problems created by underregulated, offshore entities.
The Group agreed to begin discussing approaches to addressing these
problems. In addition, participants agreed to create a compendium of their
experiences in enforcing judgments and provisional measures abroad.

International Requests for Assistance
The table below summarizes the international requests for assistance
made and received by the SEC.

Type of Request

1988'

Fiscal Year
1989l 1990 1991

1992

1993

SEC Requeststo
Foreign Governments
Enforcement Assistance
Enforcement Referrals
Technical Assistance
Total
Foreign Requests to
the SEC
Enforcement Assistance
Enforcement Referrals
Technical Assistance
Total

Figures are approximate.
'Separate totals for enforcement referrals and technical assistance requests were
not maintained.

The Division of Market Regulation, together with regional and district
ofice examination staff, oversees the operations of the nation's securities
markets and market professionals. In calendar year 1992, the Commission
supervised over 8,200 broker-dealers with 34,000 branch ofices and 427,000
registered representatives, 8 active registered securities exchanges, the overthe-counter markets, and 16 registered clearing agencies. Broker-dealers
filing FOCUS reports with the Commissionhad approximately$1 trillion in
assets and $62 billion in capital in 1992. The division also monitors market
activity, which has experienced significant growth and volatility. In 1992,
equity market capitalization stood at $4.8 trillion in the U.S. and $11.1
trillion worldwide. The average daily trading volume grew to over 200
million shares on the N m York Stock Exchange with volume on the
NASDAQ stock market nearing that number. Thefastest growing area has
been derivatives activities, where theapproximate notional amount for major
U.S. broker-dealers and their afiliates is $4 trillion with an aggregate
replacement cost of approximately $18 billion.
Key 1993 Results
The division undertook significant efforts to strengthen and stabilize
market segments. For example, the division issued a comprehensive report
concerning the issuance and sale of municipal securities that made
recommendations regarding a variety of aspects of the municipal market.
The division also conducted significant research and analyses as it moved
towards completing the Market 2000 study. This study seeks to provide
an understanding of how the equity markets have changed over the past
20 years. It will explore how market participants and the rules governing
them have served the interests of fairness, efficiency, and competitiveness
in the equity markets.
The division also oversaw a number of self-regulatory organization
(SRO) initiatives to enhance the stability and integrity of the options
market. Further, the division studied and monitored derivative activities
through analysis of holding company risk assessment data, examinations
and inspections, and discussions with other regulators and industry
participants. The Commission issued a concept release relating to treatment
of derivatives under the net capital rule.
The Commission bolstered efforts to reduce abuses in the penny stock
market with the adoption of amendments proposed by the division. Also,
in addition to its usual inspection program, the division coordinated the
1993 penny stock examination sweep involving the examination by the
SEC, SROs, and 40 state jurisdictions of 129 broker-dealers.

Securities Markets, Trading and Significant Regulatory Issues
Municipal Securities Market

The division issued a comprehensive report to Congress concerning
the adequacy of current laws and regulations governing the issuance and
sale of municipal ~ecurities.~'Specifically, the report reviews the current
status of the municipal securities markets and provides discussions and
recommendations with respect to: (1) political contributions made by
broker-dealers to influence the award of municipal securities underwritings;
(2) abusivc sales practices; (3) transparency of the municipal securities
market; (4) issuer disclosure; and (5) the adequacy of the current regulatory
structure. The staff concluded that the regulatory structure of the municipal
securities market did not warrant a comprehensive restructuring; however,
the report recommended improved coordination between regulatory
agencies. In addition, the staff conducted a study of the underwriting,
secondary trading and pricing of municipal bonds. The study was initiated
in response to congressional concerns and customer complaints. The staff
reviewed surveillance techniques and made recommendations for
transactional reporting to the SROs for market surveillance purposes.
Market 2000

The division continued its work on the Market 2000 study. The study
is exploring the role that SEC and SRO rules play in maintaining the
fairness, efficiency, and competitiveness of the equity markets. In
conducting the study, the division is examining equity market issues such
as market fragmentation, fair competition between markets, payment for
order flow, transparency, and proprietary trading systems, among others.
The division collected relevant data, analyzed the 58 comment letters
received on the study, issued a rule proposal on payment for order flow,
and began preparation of the final report.
National Clearance and Settlement System

The Commission continued to work to enhance all components of the
national clearance and settlement system. For example, the Commission
adopted Rule 15c6-1 under the Securities Exchange Act of 1934 (Exchange
Act) which establishes three business days as the standard settlement time
frame for broker-dealer trades.52 The rule becomes effective on June 1,
1995. Generally, Rule 15c6-1 covers broker-dealer trades in corporate and
investment company securities and excludes trades in firm commitment
underwritings and trades in municipal securities. In adopting the rule,
the Commission called on the Municipal Securities Rulemaking Board
(MSRB) to implement earlier settlement for trades in municipal securities
by June 1, 1995. Rule 15c6-1 is designed to diminish risk in the national
clearance and settlement system by reducing the number of unsettled
trades in the system at any given time.

Net Capital Concept Release
The Commission issued a concept releases3soliciting public comment
on a broad range of issues relating to the appropriate capital treatment
of derivative products under the agency's net capital rule. In examining
the treatment of derivative products, and particularly over-the-counter
(OTC) derivative products, the Commission's concept release focused
primarily on the market and credit risk to which participants in the
derivative products market are exposed and presented several alternatives
to the current treatment of those instruments under the net capital rule.
The purpose of the Commission's release is to explore and evaluate
whether the net capital rules4 should be modified with respect to the
derivative products markets and, in particular, OTC derivative products.
Optical Storage Technology
The Commission proposed for comment amendments to its brokerdealer records preservation rule that would permit broker-dealers to
employ, under certain circumstances, optical storage technology to maintain
records under Rule 17a-4.55 The Commission also authorized the division
to issue a no-action letter permitting broker-dealers to employ optical
storage technology for record preservation purposes pending final action
on the proposed rule.56 The comment period closed September 13, 1993.
Risk Assessment
The Commission adopted its risk assessment recordkeeping and
reporting rules in 1992. Pursuant to those rules, broker-dealers are required
to maintain information concerning affiliated entities whose business
activities are reasonably likely to have a material impact on the financial
and operational condition of the broker-dealer and to file summaries of
that information in quarterly reports with the SEC.57 The staff is now
tracking financial reports from approximately 250 broker-dealers and 700
affiliated entities.
Automation Review
The staff fully implemented the agency's automation review guidelines
as they pertain to the exchanges and the National Association of Securities
Dealers, Inc. (NASD).58 The primary purpose of the automation review
program is to monitor and inspect the electronic data processing (EDP)
activities of the SROs. Specifically, the staff's inspections have focused
on computer security, system development, capacity, testing, and
contingency planning to promote the safety and soundness of individual
SRO EDP trading and information dissemination systems and the national
market system. The staff completed 7 on-site inspections of the SRO EDP
systems and issued 4 reports with recommendations for improvements,
including the need for improvements to SRO internal audit procedures,
enhancements of contingency planning efforts, and better use of capacity
planning tools.

As part of its EDP oversight role, the staff also held eight meetings
with the SRO EDP organizations to ascertain recent and planned SRO
changes and improvements in automated systems. The staff also tracked
the ability of SROs to respond to systems malfunctions and examined SRO
measures to prevent system outages and maintain stable markets.
Government Securities Market
In October 1993, the U.S. House of Representatives (House) passed
H.R. 618 to permanently reauthorize the Secretary of the Treasury's
rulemaking authority under the Government Securities Act of 1986. This
bill reflects an agreement reached between the Commission, Department
of the Treasury, House Energy and Commerce Committee, and House
Banking Committee. Under the bill, the SEC would be required to monitor
the transparency in the government securities market and report its findings
to Congress. In addition, the bill would grant the Commission authority
to obtain records of government securities transactions in electronic form
from all government securities brokers and dealers. The bill also would
authorize the NASD to make sales practice qualification and other rules
applicable to the activities of its members effecting transactions in
government and other exempted securities.
Inlernationalization
The staff provided information and technical assistance to several
emerging market countries, including Mexico, China, Thailand, Taiwan,
Nigeria, and Argentina. Pursuant to the SEC's membership in the
International Organization of Securities Commissions (IOSCO), the staff
participated in the Working Party on the Regulation of Secondary Markets,
which discussed issues concerning regulation of screen-based trading
systems and transparency of markets. The working party also produced
a paper discussing mechanisms to enhance communication among market
authorities during periods of market disruption. This paper was approved
by the IOSCO Technical Committee and endorsed by IOSCO at its 1993
annual meeting.
Net Capital Rules
The Commission issued two releases regarding the minimum amount
of net capital required of registered broker-dealers. The first release
adopted final amendments to Rule 15c3-1, the net capital rule, which
gradually increase the minimum net capital requirements for certain
registered broker-dealers.59 The second release proposed for comment
additional amendments to the net capital rule that, among other things,
would gradually raise the $5,000 minimum applicable to introducing
brokers that do not receive customer securities to $25,000.60

Passive Market Making
The Commission adopted Rule lob-6A under the Exchange Act to
permit "passive" market making by NASDAQ market makers in connection
with certain distributions of NASDAQ securities during the period when
Rule lob-6A balances
Rule lob-6 otherwise would prohibit such a~tivity.~'
concerns about decreased liquidity during distributions of OTC securities
and potential manipulation activity. Among other things, the rule limits
a passive market maker's bids to the level of bids of market makers who
are not participating in the distribution.
Multinational Distributions
The Commission granted a variety of relief under anti-manipulation
Rules lob-6, lob-7, and lob-8 for multinational offerings. These actions
were taken to permit customary market activities in foreign jurisdictions
subject to conditions designed to prevent a manipulative impact on United
States markets. For example, the Commission granted exemptions to
facilitate distributions in the United States of actively-traded securities
of highly capitalized German issuers, subject to conditions relating to
security eligibility, notice, disclosure, recordkeeping, and transaction
reporting.62 As part of this relief, unconditional exemptions were granted
for transactions effected in securities markets that account for less than
10 percent of aggregate world-wide published trading volume in the
German security being distributed. Also, the Commission granted expanded
class exemptions to permit London Stock Exchange (LSE) market makers
to make markets on a "passive" basis when Rule lob-6 otherwise would
require the cessation of trading on the LSE's SEAQ and SEAQ International
systems." In connection with multinational rights offerings by United
Kingdom issuers, the Commission granted exemptions to permit U.K.
distribution participants to conduct transactions with customers and to
continue trading activities6'
The Commission adopted amendments to permit transactions in all
jurisdictions without compliance with the trading practices rules during
distributions of Rule 144A-eligible securities of a foreign government or
a foreign private issuer, if such securities are offered or sold in the United
States solely to QIBs or persons reasonably believed to be Q I B S . ~ ~
Penny Stock Disclosure Rules
The Commission adopted amendments to Rule 15c2-6 of the Exchange
Act and redesignated it as Rule 15g-9 in order to conform it to the other
penny stock disclosure rules, Rules 15g-2 through 15g-6.66 These
amendments became effective on August 11, 1993. By conforming Rule
15c2-6 with the penny stock rules, the Commission eliminated confusion
regarding the operation of the rules and lessened the burden of compliance
for broker-dealers subject to the regulatory regime governing transactions
in penny stocks. In addition, the Commission amended Rule 15g-2 and
Schedule 15G to require broker-dealers to obtain, prior to effecting a

hansaction in a penny stock, a written acknowledgement from a customer
showing that the customer received a risk disclosure document required
by Rule 15g-2.67
SRO Qualification Standards
The Commission adopted Rule 15b7-1 of the Exchange Act, which
prohibits registered broker-dealers from effecting a securities transaction,
unless an associated person of that broker-dealer is in compliance with
the qualification requirements established by rules of the SRO of which
the broker-dealer is a member or to whose oversight it is subject.68 Rule
15b7-1 allows the Commission to proceed directly against broker-dealers,
as necessary, in part, because in some cases the Commission is the sole
regulatory authority initially investigating a case alleging violations of
SRO qualification standards. Accordingly, Rule 15b7-1 will strengthen the
self-regulatory system and enhance investor protection by ensuring
adequate competency among securities personnel.
Examination and Oversight of Brokers, Dealers, Municipal Securities
Dealers, and Transfer Agents
Broker-Dealer Examination Program
The SEC completed a total of 681 examinations consisting of 424
oversight and 257 cause examinations. The total number of completed
examinations is an all time record for the examination program and
represents a 24 percent increase over 1992. In addition, the number of
cause examinations conducted in 1993 represents an increase of 96 percent
over 1992. The increase in cause examinations is consistent with the 1993
objective of conducting a greater number of examinations of major wirehouse
branch offices, firms selling low-priced securities and franchised branch
offices. Findings from 84 examinations were referred to regional office
enforcement staff representing 13 percent of all completed examinations.
Referrals to SROs were made in 60 examinations. In addition, the number
of referrals to the Division of Enforcement increased 15 percent from 1992.
A significant accomplishment in the broker-dealer examination
program involved firms selling low-priced securities. On July 12, 1993,
the SEC, NASD, New York Stock Exchange (NYSE) and 40 state securities
regulators began a nationwide examination sweep of 129 broker-dealers
to determine compliance with Exchange Act Rules 15g-2 through 15g-6
and 15g-9 (formerly 15c2-6). The 1993 penny stock examination sweep
represents the largest, most ambitious joint SEC, SRO and state examination
project ever undertaken.
The staff also conducted oversight examinations at 10 of the largest
NYSE member firms. The staff conducted comprehensive financial and
operational reviews at each of the firms. Examination field work regarding
a special initiative undertaken in 1992 to review the hiring and supervisory
practices at large NYSE member firms with respect to certain salespersons
was completed.

The staff continued to meet quarterly with senior staff from the NASD
and NYSE to discuss their examination programs and other regulatory and
enforcement issues. The SEC's regional and district offices also separately
communicated examination results directly to SROs in writing and during
periodic meetings.
Training Programs for Examiners
The Division of Market Regulation planned, developed, and conducted
four major training programs for headquarters, regional and district office
staff. The training programs consisted of: (1) a two-week course for new
broker-dealer examiners which emphasized the financial aspects of brokerdealers, (2) a one-week course for new examiners which emphasized the
regulation of sales activities of broker-dealers, (3) a one-week course for
experienced examiners which addressed topical issues, and (4) a massive
training effort in the new penny stock rules. The division obtained national
accreditation of the training courses from the National Association of the
State Boards of Accountancy.
Money Laundering
The division continued to work closely with the Department of the
Treasury and other government offices to pursue effective policies to
combat money laundering. For example, the staff actively participated
in the United States delegation to the Financial Action Task Force on Money
Laundering, the independent group of major financial center countries and
regions, and domestic working groups.
Transfer Agent Examinations and Regulation
The SEC's regional and district offices conducted 170 examinations
of registered transfer agents, including 15 federally regulated banks. The
division conducted on-the-job training in the agency's field offices and
assisted several regions in their inspections. The program resulted in 106
deficiency letters, 8 cancellations or withdrawals, 10 referrals to the Division
of Enforcement, 4 staff conferences with delinquent registrants, and 5
referrals to federal bank examiners.

Lost and Stolen Securities
Rule 17f-1 of the Exchange Act sets forth participation, reporting, and
inquiry requirements for the SEC's Lost and Stolen Securities P r ~ g r a m . ~
Statistics for calendar year 1992 (the most recent data available) reflect
the program's continuing effectiveness. As of December 31, 1992, 23,744
institutions were registered in the program, a 1.4% increase over 1991.
The number of securities reported as lost, stolen, missing, or counterfeit
increased from 876,519 to 2,500,521, a 185% increase. The dollar value
of these securities increased from $2.3 billion to $71 billion, a thirtyfold
increase. The aggregate dollar value of the securities contained in the
program's data base increased from $20.1 billion in 1991 to $90.2 billion

in 1992, a 350% increase. In 1992, the number of inquiries from participating
institutions that matched previous reports as lost, missing, stolen, or
counterfeit securities was 22,538, a 98% increase from 1991. The dollar
value of these matches decreased from $192 million in 1991 to $135 million
in 1992, a 30% decrease. The total number of certificates inquired about
through the program rose from 3,876,519 in 1991 to 5,281,185 in 1992, a
36% increase.
Oversight of Self-Regulatory

Organizations

National Securities Exchanges
As of September 30, 1993, there were eight active securities exchanges
registered with the SEC as national securities exchanges: American Stock
Exchange (AMEX), Boston Stock Exchange (BSE), Chicago Board Options
Exchange (CBOE), Cincinnati Stock Exchange, Chicago Stock Exchange
(CHX, formerly the Midwest Stock Exchange), NYSE, Philadelphia Stock
Exchange (PH LX), and Pacific Stock Exchange (PSE). The agency granted
exchange applications to delist 97 debt and equity issues, and granted
applications by issuers requesting withdrawal from listing and registration
for 49 issues. In addition, the SEC granted 1,934 exchange applications
for unlisted trading privileges.
The exchanges submitted 255 proposed rule changes during 1993. A
total of 212 pending and new filings were approved by the Commission
and 39 were withdrawn. Notable rule filings approved by the Commission
included proposals to:
• amend the NYSE's priority rules to allow a member who has an
order to buy and an order to sell 25,000 shares or more of the same
security, where neither order is for the account of a member or
a member organization, to cross those orders at a price that is at
or within the prevailing quotations without being broken up at the
cross price, irrespective of preexisting bids and offers at that
price:"
• adopt NYSE Rule 410B which requires members to report to the
exchange transactions in exchange-listed securities that are not
otherwise reported to the consolidated tape:" and
• extend the NYSE, AMEX BSE, CHX, PSE, and PHLX pilot programs
for off-hours-trading
until January 31, 1994.72
National Association of Securities Dealers. Inc.
The NASD, with over 5,200 member firms, is the only national securities
association registered with the SEC. It is the operator of NASDAQ, the
second largest stock market in the United States, and the second largest
in the world (after the NYSE).

31

The NASD submitted 72 proposed rule changes to the Commission
during the year. The Commission approved 71 proposed rule changes,
which included many of the proposed rule changes submitted during the
year and several proposed rule changes submitted in prior years. Among
the significant changes approved by the Commission were:
• implementation of a Fixed Income Pricing System establishing an
automated trading marketplace with 90 second transaction reporting
for trading of certain non-investment grade debt securities:"
• a requirement of reporting within 90 seconds of transactions of 99
bonds or fewer for convertible bonds listed on NASDAQ/4 and the
establishment of requirements for 90 second transaction reporting
of OTC transactions in equity securities that are not currently
reportable on a real-time basis." and
• expansion of a toll-free telephone listing service plan to provide,
with respect to NASD members and associated persons, Central
Registration Depository information regarding all pending formal
disciplinary proceedings initiated by federal, state or foreign
securities agencies and SROs, criminal indictments or informations,
civil judgments,
and arbitration
decisions in securities and
commodities disputes involving public customers."
Arbitration
In response to the Commission's recommendation to improve arbitrator
training programs and in light of a report issued by the General Accounting
Office,'? arbitration departments of SROs expanded and improved their
arbitrator training programs."
The Commission approved proposed rule changes by the NASD and
national securities exchanges that were designed to strengthen
the
arbitration rules governing disputes among broker-dealers and between
broker-dealers and investors.
In particular, the Commission approved
amendments to NASD arbitration rules that (1) enhance the NASD's ability
to discipline members that fail to pay an arbitration award:" (2) make all
arbitration awards and their contents public information." and (3) clarify
that employment-related disputes may be arbitrated at the NASD and that
arbitration panels deciding discrimination claims will consist of a majority
of arbitrators with no ties to the securities industry."
The Commission approved other SRO rules designed to enable investors
to pursue class actions in courts and clarify discovery procedures for small
claim cases."
SRO Rules on Options and Other Derivative Products
The Commission approved several significant SRO proposals to
strengthen market stability and integrity, including extending the use of
quarterly expiration Friday auxiliary opening procedures to monthly
expiration Fridays on the NYSE.83 In addition, the Commission approved
several proposals by the SROs to trade new financial instruments, including
the following:

32

• Standard & Poor's (S&P) 500 Depository Receipts (SPDRs) to trade
on the AMEX;84
• Flexible Exchange Options, large-size, index options cleared by
Options Clearing Corporation and which can be customized as to
strike price, expiration, and settlement procedures to trade on the
CBOE and AMEX;8S
• quarterly expiration index options to trade on the AMEX, CBOE,
and NYSE;86
• Equity Linked Notes'" and Debt Exchangeable for Convertible
Securities," hybrid debt securities whose principal is linked to the
performance of a highly capitalized, actively traded common stock;
• Global Telecommunications
Market Index Target Term Securities
to trade on the NYSE;89and
• options on American Depositary Receipts to trade on the NYSE,
AMEX, PSE, CBOE and PHLX.90
The Commission also addressed several futures-related
matters
regarding the Commodity Futures Trading Commission's hybrids and
swaps proposals," the designation of certain boards of trade as contract
markets for stock index futures and stock index futures options on certain
indexes, and the Chicago Mercantile Exchange's listing for trading on
GLOBEX stock index futures and stock index futures options on the S&P
500 Stock Price Index, the MidCap 400 Stock Price Index, and the Russell
2000 Stock Price Index."
Clearing Agencies
Sixteen clearing agencies were registered with the SEC at year-end.
In addition, the Commission extended the temporary registration as a
clearing agency for the Government Securities Clearing Corporation;"
lntermarket
Clearing
Corporation;" Delta Government
Options
Corporation;" MBS Clearing Corporation,"
and Participants
Trust

Company."
Registered clearing agencies submitted 119 proposed rule changes to
the SEC and withdrew 3. The Commission approved 116 proposed rule
changes, including the following:
• implementation of the Depository Trust Company's (DTC) Honest
Broker Program, which facilitates the liquidation of securities held
for DTC participants
experiencing
financial
or operational
difficulties;" and
• implementation of National Securities Clearing Corporation's new
comparison system for fixed income securities."
Municipal Securities Rulemaking Board
The SEC received 10 new proposed rule changes from the MSRB. A
total of 11 new and pending proposed rule changes were approved by the
Commission. Of particular note, the Commission approved an amendment
to the MSRB's arbitration code to reflect recent amendments to the Uniform
Code of Arbitration.t'"

33

Securities Investor Protection Corporation (SIPC)
The SIPC Fund amounted to $778.4 million on September 30, 1993,
an increase of $64.9 million from September 30, 1992. Further financial
support for the SIPC program is available through a $1 billion confirmed
line of credit established by SIPC with a consortium of banks. In addition,
SIPC may borrow up to $1 billion from the Department of the Treasury,
through the SEC.
Inspections of SRO Surveillance and Regulatory Compliance
The staff completed oversight inspections of the advertising programs
of NASD, CBOE, and AMEX. The staff also conducted oversight inspections
of the NYSE and AMEX, focusing on the sales practice review performed
by NYSE Regulatory Review examiners and the sales practice review
conducted by AMEX examiners.
The staff completed an inspection of the PHLX Arbitration Department
and continued its comprehensive inspection of the arbitration programs
administered by the NASD's arbitration department at the NASD. These
inspections were designed to evaluate the effectiveness of these SRO
programs in processing and resolving disputes between SRO members and
their customers. In particular, the staff reviewed the adequacy and
thoroughness of case documentation, the efficiency of the case management
systems, and the role each department played in processing its cases. In
addition, consideration was given to whether major rule changes, adopted
by the NASD in 1989 and by the PHLX in 1991 in response to Commission
concerns regarding the rules and procedures governing SRO-administered
arbitration, were successful in improving the documentation and fairness
of cases administered by these SROs.
With respect to the PHLX arbitration inspection, the staff recommended
that the PHLX establish procedures to improve its efficiency and to provide
a more concrete basis for reviewing the PHLX's Arbitration Department
by senior management. The inspection of the NASD arbitration department
is still in progress and a report is expected in the near future.
The staff conducted an inspection of AMEX's Emerging Company
Marketplace (ECM) as a result of congressional inquiries regarding the
screening process undertaken by AMEX for companies seeking to gain
listing privileges for their securities on the AMEX's new ECM market. The
staff concluded that the AMEX's screening process generally was
satisfactory, but indicated that several deficiencies still existed in the
administration of the program. The staff's recommendations focused on
the AMEX's application of the mandatory quantitative criteria and subjective
qualitative criteria of ECM candidates.
The staff also conducted an inspection of the PSE option and equity
surveillance, investigatory and disciplinary programs. The staff found that
the investigations conducted by the options and equity surveillance
departments were timely, thorough, and adequately documented. However,
the staff questioned the handling of some enforcement matters because
the sanctions stipulated by the PSE's disciplinary committees were not
always commensurate with the severity of the violations and may not

discourage future violations. An inspection of PHLX equity and foreign
currency options, and equity surveillance, investigatory and disciplinary
programs conducted in October and November 1992 found these programs
to be functioning satisfactorily. The staff made several recommendations
to the PHLX regarding certain deficiencies found during the inspection.
The staff conducted an inspection of the surveillance and investigatory
programs of the NASD's Market Surveillance Department in November
1992. The staff found that the programs' procedures were operating
effectively and that the NASD had significantly improved its automation
and enhanced its surveillance procedures. In December 1992, the staff
conducted an inspection of the regulatory programs of the BSE and the
settlement and financial monitoring procedures of the Boston Stock
Exchange Clearing Corporation (BSECC). Overall, the staff found that the
BSE programs for surveillance and investigation were satisfactory, and
that the BSE compliance and the BSECC financial surveillance programs
were adequate but in need of improvement. An inspection of the CBOE
surveillance, investigatory and disciplinary programs for trading violations
conducted in February 1993 found these programs to be functioning
satisfactorily and that the CBOE had made several improvements since
the previous inspection. However, the staff did raise questions regarding
the adequacy of staffing levels.
The staff conducted an inspection of the surveillance, investigatory
and disciplinary programs for upstairs trading at the NYSE. The staff
reviewed the NYSE's automated surveillance systems administered by its
Division of Market Surveillance, investigations of member firm trading
conducted by its Department of Market Trading Analysis, and disciplinary
actions by its Division of Enforcement. The staff found that the NYSE
continues to maintain effective programs in each of these areas. In
addition, the staff conducted an inspection of the NYSE's Options and
Special Product unit's surveillance, investigatory and disciplinary functions
for program trading and related intermarket trading strategies. The staff
found significant improvement in the NYSE's surveillance and investigatory
operations for program trading and that the surveillance and investigatory
programs for options trading were functioning adequately.
The regional offices conducted routine oversight inspections of
regulatory programs administered by 7 of the NASD's 11 districts.
Inspections of NASD district offices included evaluations of districts'
broker-dealer examinations, their financial surveillance and formal
disciplinary programs, as well as investigations of customer complaints,
terminations of registered representatives for cause, and members' notices
of disciplinary action. Although the inspections disclosed minor deficiencies
involving a variety of issues, overall, the NASD districts conducted effective
regulatory programs for member firms.

SRO Final Disciplinary Actions
Section 19d-1 of the Exchange Act and Rule 19d-1 thereunder require
all SROs to file reports with the SEC of all final disciplinary actions. Rule
19d-1 reports filed with the SEC were as follows: the AMEX filed 42; the
CBOE filed 98; the NYSE filed 172; the PHLX filed 38; the PSE filed 9;
the CHX filed 3; the registered clearing agencies, BSE, and CSE filed none;
and the NASD filed 703.
SRO Final Disciplinary Actions

Exchanges

624

639

594

568

498

362

District Committees

542

794

893

781

966

646

NASDAQ and Market
Surveillance
Committees

170

75

118

141

160

75

NASD:

Totals

1,336 1,508 1,605

1,490 1,624 1,083

Applications for Re-entry
Rule 19h-1 under the Exchange Act prescribes the form and content
of, and establishes the mechanism by which the SEC reviews, proposals
submitted by the SROs to allow persons subject toa statutory disqualification
to become or remain associated with member firms. In 1993, the number
of SRO filings pursuant to Rule 19h-1 processed by the staff decreased
33 percent, from 79 in 1992 to 53 in 1993. Of the 53 filings, the NASD
made 33 and the NYSE made 20. One application was denied, and the
staff declined to take a no-action position in another.

The Division of Investment Management oversees the regulation of
investmentcompaniesand investmentadvisersunder twocompanionstatutes,
the Investment Company Act of 1940 (Investment Company Act) and the
Investment Advisers Act of 1940(InvestmentAdvisers Act),and administers
the Public Utility Holding Company Act of 1935 (Holding Company Act).
Key 1993 Results
In 1993, the Commission required mutual funds to discuss in their
prospectus, or annual report to shareholders, those factors, strategies, and
techniques that materially affected fund performance during the most
recently completed fiscal year and to provide a line graph comparing a
fund's performance to that of an appropriate securities market index. The
Commission also permitted closed-end funds to make repurchase offers to
their shareholders at net asset value either periodically, pursuant to a
fundamental policy, or not more than once every two years, ona discretionary
basis. Amendments to Rule 482 under the Securities Act of 1933 (Securities
Act), which would allow investors the option of purchasing mutual fund
shares directly from special "off-the-page prospectuses" containing order
forms, were proposed for public comment.
Concerning the jurisdictional reach of the Investment Advisers Act
with respect to foreign investment advisers, the staff stated that it would
not recommend enforcement action if foreign affiliates of an adviser that
is registered under the Investment Advisers Act gave investment advice
to United States clients through the registered adviser without the foreign
affiliates themselves registering under the Investment Advisers Act. With
regard to a foreign investment adviser that has registered under the
Investment Advisers Act, the staff made clear that it does not interpret the
Investment Advisers Act as being applicable to the foreign investment
adviser's relationships with its foreign clients so long as they do not involve
conduct in the United States, or have effects on United States clients.

Program Overview
The tables below show the number of registered investment companies
and investment advisers and the amount of assets under management. All
figures are reported for fiscal year-end.

Number of Active Registrants

lnvestment
Companies
lnvestment
Company
Portfolios
lnvestment
Advisers

3,544

3,535

3,660

3,850

4,300

21.3%

NA

NA 16,000* 18,700 21,200

NA

16,239

17,386 17,500 18,000 20,000

23.2%

Estimate
Assets Under Management
($ in billions)
1989

lnvestment
Companies
lnvestment
Advisers

1990

1991

1992

% Change
1993 1989-93

$1,200

$1,350 $1,400 $1,800

$2,400

100.0%

$4,400

$4,900 $5,400 $8,100

$9,600

118.2%

The number of registered investment companies increased by 12 percent
during 1993. Many investment companies combine several separate
portfolios or investment series in one investment company registration
statement. The number of portfolios generally ranges from three to ten.
However, some unit investment trusts group as many as 900 separate
portfolios under one investment company registration. The number of
portfolios increased by about 13 percent during 1993. In addition, the
Commission was responsible for regulating 20,000 investment advisers at
the end of 1993, a 23 percent increase since 1989.

Investment Company and Adviser Inspection Program
During 1993, program resources were focused on inspections of funds
in the largest 100investment company complexes, all money market mutual
funds, and investment advisers with assets under management in excess
of $1 billion. The 100 largest investment company complexes managed $1.6
trillion in assets, which represented 67 percent of total investment company
industry assets of $2.4 trillion. The total assets under management of the
over 1,000 money market portfolios were $562 billion, which represented
23 percent of all investment company assets.

Results Achieved by the Program
The division and regional office staff conducted inspections of funds
within the 100 largest investment company complexes as well as limited
inspections of 156 smaller complexes and stand-alone funds. These
inspections focused on portfolio management activities. Each of the 1,044
money market funds was reviewed for compliance with Rule 2a-7, which
specifies the quality and maturity of permissible instruments that may be
held by investment companies and requirements for portfolio diversification.
The staff inspected 711 investment advisers, of which 181 managed more
than $1 billion. These inspections focused on the portfolio management
and trading activities of advisers. As a result of all inspections during 1993,
the staff sent 1,073 deficiency letters to registrants requiring that they
eliminate violative activities. In 75 inspections where the registrant appeared
to be engaged in serious misconduct, the staff referred the inspection results
to the enforcement program for further investigation.

Regulatory Policy
Significant Investment Company Developments
The Commission implemented a number of recommendations made
by the division in its 1992 report, Protecting Investors: A Half Century of
Investment Company Regulation (Protecting Investors).'O1 In September 1993,
the Commission adopted amendments to Rules 10f-3, 17a-7, 17e-1, 17f-4,
and 22c-1 under the Investment Company Act to eliminate the requirement
that directors of investment companies annually review certain procedures
and arrangements, and to require instead that directors make and approve
~ ~ amendments are intended to
certain changes only when n e c e s ~ a r y . ' The
enhance the effectiveness of investment company boards.
Also in September 1993, the Commission adopted amendments to Rule
12d3-1 under the Investment Company Act to simplify the conditions under
which registered investment companies are permitted to acquire securities
issued by securities-related b u s i n e s ~ e s . ' ~The
~ amendments remove the
margin security requirement and the requirement that investment company
boards of directors determine whether debt securities of securities-related
businesses are investment grade. The amendments will permit registered
investment companies to pursue a broader range of investment objectives
consistent with shareholder interests.
In April 1993, the Commission adopted Rule 23c-3 under the Investment
Company Act to allow closed-end management investment companies to
make repurchase offers to their shareholders at net asset value.'04 The
repurchase offers may be made either periodically, pursuant to a fundamental
policy, or not more frequently than once every two years on a discretionary
basis. Periodic repurchase offers will allow investors in closed-end
companies a limited opportunity to resell their shares in a manner
traditionally available only to shareholders in open-end companies. Closedend investment companies making discretionary repurchase offers will be
able to d o so with an exemption from some of the requirements of the

Securities Exchange Act of 1934 (Exchange Act). In a companion release,
the Commission also proposed rule amendments under the Securities Act
to permit funds that make periodic repurchase offers to offer their stock
on a continuous or delayed basis, and to obtain automatic registration
effectiveness for additional securities.lo5
In March 1993, the Commission proposed for public comment
amendments to Rule 482 under the Securities Act to allow investors the
option of purchasing mutual fund shares directly from special "off-the-page
prospectuses" containing order forms.lo6 An "off-the-page prospectus"
would be required to contain critical information about the fund and would
be subject to various liability provisions under the Securities Act and the
Exchange Act. The amendments would give investors in direct marketed
funds the same purchasing option that investors now have through
commissioned salespersons.
Also in March 1993, the Commission proposed for public comment
amendments to Rule 0-5 under the Investment Company Act and to Rule
30-5 to establish an expedited procedure for certain exemptive applications
relying on precedent, and to expand the delegated authority of the Director
of the Division of Investment Management.lo7The amendments are intended
to streamline the review procedure for exemptive applications.
In addition to implementing the recommendations in the Protecting
Investors report as discussed above, the Commission undertook two other
rulemaking initiatives. In August 1993, the Commission adopted Rules
2a19-2 and 2a3-1 under the Investment Company Act to except general and
certain limited partners of limited partnership investment companies from
the definitions of "interested person" and "affiliated person," respe~tively.'~~
The new rules enable limited partnership investment companies to register
under the Investment Company Act without first obtaining start-up
exemptive relief for their general and limited partners.
In July 1993, the Commission proposed for public comment Rule 3a-8
under the Investment Company Act to provide a non-exclusive safe harbor
from investment company status for bona fide research and development
companies meeting certain requirements.lW The rule would allow eligible
companies to invest their cash reserves in securities that present limited
investment risk without subjecting the companies to regulation under the
Investment Company Act.

Significant Disclosure Program Developments
In April 1993, the Commission adopted amendments to Form N-IA,
the registration form used by open-end management investment companies
under the Investment Company Act and the Securities Act, and related rules
and forms."O The amendments require a mutual fund to include in its
prospectus or, alternatively, its annual report to shareholders: (1) a
discussion of those factors, strategies, and techniques that materially affected
its performance during its most recently completed fiscal year; and (2) a
line graph comparing its performance to that of an appropriate securities

market index. The amendments also require a mutual fund to identify its
portfolio manager and revise the summary financial information in the
prospectus.
In September 1993, the Commission proposed amendments to Rule
485, which, among other things, sets forth standards for the filing of posteffective amendments to registration statements filed by open-end
management investment companies and unit investment trusts and permits
certain amendments to become effective aut~matically.~~'
The proposed
revisions would simplify the operation of the current rule and expand the
conditions under which post-effective amendments filed by investment
companies are permitted to become effective automatically. In addition,
insurance company separate accounts would be permitted to use Rule 485,
and Rule 486 (the current rule governing post-effective amendments filed
by separate accounts) would be rescinded.
Amendments to Form N-2,the registration form used by closed-end
investment companies under the Investment Company Act and the Securities
Act, became effective on January 1,1993. The revisions incorporated certain
new features not previously included in closed-end fund registration
statements, such as disclosure of the identity of the fund's portfolio manager
and a tabular presentation of expenses. The revised form also permits, but
does not require, closed-end funds to use a simplified, two-part disclosure
document, similar to that used by mutual funds registering on Form N-IA.
Approximately one-third of the closed-end registrations filed during 1993
used the new, simplified format. Overall, the number of closed-end offerings
increased 44 percent over the previous year. Municipal stock offerings,
rights offerings, and funds concentrating in foreign countries were three
of the more commonly filed types of closed-end registrations.
Considerable staff time and attention were devoted to new products
and methods of distribution and the related disclosure and policy issues.
For example, funds were seeking incrementally greater returns by engaging
in the use of derivative and other instruments. These derivatives, and other
relatively new financial instruments, presented regulatory and other issues,
including how to ensure that they are not used to create excessive leverage,
how to elicit meaningful disclosure about their effect on performance, and
how they should be reflected in fund financial statements and records.
Funds continued to look for ways to tailor their distribution and shareholder
services for particular dealers and investors. A new rule issued by the
National Association of Securities Dealers (NASD) concerning asset-based
sales charges and service fees became effective July 7, 1993 and has had
a significant effect on the way these fees are charged, accounted for, and
disclosed.
The number of bank proprietary mutual funds increased during the
year to a total of over 900 portfolios. Staff concerns about the names used
by mutual funds affiliated with banks and the potential confusion by
investors of mutual fund shares with insured deposits were communicated
to investment companies in two staff letters during 1993.

In 1993, the staff received 1,194 new open-end fund portfolios, 9,345
existing open-end portfolios, 264 new closed-end portfolios, 564 existing
closed-end fund portfolios, 2,043 new unit investment trust portfolios, and
12,833 existing unit investment trust portfolios. These figures include
portfolios that exist in connection with insurance products.
Section 13(f)(l)of the Exchange Act and Rule 13f-1 require "institutional
investment managers" exercising investment discretion over accounts
holding certain equity securities with a fair market value of at least $100
million to file quarterly reports on Form 13F. For the quarter ended June
30,1993,1,100 managers filed Form 13F reports, for total holdings in excess
of $2.3 trillion. Under Rule 13f-2T, these managers may elect to file the
report on magnetic tape submitted to the SEC's Electronic Data Gathering,
Analysis, and Retrieval (EDGAR) system.
Form 13F reports are available to the public at the agency's Public
Reference Room promptly after filing. Two tabulations of the information
contained in these reports are available for inspection: (1) an alphabetical
list of the individual securities showing the number held by the managers
reporting the holding; and (2) an alphabetical list of all reporting managers
showing the total number of shares of securities held. These tabulations
are generally available two weeks after the date on which the reports must
be filed.

Significant Insurance Products Developments
The staff devoted considerable effort in developing a new registration
form to be used by separate accounts offering variable life insurance contracts.
Currently, separate accounts register as unit investment trusts under the
Investment Company Act on Form N-88-2 and also register their securities
under the Securities Act on Form S-6. The new Form N-6 will replace this
procedure with a single, three-part form that will integrate registration
under both Acts. The new form also will introduce simplified prospectus
disclosure and standardized illustrations for use in prospectuses and
supplemental sales literature.
In letters to the NASD, the staff set forth its position on the use of
fund performance data in advertisements or supplemental sales literature
for variable life insurance (VLI) product^."^ The staff stated that, because
contract owners cannot obtain the benefit of the underlying fund without
incurring the charges assessed a t the separate account level, it is misleading
for a VLI issuer to show fund performance without also disclosing separate
account performance.
Significant Public Utility Holding Company Act Developments
Under congressional direction to adopt rules to protect the domestic
public utility subsidiaries of registered holding companies and their
consumers from the risk of new ventures in exempt wholesale generators
(EWGs) or foreign utility companies, the Commission adopted Rules 53,
54 and 57 under the Holding Company Act.l13 Rule 53 creates a partial
safe harbor with respect to the issue and sale of a security by a registered
holding company to finance the acquisition of an EWG, or the guaranty

by the parent of the securities of an EWG. Rule 54 provides that, in
determining whether to approve the issue or sale of a security by a registered
holding company for purposes other than the acquisition of an EWG or
a foreign utility company, or other transactions by such registered holding
company or its subsidiaries other than with respect to EWGs or foreign
utility companies, the Commission will not consider the effect of the
capitalization or earnings of any EWG or foreign utility company subsidiary
on a registered system if the conditions of the safe harbor under Rule 53
are satisfied. Rule 57 and Forms U-57 and U-33-S address notification and
reporting requirements for foreign utility companies and their associate
public utility companies. The Commission also amended Forms U5S and
U-3A-2 to add reporting requirements concerning EWG and foreign utility
company activities. The Commission decided to defer action on proposed
Rules 55 and 56, regarding foreign utility companies, pending further
consideration.ll'
In view of the Energy Policy Act of 1992, the new legislation concerning
EWGs and foreign utility companies, the Commission also proposed an
amendment to Rule 87 under the Holding Company Act.l15 The present
rule allows subsidiaries of a registered holding company, subject to
compliance with certain requirements, to perform services for associate
non-utility companies without the need to apply for, or obtain, prior
Commission approval. The proposed amendment would specifically exclude
services rendered to EWGs and foreign utility companies. The Commission
believes the amendment is necessary to ensure that utility personnel are
not improperly diverted to EWG or foreign utility company activities, to
the detriment of the operations of the integrated public utility system.
As of September 30, 1993,14 public utility holding company systems
were registered with the SEC. The 14 registered systems were comprised
of 93 public utility subsidiaries, 158 non-utility subsidiaries, and 33 inactive
companies, for a total of 298 companies and systems operating in 26 states.
These holding-company systems had aggregate assets of approximately
$111.2 billion as of June 30,1993, an increase of $12.1 billion over September
30,1992. Total operating revenues for the 12 months ended June 30,1993
were approximately $40.2 billion, a $2.1 billion increase from the 12 months
ended September 30, 1992.
During 1993, the SEC authorized registered holding-company systems
to issue $4.0 billion in short-term debt, $3.3 billion in long-term debt, and
$712.6 million in common and preferred stock. Long-termdebt authorization
decreased by over $5 billion in 1993from the previous fiscal year, as a result
of an increase in the amount of internally generated cash available, a
decrease in construction expenditures, a decrease in interest rate charges,
and the continued effects of Rule 52, which exempts certain financings by
public utility subsidiary companies, if solely for the purpose of financing
the business of the public utility company and expressly authorized by the
relevant state commission. The SEC approved pollution control financings
of $1.4 billion, an increase of 424 percent over fiscal year 1992. Refinancings,

made in order to capture substantial reductions in interest rates, were the
primary cause of the increase in these financings over 1992. The SEC
approved $409 million of investments in cogeneration facilities that were
"qualifying facilities" under the Public Utility Regulatory Policies Act of
1978 and rules thereunder. The SEC also approved $114.5 million of
investments in EWGs and foreign utility companies, and $65.1 million in
enterprises engaged in demand-side and energy management. Total
financing authorizations of approximately $10.1 billion represented an
approximately 42 percent decrease over such authorizations in 1992.
The SEC examines service and special purpose subsidiary companies
of registered holding company systems. During 1993, seven examinations
were completed, six of special purpose corporations and one of a service
company. The SEC continued to review the accounting policies, cost
determination, intercompany transactions, and quarterly reporting
requirements of all service companies and special purpose corporations.
Through the examination program, and by uncovering misapplied expenses
and inefficiencies, the agency's activities during 1993 resulted in savings
to consumers of approximately $8.7 million.
Two bills were introduced in 1993that would transfer the administration
of the Holding Company Act from the SEC to the Federal Energy Regulatory
Commission. The two bills, S. 544 and S. 635, which contain substantially
the same language, would also amend the Holding Company Act and the
Federal Power Act to address concerns arising from the decision in Ohio
Power Co. v. FERC.l16 Among other things, the bills amend Sections 13(b)
and 13(d) of the Holding Company Act by substituting "at a price not to
exceed cost" for the current "at cost" language.
The Commission submitted written testimony regarding S. 544 on May
25, 1993. In its testimony, the Commission explained its understanding
of the implications of the Ohio Power decision and expressed its willingness
to provide further assistance to the Senate Committee on Energy and
Natural Resources. In addition, the Commission stated that the pricing
of the coal purchased by Ohio Power from a captive coal subsidiary is the
subject of a request for investigation filed by the municipal wholesale
electric customers of Ohio Power.

Significant Applications and Interpretations
Investment Company Act Matters
The Commission issued an order under Section 3(b)(2)of the Investment
Company Act declaring that ICOS Corporation (ICOS), a research and
development company, is engaged primarily in a business other than that
of investing, reinvesting, owning, holding, or trading in securities.l17Because
virtually all of ICOS' capital is invested in securities pending its use in
funding the company's research and development programs, a question
arose whether ICOS is an investment company under Section 3(a). Under
the Commission's traditional Section 3(b)(2) analysis, an issuer generally
is deemed to be engaged primarily in the business of investing in securities
if most of its assets are securities and most of its income is derived from

such securities. Given the unique nature of research and development
companies, the Commission determined that it was appropriate to modify
the analysis for determining the primary business of such companies. If
a company demonstrates that it is engaged actively in bona fide research
and development activities, the Commission will consider the use, rather
than simply the composition, of the company's assets and income. Under
this revised analysis, ICOS qualified for a Section 3(b)(2) order.
The Commission issued a conditional order under Section 17(d) of,
and Rule 17d-1 under, the Investment Company Act to the Fidelity family
of funds amending a prior order that allowed the funds to invest jointly
in repurchase agreements with maturities of seven days or less.n8 By
investing jointly, the funds reduce transaction fees and ticket errors, receive
higher rates of return, and avoid the administrative time and expense of
investing in many small repurchase agreements. To expand the savings
and the potential for enhanced yield, the new order allows joint investment
in repurchase agreements with maturities of up to sixty days, and in certain
short-term money market instruments and tax-exempt obligations. The
new order also allows certain non-investment company entities associated
with Fidelity to participate in the joint investments.
The Commission issued a conditional order to allow certain open-end
investment companies (Public Funds) advised by American Capital Assets
Management to invest in a specially created investment company-the
American Capital Small Capitalization Fund (Small Cap Fundhn9The Small
Cap Fund is intended to serve as an efficient way for the Public Funds to
invest in small capitalization stocks and also achieve further diversification.
Most significantly, the order provides an exemption from Section 12(d)(l)
of the Investment Company Act, which limits an investment company's
ability to invest in the securities of other investment companies. Section
12(d)(l) is designed to protect investors in fund holding companies from
two layers of expenses and to prevent fund holding companies from
exercising undue influence over portfolio investment companies by the
threat of large scale redemptions. To address these concerns, the order
requires that the Small Cap Fund not charge an advisory fee or a sales
charge, and that American Capital Asset Management, as adviser to the
Public Funds and the Small Cap Fund, develop procedures to prevent large
scale redemptions from disrupting the Small Cap Fund.
The staff continued to receive and respond to requests for no-action
relief involving the status of foreign entities as eligible foreign custodians
under the Investment Company Act. In twelve no-action letters under
Section 17(f) and Rule 17f-5, the staff stated that it would not recommend
enforcement action if various entities acted as eligible foreign custodians
for registered investment companies. Ten of the letters involved foreign
securities depositories or clearing agencies seeking assurances concerning
their status as an operator of "the central system for the handling of
securities or equivalent book-entries" in a particular country under
subparagraph (c)(2)(iii) of the rule.120Two of the letters involved foreign
banks and their ability to satisfy the shareholders' equity requirement in
subparagraph (c)(2)(i) of the rule.121

The staff stated that it would not recommend enforcement action under
Section 18(f)(l) of the Investment Company Act if mutual funds borrowed
from certain foreign banks that conduct banking activities in the United
States. While Section 18(f)(l)permits a mutual fund to borrow from a bank,
foreign banking institutions generally d o not fall within the Investment
Company Act's definition of bank. The relief was limited to treating these
foreign banks as banks for purposes of Section 18(f)(l), not for any other
purpose under the Investment Company Act.lZ2
The staff granted conditional no-action relief to a foreign investment
company that proposed to register with the Commission under the
Investment Company Act without first conforming its capital structure to
the requirements of Section 18 of the Act. The foreign company had longterm warrants outstanding. Section 18(d) of the Investment Company Act
prohibits a registered closed-end fund from issuing warrants unless they
expire within 120 days of issuance. The staff agreed that Section 18 does
not require the company to conform its preregistration capital structure,
but conditioned the relief on the warrants being listed on a United States
stock exchange, so that members of the public would be aware of their
existence before purchasing common stock that was subject to dilution.lu
The staff stated that it would not take enforcement action if a mutual
fund treated an investment in municipal bonds refunded with escrowed
United States Government securities as an investment in United States
Government securities for purposes of Section 5(b)(l) of the Investment
Company Act. Section 5(b)(l) limits the extent to which a diversified
investment company may invest in any one issuer, but excludes from this
limit investments in United States Government s e ~ u r i t i e s . ' ~ ~
The staff declined to grant no-action assurance under Section 17(e)
of the Investment Company Act to permit a fund's custodian, which was
also a sub-adviser to one of the fund's portfolios, to enter into a securities
lending arrangement with some of the other portfolios of the fund (Portfolios).
Section 17(e)(l)makes it unlawful for any affiliated person of an investment
company, or any affiliated person of such person (second-tier affiliate),
acting as agent, to accept any compensation from any source for the purchase
or sale of any property to or for the investment company. Since the
Portfolios and the portfolio for which the custodian served as sub-adviser
were under common control, the custodian was a second-tier affiliate of
the Portfolios. In denying relief, the staff stated that where a second-tier
affiliate of an investment company negotiates and accepts a fee for arranging
a loan of a fund's securities, the transaction presents the potential for a
conflict of interest that Section 17(e) was designed to address. The staff
took the position that a loan of a Portfolio's securities involves a sale of
property of a Portfolio for purposes of Section 17(e).125
The staff granted no-action relief to a transfer agent that proposed to
store on an optical disk system certain investment company records, in a
manner consistent with the requirements of Rule 31a-2(f) under the
Investment Company Act. Rule 31a-2(f) permits records to be maintained

and preserved on magnetic tape, disk or other computer storage medium.
The staff required that the information be stored on a non-rewritable, nonerasable optical disk, and that adequate backup copies be maintained.126

lnvestment Advisers Act Matters
The staff continued to develop its interpretation regarding the
jurisdictional reach of the Investment Advisers Act with respect to foreign
advisers. In one no-action letter, the staff stated that it would not recommend
enforcement action if foreign affiliates gave investment advice to United
States clients through a United States registered adviser, without the foreign
affiliates themselves having to register under the Investment Advisers
Act.l2' The staff's response permits a United States registered adviser to
draw on the personnel and expertise of its multinational affiliates as long
as the persons and entities providing advice consent to United States
jurisdiction, are under the supervision of the registered entity, and maintain
certain records. In addition, the staff granted no-action relief to certain
foreign advisers to permit them to give advice directly to United States
clients without subjecting the foreign advisers' relationships with their
foreign clients to the Investment Advisers Act.128The staff's response makes
clear that a registered foreign adviser's relationships with foreign clients
would not be subject to the Investment Advisers Act so long as its acts do
not involve conduct, or have effects, in the United States, or have effects
on United States clients. This position allows multinational advisory
complexes to register under the Investment Advisers Act and give advice
directly to United States persons without having the Investment Advisers
Act apply with respect to the foreign adviser's foreign clients.

Insurance Company Matters
The Commission issued an exemptive order permitting the College
Retirement Equities Fund (CREF) to invest in the College Credit Trust
( T r ~ s t ) . 'The
~ ~ Trust was created by the Teachers Insurance and Annuity
Association of America (TIAA) and the College Entrance Examination
Board to make educational loans, most of which will be guaranteed student
loans. The Student Loan Marketing Association will administer the Trust
and the loans, and provide related services. The order permits certain
transactions between TIAA and CREF by which CREF would acquire an
interest in the Trust directly or indirectly from TIAA. Hearing requests
were received by the Commission during the notice period. The issues
raised in the hearing requests, however, did not bear on the determination
of whether to grant the requested relief under the Investment Company
Act. The requests, therefore, were denied by the Commission.
The division, pursuant to delegated authority, issued three exemptive
orders under the Investment Company Act permitting certain variable life
insurance issuers to deduct a charge related to tax changes in the Omnibus
Budget Reconciliation Act of 1990 (Budget Act).'" The Budget Act requires
insurance companies to capitalize and amortize certain policy acquisition
expenses over a ten year period rather than continuing to deduct these

expenses in the year in which they are incurred. Applicants obtained relief
to deduct a charge to recover the increased expense associated with the
new tax treatment.
The division, pursuant to delegated authority, exempted an insurance
company from various sections of the Investment Company Act to permit
the sale of certain variable annuities with an asset allocation feature.l3I In
general, holders of these annuities will receive asset allocation advice from
an investment adviser unaffiliated with the insurance company. The adviser
will be compensated by deducting a charge from the assets of the separate
account funding the contracts.
The staff stated that it would not recommend enforcement action to
the Commission if, without first obtaining an exemptive order, an insurance
company collected an asset allocation fee from investors in certain variable
annuity contracts through the periodic cancellation of units attributable to
an investor's participation in a unit investment trust.I3*The staff's response
noted, among other things, that a variable annuity holder would receive
advice as to allocating his or her contract values among the separate
account's various subaccounts only if he or she affirmatively opted for that
service. The staff noted, however, that a mandatory fee deducted in this
manner would require an exemptive order because the fee would be
indistinguishable from an asset-based fee under Section 26 of the Investment
Company Act.
The staff declined to grant no-action assurance in connection with
proposals by two insurance companies to legally segregate the assets of
non-unitized separate accounts used in connection with the offer and sale
of certain market value adjustment annuity contracts (MVA Contracts)
without registering the separate accounts under the Investment Company
Act.lJ3 The staff took the position that legally insulated non-unitized
separate accounts that support liabilities under MVA Contracts are issuers
for purposes of Section 3(a) of the Investment Company Act, and possibly
investment companies.
Holding Company Act Matters
The Commission au thorized Entergy Corporation (Entergy), a registered
holding company, and Entergy Enterprises, Inc. (Enterprises), its wholly
owned non-utility subsidiary company, to organize and acquire a new
wholly owned non-utility subsidiary of Enterprises (NEWCO) which
provides energy management services to commercial, industrial and
institutional ~ u s t o r n e r s . 'NEWCO
~~
would acquire 9.95 percent of Systems
and Service International, Inc., a closely-held company whose principal
product to date is a monitoring device anticipated to improve the efficiency
of fluorescent lighting fixtures by up to 50 percent. State and local regulators
initially had intervened in the matter in opposition to SEC authorization
of the transaction, arguing that consumers would not be protected from
the detrimental effects, if any, of the proposed activities. All but one of
the intervenors subsequently withdrew their interventions pursuant to a
settlement agreement with En tergy. The withdrawal of the interventions
was contingent upon the SEC's incorporation in its order of certain conditions

designed to insulate core utility operations from the unregulated businesses.
The Commission denied the request for a hearing by the remaining
intervenor, Louisiana Public Service Commission, on the grounds that the
transaction presented no dangers to consumers and that NEWCO's provision
of energy services was an appropriate non-utility business under the Holding
Company Act that would primarily serve the integrated public utility
system.
The Commission authorized The Columbia Gas System, Inc. (Columbia),
a registered holding company and a debtor-in-possession under Chapter
11 of the Bankruptcy Code, to engage in intrasystem financing with its
subsidiaries. Columbia and i ts wholly owned subsidiary company, Columbia
Gas Transmission Corporation (Transmission), filed for protection with the
Bankruptcy Court for the District of Delaware on July 31, 1991, after
financial difficulties relating to the obligations of Transmission under
certain "take or pay" gas purchase contract^.'^^ Prior to the filing by
Columbia of a plan of reorganization, the bankruptcy court authorized
Columbia to continue the financing of its non-debtor subsidiaries "in the
ordinary course of business [as] ... necessary to maintain business
operations," subject to approval of the Commission. The Commission
found that sufficient cash and income was available for Columbia and the
lenders to the Columbia money pool to make the proposed investments,
and for the subsidiary companies to service the proposed debt, subject to
certain reservations of j u r i s d i ~ t i 0 n . l ~ ~
The Commission considered a proposal by Entergy Corporation, a
registered holding company, to acquire Gulf States Utilities Company (Gulf
States) in a stock and cash exchange valued at approximately $2.3 bi1li0n.l~~
Entergy has four public utility subsidiaries that provide retail electric
service to approximately 1.7 million customers in an approximately 45,000
square-mile area in Arkansas, Louisiana, and Mississippi. Gulf States is
a public utility company that provides retail electric service to approximately
583,000 customers in a 28,000 square-mile area in southeast Texas and
central Louisiana. In addition to its principal electric business, Gulf States
distributes natural gas at retail to approximately 84,000 customers in the
Baton Rouge area. State regulators, consumer groups and business
competitors have intervened in the matter and have requested a hearing,
arguing that the purchase price is excessive, the acquisition will not result
in benefits to the utility systems, and that the merger could have
anticompetitive effects.
The Commission issued orders authorizing registered holding
companies to invest in demand-side and energy management. Demandside and energy management are measures that, among other things, enable
utility customers to use energy more efficiently. The Commission authorized
HEC Inc., a subsidiary company of Northeast Utilities, a registered holding
company, to expand the types of demand-side and energy management
services it provides, and to provide consulting services without limi t a t i ~ n . ' ~ ~
The Commission authorized American Electric Power Company, Inc., a
registered holding company, to provide, through a subsidiary, additional
funding to Intersource Technologies, Inc., which is developing electronic

light bulb technology and new lighting products that are anticipated to use
substantially less electricity and have substantially longer lives than
traditional light b ~ 1 b s . The
l ~ ~Commission also authorized Arkansas Power
& Light Co., an electric public utility subsidiary company of Entergy
Corporation, a registered holding company, to institute a demand-side
management program for its customers.140
The Commission authorized Unitil Corporation, a registered holding
company, to create a new subsidiary company that would engage in
consulting services to non-associate companies on a variety of energy
related matters, including serving as brokering agent for electric power and
serving as purchasing agent for a utility or other bulk power p ~ r c h a s e r . ' ~ '
The Commission authorized Eastern Utilities Associates (EUA) and
certain of its subsidiaries to engage in transactions under a settlement
agreement with bondholders of EUA Power Corporation (EUA Power), a
wholly owned subsidiary of EUA.142EUA Power filed for protection under
Chapter 11 of the United States Bankruptcy Code on February 28, 1991,
in the Bankruptcy Court for the District of New Hampshire and has since
been operating its business as a debtor-in-possession. Under the settlement
agreement, EUA Power would redeem its outstanding shares of common
and preferred stock from EUA, after which EUA Power would be a standalone company.
The Commission granted an exemption under Section 3(a)(5)to National
Power Company, a closely-held California corporation, and an exemption
under Section 3(b) to Power Barge Impedance, L.P. (Partnership), a California
limited p a r t n e r ~ h i p . ' ~The
~ Partnership would own and operate a 28megawatt barge-mounted electric generating plant. The barge will operate
and sell power exclusively outside of the United States, primarily to foreign
countries or U.S. territories or possessions in Latin America, Central America,
and the Caribbean, which may be experiencing seasonal power shortages.

Full Disclosure System
Thefull disclosure system isadministered by the Division ofCorporation
Finance (Division). The system is designed to provide investors with
material information, foster investor confidence, contribute to the
maintenance of fair and orderly markets, facilitate capital formation, and
inhibit fraud in the public offering, trading, voting, and tendering of
securities.
Key 1993 Results
The decline in interest rates, the burgeoning need for capital for
businesses, small and large, and investor demand helped to fuel a record
level of offerings filed for registration in 1993. More than $868 billion
in securities were filed for registration, including over $112 billion of
initial public offerings, equity and debt, and over $46 billion by foreign
companies.
Foreign companies' participation
in the United States markets
continued to show dramatic growth in 1993. In addition to a record
high level of offerings filed for registration, 88 foreign companies from
21 countries,
including
Daimler Benz, Shanghai Petrochemical,
Corporacion Bancaria de Espana (" Argentaria"), Venezuelan Petroleum
Inc. and YPF, Inc., entered the United States public market for the first
time. At year-end, there were more than 550 foreign companies from
40 countries filing reports with the SEC.

REGISTRATION STATEMENTS FILED
DOLLAR VALUE (SBIWONS)
cmtEREQ
35.1

1992
TOTAL - $702.1

1993
TOTAL - $868.1

51

The 1993 proxy season was the first in which companies were subject
to the Commission's new executive compensation disclosure rules. The
Division undertook a special review of approximately 1,000 proxy statements
to evaluate compliance with the new rules and, on the basis of that review,
the Commission published a release providing further disclosure guidance
and proposing several refinements to the rules. Those refinements were
adopted in November 1993in time to be effective for the 1994 proxy season.
Early in 1993, the Commission implemented initiatives to facilitate
capital raising and the securitization of assets. Those initiatives included
expansion of short form and shelf registration to an estimated additional
450 reporting companies and the introduction of unallocated shelf
registration. Unallocated shelf registration, intended to facilitate equity
offerings, allows eligible companies to file one registration statement
covering the sale of all the company's securities without requiring a
specific allocation among classes of securities. More than $66 billion of
securities were registered on an unallocated shelf basis in 1993.
A streamlined transitional disclosure system for small business issuers
first entering the Commission's disclosure system was added to the
Commission's new integrated disclosure system for small business issuers.
In the first 14 months of the new small business disclosure system, 335
registration statements covering over $4 billion worth of securities were
filed. In addition, during the first full year under the new rules 78 Regulation
A filings were made, covering a total of approximately $206 million in
securities, an increase of approximately 5 times the amount of Regulation
A offerings filed in the same period prior to the new rules.
The Commission proposed to expand the multijurisdictional disclosure
system (MJDS) for Canadian issuers by decreasing the size of companies
eligible to participate and recognizing investment grade ratings by Canadian
securities rating organizations. More than $10 billion in MJDS offerings
have been filed with the SEC since the introduction of the process in 1991.
Review of Filings
The staff conducted a record 3,474 reporting issuer reviews. The
reporting issuer reviews were accomplished through the full review of
1,218 registration statements and post-effective amendments to registration
statements filed under the Securities Act; 1,826 annual and subsequent
periodic reports; 149 merger and going private proxy statements; and 1,155
full financial reviews of annual reports. The number of documents reviewed
exceeded the number of reporting issuer reviews because in many cases
more than one document filed by the same issuer received a full review
during the year.
The following table summarizes filings reviewed during the last five
years. The increases and declines in reviews of new issuer filings, tender
offers, contested solicitations, and going private transactions, all of which
are subject to review, reflect the increases and decreases in the number
of filings received.

FULL DISCLOSURE REVIEWS
1992

1993

1989

1990

1991

2,734

1,907

2,660

Home Office
New Issuers
Repeat Issuers
PIE Amdts. J2/

684
564
320

568
635
203

465
758
308

831
970
210

863
967
251

Regions
Registrations
PIE Amdts.1lI

533
609

327
505

183
275

158
137

189
103

1,949

1,129

1,557

1,450 1,826

388

292

712

1,126 1,153

(140-1)fJI

188

95

37

27

56

Going Private
Schedules

176

108

68

61

61

84

75

65

58

35

291
428

240
351

188
374

141
395

149
1,292

Reporting Issuer
ReviewsgJ

3,058 3,474

Major Filing Reviews
Securities Act Registrations

Annual Reports
Full Reviews ~
Full Financial
Reviews
Tender Offers

Contested Proxy
Solicitations
Proxy Statements
MergerlGoing Private
Other ~

Includes (l) reporting Securities Exchange Act of 1934 (Exchange Act) issuers
whose financial statements and Management Discussion and Analysis disclosures
were reviewed in Securities Act registration statements, (2) post-effective (PIE)
amendments to Securities Act registration statements, and (3) Exchange Act
annual reports and merger and going private proxy statements. The number of
documents reviewed exceeded the number of reporting issuer reviews because in
many cases more than one document filed by the same issuer received a full review.
hi Includes only PIE amendments with new financial statements.
d Includes reports reviewed in connection with other filings.
Q/ Reflects limited partnership roll-up transactions as single filings regardless of the
number of Schedules 14D-1 filed or the number of issuers involved in the roll-up.
gJ Excludes reviews of revised and additional preliminary proxy material.
gj

53

Rulemaking, Interpretive, and Legislative Matters

Executive Compensation
In 1992, the Commission adopted amendments to its proxy rules to
make executive compensation disclosure clearer, more concise, and more
Specific provisions were made for small businesses
useful to shareh01ders.l~~
to minimize costs of compliance with the disclosure requirements where
consistent with shareholder interests.
Based on the review of approximately 1,000 proxy statements, the
Commission issued a release reporting on the first year's experience with
the new compensation r ~ 1 e s . lIn
~ ~the release, the Commission identified
common issuer mistakes in complying with the new rules and discussed
several questions of general application. In addition, the requirements
of the compensation committee report were reviewed using examples
drawn from actual filings. The Commission also proposed for comment
several refining and technical amendments to the executive compensation
rules. These amendments would (1) expand the persons covered by the
rules to include chief executive officers and top paid executive officers
who left the company during the year, (2) require disclosure of the
assumptions underlying any option values reported, (3) require disclosure
of the named executive officers' restricted stock holdings, and (4) change
the weighting of any issuer constructed peer group from the end to the
beginning of the measurement period. The proposals were adopted in
November 1993.
Simplification of Registration Procedures for Primary Securities Offerings
The Commission adopted amendments to Form 5-3 to expand the class
of issuers eligible to use short-form registration and primary delayed shelf
~ ~ amendments shortened the minimum
offerings pursuant to R ~ l e 4 1 5 . lThe
issuer reporting period from 36 to 12 months for offerings of non-asset
backed securities, reduced the public float requirement for primary offerings
of non-investment grade securities from $150 million to $75 million, and
eliminated the trading volume test. Investment grade asset-backed
securities, including small business loans, are now eligible for shelf
registration on Form S-3 regardless of the issuer's reporting history.
Additional amendments provide for same-day, automatic effectiveness of
dividend or interest reinvestment plan registration statements and permit
changes in the offering price and decreases in the amount of the securities
to be reflected after effectiveness without the need to file a post-effective
amendment if the changes would not materially change the disclosure in
the registration statement at effectiveness.
The amendments also permit registration of debt, equity and other
securities on a single shelf registration statement, without having to specify
the amount of each class of securities to be offered. Since these amendments
were adopted in October 1992, there have been 85 unallocated shelf
registration statements filed, registering a total of approximately $64
billion in securities.

Multijurisdictional Disclosure System
The Commission proposed amendments to the MJDS to amend the
eligibility requirements for use of Forms F-9, F-10 and 40-F to shorten the
reporting history requirement from 36 months to 12 months, to eliminate
the market capitalization requirements under such forms and to change
the minimum public float requirement to U.S. $75 million.14' The Commission
also proposed amendments to Form F-9 that would recognize investment
grade ratings by those rating organizations which are accepted by Canadian
securities regulators in addition to those which are accepted under the
SEC1s rules. The Commission also adopted amendments to Forms F-10
and 40-F in order to continue the requirement that financial statements
included in filings on such forms include a reconciliation to U.S. generally
accepted accounting p r i n ~ i p 1 e s . l ~ ~
Survey of Financial Statement Reconciliations by Foreign Registrants
The Division conducted a survey of the reconciliations included in
the filed reports of 528 foreign companies. Subsequently, a report analyzing
the nature and size of the reconciling items by home country of the foreign
companies was prepared and issued on May 1, 1993.
Blank Check Offerings
The Commission proposed to revise the "penny stock" definition for
purposes of its rules relating to the registration statements filed by blank
check companies under the Securities Act.149 The proposal would make
the exclusion from the penny stock definition for securities priced at $5
or more inapplicable to securities offerings subject to Section 7(b) of the
Securities Act and Rule 419. The rule was effective on October 29, 1993.
Trust Indenture Act
The Commission adopted amendments to Rules 4d-9 and IOa-5 under
the Trust Indenture Act of 1940 that rescinded the exclusion of British
Columbia trust indentures and trust companies from exemptions presently
~
to Rule 4d-9,
available in MJDS offerings of debt s e c ~ r i t i e s . ' ~Pursuant
as amended, a British Columbia obligor may offer its debt securities in
a MJDS offering pursuant to a trust indenture that complies with the
Company Act of British Columbia (Company Act). Further, the amendments
to Rule 10a-5 generally permit any Canadian trust company, including
those regulated under the Company Act, to act as sole trustee. The
amendments followed amendment of the Company Act and issuance of
a contemporaneous "blanket order" exempting United States obligors from
the requirements of the Company Act, including the residency requirement
for institutional trustees, by the British Columbia Securities Commission.
Section 16
The Commission extended the phase-in period for compliance with
the substantive conditions of new Rule 16b-3 regarding employee benefit
plan transactions under the Exchange Act pending further notice and

rulemaking under that p r o ~ i s i o n . ' ~The
~ phase-in period was extended
until September 1, 1994, or such earlier date as set in further rulemaking
under Section 16.

Additional Small Business Initiatives
In response to favorable comment on its small business initiatives and
the use of the question-and-answer disclosure format, the Commission
adopted revisions to the rules and forms under the Securities Act and the
Exchange Act to provide a transitional disclosure system for small business
issuers first entering the reporting system.'52 This system allows small
business issuers to make the transition from non-reporting to reporting
status using the Regulation A disclosure format, with the added requirement
of audited financial statements. The transitional disclosure forms may
be used for registering offerings of up to $10 million under the Securities
Act and for registration and reporting under the Exchange Act. The
transitional system includes: (I) new Securities Act registration statement
Form SB-I; (2) modified disclosure formats in periodic report Exchange
Act Forms 10-QSB, 10-KSB and 10-SB; (3) modified disclosure formats for
annual reports to shareholders and proxy and information statements; and
(4) a provision for graduating from the transitional disclosure forms if
more than $10 million is raised in any continuous 12-month period or a
non-transitional disclosure form (other than for proxy purposes) is used.
The Commission also adopted two changes to the financial statement
requirements for small business issuers. These revisions provide an
automatic waiver of the audited financial statements requirements with
respect to specified business acquisitions where such financial statements
are not otherwise available. The revisions also permit small business initial
public offerings to use the same rule as reporting companies in determining
whether they may use prior year's audited financial statements in the 90
days following the end of the fiscal year.
The Commission adopted revisions to the non-financial statement
disclosure requirements of Regulation D which base those requirements
upon both the offering amount and the issuer's eligibility for the small
business issuer disclosure system. In addition, the Regulation A "testthe-waters" procedure was amended to exclude a "test-the-waters"
document that complies with applicable requirements from the definition
of prospectus.
Electronic Data Gathering Analysis and Retrieval System
The Commission adopted rules and amendments to implement the
operational phase of the EDGAR system, through which most filings and
related correspondence are to be submitted e l e ~ t r o n i c a l l y . ' ~The
~
Commission also published a list identifying approximately 14,000
companies whose filings are processed by the Division that will become
subject to the electronic filing requirements over a three-year period,
together with their respective phase-in dates. The first mandated electronic

filings were received on April 26,1993. At the end of 1993, approximately
925 non-investment company issuers had become EDGAR filers. Phasein of the remaining issuers is expected to be completed by mid-1996.
Conferences

SEC Government-Business Forum on Small Business Capital Formation
The twelfth annual SEC Government-Business Forum on Small Business
Capital Formation was held in Washington, D.C. on September 9 and 10,
1993. Approximately 150 small business representatives, accountants,
attorneys, and government officials attended the forum. Numerous
recommendations were formulated with a view to eliminating unnecessary
governmental impediments to small businesses' ability to raise capital. A
final report setting forth a list of recommendations for legislative and
regulatory changes approved by the forum participants was prepared and
provided to interested persons, including Congress and regulatory agencies.
SECINASAA Conference Under Section 19(c) of the Securities Act
On April 26, 1993, approximately 60 SEC senior officials met with
approximately 60 representatives of the North American Securities
Administrators Association in Washington, D.C. to discuss methods of
effecting greater uniformity in federal and state securities matters. After
the conference, a final report summarizing the discussions was prepared
and distributed to interested persons.

Accounting and Auditing Matters

The Chief Accountant is the principal advisor to the Commission
on accounting and auditing matters arising from the administration
of the various securities laws. The primary Commission activities
designed to achieve compliance with the accounting and financial
disclosure requirements of the federal securities laws include:
•

rulemaking and interpretations that supplement private-sector accounting
standards, implements financial disclosure requirements, and establishes
independence criteria for accountants;
• review and comment process for agency filings directed to improving
disclosures in filings, identifying emerging accounting issues (which may
result in rulemaking or private sector standard-setting), and identifying
problems that may warrant enforcement actions;
• enforcement actions that impose sanctions and serve to deter improper
financial reporting by enhancing the care with which registrants and their
accountants analyze accounting issues; and
• oversight of private sector efforts, principally by the Financial Accounting
Standards Board (FASB) and the American Institute of Certified Public
Accountants (AlCP A), which establish accounting and auditing standards
designed to improve financial accounting and reporting and the quality
of audit practice.
Key 1993 Results
The Commission continued its involvement in initiatives directed
toward reducing differences in accounting and auditing standards that
currently exist between countries. During 1993, significant progress was
achieved by international accounting standard-setting
bodies toward the
acceptance
of cash flow statements
prepared
in accordance
with
International Accounting Standard 7 (lAS 7). In November 1993, the
Commission proposed a rule for comment that would not require a
reconciliation of a cash flow statement prepared in accordance with lAS
7 to United States standards. This was the first time that the Commission
proposed accepting an international standard for cross-border offerings
and filings.
Accounting-Related Rules and Interpretations
The agency's accounting-related rules and interpretations supplement
private-sector
accounting
standards,
implement financial disclosure
requirements, and establish independence criteria for accountants.
The
agency's principal accounting requirements are embodied in Regulation
S-X, which governs the form and content of financial statements filed with
the SEC.
58

Loss Contingencies. The staff issued interpretive guidance regarding
the appropriate accounting and disclosures relating to loss c o n t i n g e n c i e ~ . ' ~ ~
The guidance was issued to narrow diversity in practice among public
companies of reporting the effects of significant loss contingencies such
as environmental liabilities.
Oversight of Private-Sector Standard-Setting
The SEC monitors the structure, activity, and decisions of the privatesector standard-setting organizations, which include the FASB. The
Commission and its staff worked closely with the FASB in an ongoing effort
to improve financial accounting and reporting, including the need to
respond to various regulatory, legislative, and business changes in a timely
and appropriate manner. A description of FASB activities in which the
staff was involved is provided below.
The FASB continued a joint project with standard-setters in Canada
and Mexico to compare accounting standards in the three countries. The
goal of this project is to develop recommendations for consideration by
standard-setters in the United States, Canada, Mexico, and the International
Accounting Standards Committee (IASC) concerning actions that can and
should be taken to move towards greater comparability.
As part of its consolidations project, the FASB intends to consider
the current reporting requirements under Statement of Financial Accounting
Standards No. 14, "Financial Reporting for Segments of a Business
Enterprise." This effort has been undertaken jointly with the Accounting
Standards Board of the Canadian Institute of Chartered Accountants
(CICA). An invitation to comment was issued in May 1993 as part of the
first phase of a standard-setting project that will seek to develop common
standards on disaggregated disclosures. As a result of an FASB Research
Report issued in February 1993 and CICA Research Study published in
August 1992, an invitation to comment was issued in May 1993 as part
of the first phase of a standard-setting project. This standard-setting
project will seek to develop common standards on disaggregated
disclosures.
The FASB adopted a final standard to establish the appropriate
~~
accounting for certain investments in debt and equity s e c u r i t i e ~ . ' Under
the final standard, debt securities for which an entity has the positive intent
and ability to hold until maturity should be classified as being held to
maturity and reported at amortized cost. Debt and equity securities held
for current resale are to be classified as trading securities and reported at
fair value with unrealized gains and losses included in earnings. Other
debt and equity securities should be classified as securities available for sale
and reported at fair value, with unrealized gains and losses shown as a
separate component of shareholders1 equity. The new FASB standard is
effective for fiscal years beginning after December 15, 1993.

The new standard is part of a larger FASB project initiated at the
Commission's request in 1985 to address accounting for financial
instruments. This project will ultimately address the comprehensive use
of market value accounting for all securities and other financial instruments
and related liabilities. The project is continuing, and the FASB is considering
whether certain liabilities should also be marked to market.
The FASB adopted a final standard on accounting for loan impairment
~ ~ its provisions, a loss on impairment of a loan should
by ~ r e d i t 0 r s . lUnder
be recognized when it is probable that a creditor will be unable to collect
all principal and interest when due under the terms of the loan agreement.
The FASB issued an exposure draft (ED) requesting public comment
Under
~
on a proposed standard on accounting for stock c ~ m p e n s a t i o n . ' ~
the ED'S approach, compensation cost arising from awards of stock or
options under both fixed and performance stock compensation plans
would be measured as the fair value of the award at the date it is granted.
The estimated value at the grant date would be subsequently adjusted,
if necessary, to reflect the outcome of performance conditions and servicerelated factors such as forfeitures before vesting. No adjustment would
be made for changes in the market price of the stock. The comment period
on the ED expires on December 31, 1993. Public hearings are scheduled
for early 1994 and a field test will be conducted.
Oversight of the Accounting Profession's Initiatives
The Commission and its staff continued to be active in overseeing
the audit standard-setting process and other activities of the accounting
profession. A discussion of the activities in which the SEC staff was
involved follows.
AICPA. The SEC oversaw various activities of the accounting
profession conducted primarily through the AICPA. These included (1)
the Auditing Standards Board (ASB), which establishes generally accepted
auditing standards; (2) the Accounting Standards Executive Committee
(AcSEC), which provides guidance through its issuance of statements of
position and practice bulletins and prepares issue papers on accounting
topics for consideration by the FASB; and (3) the SEC Practice Section
(SECPS), which seeks to improve the quality of audit practice by member
accounting firms that audit the financial statements of public companies
through various requirements, including peer review.
ASB. The staff continued to work closely with the ASB to enhance
the effectiveness of the audit process. he ASB adopted a revised auditing
standard that, among other things, governs the availability of comfort
letters, which are provided to underwriters in relation to the underwriters'
due diligence reviews pertaining to securities offering^.'^^ The standard
as adopted was responsive to the staff's concern that such letters continue
to be available in private securities' offerings. The ASB also issued a series
of annual Audit Risk Alerts to provide auditors with an overview of recent
economic, professional, and regulatory developments that may affect 1993
year-end audits.

SECPS. The SECPS, through its Peer Review Committee and Quality
Control Inquiry Committee (QCIC), administers two programs that are
designed to ensure that financial statements of SEC registrants are audited
by accounting firms with adequate quality control systems. A peer review
of member firms by other accountants is required every three years and
the QCIC reviews, on a timely basis, the quality control implications of
litigation against member firms that involves public clients.
The SECPS peer review and QCIC programs are monitored by the
Public Oversight Board (POB), which is independent of the AICPA (except
for funding). The SEC continued its oversight of the activities of the SECPS
during 1993. This oversight has shown that the peer review process
contributes significantly to maintaining the quality control systems of
member firms and, therefore, enhances the consistency and quality of
practice before the Commission.
The staff also reviewed closed-case summaries of the QCIC and
related POB files. This review and discussions with the POB staff provide
the staff with enough information to allow the staff to conclude that the
QCIC process provides added assurances, as a supplement to the SECPS
peer review process, that major quality control deficiencies, if any, are
identified and addressed on a timely basis. Therefore, the Commission
believes that the QCIC process benefits the public interest. The Commission
understands that improvements suggested by the SEC staff have been
implemented by the QCIC and the POB, and believes that such ongoing
improvements will provide greater assurance of the efficacy of the QCIC.
AcSEC. The AcSEC issued three separate statements of position on
accounting issues unique to investment c o m p a n i e ~ . ' ~The
~ AcSEC also
substantially completed statements of position on (1) the appropriate
treatment of operating results relating to foreclosed assets, (2) the
appropriate accounting for advertising costs, and (3) revisions to the
existing guidance on accounting for employee stock ownership plans.
Also, the AcSEC solicited public comment on a proposal calling for enhanced
disclosures about risks and uncertainties by entities generally.I6O

International Accounting and Auditing Standards
Significant differences in accounting and auditing standards currently
exist between countries. These differences are an impediment to
multinational offerings of securities. The SEC, in cooperation with other
members of the International Organization of Securities Commissions
(IOSCO), actively participated in initiatives by international bodies of
professional accountants to establish appropriate international standards
that might be considered for use in multinational offerings. For example,
the staff worked with the IASC to reduce accounting alternatives as an
initial movement toward appropriate international accounting standards.
The SEC staff also monitored the IASC's projects to address issues relating
to the extent of implementation guidance, adequacy of disclosure

requirements, and the completeness of international accounting standards.
In November 1993, the IASC adopted a package of ten standards constituting
its project on comparability and improvement^.'^'
In August 1993, the IOSCO Working Party on Disclosures and
Accounting informed the IASC that the IOSCO Technical Committee would
recommend that IOSCO endorse IAS 7 (revised 1992), Cash Flow Statements,
for use in cross-border offerings and listings. Subsequently, the IOSCO
Presidents Committee recommended that IOSCO members take all steps
that are necessary and appropriate in their respective home jurisdictions
to accept cash flow statements prepared in accordance with IAS 7, as
amended, as one alternative to statements prepared in accordance with
their domestic accounting standards relating to cash flow statements in
connection with cross-border offerings and continuous reporting by foreign
issuers. In November 1993, the Commission proposed a rule for comment
that would not require a reconciliation of a cash flow statement prepared
in accordance with IAS 7 to U.S. standard^.'^^ The Working Party also
informed the IASC of the necessary core accounting standards that would
comprise a comprehensive body of principles for enterprises (not in a
specialized industry) undertaking cross-border offerings and listings.
The staff also continued working with the International Federation
of Accountants (IFAC) to revise International Standards on Auditing (ISA).
Auditors in different countries are subject to different independence
standards, perform different procedures, gather varying amounts of
evidence to support their conclusions, and report the results of their work
differently. The staff, as part of an IOSCO working group, worked closely
with IFAC to expand and revise ISAs to narrow these differences, and
significant progress was made. Most notable was the issuance of a final
standard addressing an auditor's responsibilities when a client is suspected
of committing an illegal act.163

The General Counsel represents the SEC in all litigation in the United
States Supreme Court and the courts of appeals. The General Counsel defends
the Commission and its employees when sued in district courts, prosecutes
administrativedisciplinary proceedings against certain securitiesprofessionals,
appears amicus curiae in significant private litigation involving the federal
securities laws, and oversees the regional oficesf participation in corporate
reorganization cases. The General Counsel serves as the Commission's
principal legal adviser on issues arising from all of its regulatory and
enforcement activities. The General Counsel analyzes legislation that would
amend the federal securities laws, drafts congressional testimony, and
prepares legislative comments. In addition, the General Counsel advises the
Commission in administrative proceedings under various statutes.
Key 1993 Results
Issues of major importance were litigated by the Commission in 1993.
As urged by the Commission in an amicus curiae brief, the U.S. Supreme
Court recognized the right of contribution in private actions brought under
the Securities and Exchange Act of 1934 (Exchange Act) Section 10(b) and
Commission Rule lob-5 in Musick, Peeler & Garrett v . Employers Insurance
of W a ~ s a u . 'In
~ ~Central Bank of Denver v . First Interstate Bank of Denver,'65
the Commission filed an amicus curiae brief urging the U.S. Supreme Court
to hold that there is an implied private right of action for aiding and
abetting violations of Section 10(b) and Rule lob-5. In SEC v . Rind,'66 the
Court of Appeals for the Ninth Circuit agreed with the Commission that
no statute of limitations binds Commission enforcement actions.
Significant progress was made in the adjudicatory program. The staff
submitted to the Commission a record 64 draft opinions, a 23 percent
increase from 1992. Moreover, the number of opinions issued by the
Commission increased by 69 percent over 1992, from 48 to 81. The task
force on administrative proceedings issued its report, Fair and Efficient
Administrative Proceedings Report of the Task Forceon Administrative Proceedings
of the United States Securities and Exchange Commission (Report of the Task
Force on Administrative Proceedings).

Significant Litigation Developments
Liability in Private Actions
In Musick, Peeler 1.3Garrett v . Employers Insurance of Wa~sau,'~'
the U.S.
Supreme Court, as urged by the Commission in an amicus curiae brief,
recognized the right of contribution in private actions brought under the
Exchange Act Section 10(b) and Commission Rule lob-5. Holding that

federal courts have the power to continue to flesh out the right of action
judicially implied under the statute and the rule, the U.S. Supreme Court
agreed with the Commission that a right of contribution should be
recognized to conform the implied right of action to the analogous express
rights of action contained in the Exchange Act.
In Central Bank of Denver v. First Interstate Bank of Denver,168the
Commission filed an amicus curiae brief urging the U.S. Supreme Court
to hold that aiding and abetting liability is encompassed within the
established implied private right of action under Section 10(b) and Rule
lob-5. The Commission also urged that recklessness is sufficient to satisfy
the knowledge element of aiding-and-abetting liability under Section 10(b)
where the defendant's substantial assistance of the primary wrongdoing
is accomplished through some affirmative action, even if the defendant
owes the plaintiff no independent duty.
Statictes of Limitation
The Commission as amicus curiae defended the recently enacted Section
27A of the Exchange Act against constitutional attack in numerous cases.
Section 27A eliminated the retroactive application of the one-year/threeyear statute of limitations for Section 10(b) private actions announced by
the U.S. Supreme Court in Lampf, Pleva, Lipkind, Prupis & Petigrow v .
G i l b e r t s ~ nby
' ~ ~preserving the application of the statutes of limitation then
in effect for all cases filed before Lampf was decided. The constitutionality
of Section 27A has been upheld by the U.S. Courts of Appeals for the First,
Second, Fourth, Seventh, Ninth, Tenth and Eleventh Circuits as applied
to cases which were pending when the statute was enacted.'" In addition,
the U.S. Court of Appeals for the Fifth Circuit held as urged by the
Commission, that the reinstatement pursuant to Section 27A of cases which
had been finally dismissed when the statute was enacted does not violate
separation of powers principles or d u e process.'71 The U.S. Court of
Appeals for the Sixth Circuit in contrast, held that such reinstatement
violates separation of powers principles,'" and the U.S. Court of Appeals
for the Tenth Circuit held that reinstatement violates d u e process and
separation of powers p r i n ~ i p 1 e s . l ~ ~
The Supreme Court has granted a writ of certiorari to the U.S. Court
of Appeals for the Fifth Circuit in First Republicbank Coy., et al. v. Pacific
Mutual Life Insurance Co. to resolve the issue.174
In SEC v. Rind,175the U.S. Court of Appeals for the Ninth Circuit
agreed with the Commission that no statute of limitations binds Commission
enforcement actions which are brought to vindicate public rights pursuant
to an express right of action that contains no limitations period. The
defendant had asserted that the Commission's disgorgement action was
time-barred by the one-year/ three-year statute of limitations established
in Lampf.

Inclusion of Shareholder Proposals in Proxy Materials
In ACTWU v. SEC,176the U.S. Court of Appeals for the Second Circuit
agreed with the Commission that a Commission affirmation of a staff noaction letter declining to recommend enforcement action if a company
omitted a shareholder proposal from its proxy statement is not a reviewable
order under the Exchange Act, because it does not bind anyone involved.
In NYCERS v. SEC,'" the U.S. District Court for the Southern District
of New York held that the Commission had engaged in rulemaking without
notice and comment, in violation of the Administrative Procedure Act,
when it affirmed a staff no-action letter agreeing with a company's decision
to exclude a shareholder proposal. The court found the no-action letter
applied an interpretation of the ordinary business exception that differed
from an interpretation contained in a 1976 Commission release issued in
conjunction with the adoption of amendments to the shareholder proxy
proposal rule. The court enjoined the Commission from issuing no-action
letters inconsistent with the 1976 interpretation.
Disgorgement
In SEC v. H ~ f f r n a n 'and
~ ~ SEC v. AMX International, l ~ z c . , ' ~the
~ US.
Court of Appeals for the Fifth Circuit held, as the Commission had urged,
that a disgorgement order is not a debt as defined in the Federal Debt
Collection Procedures Act of 1990.180 Thus, the defendants were not
entitled to use the exemptions contained in that act to avoid paying
disgorgement.
Insider Trading

The U.S. Supreme Court has denied petitions for certiorari seeking
review of two decisions of the U.S. Court of Appeals for the Second Circuit
affirming convictions for insider trading.
In United States v. Teicher,lsl the court of appeals, in dicta, indicated
its agreement with the Commission's longstanding position that a defendant
may be liable for trading while in possession of misappropriated inside
information, whether or not he trades on the basis of such information.
The court's holding, however, was that on the facts of this case, any alleged
error in the jury instructions on this point was harmless. The government's
brief in opposition to certiorari argued that this holding is correct. The
brief also noted that, in any event, a possession test would be correct.
In United States v. L i b e r ~ , 't~h ~
e d e f e n d a n t a r g u e d t h a t the
misappropriation theory of liability for insider trading, which prohibits
trading while in possession of wrongfully obtained material nonpublic
information, should not apply where, as in this case, the owner of the
information is a business publication with no interest in the securities
traded. The government's brief in opposition to certiorari argued that
there is no statutory or case law basis for such a distinction.

Regulatwn of Securities Professionals
In F.B. Horner & Associates, Inc. v. SEC,'83 the U.S. Court of Appeals
for the Second Circuit affirmed a Commission decision in which the
Commission affirmed sanctions imposed by the National Association of
Security Dealers (NASD) on a broker-dealer after finding that the dealer
charged unfair markups on sales of a debt security. The court approved
the Commission's reliance on the firm's contemporaneous cost as evidence
of the inter-dealer price on which to calculate the markups.
Market Regulation
In Timpinaro v. SEC,lS4the U.S. Court of Appeals for the District of
Columbia Circuit upheld the Commission's approval of an NASD rule
change that gave market makers a 15-second period after executions on
the NASD's Small Order Execution System to update their quotations,
during which time they could decline to accept unpreferenced orders.
However, the court remanded without vacating the Professional Trader
Rule, which expanded the definitions of professional trading account and
day trade. While finding that the Commission had proceeded on a sound
theory of market behavior in approving the Professional Trading Rule, the
court expressed concern over the lack of data demonstrating that the
benefits of the rule exceed its costs. The court directed the Commission
to address this issue on remand and to determine whether the rule comports
with the constitutional proscription against vagueness.
Requests for Access to Commission Records
The SEC received approximately 100 subpoenas for documents and
testimony in 1993. In some of these cases, the SEC declined to produce
the requested documents or testimony because the information sought was
privileged. The SEC's assertions of privilege were upheld in every decided
case when the party issuing the subpoena challenged the assertion in court.
The SEC received 1,837 requests under the Freedom of Information
Act (FOIA) for access to agency records and 4,382 confidential treatment
requests from persons who submitted information. There were 53 appeals
to the SEC's General Counsel from initial denials by the FOIA Office. Three
of these appeals resulted in district court litigation, all of which are now
pending.lB5
One FOIA case filed against the Commission in 1992 was decided
favorably to the Commission. In Alexander 6 Alexander Services, Inc. v.
SEC,lS6 plaintiff brought an action against the Commission under the
Administrative Procedure Act, 5 U.S.C. 701-06, seeking to enjoin the
Commission from disclosing certain of its documents in response to a FOIA
request. Alexander claimed that the documents were exempt from disclosure
by 5 U.S.C. 552(b)(4) because they contained confidential commercial
information, the disclosure of which would allegedly harm Alexander's
competitive position. Alexander alleged that the Commission did not
afford it an adequate opportunity to substantiate its claim for confidential

treatment. The court ruled in favor of the Commission in all material
respects. Most importantly, the court found that the SEC's procedures
afforded Alexander a more than adequate opportunity to substantiate its
confidential treatment request. The court further held that, both in its
original request to the agency's FOIA Office and in its appeal to the Office
of the General Counsel, Alexander failed to meet its burden of substantiating
its claim.
The SEC also was successful in obtaining a reversal of a district court
order sealing a portion of the record in an SEC injunctive action, including
the permanent injunction and the transcript of the hearing in open court
in which the injunction had been entered. In SEC v. Van W~egenberghe,'~~
the court of appeals adopted the SEC's reasoning that there had been an
abuse of discretion in sealing the records as there is a strong public interest
in making injunctions entered in SEC enforcement proceedings public.
Actions Under the Right to Financial Privacy Act
Seven actions were filed under the Right to Financial Privacy Act to
quash SEC subpoenas for customer information from financial institutions.
Four of these challenges were dismissed by district courts after the courts
found, in each case, that the records were relevant to legitimate law
~~
enforcement inquires,lB8 one of these challenges was w i t h d r a ~ n , 'and
two remain pending.lgO
Actions Against Professionals Under Commission Rule 2(e)
During 1992, the SEC issued a ruling under Rule 2(e) affirming the
decision of an Administrative Law Judge that two partners of a major
accounting firm had engaged in improper professional conduct during five
audits of Savin C o r p ~ r a t i o n . ' ~ 'That decision was appealed to the Court
of Appeals for the District of Columbia, where the accountants argued
that the Commission lacked authority to promulgate Rule 2(e) and to
sanction accountants. The Commission's brief argues that Rule 2(e)
represents a valid exercise of the Commission's general rulemaking authority
and that the authority for agencies generally to discipline professionals
is well established. Petitioners also argue that a showing of knowledge
is required before receiving a sanction for improper professional conduct
under Rule 2(e). The Commission's brief argues that negligent conduct
is a sufficient basis for imposing discipline for improper professional
conduct because of the significant potential impact of negligent or
incompetent accountants upon the investing public. The appeal is pending.
The staff also prosecuted certain other Rule 2(e) disciplinary
proceedings. In In re Robert 1. l ~ m m a z z o , 'the
~ ~ Commission accepted a
settlement barring a public accountant from practicing before the
Commission as an auditor for 10 years because he had material unsecured
loans from his client bank during the course of three audits. In In re Gregory
Mel~ort,'~
the
~ engagement partner on the audit of Kahler corporation
consented to a Commission Order finding he had engaged in improper
professional conduct during the 1988and 1989 audits of Kahler Corporation.

The Commission suspended Melson for nine months. Proceedings continue
~ ~Commission
against the concurring partner. In In reMartin G. B ~ o w n e 'the
suspended an engineer under Rule 2(e) on the basis of a prior injunction
finding he had prepared a false and misleading engineering report which
was incorporated into a filing made with the Commission.
Significant Adjudication Developments
Significant progress was made in the adjudicary program in 1993. The
staff submitted to the Commission a record 64 draft opinions, a 23 percent
increase from 1992. The post-briefing age of the staff's case inventory
remained at approximately 170 days. Moreover, the Commission issued
a record 81 opinions (an increase of almost 69 percent over the prior year's
48). However, the Commission received 65 new adjudicatory cases in 1993,
a 16 percent increase over 1992.

Significant Adjudicatory Decisions involving Broker-dealers and Market Professionals
As in 1992, a number of the most significant opinions issued by the
Commission in 1993 involved the setting of prices charged to customers
for securities. In Investment Planning, I ~ c . , ' the
~ ~ Commission expressly
found excessive markups as low as 4 percent in high-quality zero-coupon
municipal securities and interest-bearing corporate bonds. Building on
the decision in lnvestment Planning, I ~ c . , 'the
~ ~ Commission held in First
Honolulu Securities, Inc. and Charles l a c ~ b s o n ' ~that
~ markups on thinlytraded and volatile municipal debt securities below even four percent may
be unfair.
Ordinarily, the fairness of retail prices is determined vis-a-vis the
inter-dealer market. The market for the securities at issue in Bison Securities,
I ~ C . , 'however,
~~
had long periods of no inter-dealer activity, during which
the firm sold the securities to customers. The Commission's opinion in
this matter therefore described the appropriate method for determining
prevailing market price in the absence of inter-dealer transactions and the
propriety of using historical cost to determine markups.
In Patten Securities Corp. and John L. patter^,'^^ the Commission was
presented with an unusual method of manipulating a security's market
price. The Patten firm had been the sole underwriter of an offering of
securities, all of which it then sold to firm customers. Using the firm's
power over market price resulting from exclusive control over supply, the
firm and its president caused a sharp and unwarranted rise in the market
price of the securities through sales to other dealers, not, as is usual with
a manipulation, by activity on the purchase side. The firm also furthered
the manipulation by absorbing excess securities into its inventory. Reasoning
that the respondents had attempted to conduct a one-sided market at an
artificial level, the Commission found that the price of the securities had
been manipulated during a two-week period in which respondents raised
the price they charged other dealers to twice the offering price. The
Commission concluded, however, that the evidence was insufficient to find
a manipulation for the remainder of the period charged in the NASD's

complaint. Market conditions for the security had improved, and the
firm's sales of the security substantially exceeded its purchases during that
period.
A number of the Commission's opinions involved issues of procedural
the Commission found that the American
fairness. In Allan Mace LeavittIzo0
Stock Exchange had failed to invoke its jurisdiction over a former employee
of a member firm within the time period prescribed by that exchange's
rules, and therefore set aside the disciplinary action. Another matter, Datek
~'
an NASD expedited remedial proceeding
Securities C ~ r p . , ~involved
concerning transactions in the Small Order Execution System of NASDAQ,
many of which involved firms that employed two of the three members
of the NASD panel that heard the proceeding. The Commission found
that, under the circumstances, the two members of the hearing panel had
a fundamental conflict of interest that was not curable by the Commission's
de novo review. Accordingly, the Commission set aside the NASD1s
findings and sanctions.
Task Force on Administrative Proceedings
In March 1993, the Report of the Task Force on Administrative Proceedings
was issued. The task force found the Commission's adjudicatory program
to be both fair and effective. At the same time, though, the task force
noted areas where the program could be improved, and recommended new
procedures, policies and rules. The task force recommended that the Office
of the General Counsel be given the responsibility for coordination of all
staff duties with respect to adjudicatory matters, including implementation
of the recommended procedures, policies and rules. The office has assumed
this role. As the result of implementation of interim steps recommended
by the task force in 1991 and 1992 as well as the adoption of recommendations
made with publication of the final report, the Commission's pending
adjudicatory case backlog was substantially brought up to date. Subsequent
to publication of the report, the Commission issued proposed new Rules
of Practice.

Counselling and Regulatory Policy Services
The dynamic nature of the U.S. capital markets continues to present
the Commission with novel and complex legal and regulatory issues. The
General Counsel is the principal legal advisor to the Commission, and
provides independent analysis and advice to the Commission and its
Divisions and Offices on the merits and risks of proposed action in all
areas of agency practice. During 1993, as a result of developments in
such areas as market structure, capital formation, and mutual fund
investment, the General Counsel advised the Commission and its staff on
a range of significant issues relating to federal securities, administrative
and Constitutional law. In connection with the Commission's enforcement
program, the General Counsel provided advice on complex legal issues

and significant litigation risks. Resolution of these issues facilitated
achievement of the Commission's statutory goals, with particular attention
to promoting balanced, consistent and cost-effective regulatory action.

Significant Legislative Developments
By the close of 1993, only one securities bill (H.R. 616, regarding
managed accounts) had been enacted into law. In addition, the House
and Senate had each passed separate versions of legislation in the areas
of government securities and limited partnership roll-ups. The House also
had passed an investment advisers bill, and legislation providing for
Commission self-funding as p a r t of the Commission's 1994-1995
authorization. Notably, many of the securities bills actively considered
during the first session of the 103rd Congress, including those relating
to government securities, limited partnership roll-ups, and investment
advisers, were reintroduced from the 102nd Congress.
Managed Accounts
H.R. 616, signed by the President in August 1993 (P. L. No. 103-68),
repeals provisions in Exchange Act Section l l ( a ) restricting the ability of
certain institutional investors (including investment company affiliates)
to execute trades on the floor of an exchange for managed accounts without
the involvement of an independent floor broker. The advent of negotiated
commission rates and open access to exchange memberships in the years
since enactment of Section 1 l ( a ) greatly reduced competitive concerns that
were grounds for the managed account restrictions. Accordingly, in 1991,
the Commission testified in support of legislation to exempt managed
accounts from Section I l(a), subject to disclosure requirements designed
to limit conflicts of interest. H.R. 616, as enacted in the 103rd Congress,
contained such provisions.
Government Securities
Important legislation involving the regulation of the government
securities markets was considered in 1993 but not enacted during 1993.
H.R. 618, the Government Securities Reform Act, was introduced in January
1993. The Commission testified in support of H.R. 618 in March 1993,
advocating in particular its provisions relating to recordkeeping and
reporting, sales practices, and transparency.
H.R. 618, as introduced, was very similar to a bill that failed to pass
in the 102nd Congress due to jurisdictional disagreements between the
House Banking and Energy and Commerce Committees. Anticipating a
renewal of these differences, the Commission worked with the U.S.Treasury
(Treasury) and the committees and succeeded in reaching a compromise
position on H.R. 618. The compromise included, among other important
features, permanent reauthorization of Treasury's rulemaking power, large
position reporting, sales practice and anti-fraud provisions.
By contrast, the Senate in July 1993 passed a narrower bill, S. 422,
to reauthorize Treasury's rulemaking authority and provide more limited
reforms for the government securities market. Together with the roll-ups

bills (discussed below), the different versions of the government securities
legislation were being considered by House and Senate staff in conference.

Limited Partnership Roll-ups
In March 1993, the House passed H.R. 617, a bill intended to combat
certain inequities perceived as associated with limited partnership rollup transactions. On the Senate side, S. 424 was passed in August 1993,
subject to a Dodd-Gramm compromise limiting the scope of the legislation.
The two roll-ups bills were being considered by House and Senate staff
in conference at the close of 1993.
lnvestment Advisers
In 1993, the House (but not the Senate) passed legislation to provide
for enhanced Commission inspection of investment advisers. Among other
things, H.R. 578 would establish a fee schedule for investment advisers
to cover the cost of such an inspection program, a suitability requirement,
Commission authority to designate a self-regulatory organization to examine
investment advisers, enhanced disclosure requirements and fidelity
bonding. A narrower Senate bill, S. 423, also would provide for new fees
to cover the costs of enhanced Commission inspections, although it omits
the suitability requirements and certain other substantive provisions
included in H.R. 578. While S. 423 was reported out of Committee, it was
not passed by the Senate until after the close of 1993.
SEC Authorization
The House, but not the Senate, has also passed legislation providing
for Commission self-funding. On May 24,1993, Chairman Dingell introduced
H.R. 2239, the Commission's authorization bill for fiscal years 1994-1995.
As introduced, H.R. 2239 contained only the Commission's appropriation
request. The Energy and Commerce Committee subsequently approved
an amendment providing for a form of Commission self-funding, and the
House ultimately passed H.R. 2239 with the self-funding provision.

Other Legislative Initiatives
Finally, other legislative initiatives of interest to the Commission in
the first session of the 103rd Congress included: (1) a Congressionallyrequested review of regulation of the municipal securities market, including
issues such as repeal of the Tower Amendment and disclosure of political
contributions related to municipal and state securities issuers; (2) several
bills designed to increase the flow of capital to small businesses; (3) a
House bill and Senate hearings regarding litigation reform under the
federal securities laws; (4) a bill to transfer jurisdiction over the
administration of the Public Utility Holding Company Act of 1935 from
the Commission to the Federal Energy Regulatory Commission; (5) a bill
to merge the Commodity Futures Trading Commission with the Commission;

and (6) a series of oversight hearings relating to issues raised by the
Commission's Market 2000 Study, including hearings on soft dollars,
payment for order flow and proprietary trading systems.

Foreign Technical Assistance
The agency received a three-year grant in 1992 from the U.S. Agency
for International Development totalling $2.8 million to support technical
assistance programs related to the development and regulation of capital
markets in Central and Eastern European countries. Under the grant,
Robert Strahota, an SEC attorney, served as an adviser to the Polish
Securities Commission in Warsaw from June 1992 to June 1993. Mr.
Strahota advised the Polish Securities Commission on revising the Polish
securities law and in developing securities regulations and systems. During
1993 other SEC attorneys advised on securities regulation questions arising
in Bulgaria, Costa Rica, Czechoslovakia, Thailand and Uzbekistan.
Corporate Reorganizations
The Commission acts as a statutory advisor in reorganization cases
under Chapter 11 of the Bankruptcy Code to see that the interests of public
investors are adequately protected. Commission participation is generally
limited to cases involving debtors with publicly traded securities. In 1989,
the Commission authorized a review of its role in reorganization cases.
The staff review is complete and awaits Commission consideration.
Committees
Official committees negotiate with debtors on reorganization plans
and participate generally in all aspects of the case. The Bankruptcy Code
provides for the appointment of an official committee for stockholders
where necessary to assure adequate representation of their interests. During
1993, the Commission moved for appointment of investor committees in
two caseszozand opposed dissolution of a committee in one case.203
Estate Administration
The Commission protects the interests of public investors by
participating in selected matters involving administration of the debtor's
estate. In In re National Convenience Stores, I ~ C the
. , ~Commission
~ ~
argued
that the bankruptcy court is required to find that an indenture trustee's
fees are reasonable before they can be paid from plan distributions to
bondholders. In another matter involving indenture trustees, the
Commission successfully argued In re MCorp Financial, I ~ C that
. , ~
a trust
~ ~
indenture is not an executory contract that can either be rejected or
accepted. Requiring the debtor to accept the indenture would result in
an unwarranted priority for indenture trustee fees; rejection could leave
bondholders unrepresented. In In re Master Mortgage Investment Fund,
the Commission argued, as it has previously,207that the Bankruptcy
code only allows discharge of the liabilities of a debtor-not of third parties
like officers and directors-unless there is separate consideration or unless
the discharge of liability is voluntary. This issue is of significance because

in many cases debtors seek to use the Chapter 11 process to protect their
officers and directors from personal liabilities for various kinds of claims,
including liabilities under the federal securities laws.

Disclosure StaternentslP1an.s of Reorganization
A disclosure statement is a combination proxy and offering statement
used to solicit acceptances for a reorganization plan. Such plans often
provide for the issuance of new securities pursuant to a Bankruptcy Code
exemption from registration under the Securities Act of 1933. The
Commission prevented the unlawful issuance of securities in two cases.208
The Commission reviews disclosure statements of publicly-held companies
or companies likely to be traded publicly after reorganization. During
1993, the staff reviewed 104 disclosure statements and commented on 83.
Most of the Commission's comments were adopted by debtors; formal
objections were filed in two cases.209

Ethical Conduct Program
The General Counsel is the Designated Agency Ethics Official for the
SEC. In 1993, the demand for ethics counseling services continued to
increase due to issues relating to new areas of inquiry by the Commission
(e.g., issues related to bank holding companies, insurance companies, the
government bond market); significant turnover in senior staff; and the
implementation of new government-wide Standards of Ethical Conduct
for Employees of the Executive Branch and the new government-wide
confidential disclosure system. Routine or repetitive inquiries were handled
by ethics liaison officers and deputies located within each division and
office, consistent with the field system established in 1992. Unique or novel
issues were directed to the Ethics Counsel. In 1993, the Ethics Counsel
and staff responded to requests for counseling at the rate of approximately
20 new matters per week.
The staff conducted a two-day training workshop in January 1993 to
acquaint ethics liaison officers and senior staff with new ethics provisions.
In addition, major portions of the review of the Commission's rule on
securities holdings and transactions of members and employees and their
families were completed. Training materials (video and written) were
prepared and procedures were put in place to complete both initial ethics
training for all employees and annual training for senior and mid-level
employees. Procedures were established for implementing the new
government-wide program for confidential disclosure of financial interests.
Workload Increases
The General Counsel's Office has experienced substantial increases
in productivity and workload in recent years. In 1993, workload in the
office continued to experience substantial increases or leveled off at the
already heightened 1992 levels.

INCREASE IN WORKLOAD

~
Adjudicatory Cases
Cases Received
Cases Completed
Litigation Matters Opened
Litigation Matters Pending
Legislative Matters

74

22
18
185
232
111

1990 • 1993

~

30
39
263
248
187

1.992

.1993.

56
52
264
245
145

65
64

262
293
180

The Oficeof Economic Analysisprovides technical support and analysis
to the Commission's regulatory program. The economics staff provides the
Commission with research and advice on rule proposals, policy initiatives,
and enforcement actions. The staff also monitors dmelopments in capital
markets around the world and major program initiatives afecting the United
States financial services industry, markets, and investors.
Key 1993 Results
In 1993 the Office of Economic Analysis directed its efforts in a number
of areas including enforcement cases, executive compensation, and market
structure issues. The staff provided technical assistance to the Division
of Enforcement, helped to develop executive compensation disclosure rules,
provided economic analysis in connection with the Market 2000 study, and
reported on the financial health of the securities industry. For the third
consecutive year, the staff coordinated the International Institute for
Securities Market Development.
Economic Analysis and Technical Assistance
The staff provided technical assistance to the Division of Enforcement
in approximately 40 cases of insider trading, market manipulation, and
fraudulent financial reporting. This support role has become increasingly
important in establishing violations based on statistical evidence and
determining materiality in many cases. The staff uses financial theory and
event analysis to provide the empirical support key to numerous enforcement
cases. In such instances, the staff advises the Division of Enforcement
regarding materiality and/or the amount of disgorgement that should be
sought. The staff assisted the U.S. Attorney's Office in the successful
prosecution of a bribery case involving an investment manager.
In recent years, public and shareholder concern over senior executive
and director compensation has intensified. Thus, the matter has become
a policy issue with significant economic implications. Consequently, the
staff studied the function of options in corporate compensation and helped
to develop the Commission rules that require disclosure of the value of
executive options. Following the adoption of the rule, the staff applied
options pricing models to the valuation of executive stock options to monitor
compliance with the Commission's disclosure rules.
The staff provided advice, technical assistance, and analyses in
connection with the Market 2000 study. Specifically, the staff examined
the economic effects of market fragmentation and analyzed the effects of
payment for order flow on retail customers. The staff also studied the effect

of active Small Order Execution System (SOES) trading on NASDAQ bidask spreads and prepared an analysis of the empirical evidence submitted
by experts on the impact of the SOES on spreads, volatility, and liquidity.
The staff continued to monitor the securities industry and developments
in the domestic and international securities markets. The staff produced
quarterly reports on the financial health of the securities industry, reported
on trends in the composition of bank asset portfolios, analyzed trends in
the capital and profitability of New York Stock Exchange specialists, and
reported on the financial condition of penny stock dealers. The staff also
prepared capital market briefing reports that assessed economic,
institutional, and regulatory developments outside the United States, and
provided technical support to the SEC's international regulatory program.
In addition, the staff provided advice on the effects of market value
accounting on banks, monitored developments in the markets for hybrid
products and derivative securities, analyzed data from the 1993penny stock
examination sweep, and used economic models to value derivative securities
for purposes of determining regulatory jurisdiction of certain equity-linked
securities. The staff also analyzed 90 rule proposals to assess their potential
effects on small entities, as required by the Regulatory Flexibility Act of
1980.
The staff coordinated the third annual SEC International Institute for
Securities Market Development (Institute) conference, which provided
training and technical assistance on the formation and operation of securities
markets and related regulatory systems. The Institute, held April 26 to
May 7, 1993, was attended by 94 senior level capital market officials from
47 countries with new and emerging securities markets. After the twoweek Institute program, 61 of the attendees participated in internships with
various securities organizations, including self-regulatory organizations,
securities firms, and clearing organizations.

Policy Management and Administrative Support
Policy management and administrative support provide the Commission
and operating divisions with the necessary services toaccomplish the agency's
mission. Policy management is provided by the executive staff, including the
Office of Legislative Affairs; the Office of the Secretary; the Office of Public
Affairs, Policy Evaluation and Research; the Office of the Executive Director;
and the Office of Equal Employment Opportunity. The responsibilities
and activities of policy management include developing and executing
management policies, formulating and communicating program policy,
overseeing the allocation and expenditure of agency funds, maintaining
liaison with the Congress, disseminating information to the press, and
facilitating Commission meetings.
Administrative support includes services such as accounting, financial
management, fee collection, information technology management, data
processing, space and facilities management, human resources management,
and consumer affairs. Under the direction of the Office of the Executive
Director, these support services areprovided by the Offices of the Comptroller;
Information Technology; Administrative and Personnel Management; and
Filings, Information and Consumer Services.
Key 1993 Results
The Commission held 61 meetings and considered 322 matters. Major
activities of the Commission included adoption of comprehensive revisions
of the Commission's
shareholder
communications
rules, adoption of
regulations on disclosure of executive compensation, and adoption of rules
improving mutual fund disclosure of performance and changes in the
portfolio's manager.
The agency collected fees for the United States Treasury in excess
of its appropriation
for the eleventh consecutive year. The SEC's total
fee collections in 1993 were $517 million and the net gain to the Treasury
was $248 million.
Policy Management

Commission Activities. The Commission held 61 meetings in 1993,
during which it considered 322 matters, including the proposal and adoption
of Commission rules, enforcement actions, and other items that affect the
stability of the nation's capital markets and the economy.
Significant
regulatory actions taken by the Commission included:
•
 adopting
comprehensive
amendments
to shareholder
communications (proxy) rules;

77

• adopting revisions to Commission Rule 144A providing a safe
harbor exemption
from registration
requirements
under the
Securities Act of 1933 (Securities Act) for resales of restricted
securities to qualified institutional buyers;
• adopting amendments to rules governing disclosure of compensation
for corporate executive officers and directors;
• adopting
amendments
to improve
disclosure
of open-end
management companies' performance and portfolio managers;
• adopting a rule enabling closed-end management companies to
repurchase shares at periodic intervals at net asset value; and
• adopting amendments to the Commission's net capital rule for
broker-dealers.
Congressional
interest in the agency's activities and initiatives
remained high.
The Commission and staff members testified at 12
congressional hearings during the year. In addition, the Congress actively
considered
a number of important
issues under the Commission's
jurisdiction.
These were most notably:
• proposed amendments to the Investment Advisers Act of 1940,
including fee provisions
to fund more frequent Commission
inspections of investment advisers;
• possible reforms in the government securities and municipal
securities markets;
• limited partnership "roll-ups" and their impact on limited partner
investors;
• securities litigation reform;
• reforms relating to accountants' responsibilities;
• legislation
to facilitate improved access to capital for small
businesses, including the Small Business Investment Incentive Act
that was originally proposed by the SEC;
• the state of the investment company industry and the adequacy
of the SEC's inspection program for investment companies;
• proposals to curtail frivolous securities litigation; and
• the SEC's budget authorization and appropriation.
Public Affairs. The Office of Public Affairs, Policy Evaluation and
Research (OPAPER) communicated information on agency activities to
those interested in or affected by Commission actions, including the press,
regulated entities, the general public, and employees of the agency.
The OPAPER staff published daily the SEC News Digest, which provided
information on rule changes, enforcement actions against mdividuals or
corporate entities, registration statements, acquisition filings, interim
reports, releases, decisions on requests for exemptions, Commission
meetings, upcoming testimony by Commission members and staff, lists
of Section 16 letters, and other events of interest.
Information
on
Commission
activities
also was disseminated
through
notices of
administrative actions, litigation releases, and other materials.
Many of the agency's actions are of national and international interest.
When appropriate, these actions are brought to the attention of regional,
national, and international press. A total of 52 news releases on upcoming
78

events, agency programs, and special projects were issued. Additionally,
congressional testimony, speeches, opening statements and fact sheets
presented by Commissioners and senior staff were maintained on file and
disseminated in response to requests from the public and the press. The
staff responded to over 62,000 requests for specific information on the
agency or its activities.
The staff provided support for activities related to the International
Organization of Securities Commissions, the SEC's International Institute
for Securities
Markets Development,
and meetings of the Market
Transactions Advisory Committee. In addition, programs for 586 foreign
visitors were coordinated during the year.
Management Activities. The Office of the Executive Director coordinated
special projects, such as the restructuring
of the regional offices, and
initiated an assessment of the agency's operational efficiency. The staff
also coordinated the agency's compliance with and response to actions
under the National Performance Review and the Government Performance
and Results Act of 1993. Working closely with other senior officials, the
staff formulated
the agency's budget submissions
to the Office of
Management and Budget and the Congress, and prepared and submitted
the agency authorization request for fiscal years 1994 and 1995 to Congress.
Equal Employment Opportunity.
The Office of Equal Employment
Opportunity (EEO) provided the agency with support for compliance with
Title VII of the Civil Rights Actof 1964, as amended; the Age Discrimination
in Employment Act of 1967; the Rehabilitation Act of 1973; and Equal Pay
Act of 1963. This support was provided through the EEO Office's compliance
and affirmative employment programs.
The primary services provided by the compliance program included
counseling and alternative dispute resolution, investigating complaints of
employment discrimination, and issuing final agency decisions based on
the investigations.
The affirmative employment program developed
databases and monitored statistics for mandatory reports to the Equal
Employment Opportunity
Commission and for self-evaluation
of the
Commission's success in attracting, retaining, and promoting a diverse
work force. Significant accomplishments included:
• improving the EEO counseling process by providing training in
alternative dispute resolution to EEO counselors;
• improving the quality of investigations of EEO complaints due to
the use of in-house attorney /investigators for 89% of the complaints
investigated;
• training Senior Executive Service employees in new procedures for
resolving disputes and processing complaints under the EEO system;
• completing an agency-wide mandatory training program designed
to prevent sexual harassment;
• implementing
better procedures
for informing all new SEC
employees of their rights under federal civil rights statutes;
• providing in-house EEO training to new supervisors; and

79

•
 expanding the EEO special emphasis programs to include a Disability
Issues Advisory Committee sponsored in cooperation with the
Office of Administrative and Personnel Management.
Freedom of Information Act and Privacy Act. The Office of Freedom
of Information Act (FOIA) and Privacy Act Operations responded to
requests for access to information pursuant to FOIA, the Privacy Act, and
the Government in the Sunshine Act, and processed requests under the
agency's confidential treatment rules. Confidential treatment requests
were generally made in connection with proprietary corporate information
and evaluated
in conjunction
with access requests to prevent the
unwarranted disclosure of information exempt under the FOIA.
The agency received 1,893 FOIA requests and appeals, 21 Privacy Act
requests, 35 Government in the Sunshine Act requests, 9 government
referrals, and 4,391 requests and appeals for confidential treatment.
All
FOIA/Privacy Act requests were responded to within the statutory time
frame.
Administrative

support

Financial Management and Operations. For the eleventh straight year,
the SEC collected fees in excess of its appropriation.
The SEC's total fee
collections in 1993 were $517 million, 204 percent of the agency's
appropriated spending authority of $253 million (which consisted of $127
million in appropriated funds, $96 million in current year offsetting fee
collections, and $30 million from a carry-over of prior year offsetting fee
collections).
The $517 million in total fee collections, minus the SEC's
current year spending authority of $223 million ($253 million less the $30
million from prior year offsetting fee collections) and $46 million in
additional offsetting fee collections, resulted in a net gain of $248 million
to the United States Treasury.
The SEC's total fee revenue in 1993 was collected from four basic
sources: registrations of securities under Section 6(b) of the Securities Act
of 1933 (comprising 83 percent of total fee collections); transactions of
covered exchange listed securities (IS percent); tender offer and merger
filings (I percent); and miscellaneous filings (I percent). Offsetting fee
collections were generated from an increase in the fee rate under Section
6(b) of the Securities Act from one-fiftieth of one percent to one-thirtysecond of one percent.
The most significant financial management accomplishment was an
upgrade of the agency's mainframe accounting system, the Federal Financial
System. This upgrade greatly expanded the system's security functions
and facilitated the decentralized input and on-line review of data allowing
direct input of employee travel orders and vendor obligations. Staff also
continued work on the design of various new and improved financial
management systems affecting agency-wide time and attendance, payroll,
filing fee, and inventory processes.

80

4

In other financial areas, the staff developed a frequent flyer program
and a salary offset policy. Due to the mandatory use of direct deposit,
the number of paper salary checks was reduced to less than one percent
of the SEC's total employee population. In addition, a pilot credit card
system was developed for the agency's library and small procurement
acquisitions to facilitate the prompt delivery of materials and reduce the
number of purchase orders written and vouchers processed.
Information Resources Management. The Office of Information
Technology (OIT) made progress in the development and enhancement of
SEC information resources. Notably, Electronic Data Gathering Analysis
and Retrieval (EDGAR) software development continued on schedule, and
a system upgrade resulted in additional functionality and improved
performance. In October 1992, a memorandum of understanding with the
EDGAR contractor was executed which transferred responsibilities for
management, operation, and implementation of the EDGAR local area
network to the Commission's automation staff. This initiative will save
an estimated one million dollars over the life of the contract, as well as
facilitate the Commission's efforts to fully integrate data communications
services.
Special emphasis was placed on restructuring within OIT to better
recognize and respond to users' needs. An End User Advisory Committee
was formed, consisting of senior representatives from each of the program
divisions. The Committee reviewed the development of the agency's
strategic automation plan, external data service funding requirements, and
other automation issues. Also, a quality assurance and system design
function within OIT was established to ensure that systems developed meet
the specifications of the system design.
A disaster recovery plan was developed to provide the agency with
automation backup capabilities in the event a disaster occurs at either of
its computer facilities-the main Operations Center in Alexandria or at
the Headquarters building. An initial backup capability will be in place
by January 1994.
Development continued on the Large Trader and the Market Risk
Assessment systems, as mandated by the Market Reform Act of 1990. Once
completed the systems will monitor the activity of large traders in the
markets and enable the SEC to monitor the financial health of broker-dealer
parent firms and minimize the market risks associated with broker-dealer/
affiliate relationships. Phased development of the systems will continue
through 1996.
Administrative and Personnel Management. In July 1993, the Office of
Administrative and Management Support and the Office of Human
Resources Management were consolidated into the new Office of
Administrative and Personnel Management (OAPM). OAPM provided a
wide range of office support services and personnel functions, including
space acquisition, lease administration, procurement and contracting,
facilities management, printing, mail services, desktop publishing, property
management, recruitment and staffing, employee compensation and

benefits, training, performance management, labor relations, counseling,
disciplinary actions, personnel security and suitability, and maintenance
of official employee records.
The agency executed a IS-year lease for the headquarters building
in July 1993. The new lease included renovations of the entire building.
However, on November 22, 1993, the landlord of the building notified the
Commission that it was exercising the termination clause in the new
IS-year lease as a result of the unavailability of non-recourse financing
and various other reasons. The Commission reverted to the five-year
option on its original lease.
An annex building in Virginia was acquired under a IS-year lease
and houses the Office of Filings, Information, and Consumer Services
(OFICS). Additional space and improved working conditions were obtained
for the district offices in Boston and San Francisco. The agency administered
16 leases for an approximate total of 800,000 square feet of office and
related space.
The agency awarded contracts and purchase orders in excess of $36
million during 1993. Printing production increased from 67 million units
to 71 million units, incoming mail increased by 10 percent, and outgoing
mail increased by 15 percent.
The staff recommended specific strategies for increasing workforce
diversity, and continued to monitor turnover rates to assist in formulating
hiring strategies to avoid personnel shortfalls.
The SEC's recruitment
program continued to emphasize active participation in job fairs, oncampus recruitment interviews at law schools, and the use of various
available hiring programs and authorities.
Twelve new or revised policies were published in the Personnel
Operating Policies and Procedures Manual to provide managers and employees
with updated human resources program guidance. Policies were developed
on: the use of experts and consultants; special hiring authorities for
veterans and persons with disabilities, including veterans and disabled
veterans; position classification; appeals of classification decisions; approval
of pre-appointment interview expenses; and implementation of Office of
Personnel Management regulations under the Federal Employee Pay
Comparability Act of 1990.
During the year, employees attended a total of 5,772 training courses
which included half-day sessions for 2,651 employees in an agency-wide
mandatory training course in preventing sexual harassment. Fourteen SEC
training programs were granted approval for awarding Continuing
Professional Education Credits by the National Association of the State
Boards of Accountancy.
Consumer Affairs. OFICS was responsible for:
• responding to 34,713 investor complaints and inquiries;
• screening information received for referrals to SEC operating
divisions, self-regulatory agencies, states, or other federal agencies;
• preparing educational materials to assist investors in protecting
their interests; and

82

•
 developing and implementing the agency's consumer protection
program.
Of the 34,713 contacts by letter, telephone call, or walk-in visit, 16,550
were complaints and 18,163 were inquiries. Approximately 42 percent of
the complaints involved broker-dealers,
while the remainder involved
issuers, mutual funds, banks, transfer agents, clearing agents, and
investment advisers. The two most frequent complaints against brokerdealers involved allegations of unauthorized
transactions executed in
customer accounts and recommendations by the broker-dealers of unsuitable
investments.
Over 1,300 complaints were referred to SEC operating
divisions, self-regulatory agencies, or other regulatory entities for review
and / or action.
Public Reference. OFICS also was responsible for making available
to the public all company filings and Commission rules, orders, studies,
and reports. These documents (dating from 1933 through the present) were
available in the public reference room and could be obtained by writing
the agency or contacting the agency's dissemination contractor.
The public reference staff provided assistance to 44,820 visitors to
the headquarters reference room, responded to 5,296 written requests for
documents, 444 formal requests for certifications of filings and records,
and 121,370 telephone inquiries. A total of 25,374 electronic filings received
via EDGAR were available for requestors. In addition, the agency added
a total of 380,445 paper documents and 458,154 microfiche records to its
existing library of publicly available information.

83

' I n the Matter of John H. Gutfreund, Exchange Act Release No. 31554
(Dec. 3, 1992), 52 SEC Docket 4370.
2SEC v. Paul W . Mazer, Litigation Release No. 13453 (Dec. 2, 1992))
52 SEC Docket 4530.
31n the Matter of Daiwa Securities, lnc., Exchange Act Release No. 31924
(Feb. 25, 1993), 53 SEC Docket 1693.
41n the Matter of Donaldson, Lufkin 6 Ienrette Securities Corp., Exchange
Act Release No. 32827 (Sept. 2, 1993), 54 SEC Docket 2402.
51n the Matter of Carroll McEntee 6 McGinley Securities, Exchange Act
Release No. 32828 (Sept. 2, 1993), 54 SEC Docket 2407.
5 E C v. Daniel 0. Teyibo, Litigation Release No. 13530 (Feb. 24, 19931,
53 SEC Docket 1790.
7SEC v. Bruce Dickson, Litigation Release No. 13570 (Mar. 18, 19931,
53 SEC Docket 2617.
*1n the Matter of Paul K. Clarkin, Exchange Act Release No. 32672 (July
26, 1993), 54 SEC Docket 1740.
91n the Matter of Douglas R. Gulling, Exchange Act Release No. 32673
(July 26, 1993), 54 SEC Docket 1745.
1°SEC v. Joseph Zilber, Litigation Release No. 13586 (Apr. 1, 19931, 53
SEC Docket 3550.
llSEC v. C . Robert Dudgeon, Litigation Release No. 13556 (Mar. 10,
19931, 5 3 SEC Docket 2526.
12SEC v. Purnendu Chatterjee, Litigation Release No. 13491 (Jan. 13,
1993), 53 SEC Docket 945.
13SEC v. Jonathan J . Sheinberg, Litigation Release No. 13465 (Dec. 10,
1992), 52 SEC Docket 4708.
I4SEC v. Lee A. Haddad, Litigation Release No. 13473 (Dec. 17, 1992),
53 SEC Docket 221.
15SEC v. Dean Ambrose Olds, Litigation Release No. 13595 (Apr. 8,
1993), 53 SEC Docket 3702.
I6SEC v. C. Stephen Bolen, Litigation Release No. 13684 (June 28, 1993),
54 SEC Docket 1322.
I7SEC v. The Software Toolworks, Inc., Litigation Release No. 13813
(Sept. 30, 1993)) 55 SEC Docket 411.
"SEC v. Larry E. Leslie, Litigation Release No. 13651 (May 26, 1993),
54 SEC Docket 540.
I9SEC v. Harold Sahlen, Litigation Release No. 13480 (Dec. 21, 1992))
53 SEC Docket 544.
'OSEC v. Gordon K. Goldman, C.P.A., Litigation Release No. 13501 (Jan.
28, 1993), 53 SEC Docket 1227.
"SEC v. Towers Financial Corp., Litigation Release No. 13514 (Feb. 8,
1993), 53 SEC Docket 1481.

22SEC v. Premium Sales Corp., Litigation Release No. 13668 (June 9,
1993), 54 SEC Docket 860.

1
1

23SEC v. International Quarter Phones, Litigation Release No. 13661
(June 3, 1993), 54 SEC Docket 735.
uSEC v. Sam S. Brown, Litigation Release No. 13413 (Oct. 22, 1992),
52 SEC Docket 3228.
25SEC v. Bosque Puerto Carrillo, Litigation Release No. 13600 (Apr. 12,
1993), 53 SEC Docket 3885.
26SEC v. Ramon D'Onofrio, Litigation Release No. 13627 (May 6,1993),
54 SEC Docket 97.
27Inthe Matter of Bruce B. Bowen, Exchange Act Release No. 31938 (Mar.
2, 1993), 53 SEC Docket 2213.
28Inthe Matter of Harry S. Pack, Exchange Act Release No. 32374 (May
27, 1993), 54 SEC Docket 486.
29SEC v. The Cooper Companies, Litigation Release No. 13432 (Nov. 10,
1992), 52 SEC Docket 3750.
30In the Matter of Kelso & Company, Inc., Exchange Release No. 31639
(Dec. 23, 1992), 53 SEC Docket 314.
31In the Matter of William A. Wilson, Exchange Act Release No. 32392
(June I, 1993), 54 SEC Docket 656.
32SEC v. Purr'slbishop's Inc., Litigation Release No. 13461 (Dec. 7,
1992), 52 SEC Docket 4704.
33In the Matter of Leslie T. Livingston, Exchange Act Release No. 31785
(Jan. 28, 1993), 53 SEC Docket 1070.
34In the Matter of Bettina Bancroft, Exchange Act Release No. 32033
(Mar. 23, 1993), 53 SEC Docket 2886.
35Inthe Matter of Harry E. Hagerty, [r., Exchange Act Release No. 32657
(July 19, 1993), 54 SEC Docket 1623.
36SEC v. Harry E. Hagerty, [r., Litigation Release No. 13714 (July 19,
1993), 54 SEC Docket 1701.
37SEC v. Prudential Securities Inc., Litigation Release No. 13840 (Oct.
21, 1993), 55 SEC Docket 830.
38In the Matter of Paine Webber Inc., Exchange Act Release No. 31889
(Feb. 18, 1993), 53 SEC Docket 1526.
39In the Matter of Frederick H. Joseph, Exchange Act Release No. 32340
(May 20, 1993), 54 SEC Docket 282.
4°In the Matter of Edwin Kantor, Exchange Act Release No. 32341 (May
20, 1993), 54 SEC Docket 293.
41In the Matter of The Nikko Securities Co. International, Inc., Exchange
Act Release No. 32331 (May 19, 1993), 53 SEC Docket 264.
42SEC v. Leslie Mersky, Litigation Release No. 13812 (Sept. 30, 1993),
55 SEC Docket 409.
43SEC v. Midwest Investments, Litigation Release No. 13605 (Apr. 15,
1993), 53 SEC Docket 3889.
«SEC v. Midwest Clearing Corp., Litigation Release No. 13427 (Nov.
6, 1992), 52 SEC Docket 3746.
45In the Matter of Kemper Financial Services, Inc., Investment Advisers
Act Release No. 1387 (Oct. 20, 1993), 55 SEC Docket 783.
85

461ntheMatterof USAA Investment Management Co., Investment Advisers
Act Release No. 1359 (Jan. 22, 19931, 53 SEC Docket 1085.
471nthe Matter of Aetna Capital Management, Inc., Investment Advisers
Act Release No. 1379 (Aug. 19, 1993), 54 SEC Docket 2209.
48SECv. Corporate Capital Resources, Inc., Litigation Release 13460 (Dec.
7, 1992), 52 SEC Docket 4704.
491n the Matter of The Bank of California, N.A., Investment Company
Act Release No. 19545 (June 28, 1993), 54 SEC Docket 1300.
501n the Matter of Merrill Lynch, Pierce, Fenner 6 Smith, Investment
Company Act Release No. 19425 (Apr. 22, 19931, 53 SEC Docket 4031.
51TheDivision of Market Regulation, Securitiesand Exchange Commission, Staff
Rqwrt on the Municipal SecuritiesMarket, (Sept. 1993).
52SecuritiesAct Release Nos. 33-7022,34-33023, and IC-19768 (Oct. 6,1993), 58 FR
52891 (Oct. 13,1993).
"Exchange Act Release No. 32256 (May 4,1993), 58 FR 27486 (May 10,1993).
5417C.F.R. 240.154-1.
5 5 E ~ ~ h a nAct
g e Release No. 32609 (July 9,1993), 58 FR 38092 (July 9,1993).
56Letterto Mr. Michael D. Udoff, Chairman, Ad Hoc Record RetentionCommittee,
Securities Industry Association, Inc. from Michael A. Macchiaroli, Associate Director,
Division of Market Regulation, dated June 18,1993.
qxchange Act Release No. 30929 (July 16,1992), 57 FR 32159 (July 21,1992).
58ExchangeAct Release Nos. 27445 and 29185 (Nov. 16,1989 and May 9,1991).
59ExchangeAct Release No. 31511 (Nov. 24,1992), 57 FR 56973 (Dec. 2,1992).
bOExchangeAct Release No. 31512 (Nov. 24,1992), 57 FR 57027 (Dec. 2,1992).
61ExchangeAct Release No. 32117 (Apr. 8,1993), 58 FR 19598 (Apr. 15,1993).
62Letterregarding Distributions of Certain German Securities, Exchange Act
Release No. 33022 (Oct. 6,1993), 58 FR 53220 (Oct. 14,1993).
QLetter regarding Distributions of Certain SEAQ and SEAQ International
Securities, dated July 12,1993.
64Letterregarding British Airways PLC, dated May 19,1993and Letter regarding
Saatchi & Saatchi Company PLC, dated May 19,1993.
65ExchangeAct Release No. 33137 (Nov. 3,1993), 58 FR 60324 (Nov. 15,1993).
&ExchangeAct Release No. 32576 (July 2,1993), 58 FR 37413 (July 12, 1993).
67 ~ d .
68ExchangeAct Release No. 32261 (May 4,1993), 58 FR 27656 (May 11,1993).
6917C.F.R. $j
240.17f-1 (1992).
70ExchangeAct Release No. 31343 (Oct. 21,1992), 57 FR 48645 (Oct. 27,1992).
;lExchange Act Release No. 31358, International Series Release No. 479 (Oct. 26,
1992),57 FR 49736 (Nov. 3,1992).
RExchangeAct Release Nos. 32362 (May 25,1993), 58 FR 31565 (June 3,1993)
(NYSE);32363 Way 25,1993),58 FR31558 (June3,1993) (AMEX);32365 (May25,1993),
58 FR 31560 (June3,1993) (BSE);32368 (May 25,1993) 58 FR 31563 (June3,1993) (CHX);
32367 (May 25,1993),58 FR 31570 (June 3,1993) (PSE), and 32364 (May 25,1993), 58 FR
31574 (June 3,1993) (PHWO.
73ExchangeAct Release No. 32019 (Mar. 19,1993), 58 FR 16428 (Mar. 26,1993).
74ExchangeAct Release No. 32517 (June 25,1993), 58 FR 35995 (July 2,1993).

'

1
fI
1

1'

i
f

1
i
;

75ExchangeAct Release No. 32647 (July 16,1993), 58 FR 32962 (July 22,1993).
Currently, transactions effected by NASD members in equity securities are not
required to be reported on a real-time basis if those securities are not included in
NASDAQ or traded on a national securities exchange.
76ExchangeA d Release No. 32568 (July 1,1993),58 FR 36723 (July 8,1993). The
NASD toll-free telephone listing service plan previously reported past and present
employmenthistory of NASD members, all final disciplinq actions taken by federal,
state or SROs which relate to securities or commodities transactions and all criminal
convictions reported on Form BD or Form U-4.
=GeneralAccountingOffice, SecuritiesArbitration:Huw InvestorsFare, GGD-92-74
(May 1992).
78Letterfrom Deborah Masucci, Vice-President, Arbitration, NASD, to William
H. Heyman, Director, Division of Market Regulation, SEC, dated November 4,1992.
79ExchangeAct Release No. 31763 (Jan. 26,1993), 58 FR 6829 (Feb. 2, 1993).
BOExchangeAct Release No. 32740 (Aug. 12,1993), 58 FR 43968 (Aug. 18,1993).
"Exchange Act Release No. 32802 (Aug. 25,1993), 58 FR 45932 (Aug. 31,1993).
BZExchange
A d Release Nos. 32702 (July 30,1993), 58 FR 42588 (Aug. 10,1993)
(Pacific Stock Exchange); 32780 (Aug. 20,1993), 58 FR 45365 (Aug. 27,1993) (MSRB);
and 32864 (Sept. 10,1993), 58 FR 48680 (Sept. 17,1993) (AMEX).
83ExchangeAct Release No. 31733 (Jan. 14,1993), 58 FR 6034 (Jan. 25,1993).
84ExchangeA d Release No. 31591 (Dec. 11,1992), 57 FR 60253 (Dec. 18,1993).
SPDRsaresecurities issued by a uni tinvestmenttrust holdingthe securities comprising
the S&P 500 Index.
=Exchange Act Release Nos. 31920 (Feb. 24,1993), 58 FR 12280 (Mar. 3,1993);
32694 (July29,1993), 58 FR41814 (Aug. 5,1993) (CBOE); and 32781 (Aug. 20,1993),
58 FR 45360 (Aug. 27,1993) (AMEX). Currently, the CBOE lists and trades FLEX
Options based on the S&P 100 and 500 Stock Indexes, and the Russell 2000 Index,
while the AMEX trades FLEX Options based on the Major Market Index (XMI),the
Institutional Index (XII), and S&P MidCap Index (MID).
86ExchangeAct Release Nos. 31844 (Feb. 9,1993), 58 FR 8796 (Feb. 17,1993)
(AMEX); 31800 (Feb. 1,1993), 58 FR 7274 (Feb. 5,1993), and 32693 (July 29,19931,
58 FR 41817 (Aug. 5,1993) (CBOE); and 32793 (Aug. 24,1993), 58 FR 46260 (Sept.
1,1993) (NYSE). The AMEX trades QKs on the XMI, XII, and MID Indexes; the
CBOE trades QIXs on the S&P 100, S&P500, and Russell 2000 Indexes; and theNYSE
trades QIXs on the New York Composite Index.
qxchange A d Release No. 32343 (May 20,1993), 58 FR 30833 (May 27,1993).
88Exchange Act Release No. 32950 (Sept. 23,1993), 58 FR 50985 (Sept. 29,1993).
ELNs trade on the AMEX and DECS trade on the NYSE.
ssExchangeAct Release No. 32840 (Sept. 2,1993), 58 FR 47485 (Sept. 9,1993). At
maturity, a holder of a MCIT is entitled to receive from the issuer 90%of the principal
amount plus an amount based upon an increase in the market value of the Global
Telecommunications portfolio.
%ExchangeAct Release Nos. 31528 (Nov. 28,1992), 57 F'R 57256 (Dec. 3,1992)
(NYSE);31529(Nov.28,1992),57FR57248 (Dec.3,1992) (AMEX);31530(Nov.28,1992),
57 FR 57262 (Dec. 3,1992) (PSE); 31531 (Nov. 28,1992), 57 FR 57250 (Dec. 3,1992)
(CBOE); and 31532 (Nov. 28,1992), 57 FR 57264 (Dec. 3,1992) (PHWO.
'?'Letter fromJonathanG. Katz, Secretary, SEC, to JeanA. Webb, Secretary,CFTC,
dated January 4,1993.

Yxtter from William H. Heyman, Director, Division of Market Regulation, SEC,
to Stephen A. Sherrod, Chief, Financial Instruments Unit, Division of Economic
Analysis, CFTC, dated January 22,1993 (futures only). Letter from Brandon Becker,
Director, Division of Market Regulation, SEC, to Stephen A. Sherrod, Financial
Instruments Unit Chief,CFTC, dated August5,1993 (futuresoptionsonly).Letter from
Brandon Becker, Acting Director, Division of Market Regulation, SEC, to Stephen A.
Sherrod, Chief, Financial Instruments Unit, Division of Economic Analysis, CmC,
dated June 18,1993.
93ExchangeAct Release No. 32385 Uune 3,1993), 58 FR 32405 Uune 9,1993).
94ExchangeAct Release No. 32098 (Apr. 2,1993), 58 FR 18277 (Apr. 8,1993).
'j5ExchangeAct Release No. 31856 (Feb. 11,1993), 58 FR 9005 (Feb. 18,1993).
%ExchangeAct Release No. 31750 (Jan. 21,1993), 58 FR 6424 (Jan. 28,1993).
?ExchangeAct Release No. 32040 (Mar. 23,1993), 58 FR 16902 (Mar. 31,1993).
%ExchangeAct Release No. 32759 (Aug. 17,1993), 58 FR 44865 (Aug. 25,1993).
wExchangeAct Release No. 32747 (Aug. 13,1993), 58 FR 44530 (Aug. 23,1993).
'ooExchangeAct Release No. 32780 (Aug. 20,1993), 58 FR 45365 (Aug. 27,1993).
'OIDivisionof Investment Management, SEC, Pratecting Imestors: A Half Centuy
of Investment Company Regulation (May 1992).
'02SecuritiesAct Release No. 7013 (Sept 17,1993),54SECDocket0004; Investment
Company Act Release No. 19719 (Sept. 17,1993), 54 SEC Docket 0004.
'031nvestrnentCompany Act Release No. 19716 (Sept. 16,1993), 54 SEC Docket
2190; International Series Release No. 582 (Sept. 16,1993), 54 SEC Docket 2190.
104Securities
Act Release No. 6990 (Apr. 7,1993), 53 SEC Docket 3569; Exchange
A d Release No. 32116 (Apr. 7,1993), 53 SEC Docket 3569; Investment Company Act
Release No. 19399 (Apr. 7,1993), 53 SEC Docket 3569.
'05SecuritiesAct Release No. 6989 (Apr. 7,1993), 53 SECDocket 3565; Investment
Company Act Release No. 19391 (Apr. 7,1993), 53 SEC Docket 3565.
'06SecuritiesAct Release No. 6982 (Mar. 19,1993),53SECDocket 2847;Investment
Company Act Release No. 19342 (Mar. 19,1993), 53 SEC Docket 2847.
'O'Investment Company Act Release No. 19362 (Mar. 26,1993), 53 SEC Docket
2124.
'Einvestment Company Act Release No. 19658 (Aug. 25,1993), 54 SEC Docket
1848.
'OQInvestmentCompany Act Release No. 19566(July 9,1993), 54 SECDocket 1553.
"OInvestmentCompanyActReleaseNo.19382(Apr.6,1993),53 SECDocket3555.
"'Investment Company Act Release No. 19722 (Sept. 21,1993), 55 SEC Docket
0013.
''*Letters to R. Clark Hooper,National Associationof SecuritiesDealers, Inc. from
Clifford E. Kirsch, Assistant Director, Office of Insurance Products, Division of
Investment Management, SEC, dated March 5 and September 23,1993.
"17 C.F.R. 250.53,25054,250.57.
"4HoldingCompany Act Release No. 25886, International Series Release No. 583
(Sept. 23,1993), 58 FR 51488 (Oct 1,1993).
"5HoldingCompany Act Release No. 25887, International Series Release No. 584
(Sept. 23,1993), 58 FR 51508 (Oct 1,1993).
"60hio Pawer Co. v. FERC, 954 F.2d 779 (D.C. Cir. 1992), cert. denied,113S. Ct. 483
(1992) (on remand, holding that SEC orders should be read as requiring Ohio Power
to pay a price "equal to cost" for Southern Ohio coal).

ll?nvestment Company Act Release Nos. 19274(Feb. 18,1993),53 SEC Docket 10
(Notice) and 19334 (Mar. 6,1993), 53 SEC Docket 14 (Order).
119nvestmentCompany Act Release Nos. 19594(July 26,1993), 54 SEC Docket 13
(Notice) and 19647 (Aug. 23,1993), 54 SEC Docket 17 (Order).
"gInvestmentCompany Act Release Nos. 19660 (Aug. 26,1993), 54 SEC Docket
17 (Notice) and 19730 (Sept. 21,1993), 55 SEC Docket 0166 (Order).
120Bolsadevalores d e SaoPaulo (pub. avail. Oct. 28,1992), Camara de Liquidacao
ecustodia S/A(pub.avail. Oct. 28,1992),AustraclearLimited(pub. avail. Apr. 6,1993),
Custody of BSharesTradingon theshenzhen and Shanghai SecuritiesExchanges (pub.
avail. Apr. 26,1993), Jardine FlemingChina RegionFund, Inc. (pub.avail. Apr. 26,1993),
Korean Securities Depository Corporation (pub. avail. May 14, 19931, Malaysian
Central Depository Sdn.Bhd. (pub. avail. May 19,1993),Reserve Bank of New Zealand
(pub. avail. May 24,1993), The Stock Exchange of Thailand (pub. avail. Aug. 26,1993),
and Japan Securities Depository Center (pub. avail. Aug. 31,1993).
I2'UnionBank of Norway (pub. avail. Nov. 30,1992)and Pictet & Cie (pub. avail.
Sept. 8,1993).
'=Alliance Capital Management L.P. (pub. avail. Apr. 7,1993).
' q e South America Fund N.V. (pub. avail. Sept. 2,1993).
lz4T.Rowe Price Tax-Free Funds (pub. avail. June 24,1993).
lZ5UnitedServices Funds (pub. avail. Apr. 17,1993).
'26DSTSystems, Inc., et al. (pub. avail. Feb. 2,1993).
'Wercury Asset Management (pub. avail. Apr. 16,1993).
I2TheNational Mutual Group (pub. avail. Mar. 8,1993).
129College
Retirement Equities Fund, Investment Company Act Release Nos. 18630
(Mar. 24,1992) (Notice) and 19463 (May 6,1993) (Order).
lmPruuidentMutual Life Insurance Company af Philadelphia, Investment Company
Act Release Nos. 19515(June4,1993) (Notice) and 19552 (July 1,1993) (Order);Merrill
Lynch Life Insurance Company, Investment Company Act Release Nos. 19476 (May 17,
1993) (Notice) and 19521 (June 9, 1993) (Order); The ManuJacturm Life Insurance
Company$America, et al., Investment Company A d Release Nos. 18891(Aug. 11,1992)
(Notice) and 18942 (Sept. 10,1992) (Order).
'31American Skandia Life Assurance Corporation, Investment Company Act Release
Nos. 19787 (Oct. 13,1993) (Notice) and 19850 (Nov. 10,1993) (Order).
132TheTravelers Insurance Company et al. (avail. Sept. 3,1993).
133FortisBenefits (avail. June 8,1993); The Travelers T-Mark Annuity (avail. May 13,
1993).
134EntergyCorporation, et al., Holding Company Act Release No. 25718 (Dec. 28,
1992), 53 SEC Docket 620.
'%e cases have been consolidated for procedural purposes and are jointly
administered under the caption In re Thz Columbia Gas System, Inc. and Columbia Gas
Trans. Corp., No. 91-803 (Bankr. D. Del.).
'36TheColumbia Gas System, Inc., et al., Holding Company Act Release No. 25896
(Sept. 24,1993), 55 SEC Docket 296.
13'Entergy Cwporarion, et al., Holding Company Act Release No. 25669 (Nov. 6,
1992), 52 SEC Docket 3721.
138NurtheastUtilities, et al., Holding Company Act Release No. 25900 (Sept. 30,
1993), 55 SEC Docket 347.

'39AmericanElectric Power Company, Inc., et al., Holding Company Act Release No.
25871 (Aug. 25,1993), 54 SEC Docket 2347.
lrnArkansasPower E?' Light Co.,Holding Company Act Release No. 25761 (Mar. 16,
1993), 53 SEC Docket 2568.
14'UnitilCorporation, et al., Holding Company Act Release No. 25816 (May 24,
1993), 54 SEC Docket 502.
'"Eastern UtilitiesAssockztes, et al., Holding Company Act ReleaseNo. 25719 (Dec.
29,1992), 53 SEC Docket 634.
'43ESIEnergy, Inc., et al., Holding Company Act Release No. 25654, International
Series Release No. 474 (Oct. 16,1992), 52 SEC Docket 3163.
'44Securities Act Release No. 6962 (Oct. 16,1992), 52 SEC Docket 2980.
'45ExchangeAct Release No. 32723 (Aug. 6,1993), 54 SEC Docket 1979.
'46Securities Act Release No. 6964 (Od. 22,1992), 52 SEC Docket 3014.
147Securities
Act Release No. 6997 (Apr. 28,1993), 53 SEC Docket 6775.
'%Securities Ad Release No. 7004 (June 28,1993), 54 SEC Docket 1121.
149SecuritiesAct Release No. 7006 (July 2,1993), 54 SEC Docket 1339.
'50Securities Act Release No. 7002 (June 10,1993)54 SEC Docket 759.
15'ExchangeAd Release No. 32574 (July 2,1993), 54 SEC Docket 1341.
'52SecuritiesAct Release No. 6996 (Apr. 28,1993), 53 SEC Docket 4129.
153SecuritiesAct Release No. 6977 (Feb. 23,1993),53 SEC Docket 1798.
ls4StaffAccounting Bulletin No. 92 (June 8,1993), 54 SEC Docket 864.
'55Statementof FinancialAccountingStandardsNo. 115, "Accounting for Certain
Lnvestments in Debt and Equity Securities" (May 1993).
'56StatementofFinancialAccountingStandardsNo. 114, "Accountingby Creditors
for Impairment of a Loan" (May 1993).
'5'Proposed Statement of Financial Accounting Standards, "Accounting for
Stock-based Compensation" (June30,1993).
'58Statementon Auditing Standards No. 72, "Letters for Underwriters and
Certain Other Requesting Parties" (Feb. 1993).
159StatementofPosition93-1,
"FinancialAccountingand ReportingforHigh Yield
Securities by Investment Companies" (Jan. 28, 1993); Statement of Position 93-2,
"Determination,Disclosure, and Financial StatementPresentation of Income, Capital
Gain, and Return of Capital by Investment Companies" (Feb. 1,1993);and Statement
of Position 934, "Foreign Currency Accounting and Financial StatementPresentation
for Investment Companies" (Apr. 22,1993).
'@Proposed Statement of Position, "Disclosure of Certain Significant Risks and
Uncertainties and Financial Flexibility" (Mar. 31,1993).
1611AS2 (revised 1993),Inventories; IAS8 (revised 19931, Net Profit or Loss for the
Period, Fundamental Errors and Changes in Accounting Policies; IAS 9 (revised 1993),
Research and Development Costs; IAS 11 (revised 1993), ConstructionContracts; IAS
16 (revised 1993), Property, Plant and Equipment; IAS 18 (revised 1993),Revenue; IAS
19 (revised 1993), Retirement Benefit Costs; IAS 21 (revised 1993), The Effects of
Changesin Foreign ExchangeRates; IAS22 (revised1993),Business Combinations;and
IAS 23 (revised 1993), Borrowing Costs.
16ZReleaseNo 33-7029 (Nov. 3,1993),55 SEC Docket 979.
'631SA31, "Consideration of Laws and Regulations in an Audit of Financial
Statements" (July1993).
164M~sick,
Peeler E?' Garrett v. Employers Insurance of Wassau, 113 S. Ct. 2085 (1993).

1
9
3

i
5

f
$

3

3

1

d

f
t
i

3

i

'&First Interstate Bank of Denver v. Pring, 969 F2d 891 (10th Cir. 19921, petition for
cert. granted sub nom. Central Bank of Denver v. First Interstate Bank of Denver, 113 S. Ct.
2927 (1993).
16'SEC v. Rind, 991 F2d 1486 (9th Cir. 1993), cert. denied, 114 S. Ct. 439 (1993).
'67Supranote 1.
168Supranote 2.
169Lampf,Pleva, Lipkind, Prupis 6. Petigrow v. Gilbertson, 111 S. Ct. 2773 (1991).
170Cooperativade Ahorro y Credito Aguada v. Kidder, Peabody & Co., 993 F.2d
269 (1st Cir. 1993),pdtion for cert. fled, (U.S. Oct. 12,1993) (No. 93-564); Axel Johnson,
Inc. v. Arthur Andenen 6 Co., 6 F.3d 78,1993 WL 379533 (2nd Cir. Sept. 27,1993); Cooke
v. ManufacturedHomes, Inc., 998 F.2d 1256(4thCir. 1993);Berning v. A.G. Edumrds b Sons,
Inc., 990F2d272(7thCir. 1993);Grayv.First Winfhrop Carp., 989F2d 1564(9th Cir. 1993);
Anixter v. Home-StakeProduction Co.,977 F2d 1533(I 0th Cir. 19921,cert. denied sub m.
Cross v. Thorner, 113S. Ct. 1842(1993); Henderson v. Scientific-Atlanta,Inc., 971 F.2d 1567
(11th Cir. 1992),cert. denied, 114 S. Ct. 95 (1993).
InPacificMutual Life Insurance Co. v. First Republicbank Corp., 997 F.2d 39 (5th Cir.
1993),petition far cert.filed, 62 U.S.L.W. 3165 (U.S. Aug. 26,1993) (No. 93-313).
lRPlautv. SpendthriftFann, Inc., 1 F.3d 1487 (6th Cir. 1993).
lnJohnston v. Cigm Corp., Slip op., No. 92-1186 (10th Cir. Dec. 7,1993).
174S~
note
a 8.
l73ECv. Rind, 991 F2d 1486 (9th Cir. 1993), cert. denied, 114 S. Ct. 439 (1993).
176ACTWU
v. SEC, No. 93-4120 (2nd Cir. Jan. 13,1994).
lnNYCERSv. SEC, 93 Civ. 1233 (S.D.N.Y., Oct 15,1993), appeal pending, No. 936314 (2nd Cir.).
17%ECv. Hujjinan, 996 F.2d 800 (5th Cir. 1993).
179SEC
v. AMX International, Inc., No. 92-1376 (5th Cir.).
'8028 U.S.C. 3001 et seq.
18'United States v. Teicher, 987 F.2d 112 (2nd Cir. 19931, cert. denied, 114 S. Ct. 467
(1993).
182United
States v. Libera, 989 F.2d 596 (2nd Cir. 1993), cert. denied sub nom., Sablone
v. United States, 114 S. Ct. 467 (1993).
lS3F.B.Homer b Associates, Inc. v. SEC, 994 F.2d 61 (2nd Cir. 1993).
lB4Timpinarov. SEC, 2 F.3d 453 (D.C. Cir. 1993).
185Freemonv. SEC, No. C-93-866SAW (D.D.C.); Denardo v. SEC, Civ. No. 93-1757
(RCL); Weingueter Barn K.S. von Stmuss Erben Trust v. SEC, No. 93-1925 (D.D.C.)
lE6Alexander& Alexander Seruices, Inc. v. SEC, No. 92-1112 (D.D.C. October 19,
1993).
la7SECv. Van Waegenberghe, No. 92-1080 (5th Cir. May 17,1993).
lssCreativeInvestment Services, Inc. v. SEC, No. 93-C-83 (D. Colo.); In the Matter of
PublicFunding,No.93-336Civ.Atkins (S.D.Fla.1 (presentlyon appeal tothe 11th Circuit
No. 934781);In theMafferofPublic Funding, No. 93-337Civ. Davis (S.D. Ha.) (presently
on appeal to the 11th CircuitNo. 93-4782); SECv. Jamison,No. 9340639HMF(D. Haw.).
lB9Mo1erv. SEC, No. 93-21094 (D. Colo.).
'POAlvarezv. SEC, No. C93-29 VRW Misc. (N.D. Cal.); Whitney v. SEC, No. C93-28
VRW Misc. (N.D. Cal.).
lnIn re Checkosky and Aldrich, Exchange Act Release No. 31094 (Aug. 26,1992), 52
SEC Docket 1389, appeal pending, No. 92-5158 (D.C. Cir.).

1921n
re Robert J. lommazzo, Exchange Act Release No. 31726 (Jan. 12,1993),53 SEC
Docket 870.
'931nre Gregwy Melson, Exchange Act Release No. 32917 (Sept. 17,1993), 55 SEC
Docket 38.
1941n
reMartin G. B r m , Exchange Act Release No. 32854 (Sept. 16,1993),54SEC
Docket 2542.
1q51nvestment
Planninglnc., Exchange Act ReleaseNo. 32687(July28,1993),54SEC
Docket 1770.
19~1d.
'97FirstH u n o l ~ Securities,
l~
Inc. and Charles Jacobson, Exchange Act Release No.
32933 (Sept. 21,1993), 55 SEC Docket 73.
198BisonSecurities, Inc., Exchange Act Release No. 32034 (Mar. 23,1993), 53 SEC
Docket 2892.
lWPattenSecuritiesCorpomtiim and John L. Patten, Exchange Act ReleaseNo. 32619
(July 12,1993), 54 SEC Docket 1472.
2WAllanMace Leavitt, Exchange Act Release No. 32441 (June 10,1993),54 SEC
Docket 813.
"'Datek Securities Corp., Exchange Act Release No. 32560 (June 30,1993), 54 SEC
Docket 11196.
2021n
re Leslie Fay Companies, Inc., Case No. 93441724 TLB (Bankr. S.D.N.Y.) and
In re Wang Laboratwies, Inc., Case No 92-18525 (WCH) (Bankr. D. Mass.).
2031nre American West Airlines, Inc., Case No. 91-07505-PHX-RGM (Bankr. D.
Ariz.).
m41nre National Convenience Stores, Inc., Case No. 91-49816H2-11 (Bankr. S.D.
Tex.).
2051nre MCorp Financial, Inc., Case Nos. 8942312-H3-11,8942324-H5-11 and 8902848-H2-11 (Bankr. N.D. Tex.).
2061n
reMastw MortgagelnvestmentFund, Inc., CaseNo. 9241306-211 (Bankr. W.D.
Mo.).
m7See,e.g., In re Prime Motor Inn, In re Seroico Corp., In re The Washington Corp. and
In re Lomas Financial Corp., 58th Annual report at 77 (1992) (objection to confirmation
of reorganizationplan); In re Amdura Corp. and In re Banyan Corp., 57th Annual Report
at 82 (1991)(objectionto confirmation of reorganizationp1an);In re SouthmarkCorp.and
In re SISCorp.,56thAnnual Reportat91(1990)(objectiontoconfirmationof r e o r g d t i o n
plan); In re Custom Laboratories, Inc., 53rd Annual Report at 74 (1987) (objection to
disclosure statement);In re Emgy Exchange Corp. and Vulcan Energy Corp. and In re
StorageTechnologyCorp., 53rd Annual Report at 7475 (1987) (objectionto confirmation
of reorganization plan).
2081nre Bblasty, Inc., Case No. 4-93-02600 (Bankr. D. Minn.) and In re The
Centennial Gruup, Inc., Case No SA 9-41813JW (Bankr. C.D. Cal.).
2"91d.

Table 1
ENFORCEMENT CASES INITIATED BY THE COMMISSION
DURING FISCAL YEAR 1993 IN VARIOUS PROGRAM AREAS
(Each case initiated has been included in only one category l~stedbelow, even though
many cases involve multrple allegations and may fall under more than one category.
The number of defendants and respondents is noted parenthetcally.)
Program Area in Which a
Cml Action or Administrative
Proceedng Was Initiated

Actions Y

Securibes Mering Cases
(a) Non-regulatedEntity
(b) RegulatedE
m
Total Secunbes Offenno Cases

46 (180)
17 (121)
B (301)
19 (
O(
2(
I (

Bmkerdealer Cases
(a) Fraud Against Customer
(b) Failureto Supe~se
(c) GovernmentWuribes
(dl Books & Records
iej other
Total Broker-dealerCases

~otal

% of
Total
cases

10 ( 11)
42 ( 50)

56 (191)
59 (171)
115 (362)

28%

28)
0)
4)
1)

29 ( 32)

48 (
5(
6(
18 (

187 (598)

229 (289)

Civil

Administrative
Proceedings

5 ( 8)
4 ( 5)
17 ( 28)

60)
8)
9)

29)

Issuer Financial Statement
and RepomngCases
(a) Issuer Financial
D~sclosure
@) Issuer RepomngOther
Total Issuer Financlal Statement
and ReportingCases
Other RegulatedEnmy Cases
(a) InvestmentAdvisers
@) InvestmentCompanies
(c)Transfer Agent
Total Other RegulatedEnbty Cases
Market ManipuMonCases

InsiderTrading Cases
Contempt Pmceed~ngs
DelinquentFilings
(a) Issuer Reporting
@) Forms 3 L 4
Total Delinquent Filings Cases
Corporate Comol Cases
FraudAgainst Regulated Entities

GRAND TOTAL

11 This category includes injuncbireactions and civil and criminalcontempt pr&ngs.

416 (887)

100%

Table 2
FISCAL 1993 ENFORCEMENT CASES
LISTED BY PROGRAM AREA

Name of Case

Release No,

Broker-dealer: Books & Records
In the Matter of Gary Frank Granger
In the Matter of Jay Joseph Buck
In the Matter of Ma& B. Chasin
SEC v. Nkko Securitks International lnc.
In the Matter of YamakhiInternational
Arnen'ca, 11% et al.
In the Matter of Nomura Sewrities International Inc.
In the Matter of Robert Ainbinder, et al.
In the Matter of Daiwa Securities America lnc.
In the Matter of James T. Weber
In the Matter of Gary Krarner
In the Matter of Jones & Ward Sewritles Inc., et a/.
In the Matter of TheNiko SecuritEes Co.,
Internat1 Inc., et al.
h the Matter of William E,Wehner
In the Matter of Roy M. Sattorhs
In the Matter of Jimmy Dale Swink, Sr.
In the Matter of Jimmy Dale Swink, Jr.
In the Matter of Louis Jules Pagilb
In the Matter of Jaime S. Gornez
Broker-ler:

Failureto Supenrise

In the Matter of John Gutfreund,et a/.
In the Matter of Jeffrey Bmks, et al.
In the Matter of Robert A. Gardner
In the Matter of Robert Abrams
In the Matter of T i a l u eEquities Group, lm.
Bmker-dealer: FraudAgainst Customer
SEC v. Mark S. Greenway
SEC v. Hebeti L. Gmsby, et el.
In the Matter of J k w S. Kantor
In the Matter of R d r d Sol Rosen
In the Matter of Mark L. R o s e n m
In the Matter of James Ead Sunday
SEC K EN. Wolf & Co.,Inc..,et al.
In the Matter of WEamX Mecca, et al.

Date Filed

Release No,
In the Matter of Benjamin M. Hasho
In the Matter of A u r a Vuono
In the Matter of Robett B. Yule
SEC v. Richard Shannon
SEC v. Donald J. Yott
SEC v. John M. Cubmtson
SEC v. Rabert F. Doviak 11, et a/,
In the Matter of Mark S. Greenway
In the Matter of Wiliam 0.Schilling Ill
SEC v. Roy Philllip LaSolle, JL
SEC v. Shlomo A. S&
SEC v. John Albtt DeCastm Day, et al.
In the Matter of Donald J. Yott
In the Matter of Hennan R. GarcB,Jr.
In the Matter of Allied Cap$alGroup, lnc.
In the Matter of Matti R. Baren
In the Matter of Raymond G. Klimenbeg
In the Matter of OmilleL. Sandberg
In the Matter of Peter F. Mercaldi
SEC v. Gary lngram
In the Matter of Jose Luis Hernandez
In the Matter of Richard T. Kutsman
In the Matter of James Allan Bauer
In the Matter of D a d F. N&k
In the Matter of Gary V. Imram
SEC v. Hollis Lamar Smith
SEC v. McCarley & Asxxiates Inc., et a/.
SEC v. Wilhghby Farr
In the Matter of Dennis Wilk
SEC v. Osborne Stern & Co., et a1
SEC v. Nancy Brandstatter
In the Matter of Rabeii D. Haramia
In the Matter of Osbome Stem & Co.
SEC v. Ilene J. Albert
In the Matter of Nancy Brandstalter
SEC v. Michael Langhein&
SEC v. Robert D. Haramia
In the Matter of Domink Esposlto
In the Matter of HaroM C, McC&y, Jr.
In the Matter of BC Financ121 Corp., etal.
Brokerxhler: Government Securities

In the Matter of Daiwa Secu&ies America lnc., eta!
SEC v. C&W Porffolio Management, Inc., etal.
SEC v. Robett S. Cutilb. et al.

Date Filed

In the Matter of Donaklson, Luf?un& Jenrette
Securities Cop.
In the Matter of Cmdl McEntee & McGinley
s~~trrities
Inc.
In the Matter of Howard Crash
Brokerdealer: Other
In the Matter of Samuel ComeliusJolly
SEC v. Paul W. Mozer, eta/.
In the Matter of Kenneth D. Hetcher
In the Matter of Painewether Inc.
In the Matter of Joseph P. Dente
In the Matter of Scott E. FrtzpatM
In the Matter of David Jones
In the Matter of Mayhir Sewdies LLM., Inc.
In the Matter of Marcus N. Figmifado
In the Matter of Fredkk H. Joseph
In the Matter of Edwin Kantor
SEC v. John F. N w y
In the Matter of PaulA. Laude
In the Matter of Nktwlas Zahareas
In the Matter of Summit Investment Cop.
In the Matter of G. James Spinner
In the Matter of Shaw Tehran;
In the Matter of Robert M. Buchanan, JJ~.
Contempt

U.S. ex re1SEC v. WalterH. Cushman, et al.
SEC v. Marc Josqoh
SEC v. Personal WWeaSystem lnc.
SEC v. Chrk Sader
SEC v. Michael Gartner
SEC v. Rogm Manufacturing Co.,et al.
SEC v. Michael Gartner
SEC v. Lynn P. Oyler, eta/,
SEC v. Carl Mattin
SEC v. Davd T. Levaughn, et al.
SEC v. One Financial USA Inc.
SEC v. ChMpher J. Stolee, et a/.
SEC v. James B. Gilmore
SEC v. Grant C. Ross, eta/.
SEC v. lhx&re Navdb

NONE
NONE
LR-13659
NONE
NONE
LR-13721
NONE
LR-13720
NONE
LR-13746
NONE
LR-13770
NONE
NONE
LR-13828

Release No.
Corporate Control:

SEC v. Futf~Bishop'sInc., et al.
In the Matter of K a b & Co., Inc., et al.
In the Matter of WilliamA. Wilson
In the Matter of David Shihaach
In the Matter of Butcher, VentureManagement
Co., etd.
Delinquent Filings: Forms 3 & 4
In the Matter of Bettha Bancrofi
SEC v. Hany E. Hagetty, Jr.
In the Matter of Hany E. Hagedy, JJ~:
In the Matter of Dermot F. Rowknd
Delinquent Filings: Issuer Reporting
SEC v. Haber Inc.
SEC v. Gateways To Space Inc.
SEC v. Attra Group, lnc., et al.
SEC v. Jerry's Inc,
Fraud Against Regulated Entities
SEC v. Frank G. Scardno, el al.
SEC v. Dantel Teyibo,et el.
SEC v. Ruth Ann Goiklen
SEC v. Albert Rossini
SEC v. Timothy Rafferiy
SEC v. Howard Baer
Insider Trading
SEC v. ThomasL. Duffy
SEC v. Ettore Pettini
SEC v The CoqDer Conpanis, et al.
In the Matter of Thomas L. Duffy
SEC v. William C. D e g a m
SEC v. Jeremy W. Higgns
SEC v. Jonathan Sheinbeg, et al.
SEC v. Lee A. Hadad, et al.
SEC v. Rodney B. Smith, et a1
In the Matter of Andrew Cohen
In the Matter of Lee A. Haddad
SEC v. Pumendlr Chatep, et al.
SEC v. C. Robert Dudgeon
SEC v. John Flattery, et al.

Date Filed

ase No.
SEC v. John B. Walker
SEC v. JosephZbler
SEC v. Dean Ambme Okls
SEC v. Robert S. Shulman, et a1
SEC v. Allan G. Milew
SEC v. Gay Lublner, et al.
In the Matter of Jason M, Chapnick
SEC v. Rabert M. Freeman
In the Matter of WilliamJ. Dillon
In the Matter of Robert M. Freeman
SEC v. Ratalal K. Patel
SEC v. I ~ . n Alan
g Win&, et el.
SEC v. MaMm &zoft: et al.
SEC v. Edrmnd B. Picwlirw
SEC v. Sam M. Antar, et a/.
SEC v. Ann E. H h , et al.
SEC v. Aldo Aharez

Investment Adviser

In the Matter of Ranclall C. Hutchens, et a/.
In the Matter of WilliamJ. W ~ e s
In the Matter of Ahrned Mohamed Soliman
SEC v. Sharon V. Baker
In the Matter of USAA Investment
Management Co.,et al.
In the Matter of Finam'alManagement Group
of VA Inc., et al.
In the Matter of Bonnie Mae White
SEC v. John B. ODonnell
SEC v. Angela Chilles
In the Matter of Angela Chilles
In the Matter of Sagarn Management Cop, et a/.
In the Matter of Waren Walter Kennedy
SEC v. H&/t I. Glass, eta/.
SEC v. H.I. Glass & Co., etal.
In the Matter of Hazel B. Canham
In the Malter of David Levaughn
SEC v. Joseph Contini
In the Matter of Alexander V. Stein
In the Matter of Aetna Cq~italManagement Inc., et al.
SEC v, TaltonR, Embw et al.
SEC v, Don Kenneth Hanks, JJ~.
In the Matter of TaltonR. Embry
SEC v. Mkhael H. Weiss
In the Matter of Khaka Finamid S~M'CRS,
lnc., et a1
SEC v. St& & Qotbns S n o b s 1% et al.
In the Matter of Sharon Vanden Beg Baker, et a/.

LR-13579
LR-13586
LR-13595
LR-13619
LR-13622
LR-13638
34-32361
LR-13663
34-32459
34-32480
LR-13700
LR-13710
LR-13715
LR-13733
LR-13776
LR-13778
LR-13784

pate Filed
03l25193
04/01/93
0408193
0422193
0422193
OY17/93
OY25193
06/07/93
06/14/93
06'1 6193
07/08/93
07115/93
07116/93
07129193
09/08/93
09/09/93
09/09/93

pate Filed
Investment Company
SEC v. Avellno & Bienes, et al.
SEC v. TelfranAssochtes, M.,et al.
In the Matter of Paul E. Suckow
In the Matter ofMemll Lynch Piece Fenner & Smith, Inc.
In the Matter of Patn'cia A. OSimder
In the Matter of WilliamJ. Geebebecker
In the Matter of Bank of Caliibmia,N.A
In the Matter of Edwin J. P W , et al.
SEC v. Mark W Groshans, et al.
In the Matter ofA d o n f i n m e a lSenkes Inc., et a/.
In the Matter of Diane M. Lalash
In the Matter of Daniel D. Weston
In the Matter of Uoyd Bbn&r

LR-13443
LR-13463
IA-1354
IC-19425
IC-1371
IC-19486
IC-19545
16-19686
LR-13807
16-19733
IC-19736
AAER 491
AAER 492

lssuer Financial Disclosure
In the Matter of D a d M. Larmreaux, CPA
In the Matter of Rqublic Savings Financial Cop.,et al.
SEC v. Corporate C@a/ Resources, 1% et al.
In the Matter of Barry J. Ki@an
SEC v. WillliamUoyd Sahley, et a/.
SEC v. HamH Sahlen, et al.
SEC v. Gorobn K. Gddrnan
In the Matter of The Baston Company Inc.
SEC v. Zenox Inc., eta/.
In the Matter of Phil@R. McEU,aney
SEC v. Bruce D k k m
In the Matter of Gregory J. Melsen, et al.
SEC v. P a c k Waste Management Inc., et a/.
In the Matter of Phil/@C. Zmcne, CPA
In the Matter of Go&
H, Flatturn
SEC v. Larry E. Leslie
In the Matter of Don& D. H M e , CPA, et al.
In the Matter of Kahler Ccnp.,et al.
In the Matter of K. Clark ChiHrers, CPA, eta/.
In the Matter of Martin G. Browne
SEC v. C.Stephen Bden, et a/.
In the Matter of lbwnas V. Cutiin,et al.
SEC v. General Techmkyks Gmup, LM., et al.
In the Matter ofJames B
u
m
In the Matter of C h a k A Haegebn, eta/.
In the Matter of C a m m Cakagrw
In the Matter of Boston T8chntAgyInc., et al.
In the Matter of Robat R. Bevti, CPA
In the Matter of Bernard T m w , CPA

AAER 429
AAER 432
AAER 435
34-31527
LR-13464
AAER 436
LR-13501
AAER 439
AAER 442
AAER 445
AAER 447
AAER 448
AAER 464
AAER 450
AAER 451
AAER 452
AAER 453
34-32916
AAER 455
AAER457
LR-13798
AAER 458
AAER 460
AAER 462
AAER 461
AAER 463
AAER 466
AAER 465
AAER 467

£ieka&h
SEC v. Bhck Wambr W i n e Corp., et a/.
In theMatter of Richard G. Eqlish
In theMatterof Doughs R. Gullirpq
In the Matter of Paul K Clatkin,et al.
In the Matter of Michael J. Wakh, CPA
In the Matter of Charles Feqmson, CPA
In the Matter of C h a k Fevguson
In theMatter of Elizabeth T. Rwan
In the Matter of George W Phil@
SEC v. Stanley R. Siqel, et al.
In the Matter of Satvatore Russo
SEC v. 0li~:k
Systems Corp.
SEC v. John J. Mohalky
In the Matter of Willlim V. Bumes, et a/.
In the Matter of Amdd M. GotthiH; et al.
In the Matter of Fred V. Schiemann, CPA
SEC v. Jeffrey S. Clark
SEC v. The Sohwe Toolworks, Inc. et a1
In the Matter of a n J. Mohalley, CPA
In the Matter of Awelo P. Danna, et al.

AAER 470
34-32665
AAER 472
AAER 471
AAER 476
AAER 477
34-32784

AAER 478
AAER 480
AAER 483
34-32938
LR-13808
AAER 502
AAER 487
AAER 485
AAER 488
AAER 490
AAER 495
AAER 489
AAER 493

lssuer Reporting: Other
SEC v. Thomas H. Fehn, et al.
In the Matter of ThomasJ. Beam
In the Matter of Clihrd J. L b N
SEC v. Kenbee Management, 11nc.et dl.
In the Matter of John L. Vidakovrch
In theMatter of Stanley Siqel

Market Manipulation
In the Matter of Kemilidc Bytheway, et al.
SEC v. GlennA. Schuster, eta1
In the Matter of Rkhard L, Warner, et al.
SEC v. ThomasBell, et al.
In the Matter of Mkhael C. M o
In the Matter of B ~ c B.
e Bowen, et al.
In the Maiter of Pamela R. Monzert
SEC v. SaM E. F
m
SEC v. Midvest Investments Inc., et d
In the Matter of tGtD. Evans
SEC v. R a m D'Onofrio, et a/.
SEC v. Ferdinand Russo, et d
In the Matter of Bernard Deutsd,
SEC v. Vee Lynn BaUard
In the Matter of Hany S. Pack, et d
In the Matter of Rex A. & n m

NONE
34-31779
34-31780
LR-13697
34-32761

34-32979

Release No.

In the Matter of Neil N. W n
In the Matter of James H. FOE
SEC v. Michael M. Matonis, et id
In the Matter of Mark Creamer
In the Matter of Thomas E. Russo
In the Maiter of Edward N. Lamam
In the Matter of Dan Mauss
In the Matter of ThomasBell
In the Matter of Charles Hamun
In the Matter of Michael Montana
In the Matter of Anthony Martinelti
In the Matter of Kurt H e m n n
In the Matter of Wenton White
In the Matter of Michael M. Matonis
SEC v. Leonard M. Tucker, et a1
In the Matter of Jack M. Johnson
SEC v. 17N. Wotf & Co., Inc., et a/.
SEC v. Louis S. Fob'
Miscellaneous Disclosure/Reporting

SEC v. Mhivest C-hg
Co~p.,
et al.
In the Matter of Mdwest Clearing Corp.
SEC v. Ron Whitten& Associates, Im. et al.
In the Matter of James Gorcbn Rages
SEC v. Walter E. Alexander, et al.
SEC v. AmetiinJst FinancBI Group Inc., et al.
SEC v. Lawreme S. Siherstein, et al.
In the Matter of Douglas W&ht
Offering Violations (By Regulated Entities)
In the Matter of James Bedcett
In the Matter of James L. Copley, et el.
In the Matter of Robert Z Nelson
In the Matter of Martin R. Frankel
SEC v. Thornas P. Gilmadin, et al.
In the Matter of Royce lnvesbnent Group, lnc.
In the Matter of Mamn Kanofsky, et at.
In the Matter of Rebecca Mero'enhall
In the Matter of James A. Rennett
In the Matter of Michael P. Rennert
In the Matter of Robed L. Rodc
In the Matter of Shawn M. Crane
SEC v. Pecples Financial Resources Cop., eta1
SEC v. Investameka Financial Sen/& Cop., et al.
SEC v. Jack Ncholes D'Uva, eta!
In the Matter of Otvilk Randall Myers, Jr.

34-32506
34-32662
LR-13748
34-32799
34-32808
34-32809
34-32810
34-32029
34-32830
34-32831
34-32832
34-32833
34-32834
34-32847
LR-13780
3432870
LR-13785
LR-13825

Date Fild
06/24/93
07/20/93
08/09/93
08/25/93
08/26/93
08/26/93
08/26/93
09/02/93
09/0m
09/02/93
09/02/93
09/02/93
09/02/93
09/08/93
0908193
OW13/93
09/13/93
0915193

SEC v. WillliamD. Schilling 111
SEC v. Salvatore D. Romano, et el.
In the Matter of Ronald SaMa, et a/
In the Matter of SaEvatore D. Romano
In the Matter of Dim A. Romano
In the Matter of Anthony P. Delvecchh
In the Matter of E k J. Walkga
In the Matter of Julian R. Sban
In the Matter of LouiseZabareas
In the Matter of Gererny Gamer
SEC v. Bmkets Investment Cop., ei al.
In the Matter of Bnders Investment Cop.
In the Matter of Kim W. Gikins
In the Matter of Michael Keih Howard
In the M a w of Howard Neil Hochman
In the Matter of WilliamJostph Caltabiam,JJ~.
SEC v. Brent G u n d m , eta/.
In the Matter of Ma& D. Behringer
SEC v. Emest Leland FrtzgeraM, et al.
SEC v. Premier Benefit Capital T M , et al.
In the Matter of Gay Mug
In the Matter of Lester &e Boynkk, et al.
SEC v. Nevada Manhattan Mhing, &a/.
In the Matter of Norman D. Shubefl
In the Matter of Daniel Steinbetg
SEC v, Cmg M&ff et al.
SEC v. Spec& Delivey Systens, Inc., et al.
SEC v. Robert Johnston, et al.
In the Matter of Harobt Raphael
In the Matter of Mark Brecher
SEC v. Jack M. Johnston
In the Matter of Davd M, Haber
SEC v. David A. Kiw, et a/.
In the Matter of Williard E. May
In the Matter of Ronaki E. Gilbert
In the Matter of Auda Men Ashley
In lhe Matter of Chu& Lockhn b w n s
In the Matter of Gene W. Armsftvrg
In the Matter of James A. Gates
In the Matter of John B. Ahired
In the Matter of Hany Hatvdunian, et al.
SEC v. Leslie M e w , d el.
In the Matter of Juan Carlos Sehkibwski
Offering Violations (By NobRegulatedEntities)
SEC v. Sam S. Brown, Jr., eta/.
SEC v. Bible Pathways Ministries Inc., et a/.

W a s e No,

Date Filed

LR-13559
LR-13578
34-32122
34-32135
34-32136
34-32137
34-32138
3432139
34-32151
34-32219
LR-13631
34-32359
IA-1373
34-32376
34-32375
34-32373
LR-13411
34-32469
LR-13686
LR-13731
34-32634
34-32663
LR-13737
34-32689
34-32690
LR-13754
LR-13758
LR-13766
34-32782
34-32783

03112/93
03/24/93
0412/93
0414/93
04/14/93
0414/93
0414/93
0414/93
0415193
04/26/93
0910/93
05/25/93
OY25193
05/27/93
0327193
05/27/93
06/03/93
06'1 6B3
06/2m3
07/01/93
07115/93
07/20/93
07/28/93
07/29/93
07129193
08'1 1/93
08/18/93
08/23/93
08/23/93
08/23/93
09/02/93
ow13/93
0915/93
09/28/93
09/28/93
09/2&93
09/281?33
09/28/93
09/28/93
09/29/93
OW29193
09/29/93
09/29/93

NONE
34-32869
LR-13792
34-32970
34-32972
34-32973
3432974
34-32975
34-32976
34-32987
34-32981
LR-13812
34-32985

Release No.

SEC v. Darrell RRand Eubank
SEC v. MauriceA. Rappaport, et al.
SEC v. Joseph Py, et a/.
SEC v. Glenn Albett, et al.
SEC v. Benjamin G. Sprecher
In the Matter of Seahawk Deep Ocean T e c h m m , Inc.
In the Matter of Doyce G. Chestnutt
SEC v. Towers Financial Gorp., et al.
SEC v. Southwest Intematbnal fichawe, et al.
SEC v. David Kagel et a/.
In the Matter of Ray H. Kobayashi
SEC v. Christopher J. Stdee, eta!
SEC v. Fortune Phs Management Co., et al.
SEC v. N i s B. Rudand, et al.
SEC v. Matybeth Norton
SEC v. Daniel C. McChin
SEC v. 1stAmerican Cop, et al.
SEC v. Bosque Puerto Carilb, et al.
SEC v. Mitton fityear, et al.
In the Matter of G. AMed Roensch
SEC v. E d e e America Cop..,et al.
In the M a w of Louis J. Davis, Esquire
In the Matter of Jeff/y L. FAcdrnan
SEC v. Intenink Data Nebwrk of Los Angeles,
Inc., et al.
SEC v. I n t m n a l Charter Phones Inc., et al.
SEC v. Messina L. Greenberg, et al.
SEC v. Premhrn Sales Cop., et al.
SEC v. MotzkMt Funding Cop., et al.
SEC v. MeredithK. M. Smah
SEC v. GCP Financial Inc., eta/.
SEC v. Henry J. Kyle, et el.
SEC v. N. Edw& Ross, et a/.
SEC v. Marc W. Gundemn, et al.
In the Matter of Gaty L. Blatter
SEC v. Pacitic Forex Invesfment, Inc., et al.
SEC v. Theron D. Miir:he/l
SEC v. Jeffrey Navin, et al.
SEC v. Ron& Stephen Combs, et al.
SEC v. Frams E. Limmer, et al.
In the Matter of Air TechIndustries Inc.
SEC v. KamB E. Jamison
SEC v. Amekan Capital 117~&ments, Inc., et al,
SEC v. Dive~itkdCqoaal S a k & Marketing Inc., el al.
SEC v. Litas International Inc., et al.
SEC v. H. Ellis Ragland, JL
SEC v. U.S. Dairy Cop.
SEC v. S M Joy Cd,en,et al.

LR-13415
LR-13633
LR-13441
LR-13462
LR-13481
33-6972
34-3 1727
AAER 441
LR-13672
LR-13528
34-31875
LR-13537
LR-13548
LR-13566
LR-13658
LR-13666
LR-13596
LR-13600
LR-13616
34-32220
LR-13628
3432292
33-7001

Date Filed

Release Na,
SEC v. Unititst Cop., et al.
In the Matter of EMX Corp., et al.
In the Matter of Robe~tTesta
SEC v. Mitchell Commnkatbns Carp., eta/.
SEC v. DonaM R. Moore, et a!
SEC v. Kinlaw Oil Cop., eta!
SEC v. Betty-NinaRote, et al.

Transfer Agent
In the Matter of CitbaIJcN.A.
In the Matter of Liberty Trander Co., et a!
In the Matter of Philackbhia Registrar
& Transfer Co., et al.
SEC v. Fideldy Tmsfer &., et al.
In the Matter of Lncdn Tel8~0mmnkatbnsCo.

AAER 499
33-7019
33-7018
LR-13867
LR-13831
LR-13817
LR-13814

Table 3
INVESTIGATIONS OF POSSIBLE VIOLATIONS OF THE ACTS
ADMINISTERED BY THE COMMISSION

.

Pending as of October 1 1992 ............................................................................. 1.270
Opened in Fiscal Year 1993 ......................................................................... 377
Total ....................................................................................................................... 1.647
Closed in Fiscal Year 1993 ........................................................................... 232
Pending as of September 30. 1993 ........................................................................ 1.415
Formal Orders of Investigation
Issued in Fiscal Year 1993 .......................................................................... 184

Table 4
ADMINISTRATIVE PROCEEDINGS INSTITUTED
DURING FISCAL YEAR ENDING SEPTEMBER 30. 1993
Broker-dealer Proceedings ........................................................................................ 133
Investment Adviser. Investment Company and Transfer Agent Proceedings................ 36
Stop Order Proceedings ................................................................................................

7

Rule 2(e) Proceedings................................................................................................. 25

.

. . .
Suspensions of Trading in Securiiies in Fiscal Year 1993 ............................................... 8

Table 5
INJUNCTIVE ACTIONS
Fiscal Year

Actions Initiated

Defendants Named

Right to Financial Privacy

Section 21(h) of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934 [15 U.S.C. 78u(h)(6)1
requires that the Commission "compile an annual tabulation of the occasions
on which the Commission used each separate subparagraph or clause of
[Section 21(h)(2)1or the provisions of the Right to Financial Privacy Act
of 1978 [12 U.S.C. 3401-22 (the RFPA)] to obtain access to financial records
of a customer and include it in its annual report to the Congress." During
the fiscal year, the Commission made one application to a court for an
order pursuant to Section 21(h)(2)(A)(iv)and (v), (B), and (C)(i) to obtain
access to financial records of a customer. Set forth below are the number
of occasions on which the Commission obtained customer records pursuant
to the provisions of the RFPA:
Section 1104 (Customer Authorizations)
Section 1105 (Administrative Subpoenas)
Section 1107 (Judicial Subpoenas)

9

431
24

Table 6
TYPES OF PROCEEDINGS
ADMlNlSTRATlVE PROCEEDINGS
Persons Subject to, Acts Constituting, and
Basis for, Enforcement Action

Sanction

Any person
Vrolabon of the federal securibes laws

Cease-and-desistorder, which may also
require a person to comply or take steps to
effect complrance with federal securrties laws;
accounting and d~sgorgementof illegal profits
(SecurrtiesAct. Secbon 8A, Exchange Ad,
Section 21C(a); lnvestment Company Act,
Secbon 9(f); Investment Advisers Act, Secbon
203(k))

Broker-dealer, municipal securities dealer,
government securities dealer, transfer
agent, investment adviser or associated
person
Willful vrolation of securities laws or rules;
aiding or abemng such violatron, farlure
reasonably to supervise others; wrllful
misstatement or omiss~onIn fil~ngwith the
Commlsslon,conwcbon of or injuncbon
agarnst certarn crrmes or conduct.

Censure or llmitabon on acbvrties, revocabon,
suspension or denral of registration, bar or
suspenslon from assodabon (Exchange Act,
Secoons 15(b)(4)-(6). 15B(c)(2)-(5),
15(C)(c)(l)-(2).17A(c)(3)-(4),Investment
Advisers Act, Secbon 203(e)-(f)).
CNII penalty up to $100,000 for a natural
person or $500,000 for any other person;
accounting and d~sgorgementof illegal profits
Penalties are subject to other limrtations
dependrng on the nature of the violation.
(ExchangeAct, Section 21B, lnvestment
Company Act. Secbon 9. lnvestment Advrsers
Act, Section 203)
Temporary cease-and-desist order, wh~ch
may, in approprrate cases, be rssued exparte.
(Exchange Act, Section 21C).

Registeredsecurities association
Violabon of or inability to comply with the
Exchange Act, rules thereunder, or its own
rules; unjustifiedfailure to enforce complrance
with the foregoing or wrth rules of the
Municipal Securibes RulemaHng Board by a
member or person associated with a member

Suspension or revocabon of registrabon.
censure or Irrnitationof acbvlbes, functions, or
operabons (ExchangeAct, Section 19(h)(l)).

Member of registeredsecurities
association, or associated person

Entry of Comm~ss~on
order agalnst person
pursuant to Exchange Act, Sect~on15(b),
willful v~olatlonof securlbes laws or rules
thereunder or rules of Mun~upalSecur~ties
Rulemaking Board, effecbng bansacbon for
other person w~threason to belleve that
person was committing violations of securlbes
laws

Suspension or expulsion from the assoclabon.
bar or suspension from assouabon wlth
member of assouabon (Exchange Act,
Section 19(h)(2)-(3))

Nationalsecurities exchange

Vlolabon of or ~ n a b ~ lto
~ tcomply
y
with
Exchange Act, rules thereunder or ~ t sown
rules, unjustified fa~lureto enforce compl~ance
w~ththe foregoing by a member or person
associated w~tha member

Suspension or revocabon of registrabon.
censure or l~rnltabonof acbvlbes, functions, or
operabons (Exchange Act. Secbon 19(h) (1))

Member of national securities exchange, or
associated person

Entry of Commlss~onorder against person
pursuant to Exchange Act. Section 15(b).
willful vlolabon of securlbes laws or rules
thereunder, effecbng transaction for other
person w~threason to belleve that person was
comrnlthng violabon of securltles laws

Suspension or expulsion from exchange, bar

or suspension from assoclabon wlth member
(Exchange Act, Secbon 19(h)(2)-(3))

Registered clearing agency

Violabon of or inablllty to comply wrth
Exchange Act, rules thereunder, or ~ t sown
rules, fallure to enforce compl~ancew~th~ t s
own rules by partlclpants.

Suspension or revocabon of registrabon,
censure or Irmitabon of acbvlbes, funcbons, or
operabons (Exchange Act, Secbon 19(h)(l))

Participant in registered clearing agency

Entry of Comm~ss~on
order agalnst part~cipant
pursuant to Exchange Act, Secbon 15(b)(4).
willful vlolabon of clearlng agency rules,
effecbng transaction for other person wlth
reason to belleve that person was commlmng
violat~onsof securrbes laws

Suspens~onor expuls~onfrom clearlng agency
(Exchange Act, Secbon 19(h)(2))

Securitiesinformation processor

Vlolabon of or inab~l~ty
to comply wlth
provlslons of Exchange Act or rules
thereunder

Censure or lim~tabonof activ~hes,suspension
or revocabon of reglstrabon (Exchange Act,
Section 1lA(b)(6)).

Any person

W~llfulvlolabon of SecurlbesAct, Exchange
Act, Investment Company Act or rules
thereunder, ad~ngor abett~ngsuch vrolabon,
willful misstatement ~nhllng w~thCommlss~on

Temporary or permanent prohrbrtion agalnst
sewing ~nc e m n capac~tiesmth registered
~nvestrnentcompany (Investment Company
Act, Secbon 9(b))

Officer or director of self-regulatory
organization

W~llfulviolabon of Exchange Act, rules
thereunder or the organlzabon's own rules,
willful abuse of author~tyor unjusbfiedfalure to
enforce compl~ance

Removal from office or censure (Exchange
Act, Secbon 19(h)(4))

Principal of broker-dealer

Officer, director, general partner, ten-percent
owner or controlling person of a broker-dealer
for whlch a SlPC trustee has been appo~nted
-

Bar or suspension from be~ngor becom~ng
assoc~atedw~tha broker-dealer (SIPA,
Secbon 14(b))

-

Securities Act registrationstatement

Statement materrally inaccurate or ~ncomplete

Stop order refus~ngto permlt or suspending
effecbveness (Securlbes Act. Secbon 8(d))

Person subject to Sections 12,13,14 or
15(d) of the Exchange Act or associated
person

Fa~lureto comply wlth such provlsrons or
hav~ngcaused such failure by an act or
omlsslon that person knew or should have
known would contr~butethereto

Order dlrect~ngcompl~anceor steps effecbng
compl~ance(Exchange Act. Secbon 15(c)(4))

Securities registered pursuant to Section
12 of the Exchange Act

Noncompliance by Issuer w~thExchange Act
or rules thereunder

Den~al,suspension of effectwe date.
suspension or revocation of reglstrabon
(Exchange Act, Sect~on12(1))

Publrc Interest requlres trad~ngsuspension

Summary suspension of over-the-counter or
exchange trad~ng(Exchange Act, Secbon
12(k))

Registeredinvestment company

Fatlure to file Investment Company Act
registrabon statement or requlred report; fillng
materially ~ncompleteor m~sleadrng
statement
or report

Suspension or revocabon of reglstrabon
(Investment Company Act. Section 8(e))

Company has not attarned $100.000 net worth
90 days after Securlbes Act registration

Stop order under Secur~besAct, suspens~on
or revocabon of reglstration (Investment
Company Act, Secbon 14(a))

statement became effecbve

Attorney, accountant, or other professional
or expert
Lack of requisite qualifications to represent
others, laclung In character or integrity,
unethical or improper professional conduct;
wlllful violabon of securlties laws or rule, or
adlng and abetting such vlolabon.

Permanent or temporary denial of prlvllege of
appearing or pracbcing before the Commission
(17 CFR Secbon 201 2(e)(l))

Attorney suspended or disbarred by court.
expert's llcense revoked or suspended;
convicbon of a felony or of a misdemeanor
Invoking moral turpitude.

Automabc suspension from appearance or
(17 CFR
practice before the Commiss~on
Section 201 2(e)(2))

securibesvlolabon in Comm~ss~on-~nstituted
acbon, findlng of securlties vlolabon by
Commission In admlnistrabve proceed~ngs.

Temporary suspension from pracbclng before
the Commlsslon. censure.. oermanent or
temporary disqual~ficabon
from practicing
before the Commlss~on(17 CFR Secbon

.

Member or employee of Municipal
Securities Rulemaking Board
Willful v~olabonof Exchange Act, rules
thereunder, or rules of the Board, abuse of
authority.

Censure or removal from office (Exchange
Act, Secbon 15B(c)(8))

CIVIL PROCEEDINGS IN FEDERAL DISTRICT COURTS
Persons Subject to, Acts Constituting, and
Basis for, Enforcement Action

Sanction

Any person
Engag~ngIn or about to engage In acts or
pracbces violating securlbes laws, rules or
orders thereunder (Includingrules of a
registeredself-regulatoryorganizabon)

lnjuncbon aganst acts or pracbces
consbtubng nolabons (plus other equitable
relief under court's general equity powers)
(Securlbes Act, Section 20(b), ExchangeAct,
Secbon 21(d); Holdlng Company Act, Section
18(e), Investment Company Act, Secbon
42(d), Investment Advlsers Act, Secbon
209(d), Trust Indenture Act, Secbon 321)

Noncompl~ance
wlth prov~sionsof the laws,
rules, or regulabons under Securltles,
Exchange, or Holding Company Act, orders
issued by Commission, rules of a registered
self-regulatory organlzabon, or undertakingIn
a reglstrabonstatement

Wrlt of mandamus. injuncbon, or order
direcbng complrance (Securibes Act, Section
20(c), ExchangeAct, Secbon 21(e); Holdlng
Company Act, Section 18(f)).

Vlolabng the securrbes laws or a cease-anddesist order (other than through insrder
tradlng)

C ~ rpenalty
l
up to $100,000 for a natural
person or $500,000 for any other person g,1f
greater, the gross gain to the defendant
Penalbes are sub~ectto other l~mltabons
dependent on nakre of vrolabon (Securlbes
Act. Secbon 20(d), Exchange Act, Secbon
21(d) (3), lnvestment Company Act, Secbon
42(e), lnvestment Advlsers Act, Secbon
209(e))

Tradlng wh~lern possession of materlal nonpubllc informabon In a transacbon on an
exchange or from or through a broker-dealer
(and transacbon not part of a publlc offering),
arding and abetting or drrectly or rndlrectly
controllrng the person who engages In such
tradrng

Max~mumc ~ rpenalty
l
three bmes profit
ganed or loss avolded as a result of
transacbon (Exchange Act, Secbon 21A(a)(b))

Vrolating Securrtles Act Secbon 17(a)(l) or
Exchange Act secbon 10(b), when conduct
demonstrates substantial unfitness to serve as
an officer or d~rector

Prohlblbon from acting as an officer or dlrector
of any publlc company (Securlbes Act,
Secbon 20(e), Exchange Act. Section
21(d)(2))

Issuer subject to Section 12 or 15(d) of the
Exchange Act; offlcer, director, employee
or agent of issuer; stockholder acting on
behalf of issuer

Payment to foreign offiaal, fore~gnpolrbcal
party or officral, or candrdate for fore~gn
political office, for purposes of seeking the use
of rnfiuence In order to assist Issuer In
obtarning or retaning busrness for or with, or
drrecbng buslness to, any person

Maxrmum clvll penalty' $10,000 (Exchange
Act, Section 32(c))

Securities Investor Protection Corporation

Refusal to commrt funds or act for the
protection of customers

Order direcbng drscharge of oblrgabons and
other appropriate relref (SIPA, Secbon 1I(b))

National securities exchange or registered
securitiesassociation

Failure to enforce compliance by members or
persons associated wrth rts members wrth the
Exchange Act, rules or orders thereunder, or
rules of the exchange or associabon

Writ of mandamus, Injuncbon or order drrecbng
such exchange or assocratron to enforce
compliance (Exchange Act. Section 21(e))

Registeredclearingagency

Farlure to enforce compl~anceby its
participants with its own rules

Writ of mandamus, lnjuncbon or order dlrecbng
dearrng agency to enforce compliance
(Exchange Act, Sectron 21(e))

Issuer sUbject

to Section 15{d) of 1934 Act

Failure to file required mtorrnanon. documents
or reports

Registered Investment

Forfeiture of $100 per day (Exchange Act,
Section 32(b))

company

Name of company or of security issued by it
deceptive or misleading

OffIcer, director, member of advisory
board, adviser. depositor, or underwrller
Investment company

InJuncbon against use of name (Investment
Company Act, Section 35(d)).

of

Engage In act or pracncs consntunnq breach
of nduciary duty involVing personal
misconduct

lrquncnon against acbng in certain capacibes
for investment company and other appropriate
relief (Investment Company Act, Section
36(a)).

CRIMINAL PROSECUTION BY DEPARTMENT OF JUSTICE
Persons Subject to, Acts Constituting,
Basis for, Enforcement Action

and

Sanction

Any person
Willful Violation of sscurmes laws or rules
thereunder, Willful misstatement In any
document required to be filed by securities
laws or rules, Willful misstatement In any
document required to be flied by selfregulatory orqaruzanon In connection With an
appllcabon for membership or association with
member

MaxImum penalbes $1,000,000 fine and ten
years impnsonment for individuals, $2,500,000
fine for non-natural persons (EXchange Act,
Secbons 21 (d), 32(a)), $10,000 fine and five
years irnpnsonmsnt (or $200,000 If a public
ubllty holding company for Violations of the
Holding Company Act) (secunnss Act,
Secbons 20(b), 24; Investment Company Act,
Secbons 42(e), 49; Investment Advisers Act,
Secbons 209(e), 217; Trust Indenture Act,
secnons 321, 325, Holding Company Act,
Secbons 18(f), 29).

Issuer SUbject to Section 12 or 15(d) of the
Exchange Act; officer or director of Issuer;
stockholder acting on behalf of Issuer;
employee or agent subject to the
jurisdiction
of the United States
Payment to foreign official, foreIgn polmoal
party or official, or candidate for foreign
pohtical office for purposes of seeking the use
of Influence In order to assist Issuer in
obtaining or retaining business for or With, or
dlrecbng business to, any person

114

Issuer - $2,000,000, officer, director,
employee, agent or stockholder - $100,000
and five years imprisonment (issuer may not
pay fine for others) (Exchange Act, Section
32(c))

Foreign Restricted List

The Securities and Exchange Commission maintains and publishes
a Foreign Restricted List which is designed to put broker-dealers, financial
institutions, investors and others on noticeof possible unlawful distributions
of foreign securities in the United States. The list consists of names of
foreign companies whose securities the Commission has reason to believe
have been, or are being offered for public sale in the United States in
possible violation of the- registration requirement of Section 5 of the
Securities Act of 1933. The offer and sale of unregistered securities deprives
investors of all the protections afforded by the Securities Act of 1933,
including the right to receive a prospectus containing the information
required by the Act for the purpose of enabling the investor to determine
whether the investment is suitable. While most broker-dealers refuse to
effect transactions in securities issued by companies on the Foreign
Restricted List, this does not necessarily prevent promoters from illegally
offering such securities directly to investors in the United States by mail,
by telephone, and sometimes by personal solicitation. The following foreign
corporations and other foreign entities comprise the Foreign Restricted
List.
1. Aguacate Consolidated Mines, Incorporated (Costa Rica)
2. Alan MacTavish, Ltd. (England)
3. Allegheny Mining and Exploration Company, Ltd. (Canada)
4. Allied Fund for Capital Appreciation (AFCA, S.A.) (Panama)
5. Amalgamated Rare Earth Mines, Ltd. (Canada)
6. American Industrial Research S.A., also known as
Investigation Industrial Americana, S.A. (Mexico)
7. American International Mining (Bahamas)
8. American Mobile Telephone and Tape Co., Ltd. (Canada)
9. Ante1 International Corporation, Ltd. (Canada)
10. Antoine Silver Mines, Ltd. (Canada)
11. ASCA Enterprisers Limited (Hong Kong)
12. Atholl Brose (Exports) Ltd. (England)
13. Atholl Brose Ltd. (England)
14. Atlantic and Pacific Bank and Trust Co., Ltd. (Bahamas)
15. Bank of Sark (Sark, Channel Islands, U.K.)
16. Briar Court Mines, Ltd. (Canada)
17. British Overseas Mutual Fund Corporation Ltd. (Canada)
18. California & Caracas Mining Corp., Ltd. (Canada)
19. Caprimex, Inc. (Grand Cayman, British West Indies)
20. Canterra Development Corporation, Ltd. (Canada)
21. Cardwell Oil Corporation, Ltd. (Canada)
22. Caribbean Empire Company, Ltd. (British Honduras)
23. Caye Chapel Club, Ltd. (British Honduras)
24. Central and Southern Industries Corp. (Panama)
25. Cerro Azul Coffee Plantation (Panama)
26. Cia. Rio Banano, S.A. (Costa Rica)

27.
28.
29.
30.
31.
32.
33.
34.
35.
36.
37.
38.
39.
40.
41.
42.
43.
44.
45.
46.
47.
48.
49.
50.
51.
52.
53.
54.

55.
56.
57.
58.
59.
60.
61.
62.
63.
64.
65.
66.
67.
68.
69.
70.
71.
72.

City Bank A.S. (Denmark)
Claw Lake Molybdenum Mines, Ltd. (Canada)
Claravella Corporation (Costa Rica)
Compressed Air Corporation, Limited (Bahamas)
Continental and Southern Industries, S.A. (Panama)
Crossroads Corporation, S.A. (Panama)
Darien Exploration Company, S.A. (Panama)
Derkglen, Ltd. (England)
De Veers Consolidated Mining Corporation, S.A. (Panama)
Doncannon Spirits, Ltd. (Bahamas)
Durman, Ltd. Formerly known as Bankers International
Investment Corporation (Bahamas)
Empresia Minera Caudalosa de-Panama, S.A. (Panama)
Ethel Copper Mines, Ltd. (Canada)
Euroforeign Banking Corporation, Ltd. (Panama)
Finansbanker a / s (Denmark)
First Liberty Fund, Ltd. (Bahamas)
General Mining S.A. (Canada)
Global Explorations, Inc. (Panama)
Global Insurance, Company, Limited (British West Indies)
Globus Anlage-Vermittlungsgesell-schaft MBH (Germany)
Golden Age Mines, Ltd. (Canada)
Hebilla Mining Corporation (Costa Rica)
Hemisphere Land Corporation Limited (Bahamas)
Henry Ost & Son, Ltd. (England)
Hotelera Playa Flamingo, S.A.
Intercontinental Technologies Corp. (Canada)
International Communications Corporation (British West Indies)
International Monetary Exchange (Panama)
International Trade Development of Costa Rica, S.A.
Ironco Mining & Smelting Company, Ltd. (Canada)
James G. Allan & Sons (Scotland)
Jojoba Oil & Seed Industries S.A. (Costa Rica)
Jupiter Explorations, Ltd. (Canada)
Kenilworth Mines, Ltd. (Canada)
Klondike Yukon Mining Company (Canada)
KoKanee Moly Mines, Ltd. (Canada)
Land Sales Corporation (Canada)
Los Dos Hermanos, S.A. (Spain)
Lynbar Mining Corp. Ltd. (Canada)
Massive Energy Ltd. (Canada)
Mercantile Bank and Trust & Co., Ltd. (Cayman Island)
Multireal Properties, Inc. (Canada)
J.P. Morgan & Company, Ltd., of London, England (not to
be confused with J.P. Morgan & Co., Incorporated, New York)
Norart Minerals Limited (Canada)
Normandie Trust Company, S.A. (Panama)
Northern Survey (Canada)

Northern Trust Company, S.A. (Switzerland)
Northland Minerals, Ltd. (Canada)
Obsco Corporation, Ltd. (Canada)
Pacific Northwest Developments, Ltd. (Canada)
Pan-Alaska Resources, S.A. (Panama)
Panamerican Bank & Trust Company (Panama)
Pascar Oils Ltd. (Canada)
Paulpic Gold Mines, Ltd. (Canada)
Pyrotex Mining and Exploration Co., Ltd. (Canada)
Radio Hill Mines Co., Ltd. (Canada)
Rancho San Rafael, S.A. (Costa Rica)
Rodney Gold Mines Limited (Canada)
Royal Greyhound and Turf Holdings Limited (South Africa)
S.A. Valles & Co., Inc. (Philippines)
San Salvador Savings & Loan Co., Ltd. (Bahamas)
Santack Mines Limited (Canada)
Security Capital Fiscal & Guaranty Corporation S.A. (Panama)
Silver Stack Mines, Ltd. (Canada)
Societe Anonyme de Refinancement (Switzerland)
Strathmore Distillery Company, Ltd. (Scotland)
Strathross Blending Company Limited (England)
Swiss Caribbean Development & Finance Corporation
(Switzerland)
95. Tam O'Shanter, Ltd. (Switzerland)
96. Timberland (Canada)
97. Trans-American Investments, Limited (Canada)
98. Trihope Resources, Ltd. (West Indies)
99. Trust Company of Jamaica, Ltd. (West Indies)
100. United Mining and Milling Corporation (Bahamas)
101. Unitrust Limited (Ireland)
102. Vacationland (Canada)
103. Valores d e Inversion, S.A. (Mexico)
104. Victoria Oriente, Inc. (Panama)
105. Warden Walker Worldwide Investment Co. (England)
106. Wee Gee Uranium Mines, Ltd. (Canada)
107. Western International Explorations, Ltd. (Bahamas)
108. Yukon Wolverine Mining Company (Canada)
73.
74.
75.
76.
77.
78.
79.
80.
81.
82.
83.
84.
85.
86.
87.
88.
89.
90.
91.
92.
93.
94.

Self-Regulatory Organizations:
Sheet Structure

Expenses, Pre-tax Income and Balance

In 1992, the total revenues of all self-regulatory organizations (SROs)
with marketplace jurisdiction rose approximately $107.2 million, an increase
of approximately 11.7% from 1991 (1991 recognized a 6.1% increase over
1990; 1990 a 0.7% decline from 1989). The New York Stock Exchange
(NYSE), National Association of Securities Dealers (NASD), American
Stock Exchange (AMEX) and the Chicago Board Options Exchange (CBOE)
accounted for 84.7% of all SRO total revenues, an increase over the 83.8%
in 1991, which was up from 82.3% in 1990. The SROs' revenues were earned
primarily from listing, trading and market data fees. For example:
• the NYSE reported total revenue of $418.4 million, an increase of
11.7% from 1991, of which 40% consisted of listing fees, 20%
consisted of trading fees, and 13% consisted of market data fees;
and
• the AMEX reported total revenue of $114.5 million, an increase of
13.4% from 1991, of which 12% consisted of listing fees.
Other SROs reporting increases in revenue included:
• the NASD, which reported a $48.7 million increase, or 22.6%, to
$264.3 million;
• the Philadelphia Stock Exchange (PHLX), which reported a $1.8
million increase, or 8.7%, to $22.5 million;
• the Boston Stock Exchange (BSE),which reported a $767,000increase,
or 6%, to $13.6 million;
• the Midwest Stock Exchange (MSE),1which reported a $2.7 million
increase, or 3.7%, to $73.8 million;
• the Pacific Stock Exchange (PSE), which reported a $2.1 million
increase, or 5.4%, to $41.9 million; and
• the Cincinnati Stock Exchange (CSE), which reported an $868,000
increase, or 23.4%, to $4.6 million.
The only SRO that reported a decline in revenue was the CBOE, which
reported a $7.1 million decrease, or 9.1%, to $70.4 million. The largest
percentage increase in total revenues, 23.4%, was experienced by the CSE.
The largest dollar volume increase in total revenues of $48.7 million was
reported by the NASD.
The total expenses of all marketplace SROs were $900.3 million in
1992, an increase of $67.6 million (8.1%) over 1991. The NASD incurred
the largest magnitude increase in expenses-$37.8
million. Six other
exchanges incurred increases in expenses. For example:
• the AMEX incurred an $8.5 million increase, or 8.3%;
• the BSE incurred a $147,000 increase, or 1.2%;
• the CSE incurred a $220,000 increase, or 6.0%;

1 The Midwest Stock Exchangechanged its name in 1993to the Chicago Stock
Exchange.

118

• the NYSE incurred a $25.7 million increase, or 8.1%;
• the PHLX incurred a $1.9 million increase, or 9.0%; and
• the PSE incurred a $980/000 increase, or 2.5%.
Two exchanges reported a decline in expenses: the CBOE, $3.9 million
or 5.2%; and the MSE, $3.8 million or 5%. Despite an increase in aggregate
expenses, aggregate pre-tax income of the SROs rose in 1992 by $39.6
million or 47.2%. The NYSE experienced the largest magnitude increase
in pre-tax income of $18.2 million; however, the CSE reported the largest
percentage increase in pre-tax income of 4984.6%.2 The BSE and AMEX
also showed large percentage increases in pre-tax income of 287% and
216.3% respectively. The PHLX and CBOE reported declines in pre-tax
income of $122/000 and $3.1 million, respectively, while all other SROs
reported increases in pre-tax income.
The total assets of all marketplace SROs amounted to approximately
$1.8 billion, an increase of $239 million or 15.5%. The MSE showed both
the largest magnitude and percentage increase in total assets, equalling
$162.7 million or 37.7%. The CSE also reported a large percentage increase
in total assets, equalling $680/000 or 22.2%. The NYSE reported a large
increase in assets of $61.8 million or 11.3%. The NASD also reported a
large increase in total assets, equalling $40.7 million or 15.9%.The remainder
of the exchanges reported a decline in total assets with the CBOE reporting
the largest percentage decrease, 18.8%/ and the largest magnitude decline
of $19.6 million.
The total liabilities of marketplace SROs in 1992 increased $167.8
million or 18.7% over 1991 levels. The MSE showed both the greatest
magnitude increase in liabilities of$168.5 million and the greatest percentage
increase of 41.5%. The NYSE also reported a substantial increase in
liabilities of $21 million or 6.9%. The PHLX ($871/000 or 15.6%)/ CSE
($210/000 or 11.8%)/ and NASD ($5.6 million or 8%) also reported increases
in liabilities. The CBOE reported the largest decline in liabilities of $18.7
million (41.5%). In addition, declines in liabilities also were reported by
the PSE (21.2% or $5 million), BSE(18.1% or $3.2 million), and AMEX (6.7%
or $1.6 million).
The aggregate net worth of the marketplace SROs rose $71.2 million
in 1992/ an increase of 11%. The CSE incurred the largest percentage
increase in net worth, 36.6% ($470/000)/ while the largest magnitude increase
in net worth occurred at the NYSE, $40.8 million or 16.7%. The NASD
also reported a substantial increase in net worth, $35.1 million (19%). The
PSE (6.5%) and the AMEX (1.6%) also experienced positive growth in net
worth. The MSE (22.2%)/ PHLX (3.8%)/ CBOE (1.6%)/ and BSE (0.3%)
experienced declines in net worth.

2This large percentage increaseis primarily attributed to substantial increases in
transaction chargesand communicationchargesand servicefees,togetheraccounting
for 98%of the CSE/sincrease in 1992total operating revenues.
119

Clearing agency results have been presented in two charts by their
respective types: depositories and clearing corporations. Aggregate
clearing agency service revenue increased 14%, almost $56 million, in
calendar year 1992. This increase offset a reduction in interest income
of 33% or $29 million. All clearing agencies adjust fee structure and
refunds of fees to provide participants with attractively priced services,
to meet expenses, and to provide the amount of earnings which they desire
to retain.
All service revenues at depositories totaled over $300 million, u p 16%.
This included a $40 million increase by DTC and a $1.6 million increase
at both the Midwest Securities Trust Company (MSTC) and Philadelphia
Depository Trust Company (PDTC). Total depository pre-tax income
increased $6.4 million. MSTC recorded a pre-tax gain of $860,000 in 1992,
compared to a loss of $3.7 million in 1991. The Participants Trust Company
reported pre-tax net income of over $4.9 million, as compared to $4.1
million in 1991. PDTC had a gain of $534,000 in contrast with the yearearlier pre-tax loss of $172,000.
The depositories continued to expand their base for service revenues
by increasing the number of shares on deposit and the face value of debt
securities in custody. This was made possible by the further expansion
of depository-eligible issues and the desire of participants to avail
themselves of depository services. The MSTC had 1,068,000 eligible issues
at year-end, an increase of 8%, and DTC had 1,026,000, an increase of 9%.
In general, eligibility for all types of securities increased. At the end of
1992, the total value of securities in the depository system approached
$6.5 trillion, of which DTC alone held over $3.5 trillion, not including $2.8
trillion in certificates held by others as DTC's agent. More than 69% of
the shares of all NYSE-listed U.S. companies, 53% of NASDAQ, and 46%
of AMEX-listed U.S. companies were in the depository system at the end
of 1992. In addition, more than 94% of the principal amount of all
outstanding municipal bonds were in the depository system.
Service revenue of clearing corporations increased to almost $165
million, an increase of 10%over 1991. As a group, the clearing corporations
recorded a net increase in pre-tax income of almost $7 million, an increase
of 95% over 1991. The National Securities Clearing Corporation's pretax earnings increased over $4.8 million or 271%. The Boston Stock
Exchange Clearing Corporation had a loss of $308,000, after a gain of $1,853
the previous year. The Midwest Clearing Corporation's pre-tax loss was
$1.6 million, half the prior year's loss. The Options Clearing Corporation's
pre-tax gain was $1.5 million, as opposed to the refund of all of its pretax income in the prior year. The Stock Clearing Corporation of Philadelphia
had a gain of $402,000, compared to a loss of $313,000 the previous year.
Total pre-tax income was $14 million for all clearing corporations.
The aggregate shareholders' equity of all clearing corporations and
depositories rose to $103 million in 1992, an increase of 2% over 1991.
Participant clearing fund contributions, which provide protection to the

clearing agencies in the event of a participant default, increased by $309
million or 15% to almost $2.3 billion. Should a participant default and
its losses exceed its deposit, the entire participants' fund of the clearing
agency may be assessed on a pro rata basis.

~~~~

~~~a::t
~~~~

:nm:g;g
00"1..-.-

:8~~:g

~~.-_<'!

;;:;~~8

........ ........ ........
CDCOO"Iq

"'

CDCOCDQ)

III

a

III

..nuS~r-i

Q)Q)GC)N
......
I.ON

.-

CD r-I.O

.....cD"":..n
-

........ ........
~~~~

III

~~~~

....

en

"'

0'>.

~~g:~
P') ......

(O

sg-4c;i

........
(0(0(01"0-

III

:g~~~
rCD

<oN"' ....

NNNN

COCD«)CD

m..nC"i .....-

• r-u'HD
ON CO.....

........ ........

122

Nr-iOr-i

Table 8
SELF-REGULATORY ORGANIZATIONS CLEARING CORPORATIONS
1992 REVENUES and EXPENSES 11
($In Thousands)

-

-Barlpn

Dolb

Stoc~ExIw,~
c~ssrinp
lkqwtlrn
@
3U
23' ,9

Gonmnml
OPU~J
Cwpmtim
12/31/92Y

G

W

%mum
clmnp
Comarafirn
12/31/921

lnlsnnahsl
Clsariq
Combon
12/31/92Y

IntMmllmal
Suvritla
Clmrlng
Corpont~on
12/31/92W

MBS
c~winp
Colpmlon
12/31/92

Miht
Clwinp
bmon
12/3lP)2

Nallmal
Suunlles
c~mnp
CwponWon
12/31/92

Ovllm
Cllnw
Cwponfton
12n1/92

Stock
CleUlnp
Cwwdlon~l
Phlladelphla
IUJlP)?

Pacllc
clrar~np
Corponl~on
lUJIP)2U

I-f

I,

U Amah eftanNvt bsn m m nus ms p m 0 1 m c mmaaole my s npte I-

or mmnw catqov nu, m k umol81errwmplna~rorwen aq r o ~ d u ~a
n ~ ~scansd (#Ilh wq clau Icar on mrhmt em:lopa
me clear ng aprnc n m
r from 3 sxs' nc gar, IS
a d ( Ihs Qmupw mamas e
n
o
w by hs SIC'Ssgll m huc 47q WIImoon m m Immdol m u us man m me m r u I nmm 1m.s as m mndm sun ot aWCID, 9 a m u 113 w no1or 19almm c >.nu o0I*WIS
f*ws 1.1992. Um Bmmn Sku h n p s (BSElL m m CaponQnm msrpsd ,"lo 19@StClmnp C o r n m Adhldad olU 4 m1l.m .at pa dl0 hs mml @S.
Vur lmucoqmnnDn e9. 1Y 01IMa m ' R.Imnc a1 Sulrmrnlr am ~n
I0s mr M' ~ r s r a ! at sr umr
urhstmid h m vrsmmd n UM s t i ~ i d w
~ qwraw as M tnd~i~tasd
cwmi
Y Thc Iklb CwnmnWont -urn
has 1 s u y bond 01SlW rnlllnn in IINd ad ~ ~ hnd
n p C ~ dU$296 WO lor mh ~ n m ~ ISr 1ncIud8a
m
In heMhcr DPW c
a
W
Y Ellcdhs In May 1988, he Mnwl Scnrilisr ClCorpowlon(MCC)sold 81%of GavmmCnl Scanlla Clsr~qCorponuon (GSCC)lo w i n 01L
I! pmawk U Ihatllm NSCC mleredr o an agrmnenl w~lhGSCC to vronae raftour wooon sewIcesand onice Iac81!1~es NSCC sequh
~dmuIn GSCC rr- I ----"
~ ~ I ,..
In
Lin
~ -,,I*
W
R.W&
C I ~ W
*urn
r *holly mncd * ~ i v y of IMOplaN c~alnpcwponnonlrrls m w ovnltmal and o m rmcn horn Its ~ a r m ~
U R.INernUiPrPlSmnlnl amlm c-lm
#marhnllv aMd r h d l r r r 01 IlCW ard miu*lm ~ l m
rd
l mhrr ?lrnc&rIm1- mr.m
n w l 1997 ms@&0 dC&&-;b%%;Jloa
i < ~ o % ~ ~ m p & ~ ~ m m i k c ] a i &S~s fainc~ a D m s ~Tnnl
~ wC-hrn
rBDTC1 ArnMr la volen~ao w rrrrssm swa n 19811988 aa 1391lhr PSDlC nl a o ~ d ~
1991
n
RFCmc)plpdl~~mtmtmcmm$%m
Ths~mun~qmars*~$1~g,masd1kc(mon31,~gg~
PCCS r e o v c n u h r m a s m n t n u m o p ( 0 ~ m ~ sOXOIOIYII~UY~~
~u~
*tmlctnf anm,t r Rn t caru ~.ndmm)crn 1992 B) !no onolrnr~oa,~~'
C O r c M d he BE. Ill9 2 4 Ihad PCC nmmzm80 0" BE PSE mrmrrr' n rh 01 %XImtll m 3 ~ . ~ hlo.l~kmburymml
r
d ,201 I S lmnm b F?C

,

U

v
E

9 mtt D tk t~fulfOIo

.- .-".-

~c~np~i~;&&a-kc~~

m nd won ms snut 01

ha rh16&ri$$~;lipln

a c~rannpagmcynisnet Income

.I

Tola1

Table 9
SELF-R EGULATORY ORGANIZATIONS-DEPOSITORIES
1992 REVENUES and EXPENSES 11
($ in Thousands)

DeposilolY
Trust
Company
12/31192

Midwest
Securities
Trust
Company
12/31192Z1

Participants
Trust
Company
12/31192

Philadelphia
DepositolY
Trust
Company
12/31192

Total

~
DePOSltolYServices
Interest
Other
Total Revenues 31

$236,226
41,663

$ 35,293

$ 9.482
820
898
$11,201

S3OO,638
51,959
3.822
$356,419

$12.591

$ 9,287

$ 5.462

$2D3.33D

8.760
6,756

435
675

$ 5.558
$ 30,361

$ 4.095
$10.667

34,680
56.666
1.335
$ 53,582
$349.593

860

$ 4,932

$

534

$ 6.826

$ 4,801
$ 6.261

$ 16.993
$246.213

$ 2.954
$ 830

$ 43.842
$885.317

$277.889

$28,306
806
2,924
S32,036

$175.990
23,171
44.839

$ 26,623
8,670

~
Employee Costs
Data Processing and
Communications Costs
Occupancy Costs
Contracted Services Cost
All Other Expenses
Total Expenses

$ 33,389
$277.389

2.314
4.396
1,335
$10,540
S31.176

Excess of Revenues
Over Expenses ~

$

$

Shareholders' Equity
PaltJcipanfs Fund

$ 19,094
$632.013

500

JJ AlthOugh ellorts have been made to make the presen1atiOIlScom_Ie.

any single revenue or expense
between any two clearing agencies because of (i) the YaJYing
classification methods emploYed by the cleanng agencies in reporting opemting results and (ii) the grouping
methods employed by the SEC'S stall due to these YaJYingclassification methods. Individual amounts
are shown to the nearest thousand. Totals are the rounded result of the underlying amounts and may not be
the anthmetic sums of the paris.
ZI During 1992. the Midwest Stock Exchange made a $2.000.000 capital contribution.
31 Revenues are net of refunds which haw the ellect 01 reducing a clearing agency's base fee rates.
!i This is the result of opemtions and before the ellecl oIlncorne taxes. which may significantly Impact a clearing agency's net
income.
calegOfY may not be completely com_Ie

124

Certificate Immobilization

Book-entry deliveries continued to outdistance physical deliveries in
the settlement of securities transactions among depository participants of
the Depository Trust Company (DTC). This tendency is illustrated in
Table 10, CERTIFICATE IMMOBILIZATION TRENDS. The table captures
the relative significance of the mediums employed, in a ratio of book-entry
deliveries to certificates withdrawn from DTC. The figures include Direct
Mail by Agents and municipal bearer bonds. In 1992, the ratio of 12.9
book-entry deliveries rendered for every certificate withdrawn was almost
six times greater than the 1982 ratio.

Table 10
CERTIFICATE IMMOBILIZATION TRENDS
Depository Trust Company
(Including Bearer Certificates)

Book-entry Deliveries
at DTC (in thousands)

83,300

67,900

62.800

63.800

46,600

35.900

6,467

6.655

9,100

11.600

12.600

15,700

12.9

102

6.9

5.5

3.7

2.3

Total of All Certif~mtes
Withdrawn (in thousands)
Book-entry DeiiveneS per
Certmcates Withdrawn

Exemptions
Section 12(h) Exemptions

Section 12(h) of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934 (Exchange Act)
authorizes the Commission to grant a complete or partial exemption from
the registration provisions of Section 12(g) or from the disclosure or insider
reporting/ trading provisions of the Act where such exemption is consistent
with the public interest and the protection of investors. Two applications
were pending at the beginning of 1993, and four applications were filed
during the year. Of these applications, two were granted and one was
withdrawn.
Exemptions for Foreign Private Issuers

Rule 12g3-2 provides various exemptions from the registration
provisions of Section 12(g) of the Exchange Act for the securities of foreign
private issuers. The most significant of these exemptions is that contained
in subparagraph (b), which provides an exemption for certain foreign
issuers that furnish to the SEC on a current basis the material specified
in the rule. Such material includes that information material to an investment
decision which the issuer: (1) has made or is required to make public
pursuant to the law of the country in which it is incorporated or organized;
(2) has filed or is required to file with a stock exchange on which its
securities are traded and which was made public by such exchange; or
(3) has distributed or is required to distribute to its securityholders.
Periodically, the SEC publishes a list of those foreign issuers that appear
to be current under the exemptive provision. The most current list contains
a total of 922 foreign issuers.

Corporate Reorganizations

During 1993, the Commission entered its appearance in 32
reorganization cases filed under Chapter 11 of the Bankruptcy Code
involving companies with aggregated stated assets of almost $4 billion and
about 150,000 public investors. Counting these new cases, the Commission
was a party in a total of 187 Chapter 11 cases during the year. In these
cases, the stated assets totalled approximately $96 billion and involved
over one million public investors. During 1993, 32 cases were concluded
through confirmation of a plan of reorganization, dismissal, or liquidation,
leaving 155 cases in which the Commission was a party at year-end.
Table 11
REORGANIZATION PROCEEDINGS UNDER CHAPTER 11
OF THE BANKRUPTCY CODE IN WHICH
THE SEC ENTERED APPEARANCE
Debtor

F.Y.
O~ened

District

Action Auto Stores
AD1 Electronics
AIA Industries, Inc.
A1 Copeland Enterprises, Inc.

E.A.
E.D.
E.D.
W.D.

MI
NY
PA
TX

Alexander's Inc.
Alleco 1nc.U
Allegheny Internatronal, Inc.
Alliant Computer Systems Corp.

S.D.
D.
W.D.
E.D.

NY
MD
PA
MA

A.M. International 1nc.y
Amdura Corporation
American West Airlines, Inc.
Ames Department Stores, Inc., et a1.Y

D.
D.
D.
S.D

DE
CO
AZ
NY

Anglo Energy, Inc.
Appletree Markets, Inc.
Autodie Corporation??/
Banyon Corp.

S.D.
S.D.
W.D.
S.D.

NY
TX
MI
NY

Barton Industries Inc.
Bay Financial Corp.. et al.
Beehive InternationaW
Beker Industries Corp.

W.D.
D.
D.
S.D.

OK
MA
UT
NY

Bonneville Paclfic Corporation
Branch Industries. Inc.
Camera Enterprises. Inc., et al.
Carter Hawley Hale Stores Inc.

D.
S.D.
D.
C.D.

UT
NY
MA
CA

Casacade International Inc
C F & l CorporationU
C~tywideSecurities Corp.4
Chyron Corporation

S.D.
D.
S.D.
E.D.

FL
UT
NY
NY

F.Y.
Closed

Table 11 - continued
REORGANIZATION
PROCEEDINGS
UNDER CHAPTER
OF THE BANKRUPTCY
CODE IN WHICH
THE SEC ENTERED
APPEARANCE
Debtor

128

F.Y.
Opened

District

Coated Sales, Inc.
College Bound, Inc.
Columbia Gas System, Inc.
Conston Corporation

S.D.
S.D.
D.
E.D.

NY
FL
DE
PA

1988
1993
1991
1990

Continental Alfllnes Holdings, Inc.1/
Continental Information Systems
CPT Corp.
Crazy Eddie, Inc., et al

D.
S.D.
D.
S.D.

DE
NY
MN
NY

1991
1989
1991
1989

Crompton Co.• Inc.
Dakota Minerals, Inc
Damson 011Co.
Dest Corp.

S.D.
D.
S.D.
N.D.

NY
WY
TX
CA

1985
1986
1991
1989

Diversified lndustrres, Inc.
Domain Technology. Inc.
Drexel Burnham Lambert Group, ltd.
Eagle Clothes, Inc.

E.D.
N D.
S.D.
S.D.

MI
CA
NY
NY

1993
1989
1990
1989

Eagle-Pitcher Industries, Inc.
Eastern Air lines, Inc., et al.
Edisto Resources Corporation1/ M
E.L. Fitzgerald!!

S.D.
S.D.
D.
N.D.

OH
NY
DE
FL

1991
1989
1993
1993

EI Paso Electric Co.
EL Paso Refinery Limited Partnership
Endeyco, Inc.
Enterpnse Technologies, Inc.

W.D.
W.O.
E.D.
S.D.

TX
TX
TX
TX

1992
1993
1993
1984

Equestnan Ctrs. of Amer.• Inc.
EUA Power Corporalion1/
Everex Systems. Inc.
Fairfield Communities Inc.

C.D.
D.
N.C.
E.D.

CA
NH
CA
AR

1985
1991
1993
1991

F & C International, Inc.
Fed. Depart./Allied Stores et al.
Financial News Network, Inc.
First Republicbank Corp.

S.D.
S.D.
S.D.
N.D.

OH
OH
NY
TX

1993
1990
1991
1989

Forum Group Inc. et al.
Gaylord Container Corp.1/
General Technologies Group
Greyhound Lines. et al.1/

N.D.
E.D.
E.D.
S.D.

TX
LA
NY
TX

1991
1992
1990
1990

Hadson Corporation1/
Hannover Corporation of America!!
Harry Schrieber!!
Healthcare International, Inc.

W.O.
M.D.
D.
W.O.

OK
LA
CO
TX

1993
1993
1993
1992

11

F.Y.
Closed

1993

1993

1993

1993
1993
1993

Table 11 - continued
REORGANIZATION PROCEEDINGS UNDER CHAPTER 11
OF THE BANKRUPTCY CODE IN WHICH
THE SEC ENTERED APPEARANCE
Debtor

F.Y.
Opened

District

Hellonetics, Inc.
Hills Department Stores
I.M.T., Inc.
Inlllght Services, Inc.

C.D.
S.D.
D.
S.D.

Infotechnology Inc.
Insllco Corp.
Inlegra-A Hotel and Restaurant Co.
Integrated Resources. Inc.

S.D.
W.O.
O.
S.D.

Inter. American Homes, lne., et at,
Interco Inc.1/
Ironstone Group, Inc.1/
Jamesway Corporation

CA

NY
MD

NY
NY

1986
1991
1992
1967

NY

1991
1991
1993
1990

D.
E.D.
N.D.
S.D.

NJ
MO
CA
NY

1990
1991
1991
1993

Kaiser Steel Corp.
Kinder-Care Learning Centers, Inc.1/
King of Video. Inc.
Koger Properties, Inc.

O.
M.D.
D.
M.D.

CO
AL

1967
1993
1989
1992

Kurzwell Music Systems Inc.
Laventhol & Horwath
LeIsure Technology, Inc.1/
Leslie Fay Companies. Inc.

D.
S.D.
C.D.
S.D.

MA

Library Bureau Inc.
Lomas Financial Corp.
Lone Star Industries, Inc.
LTV Corporatlon1/

N.D.
S.D.
S.D.
S.D.

NY
NY
NY

1993
1990
1991
1986

MacGregor Sporting Goods. Inc.
Mallard Coach Co.
Marathon Office Supply. Inc.
Marcade Group Inc.

D.
W.O.
C.D.
S.D.

NJ
IL
CA
NY

1989
1993
1988
1993

W.O.
C.D.
S.D.

MO
CA

NY

1993
1989
1987

S.D.

TX

1989

McCroy Corp.
McCrory Parent Corp.
MEl Diversified, Inc.M
Meridian Reserve, Inc.

S.D.
S.D.
D.
W.O.

NY
NY

1992
1992
1993
1989

Metro Airlines, Inc. et al.1/
Midland Capital Corp.
Midwest Communications Corp.
Monarch Capitol Corp.

N.D.
S.D.
E.D.
D.

Master Mortgage Investment Fund,
Inc.
Max/care Health Plus Inc.1/
McLean Industries. Inc.
MCorp (MCorp Financial. Inc.
& MCorp Management)

TX
CO

NY
FL

NY
CA
NY

NY

DE
OK

TX

NY
KY
MA

EY.
Closed

1990
1991
1991
1993

1991
1986
1991
1991

1993
1993

1993

1993

1993

1993
1993

129

Table 11 - continued
REORGANIZATION PROCEEDINGS UNDER CHAPTER 11
OF THE BANKRUPTCY CODE IN WHICH
THE SEC ENTERED APPEARANCE

Debtor
MSR Exploration, ltd.l/
National Financial Realty Trust
National Gypsum Company
NBllnc.

D.
S.D.
N.D.
D.

CO

1992
1990
1991
1991

Newmark & lewis
Nutri Bevco, Inc.
N.V.R., lPl/
Occidental Development Fund 111M

S.D.
S.D.
E.D.
C.D.

NY
NY
VA
CA

1991
1988
1992
1989

Occidental Development Fund IVM
Occidental Development Fund VM
Oliver's Stores
DlR Development Fund lP

C.D.
C.D.
E.D.
C.D.

CA
CA
NY
CA

1989
1989
1987
1989

OlR Development Fund HLP
Orion Pi ctures Corp.l/
Pacific Express Holding, Inc.V
PanAm Corporation

C.D.
S.D.
E.D.
S.D.

CA
NY
CA
NY

1989
1992
1984
1991

Paul Harris Stores, Inc.1J
Peregrine Entertainment, ltd.1J
Premier 8enefit Capitol TrustM
Premium Sales CorporationM

S.D.
C.D.
M.D.
M.D.

IN
CA
Fl
Fl

1991
1989
1993
1993

Public Service Co. of New Hampshire
OMax Technology Group, Inc.
OT&T, Inc.
Oublx Graphic Systems1J

D.
S.D.
E.D.
N.D.

NH
OH
NY
CA

1988
1989
1987
1987

Ramtek Corporation
Refinemet International, Inc.
Reserve Rent-a-Car

N.D.
S.D.
C.D.
D.

CA
OH
CA
OH

1989
1993
1988
1993

Residential Resources Mortgage
Investment Corporation
Resorts International, Inc. et al.
Revco D.S. Inc.M
R.H. Macy & Co. Corp.

D.
D.
N.D.
S.D.

AI.
NJ
OH
NY

1989
1990
1988
1992

Rymer Foods, Inc.
Sahlen & Associates
Salant Corporationll
Sam S. Brown Jr.M

N.D.
S.D.
S.D.
W.O.

III
NY
NY
GA

1993
1989
1990
1993

Saratoga Standardbreds, Inc.
Schepps Food Stores, Inc.
Seatrain lines, Inc.
Sharon Steel Corp.

N.D.
S.D.
S.D.
W.O.

NY

1990
1992
1981
1987

Rax Restaurants Inc.

130

F.Y.
Opened

District
MT
IN

TX

TX
NY
PA

F.Y.
Closed
1993

1993

1993
1993

1993
1993

1993

Table 11 - continued
REORGANIZATION PROCEEDINGS UNDER CHAPTER 11
OF THE BANKRUPTCY CODE IN WHICH
THE SEC ENTERED APPEARANCE
Debtor

f.Y.
Opened

District

SIS Corporation
Solitron Devices. Inc.1I jJ
Sorg Incorporated. et al.
Southland Corporation

N.D.
S.D.
S.D.
N.D.

1)(

1989
1993
1989
1991

Spencer Cos.• Inc.
SPI Holding. Inc.1I jJ
Spring Meadows AssociatesjJ
Standard Brands Paint Company1l

D.
D.
C.D.
CD.

MA
DE
CA
CA

1987
1993
1988
1992

W.O.
D.

MI
NJ
N.D.

1991
1991
OH

Standard Oil and Exploration of
Delaware. Inc.
Statewide Bancorp.
Sterling Optical Corp.
1993

OH
fl
NY

Swanton Corp.
Systems for Health Care. Inc.
Telstar Satellite Corp. of AmericajJ
TGX Corp.

S.D.
N.D.
C.D.
W.O.

NY
IL
CA
LA

1985
1988
1989
1990

The Centennial Group. Inc.
The Circle K
The first Connecticut Small
Business Investments Company
The Group. Inc.

C.D.
D.

CA
AI

1992
1990

D.
D.

CT
NV

1991
1990

The lionel Corp.
The Regina Co.
Tidwell Industries. Inc.
Todd Shipyards Corp.

S.D.
D.
N.D.
D.

NY
NJ
AL
NJ

1991
1989
1986
1988

Towle ManufactJRosemar Silver
Traweek Investment fund No. 22.
ltd.jJ
Traweek Investment fund No. 21. ltd.
Trump Taj Mahal Funding. Inc.

S.D.

NY

1990

C.D.
C.D.
D.

CA
CA
NJ

1988
1988
1991

TSl Holdings. Inc.
U.S. Home Corp.1I
Wang laboratories. Inc.1I
Washington Bancorporation

S.D.
S.D.
D.
D.

CA
NY
MA
DC

1993
1991
1992
1990

Wedgestone financial
Wedtech Corp.
Westworld Community Healthcare. Inc.
Wheeling-Pittsburgh Steel Corp.

D.
S.D.
C.D.
W.O.

MA
NY
CA
PA

1991
1987
1987
1985

WTD Industries, Inc.1I
lale Corporation, Inc.
lenox. Inc.

W.O.
N.D.
D.

WA

1991
1992
1993

1)(

NH

f.Y.
Closed

1993

1993
1993

1992

1993
1993

1993

131

Table 11 -

continued

REORGANIZATION PROCEEDINGS UNDER CHAPTER 11
OF THE BANKRUPTCY CODE IN WHICH
THE SEC ENTERED APPEARANCE
F.Y.
Debtor

District

Opened

F.Y.
Closed

Total Cases Opened (FY 1993): 32
Total Cases Closed (FY 1993)' 32

jJ

Plan of reorganization confirmed.

21 Debtor liquidated under Chapter 7.

3J
jJ

132

Chapter 11 case dismissed.
Debtor's securities not registered under Section 12(g) of the Exchange Act.

The Securities Industry

Revenues, Expenses, and Selected Balance Sheet Items
Broker-dealers that are registered with the Commission earned a pretax profit of $9.1 billion in calendar year 1992. This was $500 million more
than the previous year and a record amount for the second year in a row.
Broker-dealers had a pre-tax return on equity capital of 22%, slightly above
the historical average.
While activity in most components of the securities business increased
in 1992, the dealer side was exceptional. Underwriting revenues rose $1.7
billion to a new high of $8.3billion. Low interest rates and high price-earnings
ratios were the driving force behind a record volume of new issues. Low
interest rates encouraged corporations, municipalities, and individuals
with callable debt to refinance. Corporations took advantage of a favorable
equity market to de-leverage by offering additional stock to the public
and using the proceeds to retire debt.
Gains from trading and investments of $21.9 billion were down about
$800 million from last year's record. Trading volume in issues that
typically are traded over-the-counter and result in trading gains-U.S.
Government securities, corporate debt securities, and NASDAQ stockwas at a record level. The slight decline in revenues from trading these
securities likely reflects the small change in equity and debt prices that
occurred during 1992. Opportunities for generating capital gains on their
inventories of debt and equity securities were fewer in 1992 than they were
during the 1991 bull market.
The agency business also was profitable in 1992. Revenues from
retailing mutual funds rose, a new record, $1.8 billion to $5.9 billion as
investors disappointed with low rates on bank savings instruments sought
out higher returns in bond and stock mutual funds. Transactions in
exchange-listed securities were at their highest level since 1987, contributing
to $16.3 billion in securities commissions, a $2.1 billion increase from the
previous year. Margin interest declined by $100 million to $2.7 billion
as the record volume of margin debt outstanding was overwhelmed by
declining interest rates.
"All other revenues," which are dominated by interest income from
securities purchased under agreements to resell and fees from handling
private placements, mergers, and acquisitions, increased by $1.1 billion
in 1992. The major components of this revenue item increased slightly
or held constant in 1992. Merger and acquisition activity was flat in 1992,
remaining well below the levels of recent years. The value of new private
placements rose by 10%. The value of reverse purchase agreements
outstanding increased substantially during 1992, but the interest rate paid
on these instruments declined so the net effect on revenues is unknown.
Expenses rose 7% to $81.6 billion in 1992. Employee compensation
increased by $5.2 billion, or 19%. Total assets rose by almost $200 billion
to $979.7 billion. Equity capital increased by $5.0 billion to $44.0 billion.

Table 12
UNCONSOLIDATED

FINANCIAL INFORMATION FOR BROKER-DEALERS
1988 - 199211
($ in Millions)

1988

~

1989

1990

1991'

1992'

s 11.932.4

$ 13.452.0

$ 12.032.2

$ 14.209.7

$ 16.288.7

16.667.0

16,246.6

15,746.5

22.641.3

21.860.3

5.606.8
3.154.6

4.536.6
3.859.7

3,728.3
3.179.4

6.592.6
2.771.1

8.301.2
2.695.4

2.644.0
26.095.5
$ 66.100.4

3.038.1
35,731.1
$ 76.864.0

3,241.6
33.428.3
$ 71.356.2

4.176.3
34.498.5
$ 84.889.5

5.949.4
35.579.2
$ 90.694.2

$ 9.004.4

$ 8.975.2

$ 8.267.2

$ 9.911.7

$ 12.117.9

12.150.0

12.497.6

12.512.8

14.444.1

17.0965

2,263.8

2,267.6

2.150.6

2.560.5

2.9024

2.803.8
19.502.0
490.0
16.409.2

3.056.8
29.822.5
573.7
16.847.8

2.959.4
28.093.1
564.3
16.018.6

3,200.5
27.511.8
5n.1
18,027.9

S 62.623.0

S 74.041.1

S 70.566.1

S 76.233.6

S

3,731.0
24.591.7
641.5
20.488.9
81.569.9

$ 3.477.3
5.3
9.8

$ 2.822.9
3.7
7.7

$

$ 8.655.9
10.2
23.6

$ 9.124.3
10.1
22.0

Total Assets
liabilities
(a) Unsubordinated Uabililies
(b) Subordinated Uabllilies
(c) Total Uabililies

$546,215.7

$652.177.0

$657,226.5

$787,716.3

$979.742.9

495.705.6
13.974.2
509.679.8

600.440.7
15.354.7
615,795.4

607.603.0
15.090.8
622.893.8

$732,290.2
16.347.1
748.637.3

917.542.8
18.165.5
935.708.3

Ownership Equity

$ 36.535.9

$ 36.381.5

$ 34.332.7

$ 39.079.1

$ 44.034.6

Number of Firms

9,217

8.832

7,763

7.805

Securities Commissions
Gains (Losses) in Trading and
IlMlSlment Accounts
Profits (Losses) from Underwriting
and Selling Groups
Margin Interest
Revenues from Sale oflllYestment
Company Shares
All Other Revenues
Total Revenues

~

Registered Representatives.
Compensation (Part II Only) 21
OlIIer Employee Compensation
and Benefits
Compensation to Partners and
Voting Stockholder Olfi cers
Commissions and Clearance Paid
to Other Brokers
Interest Expenses
Regulatory Fees and Expenses
All Other Expenses 21
Total Expenses
Income
Pre-tax
Pre-tax
Pre-tax

and profilabtljly
Income
Profit Margin
Return on Equity

790.1
1.1
2.2

Asse!:; Uabilibes and Gapltal

8.437

Agures may not add due to roUnding.
r = revised
p = preliminary
jJ Calendar. rather than fiscal. year daIa is reported in this table.
21 Registered representaliws' compensation for firms that neither carry nor clear Is Included in .other expenses.
as this expense item is not reported sepa!3tely on Part IIA of the FOCUS Report.
Source: FOCUS Report

134

UNCONSOLIDATED

Table 13
ANNUAL REVENUES AND EXPENSES FOR BROKER-DEALERS
DOING A PUBLIC BUSINESS
1988 - 1992 lJ
($ in Milions)

1988

1989

1990

1991'

1992-

~

Securities Commissions
Gains (losses) in Trading and
Investment Accounts
Profits (losses) from UndelWriting
and Selling Groups
Margin Interest
Revenues from S31e of Investment
Company Shares
All Other Revenues
Total Revenues

$11,515.3

$13.012.7

$11,659.7

$13,710.8

$15,460.6

15.296.3

15,048.6

14.869.5

21.371.7

20,724.4

5.605.6
3,135.5

4.536.4
3,813.3

3,728.0
3,158.8

6.591.4
2,732.4

8.190.4
2,645.2

2,643.2
26.039.0
$64.235.0

3.037.8
35.189.4
$74,638.3

3,241.6
32,578.0
$69.235.6

4.176.2
33.746.8
$82.329.3

5.847.5
34,681.8
$87.549.9

S 8.993.3

$ 8.962.7

$ 8.245.3

$ 9.900.6

$11.756.2

11,900.9

12,191.4

12,209.2

14,066.5

16,551.3

~
Registered Representatives'
Compensation (Part II only) 21
Other Employee Compensation
and Benefits
Compensation to Partners and
Voting Stockholder Officers
Commissions and Clearance Paid
to Other Brokers
Interest Expenses
Regulatol}' Fees and Expenses
All Other Expenses 21
Total Expenses

2.063.5

2.090.0

1.983.5

2.376.4

2.689.6

2,641.0
19,268.1
451.9
15.968.3
$61.287.0

2,867.9
29,354.6
516.0
16.348.5
$72.331.0

2,796.2
27,630.6
509.4
15.580.4
$68,954.4

3.003.2
27,088.1
511.2
17.457.5
$74.403.4

3,481.2
24.208.3
580.5
19,730.4
$78.997.6

Income
Pre-laX
Pre-laX
Pre-laX

$ 2.948.0
4.6
9.0

$ 2.307.3
3.1
6.8

$

S 7,925.9
9.6
23.3

S 8.552.3
9.8
22.2

and Profitabilitv
Income
Profit Margin
Retum on Equity

Number of Firms

6,005

5,746

281.2
0.4
0.9
5,424

5.115

5,089

Figures may not add due to rounding.
r = revised
p = prellmin3l}'
jJ Calendar. l31herthan fiscal, year data is reported In this lable.
21 Registered represenlalives' compensation for firms that neilher carl}' nor clear is included in .other expenses"
as this expense Item is not reported separately on Part IIA of the FOCUS Report
Source: FOCUS Report

135

Table 14
UNCONSOLIDATED BALANCE SHEET FOR BROKER-DEALERS
DOING A PUBLIC BUSINESS
YEAR-EN D, 1988 - 19921/
($ in Millions)

1988

1989

1990

1991'

1992'

~

Cash
Receivables from Other
Broker-dealers
Receivables from Customers
Receivables from Non-customers
long Positions in Securities
and Commodities
Securities and Investments
not Readily Marketable
Securities PlI'chased Under Agreements
to Resell (Part Ionly) 21
Exchange Membership
Other Assets 21
TolaI Assets
liabilities and Equity CaPital
Bank loans Payable
Payables to Other Broker-dealers
Payables to Non-customers
Payables to Customers
Short Positions in Securities
and Commodities
Securities Sold Under Repurchase
Agreemenls (Part II only) 21
Other Non-subordinated lIabllities 2J
Subordinated liabilities
Total liabilities
Equity Capital

Number of firms

$ 9,612.2

$ 9,870.8

$ 10.968.1

$ 10,351.2

$ 10,989.2

67,5982
40,236.3
3,061.9

90,157.3
40,320.4
1.362.9

118.413.1
37,m.8
1.157.7

161.484.4
50.861.1
2.126.1

215,769.5
49.055.4
4.266.9

130.758.1

211,232.1

208,166.3

245.164.5

293.410.7

618.9

1,247.5

1,1902

1,863.9

2,376.0

258,034.5
363.7
23,424.1
$533,707.8

257,235.0
360.5
26.356.5
$638,143.0

237,235.6
332.3
26.014.3
S640,655.5

272.226.1
313.4
23,5212
$767,911.8

350,083.3
311.9
26.464.9
1952,727.7

$ 22,953.6
46,336.5
4,143.7
39,312.9

$ 22,759.5
49.602.0
4,610.4
46,969.3

$ 18,342.2
46,038.9
7,510.5
55,549.7

$ 24,905.6
63,291.9
13,730.6
71.977.5

$ 33,592.1
67,809.1
6,592.6
69,677.9

92,414.4

93,682.7

104.690.0

113.000.9

156.900.0

243,828.7
37,016.5
13,534.5
$499,540.8

328.382.8
43,067.2
14,991.9
S604,065.8

320,773.3
40.9732
14,763.0
S608,640.8

385,655.1
43,738.8
15.464.1
$731,764.6

500,217.8
59,452.9
17.622.4
$911,864.6

$ 34,166.9

S 34,077.2

S 32,014.6

S 36.147.3

S 40,863.1

6,005

5,746

5,424

5,115

5,089

Figures may not add due to rounding.
r= revised
p = prellmlllaIY
1I Calendar, rather IIaI fiscal, year daIa Is reported in Uis labIe.
2J Resale
and repurchase agreemenls for firms that neIlher l3IY nor cIelf are Included in "other
assets" and "other non-subordinated liabilities: respectiYeIy, as these IIems are not reporlBd separaleIy on
Part 11.4ollhe FOCUS Report.

agreemem

Source: FOCUS Report

136

Carrying and Clearing Firms

Data for carrying and clearing firms that d o a public business is
presented here to allow for more detail. Reporting requirements for firms
that neither carry nor clear are less detailed. Data aggregation of these
two types of firms results in loss of detail.
Carrying and clearing firms are those firms that clear securities
transactions or maintain possession or control of customers' cash or
securities. This group produced 83% of the securities industry's total
revenues in calendar year 1992.
Brokerage activity accounted for about 23 cents of each revenue dollar
in 1992, about the same as the level in 1991. Securities commissions were
the most important component, producing 15 cents of each dollar of
revenue. Margin interest generated about 3 cents of each dollar of revenue,
while revenues from mutual fund sales accounted for about 5 cents.
The dealer side produced 65 cents of each dollar of revenue, down
from 68 cents in 1991. Twenty-five cents came from trading and investments,
a decrease from 27 cents in 1991. Ten cents came from underwriting, up
from 9 cents in 1991. Twenty-nine cents came from other securities-related
revenues, a drop from 32 cents in 1991. This revenue item is comprised
primarily of interest income from securities purchased under agreements
to resell and fees from handling private placements, mergers, and
acquisitions.
Expenses accounted for 90 cents of each revenue dollar in 1992,
resulting in a pre-tax profit margin of 10 cents per revenue dollar, the
same as 1991. Employee-related expenses-compensa tion received by
registered representatives, partners and other employees-displaced interest
as the most important expense item, accounting for 35 cents of each revenue
dollar in 1992, compared to 31 cents in 1991. Interest consumed 32 cents
of each revenue dollar in 1992, compared to 37 cents in 1991.
Total assets of broker-dealers carrying and clearing customer accounts
were $934.5 billion at year-end 1992, a 23% increase from 1991. Borrowed
securities a n d reverse repurchase agreements accounted for a
disproportionate share of the increase in assets. These assets are effectively
collateral for secured loans and can serve to acquire securities to make
delivery on short sales. A parallel pattern existed on the liability side,
with virtually all of the $173 billion increase in liabilities representing
repurchase agreements and short positions. These two items now account
for 70% of the liabilities of clearing and carrying firms.
Owners' equity rose 11% from $31.6 billion in 1991 to $35.0 billion
in 1992.

1ft
'"

N

en

E

~

s E :a'"..
a 0

li;
£;
0

00:

c:

c:

..

LOO«

~

l

~

:5CJ
...JZ

"

.. 1ft'"~ ..
~ ..
g

'"
:::.

....
..

en
~
Zcr:
cr:U::
en

~
0

~
~

ll.

E
0

0

oil
c

0

0

c:
0

3
c
::>

:1

E
E
0

0

~>-~
:o~~
Cll
enCJ
I-::>Z

0>=
Zcr:
-cr:

en«

!!!O

!::cr:
cr:o
::>u..
o
w
en

C1)

::::J

e
>
C1)
a:

::l

C1)

c;

-

..

0
til

."

"

:;)

C1)

o
~

::::J
0

en

"
~

01

~
"
i!

~

'"

....

E~

~:a

~ii

co>.
-co

Cia.
"E

,"0
<nU

U

01

-g"

~

a.

'"g>
0
-e

.. j

e

::>
-e

~

0

.E
c:

0

..

t:

a..

B .~
E E a:

iil

"0

c
>-

.E
.£

..

"0

..~ ..
::>

'" ~
..
E

Ql

LL

138

is
::>

Ul
:J

o

0
LL

w

o
a:
:J

"0 0

z

(/)

Table 16
UNCONSOLIDATED REVENUES AND EXPENSES
CARRYING/CLEARING BROKER-DEALERS 11
($ in Millions)

1991'

FOR

1992'
Percert
ltToIaI
ReveIlJes

Percert
Chcr1ge
1991-1992

DoIIcn

Percert
ofToIaI
RtvellJes

$10,340.4

14.3%

$11,416.4

152%

10.4%

19,771.3

27.3

18,748.0

250

(5.2)

6,275.5
2,732.4

8.7
3.8

7,742.8
2,645.2

103
3.5

23.4
(3.2)

2,710.5
2,702.9
25.1
23,249.2
881.7
3,731.1
$72,420.2

3.7
3.7

48
4.5

32.1
1.2
5.2
100.0%

3,588.0
3,358.0
22.5
21,9754
1,853.7
3,718.6
$75,068.5

29.3
2.5
5.0
100.0%

32.4
24.2
(10.4)
(5.5)
110.2
(03)
3.7%

$ 9,900.6
11,215.6

13.7%
15.5

$11,756.2
12,995.1

15.7%
17.3

187%
15.9

2.2

6.5

28
3.3
4.4
1.2
32.0
07
0.6
10.4
90.5%

76
6.3
1.6
19.6
(10.8)
12.4
4.5
11.5
3.3%

DoI~

~

SeClJIIJes CommSSlons
GaJns(losses) m Tradmg and
Investment Accounts
Profrts (losses) From Underwriting
and Sellmg Groups
Margm Interest
Revenues from Sale of Investment
Company Shares
Miscellaneous Fees
Revenues from Research
Other Securities Related Revenues
Commodities Revenues
All Other Revenues
Total Revenues

.ExDJmlli
Registered Representabves' Compensabon
Other Employee Compensabon and Benefits
Compensabon to Partners and Votmg
Stockholder Officers
Commissions and Clearance Paid to
Other Brokers
Communications
Occupancy and Equipment Costs
Data Processing Costs
Interest Expenses
Regulatory Fees and Expenses
losses in Error Accounts and Bad Debts
All Other Expenses
Total Expenses
Income and Profitability
Pre-tax Income
Pre-tax Profit Margin
Pre-tax Retum on Equity
Number of Firms

1,569.9
1,974.9
2,304.2
3,214.2
774.9
26,934.3
436.5
413.3
7,013.5
$65,751.8

S 6,668.3
9.2
22.5
886

2.2
27
32
4.4
1.1
37.2
0.6
0.6
97
90.8%

1,672.1
2,125.5
2,449.3
3,266.7
9265
24,0125
490.6
432.1
7,816.6
$67,943.1

S 7,125.3
9.5
21.4
868

Figures may not add due to rounding .
• under .05%.
r = revIsed
p = prelimill3lY
l! Calendar, rather than fiScal, year data is reported in thiS table.
Note. Includes intormalion for firms doing a public business that carry customer accounts or clear seeunnes
transactions.
Source: FOCUS Report

139

UNCONSOLIDATED

Table 17
BALANCE SHEET FOR CARRYING/CLEARING
BROKER-DEALERS 1/
($ In Millions)

Year-end 1991'
Percent
oIToIaJ
Assets
Dollars

Year-end 1992Percent
of Total
Dollars
Assets

Percent
Change
1991-1992

Assets
Cash
ReceIVables from Other Broker-dealers
(a) SecuritJes FaJledto DelIVer
(b) Securities Borrowed
(c) Other
ReceIVables from Customers
ReceIVables from Non-customers
Long PositJons in Securities and
Commodrties
(a) Bankers Accep13nces, Cer!lficates
of Deposll and Commercial Paper
(b) U.S. and Canadian Government
Obligations
(c) Slate and MUnicipal Government
Obligations
(d) Corporate Obligations
(e) Stocks and Warrants
(f) Options
(g) ArbitJage
(h) Other Securibes
(i) Spot Commodities
Securrties and Il1Yestments Not Readily Marketible
Securities Purchased Under Agreements to Resell
Exchange Membership
Other Assets
Total Assets

$ 9.673.7
159,063.4
13.586.0
132,477.1
13,000.2
50.861.1
1,881.8

1.3%
21.0
1.8
17.5
1.7
6.7
02

$ 10.186.3
212.463.5
11,111.2
186,110.0
15,242.2
49,055.4
3,930.0

1.1%
22.7
12
19.9
1.6
52
0.4

5.3%
33.6
(18.2)
40.5
17.2
(3.6)
108.8

240,265.9

31.7

284,118.2

30.4

18.3

10,493.6

1.4

10,597.8

1.1

1.0

163.681.6

21.6

194,735.4

20.8

19.0

9,428.1
37.192.0
13,118.5
1,266.4
3,127.9
1,5472
196.2
1,7582
272,226.1
283.3
21.325.5
$757,339.0

12
4.9
1.7
0.2
0.4
0.2

11,304.3
46,932.1

12
5.0
1.4
0.1
0.4
02
0.1
02
37.5

LlilbUijjes and EQuitYCaPItal
Bank Loans Payable
Payables to Other Broker-dealers
(a) Securibes Failed to Recetve
(b) Securrlies Loaned
(c) Other
Payables to Non-customers
Payables to Customers
Short Positions in Securities and Commodities
Securrties Sold Under Repurchase Agreements
Other Non-subordinated Liabilities
SUbordinated Liabilrties
Totalliabililles
Eqully Capital
Number of Firms

2.8
100.0%

883.3
3.875.6
1,824.0
487.8
2,231.8
350,083.8
279.6
22.196.4
$934.544.2

2.4
100.0%

19.9
26.2
2.7
(30.3)
23.9
17.9
148.6
26.9
28.6
(1.3)
4.1
23.4%

$ 24,816.1
62,122.3
13,385.2
36,794.8
11,942.4
13,360.7
71,977.5
110,5762
385,655.1
42,366.6
14,893.8
$725,768.3

3.3%
82
1.8
4.9
1.6
1.8
9.5
14.6
50.9
5.6
2.0
95.8

$ 33,405.8
63,059.7
11,493.5
42,865.8
8,700.4
6,306.7
69,677.9
152.528.1
500,217.8
57,498.2
16,805.9
$899,500.0

3.6%
6.7
12
4.6
0.9
0.7
7.5
16.3
53.5
6.2
1.8
96.3

34.6%
1.5
(14.1)
16.5
(27.1)
(52.8)
(3.2)
37.9
29.7
35.7
12.8
23.9

$ 31.570.7

42%

$ 35,044.2

3.7%

11.0%

886

0.2
35.9

13.m.8

868

Figures may not add due to rounding .
• under .05%
r = revised
p = prelimlnaIY
11 Calendar. rather !han fiScal'Jrear data is reported In this lab/e.
Note: Includes Information for ums doing a public business that earlY customer accounts or clear securities !lansactions.
Source: FOCUS Report

140

Securities Traded on Exchanges
Market Value and Volume
The market value of equity and option transactions (trading in stocks,
options, warrants, and rights) on registered exchanges totaled $2.1 trillion
in 1992. Of this total, approximately $2.0 trillion, or 95%, represented the
market value of transactions in stocks, rights and warrants; $116 billion,
5%) were options transactions (including exercises of options on listed
stocks).
The value of equity and option transactions on the New York Stock
Exchange (NYSE) was $1.8 trillion, u p 15% from the previous year. The
market value of such transactions on the American Stock Exchange (Amex)
increased 2% to $70.6 billion and 7%to $320.2 billion on all other exchanges.
The volume of trading in stocks (excluding rights and warrants) on all
registered exchanges totaled 65.5 billion shares, a 13% increase from the
previous year, with 81 % of the total accounted for by trading on the NYSE.
The volume of options contracts traded (excluding exercised contracts)
was 202 million contracts in 1992, 2% greater than in 1991. The market
value of these contracts decreased 5% to $72.2 billion. The volume of
contracts executed on the Chicago Board Options Exchange was virtually
unchanged at 121.5 million. Option trading on the Amex and Philadelphia
Stock Exchanges rose 9% and 3%, respectively. Option trading on the
Pacific Stock Exchange fell 6%.

NASDAQ (Share Volume and Dollar Volume)

NASDAQ share volume and dollar value information has been reported
on a daily basis since November 1, 1971. At the end of 1992, there were
4,764 issues in the NASDAQ system, as compared to 4,684 a year earlier
and 3,050 at the end of 1980.
Share volume for 1992 was 48.5 billion, as compared to 41.3 billion
in 1991 and 6.7 billion in 1980. This trading volume encompasses the
number of shares bought and sold by market makers plus their net inventory
changes. The dollar volume of shares traded in the NASDAQ system was
$890.8 billion during 1992, as compared to $693.9 billion in 1991 and $68.7
billion in 1980.
Share and Dollar Volume by Exchanges

Share volume on all registered stock exchanges totaled 65.5 billion,
an increase of 13% from the previous year. Notably the New York Stock
Exchange accounted for 81% of the 1992 share volume; the American Stock
Exchange, 6%; the Midwest Stock Exchange (became the Chicago Stock
Exchange on June 11, 19931, 5%; the Pacific Stock Exchange, 3%.
The dollar value of stocks, rights, and warrants traded was $2 trillion,
14% higher than the previous year. Trading on the New York Stock
Exchange contributed 86% of the total. The Midwest Stock Exchange and
Pacific Stock Exchange contributed 4%and 3%,respectively. The American
Stock Exchange accounted for 2% of dollar volume. All other exchanges
each contributed less than 2% to the total.

~~gZ~g
~~u;~~g

r--V('f')I"'-OV')

...

lr'i..ntD"":m..n
w(Y)('I")V')VV

5
w

...
<.oONOVOOOC:>
co r-1.1")0

......
o

...

lIi

...'"

,..:....:

....

...
~~~~~~:-O0~
or--c:oc.o(O
..... ~

('f')

cn......:tri"":criNN

a)

~~~~~5~ ~
v('f')NCO~U")t"')

...

...

~

o

U)

143

!;;:oC)o~~m~o
N

cD

:=:t
en

~~~~~~

"':~va_.oa)

w

...-...-...--...-

CJ

z
-c
I
o
X

w

en

w
i=

~~~~f£~

a:

'V-~"':"':~tO
c.o ...... v...-oC)

:::J

...-...-,....

o

.,.--

......

w

en
en_
:::J<Jl

"0

OlZC

:;;O~

-en:J

{ilw~

1--11-

<C
en=
en
z

o
i=
o,

o

>:
I:::J

o
W
LL

o
~

W

:::J

-I

o
>

144

v

(7)

c.o ......

.......ocor--r-('I")
Ot--(7)('f')

en

('f')

.......
...-

..q:MT"""-C"'i..neO
1"- __
N(.Oll")

...-

I,t")v

~
 ....

NtO

Table 20
SHARE VOLUME BY EXCHANGES
(In Percentage)

Year

Total Share
Volume
(in Thousands)

1945
1950
1955
1960
1961
1962
1963
1964
1965
1966
1967
1968
1969
1970
1971
1972
1973
1974
1975
1976
1977
1978
1979
1980
1981
1982
1983
1984
1985
1986
1987
1988
1989
1990
1991
1992

769,018
893.320
1,321,401
1,441,120
2,142,523
1,711,945
1,880,793
2,118,326
2,671,012
3,313,899
4,646,553
5,407,923
5,134,856
4,834,887
6,172,668
6,518,132
5,899,678
4,950,842
6,376,094
7,129,132
7,124,640
9,630,065
10.960,424
15,587,986
15,969,186
22,491,935
30,316,014
30,548,014
37,187,567
48,580,524
64,082,996
52,665,654
54,416,790
53,746,087
58,296,284
65,743,023

NYSE
65.87
76.32
68.85
68.47
64.99
71.31
72.93
72.81
69.90
69.38
64.40
61.98
63.16
71.28
71.34
70.47
74.92
78.47
80.99
8005
79.71
79.53
79.88
79.94
80.68
8122
80.37
82.54
81.52
81.12
83.09
83.74
81.33
81.86
82.00
81.29

11

AMEX

MS~

PSE

PHLX

SSE

CSE

21.31
13.54
19.19
22.27
25.58
20.11
18.83
19.42
22.53
22.84
28.41
29.74
27.61
19.03
18.42
18.22
13.75
10.28
8.97
9.35
9.56
10.65
10.85
10.78
9.32
6.96
7.45
5.26
5.78
6.28
5.57
4.95
6.02
6.23
5.52
5.73

1.77
2.16
2.09
2.20
222
2.34
2.32
2.43
2.63
2.56
2.35
2.63
2.84
3.16
3.52
3.71
4.09
4.40
3.97
3.87
3.96
3.56
3.30
3.84
4.60
5.09
5.48
6.03
6.12
5.73
5.19
5.26
5.44
4.68
4.66
4.62

2.98
3.11
3.08
3.11
3.41
2.95
2.82
2.65
2.33
2.68
2.46
2.64
3.47
3.68
3.72
4.13
3.68
3.48
3.26
3.93
3.72
3.84
3.27
2.80
2.87
3.62
3.56
3.31
3.66
3.68
3.23
3.03
3.34
3.16
3.58
3.18

1.06
0.97
0.85
0.88
0.79
0.87
0.83
0.93
0.81
0.86
0.87
0.89
1.22
1.63
1.91
2.21
2.19
1.82
1.54
1.42
1.49
1.49
1.64
1.54
1.55
2.18
2.20
1.79
1.47
1.53
1.30
1.29
1.80
1.82
1.60
1.72

0.66
0.65
0.48
0.38
0.30
0.31
0.29
0.29
0.26
0.40
0.43
0.78
0.51
0.51
0.43
0.59
0.71
0.86
0.85
0.78
0.66
0.60
0.55
0.57
0.51
0.48
0.65
0.85
1.27
1.33
1.28
1.32
1.64
1.71
1.77
1.57

0.05
0.09
0.05
0.04
0.04
0.04
0.04
0.03
0.05
0.05
0.02
0.01
0.00
0.02
003
0.03
0.04
0.05
0.13
0.44
0.64
0.16
0.28
0.32
0.37
0.38
0.19
0.18
0.15
0.30
0.30
0.39
0.41
0.53
0.86
1.83

Others'JI
6.30
3.16
5.41
2.65
2.67
2.07
1.94
1.44
1.49
1.23
1.06
1.33
1.19
0.69
0.63
0.64
0.62
0.64
0.29
0.16
0.26
0.17
0.23
0.21
0.10
0.07
010
0.04
0.03
0.02
0.04
0.02
0.02
0.Q1
0.01
0.06

jJ Share volume for exchanges includes stocks, rights and wanants; calendar, rather than fiscal, year dala is

reported In this table.

2/ The Midwest Stock Exchange changed its name in 1993 to the Chicago Stock Exchange.
~

Includes all exchanges not listed individually.

Source: SEC Form R-31

145

Table 21
DOLLAR VOLUME BY EXCHANGES 1 1
(In Percentage)

Year

TOW Dollar
Volume
(S in Thousands)

NYSE

AMM

MSEY

-

PSE

-

PHLX

BSE

CSE

-

I/ Dollar volume for exchanges includes stocks, rights and warrants; calendar. rather tttan fiscal, year data is
reported in thls M l e .
Y The Midwest Stock Exchange changed its name in 1993 to b e Chicago Stock Exchange.
Y Includes all exchanges not l~stedindividually.
Source: SEC Form A-31

146

OthersY

~O~~~gr:~~
N
N
-:""':N
,..:

..
c>
~

c>

en

..,

c>

~


.,.;

~c>~~~:g8~;:!:
0......
r---- ......
-

0

~

cD

g~ ......

~o~~o~~~~
cD

..

......

8
z

a)

q

oro':

,..:

..
~

""

N

..

O~~

u-)

v-)

""

""

o
CD

v

-

0

vU")v

......
«00

,...."
Z
cnll")

-='"!S'"
en
'"

~o
N
..

~.,.

N

...... ("f')

N

......
~r-~~~~
to

a>

co

~

<.>

.,
~
o

Cl

<.>

UJ

cc

ffi
u..
UJ

a::

Cl

0..

Q;
.0

E
=>

z

0' ......
v (X)
g~U")("f')Z~

cri-=
on ""

..

«

CO')

to
......

;;

Q;
.0

E
=>

z

~


u..

U
UJ
(I'l

147

Table 23
VALUE OF STOCKS LISTED ON EXCHANGES
($ in Billions)

New York
As of
Dec 31
1938
1940
1941
1942
1943
1944
1945
1946
1947
1948
1949
1950
1951
1952
1953
1954
1955
1956
1957
1958
1959
1960
1961
1962
1963
1964
1965
1966
1967
1968
1969
1970
1971
1972
1973
1974
1975
1976
1977
1978
1979
1980
1981
1982
1983
1984
1985
1986
1987
1988
1989
1990
1991
1992
Source: SEC Form 1392

148

Stock
Exchange

S

47.5
46.5
41.9
35.8
47.6
55.5
73.8
68.6
68.3
67.0
76.3
93.8
109.5
120.5
117.3
169.1
207.7
219.2
195.6
276.7
307.7
307.0
387.8
345.8
411.3
474.3
537.5
482 5
605.8
692.3
629.5
636.4
741.8
871.5
721.0
511.1
685.1
858.3
776.7
822.7
960.6
1,242.8
1,143.8
1.305 A
1.522.2
1,529.5
1.882.7
2,128 5
2,132.2
2,366.1
2,903.5
2,692.1
3,5475
3,877.9

American
Stock
Exchange

S 10.8
10.1
8.6
7.4
9.9
112
14.4
13.2
12.1
11.9
12.2
13.9
16 5
16.9
15.3
22.1
27.1
31.O
25.5
31.7
25.4
242
33.0
24.4
26.1
28.2
30.9
27.9
43.0
61.2
47.7
39.5
49.1
55.6
38.7
23.3
29.3
36 0
37.6
39.2
57.8
103.5
89.4
77.6
80.1
52.0
632
70.3
67.0
84.1
100.9
69.9

903
86.4

Exclus~vely
On Other
Exchanges

S .....

.....
....

....
.....
.....
.....

.....
.....
3.0
3.1
3.3
3.2
3.1
2.8
3.6
4.0
3.8
3.1
4.3
4.2
4.1
5.3
4.0
4.3
4.3
4.7
4.0
3.9
6.0
5.4
4.8
4.7
5.6
4.1
2.9
4.3
4.2
4.2
2.9
3.9
2.9
5.0
6.8
6.6
5.8
5.9
6.5
5.9
4.9
4.6
3.9
4.3
5.9

Total

S 58.3
56.6
50.5
432
57.5
66.7
88.2
81.8
80.4
81.9
91.6
111.0
1292
140.5
135.4
194.8
238.8
254.0
224.2
312.7
337.3
335.3
426.1
3742
441.7
5068
573.1
514.4
652.7
759.5
682.6
680.7
795.6
932.7
763.8
537.3
718.7
898.5
818.5
864.8
1.022.3
1.3492
1,2382
1.389.7
1,608.8
1,5873
1,951.8
2.205.3
2.205.1
2,455.1
3.009.0
2.765.9
3.642.1
3,970.2

Table 24

APPROPRIATED FUNDS vs FEES. COLLECTED
$ Millions
550

516.8
500

450

400

350

300

253.2

/
I

-- -- -- - -- --7-------

200

/

/

-- - -- ---)1- - -- - ---------

150

APPROPRIATED

-' /

_____
£UJfOJ.N_G

100

'"~

-~::_-

50

o
mm

n

~

~

~_ ~

.. -*'

....
--------

~

~

_

~

------------.

---_.-------------

M

~

M

~

~

~

~

~

~
~r

00

• Excludes

dlsgorgements
from fraud actions.
appropriated
funding bas been adjusted to exclude
offsetting collections not In appropriated
estimates.

rJ FY1991

149

t.t') co
..... -e- 10
.......CO .......<.or-M
N~Nr--."""('\/
<D

N

.......
NO'>(")M

o/~~~+~

o

!

o

;J.
N

~
m

;:,
o

......
0

...........

o

~
~ ~~8:2
~~~~
..........
W

W

;~;~
N"+N"

;:,
.q-_t:T>OOO

0......,
.... N

0<0..".
OM<D

~~~~
.............
--~
.......

M ......
MQr> .......
In<oon<N.n(O
__ N
..... ..,. ......N

150

o
N

>0
0

Ii
Z

x

~

:;I~

"':x
wZ

Z:>
wO
OU

'" Z

~,..:o
~~g!
~~3m

'"!i!
0

iii

i

0
u

~~

E
E

w~

ii

'"~
ij

z",
Q",

~"
~~

'"~
8

~<

'"

~

w
Z

8

~~

Z

e

~
i

~!~~
\i:~g~

~Q

;;.

0
.UJ
UJ
.-

'"

Zw
..Q:fU)
Ul~:J1IJ

~~
I~
~~

~iiJ

~z

~i
i~

w"

;:;~

....

-:0

1l[;)

0

o

~:J

~'"

Uw
~Z
",w

Q)
C)

~o

e

as
.s:::
0
><

~

~


~~
:>u
Uw

~H~
wO

H

a~~

e
~


UJ

::::J
0
Q)

w~~
wo

Z

Q)

'i:

s

:;In

as

;::

~
5

W
"C

'"

!i!
Q

'"'"
i

\I

!

~
e

~

ffi

~if1
0>-

8

en

z~
0"
UZ
w"

~
~

~
~

Z

~
'"Ii'
s
Z
Q

j
0
U

0
Z

i!i
U

..

!z

~~
~~
u8

!i

ti

~
!I

..

~
Z

l'j

151

