1

9

9

4

Annual Report

United States
Securities and Exchange Commission

UNITED STATES
SECURITIES AND EXCHANGE COMMISSION
WASHINGTON, D.C. 20549

The Honorable Albert Gore, Jr.
President of the Senate
Washington, D.C. 20510

The Honorable Newt Gingrich
Speaker of the House
Washington, D.C. 2051.5

Gentlemen:
I a m pleased to transmit the annual report of the Securities and
Exchange Commission for fiscal year 1994. During the year, the
Commission:

.

enhanced its commitment to protect investors with initiatives to
improve public awareness and educate investors;

.
.
.

completed a self-examination to create a more efficient reporting
structure, improve resource utilization and streamline operations;

obtained court orders requiring defendants to disgorgeillicit profits
of approximately $730 million;
streamlined the regulatory process by eliminating the need for
review of certain SRO rule filings;
conducted several oversight inspections of self-regulatory
organizations with a particular focus on sales practice abuses;

.

released the report, Market 2000: An Examination of Current Equity
Market Developments, which identified four areas where the markets
could work better for investors and where competition could work
better for the markets;

.

adopted several initiatives to simplify and lower the cost of
registration and reporting for domestic issuers and foreign
companies accessing the United States public securities markets;

.	

f ocused o n improving a n d simplifying communications to
investment company shareholders, enhancing the integrity of
participants in the investment managementindustry, and evaluating
the use of derivatives by investment companies; and

.	

collected $588.2 million in fee revenue, more than twice as much
as its annual funding level of $260.3 million.

The report has been prepared in accordance with the provisions of
Section 23(b) of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended; Section
23 of the Public Utility Holding Company Act of 1935; Section 46(a) of
the Investment Company Act of 1940; Section 216 of the Investment
Advisers Act of 1940; Section 3 of the Act of June 29, 1949 amending the
Bretton Woods Agreement Act; Section l l ( b ) of the Inter-American
Development Bank Act; and Section l l ( b ) of the Asian Development Act.
Sincerely,

Arthur Levitt
Chairman

Table of Contents

.......................................... ix 

Biographies of Commission Members ............................................................... xi 


Commission Members and Principal Staff Officers

+

Arthur Levitt Richard Y. Roberts
Steven M.H. Wallman
Regional and District Offices

+J. Carter Beese, Jr. +

..............................................................................

xv 


Enforcement
Key 1994 Results ......................................................................................................... I
Enforcement Authority
Inq*

+Enforcement Activities + Sources for Further

International Affairs
Key 1994 Results .....................................................................................................
Arrangements for Mutual Assistance and Exchanges of Information
Enforcement Cooperation Technical Assistance International
Organizations and Multilateral Initiatives Trade Negotiations

+

+

+

20

+

Regulation of the Securities h4arket.s
Key 1994 Results .........................................................................................................28

+

Securities Markets, Trading and Significant Regulatory Issues Examination and Oversight of Brokers, Dealers, Muniapal Securities Dealers,
and Transfer Agents Oversight of Self-Regulatory Organizations

+

Investment Management Regulation
Key 1994 Results .........................................................................................................39

+

eogram Overview Special Reports
Applications and Interpretations

+ Regulatory Policy + Significant

Full Disclosure System 

53
Key 1994 Results .........................................................................................................

Review of Filings
Conferences

+ Rulemaking, Interpretive, and Legislative Matters +

Accounting and Auditing Matters
Key 1994 Results .........................................................................................................61

+

Accounting Related Rules and Interpretations Oversight of PrivateSector Standard-Setting Oversight of the Accounting Profession's
Initiatives International Accounting and Auditing Standards

+

+

Other Litigation and Legal Activities
Key 1994 Results ......................................................................................................... 67

+

Significant Litigation Developments Significant Adjudication Developments Legal Policy Developments Significant Legislative Developments Corporate Reorganizations Ethical Conduct Program
Workload

+
+

+
+

+

Economic Research and Analysis
Key 1994 Results ......................................................................................................

81

Economic Analysis and Technical Assistance
Policy Management and Administrative Support
Key 1994 Results ......................................................................................................
Policy Management

83

+ Administrative Support

............................................................................................................
Appendix ...........................................................................................................
Endnotes

91
101

Enforcement Cases Initiated by the Commission During Fiscal Year 1994
in Various Program Areas Fiscal 1994 Enforcement Cases Listed by
Program Area +Investigations of Possible Violations of the Acts Administered by the Commission Administrative Proceedings Instituted During Fiscal Year Ending September 30,1994 Injunctive
Actions Right to Financial Privacy Types of Proceedings Foreign
Restricted List Self-RegulatoryOrganizations: Expenses, Pre-tax
Income and Balance Sheet Structure Consolidated Financial Inforrnation of Self-Regulatory Organizations Self-Regulatory OrganizationsClearing Corporations, 1993 Revenues and Expenses SelfRegulatory OrganizationsDepositories, 1993 Revenues and Expenses
Certificate Immobilization Exemptions Corporate Reorganizations +The Securities Industry: Revenues, Expenses, and Selected
Balance Sheet Items Unconsolidated Financial Information for BrokerDealers, 1989 - 1993 Unconsolidated Annual Revenues and Expenses
for Broker-Dealers Doing a Public Business, 1989 - 1993 Unconsolidated Balance Sheet for Broker-Dealers Doing a Public Business Yearend, 1989 - 1993 Carrying and Clearing Firms Securities Industry
Dollar in 1993 for CanyinglClearing Firms Unconsolidated Revenues

+

+

+

+

+
+
+

+

+

+

+

+

+
+

+

+

+

+

+

+

and Expenses for CanyingJClearing Broker-Dealers Unconsolidated
Balance Sheet for Canying/Clearing Broker-Dealers Securities Traded
on Exchanges: Market Value and Volume NASDAQ (Share Volume
and Dollar Volume) Share and Dollar Volume by Exchanges
Market Value of Equity/Options Sales on U.S. Exchanges +Volume of
Equity/Options Sales on U.S. Securities Exchanges Share Volume by
Exchanges
Dollar Volume by Exchanges Securities Listed on
Exchanges Value of Stock; Listed on Exchanges Appropriated
Funds vs. Fees Collected +Budget and Appropriations Securities and
Exchange Commission Organizational Chart

+

+
+

+

+

+

+

+
+

+

Commissioners*

Term Expires

Arthur Levitt, Chairman
Richard Y. Roberts
J. Carter Beese, Jr.
Steven M.H. Wallman
Principal Staff Officers

Lori Richards, Executive Assistant
Linda C. Quinn, Director, Division of Corporation Finance
Vacant, Deputy Director
William E. Morley, Senior Associate Director
Abigail Ams, Associate Director
Meredith B. Cross, Associate Director
Teresa E. Iannaconi, Associate Director
Howard F. Morin, Associate Director
Mauri L. Osheroff, Associate Director
Robert A. Bayless, Chief Accountant
David A. Sirignano, Senior k g a l Adviser
William R. McLucas, Director, Division of Enforcement
Colleen P. Mahoney, Deputy Director
Joseph I. Goldstein, Associate Director
Thomas C. Newkirk, Associate Director
Gary N. Sundick, Associate Director
Joan E. McKown, Chief Counsel
Barry R. Goldsmith, Chief Litigation Counsel
Stephen J. Crimmins, Deputy Chief Litigation Counsel
George H. Diacont, Chief Accountant
James A. Clarkson, III, Director of Regional Office Operations
Bany Barbash, Director, Division of Investment Management 

Barbara J. Green, Deputy Director 

Matthew A. Chambers, Associate Director 

Gene A. Gohlke, Associate Director 

C. Gladwyn Goins, Associate Director 

William C. Weeden, Associate Director 

Vacant, Chief Counsel 

*Commissioner Mary L. Schapiro resigned from the Commission on 

October 21, 1994. 


Brandon Becker, Director, Division of Market Regulation 

Robert LD. Colby, Deputy Director 

Larry E. Bergmann, Associate Director 

Mark D. Fitterman, Associate Director 

Mary Ann Gadziala, Associate Director 

Jonathan Kallman, Associate Director 

Howard Kramer, Associate Director 

Michael A. Macchiaroli, Associate Director 

Catherine McGuire, Associate DirectorlChief Counsel 

Holly Smith, Associate Director 


I

Simon M. Lome, Genera1 Counsel, Office of Geneml Counsel
Paul Gonson, Solicitor and Deputy General Counsel
Phillip D. Parker, Deputy General Counsel (Legal Policy)
Anne E. Chafer, Associate General Counsel
Richard M. Humes, Associate General Counsel
Diane Sanger, Associate General Counsel
Jacob H. Stillman, Associate General Counsel
William S. Stem, Counselor for Adjudication

I,

Walter P. Schueke, Chief Accountant, Office of the Chief Accountant
John P. Riley, Deputy Chief Accountant

I

1/
I

I

1

I

/

I

Brenda Murray, Chief Administrative Law Judge, Office of the Administrative Law
Judge
Susan E. Woodward, Chief Ecawmist, Office of Economic Anulysis
Jeffry L. Davis, Director, Economic and Policy Research
Nancy M. Smith, Dimtor,

O f i e of Consumer Affairs

Vacant, Director, Office of Equal Employment Opportunity

Il

I

James M. McConnell, Executive Director, Office of the Executive Director
Susan Baumann, Deputy Executive Director
Femando L. Alegria, Jr., Associate Executive Director
Wilson A. Butler, Jr., Associate Executive Director
Lawrence H. Haynes, Associate Executive Director
Vacant, Associate Executive Director

I1

Michael D. Mann, Director, Ofice of Intemtional Affairs

1
I

I

I

I

i

Kathryn Fulton, Director, Office of Legislative Affairs
Jennifer Kimball, Director, Officeof Public Affairs, Policy Evaluation and Research

I

1

I

Jonathan G. Kak, Secretary of the Commission

1

I

Chairman
Following his nomination by 

President Clinton and his confirmation 

by the Senate, Arthur Levitt, Jr. was 

sworn in as the 25th Chairman of the 

Securities and Exchange Commission 

on July 27, 1993. 

Before being nominated to the 

Commission, Mr. Levitt served as the 

Chairman of the New York City 

Economic Development Corporation 

and, from 1978 to 1989, the Chairman 

of the American Stock Exchange 

(Amex). 

Throughout his career, Mr. Levltt has been called upon to serve on
many governmental task forces and boards of directors. At the federal
level, he has served on four executive branch commissions, Including
chairing the White House Small Business Task Force from 1978 to 1980.
Most recently, he was a member of the President's Base Closure and
Realignment Commission and the Defense Department Task Force on the
National Industrial Base. In addition to heading the New York City
Economic Development Corporation, he chaired the Special Advisory Task
Force on the Future Development of the West Side of Manhattan and the
Committee on Incentives and Tax Policy of the New York City Mayor's
Management Advisory Task Force.
Mr. Levitt has served on 10 corporate and philanthropic boards,
including those of the Equitable Life Assurance Society of the United
States, East New York Savings Bank, First Empire State Corporation, the
Revson Foundation, the Rockefeller Foundation, the Solomon R.
Guggenheim Foundation and Williams College.
Mr. Levitt founded Levitt Media Company in 1990. Its primary
holding was Roll Call, the Newspaper of Congress.
Prior to accepting the Amex chairmanship, Mr. Levitt worked for 16
years on Wall Street. From 1969 to 1978, he was President and Director
of Shearson Hayden Stone, Inc. (today Smith Barney Shearson) whose
predecessor firm he joined as a partner in 1962. It was during this period
that Mr. Levitt first involved himself with Amex, becoming one of its
governors in 1975 and in 1977 accepting the additional position of Vice
Chairman.
From 1959 to 1962,Mr. Levitt worked at the Kansas-based agricultural
management firm Oppenheimer Industries, where he rose to the position
of Executive Vice President and Director. From 1954 to 1959, Mr. Levitt
was assistant promotion director at Time, Inc.

Mr. Levitt, 63, graduated Phi Beta Kappa from Williams College in
1952 before serving two years in the Air Force. Married since 1955 to
the former Marylin Blauner, Mr. Levitt has two children, Arthur 111 and
Lauri.

Commlssloner
Richard Roberts was nominated to the
Commission by President Bush a n d
confirmed by the Senate on September 27,
1990. He was sworn in as a Commissioner
on October 1,1990 by the Honorable Stanley
Sporkin, Judge for the United States District
Court of the District of Columbia. His term
expires in June 1995.
Before being nominated to the
Commission, Mr. Roberts was in the private
~ r a c t i c eof law with the Washington office
bf Miller, Hamilton, Snider & 0 d k . Before
joining the law firm in April 1990,Mr. Roberts was administrative assistant
and legislative director for Senator Richard Shelby (D., Ala.), a position
he assumed in 1987. Prior to that, Mr. Roberts was, for four years, in
the private practice of law in Alabama. From 1979 to 1982, Mr. Roberts
was administrative assistant and legislative director for then-Congressman
Shelby.
Mr. Roberts is a 1973 graduate of Auburn University and a 1976
graduate of the University of Alabama School of Law. He also received
a Master of Laws in taxation from the George Washington University
National Law Center in 1981. He is admitted to the bar in the District
of Columbia and Alabama. Mr. Roberts is a member of the Alabama State
Bar Association and the District of Columbia Bar Association.
He and his wife, the former Peggy Frew, make their home in Fairfax,
Virginia with their son and two daughters.
Mr. Roberts was born in Birmingham, Alabama on July 3, 1951.
Commissioner
J. Carter Beese, Jr. was nominated to
the U.S. Securities and Exchange Commission
in October 1991 by President George Bush
and confirmed by the U.S. Senate onFebruary
27,1992. Mr. Beese was sworn in as the 71st
member of the Commission in a private
ceremony held on March 10, 1992, by the
Honorable Stanley Sporkin, Judge for the
U;S. District Court for the District of
Columbia. On April 20,1992,Mr. Beese was
formally sworn in at the White House by
Vice president Dan Quayle.

During his tenure at the Commission, Commissioner Beese has been
particularly active in the areas of investment management, the derivatives
markets and cross-border capital flows. Commissioner Beese's focus on
these areas is centered on his belief that the transformation of savers into
investors through mutual funds, the development
of new financial
instruments to reallocate risk, and the globalization of the world's capital
markets are fundamentally remaking our markets. Commissioner Beese
is committed to maintaining the competitiveness of U.S. capital markets
and is committed to a reassessment of the growing legal and regulatory
burdens imposed on the capital formation process.
Before joining the Commission, Mr. Beese was a partner of Alex.
Brown & Sons, the oldest investment banking firm in the United States.
Mr. Beese's corporate responsibilities included business development in
the areas of corporate finance, investment management, and institutional
brokerage.
Mr. Beese joined Alex. Brown in 1978, became an officer in
1984, and was named partner in 1987. Mr. Beese was also active in the
founding of the Carlyle Group, a Washington based merchant bank, and
served as an advisory director from 1986 -
 1989.
Mr. Beese has also served in other capacities in government, each
related to enhancing the competitiveness of U.S. industries and markets.
In 1990, Mr. Beese was appointed by President Bush, and confirmed by
the U.S. Senate, as a Director of the Overseas Private Investment Corporation
(OPIC). OPIC is a U.S. government agency that assists American private
business investment in over 120 countries by financing direct loans and
loan guarantees and by insuring investments against a broad range of
political risks. OPIC plays a vital role in the effort to gain access to new
markets for U.S. products and businesses.
Mr. Beese also served as a member of the Securities and Exchange
Commission's Emerging Markets Advisory Committee.
As part of his
responsibilities, Mr. Beese provided technical assistance on the formation
and regulatory oversight of financial markets. Further, during 1991 Mr.
Beese also served as a member of the Committee on Financing Technology
in the U.S., a joint project between the Treasury and Commerce Departments
initiated to study the adequacy of investment in the technology needed
by U.S. companies to meet the challenges of global competition.
In addition, Mr. Beese has been involved in public and private sector
initiatives to enhance the economic development of the Asia-Pacific region.
He is a member of the United States National Committee for Pacific
Economic Cooperation (US-PEC), which advises the U.S. government on
ways to improve economic cooperation with countries in the Asia-Pacific
region. Mr. Beese also serves as co-chairman with former U.S. Senator
Adlai Stevenson of the US-PEC's Financial Markets Development project
committee. This committee will develop policy recommendations to spur
financial market development in the Pacific economies.
Mr. Beese is active in a number of civic organizations, including the
American Center for International Leadership (ACIL), of which he is a
director.
ACIL brings young American leaders together with their

viii

counterparts in various foreign countries.
Mr. Beese participated in
ACIL missions to the Peoples Republic of China in 1988 and to the former
Soviet Union in 1990. He serves on the boards of Preservation Maryland
and the National Foundation for Teaching Entrepreneurship.
He is also
active in the Order of St. John. Mr. Beese resides in Baltimore, Maryland
with his wife, Natalie, and three children, Courtney, John Carter and
Wilson.

Commissioner
Steven M.H. Wallman was nominated
to the Securities and Exchange Commission
by President Bill Clinton and confirmed by
the Senate on June 29,1994. He was sworn
in as a Commissioner on July 5, 1994. His
term expires in June 1997.
Before being nominated
to the
Commission, Mr. Wallman was in private
practice with the Washington law office of
Covington and Burling. He joined the firm
in 1978 as an Associate, becoming a Partner
in 1986. While at Covington & Burling, Mr. Wallman specialized in
general corporate, securities, contract and business law. Mr. Wallman
also worked for the Boston Consulting Group in 1978. He is a member
of the American Law Institute and the American Bar Association.
Mr. Wallman received his J.D. from the Columbia University School
of Law in 1978. In 1976, he earned an S.M. from the Sloan School of
Management at the Massachusetts Institute of Technology and an S.B.
from M.LT. in 1975.
He and his wife live in Great Falls, Virginia.
Mr. Wallman was born on November 14, 1953.

xiv

~u

D

<n
Q)

u

g>£
c: !Q
0;0

co co
Ols: c
"S~

0«

(J)

:E

o

.g

-

.!!?

o

•

en
w

o

u:
LL

tn

o

Q)

u

:E

I-

o

2
a:

C1l

c

I-

.2

~

C
C

a:

Cl
Q)

*

Z

<t
...J

<t

Z

Q
CJ

w
a:

D

5~
-

Ul

°

0>Ol

C:.r::;
-t::
co 0

o
w

t

E~

en

Olt::

o({.(

"

-c

:>

o

u

•\

1
_0

5~

0>0

8!.~C3
c.;)

~ c

c.;)
co
co ~
a..u..

c
co

(J)

"V

Central Regional Office
Robert H. Davenport, Regional Director
1801 California St., Suite 4800
Denver, CO 80202-2648
(303) 391-6800
Fort Worth District Office
T. Christopher Browne,
District Administrator
801 Cherry Street, 19th Floor
Fort Worth, TX 76102
(817) 334-3821
Salt Lake District Office
Kenneth D. Israel, District Administrator
500 Key Bank Tower
50 S. Main Street, Suite 500
Box 79
Salt Lake City, UT 84144-0402
(801) 524-5796

Midwest Regional Office
Mary Keefe, Regional Director
Citicorp Center
500 W. Madison St., Suite 1400
Chicago, IL 60661-2511
(312) 353-7390

Northeast Regional Office
Richard H. Walker, Regional Director
7 World Trade Center, Suite 1300
New York, NY 10048
(212) 748-8000
Boston District Office
Juan M. Marcelino, District Administrator
73 Tremont Street
Sixth Floor, Suite 600
Boston, MA 02108
(617) 424-5900
Philadelphia District Office
Donald M. Hoerl, District Administrator
The Curtis Center, Suite 1005 E.
601 Walnut Street
Philadelphia, PA 19106-3322
(215) 597-3100

xvi

Pacific Regional Office
Elaine M. Cacheris, Regional Director
5670 Wilshire Blvd., 11th Floor
Los Angeles, CA 90036-3648
(213) 965-3998
San Francisco District Office
David B. Bayless, District Administrator
44 Montgomery Street, Suite 1100
San Francisco, CA 90036-3648
(415) 705-2500

Southeast Regional Office
Charles V. Senatore, Regional Director
1401 Brickell Avenue, Suite 200
Miami, FL 33131
(305) 536-5765
Atlanta District Office
Richard P. Wessel,
District Administrator
3475 Lenox Road, N.E.
Suite 1000
Atlanta, GA 30326-1232
(404) 842-7600

Enforcement

The Commission's enforcement program is designed to protect investors
and foster confidence by preserving the integrity and efficiency of the
securities markets. The enforcemen t program's principal legislative mandates
contain explicit authority for the agency to conduct investigations and
prosecute violations of the securities laws by bringing enforcement actions in
federal court or instituting administrative proceedings beforethe Commission.
Last year, as in prior years, the Commission maintained a strong presence in
all areas within its jurisdiction.
Key 1994 Results

In 1994, the Commission instituted a significant number of enforcement
actions in response to a wide range of securities law violations.
In its
administrative
and judicial proceedings, the Commission sought and
obtained relief from a broad and flexible array of remedies designed to
protect investors and the public interest.
The Commission obtained court orders requiring defendants
to
disgorge illicit profits of approximately $730 million.
Civil penalties
authorized by the Securities Enforcement Remedies and Penny Stock
Reform Act of 1990 (Remedies Act), the Insider Trading Sanctions Act of
1984 (ITSA), and the Insider Trading and Securities Fraud Enforcement
Act of 1988 (ITSFEA) totalled over $34 million. In some instances, the
payment of disgorgement pursuant to a court order was waived based
upon the defendant's demonstrated inability to pay. Courts have noted
also in some cases that civil penalties were appropriate but were not
imposed because of the demonstrated inability to pay.
In Commission-related cases, criminal authorities obtained 48 criminal
indictments
or informations,
and 53 convictions
during 1994. The
Commission granted access to its files to domestic and foreign prosecutorial
authorities in 451 instances.
Total Enforcement

Total
Civil Injunctive Actions
Administrative Proceedings
Civil and Criminal Contempt
Proceedings
Reports of Investigation

Actions Initiated

1990

1991

1992

1993

1994

304
186
111

320
172
138

394
156
226

416
172
229

497
196
268

7
0

9
1

11
1

15
0

33
0

1

Enforcement Authority
The Commission has broad authority to investigate possible violations
of the federal securities laws. Informal investigations are conducted on
a voluntary basis, with the Commission requesting persons with relevant
information to cooperate by providing documents and testifying before
SEC staff. The federal securities laws also empower the Commission to
conduct formal investigations in which the Commission has the authority
to issue subpoenas that compel the production of books and records and
the appearance
of witnesses
to testify.
Generally, both types of
investigations are conducted on a confidential, non-public basis.
Traditionally, the Commission's primary enforcement mechanism for
addressing violative conduct has been the federal court injunction, which
prohibits future violations.
In civil actions for injunctive relief, the
Commission is authorized
to seek temporary restraining orders and
preliminary injunctions as well as permanent injunctions against any
person who is violating or about to violate any provision of the federal
securities laws. Once an injunction has been imposed, conduct that
violates the injunction is punishable by either civil or criminal contempt,
and violators are subject to fines or imprisonment.
In addition to seeking
such orders, the Commission often seeks other equitable relief such as
an accounting and disgorgemen t of illegal profi ts. When seeking temporary
restraining orders, the Commission often requests a freeze order to prevent
concealment of assets or dissipation of the proceeds of illegal conduct.
The Remedies Act authorized the Commission to seek, and the courts to
impose, civil penalties for any violation of the federal securities laws (with
the exception of insider trading violations for which penalties are available
under ITSA). The Remedies Act also affirmed the existing equitable
authority of the federal courts to bar or suspend individuals from serving
as corporate officers or directors.
The Commission has the authority to institute several types of
administrative proceedings, in addition to civil injunctive actions. The
Commission may institute administrative proceedings against regulated
entities in which the sanctions that may be imposed include a censure,
limitation on activities, and suspension or revocation of registration. The
Commission may impose similar sanctions on persons associated with
such entities and persons affiliated with investment companies. In addition,
individuals participating in an offering of penny stock may be barred by
the Commission from such participation.
In administrative proceedings
against regulated entities and their associated persons, the Remedies Act
also authorized
the Commission
to impose penalties
and order
disgorgement.
The Remedies Act further authorized the Commission to institute
administrative proceedings in which it can issue cease and desist orders.
A permanent cease and desist order can be entered against any person
violating the federal securities laws and may require disgorgement of
illegal profits. The Commission also is authorized to issue temporary
cease and desist orders (if necessary, on an ex parte basis) against regulated
entities and their associated persons if the Commission determines that
2

the violation or threatened violation is likely to result in significant
dissipation or conversion of assets, significant harm to investors, or
substantial
harm to the public interest prior to the completion
of
proceedings.
Section 8(d) of the Securities Act of 1933 (Securities Act) enables the
Commission to institute proceedings to suspend the effectiveness of a
registration
statement that contains false and misleading statements.
Administrative proceedings pursuant to Section 15(c)(4) of the Securities
Exchange Act of 1934 (Exchange Act) can be instituted against any person
who fails to comply, and any person who is a cause of failure to comply,
with reporting, beneficial ownership, proxy, and tender offer requirements.
Respondents can be ordered to comply, or to take steps to effect compliance,
with the relevant provisions. Pursuant to Rule 2(e) of the Commission's
Rules of Practice, administrative
proceedings can be instituted against
professionals who appear or practice before the Commission, including
accountants and attorneys.
The sanctions that can be imposed in these
proceedings include suspensions and bars from appearing or practicing
before the Commission.
The Commission is authorized to refer matters to other federal, state,
or local authorities or self-regulatory organizations (SROs) such as the
New York Stock Exchange (NYSE) or the National Association of Securities
Dealers (NASD). The staff often provides substantial assistance to criminal
authorities, such as the Department of Justice, for the criminal prosecution
of securities violations.
Enforcement Activities
Set forth below are summaries of significant enforcement actions
initiated in various areas during 1994. Defendants or respondents who
consented to settlements of actions did so without admitting or denying
the factual allegations contained in the complaint or order instituting
proceedings. See Table 2 for a listing of all enforcement actions instituted
in 1994.

Offering Cases
Securities offering cases involve the offer and sale of securities in
violation of the registration provisions of the Securities Act. In some cases,
the issuers attempt to rely on exemptions from the registration requirements
that are not available under the circumstances. Offering cases frequently
involve material misrepresentations
concerning, among other things, use
of proceeds, risks associated with investments, disciplinary history of
promoters or control persons, business prospects, promised returns, success
of prior offerings, and the financial condition of issuers.

1. Telecommunications Technology Cases
The Commission has filed a number of cases in the past two years
arising from the fraudulent, unregistered sale of securities in ventures
involved in wireless cable, specialized mobile radio, interactive video and
data services, and similar telecommunication
technologies. While many
3

telecommunications technology companies raise capital through legitimate
means, the Commission has uncovered numerous fraudulent ventures,
which often take the form of limited liability companies or partnerships
that promoters falsely represent as outside the registration provisions of
the federal securities laws, and which often are promoted through
"infomercials" and high-pressure telephone sales pitches. Due to their
prevalence, the Division of Enforcement issued a general warning to
investors to beware of these frauds, indicating that it was particularly
concerned about the apparent targeting of retirement funds by promoters
of the frauds.' In the last year, the Commission filed eleven injunctive
actions in this area. Moving quickly to preserve assets for the benefit
of defrauded investors, the Commission obtained temporary restraining
orders and orders freezing assets, or other emergency relief, in most of
these cases. Each of the cases discussed below was pending at the end
of the year.
In SEC v. Parkersburg
Wireless Limited Liability Company/
the
Commission alleged that the defendants offered and sold unregistered
securities in the form of public investments designated as "membership
Units" in Parkersburg Wireless. Parkersburg Wireless raised over $10.5
million, purportedly
to acquire or develop a wireless cable television
system (i.e., a system using super high frequency transmissions rather than
actual cables) in the Parkersburg, West Virginia area. Investors were told
that they could expect a "4-to-1" return on investments within four years.
The projections had no basis in fact. After the payment of commissions
amounting to over fifty percent of the proceeds and payment of fees to
the defendants providing telephone solicitation services, Parkersburg
Wireless would not have had sufficient capital to remain in business long
enough to achieve the projected returns.
The Commission obtained
preliminary injunctions against Parkersburg and thirteen other individual
and corporate defendants and an order freezing the defendants' assets.
The Commission filed an action against Knoxville, LLC a limited
liability company that was seeking to raise $35 million to acquire 80
percent of a joint venture that would acquire and operate a wireless cable
system in the Knoxville, Tennessee area (SEC v. Knoxville, LL(3). Prospective
investors were solicited by telephone, and up to 52 percent of the proceeds
from investors were to be paid as commissions or fees for telephone
solicitations.
Investors were told that they could expect returns of 300
percent to 400 percent in two to four years; these projections had no basis
in fact. The Commission obtained a temporary restraining order and a
temporary asset freeze in this case.
The defendants in SEC v. Continental Wireless Cable Television, Inc.,'
were alleged to have raised over $34 million from 2,000 investors by
representing that the funds would be used to acquire, develop and market
wireless cable television systems in Nashville, Tennessee and New Orleans,
Louisiana. Only $7.1 million was used for those purposes. The defendants,
Continental Wireless and three of its officers and directors, misappropriated
and misused investor funds to pay at least $15 million of the company's
own overhead expenses, including $11 million in commissions and other
it

sales expenses and $1.2 million in "loans" to the three individual defendants.
The Commission obtained a preliminary injunction and an asset freeze
in this case.
In SEC v. Comcoa Ltd.,s the Commission alleged violations by Comcoa
and Thomas W. Berger, the chairman, president, and sole officer and
director of Comcoa. Comcoa is purportedly in the business of preparing
and filing applications with the Federal Communications
Commission
(FCC) for specialized mobile radio (SMR) licenses. Comcoa guaranteed
that each investor would receive a license and represented that it would
arrange for a systems operator to lease or purchase the license when
granted. Although SMR licenses were promised, investors in fact obtained
Private Carrier licenses. Comcoa raised in excess of $13 million from about
1,200 investors through a boiler room operation and the use of high
pressure sales techniques; scripts used by Comcoa's telephone sales
representatives, and offering materials sent to investors contained material
misrepresentations
as to the profits to be realized, among other things.
The Commission obtained a temporary restraining order and an asset
freeze in this case.
A fraud in the offer and sale of interests in purported
general
partnerships to develop wireless cable television systems in Hot Springs,
Arkansas,
Clarksville,
Tennessee,
and Valdosta,
Georgia
raised
approximately
$9 million for one partnership
through Transamerica
Wireless Systems, Inc., and began raising an additional $10.5 millon for
a second partnership
through Intercontinental
Telecommunications
Corporation. In the Commission's enforcement action, SEC v. Transamerica
Wireless Systems, Inc;" the complaint alleged that both companies used
television infomercials,
mailings, and telephone boiler rooms to sell
partnership
interests.
The companies falsely claimed that they were
negotiating
for FCC licenses and failed to disclose substantial
sales
commissions. In addition, they failed to disclose a pending Federal Trade
Commission
action alleging fraud in the sale of license application
preparation and filing services by Danny Sterk, the chief executive officer
of both companies and a defendant in the Commission's action.
The
Commission obtained a temporary restraining order and an asset freeze
in this case.

2. Prime Bank Cases
During the last two years, the Commission has brought a number
of enforcement actions involving so-called "prime bank" securities. The
typical case involves the offer and sale of notes, debentures, letters of
credit, or guarantees purportedly issued by one or more major international
banks. Investors in these schemes are typically promised unrealistic rates
of return, e.g., a 150 percent annualized rate of "profits." The Commission
filed 11 injunctive actions alleging prime bank schemes during 1994.
Common targets of these schemes include both institutional and individual
investors, who also may be induced to participate in possible Ponzi
schemes, involving the pooling of investors' funds to purchase "prime"
bank financial instruments.
During the year, the SEC issued a Bulletin

to alert investors to these frauds." The SEC also published a warning to
investors concerning possible ongoing fraudulent attempts to sell "prime
bank" securities purportedly
issued by Banka Bohemia, A.5., a bank
located in Prague, Czech Republic." Despite Banka Bohemia's attempts
to retrieve and cancel such securities, approximately $600 million in such
securities remained outside the bank's control.
In SEC v. John D. Lauer/ the Commission alleged a scheme in which
at least $12.5 million was raised from at least one investor, the Chicago
Housing Authority's
(CHA) Benefit Plan, through the offer and sale of
interests in a program designed to purchase and trade Up rime Bank
Instruments."
John D. Lauer, CHA's manager of benefits, failed to disclose
to CHA the role of the company under his control in the administration
of the purported investment, his receipt of compensation in connection
with the investment, and the resulting conflict of interest.
Lauer also
misappropriated
$1.5 million from an account set up to facilitate
transactions. The Commission obtained a temporary restraining order and
an asset freeze in this case. In an August 25, 1994, opinion, the district
court rejected claims by Lauer that the alleged activities were outside the
scope of the federal securities laws. This case was pending at the end
of the year.
In SEC v. Northstar Investors Trust," the Commission alleged that the
defendants raised more than $3.2 million from about 20 investors by selling
an investment in which funds were pooled and purportedly
used to
purchase and sell "Prime Bank letters of credit." Investors were told that
transactions
between the banks and the institutional
investors would
result in returns of 2 to 3 percent per month (i.e., 24 to 36 percent per
year). No bank instruments, letters of credit or other investments were
purchased on behalf of investors, and investor funds were in fact diverted
for other purposes.
Northstar and defendants Stewart W. Cross, James
G. Hands, III, Del Olson, and Cross & Associates consented to the entry
of injunctions. Injunctions also were entered as a result of the Commission's
motion for summary judgment against Stephen Cross and SLM Corp.
The Commission alleged that the defendants in SEC v. North Pacific
Investments, Inc.," raised at least $10 million from an investor in Hawaii
in a scheme that would purportedly purchase and sell "European prime
bank debt obligations."
The funds were not used to purchase securities
on behalf of the investor, but were in fact placed in bank accounts in the
names of the defendants
and were disbursed
for the benefit of the
defendants.
Funds represented to be profits from prime bank debenture
transactions were in fact a return of a portion of the investor's initial
investment capital. The Commission obtained a preliminary injunction
and an asset freeze in this case. This case was pending at the end of the
year.
In SEC v. Cross Financial Services, Inc.,12 the Commission alleged that
the defendants offered and sold approximately $21 million in unregistered
securities to over 700 investors. Cross Financial and the four individual
defendants misrepresented
that Cross Financial would use the investor
funds to make loans secured by accounts receivable and to purchase bank

guarantees or letters of credit. The defendants misappropriated over $12.9
million of the funds raised and engaged in a Ponzi scheme by using new
investor funds to make principal and interest payments totalling $4.5
million to prior investors.
The Commission obtained a preliminary
injunction and an asset freeze in this case, as well as the appointment of
a permanent receiver for Cross Financial. This case was pending at the
end of the year.
The Commission's complaint in SEC v. Prime One Partners, Corp,"
alleged a fraudulent scheme involving the offer and sale of "general
partnership" interests in a prime bank investment program. Defendants
Prime One Partners, Corp., Capital Asset Management and Monarch
Associates International, Ltd., and their agents marketed the program
through investment seminars touting a prime bank investment program
in which investors were promised returns of 80 percent to 400 percent.
The defendants consented to the entry of injunctions and orders requiring
the disgorgement of investor funds plus prejudgment interest and civil
penalties in an amount to be determined.
This case was pending at the
end of the year as to two individual defendants added by the Commission's
First Amended Complaint, filed after entry of the consent injunctions
against the original defendants.

3. Other Offering Cases
The Commission filed an action against European Kings Club, three
other corporate entities and four individuals, alleging a Ponzi scheme
involving the offer and sale of unregistered securities in the form of letters
of investment (SEC v. European Kings Club"). The letters purported to
guarantee annual returns of 71 percent on investments, even though Kings
Club had no legitimate means to generate sufficient revenues to pay such
returns.
Among other things, Kings Club failed to disclose a criminal
investigation in Germany or actions by Swiss authorities to freeze and
liquidate Kings Club's assets in Switzerland. The defendants consented
to the entry of injunctions and orders requiring the payment of disgorgement
and prejudgment interest totalling $997,343 and civil penalties totalling
$1 million.
In the Commission's action against VestCorp Securities, Inc., First
Pension Corporation and eight individuals, SEC v. William E. Cooper," the
complaint alleged that VestCorp offered and. sold securities in the form
of real estate limited partnership units, raising approximately $99 million.
Many of the investors held their limited partnership interests in selfdirected IRA accounts at First Pension. The limited partnerships never
generated any income, and investor "returns" were paid by diverting other
First Pension
client funds.
Two of the individual
defendants
misappropriated
approximately $25 million of First Pension funds, and
another defendant wrote 114 unauthorized checks totalling over $1 million
on First Pension's custodial bank account. The complaint alleged that up
to $125 million in investor and pension funds was at risk. The Commission
obtained a preliminary injunction and other relief, including an asset
freeze and an accounting. This case was pending at the end of the year.
7

In SEC v. American Business Securities, Inc.,16 the Commission alleged
that twelve individual and corporate defendants engaged in the fraudulent
offer and sale of securities in the form of limited partnership interests
and units of participation in grantor trusts issued by Southwest Energy
Consultants, Inc. Through the aggressive sales efforts of American Business
Securities,
Inc., a registered
broker-dealer,
and its registered
representatives,
approximately $40 million was raised from about 1,000
investors. Funds were purportedly to be used to acquire interests in oil
and gas producing wells, and annual returns of 12 percent to 20 percent
were promised.
In fact, returns to investors were preset and were not
based on the actual production of the wells, which in some cases were
no longer producing oil or gas. American Business Securities, Southwest
Energy Consultants, and seven other defendants consented to the entry
of injunctions.
This case was pending at the end of the year as to two
other defendants, against whom the Commission had obtained a temporary
restraining order and an asset freeze.
In SEC v. Norman 1. Brooks," the Commission alleged a scheme by
twelve individual and four corporate defendants that raised $3.5 million
from over one hundred in vestors in 25 states through the sale of unregistered
securities in the form of promissory notes. The proceeds of the sales were
diverted and misused by the defendants. Tens of thousands of unsolicited
telephone calls were made through a boiler room, using scripts that
contained material misrepresentations and omitted material facts. Investors
were fraudulently
induced
to purchase
the promissory
notes by
"guarantees" of annual rates of return from 10 percent to 14 percent. In
addition, the sales personnel misrepresented that investments would be
used in a fully-insured, risk-free consumer automobile financial operation.
The Commission obtained a temporary restraining order and an asset
freeze in this case. Default injunctions were entered against three corporate
entities and two individuals.
This case was pending at the end of the
year as to the remaining defendants.

Financial Disclosure
Actions involving false and misleading disclosures concerning matters
that affect the financial condition of an issuer, or involving the issuance
of false financial statements often are complex and, in general, demand
more resources than other types of cases. Effective prosecution in this
area is essential to preserving the integrity of the full disclosure system.
The Commission brought 78 cases containing significant allegations of
financial disclosure violations against issuers, regulated entities, or their
employees. Many of these cases included alleged violations of the books
and records and internal accounting control provisions of the Foreign
Corrupt Practices Act. The Commission also brought 31 cases alleging
misconduct by accounting firms or their partners or employees.
In cease and desist proceedings,
In the Matter of Comptronix
Corporation," the Commission alleged that, as a result of a fraudulent
accounting scheme implemented by three members of Comptronix's senior
management, Comptronix reported materially overstated sales, net income,
8

and assets in periodic filings between 1989 and 1992. The inflated sales
and earnings enabled Comptronix falsely to report continued growth in
revenues and earnings when the company was not profitable.
Overall,
Comptronix reported nearly $38 million in sales between 1989 and 1992
that had not taken place and cumulative profits of approximately $14.9
million when the company actually incurred cumulative losses during this
period of about $11.8 million.
In SEC v. Stanley Lepelstat," the Commission alleged a scheme extending
over at least seven years in which six of the former officers and directors
of Accuhealth, Inc., diverted corporate cash to fund a variety of off-books
cash payments, including payments to officers, directors, and employees,
and to make unrecorded
purchases of inventory.
Accuhealth
also
manipulated its earnings by overstating year-end inventory from 1989
through 1992. In addition, Stanley Lepelsta t, Accuheal th' s former chairman
and chief executive officer, sold Accuhealth common stock while in
possession of material non-public information regarding the company's
true financial condition, thereby avoiding losses of $222,496.15. Two of
the defendants
consented to the entry of injunctions and to orders
prohibiting them from serving as officers or directors of public companies;
one of the settling defendants also agreed to pay a civil penalty of $10,000.
This injunctive action was pending as to the other defendants at the end
of the year. In related administrative proceedings,In the Matter of Accuhealth,
lnc.P" the respondents consented to the entry of a cease and desist order.
In In the Matter of William Makadak, CPA,21 proceedings instituted pursuant
to Rule 2(e), a former principal financial and accounting officer for
Accuhealth consented to the entry of an order denying him the privilege
of appearing or practicing before the Commission.
In SEC v. PNF Industries, Inc.,22 the Commission alleged a financial
fraud in connection with the bid by PNF Industries to become listed on
the Emerging Company Marketplace of the American Stock Exchange in
1992. PNF inflated its stockholder's equity from a deficit of $255,361 to
a surplus of $16,125,963 by improperly
accounting
for a business
combination, thereby creating the appearance that the company qualified
for the exchange listing. PNF also omitted to state material facts about
a licensing agreement and letters of intent with respect to fire retardant
products for which it had obtained patents as a result of the business
combination. Among other things, a control person of PNF, Alfred Avasso,
engaged in insider trading in PNF stock and sold unregistered PNF stock;
PNF's auditor, Louis Fox, lacked independence because he had agreed
to have convertible preferred PNF stock transferred to a relative's account
on his behalf. All but one of the defendants consented to the entry of
injunctions.
In addition, A vasso was ordered to disgorge $400,000. Fox
and two other defendants were ordered to pay civil penalties totalling
$50,000. This case was pending as to Otis Hastings, a former PNF officer,
at the end of the year. In related administrative
proceedings pursuant
to Rule 2(e), Martin Halpern, the engagement partner on the audit of PNF's

9

1991 financial statements, consented to the entry of an order denying him
the privilege of appearing or practicing before the Commission (In the

Matter of Martin Halpern, CP AZ3).
The Commission filed an action against C.W. Earl Johnson, the former
chief executive officer of Barton Industries, Inc., and Victor L. Joyce,
Barton's former chief financial officer (SEC v. C. W. Earl [ohnson"), The
complaint alleged that the defendants directed Barton accounting personnel
to falsify recorded inventory, which inflated Barton's pretax income during
fiscal 1989 and 1990, and to record phony sales, further inflating pretax
income during fiscal 1990. On quarterly reports for the first three quarters
of 1990, Barton reported pretax income of $681,524, $719,404, and $1,034,251,
instead oflosses of at least $838,198, $1,022,301, and $1,254,305, respectively.
Both defendants avoided losses by seIling or donating Barton stock while
in possession of material non-public information about the falsified financial
statements.
Johnson consented to the entry of an injunction and a bar
from acting as an officer or director of any public company. This matter
was pending as to Joyce at the end of the year.
The Commission's complaint against Jere Bradwell, the president,
chief executive officer and chairman of Silk Greenhouse, Inc. (SGn; Stuart
G. Lasher, SCI's chief financial officer; and William T. Gilbert, SGI's vice
president of finance, alleged that SGI, to avoid an expected third quarter
loss in 1989 and meet estimated earnings for the quarter, included in its
financial statements as "other income" the assets and liabilities of a
company created by Bradwell to divert real estate commissions on new
SGI store sites (SEC v. Jere L. Braduiellt"), The complaint also alleged that
$2.6 million of employee payroll expenses were improperly capitalized
and deferred to the fourth quarter, and $1.5 million of advertising expenses
were deferred.
Bradwell sold 62,500 shares of SGI common stock prior
to the public announcement of the third quarter results, avoiding losses
of approximately
$781,000. The defendants consented to the entry of
injunctions. Bradwell was ordered to disgorge $781,000 plus prejudgment
interest and to pay a civil penalty under ITSA. Lasher and Gilbert, who
are certified public accountants, also consented to an order in related Rule
2(e) proceedings, by which they were denied the privilege of appearing
In the Matter of Stuart G. Lasher,
or practicing before the Commission.

CPA.26
In SEC v. Transmark USA, Inc.,27 the Commission alleged that the
defendants
failed to disclose the nature of certain transactions
and
materially misstated the financial condition of the company's principal
subsidiary,
Guarantee Security Life Insurance Company (GSL). The
complaint alleged four instances of related sale and repurchase transactions
in high yield securities between GSL and Merrill Lynch. These transactions
occurred at year-end and were intended to replace temporarily GSt's
portfolio of high yield securities with either a cash receivable or liquid
Treasury securities, resulting in increased reported statutory capital and
surplus.
The defendants consented to the entry of injunctions.

10

In In the Matter of Donald F. Withers, CPA,2s the Commission found
that the respondent, a partner in Coopers & Lybrand, engaged in improper
professional conduct in connection with the transactions alleged in SEC
v. Transmark USA, Inc. Withers consented to the entry of an order suspending
him from appearing or practicing before the Commission for a period of
five years.
The Commission alleged in In the Matter of Harry D. Sweeney, CPA,29
that Sweeney and Henry Gayer, the engagement partners for audits of
Sahlen & Associates in 1988 and 1987, respectively; and Timothy S. Hart,
the manager for both audits, caused unqualified audit reports to be issued.
The defendants also failed to obtain sufficient competent evidential matter
with respect to the existence, valuation, and presentation of at least $45
million of overstated receivables.
This matter was pending at the end
of the year.
In Rule 2(e) proceedings against Edward Jan Smith, a partner at Price
Waterhouse, and Joel E. Reed, a senior manager for the firm, the Commission
alleged that the respondents failed to conduct the 1988 and 1989 audits
of Amre, Inc., in accordance with generally accepted auditing standards
(In the Matter of Edward Jan Smith, CPASO) As a result of a fraudulent scheme
by Amre's management, the company's earnings and revenues had been
overstated in its 1988 financial statements and understated in fiscal 1989.
The respondents consented to the entry of an order denying them the right
to appear or practice before the Commission.

Insider Trading
Insider trading occurs when a person in possession of material nonpublic information engages in securities transactions or communicates
such information to others who trade. Insider trading encompasses more
than trading and tipping by traditional insiders, such as officers or directors
who are subject to a duty to either disclose any material non-public
information or abstain from trading in the securities of their own company.
Violations also may arise from the transmission or use of material nonpublic information by persons in a variety of other positions of trust and
confidence or by those who misappropriate
such information.
In addition to permanent injunctions, the Commission often seeks
ancillary relief, including disgorgement
of any profits gained or losses
avoided. The ITSA penalty provisions authorized the Commission to seek
a civil penalty, payable to the United States, of up to three times the profit
gained or loss avoided against persons who unlawfully trade in securities
while in possession of material non-public information or who unlawfully
communicate material non-public information to others who trade. Civil
penalties also can be imposed upon persons who control insider traders.
During 1994, the Commission brought 45 cases alleging insider trading
violations.
In connection with its proceedings
involving financial fraud by
Comptronix Corporation, the Commission filed an injunctive action against
Richard F. Adler, a former director of Comptronix, who learned of the
fraud and tipped this information to Harvey L. Pegram, a friend and
11

business associate (SEC v. Richard F. Adler"). Pegram sold his Comptronix
stock and tipped Philip L. Choy, who sold Comptronix stock held in the
name of his company, Magatronic Trading Limited.
Domer L. Ishler,
another friend and business associate of Adler's, also unlawfully received
the adverse information and purchased Comptronix put options. Pegram
and Choy avoided losses of approximately
$2.3 million and $75,000,
respectively, and Ishler made a profit of approximately $368,000. This
case was pending at the end of the year.
SEC v. Eugene Dines" was an action against Bruce Dines, a former
director of Colorado National Bankshares (CNB), and his brother, Eugene
Dines. In connection with his employment, Bruce Dines learned that First
Bank Systems was making an offer to merge with or acquire CNB. He
communicated
this information to his brother, who purchased 30,000
shares of CNB common stock prior to the public announcement of a merger
agreement.
Eugene Dines realized profits of $214,000 on his CNB
transactions.
The defendants consented to the entry of an injunction and
an order requiring them to disgorge a total of $214,000 plus prejudgment
interest of $12,847 and to each pay a civil penalty under ITSA of $214,000.
The defendant in SEC v. Jonathan Mayhew33 purchased the common
stock of Rorer Group, Inc., and call options on such stock, while in
possession
of material non-public
information
concerning
merger
discussions between Rorer and Rhone-Poulenc, S.A. Jonathan Mayhew'S
trades followed his receipt of a tip from an employee of a human resources
consulting firm that had been retained by Rorer in connection with the
merger discussions.
After the public announcement of the discussions,
Mayhew realized profits of $255,000. This case was pending at the end
of the year.
Prior to the public announcement of a merger agreement between
MidSouth Corp. and Kansas City Southern Industries Inc., a lobbyist for
Kansas City Southern working in Washington, D.C. engaged in insider
The
trading in MidSouth common stock (SEC v. Julia Peck Mobley34).
lobbyist, Sydney Probst, misappropriated material non-public information,
traded MidSouth securities while in possession of this information, and
recommended the purchase of MidSouth securities to a family member
and two friends, Julia Peck Mobley and Rosamond Brown, who also
traded. One of Probst's friends tipped an additional person who traded.
Probst and the tippees realized aggregate profits of approximately $35,000.
Probst consented to an injunction and to an order requiring her to disgorge
profits of $13,572 plus prejudgment interest and to pay an ITSA penalty
of $13,572. This case was pending as to Mobley and Brown at the end
of the year.
Manipulation
The SEC is charged with ensuring the integrity of trading on the
national securities exchanges and in the over-the-counter
markets. The
SEC staff, the exchanges, and the NASD engage in surveillance of these
markets.

12

The Commission charged Ll.S, Environmental, Inc., Castle Securities
Corp., and nine individuals with conducting a fraudulent offering and
subsequent manipulation of common stock issued by U.S. Environmental
(SEC v. U.S. Environmental, Inc.3S). The defendants engaged in a fraudulent
"blind pool" offering bringing U.S. Environmental public and thereafter
caused the company to make false and misleading representations, including
that U.S. Environmental had a proven, cost-effective process for detoxifying
hazardous
waste and owned a 50 percent interest in a pilot plant.
Defendants, who controlled the entire float, manipulated the price from
$0.05 per unit to approximately $5.00 per share; the defendants then paid
kickbacks to brokerage firms to sell several hundred thousand shares to
investors who paid a total of more than $1 million for the stock. The price
of the stock reached $7.00 per share before collapsing to between $0.06
and $0.11 per share. U.S. Environmental and two stock promoters, Mark
D'Onofrio and Ramon D'Onofrio, consented to the entry of injunctions,
and the D'Onofrios also were jointly and severally ordered to disgorge
$940,374.52 plus prejudgment interest. An order was entered prohibiting
the D'Onofrios from serving as officers or directors of public companies,
and they were enjoined from acting as promoters, finders, consultants,
agents or in any other capacity with any broker, dealer, or issuer in the
issuance or trading of securities. This case was pending as to the other
defendants at the end of the year.
In In the Matter of J. Peek Garlington, /r.,36 the Commission alleged
that the respondent, the chairman of Cousins Properties, Inc., engaged
in a series of illegal trades in the common stock issued by Cousins. The
respondent manipulated the closing price of Cousins common stock by
placing orders to buy small lots at the end of the trading day, i.e., by
"marking the close," on seventy-seven days over a six-month period.
These activities increased the closing price of Cousins common stock, and
thereby increased the equity in a margin account in which the respondent
held a substantial position of the stock. The purpose of the scheme was
to satisfy or prevent margin maintenance calls. The respondent consented
to the entry of a cease and desist order by which he was ordered to disgorge
$92,750 plus interest in the amount of $29,424.36.
In a case involving the operation of a boiler room by a former
registered broker-dealer, Chelsea Street Securities, Inc., the Commission
alleged that defendants Gary S. Williky and James J. Romano, and salesmen
under their control implemented undisclosed, manipulative sales practices,
including "matched" trading, the parking of securities in Chelsea customer
accounts, and "wash" purchase and sale transactions (SEC v. Gary S.
Williky37).
These manipulative practices were implemented to generate
retail demand for four securities in which the broker-dealer
made a
market, causing an artificial rise in the price of these securities. Williky
consented to the entry of an injunction and an order requiring him to pay
disgorgement and a civil penalty in amounts to be determined. This case
was pending at the end of the year.

13

The Commission filed an action against nine individual defendants,
alleging a scheme in which kickbacks were paid to registered representatives
to recommend the purchase of common stock issued by Fairmont Resources
Inc., a Canadian natural gas company traded on the Alberta Stock Exchange,
in an effort to manipulate the price and create the appearance of an active
trading market for the stock (SEC v. Robert L. Shu1l38). Three of the
defendants
agreed to acquire a controlling interest in Fairmont, to
manipulate its stock, and to sell at artificially enhanced prices. Kickbacks
totalling more than $400,000 were paid to five other defendants.
Manipulative activity caused Fairmont stock to increase from C$0.30 per
share to C$3.05 per share in less than six months. The three defendants
controlling Fairmont realized illegal profits of as much as US$l million
from the scheme. This case was pending at the end of the year.
The Commission also took action in cases involving fraudulent schemes
involving the short sale of securities during the period between the filing
of a registration statement for a secondary offering and the time at which
sales pursuant to the registration statement may be made. Because short
selling in anticipation of a public offering may result in a decrease in the
price of the security, such activity may deprive the issuer of offering
proceeds that would otherwise have been obtained. In SEC v. Curtis Ivey,39
the Commission alleged that the defendants sold short the securities of
Safeway, Inc., Enron Corp., Dillard Department Stores, Inc., and Household
International, Inc., prior to the effective dates of registration statements,
and then covered with securities purchased in the public offering. The
defendants realized profits of $80,365. The defendants consented to the
entry of injunctions and an order requiring them jointly and severally to
disgorge $80,365 plus prejudgment interest.
The Commission alleged that Stanley Berk realized profits of $35,500
from short sales of the securities of Dillard Department Stores, Inc.,
Safeway, Inc., and Household
International,
Inc., and obtained
approximately $5,000 from trading associates who engaged in similar
unlawful conduct in connection with public offerings of five other issuers
(In the Matter of Stanley Berk"). This case was pending at the end of the
year.

Broker-Dealer Cases
Each year, the Commission files a significant number of enforcement
actions against broker-dealer firms and persons associated with them. The
Commission's actions against broker-dealers often focus on violations of
the net capital and customer protection rules, violations of books and
records provisions, or fraudulent sales practices. The Commission also
takes action against broker-dealer firms and their senior management for
failure to supervise employees with a view to preventing violations of
the federal securities laws.
Several cases against broker-dealer firms involved violations in the
market for United States Treasury securities. The Commission instituted
administrative
proceedings against The Chicago Corporation (TCC), a
registered broker-dealer,
alleging that between 1984 and 1991 it had
14

engaged in a practice that resulted in the submission of inaccurate bid
tender forms by two primary dealers in Treasury securities in connection
with noncompetitive
orders in Treasury auctions (In the Matter of The
Chicago Corporation"), TCC submitted noncompetitive bids in the names
of various individuals in approximately thirty auctions per year, and then
purchased the securities acquired by these individuals pursuant to an
"option agreement."
This practice allowed TCe to circumvent Treasury
regulations prohibiting the purchase of more than $1 million in Treasury
securities pursuant to noncompetitive
bidding.
TCC consented to the
entry of a cease and desist order and to an order requiring the disgorgement
of $250,000 plus interest and a civil penalty of $250,000.
Similarly, in In the Matter of Cantor Fitzgerald & CO.,42 the Commission
alleged that Cantor Fitzgerald & Co., a registered broker-dealer, committed
violations in the purchase and sale of Treasury securities issued through
the noncompetitive auction process. Cantor Fitzgerald's books and records
failed to reflect pre-auction agreements between the firm and its customers
to sell the securities awarded in the auction. Cantor Fitzgerald consented
to the entry of a cease and desist order requiring the disgorgement
of
$90,000 plus interest and the payment of a $100,000 civil penalty.
In the Matter of Goldman, Sachs & CO./3 cease and desist proceedings
against Goldman Sachs & Co., a registered broker-dealer, the Commission
alleged that the firm falsely recorded prearranged transactions in Treasury
securities with Salomon Brothers, Inc., other broker-dealers,
and certain
institutional
customers during 1985 and 1986 to realize a total of $36.6
million in losses for tax purposes.
Goldman Sachs also falsely recorded
prearranged trades in four transactions with Salomon during 1986 as an
accommodation
to Salomon. Goldman Sachs consented to the entry of
a cease and desist order by which it was required to pay a civil money
penalty of $250,000.
The Commission alleged violations of the books and records provisions
in In the Matter of Merrill Lynch, Pierce, Fenner & Smith, Inc.,44 administrative
proceedings against Merrill Lynch; Robert Plunkett, a trader formerly
associated with Merrill Lynch; and Frederick Roemer, a Merrill Lynch
corporate bond salesman.
The Commission found that Merrill Lynch
failed to record properly certain securities transactions in two separate
matters. The first matter involved related sale and repurchase transactions
designed to permit a customer, Guarantee Security Life Insurance Company,
temporarily to replace high yield securities with a cash receivable or liquid
Treasury
securities
at year end, thereby avoiding
certain reserve
requirements
of Florida insurance law. The second matter involved a
series of sale or repurchase transactions between Merrill Lynch, Reliance
Group Holdings, Inc., and a third party, designed to permit Reliance to
realize gains on certain securities.
Respondents, without admitting or
denying the Commission's findings, consented to the entry of a cease and
desist order by which they were censured and Merrill Lynch was required
to adopt internal procedures, policies, and controls reasonably designed
to assure compliance with broker-dealer
record keeping requirements.

15

In In the Matter of George F.M. Lee,45 the Commission alleged that the
respondent, who was president, general principal, compliance officer and
financial principal of a broker-dealer firm, failed reasonably to supervise
two former branch managers who had engaged in a scheme to distribute
unregistered
securities of Pacific Waste Management, Inc. One of the
managers sold approximately
80,000 shares for his own account while
acting as a promoter for Pacific Waste. The other manager solicited at
least 41 customers to purchase approximately
183,020 shares he had
received gratuitously from an officer of Pacific Waste. The Commission
found that the respondent's failure to provide closer scrutiny of the branch
managers' activities contributed to their ability to engage in the wrongful
conduct. The respondent consented to the entry of an order suspending
him from association in a supervisory capacity for a period of six months
and requiring him to pay a civil penalty of $5,000.
The Commission alleged net capital violations in administrative
proceedings against Colonial Management Associates, Inc., a firm duallyregistered as a broker-dealer and an investment adviser (In the Matter of
Colonial Management Associates, Inc.46). Colonial failed to calculate timely
its net capital on a monthly basis for eight months during 1991 and 1992.
In addition, Colonial had a net capital deficiency during the period
November 2 to December 29, 1992, resulting from its use of approximately
$16 million from the liquidation
of certain securities to reduce the
outstanding balance on a revolving credit line maintained by its corporate
parent.
SEC oversight of broker-dealers
often involves actions alleging
fraudulent sales practices. InSEC v. Thomas Frank Bandvs," the Commission
alleged that the defendant
engaged in unauthorized,
excessive and
unsuitable trading, misrepresented
and omitted to state several material
facts to customers in connection with such trading, and caused several
customers to suffer substantial losses. Among other things, the defendant
persuaded customers to sign margin agreements by misrepresenting
that
the purpose of the agreements was to provide overdraft protection for
checks written against the accounts; customers receiving margin calls were
told that the calls were the result of computer errors and could be ignored.
Bandyk consented to the entry of an injunction.
The Commission has also taken action against persons associated
with broker-dealer
firms who steal funds intended for the purchase of
securities. In administrative proceedings against a registered representative
of Ad vest, Inc., the Commission
alleged
that the respondent
misappropriated
approximately $902,291 in customer funds that had been
given to him for investment (In the Matter of James M. Coyne, Jr.48). The
respondent forged customer signatures on liquidation authorization forms
and forged endorsements on checks issued by Advest to customers. The
respondent
consented to a bar from association.
In related criminal
proceedings, the respondent was sentenced to eighteen months incarceration
and ordered to pay restitution of $203,501.99.

Investment Adviser and Investment Company Cases
The Commission instituted
several significant cases involving
investment advisers and investment companies.
The Commission instituted cease and desist proceedings against
Synovus Securities, Inc., a broker-dealer and investment adviser, and
Clark L. Reed, the president and director of Synovus at all relevant times
(In the Matter of Synovus Securities, Inc.49).
Synovus was involved as
principal with certain customers and allegedly interpositioned
an
individual, Richard T. Taylor, who promptly was able to purchase bonds
from, or resell bonds to, other brokers at a profit in over 120 municipal
bond transactions between 1988 and 1991. Synovus and Reed consented
to the entry of a cease and desist order and orders requiring them to pay
civil penalties of $200,000 and $50,000, respectively. Reed also consented
to a bar from association with regulated entities. Related administrative
proceedings against Taylor, In the Matter of Richard T. Taylor,50 were
pending at the end of the year.
In In the Matter of Strong/Cornelius on Capital Management, Inc.P' the
Commission
alleged violations
by Strong/Corneliuson
Capital
Management, Inc. (SCCM), the investment adviser to eleven mutual funds
and to various pension funds and other clients; Richard S. Strong, the
founder, controlling shareholder and chairman of SCCM, and chairman
of each of the funds managed by SCCM; and Bruce D. Behling, a senior
vice president and former president of SCCM and the former president
and treasurer of each of the funds. SCCM and Strong caused the funds
to engage in securities transactions with each other and with Harbour
Investments Ltd, an investment company in which Strong and Behling had
a financial interest; these transactions with affiliated persons were not
disclosed by SCCM. SCCM also caused Harbour to invest in securities
recommended to SCCM clients, and Strong invested in the securities of
three issuers recommended to clients. The respondents consented to the
entry of a cease and desist order by which they were censured, and SCCM
was ordered to comply with undertakings designed to prevent future
violations.
In SEC v. Donna Tumminiu P the complaint alleged that Donna
Tumminia, the head trader for Shearson Lehman Ad visors (SLA), concealed
from her employer the volume of securities trades that she directed to
her husband, Philip Tumminia, who was a direct access broker on the floor
of the New York Stock Exchange and a registered representative of Adler,
Coleman & Co. Donna Tumminia also failed to disclose to her employer
that commissions paid on the transactions were going directly to her
husband, minus only a lit per share clearance fee to Adler. The Tumminias
caused advisory clients of SLA to pay excessive mark-Ups and mark-downs
on riskless principal trades executed by Philip Tumminia. The Tumminias
consented to the entry of an injunction and orders requiring them to
disgorge $617,314.62 plus prejudgment interest and to pay civil penalties
of $617,314.62.

17

The respondent inIn the Matter of Joan Conan" was a portfolio manager
in the high yield bond department of a registered investment adviser.
While performing research for the funds under her management, Conan
learned of certain warrants issued by Champion Parts, Inc., that offered
holders the option of paying the exercise price through the surrender of
notes issued by Champion. The notes so used would be valued at par.
Although the funds held Champion notes which were then trading at below
par, Conan purchased 50,000 Champion warrants for her own account for
$12,500, which she sold the following month for $225,000. Conan failed
to disclose her transactions to her employer. The Commission found that
Conan's activities were in breach of her fiduciary duty to the funds and
compromised her independence as a fiduciary. Conan consented to the
entry of a cease and desist order by which she was barred from association.
The Commission filed an emergency action in which it alleged that
the management of an investment company had become increasingly
deadlocked and in disarray (SEC v. Centurion Growth Fund, Inc.54). At the
time of the Commission's action, the fund did not have an investment
adviser, counsel, underwriter, president, secretary, or treasurer, nor did
it have a properly constituted board of directors. The Commission obtained
a preliminary injunction and other relief, including the appointment of
a receiver, an asset freeze, and an order suspending the offer, sale, and
redemption of the fund's shares until permitted by the court. This case
was pending at the end of the year.
The Commission instituted proceedings against Seaboard Investment
Advisers, Inc., a registered investment adviser with assets in excess of
$1.1 billion under management, and two of Seaboard's officers (In the
Matter of Seaboard Investment Advisers, Inc.55). The Commission alleged that
Seaboard published,
circulated,
or distributed
advertisements
that
contained false or misleading performance figures covering the period
from 1984 through 1991. Seaboard also falsely advertised
that its
performance results were audited. The respondents consented to the entry
of cease and desist orders. In addition, Seaboard was ordered to pay a
civil penalty of $1 million.
Cease and desist proceedings against Terence Mulrooney involved
allegations that the respondent, a registered representative employed by
a bank's brokerage subsidiary, prepared a one-page sales sheet listing
some false and misleading characteristics and yields for mutual funds
offered by his employer (In the Matter of Terence Patrick Mulroonef"), The
sales sheets contained yield figures that were not computed in accordance
with statutory requirements, and failed to disclose the time periods to
which they corresponded.
In some cases, the yield figures were, in
actuality, total return figures representing a time span of up to ten years.
The Commission alleged that the respondent's conduct violated advertising
rules promulgated
under the Investment Company Act. Mulrooney
consented to the entry of the cease and desist order by which he was
censured and suspended from association for a period of twelve months.

18

The Commission's cease and desist proceedings against Melvin Hirsch,
In the Matter of Melvin L. Hirsch P arose from the respondent's diversion
of funds from Transportation Capital Corporation (TCC), which was a
registered closed-end management investment company of which Hirsch
was president and chairman. Hirsch caused TCC to make undocumented
loans to him that were not in accordance with TCes stated investment
policies and were never properly reflected on TCe s books and records
or otherwise disclosed to investors. Hirsch also purchased certain TCC
assets without obtaining an exemptive order from the Commission.
Sources For Further Inquiry
The agency publishes the SEC Docket, which includes announcements
regarding enforcement actions.
SEC litigation releases describe civil
injunctive actions and also report certain criminal proceedings involving
securities-related violations. These releases typically report the identity
of the defendants, the nature of the alleged violative conduct, and the
disposition or status of the case, as well as other information. The SEC
Docket also contains Commission orders instituting
administrative
proceedings, making findings and imposing sanctions in those proceedings,
and initial decisions and significant procedural
rulings issued by
Administrative Law Judges.

19

International

Affairs

The Office of International Affairs (OIA) has primary responsibility for
the negotiation and implementation of information-sharing arrangements,
and for developing legislative and other initiatives to facilitate international
cooperation. OIA coordinates and assists in making requests for assistance
to, and responding to requests for assistance from, foreign authorities. OIA
also addresses other international issues that arise in litigated matters, such
as effecting service of process abroad and gathering foreign-based evidence
under various international conventions, freezing assets located abroad, and
enforcing judgments obtained by the SEC in the United States against
foreign parties. In addition, OIA operates in a consultative role regarding the
significant ongoing international programs and initiatives of the SEC's other
divisions and offices. OIA is responsible for the SEC's technical assistance
programs for countries with emerging securities markets. OIA also consults
with and provides technical assistance to other Federal agencies regarding
trade-related issues relevant to the regulation of securities markets in the
United States.
Key 1994 Results

OIA made 226 requests for enforcement assistance on behalf of the
Commission to foreign governments and responded to 296 requests for
enforcement assistance from foreign governments.
The SEC signed a comprehensive Memorandum of Understanding
(MOU) for consultation and cooperation in enforcement-related
matters
with the Australian Securities Commission. Also, the SEC signed an MOU
with the China Securities Regulatory Commission (CSRC) that provides
for training and technical assistance to the CSRC, and for mutual enforcement
assistance. This brings the total number of MOVs and other less formal
agreements executed by the SEC to more than 20.
The SEC's leadership role and active involvement in the Council of
Securities Regulators of the Americas (COSRA) and the International
Organization
of Securities
Commissions
(lOSCO) have advanced
Commission goals for international enforcement assistance and cooperation
on a multilateral basis. Two important multilateral resolutions were adopted
by COSRA and IOSCO members. First, the membership of COSRA adopted
a precedent-setting resolution on enforcement cooperation that will serve
as a framework for multilateral collaboration to facilitate the enforcement
of COSRA members' securities laws. Second, the members of IOSCO
adopted a resolution which calls upon current members and future
applicants to make explicit their commitment to the core IOSCO principles
of high regulatory standards and mutual assistance.

20

Arrangements for Mutual Ass/stance and Exchanges of tnrormarton
There has been a dramatic increase in the SEC's need to obtain foreignbased information to protect the United States markets and investors from
cross-border fraud and other violations of the United States securities laws.
In this regard, the SEC has developed ways to enhance international
mechanisms for effective market surveillance and information sharing, and
for cooperation in the investigation and prosecution of cross-border fraud
and market manipulation.
The SEC has worked actively to forge strong bilateral and multilateral
relationships with its foreign counterparts.
In particular, the SEC has
entered into more than 20 MOUs, and other less formal agreements, to
establish the means for sharing information and providing comprehensive
enforcement assistance in virtually all facets of the securities markets. Such
mechanisms have improved the SEC's ability to detect and prosecute
violations of the United States securities laws where information is needed
from abroad. In addition, the SEC's commitment to international securities
organizations has augmented its bilateral and multilateral efforts in the
enforcement area.
On October 20, 1993, the SEC entered into an MOU with the Australian
Securities Commission (ASC). The MOU creates a framework to facilitate
mutual assistance between the SEC and the ASC, and formalizes the excellent
working relationship that has existed between the two Commissions. The
MOU also provides for consultation on matters relating to the operation
of the securities markets of their respective countries and on the operation
of the MOU. The MOU further provides for mutual assistance and
cooperation in the full range of enforcement and regulatory matters. For
example, it provides for assistance in securities matters involving insider
trading and other fraudulent
or manipulative
practices; disclosure
requirements for issuers, persons, and regulated entities; and the financial
or other qualifications of those involved in the securities industry.
On April 28, 1994, the SEC entered into an MOU with the CSRC, the
first such understanding between China and a Western securities regulatory
authority. The MOU formalizes a cooperative and consultative relationship
between the SEC and the CSRC, and establishes a framework for the SEC
to provide technical assistance to the CSRC. The MOU also provides for
mutual assistance in obtaining information and evidence to facilitate the
enforcement of the authorities' respective laws relating to United States
and Chinese securities matters. Thus, the MOU should facilitate Commission
enforcement actions in cases where relevant information is located in
China. Because Chinese securities laws and regulations were still being
formulated and adopted at the time of the signing of the MOU, the MOU
specifically provides that procedures for making and executing requests
for assistance,
permissible
uses of information,
and confidentiality
requirements are to be addressed on a case by case basis.
On November 3, 1993, the governments of the United States and
Switzerland exchanged Diplomatic Notes relating to the Treaty Between
the United States and Switzerland on Mutual Assistance in Criminal Matters
which expand the Commission's ability to prosecute securities law violations
21

based on information located in Switzerland.
Pursuant to the Notes, the
SEC now may use information located in Switzerland as evidence in civil
and administrative
proceedings involving a wide array of securities-related
offenses. Based on an exchange of Notes in 1987, the SEC previously had
been only able to use such information in cases involving insider trading.
In 1994, the SEC established the first official mechanism by which it
may seek legal assistance from Germany.
In a Diplomatic Note dated
March 22, 1994, the German Foreign Office confirmed that the SEC may
seek assistance
under the German
Law on Legal Assistance
in Law
Enforcement
Matters
(Gesetz iiber die Internationale
Rechtshilfe
in
Strafsachen)(IRG).
The IRG authorizes the German Ministry of Justice to
seek through the relevant state (Lander) governments,
among other things,
documents and testimony on behalf of a foreign law enforcement authority
in connection with an investigation.
Enforcement Cooperation
The table below summarizes
made and received by the SEC.

the international

requests

for assistance

Fiscal Year
Type of Request

1990

1991

1992

1993

1994

191
7
2
200

213
1
6
220

223
2
1
226

184
11
58
253

232
16
59
307

296
10
78
384

SEC Requests to
Foreign Governments
Enforcement Assistance
Enforcement Referrals
Technical Assistance
Total

173
2
2

145
6
0

177

151

Foreign Requests to
the SEC
Enforcement Assistance
Enforcement Referrals
Technical Assistance
Total

98
2
30
130

160
7
44

211

The case of SEC v. Jose Antonio Feliu Roviralta, Lit. ReI. No. 14232, C.A.
No. 94-1963 (D.D.C., September 13, 1994) provides an excellent example
of how international
assistance can further an SEC investigation.
Based
in part on assistance, including the provision of documents and taking of
testimony, provided by Italian, Spanish, and Swiss authorities,
the SEC
was able to proceed with an insider trading investigation
that otherwise
might have been closed due to a lack of evidence in the United States. As
a result, in September 1994, the Commission filed a civil injunctive action
against Jose Antonio Feliu Roviralta, alleging insider trading in connection
with his purchase of Altos Computer Systems, Inc. stock. Roviralta, without
22

admitting or denying the allegations of the Commission's
complaint,
consented to the entry of a final judgment permanently enjoining him from
further violations of Section 14(e) of the Exchange Act and Rule 14e-3 and
agreed to pay a total of $252,971.66 in disgorgement, prejudgment interest,
and penalties.
In addition to ongoing work in the area of enforcement assistance,
in August 1994, OIA testified on behalf of the SEC before a subcommittee
of the United States Senate Judiciary Committee in support of the
International Antitrust Enforcement Assistance Act of 1994. The testimony
discussed the SEC's experience with in ternational enforcement coopera tion.
In 1988, Congress enacted Section 2l(a)(2) of the Exchange Act to allow
the SEC to gather information about potential violations of foreign securities
laws at the request of foreign securities authorities.
In addition, the
testimony stated that Section 2l(a)(2) has "become a model throughout the
world for developing legislation to authorize securities regulators to assist
their counterparts
in investigating
cross-border
violations of law."
Subsequently, Congress has enacted the antitrust enforcement legislation.
Technical Assistance
The SEC is committed to providing technical assistance to emerging
securities markets to the extent to which resources allow it. Such technical
assistance is intended to develop a regulatory infrastructure to promote
investor confidence
in emerging markets.
OIA is responsible
for
coordinating the SEC's overall international technical assistance program.
Each spring the SEC hosts the International Institute for Securities
Market Development (Market Development Institute), an intensive twoweek, management-level
training program covering a full range of topics
relevant to the development and oversight of securities markets.
The
Market Development Institute is intended to promote market development,
capital formation, and the building of sound regulatory structures in
emerging market countries.
The fourth annual Market Development
Institute was held in the spring of 1994, with 87 delegates from 50 countries
in attendance.
In 1994, the SEC expanded upon the successful Market Development
Institute concept by inaugurating a one-week International Institute for
Securities Enforcement and Market Oversight (Enforcement Institute) for
foreign securities regulators. Itis anticipated that the Enforcement Institute
will be held on an annual basis, beginning in October 1994. The new
program is designed to promote market integrity and foster the development
of closer enforcement cooperation, and will include practical training
sessions on SEC enforcement investigations,
investment company and
adviser inspections, broker-dealer examinations, and market surveillance.
Approximately 85 individuals representing 45 countries attended.
To complement its domestic training programs, the SEC has executed
agreements with foreign aid organizations, pursuant to which SEC staff
may provide technical assistance to foreign regulatory authorities.
Most
recently, in September 1994, the SEC entered into a comprehensive twoyear interagency agreement with the United States Agency for International

23

Development (USAID) to fund SEC technical assistance in Russia and other
Newly Independent States of the former Soviet Union. The SEC also has
entered into a technical assistance understanding with the Inter-American
Development Bank which provides for assistance to emerging securities
markets in Latin America.
International

Organizations

and Multilateral Initiatives

The SEC benefits from the opportunity to better understand foreign
regulations, markets, and practices through participation in multilateral
organizations.
Moreover, through its involvement
in international
organizations, the SEC has the opportunity to promote its views on important
issues that affect the United States securities markets and the SEC's
regulatory program, and help develop international consensus on these
issues. During 1994, the SEC contributed to the work of the following
international organizations and multilateral initiatives:

The International

Organization of Securities Commissions

IOSCO is an international forum created to promote cooperation and
consultation among regulators overseeing the world's securities markets.
With over 100 members, most of the world's securities regulators are
represented.
The SEC plays a leadership role in IOSCO. Over the years,
the SEC has been actively involved in many aspects of the organization's
work, particularly in work relating to: facilitating multinational offerings;
identifying accounting and auditing standards that would be used in
multinational offerings; developing common capital adequacy requirements;
understanding the implications of international settlement requirements;
and fostering the international enforcement of securities laws.
The Working Party on Enforcement and the Exchange of Information
completed a report entitled, Issues Raised for Securities and Futures Regulators
by Under-Regulated and Uncooperative Jurisdictions, which was released at
the 1994 IOSCO Annual Conference. The report considers the difficulties
that regulators face when information they seek in investigating securities
or futures violations is located in jurisdictions that cannot or will not share
that information with foreign regulators.
Based on the report, IOSCO
adopted a Resolution on Commitment to Basic IOSCO Principles of High
Regulatory Standards and Mutual Cooperation and Assistance.
The
resolution calls upon IOSCO members to make explicit their commitment
to the core IOSCO principles of high regulatory standards and mutual
assistance, and requires members to prepare self-evaluations
of their
regulatory systems. In publishing the report and adopting the resolution,
IOSCO took significant steps toward addressing the enforcement problems
caused by under-regulation
and lack of cooperation.
Those actions by
IOSCO are of importance to the SEC's international enforcement program
because they may serve as a springboard for enhancing enforcement
cooperation among IOSCO's overall membership.

24

During 1994, several other reports were prepared by working parties
and released by IOSCO's Technical Committee. These reports dealt with
regulatory issues involving cross-border proprietary screen-based trading
systems, over-the-counter derivatives, and cross-border mutual funds. The
SEC participated in the preparation of each of these reports.
Council of Securities Regulators of the Americas
In June 1992, the securities regulatory authorities of North, South, and
Central America, and the Caribbean announced the creation of a new
organization, COSRA, to provide a forum for mutual cooperation and
communication in the Americas. The SEC actively promoted the concept
of a regional organization and, currently, serves as its Chairman. COSRA's
membership represents both advanced and emerging markets, and the
organization strives to enhance the efforts of each country to develop and
foster the growth of fair and open securities markets.
In June 1994, during the Third Annual Meeting of COSRA, the members
reached a precedent-setting,
multilateral understanding
on enforcement
cooperation.
From the SEC's perspective, the resolution substantially
advances its international enforcement program by developing a broadbased framework for cooperation with countries where bilateral MOUs
may not be feasible. In addition, the membership identified principles for
the provision of full and fair enterprise-related
disclosure, and agreed to
use their efforts to implement and maintain a mandatory disclosure system
based on these principles.
The enforcement resolution directs COSRA members to use their
authority to assist one another, to the fullest extent possible according to
their respective laws, in obtaining information
necessary to ensure
compliance with domestic securities laws. In addition, the resolution calls
on the members to strive to obtain the necessary legal authority, or seek
the assistance of other government agencies, to allow members to fulfill
their pledges of cooperation to one another. Lastly, the resolution directs
the members to review and assess continuously the degree to which
assistance can be provided with a view to enhancing cooperation among
the membership.
The resolution does not modify or supersede in any
respect any understandings
or agreements otherwise reached among or
between COSRA members.
The implementation
of disclosure systems based on principles to
ensure full and fair enterprise-related disclosure and effective enforcement
will strengthen the market of each COSRA member. Recognizing this, the
members also adopted a corporate disclosure resolution. The resolution
identifies the steps necessary to establish and maintain a mandatory system
for corporate disclosure, and incorporates a set of principles governing
such things as the timing and content of corporate disclosures. The resolution
and its principles are intended to serve as a model for COSRA members
to use to implement mandatory disclosure systems in their domestic markets
and are similar in large measure to disclosure standards already in place
in the United States.

25

The Organization for Economic Cooperation and Development (OECD)
The anti-bribery provisions of the Foreign Corrupt Practices Act have
been criticized as potentially
having an anti-competitive
impact on
companies in the United States because the law prohibits companies with
securities listed in the United States from making payments to foreign
public officials to obtain or retain business, while no other country applies
such prohibitions to its companies. At the direction of Congress, the United
States government has initiated and continues to actively participate in
the efforts of the OECD to address the issue of illicit payments, and the
SEC participates in the United States efforts in that regard. By taking action
that will bring other countries up to the United States standard so that
bribery of foreign public officials will be universally proscribed, the goal
of ensuring a level playing field will be reached.
In May 1994, the OECD adopted a recommendation on measures that
OECD members should take to combat bribery of foreign public officials
by their nationals. The SEC worked with the United States Departments
of State, Justice, and Commerce in connection with efforts at the OECD
to reach consensus on this issue. Essentially, the recommendation urges
OECD members to take "concrete and meaningful steps" to meet the goal
of combatting illicit payments. Under the recommendation, these steps
may include: making bribery of foreign public officials a criminal act;
adopting civil and administrative laws and regulations to make bribery
illegal; amending the existing tax laws that might encourage bribery (such
as deductibility of the bribe); and other steps to ensure adequate financial
reporting.
The SEC staff provided technical assistance to the United States
Department of Treasury in connection with the OECD's examination of
regulation in the United States and the OECD Codes of Liberalization of
Capital Movements and Liberalization of Current Invisible Transactions.
In the course of the examination, aspects of United States regulation
pertaining to capital movements and financial services were reviewed in
light of the objectives of the Codes, which involve reducing barriers to trade
between OECD members.
Also, the staff provided technical assistance to the United States
Department of Treasury in responding to an OECD study on corporate
"private practices," i.e. aspects of corporate governance, that could have
a discriminatory impact on foreign investment.
The Wilton Park Group (The Group)
Her Majesty's Treasury of the United Kingdom sponsors this annual
program. This year's meeting in June was attended by securities regulators
from 13 countries. International regulatory cooperation issues discussed
by the Group included secret and under-regulated
jurisdictions and
coordination of multinational investigations of "boiler rooms" and other
fraudulent schemes to ensure investor protection and market integrity.

26

Trade Negotiations
The SEC's primary responsibility is the regulation of the domestic
securities markets, and until recently, it had not been directly involved
in trade matters. However, as a result of the globalization of securities
markets, the SEC is now regularly engaged in discussions with fellow
regulators on ways to facilitate cross-border activities, including offerings,
securities trading, and the provision of advisory services. In addition, the
SEC increasingly has provided technical assistance to the Administration
in its negotiations involving trade and market access issues.

United States-Japan Framework Talks
SEC staff has provided technical assistance to the United States
Department of Treasury in connection with Treasury's participation in the
Working Group on Financial Services under the United States-Japan
Framework for a New Economic Partnership.
The purpose of the Group
is to work toward reducing barriers to market access in the area of financial
services, including the investment adviser industry and the investment
trust management business.

General Agreement on Trade in Services (GATS)
The Uruguay Round of the General Agreement on Tariffs and Trade
includes GATS, which encompasses financial services. Throughout the
Uruguay Round, the SEC provided assistance to the Treasury Department
and the United States Trade Representative, as they worked to negotiate
an agreement that will further liberalize trade in financial services. The
SEC's approach has been to balance the goals of the Uruguay Round against
its mandate to regulate for the protection of investors in the face of new
and different regulatory challenges that will be brought about by GATS.
The SEC staff has pressed for, and obtained, the flexibility needed by the
Commission to regulate prudentially.
With respect to financial services,
the Commission can take regulatory measures necessary for the protection
of investors and to ensure the integrity and stability of the United States
financial system. As the negotiations continue, the SEC will continue to
work with the Treasury
Department
and the United States Trade
Representative
to ensure that this and other provisions of the current
GATS, or any new proposals, are interpreted in a manner consistent with
the SEC's statutory mandate.

The North American Free Trade Agreement (NAFT A)
NAFTA contains a Financial Services Chapter, which encompasses
activities of financial service providers,
such as broker-dealers
and
investment advisers, within NAFTA countries.
The Financial Services
Chapter contains a strong "prudential carve-out," which enables the SEC
to adopt or modify measures for the protection of investors or the securities
markets, notwithstanding
any other provision of the Agreement. The SEC
provided the Department of Treasury with technical assistance in connection
with NAFTA and consulted with the Mexican Comisi6n Nacional de Valores
regarding the implementation of certain provisions of the Financial Services
Chapter.
27

Regulation of the Securities Markets
The Division of Market Regulation (Division), together with regional
and district office examination staff, oversees the operations of the nation's
securities markets and market professionals. In calendar year 1993, the
Commission supervised over 8,600 broker-dealers with 34,000 branch offices
and over 470,000 registered representatives, 8 active registered securities
exchanges, the over-the-counter markets, and 16 registered clearing agencies.
Broker-dealersfiling FOC US reports with the Commission had approximately
$1.2 trillion in assets and $75.6 billion in capital in 1993. The Division also
monitors market activity, which has experienced significant growth. In
calendar 1993, equity market capitalization stood at $5.2 trillion in the
United States and $14.1 trillion worldwide. The average daily trading
volume grew to over 264.5 million shares on the New York Stock Exchange
with volume on the NASDAQ Stock Market nearing that number. The
fastest growing area has been derivatives activities, where the approximate
notional amount for major United States broker-dealers and their affiliates is
$6 trillion with an aggregate replacement cost of approximately $31 billion.
Key 1994 Results
The Division continued to direct its efforts towards enhancing market
segments, particularly with respect to improving the overall efficiency of
the derivatives markets and the disclosure practices of the municipal
securities markets.
Major market participants
were monitored more
closely to determine their impact on the securities market. The Division
issued the Market 2000 Study, which presents a current view of the equity
markets and their regulatory structure. The Division also endeavored to
streamline the regulatory process by eliminating the need for review of
certain SRO rule filings. The national clearance and settlement system
made progress in preparing for a nationwide practice of three business
days for settlement of all broker-dealer trades. In addition, the Division
conducted several oversight inspections of SROs with a particular focus
on sales practice examinations.
Securities Markets, Trading and Significant Regulatory Issues
Market 2000
In January 1994, the Division issued its study, Market 2000: An
Examination of Current Equity Market Developments.
The study, while
concluding that the equity markets are operating efficiently within the
existing regulatory structure, identified four areas where the markets could
work better for investors and where competition could work better for the
markets.
Recommendations
regarding transparency, fair treatment of
?R

investors, fair market competition, and open market access were formulated
to achieve those ends. During the year, the Commission began implementing
the recommendations
contained in the study with the development of
rulemaking addressing payment for order flow practices, broker-dealer
automated order routing systems, and customer limit order handling in
the over-the-counter
(OTC) market.
Derivatives
The Division was actively involved in several derivatives related
projects. For example, the Commission issued a release proposing the use
of a theoretical pricing model to set capital charges for exchange-traded
options and related positions." The director of the Division testified on
this release and other issues relating to derivative financial instruments
before the United States House of Representatives,
Subcommittee on
Environment, Credit and Rural Development. The Division also monitored
and discussed derivatives-related
issues with the industry. For example,
the staff surveyed some of the largest United States securities firms regarding
their compliance with the risk management control recommendations
contained in the Group of Thirty's report entitled, Derivatives: Practices
and Principlee/"
In addition, the Division was active in an industry
initiative to study a range of policy and regulatory issues related to
financial derivatives in the areas of capital, regulatory reporting, internal
controls, and counterparty
relationships.
The Division also was involved in derivatives
projects on the
internationalleveI.
For example, the Commission along with the Commodity
Futures Trading Commission and the United Kingdom Securities and
Investments Board issued a joint statement concerning the oversight of
the OTC derivatives market."
This joint statement represents the first
international understanding
among securities and futures regulators for
developing an approach to the oversight of the OTC derivatives market.
Subsequently, the Division participated in producing a paper which was
issued by the International Organization of Securities Commissions (IOSCO)
regarding management control mechanisms for regulators of securities
firms doing OTC derivatives business."
Government Securities Market
The Government Securities Act Amendments of 1993 reauthorized
the Department
of the Treasury's (Treasury) financial responsibility
rulemaking authority for the government securities market and included
provisions for transaction recordkeeping,
large position reporting, and
National Association of Securities Dealers (NASD) sales practice rulemaking
authority.
The amendments also require the Commission to monitor
private sector efforts to improve the timely public dissemination and
availability for analytic purposes of information concerning government
securities transactions and quotations and to report these developments
to Congress annually.

?9

In the past year, GovPx, the entity formed by primary dealers and
inter-dealer brokers to provide non-exclusive distribution of government
bond data, added coverage of agency securities, zero-coupon bonds, and
Treasury strips to its service, and began disseminating real-time quotations
and trade information for basis trading in Treasury securities. GovPx now
carries data from five out of the six inter-dealer brokers in these securities.
GovPx also announced plans to offer theoretical pricing for those Treasury
securities for which it does not receive prices from inter-dealer brokers.
Prior to this year, only the prices of inter-dealer
broker Cantor
Fitzgerald L.P. were provided outside of GovPx and made available in realtime through a vendor's screen (Telerate), In the past year, Liberty Brokerage
began to distribute its prices through Dow Jones Telerate and Reuters, and
Euro Brokers Inc. began offering its prices through Bloomberg and KnightRidder.
Finally, this past year saw the introduction
of the CrossCom
Trading Network, a PC-based system which promises to bring screen-based
trading to bond traders.
While efforts have begun to improve transparency in the debt markets
generally, the Commission has recognized that some debt markets still lack
basic price transparency.
The Commission recently emphasized
the
importance of pricing information in all debt markets in connection with
its decision to defer adoption of riskless principal mark-up disclosure in
debt securities transactions.
In deferring adoption of mark-up disclosure
requirements, the Commission urged the industry to review the adequacy
of price transparency in certain debt markets, such as the mortgage-backed
and corporate debt markets, and report back to the Commission regarding
the adequacy of price information and the need for improvement of price
transparency in those markets.
SRO Rule Filings
In June 1994, the Commission proposed amendments to Rule 19b-4
under the Securities Exchange Act of 1934 (Exchange Act) to expand the
scope of SRO rule filings that may become effective upon filing under
Section 19(b)(3)(A).62 These amendments would streamline the process by
which rule changes of SROs are filed with and approved by the SEC. The
Commission also proposed amendments to streamline and conform the
annual filing requirements for SROs. These proposals were designed in
part to implement the recommendations
contained in the Market 2000
study.
National Clearance and Settlement System
The SEC continued to work to enhance all components of the national
clearance and settlement system. In particular, the SEC worked closely
with the SROs, broker-dealers, and industry groups to ensure an efficient
conversion to a three business day settlement time frame for broker-dealer
trades beginning in June 1995. In adopting Rule 15c6-1, which requires
settlement of broker-dealer trades in three business days, the Commission
called on the Municipal Securities Rulemaking Board (MSRB) to implement
earlier settlement for trades in municipal securities concurrently with the

effective date of Rule 15c6-1. Subsequently, the MSRB filed a proposed
rule change to require that all broker-dealer trades in municipal securities,
other than trades done on a "when, as, and if issued" basis, settle within
three business days." The SEC also worked with other SROs to bring their
rules into compliance with Rule 15c6-1. In addition, the National Securities
Clearing Corporation (NSCC), at the request of the SEC developed a plan
for converting to a three business day settlement time frame.
Internationalization
The staff provided information and technical assistance to several
emerging market countries, including China, Thailand, Korea, Taiwan,
Russia, and Poland. Pursuant to the SEC's membership in IOSCO, the
staff participated in the Working Party on the Regulation of Secondary
Markets, which discussed issues concerning the regulation of screen-based
trading systems and transparency of markets. The Working Party produced
a paper discussing regulatory issues regarding proprietary screen-based
trading systems, which was endorsed by IOSCO at its 1994 annual meeting.
The Commission took a variety of actions pertaining to multinational
offerings. For example, consistent with its Statement of Policy regarding
class exemptions for certain foreign issuers that conduct distributions in
the United States." the Commission granted class exemptions from the
trading practices rules for distributions of securities by certain highly
capitalized French issuers. The exemptions permit distribution participants
to effect transactions in France in the security being distributed and related
securities, subject to certain disclosure, record keeping, record production,
and notice requirements."
Additionally, the Commission clarified its application of cooling-off
periods to distributions of foreign securities in the United States under
Rule lOb-6.66
Extension of Credit
The staff clarified its position with respect to the
extension of credit prohibitions of Section 11(d)(l) of
to the distribution of tranches of collateralized mortgage
to a clearing broker-dealer extending credit on certain
to a customer of its correspondent broker-dealer."

application of the
the Exchange Act
obligations," and
equity securities

Employee Retirement Programs and Financial Institution Networking
The staff issued two letters allowing broker-dealers
to establish
retirement programs for certain of their employees without the employees
maintaining their status as registered representa ti ves of the broker-dealer. 69
The retiring employees were permitted to share sales commissions genera ted
by their client accounts with the active employees servicing those accounts,
provided that they did not contact their former clients or otherwise remain
in the securities business. The programs were limited to retiring employees
without a disciplinary history. In addition, having issued over 200 noaction letters during the past decade addressing networking arrangements
between broker-dealers and certain financial institutions, the staff issued
1

a definitive letter describing the conditions under which these arrangements
may be conducted without the financial institutions or their employees
registering under Section 15 of the Exchange Act.??
Hedge Funds
In response to Congressional concerns, and in light of the lack of
publicly available information about hedge funds and their impact on the
markets, Chairman Arthur Levitt wrote to several large hedge funds
requesting that they voluntarily provide the Commission with information
concerning their hedge fund positions and trading strategies. As a result,
the staff entered into ongoing discussions with various hedge funds, as
well as consultants to the industry. The staff also explored ways to increase
the availability of information regarding the trading activities of large
institutional traders, including hedge funds, in key markets. To this end,
in February 1994, the Commission reproposed Rule 13h-l, which would
implement the Commission's large trader reporting system."
The proposed large trader reporting system generally is designed to
supplement the Commission's existing authority to obtain trading and
other records from registered broker-dealers.
In reproposing Rule 13h-l,
the Commission responded to concerns expressed by numerous commenters
and revised certain provisions of the proposed rule. The changes to the
proposed rule were intended to clarify the operation of the system and
to reduce the costs associated with the system, including the cost of
compliance. In addition, the Commission solicited comments regarding
the use of other existing industry systems.
Anti-Manipulation Concept Release
The Commission published a concept release seeking comment on
a broad range of issues relating to the anti-manipulation
regulation of
securities offerings under the Exchange Act. In particular, the Commission
requested comment on Rules 10b-6, 10b-7, and 10b-8 under the Exchange
Act;72the concepts underlying these rules; and alternative approaches for
applying anti-manipulation principles to persons who may have incentives
to artificially influence the market during an offering.
Confirmation Disclosure
The Commission published for comment amendments to Rule 10b-l0
that would require disclosure regarding the unrated status of certain debt
securities, and assumptions about collateralized debt securities that may
affect yield.
To address Congressional
concerns expressed in the
Government Securities Act Amendments of 1993, the amendments also
would require broker-dealers
that are not members of the Securities
Investor Protection Corporation to disclose that fact to their customers.
The Commission also proposed amendments that would require brokerdealers to provide customers immediate written notification of mark-up
information for riskless principal transactions in debt securities" and a
new Rule 15c2-13 that would require similar mark-up disclosure for
transactions in municipal securities. In addition, the Division explored

3?

various ways to improve transparency in the municipal securities market.
Since the proposals were published for comment on March 9, 1994, the
MSRB proposed a program that ultimately would provide same day price
reporting of all transactions in municipal securities, including same day
reporting of retail trades.
Theoretical Option Pricing Methodology
The Commission proposed for comment amendments to Rule 15c3-1
that would allow broker-dealers to use a theoretical pricing model when
calculating
capital charges (haircuts) for listed options and related
positions." To determine haircuts for broker-dealers'
options positions,
the Commission proposed that broker-dealers use The Option Clearing
Corporation's system for measuring market risk, which is based on the CoxRoss-Rubenstein binomial option pricing model. By better matching the
haircut charges to the market risk of the positions, the proposed amendments
provide significant improvement
to the Commission's
option haircut
methodology.
Simultaneously with the proposing release, the Division
issued a no-action letter that provided broker-dealers the choice of using
the theoretical pricing methodology.
Short Sales in Anticipation of an Offering
The Commission permanently adopted Rule 10b-21 under the Exchange
Act, which had been adopted on a temporary basis in 1988. Rule 10b-21
is designed to prevent manipulative short sales of an equity security in
anticipation of a public offering by prohibiting the covering of short sales
with securities purchased in the offering."
Nationally Recognized Statistical Rating Organizations
In August 1994, the Commission issued a concept release" soliciting
public comment on a number of questions concerning the use of the term
"nationally recognized statistical rating organization"
(NRSRO) in the
Commission's rules. This concept release examines the process employed
by the Commission to designate rating agencies as NRSROs and the nature
of the Commission's oversight role with respect to NRSROs.
Money Laundering
The Division continued to work with the Treasury and other United
States government offices to develop effective policies to combat money
Treasury
laundering.
For example, the staff (1) actively supported
rulemaking projects, (2) submitted comments on the Money Laundering
Suppression Act of 1994, (3) provided technical advice to the United States
delegation to the Financial Action Task Force on Money Laundering, the
independent group of major financial center countries and regions, and
(3) provided advice with respect to potential enforcement matters.

33

Automation Review
The staff continued to perform Automation Review Policy (ARP)
inspections of the exchanges and the NASD.77 The primary purpose of
the ARP program is to monitor and inspect the electronic data processing
facilities supporting
the transaction
and information
dissemination
activities of the SROs in their relationship to the national market system.
The staff completed six on-site inspections and issued five reports, which
included
fifty-one
recommendations
for improvements.
Typical
recommendations included the need for back-up facilities for data centers,
enhancements to data security efforts, and better use of capacity planning
tools.
The staff held 12 technology briefings with the SROs to ascertain
recent and planned changes and improvements in their automated systems.
The staff also assessed the ability of SROs to respond to systems malfunctions
and examined SRO measures to prevent system outages. In addition, two
meetings were held with the 16 clearing agencies to discuss the application
of the program to clearing agencies.
Broker-Dealer Trading Systems
In response to the recommendations of the Market 2000 study, the
Commission adopted Rule 17a-23 under the Exchange Act to establish
record keeping and reporting requirements for brokers and dealers that
operate automated trading systems." Registered broker-dealer sponsors
of these systems would be required to maintain participant, volume, and
transaction records, and to report system activity periodically to the
Commission.
Examination and Oversight of Brokers, Dealers, Municipal Securities Dealers,
and Transfer Agents
Broker-Dealer Examination Program
The SEC completed a total of 680 examinations, consisting of 478
oversight and 202 cause examinations.
Findings from 124 examinations
were referred for enforcement consideration. Referrals to SROs were made
in 47 examinations. A description of particularly significant examinations
follows.
The Division, working in conjunction with the New York Stock
Exchange (NYSE) and the NASD, completed a review of the hiring, retention,
and supervisory practices of nine of the country's largest broker-dealers."
Staff from the SEC, NYSE, and NASD conducted 170 broker-dealer
examinations of both home and branch offices of the nine firms and focused
their review on 268 registered representatives who had been the subject
of sales practice-related
customer complaints, litigation, arbitration, or
disciplinary actions. Forty of these examinations resulted in enforcement
referrals.
In June 1994, the Division issued the Joint Regulatory Penny Stock
Examination Sweep Repori P The report was the culmination of the largest,
most ambitious joint SEC, SRO, and state project ever undertaken.
The
34

nationwide sweep involved examinations of 130 penny stock firms by SEC
regional and district office staff, the NASD, the NYSE, and 40 states. The
SEC coordinated the sweep and drafted the report.
Lost and Stolen Securities
Rule 17f-1 of the Exchange Act sets forth participation, reporting, and
inquiry requirements for the SEC's Lost and Stolen Securities Program."
Statistics for calendar year 1993 (the most recent data available) reflect the
program's continuing effectiveness.
As of December 31, 1993, 24,039
institutions were registered in the program, a 1 percent increase over 1992.
The number of securities reported as lost, stolen, missing, or counterfeit
decreased from 2,500,521 in 1992 to 1,634,161 in 1993, a 35 percent decrease.
The dollar value of these securities decreased from $71 billion to $4 billion,
a 94 percent decrease. The aggregate dollar value of the securities contained
in the program's database increased from $90.3 billion in 1992 to $92.6
billion in 1993, a 3 percent increase. In 1993, the number of inquiries from
participating institutions that matched previous reports as lost, missing,
stolen, or counterfeit securities was 44,902, a 99 percent increase from 1992.
The dollar value of these matches increased from $135 million in 1992 to
$252 million in 1993, an 87 percent increase. The total number of certificates
inquired about through the program rose from 5,281,185 in 1992 to 6,553,308
in 1993, a 24 percent increase.
Oversight of Self-Regulatory

Organizations

National Securities Exchanges
As of September 30,1994, there were eight active securities exchanges
registered with the SEC as national securities exchanges: American Stock
Exchange (AM EX), Boston Stock Exchange (BSE), Chicago Board Options
Exchange (CBOE), Cincinnati Stock Exchange (CSE), Chicago Stock Exchange
(CHX), NYSE, Philadelphia
Stock Exchange (PHLX), and Pacific Stock
Exchange (PSE). The SEC granted exchange applications to delist 72 debt
and equity issues, and granted applications
by issuers requesting
withdrawal from listing and registration for 47 issues. In addition, the
SEC granted 1,591 exchange applications for unlisted trading privileges.
The exchanges submitted a total of 319 proposed rule changes during
1994. A total of 292 pending and new filings were approved by the
Commission, and 127 were withdrawn. Some of the significant rule filings
approved by the Commission included proposals to:
• amend and extend through May 18, 1995 the existing pilot program
of the CSE relating to the preferencing of public agency market and
marketable limit orders by approved dealers and proprietary
mernbersr"
• permit competing specialists on the floor of the BSE for a one year
pilot period ending May 18, 1995;83 and
• adopt the NYSE, AMEX, BSE, CHX, PSE, and PHLX programs for
off-hours-trading
on a permanent basis."

35

National Association of Securities Dealers, Inc.
The NASD, with over 5,300 member firms, is the only national securities
association registered with the SEC. It is the operator of the NASDAQ
Stock Market (formerly NASDAQ), the second largest stock market in the
United States, and the second largest in the world (after the NYSE).
The NASD submitted 75 proposed rule changes to the Commission
during the year. The Commission approved 81 proposed rule changes,
which included many of the proposed rule changes submitted during the
year and several proposed rule changes submitted in prior years. Among
the significant changes approved by the Commission were:
• more stringent listing and maintenance requirements for issuers on
the NASDAQ Stock Market;"
• a comprehensive short sale rule applicable to the OTC market;"
• greater limit order protection in the NASDAQ Stock Market:"
• a requirement that all Consolidated Quotation System market makers
in Rule 19c-3 securities register as Intermarket Trading System/
Computer Assisted Executed Service market makers:" and
• implementation of requirements imposed upon the NASD by the
Limited Partnership Roll-up Reform Act of 1993.89
Clearing Agencies
Sixteen clearing agencies were registered with the SEC at year-end.
In addition, the SEC extended the temporary registration as a clearing
agency for the Participants
Trust Co.,9° MBS Clearing Corporation
(MBSCC)/l and the International Securities Clearing Corporation;" The
Intermarket Clearing Corporation notified the SEC of its intention to let
its temporary registration expire and requested that the SEC no longer
consider its request for permanent registration."
Registered clearing agencies submitted 124 proposed rule changes to
the SEC and withdrew 11. The SEC approved 139 proposed rule changes,
including the following:
• implementation of the first three stages of The Depository Trust
Company's enhancements to its Institutional Delivery System that
facilitate communications
between broker-dealers
and their
institutional customers."
• implementation
of the Government
Securities
Clearing
Corporation's (GSCC) Auction Takedown System, which includes
within GSCC's netting system Treasury security purchases made
at auction by GSCC mernbersi'" and
• the sale of MBSCC by the CHX to NSCC and the participants of
MBSCC.96

36

Municipal Securities Rulemaking Board
The SEC received 16 new proposed rule changes from the MSRB. A
total of 12 new and pending proposed rule changes were approved by the
Commission.
In particular, the Commission approved MSRB Rule G-37,
which prohibits municipal securities dealers from conducting certain types
of municipal securities business with an issuer within two years after any
contribution by the dealer or certain affiliated persons to officials of the
issuer who could influence the awarding of municipal securities business."
The Commission also approved changes to MSRB Rule G-19 concerning
suitability of recommendations,
and Rule G-8 concerning recordkeeping
to ensure that dealers, before making a recommendation
to a customer,
take appropriate steps to determine that the municipal securities transaction
is suitable."
Inspections of SRO Surveillance and Regulatory Compliance
The staff completed oversight inspections
of the sales practice
examination programs of the CBOE, AMEX, and NYSE. The staff completed
an inspection of the advertising program of the NASD relating to investment
company communications, non-investment company communications, and
bank affiliate communications.
The staff also conducted
oversight
inspections of the NYSE's preliminary investigation program and full
investigation program. In addition, the staff conducted an inspection of
the MSRB.
The staff conducted
inspections
of the arbitration
programs
administered by the NASD and NYSE. These inspections were designed
to evaluate the effectiveness of these SRO programs in processing and
resolving disputes between SRO members and their customers. In particular,
the staff reviewed the adequacy and thoroughness of case documentation,
the efficiency of case management systems, and arbitrator qualification and
training procedures.
Consideration also was given to whether major rule
changes, adopted by the NASD and NYSE in 1989 in response to Commission
concerns regarding the rules and procedures governing SRO-administered
arbitration, were successful in improving the fairness and efficiency of
these programs.
The staff reviewed the surveillance, investigatory, and disciplinary
programs of the CSE and AMEX. The staff also reviewed the Intermarket
Trading System operations
of participating
SROs and conducted an
examination of multiple traded options at the five options exchanges.
Arbitration
In response to the Commission's recommendations to enhance facilities
for arbitration matters involving employment discrimination claims, and
in light of a General Accounting Office report," arbitration departments
of SROs began to (1) implement procedures to track and analyze employment
discrimination cases, (2) evaluate the backgrounds of arbitrators, and (3)
appoint arbitrators with appropriate expertise for these matters.'?"

17

The Commission approved proposed rule changes by the NASD and
national securities exchanges that were designed to strengthen
the
arbitration rules governing disputes among broker-dealers and between
broker-dealers
and investors.
In particular, the Commission approved
amendments to arbitration rules that (1) enabled securities industry parties
to pursue class actions in courts!" and (2) reinforced the ability of arbitrators
to refer matters to disciplinary cornmittees.!'"
SRO Final Disciplinary Actions
Section 19d-l of the Exchange Act and Rule 19d-l thereunder require
all SROs to file reports with the SEC of all final disciplinary actions. Rule
19d-l reports filed with the SEC were distributed as follows: AMEX-21;
CBOE-70; NYSE-192; PHLX-19; PSE-ll;
CHX-l; NSCC-2; BSE-l;
CSE-none;
and NASD-729.

SRO Final Disciplinary

Actions

1990

1991

1992

1993

1994

594

568

498

362

317

District Committees

893

781

966

646

660

NASDAQ and Market
Surveillance
Committees

118

141

160

75

69

Exchanges
NASD:

Totals

1,605 1,490 1,624 1,083 1,046

Applications for Re-entry
Rule 19h-l under the Exchange Act prescribes the form and content
of, and establishes the mechanism by which the SEC reviews, proposals
submitted by the SROs to allow persons subject to a statutory disqualification
to become or remain associated with member firms. In 1994, the number
of SRO filings pursuant to Rule 19h-l processed by the staff increased 40
percent, from 53 in 1993 to 74 in 1994. Of the 74 filings, the NASD made
52, the NYSE made 21, and the CBOE made one. One application was
denied, and the staff declined to take a no-action position in another.

38

Investment Manageluent Regulation
The Division of Investment Management oversees the regulation of
investment companiesand investment advisers under two companion statutes,
the Investment Company Act of 1940 (Investment Company Act) and the
Investment Advisers Actof1940 (Investment Advisers Act),and administers
the Public Utility Holding Company Act of 1935 (Holding Company Act).
Key 1994 Results

In 1994, a large part of the work of the Division of Investment
Management
focused on three areas: improving
and simplifying
communications
to investment company shareholders; enhancing the
integrity of participants in the investment management industry; and
evaluating the use of derivatives by investment companies.
Key steps
taken to improve disclosures to investment company shareholders included
the Division's initiative to simplify investment company prospectuses and
rule changes modernizing the investment company proxy rules. In April
1994, the Commission adopted amendments to Rules 204-1 and 204-3 and
Form ADV under the Investment Advisers Act relating to wrap fee programs.
The amendments specify the content, format and delivery requirements
of the brochure that a wrap fee program sponsor must provide to clients
and prospective clients. Also, the Commission proposed amendments to
Rule 2a-7, under the Investment Company Act, which regulates money
market funds. The amendments, among other things, would tighten the
risk-limiting conditions imposed on tax exempt money market funds, and
clarify the manner in which the rule applies to certain types of adjustable
rate securities.
On September 27, 1994, the Division of Investment Management
released a report, Personal Investment Activities of Investment Company
Personnel, which describes the results of the staff's special examination of
the personal investment acti vities of over 600 portfolio managers employed
by 30 fund groups and analyzes the regulatory scheme that governs those
investment activities. If implemented, the report's recommendations
to
improve the regulatory
scheme would make available to the public
additional information about fund policies on personal investments, enhance
the oversight of personal investment policies by fund boards of directors,
make it easier for both agency and fund staff to monitor the personal
transactions of fund personnel, and clarify the scope of activities prohibited
by fund personnel.
The Division has taken a multi-faceted approach to mutual fund use
of derivatives, focusing on a broad range of issues, including disclosure,
pricing, liquidity, leverage, and risk management. In December 1993, the
Division formed a task force to study how investment companies use
derivatives, how the Commission regulates derivatives, and whether
legislative or regulatory changes are necessary or appropriate.
In a
September 1994 report, the Division recommended to Chairman Arthur

39

Levitt that the Commission: (1) seek public comment on requiring some
form of quantitative risk measure in fund prospectuses; (2) reexamine how
the leverage restrictions of the Investment Company Act apply to derivatives;
(3) consider reducing the ceiling on mutual fund illiquid holdings; and
(4) submit to Congress legislation that would enhance the Commission's
ability to monitor fund use of derivatives.
Program

Overview

Investment Company and Adviser Inspection Program
During 1994, the investment company and adviser inspection program
shifted its focus towards small and medium investment company complexes
(those outside of the largest 100 investment company groups) and new
entrants to the fund business. Examiners emphasized fund share distribution
and portfolio management activities during inspections.
In particular,
examiners looked closely at the use and effects of derivative investment
products on registrants' disclosures, returns, and internal control systems.
The program also set a goal of examining investment advisers with
discretionary management authority that have not been examined since
1990.
The tables below show the number of registered investment companies
and investment advisers and the amount of assets under management. All
figures are reported for fiscal year-end.
Number of Active Registrants

Investment
Companies
Investment
Company
Portfolios
Investment
Advisers

% Change
1994 1990-94

1990

1991

1992

1993

3,535

3,660

3,850

4,300

4,530

28.1%

16,000' 18,700 21,200

22,426

NA

20,000

21,600

24.2%

NA
17,386

17,500 18,000

NA = Not Available
Estimated

*

Assets Under Management
($ in billions)

1992

1993

1994

% Change
1990-94

$1,350

$1,400 $1,800

$2,400

$2,510

85.9%

$4,900

$5,400 $8,100

$9,600

$9,600

95.9%

1990
Investment
Companies
Investment
Advisers
40

1991

The number of registered investment companies increased by more
than 5 percent during 1994. Many investment companies combine several
separate portfolios or investment series in one investment company
registration statement.
The number of portfolios generally ranges from
three to ten. However, some unit investment trusts group as many as 1,400
separate portfolios under one Investment Company Act registration.
The
number of portfolios increased by almost 6 percent during the year.

Results Achieved by the Program
The inspection staff completed 313 investment company inspections
during the year. The 313 complexes inspected managed 1,669 portfolios,
approximately 25 percent of the mutual fund and closed-end fund portfolios
in existence at the beginning of 1994. This indicates an average inspection
frequency of once every four years. Of 313 inspections completed, 21 were
referred to the Division of Enforcement (Enforcement) as compared to 8
referrals during 1993. An additional 244 inspections resulted in deficiency
letters being sent to investment companies.
The inspection staff completed 963 investment adviser examinations
during the year including examinations of 684 advisers with discretionary
management authority.
This represents a 35 percent increase over 1993,
reflecting a shift in focus towards smaller advisers. The 684 inspections
of discretionary advisers covered 9 percent of such advisers indicating an
average inspection cycle of once every 11 years. The overall inspection
cycle for advisers was an average of once every 22 years.
Of the 963 examinations, 94 were referred to Enforcement. Twentyseven percent of referrals included deficiencies related to investment policies
and / or prohibited transactions, and 46 percent involved potential conflicts
of interest in personal investing by access persons (persons with direct
knowledge of the portfolio). Over 90 percent of all investment adviser
examinations resulted in either a deficiency letter, an enforcement referral,
or both.

Special Reports
In 1994, the Division prepared two special reports, one addressing
mutual fund use of derivatives and the other addressing personal investment
activities of investment company personnel.

Mutual Fund Use of Derivatives
The Division has taken a multi-faceted approach to mutual fund use
of derivatives, focusing on a broad range of issues, including disclosure,
pricing, liquidity, leverage, and risk management. In December 1993, the
Division formed a task force to study how investment companies use
derivatives, how the Commission regulates derivatives, and whether
legislative or regulatory changes are necessary or appropriate.
The task
force reviewed the disclosures of 100 investment companies, and the
Division's fund disclosure review staff has given heightened scrutiny to
derivatives disclosure in prospectuses.
The Division has encouraged

41

registrants
to modify their existing disclosure
to enhance investor
understanding of pertinent risks.!" In addition, the Division's inspection
staff has examined and reported on the derivatives activities of each fund
inspected, and has conducted special examinations of certain funds holding
significant positions in derivatives.
On September 26, 1994, the Division reported to Chairman Levitt on
mutual fund use of derivatives.l'" In this report, the Division recommended
that the Commission:
(1) seek public comment on requiring some form
of quantitative risk measure in fund prospectuses; (2) reexamine how the
leverage restrictions of the Investment Company Act apply to derivatives;
(3) consider reducing the ceiling on mutual fund illiquid holdings; and
(4) submit to Congress proposed legislation that would enhance the
Commission's ability to monitor fund use of derivatives. Chairman Levitt
presented the Division's report to Congress in September 1994.105
Personal Investment Activities of Investment Company Personnel
On September 27, 1994, the Division of Investment Management
released a report, Personal Investment Activities of Investment Company
Personnel, which describes the results of the staff's special examination of
the personal investment activities of over 600 portfolio managers employed
by 30 fund groups. The report analyzes the regulatory scheme that governs
those investment activities.
With some exceptions, the fund managers
examined generally did not appear to invest extensively for their personal
accounts, and potential conflicts of interest between a manager's investments
and those of his or her fund appeared to be infrequent. The data collected
suggested that the existing regulatory scheme generally has worked well,
but can be improved. The Division made several recommendations, some
of which can be accomplished administratively.
Others will require action
by Congress or the National Association of Securities Dealers (NASD). If
implemented, the staff's recommendations
would make available to the
public additional information about fund policies on personal investment,
enhance the oversight of personal investment policies by the fund board
of directors, make it easier for both agency and fund staff to monitor the
personal transactions of fund personnel, and clarify the scope of prohibited
activities by fund personnel.
Regulatory Policy
Significant Investment Company Developments
In December 1993, the Commission proposed amendments to Rule
2a-7, under the Investment Company Act, which regulates money market
funds. The proposed amendments would, among other things, tighten the
risk-limiting conditions on tax-exempt money market funds, apply Rule
2a-7 to asset-backed and synthetic securities, and clarify the manner in
which the rule applies to certain types of adjustable rate securities. The
Commission also proposed related amendments to Form N-IA to impose
additional disclosure requirements on tax-exempt money market funds.

42

The amendments are designed both to increase the safety of money market
funds and to increase investor awareness of the risks of investment in a
money market fund.!"
In December 1993, the Commission proposed for public comment Rule
18f-3 under the Investment Company Act, and related amendments to other
rules under that Act and the Securities Act of 1933 (Securities Act). Proposed
Rule 18f-3 would allow open-end management investment companies to
issue multiple classes of shares without the need to apply for and receive
an order of exemption from the Commission, largely codifying over 150
exemptive orders issued by the Commission during the past decade.
Proposed amendments to Form N-IA, the registration form used by openend management investment cornpanies.t'" would make consistent the
disclosure requirements of multiple class and master-feeder funds (funds
which consist of one or more feeder funds investing in the same portfolio,
or master fund). The proposal also would make conforming changes to
several advertising and sales literature rules.
In May 1994, the Commission proposed for public comment Rule 17f-6
under the Investment Company Act to permit registered management
investment companies to use futures commission merchants and commodity
clearing organizations
as custodians of their assets in connection with
futures contracts and commodity options regulated under the Commodity
Exchange Act.IOB Currently, investment companies must maintain special
accounts with their custodian banks for these transactions.
The proposed
rule would enable investment companies to effect their commodity trades
in the same manner as other market participants under condi tions designed
to ensure the safekeeping of investment company assets.
In August 1994, the Commission adopted an amendment to Rule 415
under the Securities Act, which governs the registration of securities for
the shelf. The amendment permits closed-end funds that make periodic
repurchase offers, known as closed-end interval funds, to offer their shares
on a continuous or delayed basis.''" The amendment is intended to facilitate
offerings by closed-end interval funds to replenish assets that may be
depleted by periodic repurchases.
Significant Investment Adviser Developments
In January 1994, the Commission proposed and in April 1994, the
Commission adopted amendments to Rules 204-1 and 204-3 and Form ADV
under the Investment Advisers Act relating to wrap fee programs. A wrap
fee program provides an investor with two types of services: investment
advisory services and execution services for a single wrap fee, usually a
percentage of assets under management.
The amendments specify the
content, format, and delivery requirements of the brochure that a sponsor
of a wrap fee program must provide clients and prospective clients and
are intended to facilitate the development of clear, concise and informative
wrap fee brochures.!"

43

,.

In March 1994, the Commission proposed for public comment two new
rules under the Investment Advisers Act. Proposed Rule 206(4)-5 would
make express the fiduciary obligation of an investment adviser to make
only suitable recommendations to a client, after a reasonable inquiry into
the client's financial situation, investment experience, and investment
objectives. An express suitability rule would underscore the importance
of this requirement,
particularly
to the many new entrants into the
investment advisory industry, and increase the level of attention given to
suitability determinations by advisory firms. Proposed Rule 206(4)-6 would
prohibit registered
investment
advisers from exercising investment
discretion with respect to client accounts unless they have a reasonable
belief that the custodians of those accounts send account statements to the
clients no less frequently than quarterly. These account statements would
provide clients with independent reports of account activity and permit
clients to protect themselves against wrongful or questionable conduct
such as inappropriately high levels of trading, unauthorized transactions,
or unsuitable investments.'!'
Significant Disclosure Program Developments
In August 1994, the Commission adopted amendments to Rule 485
under the Securities Act. Among other things, Rule 485 sets forth standards
for filing post-effective amendments to registration statements filed by
open-end management investment companies and unit investment trusts
and permits certain amendments to become effective automatically.
The
adopted amendments simplify the operation of the rule and expand the
conditions under which post-effective amendments filed by investment
companies are permitted to become effective automatically. The Commission
adopted new Rule 486 that permits closed-end management investment
companies, which make repurchase offers to their shareholders at net asset
value in accordance with Rule 23c-3 under the Investment Company Act,
to obtain automatic registration effectiveness for additional securities using
procedures similar to those in Rule 485.112
In December 1993, the Commission proposed and, in October 1994
the Commission adopted, amendments to Schedule 14A under the Securities
Exchange Act (Exchange Act) to add a new item 22 that includes the specific
requirements applicable to the proxy statements of registered management
investment companies.
Item 22 replaced Rules 20a-2, 20a-3, and 20a-4
under the Investment
Company Act, which were rescinded.
These
amendments update the proxy rules applicable to investment companies
to reflect current matters on which investment company shareholders are
commonly asked to vote, to improve the disclosure provided to shareholders,
and to simplify the preparation of investment company proxy statements.
The Commission also amended Form N-14, the form used by management
investment companies to register securities issued in connection with
business combination transactions, to require a comparative fee table in
the disclosure documents delivered in connection with such transactions.!"

44

In August 1994, the Commission proposed amendments to Rule 6-07
of Regulation S-X, the regulation setting forth form and content requirements
for financial statements
included in registration
statements,
proxy
statements, annual reports, and shareholder reports under the various
securities laws, and Forms N-IA, N-2, N-3, and N-4, the registration forms
used by management
investment companies and insurance company
separate accounts (funds) under the Securities Act and the Investment
Company Act. The proposed amendments would require a fund to adjust
the amount of expenses reflected in the statement of operations in its
financial statements to include amounts the fund would have paid to its
service providers had a broker-dealer or any affiliate of the broker-dealer
not paid or agreed to pay those service providers on behalf of the fund
in connection with the allocation of fund transactions to the broker-dealer.
The proposed amendments also would require that the adjusted expenses
be reflected in the fee table, the financial highlights table included in fund
prospectuses, and yield quotations. In addition, the proposed amendments
would require that the financial highlights table disclose the average
commission rate paid by the fund. The amendments are designed to allow
investors to evaluate fully the expenses of a fund that pays for services
with commission dollars and accurately compare expenses and yields
among funds."!
Considerable staff time and attention were devoted to efforts to simplify
and improve prospectus disclosure.
The staff utilized focus groups to
research the views and opinions of investors in an effort to identify areas
for enhanced prospectus disclosure.
The staff began to reevaluate the
process through which it comments on registration statements filed by
investment companies. This project is designed to enhance the clarity of
disclosure by reducing technical and legal prose. The staff also participated
in drafting a brochure to assist consumers who invest in mutual funds.
The staff continued to focus on the disclosure and policy issues raised
by funds investing in new products. For example, derivatives, structured
financing arrangements and strategic transactions were analyzed in terms
of adequacy of risk disclosure, potential for leverage, liquidity, and
assurance of accurate pricing. The staff also reviewed the disclosure and
policy issues raised by the increasing number of funds investing in emerging
markets or previously closed, centrally-planned
economies.
In 1994, the staff reviewed filings by 508 new open-end fund portfolios,
616 existing open-end portfolios, 202 new closed-end portfolios,S existing
closed-end fund portfolios, 450 new unit investment trust portfolios, and
387 existing unit investment trust portfolios.
In connection with its
regulation of variable insurance products, the staff reviewed filings by 76
new open-end funds, 245 existing open-end funds, 257 new sub-accounts
funded by variable annuity contracts, 482 existing sub-accounts funded
by variable annuity contracts, 112 new variable life insurance products,
and 273 existing variable life insurance products.
In addition, the staff
reviewed 579 proxy filings by funds and insurance product separate
accounts.

45

Section 13(f)(1) of the Exchange Act and Rule 13f-l
require
"institutional investment managers" exercising investment discretion over
accounts holding certain equity securities with a fair market value of at
least $100 million to file quarterly reports on Form 13F. For the quarter
ending June 30, 1994, 1,222 managers filed Form 13F reports, for total
holdings of approximately $2 trillion.

Significant Insurance Products Developments
The staff of the Division's Office of Insurance Products continued
efforts to develop a new registration form to be used by separate accounts
offering variable life insurance contracts. Currently, separate accounts
register as unit investment trusts under the Investment Company Act on
Form N-8B-2 and also register their securities under the Securities Act on
Form S-6. The new Form N-6 will replace this procedure with a single,
three-part form that will integrate registration under both Acts.
In 1994, the staff began receiving registration statements involving
the two-tiered "master-feeder" structure. In this structure, the master fund
holds and manages the investment portfolio while one or more feeder funds
(i.e., insurance company separate accounts) offer shares to insurance contract
owners and invest all of the separate account assets in the master fund.""
As in master-feeder registrations outside the insurance products context,
the registration statements reviewed for feeders discuss both the features
of the variable insurance product as well as the operation of the underlying
master fund.

Significant Public Utility Holding Company Act Developments
The Commission began an evaluation of the Holding Company Act
to review the regulatory framework in light of developments in recent years
and to consider how federal regulation of utility holding companies can
best serve the interests of investors, consumers, and the general public in
the future. The Commission inaugurated the review with a roundtable
discussion,
in Washington,
D.C. on July 18 and 19, 1994 in which
representatives of the utility industry; consumer groups; trade associations;
investment banks; rating agencies; state, local, and federal regulators; and
others participated. The study is expected to be completed by the summer
of 1995.
The Commission adopted amendments to rules and forms to modernize
and streamline
regulation
under the Holding Company Act. The
amendments expand certain exemptions and generally update and clarify
the requirements of the rules. The Commission rescinded Rule 50 under
the Holding Company Act, which required competitive bidding in
connection with the purchase or underwriting of securities by companies
in a registered system. The rulemaking is intended generally to reduce
regulatory burdens under the Holding Company Act.
As of September 30, 1994, there were 14 public-utility
holding
companies registered under the Holding Company Act. The registered
systems were comprised of 91 public utility subsidiaries, 193 non-utility
subsidiaries and 31 inactive subsidiaries, for a total of 329 companies and

46

systems operating in 26 states.
These holding company systems had
aggregate assets of approximately $121.7 billion as of September 30, 1994.
Operating revenues for twelve months ending September 30, 1994, were
approximately $43.9 billion.
During 1994, the Commission authorized registered holding company
systems to issue $8.6 billion in short-term debt, $3.7 billion in long-term
debt, and $2.7 billion in common and preferred stock. Short-term debt
authorization increased by over $4 billion in 1994 from the previous year,
with common and preferred stock equity increasing by $2 billion. The
Commission approved pollution control financings of $1.8 billion, an
increase of 29 percent over 1993. The agency approved $240 million of
investments in cogeneration projects that were "qualifying facilities" under
the Public Utility Regulatory Policies Act of 1978 and rules thereunder.
The Commission also approved $418 million of investments in exempt
wholesale generators and foreign utility companies, an increase of over
263 percent over 1993, and $42 million in enterprises engaged in demandside and energy management.
Total financing
authorizations
of
approximately $17.5 billion represented a 73 percent increase over such
authorizations
in 1993.
In overseeing compliance with the Holding Company Act, the staff
examines service companies, special purpose companies, and exempt
wholesale generator and foreign utility company subsidiaries of registered
holding company systems. During 1994, six examinations were completed,
three of foreign utility companies, two of service companies, and one of
special purpose corporations, respectively. The staff continued to review
the accounting policies, cost determination,
intercompany transactions,
and quarterly reporting requirements of all service companies and special
purpose corporations.
Through the examination
program, and by
uncovering misapplied expenses and inefficiencies, the Commission's
activities during 1994 resulted in savings to consumers of approximately
$11 million.
The Commission approved a joint legislative proposal by its staff and
the staff of the Federal Energy Regulatory Commission (FERC), intended
to resolve the issues raised by Ohio Power Co. v. FERe. The proposal would
amend section 318 of the Federal Power Act (FPA) to permit the FERC,
in the exercise of its ratemaking authority, to disallow costs incurred
pursuant to Section 13(b) of the Holding Company Act on a finding that
recovery of such costs would be inconsistent with the standards of the FPA.
On May 26, 1994, Commissioner Richard Roberts, on behalf of the
Commission, testified before the Subcommittee on Energy and Power of
the House Committee on Energy and Commerce, regarding policy issues
raised by Ohio Power, and other issues generally related to regulation under
the Holding Company Act. The testimony focused on the Commission's

47

efforts to address concerns that the decision can be read to challenge the
ability of the FERC and state and local ratemakers, to protect consumers
through traditional ratemaking proceedings.
On June 24,1994, Representatives Boucher, Dingell, Markey and Sharp
introduced H.R. 4645. This legislation, which was substantially similar
to the Commission-FERC joint staff proposal, would amend the FPA to
authorize the FERC to disallow Commission-approved
costs on a finding
that recovery of such costs was inconsistent with the requirements of the
FPA. The legislation does not contain any provision for transfer of
administration
of the Holding Company Act to the FERC.
On August 11, 1994, an amendment to S. 1822, the Communications
Act of 1994, was reported by the Senate Committee on Commerce, Science
and Transportation.
Among other things, the legislation would permit
registered holding companies to engage in telecommunications
activities,
generally without limit under the Holding Company Act. The Commission
had previously submitted a statement to that Committee and the Senate
Committee on Banking, Housing and Urban Affairs focusing on the need
for effective consumer protection if registered holding companies were to
be permitted to engage in telecommunication
activities.

Significant Applications And Interpretations
Investment Company Act Matters
The Commission issued an order under Section 9(c) of the Investment
Company Act exempting First Investors Corporation (First Investors) and
certain of its corporate affiliates from Section 9(a) in connection with an
injunction entered in 1992 in federal court.!" The Commission also issued
an order exempting First Investors and certain individual affiliates from
Section 9(a) in connection with four state court injunctions."?
Both the
federal and state injunctions were based on fraudulent sales practices
relating to two high yield, high risk bond funds.
Section 9(a) prohibits any person from serving as an employee, officer,
director, or investment adviser of any registered investment company if
the person has been enjoined from engaging in any conduct in connection
with the purchase or sale of any security. As a condition to its order, First
Investors agreed to submit to the Commission annual reports prepared by
an independent consultant on its broker-dealer operations for a period of
five years. The first report stated that First Investors had centralized and
standardized
its procedures and systems concerning its sale practices in
order to comply with the federal securities laws, and had recruited new
senior management. The Commission granted relief to the applicants based
on these changes and certain continuing obligations agreed to by First
Investors.
The Commission issued an order under Sections 6(c), 17(b), and 17(d)
of the Investment Company Act and Rule 17d-1 to allow Emerging Markets
Growth Fund (the Fund), a United States closed-end investment company,
to invest in New Europe East Investment Fund, a foreign closed-end
investment company.J" Capital International, Inc., a United States registered
48

investment adviser, is the investment adviser of both the domestic and
foreign funds. The Fund seeks to achieve long-term capital growth by
investing in equity securities of developing countries. Consistent with this
objective, the Fund invests up to 2 1/2 percent of its assets in the New
Europe Fund, which invests in Eastern Europe and the former Soviet
republics.
By purchasing securities of the New Europe Fund, the Fund
can invest in the emerging markets of Eastern Europe and former Soviet
republics while benefiting from the economies and diversification provided
by pooled investments.
The Fund purchases shares of the New Europe
Fund at the same purchase price and on the same basis as all other purchasers
of the shares. The arrangement required relief because the applicants are
affiliated persons of each other.
The Commission issued an order under Section 6(c) of the Investment
Company Act to allow Invesco Treasurer's Series Trust, a registered openend investment company, to base its registration fee for shares registered
under the Securities Act on net sales, rather than gross sales, pursuant to
Rule 24f-2 under the Investment Company Act.'!" Invesco had filed a
declaration pursuant to Rule 24f-2 to register an indefinite number of
shares under the Securities Act. The rule provides that an investment
company that has filed a declaration must file notices with the Commission
indicating the number of shares sold during the prior year. If the notice
is filed within two months of the company's fiscal year-end, the investment
company may pay a registration fee based on net sales ti.e., the aggregate
sales price of the shares sold minus the aggregate sales price of the shares
redeemed); if not, the fee is based on gross sales. Invesco mailed its notice
for fiscal year 1993 seven days before the two month deadline; the notice
arrived at the Commission one day after the deadline. Invesco stated that
it acted reasonably and in good faith mailing its Rule 24f-2 notice seven
days before the end of the two-month period. It also noted that, at the
time the notice was mailed, the United States Postal Service's performance
was comparatively poor. The Commission granted the application after
finding that the relief was appropriate and Invesco was not at fault. In
addition, the Commission indicated that its staff would apply a four-day
standard in evaluating future exemptive requests in which an investment
company used the Postal Service to deliver its Rule 24f-2 notice and the
notice was not delivered timely.
The staff provided its views on several interpretive issues concerning
Rule 3a-7 under the Investment Company Act. Rule 3a-7 excludes from
the definition of investment company any issuer that pools certain eligible
financial assets and issues non-redeemable
securities backed by those
assets (so-called structured financing programs).
The staff stated that
cumulative preferred stock that has no determinable liquidation date is
not an eligible asset because it does not by its terms convert into cash within
a finite time period, as required by the rule. The staff also determined
that structured financing programs may be deemed to issue redeemable
securities when they issue two classes of securities and give the holders
of one class the absolute or conditional right to withdraw portfolio securities
upon presentation to the issuer of a certain amount of both classes of
49

securities. Whether such programs issue redeemable securities will depend
on whether there are substantial enough restrictions on the investor's right
to withdraw portfolio securities. The staff recited a number of factors it
considered important to make this determination yo
The staff concurred in the view that the board of directors of a registered,
open-end investment company may conditionally determine that certain
commercial paper issued in reliance on the exemption from registration
in Section 4(2) of the Securities Act (4(2) Paper) is liquid. Generally, an
open-end investment company may not invest more than 15 percent of its
assets in illiquid assets. An illiquid asset is one which may not be sold
or disposed of in the ordinary course of business within seven days at
approximately the value at which the investment company has valued the
asset. The staff stated that to be considered liquid the 4(2) Paper must
not be traded flat or be in default as to principal or interest. The staff
also required the board of directors to consider the rating and the trading
market for the 4(2) Paper in making the liquidity determination.
Finally,
the staff concurred in the view that the board of directors may delegate
to the investment company's investment adviser the responsibility
for
determining and monitoring the liquidity of 4(2) Paper in the investment
company's portfolio, provided the board retains sufficient oversight.'!'
The staff stated that it would not recommend enforcement action if
a newly created fund formed by the merger of three predecessor funds
advertised its performance using the historical performance data of the
predecessor fund that most closely resembled the newly created fund.122
To determine which predecessor fund, if any, a surviving or new fund
resulting from a reorganization most closely resembles, the staff stated that
funds should compare: the various funds' investment advisers; investment
objectives, policies, and restrictions; expense structures and expense ratios;
relative asset size; and portfolio composition.
The staff noted that these
factors are substantially similar to the factors to be considered in determining
the accounting survivor of a business combination involving investment
companies.
The staff granted no-action relief under Section 11(a) of the Investment
Company Act to a mutual fund offering to waive its front-end sales load
(while imposing a contingent deferred sales load) to attract shareholders
of unaffiliated funds that charge front-end sales loads. The staff stated
that the purpose of Section l1(a) is to prevent brokers from "switching,"
or inducing shareholders of an investment company to exchange their
shares for those of a different investment company solely for the purpose
of exacting additional sales charges. The staff concluded that the legislative
history of Section 11(a) suggests that it should not apply to every offer
involving unaffiliated funds. Moreover, the Rules of Fair Practice of the
NASD and federal securities laws other than the Investment Company Act
provide the principal regulatory means to address concerns about brokers
imprudently switching investors between unaffiliated funds. Finally, the
staff noted that Section l1(a) does not prohibit waiver of a front-end sales
load for shareholders who redeem shares of a fund that imposes a contingent
deferred sales 10ad.123
50

Investment

Advisers Act Matters

The Division staff continued to develop its interpretation regarding
the jurisdictional reach of the Investment Advisers Act with respect to
foreign advisers. In one no-action letter, the staff stated that it would not
recommend enforcement action if foreign research affiliates of a U'.S.
registered adviser provided research to the adviser, but did not separately
register under the Investment Advisers Act.124 The staff's response permits
a U.S. registered adviser to draw on the research of its multinational
affiliates as long as the affiliates do not have access to recommendations
given to the registered adviser's U.S. clients. In a second letter, the staff
permitted a foreign affiliate of a registered foreign adviser to provide
ad vice directly to U.S. clients and still rely on the exemption from registration
under the Investment Advisers Act for private advisers. This relief was
given on the condition that the affiliate operate separately and independently
from the registered foreign adviser.!"

Insurance Company Matters
The Commission
issued
an exemptive
order
limiting
the
disqualification provisions of Section 9(a) of the Investment Company Act
to persons who participate directly in the management, administration, or
sale of the variable annuity contracts issued by an insurance company and
its affiliates.!" Insurance companies already have such relief with respect
to variable life insurance contracts pursuant to paragraphs (b)(4) and
(b)(15)(ii) of Rules 6e-2 and 6e-3(T), respectively, under the Investment
Company Act.
The staff, pursuant to delegated authority, issued orders granting
exempti ve relief (class relief) to the extent necessary to permi t the ded uction
of mortality and expense risk charges not only from assets of the separate
account applicantts) under certain variable annuity contracts, but also
from: (1) the assets of the separate account applicantfs) under any materially
similar variable annuity contracts offered in the future by the separate
account applicantts): or (2) the assets of any other separate account
established in the future by the insurance company depcsitor(s) of the
separate account applicantts) under materially similar variable annuity
contracts.!"
The staff stated that it would not recommend enforcement
action to the Commission if a variable annuity separate account changed
the manner of calculating the contingent deferred sales load without
amending its existing order permitting the deduction of mortality and
expense risk charges.!" The staff took the position that it would not object
if any separate account lowers any of its charges without seeking an
amended order.

Holding Company Act Matters
The Commission authorized the acquisition by Entergy Corporation,
a registered holding company, of Gulf States Utilities Company and related
transactions. In its findings under Section lO(b)(l) of the Holding Company
Act, the Commission relied in part on the existence of a FERC approved
open-access tariff to mitigate any potential anticompetitive effects of the

merger. The order was appealed by, among others, Houston Lighting &
Power Company. Before the appeal was decided, the U.S. Court of Appeals
for the District of Columbia Circuit remanded the FERC order approving
the open access tariff. Based on that decision, the Commission has requested
remand of its order.
The Commission authorized Central and South West Corporation, a
registered holding company, to form a special-purpose telecommunications
subsidiary .

.:

52

Full Disclosure System
Thefull disclosuresystem isadministered by theDivision of Corporation
Finance. The system is designed to provide investors with material
information, foster investor confidence, contribute to the maintenance of
fair and orderly markets, facilitate capital formation, and inhibit fraud in
the public offering, trading, voting, and tendering of securities.
Key 1994 Results
Spurred by the continuing need for capital by small and large
businesses, a record level of common stock offerings totalling more than
$330 billion were filed for registration in 1994, including over $82 billion
for initial public offerings (IPOs). The total of over $810 billion in
securities filed for registration during the year, equity and debt, was
exceeded only by the record level reached in 1993.
Foreign companies' participation
in the United States markets
continued to show dramatic growth in 1994. One hundred thirty-eight
foreign companies from 17 countries, including Bank of Montreal,
Shandong Huaneng Power Development Company and Huaneng Power
International Inc., P.T. Indonesia Satellite Corp., Reed International pIc,
Elsevier NV, TeleDanmark, and Pharmacia Corp., entered the United
States public markets for the first time. At year-end, there were more
than 635 foreign companies from 41 countries filing reports with the
Commission.
Foreign companies registered public offerings totalling
$36 billion in 1994.

REGISTRATION STATEMENTS FILED
DOLLAR VALUE ($BIWONS)
UNAI.l.OCATCD
SHELF OTHER EQ
67.4
25.9
B%
8%

1993
TOTAL - $868.1

UNAI.l.OCATCD
SHELF
83.2
10%

1994
TOTAL - $814.7

53

The Commission adopted several initiatives to simplify and lower
the cost of registration and reporting for domestic issuers and foreign
companies accessing the United States public securities markets. These
initiatives included eliminating supplemental financial schedules for both
domestic and foreign registrants, as well as expanding the availability of
short-form and shelf registration for foreign issuers to the same extent
as available for United States issuers.
In addition,
reconciliation
requirements applicable to foreign private issuers were streamlined by,
among other things, (l) reducing first-time registrants'
reconciliation
requirements to the two most recent fiscal years plus interim periods and
(2) permitting the use of the international accounting standard (lAS) for
cash flow statements without reconciliation. The Commission also proposed
to allow the use of lAS 21, "The Effects of Changes in Foreign Exchange
Rates," and lAS 22, "Business Combinations." These proposals were later
adopted.
Highly publicized defaults as well as the tremendous level of growth
during the past two years in the market for municipal securities have
raised concerns regarding the adequacy of municipal market disclosure
both for primary offerings and in the secondary market. In this regard,
the Commission published interpretive guidance regarding the disclosure
obligations of issuers and underwriters
in the primary and secondary
municipal securities markets. The Commission also adopted amendments
to limit municipal dealers' underwriting activities to issuers that undertook
to provide secondary market disclosure and to enhance dealers' awareness
of this secondary market information when recommending such securities.
A number of public companies reported significant losses attributable
to derivatives activities and positions during the year. The staff conducted
a targeted review of disclosures of derivatives activities of approximately
500 filings. Through the comment process, the staff requested expanded
disclosures in those filings where necessary to investors' understanding
of the type, extent and potential effects of such activities.
In response to the increasing incidence of corporate restructuring
transactions, the staff issued a public announcement about accounting and
disclosure practices in connection with such restructurings and undertook
a targeted review of several hundred companies that had announced such
transactions.
As a follow-up to a 1993 special proxy review project to evaluate
compliance with new executive compensation disclosure rules, the staff
reviewed the compensation disclosures in 785 proxy statements.

Review of Filings

The staff conducted 3,400 reporting issuer reviews. A total of 1,599
new company registration statements also were reviewed. The reporting
issuer reviews were accomplished through the full review of 977 registration
statements and post-effective amendments to registration statements filed

54

under the Securities
Act of 1933 (Securities
Act), 1,540 annual and
subsequent
periodic
reports,
163 merger and going private
proxy
statements,
and 1,405 full financial reviews of annual reports.
The following table summarizes filings reviewed during the last five
years. The increases and declines in reviews of new issuer filings, tender
offers, contested solicitations, and going private transactions,
all of which
are subject to review, reflect the increases and decreases in the number
of filings received.
FULL DISCLOSURE

REVIEWS

1991

1992

1,907

2,660

3,058

3,531 * 3,400

1,059

799

1,147

1,200

Home Office
New Issuers
Relfeat Issuers
PI Amdts. ~I

568
635
203

465
758
308

831
970
210

877* 1,167
924*
863
117*
114

Regions
Retstrations
PI Amdts.

327
505

183
275

158
137

189
103

217
90

1,129

1,557

1,450

1,826

1,54')

292

712

1,126

1,155* 1,405

Tender Offers
(140-1 )

95

37

27

56

82

Going Private
Schedules

108

68

61

61

75

75

65

58

35

42

240
351

188
374

141
395

149
1,292

163
1,027

Reporting
Reviews

Issuer
al

New Issuer
Reviews !21

1993

1994

1990

1,599

Major Filing Reviews
Securities

Act Registrations

~I

Annual Reports
Full Reviews dJ
Full Financial
Reviews

Contested
Proxy
Solicitations
Proxy Statements
MergerlGoing
Private
Other
...

Revised
~I Includes companies subject to Securities Exchange Act of 1934 (Exchange Act)
reporting whose financial statements were reviewed during the year.
hi Includes non-Exchange Act reporting companies whose Securities Act or
Exchange Act registration statements were reviewed during the year.
r;;.1 Includes only post-effective amendments with new financial statements.
g/ Includes reports reviewed in connection with other filings.
55

Rulemaklng, Interpretive, and Legislative Matters
Municipal Securities
The Commission published interpretive
guidance regarding the
disclosure obligations of issuers and underwriters
in the primary and
secondary municipal securities markets.':"
The interpretive
release
highlighted areas that create a risk of misleading investors and suggested
disclosure practices to minimize those risks. Municipal dealers also were
advised that they must have a reasonable basis for recommendations
of
securities in the secondary market.
FinaIIy, the release reiterated the
Commission's support for legislation repealing the exemption from the
registration
requirements
of the federal securities laws for corporate
obligations underlying certain non-governmental
conduit securities.
The Commission adopted amendments to its rules that prohibit a
broker, dealer or municipal securities dealer from acting as an underwriter
of an issue of municipal securities before making a reasonable determination
that an issuer or obligated person has undertaken to provide certain
information to nationally recognized municipal securities information
repositories and/or the Municipal Securities Rulemaking Board and state
information depositories.l" The amendments also prohibit dealers from
recommending a municipal security subject to a disclosure covenant unless
the dealer has a system reasonably designed to notify the dealer of material
information regarding the security before the recommendation is made.
The amendments were first proposed on March 9, 1994 in a companion
release to the Commission's interpretive guidance.'!'
International Initiatives
The Commission adopted a number of amendments to its rules and
regulations to simplify registration and reporting requirements for foreign
private issuers. Amendments to Form F-3 were adopted to expand the
class of foreign issuers eligible to use short form registration and primary
delayed shelf offerings pursuant to Rule 415.132 The amendments shortened
the minimum issuer reporting period from 36 to 12 months, imposed a
requirement that one annual report on Form 20-F be filed, and reduced
the public float requirement for primary offerings of non-investment grade
securities from $300 million to $75 million. The amendments also permit
registration of debt, equity and other securities on a single unallocated
shelf registration statement, without having to specify the amount of each
class of securities to be offered.
The financial statement reconciliation requirements
applicable to
foreign private issuers were streamlined to permit: (1) cash flow statements
prepared in accordance with lAS 7, "Cash Flow Statements," without any
additional information
to reconcile to generally accepted accounting
principles in the United States (GAAP); (2) first-time registrants to reconcile
only the two most recent years plus interim periods rather than the
previously
required five years; (3) separate financial statements
of
significant
acquisitions
and significant
equity investees
without a
reconciliation to GAAP unless a defined size test was exceeded; (4) foreign
56

private issuers to omit differences in classification or display that result
from using proportionate consolidation; and (5) elimination of six financial
statement schedules.!"
The Commission adopted amendments to Regulation S-X to permit
foreign private issuers additional time to update their financial statements.
The amendments are intended to coincide with the updating requirements
of the home country of a substantial majority of foreign private issuers.!"
The Commission proposed amendments to its rules and forms to
allow foreign issuers flexibility in selecting the reporting currency used
in filings with the Cornmission.!"
In addition, under the amendment, a
foreign private issuer that accounts for its operations in hyperinflationary
environments in accordance with lAS 21 would not have to reconcile the
differences that would have resulted from the application of GAAP. At
the same time, the Commission amended Form 20-F to streamline the
financial statement reconciliation requirements for foreign private issuers
that have entered into business combinations.!" The amendment eliminated
the requirements
to reconcile certain differences attributable
to the
determination of the method of accounting for a business combination and
the amortization period of goodwill and negative goodwill provided the
financial statements
comply with lAS 22. The amendments
were
subsequently adopted.
The Commission adopted amendments to the rules and forms that
would extend provisions adopted for foreign issuers to domestic issuers
that are required to provide financial statements for significant foreign
equity investees and acquired businesses.!" These provisions address the
age of financial statements, nature of reconciling information and thresholds
for providing such reconciliations.
The amendments also eliminated
certain financial schedules that both domestic and foreign issuers were
required to include in annual reports and registration statements filed
with the Commission. In addition, the amendments eliminated the asset
test for determining the significance of investee financial statements.
Multijurisdictional
Disclosure System
The Commission adopted amendments to the multi jurisdictional
disclosure system for Canadian issuers to: (1) amend the eligibility
requirements for use of Securities Act registration statement Forms F-9,
F-10 and 40-F to shorten the reporting history requirement from 36 to 12
months, (2) eliminate the market capitalization requirements under such
forms and (3) change the minimum public float requirement to United
States $75 million.!" The Commission also adopted amendments to Form
F-9 that recognize investment grade ratings by those rating organizations
that are accepted by Canadian securities regulators in addition to those
that are accepted under the SEC's rules.

57

Offering Publicity
The Commission
adopted
two new safe harbor rules covering
announcements
of unregistered
offerings and broker-dealer
research
reports.!" The first safe harbor, under Rule 135c, is available to all United
States and foreign companies that are reporting under the Exchange Act
and to foreign companies that are exempt under Exchange Act Rule 12g32(b). It also parallels the safe harbor which is available for announcements
in connection with registered public offerings.
The second safe harbor
extends the previously existing safe harbor, under Rule 139, for brokerdealer research reports distributed in the normal course of business with
reasonable regularity to those reporting foreign companies that meet the
eligibility requirements for short-form registration, other than reporting
history, and that have traded offshore for at least 12 months.

Safe Harbor for "Forward Looking" Information
.:

Responding to concerns raised by companies about liabilities for
disclosure of "forward looking" information, the Commission issued a
concept release soliciting comment on investor need for "forward looking"
information, the impediments to providing such information, and various
proposals to reduce such impediments.':"

Debt Securities
The Commission adopted new Rule 3a12-11 and amendments
to
certain Exchange Act rules to reduce existing regulatory distinctions
between debt securities listed on a national securities exchange and those
traded in the over-the-counter
market.!"
The rule provides exemptive
relief to issuers listing debt securities on a national securities exchange
from the restrictions on borrowing under Section 8(a) of the Securities
Act and most of the proxy regulation of Sections 14(a), 14(b), and 14(c)
of the Exchange Act. Thus, debt securities listed on a national securities
exchange are exempt from the proxy and information statement rules,
except that the antifraud proscriptions,
the provisions relating to the
transmission of materials to beneficial owners, and related definitions still
apply. In addition, the amendments simplify the filing requirements for
registration under the Exchange Act.
The Commission also solicited comments on extending reporting
obligations to issuers with significant levels of outstanding debt securities
whether or not listed on an exchange.

Security Ratings Disclosure
The Commission
published
for comment proposals
to mandate
disclosure of security ratings in place of the current policy of voluntary
security ratings disclosure.t" In publishing these proposals, the Commission
recognized that ratings disclosure has remained largely static despite the
development of a vast market for derivative financial instruments and
increased variation in the scope and meaning of security ratings.
The
proposals would require disclosure of nationally recognized statistical
rating organizations (NRSROs) security ratings obtained by the issuer, as
58

well
that
also
Act

as disclosure of any rating (whether or not assigned by an NRSRO)
is used by a participant in a Securities Act offering. The proposals
would require disclosure of material rating changes in an Exchange
report Form 8-K.

Section 16
The Commission issued a release soliciting public comment on
proposed amendments to the rules and forms under Section 16.143 The
proposals are intended to streamline the Section 16 regulatory scheme,
particularly with regard to the treatment of transactions involving employee
benefit plans, simplify and clarify certain reporting requirements, codify
staff interpretive positions, and establish new categories of transactions
exempt from short-swing profit recovery. The Commission also extended
the phase-in period for compliance with the substantive conditions of Rule
16b-3 regarding employee benefit plan transactions until September I,
1995, or such different date as the Commission may set in further
rulernaking.l"
In a subsequently issued release, the Commission solicited additional
public comment on a broad variety of approaches to cash-only instruments,
including narrowing or restructuring the current exemption.':"
Roll-ups
The Commission proposed amendments to its proxy, tender offer and
disclosure rules to implement the provisions of the Limited Partnership
Roll-Up Reform Act of 1993 (Roll-up Act).146 The amendments revise the
Commission's definition of a roll-up transaction to conform it more closely
to the definition in the Roll-Up Act and extend the protections of the Rollup Act to proxy and tender offer rules in the areas of shareholder
communications,
security holder lists, and contingent or differential
compensation.
These amendments and minor modifications to the rollup disclosure rules were subsequently approved by the Commission.
Timely Distribution of Proxy and Other Soliciting Material
The Commission published a release reminding registrants of their
obligation under Rule 14a-13 to timely distribute proxy and other soliciting
material to banks and brokers for forwarding to beneficial owners.r" This
release was issued in response to complaints from several beneficial
owners who did not receive their material in sufficient time to make an
informed proxy voting decision during the 1993 proxy season.
Electronic Data Gathering, Analysis, and Retrieval System
The Commission issued three releases to further implement the
operational
EDGAR system.
In the first release,':" the Commission
established September 1,1994 as the date on which Financial Data Schedules
would be required.
The Commission also adopted an updated edition
of the EDGAR Filer Manual to accommodate the preparation and submission
of Financial Data Schedules.!" Finally, in the third release, the Commission
proposed minor and technical changes to the rules governing the submission
of EDGAR filings and identified some common filing mistakes.!"

59

Conferences

SEC Government-Business

Forum on Small Business Capital Formation

The thirteenth annual SEC Government Business Forum on Small
Business Capital Formation was held in Washington, D.C. on September
8 -
 9,1994. Approximately 150 small business representatives, accountants,
attorneys and government officials attended the forum.
Numerous
recommendations were formulated with a view to eliminating unnecessary
governmental impediments to small businesses' ability to raise capital.
A final report will be provided to interested persons, including Congress
and regulatory agencies, setting forth a list of recommendations
for
legislative and regulatory changes approved by the forum participants.

SEC/NASAA

Conference Under Section 19(c) of the Securities Act

The eleventh annual federal/state
uniformity conference was held
in Washington, D.C. on April 18, 1994. Approximately 60 SEC officials
met with approximately 60 representatives of the North American Securities
Administrators
Association to discuss methods of effecting greater
uniformity in federal and state securities matters. After the conference,
a final report summarizing the discussions was prepared and distributed
to interested persons and participants.

60

Accounting and Auditing Matters

The Chief Accountant is the principal advisor to the Commission on
accounting and auditing matters arising from the administration of the
various securities laws. The primary Commission activities designed to
achieve compliance with the accounting andfinancial disclosure requiremen ts
of the federal securities laws include:
•

•

•

•

rulemaking and interpretation that supplements private-sector accounting
standards, implements financial disclosure requirements, and establishes
independence criteria for accountants;
review and comment process for agency filings directed to improving
disclosures in filings, identifying emerging accounting issues (which may
result in rulemaking or private sector standard-setting), and identifying
problems that may warrant enforcement actions;
enforcement actions that impose sanctions and serve to deter improper
financial reporting by enhancing the care with which registrants and their
accountants analyze accounting issues; and
oversight of private sector efforts, principally by the Financial Accounting
Standards Board (FASB) and the American Institute of Certified Public
Accountants (AICPA), which establish accounting and auditing standards
designed to improve financial accounting and reporting and the quality
of audit practice.

Key 1994 Results
The Commission continued its involvement in initiatives directed
toward reducing the disparities that currently exist between different
countries'
accounting and auditing standards.
In April 1994, the
Commission revised its rules so that foreign private issuers may now
submit a cash flow statement prepared in accordance with International
Accounting Standard 7 (lAS 7) without reconciliation to United States
standards. This represents the first time that the Commission has accepted
an international standard for cross-border offerings and filings.
Accounting-Related Rules and Interpretations
The agency's accounting-related rules and interpretations supplement
private-sector
accounting standards, implement financial disclosure
requirements, and establish independence criteria for accountants.
The
agency's principal accounting requirements are embodied in Regulation
S-X, which governs the form and content of financial statements filed with
the SEC.

61

Discontinued
Operations.
The staff issued interpretive
guidance
regarding accounting and disclosures relating to discontinued operations.P!
The guidance was issued in response to a perceived deterioration in
compliance with the authoritative accounting literature governing the
reporting of discontinued operations by public companies.
Oversight of Private-Sector

"

Standard-Setting

The SEC monitors the structure, activity, and decisions of the privatesector standard-setting
organizations,
which include the FASB. The
Commission and its staff worked closely with the FASB in an ongoing
effort to improve the standard-setting
process, including the need to
respond to various regulatory, legislative, and business changes in a
timely and appropriate manner. A description of FASB activities in which
the staff was involved is provided below.
The FASB continued a joint project with standard-setters in Canada
and Mexico to compare accounting standards in the three countries. The
goal of this project is to develop recommendations for consideration by
standard-setters in the United States, Canada, Mexico, and the International
Accounting Standards Committee (lASC) concerning actions that can and
should be taken to move towards greater comparability.
As part of its consolidations project, the FASB continued a joint
undertaking with the Accounting Standards Board of the Canadian Institute
of Chartered Accountants
(CICA) to consider the current reporting
requirements under Statement of Financial Accounting Standards No. 14,
"Financial Reporting for Segments of a Business Enterprise." An invitation
to comment was issued as part of the first phase of a standard-setting
project that will seek to develop common standards on disaggregated
disclosures. The invitation to comment was based on an FASB Research
Report and a CICA Research Study published earlier.
The FASB issued Statement 119 requiring disclosures about the amount,
nature, and terms of derivative financial instruments.l'"
Statement 119
amends certain provisions of existing Statements 105 and 107 to elicit
disclosures about derivative financial instruments-including
futures,
forward, swap, and option contracts, and other financial instruments with
similar characteristics.
Statement 119 requires that a distinction be made
between financial instruments held or issued for trading purposes and
those instruments held or issued for purposes other than trading. The
statement is effective for financial statements issued for fiscal years ending
after December IS, 1994, except for entities with less than $150 million
in total assets (for which effectiveness is delayed one year).
The FASB adopted an amended standard on accounting for loan
impairment by creditors.l" The amendment revised the existing standard
on recognizing a loss on impairment of a loan. The amended standard
allows creditors to use existing methods for recognizing interest income
on impaired loans.

62

The FASB continued its deliberations on an exposure draft (ED) of
a proposed standard on accounting for stock compensatton.!" Under the
ED's approach, compensation cost arising from awards of stock or options
under both fixed and performance stock compensation plans would be
measured as the fair value of the award at the date it is granted. The
estimated value at the grant date would be subsequently adjusted, if
necessary, to reflect the outcome of performance conditions and servicerelated factors such as forfeitures before vesting. No adjustment would
be made for changes in the market price of the stock. The comment period
on the ED expired on December 31,1993. Public hearings were held during
early 1994 and a field test was conducted.
In 1994, Congress continued to pursue accounting and accountants'
liability issues that were addressed during the previous session. For
instance, opposing bills were introduced last year in reaction to the FASB's
ED on the accounting for employee stock-based compensation. These bills
would have either required or prohibited the recognition of employee
stock options as compensation expense in income statements. In January
1994, Chairman Arthur Levitt, responding to Senators' request for his
views in this area, stated that it is inappropriate for Congress to prescribe
accounting standards.
He supported the integrity and independence of
the FASB standard-setting
process and indicated that the FASB project
should be permitted to continue. ISS On May 3, 1994, however, the Senate
passed two resolutions related to the FASB's project. One resolution stated
that the FASB should not change the current accounting for employee stock
options/56 while the second resolution stated that Congress should not
impair the objectivity of the FASB's decisionmaking process by legislating
accounting rules.l" In an additional action related to the employee stock
compensation issue, at the end of the term a bill was introduced in the
Senate to mandate that accounting standards or principles may be used
in filings with the Commission only after an affirmative vote of a majority
of the members of the Cornmission.!" No action was taken on this bill.
Congress also considered litigation reform issues that impact the
accounting profession.!" These bills not only addressed litigation allegedly
being filed against accounting firms, but would have changed the
substantive standards for accountants' liability in the federal securities
laws and created an accountants' self-regulatory organization under the
indirect oversight of the Commission. Divergent views were expressed
on these bills at Congressional hearings and they were not voted on during
the 103d Congress.
Finally, there was significant Congressional interest in the accounting
for derivative financial instruments.
Commission testimony described
then proposed FASB Statement 119 and indicated that the Commission
would consider additional quantitative disclosures in this area.160 The
Commission also noted that improved accounting for and disclosure about
derivatives would be more beneficial to investors than auditor reporting
on management's assessments of the registrant's internal control system
related to derivatives transactions.'?'

The FASB's Emerging Issues Task Force (EITF), in which the
Commission's Chief Accountant participates, continued to identify and
resolve accounting issues. During 1994, the EITF reached consensus on
a number of issues involving accounting for restructuring charges, thereby
narrowing divergent reporting practices in public companies' financial
staternents.t'"
Oversight of the Accounting Profession's Initiatives
The Commission and its staff continued to be active in overseeing
the audit standard-setting
process and other activities of the accounting
profession.
A discussion of the activities in which the SEC staff was
involved follows.
AICPA. The SEC oversaw various activities of the accounting
profession conducted primarily through the AICPA. These included (1)
the Auditing Standards Board (ASB), which establishes generally accepted
auditing standards; (2) the Accounting Standards Executive Committee
(AcSEC), which provides guidance through its issuance of statements of
position and practice bulletins and prepares issue papers on accounting
topics for consideration by the FASB; and (3) the SEC Practice Section
(SECPS), which seeks to improve the quality of audit practice by member
accounting firms that audit the financial statements of public companies
through various requirements, including peer review.
ASB. The staff continued to work with the ASB to enhance the
effectiveness of the audit process. The ASB issued a series of annual Audit
Risk Alerts to provide auditors with an overview of recent economic,
professional, and regulatory developments that may affect 1994 year-end
audits.
SECPS.
The accounting profession's quality control endeavors for
SEC audit practice are coordinated by two committees of the SECPS. The
Peer Review Committee administers the triennial peer reviews that are
required of all SECPS member firms and the Quality Control Inquiry
Committee (QCIC) conducts timely inquiries into the quality control
implications of litigation against member firms alleging audit failures in
connection with audits of public companies.
Staff review of these two functions is conducted in coordination with
the Public Oversight Board (POB), which is independent of the AICP A
(except for funding). The POB facilitates SEC oversight of the accounting
profession's quality control efforts, and also engages in other activities
directed towards improvements in the financial reporting process.!"
Each year the staff selects for review a random sample of peer
reviews. For the selected peer reviews the staff reads the workpapers
of the peer reviewer and the oversight file of the POB. Questions that
arise during these reviews are generally answered by the POB staff and
occasionally by contacting the peer reviewer directly. This oversight has
shown that the peer review process contributes significantly to maintaining
the quality control systems of member firms and, therefore, enhances the
consistency and quality of practice before the Commission.

64

The staff also reviews all closed-case summaries prepared by the
QCIC and related rOB files. These reviews, plus discussions with the
rOB and QCIC staffs, provide the staff with enough information to conclude
that the QCIC process provides added assurances, as a supplement to the
peer review process, that major quality control deficiencies, if any, are
identified and addressed on a timely basis. Therefore, the Commission
believes that the QCIC process benefits the public interest.
AcSEC. The AcSEC issued statements of position on the accounting
for ad vertising costs 164 and revisions to the existing guidance on accoun ting
for employee stock ownership plans.l" A proposed audit and accounting
guide on broker-dealers in securities was issued during 1994.166 Also, the
AcSEC substantially completed a project calling for enhanced disclosures
about risks and uncertainties!" and initiated a project to develop an
accounting guide on environmental liabilities.
International Accounting and Auditing Standards
Significant differences in accounting and auditing standards currently
exist between countries.
These differences
are an impediment
to
multinational offerings of securities. The SEC, in cooperation with other
members of the International
Organization of Securities Commissions
(lOSCO), actively participated in initiatives by international bodies of
professional accountants to establish appropriate international standards
that might be considered for use in multinational offerings.
Since the
completion in November 1993 of the IASC's project on comparability and
improvements,
which reduced alternative accounting treatments and
improved guidance and disclosures in nine IASC standards, the staff
worked with the IASC to improve other existing accounting standards and
to develop new standards.
During 1994 the IASC had major projects in
process on earnings per share,':" financial instruments, 169 intangible assets,'?"
reporting financial information by segment,"! and income taxes."?
The IOSCO Working Party on Multinational
Disclosures
and
Accounting (Working Party) informed the IASC of the necessary core
accounting standards that would comprise a comprehensive
body of
principles for enterprises (not in a specialized industry) undertaking
cross-border offerings and listings.
In June 1994, the Working Party
provided the IASC with its evaluation of the acceptability of existing and
recently improved IASC standards and identified the projects that would
be necessary to complete the development of a core set of standards.
In
addition to existing standards and projects, the Working Party believes
that projects on employee benefits, interim reporting,
discontinued
operations and other restructurings,
and hedging for commodities, are
necessary to complete the standards. In the Working Party's view, further
improvements also are required to lAS 9 "Research and Development
Costs," lAS 10 "Contingencies and Events Occurring after the Balance
Sheet Date," lAS 17 "Accounting for Leases," lAS 19 "Retirement Benefit
Costs," and lAS 25 Accounting for Investments."
In addition, a project
II

65

to review the alternatives for identifying and measuring impairment of
the cost or carrying amount of long-lived assets, identifiable intangibles,
and goodwill is considered important.
In April 1994, the Commission
revised
financial
statement
requirements so that foreign private issuers may now submit, without
reconciliation, a cash flow statement prepared in accordance with lAS 7
"Cash Flow Statements."
At the same time, the Commission proposed
to eliminate the need to reconcile the differences that would result from
the application of SFAS No. 52 "Foreign Currency Translation," if the
issuer accounts for its operations in hyperinflationary
economies in
accordance with lAS 21 "The Effects of Changes in Foreign Exchange
Rates."!" Also, the Commission proposed to eliminate the requirements
to reconcile certain differences attributable to the method of accounting
for a business combination (pooling of interests or purchase) and the
amortization period of goodwill and negative goodwill, provided that the
financial statements comply with lAS 22 "Business Combinations."!"
The staff also devoted substantial efforts to the review and analysis
of three exposure drafts issued by the International Auditing Practices
Committee (JAPC) of the International Federation of Accountants. These
exposure drafts related to the IAPC's efforts to codify the International
Standards on Auditing (lSA) that were endorsed provisionally by IOSCO
in October 1992. As a result of its analysis, the staff determined that
substantial changes had been made to the provisionally endorsed ISAs.
The principal change was the introduction of black lettering, which resulted
in portions of the standards that were deemed by the IAPC to represent
"basic principles and essential procedures" to be presented in bold type.
The result of those changes was that uncertainty was introduced into the
standards regarding the amount of work to be performed by an auditor
in order to represent that his or her audit complied with the ISAs. The
staff's concerns were communicated to IOSCO and, through IOSCO, to
the IAPC. The IAPC did not address IOSCO's concerns in its final
standards. As a result, IOSCO was unable to reach a consensus to endorse
the codified ISAs. The staff advised the IAPC that additional changes
to the final codified standards are necessary before the staff would
recommend that the Commission support an IOSCO endorsement of the
ISAs.

66

Other Litigation and Legal Activities

The General Counsel represents the Commission in all litigation in the
United States Supreme Court and the courts ofappeals. The General Counsel
defends the SEC and its employees when sued in district courts, prosecutes
administrative disciplinary proceedings against attorneys, appears amicus
curiae in significant private litigation involving the federal securities laws,
and oversees the regional offices' participation in corporate reorganization
cases. The General Counsel analyzes legislation that would amend thefederal
securities laws or other laws affecting the work of the agency, drafts
congressional testimony, prepares legislative comments, and advises the
Commission on issues arising from the agency's regulatory and enforcement
activities including all public releases and rule proposals. In addition, the
General Counsel advises the Commission in administrative proceedings
under various statutes, and advises the Commission and prepares opinions
with respect to appeals from administrative law judges' decisions and selfregulatory organizations' (SRO) disciplinary actions.
Key 1994 Results

Issues of major importance were litigated by the SEC in 1994. In
a 5-4 decision in Central Bank of Denver v. First Interstate Bank of Denoer J"
in which the Commission filed an amicus curiae brief, the United States
Supreme Court held that although investors may sue to obtain money from
those who themselves commit fraud in violation of Commission Rule
10b-5, the investors may not sue those who merely give assistance to, i.e.,
aid and abet, the violators.
The SEC has subsequently argued that the
decision does not apply to its own enforcement actions. In Gustafson v.
Alloyd CO.,176the SEC filed an amicus curiae brief urging the United States
Supreme Court to hold that buyers may recover under Section 12(2) of
the Securities Act for false or misleading representations
in all types of
securities sales, not only public or initial sales. In SEC v. Posner.'? the
Court of Appeals for the Second Circuit held that, in appropriate
circumstances, the district courts may exercise their inherent equitable
powers to bar individuals who have engaged in securities fraud from
serving as officers or directors of public companies.
In all, the number
of litigation cases opened in 1994 increased 29 percent to 339.
The number of legislative matters handled by the staff grew 46
percent in 1994 from 180 to 263. In 1994, Congress passed the Unlisted
Trading Privileges Act of 1994 (P.L. No. 103-390), which revised the
application and approval process by which exchanges may obtain unlisted
trading privileges in securities.
It also simplified the securitization of
small business loans in the Riegle Community Development and Regulatory
Improvement Act of 1994 (P.L. No. 103-325). Many of the securities bills,
67

however, were debated out but not passed. Among these were bills to
strengthen the SEC's investment adviser inspection program and bills to
change the private securities litigation system.
The adjudicatory program eliminated what was once a substantial
and chronic adjudication
case backlog.
The staff submitted to the
Commission 72 draft opinions, a 12 percent increase from 1993. In 1994,
the staff also planned and held a successful inaugural conference on SRO
adjudication, as had been recommended in the report of a Commission
task force on administrative proceedings.
Significant Litigation Developments

Aiding and Abetting Liability
In Central Bank of Denver v. First Interstate Bank of Denver, the United
States Supreme Court held, in a 5-4 decision, that although investors may
sue to obtain money damages from those who themselves commit fraud
in violation of Commission Rule 10b-5, the investors may not sue those
who merely give assistance to, i.e., aid and abet, the violators. The SEC
has subsequently argued in two courts of appeals that the decision does
not apply to its own enforcement actions. In the Ninth and Eleventh
Circuits, the SEC has stressed that its enforcement cases are different from
class action law suits brought by private investors. First, the Commission
sues for injunctions to vindicate the public interest, not for money damages
as private plaintiffs do. Also, Congress expressly provided for Commission
enforcement of Section lO(b), but was silent on damage suits by private
investors. The Ninth Circuit has yet to decide the case before it, while
the Eleventh Circuit sent the case back to the district court to reconsider,
among other things, whether the Central Bank decision applies to
Commission enforcement actions.

Statutes of Limitation
The SEC, as amicus curiae in numerous cases, defended Section 27A
of the Exchange Act against constitutional attack. Section 27A eliminates
the retroactive application of the one-year Ithree-year statute of limitations
for Section 10(b) private actions announced by the United States Supreme
Court in Lampf, Pleva, Lipkind, Prupis & Petigrow v. Gilbertson P" It preserves
the application of the statutes of limitation then in effect for all cases filed
before Lampf was decided. The constitutionality of Section 27A as applied
to cases that were pending when the statute was enacted has been upheld
by the Courts of Appeals for the First, Second, Fourth, Seventh, Ninth,
Tenth and Eleventh Circuits."? This year, in its first consideration of a
case that had been reinstated after final judgment pursuant to Section 27A,
the United States Supreme Court affirmed by an equally divided court
a decision of the Court of Appeals for the Fifth Circuit holding that Section
27A did not violate separation of powers principles or due process."? The
Court subsequently agreed to hear a case in which the Court of Appeals

68

for the Sixth Circuit held that such reinstatement violates separation of
powers principles.!"
The SEC filed amicus briefs in both cases jointly
with the Department of Justice.

Scope of Section 12(2) of the Securities Act
In Gustafson v. Alloyd CO.,182 the SEC filed an amicus curiae brief urging
the United States Supreme Court to hold that Section 12(2) of the Securities
Act is not limited to only public or initial sales of securities but instead
applies to all types of sales. Section 12(2) gives buyers a right of rescission
against sellers who make false or misleading representations.

Definition of Security
In Pollack v. Laidlaw Holdings, Inc.,183 the Court of Appeals for the
Second Circuit held, as urged by the SEC as amicus curiae, that participation
in mortgages sold to the investing public are securities under the Securities
Act and the Exchange Act. The court of appeals' decision also made clear
the limited scope of its 1992 decision in Banco Espanol de Credito v. Security
Pacific National Bank,184which held that certain loan participation that were
not offered or sold to individual investors are not securities.

Regulation of Securities Professionals
In Patrick v. SECps the Court of Appeals for the Second Circuit
affirmed a disciplinary sanction imposed by the New York Stock Exchange
(NYSE) on the president of Baird, Patrick & Co., Inc., a NYSE member
firm, for failing to discharge his supervisory duties reasonably when he
neglected either to supervise or to delegate responsibility for supervising
a firm vice president who was engaged in improper floor trading.

Officer-Director Bar
In SEC v. Posner P" the Court of Appeals for the Second Circuit held
that, in appropriate circumstances, the district courts may exercise their
inherent equitable powers to bar individuals who have engaged in securities
fraud from serving as officers or directors of public companies.

Disgorgement and Related Issues
In SEC v. Bilzerian i" the Court of Appeals for the District of Columbia
Circuit held that a disgorgement order entered in
punitive where the amount ordered to be disgorged is
of the fruits of wrongdoing. The court also held that
clause of the Constitution therefore does not prevent
ordered against a defendant who had previously been
for the same offense.

an SEC case is not
a fair approximation
the double jeopardy
disgorgement being
criminally convicted

Markups
In First Independence Group v. SEC,188 Amato v. SEC,189 and Orkin v.
SEC,190 the Courts of Appeals for the Second, Fifth, and Eleventh Circuits
upheld the SEC's policies as to (1) how retail markups on securities are
to be calculated by securities dealers and (2) what constitutes an excessive

69

markup. BothAmato and Orkin specifically upheld the liability of securities
salesmen where they had reason to know that customers were being
charged excessive markups.
Requests for Access to Commission Records
The Commission received approximately 125 subpoenas for documents
and testimony in 1994. In some of these cases, the SEC declined to produce
the requested documents or testimony because the information sought was
privileged. The SEC's assertions of privilege were upheld in every decided
case when the party issuing the subpoena challenged the assertion in court.
The Commission received 2,261 requests under the Freedom of
Information Act (FOIA) for access to agency records and 5,659 confidential
treatment requests from persons who submitted information. There were
35 appeals to the SEC's General Counsel from initial denials by the FOIA
Office. None of these appeals resulted in district court litigation. Two
FOIA appeals that resulted in district court litigation in 1993 remain
pending.
Actions Under the Right to Financial Privacy Act
Seventeen actions were filed under the Right to Financial Privacy Act
to quash SEC subpoenas for customer records from financial institutions.
Ten of these challenges were dismissed by district courts after the courts
found, in each case, that the records were relevant to legitimate law
enforcement inquiries."! Three of the challenges were withdrawn,"? one
was granted,"? and three remain pending.'?'
Actions Against Professionals Pursuant to Commission Rule 2( e)
In In re David L. Kagel, the Commission, pursuant to Rule 2(e) of its
Rules of Practice.!" permanently barred attorney David L. Kagel from
appearing or practicing before the Commission.
This action was based
upon an injunction entered against him for violating antifraud provisions
of the federal securities laws.!" Kagel had orchestrated a fraudulent
scheme to take a private company public through acquisition by a public
shell company and, in doing so, prepared and filed with the Commission
several filings that contained false and misleading statements of material
fact.
Two court actions were filed against the Commission challenging its
authority to prosecute Rule 2(e) proceedings.
In Checkosky and Aldrich
v. SEC,197the United States Court of Appeals for the District of Columbia
Circuit issued a per curiam decision which found that the Commission was
authorized to promulgate Rule 2(e) under its general rulemaking authority.
The court found that the rule represents an attempt by the Commission
to protect the integrity of its processes by ensuring that professionals
perform their tasks with a reasonable degree of competence.

70

In the other action, Danna and Dentinger v. SEC,198 the United States
District Court for the Northern
District of California
granted the
Commission's motion to dismiss an action filed by two auditors seeking
to enjoin a Rule 2(e) proceeding brought against them for improper
professional conduct in connection with an audit. The auditors argued
that the Commission could not predicate a Rule 2(e) proceeding based
on negligent-as
opposed to willful-conduct.
The court upheld the
Commission's authority to institute Rule 2(e) proceedings based on negligent
conduct. A two week trial of the underlying administrative proceeding
was completed in March 1994 and a decision is pending.
Motions for Attorney's Fees Under the Equal Access to Justice Act
Five defendants who prevailed in Commission enforcement actions
filed motions under the Equal Access to Justice Act seeking attorney's
fees and expenses aggregating approximately $3 million.!" In each of these
cases, the Commission opposed the motion arguing that it was substantially
justified in bringing the action or that special circumstances made an
award unjust. The Commission was successful in each of the actions that
was decided.
Wells Submission
In In re Salomon Brothers Treasury Litigation/Do the Second Circuit
found, as urged in the amicus brief filed by the Commission, that disclosure
to the Commission of a Wells submission waives the work-product privilege
for that document. The court also found that the Commission may enter
into an agreement with a witness in an investigation to maintain the
confidentiality of a privileged document produced to the Commission.
Scope of the Joint Defense Privilege
The Commission filed an amicus curiae brief in Durkin v. U.S. District
Court for the Southern District of Caliiornia.i" urging the United States Court
of Appeals for the Ninth Circuit to hold that the joint defense privilege
does not apply when there is subsequent litigation between the parties
to the agreement.
Significant Adjudication Developments
The staff submitted to the Commission 72 draft opinions, a 12 percent
increase from 1993's record number, and the Commission issued 70 opinions.
This continued high productivity eliminated what was once a substantial
and chronic backlog in opinions.
The Commission received 60 appeals in 1994, down from 1993's
record of 71. It is anticipated, however, that appeals from SRO disciplinary
actions will return to prior levels. The adjudicatory caseload handled by
the Office of the General Counsel will be further expanded as a result
of (1) the Commission's
increase in the number of administrative
proceedings against aiders and abettors, in the wake of the Supreme
Court's recent decision limiting private suits for aiding and abetting fraud,

71

and (2) the Office of the General Counsel's assumption, in late 1994, of
responsibility for advising the Commission with respect to appeals from
Commission
Rule 2(e) proceedings
against professionals
other than
attorneys.

Significant Adjudicatory Decisions in 1994
In 1994, the Commission reviewed a number of cases finding sales
practice abuses. In Frank J. Custable, et al.,2°2for example, the Commission
found that a Chatfield Dean & Co. registered representative used deceptive
and fraudulent practices to induce a customer to purchase securities, and
purchased
securities for a second customer without the customer's
authorization or consent. Also, the Commission concluded that the firm
and Custable's immediate supervisor failed to supervise Custable properly
and sustained the bar imposed on Custable by the National Association
of Securities Dealers (NASD). In Vanden J. Catli,2°3 the Commission also
sustained a permanent bar. Catli's misconduct included misappropriating
customer funds, trading in customer accounts without authorization,
effecting unsuitable
transactions
for and making misstatements
to
customers, improperly advising customers to ignore margin calls, and
making misrepresentations
to the NYSE. In another NYSE-instituted case,
the Commission concluded that a former salesman for NYSE member firm
Merrill Lynch, Pierce, Fenner & Smith, Inc. recommended to customers
various mutual funds that were unsuitable in light of the customers'
expressed desire for low-risk, income-producing investments, and effected
margin transactions
without his customer's
authorizations.t"
The
Commission sustained the NYSE's order suspending the salesman for one
year and placing him under heightened supervision for an additional year.
On review of a complex and novel NASD action finding that a member
firm that bought and sold direct participation program (DPP) securities
in the secondary market had charged customers unfair markups, the
Commission set aside the findings and sanctions.i"
In the majority of
the DPP transactions at issue, the firm dealt solely with registered brokerdealers who negotiated the price on behalf of the buyers. The Commission
concluded that these buyers were not the firm's customers, and therefore
that these transactions were not covered by the NASD's markup policy.
In other transactions, the firm dealt directly with a buyer, or dealt through
a third-party intermediary that was not a broker-dealer.
With respect to
these transactions, the Commission held that the NASD did not establish
violations of its markup requirements. The Commission noted that, among
other things, the NASD failed to demonstrate a prevailing market price
for the securities.
Finally, in a case arising under the Public Utility Holding Company
Act of 1935 (Holding Company Act) ,206 the Commission rejected a proposal
by Central and South West Corporation
(CSW), a registered holding
company, and CSW's wholly owned non-utility subsidiary, CSW Credit,
Inc., to increase CSW's investment in the subsidiary.
The proposal
contemplated that CSW's increased investment would be used to expand
the subsidiary's
business to factor accounts receivable of non-affiliate
72

utilities.
The Commission concluded that this expansion would be
inconsistent with the statutory requirement that operations of public
utility holding companies be limited to such other businesses as are
"reasonably incidental, or economically necessary or appropriate" to the
operations of the utility system.
Legal Policy Developments
The General Counsel, as principal legal adviser to the Commission,
provided independent advice on legal and policy issues arising from
rulemaking and enforcement actions, and ensured that Commission actions
satisfied applicable administrative law and other legal requirements. The
staff drafted legislative proposals, developed the Commission's position
on pending bills in Congress, and prepared Commission testimonies for
congressional hearings. The staff also participated in the Commission's
program of technical assistance to emerging securities markets.
In November
1993, the Commission
proposed
for comment
comprehensive revisions to its Rules of Practice, which govern the conduct
of Commission administrative proceedings.
The proposed revisions are
designed to improve the efficiency of the Commission's administrative
processes and to implement authority granted in the Securities Enforcement
Remedies and Penny Stock Reform Act.207
Significant Legislative Developments
In 1994, a number of securities
bills were enacted into law.
Amendments to the Government Securities Act and a bill to reform "rollups" of limited partnerships were passed late in the first session of the
103rd Congress.
In its second session, the 103rd Congress adopted
legislation to facilitate the securitization of small business and commercial
loans, and legislation revising the application and approval process for
exchanges to obtain unlisted trading privileges. Although Congress actively
considered important securities bills in a number of other areas, it failed
to reach agreement on final legislation. Thus, Congress considered but
did not pass bills relating to investment advisers, litigation reform, the
regulation of derivatives, and the question of SEC self-funding.
Government Securities
Important legislation involving the regulation of the government
securities markets was enacted early in the fiscal year. The Government
Securities Act Amendments of 1993 was Signed into law by the President
on December 17, 1993 (Pub. L. No. 103-202). The amendments represent
the culmination of three years' efforts. The House, in the 103rd Congress,
sought passage of broad reform legislation, including
large position
reporting, sales practice rules, and targeted antifraud provisions.
The
Senate bill was much narrower.
The final legislation provides, among
other things, for: (1) permanent authorization of Treasury rulemaking
under the Government Securities Act; (2) SEC authority to obtain trade
records in machine-readable form; (3) Treasury authority to require large

73

position reporting; (4) SEC antifraud authority over government securities
brokers and dealers under Section 15(c) of the Exchange Act; (5) sales
practice rulemaking under the Government Securities Act; (6) antifraud
provisions governing bids in connection with primary offerings of
government securities; (7) two studies of aspects of the regulatory system
for government securities; and (8) reforms to the Treasury auction process.
Limited Partnership Roll-ups
"Roll-ups" are limited partnership reorganizations that usually involve
the merger of limited partnerships into new, larger, corporate entities.
In response to perceived abuses in roll-up transactions, Congress passed
roll-ups legislation
as Title III of the Government
Securities Act
Amendments (Pub. L. No. 103-202, discussed above). This legislation also
was the product of three years' efforts. The final legislation makes it
unlawful for any person to solicit a proxy, consent, or authorization
concerning a roll-up transaction, or to make a tender offer in furtherance
of a roll-up transaction (as statutorily defined), unless the transaction is
conducted in accordance with SEC rules. The SEC must have such rules
effective within 12 months from the date of the bill's enactment; a rulemaking
is currently pending. The statute also requires the NASD or the exchanges,
again within 12 months, to adopt rules and establish listing standards for
limited partnership roll-ups. To a large extent, the final legislation codifies
rules adopted by the SEC in 1991 and NASD rules currently pending before
the SEC.
Small Business and Commercial Loan Securitization
H.R. 3474, the Riegle Community Development and Regulatory
Improvement Act of 1994, passed the House and Senate in August 1994;
it was signed into law by President Clinton on September 23, 1994 (Pub.
L. No. 103-325). This law contains small business securitization provisions
derived from a bill originally introduced in the Senate by Senator D' Amato
in 1993. TheSEC testified in support of the bill's securities law amendments
before the Senate in 1993, and before the House Energy Committee's
Subcommittee on Telecommunications and Finance on June 14, 1994. The
legislation also includes provisions relating to community development
banking, money laundering, and regulatory relief for banks.
The small business provisions of H.R. 3474 build on the framework
for securitization
established
by the Secondary Mortgage Market
Enhancement Act (SMMEA). The legislation amends the Exchange Act
to relax the margin, credit, and collateral requirements applicable to
qualifying "small business related securities."
It also amends federal
banking law to permit banks to invest in small business related securities,
and preempts state blue sky and legal investment laws with respect to
such securities. In addition, the legislation mandates a joint SEC-Federal
Reserve study on the impact of the small business securitization provisions
on the credit and securities markets.

74

H.R. 3474 also contains other provisions that directly affect the work
of the SEC. One such provision amends SMMEA to include mortgages
on commercial real estate within the SMMEA securitization framework.
A separate provision establishes a new exemption from the registration
requirements of the Securities Act for equity securities issued or exchanged
in the context of qualifying reorganizations of banks or thrifts into holding
company structures.
Unlisted Trading Privileges
H.R. 4535, a bill revising the application and approval process for
unlisted trading privileges (UTP) passed the House in August 1994 and
the Senate in October 1994. It was signed into law October 22, 1994 (Pub.
L. No. 103-389). The UTP legislation embodies an agreement negotiated
by the SEC among the regional exchanges and the NYSE in November
1993. Under the legislation, trading in an initial public offering (IPO)
pursuant to UTP is no longer subject to a time-consuming application and
approval process. Instead, exchanges may extend UTP to an IPO on the
third day of trading on the listing exchange. The SEC must undertake
rulemaking within 180 days from enactment of the new law to determine
whether to require any delay in trading of IPOs pursuant to UTP. The
SEC testified before the House Telecommunications
and Finance
Subcommittee in support of H.R. 4535 in June 1994.
Investment Advisers
In the 103rd Congress, both the House and the Senate passed legislation
to provide for enhanced SEC inspection of investment advisers. However,
the efforts of a House/Senate
staff conference to reconcile the two bills
failed in the waning hours of the 103rd Congress.
The bill developed by the staff conference dropped certain provisions
that had been included in the House bill (H.R. 578) regarding recordkeeping
and transaction reporting, risk-based inspection of advisers, and suitability.
Notably, in March 1994, the SEC had proposed rules defining an investment
adviser's suitability obligations, thus eliminating the need for a statutory
provision. The compromise bill, however, did incorporate other measures
that were present in H.R. 578 but absent from the Senate-passed bill (S.
423), such as provisions for SEC designation of one or more SROs; periodic
SEC surveys of unregistered
advisers; an electronic listing providing
disciplinary information about advisers; and an SEC study of steps to
disclose advisers' felony convictions. The compromise bill was approved
by the House on October 5, 1994, but the legislation was blocked from
coming to the Senate floor.
Litigation Reform
Both the House and Senate showed interest in the issue of litigation
reform. Senators Dodd and Domenici introduced S. 1976, a bill designed
to curb abuses in private securities lawsuits, including class actions in
particular, in March 1994. The Senate also held a hearing in May 1994
regarding the effects of the Supreme Court's Central Bank of Denver decision
7~

on private litigation and the SEC's antifraud enforcement program. Senator
Metzenbaum later introduced S. 2306, a bill aimed at restoring aiding and
abetting liability for violation of Exchange Act Section 10(b).
On the House side, the Subcommittee on Telecommunications
and
Finance held a hearing in July 1994 on the issue of litigation reform. In
testimony before the Subcommittee, the SEC noted support for some of
the measures included in S. 1976 and in H.R. 417 (a House litigation reform
bill introduced in 1993). The SEC also called for legislation to restore
aiding and abetting liability and to extend the statute of limitations for
securities fraud actions.
SEC Authorization and Appropriation
In 1993, the House passed an SEC authorization bill for 1994-95, which
contained a provision for SEC self-funding.
Senate budgetary rules, and
the opposition of some Senators to the concept of SEC self-funding,
prevented the Senate from taking comparable action. The SEC's fiscal
1995 appropriation,
which relied on a form of self-funding to offset the
SEC's appropriation,
was supported
by the SEC's appropriations
subcommittees but ultimately fell to disagreements over SEC fees and selffunding generally. As a result of these disagreements, Congress passed
a stopgap SEC appropriation
bill in August 1994 providing only $125
million (Pub. L. No. 103-317), with the intention of revisiting the issue
of SEC funding and passing a supplemental appropriations bill within five
months. OMB determined, however, that applicable federal law required
the SEC to apportion that partial appropriation
as if it were the full
appropriation for the fiscal year. Consequently, the SEC faced a budget
shortfall of approximately
$172 million and the possibility of severe
curtailment of operations.
Due to jurisdictional disputes in the House, the availability of an
additional SEC appropriation was conditioned on the enactment of separate
revenue legislation, raising SEC registration fees, that would offset the
SEC's additional appropriation.
Thus, to fund the SEC fully, it was
necessary for Congress to pass two separate pieces of legislation in the
two month period before the end of the session-an additional appropriation
and a separate revenue bill.
The bill providing for an additional SEC appropriation of $192 million
was signed into law on September 30, 1994 (Pub. L. No. 103-335). The
revenue legislation, H.R. 5060, which set the filing fees under Securities
Act Section 6(b) at the rate of 1/29th of one percent, passed the House
on September 27, 1994, but was held up in the Senate as various Senators
sought to add unrelated provisions to the last major revenue bill of the
103rd Congress. H.R. 5060 finally passed the Senate on October 8, and
was signed into law on October 10, 1994 (Pub. L. No. 103-352), thus
bringing SEC funding to $297 million.!" In the early days of fiscal 1995
before the revenue bill's passage, the SEC had to curtail inspections,
enforcement activity, and other "non-essential"
services.
In addition,

76

since Section 6(b) filing fees had decreased from 1/29th
to l/SOth of one percent, the Treasury lost approximately
filing fee receipts over the period.

of one percent
$20 million in

Other Legislative Initiatives
Several other legislative initiatives of interest to the SEC were
considered during the 103rd Congress. For example, a number of bills
were considered that addressed the SEC's jurisdiction under the Holding
Company Act and / or would have authorized registered holding companies
to diversify into telecommunications.
In the derivatives area, several bills
were considered, and hearings held, on derivative financial instruments.
Also, congressional and General Accounting Office (GAO) studies of the
derivatives market were conducted.
In the mutual fund area, the House
held hearings on several bills that would have regulated bank sales of
mutual funds and other investment products and also held oversight
hearings regarding the personal trading of fund managers. In addition,
GAO conducted two congressionally-requested
reviews of the mutual
fund activities of banks. In the enforcement area, the House held a hearing
on the problem of "rogue brokers." Finally, with respect to small businesses,
the House considered a bill, and held a hearing, on the Commission's small
business initiative.
Corporate Reorganizations
The Commission acts as a statutory advisor in reorganization cases
under Chapter 11 of the Bankruptcy Code to see that the interests of public
investors are protected adequately. Commission participation is generally
limited to cases involving debtors with publicly traded securities.
Committees
Official committees negotiate with debtors on reorganization plans
and participate generally in all aspects of the case. The Bankruptcy Code
provides for the appointment of an official committee for stockholders
where necessary to assure adequate representation
of their interests.
During 1994, the Commission successfully supported motions for the
appointment of investor committees in two cases.!"
Estate Administration
In In re Envirodyne Industries, et al.,210and In re MEl Industries, Inc./II
the Commission argued that the bankruptcy court is required to find that
an indenture trustee's fees are reasonable before they can be paid from
plan distributions to bondholders.
In Envirodyne, the indenture trustee
agreed to allow the bankruptcy court to pass on the reasonableness of
its fee request. In MEl Industries, the court followed the decision of the
court in In re National Convenience Stores, Inc.212 which had rejected the
Commission's
request
for a bankruptcy
court determination
of
reasonableness of fees.""

77

Inln reMEI Industries, Inc.214andln re Phar-Mor, Inc.,215the Commission
argued, as it has previously.t'" that the Bankruptcy Code allows discharge
of the liabilities of only a debtor-not
of third parties like officers and
directors-unless
there is separate consideration or unless the discharge
of liability is voluntary. This issue is of significance because in many cases
debtors seek to use the Chapter 11 process to protect officers and directors
from personal liabilities for various kinds of claims, including liabilities
under the federal securities laws. In MEl Industries, the court, agreeing
with the Commission, struck the plan provision that sought to protect the
indenture trustee from liability. The matter is pending in Phar-Mor.
In In re Amdura Corporation, Inc.,217 the district court, agreeing with
the Commission, reversed the bankruptcy court's order disallowing a class
proof of claim filed on behalf of public investors who allegedly were
victims of securities fraud by the debtors. The district court rejected the
bankruptcy court's conclusion that the decision in this case was controlled
by the ruling of the Tenth Circuit in In re Standard Metals, 817 F.2d 625
(IOth Cir. 1987), holding that a class proof of claim is not permissible in
bankruptcy.
Rather, the district court agreed with the Commission that
the Tenth Circuit decision is dictum, and thus not controlling authority.
The district court, as pointed out by the Commission, agreed that the better
reasoned view, represented by several subsequent circuit and district
court decisions.?" is to permit class proofs of claim in bankruptcy cases.
In In re First City Bancorporation of Texas,219 the Commission filed a
memorandum supporting securities fraud plaintiffs' motion to withdraw
consideration of its class claim from the bankruptcy court pursuant to 28
U.S.c. 157(d) so that the district court may rule on the question. This
provision requires a district court to withdraw a proceeding from the
bankruptcy court when "resolution of the proceeding requires consideration
of both the Bankruptcy Code and other laws of the United States regulating
organizations or activities affecting interstate commerce," such as the
federal securities laws. The issue became moot after the parties agreed
to a revised claim filing procedure and to resolve the securities claim by
settlement.
In October 1994 In re NVF Company,220 the Commission supported the
right of shareholders to compel an annual shareholders meeting. NVF
Company is controlled by Victor Posner who has been barred by a federal
district court from serving as an officer or director of any company subject
to the reporting requirements of the federal securities laws and ordered
to place into a voting trust shares in public companies that he controls."!
The Commission argued that convening a shareholders' meeting would
serve the public interest and the best interest of the bankruptcy estate
by giving shareholders the opportunity to remove the existing Posner
controlled directors and choose an independent
board to guide the
reorganization
process.
The Commission also argued that allowing
shareholders to exercise their corporate governance rights during the plan
negotiation stage of a Chapter 11 reorganization is consistent with existing
law. The matter is pending.
78

Disclosure Statements/Plans

of Reorganization

A disclosure statement is a combination proxy and offering statement
used to solicit acceptances for a reorganization plan. Such plans often
provide for the issuance of large quantities of new unregistered securities
pursuant to an exemption from Securities Act registration contained in
the Bankruptcy Code. The Commission reviews disclosure statements of
publicly-held companies or companies likely to be traded publicly after
reorganization.
During 1994, the staff reviewed 109 disclosure statements
and commented on 79. Most of the Commission's comments were adopted
by debtors; formal objections were filed in four cases.s" In addition, the
Commission prevented the unlawful issuance of securities in two cases.i"
In In re Enviropact, Inc.,224 the Commission filed an objection to the
debtor's reorganization plan that sought to discharge claims of creditors
and sell the assetless public shell corporation in order to make limited
payments to creditors.
The Commission contended that this would
contravene Section 1141(d)(3) of the Bankruptcy Code, which precludes
a debtor from obtaining a discharge if it has liquidated all or substantially
all of its assets and does not engage in business after consummation of
the reorganization plan. Following the filing of the Commission's objection,
the debtor withdrew its reorganization
plan.
Ethical Conduct Program
The General Counsel is the Designated Agency Ethics Official for the
SEC. In 1994, the Ethics Counsel and staff continued to respond to a
demand for counseling services at the rate of approximately
20 new
matters per week. These inquiries reflected unique or novel issues, while
routine or repetitive inquiries were handled by ethics liaison officers and
deputies located within each division and office.
The staff implemented the annual training requirements for senior
and mid-level employees and the new government-wide
program for
confidential disclosure of financial interests. In addition, major portions
of the review of the Commission's
rule on securities holdings and
transactions of members and employees and their families were completed.
Workload
The General Counsel's Office has experienced substantial increases
in productivity and workload in recent years. In 1994, workload in the
litigation and legislative areas continued to experience substantial increases.

79

Increase In Workload

Litigation Matters Opened
Litigation Matters Pending
Adjudicatory Cases
Cases Received
Cases Completed
Legislative Matters

80

1990

1991

1992

1993

1994

185
232

263
248

264
245

262
293

339
447

22
18
111

30
39
187

56
52
145

65
64
180

48
72
263

Economic Research and Analysis
The Office of Economic Analysis provides technical support and analysis
to the Commission's regulatory program. The economics staff provides the
Commission with research and advice on rule proposals, policy initiatives,
and enforcement actions. The staff also monitors developments and major
program initiatives affecting the United States financial services industry,
investors, and international capital markets.
Key 1994 Results
In 1994, the Office of Economic Analysis focused its efforts on a
number of areas including enforcement cases, mutual fund disclosure, and
market structure issues. The staff provided technical assistance to the
Division of Enforcement, initiated a mutual fund disclosure project, provided
economic analysis in connection with market structure and rulemaking
issues, and reported on the financial health of the securities industry.
Economic Analysis and Technical Assistance
The staff provided technical assistance to the Division of Enforcement
in more than 40 cases of insider trading, market manipulation, fraudulent
financial reporting, and other violations of securities laws. The staff uses
financial theory and event analysis to provide the empirical support key
to numerous enforcement cases. In addition, the staff advises the Division
of Enforcement regarding materiality and/or the amount of disgorgement
that should be sought.
The staff assists in taking testimony in cases
involving complex financial instruments and in evaluating the testimony
of experts and the reports of consultants hired by opposing parties. The
staff assisted the U.S. Attorney's Office by providing expert testimony in
the sentencing hearing for SEC v. Antar, et al .
The staff began several projects in the area of mutual fund disclosure.
Focus group discussions designed to survey the public's understanding
of the risks associated
with mutual funds identified
significant
misconceptions.
In response, the staff designed a survey to evaluate how
mutual fund materials help investors make informed decisions.
This
survey will be conducted in early 1995. In connection with improved risk
disclosure, the staff studied various risk measures for mutual funds to
evaluate their stability and predictive power.
The staff provided advice, technical assistance, and analyses on
several market structure and rulemaking issues. The staff provided advice
on disclosure of payment for order flow. The staff analyzed a National
Association of Securities Dealers (NASD) report on passive market making
and studied the impact of the NASD's modification of the small order
execution system on bid-ask spreads. The staff also studied the effects
of over-the-counter trading by exchange members in exchange-listed stocks
on market quality.
81

The staff continued
to monitor
the securities
industry
and
developments in the domestic and international securities markets. The
staff analyzed data from the 1993 penny stock examination sweep and
reported on the financial condition of penny stock dealers. In addition,
the staff developed a monthly analysis of investor complaints against
broker-dealers which is being integrated into the SEC's enforcement and
examination programs.
The staff provided advice on and monitored developments in the
markets for hybrid products and derivative securities. The staff assisted
the Office of the Chief Accoun tant on issues related to the financial reporting
of quantitative risk measures for derivatives and other financial instruments.
The staff also analyzed 90 rule proposals to assess their potential effects
on small entities, as required by the Regulatory Flexibility Act of 1980.

82

Policy Management

and Administrative

Support

Policy management and administrative support provide the Commission
and operating divisions with the necessary services to accomplish the agency's
mission. Policy management is provided by the executive staff, including the
Office of Legislative Affairs; the Office of the Secretary; the Office of Public
Affairs, Policy Evaluation and Research; the Office of the Executive Director;
and the Office of Equal Employment Opportunity. The responsibilities and
activities ofpolicy management include developing and execu ting management
policies, formulating and communicating program policy, overseeing the
allocation and expenditure of agency funds, maintaining liaison with the
Congress, disseminating information to the press,and facilitating Commission
meetings.
Administrative support includes services such as accounting, financial
management, fee collection, information technology management, data
processing, space and facilities management, human resources management,
and consumer affairs. Under the direction of the Office of the Executive
Director, these support services areprovided by the Offices of the Comptroller,
Information Technology, Administrative and Personnel Management, and
Filings and Information Services.
Key 1994 Results
In 1994, the Commission celebrated its 60th anniversary. During the
year, the Commission held 59 meetings and considered 317 matters. Major
activities of the Commission included adoption of a three-day securities
transaction settlement rule, simplification of registration and reporting
requirements
for foreign companies, requirements
for disclosure by
investment advisers regarding wrap fee programs, and requirements for
enhanced disclosure by broker-dealers of payment for order flow practices.
The agency collected fees for the United States Treasury in excess
of its appropriation for the twelfth consecutive year. The SEC's total fee
collections in 1994 were $588 million and the net gain to the Treasury was
$340 million.
Policy Management

Commission Activities. The Commission held 59 meetings in 1994,
during which it considered 317 matters, including the proposal and adoption
of Commission rules, enforcement actions, and other items that affect the
stability of the nation's capital markets and the economy. Significant
regulatory actions taken by the Commission included:
•
 adoption of a three-day securities transactions settlement rule;

• adoption of amendments
to the multi-jurisdictional
disclosure
system for Canadian issuers;
• adoption of executive compensation
disclosure requirements
concerning securityholder lists and mailing requests;
• simplification of registration and reporting requirements for foreign
companies; and
• adoption of requirements
for disclosure by broker-dealers
of
payment for order flow practices.
Congressional
interest in the agency's activities and initiatives
remained high.
The Commission and staff members testified at 20
congressional hearings during the year, an increase of 66 percent over the
prior year. In addition, the Congress actively considered a number of
important issues under the Commission's jurisdiction.
These were most
notably:
• issues posed by derivatives investments;
• proposed amendments to the Investment Advisers Act of 1940,
including fee provisions
to fund more frequent Commission
inspections of investment advisers;
• possible reforms in the government securities markets;
• limited partnership "roll-ups" and their impact on investors;
• securities litigation reform;
to facilitate improved access to capital for small
• legislation
businesses;
• issues affecting the mutual fund industry;
• the SEC staff's report entitled Market 2000: An Examination of
Current Equity Market Developments and the Unlisted Trading
Privileges Act of 1994, a bill to reduce procedural delays with
respect to unlisted trading privileges;
• proposals to curtail frivolous securities litigation; and
• the SEC's budget authorization and appropriation.
Public Affairs. The Office of Public Affairs, Policy Evaluation and
Research (OPAPER) communicated information on Commission activities
to those interested in or affected by Commission actions, including the
press, regulated entities, the general public, and employees of the agency.
Many of the agency's actions are of national and international interest.
When appropriate, these actions are brought to the attention of regional,
national, and international press. A total of 145 news releases on upcoming
events, agency programs, and special projects were issued. Additionally,
congressional testimony, speeches, opening statements and fact sheets
presented by Commissioners and senior staff were maintained on file and
disseminated in response to requests from the public and the press. The
staff responded to 60,000 requests for specific information on the agency
or its activities.
The OPAPER staff published daily theSEC News Digest which provided
information on rule changes, enforcement actions against individuals or
corporate entities, registration statements, acquisition filings, interim
reports, releases, decisions on requests for exemptions, Commission
meetings, upcoming testimony by Commission members and staff, lists
84

of Section 16 letters, and other events of interest. During the year, the
Digest was computerized and is now available to the staff on the SEC Local
Area Network (LAN) bulletin board and publicly accessible on FedWorld,
a federal electronic bulletin board.
The staff provided
support for activities related to the SEC's
International
Institute for Securities Markets Development, Consumer
Affairs Advisory
Committee,
Chairman Arthur Levitt's Consumer
Education Program, and the 60th anniversary of the Commission. In
addition, programs for 624 foreign visitors were coordinated during the
year.
Management Activities. The Office of the Executive Director coordinated
special projects, such as the restructuring of several divisions and offices,
and completed an assessment of the agency's operational efficiency. The
staff also coordinated
the agency's compliance with and response to
actions under the National Performance Review (NPR) and the Government
Performance and Results Act of 1993, including completion of the agency's
Customer Service Plan. Working closely with other senior officials, the
staff formulated
the agency's budget submissions
to the Office of
Management and Budget and the Congress, and prepared and submitted
to Congress the agency's authorization request for fiscal years 1995 through
1997.
Equal Employment Opportunity.
The Office of Equal Employment
Opportunity (EEO) provided the agency with support for compliance with
Title VII of the Civil Rights Actof 1964, as amended; the Age Discrimination
in Employment Act of 1967; the Rehabilitation Act of 1973; and Equal Pay
Act of 1963. This support was provided through the EEO Office's compliance
and affirmative employment activities.
The primary services provided by the compliance activity included
counseling
and dispute
resolution,
administrative
fact-finding
investigations,
and final agency decisions on formal complaints
of
employment discrimination. In connection with the affirmative employment
activity, EEO prepared the agency's annual accomplishment report to the
Equal Employment Opportunity Commission; conducted in-house EEO
training of supervisors and orientation of new employees; provided legal
support for the agency-wide sexual harassment prevention training program
that was completed in 1994; administered the Federal Women's Program,
the Hispanic Employment Program, and the Black Employment Program;
and sponsored the SEC's Disability Awareness Month Program.
Freedom of Information Act and Privacy Act. The Office of Freedom
of Information Act (FOIA) and Privacy Act Operations responded to
requests for access to information pursuant to FOIA, the Privacy Act, and
the Government in the Sunshine Act, and processed requests under the
agency's confidential treatment rules. Confidential treatment requests
were generally made in connection with proprietary corporate information
and evaluated
in conjunction
with access requests to prevent the
unwarranted
disclosure of information exempt under the FOIA.

85

The agency received 2,288 FOIA requests and appeals, 8 Privacy Act
requests, 45 Government in the Sunshine Act requests, 9 government
referrals, and 5,667 requests and appeals for confidential treatment. All
responses to FOIA/Privacy Act requests were made within the statutory
time-frame.
Administrative

Support

Financial Management and Operations. For the twelfth straight year,
the SEC collected fees in excess of its appropriation.
The SEC's total fee
collections in 1994 were $588 million, 226 percent of the agency's
appropriated spending authority of $260 million (which consisted of $58
million in appropriated funds, $172 in current year offsetting fee collections,
and $30 million from a carry-over of prior year offsetting fee collections).
The $588 million in total fee collections, minus the SEC's current year
spending authority of $230 million ($260 million less the $30 million from
prior year offsetting fee collections) and $18 million in additional offsetting
fee collections, resulted in a net gain of $340 million to the United States
Treasury.
The SEC's total fee revenue in 1994 was collected from four basic
sources: registrations of securities under Section 6(b) of the Securities Act
of 1933 (comprising 78 percent of total fee collections), transactions of
covered exchange listed securities (17 percent), tender offer and merger
filings (4 percent), and miscellaneous filings (1 percent). Offsetting fee
collections were generated from an increase in the fee rate under Section
6 (b) of the Securities Act from one-fiftieth of one percent to one-twentyninth of one percent.
The Office of the Comptroller (OC) prepared an updated Five-Year
Financial Management Plan that responds to current financial system
issues, recognizes new legislative and NPR requirements, and is consistent
with the agency's information technology plan.
In 1994, the agency's central accounting system, the Federal Financial
System, was upgraded to provide enhanced user security, and accounts
receivable, payment processing, and direct on-line system functions to
headquarters
and field offices.
Development continued on the new
"paperless" electronic time and attendance system, an agency-wide Property
Management Program, and the Entity Filing and Fee System. Testing
began on the General Services Administration's
approved credit card
system for the procurement of small purchases. When fully implemented,
this system will facilitate the prompt delivery of materials and reduce
the number of purchase orders written and vouchers processed.
The OC assisted the Office of the Executive Director in working with
the staff of the Office of Management and Budget and the members and
staff of the congressional committees on appropriations,
authorization,
finance, and ways and means to provide the SEC a 1995 spending level
of $301 million and 2,844 Full-Time Equivalents (FTEs), increases of $32
million and 171 FTE over 1994 levels.

86

Information
Resources Management.
The Office of Information
Technology (OIT) progressed in the development and enhancement of SEC
information resources. Operation of the Electronic Data Gathering, Analysis
and Retrieval (EDGAR) project continued, and a system upgrade in February
1994 resulted in additional
functionality
and significantly
improved
response time for SEC staff. The staff completed its evaluation of the
significant test period (January 1 through June 3D, 1994). A report on the
findings was prepared and submitted to the Commission.
Continued emphasis was placed on improving OIT's responsiveness
to users' needs. The End User Advisory Committee, consisting of senior
representatives
from each of the program divisions,
reviewed
the
development of the agency's strategic automation plan, external data
service funding requirements, and other automation issues. A greater
emphasis on quality assurance and system design functions within OIT
helped ensure that developed systems met the specifications of the system
design.
The agency's disaster recovery plan was expanded to provide the
agency with automation backup capabilities for its Local Area Network
(LAN) in the event of a disaster at either of its computer facilities-the
main Operations Center in Alexandria, Virginia or the Headquarters
building in Washington, D.C. Initial backup capability for the SEC
mainframe was put in place in January 1994.
Development continued on the Large Trader and the Market Risk
Assessment systems, as mandated by the Market Reform Act of 1990. Once
completed these systems will monitor the activity of large traders in the
markets and enable the SEC to monitor the financial condition of brokerdealer parent firms and minimize the market risks associated with brokerdealer / affiliate relationships.
Phased development of the systems will
continue through 1996.
Administrative and Personnel Management. The Office of Administra tive
and Personnel Management (OAPM) provided a wide range of personnel
and office support functions, including recruitment and staffing, position
management and classification, employee compensation
and benefits,
training, performance management, employee recognition, labor relations,
counseling,
disciplinary
actions, personnel
security and suitability,
personnel action processing, and maintenance of official employee records.
The support activities include procurement
and contracting,
space
acquisition,
lease administration,
facilities management,
property
management, desktop publishing, printing, publications, and mail services.
The SEC's personnel activity was designated as a "reinvention lab"
and registered with the NPR. Internal focus groups were established to
assess staffing, recruitment, and performance management processes, and
flexiplace options.
The focus group on alternate work schedules and
flexiplace considered various alternatives to expand the agency's policies
on these issues, in an effort to assist staff in balancing work and family
demands.
The focus group on performance
management
evaluated
implementation of how the agency's current performance appraisal system

87

was being implemented and explored a variety of alternative systems.
Recommendations
from these groups are pending final management
decision.
As part of Chairman Arthur Levitt's diversity initiative, OAPM and
EEO established an internal affirmative recruitment task force. This group
focused on increasing recruitment activities aimed at underrepresented
minority groups and providing information on diverse recruitment sources
to managers throughout the agency.
The SEC's recruitment program
continued to emphasize active participation
in job fairs, on-campus
recruitment interviews at law schools, and the use of available hiring
programs and authorities.
As a result, approximately 40 percent of the
employees hired in 1994 were minorities.
OAPM coordinated the agency's response to Executive Order 12861,
calling for agencies to eliminate one-half of Executive Branch internal
regulations within three years. As a result, approximately 11 percent of
the page count of internal policy documents was eliminated through
revisions or deletions.
Plans were initiated to overhaul the Personnel
Operating Policies and Procedures Manual within the next two years. This
would include simplifying the numbering system (which was based on
the now defunct Federal Personnel Manual) and reducing the total number
of pages.
The OAPM began initial testing of the new automated Personnel
Resource System (PRS). Phase I of PRS is expected to be operational during
the second quarter of fiscal year 1995. When fully implemented, PRS will
enable the on-line review and processing of requests for personnel actions.
During 1994, 1,405 employees attended a total of 2,784 training events
lasting one day or longer. Twenty-six employees graduated from the SEC's
Upward Mobility Program, a two-year career development
program
initiated in June 1992. This program enables competitively selected clerical
and administrative
employees
to move into para-professional
and
professional positions via "bridge positions." In other initiatives, the
policy framework
for Executive,
Management,
and Supervisory
Development training was developed and mandatory training courses to
strengthen supervisory and management ski11s were identified.
The agency administered 15 leases for an approximate total of 773,442
square feet of office and related space. Also, a new property accountability
system utilizing bar-coding was implemented. All field and headquarters
offices were inventoried using the new system.
Printing operations were enhanced through the installation ofaXerox
DocuTech, a high speed publishing and finishing system. The new system
improved timeliness of service, while reducing staffing requirements.
Also, plans and equipment purchases were finalized for a new copy center,
largely for litigation support.
Due, in part, to agency initiatives to
disseminate documents through the agency's LAN and through FedWorld,
printing production decreased from 71 million pages to 60 million. The
OAPM successfully accomplished the transition from franked to metered

88

mail as mandated by the U.S. Postal Service. Mail service was improved
by expanding hours to process emergency mail, particularly time-sensitive
litigation documents.
The agency awarded contracts and purchase orders in excess of $35
million during 1994. Plans were initiated in the development of electronic
commerce (EC) designed to streamline procurement in compliance with
efforts to reinvent government.
OAPM is working with the Treasury
Department
and the Small Agency Council's Information
Resource
Management Committee to develop a pilot project that would provide an
EC vehicle for the SEC and other small agencies. The current plan is to
establish EC connectivity through the Treasury Department.
Public Reference. The Commission maintains public reference rooms
in its Washington, D.C., New York, and Chicago offices. In a continuing
interest to better serve the public, the procedures in the headquarters
public reference room were enhanced to expedite identification, location,
and retrieval of documents and microfiche. The public reference room
is responsible for making copies of company filings, and Commission
rules, orders, studies, reports, and speeches available to the public.
During 1994, the staff provided assistance to 42,099 visitors to the
headquarters
public reference room, answered
5,560 requests for
documents, processed 582 requests for certifications of filings and records,
and responded to 100,812 telephone inquiries. A total of 48,368 electronic
filings, received via the Commission's EDGAR system, were available for
requestors. In addition, the public reference staff received and filed over
500,000 paper documents and 505,479 microfiche records to the existing
library of publicly available information.
Consumer Affairs. In 1994, the agency enhanced its commitment to
the protection of consumers. Initiatives to improve public awareness and
to educate investors included:
• town meetings and focus groups for individual investors;
• telephone consumer surveys on mutual funds;
• publication
of informational
and educational
brochures
for
investors;
• the establishment of a toll-free information line to provide callers
with access to general information about the SEC;
• the dissemination of investor-related information via an electronic
bulletin board; and
• the creation of a Consumer Affairs Advisory Committee through
which the SEC can receive information to assist the agency to better
address the needs of the investors.
The Commission received 38,702 complaints and inquiries during
1994, an increase of approximately 11 percent over the prior year. The
staff also responded to 2,742 letters concerning public reference matters.
Of the 38,702 complaints and inquiries, 42 percent were complaints and
58 percent were inquiries.
Approximately 40 percent of the complaints
received involved broker-dealers, while the remainder involved issuers,
mutual funds, banks, transfer agents, clearing agents, investment advisers,
and various financial and non-financial matters.

89

More than 2,500 complaints were referred to the SEC operating
divisions, self-regulatory organizations, or other regulatory entities for
review and/or action. This represents an 80 percent increase over last
year.

90

Endnotes
'Diotsion of Enforcement Warns of Fraud in the Sale of Unregistered Securities of
Telecommunications Technology Ventures, Press Release 94-105 (Sept. 16, 1994).
2SEC v. Parkersburg Wireless Limited Liability Company, Litigation Release No.
14085 (May 16, 1994),56 SEC Docket 2278.
3SEC v. Knoxville, LLC, Litigation Release No. 14155 (July 12, 1994), 57 SEC
Docket 441.
4SEC v. Continental Wireless Cable Television, Inc., Litigation Release No. 14118
(June 7, 1994),56 SEC Docket 2778.
5SEC v. Comcoa Ltd., Litigation Release No. 14080 (May 10, 1994), 56 SEC
Docket 2156.
6SEC v. Transamerica Wireless Systems, Inc., Litigation Release No. 14218 (Sept.
2, 1994),57 SEC Docket 1601.
"So-Called "Prime" Bank and Similar Financial Instruments,
Information for
Investors Bulletin No. 11-1-1(Oct. 1993).
"Diuision of Enforcement Warns of Possible Prime Bank Fraud in Connection with
Banka Bohemia Securities, Press Release No. 94-14 (Mar. 11, 1994).
9SEC v. John D. Lauer, Litigation Release No. 14143 (June 30, 1994),57 SEC
Docket 111.
lOSECv. Northstar Investors Trust, Litigation Release No. 13887 (Nov. 23,1993),
55 SEC Docket 1697.
11 SEC v. North
Pacific Investments, Inc., Litigation Release No. 14011 (Mar. 16,
1994), SEC Docket 893.
12SEC v. Cross Financial Services, Inc., Litigation Release No. 14135 (June 24,
1994),57 SEC Docket 103.
13SEC v. Prime One Partners, Corp., Litigation Release No. 14114 (June 6, 1994),
56 SEC Docket 2772.
14SEC v. European Kings Club, Litigation Release No. 13871 (Nov. IS, 1993),55
SEC Docket 1552.
15SEC v. William E. Cooper, Litigation Release No. 14090 (May 18, 1994),56 SEC
Docket 2283.
16SEC v. American Business Securities, Inc., Litigation Release No. 14171 (July 25,
1994),57 SEC Docket 727.
17SEC v. Norman L. Brooks, Litigation Release No. 14048 (Apr. 11,1994),56 SEC
Docket 1366.
18Inthe Matter of Comptronix Corporation, Exchange Act Release No. 33829 (Mar.
29, 1994),56 SEC Docket 1038.
19SEC v. Stanley Lepelstat, Litigation Release No. 14222 (Sept. 8, 1994),57 SEC
Docket 1604.
2°In the Matter of Accuhealth, Inc., Exchange Act Release No. 34646 (Sept. 8,
1994),57 SEC Docket 1502.
21Inthe Matter of William Makadok, CPA, Exchange Act Release No. 34645 (Sept.
8, 1994),57 SEC Docket 1551.
22SEC v. PNF Industries, lnc., Litigation Release No. 14257 (Sept. 27, 1994),57
SEC Docket 2112.

91

23Inthe Matter of Martin Halpern, CPA, Exchange Act Release No. 34727 (Sept.
27, 1994),57 SEC Docket 1948.
24SECv. C.W. Earl Johnson, Litigation Release No. 13943 {Jan. 25, 1994),55 SEC
Docket 3077.
25SEC v. Jere L. Bradwell, Litigation Release No. 13933 {Jan. 13, 1994),56 SEC
Docket 2790.
26Inthe Matter of Stuart G. Lasher, CPA, Exchange Act Release No. 33465 (Jan.
13, 1994),55 SEC Docket 2716.
27SECv. Transmark USA, Inc., Litigation Release No. 14124 {June 13, 1994),56
SEC Docket 2916.
28Inthe Matter of Donald F. Withers, CPA, Exchange Act Release No. 34537 (Aug.
17, 1994),57 SEC Docket 1101.
29Inthe Matter of Harry D. Sweeney, CPA, Exchange Act Release No. 33930 (Apr.
20, 1994),56 SEC Docket 1522.
30Inthe Matter of Edward Jan Smith, CPA, Exchange Act Release No. 33963 (Apr.
26, 1994),56 SEC Docket 1696.
31SECv. Richard F. Adler, Litigation Release No. 14198 (Aug. 18, 1994),57 SEC
Docket 1195.
32SEC v. Eugene Dines, Litigation Release No. 13900 (Dec. 10, 1993),55 SEC
Docket 1972.
:J3SECv. Jonathan Mayhew, Litigation Release No. 14189 (Aug. 9, 1994) 57 SEC
Docket 1061.
34SECv. Julia Peck Mobley, Litigation Release No. 14123 (June 13,1994),56 SEC
Docket 2915.
35SECv. U.S. Environmental, Inc., Litigation Release No. 14233 (Sept. 13,1994),
57 SEC Docket 1758.
36Inthe Matter of J. Peek Garlington, Jr., Exchange Act Release No. 34656 (Sept.
13, 1994),57 SEC Docket 1629.
37SEC v. Gary S. Williky, Litigation Release No. 14280 (Sept. 30,1994),57 SEC
Docket 2272.
38SEC v. Robert L. Shull, Litigation Release No. 14213 (Aug. 31, 1994),57 SEC
Docket 1447.
39SECv. Curtis Ivey, Litigation Release No. 14042 (Apr. 5,1994),56 SEC Docket
1262.
40Inthe Matter of Stanley Berk, Exchange Act Release No. 33932 (Apr. 20,1994),
56 SEC Docket 1524.
41In the Matter of The Chicago Corporation, Exchange Act Release No. 33777 (Mar.
17, 1994), 56 SEC Docket 818.
42Inthe Matter of Cantor Fitzgerald & Co. Exchange Act Release No. 33776 (Mar.
17, 1994),56 SEC Docket 812.
43Inthe Matter of Goldman, Sachs & Co., Exchange Act Release No. 33576 (Feb.
3, 1994), 55 SEC Docket 3208.
44In the Matter of Merrill Lynch, Pierce, Fenner & Smith, lnc., Exchange Act
Release No. 33367 (Dec. 22, 1993),55 SEC Docket 2281.
45In the Matter of George F M. Lee, Exchange Act Release No. 34658 (Sept. 13,
1994),57 SEC Docket 1534.
46Inthe Matter of Colonial Management Associates, Inc., Investment Advisers Act
Release No. 1419 (June 15, 1994),56 SEC Docket 2850.
92

47SECv. Thomas Frank Bandyk, Litigation Release No. 14113 (June 6, 1994),56
SEC Docket 277l.

48Inthe Matter of James M. Coyne, [r., Exchange Act Release No. 34587 (Aug. 24,
1994),57 SEC Docket 1234.
49Inthe Matter of Synovus Securities, Inc., Investment Advisers Act Release No.
1423 (July 5, 1994), 57 SEC Docket 138.
50Inthe Matter of Richard T. Taylor, Exchange Act Release No. 34315 (July 5,
1994),57 SEC Docket 143.
51In the Matter of Strong/Corneliuson Capital Management, Inc., Investment
Advisers Act Release No. 1425 (July 12, 1994),57 SEC Docket 1451.
52SECv. Donna Tumminia, Litigation Release No. 14217 (Sept. I, 1994),57 SEC
Docket 1451.
53Inthe Matter of Joan Conan, Investment Advisers Act Release No. 1446 (Sept.
30, 1994),57 SEC Docket 2239.
54SEC v. Centurion Growth Fund, Inc., Litigation Release No. 14052 (Apr. 14,
1994),56 SEC Docket 1370.
55Inthe Matter of Seaboard Investment Advisers, lnc., Investment Advisers Act
Release No. 1388 (Oct. 22, 1993),55 SEC Docket 916.
56Inthe Matter of Terence Patrick Mulrooney, Investment Company Act Release
No. 20615 (Oct. 13, 1994),57 SEC Docket 2320.
57Inthe Matter of Melvin L. Hirsch, Investment Company Act Release No. 20335
(June 3, 1994),56 SEC Docket 2750.
58Exchange Act Release No. 33761 (Mar. 15, 1994),59 FR 13275 (Mar. 21, 1994).
At the same time these rule amendments were proposed, the Commission
authorized the Division of Market Regulation to issue a no-action letter that
authorizes broker-dealers to use the theoretical pricing model to determine
haircuts. Letter from Brandon Becker, Director, Division of Market Regulation to
Mary 1. Bender, The Chicago Board Options Exchange and Timothy Hinkas, The
Options Clearing Corporation (Mar. 15, 1994).
59Group of Thirty, Derivatives: Practices and Principles (July 1993).
60Statement of the Securities and Exchange Commission, Commodity Futures
Trading Commission and the Securities and Investments Board (Mar. 15, 1994).
61Technical Committee of laSCO, Operational and Financial Risk Management
Control Mechanisms for Over-the-Counter Derivatives Activities of Regulated Securities
Firms (July 1994).

62Exchange Act Release No. 34140 (June I, 1994),59 FR 29393 (June 7, 1994).
63Exchange Act Release No. 34541 (Aug. 17, 1994),59 FR43603 (Aug. 24, 1994).
64Exchange Act Release No. 33137 (Nov. 3,1993),58 FR 60324 (Nov. 15,1993).
65Letter regarding Distributions of Certain French Securities, Exchange Act
Release No. 34176 (June 7,1994),59 FR 31274 (June 17, 1994.)
66Exchange Act Release No. 33862 (Apr. 4, 1994),59 FR 17125 (Apr. II, 1994).
67Bear,Steams & Co. Inc. (pub. avail. Aug. 29, 1994).
68BearSteams and Bear Steams Securities Corp. (pub. avail. July 7, 1994).
69Shearson Lehman Brothers Inc. (pub. avail. Mar. 25, 1993); Prudential
Securities Inc. (pub. avail. Oct. 11, 1994).
7°Chubb Securities Corp. (pub. avail. Nov. 24, 1993).
7JExchange Act Release No. 33608 (Feb. 17, 1994),59 FR 7917 (Feb. 22, 1994).
72Exchange Act Release No. 33924 (Apr. 19, 1994),59 FR 21681 (Apr. 26,1994).
93

73Exchange Act Release No. 33743 (Mar. 9, 1994),59 FR 12767 (Mar. 17,1994).
74Exchange Act Release No. 33761 (Mar. IS, 1994),59 FR 13275 (Mar. 21, 1994).
75Exchange Act Release No. 33702 (Mar. 2, 1994), 59 FR 10984 (Mar. 9, 1994).
76Exchange Act Release No. 34616 (Aug. 31,1994),59 FR46314 (Sept. 7, 1994).
77Exchange Act Release Nos. 27445 and 29185 (Nov. 16, 1989 and May 9, 1991),
54 FR 48703 and 56 FR 22490 (Nov. 24, 1989 and May IS, 1991).
78Exchange Act Release No. 35124 (Feb. 20, 1994),59 FR 66702 (Dec. 28, 1994).
79'fheDivision of Market Regulation and the Division of Enforcement, Securities
and Exchange Commission, The Large Finn Project: A Review of Hiring, Retention and
Supervisory Practices (May 1994).
BONationalAssociation of Securities Dealers, Inc., New York Stock Exchange,
Inc., North American Securities Administrators Association, Inc., U.S. Securities
and Exchange Commission, Staff Report on the Joint Regulatory Penny Stock
Examination Sweep (June 1994).
81
17 C.F.R. 9 240.17f-l (1993).
82Exchange Act Release No. 34493 (Aug. 5, 1994),59 FR 41531 (Aug. 12,1994).
83Exchange Act Release No. 34078 (May 18, 1994),59 FR 27082 (May 25,1994).
84Exchange Act Release Nos. 33992 (May 2,1994),59 FR 23907 (May 9, 1994)
(NYSE); 33993 (May 2, 1994),59 FR 23902 (May 9, 1994) (AMEX); 33991 (May 2,
1994),59 FR 23904 (May 9,1994) (BSE, CHX, PSE, and PHLX).
85Exchange Act Release No. 34151 (June 3, 1994),59 FR 29843 (June 9, 1994).
86Exchange Act Release No. 34277 (June 29, 1994),59 FR 34885 (July 7,1994).
87£xchange Act Release No. 34279 (June 29,1994),59 FR 34883 (July 7, 1994).
88Exchange Act Release No. 34280 (June 29, 1994),59 FR 34880 (July 7, 1994).
89Exchange Act Release No. 34533 (Aug. IS, 1994),59 FR43147 (Aug. 22,1994).
90Exchange Act Release No. 33734 (Mar. 8, 1994),59 FR 11815 (Mar. 14, 1994).
"Exchange Act Release No. 33348 (Dec. 15,1993),58 FR 68183 (Dec. 23, 1993).
92Exchange Act Release No. 33233 (Nov. 22, 1993),58 FR 63195 (Nov. 30,1993).
93Letter from James
Yong, Vice President and Assistant Secretary, ICC, to
Jonathan G. Katz, Secretary, Commission (Mar. 24, 1994).
94Exchange Act Release Nos. 34166 (June 6, 1994),59 FR 30066 and 34199 (June
10, 1994),59 FR 31660 (June 20,1994).
95Exchange Act Release No. 33984 (May 2, 1994),59 FR 24491 (May II, 1994).
96ExchangeAct Release No. 34512 (Aug. to, 1994),59 FR4232D (Aug. 17, 1994).
97£xchange Act Release No. 33868 (Apr. 7, 1994),59 FR 17621 (Apr. 13,1994).
98Exchange Act Release No. 33869 (Apr. 7,1994),59 FR 17632 (Apr. 13,1994).

c.

99Employment Discrimination: How Registered Representatives Farein Discrimination
Disputes (GAO/HEHS 94-17, Mar. 1994).
lOOLetterfrom Deborah Masucci, Vice-President, Arbi tration, NASD, to Brandon
Becker, Director, Division of Market Regulation, SEC, dated September 30,1994.
lOlExchange Act Release No. 33939 (Apr. 20, 1994),59 FR 22032 (Apr. 28, 1994).
l02Exchange Act Release No. 34348 (July II, 1994),59 FR 36242 (July 15, 1994).
I03Letterto Registrants from Carolyn B. Lewis, Assistant Director, Division of
Investment Management (Feb. 25,1994).
I04Memorandum from Division of Investment Management to Chairman
Levitt regarding Mutual Funds and Derivative Instruments (Sept. 26, 1994).

94

105See Testimony of Arthur Levitt, Chairman,
U.S. Securities and Exchange
Commission, Concerning Issues Affecting the Mutual Fund Industry, before the
Subcommittee on Telecommunications and Finance, Committee on Energy and
Commerce, U.S. House of Representatives (Sept. 27, 1994).
l06Investment Company Act Release No. 19959 (Dec. 17, 1993),55 SEC Docket
2220.
107Investment Company Act Release No. 19955 (Dec. 15, 1993),55 SEC Docket
2027.
l08Investment Company Act Release No. 20313 (May 24, 1994),56 SEC Docket
2480.
l09Securities Act Release No. 7084 (Aug. 17, 1994), 57 SEC Docket 1084;
Investment Company Act Release No. 20487 (Aug. 17, 1994),57 SEC Docket 1084.
l1°Investment Advisers Act Release No. 1401 (Jan. 13, 1994),55 SEC Docket
2760 (proposal); Investment Adviser Act Release No. 1411 (April 19, 1994),56 SEC
Docket 1605 (adoption).
111Investment Advisers Act Release No. 1406 (Mar. 16, 1994),56 SEC Docket
858.
112Investment Company Act Release No. 20486 (Aug. 17, 1994), 55 SEC Docket
1075.
113Investment Company Act Release No. 19957 (Dec. 16,1993),55 SEC Docket
2045 (proposal); Investment Company Act Release No. 20614 (Oct. 13, 1994),57
SEC Docket 2305 (adoption).
114Investment Company Act Release No. 20472 (Aug. 11, 1994), 57 SEC Docket
882.
l15E.g., Keynote Series Account (File No. 33-19836); Diversified Investors
Variable Funds (File No. 33-73734).
116Investment Company Act Release Nos. 18778 (June 12, 1992),51 SEC Docket
1128 (Notice and Temporary Order) and 20338 (June 7,1994),56 SEC Docket 2408
(Permanent Order).
"Tnvestment Company Act Release Nos. 19967 (Dec. 20, 1993),55 SEC Docket
2083 (Notice and Temporary Order) and 20337 (June 7,1994),56 SEC Docket 2407
(Permanent Order).
118Investment Company Act Release Nos. 20236 (April 20, 1994), 56 SEC
Docket 1461 (Notice) and 20305 (May 17, 1994),56 SEC Docket 1968 (Order).
119InvestmentCompany Act Release Nos. 20503 (Aug. 25, 1994), 57SEC Docket
1227 (Notice) and 20564 (Sept. 20, 1994),57 SEC Docket 1644 (Order).
120Brown& Wood (pub. avail. Feb. 24, 1994).
121MerrillLynch Money Markets Inc. (pub. avail. Jan. 14, 1994).
122NorthAmerican Security Trust (pub. avail. Aug. 5, 1994).
123Alexander Hamilton Funds (pub. avail. July 20, 1994).
124Kleinwort Benson Investment Management Limited (pub. avail. Dec. 5,
1993).
125MurrayJohnstone Holdings Limited (pub. avail. Oct. 7, 1994).
126TheEquitable Life Assurance Society of the United States, Investment Company
Act Release Nos. 20568 (Sept. 22, 1994) (Notice) and 20637 (Oct. 19, 1994) (Order).

95

127NationalHome Life Assurance Company, et al., Investment Company Act
Release Nos. 20357 (June 14, 1994) (Notice) and 20402 (July 13, 1994) (Order); The
Variable Annuity Life Insurance Company, et al., Investment Company Act Release
Nos. 20345 (June 8, 1994) (Notice) and 20387 (July 7, 1994) (Order).
128WMLife Insurance Company and Empire Life Insurance Company (pub.
avail. Jan. 19, 1994).
129SecuritiesAct Release No. 7049 (Mar. 9, 1994t 56 SEC Docket 596.
130ExchangeAct Release No. 34961 (Nov. 10, 1994),57 SEC Docket 2993.
131ExchangeAct Release No. 33742 (Mar. 9, 1994),56 SEC Docket 648.
132SecuritiesAct Release No. 7053 (Apr. 19, 1994),56 SEC Docket 1414.
133SecuritiesAct Release No. 7053 (Apr. 19, 1994),56 SEC Docket 1414.
134SecuritiesAct Release No. 7026 (Nov. 3, 1993),55 SEC Docket 969.
135SecuritiesAct Release No. 7054 (Apr. 19, 1994),56 SEC Docket 1428.
136SecuritiesAct Release No. 7056 (Apr. 19, 1994),56 SEC Docket 1439.
137SecuritiesAct Release No. 7055 (Apr. 19, 1994), 56 SEC Docket 1432.
138SecuritiesAct Release No. 7025 (Nov. 3, 1993),55 SEC Docket 964.
139SecuritiesAct Release No. 7053 (Apr. 19, 1994),56 SEC Docket 1414.
140SecuritiesAct Release No. 7101 (Oct. 18,1994),57 SEC Docket 2292.
141ExchangeAct Release No. 34922 (Nov. 1, 1994),57 SEC Docket 2800.
142SecuritiesAct Release No. 7086 (Aug. 31, 1994),57 SEC Docket 1320.
143ExchangeAct Release No. 34514 (Aug. 10, 1994),57 SEC Docket 932.
144ExchangeAct Release No. 34513 (Aug. 10, 1994),57 SEC Docket 931.
14SExchangeAct Release No. 34681 (Sept. 16, 1994),57 SEC Docket 1780.
146SecuritiesAct Release No. 7113 (Sept. 1, 1994),57 SEC Docket 1333.
147ExchangeAct Release No. 33768 (Mar. 16, 1994), 56 SEC Docket 807.
148SecuritiesAct Release No. 7072 (July 8, 1994),57 SEC Docket 239.
149SecuritiesAct Release No. 7073 (July 8, 1994),57 SEC Docket 243.
150SecuritiesAct Release No. 7074 (July 8, 1994),57 SEC Docket 245.
151StaffAccounting Bulletin No. 93 (Nov. 4, 1993),55 SEC Docket 1110.
152Statement of Financial Accounting Standards No. 119, "Disclosure about
Derivative Financial Instruments and Fair Value of Financial Instruments" (Oct.
1994).
153Statement of Financial Accounting Standards No. 118, "Accounting by
Creditors for Impairment of a Loan-Income Recognition and Disclosures" (Oct.
1994).
154Proposed Statement of Financial Accounting Standards, "Accounting for
Stock-based Compensation" (June 30, 1993).
155Lettersdated January 10, 1994 from Arthur Levitt, Chairman, U.S. Securities
and Exchange Commission, addressed to Senators Boren, Daschle, Durenburger,
Levin, and Simpson.
156140Congo Rec. 55032 (daily ed. May 3, 1994).
157140Congo Rec. S5039 (daily ed. May 3, 1994).
158S.2525, 103d Cong., 2d Sess. (994).
159S.1976, 103d Cong., 2d Sess. (1994), and H.R. 417, 103d Cong., 1st Sess.
(1993).

96

16O'festimony of Arthur Levitt, Chairman, U.s. Securities and Exchange
Commission,
Concerning
Derivative
Financial Instruments,
Before the
Subcommittee on Telecommunications and Finance of the House Committee on
Energy and Commerce (May 25,1994).
161Id.
162EITFIssue 94-3, Accounting for Restructuring Charges.
163SeeIn the Public Interest-A Special Report by the Public Oversight Board (Mar.
5, 1993) and Strengthening the Professionalism of the Independent Auditor-Report to
the Public Oversight Board from the Advisory Panel on Auditor Independence (Sept. 13,
1994).
164Statement of Position 93-7, "Reporting on Advertising Costs" (Dec. 29,
1993).
165Statement of Position 93-6, "Employers' Accounting for Employee Stock
Ownership Plans" (Nov. 22, 1993).
166Proposed Audit and Accounting Guide, "Audits of Brokers and Dealers in
Securities" (Aug. 16, 1994).
167Proposed Statement of Position, "Disclosure of Certain Significant Risks and
Uncertainties and Financial Flexibility" (Mar. 31, 1993).
168DraftStatement of Principles, Earnings Per Share (Oct. 1993).
169Exposure Draft E48, Financial Instruments (Jan. 1994).
17°DraftStatement of Principles, Intangible Assets (Jan. 1994).
l7lDraft Statement of Principles, Reporting Financial Information by Segment
(Sept. 1994).
172Exposure Draft E49, Income Taxes (Oct. 1994).
J73ReleaseNo. 33-7054 (Apr. 19, 1994).
174ReleaseNo. 33-7056 (Apr. 19, 1994).
175114S.Ct. 1439 (994).
176114S.Ct. 1215 (994) (granting certiorari in Alloyd Co. v. Gustafson, No. 922514, 1993 WL 616681 (7th Cir. June 11, 1993».
17716 F.3d 520 (2d Cir.), petition for cert. filed, 63 U.S.L.W. 3325 (U.S. Oct. 7, 1994)
(No. 94-645).
178111S.Ct. 2773 (991).
179Cooperativade Ahorro y Credito Aguada v. Kidder, Peabody & Co., 993 F.2d 269
(lst Cir. 1993), petition for cert. filed, 62 U.S.L.W. 3299 (U.S. Oct. 12, 1993) (No. 93564); Axel Johnson, Inc. v. Arthur Andersen & Co., 6 F.3d 78 (2d Cir. 1993); Cooke v.
Manufactured Homes, Inc., 998 F.2d 1256 (4th Cir. 1993); Berning v. A.G. Edwards &
Sons, Inc., 990 F.2d 272 (7th Cir. 1993); Gray v. First Winthrop Corp., 989 F.2d 1564
(9th Cir. 1993); Anixter v. Home-Stake Production Co., 977 F.2d 1533 OOth Cir. 1992),
cert. denied sub nom. Cross v. Thorner, 113 S.Ct. 1842 (1993); Henderson v. ScientificAtlanta, Inc., 971 F.2d 1567 (11th Cir. 1992), cert. denied, 114 S. Ct. 95 (993).
180MorganStanley & Co. v. Pacific Mutual Life Insurance Co., 114 S.Ct. 1827 (994)
(affirming Pacific Mutual Life Insurance Co. v. First RepublicBank Corp., 997 F.2d 39
(5th Cir. 1993».
181Plautv. Spendthrift Farm, Inc., 1 F.3d 1487 (6th Cir. 1993), cert. granted, 114
S.Ct. 2161 (U.S. 1994).
182114S.Ct. 1215 (994) (granting certiorari in Alloyd Co. v. Gustafson, No. 922514, 1993 WL 616681 (7th Cir. June 11, 1993».

97

18327F.3d 808 (2d Cir.), ceri, denied, 63 U.S.L.W. 3181 rus, Oct. 31, 1994) (No.
94-433).
184973F.2d 51 (2d Cir. 1992), cert. denied, 113 S.Ct. 2992 (1993).
18519F.3d 66 (2d Cir.), cert. denied, 115 5.0.54 (1994).
18616F.3d 520 (2d Cir.),petition for cert. filed, 63 U.S.L.W. 3325 (U.S. Oct. 7, 1994)
(No. 94-645).
18729F.3d 689 (D.C Cir. 1994).
18837F.3d 30 (2d Cir. 1994).
18918F.3d 1281 (5th Cir.), cert. denied, 63 U.s.L.W. 3290 rus. Oct. 11, 1994) (No.
94-105).
19031F.3d 1056 (11th Cir. 1994).
191
Libra Investments v. SEC, 94-832A (E.D. Va.): Hodge v. SEC, 93 Civ. 5573 (LLS)
(S.D.N.Y.); Verdiramo u. SEC, 94 Civ. 44 (D.N.J.);Iohnson v. SEC, M18304 (S.D.N.Y.);
Badger v. SEC, 93-C-1149G (D. Utah); Grundman v. SEC, 393-MC-374 (D. Conn.):
Grundman v. SEC, 393-MC-372 (D. Conn.): Bernard & Co. v. SEC, H-94-Q60 (S.D.
Tex.); Fenster u. SEC, 93-2-2106 (D. Colo.): Diamond Entertainment v. SEC, 94-CV79B (D. Utah).
192LaBarca v. SEC, 94-1917 (CBA) (E.D.N.Y.); Boss v. SEC, 94-C-22J (D. Utah);
Weeks v. SEC, 94-C-56S (D. Utah).
193Purcellv. SEC, CV94-3562-1H (CD. Cal.).
194Greerv. SEC, M18-304 (S.D.N.Y.); Bradley v. SEC, M-28 (S.D.N.Y.); Beatty v.
SEC, 94-NC-015T (D. Utah).
19517CF.R. 201.2(d).
1965ECv. David L. Kagel, et al., Civil Action No. 93-0855-ER (CD. CaL).
197heckoskyand Aldrich v. SEC, 23 F.3d 452 (D.C. Cir. 1994).
198annaand Dentinger v. SEC, 1994 WL 315877 (N.D. Cal. Feb. 8, 1994).
199ECv.Kaufman, 835 F. Supp. 157 (S.DN.Y. 1993), appeal pending,SECv. Price
Waterhouse, No. 94-6045 (2d Cir.): SEC v. Morelli, No. 3874 (S.D.N.Y.);SECv. Littler,
No. 88-C-619 (D. Utah); SEC v. Grosby, No. 1P921411 (S.D. Ind.); SEC v. Atchison,
No. 91-6785 SVW (CD. Cal. August 29,1994).
200nre Salomon Brothers Treasury Litigation, 9 F.3d 230 (2d Cir. 1993).
201
Durkin v. U.S. District Court for the Southern District of California, No. 94-70479
(9th Cir.) (filed Oct. 28, 1994).
202FrankJ. Custable, Ir., et al., 51 S.E.C 855 (1993).
203VandenJ. Catli, 51 S.E.C. 1057 (1994).
204TimoleonNicholaou, 51 S.E.C. 1215 (1994).
205partnershipExchange Securities Company, et al., 51 S.E.C. 1198 (1994).
206CSWCredit, Inc. and Central and Southwest Corporation, 51 S.E.C. 984 (1994).
207Exchange Act Release No. 33163 (Nov. 5, 1993),55 SEC Docket 1128.
208TheSEC's total funding request was $306 million, including $8.6 million if
the investment adviser legislation was enacted. The investment adviser legislation,
however, was not enacted.
The $297.4 million includes $74.9 million in
appropriations, $30.5 million in a carry-over of unobligated prior year budget
authority, and $192 million in estimated current year offsetting fee collections.
209Inre Rose's Stores, Inc., Case No. 93-0l365-5-ATS (Bankr. E.D. N.C) and In
re Merry-Co-Round Enterprises, Inc., Case No. 94-5016150 (Bankr. D. Md.),
210Inre Envirodyne Industries, et al., Case Nos. 93 B 310, 93 B 312 through Nos.
93 B 316, 93 B 318, 93 B 319 (Bankr. N.D.

m.i

98

211Inre MEl Industries, Inc., Case Nos. 4-93-3170 through 4-93-3178 (Bankr. D.
Minn.).

212Inre National Convenience Stores, Inc., Case No. 91-49816-H2-11 (Bankr. S.D.
Tex.). See 59th Annual Report at 72 (1993).

213SeeIn re National Convenience Stores, Inc., B.R. (Bankr. S.D. Tex.)
214Inre MEl Industries, lnc., Case Nos. 4-93-3170 through 4-93-3178 (Bankr. D.
Minn.).

215InrePhar-Mor, Inc., Case Nos. 92-41599 through 92-41614 (Bank. N.D. Ohio).
216See,e.g., In re Master Mortgage Investment Fund, Inc., 59th Annual Report at 72
(1992) (objection to confirmation of reorganization plan); In re Prime Motor Inn.In
re Servico Corp., In re The Washington Corp. and In re Lomas Financial Corp., 58th
Annual report at 77 (1992) (objection to confirmation of reorganization plan); In re
Amdura Corp. and In re Banyan Corp., 57th Annual Report at 82 (1991) (objection to
confirmation of reorganization plan); In re Southmark Corp. and In re SIS Corp., 56th
Annual Report at 91 (1990) (objection to confirmation of reorganization plan); In
re Custom Laboratories, Inc.,53rd Annual Report at 74 (1987) (objection to disclosure
statement); In re Energy Exchange Corp. and Vulcan Energy Corp. and In re Storage
Technology Corp., 53rd Annual Report at 74-75 (1987) (objection to confirmation of
reorganization plan).
217Inre Amdura Corporation, u«, No. 91 N 1521 (D. Colo.). See 57th Annual
Report at 81 (1991).
218SeeIn re American Reserve Corp., 840 F.2d 487 (7th Cir, 1988); In re The Charter
CO.,876 F.2d 866 (11th Cir. 1989), petition for ceri. dismissed, 110 S.Ct. 3232 (1990);
and Reid v. White Motor Corp., 886 F.2d 1462 (6th Cir. 1989), cert. denied, 110 S.Ct
1809 (1990). See also In re Chateaugay Corp., 104 B.R. 626 (S.D.N.Y. 1989); and In re
Zenith Laboratories, Inc., 104 B.R. 659 (D.N.]. 1989). Cf. In re Mortgage & Realty Trust,
125 B.R. 575 (Bankr. CD. Cal. 1991).
219Inre First City Bancorporation of Texas, Case No. 392-39474-HCA-11 (Bankr.
S.D. Tex.).
22°Inre NVF Company, Case No. 93-1020(P]W) (Bankr. D. Del.).
221SeeLitigation Release No. 13891, Dec. 2, 1993.
222Inre Enuiropaci, Inc., Case No. 93-10038-BKC-A]C (Bankr. S.D. Fla.), In re
Penn Pacific Corporation, Case No. 94-Q0230-C (Bankr. N.D. Okla.), In re Phar-Mor,
lnc., Case No. 92-41599 through 92-41614 (Bankr. N.D. Ohio) and In re Interlogic
Trace, Inc., Case No. 94-521272-C (Bankr. W.D. Tex.).
mIn re Penn Pacific Corporation, Case No. 94-OO230-e (Bankr. N.D. Okla.) and
In re Phar-Mor, Inc., Case No. 92-41599 through 92-41614 (Bankr. N.D. Ohio).
224Inre Enuiropaci, Inc., Case No. 93-10038-BKC-A]C (Bankr. S.D. Fla.).

99

101

Table 1
ENFORCEMENT CASES INITIATED BY THE COMMISSION
DURING FISCAL YEAR 1994 IN VARIOUS PROGRAM AREAS
(Each case initiated has been included in only one category listed below, even though
many cases involve multiple allegations and may fall under more than one category.
The number of defendants and respondents is noted parenthetically.)
Program Area In Which a
Civil ActIon or Administrative
Proceeding Was Initiated

Civil
ACIlonsjJ

Administrative
Proceedings

Securities Offer1ngCases
(a) Non-regulated Entity
(b) Regulated Entity
Total Securities Offer1ngCases

58 (247)
23 ( 73)
81 (320)

18 ( 30)
37 ( 58)

Issuer Rnancial Statement
and Reporting Cases
(a) Issuer Financial
Disclosure
(b) Issuer Reporting Other
Total Issuer financial Statement
and Reporting Cases
Broker-dealer Cases
(a) FraudAgainst Customer
(b) Fallureto Supervise
(c) Govemment Securities
(d) Books & Records
(e) Other
Total Broker-dealer Cases

31 (102)

55 ( 88)

%of
Total

Total

Cases

76 ( 277)

60 ( 131)

136 (408)

0)

67 (103)
4 ( 4)

31 (102)

71 (107)

19 ( 27)

o(

38 ( 53)
8 ( 15)

57 (
8(

15)

o(

8 ( 10)
9 ( 18)
8 ( 12)

9(

13)

9(
10 (

18)
20)

o(

0)
1 ( 3)
0)
2 ( 8)
22 ( 38)

28%

98 ( 205)
4 (

4)

102 (209)

20%

80)

71 (108)

93 ( 146)
33
8
5
46

19%

Other Regulated Entity Cases
(a) Investment Advisers
(b) Investment Companies
(c) Transfer Agent
Total Other Regulated Entity Cases

6 ( 11)
3( 7)
5 ( 8)

27 ( 41)

14 ( 26)

32 ( 49)

Insider Trading Cases

28 ( 68)

7 ( 10)

35 (78)

Contempt Proceedings

33 ( 89)

o(

0)

33 (89)

7%

Market Manipulation Cases

10 ( 49)

21 ( 39)

31 (88)

6%

3 ( 3)
1( 1)

5 ( 8)
5(

8)

3 (
6(

9 (12)

5 ( 8)

o(

0)

(
(
(
(

52)
15)
8)
75)

9%

7%

Delinquent filings
(a) Issuer Reporting
(b) Forms 3/415
Total Delinquent Filings Cases

4 ( 4)

Fraud Agalnst Regulated Entities

6 ( 13)

1(

1)

7(

14)

1%

Corporate Control Cases

o(

0)

3 ( 6)

3(

6)

.5%

Miscellaneous Disclosure!
Reporting

o(

0)

2 ( 2)

2(

2)

.5%

229 (709)

268 (418)

GRAND TOTAl
jJ

o(

0)

This category Includes Injunctive aCllons and civil and criminal contempt proceedings.

102

3)
9)

2%

497 (1,127) 100%

Table 2
FISCAL 1994 ENFORCEMENT CASES
LISTED BY PROGRAM AREA

Name of Case

~

I

Broker-dealer:

34-33034
34-33254
34-33367

10108/93
11/29/93

34-33905
34-33997
34-34214

04/14/94
05/03/94
06/15/94

34-34413
34-34750

07/21/94
09/29/94

34-34751

09/29/94

34-33078
34-33104
34-33109
34-33298
34-33733

10/20/93
10/26/93
10/27/93

12/22/93

Failure to Supervise

In the Matter of Cameron F. Evans
In the Matter of Patricia A. Johnson
In the Matter of Roger V. Patterson
In the Matter of David D. Grayson, et a/.
In the Matter of Consolidated Investment
Services, et st.
In the Matter of George F.M. Lee
In the Matter of Robert Earl Hillard
In the Matter of Gregory Mumtaz Hasho
Broker-dealer:

pate Filed

Books & Records

In the Matter of Willoughby Farr
In the Matter of Michael Alan Pettis
In the Matter of Merrill Lynch Pierce
Fenner & Smith, Inc., et al.
In the Matter of Daniela' Diaz
In the Matter of Robert P. Gillings
In the Matter of Colonial Management
Assoc. Inc.
In the Matter of Michael L. Vanechanos
In the Matter of Burnett Grey
& co., Inc., et al.
In the Matter of Padden & Co., Inc., et al.
Broker-dealer:

Release No.

34-34658
34-34758
34-34757

12/08/93

03/08/94
09/13/94
09/30/94

09/30/94

Fraud Against Customer

SEC v. Prudential Securities, Inc.
In the Matter of Prudential Securities Inc.
In the Matter of Kevin C. Sullivan
SEC v. Carmen w: Elio, et al.
In the Matter of John E. Arnold
In the Matter of Roger J. Lange & Co., Inc.
SEC v. Ronald A. Cohen
SEC v. Michael Herbert Novick.
In the Matter of Paul Sharkey
In the Matter of Joseph Bonanno
In the Matter of John Bivona
In the Matter of Phillip T. Huss

LR-13840
34-33082
34-33110
LR-13859
34-33159
34-33160
LR-13870
LR-13879
34-33339
34-33337
34-33338
34-33406

10/21/93
10/21/93
10/27/93
11/04/93
11/05/93
11/05/93
11110/93

11/18/93
12/15/93

12/15/93
12/15/93
12/30/93
103

Name of Case

Release No.

In the Matter of Michael H. Weiss
In the Matter of Jay H. Meadows
SEC v. Bede F. Howard
In the Matter of Ilene J. Albert
In the Matter of Chatfield Dean & Co., Inc., et al
SEC v. Theodore A. McCormick
In the Matter of Daniel Dunphy
In the Matter of Stratton Oakmont Inc., et al.
In the Matter of Shloma A. Sela
In the Matter of Theodore A. McCormick
In the Matter of John L. Morgan, et al.
SEC v. Charles R. Crowell
In the Matter of Neeraj Bery
In the Matter of Michael W. Asimos
In the Matter of Robert A. Magnan, et al.
SEC v. San Marino Securities, Inc., et al.
SEC v. Thomas Frank Bandyk
SEC v. Robert A. Hartnagel
In the Matter of Timothy R. Heinan
SEC v. Robert L. Stormes
In the Matter of Robert A. Hartnagel
In the Matter of John M. Culbertson
SEC v. Julio De Jesus Montero, Jr.
In the Matter of Robert L. Stormes
In the Matter of Robert A. Foster
In the Matter of Julio De Jesus Montero, Jr.
SEC v. Thomas Anthony Piteo, et al.
SEC v. James M. Coyne, Jr.
In the Matter of Joseph Mastroianni
In the Matter of James M. Coyne, Jr.
SEC v. George F. Tully
SEC v. Michael D. Beck
In the Matter of McCarley & Associates, Inc.
In the Matter of Thomas Anthony Pneo
In the Matter of Robert F. Doviak, II
In the Matter of Aurelio Leo Martinez
In the Matter of Roy Phillip La Bolle, Jr.
SEC v. Peggy Jean Homuth
In the Matter of Richard E. Shannon, et al.
SEC v. David Jeffrey Rice
In the Matter of Peggy Jean Homuth
SEC v. Kenneth L. Weinberg, et al.
SEC v. Laurence M. Brown
In the Matter of Warren M. Sands
In the Matter of David Jeffrey Rice

34-33439
34-33450
LR-13940
34-33545
34-33572
LR-14012
34-33744
34-33778
34-33789
34-33863
34-33891
LR-14068
34-33996
34-33994
33-7062
LR-14100
LR-14113
LR-14132
34-34173
LR-14157
34-34285
34-34292
LR-14151
34-34350
34-34408
34-34497
LR-14192
LR-14196
34-34551
34-34587
LR-14208
LR-14203
34-34624
34-34649
34-34657
34-34672
34-34683
LR-14245
34-34715
LR-14265
34-34748
LR-14273
LR-14271
34-34777
34-34754

104

Pate EilEtd
01/06/94
01/11/94
01/19194
01/31/94
02/02194
03/01/94
03/09194
03/17/94
03/21/94
04/05/94
04/11/94
04/18/94
05/03194
05/03/94
05/19194
OS/20194
05/31194
06/02194
06/07/94
06/08194
06/30194
07/01/94
07/05194
07/12194
07/20/94
08/08194
08/09194
08/12/94
08/19/94
08/24/94
08/24/94
08/24/94
09/01/94
09/12/94
09/13194
09/14/94
09119/94
09/21/94
09/26/94
09/28/94
09/29/94
09/30/94
09/30/94
09/30/94
09/30/94

il

1
i

i

1

I

1

Name of Case

Broker-dealer:

Release No,

Date Filed

Government Securities

SEC v. Federated Alliance Group, Inc., et ai,
In the Matter of Thomas F. Murphy
In the Matter of Goldman Sachs & Co,
In the Matter of Cantor Fitzgerald & Co.
In the Matter of The Chicago Corporation
In the Matter of Richard T. Taylor
In the Matter of Synovus Securities, tnc., et sl.
In the Matter of Paul W Mozer
In the Matter of John A. Genett;, et sl.

LR-13868
34-33402
34-33576
34-33776
34-33777
34-34315
34-34313
34-34373
34-34468

11/12193
12129/93
02103/94
03/17/94
03/17/94
07/05/94

07/05194
07/14/94
08/01/94

-~

Broker-dealer:

Other

In the Matter of Steve Telsey, et ai,
In the Matter of Antonio Salvatore Yunez
In the Matter of Bernhard F, Manko, et ai,
In the Matter of San Marino Securities, et al.
In the Matter of Richard J. Puccio
In the Matter of Timothy Mobley
SEC v, Donna Tumminia, et ai,
SEC v, Premier Capital Corp" et ai,
SEC v, Ted Harold Westerfield
In the Matter of Corporate Securities
Group, tnc., et ai,

12102193
12123193

34-33276
34-33378
34-34030
34-34208
34-34590
34-34593
LR-14217
LR-14230
LR-14254

05/10/94
06/14/94
08/24/94
08/25/94
09/01/94
09/06/94
09/27/94

34-34737

09/28/94

34-34319
34-34378
34-34689

07/06/94
07114/94

Corporate Control
In the Matter of Freeman Securities Co" tnc., et st.
In the Matter of Bernard C. Sherman, et al.
In the Matter of Mark W McLaughlin

09/20194

Contempt-Civil
SEC
SEC
SEC
SEC
SEC
SEC
SEC
SEC
SEC
SEC
SEC

v. Lynn R. Oyler
v. Donald D. Bader, et al.
V. Lewis, D'Amato, Brisbois & Bisgard
v. Jack. D'Uva, et al.
v. U.S. Equities Inc., et ai,
v. Transwestem Oil & Gas, Inc. et al.
v. Michael Gartner
v. Robert C. Rosen
V. Jean Claude LeRoyer, et al.
v. Tom R. Warren, et al.
v. Osborne Stem & co., et al.

LR-13874
NONE
NONE
NONE
NONE
LR-14045
LR-14005
NONE
NONE
LR-14062
NONE

11/10/93

12121/93
12122/93
02122194
02122194
03/02194
03114/94
03/30/94
04/08/94

04/20194
05/17/94

pate Filed

Name of Case

Release No.

SEC
SEC
SEC
SEC
SEC
SEC
SEC
SEC
SEC
SEC
SEC
SEC
SEC
SEC
SEC
SEC
SEC
SEC
SEC
SEC
SEC
SEC
SEC

LR-14127
NONE
NONE
LR-14179
NONE
LR-14243
NONE
LR-14311
NONE
NONE
LR-14183
LR-14182
LR-14292
NONE
LR-14291
LR-14226
NONE
NONE
NONE
NONE
NONE
NONE
LR-14290

09/07194
09/07194
09/13194
09/20194
09/20194
09/27/94

LR-13827
34-33029
34-33044
34-33861
34-33917
34-34108

10/07/93
10/07/93
10/14193
04/05/94
04/19/94
OS/25/94

LR-13876
LR-13893
LR-14253

11/16/93

v. William E. Cooper, et al.
v. G. Alfred Roensch
v. Frank J. Custable
v. Michelle A. Gerstner
v. U.S. Equities tnc., et al.
v. Marada Global Corp.
v. FN. Wolf, et al.
v. Harold Michael Senna
v. Harry Hone
v. Kenneth Senffrer
v. R. William Bradford
v. Cross Financial Services, tnc., et al.
v. C. Daniel McClain
v. Robin McPherson
v. Key West Wireless Partners, et al.
v. Sam J. Recife, et al
v. Joseph Polichemi, et al.
v. Lyle Neal
v. Thomas J. Wescott
v. Clifton Capital Investors, L.P.
v. Gerard A. Spartaro
v. Barnes Fund International Inc.
v. McCarley & Associates, Inc.

Delinquent

Filings:

Filings:

Regulated

09/01194

09/02194
09/02194

12103193
09/26/94

Entities

SEC v. Come rica Bank, et al.
SEC v. Michael W Rehtorik, et al.
In the Matter of Kenneth L. Anderson
SEC v. Kenneth L. Anderson
SEC v. Jerry J. Fraschilla, et al.
SEC v. James F. Donohue
SEC v. Seth Fireman, et al.
106

08/22194

Issuer Reporting

SEC v. Medizone International Inc.
SEC v. Visual Equities, Inc.
SEC v. Sound Money Investors, Inc.
Fraud Against

08/02194
08/02194
08/03194
08/19194

Forms 3/4/5

SEC v. Clyde W Engle
In the Matter of Clyde W Engle, et al.
In the Matter of Societe Des Tuyaux Bonna
In the Matter of Dwight C. Lundeli
In the Matter of Luis E. Dtibon, Jr.
In the Matter of Charles S. Liberis
Delinquent

06110194
06/13194
07/05194
07/12194
07/15194
07117194
07/19194
07/21194
07/29194

LR-13910
LR-13975
34-33704
LR-14001
LR-14073
LR-14094
LR-14188

12117193
02117194
03/03194
03/10194
05/05194
OS/20/94
08/09/94

Name of Case

Release No.

pate Filed

Insider Trading
"j

:1
t

1

I
J

I

I
!j

J

SEC v. John Richard Tait
SEC v. Carla D. Rueff, et al.
SEC v. Sherman N. Baker
In the Matter of James D. Hutchinson
SEC v. Peter Cheung
In the Matter of Martin B. Sioate
SEC v. Miran P. Sarkissian, et al.
SEC v. Eugene Dines, et al.
SEC v. Howard S. Hoover, Jr.
In the Matter of Stanley P. Patrick
SEC v. Donald J. Bainton, et al.
SEC v. Thomas J. Blair, IV
SEC v. Robert Howard, et al.
SEC v. Daniel J. Grundman
SEC v. Edwin Karger, et al.
SEC v. Lawrence Sanoff, et al.
In the Matter of Patricia Barclay Chandler
In the Matter of Howard F. Rubin
SEC v. Oded Aboodi
SEC v. Carlos Roman, et al.
SEC v. David K. Galey, et al.
SEC v. Richard L. Joutras
SEC v. Philip Sheridan, et al.
SEC v. Gary Howard Felsher
SEC v. Julia Peck Mobley, et al.
In the Matter of Vietor Teicher, et al
SEC v. Louis J. Williams
SEC v. Jonathan Mayhew
In the Matter of Stephen J. Timyan, et al.
SEC v. Richard F. Adler, et al.
SEC v. Francis T. Lombardi, Sr., et al.
SEC v. John T. Dunlop
SEC v. Joseph F. Hamilton
SEC v. Jose Antonio Feliu Roviralta
SEC v. Ralph L. Cotton, et al.

LR-13822
LR-13847
LR-13850
IA-1390
LR-13878
34-33227
LR-13886
LR-13900
LR-13936
34-33449
LR-13949
LR-13956
LR-13965
LR-13986
LR-13991
LR-13996
34-34578
34-33964
LR-14082
LR-14089
LR-14107
LR-14117
LR-14111
LR-14115
LR-14123
34-34236
LR-14205
LR-14189
34-34517
LR-14198
LR-14211
LR-14214
LR-14220
LR-14232
LR-14261

10/04/93
10/25/93
10/27/93
11/04/93
11/17/93
11/22/93
11/23/93
12/10/93
01/10/94
01/11/94
01/26/94
02/03/94
02/10/94
03/01/94
03/03/94
03/09/94
04/20/94
04/26/94
05/12/94
05/17/94
05/31/94
05/31/94
06/02/94
06/06/94
06/13/94
06/20/94
07/21/94
08/08/94
08/11/94
08/18/94
08/29/94
08/30/94
09/06/94
09/13/94
09/27/94

LR-13835
LR-13849
IA-1387

10/15/93
10/20/93
10/20/93

IA-1388
LR-13872
IA-1392

10/22/93
10/27/93
11/23/93

Investment Adviser
SEC v. H. David Grace, et al.
SEC v. Gary A. Smith
In the Matter of Kemper Rnancial Services, Inc.
In the Matter of Seaboard
Investment Advisers Inc., et al.
SEC v. Kenneth Puckett
In the Matter of Demarche Associates Inc., et al

107

Name of Case

In the Matter of Michael L. Smirlock
In the Matter of Michael D. Wozniak
In the Matter of H.I. Glass & Co.
In the Matter of Gofen & Glassberg, Inc.
SEC v. Homer W Forster, et al.
In the Matter of Robert Germani
In the Matter of Carona & Hodges
Management Inc., et al.
In The Matter of Mutual Fund Advisor, Inc., et al
In the Matter of Don Kenneth Hanks, Jr.
In the Matter of Fairport Asset Management
Corp., et al.
In the Matter of Frank Michael Oliver
In the Matter of Stellar Management Inc., et al.
In the Matter of Gail G. Griseuk
In the Matter of StrongiCorneliuson CapJtal
Management, Inc., et al.
In the Matter of Charles E. Gaecke
In the Matter of David C. Pulzone
In the Matter of David J. Towner
In the Matter of Piper Capital Management Inc.
In the Matter of Channing H. Lushbough
In the Matter of Wall Street Money
Management Group, Inc. et al.
In the Matter of James Robert Voigtsberger, et al.
SEC v. Robert J. Kuss, et al.
In the Matter of Peter T. Jones
In the Matter of Campbell M. W & co., Lid., et al.
In the Matter of Howard M. Borris And Co., tnc., et al.
SEC v. Hugh P. Gee, et al.
In the Matter of Joan Conan

Release No.

Date Filed

IA-1393
IA-1397
IA-1398
IA-1400
LR-13937
IA-1402

11/29/93
01/04/94
01/05/94
01/11/94
01/13/94
02107/94

IA-1403
IA-1408
IA-1409

02108/94
04/05/94
04/06/94

IA-1415
IA-1417
IA-1416
IA-1418
IA-1425

05/16/94
06/06/94
06/06/94
06/07/94
07/12/94

IA-1426
IA-1429
IA-1434
IA-1435
IA-1438
IA-1440

07/20/94
07/29/94
08/10/94
08/11/94
08/31/94
09/14/94

IA-1441
LR-14248
IA-1443
IA-1442
IA-1444
LR-14276
IA-1446

09/19/94
09/21/94
09/27/94
09/27/94
09/28/94
09/28/94
09/30/94

MER 504
LR-14015
LR-14052
MER 593
IC-20490
IC-20496
LR-14294
IC-20561

11/08/93
02/17/94
04/12/94
06/03/94
08/19/94
08/24/94
09/06/94
09/19/94

Investment Company
In the Matter of William P. Hartl, et al.
SEC v. American Mortgage Fund, Inc., et al.
SEC v. Centurion Growth Fund, Inc.
In the Matter of Melvin L. Hirsch
In the Matter of Henry Fong
In the Matter of Mark W Groshans, et al.
SEC v. Boca Raton Capital Corp.
In the Matter of John W Paparella

108

I
l

1

j

t

t
-i
i
J

,

,j
.j

1J
I,

.

Name of Case
Issuer Financial

Release No.

Date Filed

Disclosure

In the Matter of Joseph F. Murphy, CPA
In the Matter of Gordon K. Goldman, CPA
In the Matter of Keith Bjelajac, CPA
SEC v. TV Communications Network, inc., et al.
In the Matter of Star Technologies, Inc.
In the Matter of Genetics Institute, Inc.
In the Matter of Arthur J. Dellinger, Jt., CPA, et al.
In the Matter of Janice France, et al.
SEC v. Leonard S. Sands, et al.
SEC v. Bali Jewelry ua, et et.
In the Matter of Theodore Hofmann, CPA
In the Matter of Richard J. Gallagher
In the Matter of Beatrice A. Brown
In the Matter of Bank of Boston Corp.
In the Matter of Stuart G. Lasher, CPA, et et.
SEC v. Jere L Bradwell, et sl.
In the Matter of Westwood One tnc., et al.
SEC v, Frank Paliotta
SEC v. C. W Earl Johnson, et et.
In the Matter of Drillstar International Corp.
In the Matter of Drillstar International Corp.
In the Matter of Jonathan Farbman
In the Matter of Reliance Group Holdings, lnc., et al.
In the Matter of John J. Mohally
In the Matter of Monty Lamirato, CPA
In the Matter of HYTK Industries Inc.
In the Matter of Scott L Jenson, CPA
In the Matter of Demiller, Denny, Ward & co., et al.
In the Matter of MMI Medical, Inc.
SEC v. Dixie National Corp., et st.
In the Matter of Michael V. Barnes, CPA
In the Matter of Michael V. Barnes
In the Matter of Comtronix Corp.
SEC v. William Hebding, et st.
SEC v. Fidelity Medical, lnc., et al.
In the Matter of George Craig Stayner, CPA
In the Matter of William J. Hebding, CPA
In the Matter of Harry D. Sweeney, CPA, et al.
In the Matter of Daniel L Gotthilf, CPA
In the Matter of Alan Kappel, CPA
In the Matter of Edward Jan Smith, CPA, et al.
In the Matter of John Rider, CPA
In the Matter of The Travelers Corp., et al.
In the Matter of Barbara Knapp
In the Matter of Thomas M. Egan

AAER 496
AAER 497
AAER 501
AAER503
AAER 505
AAER 508
AAER 511
AAER 509
LR-13903
AAER 512
AAER 513
AAER 514
AAER 515
AAER 519
AAER 518
AAER 517
AAER 521
AAER 526
AAER522
34-33560
AAER523
34-33559
MER 529
MER 528
MER 531
MER 530
AAER 534
MER 535
MER 537
MER 536
AAER539
AAER538
AAER 543
AAER544
MER 546
AAER547
AAER 548
AAER550
AAER 551
AAER 552
AAER554
AAER 555
AAER556
AAER 558
34-34020

10/05193
10/06/93
10/21/93
11/01/93 ,/

11/15193 ,/
11/24193 ,
12/07/93
12/07/93
12/13/93
12/14/93
01/04/94
01/05/94
01/06/94

01/11/94

v

01/13/94
01/13/94
01/19/94
01/24/94

01/25194
02/01194 \ .
02/01194 .

02/01194
02/17194
02/18/94
02/23/94
02/23/94 '"

03/01194
03/09/94/
03/10/94/

03/10194

v

03/11/94
03/11/94

03/29194 ,.03/29194
04/05/94
v

04/06/94
04/12/94
04/20/94

04/21194
04/22/94
04/26/94
04/29/94
05/03/94'
05/05/94
05/06/94
1(\0

.

Name of Case

In the Matter of UDC Homes lnc., et al.
/ In the Matter of Salant Corp., et al.
\ In the Matter of America West Airlines, Inc.
In the Matter of Charles G. Shook, CPA
./ SEC v. One Financial USA tnc., et al.
In the Matter of Barry H. Silverstain, CPA, et al.
, 'SEC v. Transmark USA, tnc., et al.
, In the Matter of Todman & Co.
/ SEC v. Pollution Research and Control Corp., et al.
SEC v. Dr. Ronald A. Fisher
SEC v. National Medical Enterprises, Inc.
In the Matter of George M. Sologuren, CPA
In the Matter of Donald E. Huss, CPA, et st.
In the Matter of Huntway Partners, L.P.
SEC v. Richard Capaldo
./ SEC v. Seahawk Deep Ocean
Technology, lnc., et al.
In the Matter of Charles F. Marini
In the Matter of Donald F. Withers, CPA
In the Matter of Robert C. Sanford
SEC v. Atratech, Inc., et al.
SEC v. Irwin Mautner, et al.
SEC v. Jack C. Benun
In the Matter of Concord Camera Corp.
In the Matter of Alan S. Goldstein, et al.
In the Matter of Alan S. Goldstein, CPA
SEC v. Stanley Lepelstat, et et.
In the Matter of William Makadok, CPA
In the Matter of Accuhealth Inc., et al.
In the Matter of Larry Lavercombe
SEC v. Marvin E. Basson
SEC v. Charles H. Chugerman
In the Matter of Alvin Lipoff, CPA
In the Matter of Glenn N. Deans, CPA
In the Matter of Meris Laboratories, Inc., et al.
SEC v. PNF Industries, lnc., et al.
In the Matter of Martin Halpem, CPA
In the Matter of Russell L. Frignoca, et al.
SEC v. Sani- Tech Industries, tnc., et al.
SEC v. Jon P. Fries, et al.
In the Matter of Jeffrey R. Pearlman, CPA
In the Matter of Fletcher Neal Anderson, et al.
SEC v. Douglas C. Hansen
In the Matter of Louis Fox, CPA
SEC v. Loma Anttila
SEC v. Telematics International tnc., et al.
In the Matter of John C. Kaczmarek
In the Matter of Jacob Schwartz, CPA
v'

110

Release No.

Date Filed

AAER560
AAER 561
AAER562
AAER564
AAER565
AAER567
AAER 568
AAER570
AAER 571
AAER 557
AAER573
AAER575
AAER576
AAER 578
AAER579

05/11/94
05/12/94
05/12194

LR-14191
AAER 581
AAER 582
AAER583
LR-14201
AAER584
LR-14216
34-34623
AAER587
AAER586
AAER 591
AAER588
AAER589
AAER594
AAER595
AAER596
AAER597
AAER 599
AAER598
AAER 602
AAER 601
AAER 603
AAER 600
AAER 604
AAER 607
AAER 605
AAER 610
AAER 606
LR-14368
AAER 615
34-34747
AAER 608

OS/23/94
05/31/94

06/09194
06/13194
06/22/94
06/28/94

06/30/94
07/12194
07/19/94
07/21/94
07/25/94
07/27/94
08/10/94

08/12194
08117/94
08/18194
08/22/94

08/30/94
09/01/94
09/01/94

09/06/94
09/06/94
09/08/94
09/08/94
09/08/94

09/20/94
09/21194
09/22194
09/23/94
09/26/94
09/26/94

09/27194
09/27/94
09/27/94
09/27/94
09/28/94

09/28194
09/28194
09/28194
09/28/94
09/28/94
09/29/94
09/29/94
09/29/94

Name of Case

In the Matter of Francis J. O'Reilly, CPA
In the Matter of Ciro, Inc.
SEC v. Linda A Hodge, et al.
SEC v. AB.E. Industrial Holdings, lnc., et et.
SEC v. J. Patrick Kerich
In the Matter of Raymond Stankey, CPA

Release No.

Date Filed

AAER 613
AAER 612
AAER 611
LR-14284
AAER 620
AAER 614

09/30/94
09/30/94
09/30/94
09/30/94
09/30/94
09/30/94

34-33201
AAER 510
34-33632
34-33807

11/16/93
12107/93
02117/94
03/24/94

LR-13860
34-33136
34-33224
LR-13915
NONE
34-33577
34-33578
34-33699
34-33715
LR-14042
34-33885
34-33932
LR-14072
34-34072
34-34164
34-34171
34-34191
34-34275
34-34380
LR-14213
34-34656
LR-14233A
LR-14277
34-34768
34-34772
LR-14280
LR-14281
34-34773
34-34770

10/04/93
11/03/93
11/19/93
12/27/93
01/11/94
02103/94
02103/94
03/02194
03/04/94
04/05/94
04/08/94
04/20/94
04/25/94
05/17/94
06/06/94
06/07/94
06/09/94
06/29/94
07/14/94
08/31/94
09/13/94
09/22/94
09/29/94
09/30/94
09/30/94
09/30/94
09/30/94
09/30/94
09/30/94

Issuer Reporting: Other
In
In
In
In

the
the
the
the

Matter
Matter
Matter
Matter

of
of
of
of

Joel Zbar
Eileen Mahoney
Shared Medical Systems Corp.
Robert Kielty

Market Manipulation
SEC v. Biltmore Securities Inc., et al.
In the Matter of Salvatore A Lanza
In the Matter of Benjamin G. Sprecher
SEC v. Jonnie R. Williams, et al.
SEC v. Anthony J. Beshara
In the Matter of John J. Cox
In the Matter of Anthony J. Beshara
In the Matter of Meyer Blinder
In the Matter of Louis S. Foti
SEC v. Curtis Ivey, et al.
In the Matter of Edward A Accomando
In the Matter of Stanley Berk
SEC v. Howard Ray, et al.
In the Matter of Frederick Galiardo, et al.
In the Matter of Jeffrey R. Cooper
In the Matter of Arthur J. Porcari
In the Matter of Mark Bogosian, et al.
In the Matter of Jay M. Vermonty
In the Matter of John L. Toscani, Jr.
SEC v. Robert L. Shull, et al.
In the Matter of J. Peek Garlington, Jr.
SEC v. U.S. Environmental, tno., et al.
SEC v. Dimples Group, Inc., et al.
In the Matter of Richard D. Chema
In the Matter of Carole L. Haynes
SEC v. Gary S. WiJliky, et al.
SEC v. Royal American Management, Inc., et al.
In the Matter of L. Lawton Rogers
In the Matter of Adrian C. Havill

111

Name of Case

Release No.

In the Matter of Sharon M. Graham, et al.
In the Matter of E. Ronald Lara, et al.

34-34771
34-34769

09/30/94
09/30194

34-33633
34-34293

02117194
07/01194

LR-13817
LR-13864
LR-13830
LR-13862
LR-13871
LR-13887
LR-13890
LR-13911
LR-13916
LR-13934
AAER524
AAER 525
LR-13957
LR-13972
LR-13976
LR-13983

10/01193
10/04193
10/04193
11/03193
11/15193
11/22193
12101/93
12/21193
12/28193
01/10/94
02/01194
02/01/94
02/03194
02/17194
02/24/94
02/28/94

33-7045
LR-13989
LR-13990
LR-13994
LR-14011
LR-14007
LR-14025
LR-14066
AAER557
LR-14080
LR-14074

03/01194
03/03/94
03/03194
03/07194
03/09/94
03/11194
03/23/94
04/21/94
05/03/94
05/05/94
05/05/94

LR-14118
LR-14197
LR-14085
33-7061
LR-14114
LR-14110
34-34152
34-34174
34-34175

05111194
05/13194
05/16194
05/17194
OS/20194
06/02194
06/03194
06/07194
06/07194

Miscellaneous

Disclosure/Reporting

In the Matter of Suzanne L. COok
In the Matter of Seattle-First National Bank
Offering Violations

(By Non-Regulated

Entities)

SEC v. Kinlaw Securities COrp., et al.
SEC v. Donald Peter Wubs, et al.
SEC v. Future Communications tnc., et al.
SEC v. James L. AI/brandt
SEC v. European Kings Club, et al.
SEC v. Not1hstar Investors Trust, et af.
SEC v. Aqua Technologies tnc; et al.
SEC v. Calvin C. McCants, Jr., et al.
SEC v. Junction Financial cotp., et al.
SEC v. Wayne F. Axelrod, et al.
In the Matter of Richard L. Paul
In the Matter of Richard R. Swann
SEC v. Melvin A. Palmer
SEC v. Paul N. Mobley, Jr., et al.
SEC v. Banner Fund International, et al.
SEC v. The Twenty Plus Investment Club, et al.
In the Matter of Neal Kent Lekwa &
Associates lnc., et al.
SEC v. Shore Line Financial Corp., et al.
SEC v. Mat1in Christen
SEC v. Vintage Group tnc., et sl.
SEC v. Not1h Pacific Investments tnc., et al.
SEC v. Blackford Energy Co., et al.
SEC v. Shimon Gibori, et al.
SEC v. Blythe Olin Selden, et al.
In the Matter of Brewster B. GallUp
SEC v. Comeoa Ltd., et al.
SEC v. Creative Income Systems, et al.
SEC v. Continental Wireless Cable
Television Inc., et et.
SEC v. William E. Cooper, et el.
SEC v. Parkersburg Wireless Ltd. Liability CO., et al.
In the Matter of Barry Pomerantz, et al.
SEC v. Prime One Pattners Corp., et al.
SEC v. cencom Systems tnc., et af.
In the Matter of JRG Trust Corp.
In the Matter of Marilyn Wheeler
In the Matter of Cecil L. Minges, et al.
112

pate Filed

I
I

I

t .

I

/'
f

~

Name of Case
In the Matter of David L. Kagel
SEC v. Matthew E. Klenovic, et. al.
SEC v. Frank J. Custable, Jr., et al.
SEC v. John D. Lauer, et al.
SEC v. New Way Group, et al.
SEC v. Cross Financial Setvices, tnc., et a/.
In the Matter of Grady A. Sanders, et al.
SEC v. Bushmills Investments, et al.
SEC v. Generation Capital Associates, et al.
SEC v. John A. Genetti, et al.
In the Matter of Kinesis, Inc.
SEC v. Joseph C. Palmisano
In the Matter of Raymond Lozeau, et al.
SEC v. George Jennings Coates, et al.
In the Matter of Pearce Systems International, Inc.
SEC v. Steven R. Jakubowski
SEC v. TransAmerica Wireless Systems, Inc., et al.
SEC v. Michael
Pompey, et al.
SEC v. Microwave Cable T. V. Partners I, L.P., et al.
SEC v. Harold Glantz, et al.
SEC v. Shreveport Wireless
Cable TV Partnership, et al.
SEC v. Key West Wireless Partners, et al.
SEC v. Life Partners, lnc., et at
In the Matter of Refco Capital Corp.
SEC v. Richard C. Huitt
SEC v. Southern California Securities, tnc., et al.
In the Matter of William R. Bradford
SEC v. William F. Heaton, III, et at
SEC v. John A. Hickey, et al.
SEC v. Ethanol Resources, Inc., et al.
SEC v. Sidney Levine
SEC v. Rand Instrument Corp., et al.
SEC v. Morris D. English, Jr.
SEC v. Michael J. Randy, et al.
In the Matter of David H. Lieberman, et al.
SEC v. John R. Sabatino, et al.
SEC v. Jules J. Pigliacampi, et al.
SEC v. Robert J. McNulty, et et.
In the Matter of Harvest Intemational
of America, tnc., et al.
SEC v. Kenneth Mitchell Wiggins, .lr., et al.

w:

Release No

pate Filed

34-34186
LR-14128
LR-14131
LR-14143
LR-14136
LR-14135
34-34274
LR-14146
LR-14160
LR-14164
34-34377
LR-14158
33-7076
LR-14169
33-7078
LR-14361
LR-14218
LR-14180
LR-14181
LR-14186

06/09/94
06/15/94
06/20/94
06/21/94

LR-14195
LR-14204
LR-14209
33-7087
LR-14229
LR-14242
33-7092
LR-14241
LR-14296
LR-14269
LR-14279
LR-14289
LR-14258
LR-14270
33-7097
LR-14264
LR-14272
LR-14274
33-7099
LR-14285

06/22194
06/23/94
06/29/94
07/06/94
07/12/94
07/14/94
07/14/94

07/14194
07/19/94
07/22/94
07/25/94
07/26/94

08/02194
08/03/94

08/04/94
08/08/94
08/16/94
08/16/94
08/25/94
08/31/94
09/09/94
09/14/94
09/14/94
09/19/94
09/19/94
09/20/94
09/20/94

09/23/94
09/26/94
09/27/94
09/28/94
09/28/94
09/30/94

09/30194
09/30/94

09/30/94

Offering VIolatIons (By Regulated EntitIes)
SEC v. Merritt Bradt, et at
In the Matter of Benjamin C. Powell
SEC v. Primer SChill & Associates, et al.

LR-13832
34-33033
LR-13836

10/05/93

10/08193
10/13/93
11~

Name of Case

Release No.

In the Matter of Hollis Lamar Smith
In the Matter of Paul C. Kettler
SEC v. Churchill Securities Inc.
In the Matter of Ladenburg Thalmann & co., Inc.
In the Matter of David A. King, et al.
In the Matter of Martin W. May
In the Matter of Leonard C. Donner
In the Matter of James A. Sehn, et al
In the Matter of Guillermo P. Tolosa
SEC v. John Martin Gaines, et al.
In the Matter of David M. Beckman
In the Matter of Fred Filipovic, et al.
SEC v. Merlin & Assoc. Ltd., ef al.
SEC v. Ultra International Corp., et al.
In the Matter of John C. Worman
SEC v. Steve N. Olpin, et al.
In the Matter of James L. Cox
In the Matter of Alan D. Libman
In the Matter of Steven N. Olpin, et al.
SEC v. Michael W. Rehtorik, et al.
In the Matter of Robert Weston, et al.
SEC v. Campbell & Associates Inc., et al.
SEC v. Independence Asset Management, et al.
SEC v. Midwest Advisory Services, Inc., et al.
SEC v. Vision Communications Inc., et al.
In the Matter of Merritt Bradt
SEC v. Norman L. Brooks, et al.
In the Matter of James W. Cathey, Jr.
In the Matter of Kevin D. Ward
SEC v. Medical Financial Services, et al.
In the Matter of Graystone Nash, Inc., et al.
In the Matter of Primer SChill &
Associates, Inc., et al.
In the Matter of Meredith K.M. Smith
In the Matter of Jack Nicholes D'Uva, et al.
In the Matter of Michael Gartner
In the Matter of Alfred F. Gerriets, II
SEC v. Quarter Calf, Inc., et al.
In the Matter of Thorn, Alvis, Welch Inc., et al.
SEC v. Knoxvilfe, LLC, et al.
SEC v. American Business Securities, Inc., et al.
In the Matter of Stephen James Murphy
In the Matter of Richard D. Otto
In the Matter of George R. Speckman
In the Matter of Herbert L. Grosby
In the Matter of Michael J. Doherty, Jr.
In the Matter of John S. Davidson, Jr.

34-33079
34-33105
LR-13853
34-33146
34-33167
34-33186
34-33230
34-33228
34-33231
LR-13889
34-33243
33-7033
LR-13892
LR-13894
34-33336
LR-13959
34-33544
34-33580
34-33612
LR-13975
34-33719
LR-14002
LR-14006
LR-14022
LR-14026
34-33832
LR-14055
34-33898
34-33906

114

Date Filed

34-33947

10/20193
10/26193
11/01/93
11/04193
11/09/93
11/12193
11/22/93
11/22/93
11/22/93
11/24/93
11/24193
11/26193
11/29193
12017193
12/15193
01/14194
01/31194
02/04194
02/10194
02/17194
03/07194
03/07/94
03/14/94
03/18194
03/24/94
03/30/94
04/05/94
04/12194
04/14/94
04/20194
04/21194

IA-1413
34-34069
34-34074
34-34095
34-34098
LR-14099
34-34248
LR-14155
LR-14171
IA-1428
34-34415
34-34411
34-34412
34-34499
34-34498

05/03194
05/16194
05118194
OS/23194
OS/23194
OS/24194
06/23194
07/11194
07/21194
07/21194
07/21194
07/21194
07/21194
08/08194
08/08/94

NONE

Name of Case
In the Matter of ABC Portfolio Development
Group, Inc.
In the Matter of Kevin N. Voss
In the Matter of Clarence J. Bannowsky
SEC v. Olsen Laboratories, Inc., et al.
SEC v. Philip Black
SEC v. Weyman B. Sinyard, et al.
SEC v. Kevin C. Samson, et al.
In the Matter of Gregory L. Amico, et al.
In the Matter of Henry Alton Sorrow
SEC v. Continental Investment Services, Inc.

Release No.

Date Filed

33-7080
34-34610
34-34609
LR-14215
LR-14333
LR-14259
LR-14256
33-7096
33-7098
LR-14282

08/09/94
08/29/94
08/29/94
09/01/94
09/16/94
09/26/94
09/27/94
09/27/94
09/29/94
09/29/94

34-33223
34-33948
34-34239
34-34650
34-34739

11/19/93
04/21/94
06/21/94
09/12/94
09/28/94

Transfer Agent
In the
In the
In the
In the
In the

Matter
Matter
Matter
Matter
Matter

of Libetty Transfer Co., et al.
of Atlas Stock Transfer Corp., et al.
of Trans National Transfer Inc., et al.
of Karen C. Lacey
of Sharon M. Alfonso, et al.

115

Table 3
INVESTIGATIONS OF POSSIBLE VIOLATIONS OF THE ACTS
ADMINISTERED BY THE COMMISSION

Pending as of October 1, 1993
Opened in Fiscal Year 1994

1,413
560

Total
Closed in Fiscal Year 1994

1,973
547

Pending as of September 30, 1994

1,426

Formal Orders of Investigation
Issued in Fiscal Year 1994

281

Table 4
ADMINISTRATIVE PROCEEDINGS INSTITUTED
DURING FISCAL YEAR ENDING SEPTEMBER 30, 1994
Broker-dealer Proceedings

,

138

Investment Adviser, Investment Company and Transfer Agent Proceedings

55

Stop Order Proceedings

22

Rule 2(e) Proceedings

34

Suspensions of Trading in Securities in Fiscal Year 1994

116

1

I able b

INJUNCTIVE

ACTIONS

Fiscal Year

Actions Initiated

Defendants Named

1985
1986
1987
1988
1989
1990
1991
1992
1993
1994

143
144

385
488
373

125

401

140
186
171
156

422

163

172
196

557
503
487
571
620

117

Right to Financial Privacy

Section 21(h) of the Securities Exchange Actof 1934 [15 U.S.c. 78u(h)(6)]
requires that the Commission "compile an annual tabulation of the occasions
on which the Commission used each separate subparagraph or clause of
[Section 2I(h)(2)] or the provisions of the Right to Financial Privacy Act
of 1978 [12 U.S.c. 3401-22 (the RFPA)] to obtain access to financial records
of a customer and include it in its annual report to the Congress." During
the fiscal year, the Commission made no applications for judicial orders
pursuant to Section 2I(h)(2). Set forth below are the number of occasions
on which the Commission obtained customer records pursuant to the
provisions of the RFPA:
Section 1104 (Customer

Authorizations)

Section 1105 (Administrative

Subpoenas)

Section 1107 (Judicial Subpoenas)

118

9
501
51

Table 6
TYPES OF PROCEEDINGS
ADMINISTRATIVE PROCEEDINGS

Persons Subject to, Acts Constituting, and
Basis for, Enforcement Action

Sanction

Any person
Violation of the federal securities laws

Cease-and-desist order, which may also
require a person to comply or take steps to
effect compliance with federal securities laws,
accounting and drsqorqernent of illegal profits.
(Securities Act, Section 8A, Exchange Act,
Section 21 C(a), Investment Company Act,
Section 9(f), Investment Advisers Act, Section
203(k)).

Broker-dealer, municipal s seurities dealer,
government securities dealer, transfer
agent, investment adviser or associated
person

Willful violation of secuntles laws or rules,
aiding or abetting such Violation, failure
reasonably to supervise others; willful
misstatement or ormssion In filing with the
Commission, conviction of or injunction
against certaIn cnmes or conduct.

Censure or limitation on actrvmas, revocation,
suspension or denial of registration; bar or
suspension from association (Exchange Act,
Sections 15(b)(4)-(6), 15B(c)(2)-(5),
15(C)(c)(1 )-(2), 17A(c)(3)-(4), Investment
Advisers Act, Section 203(e)-(f)).
Civil penalty up to $100,000 for a natural
person or $500,000 for any other person,
accounting and disgorgement of Illegal profits
Penalties are subject to other limitations
depending on the nature of the violation.
(Exchange Act, Section 21 B, Investment
Company Act, Section 9; Investment Advisers
Act, Section 203).
Temporary cease-and-desist order, which
may, in appropriate cases, be issued ex parte.
(Exchange Act, Section 21 C).

Registered securities association
Violation of or inability to comply with the
Exchange Act, rules thereunder, or its own
rules; unjustified failure to enforce compliance
with the foregoing or with rules of the
Municipal Securities Rulemaking Board by a
member or person associated with a member.

Suspension or revocation of registration;
censure or limitation of activities, functions, or
operations (Exchange Act, Section 19(h)(1)).

119

Mem ber of registered securities
association, or associated person
Entry of Commission order against person
pursuantto Exchange Act, Section 15(b),
willful VIolation of securities laws or rules
thereunder or rules of Municipal Securibes
Rulemakmg Board, effecting transacbon for
other person with reason to believe that
person was commitbng violations of secunbes
laws.

Suspension or expulsion from the associanon,
bar or suspension from association with
member of association (Exchange Act,
Section 19(h)(2)-(3»).

National securities eXchange
Violation of or mability to comply with
Exchange Act, rules thereunder or Its own
rules; unjustified failure to enforce compliance
with the foregoing by a member or person
associated with a member.

Suspension or revocation of registration;
censure or limitation of actiVIties, functions, or
operations (Exchange Act, Section 19(h)(1»

Member of national securities exchange, or
associated person
Entry of Commission order against person
pursuantto Exchange Act, Section 15(b);
willful violation of secunties laws or rules
thereunder, effecting transaction for other
person With reason to beheve that person was
committing violanon of securibes laws.

Suspension or expulsion from exchange; bar
or suspension from association with member
(Exchange Act, Section 19(h)(2)-(3»

Registered clearing agency
Violation of or inability to comply with
Exchange Act, rules thereunder, or its own
rules, failure to enforce compliance with its
own rules by participants.

Suspension or revocabon of registrabon;
censure or hmitation of activities, functions, or
operabons (Exchange Act, Section 19(h)(1».

Participant in registered clearing agency
Entry of Commission order against parncipant
pursuantto Exchange Act, Secbon 15(b)(4);
Willful vlolanon of clearing agency rules,
effecbng transaction for other person With
reason to beheve that person was committing
viclanons of secunties laws.

Suspension or expulsion from clearing agency
(Exchange Act, Secbon 19(h)(2»

Securities information processor
Violation of or inablhty to comply with
provisions of Exchange Act or rules
thereunder.

120

Censure or limitation of activibes; suspension
or revocation of registration (Exchange Act,
Secbon 11A(b)(6».

Any person
Willful violation of Securities Act, Exchange
Act, Investment Company Act or rules
thereunder, aiding or abetting such violation;
Willful misstatement in filing with Commission

Temporary or permanent prohibition against
serving In certain capacities with registered
Investment company (Investment Company
Act, Section 9(b»

Officer or director of self-regulatory
organization
Willful violation of Exchange Act, rules
thereunder or the organization's own rules;
willful abuse of authority or unjustified failure to
enforce compliance.

Removal from office or censure (Exchange
Act, Section 19(h)(4)).

Principal of broker-dealer
Officer, director, general partner, ten-percent
owner or controlling person of a broker-dealer
for which a SIPC trustee has been appointed.

Bar or suspension from being or becoming
associated with a broker-dealer (51PA,
Section 14(b)).

Securities Act registration statement
Statement materially Inaccurate or incomplete.

Stop order refusing to permit or suspending
effectiveness (Securities Act, Section 8(d))

Person subject to Sections 12, 13, 14 or
15(d) of the Exchange Act or associated
person
Failure to comply with such provisions or
having caused such failure by an act or
omission that person knew or should have
known would contribute thereto.

Order directing compliance or steps effecting
compliance (Exchange Act, Section 15(c)(4)).

Securities registered pursuant to Section
12 of the Exchange Act
Noncompliance by issuer with Exchange Act
or rules thereunder.

Denial, suspension of effective date,
suspension or revocation of registration
(Exchange Act, Section 120))

Public interest requires trading suspension

Summary suspension of over-the-counter or
exchange trading (Exchange Act, Section
12(k)).

Registered investment company
Failure to file Investment Company Act
registration statement or required report; filing
materially Incomplete or misleading statement
or report.

Suspension or revocation of registration
(Investment Company Act, Section 8(e))

Company has not attained $100,000 net worth
90 days after Securities Act registration
statement became effective.

Stop order under Securities Act, suspension
or revocation of registration (Investment
Company Act, Section 14(a))

121

Attorney, accountant,
or expert

or other professional

Lack of requisite qualifications to represent
others; lacking In character or integrity,
unethical or improper professional conduct;
willful violation of seeurines laws or rules, or
aiding and abetting such violation.

Permanent or temporary denial of pnvilege of
appeanng or practicing before the Commission
(17CFR Section 201.2(e)(1))

Attorney suspended or disbarred by court;
expert's license revoked or suspended;
conviction of a felony or of a misdemeanor
Involving moral turpitude.

Automatic suspension from appearance or
practice before the Oornrnission (17 CFR
Section 201.2(e)(2)).

Secunties VIolation in Commission-instituted
action, finding of securities violation by
Comrmssion in administrative proceedings.

Temporary suspension from practicing before
the Commission, censure; permanent or
temporary disqualification from practicing
before the Commission (17 CFR Section
201 2(e)(3)).

Member or employee of Municipal
Securities Rulemaking Board
Willful VIolation of Exchange Act, rules
thereunder, or rules of the Board, abuse of
authority.

Censure or removal from office (Exchange
Act, Section 158(c)(8)).

CIVIL PROCEEDINGS IN FEDERAL DISTRICT COURTS

Persons SUbject to, Acts Constituting,
Basis for, Enforcement Action

and

Sanction

Any person
Engaging in or about to engage in acts or
practices violating secunnss laws, rules or
orders thereunder (inclUding rules of a
registered self-regulatory organization).

Injunction against acts or practices
constituting violations (plus other eqUitable
relief under court's general equity powers)
(Securities Act, Section 20(b); Exchange Act,
Section 21 (d); Holding Company Act, Section
18(e); Investment Company Act, Section
42( d); Investment Advisers Act, Section
209(d); Trust Indenture Act, Section 321).

Noncompliance with provisions of the laws,
rules, or regUlations under Securities Act,
Exchange Act, or Holding Company Act,
orders issued by Commission, rules of a
registered self-regulatory organization, or
undertaking in a registration statement.

Writ of mandamus, injunction, or order
directing compliance (Securities Act, Section
20(c); Exchange Act, Section 21 (e); Holding
Company Act, Section 18(f)).

122

Vlolabng the securities laws or a cease-anddesist order (other than through insider
trading).

Civil penalty up to $100,000 for a natural
person or $500,000 for any other person QL if
greater, the gross gain to the defendant.
Penalbes are subject to other limitations
dependent on nature of violation. (Securibes
Act, Section 20{d); Exchange Act, Section
21{d) (3), Investment Company Act, Section
42{e); Investment Advisers Act, Section
209{e)).

Trading while in possession of matenal nonpublic information in a transaction on an
exchange or from or through a broker-dealer
(and transaction not part of a public offenng);
aiding and abetting or directly or indirectly
controlling the person who engages in such
trading

Maximum civil penalty: three times profit
gained or loss avoided as a result of
transaction (Exchange Act, Secbon 21A{a)(b»

Violabng Securibes Act Secbon 17{a){ 1) or
Exchange Act section 10{b), when conduct
demonstrates substanbal unfitness to serve as
an officer or director.

Prohibmon from acting as an officer or director
of any public company. (Securibes Act,
Section 20{e); Exchange Act, Section
21 (d){2)).

Issuer subject to Section 12 or 15{d) of the
Exchange Act; officer, director, employee
or agent of issuer; stockholder acting on
behalf of issuer
Payment to foreign offictal, foreign political
party or official, or candidate for foreign
political office, for purposes of seeking the use
of influence in order to assist Issuer In
obtaining or retaining business for or with, or
directing business to, any person.

Maximum civil penalty $10,000 (Exchange
Act, Secbon 32{c)).

Securities Investor Protection Corporation
Refusal to commit funds or act for the
protection of customers.

Order directing discharge of obligations and
other appropriate relief (SIPA, Section 11(b)

National securities exchange or registered
securities association
Failure to enforce compliance by members or
persons associated with Its members with the
EXchange Act, rules or orders thereunder, or
rules of the exchange or association.

Writ of mandamus, mjuncnon or order directing
such exchange or association to enforce
compliance (Exchange Act, Section 21(e))

Registered clearing agency
Failure to enforce compliance by its
participants with its own rules.

Writ of mandamus, injunction or order directing
cleanng agency to enforce compliance
{Exchange Act, Section 21(e)).

123

Issuer subject to Section 15(d) of 1934 Act
Failure to file required informabon, documents
or reports

Forfeiture of $1 00 per day (Exchange Act,
Section 32(b»

Registered investment company
Name of company or of security
decepbve or misleading.

ISSUed

by It

Injunction against use of name (Investment
Company Act, Secbon 35(d»

Officer, director, member of advisory
board, adviser, depositor, or underwriter of
investment company
Engage In act or practice constitubng breach
of fiduciary duty involving personal
misconduct

Injuncbon aqamstactmq in certain capacmas
for investment company and other appropriate
relief (Investment Company Act, Section
36(a».

CRIMINAL PROSECUTION BY DEPARTMENT OF JUSTICE
Persons Subject to, Acts Constituting, and
Basis for, Enforcement Action

Sanction

Any person
Willful violation of securities laws or rules
thereunder; willful misstatement in any
document required to be filed by securities
laws or rules; willful misstatement in any
document required to be filed by selfregulatory organization in connection with an
application for membership or association with
member.

Maximum psnaluss: $1,000,000 fine and ten
years imprisonment for individuals, $2,500,000
fine for non-natural persons (Exchange Act,
Sections 21(d), 32(a}}; $10,000 fine and five
years imprisonment (or $200,000 if a public
utility holding company for violations of the
Holding Company Act) (Securities Act,
Sections 20(b), 24; Investment Company Act,
Sections 42(e), 49; Investment Advisers Act,
Sections 209(e}, 217; Trust Indenture Act,
Sections 321, 325; Holding Company Act,
Sections 18(f), 29).

Issuer subject to Section 12 or 15(d) ofthe
Exchange Act; officer or director of Issuer;
stockholder acting on behalf of issuer;
employee or agent subject to the
jurisdiction of the United States
Payment to foreign official, foreign political
party or official, or candidate for foreign
pollbcal office for purposes of seeking the use
of Influence in order to assist issuer in
obtaining or retaining business for or with, or
dlrecbng business to, any person.

124

Issuer - $2,000,000; officer, director,
employee, agent or stockholder - $1 00,000
and five years imprisonment (Issuer may not
pay fine for others) (Exchange Act, Section
32(c)).

Foreign Restricted List
The Securities and Exchange Commission maintains and publishes a
Foreign Restricted List, which is designed to put broker-dealers, financial
institutions, investors and others on notice of possible unlawful distributions
of foreign securities in the United States. The list consists of names of
foreign companies whose securities the Commission has reason to believe
have been, or are being offered for public sale in the United States in
possible violation of the registration requirement of Section 5 of the Securities
Act of 1933 (Securities Act). The offer and sale of unregistered securities
deprives investors of all the protections afforded by the Securities Act,
including the right to receive a prospectus containing the information
required by the Act for the purpose of enabling the investor to determine
whether the investment is suitable. While most broker-dealers refuse to
effect transactions
in securities issued by companies on the Foreign
Restricted List, this does not necessarily prevent promoters from illegally
offering such securities directly to investors in the United States by mail,
by telephone, and sometimes by personal solicitation.
The following
foreign corporations
and other foreign entities comprise the Foreign
Restricted List.
1.
2.
3.
4.
5.
6.
7.
8.
9.
10.
11.
12.
13.
14.
15.
16.
17.
18.
19.
20.
21.
22.
23.
24.
25.
26.
27.
28.

Aguacate Consolidated Mines, Incorporated (Costa Rica)
Alan MacTavish, Ltd. (England)
Allegheny Mining and Exploration Company, Ltd. (Canada)
Allied Fund for Capital Appreciation (AFCA, S.A.) (Panama)
Amalgamated Rare Earth Mines, Ltd. (Canada)
American Industrial Research S.A., also known as Investigation
Industrial Americana, S.A. (Mexico)
American International Mining (Bahamas)
American Mobile Telephone and Tape Co., Ltd. (Canada)
Antel International Corporation, Ltd. (Canada)
Antoine Silver Mines, Ltd. (Canada)
ASCA Enterprisers Limited (Hong Kong)
Atholl Brose (Exports) Ltd. (England)
Atholl Brose Ltd. (England)
Atlantic and Pacific Bank and Trust Co., Ltd. (Bahamas)
Bank of Sark (Sark, Channel Islands, U.K.)
Briar Court Mines, Ltd. (Canada)
British Overseas Mutual Fund Corporation Ltd. (Canada)
California & Caracas Mining Corp., Ltd. (Canada)
Caprimex, Inc. (Grand Cayman, British West Indies)
Canterra Development Corporation, Ltd. (Canada)
Cardwell Oil Corporation, Ltd. (Canada)
Caribbean Empire Company, Ltd. (British Honduras)
Caye Chapel Club, Ltd. (British Honduras)
Central and Southern Industries Corp. (Panama)
Cerro Azul Coffee Plantation (Panama)
Cia. Rio Banano, S.A. (Costa Rica)
City Bank A.S. (Denmark)
Claw Lake Molybdenum Mines, Ltd. (Canada)
125

29.
30.

3l.
32.
33.

34.
35.
36.
37.

38.
39.
40.
4l.
42.
43.

44.
45.
46.

47.
48.

49.
50.
51.
52.
53.
54.
55.
56.
57.
58.
59.
60.
6l.
62.

63.

64.
65.
66.
67.
68.
69.
70.
7l.

72.
73.

74.

75.
76.
77.
78.

126

Claravella Corporation (Costa Rica)
Compressed Air Corporation, Limited (Bahamas)
Continental and Southern Industries, S.A. (panama)
Crossroads Corporation, S.A. (Panama)
Darien Exploration Company, S.A. (Panama)
Derkglen, Ltd. (England)
De Veers Consolidated Mining Corporation, S.A. (Panama)
Doncannon Spirits, Ltd. (Bahamas)
Durman, Ltd., formerly known as Bankers International
Investment Corporation (Bahamas)
Empresia Minera Caudalosa de-Panama, S.A. (Panama)
Ethel Copper Mines, Ltd. (Canada)
Euroforeign Banking Corporation, Ltd. (Panama)
Finansbanker a/ s (Denmark)
First Liberty Fund, Ltd. (Bahamas)
General Mining S.A. (Canada)
Global Explorations, Inc. (Panama)
Global Insurance Company, Limited (British West Indies)
Globus Anlage-Vermittlungsgesell-schaft
MBH (Germany)
Golden Age Mines, Ltd. (Canada)
Hebilla Mining Corporation (Costa Rica)
Hemisphere Land Corporation Limited (Bahamas)
Henry Ost & Son, Ltd. (England)
Hotelera Playa Flamingo, S.A.
Intercontinental Technologies Corp. (Canada)
International Communications Corporation (British West Indies)
International Monetary Exchange (Panama)
International Trade Development of Costa Rica, S.A.
Ironco Mining & Smelting Company, Ltd. (Canada)
James G. Allan & Sons (Scotland)
Iojoba Oil & Seed Industries, S.A. (Costa Rica)
Jupiter Explorations, Ltd. (Canada)
Kenilworth Mines, Ltd. (Canada)
Klondike Yukon Mining Company (Canada)
KoKanee Moly Mines, Ltd. (Canada)
Land Sales Corporation (Canada)
Los Dos Hermanos, S.A. (Spain)
Lynbar Mining Corp. Ltd. (Canada)
Massive Energy Ltd. (Canada)
Mercantile Bank and Trust & Co., Ltd. (Cayman Island)
~ultireaIProperties,Inc.(Canada)
J.P. Morgan & Company, Ltd., of London, England (not
to be confused with J.P. Morgan & Co., Incorporated, New York)
Norart Minerals Limited (Canada)
Normandie Trust Company, S.A. (Panama)
Northern Survey (Canada)
Northern Trust Company, S.A. (Switzerland)
Northland Minerals, Ltd. (Canada)
Obsco Corporation, Ltd. (Canada)
Pacific Northwest Developments, Ltd. (Canada)
Pan-Alaska Resources, S.A. (Panama)
Panamerican Bank & Trust Company (Panama)

79.
80.
81.
82.
83.
84.
85.
86.
87.
88.
89.
90.
91.
92.

93.
94.
95.
96.
97.
98.
99.
100.
101.
102.
103.
104.
105.
106.
107.
108.

Pascar Oils Ltd. (Canada)
Paulpic Gold Mines, Ltd. (Canada)
Pyrotex Mining and Exploration Co., Ltd. (Canada)
Radio Hill Mines Co., Ltd. (Canada)
Rancho San Rafael, S.A. (Costa Rica)
Rodney Gold Mines Limited (Canada)
Royal Greyhound and Turf Holdings Limited (South Africa)
S.A. Valles & Co., Inc. (Philippines)
San Salvador Savings & Loan Co., Ltd. (Bahamas)
Santack Mines Limited (Canada)
Security Capital Fiscal & Guaranty Corporation, S.A.
(Panama)
Silver Stack Mines, Ltd. (Canada)
Societe Anonyme de Refinancement (Switzerland)
Strathmore Distillery Company, Ltd. (Scotland)
Strathross Blending Company Limited (England)
Swiss Caribbean Development & Finance Corporation
(Switzerland)
Tam O'Shanter, Ltd. (Switzerland)
Timberland (Canada)
Trans-American Investments, Limited (Canada)
Trihope Resources, Ltd. (West Indies)
Trust Company of Jamaica, Ltd. (West Indies)
United Mining and Milling Corporation (Bahamas)
Unitrust Limited (Ireland)
Vacationland (Canada)
Valores de Inversion, 5.A. (Mexico)
Victoria Oriente, Inc. (Panama)
Warden Walker Worldwide Investment Co. (England)
Wee Gee Uranium Mines, Ltd. (Canada)
Western International Explorations, Ltd. (Bahamas)
Yukon Wolverine Mining Company (Canada)

127

Self-Regulatory Organizations: Expenses, Pre-Tax Income, and Balance
Sheet Structure
In 1993, the total revenues of all self-regulatory organizations (SROs)
with marketplace jurisdiction rose approximately $130.0 million, an increase
of approximately 13% from 1992. The New York Stock Exchange (NYSE),
the National Association of Securities Dealers (NASD), the American Stock
Exchange (AMEX), and the Chicago Board Options Exchange (CBOE)
accounted for 85% of total SRO revenues, up from 84% in 1992. Revenues
were earned primarily from listing or issuer fees, trading, and market data
fees. For example:
• the NYSE reported total revenue of $445.0 million, an increase of
6% from 1992, of which 40% consisted of listing fees, 20% consisted
of trading fees, and 14% consisted of market data fees;
• the NASD reported total revenue of $332.1 million, an increase of
25% from 1992, of which 21 % consisted of issuer fees and 34%
consisted of trading and market data fees; and
• the AMEX reported total revenue of $131.0 million, an increase
of 14% from 1992, of which 12% consisted of listing fees.
The remaining SROs reported increases in revenues as follows:
• the Boston Stock Exchange (BSE) reported a $466,180 increase, or
3%, to $14.1 million;
• the CBOE reported a $10.6 million increase, or 15%, to $81.0
million;
• the Chicago Stock Exchange (CHX)l reported a $3.6 million increase,
or 5%, to $77.4 million;
• the Cincinnati Stock Exchange (CSE) reported a $1.4 million increase,
or 31 %, to $6.0 million;
• the Pacific Stock Exchange (PSE) reported a $1.6 million increase,
or 4%, to $43.5 million; and
• the Philadelphia Stock Exchange (PHLX) reported a $1.2 million
increase, or 3%, to $38.8 million.
The CSE experienced the largest percentage increase in total revenues,
31%, while the NASD reported the largest dollar volume increase in total
revenues, $67.9 million.
The total expenses of all marketplace SROs were $996.0 million in
1993, an increase of $81.6 million, or 9%, over 1992. The NASD incurred
the largest dollar volume increase in expenses, $51.6 million (23%). The
remaining eight SROs incurred the following increases in expenses:
• the AM EX incurred a $7.9 million increase, or 7%;
• the BSE incurred a $278,000 increase, or 2%;
• the CBOE incurred a $9.0 million increase, or 13%;
• the CHX incurred a $4.9 million increase, or 7%;
• the CSE incurred a $202,000 increase, or 5%;

"I'he CHX adopted its current name in 1993. Previously, it was known as the
Midwest Stock Exchange.
128

•
 the NYSE incurred a $5.3 million increase, or 2%;
•
 the PHLX incurred a $505,000 increase, or 1%; and
•
 the PSE incurred a $1.9 million increase, or 5%.
Despite an increase in aggregate expenses, aggregate pre-tax income
of the marketplace SROs rose in 1993 to $173.0 million, an increase of $48.4
million, or 39%, from the $124.6 million reported in 1992. The NYSE
experienced the largest dollar volume increase in pre-tax income, $21.3
million, while the PHLX and the AMEX reported percentage increases in
pre-tax income of 321 % each. The CSE also showed a large percentage
increase in pre-tax income, 187%. No SRO reported a pre-tax loss in 1993.
The total assets of all marketplace SROs amounted to approximately
$2.1 billion in 1993, an increase of $256 million, or 14%, over 1992. The
NYSE showed the largest dollar volume increase in total assets, $108.6
million (18%); the CSE, however, reported the largest percentage increase
in total assets, 51 % ($1.9 million). The NASD and CHX also reported large
increases in total assets, equalling $82.9 million, or 28%, and $40.9 million,
or 7%, respectively.
The AMEX and the PHLX reported increases of $13.6
million, or 13%, and $9.8 million, or 12%, respectively.
The PSE reported
a decrease of $1.3 million, or 3%, while the remainder of the SROs reported
increases or decreases in total assets of less than 1%.
In 1993, the total liabilities of marketplace SROs increased $141.2
million, or 13%, over 1992 levels. The NYSE showed the greatest dollar
volume increase in liabilities, $54.7 million (17%), while the NASD reported
the greatest percentage increase, 45% ($34.4 million). Increases in liabilities
also were reported by the CHX ($39.9 million or 7%), the PHLX ($8.4
million or 14%), the AMEX ($6.8 million or 30%), and the CSE ($685,000
or 34%). The PSE reported the largest decline in liabilities, $2.3 million,
or 12%. Declines in liabilities also were reported by the BSE ($659,000
or 5%) and CBOE ($588,000 or 2%).
The aggregate net worth of the marketplace SROs rose $115.2 million
in 1993 to $832.5 million, an increase of 16% over 1992. The CSE incurred
the largest percentage increase in net worth, 70% ($1.2 million), while the
largest dollar volume increase in net worth was reported by the NYSE,
$53.9 million (19%). The NASD also reported a substantial increase in
net worth of $48.6 million, or 22%. The other marketplace SROs also
experienced positive growth in net worth with the AMEX reporting an
increase of $6.8 million, or 8%; the PHLX reporting an increase of $1.4
million, or 6%; the CHX reporting an increase of $1.0 million, or 5%; the
PSE reporting an increase of $956,000, or 5%; the BSE reporting an increase
of $645,000, or 13%; and the CBOE reporting an increase of $574,000, or
1%.
Clearing agency results have been presented in two charts by their
respective types:
depositories
and clearing corporations.
Aggregate
service revenues for both types of clearing agencies was up $18 million
in calendar year 1993. Interest income increased 12%, or $7 million. Other
income decreased $3 million, resulting in a total revenue increase of
$24 million, or 4%. All clearing agencies adjust fee structure and refunds

129

of fees to provide participants with attractively priced services, and to
meet expenses and provide the amount of earnings which they desire to
retain.
All service revenues at depositories totaled $313 million, an increase
of 4% over 1992. This included a $4.5 million decrease by the Participants
Trust Company and a $15.7 million increase at The Depository Trust
Company (DTC). Total depository pre-tax income was down $981,000,
or 14%. While all depositories reported lower pre-tax earnings, all had
pre-tax gains for 1993.
The depositories continued to expand their base for service revenues
by increasing the number of shares on deposit and the face value of debt
securities in custody. This was made possible by the further expansion
of depository-eligible
issues and the desire of participants
to avail
themselves of depository services. The Midwest Securities Trust Company
had an increase of 247,000 eligible issues at year-end, bringing their total
eligible issues to 1.18 million. DTC had 1.15 million eligible issues, an
increase of 13% over 1992. In general, eligibility for all types of securities
increased. At the end of 1993, the total value of securities in the depository
system reached $7.6 trillion, of which DTC alone held over $7.5 trillion,
including almost $3.6 trillion in certificates held by others as DTC's agent.
More than 70% of the shares of all NYSE, 57% of NASDAQ, and 50% of
AMEX listed U.s. companies were in the depository system at the end
of 1993. In addition, more than 95% of the principal amount of all
outstanding municipal bonds were in the depository system.
Service revenue of clearing corporations increased to $171 million,
or 4% over 1992. As a group, the clearing corporations recorded a net
decrease in pre-tax income of over $2 million, or 17% over 1992. The
National Securities Clearing Corporation's pre-tax income was down 66%
to $2.3 million. The Midwest Clearing Corporation reported a pre-tax
loss of $952,000 compared to the 1992 loss of almost $1.6 million, an
improvement of 40%. The Boston Stock Exchange Clearing Corporation's
1993 result was a pre-tax gain of $774,000 versus a loss of $308,000 for
1992.
The Pacific Clearing Corporation (PCO had a 1993 pre-tax gain of
$2.7 million, an increase of 13% over 1992. In April 1987, the PSE announced
the closure of the clearance and depository functions not essential to PSE's
trading operations. An orderly transition of participant activities to other
clearing agencies occurred with most of the securities held by the Pacific
Securities Depository Trust Company transferred
to DTC. The PSE
established a reserve for potential claims and losses relating to custody
and trade processing services. An initial reserve for potential claims was
established and increased in subsequent years. Payments against the
reserve were $23,000 in 1993 and $96,000 in 1992. The remaining reserve
was $355,000 as of the end of 1993. In 1993, PCC had income of $91,000
from discontinued operations included in "Other Revenue" and a reduction
of reserve for potential losses as a negative expense included in "All Other
Expenses." The shareholders' equity of PCC was almost $4.7 million at

130

the end of 1993, an increase of SI % over 1992. The parent corporation,
PSE, which guarantees the liabilities of PCC, reported members' equity
of $21.4 million at the end of 1993.
The aggregate shareholders' equity of all clearing corporations and
depositories rose 9%, to $112 million in 1993. Participant clearing fund
contributions, which provide protection to the clearing agencies in the
event of a participant default, increased by $270 million, or 11%, to almost
$2.7 billion.

1~1

~o;~;!
~otqot

C"')C'?VN
NLOCO
VLOVC

to-:.n.q:ui
~re~l8
CX)O)q-:.
~~C;;m

~6'1).;;;;"

...........

(j)

z
o

i=
~

z
«
CJ

~~~~
~~
~~

a:

"':.--:.NC7J

o

>a:
o
I«
--l
::l

CJ

w

a:
L.i..

re:5m~

--l

CONCON

W

LO,.....,...,.~~

"":O.nO

(j)C')

r--LL~

.El0

.cZI

~Q~

~
w

«

Q

1-0>

en

~

a:

o

LL

Z
--l

«
o
z
«
z
u::
o
w
I-

«

o
--l

o
(j)
z
o
o

.•.
m~i2~
lrlcQNc:n
NNNN

~~~

132

Nm .......
v
r-. U")
N
CO CD r00')

NcO

... ...~~~
('1"0'"
CO CD

c:c

C()

1ii~~~

.. ..
ti

«J'.fi

llii
)IIii ;s
.. ..~ ..!!

~llli~~
1!lii

SELF-REGULATORY
1993

Table 9
ORGAN
IZA TIONS-DEPOSITORIES
REVENUES
and EXPENSES
11
($ in Thousands)

PartIcipants
Trust
Company
12/31/93

Philadelphia
Depository
Trust
Company
12/31/93

Midwest
Depository
Trust
Company
12/31/93

secunnes
Trust
Company
12/31/93

Total

Bezenues
Depository Services
Interest
1.

Other

..:

Total Revenues 2/

-

$251,882

$29,205

$22,117

$10,008

$313,212

45,369

1,629

12,062

678

59,738

468

3,590

3,122
297,251

33,956

34,179

11,154

376,540

$172,155

13,785

10,207

6,210

202,357

Expenses
Employee Costs
Data Processing and
CommunicatIons Costs
"

Occupancy Costs

34,280

3,634

6,947

460

45,322

46,174

3,495

7,045

442

57,156

Contracted Services Cost

1,312

1,312

Costs of Discontinued
Operations

All Other Expenses

$ 44,442

11,230

5,344

3,534

64,549

Total Expenses

$297,051

33,456

29,543

10,646

370,697

$200

$500

$4,636

$508

$5,844

Excess of Revenues
Over Expenses 31
Shareholders' Equity
Participanfs

Fund

$19,380

$5,104

$17,993

$3,292

$45,769

$666,280

$7,110

$273,876

$780

$948,046

1/ Although efforts have been made to make the presentatIons comparable, any smgle revenue or expense category may not
be completely comparable between any two clearing agencies because of (i) the varying classification methods employed
by the clearing agencies in reporting operating results and (i1) the grouping methods employed by the SEC's staff due to
these varying classification methods. Individual amounts are shown to the nearest thousand. Totals are the rounded result
of the underlying amounts and may not be the arithmetic sums of the parts.
21 Revenues are net of refunds which have the effect of reducing a clearing agency's base fee rates.
31 This is the result of operations and before the effect of income taxes, which may significantly impact a clearing agency's
net income.

1::1:4

Certificate

Immobilization

Book-entry deliveries continued to outdistance physical deliveries in
the settlement of securities transactions among depository participants
of the Depository Trust Company (DTC). This tendency is illustrated in
Table 10, CERTIFICATE IMMOBlLIZA nON TRENDS. The table captures
the relative significance of the mediums employed, in a ratio of book-entry
deliveries to certificates withdrawn from DTC. The figures include Direct
Mail by Agents and municipal bearer bonds. In 1993, the ratio was over
eight times the 1983 ratio of 2.8 book-entry deliveries rendered for every
certificate withdrawn.

Table 10
CERTIFICATE IMMOBILIZATION TRENDS
Depository Trust Company
(Including Bearer Certificates)

1993

1991

1989

1987

1985

1983

98,300

73,200

68,800

73.800

53,600

48,500

4,140

6,314

7,700

12,300

11,300

17.600

23.7

11.6

8.9

6.0

4.7

2.8

Book-entry Deliveries
at DTe (in thousands)

Total of All Certificates
Withdrawn (in thousands)

BOOk-entry Deliveries per
Certificates Withdrawn

135

Exemptions
Section 12(h) Exemptions
Section 12(h) of the Exchange Act authorizes the Commission to grant
a complete or partial exemption from the registration provisions of Section
12(g) or from the disclosure or insider reporting/trading
provisions of
the Exchange Act where such exemption is consistent with the public
interest and the protection of investors. Three applications were pending
at the beginning of 1994, and four applications were filed during the year.
Of these applications, three were granted.
Exemptions for Foreign Private Issuers
Rule 12g3-2 provides various exemptions from the registration
provisions of Section 12(g) of the Exchange Act for the securities of foreign
private issuers. An important exemption is that contained in subparagraph
(b), which provides an exemption for certain foreign issuers that furnish
to the Commission on a current basis the material specified in the rule.
Such material includes that information material to an investment decision
which the issuer has: (1) made or is required to make public pursuant
to the law of the country in which it is incorporated or organized; (2) filed
or is required to file with a stock exchange on which its securities are
traded and which was made public by such exchange; or (3) distributed
or is required to distribute to its security holders. Periodically, the SEC
publishes a list of those foreign issuers that appear to be current under
the exemptive provision.
The most current list contains a total of 998
foreign issuers.

1~6

Corporate

Reorganizations

During 1994, the SEC entered its appearance in 25 reorga nizatron
cases filed under Chapter 11 of the Bankruptcy Code involving COmpdl1leS
with aggregated stated assets of about $6.1 billion and about 530,000 public
investors.
Counting these new cases, the SEC was a party in a total of
180 Chapter 11 cases during the year. In these cases, the s rated assets
totalled approximately $83 billion and involved over one mi. lion public
investors.
During 1994, 19 cases were concluded through ccnfirmation
of a plan of reorganization,
dismissal, or liquidation, leaving 161 cases
in which the SEC was a party at year-end.
Table 11
REORGANIZATION PROCEEDINGS UNDER CHAPTER
OF THE BANKRUPTCY CODE IN WHICH
THE SEC ENTERED APPEARANCE

Debtor

FY
Opened

District

Action Auto Stores
ADI Electronics
AlA Industries, Inc.
Aileen, Inc.

EA
ED
E.D.
SD

MI
NY
PA
NY

1990
1987
1984
1994

AI Copeland Enterprises, Inc
Alexander's Inc.
Allegheny International, Inc.
Alliant Computer Systems Corp.

WD
S.D
W.O.
E.D.

TX
NY
PA
MA

1991
1992
1988
1992

A.M. International IncAI 11
Amdura Corporation
American West Airlines, Inc
Anglo Energy, Inc.

D.
D.
D.
SD

DE
CO
AZ
NY

1993
1990
1991
1988

Appletree Markets, Inc.
Banyan Corp.
Barton Industries Inc.
Bay Financial Corp., et al.

SO
S.D
WD.
D

TX

1992
1991
1991
1990

B-E Holdings, Inc.
Beker Industries Corp
Bonneville Pacific Corporation
Branch Industries, Inc.

E.D.
SO.
D.
S.D.

WI
NY

Camera Enterprises, Inc., et al
Cambridge Biotech Corp.
Carter Hawley Hale Stores Inc.
Cascade International Inc.

D.
OM
CD
SD

MA
CA
FL

1989
1994
1991
1992

The Centennial Group, Inc.
CityWide Securities Corp.4J
Chyron Corporation
Coated Sales, Inc.

C.D
S.D.
E.D.
S.D.

CA
NY
NY
NY

1993
1985
1991
1988

NY
OK
MA

UT
NY

11

FY
Closed

1994

1994
1986
1992
1985

1994

n

Table 11 - continued
REORGANIZATION
PROCEEDINGS
UNDER CHAPTER
OF THE BANKRUPTCY
CODE IN WHICH
THE SEC ENTERED
APPEARANCE

Debtor

138

F.Y.
Opened

District

Coliege Bound, Inc.
Columbia Gas System, Inc.
Commonwealth Equity Trust
Conston Corporation

S.D.
D.
E.D.
E.D.

FL
DE
CA
PA

1993
1991
1994
1990

Continental Information Systems
CPT Corp.
Crazy Eddie, lnc., et al.
Crompton Co., Inc.

S.D.
D.
S.D.
S.D.

NY
MN
NY
NY

1989
1991
1989
1985

Dakota Minerals, Inc.
Damson Oil Co.
Dest Corp.
Diversified Industries, Inc.

D.
S.D.
N.D.
E.D.

WY
TX
CA
MI

1986
1991
1989
1993

Domain Technology, Inc.3!
Drexel Burnham Lambert Group, Ltd.
Eagle Clothes, Inc.
Eagle-Pitcher Industries, Inc.

N.D.
S.D.
S.D.
S.D.

CA
NY
NY
OH

1989
1990
1989
1991

Eastern Air Lines, Inc., et al.
E.L. Fitzgerai d4J
EI Paso Electric Co.2J
EL Paso Refinery Limited Partnership2J

S.D.
N.D.
W.O.
W.O.

NY
FL
TX
TX

1989
1993
1992
1993

Endevco, Inc.j/

Enterprise Technologies, Inc.
Enviropact, Inc.
Equestrian Ctrs of Amer., Inc.3J

E.D.
S.D.
S.D.
C.D.

TX
TX
FL.
CA

1993
1984
1994
1985

Everex Systems, Inc.
Fairfield Communities Inc.1!
F & C International, Inc.
Fed. Depart./Allied Stores et al.

N.C.
E.D.
S.D.
S.D.

CA
AR
OH
OH

1993
1991
1993
1990

Financial News NetVlork, Inc.
First City Bancorporation of Texas
First Republicbank Corp.
Future Communications, Inc.

S.D.
N.D.
N.D.
W.O.

NY
TX
TX
OH

1991
1994
1989
1994

Forum Group Inc. et al.l/
Gantos, Inc. et. al.
General Technologies Group
Gulf USA Corporation, et al.

N.D.
W.O.
E.D.
D.

TX
MI
NY
10

1991
1994
1990
1994

Hal, Inc.
Hannover Corporation of America4J
Harry Schrieber4J
Heallhcare International, Inc.

D.
MD.
D.
W.O.

HI
LA
CO
TX

1994
1993
1993
1992

11

F.Y.
Closed

1994

1994
1994
1994
1994
1994

1994

Table 11 - continued
REORGANIZATION
PROCEEDINGS
UNDER CHAPTER
OF THE BANKRUPTCY
CODE IN WHICH
THE SEC ENTERED
APPEARANCE

Debtor

District

F.Y.
Opened

F.Y.
Closed

1994

Hellonetlcs, Inc.
Hexcel Corporatl on
Hills Department Stores
I.M.T., Inc.ll

C.D.
N.D.
S.D.
D.

CA
CA
NY
MD

1986
1994
1991
1992

Inflight Services, Inc.
Infotechnology Inc.
Insilco Corp.ll
Integra-A Hotel and Restaurant Co.

S.D.
S.D.
W.O.
D.

NY
NY

1987
1991
1991
1993

Integrated Resources, Inc.
Intelogic Trace, Inc.
Inter. American Homes, Inc., et al.
International Trading, Inc.

S.D.
W.O.
D.
N.D.

Jamesway Corporation
JWP, Inc.
Kaiser Steel Corp.
King of Video, Inc.

TX
CO
NY
NJ
GA

1990
1994
1990
1994

S.D.
S.D.
D.
D.

NY
NY
CO
NV

1993
1994
1987
1989

Koger Properties, Inc.ll
Kurzweil Music Systems Inc.
Laventhol & Horwath
Leslie Fay Companies, Inc.

M.D.
D.
S.D.
S.D.

FL
MA
NY
NY

1992
1990
1991
1993

Library Bureau Inc.
Lomas Financial Corp.
Lone Star Industries, Inc.
MacGregor Sporting Goods, Inc.

N.D.
S.D.
S.D.
D.

NY
NY
NY
NJ

1993
1990
1991
1989

Mallard Coach Co.
Marathon Office Supply, Inc.
Marcade Group Inc.
Master Mortgage Investment Fund, Inc.ll

W.O.
C.D.
S.D.
W.O.

IL
CA
NY
MO

1993
1988
1993
1993

Martech USA, Inc.
Maxi care Health Plus Inc.1J
McLean Industries, Inc.
MCorp (MCorp Financial, Inc.
& MCorp Management)

D.
C.D.
S.D.

AK
CA
NY

1994
1989
1987

S.D.

TX

1989

McCroy Corp.
McCrory Parent Corp.
Media Vision Technology, Inc.
MEl Diversified, Inc.

S.D.
S.D.
N.D.
D.

NY
NY
CA
DE

1992
1992
1994
1994

Meridian Reserve, Inc.
Merry-Go-Round Enterprises, Inc.
Midland Capital Corp.
Midwest Communications Corp.

W.O.
D.
S.D.
E.D.

OK
MD
NY
KY

1989
1994
1986
1991

TX

11

1994

1994

1994

139

Table 11 - continued
REORGANIZATION
PROCEEDINGS
UNDER
CHAPTER
OF THE BANKRUPTCY
CODE IN WHICH
THE SEC ENTERED
APPEARANCE

Debtor

Monarch Capitol Corp.
National Financial Realty Trust
National Gypsum Company
NBllnc.1f

D.
S.D.
N.D.
D.

rx

CO

1991
1990
1991
1991

New Valley Corp.
Newmark & lewis
Nutri Bevco, Inc.
NVF Company

S.D.
S.D.
S.D.
D.

NY
NY
NY
DE

1994
1991
1988
1994

Occidental Development Fund 1114/
Occidental Development Fund IV4/
OCCidental Development Fund V4/
Oliver's Stores

C.D.
C.D.
C.D.
E.D.

CA
CA
CA
NY

1989
1989
1989
1987

OlR Development Fund lP
OlR Development Fund" lP
PanAm Corporation
Penn Pacific

C.D.
C.D.
S.D.
E.D.

CA
CA
NY
OK

1989
1989
1991
1994

Phar-Mor, Inc.
Premier Benefit Capitol trusts/
Premium Sales Corporation4/
Public Service Co. of New Hampshire

N.D.
M.D.
MD.
D.

OH
Fl
Fl
NH

1994
1993
1993
1988

OMax Technology Group, Inc.
OT&T, Inc.
Oublx Graphic Systems11
Ramtek Corporation

S.D.
E.D.
N.D.
N.D.

OH
NY
CA
CA

1989
1987
1987
1989

Rax Restaurants Inc.11
Refinemet International, Inc 11
Reserve Rent-a-Car
ReSidential Resources Mortgage
Investment Corporation

S.D.
C.D.
D.

OH
CA
OH

1993
1988
1993

D.

AZ

1989

Resorts International, Inc. et al.11
Revco D.S. Inc.4/
R.H. Macy & Co. Corp.
Rose's Stores, Inc.

D.
N.D.
S.D.
E.D.

NJ
OH
NY
NC

1990
1988
1992
1994

Rymer Foods, Inc.
Sahlen & Associates
Sam S. Brown Jr.4/
Saratoga Standardbreds,

N.D.
S.D.
W.D.
N.D.

II
NY
GA
NY

1993
1989
1993
1990

S.D.
S.D.
W.D.
N.D.

rx

1992
1981
1987
1989

Inc.

Schepps Food Stores, Inc.
Seatrain Lines, Inc.
Sharon Steel Corp.
SIS Corporation

140

F.Y.
Opened

District

MA
IN

NY
PA
OH

11

F.Y.
Closed

1994

1994
1994

1994

Table 11 - continued
REORGANIZATION
PROCEEDINGS
UNDER CHAPTER
OF THE BANKRUPTCY
CODE IN WHICH
THE SEC ENTERED
APPEARANCE

Debtor

F.Y.
Opened

District

Sorg Incorporated, et al.
Southland Corporation
Spencer Cos., Inc.
Spring Meadows Assoctatess/

S.D.
N.D.
D.
C.D.

MA
CA

1989
1991
1987
1988

Standard Oil and Exploration of
Delaware, Inc.
Statewide Bancorp.
Sterli ng Opti cal Corp.
Swanton Corp.

W.D.
D.
S.D.
S D.

MI
NJ
NY
NY

1991
1991
1992
1985

Systems for Health Care, Inc.
Telstar Satellite Corp. of America!!
TGX Corp.1J
The Centennial Group, Inc.

N D.
C.D.
W.D.
C.D.

IL
CA
LA
CA

1988
1989
1990
1992

The Circle K
The First Connecticut Small
Business Investments Company
The Group, Inc.
The Lionel Corp.

D.

Al

1990

D.
D.
S.D.

CT
NV
NY

1991
1990
1991

The Regina Co.
Tidwell Industries, Inc.
Todd Shipyards Corp.
Towle Manufact./Rosemar

D.
N.D.
D.
S.D.

NJ
AL
NJ
NY

1989
1986
1988
1990

Traweek Investment Fund No. 22, Ltd.!!
Traweek Investment Fund No. 21, Ltd.
Trump Taj Mahal Funding, Inc.
TSL Holdings, Inc.

C.D.
C.D.
D.
S.D.

CA
CA
NJ
CA

1988
1988
1991
1993

USA Classic Inc.
Value Merchants
Washington Bancorporation1J
Wedgestone Financial

S.D.
E.D.
D.
D.

NY
WI
DC
MA

1994
1994
1990
1991

Wedtech Corp.
Westworld Community Healthcare, Inc.
Wheeling-Pittsburgh Steel Corp.
lale Corporation, Inc.

S.D.
C.D.
W.O.

NY
CA
PA

N.D.

TX

1987
1987
1985
1992

lenox, Inc.

D.

NH

1993

Silver

NY

TX

11

F.Y.
Closed

1994

1994

141

Table 11 - continued
REORGANIZATION
PROCEEDINGS UNDER CHAPTER
OF THE BANKRUPTCY CODE IN WHICH
THE SEC ENTERED APPEARANCE

FoYo
Debtor

Total Cases Opened (FY 1994)
Total Cases Closed (FY 1994)

District

Opened

11

FoYo
Closed

25
19

11 Plan of reorganization confirmed.
21 Debtor liquidated under Chapter 7.
31 Chapter 11 case dismissed.
41 Debtor's securities not registered under Section 12(g) of the Exchange Act.

142

The Securities Industry
Revenues, Expenses, and Selected Balance Sheet Items
Broker-dealers that are registered with the Commission earned a pretax profit of $13.0 billion in calendar year 1993. This was $3.9 billion more
than the previous year, and a record for the third year in a row. Brokerdealers had a pre-tax return on equity capital of 26.6%, which is above
the historical average.
Declining interest rates and a bull market in equities (wi th interest
rates low and price-earnings (P-E) ratios high by historical standards) were
the main factors behind this profitability.
Low interest rates encouraged
corporations, municipalities, and indi viduals with callable debtto refinance,
while high P-E ratios made equity financing attractive.
The result was
record issuance of corporate debt and equities, with underwriting revenues
rising $3.0 billion to a new high of $11.3 billion.
Securities firms were very successful trading for their own accounts
in 1993. Gains from trading and investments of $25.4 billion were up $35
billion from last year's level and reached a new high. Record trading
volume in U.S. Government securities, corporate debt securities, and
NASDAQ stock boosted trading gains to record levels. Trading gains also
were buoyed by a modest increase in the prices of securities held in
inventory.
The agency business was exceptionally profitable in 1993. With
interest rates low, many individuals sought higher returns by moving
funds out of bank deposits and into securities, especially mutual funds.
Revenues from retailing mutual funds rose $1.7 billion to $7.7 billion, a
new record.
Transactions in exchange-listed
securities were at their
highest level since 1987, contributing
to $19.9 billion in securities
commissions, a $3.7 billion increase from the previous year.
Margin
interest increased by $600 million to $3.2 billion, as the record volume
of margin debt outstanding overwhelmed decliriing interest rates.
All other revenues," which are dominated by interest income from
securities purchased under agreements to resell and fees from handling
private placements, mergers, and acquisitions, increased by $5.3 billion
in 1993. Volume in each of these businesses grew substantially in 1993.
Merger and acquisition activity was up after several years of declining
or stagnant volume. The value of new private placements rose 60% while
the value of reverse repurchase agreements outstanding increased by 25%.
Expenses rose 17% to $95.3 billion in 1993. Employee compensation,
the largest expense item, increased by $7.0 billion (22%). Total assets rose
by $260 billion to $1,240 billion. Equity capital increased by $9.8 billion
to $53.7 billion.
II

143

Table 1 2 

U N C O N S O L I D A T E D F I N A N C I A L I N F O R M A T I O N FOR B R O K E R - D E A L E R S 

i g e s - 1993
($ in Millions)

BeYeoues
Securities Commissions
Gains (Losses) in Tmdingand
investment Accounts
Prolts (Losses) from Underwriting
and Selling Groups
Margln Interest
Revenues from Sale of lnvesbnent
Company Shares
All Mher Revenues
~ o l aRevenues
i
Eapenses
Registered Represenmlves'
Com~ensalion(Part ti Oniv) 21
Other ~mployee~ompensatiii
and Benefits
Compensation to Pamers and
Votino Stockholder Mficen
rnmmlssions and Cienrnnce Paid
to Other Broken
Interest Expenses
ReoulatON
and, Exoenses
. ~ . - - ~Fees
~ ~
Ail Other Expenses 2/
Total Expenses
~

7~

~~~

2.959.4
28,093.1
5M.3
16,018.6

3,W.B
29.822.5
573.7
16,847.8

-


3,722.1
24,576.3
6392
20.459.0

3,200.5
27.51 1.8
577.1
18,027.9

4,869.8
26,620.5
629.9
24.091.4

S

Pre-tax Income
Pre-taxprofit Margin
Pre-tax Return on Equity

$ 2,822.9

790.1
1.1
2.2

$ 8.655.9

3.7
7.7

10.2
23.6

9,116.6
10.1
22.0

T O ~Assets
I
Liabilities
(a) UnsubordinaledLibiiities
(b) SubordinaledLiabilities
(c) Total Liibiiilies

5652,1770

$657,226 5

$767,716.3

$978,635 0

$ 1,239,976.5

600,440.7
15,354.7
615,795.4

607,803.0
15,090.8
622,893.8

732,290.2
16,347.1
748.637.3

916,5453
18,155.8
934.701.1

1.160.408.4
25,829.7
1,186,2383

h e r s h i p Equity

$ 36,381.5

$ 34,332.7

$ 39,079.1

$ 43.933.9

$

$

$

12.999.1
12.0
26.6

1

1

;

53,738.4

Number of Firm
Figures rmy not add due to rounding.
r = .~
revised
.
~~p = preliminary
11 Calendar, rather than fiscal, year data is reported in this able.
21 Registered representatives' compensatior for firms that neither carry nor clear is included in "other expenses"
as this expense item is not reported separately on Part IIAof the FOCUS Report

I
I

Source: FOCUS Report

UNCONSOLIDATED

Table 13
ANNUAL REVENUES AND EXPENSES FOR BROKER-DEALERS
DOING A PUBLIC BUSINESS
1989 - 1993 11
($ in Millions)

1989

1900

1991

Bmrures
Secunties Commissions
Gams (losses) In Trading and
Investment Accounts
Profits (losses) from Underwriting
and Selling Groups
Margin Interest
Revenues from Sale of Investment
Company Shares
All Other Revenues
Total Revenues
Expe.nse.s
Registered Representatives'
Compensation (Part II only) 21
Other Employee Compensation
and Benefits
Compensation to Partners and
Voting Stockholder Officers
Commissions and Clearance Paid
to Other Brokers
Interest Expenses
Regulatory Fees and Expenses
All Other Expenses 21
Total Expenses
Income
Pre-tax
Pre-tax
Pre-tax

and Profitability
Income
Profit Margin
Return on Equity

Number of Firms

1993P

1992'

$13,012.7

$11,659.7

$13,7108

$15,499.7

s 18,9495

15,048.6

14,869.5

21,371.7

20,7907

23,906.9

4,536.4
3,813.3

3,728.0

3,1588

6,591 4
2,7324

8,202.8
2,651 7

11,1440
3,1661

3,037.8
35,189.4
$74,638.3

3,241.6
32,5780
$69,235.6

4,176.2
33,746.8
$82,329.3

5,851.9
34,745.5
$87,742.2

7,535.9
39,913.8
$104,616.0

$ 8,962.7

$ 8,245.3

$ 9,900.6

$11,791.1

$ 14,325 6

12,191.4

12,2092

14,066.5

16,601 4

20,355.1

2,090.0

1,983.5

2,376.4

2,695.5

3,2803

2,867.9
29,3546
516.0
16,348.5
$72,331.0

2,796.2
27,630.6
509.4
15,580.4
$68,954.4

3,003.2
27,088.1
511.2
17,457.5
$74,4034

3,500.0
24,235.8
580.0
19,777.9
$79,181.7

4,554.9
26,1300
573.0
23,310.8
$ 92,529.6

$ 2,307.3

$

281.2
0.4
09

s 7,925.9

$ 8,560.5

$ 12,086.4

3.1
6.8

96
233

98
22.2

11 6
26.5

5,746

5,424

5,115

5,091

5,131

Figures may not add due to rounding.
r = revised
p = preliminary
11 Calendar, rather than fiscal, year data is reported in thiS table.
21 Registered representatives' compensation for firms that neIther carry nor clear IS Included
as thiS expense item is not reported separately on Part IIA of the FOCUS Report

In

"other expenses"

Source: FOCUS Report

14S

Table 1 4 

U N C O N S O L i D A T E D B A L A N C E SHEET F O R B R O K E R - D E A L E R S 

DOING A P U B L I C BUSINESS 

Y E A R - E N D , 1 9 8 9 1993 11

($ in M i l l i o n s ) 


-

Brsets
Cash
Receivables fmm Omer
Brokerdealers
Receivables fmm Customers
Receivables fmm Non~usbiners
Long Positions in Securiiles
and CommOdlties
Secwities and Investmeas
nat Readily Maketable
Securities Purchased Under Agreements
to Resell (Part II only) U
Exchange Membership
Mher Assets 21
Total Asseb
Bank Loans Payable
Payables to omer Broker-dealers
Payables to Non-customers
Payablesto Customers
Short Positions in Secufnies
and Commodities
Securities Sold Unda Repurchase
Agreements (Part Ii onM 21

328.382.8

320.773.3

385.655.1

500.714.1

4€ 7.468.8

EyQ CapiQl
Number of f i r m
Figures may not aW due to munding. 

r = revised 

p = preliminary 

1/ Calendar, ram
fwcal,year data Is reported In MISQble. 

U ResaleagreementsandrepurchaseaOreemenbforfirm mat nehher wry nor clearare included In "olher 

assets" and 'omer mn-subordinated liabililes," respectively, as these #ems are not reported separafely on
Part IIA of the FOCUS RepPn
Source: FOCUS Report

Carrying and Clearing Firms

Data for carrying and clearing firms that do a public business is
presented here to allow for more detail. Reporting requirements for firms
that neither carry nor clear are less detailed. Data aggregation of these
two types of firms results in a loss of detail.
Carrying and clearing firms are those firms that clear securities
transactions or maintain possession or control of customers' cash or
securities. This group produced 81 percent of the securities industry's
total revenues in calendar year 1993.
Brokerage activity accounted for about 24 cents of each revenue dollar
in 1993, about the same as the level in 1992. Securities commissions were
the most important component, producing 16 cents of each dollar of
revenue.
Margin interest generated about four cents of each dollar of
revenue, while revenues from mutual fund sales accounted for about five
cents.
The dealer side produced 65 cents of each dollar of revenue in 1993,
the same as that in 1992. Twenty-four cents came from trading and
investments, a decrease from 25 cents in 1992. Twelve cents came from
underwriting, up from ten cents in 1992. Twenty-nine cents came from
other securities-related revenues, identical to that in 1992. This revenue
item is comprised primarily of interest income from securities purchased
under agreements to resell and fees from handling private placements,
mergers, and acquisitions.
Expenses accounted for 89 cents of each revenue dollar in 1993,
resulting in a pre-tax profit margin of eleven cents per revenue dollar,
about two cents higher than that in 1992. Employee-related expensescompensation received by registered representatives, partners and other
employees-was
the most important expense item, accounting for 36 cents
of each revenue dollar in 1993 compared to 35 cents in 1992. Interest
.consurned 29 cents of each revenue dollar in 1993, compared to 32 cents
in 1992.
Total assets of broker-dealers carrying and clearing customer accounts
were $1.18 trillion at year-end 1993, a 26% increase from 1992. The
distribution of assets remained fairly constant over the course of the year,
with most major asset categories increasing at about the same rate as total
assets.
Total liabilities also increased by about 26% to $1.14 trillion in 1993.
Owners' equity rose 20% from $35.2 billion in 1992 to $42.4 billion in 1993.

147

SOUWE FOWS REPORTS

: ,

Fi~rmayM~aloosCd~sOmnd'O

i-bfm.
minO.*
ki-tw

Sources of Revenue

u t m s r rmmv=or dsar - n t i s r t r l = d l ~ 


Canmudcarions (3.0%)

Comnrlrriow &
clearance (3.0%)

Table 15

SECURITIES INDUSTRY DOLLAR IN 1993

FOR CARRYlNGlCLEARlNG FIRMS 


Expenses

UNCONSOLIDATED
CARRYING/CLEARING

Table
16
REVENUES
AND
EXPENSES
BROKER-DEALERS
($ in Millions)

1993P

1992'

Dollars

FOR

11

Percent
of Total
Revenues

Dollars

Percent
of Total
Revenues

Percent
Change
1992-1993

~

Securities Commissions
Gains (losses) in Trading and
Invesbnent Accounts
Profits (Losses) from Underwriting
and Selling Groups
Margin Interest
Revenues from Sale of Investment
Company Shares
Miscellaneous Fees
Revenues from Research
Other Securibes Related Revenues
Commodities Revenues
All Other Revenues
Total Revenues
Expenses
Registered Representatives'
Compensation (Part II only) 21
Other Employee Compensation and Benefits
Compensation to Partners and
Voting Stockholder Officers
Commissions and Clearance Paid
to Other Brokers
Communications
Occupancy and Equipment Costs
Data Processing Costs
Interest Expenses
Regulatory Fees and Expenses
Losses In Error Accounts and Bad Debts
All Other Expenses 21
Total Expenses
Income
Pre-tax
Pre-tax
Pre-tax

and Profitability
Income
Profll Margin
Retum on Equity

Number of Arms

$11,466.3

15.2%

$13,781.4

15.7%

20.2%

18,813.6

25.0

21,128.5

24.1

12.3

7,749.2
2,651.7

10.3
3.5

10,434.4
3,166.1

11.9
3.6

34.7
19.4

3,591.7
3,358.4
22.5
22,004.7
1,872.0
3,735.9
$75,266.1

4.8
4.5
0.0
292
2.5
5.0
100.0%

4,532.0
4,087.3
24.7
25,708.6
1,238.9
3,664.2
$87,766.1

5.2
4.7
0.0
29.3
1.4
4.2
100.0%

26.2
21.7
9.8
16.8
-33.8
-1.9
16.6%

$11,791.1
13,046.7

15.7%
17.3

$14,325.6
15,674.8

16.3%
17.9

21.5%
20.1

1,679.4

22

2,015.5

2.3

20.0

2,1412
2,461.1
3,277.4
930.6
24,039.9
493.6
432.4
7,838.9
$68,132.4

2.8
3.3
4.4
1.2
31.9
0.7
0.6
10.4
90.5%

3,657.2
2,671.6
3,397.6
1,180.8
25,761.4
470.5
309.0
9,364.2
$77,828.2

4.2
3.0
3.9
1.3
29.4
0.5
0.4
10.7
88.7%

70.8
86
3.7
26.9
7.2
-4.7
-28.5
19.5
14.2%

$7,133.7
9.5
21.4

9.5%

$9,937.9
11.3
25.6

11.3%

39.3%

873

823

Figures may not add due to rounding.
r =
 revised
p =
 preliminary
11 Calendar, rather than fiscal, year data is reported in thiS table.
Note: Includes information for firms doing a public business that carry customer accounts or clear secunties transactions.
Source: FOCUS Report

149

--

Table 17 

UNCONSOLIDATED BALANCE SHEET FOR CARRYING/CLEARING 

BROKER-DEALERS U 

($ In Millions)
Yw-end 1992'
PerceM
Of Tctd
~oiiars
~ssets

Y w n d 19938
Dollars

Percent
0
9
K
n
i
t
As*
lh%3

bssefs 

Cash
Receivables from Mher Brokerdealers
(a) Securltles Failed to Deliver
(b) Securities Bormwed
(c) omer
Receivablesfmrn Customers
Receivables from Non-cudomen
Long Positions In Securities and Cornmanties
(a) hnkmAcceptances. Certnlcahs 

of DeposfiandCommerclalPaper 

(b) U.S. and W i a n Government Obllgatlons
(c) Stdeand Municipal Gwemment OMipaions
(d) CowrateObllpations
(e) SbcXs and W m t s
(0 Options 

(PI m1traQe 

(h) Mher SecuMes
(i) Spot CommodHies
Securnles and investments Not Realy MarkeMle
Securltles P u r c k d Un&r Agreements
to Resell (Part I1Only) U
ExchangeMembership
Mher Assets U
Total Assets
Bank Loam Payable
PayablestoOther BmkerMers
(a) SecurfflesFailedto Receive
(b) Secumes Loaned
(c) omw
Payables to Non-customers
Payables to Cuslomers
Short Positions in SecurHles and Cornmmties
Securities Sold Under Repurchase
Agreemenb (Part IIOnly) 21
Mher Non-subordinated Uabities U
Subordinated Uabilitis
Liibiimes
EquityCapital
Number of Flnns

873

823

Figures m y not aW due lo rounding.
r = revlsed

p = preliminary

I/ Calendar,ralhdmer Wn fiscal, year data is reported in thls table.

Note: Includes I n W o n for flms doing a public business that carry customeracwunb or dear securffles bansactions
Source: FOCUS Report

Securities Traded on Exchanges

Market Value and Volume
The market value of equity and option transacti .ms (trading in stocks,
options, warrants, and rights) on registered exchanges totaled $2.7 trillion
in 1993. Of this total, approximately $2.6 trillion, or 96%, represented
the market value of transactions in stocks, rights and warrants; and $118
billion, or 4%, was options transactions (including exercises of options
on listed stocks).
The value of equity and option transactions on the New York Stock
Exchange (NYSE) was $2.3 trillion, up 29.5% from the previous year. The
market value of such transactions on the American Stock Exchange (Arnex)
increased 20.8% to $82.7 billion and 14.6% to $368.1 billion on all other
exchanges. The volume of trading in stocks (excluding rights and warrants)
on all registered exchanges totaled 82.8 billion shares, a 26.5% increase
from the previous year, with 83.0% of the total accounted for by trading
on the NYSE.
The volume of options contracts traded (excluding exercised contracts)
was 232.6 million contracts in 1993, 15.2% greater than in 1992. The market
value of these contracts increased 4.2% to $75.2 billion. The volume of
contracts executed on the Chicago Board Options Exchange increased
15.7% to 140.6 million. Option trading on the Amex, Philadelphia Stock
Exchanges, and Pacific Stock Exchange rose 13.2%, 12.0%, and 25.2%,
respecti vely.

151

NASDAQ (Share Volume and Dollar Volume)

NASDAQ share volume and dollar value information has been reported
on a daily basis since November I, 1971. At the end of 1993, there were
5,393 issues in the NASDAQ system, as compared to 4,764 a year earlier
and 3,050 at the end of 1980.
Share volume for 1993 was 66.5 billion, as compared to 48.5 billion
in 1992 and 6.7 billion in 1980. This trading volume encompasses the
numberof shares bought and sold by market makers plus their net inventory
changes. The dollar volume of shares traded in the NASDAQ system was
$1.35 trillion during 1993, as compared to $890.8 billion in 1992 and $68.7
billion in 1980.
Share and Dollar Volume

by Exchanges

Share volume on all registered stock exchanges totaled 82.8 billion,
an increase of 26.4% from the previous year. The New York Stock Exchange
accounted for 83% of the 1993 share volume; the American Stock Exchange,
6%; the Chicago Stock Exchange, 5%; and the Pacific Stock Exchange, 3%.
The dollar value of stocks, rights, and warrants traded was $2.6
trillion, 28.4% higher than the previous year. Trading on the New York
Stock Exchange contributed 87% of the total. The Chicago Stock Exchange
and Pacific Stock Exchange contributed 4% and 2%, respectively.
The
American Stock Exchange accounted f::-r 2% of dollar volume.

152

en

Q>

=
0:::
::l

<..>
Q>
tI)

cooooor-......
("1")
0')
OLO('f')LO
to
CO N ex> en

ocOom

lO

~I

---

~

(J)

...,

g~~R

v-~m

M

w

en
c::

CJ

-c

"0
Q>

-g
Q>

CO

~

o

I

c-,
..c

E

s

z

Q>

£

'V
CO")

o

0>

X

w

w

en

:)

z

o
(J)

W
...J(jj'

«"'0
c:
(J) lJl

CO (J)

~Z6
.oO..c:
Cll

i=

f-

f-CLc:

0.-

>:~

t:
::J

a
w
u,

m~~~~m
",!'-",mote

~ocimr:O~
CO e-,
l.O
['t')

......

c:ommcoc.oLO
N~"":

CO

o

W

::J
...J

-c

>
fW

~

a:

«

~

...q--OO'lr-ClOC'J')coN

~~C';~$~~~

~~re~g~"g~
co

...... mCX)NO(O

e-rilL"ics:ilrir.s:iN'ml()("I")OC")r-lOC")

~

N

N

153

~OC)O~G~;:::
...-C'JCO

\.C')

...q:

;:/

~..,...:

~ =


;:::OOOSf~Rgs

U)

0"J0

w

N

N"-C'JCW?

~"":..,..f

(J

Z

«
I

o

X

w
(j)

w

COOlO<r-lt">CO

i=

("'-J.qC"oJlt':::tCON

co VCO
~~""":~c.O~

0:

::J

o

0>

"'<;f"f'o-

-r-V""-O
,...-...-........ .....-

0 ("I')
.......
..--

en c.o ,..... 0')
o co r-- r-

cr)

W

U)
0)

::J-3

Q)Za
0

OJ
::0(/)0

3

t--..O'IC"').......--r-rC'?~ ..-: CT)-

16

C'?

N

e-,

a::;" ,..... ..
....... ......-NC'OLOOO

,.-0000')"'00

co

en
r--:
~

0=
o~
"":e-J
<s:>

roW-c

f---lf-~

C

(f)

Z

o

i=

0...

o

>:
f--

~OOO~N~O
0')

L()

l.O .....-

..,.;

u5~

~

on

::J

o

W

u,

o
W

?-

::J

6>

.

c:

or
c

,

c;a:
E

~

u.

<...
u
CJ

"-

~
c

u:

154

Table

20

SHARE VOLUME BY EXCHANGES

11

(In Percentage)

Year

Total Share
Volume
(in Thousands)

1945
1950
1955
1960
1961
1962
1963
1964
1965
1966
1967
1968
1969
1970
1971
1972
1973
1974
1975
1976
1977
1978
1979
1980
1981
1982
1983
1984
1985
1986
1987
1988
1989
1900
1991r
1992r
1993

769,018
893,320
1,321,401
1,441,120
2,142,523
1,711,945
1,880,793
2,118,326
2,671,012
3,313,899
4,646,553
5,407,923
5,134,856
4,834,887
6,172,668
6,518,132
5,899,678
4,950,842
6,376,094
7,129,132
7,124,640
9,630,065
10,960,424
15,587,986
15,969,186
22,491,935
30,316,014
30,548,014
37,187,567
48,580,524
64,082,996
52,665,654
54,416,790
53,746,087
58,290,641
65,705,037
83,056,237

NYSE
65.87
76.32
68.85
68.47
64.99
71.31
72.93
72.81
69.90
69.38
64.40
61.98
63.16
7128
71.34
70.47
74.92
78.47
80.99
80.05
79.71
79.53
79.88
79.94
80.68
8122
80.37
82.54
81.52
81.12
83.09
83.74
81.33
81.86
82.01
81.34
82.90

AMEX

CHIC

PSE

PHLX

BSE

CSE

21.31
13.54
19.19
2227
25.58
20.11
18.83
19.42
22.53
22.84
28.41
29.74
27.61
19.03
1842
1822
1375
1028
8.97
9.35
9.56
10.65
10.85
10.78
9.32
6.96
7.45
526
5.78
628
5.57
4.95
6.02
623
5.52
5.74
5.53

1.77
2.16
2.09

2.98
3.11
3.08
3.11
3.41
2.95
2.82
2.65
2.33
2.68
2.46
2.64
3.47
3.68
3.72
4.13
3.68
3.48
3.26
3.93
3.72
3.84
327
280
287
3.62
3.56
3.31
3.66
3.68
3.23
3.03
3.34
3.16
3.59
3.19
2.81

1.06
0.97
0.85
0.88
0.79
0.87
0.83
0.93
0.81
0.86
0.87
0.89
122
1.63
1.91
2.21
2.19
1.82
1.54
1.42
1.49
1.49
1.64
1.54
1.55
2.18
220
1.79
1.47
1.53
1.30
129
1.80
1.82
1.60
1.72
1.55

0.66
0.65
0.48
0.38
0.30
0.31
029
029
026
0.40
0.43
0.78
0.51
0.51
0.43
0.59
0.71
0.86
0.85
0.78
0.66
0.60
0.55
0.57
0.51
0.48
065
0.85
1.27
1.33
1.28
1.32
1.64
1.71
1.77
1.57
1.47

0.05
0.09
0.05
0.04
0.04
0.04
0.04
0.03
0.05
0.05
0.02
0.01
0.00
0.02
0.03
0.03
0.04
0.05
0.13
0.44
0.64
0.16
0.28
0.32
0.37
0.38
0.19
0.18
0.15
0.30
0.30
0.39
0.41
0.53
0.86
1.83
1.17

220
2.22
2.34
2.32
2.43
2.63
2.56
2.35
2.63
2.84
3.16
3.52
3.71
4.09
4.40
3.97
3.87
3.96
3.56
3.30
3.84
4.60
5.09
5.48
6.03
6.12
5.73
5.19
526
5.44
4.68
4.66
4.62
4.57

Others 21
6.30
3.16
5.41
2.65
2.67
2.07
1.94
1.44
1.49
1.23
1.06
1.33
1.19
0.69
0.63
0.64
0.62
0.64
0.29
0.16
0.26
0.17
023
021
0.10
007
0.10
0.04
0.03
0.02
0.04
0.02
0.02
0.01
0.01
0.01
0.00

r=revised

11 Share volume for exchanges Includes stocks, rights and wanants; calendar. rather than fiscal, year data is freported in this table.
21 Includes all exchanges not listed Individually.
Source: SEC Form R-31

155

Table 21
DOLLAR VOLUME BY EXCHANGES
(In Percentage)

Total Dollar
Volume
($ In Thousands)

Year
1945
1950
1955
1960
1961
1962
1963
1964
1965
1966
1967
1968
1969
1970
1971
1972
1973
1974
1975
1976
1977
1978
1979
1980
1981
1982
1983
1984
1985
1986
1987
1988
1989
1990
1991r
1992r
1993

$

16,284,552
21,808,284
38,039,107
45,309,825
64,071,623
54,855,293
64,437,900
72,461,584
89,549,093
123,697,737
162,189,211
197,116,367
176,389,759
131,707,946
186,375,130
205,956,263
178,863,622
118,828,270
157,256,676
195,224,812
187,393,084
251,618,179
300,475,510
476,500,688
491,017,139
603,094,266
958,304,168
951.318,448
1,200,127,848
1,707,117,112
2,286,902,788
1,587,950,769
1,847,766,971
1,616,798,075
1,778,154,074
2,032,684,135
2,610,504,390

NYSE
82.75
85.91
86.31
83.80
82.43
86.32
85.19
83.49
81.78
79.77
77.29
73.55
73.48
78.44
79.07
77.77
82.07
83.63
85.20
84.35
83.96
83.67
83.72
83.53
84.74
85.32
85.13
85.61
85.25
85.02
86.79
86.81
85.49
86.15
8620
86.47
8721

11

AMEX

CHIC

PSE

PHLX

BSE

10.81
6.85
6.98
9.35
10.71
6.81
7.51
8.45
9.91
11.84
14.48
17.99
17.59
11.11
9.98
10.37
6.06
4.40
3.67
3.88
4.60
6.13
6.94
7.33
5.41
3.27
3.32
2.26
2.23
2.56
2.32
1.96
2.35
2.33
2.31
2.07
2.08

2.00
2.35
2.44
2.72
2.75
2.75
2.72
3.15
3.44
3.14
3.08
3.12
3.39
3.76
4.00
4.29
4.54
4.90
4.64
4.76
4.79
4.16
3.83
4.33
5.04
5.83
6.28
6.57
6.59
6.00
5.32
5.46
5.46
4.58
4.34
4.28
4.10

1.78
2.19
1.90
1.94
1.99
2.00
2.39
2.48
2.43
2.84
2.79
2.65
3.12
3.81
3.79
3.94
3.55
350
3.26
3.83
3.53
3.64
2.78
2.27
2.32
3.05
2.86
2.93
3.06
3.00
2.53
2.62
2.84
2.77
3.05
2.87
2.38

0.96
1.03
1.03
1.03
1.03
1.05
1.06
1.14
1.12
1.10
1.13
1.13
1.43
1.99
2.29
2.56
2.45
2.03
1.73
1.69
162
1.62
1.80
1.61
1.60
1.59
1.55
1.58
1.49
1.57
1.35
1.33
1.77
1.79
1.54
1.70
1.52

1.16
1.12
0.78
0.60
0.49
0.46
0.41
0.42
0.42
0.56
0.66
1.04
0.67
0.67
0.58
0.75
1.00
1.24
1.19
0.94
0.74
0.61
0.56
0.52
0.49
0.51
0.66
0.85
1.20
1.44
1.33
1.34
1.56
1.63
1.72
1.52
1.35

CSE
0.06
0.11
0.09
0.07
0.07
0.07
0.06
0.06
0.08
0.07
0.03
0.01
0.01
0.03
0.05
0.05
0.06
0.06
0.17
0.53
0.75
0.17
0.35
0.40
0.40
0.43
0.16
0.19
0.18
0.41
0.35
0.49
0.54
0.74
0.83
1.09
1.37

Others 21
0.48
0.44
0.47
0.49
0.53
0.54
0.66
0.81
0.82
0.68
0.54
0.51
0.31
0.19
0.24
0.27
0.27
0.24
0.14
0.02
0.01
0.00
0.02
0.01
0.00
0.00
0.04
0.00
0.00
0.00
0.00
0.00
0.00
0.00
0.Q1
0.00
0.00

r=revised
11 Dollarvolume for exchanges includes stocks, rights and warrants; calendar, rather than fiscal, year data Is reported Inthis
table.
2/ InclUdesall exchanges not listed individually.
Source: SEC Form R-31

156

~~o~~~<O~
...:

..

LL)~

~:;;;1;00lB
"'lew')
N

~

N

...
..,

.,

E
:>

z

~
[J)

W
(!J

Z

<eM

Ie>
O~
X
W~

M

"'Z ....
"'OlD

:lio~
roW
lD
1-1-0
enlD0
::::i

en
W
i=

a:
::J

o
W

en

~~o:::~::;:O)~
COT-

..-

e-J

N

c.;

157

I ClUIt:J ~"

VALUE OF STOCKS LISTED ON EXCHANGES
($ in Billions)

NewYorl<

American

As of

Stock

Stock

Dec 31

Exchange

Exchange

1938
1940
1941
1942
1943
1944
1945
1946
1947
1948
1949
1950
1951
1952
1953
1954
1955
1956
1957
1958
1959
1960
1961
1962
1963
1964
1965
1966
1967
1968
1969
1970
1971
1972
1973
1974
1975
1976
1977
1978
1979
1980
1981
1982
1983
1984
1985
1986
1987
1988
1989
1900
1991
1992
1993
Source: SEC Form 1392

158

$ 47.5

$ 10.8

46.5
41.9
35.8
47.6
55.5
73.8
68.6
68.3
67.0
76.3
93.8
109.5
120.5
117.3
169.1
207.7
219.2
195.6
276.7
307.7
307.0
387.8
345.8
411.3
474.3
537.5
482.5
605.8
692.3
629.5
636.4
741.8
871.5
721.0
511.1
685.1
858.3
776.7
822.7
960.6
1,242.8
1,143.8
1,305.4
1,5222
1,529.5
1,882.7
2,128.5
2,132.2
2,366.1
2,903.5
2,692.1
3,547.5
3,877.9
4,314.9

10.1
8.6
7.4
9.9
11.2
14.4
13.2
12.1
11.9
12.2
13.9
16.5
16.9
15.3
22.1
27.1
31.0
25.5
31.7
25.4
242
33.0
24.4
26.1
28.2
30.9
27.9
43.0
612
47.7
39.5
49.1
55.6
38.7
23.3
29.3
36.0
37.6
39.2
57.8
103.5
89.4
77.6
80.1
52.0
63.2
70.3
67.0
84.1
100.9
69.9
90.3
86.4
98.1

Exclusively
On Other
Exchanges
$ .....

Total
$

58.3
56.6
50.5

3.0
3.1
3.3
3.2
3.1
2.8
3.6
4.0
3.6
3.1
4.3
4.2
4.1
5.3
4.0
4.3
4.3
4.7
4.0
3.9
6.0
5.4
4.8
4.7
5.6
4.1
2.9
4.3
42
42
2.9
3.9
2.9
5.0
6.8
6.6
5.8
5.9
6.5
5.9
4.9
4.6
3.9
4.3
5.9
72

43.2
57.5
66.7
88.2
81.8
80.4
81.9
91.6
111.0
129.2
140.5
135.4
194.8
238.8
254.0
224.2
312.7
337.3
335.3
426.1
374.2
441.7
506.8
573.1
514.4
652.7
759.5
682.6
680.7
795.6
932.7
763.8
537.3
718.7
898.5
818.5
864.8
1,022.3
1,349.2
1,2382
1,389.7
1,608.8
1,587.3
1,951.8
2,205.3
2,205.1
2,455.1
3,009.0
2,765.9
3,642.1
3,970.2
4,4202

Table 24

APPROPRIATED

FUNDS vs FEES' COLLECTED

$ Millions

~\

I[

I,

586.2

f ~

,/

I

j r
i t~
f

450

f-I,

t,

j

400

rt

~

r

350

,~
e
@

l

1'\/1
6\,

250

200

sJ

/

150

100

t

I

300

APPROPRIATED
FUNDING

~',-~
,

/trf

l

i

I

t

Jl

~

~

f'

t

!

...,t'J

.,....,..1
_./

f

FEES

~

COLLECTED

~

~~
50

J&

I'

lr 260.3

,

....

l

~

o
FY1976

80

78
Tl

79

84

82
81

83

8B

86

85

87

92

90
89

94

91

r

93

* Excludes disgorgements from fraud actions.
[/ FY1991 appropriated funding has been adjusted to exclude
offsetting collections not in appropriated estimates.

159

1fiO

5

"l

I

Z

3 


2


0

U.S. Securities and Exchange Commission

