v

J

1

9

9

5

Annual Report

United States
Securities and Exchange Commission

UNITED STATES
SECURITIES AND EXCHANGE COMMISSION
WASHINGTON, D C. 20549
THE

CHAIRMAN

The Honorable Albert Gore, [r.
President of the United States Senate
Washington, D.C. 20510

The Honorable Newt Gingrich
Speaker of the House of Representatives
Washington, D.C. 20515

Gentlemen:
I am pleased to transmit the annual report of the Securities and Exchange
Commission (SEC) for fiscal year 1995. The activities and accomplishments
set forth in the annual report continue the Commission's long tradition of
hard work and high achievement.
I would like to take this opportunity
to offer my views of the Commission's progress in addressing several of
the major issues facing the Commission.
Munictpal Debt Markets

In recent years, the Commission and the municipal securities industry
have taken several major steps to prepare the debt markets for the twentyfirst century. The Municipal Securities Rulemaking Board has effectively
severed the link between political campaign contributions and municipal
bond underwriting business with its Rule G-37. This rule recently withstood
a challenge in the U.S. Court of Appeals, reaffirming industry and regulatory
efforts to curtail the insidious practice known as "pay-to-play." In addition,
the Commission has undertaken a number of enforcement actions to help
ensure the integrity of this market.
The Commission has also been concerned about inadequate disclosure
in the secondary market for municipal securities. In response, industry and
issuer groups offered recommendations
that were incorporated
into
Commission rule amendments and will make up-to-date information more
readily available.
In addition, the Commission has met with state and local officials
throughout our nation in an open dialogue about the prudent management
of public funds. We have stressed the importance of safety and liquidity
over risk and return as well as the special responsibilities involved in
seeking capital through our public markets.

iii

Promoting Capital Formation
Throughout its existence, the Commission has balanced the need for
full disclosure and investor protection against the burden that its rules,
regulations, and requirements may impose on capital formation. This year,
we undertook two fundamental reappraisals of the way the agency regulates.
First, an SEC Advisory Cornrruttee on Capital Formation and Regulatory
Processes was appointed to examine our regulatory approach and consider
how it might be improved.
The Committee is considering such questions
as whether the Commission should register compames instead of securities.
The Cornrruss ion also created an mterrial Task Force on Disclosure
Simplification, which analyzed the cost to companies (in both time and legal
fees) of complying with the agency's form and filing requirements.
The
Task Force reviewed hundreds of forms and regulations and recommended
amendment or elimination of many of them. If implemented in its entirety,
the report's recommendations would eliminate or modify one-half of the
rules and one-fourth of the forms that affect corporate America.
In recent years, the Commission has created a new, simpler registration
and disclosure regime for small businesses seeking capital in the securities
markets. During 1995, the Commission proposed to allow small businesses
to "test the waters" with registered initial public offerings and we shortened
the restricted holding periods for privately placed securities under Rule 144.
The agency also worked with Congress to craft a "safe harbor" provision
in securities litigation reform legislation that might encourage corporations
to disclose forward-looking information by protecting them from some of
the liability concerns raised by frivolous lawsuits.
DIsclosure Developments
The Commission has launched several efforts to simplify and streamline
disclosure. In 1995, the Commission worked with the investment company
Industry and state securities regulators to develop the "profile prospectus,"
a clear, one-page summary that accompanies the regular prospectus and
is designed to give investors a better understanding of the mutual fund they
are considering buying. Pilot "profiles" developed by eight fund groups
have been available to investors since August 1, 1995.
Toward the same end, the Commission proposed improved disclosure
requirements for money market funds. The new standards are designed
to simplify money market fund prospectuses considerably, making them
less costly to prepare and allowing investors to focus on a short document
that contains the most essential Information about the fund.
Enhancing Investor Protections
Under the Commission's regulatory scheme, securities firms and selfregulatory organizations serve as the front-line defense against violations
of the securities laws. The Commission's enforcement, examination, and
investor education activities back up that defense.

iv

In the past year, the Commission continued its traditionally vigorous
enforcement program. Recent notable cases have involved domestic and
international insider trading, Ponzi schemes, government securities fraud,
misleading disclosures, kickbacks or conflicts of interest related to munici pal
securities offerings, broker-dealer sales practice abuses, "prime bank notes,"
and the relatively new problem of unregistered securities offerings over
the Internet.
In May 1995, the Commission consolidated its examination and
inspection activities into the Office of Compliance Inspections
and
Examinations (OCIE). The Commission created OCIE to conduct and
coordinate examinations of brokers, dealers, self-regulatory organizations,
investment companies and advisers, and transfer agents. One reason the
office was created was to enable the SEC to better coordinate its examinations
with fellow regulators, and I am pleased to report that we have already
reached an important agreement with our colleagues that will reduce
duplication of effort for us as well as for the firms we examine.
Working with the industry self-regulatory organizations and state
regulators, the Commission also conducted a sales practice sweep of small
and medium-sized brokerage firms. The objective of the sweep was to
identify problem brokers and to ensure that appropriate
superVIsory
mechanisms are in place and, where necessary, to take appropriate
enforcement action.
The Commission's
Office of Investor Education and Assistance
continued its concerted efforts to reach out to investors. With the help and
cooperation of the securities industry and state regulators, the office
continued its highly popular investor town meetings to offer tips on how
to invest wisely. Other outreach efforts during the year include the creation
of an SEC site on the World Wide Web, which offers corporate financial
information from our Electronic Data Gathering, Analysis, and Retrieval
System (EDGAR) as well as SEC News Digests, litigation releases, speeches,
testimony before Congress, rule proposals, press releases and investor
alerts. For those who lack Internet access, the Commission also created a
toll-free investor information line.
International Listings
During the year, the agency worked to reduce costs for foreign
companies entering the U.S. markets by simplifying the registration and
reporting process while maintaining high Ll.S. disclosure standards. At a
time when cross-border listings in other major markets have either hit a
plateau or declined, foreign issuer participation in the u.s. markets has
grown dramatically in the 1990s-the Commission had a record 738 foreign
listings at the beginning of 1996.

* * *

v

I believe that this is one of the most important periods in the
Commission's existence. The American corporate community, the securities
industry, and our capital markets are changing rapidly. Stocks and bonds
are rapidly becoming the investment vehicles of choice for an increasing
number of Americans. The Commission-working
closely wi th the Congress,
the private sector, and the Investors we are bound to serve-is working to
meet the challenges posed by these changes. I have every confidence that
the Commission will continue to perform its responsibilities
with the
professionalism and dedication that all of us have come to expect.

Sincerely,

#JL

Arthur Levitt
Chairman

vi

Table of Contents
Commission Members and Principal Staff Officers

XI

Biographies of Commission Members

xiii

Arthur Levitt"

Steven M.H. Wallman

Regional and District Offices

xv

Enforcement
Key 1995 Resul ts

1

Enforcement Authority"
Enforcement Activities" Investor Education and Assistance Activities" Sources for Further Inquiry
International Affairs
Key 1995 Resul ts

21

Arrangements for Mutual Assistance and Exchanges of Information ..
Enforcement Cooperation"
Technical Assistance" International
Organizations and Multilateral Initiatives" Trade Negotiations
Regulation of the Securities Markets
Key 1995 Resul ts

27

Securities Markets, Trading, and Significant Regulatory Issues ..
Oversight of Self-Regulatory Organizations
Investment Management Regulation
Key 1995 Resul ts

38

Significant Investment Company Act Matters" Significant Investment Advisers Act Developments"
Significant Holding Company
Act Developments
Compliance Inspections and Examinations
Key 1995 Resul ts

47

Investment Company and Investment Adviser Inspections" BrokerDealer Examinations" Self-Regulatory Organization Inspections and
Oversight
Full Disclosure
Key 1995 Results

52

Review of Filings .. Rulemaking, Interpretive, and Legislative Matters .. Conferences" Committees and Task Forces
vii

Accounting and Auditing Matters
Key 1995 Resul ts

61

Accounting Related Rules and Interpretations"
Oversight of PrivateSector Standard-Setting"
Oversight of the Accounting Profession's
Initiatives" International Accounting and Auditing Standards
Other Litigation and Legal Activities
Key 1995 Results

67

Significant Litigation Developments"
Significant Adjudication
Developments"
Significant Legislative Developments"
Corporate
Reorganizations"
Ethical Conduct Program
Municipal Securities Initiatives
Key 1995 Resul ts
Municipal Securities Disclosure"

80
Technical Assistance

Economic Research and Analysis
Key 1995 Resul ts

82

Economic Analysis and Technical Assistance
Policy Management and Administrative
Key 1995 Resul ts

Support
84

Policy Management .. Administrative Support
En dn ote s

90

Appe n dix

99

Enforcement Cases Initiated by the Commission During Fiscal
Year 1995 in Various Program Areas" Fiscal 1995 Enforcement
Cases Listed by Program Area" Investigations of Possible
Violations of the Acts Administered by the Commission ..
Administrative Proceedings Instituted During Fiscal Year Ending
September 30, 1995" Injunctive Actions"
Right to Financial
Privacy" Types of Proceedings .. Foreign Restricted List" SelfRegulatory Organizations: Expenses, Pre-tax Income and Balance
Sheet Structure" Consolidated Financial Information of SelfRegulatory Organizations"
Self-Regulatory OrganizationsClearing Corporations, 1994 Revenues and Expenses" SelfRegulatory Organizations-Depositories,
1994 Revenues and
Expenses" Certificate Immobilization"
Investment Companies
and Investment Advisers" Section 13(£)(1)Reports" Exempviii

tions .. Corporate Reorganizations"
The Securities Industry:
Revenues, Expenses, and Selected Balance Sheet Items" Unconsolidated Financial Information for Broker-Dealers" Unconsolidated Annual Revenues and Expenses for Broker-Dealers Doing
a Public Business, 1990-1994" Unconsolidated Balance Sheet for
Broker-Dealers Doing a Public Business Year-end, 1990-1994"
Carrying and Clearing Firms" Securities Industry Dollar in 1994
for Carrying/Clearing Firms" Unconsolidated Revenues and
Expenses for Carrying/Clearing Broker-Dealers" Unconsolidated Balance Sheet for Carrying/Clearing Broker-Dealers ..
Securities Traded on Exchanges: Market Value and Volume"
NASDAQ (Share Volume and Dollar Volume)" Share and
Dollar Volume by Exchanges" Market Value of Equity/Options
Sales on U.S. Exchanges .. Volume of Equity/Options Sales on
U.S. Securities Exchanges" Share Volume by Exchanges ...
Dollar Volume by Exchanges" Securities Listed on Exchanges ...
Value of Stocks Listed on Exchanges" Appropriated Funds vs.
Fees Collected" Budget Estimates and Appropriations"
U.S.
Securities and Exchange Commission Organizational Chart

ix

Commission Members and Principal Staff Officers
(As of November H,1995)
Commissioners*

Term Expires

Arthur Levitt, Chairman
Steven M.H. Wallman, Commissioner

1998
1997

Principal Staff Officers
Michael E. Schlein, Chte] of Staff
Linda C. Quinn, Director, Division oj Corporation Finance
Meredith B. Cross, Deputy Director
William E. Morley, Senior ASSOCIateDIrector
Abigail Arms, ASSOCIateDIrector
Robert A. Bayless, Associate Director
Howard F. Morin, Associate Director
Mauri L. Osheroff, Associate DIrector
Albert S. Dandridge, ill,Associate Director
David A. Sirignano, Senior Legal Advisor
William R. McLucas, Director, DIvision oj Enforcement
Colleen P. Mahoney, Deputy Director
Paul V. Gerlach, Assoczate Director
Thomas C. Newkirk, Associate Director
Gary N. Sundick, Associate Director
Joan E. McKown, Chiej Counsel
Barry R. Goldsmith, Chief Litigation Counsel
Stephen J. Crimmins, Deputy Chief Litigation Counsel
George H. Diacont, Chief Accountant
James A. Clarkson, III, Director of Regional OffIce Operations
Barry Barbash, DIrector, DIvision of Investment Management
Heidi Starn, Associate Director
Vacant, Associate Director
Jack Murphy, Chte] Counsel
Brandon Becker, Director, Division of Market Regulation
Robert L.D. Colby, Deputy Director
Larry E. Bergmann, Associate Director
Jonathan Kallman, Associate DIrector
Howard Kramer, Associate Director
*Commissioner J. Carter Beese resigned from the Commission on November
14,1994, and Commissioner Richard Y. Roberts resigned from the Cornrnission
on July 17,1995.
xi

Michael A. Macchiaroli, Associate Director
Catherine McGuire, Associate Director/Chief Counsel
Holly Smith, Associate Director
Simon Lome, General Counsel, Office of General Counsel
Paul Gonson, Solicitor and Deputy General Counsel
Phillip D. Parker, Deputy General Counsel (Legal Policy)
Anne E. Chafer, Associate General Counsel
Richard M. Humes, Associate General Counsel
Diane Sanger, Associate General Counsel
Jacob H. Stillman, Associate General Counsel
Lori A. Richards, DIrector, Office of Compliance Inspections and Examinations
Mark Fitterman, Associate Director
Mary Ann Gadziala, Associate DIrector
Gene Gohlke, Associate Director
C. Gladwyn Goins, Associate Director
Paul S. Maco, Director, Office of MUnicipal Securities
Michael H. Sutton, Chte] Accountant, OffIce of the Chief Accountant
Brenda Murray, Chief Admmistratiue
Judges

Law Judge, Office of the Administrative

Law

Richard R. Lindsey, Chief Economist, Office of Economic Analysis
Nancy M. Smith, DIrector, Office of Investor Education and Assistance
Victor H. Tynes, Ir., Director, Office of Equal Employment Opportunity
James M. McConnell, Executive Director, Office of the Executive Director
Fernando L. Alegria, Jr., Associate Executive Director
Michael Bartell, Associate Executive Director
Wilson A. Butler, Jr., Associate Executive Director
Vacant, Associate Executive Director
Michael D. Mann, Director, OffIce of International Affairs
Kathryn Fulton, Director, Office of Legislative Affairs
Jennifer Kimball, Director, Office of Public Affairs, Policy Evaluation and Research
Jonathan G. Katz, Secretary of the Commission

xii

Biographies of Commission Members

Chairman

Following
his nomination
by
President Clinton and his confirmation by
the Senate, Arthur Levitt, Jr. was sworn
in as the 25th Chairman of the Securities
and Exchange Commission on July 27,
1993.
Before being nominated
to the
Commission, Mr. Levitt served as the
Chairman of the New York City Economic
Developmen t Corpora tion and, from 1978
to 1989, the Chairman of the American
Stock Exchange.
Throughout his career, Mr. Levitt has been called upon to serve on many
governmental task forces and boards of directors. At the federal level, he has
served on four execu tive branch commissions, including chairing the Whi te House
Small Business TaskForce from 1978 to 1980. Most recently, he was a member
of the President's Base Closure and Realignment Commission and the Defense
Department TaskForce on the National Industrial Base. In addition to heading
the New York City Economic Development Corporation, he chaired the Special
Advisory Task Force on the Fu ture Development of the Wes t Side of Manha ttan
and the Committee on Incentives and Tax Policy of the New York City Mayor's
Management Advisory TaskForce.
Mr. Levitt has served on 10 corporate and philanthropic boards, including
those of the Equitable Life Assurance Society of the United States, East New
York Savings Bank, First Empire State Corporation, the Revson Foundation,
the Rockefeller Foundation, the Solomon R. Guggenheim Foundation and Williams
College.
Mr. Levitt founded Levitt Media Company in 1986, and served as the
company's Chairman. Its primary holding was Roll Call, the Newspaper of
Congress.

Prior to accepting the Amex chairmanship, Mr. Levitt worked for 16 years
on Wall Street. From 1969 to 1978, he was President and Director of Shears on
Hayden Stone, Inc. (today Smith Barney) whose predecessor firm he joined as
a partner in 1962. Itwas during this period that Mr. Levitt first involved himself
with Amex, becoming one ofits governors in 1975 and in 1977 accepting the
additional position of Vice Chairman.
From 1959 to 1962, Mr. Levitt worked at the Kansas-based agricultural
management firm Oppenheimer Industries, where he rose to the position of
Executive Vice President and Director. From 1954 to 1959, Mr. Levitt was
assistant promotion director at Time, Inc.

xiii

Mr. Levitt, 65, graduated Phi Beta Kappa from WillIams College in 1952
before serving two years in the Air Force. Married since 1955 to the former
Marylin Blauner, Mr. Levitt has two grown children, Arthur III and Lauri.
Commissioner

Steven M.H. Wallman was nominated to
the Securities and Exchange Commission by
President Bill Clinton and confirmed by the
Senate on June 29,1994. He was sworn in as
a Commissioner on July 5, 1994. His term
expires in June 1997.
Before being nominated to the Commission,
Mr. Wallman was in private practice with the
Washington law office of Covington and Burling.
He joined the firm in 1978 as an Associate,
becoming a Partner in 1986. While at Covington
& BurlIng, Mr. Wallman specialized in general
corporate, securities, contract and bus mess law. Mr. Wallman also worked
for the Boston Consulting Group in 1978. He is a member of the American
Law Institute and the American Bar Association.
Mr. Wallman received his J.D. from the Columbia University School of
Law in 1978. In 1976, he earned an S.M. from the Sloan School of Management
at the Massachusetts Institute of Technology and an S.B. from M.LT. in 1975.
He and his wife live in Great Falls, Virginia.
Mr. Wallman was born on November 14, 1953.

xiv

,

,

D

• _
z"'0

"z
!!,5
>~

CJ)

OJ

o
i:

~t3

OlQ)~

a:

!!1

0;0

ra ra
Q)..c c

s~
0«

en

o
o

en
w

•

2

LL
LL

o

....

o

o
a::
....
en
-c

C1l
C

o

Cl
OJ

a:

*

c
z

~


-I

~


z

Q
e
w

a::

o
w
en

:>

<
::>

o

t3

•\

1
_0

5~

010

&~
<3
<J

.;: c
<3 ra
ra ~
a..L1.
c
ra

en

xv

Central Regional Office
Robert H. Davenport, Regionalfarector
1801 California St., Suite 4800
Denver, CO 80202-2648
(303) 391-6800
Fort Worth District Office
T. Christopher Browne,
DIstnctAdmirustrator
801 Cherry Street, 19th Floor
Fort Worth, TX 76102
(817) 334-3821
Salt Lake District Office
Kenneth D.Israel, District Admirustrator
50 S. Mam Street, Suite 500
Salt Lake City, UT 84144-0402
(801) 524-5796

Midwest Regional Office
Mary Keefe,RegionalDirector
GbcorpCenter
500 W. Madison St., SUIte 1400
Chicago, IL 60661-2511
(312) 353-7390

Northeast Regional Office
Richard H. Walker, Regional Director
7 World Trade Center, Suite 1300
New York, NY 10048
(212) 748-8000
Boston District Office
[uan M. Marcelino, District Adrrunistrator
73 Tremont Street
Sixth Floor, Suite 600
Boston, MA 02108-3912
(617) 424-5900
Philadelphia
District Office
Donald M. Hoed, DistrictAdministrator
The Curtis Center, SUIte 1005 E.
601 Walnut Street
Philadelplua,PA
19106-3322
(215) 597-3100

xvi

Pacific Regional Office
Elaine M. Cacheris, Regional Director
5670 Wilshire Blvd., 11 th Hoor
Los Angeles, CA 90036-3648
(213) 965-3998
San Francisco District Office
David B.Bayless, District Administrator
44 Montgomery Street, Suite 1100
San Francisco, CA 94104
(415) 705-2500

Southeast Regional Office
Charles V. Senatore, Regronal'Oirector
1401 Brickell Avenue, SUIte 200
Miami, FL 33131
(305) 536-4700
Atlanta Disbict Office
Richard P, Wessel,
DIstrictAdmirustrator
3475 Lenox Road, N.E.
Suite 1000
Atlanta, GA 30326-1232
(404) 842-7600

Enforcement

The Commission's enforcement program is designed to protect investors
and foster confidence by preserving the integrity and efficiency of the securities
markets. The enforcement program's principal legislative mandates contain
explicit authority for the agency to conduct investigations and prosecute
violations of the securities laws by bringing enforcement actions in federal
court or instituting administrative proceedings before the Commission. Last
year, as in prior years, the Commission maintained a strong presence in all
areas within its jurisdiction.
Key 1995 Results

In 1995, the Commission ins ti tu ted a significan t number of enforcemen t
actions in response to a wide range of securities law violations.
In its
administrative
and judicial proceedings,
the Commission sought and
obtained relief from a broad and flexible array of remedies designed to
protect investors and the public interest. Investor complaints and inquiries
continued to provide the Commission with information on potential securi ties
fraud and abuse. During 1995, nearly one-fifth of the investigations initiated
by the Commission stemmed, in part, from investor complaints.
The Commission obtained court orders requiring defendants to disgorge
illicit profi ts of over $994 million. Civil penal ties authorized by the Securi ties
Enforcement Remedies and Penny Stock Reform Act of 1990 (Remedies Act),
the Insider Trading Sanctions Act of 1984 (ITSA), and the Insider Trading
and Securities Fraud Enforcement Act of 1988 (ITSFEA) totaled over $34
million. In some instances, the payment of disgorgement pursuant to a court
order was waived based upon the defendant's demonstrated inability to
pay. Courts also have noted in some cases that civil penalties were
appropriate but were not imposed because of a demonstrated inability to
pay.

Total Enforcement Actions Initiated
1991

1992

1993

1994

1995

Total

320

394

416

497

486

Civil Injunctive Actions
Administrative Proceedings
Civil and Criminal Contempt
Proceedings
Reports of Investigation

172
138

156
226

172
229

196
268

171
291

9
1

11
1

15
0

33
0

23
1

In Commission-related
cases, criminal authorities obtained 92 criminal
indictments
or informations,
and 98 convictions
during 1995. The
Commission granted access to its files to domestic and foreign prosecutorial
authorities in 285 instances.
Over 42,500 complaints and inquiries were analyzed and responded
to dunng 1995, an increase of 10 percent over 1994. Approximately 50
percent of the complaints involved broker-dealers,
while the remainder
involved issuers, mutual funds, banks, transfer and clearing agents,
investment advisers, and various financial and non-financial matters. More
than 2,900 complaints were referred to the Commission's operating divisions,
self-regulatory organizations (SROs), and other regulatory entities for review
or action.
Enforcement Authority

The Commission has broad authority to investigate possible violations
of the federal securities laws. Informal investigations are conducted on a
voluntary baSIS, with the Commission requesting persons with relevant
information to cooperate by providing documents and testifying before SEC
staff. The federal securities laws also empower the Commission to conduct
formal investigations in which the Commission has the authority to issue
subpoenas that compel the production of books and records and the
appearance of witnesses to testify. Generally, both types of investigations
are conducted on a confidential, non-public basis.
Traditionally,
one of the Commission's
principal
enforcement
rnecharusrns for addressing violative conduct has been the federal court
injunction, which prohibits fu ture violations. In civil actions for injunctive
relief, the Commission is authorized to seek temporary restraining orders
and preliminary injunctions as well as permanent injunctions against any
person who is violating or about to violate any provision of the federal
securities laws. Once an injunction has been imposed, conduct that violates
the injunction is punishable by either civil or criminal contempt, and violators
are subject to fines or imprisonment.
In addition to seeking such orders,
the Commission often seeks other equitable relief such as an accounting
and disgorgement of illegal profits. When seeking temporary restraining
orders, the Commission often requests a freeze order to prevent concealment
of assets or dissipation of the proceeds of illegal conduct. The Remedies
Act authorized the Commission to seek, and the courts to Impose, civil
penalties for any violation of the federal securities laws (with the exception
of insider trading violations for which penalties are available under ITSA
and ITSFEA). The Remedies Act also affirmed the existing equitable authority
of the federal courts to bar or suspend individuals from serving as corporate
officers or directors.
The Commission has the authority
to Institute several types of
adrnirustra tive proceedings, in addition to civil injunctive actions. The
Commission may institute administrative
proceedings against regulated
entities In which the sanctions that may be imposed include a censure,
limitation on activities, and suspension or revocation of registration.
The
Commission may impose similar sanctions on persons associated with such
2

entities and persons affiliated with investment
companies.
In addition,
individuals participating
in an offering of penny stock may be barred by
the Commission from such participation.
In administrative
proceedings
against regulated entities and their associated persons, the Remedies Act
also au thorized the Commission to impose penalties and order disgorge men t.
The Remedies Act further authorized
the Commission
to institute
administrative
proceedings in which it can issue cease and desist orders.
A permanent
cease and desist order can be entered against any person
violating the federal securities laws, and may require disgorgement
of
illegal profits. The Commission also is authorized to issue temporary cease
and desist orders (If necessary, on an ex parte basis) against regulated entities
and their associated persons if the Commission determines that the violation
or threatened
violation is likely to result in significant dissipation
or
conversion of assets, significant harm to investors, or substantial harm to
the public interest prior to the completion of proceedings.
Section 8(d) of the Securities Act of 1933 (Securitres Act) enables the
Commission to institute proceedings
to suspend the effectiveness
of a
registration
statement
that contains false and misleadmg
statements.
Administrative
proceedings pursuant to Section 15(c)(4) of the Securities
Exchange Act of 1934 (Exchange Act) can be instituted against any person
who fails to comply, and any person who is a cause of failure to comply,
with reporting, beneficial ownership, proxy, and tender offer requirements.
Respondents can be ordered to comply, or to take steps to effect compliance,
with the relevant provisions. Pursuant to Rule 102(e) of the Commission's
Rules of Practice (former Rule 2(e)), administrative
proceedings
can be
instItuted
against professionals
who appear or practice before the
Commission, including accountants and attorneys.
The sanctions that can
be imposed in these proceedings
include suspensions
and bars from
appearing or practicing before the Commission.
The Commission is authorized to refer matters to other federal, state,
or local authorities or SROs such as the New York Stock Exchange (NYSE)
or the National Association of Securities Dealers (NASD). The staff often
provides substantial assistance to the Department of Justice for the criminal
prosecution of securities violations.
Enforcement Activities
Set forth below are summaries
of significant enforcement
actions
initiated in various areas during 1995. Defendants
or respondents
who
consented to settlements of actions did so without admitting or denying
the factual allegations contained
in the complaint or order instituting
proceedings.
See Table 2 for a listing of all enforcement actions instituted
In 1995.
Offering Cases
Securities offering cases involve the offer and sale of securities in
violation of the registration provisions of the Securities Act. In some cases,
the issuers attempt to rely on exemptions from the registration requirements
that are not available under the circumstances.
Offering cases frequently
3

involve material misrepresentations
concerning, among other things, use
of proceeds, risks associated with investments, disciplinary history of
promoters or control persons, business prospects, promised returns, success
of prior offerings, and the financial condition of issuers.
1. Offerings over the Internet
The Internet and the various commercial on-line computer services
have become a popular source of information about many areas of public
interest, including securities. In some cases, however, communications over
the Internet also have been used to solicit the purchase of unregistered
securrties or to further securities frauds. In SEC v. Block,' for example, the
Commission alleged that the defendant used the Internet to advance a
"pnme bank" scheme. (Other prime bank schemes are described below.)
Potential investors were promised that their funds would be doubled in
as little as four months and that their investments were guaranteed against
loss by a "Prime Bank Guarantee" that would be used as security. In fact,
no such prime bank instrument existed, and the defendant failed to disclose
the risks associated with the investments, or how the promised returns
would be generated. On September 14, 1995, the Commission obtained a
preliminary injunction and an asset freeze in these pending proceedings.
The Commission alleged that the defendant in SEC v. Odulo? posted
a false and misleading solicitation on the Internet seeking investors for a
$500,000 offering of$I,OOOdenomination bonds. According to the complaint,
the defendant represented that the bonds would yield a "whopping 20%
rate of return" and were "a very low risk" investment. The defendant failed
to disclose that the proceeds were sought to fund a proposed new venture
involving the acquisition and raising of eels, and failed to disclose his lack
of expertise in the culturing of eels. To lend credibility to the offering, the
defendant created false endorsements of the bonds by fictitious investment
advisers and falsely stated that all investments were insured against possible
loss. The defendant consented to the entry of an injunction.
In SEC v. Pleasure Time Inc.,3 the defendants allegedly recruited investors
for a "multi-level marketing" system by telephone, fax, and postings on the
Internet. Investors were told that they could reap enormous profits from
a world-wide telephone lottery with projected receipts of $300 million. The
defendants failed to disclose the legal, regulatory, and technical obstacles
to starting such a lottery. The Commission obtained a preliminary injunction
m this case, and one of the defendants has consented to the entry of an
injunction.
2. Przme Bank Schemes

Schemes to sell so-called "prime bank" securities continue to appear.
The typical case involves the offer and sale of notes, debentures, letters of
credit, or guarantees purportedly issued by one or more major international
banks. Investors in these schemes are typically promised unrealistic rates
of return, e.g., a 150 percent annualized rate of "profits." In SEC v. Gallard.'
the Commission alleged that John Gallard, Adrian Gallard, and their

4

company, The Aberdeen Group, Inc., defrauded investors through their
operation of a scheme to sell fraudulent "prime bank" securities.
The
Commission alleged that, since 1992, defendants defrauded investors of
over $2.3 million in the offer and sale of fictitious securities. Defendants
falsely represented that they could obtain debt instruments issued by "top
world banks" at a deep discount from face value and could arrange for the
resale of the securities at a tremendous profit to investors. In fact, the
securities did not exist, and defendants, instead of delivering the securities
as promised, simply kept the large deposits they had induced investors to
pay, and fabricated defaults by the investors to justify the "forfeiture" of
the "refundable" deposits. This action was pending at the end of the year.
In SEC v. Norton? the Commission charged four individuals with
engaging in a fraudulent "prime bank" scheme that resulted in one investor
losing $765,000 and another investor losing $125,000. According to the
complaint, the defendants raised funds from investors by falsely promising
them extraordinary profits and a risk-free investment if they deposited
funds in an escrow account at a law firm. The investors were told that their
funds would be used to facilitate the purchase and sale of prime bank notes
supposedly issued by the top banks in the world. In fact, as alleged in the
complaint, the investors' funds were misappropriated.
These proceedings
are pending.
3. Telecommunications

Cases

The Commission also has filed actions arising from the solicitation of
interests in ventures purportedly developing advanced telecommunication
technologies. These cases typically arise from the fraudulent, unregistered
sale of securities in ventures ostensibly involved in wireless cable, specialized
mobile radio, interactive
video and data services,
and similar
telecommunication
technologies.
While many telecommunications
technology
companies
raise capital through legitimate
means, the
Commission has uncovered numerous fraudulent ventures, which often
take the form of limited liability companies or partnerships that promoters
falsely represent as outside the registration provisions of the federal securities
laws, and which often are promoted through "infomercials" and highpressure telephone sales pitches.
The Commission's complaint in SEC v. United Communications,
Ltd. 6
alleged a scheme that induced approximately 3,000 investors natiorrwrde
to investover$40 million in "membership units" in limited liability companies
that purportedly were developing wireless cable television systems. The
defendants
used high pressure "boiler room" telemarketing
tactics,
misrepresented
the returns that Investors could expect, and omitted to
disclose risks. They represented that investors would receive a return of
up to 400 percent within a few years, at minimal risk, while using millions
of dollars of investor funds for their own purposes. Three individuals and
four companies, including United Communications, Ltd., consented to the
entry of injunctions. In addition, United Communications and two of the

5

settling individuals agreed to disgorge a total of $12,334,040. A relief
defendant, TechniVision, Inc., also agreed to disgorge $7 million. This
action was pending as to other defendants at the end of the year.
In SEC v. Future Vision Direct Marketing, lnc.,' the Commission alleged
a scheme involving the fraudulent offer and sale of "membership interests"
in limited liability companies, and partnership
interests in a limited
partnership, formed to fund wireless cable television operations in Venezuela.
The defendants raised approximately $3 million from the sale of membership
interests in the limited liability companies, and approximately $310,000
from sales of limited partnership interests.
Offering matenals failed to
disclose material information concerning, among other things, the principals'
primary roles In the offerings, loans from the principals to the limited
liability companies, and prior criminal and/or CIvil fraud actions against
certain of the defendants.
Investor funds also were misappropriated
by
certain defendants. The Commission obtained a preliminary injunction and
an asset freeze in this action, which was pending at the end of the year.
In SEC v. Telecom Marketing,
Inc.,8 the Commission alleged that the
defendants violated the antifraud and registration provisions of the federal
securities laws through the offer and sale of as much as $28.5 million in
investment contracts by Telecom Marketing, Inc. and two other firms. The
investment contracts involved are units in two general partnerships formed
to invest in wireless cable television systems in Mobile, Alabama and Madison,
Wisconsin.
The partnership
units in question were sold to over 2,600
investors residing throughout the United States at prices ranging from
$3,750 to $5,450 per unit. Both offerings were sold by a network of boiler
rooms. Among other things, the offering materials failed to disclose the
relatively low prices paid by the promoters for the assets to be transferred
to the partnerships, or the correspondingly
large profits to be made by the
promoters on the transactions.
Finally, the offering materials for both
offerings disclosed sales commissions of 15 percent, when in fact the boiler
rooms received sales commissions of 50 percent of the funds they raised.
The Commission obtained a preliminary injunction, an asset freeze, and the
appointment of a receiver in these pending proceedings.
In SEC v. Qualified Pensions, lnc.i" the Commission alleged that Qualified
Pensions, Inc. (QPI) and Jerry G. Allison misappropriated
at least $4.5
million in retirement savings entrusted to QPI to be maintained in individual
retirement accounts (IRA) and other retirement savings plans. More than
14,500 individuals were induced to transfer at least $270 million of their
retirement savings to accounts at QPI, which permitted investors to purchase
illiquid, unregistered securities that generally cannot be purchased in IRA
accounts at banks or broker-dealers.
In addition, promoters of speculative
telecommunication
technology securities, many of which involve frauds,
sent QPI account opening documents to prospective investors along with
their own promotional materials, and encouraged investors to invest their
retirement savings in the offered securities through QPI. The complaint
alleges that at least $72 million of QPI's customers' funds were invested

6

in telecommunication
technology securities. The Commission obtained a
preliminary injunction, an asset freeze, and the appointment of a receiver
in these pending proceedings.
4. Other Offering Cases

The' Commission filed an action against Irwin H. "Sonny" Bloch, a
"consumer advocate" and radio talk show host alleging that Bloch and
entities under his control defrauded investors of $3.8 million in connection
with the sale of unregistered membership interests in three limited liability
companies formed to acquire certain AM radio stations in Florida. In SEC
v. Blocli." the Commission alleged, among other things, that the defendants
distributed offering materials that contained material misrepresentations
and omissions concerning the projected value of an investment, and the
projected revenues, expenses, and growth rate of the radio stations. In
addition, Bloch diverted over $1 million in investor funds to himself and
his spouse and to companies under their control. This action was pending
at the end of the year.
In SEC v. Bennett," the Commission alleged that The Foundation for
New Era Philanthropy and John G. Bennett, Jr. engaged in a massive scheme
by which hundreds of non-profit organizations, including churches, charities,
and universities, were defrauded out of at least $100 million. The defendants
purported
to operate an investment
program in which non-profit
organizations were induced to invest for a period of six months, with
promises that they would receive back twice the amount of their investments
through a "matching fund" supplied by anonymous benefactors. In fact,
there were no benefactors, and New Era was operating a "Ponzi" scheme,
In which funds obtained from newer investors were used to meet obligations
to prior investors. The Commission obtained a preliminary injunction and
an asset freeze in these proceedings, which were pending at the end of the
year.
The Commission's action in SEC v. lnternattonal Breeders, Inc.12 involved
the fraudulent sale of unregistered partnership interests in ostrich breeding
ventures.
The defendants offered the interests through high-pressure,
boiler room sales tactics, and raised at least $6.5 million from over 700
investors. Among other things, the defendants misrepresented to investors
that they could receive returns of 500 percent or more. In addition, defendants
failed to disclose that ostrich breeding is a high-risk, highly speculative
investment, or that many of the defendants had been ordered by several
states to cease and desist the offer and sale of ostrich investments.
The
Commission obtained a preliminary injunction and an asset freeze in these
proceedings, which were pending at the end of the year.
In SEC v. Naiman P the Commission alleged that Gary F. Naiman, the
president of Pioneer Mortgage Company, offered and sold $238 million of
trust deed investments to approximately 2,500 elderly investors without
disclosing Pioneer's poor financial condition, the increasing number of
borrowers who were defaulting on the loans underlying the trust deeds,

7

or Naiman's diversion of inves tor funds for unau thorized purposes. Naiman
consented to the entry of an injunction and an order requiring him to
disgorge $164,031,701, plus interest.
Financial Disclosure
Actions involving false and misleading disclosures concerning matters
that affect the financial condition of an issuer, or involving the issuance
of false financial statements, often are complex and, in general, demand
more resources than other types of cases. Effective prosecution in this area
is essential to preserving the integrity of the full disclosure system. The
Commission brought 71 cases containing significant allegations of financial
disclosure violations against issuers, regulated entities, or their employees.
Many of these cases included alleged violations of the books and records
and internal accounting control provisions of the Foreign Corrupt Practices
Act. The Commission also brought 11 cases alleging misconduct by accounting
firms or their partners or employees.
In SEC v. First Capital Holdings Corp., Inc.,14 the Commission alleged
that First Capital made material misrepresentations and omissions concerning
the financial condition and results of operations of its subsidiary, First
Capital Life Insurance Company (FCL). FCL sought to increase its statutory
capital and surplus under reinsurance agreements that did not support the
recognition of "reserve credits" under California law; as a result, by yearend 1990, First Capital overstated its subsidiaries' consolidated capital and
surplus by over $65 million. First Capital failed to disclose the negative
effect that any reversal of FCL's accounting treatment of reserve credits
would have on First Capital's ability to continue as a going concern. First
Capital consented to the entry of an injunction.
In related proceedings,
First Capital's chief financial officer and chief operating officer each consented
to the entry of cease and desist orders.
In SEC v. Sojtpoini, lnc.i'? the Commission alleged that Softpoint's
earnings and income from 1992 through 1994 were artificially inflated by
the reporting of fictitious software sales in periodic filings and press releases.
Softpoint falsely disclosed the generation of $4.4 million in revenue from
certain sales to foreign distributors (certain of which were under the control
of Softpoint's former president).
In addition, Softpoint issued 420,000
shares of its stock to these foreign distributors, the stock then being sold
in the United States purportedly pursuant to Regulation S. Softpoint falsely
disclosed that funds received from these stock sales were payments on the
receivables from the foreign distributors. Softpoint's president and former
president also sold Softpoint stock while in possession of material nonpublic information about the fraudulent scheme. These proceedings were
pending at the end of the year.
The Commission's complaint in SEC v. Digitran Systems, Incorporated"
alleged that Digitran improperly recognized revenue on several transactions.
Digitran's false claims of having sold simulators to customers resulted in
income statements in which total revenue was inflated by 46 percent to 93
percent. Improperly recognized revenue was reflected in periodic filings,
a registration statement, and p:ess releases. In addition, two of the individual
8

defendants sold Digitran stock while in possession of material non-public
information regarding the company's financial condition and operations.
This case was pending at the end of the year.
The Commission filed an action against four former members of senior
management at Kurzweil Applied Intelligence, Inc., who engaged in a
scheme to inflate Kurzweil's revenues and income at the time of the
company's initial public offering in 1993. In SEC v. Bradetreei,'?
the
Commission alleged Kurzweil recognized revenue from non-existent sales
and from sales that did not meet the requirements of Generally Accepted
Accounting Principles (GAAP). As a result, Kurzweil reported operating
results for 1993 that overstated revenue by $2,760,000, or 25 percent, and
reported a profit of $154,000 instead of a loss of $2,293,000; for the nine
months ended October 31,1993, Kurzweil overstated revenue by $5,736,000,
or 76 percent, and reported net income of $649,000 instead of a loss of
$5,518,000. These misstated results were included in Kurzweil's Form S-l
registration statement and in quarterly reports filed with the Commission.
Two of the individual defendants also sold Kurzweil stock while in possession
of material non-public information concerning the company's true financial
condition. This case was pending at the end of the year.
The Commission issued a Report of Investigation, pursuant to Section
21(a) of the Exchange Act, In the Matter of The Cooper Companies, Inc.,18
concerning the failure of Cooper's board of directors to respond adequately
to information concerning potential misconduct by Gary Singer, Cooper's
former co-chairman, and his brother, Steven Singer, who was then a Cooper
director and its chief administrative officer. Among other things, Gary
Singer failed to disclose a series of transactions by which he caused $6
million in high-yield bonds to be transferred between Cooper accounts and
accounts in the names of his wife and aunt; these unauthorized transactions
deprived Cooper and its shareholders of profits in excess of $560,000. After
the board learned that he had concealed these fraudulent, self-dealing
transactions and thereby caused the company's outstanding reports to be
inaccurate, the board failed to take immediate and effective action to protect
the interests of the company's investors. The board's inaction also allowed
Steven Singer, who was allegedly involved in a frontrunning scheme that
was under investigation by the Commission, to direct the issuance of a press
release on behalf of the company that falsely denied any knowledge of
wrongdoing.
The Commission's report was issued to emphasize the
responsibility of directors to safeguard both the integrity of corporate
statements and the interests of investors, when they become aware of
evidence of fraudulent conduct by management.
The Commission found in In the Matter of Marvin E. Basson, CPA,19 that
the outside auditor of Towers Financial Corporation committed fraud and
engaged in improper professional conduct in connection with his audit and
audit reports on the company's financial statements for the years 1988
through 1991. The financial statements filed by Towers during this period
overstated income and accounts receivable, which were not recorded in
accordance with generally accepted accounting principles. Basson also was
enjoined by consent in related proceedings. The respondent consented to
9

the entry of the Commission's order pursuant to Rule 2(e) (now re-codified
as Rule 102(e» of the Rules of Practice, by which he was denied the privilege
of appearing or practicing before the Commission.
In In the Matter of C. Steven Bolen," the Commission denied the
respondent the privilege of appearing or practicing before the Commission.
Bolen, the former executive vice president and chief financial officer of
Financial News Network, Inc. (FNN), had been enjoined by consent in 1994,
based upon his participation in a fraudulent scheme to inflate FNN's revenues
and earnings for 1989 and the first three quarters of 1990, by, among other
things, causing an overstatement of revenues received from two related
companies and an understatement
of the write-off of the assets of a
discontinued FNN business segment. FNN also had been caused to enter
into numerous equipment sale/leaseback transactions in which the quantity,
type, and value of the equipment being sold; the identities of the sellers;
and the disposition of the proceeds from the transactions were falsified.
Bolen consented to the entry of the Commission's order entered pursuant
to Rule 2(e).
Derivative Securities

The Commission conducted several major investigations involving
transactions in the market for derivative securities.
The Commission
instituted cease and desist proceedings against BT Securities Corporation,
a broker-dealer subsidiary of Bankers Trust New York Corporation. In In
the Matter of BT Securities
Corporation,"
the Commission found that BT
Securities defrauded a customer, Gibson Greetings, Inc., by misrepresenting
the value of Gibson's derivatives portfolio. The actions of BT Securities
caused Gibson to continue to purchase derivatives. In addition, the false
information supplied by BT Securities led Gibson to understate the extent
of its unrealized losses in financial statements filed with the Commission
and distributed to the public. BT Securities consented to the entry of orders
issued by the Commission and the Commodi ty Fu tures Trading Commission
that together required the payment of a penalty of $10 million.
In proceedings related to the action against BT Securities Corporation,
the Commission, in In the Matter of Gibson Greetings, Inc.,22 alleged that
Gibson violated the reporting and books and records provisions of the
federal securities laws in connection with its accounting for and disclosure
of certain derivatives that it had purchased on the advice of BT Securities.
Among other things, Gibson failed to establish internal controls sufficient
to identify such derivative positions and require that they be marked to
market, and to ensure that derivative transactions were properly executed.
The respondents in this matter consented to the entry of the Commission's
cease and desist order.
In SEC v. Schulte,23 the Commission claimed that a securities salesman
fraudulently sold millions of dollars in derivative securities to at least 14
Ohio municipalities and school districts. Schulte allegedly failed to describe
the nature of the risks of the securities, failed to inform investors of the
type of securities being sold, and falsely represented to investors that the
derivatives were guaranteed by the U.S. Government. Total losses sustained
10

by the investors have not been determined, but the Commission alleged
that losses by four of the investors alone exceeded $3.4 million. This case
was pending at the end of the year.
In In the Matter of Van Kampen American Capital Asset Management, Inc.,24
the Cornrrussion alleged the intentional mispricing by the respondent's
portfolio manager of certain derivative securities held in Its portfolio. The
mispricing was intended to conceal a decline in the value of the securities,
and resulted in an overvaluing of the portfolio by $6.88 million and calculation
of net asset value inflated by as much as 76 cents per share. The respondent
consented to the entry of the order by which it was censured and ordered
to pay a civil penalty of $50,000. In related proceedings, the Commission
also took action against the portfolio manager. In In the Matter of Thomas
M. Rogge,25 the Commission alleged, among other things, the respondent
caused Van Kampen's records to reflect that prices for the securities at issue
had been obtained from brokerage firms, when in fact he was pricing the
securities himself. Rogge consented to the entry of a cease and desist order
by which he was ordered to pay a civil penalty of $11,000; he also consented
to a bar from association with any regulated entity.
In In the Matter of Askin Capital Management, L.P.,26 the Commission
alleged antifraud violations in connection with the valuation of portfolios
invested in mortgage derivative securities and other collateralized mortgage
obligations.
Among other things, the respondents,
Askin Capital
Management and its chief executive officer, David Askin, disseminated
misleading performance information to advisory clients and prospective
clients in written reports and oral presentations. The respondents consented
to the entry of cease and desist orders.
Askin Capital Management's
registration was revoked, and Askin was barred from association with
regulated entities and ordered to pay $50,000 to settle pending or fu ture
claims by or on behalf of one or more of the advisory clients of Askin Capital
Management.
Municipal Securities
The Commission has become increasingly concerned with activities in
the municipal securities markets. In recent years, the individual investor
increasingly has become an important player in the market for municipal
securities, both through direct purchases of municipal bonds and through
investments in mutual funds that hold these instruments. Accordingly, the
Commission's enforcement program has been focusing more attention in
this area, resulting in several important enforcement actions being brought
by the Commission in 1995.
The Commission filed an injunctive action, involving alleged political
corruption, against Terry D. Busbee, an elected board member of the Escambia
County Utilities Authority (ECUA), located in Florida, and Preston C. Bynum,
an employee of a broker-dealer firm. In SEC v. Busbee P the Commission's
complaint claims that Busbee and Bynum entered into an arrangement by
which Busbee received financial benefits from Bynum at a time when Bynum's
firm was selected as the senior underwriter or senior managing underwriter
for several issues of ECUA municipal securities. In connection with the
11

arrangement, Busbee allegedly received bank loans of $36,000, repayment
of approximately $27,000 in principal and interest on these loans, and a
direct payment of $3,500. Busbee and Bynum consented to the entry of
injunctions. In addition, Bynum agreed to pay a civil money penalty in
the amount of $25,000 and, in related administrative proceedings, In the
Matter of Preston C. Bynum,28 consented to the entry of an order by which
he was barred from association with regulated entities.
In In the Matter of Derryl w. Peden i" the Commission settled a portion
of the administrative proceeding instituted last year against Thorn, Alvis,
Welch. According to the order instituting the proceeding, a municipal bond
underwriter allegedly engaged in a scheme in which sham transactions were
used to conceal the payment of issuance costs out of bond proceeds, in excess
of amounts permitted under the Internal Revenue Code. The bonds at issue
were sold to finance certain urban renewal projects. Thorn Alvis's president
and its bond counsel allegedly caused Thorn Alvis falsely to represent that
the developer of the projects was providing cash contributions, when, in
fact, part of the bond proceeds were simply being routed through the
developer-by
inflating his fee-to
create the appearance
of cash
contributions. Peden, the bond counsel, consented to the entry of a cease
and desist order, and agreed to disgorge $35,000. The remainder of the
action was pending at the end of the year.
In SEC v. Stifel, Nicolaus and Company, Inc.,J° the Commission alleged
that, between 1989 and 1993, a broker-dealer accepted millions of dollars
in undisclosed payments from certain third parties who sold investments
to municipal bond issuers advised by the broker-dealer.
In advising the
issuers about the purchase of these investments, Stifel defrauded its clients
by failing to disclose its conflict of interest. Stifel consented to the entry
of an injunction and agreed to disgorge $922,741, pay prejudgment interest
on that amount of $263,637, and pay a civil money penalty of $250,000. In
pending proceedings, SEC v. Cochran," the Commission alleged that three
former employees of Stifel failed to comply with their duty to disclose the
same conflicts of interest to the firm's clients.
The Commission alleged in SEC v. Sutliffe,32 that the defendant
defrauded investors by participating
in the preparation
of false and
misleading municipal bond offering circulars. Sutliffe was the undisclosed
promoter and con trol person of two not-for-profi t corpora tions that
participated in 26 public offerings of municipal and corporate bonds that
raised over $107 million to acquire, renovate, and operate nursing homes.
Among other things alleged by the Commission, the offering circular for
one of the offerings contained material misrepresentations
and omissions
concerning the defendant's role as a promoter of the offering, his control
over the issuer, his regulatory history, and the commingling of revenues
from existing nursing homes. Sutliffe consented to the entry of an injunction.
In a related action, SEC v. Goodman P the underwriter's representative and
the underwriter's counsel consented to the entry of injunctions.
In SEC v. Rudi," the Commission alleged the payment of more than
$300,000 in kickbacks to a financial adviser in connection with the offering
of debt securities by New Jersey's Camden County Municipal Utilities
12

Authority. When the financial adviser, Consolidated Financial Management,
Inc., was informed that it would receive a flat fee of $15,000 instead of its
fee in prior offerings of $1 per $1,000 face value of the bonds offered,
Nicholas Rudi, the adviser's president, solicited and ultimately received a
kickback of $200,000 from FIrSt Fidelity Bank, N.A., the underwriter
of the
offer. Joseph Salema, at the time the executive vice-president of Consolidated
Financial Management, also solicited and received a $90,000 kickback from
Robert Jablonski, a commissioner
of the New Jersey Highway Authority,
in exchange for assistance m securing the selection of First Fidelity as lead
underwriter.
Salema and two individuals
associated with First Fidelity
consented to the entry of injunctions and agreed to pay a total of $347,000,
representing
disgorgement
and prejudgment
interest.
This action was
pending as to Rudi, and a financial advisory firm he owns, at the end of
the year.
Insider Trading
Insider trading occurs when a person m possession of material nonpublic information engages in securities transactions or communicates such
information to others who trade. Insider tradmg encompasses more than
trading and tipping by traditional insiders, such as officers or directors who
are subject to a duty to either disclose any materral non-public information
or abstain from trading in the securities of their own company. Violations
also may arise from the transmission or use of materral non-public information
by persons in a variety of other positions of trust and confidence or by those
who misappropriate
such information.
In addition to permanent
injunctions,
the Commission often seeks
ancillary relief, including disgorgement
of any profits gained or losses
avoided. The ITSA penalty provisions authorize the Commission to seek
a civil penalty, payable to the United States Treasury, of up to three times
the profit gained or loss avoided against persons who unlawfully trade in
securities while in possession of material non-public information or who
unlawfully communicate
material non-public mformation
to others who
trade. Civil penalties also can be imposed upon persons who control insider
traders.
During 1995, the Commission brought 45 cases alleging insider
trading violations.
The Commission filed an action against 17 individuals alleging insider
trading in connection wi th 4 AT&T acquisi tion targets: Parad yne Corpora tion,
NCR Corporation, Digi tal Microwave Corpora non, and Terada ta Corpora tion
!SEC v. Brumfield35).
Charles Brumfield, at the time a vice president in
AT&T's Human Resources Department,
used his position at AT&T to learn
of the company's acquisition plans. With the assistance of Thomas Alger,
his close fnend and subordinate at AT&T, Brumfield orchestrated widespread
trading in the securities of the four takeover targets through a circle of
family and friends In New York, New Jersey, Illinois, Florida, and North
Carolina. The combined trading profits of the defendants was approximately
$2.6 million.
In related proceedings,
seven of the defendants
in the
Commission's
action also pled guilty to criminal charges, and an eighth
defendant was convicted after a jury tnal.
13

The Commission filed an action against seven defendants alleging that
they committed insider trading by purchasing the securities of Grumman
Corporation, or by tipping others so that they could purchase Grumman
secunties, shortly before the announcement
of a tender offer by Martin
Marietta Corporation for Grumman's outstanding shares (SEC v. Crocevi.
NIcholas Croce, a Grumman employee directly involved in due diligence
meetings in preparation for the merger, tipped his brother, Frank Croce,
also a Grumman employee, who then tipped their cousin, Frank Sanitate,
who purchased Grumman securities himself and tipped the other defendants.
Frank Sanitate, his five tippees, and six other people to whom these tippees
recommended
Grumman securities, realized gains totaling more than
$640,000. The defendants consented to the entry of injunctions. In addition,
they agreed to pay a total of $295,214 representing
disgorgement,
prejudgment mterest, and civil penalties. In related proceedings, Lawrence
M. Mathe also consented to an injunction based on his trading in and
recommendation
of Grumman securities, and agreed to pay $265,313,
representing disgorgement, prejudgment interest, and a civil penalty.
The Commission alleged that Stephen H. Wagner, an attorney in the
Legal Department of Lockheed Corporation, engaged in insider trading
when he purchased call options for Lockheed stock while in possession of
material non-public information concerning a merger agreement between
Lockheed and Martin Marietta Corporation (SEC v. Wagner3?). Wagner, who
learned of the merger by virtue of his employment in the Legal Department,
bought options that had an expiration date of only 18 days after the date
of purchase and that were "out of the money" (i.e., had an exercise price
that was substantially in excess of the current trading price of Lockheed
common stock). Wagner consented to the entry of an injunction and an
order requiring him to disgorge $42,188, plus prejudgment
interest of
$2,213.87, and to pay an ITSA penalty of $42,188.
The Commission charged two former executives of the Los Angeles
based footwear company, L.A. Gear, Inc., with insider trading (SEC v.
Schwartzberg3R).
The defendants, Gilbert N. Schwartzberg, the former chief
administrative officer and a director of the company, and Arden Franklin,
the former controller of the company, also were charged with falsifying LA
Gear's books and records. In addition, Schwartzberg was charged with
causing LA Gear to file a false and misleading financial report with the
Commission.
Schwartzberg
and Franklin consented
to the entry of
injunctions, and agreed to pay $1 million and $20,185.65, respectively,
representing disgorgernent,
prejudgment interest, and civil penalties. In
addition, Schwartzberg agreed not to serve as an officer or director of any
public company.
In SEC v. Seioaldv" the Commission alleged that on four separate
occasions between July 1990 and January 1991, Jack D. Seibald, while
employed as an equity research analyst at Salomon Brothers Inc., obtained
material non-public information relating to several public companies he
followed and unlawfully conveyed such information to defendants Bernard
Seibald (his brother and a former stockbroker at Prudential Bache Securities),
Stewart R. Spector (his father-m-Iaw and a former managing director of
14

Furman, Selz Inc.), Eric S. Fessler (his friend), and other persons. The
complaint further alleges that after receiving such informa tion from Seibald,
Bernhard, Spector, and Fessler unlawfully traded in the securities of the
subject companies for their own accounts and, in the case of Bernhard and
Spector, for the accounts of the two incorporated entities named in the
action as relief defendants, whose beneficial owners are related to Seibald
and Bernhard. Fessler consented to the entry of an injunction and agreed
to disgorge $53,000 plus $21,594 in prejudgment interest. The proceedings
were pending against the other defendants at the end of the year.
SEC v. Woodward40 involved charges that Richard W. Woodward, an
attorney formerly associated with Cravath, Swaine & Moore, improperly
caused his brother, John T. Woodward, and a friend to purchase the securities
of 12 issuers that were Cravath clients or possible merger partners of Cravath
clients in advance of possible merger and acquisi tion announcemen ts. Those
mergers and acquisitions included the acquisition of Caesars World by ITT,
the acquisition of Neutrogena by Johnson & Johnson, and the proposed
acquisition of CBS, Inc. by QVC, Inc. John Woodward purchased the
securities of the subjects of such mergers and acquisitions, and caused
others to purchase, resulting in total profits of approximately $578,000.
Richard Woodward's friend, and people he caused to trade, made profits
of approximately
$355,000. Richard Woodward and John Woodward
consented to the entry of injunctions.
In addition, Richard and John
Woodward consented to disgorge $25,000 and $85,000, respectively.
Section 15(f) of the Exchange Act and Section 204A of the Advisers Act,
which were enacted as part of ITSFEA, require broker-dealers and investment
advisers to establish, maintain, and enforce written policies and procedures
reasonably designed to prevent the misuse of material non-public information
by such regulated entities or by persons associated with them. In In the
Matter of Gabelli & Company, Inc.,41 the Commission alleged that Gabelli &
Company, a registered broker-dealer
and an indirect majority-owned
subsidiary of Gabelli Funds, Inc. (GFI), and GAMCO, an investment adviser
and a majority-owned subsidiary of GFI, failed to adopt policies, procedures,
and practices reasonably designed to prevent the misuse of material nonpublic information in connection with the purchase and sale of Lynch
Corporation securities, by accounts maintained at the respondents, prior
to a board meeting at which Lynch's board of directors approved Lynch's
fourth quarter and year-end 1991 financial results, and the release of those
financial results.
Specifically, respondents'
policies, procedures, and
practices did not adequately take into account the special circumstances
presented by Mario J. Gabelli's role as chairman of the board of directors
and chief executive officer of Lynch and his roles as de facto chief investment
officer of Gabelli & Company and chief investment officer of GAMCO. The
respondents consented to the entry of a cease and desist order, and, among
other things, agreed to each pay civil penalties of $50,000.

15

Regulated Entities
1. Broker-Dealers

Each year, the Commission files a significant number of enforcement
actions against broker-dealer firms and persons associated with them. The
Commission's actions against broker-dealers often focus on violations of the
net capital and customer protection rules, violations of books and records
provisions, or fraudulent sales practices. The Commission also takes action
against broker-dealer firms and their senior management for failure to
supervise employees with a view to preventing violations of the federal
securities laws.
In SEC v. Stratton Oakmont, Inc.,42 the Commission alleged that a brokerdealer firm had failed to comply with a Commission order entered on March
17, 1994, in a prior enforcement action. The administrative order, to which
Stratton Oakmont had consented, found that the firm had engaged in
fraudulent sales practices, made baseless price predictions, permitted
unauthorized trading in customer accounts, and manipulated the price of
a security. Stratton Oakmont was directed, among other things, to implement
sales practice procedures
recommended
by an independent
outside
consultant appointed by the Commission. The consultant recommended
that Stratton overhaul its operations and sales practices and, among other
things, recommended that Stratton tape record all telephone calls made to
and from its customers, hire additional
supervisors with acceptable
disciplinary and compliance records, hire additional compliance persons,
revamp the system by which Stratton compensates its brokers, take steps
to ensure that all sales scripts used by Stratton brokers are completely
accurate and up-to-date, and make significant changes to the manner by
which Stratton responds to complaints from customers. Stratton refused
to make any of these changes. Following a non-jury trial, the court entered
a permanent injunction requiring Stratton to comply with the Commission's
order.
The Commission alleged a manipulation in the price of securities
issued by Of Counsel Enterprises, Inc., by three broker-dealer firms, F.N.
Wolf & Co., Inc., Hibbard Brown & Co., Inc., and LiC. Wegard & Co., Inc.,
and three individuals who were their principals (In the Matter of F.N. Wolf
& Co., Inc.43). Respondents purchased the securities at ever-increasing
prices, and Wolf & Co. entered ever-increasing bids into the NASDAQ
system. The firms dominated and controlled the market for the securities
and substantially reduced the float. As a result, the price was manipulated
from $3.25 to $8; the securities were then sold to the public at the inflated
price and the respondents
realized profits totaling $5,658,000. These
proceedings were pending at the end of the year.
Stephen Strabala, a former registered representative associated with
a broker-dealer, entered into an agreement with Columbiana County, Ohio,
to invest county funds in U.S. Treasury securities and insured investments
such as certificates of deposit. Strabala subsequently opened a cash and
margin account in the name of "S&S Investments" at a broker-dealer firm
in Omaha, to which a total of $7.735 million in county funds were wired.
16

Strabala used the county's funds to invest in index options, while providing
the county with false confirmations
of transactions in Treasury notes and
certificates of deposit. A net trading loss of $3.5 million was incurred on
the trades. Among other things, Strabala also diverted $334,000 from this
account to pay for a condominium and for other personal purposes. In two
other accounts opened in Detroit and Palo Alto with county funds, losses
of $400,000 and $1.82 million, respectively,
were generated.
Strabala
consented to the entry of an order by which he was barred from association
with any regulated entity (In the Matter of Stephen T. Strabala't). Strabala
also was enjoined in related civil proceedings,
and ordered to disgorge
$334,000, plus prejudgment
interest (SEC v. Straoala't').
In the Matter of H.D. Vest Investment Securities, Inc.46 arose from activi ties
by a registered representative
associated with H.D. Vest, who created an
investment dub, primarily for trading index options, and converted funds
invested in the club to his own use. The registered representative
also used
forged authorizations
to transfer funds from other customer accounts to a
bank account under his control, which funds he also converted.
The
Commission alleged that H.D. Vest failed reasonably
to supervise
the
registered representative;
among other things, the firm failed to place the
employee
under heightened
scrutiny
when it became aware of his
questionable employment
background (including an arbitration filed by a
customer related to his association with another broker-dealer)
and his
request to have discretionary authority for the investment club even though
he knew or should have known that the arrangement
violated the firm's
policy on discretionary trading. H.D. Ves t consented to the entry of an order
by which it was censured, ordered to pay a civil penalty of $50,000, and
required to comply with undertakings
concerning supervision and other
matters.
2. Investment Advisers and Investment

Companies

The Commission
instituted
several
significant
cases involving
investment advisers and investment companies.
The Commission alleged
that Sanjay Saxena, a registered investment adviser and the publisher of
a weekly investment newsletter, raised at least $3.2 million through the sale
to at least 165 investors of interests in an unregistered
investment pool (SEC
v. Saxena'Y]. Saxena promised annual returns in excess of 50 percent, and
further promised that he would repay one-quarter
of any trading losses.
While the pool was Incurring substantial losses, Saxena represented
to his
investors that their investments
were profitable.
After the Commission
commenced its investigation,
Saxena represented
that he would repay
investors in full; however, he failed to repay at least $656,000 to at least
45 investors, who were sent false monthly statements indicating that their
investments were profitable while their funds were in fact being used to
repay other investors. Saxena consented to the entry of an injunction and
an order requiring
him to pay a total of $774,793.04, representing
disgorgement
and prejudgment
and post judgment
interest.
In related
administrative
proceedings,
Saxena consented
to the entry of an order
barring him from association with any regulated entity.
17

Account Management Corporation (AMC), a registered investment
adviser, and two individuals, AMC's president and vice-president, were
charged with inadequately disclosing the firm's allocation policy with respect
to certain profitable transactions in "hot issues" (In the Matter of Account
Corporation'ri, During an 18-month period in 1992 and 1993,
Management
AMC bought and sold securities in 34 initial public offerings that generated
short-term trading profi ts of approximately $337,000. Ins tead of distribu ting
the shares equitably to all of its eligible accounts, the respondents principally
favored certain accounts maintained for non-fee paying customers who
were close friends of the respondents. In addition, trades by such accounts
frequently involved free-riding; that is, purchases were made when there
were inadequate funds in the accounts, so that the purchases were financed
by the proceeds of the subsequent profitable re-sales. In one instance, an
account was not opened until three days after a profit was realized on a
re-sale. The respondents consented to the entry of a cease and desist order
by which they were censured and AMC was ordered to pay a civil penalty
of $100,000.
Between 1990 and 1992, Roger W. Honour allegedly traded personally
in securities that he also was buying or selling for his investment advisory
clients, Including individuals and investment companies. Honour's trading,
which involved a conflict of interest because of the proximity of his trading
to that of his clients and the low trading volume of the securities in comparison
to the size of the trades made for his clients, resulted in total illegal profits
of $115,615. Honour consented to a cease and desist order by which he
was censured and ordered to disgorge $115,615, plus prejudgment interest,
and to pay a civil penalty of $275,000 (In the Matter of Roger W. Honour'T[.
The complaint against John J. Kaweske, a former portfolio manager
with Invesco, a registered investment adviser and complex of mutual funds,
alleged a fraudulent scheme by which Kaweske concealed from Invesco
management certain secret arrangements by which his son directly and
indirectly received commissions from issuers of securities, based upon
purchases of those securities by funds advised by Invesco and managed by
Kaweske; Kaweske allegedly caused two funds to invest in private placements
of two development stage companies, for which his son received finder's
fees (SEC v. Kaweske50). Kaweske also concealed from Invesco and funds
he managed that he was a founder, director, and shareholder in a corporation
whose shares or subsidiary's shares were purchased by the funds.
In
addi tion, Kaweske failed to report a t leas t 47 personal securi ties transactions
to Invesco management; many of these transactions involved securities that
were bought or sold by Invesco funds that Kaweske managed. This case
was pending at the end of the year.
In In the Matter of John Logan Wallace,51 the Commission alleged that
the respondent,
a portfolio manager associated with Oppenheimer
Management Corporation, bought shares in a private placement offering
through a personal account at a registered broker-dealer without properly
reporting this transaction to his employer, as required by Section 17(j) of
the Investment Company Act of 1940 and Rule 17j-l(c), within 10 days of

18

the end of the calendar quarter in which the transaction occurred. Wallace
consented to the entry of a cease and desist order by which he was censured
and required to pay a civil penalty of $20,000.
The Commission alleged that Louis Acevedo, a registered investment
adviser, and an entity under his control, Galleon Capital Management,
engaged in a scheme to misappropriate
"soft dollar" funds intended for the
benefit of their investment
advisory
clients (SEC v. Galleon Capital
Management52).
"Soft dollar" agreements between an investment adviser and
a broker-dealer typically stipulate that a percentage of commissions generated
in client accounts may be paid to providers of research services for research
that benefits the clients. The defendants created phony invoices for services
provided pursuant to a soft dollar arrangement, and subrru tted these invoices
to brokers. Payments received were transferred
to Acevedo and did not
benefit investment advisory clients. Also, brokers were double billed for
certain soft dollar services, or were billed for services that were not
appropriate
for soft dollar reimbursement.
In addition, the defendants
churned one or more accounts to generate soft dollar credits. The defendants
consented
to the entry of an injunction
and an order requiring
the
disgorgement
of $285,916, representing
illegal profits obtained as a result
of the scheme.
The Commission
instituted
cease and desist proceedings
against
Anthony J. Benincasa, who aided and abetted a Ponzi scheme by which Peter
T. Jones, an unregistered investment adviser, raised at least $9.2 million
Benincasar'v. Benincasa
from over 400 investors (In the Matter of Anthony].
opened accounts which falsely identified a company under his control,
Independence
Asset Management (lAM), as a partnership
involving Jones
and a third party. Among other things, Benincasa continued to use funds
placed by investors in lAM even though he knew that Jones was making
material misrepresentations
and omissions to investors. He also told investors
that the fund was doing well when it was actually losing money. During
the relevant period, lAM generated
net commissions
of $333,000 for
Benincasa.
These proceedings
were pending at the end of the year. In
separate proceedings, Jones and lAM were enjoined and Jones was barred
from association WIth any regulated entity.
See also In the Matter of Van Kampen American Capital Asset Management,
L.P , described above.
Inc., and In the Matter of Askm Capital Management,
Investor Education and Assistance Activities

Investor complaints and inquiries alert the Commission to securities
fraud and abuse and are often the first indicators of wrongdoing.
Since
an educated investor provides the best defense against secunties fraud, in
1995 the SEC continued its initiative to improve public awareness and to
educate investors on how to identify securities fraud, and how to report
suspicious activity to securities regulators.
In October 1994, the SEC created a toll-free Investor information line.
The investor information
line allows callers to order investor education
materials and learn how the Commission
can assist them with their

19

complaints. It also provides access to important recorded investor protection
messages. Since its inception in October 1994, over 75,000 calls have been
received on the mvestor information line (1-800-SEC-0330).
Dunng 1995, the Commission released its second brochure, Invest
Wisely, An Introduction
to Mutual Funds which provides basic information
to help investors select mutual funds, identify decisions to be made before
making an initial investment choice, and resolve particular problems that
may arise. Over 277,000 copies of the Invest WIsely brochures have been
distributed since March 1994 when the first brochure was released. In July
1995, the Commission released What Every Investor Should Know about Settling
Trades in Three Days, Introducing
T +3, which provides basic information on
when investors must settle their securities transactions. Over 8,000 of the
Introducing T+3 brochures were distributed during 1995.
Emphasis on increased participation
of individual
investors in
Commission rulemaking activities continued in 1995. Several Commission
rule proposals published in plain English, including how risk ought to be
disclosed in mutual funds, how to improve pnces when buying or selling
stocks, and execu tive and director com pens ation disclosure, resul ted in over
5,000 comments being received from individual investors.
Investor town meetings also continued in 1995 with over 3,000 investors
attending meetmgs held in Albuquerque, Dallas, Houston, and Nashville.
Sources for Further Inquiry

The agency publishes the SEC Docket, which includes announcements
regarding enforcement actions.
SEC litigation releases describe civil
mjunctive actions and also report certain criminal proceedings involving
securities-related violations. These releases typically report the identity of
the defendants, the nature of the alleged violative conduct, and the
dispositron or status of the case, as well as other information. The SEC Docket
also contains Commission orders instituting administrative proceedings,
making findings, and imposing sanctions in those proceedings, and initial
decisions and significant procedural rulings issued by Administrative Law
Judges. In addition, recent litigation releases, orders 10 administrative
proceedings, and other information of interest to investors are posted on
the Internet at the SEC's World Wide Web site (http://www.sec.gov).

20

International Affairs
,

The Office of International Affairs (alA) has primary responsibility for
the negotiation and implementation of information-sharing arrangements
and the development of other initiatives tofacilitate international cooperation.
alA coordinates and assists in making requests for assistance to, and
responding to requests for assistance from, foreign authorities. alA also
addresses other international issues that arise in litigated matters, such as
effecting service of process abroad and gaihenng foreign-based evidence
under various international conventions, freezing assets located abroad,
and enforcing judgments obtained by the SEC against foreign parties. In
addition, OIA operates in a consultative role regarding the significant
ongoing international programs and initiatives of the SEC's other divisions
and offices. alA is responsible for the SEC's technical assistance programs
for countries with emerging securities markets. alA also consults with and
provides technical assistance to other Federal agencies regarding traderelated issues relevant to the regulation of securities markets in the United
States.
Key 1995 Results

OIA made 230 requests for enforcement assistance on behalf of the
Commission to foreign governments and responded to 337requests for enforcement
assistance from foreign governments.
The SEC signed understandings to assist in law enforcement and regulatory
matters wi th Sou th African au thori ties, incl uding the Financial Services Board
(FSB), the Securities Regulation Panel (SRP) and the Office for Banks (OFB).
In addition, the SEC signed declarations of intent with the two South African
securities regulators, the FSBand the SRP,to enter into comprehensive informationsharing Memoranda of Unders tanding (MOU) once the Sou th African bodies
obtain the necessary authority to do so. Also, the SEC signed a declaration
on cooperation with the United Kingdom Investment Management Regulatory
Organization (IMRO) to facilitate information-sharing and joint inspections of
registered investment advisers.
The SEC's leadership role and active involvement in the Council of
Securities Regulators of the Americas (COSRA)and the International Orgamzation
of Securities Commissions (lOS CO) have advanced Commission goals for
international regulatory and market oversight issues on a multilateral basis.
During the past year, the membership of COSRA adopted principles of effective
market oversight which describe the mechanisms needed for establishing and
implementing a self-regulatory system for effective market oversight, with an
emphasis on the critical role of government oversight to ensure a balance between
industry self-interest and the public interest. For example, substantial progress

21

has been made on developing in ternationally acceptable accoun ting standards
for cross-border offerings, as evidenced by the agreement of the IOSCO Technical
Committee and the International Accounting Standards Committee (IASC) to
a work plan that, when successfully completed, will result in a comprehensive
core set of international accounting standards (lAS). In addition, the IOSCO
Technical Committee jointly issued a paper with the Basle Committee on Banking
Supervision setting forth a framework for regulators to assess information on
the derivatives activities of securities firms and banks.
Arrangements

for Mutual Assistance and Exchanges of Information

The SEC has an increasmg need to obtain foreign-based information to
protect the United States markets and Investors from cross-border fraud and
other violations of the United States securities laws. In this regard, the SEC
has developed ways to enhance international mechanisms for effective market
surveillance and information-sharing, and for cooperation in the investigation
and prosecution of cross-border fraud and market manipulation.
The SEC has worked actively to forge strong bilateral and multilateral
relationships with its foreign counterparts. In particular, the SEC has entered
into approximately 25 MOUs and other less comprehensive agreements, to
establish the means for sharing information and providing comprehensive
enforcement assistance in virtually all facets of the securities markets. Such
mechanisms have improved the SEC's ability to detect and prosecute violations
of the United States securities laws where information is needed from abroad.
The SECis using the relationships established through MOUs to expand cooperation
beyond specific enforcement matters, including, for example, oversight of
investment management activity with U.K. authorities. In addition, the SEC's
commitment to international securities organizations has augmented its bilateral
and multilateral efforts in the enforcement area.
On March 2, 1995, the SEC signed unders tandings wi th key Sou th African
authorities: the FSB,which regulates financial markets and brokerage institutions;
the SRP, which oversees corporate takeovers and mergers and administers insider
trading laws; and the OFB, which supervises the nation's banks. Three sets
of agreemen ts were utilized to reflect the curren t regula tory structure in Sou th
Africa and to make the broades t provisions of assis tance possible in securities
matters. The understandings signed with the FSB and the SRP include both
communiques, which embody each party's commitment to assist in securities
law enforcement and regulatory matters, and declarations of intent, which signify
the commi tmen t to en ter comprehensi ve informa tion-sharing Memoranda of
Understanding once the South African regulators have obtained the necessary
authority under South African law to implement such agreements. A declaration
signed with the OFB should similarly enhance the ability of that body to share
bank-related information critical to market oversight. Thus, the understandings
are the first step of an evolving relationship with the South African authorities.
In addition, in May 1995, the SEC signed a declaration on cooperation
with the U.K.IMRO. The declaration is the first bilateral cooperative arrangement
focused on the cross-border investment advisory business. It also builds on
the provisions in the SEC's MOU with the U.K. for sharing information and

22

providing assistance relating to cross-border investment management activity,
including, in particular, assistance in conducting on-site inspections of registered
inves tmen tad visers.
The SEC also has been developing and implementing a framework for the
functional regulation of the securities activities of financial conglomerates. In
this regard, the SEC has undertaken initiatives in a number of countries. In
July 1995, the SEC announced a joint initiative with the U.K. Securities and
Investmen ts Board (SIB)to conduct in-depth studies of the financial, operational,
and management con troIs used by selected securi ties firms that cond uct significant
cross-border derivatives and secunties activities. This is the first initiative that
brings together the maj or securi ties regula tors in a practical exercise tha twill
lead to a better understanding of each regulator's approaches and contribute
to better information exchange. Itis expected tha t the ini tiative will be extended
to include authorities and firms in other jurisdictions.
Enforcement Cooperation

The table below summarizes the international requests for assistance made
and received by the SEC.
Fiscal year

1991

1992

1993

1994

1995

SEC Requests to
Foreign Governments
Enforcement Assistance
Enforcement Referrals
Technical Assistance
Total

145
6
0
151

191
7
2
200

213
1
6
220

223
2
1
226

230
6
2
238

Foreign Requests to
the SEC
Enforcement Assistance
Enforcement Referrals
Technical Assistance
Total

160
7
44
211

184
11
58
253

232
16
59
307

296
10
78
384

337
10
119
466

Type of Request

In two insider trading cases, the assistance provided under MOUs was
critical to the SEC's successful prosecution of foreign nationals. The case of
SEC v. Morris, Civil Action No. 94-8518 (CBM) (S.D.N.Y.) provides an
excellent example of how the SEC relies on international assistance in its
investigations. This case Involved insider trading in the securities of Hilton
Hotels Corporation by non-United States persons. The suspect trading all
originated in the U.K.and was conducted by persons with no apparent connection
to Hilton. Using the SEC's MOU with U.K. author ities, the SEC obtained
telephone records that made it possible to trace the flow of the non-public
information on which the trading was based. Based on the telephone records,

23

the SECdetermined wi thin a short time period the source of the inside informa tion
and the trail that it followed. The SEC obtained a default judgment against
one of the defendants and settled with two additional defendants. Litigation
against a fourth defendant is continuing. The SEC has obtained an aggregate
of approximately $400,000 in disgorgement and $275,000 in penalties.
In another insider trading case, SEC v. Malavasi, Civil Action No. 951691 (D.D.C.), the SEC relied principally on information compelled by the
Italian CONSOB, pursuant to its MOD with the SEC, to successfully bring this
case. The documents produced pursuant to the MOD included bank account
documents identifying the beneficial owners of accounts through which suspicious
trading took place. On September 6, 1995, the SEC filed and settled a civil
action against Giovanni Malavasi, secretary to the Board of Directors of Luxottica
Group SpA. The complaint alleged Malavasi learned of non-public information
concerning Luxottica's plans fora takeover of U.S. Shoe Corporation, and traded
while in possession of this information. Malavasi agreed to disgorge $100,000
and pay a civil penalty of $42,749. The investigation is continuing.
Technical Assistance

The SEC provides technical assistance to emerging securities markets to
assist them in developing the regulatory infrastructure necessary to promote
investor confidence. The SEC's program is comprised primarily of courses
offered at the SEC's headquarters, where a broad range of topics are addressed
to a wide audience in a cost-effective manner. OIA is responsible for coordinating
the SEC's overall international technical assistance program.
Each spring the SEC hosts the International Institute for Securities
Market Development (the Market Development Institute), an intensive twoweek, management-level
training program covering a full range of topics
relevant to the development and oversight of securities markets.
The
Market Development Institute is intended to promote market development,
capital formation, and the building of sound regulatory structures in
emerging market countries. The fifth annual Market Development Institute
was held in the spring of 1995, with 96 delegates from 53 countries in
attendance.
The SEC has expanded upon the successful Market Development
Institute concept with a one-week International Institute for Securities
Enforcement and Market Oversight (Enforcement Institute) for foreign
securities regulators.
This program promotes market integrity and the
development of closer enforcement cooperation, and includes practical
training sessions on SEC enforcement investigations, investment company
and adviser inspections,
broker-dealer
examinations,
and market
surveillance.
Ninety-eight individuals representing fifty-one countries
attended the second annual Enforcement Institute held during the last week
of October 1995.
and Multilateral Initiatives
The SEC benefits from the opportunity to better understand foreign
regulations, markets, and practices through participation in multilateral
organizations. Moreover, through its involvement in international organizations,

International Organizations

24

the SEC has the opportunity to promote its views on important issues that
affect the United States securities markets and the SEC's regulatory program,
and help develop international consensus on these issues. During 1995,
the SEC con tribu ted to the work of the following international organizations
and multilateral initiatives:
The International Organization of Securtttes Commissions

IOSCO is an international forum created to promote cooperation and
consultation among regulators overseeing the world's securities markets. With
over 100 members, most of the world's securities regulators are represented.
The SEC plays a leadership role in IOSCO. Over the years, the SEC has been
actively involved in many aspects of the organization's work, particularly in
work relating to: identifying accounting and auditing standards that would be
used in multinational offerings; regulating the secondary market and market
participants; fostering the international enforcement of securities laws; and
promoting international cooperation in connection with cross-border investment
funds.
At laSCO's 1995 Annual Conference, the Technical Committee and the
Board of the International Accounting Standards Committee (IASC) issued a
joint press release announcing that they had agreed upon a work plan that, when
successfully completed, would result in a comprehensive core set of international
accounting standards. Provided the Technical Committee is satisfied with this
core set, it will then be in a position to recommend endorsement of the standards
for cross-border capital raising and listing purposes. During 1995, several other
reports were prepared by working parties and released by laSCO's Technical
Committee. In addition, continued cooperation with the Basle Comrruttee resulted
in a joint report with the Technical Committee on a Framework for Supervisory
Information about the Derivative Activities of Banks and Securities Firms. The
report represents an important step in the ongoing cooperation between securities
and banking regulators to ensure prudent oversight of the securities activities
carried on by securities firms and by banks.
Council

0/ Securities

Regulators

0/ the Americas

COSRA provides a forum for mutual cooperation and communication
to enhance the efforts of each country in the Americas and the Caribbean
to develop and foster the growth of sound securities markets that are fair
to all investors. Formed in 1992 by the securities regulatory authorities of
North, South, and Central America, and the Caribbean, COSRA has proven
to have a significant impact on the international
cooperative efforts of
securities regulators throughout the region. The SEC actively promoted
the concept of a regional organization and at the Summit of the Americas,
held in Miami in December 1994, the participating governments endorsed
the work of COSRA. COSRA's membership represents both advanced and
emerging markets, and the organization strives to enhance the efforts of
each country to develop and foster the growth of fair and open securrties
markets.
Through
the development
of pnnciples
on Transaction
Transparency,
Audit Trails, Clearance and Settlement,
Cross-border

25

Surveillance of Investment Advisers, Fundamental Elements of a Sound
Disclosure System, and Enforcement Cooperation, COSRA has contributed
to the development of high regulatory standards in the Americas.
At its annual meeting in 1995, COSRA adopted principles of effective
market oversight which describe the mechanisms needed for establishing
and implementing a self-regulatory system for effective market oversight,
WIth an emphasis on the critical role of government oversight to ensure
a balance between industry self-interest and the public interest. COSRA
also agreed on a future work agenda to cover implementation of the Summit
of the Americas' anti-corruption
initiatives, an examination of market
structure issues, and enhancement of the capital formation process. Finally,
the Inter-Amencan Development Bank announced its decision to support
and fund COSRA members' efforts to implement COSRA principles and to
host the 1996 annual meeting in Washington, D.C.
Trade .Negotiations
As a result of the globalization of securities markets, the SEC is now
regularly engaged in discussions with fellow regulators on ways to facilitate
cross-border activities, including offerings, securities trading, and the provision
of advisory services. In addition, the SEC increasingly has provided technical
assis tance to the Administration in its negotiations involving trade and market
access issues.
In January 1995, the U.S.-Japan Framework Agreement on Financial
Services was finalized. Among the most significant developments under the
Agreement is the opening of the Japanese public pension fund market to U.S.
fund managers. The Agreementalso liberalized access by investment companies
to the Japanese markets and, in addition, eased restrictions on introduction of
new securities products in Japan.
United States and ASian Markets

The SEC has been working on a bilateral basis with many countries in
the Asia-Pacific region and has in place Memoranda of Understanding or other
formal arrange men ts wi th the regula tory au thorities of several such coun tries,
mel uding China, Japan, and Indonesia. In Apri11995, Chairman Arth ur Levi tt
and New York Stock Exchange President Richard Grasso met with government
officials and business executives in SoutheastAsia with the goal of developing
a strong relationshi p between Sou theas t Asian and U.S. securi ties markets. The
visit included Thailand, Indonesia, Malaysia, and Singapore. The SEC has
provided technical assistance to China, Thailand, and other countries in the AsiaPacific region. The goals of such assistance are to promote and maintain the
stabili ty , efficiency, and in tegri ty of these emerging securities markets and to
encourage the adoption of U.S.-style market structures that are more likely to
be open to Ll.S, market participants and service providers. The SEC is working
to activate direct cooperation and discussion between the SEC and the Securities
and Exchange Board of India as partof the U.S. Department of the Treasury's
(Treasury) initiative to renew the activities of the Indo-U'S. EconomidCommercial
Subcommission. The SEC also is working with the Treasury to foster multilateral
cooperation among the financial and regulatory authorities in the Asia-Pacific
region.
26

Regulation of the Securities Markets
The Division of Market Regulation (Division) oversees the operations of
the nation's securities markets and market professionals. In calendar year
1995, the Commission supervised over 8,500 broker-dealers with 58,119
branch offices and over 505,600 registered representatives, 8 active registered
securities exchanges, the NAS D and the over-the-counter markets, 15registered
clearing agencies, the Municipal Securities Rulemaking Board, and the
Securities Investor Protection Corporation. Broker-dealers filing FOCUS
reports with the Commission had approximately $1.5 trillion in assets and $89
billion in capital in 1995. The Division also monitors market activity, which
has experienced significant growth. At the end of calendar 1995, equity market
capitalization stood at $8 trillion in the United States and $16.5 trillion
worldwide. Average daily trading volume reached 346.6 million shares on the
New York Stock Exchange and 404.6 million shares on the Nasdaq Stock
Market. The fastest growing area has been derivatives activities, where the
approximate notional amount of contracts outstanding at the 6 most active
derivatives dealers and their affiliates is $5.6 trillion, with an aggregate
current net exposure of approximately $39.9 billion.
Key 1995 Results

The Division proceeded with its efforts to enhance the overall efficiency
of the marketplace through its ongoing review of trading systems and
practices. In 1995, the SEC launched an initiative to form the Derivatives
Policy Group (DPG) to address a broad range of issues pertaming to the
derivatives markets. The clearance and settlement system underwent a
major change as the time for settlement of transactions was shortened from
five to three business days. Issuers were provided greater flexibility in
offering dividend reinvestment and stock purchase plans that allow investors
to obtain shares directly from the issuer. The municipal securrties program
made great strides in the area of disclosure and trading systems (market
transparency). The Commission approved and the industry implemented
a program to enhance training of registered representatives by their brokerdealers and to establish requirements for ongoing industry-wide compu terbased training.
Securities Markets, Trading, and Significant Regulatory Issues

Derivatives
The Division continued to be actively involved in numerous derivatives
related projects. During the year, the SEC initiated the creation of the DPG,
consisting of the unregistered affiliates of the six securities firms most active
in the over-the-counter (OTC) derivatives markets. In March 1995, the DPG
27

submitted a report to the SEC establishing a framework for voluntary oversight
of their OTC derivatives
activities.
The DPG's framework included
recommendations
regarding management controls, enhanced reporting,
evaluating risk in relation to capital, and counterparty relationships.
In
add Ition, through the SEC's risk assessment program, the Division reviewed
data concerning the de nvatives activities of the matenal affiliates of
approximately 250 securities firms.
In 1995, the Commission approved proposals by five exchanges and
the National Association of Secunties Dealers, Inc. (NASD) to list and trade
warrants based on broad-based indexes." thereby facilitating the trading of new
financial products. Moreover, the Commission amended Rule 3a12-8 under the
Securities Exchange Act of 1934 (Exchange Act) to designate the sovereign debt
of Spain as exempted securities for the purpose of futures trading." and proposed
a further amendment to Rule 3a12-8 to permit futures on Mexican sovereign
debt." Both of these initiatives reflect the Commission's flexibility in adapting
to the increased internationalization
of the derivatives markets. Finally, the
Division prepared a memorandum In response to the October 6, 1994 letter of
Representative James Leach concerning the impact of derivatives activities on
the global financial system. The memorandum discussed a variety of actions
the Commission has taken to address the risks of derivatives products.
The Division was actively involved in the Commission's enforcement action
against BT Securities Corporation (BT), arising from the sale of certain OTC
derivative secunties to Gibson Greetings, Inc.57 Concurrent with the settlement
of the Commission's action against BT,the Commission issued an order providing
a temporary exemption for persons acting as brokers or dealers with respect
to certain categories of OTC derivative instruments, to the extent such instruments
are securities, from the broker-dealer registration requirement under Section
15(a) of the Exchange ACt.58 By order, the Commission extended the temporary
exemption until September 30,1996.59 The extension of the exemption is intended
to avoid any dislocation of existing OTC derivatives markets and to allow those
broker-dealers who have not already done so time to move existing business
covered by the exemption into entities that do not rely on the exemption.
The SEC took a leading role in several international efforts to improve
regulatory oversight of the securities industry. In August 1995, the SEC
announced a joint initiative with the United Kingdom Securities and
Investments Board (SIB) to conduct in-depth studies of the financial,
operational, and management controls used by selected securities firms that
conduct significant cross-border derivatives and securities activities. This
joint initiative builds on the joint statement previously issued by the SEC,
the Commodity Futures Trading Commission, and the SIB that identified
several areas in which regulators can cooperate in their oversight of the
OTC derivatives market. The Division participated in several of these indepth joint reviews on domestic as well as foreign securities firms.
Through the SEC's membership in the Technical Committee of the
International Organization of Securities Commissions (IOSCO), the Division
took part in preparing an IOSCO report enti tled, The Implications for Securities
Regulators of the Increased Use of Value at Risk Models by Securities Firms. That
report raised several important issues regarding the use of models for

28

regulatory purposes and concluded that further information and analysis is
required before IOSCO can consider the use of internal models for the purpose
of setting capital standards for market risk. The Division also participated in
the preparation of a paper, issued jointly by IOSCO and the Basle Committee
on Banking Supervision, establishing a framework for supervisors to assess
information on the derivatives activities of secunties firms and banks. This
effortbuilton previous joint efforts by IOSCO and the Basle Committee in the
area of management control mechanisms for derivatives activities.
Clearance and Settlement

The SEC continued to work to enhance all components of the national
clearance and settlement system. In particular, the SEC worked closely with
the SROs, broker-dealers, and industry groups on implementation of a three
business day settlement period (T+3) for broker-dealer trades pursuant to
Rule 15c6-1 under the Exchange Act. Prior to the implementation of the
three-day settlement period, the SEC responded to concerns raised by the
industry and exempted from the rule sales of certain insurance products
and certain foreign securities. The SEC also amended the rule to permit
new issues of securities to settle on an extended time frame under certain
conditions.
The SEC worked closely with registered clearing agencies, brokerdealers, and federal bank regulators such as the Board of Governors of the
Federal Reserve System (FRB), the Federal Reserve Bank of Philadelphia,
and the Federal Reserve Bank of New York to achieve a safe and efficient
conversion to same-day funds settlement, scheduled for implementation in
1996. In February 1996, the payment systems for securities transactions it.e.,
corporate and municipal securities) and principal and interest payments
converted from next-day funds settlement to same-day funds settlement.
The conversion affects payments for settlements among clearing corporations,
depositories,
and financial
intermediaries
and between
financial
Intermediaries and their institutional clients. The conversion does not affect
payments to and from retail investors.
The same-day funds settlement
system conversion should help reduce systemic risk by eliminating overnight
credit risk.
Proposals

to Improve

Order Handling

and Execution

of Customer

Orders

On September 29, 1995, the Commission proposed for comment two
rules and two amendments to an existing rule intended to improve the
handling and execution of customer orders in exchange-traded securities
and securities traded over the counter. The proposed rules are intended
to strengthen transparency, enhance order handling, and promote interaction
of customer orders. The proposal recognizes the importance of fair competi tion
among markets and market partici pants and perml ts the securi ties indus try to
select the means to achieve the ends."

29

Automation

Initiatives

Pursuant to Rule 17a-23 under the Exchange Act,61the Division received
96 filings for au tomated trading sys tems. The rule requires brokers and dealers
that operate automated trading systems to maintain participant, volume, and
transaction records, and to report system activity periodically to the Commission.
The staff continued to perform Au tomation Review Policy (ARP) reviews
of the exchanges, Nasdaq, and clearing agencies." The primary purpose of
the ARP program is to monitor and assess the electronic data processing
facilities supporting the transaction and information dissemination activities
of the SROs in their relationship to the national market system. The staff
completed 10 on-site reviews and issued 7 reports, which included 46
recommendations for improvements.
Typical recommendations
included
the need for back-up facilities for data centers, enhancements to data security
efforts, and better use of capacity planning tools.
The staff received 10 technology briefings from the SROs to ascertain
recent and planned changes and improvements in their au tomated systems.
The staff also assessed the ability of SROs to respond to systems malfunctions
and examined SRO measures to prevent system outages.
Trading Practices Developments
The Commission
Specialists,

granted an exemption from Rules 10b6 and 10b-13 under the Exchange Act to allow New York Stock Exchange
(NYSE) specialists to continue to act in their specialist capacity during a
distribution of, or a tender offer for, specialty securities when they otherwise
would be subject to those rules because of their affiliates' participation in
such transaction." The exemption requires specialists and their affiliates to
establish procedures to segregate the flow of confidential, market-sensitive
information
between a specialist
and its affiliates,
and notes the
implementation of certain surveillance and notification procedures by the
NYSE.
Dividend Reinvestment
and Stock Purchase Plans. The Commission granted
a class exemption from Rule lOb-6 under the Exchange Act for certain
dividend reinvestment and stock purchase plans (DRSPPS).64The exemption
facilitates access to plans by permitting investors to obtain their first shares
of an issuer's securities directly from the issuer, and expands the availability
of these programs to persons other than the issuer's employees and
shareholders. The staff also clarified that an issuer operating a DRSPP may
be acting as a broker-dealer if it induces or attempts to induce the purchase
or sale of its securities;
receives compensation
based on securities
transactions; or holds and maintains the funds, securities, and accounts of
DRSPP participants. Thus, an issuer operating a DRSPP in this manner either
must limit its activities through the use of an agent that is a broker-dealer or
bank, or register as a broker-dealer.

30

The Commission, acting by delega ted au thori ty, gran ted exemptions pursuant
to Rule 10b-10(e) under the Exchange Act to permit broker-dealers to confirm
automatic dividend reinvestment transactions through the use of monthly account
statements, rather than with immediate confirmations."
Universal Banks. The Commission issued a letter grantmg exemptions from
Rules 10b~6,10b-7, and 10b-8 under the Exchange Act and addressing the effect
of these rules on a universal bank it.e., a non-U.S. entity that engages in both
commercial and investment banking activitiesj." These exemptions rely on the
establishment, maintenance, enforcement, and audit of information barriers to
insulate the activities of affiliated entities to permit activities that otherwise
would be prohibited during the course of a distribution.
lnternationaltzation. The Commission took a variety of actions pertaining
to multinational offerings. For example, consistent with its Statement of
Policy regarding class exemptions for certain foreign issuers that conduct
distributions in the United States," the Commission granted class exemptions
from Rules 10b-6, 10b-7, and 10b-8 under the Exchange Act for distributions
of securities by certain highly capitalized United Kingdom issuers" and for
distributions of certain highly capitalized Dutch issuers." The exemptions permit
distribution participants to effect transactions in the United Kingdom or in The
Netherlands in the security being distributed and related secu nties, subject to
certain disclosure, recordkeeping, record production, and notice requirements.
Municipal

Securities

Price Transparency Initiatives.
In January 1995, the Municipal Securities
Rulemaking Board (MSRB) began Phase I of its price transparency program,
during which the MSRB produces a daily report of inter-dealer transactions
in the more actively traded municipal securities. In future phases of the
program, the MSRB will collect and publicly disseminate transaction data
for all municipal securities trades. The Public Securities Association (PSA)
is developing ways to reach the public with price data from the MSRB's
daily report and other sources. The PSA, with two information vendors,
initiated production of a generic yield scale of representative
municipal
prices for publication in various print media, and established a telephone
service that reports contemporary
and historical municipal securities
transaction data to callers for a fee.
Disclosure.
Following the publica tion of the Commission's March 1994
interpretive release discussing the disclosure obligations of participants in
the munici pal securities market under the antifraud provisions of the federal
securities laws." in November 1994 the Commission adopted amendments to
Rule 15c2-12 under the Exchange Act to further deter fraud in the municipal
securi ties market." The amendmen ts prohibit broker-dealers from underwri tmg
primary offerings of municipal securities unless they have determined that
continuing disclosure about the municipal securities, in the form of annual
financial information and notices of certain matenal events, WIllbe provided
to various information repositories, including Nationally Recognized Municipal
Securities Information Repositories (NRMSIRs)and state information depositories
(SIDs). Material event notices also may be provided to the MSRB. The
amendments also prohibit broker-dealers from recommendmg the purchase or
31

sale of a municipal security in the secondary market unless they have procedures
in place that assure that they will receive promptly certain material event
informa tion disclosed abou t tha t securi ty.
The amendments, which were phased in between July 3, 1995and January
1,1996, allow municipal issuers and underwriters time to implement necessary
procedures to facilitate compliance with the amendments.
On June 23, 1995 and September 19, 1995, the Division issued letters
to the National Association of Bond Lawyers." These letters provide extensive
guidance about the amendments to Rule 15c2-12.
Information Repositorzes. In 1995, the Division announced the designation
of six applicants as NRMSIRs for purposes of Rule 15c2-12.73 The designated
NRMSIRs are: (1) Bloomberg L.P. of Princeton, NJ; (2) Thomson Municipal
Services, Inc. of New York, NY; (3) Disclosure, Inc. of Bethesda, MD; (4)
Kenny Information Systems of New York, NY; (5) Moody's Investors Service
of New York, NY; and (6) R.R. Donnelley of Hudson, MA.
The Commission also announced the recognition of SIDs located in
Texas, Michigan, and Idaho. In adopting the amendments to Rule 15c2-12/4
the Commission stated that an appropriate SID would be a depository
operated or designated by the state that receives information from all
Issuers within the state, and makes this information available promptly to
the public on a contemporaneous basis." A state may designate a SID through
legislative or executive action.
Broker-Dealer Regulation
Extension of Credit.

An important area currently under debate in the
industry and at the Commission is the role that margin should play in
today's securities markets, and what steps can be taken to improve the
present scheme for federal margin requirements.
In 1995, the Commission
worked with Congress, the industry, and other regulators to develop margin
proposals that would address concerns raised about the current margin
scheme while maintaining the safeguards arising from margin standards.
The staff also issued several no-action letters clarifying its position
with respect to the application of the extension of credit prohibitions of
Section l1(d)(l) of the Exchange Act. For example, the staff granted noaction relief from Section l1(d)(l) with respect to installment payments for
an ini tial offering of Canadian securities sold to a limited number of Qualified
Institutional Buyers in the United States pursuant to Rule 144A under the
Securities Act of 1933.76 The staff also issued no-action relief under Section
11(d)(1) in connection with the offer and sale by a company of certain
securities issued as units generally consisting of a Treasury note and a
purchase contract under which the holder would purchase stock of the
company at a future date."
Networkzng Arrangements.
Having issued numerous no-action letters
addressing networking arrangements
among registered broker-dealers,
insurance compames, and insurance agencies in connection with the offer
and sale of insurance
securities
products,
the Division issued a
comprehensive, definitive letter describing in detail the conditions under
which these arrangements may be conducted without the insurance agencies
32

or their unregistered employees registering as broker-dealers under Section 15
of the Exchange ACt.78 In that letter, the Division expressly stated that it will
no longer respond to no-action requests in this area unless the request presents
novel or unusual issues.
Confirmation Disclosure. On November 10, 1994, the Commission adopted
amendments to its confirmation rule, Rule 10b-l0 under the Exchange Act,
to require brokers and dealers to disclose: (1) if they are not members of
the Securities Investor Protection Corporation (SIPC) (except, in limited
circumstances, for transactions in mutual fund shares); (2) when a debt
security is not rated by a nationally recognized statistical rating organization;
(3) the availability of yield information with respect to transactions in
collateralized debt securities; and (4) mark-ups and mark-downs in certain
Nasdaq and regional exchange-listed securities that are subject to last sale
reporting, but are not technically "reported securrties" under Rule llAa3-1
under the Exchange Act.79 The amendments also added a preliminary note
clarifying that the confirmation disclosures required by Rule 10b-l0 may
not represent all the disclosure required under the antifraud provisions of
the federal securities laws. The Cornrrussion deferred acting on a proposal
to require disclosure of mark-ups in riskless principal transactions in debt
securities, to allow the industry time to develop enhanced price mforrnation
in the markets for those securities.
The Commission, acting by delegated authority, exempted certain
limited purpose broker-dealers from the requirement to disclose that they
are not members of SIPC.80 The Commission, acting by delegated authority,
also clarified the confirmation delivery requirements
of broker-dealers
regarding accounts managed by third-party fiduciaries and the requirements
with respect to disclosure of the unrated status of a debt security."
Supervision
of Conglomerates.
The Division participated
in an
international
effort by securities, banking, and insurance regulators to
address regulation of financial conglomerates. This effort led to the issuance
of a paper in April 1995 entitled, The Supertnsion of Financial Conglomerates,
recognizing several effective methods of grou p supervision of conglomerates.
The Division will pursue work on practical issues in this area through a
recons ti tu ted tri parti te group.
Application for Broker-Dealer Registration.
The Commission proposed
for public comment amendments to Form BD, the uniform broker-dealer
registration form under the Exchange ACt.82 The amendments to Form BD
respond to design updates to the Central Registration Depository system
operated by the NASD, which ultimately will allow for electronic filing of
Form BD, as well as Forms U-4 and U-5 (the uniform form used to terminate
broker-dealers and their associated persons with the Commission, the states,
and the SROs). Amendments to the disclosure section of Form BD, where
most of the changes are proposed to be made, would provide regulators
with better information about an applicant's disciplinary history. The
amendments also propose, among other things, new items to Form BD to
obtain more accurate information with respect to u.s. broker-dealers that

33

have foreign owners, broker-dealers that are affiliated with Ll.S. or foreign
banks, and broker-dealers that conduct securities activities on the premises
of financial institutions.
Money Laundering. The Division continued to work with the Financial
Crimes Enforcement Networkof the Treasury to develop practical approaches
to combat money laundering. The Division participated in the Bank Secrecy
Act Advisory Group and in the United States delegation to the Financial
Action Task Force on Money Laundering, and the independent group of
major financial center countries and regions, which is provided technical
advice with respect to potential enforcement matters.
Arbitration. The Commission worked closely with the principal SRO
arbitration forums to address key challenges facing the arbitration systems
identified by the Commission and others interested in the arbitration process.
Accordingly, the Commission encouraged the work of the NYSE Symposium
on Arbitration and the NASD Arbitration Policy Task Force, which were
established to meet these SRO responsibilities.
The Commission approved proposed rule changes by the NASD and
national secunties exchanges designed to enhance the procedures for
resolving disputes among broker-dealers and between broker-dealers and
investors. In particular, the Commission approved amendments to arbitration
rules that (1) establish a mediation program." (2) implement a pilot program
for seeking injunctive relief in intra-industry disputes." (3)implement a voluntary
pilot program admimstering large and complex cases." and (4) enable the NASD
to discipline members that fail to honor settlement agreements reached in the
arbitration or mediation process."
Unlisted Trading Privileges
Pursuant to rulemaking requirements of the Unlis ted Trading Privileges
(UTP) Act of 1994, the Commission adopted new rules and amendments
to existing rules under Section 12(f) of the Exchange Act on April 21, 1995.87
The rules reduced the period that exchanges must wait before extending
UTP to any listed initial public offering (IPO) from the third trading day
in the IPO, as the UTP Act of 1994 had required temporarily, to the second
trading day in the IPO. The rules also require exchanges to have rules and
oversight mechanisms in place to ensure fair and orderly markets and the
protection of investors with respect to UTP in any security.
The Joint Industry Plan for UTP in OTC Securities (OTC/UTP Plan),
operating under temporary Commission approval, permits exchanges to
trade Nasdaq/national market securities subject to the terms of the OTC/
UTP Plan. On August 14, 1995, the Commission extended the temporary
approval of the Plan, and increased the number of Nasdaq/national market
securities that a participant exchange may trade from 100 to 500.88
Transfer Agent Regulation
The Commission solid ted commen t on the concept of establishing electronic
links between issuer shareholder registration systems and broker-dealer
recordkeeping systems. As discussed in the concept release, one benefit of such

34

links would be the opportunity for issuers to offer" account statements" in lieu
of certificates to their shareholders and for shareholders to move their shares
efficiently to their brokerage firms within the three-day settlement cycle manda ted
by Rule 15c6-1.89
The Commission adopted Rule 17Ad-16, which requires transfer agents
to notify securities depositories when assuming or terminating services on
behalf of an issuer or when changing their names or addresses. 90 The Commission
also released for comment amendments to its transfer agent rules which are
designed to address investor concerns resul ting from direct regis tration sys terns
and shorter trade settlement time frames it.e , T+3 settlement)."
Lost and Stolen Securities

Rule 17f-1 under the Exchange Act sets forth participation,
reporting,
and inquiry requirements for the SEC's Lost and Stolen Securities Program."
Statistics for calendar year 1994 (the most recent data available) reflect the
program's continuing effectiveness.
As of December 31, 1994, 24,518
institutions were registered in the program, a 2 percent increase over 1993.
The number of securities certificates reported as lost, stolen, missing, or
counterfeit increased from 1,634,161 in 1993 to 2,954,692 in 1994, an 81
percent increase. The dollar value of these reported certificates decreased
from $4.0 billion in 1993 to $3.8 billion in 1994, a 5 percent decrease. The
aggregate dollar value of the securities contained in the program's database
increased from $92.6 billion in 1993 to $96.4 billion in 1994, a 4 percent
increase. The total number of certificates inquired about by participating
institu tions through the program decreased from 6,553,308 m 1993 to 6,245,375
in 1994, a 5 percent decrease. In 1994, the dollar value of certificate inquiries
that matched previous reports of lost, missing, stolen, or counterfei t securities
decreased from $252 million in 1993 to $159 million in 1994, a 37 percent
decrease. The total number of these matches increased from 69,769 in 1993
to 269,001 in 1994, a 286 percent increase.
Oversight of Self-Regulatory
National

Securities

Organizations

Exchanges

As of September 30,1995, there were eight active securities exchanges
registered with the SEC as national securities exchanges: American Stock
Exchange (AMEX), Boston Stock Exchange (BSE), Chicago Board Options
Exchange (CBOE), Cincinnati Stock Exchange (CSE), Chicago Stock Exchange
(CHX), NYSE, Philadelphia
Stock Exchange (PHLX), and Pacific Stock
Exchange (PSE). The agency granted exchange applications to delist 91 debt
and equity issues, and granted applications by issuers requestingwithdrawal
from listing and registration for 69 issues.
The exchanges submitted 364 proposed rule changes during 1995. A total
of 317 pending and new filings were approved by the Commission, and 46 were
withdrawn. Notable rule filings approved by the Commission included proposals:
•
 to adopt uniform enabling rules submitted by the AMEX, CBOE, CHX,
MSRB, NASD, NYSE, PSE, and PH LX for the implementation of a
continuing education program for the securities industry:"

35

• to extend through March 29,1996 the existing pilot program of the CSE
relating to the preferencingof public agency market and marketable limit
orders by approved dealers and proprietary members."
• to amend and extend through March 29, 1996 the existing pilot
program of the BSE that permits competing specialists on the floor
of the BSE;95 and
• to adopt a minimum voting rights policy for shareholders of publicly
traded securities submitted by the NYSE, AMEX, and NASD.96
National Assoczation of Securities Dealers, Inc.
The NASD is the only national securities association registered with
the SEC and includes more than 5,400 member firms. Through a whollyowned subsidiary, the NASD owns and operates the Nasdaq Stock Market,
which trades more than 5,700 securities and is the second largest stock
market in the United States and the world (after the NYSE).
The NASD submitted 70 proposed rule changes to the Commission
during the year. The Commission approved 66 proposed rule changes which
included proposed rule changes submitted during the year and several
proposed rule changes submitted in prior years. Among the significant
changes approved by the Commission were:
• a prohibition against a Nasdaq market maker trading ahead of any
customer limit order in a Nasdaq security sent to it for execution
from another broker-dealer;"
• a restriction against certain persons receiving securities prior to
the public offering when these securities trade at a premium in the
secondary market (the rule does not restrict bona fide distributions
of hot issues to the public);"
• requirements for filing and review of advertising and sales literature."
• a requirement
that all NASD members report customer complaints
to the NASD, including quarterly summary statistics concerning
cus tomer com plain ts; 100
• establishment of internal procedures relating to the review of requests
for exemptions from Rule G-37 of the MSRB relating to restrictions
on poli tical contribu tions; IOJ
• procedures governing the administration of mediation proceedings; 102 and
• an amendmen t to allow nonmembers to receive real-time access to view
all orders "broadcast" through the NASD's SelectNet Service.l'"
Securities Rulemaking Board
The MSRB IS charged with the primary rulemaking
authority
for
municipal securities dealers.
The SEC received 18 new proposed rule
changes from the MSRB. A total of 23 new and pending proposed rule
changes were approved by the Commission. In particular, the Commission
approved amendments to MSRB Rule G-15(a) to clarify the current customer
confirmation requirements in municipal securities transactions.l?'
Munzcipal

36

Clearing Agencies

Fifteen clearing agencies were registered with the SEC at year-end.
In addition, the SEC extended the temporary registration as a clearing
agency of the Participants Trust Company, 105 MBSClearing Corporation.!" Delta
Government Options Corpora tion, 107
and the Governmen t Secun ties Clearing
Corpora tion (GSCC).108
Registered clearing agencies submitted 157 proposed rule changes to
the SEC and withdrew 9. The SEC approved 148 proposed rule changes,
including the following:
• implementation of the first stage of GSCCs proposed clearance and
settlemen t sys tem for repurchase agreemen ts; 109
• implementation of the National Securities Clearing Corporation's
(NSCC) Collateral Management Service, which allows clearing agency
participants to view information regarding their cleanng fund and
margin deposits at NSCC and other registered cleanng agencies and
allows registered clearing agencies to view the same type of
information about their participants atother registered clearing agencies; 110
and

• implementation of the Options Clearing Corporation's Stock Loan/
Hedge Program for specialist and market maker accounts, which
allows stock loan and borrow transactions in these accounts to
constitute hedges against stock option positions for purposes of
margin calculation."!
Applications

for Re-entry

Rule 19h-1 under the Exchange Act prescribes the form and content
of, and is the mechanism by which the Commission reviews, proposals
submitted by SROs to allow persons subject to statutory disqualification,
as defined in Section 3(a)(39) of the Exchange Act, to become or remain
associated with member firms. In 1995, the Commission received 41 filings
submitted by SROs pursuant to Rule 19h-1. Of the 41 filings, the NASD
made 32, the NYSE made 8, and the CHX made 1. No applications were
denied; three were withdrawn.

37

Investment Management Regulation
I


The Division of Investment Management oversees the regulation of
investment companies and investment advisers under two companion statutes,
the Investment Company Act of 1940 and the Investment Advisers Act of
1940, and administers the Public Utility Holding Company Act of 1935.
Key 1995 Results

In 1995, a large part of the work of the Division of Investment
Management focused on three areas:
(1) improving and simplifying
communications
to investment
company shareholders;
(2) reducing
operational burdens on investment companies; and (3) modernizing the
regulation of public utility holding companies. Key steps taken to improve
disclosures to investment company shareholders included an initiative to
simplify investment company prospectuses and to improve risk disclosure
The Commission permitted a test group of eight mutual fund groups to
provide their Investors with a short prospectus summary, or "profile," that
would accompany the prospectus currently provided to investors.
The
Commission also issued a concept release seeking public comments and
suggestions on how to improve the descriptions of risk provided by
investment
companies,
including whether to require some form of
quantitative risk measure in investment company prospectuses.
The Commission adopted rules under the Investment Company Act
of 1940 (Investment Company Act) to allow a single mutual fund to offer
multiple classes of shares with different sales charge arrangements and to
permit mutual funds to impose certain types of deferred sales loads. These
rules give funds greater flexibility to tailor their sales load arrangements
without having to seek exemptive relief from the Commission.
The
Commission also proposed amendments to the Investment Company Act
rule governing the custody of fund assets outside of the United States. The
proposed amendments would reduce the burdens currently placed on fund
directors in reviewing foreign custody arrangements and provide funds
with significantly more flexibility to select foreign custodians without
sacrificing Investor protection.
The Division issued a report, The Regulation of Public Utility Holding
Companies, which describes the results of the staff's study of the regulatory
framework of the Public Utility Holding Company Act of 1935 (Holding
Company Act) in light of recent developments in the gas and electric utility
industry.
The primary recommendation
of the report is that Congress
should repeal the Holding Company Act and simultaneously
provide
necessary authority to state regulators and the Federal Energy Regulatory
Commission to ensure the continued protection of consumers. The report
also recommends a number of proposals for administrative reform.

38

Significant Investment Company Act Matters

Rulemaking
The Commission adopted and proposed for amendment several rules
under the Investment Company Act. A description of some of these rules
is provided below.
Multiple Class Structures. In February 1995, the Commission adopted Rule
18f-3, which permits open-end management investment companies to issue
mul tiple classes of shares with varying arrangements for the dis tribu tion of their
shares and the provision of services to their shareholders.!" Rule 18f-3eliminates
many of the requirements Imposed under prior Commission exemptive orders
governing multiple class structures and enables investment companies to issue
mul tiple classes withou t obtaining exem ptive relief from the Commission. The
Commission also amended the registration form for open-end management
investment companies under the Investment Company Act and the Securities Act
of 1933 (Securities Act). The amendment prescribes prospectus disclosure
requirements for multiple class investment companies and master-feeder
arrangements, which consist of one or more" feeder" investment companies that
invest in the same portfolio, or "master" investment company. A conforming
amendment was made to Rule 12b-1 under the Investment Company Act, which
governs the payment of asset-based sales charges.
Deferred Sales Loads. In February 1995, the Commission adopted Rule
6c-lO, which permits open-end management investment companies to Impose
contingent deferred sales loads (i.e., a sales load paid at redemption that
declines over several years un til it reaches zero) wi thou t obtaining exemptive
relief from the Comrnission.J'? At the same time, the Commission proposed
for comment amendments
to Rule 6c-10 that would give open-end
management investment companies greater flexibility to impose a wider
variety of deferred sales loads, such as loads that are paid in a series of
installments.'!' The Commission also proposed for comment amendments to
the registration form for open-end management investment companies under the
Investment Company Act and the Securities Act to modify the prospectus
disclosure requirements for deferred sales loads.
Foreign Custody. In July 1995, the Commission proposed for comment
amendments to Rule 17f-5, which governs the custody of investment company
assets outside the United States.ll5 The proposed amendments would (a) revise
the findings that currently must be made in establishing foreign custody
arrangements to focus exclusively on the safekeeping of investment company
assets, (b) permit an investment company's board of directors to delegate its
responsibilities under the rule to evaluate these arrangements, and (c) expand
the class of foreign banks and securities depositories that could serve as
investment company custodians. The amendments are designed to reduce the
burdens currently placed on investment company directors in reviewing foreign
custody arrangements and to provide investment companies with significantly
more flexibility to select foreign custodians without sacrificing investor protection.
Personal Investment Activities.
In September 1995, the Commission
proposed for comment amendments
to Rule 17j-1 under the Investment
Company Act, Rule 204-2 under the Investment Advisers Act of 1940

39

(Investment
Advisers Act), and investment
company registration
forms
under the Investment Company Act and the Securities Act.116 The proposed
amendments
would effect the recommendations
made by the staff in
connection with its 1994 study of the personal Investment
activitIes of
investment company personnel by enhancing investment company oversight
of personal investment activities. requiring public disclosure of personal
Investment policies, and making the scope of Rule 17j-1 more consistent
with its purpose.
Rule 24f-2. In February 1995, the Commission proposed for comment
amendments to Rule 24f-2 and new Form 24F-2.117 Rule 24f-2 permits openend investment companies to register an indefinite number of shares under
the Securities Act, to net redemptions agains t sales in determining Securi ties
Act registration fees, and to pay registration
fees on an annual basis. The
amendments
are designed to clarify the application of certain provisions
of Rule 24f-2, to make the rule's filing deadlines more flexible under certain
circumstances,
to improve the accuracy of information required to be filed
under Rule 24f-2, and to improve the agency's ability to process the filings.
The amendments
were approved by the Commission in September 1995.
Quarterly Report Proposal. In July 1995, the Commission proposed for
comment new Rule 30b3-1, which would require money market funds to
file electronically
with the Commission quarterly reports detailing their
portfolio holdings.'!" The information in the proposed reports would substantially
improve the ability of the examination staff to monitor money market funds
for compliance with the Investment Company Act.
Safe Harbor. In July 1995, the Commission proposed for comment new
Rule 3a-4, which would provide a safe harbor from the definition
of
investment company for certain programs under which professional portfolio
management services are provided to numerous individual clients.':" If adopted,
the rule would establish a non-exclusive method by which such programs can
opera te wi thou t being subject to the requiremen ts of the Inves tmen t Company
Act.
Exemptive Orders, No-Action Letters, and Interpretations
In 1995, the Commission issued exemptive orders permitting, among
other things, investment
advisers of multi-manager funds to hire subadvisers without shareholder approval, the operation of "funds of funds,"
and the sale of interests in unit investment trusts subject to a non-contingent
deferred sales load. The staff issued no-action letters and interpretations
under the Investment
Company Act concerning,
among other things,
aggregated trades, segregation requirements for short seIling, joint borrowing
arrangements,
foreign custody, issuers of asset-backed
securities,
and
affiliated transactions.
Sub-advisers.
The Commission
issued orders permitting
certain
investment advisers to multi-manager
investment companies to hire subadvisers for the funds and to make material changes to sub-advisory contracts
without approval by the funds' shareholders,
provided that shareholders
are provided with an information
statement containing substantially
all
information that would otherwise be included in a proxy statement concerning
new sub-advisers and material changes to the sub-advisory contracts. In addition,
40

the orders allow the funds to disclose sub-advisory fees for each fund in
their prospectuses and other reports in the aggregate, without separately
disclosing each sub-adviser's feeYo"Funds of Funds." The Commission issued orders permitting certain
mutual funds to operate as "funds of funds" -funds that invest their assets
in affiliated investment companies.!" The orders supersede prior orders'F and
permitthe funds to acquire up to 100percent of the voting shares of any mutual
fund in the same family of funds. Congress is considering legislation that
similarly would facilitate the operation of mu tual funds that invest substantially
all of their assets in other funds in the same fund farnily.!"
Unit Investment Trusts. The Commission issued orders permitting certain
unit investment trusts (UITs) to be sold subject to a non-contingent deferred
sales load, provided the load is disclosed in the fee table in the UITs' pros pectuses.!"
Aggregated Trades. The staff stated tha tit would not recommend enforcement
action under Section 17(d) of the Investment Company Act, Rule 17d-1thereunder,
or Section 206 of the InvestmentAdvisers Act if an investment adviser aggregates
trades on behalf of its mutual fund clients and other clients, including clients
in which the adviser has a proprietary interest, provided that trades are aggregated
and allocated fairly and equitably.!"
Segregation Requirements. The staff, modifying an earlier posi tion, stated
that it would not recommend enforcement action under Section 18(f) of the
Investment Company Act if a fund that engaged in short selling maintained in
a segregated account assets having a value that, when combined with the value
of collateral deposited with a broker in connection with the short sale, equals
the current market value of the security sold short.!" The staffs prior position
required the segregated account to maintain assets at least equal in value to
the current market value of the securities sold short but in no event less than
the market value of the securities when they were sold short.
Committed Line of Credit Arrangement. The staff stated that it would not
recommend enforcement action under Section 17(d) of the Investment Company
Act or Rule 17d-l thereunder if affiliated funds jointly entered into a committed
line of credit arrangement with a bank to provide the funds with a source of
cash to meet unanticipated redemption requests. The arrangement was subject
to condi tions designed to ensure tha t each fund's partici pa tion in the arrangemen t
would be equitable and in the fund's best interests.!"
Custodial Arrangements. The staff stated that it would not recommend
enforcement action under Section 17(f) of the Investment Company Act or
Rule 17f-5 thereunder if a closed-end fund held Russian equity securities
under certain custodial arrangements that were not contemplated when
Rule 17f-5 was adopted.!" Under Russia's unique share registry system, equity
securities of Russian issuers are maintained in book-entry form by registrars
located throughoutRussia. The fund's proposed arrangements included monitoring
the registrars, enhancing oversight by the fund's board of directors, and providing
prominent prospectus disclosure of the risks posed by the Russian registry system.
Asset-backed Securities. The staff issued a no-action letter that provided
guidance regarding the scope of Rule 3a-7 under the Investment Company
Act, which excludes certain issuers of asset-backed securities from the

41

definition of investment cornpany.!" The staff emphasized that issuers
relying on the rule must be engaged solely in the business of acquiring and
holding eligible assets, as defined in the rule, and in activities" related or incidental"
thereto, e.g., only those that support or further the entity's business of acquiring
and holding eligible assets.
Investment
Series.
The staff stated that separate series of a series
investment company should be treated as separate investment companies
for purposes of Section 17 of the Investment Company Act, which generally
prohibits transactions between funds and their affiliated persons and
affiliated persons of such affiliated persons. The staffs position permitted
a broker-dealer to engage In transactions with a particular series of a series
investment company when an affihate of the broker-dealer serves as subadviser to another series of the same company.P?
Separate Investment
Accounts.
The staff stated that it would not
recommend enforcement action if a fund's total return, as quoted in its
prospectus, statement of additional information, advertisements, and sales
literature, included the performance of certain predecessor unregistered
separate investment accounts (SIAs) for the periods prior to the effective
date of the fund's registration staternent.P' Reliefwas based on the representations
that the registered fund would be managed in a manner that is in all material
respects equivalent to the management of the corresponding SIA,and that the
SIAs were created for purposes entirely unrelated to the establishment of a
performance record.
Insurance

Company

Matters

The staff stated that it would not recommend enforcement action
under Section 17(a) of the Securities Act and Rule 156 thereunder if certain
variable annuity contracts used supplemental sales materials reflecting
hypothetical
rates of return illustrating
both the accumulation
and
distribu tion periods.!" The issuer has developed an in teractive compu ter software
program that permits investors to input personalized financial data and then to
compare the hypothetical performance of the annuity with the hypothetical
performance of mutual funds.
The Division clarified the application of Rule 24f-2 under the Investment
Company Act to the two-tier arrangements used in offering variable insurance
contracts to investors.f" Under these arrangements, underlying funds may
calculate and pay their Securities Act registration fees pursuant to Rule 24f-2
based on all of their sales and redemptions during the previous fiscal year,
exclusive of sales to and redemptions from insurance company separate accounts
that already paid such fees.
Disclosure

Matters

The Commission took several key initiatives to improve disclosures
to investment company shareholders, including issuing a concept release
and testing "profile" prospectuses.
The most significant initiatives are
described below.

42

Risk Disclosure. In March 1995, the Commission issued a concept release
requesting comment on how investment companies could improve disclosure
about their risks. To encourage individual investors to comment, the Commission
also issued with the release a summary targeted to individual investors. Over
3,700 comments were received and were being evaluated at year-end. The staff
also worked closely with several fund groups to develop simplified prospectuses
by elimmating technical jargon and legal prose.
Profile Prospectus. InAugust 1995, the Commission permitted a test group
of eight mu tual fund grou ps to provide their investors with a" profile" prospectus,
which would accompany the prospectus currently provided to investors. Each
profile briefly outlines 11 disclosure items, including information regarding the
fund's investment objectives; investment strategies; risks and appropriateness
of investment; fees and expenses; past performance; investment adviser; and
purchase, redemption, and distribu tion procedures. The use of profiles is being
undertaken initially for a one-year test period to determine, among other things,
whether investors find them helpful regarding investment decisions.
Reporting of Expenses. In July 1995, the Commission adopted amendments
relating to the reportmgof expenses by investment companies.!" The amendments
require investment companies to reflect as expenses certain of their liabilities
paid by broker-dealers in connection with allocating brokerage transactions to
such broker-dealers and liabilities reduced by certain expense offset arrangements.
The amendments also require investment companies to disclose the average
commission rate paid. The amendments are designed to enhance the information
provided to investors so that they may be better able to assess and compare
investment company expenses and yield information.
Money Market Fund Short Form Prospectus. In July 1995, the Commission
proposed for comment amendments to Form N-1A, the form used by openend inves tmen t companies to register securi ties.!" The proposed amend men ts
are designed to promote the use of money market fund prospectuses that
are shorter, more informative, and readily understandable
to investors.
Filings

Reviewed

In 1995, the staff reviewed 68 percent of the 2,321 new portfolios filed
(however, more than 90 percent of new open-end and closed-end portfolios
were reviewed), 84 percent of the 711 proxy statements filed, and 12 percent
of the 15,258 post-effective amendments filed with the Commission. The
post-effective amendments included 378 registration statements filed in
connection with fund mergers, which are among the most complex filings
made by investment compames. Increased merger activity by investment
companies resulted in a 36 percent increase in the number of merger
registration statements filed, all of which were reviewed. These figures
include filings by insurance product separate accounts.

43

Significant Investment Advisers Act Developments
Rulemaking

In February 1995, the Commission proposed for public comment new Rule
204-4 and Form ADV-B under the Investment Advisers Act that would require
certain investment advisers to provide clients with an annual report regarding
the brokerage commissions they pay and the advisers' receipt of research and
other "soft dollar" benefits from those commissions.!"
No-Action

Letters and Interpretations

In 1995, the Division issued no-action letters and interpretations under
the Investment Advisers Act concerning, among other things, registration
and electronic record keeping.
Registration, The staft sta ted tha tit would not recommend enforce men t
action under Sections 203 and 208(d) of the Investment Advisers Act if
certain affiliates of a registered investment adviser did not themselves
register as investment advisers under Section 203, where (a) the affiliates
would not be providing any investment advice, (b) the affiliates and each
of their employees would be deemed "associated persons" of the registered
adviser when provided access to recommendations of the registered adviser,
and (c) the staff would be provided with access to the books and records
of the affiliates to the extent necessary to examine the business of the
registered adviser.!"
Electronic Recordkeeping.
The staff stated that it would not recommend
enforcement action under the recordkeepmg rules under the Investment
Advisers Act and Investment Company Act if advisers that use a service
offering on-hne access to research reports do not maintain hard copies of
all reports consulted.!"
Interagency

Agreement

The staff also participated in the drafting and negotiation of an
agreement between the Commission and the Office of the Comptroller of
the Currency to conduct joint examinations of national banks, and their
subsidiaries that advise mutual funds, and the funds they advise. This
agreement should minimize the burdens on such banks and bank-advised
funds, reduce regulatory costs, and enable the staff to obtain access to
certain bank records even though the bank itself is not registered as an
investment adviser.
Significant Holding Company Act Developments
Recent Study

In June 1995, the Division issued a report, The Regulation of Public Utilzty
Companies, which describes the results of the staff's study of the
regulatory framework of the Holding Company Act in light of recent
developments
in the gas and electric utility industry.!"
The primary
Holding

44

recommendation of the report is that Congress repeal the HoldingCompany
Act
conditioned upon the enactment of provisions (1) to ensure state regulators and
the Federal Energy Regulatory Commission access to books and records of
companies in multi-state, public utility systems and (2) to provide for federal
audit authority and oversight of affiliate transactions. The report also includes
legislative and administrative proposals intended to update and streamline the
regulatory structure governing public utility holding companies.
Rulemaking
The Commission
adopted
rule amendments
that exempt from
Commission review certain additional types of securities that both public
utility and non-utility subsidiaries of registered holdmgcompanies
may issue.':"
The Commission also proposed amendments to broaden the exemption to include
all securities issued by a subsidiary company of a registered holding company.!"
The Commission further proposed a new rule that would exempt from CommISSIOn
review the holding company system's investments in energy-related activities
of amounts up to the greater of 15 percent of the holding company's total
capitalization
or $50 million. The rule also would exempt without lirrut
investments by registered gas companies in gas-related activities.!"
Registered Holding Compantes
As of September 30,1995, there were 15 public utility holding companies
registered under the Holding Company Act. The registered systems were
comprised of 97 public utility subsidiaries, 14 exempt wholesale generators,
35 foreign utility companies, 229 non-utility subsidiaries,
and 47 inactive
subsidiaries, for a total of 437 companies and systems with utility operations
in 26 states.
These holding company systems had aggregate assets of
approximately
$136 billion and operating revenues of approximately
$46
billion as of September 30, 1995.
Financing Authorizations

During 1995, the Commission authorized registered holding company
systems to issue approximately
$22.9 billion of fmancing authorizations,
an
increase of 31 percent over 1994. The total financing authorizations
included
$4.9 billion of investments
in exempt wholesale generators
and foreign
utility companies, an increase of 1,072 percent over 1994, and investments
of $172 million in enterprises
engaged in energy management.
Examinations
The staff examined 9 service companies and 1 special purpose corporation.
The staff reviewed the accounting policies, cost determination
procedures,
intercompany transactions, and quarterly reports of these service companies and
special purpose corporations. Through the examina tion program and by uncovering
misallocated expenses and inefficiencies, the Commission's activities during
1995 resulted in savings to consumers of approximately
$18.5 million.

45

Applications and Interpretations
In 1995,the Commission issued various orders under the HoldingCompany
Act. Four of the most significant orders are described below.
CINergy Corporation, CINergy Corporation became a new registered
holding company following the Commission's approval of its acquisition, through
merger, of the Cincinna ti Gas & Electric Company and PSI Resources, Inc.143
Southern Company The Commission authorized the Southern Company
to invest approximately $179 million in a new subsidiary that will provide
wireless communications services to both associate and nonassociate companies.!"
Also, the Commission approved a percentage limitation upon the new subsidiary's
transactions with nonassociates based on the investment needed to provide
services to associate and nonassociate companies, respectively. The Commission
suggested ItS willingness to consider a more flexible standard in the area of
diversification, consistent with the language of Section 11(b)(1) of the Holding
Company Act. In another decision, the Commission removed a revenue-based
percen tage hrni tation on the acti vi ties of an energy manage men t subsidiary of
a registered holding company. Cited, among other things, were the financial
health of the subsidiary; the benefits that consumers had derived from its
operations; and Congress' goal of encouraging energy security, efficiency,
competition, and environmental quality, all of which are promoted by the energy
management services industry.!"
Central and South West Corporation. The Commission authorized Central
and South West Corporation, a registered holdmg company, and its service
company subsidiary, Central and South West Services, Inc. (CSW Services),
to consohda te and cen tralize in CSW Services certain service and managemen t
activities that were previously conducted Individually by the operatmg
companies of the registered system. The Commission determined that (a)
the procedures to be used to authorize, monitor, and control the rendering
of services by CSW Services to the operating companies should be adequate
to enable management to control the cost, quality, and level of services
received from CSW Services, and (b) its approval of the restructuring did
not preclude the state regulatory
authorities
from scrutinizing
and
disallowing the pass-through of costs in rates for services rendered by CSW
Services. 146
Columbia Gas System, Inc. The Commission approved the bankruptcy
reorganization plan of the Columbia Gas System, Inc.147 and, in light of the
extensive disclosure available to investors, integrated its report on the plan
therewith.

46

Compliance Inspections and Examinations
The Office of Compliance Inspections and Examinations, together with
the regional office examination staff, conducts the nationwide compliance
inspections and examinations program for regulated entities, as authorized by
the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the Investment Company Act of 1940,
and the Investment Advisers Act of 1940. These entities include brokers,
dealers, municipal securities dealers, self-regulatory organizations, transfer
agents, investment companies, and investment advisers.
Key 1995 Results

In May 1995, the Commission consolidated its examination and inspection
activities into the Office of Compliance Inspections and Examinations (OClfi}.
The responsibilities for these activities was previously divided between the
Divisions of Market Regulation and Investmen t Managemen t. The Commission
created OClE to streamline the examination process by consolidating the
management of the activities; reducing duplication; and improving coordination
with the regional office examination staff, the Division of Enforcement
(Enforcement), and other regulatory agencies. The office will offer higher
quality training for examiners, better use of resources, and improved planning
of examination strategies.
The inspection staff undertook a number of initiatives to enhance the
joint and cooperative efforts among foreign, federal, and state regulators
and self-regulatory organizations (SRO) in conducting inspections and other
oversight activities of regulated entities. The staff also identified ways to
foster increased
cooperative
efforts among Commission
examiners
responsible for inspecting different types of regulated entities. All of these
joint and cooperative efforts have the objective of increasing the staff's
effectiveness and productivity and enhancing Investor protection.
Furthermore, the staff focused on methods to utilize limited examination
resources as effectively as possible.
For example, the emphasis of the
examination program shifted toward a model that selects the registrants
to examine based on risk factors, rather than a cyclical approach.
Investment Company and Investment Adviser Inspections

During the year, the staff completed inspections of 348 investment
company complexes and 1,075 investment advisers. In 82 percent of these
inspections, the staff found deficiencies that needed correction. An additional
seven percent of the inspections completed were referred to Enforcement
for consideration of an investigation and possible enforcement action.

47

Investment Companies
During the year, examiners completed inspections of 348 investment
company complexes with $1.1 trillion under management, indicating an
average frequency of inspection for the 969 investment company complexes
of once every 2.8 years. The complexes inspected managed 3,144 portfolios,
which represented approximately 51 percent of the mutual fund and closedend fund portfolios in existence at the beginning of 1995. This indicated
an average inspection frequency for mutual and closed-end funds of once
every 2 years. The complexes inspected represented a mix of both large
and smaller complexes. Forty-eight of the inspections were done on a "for
cause" basis, which means the staff had some reason to conduct the inspection
other than the simple passage of time.
Of the 348 inspections completed, 23 were referred to Enforcement.
Of those referrals, 48 percent had problems related to net asset value
calculations, 48 percent had problems related to internal controls, and 39
percent had problems related to prohibited transactions.
Mutual Fund Administrators.
Approximately 43 percent of all mutual
fund complexes use third party administrators to perform their accounting
and administrative functions. Prior to 1995, administrators were inspected
individually and during inspections of fund complexes. During 1995, the
staff began a special program of comprehensive individual, or stand-alone,
inspections of these administrators to review their activities across their
entire mutual fund client base. Examiners completed 25 inspections of
administrators during the year. Of these, one was referred to Enforcement.
The administrator
inspections also resulted in the staff subsequently
conducting three "for cause" examinations of investment company fund
complexes.
Variable Insurance Products. In response to the rapid growth in variable
insurance product assets and the emergence of new channels of distribu tion,
five specialized insurance product examination teams were formed in OCIE
and the regional offices during the year. These teams were charged with
identifying and examining variable life and annuity contract separate
accounts. The teams worked in conjunction with the Division of Investment
Management (Investment Management) in the planning and execution of
the examination program. During the year, 18 insurance company complexes
were examined and deficiency letters were issued in each examination. The
examinations revealed significant internal control weaknesses, as well as
issues that were referred to Investment Management for comment.
Bank Advised Mutual Funds. The Commission and the Office of the
Comptroller of the Currency signed an agreement on June 12, 1995 that
provides for joint examinations of mutual funds advised by national banks
and national banks that provide investment services to funds. As a result
of this agreement, one joint examination was completed and a second was
initiated.
These two examinations focused on a review of key internal
control areas as well as an analysis of portfolio transaction data relating
to both mutual fund and trust department client trading. This represents
the first time Commission examiners have been able to compare mutual

48

fund trading to trading by other trust department clients to determine if
there is evidence of overreaching or other abusive investment or trading
practices.
Investment

Advisers

During the year, the staff's general approach to targeting investment
advisers for inspection was changed significantly to reflect the large growth
in the number of advisers over the last several years and the lack of growth
in the size of the inspection staff. These changes also recognize that the
level of risk of loss to clients posed by different types of advisers varies
greatly.
New Inspection Approach.
Examinations focused on the advisers that
appeared to pose a higher risk to clients, such as those that had actual
custody of client funds and securities and those that had discretionary
management authority over clients' cash and securities. Examiners in the
regional offices were given the pnmary responsibility
for conductmg
inspections of all discretionary
managers and those non-discretionary
managers with $100 million or more under management as well as advisers with
custody of client assets. Regional staff also were responsible for conducting
all "for cause" inspections.
Sweep Inspections.
Inspections of the remaimng investment advisers
became the responsibility of the Commission's headquarters staff. The staff
conducted geographical sweep inspections of 90 investment advisers in
Maryland, Washington, and Minnesota. State examiners in all three states were
invited to participate. A majority of the advisers examined were financial
planners. Typically, financial planners prepare financial plans that are implemented
through sales of mutual funds by the planners in therr capacity as a registered
representative of a broker-dealer. Most planners also sell insurance products.
Under this new approach, the inspection staff completed 1,075investment
adviser inspections, including examinations of 893 advisers wi th discretionary
manage men tau thori ty. The non-inves tmen t com pany assets managed by the
advisers inspected totalled $462 billion. The 893 inspections of discretionary
advisers covered 11percent of all such advisers, indicating an average inspection
cycle for discretionary advisers of once every 8 to 10 years. The overall
inspection cycle for advisers dropped from once every 22 years to once every
20 years.
Deficiency letters were sent in 75 percent of the examinations, 10 percent
were concluded with a conference call, and 1percent was referred to Enforcement.
Deficiencies found during inspections were concentrated in books and records
and brochure disclosures. No deficiencies were found in 14 percent of the
inspections.
Of the 177 "for cause" examinations, 70 were referred to Enforcement.
Of the referrals, 60 percent had problems related to custody of client funds
or securities, 58 percent had problems involving conflicts of interest, and
51 percent had problems related to marketing or performance advertising.

49

Broker-Dealer

Examinations

During the year, the OCIE focused on and expanded the activi ties of the
broker-dealer examination program, ini tiating and coordinating projects focused
on particular areas of regulatory concern, such as the recent Joint Regulatory
Sales Practice Examination Sweeps, a follow-up to the Large Firm Report by
the Divisions of Market Regulation and Enforcement.
The staff conducted a sales practice sweep of small and medium-sized
brokerage firms designed to review the hiring, retention, and supervisory
practices of both New York Stock Exchange (NYSE) and National Association
of Securities Dealers, Inc. (NASD) member firms, as well as the sales practices
of identified registered representatives
employed by these firms. The
sweep was a collaborative effort by the Commission, the NYSE, the NASD,
and the North American Securities Administrators Association. The objective
of the sweep was to identify problem brokers, and to ensure that appropriate
supervisory mechanisms are in place or, where necessary, to take appropriate
enforcement action against these individuals. The staff completed 179examinations
at 101 different firms and was analyzing the findings of the examinations at
fiscal year-end.
The staff also completed a total of 662 exarrunations of brokers, dealers,
and municipal securities dealers consisting of 393 oversight examinations
and 269 "for cause" examinations.
Findings from 158 examinations were
referred to the Division of Enforcement for further consideration. Referrals
to SROs were made in 42 examinations. Many of these examinations focused
on areas of recent concern to the Commission, such as broker-dealers'
Internal controls. As a result, the staff developed and tested a module to
be used to review the internal controls of broker-dealers. The module covers
internal audit, senior management, trading, funding and liquidity, credit
controls, new products, physical premises, SRO examination and workpapers,
and financial Information analysis. The module was used in a number of
comprehensive examinations of broker-dealers'
internal controls.
SRO Inspections and Oversight

The staff adopted "Guiding Principles" for conductingSRO inspections.
These principles include coordinating various SRO inspection teams to
ensure consistent reviews and recommendations, to expedite the inspection
process, to develop tracking systems to monitor and track SRO programs,
and to provide follow up to recommendations made in inspection reports.
In addition, inspection teams will meet regularly with all SROs not only
to follow up on recommendations
of inspection reports, but also to ensure
that important issues of mutual interest are discussed with the SROs.
The staff completed routine oversight inspections of the enforcement
and sales practice examination programs of the NYSE and the Chicago Board
Options Exchange (CBOE), as well as the sales practice investigations program
of the CBOE. The market surveillance, investigatory, and disciplinary
programs of the Boston Stock Exchange (BSE), the CBOE, the Chicago Stock
Exchange (CHX), the NYSE, the Pacific Stock Exchange (PSE), and the
Philadelphia Stock Exchange (Phlx) were inspected. The staff also inspected

50

the arbitration programs of the NASD and the NYSE and started inspections
of the arbitration programs of the Municipal Securities Rulemaking Board
(MSRB) and the PSE.
which
Examiners completed
several special purpose Inspections,
included the American Stock Exchange's (Amex) listing program and the
NASD's Public Disclosure Program; the audit trail systems of the Arnex, the
CBOE, the NASD, and the NYSE; the BSE's pilot competing specialist
initiative; and the Cincinnati Stock Exchange's (CSE) pilot preferencing
program. The staff started an inspection of the NASD's enforcement, waiver,
surveillance, and examination program for broker-dealer
compliance with
MSRB Rule G-37.
Rou tine oversight inspections of the regulatory programs adminis tered
by the NASD's 14 district offices were conducted. These inspections included
reviews of eight dis trict offices' broker-dealer
examina non. financial
surveillance,
and formal disciplinary
action programs,
as well as
investrgatioris
of customer
complaints,
terminations
of registered
representatives
"for cause," and members' notices of disciplinary action
against their own employees.
Five clearing agencies were inspected:
the Government
Securities
Clearing Corporation,
Philadelphia
Depository
Trust Company, Stock
Clearing Corporation of Philadelphia,
Midwest Securities Trust Company,
and Midwest Clearing Corporation.
SRO Final Disciplznary Actions
Section 19d-1 of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934 and Rule 19d-1
thereunder require all SROs to file reports with the Commission of all final
disciplinary actions. In 1995, the SROs filed 1,105 reports. The Amex filed
14 reports, the BSE filed 1 report, the CBOE filed 46 reports, the CHX and
the CSE filed none, the NASD filed 827 reports, the National Securities
Clearing Corporation filed 5 reports, the NYSE filed 183 reports, the Options
Clearing Corporation filed 3 reports, the Phlx filed 24 reports, and the PSE
filed 2 reports.

51

Full Disclosure System

Thefull disclosure system is administered by the Division of Corporation
Finance. The system is designed to provide investors with material
information, foster investor confidence, contribute to the maintenance of
fair and orderly markets, facilitate capital formation, and inhibit fraud in
the public offering, trading, voting, and tendering of securities.
Key 1995 Results

Reflecting a significan t increase in transactions in the la tter half of the
year, the $824 billion in securities filed for registration during the year
represented a slight increase over the $815 billion in 1994. Common stock
offenngs of nearly $400 billion filed for registration In 1995 (compared to
$333 billion in 1994) reflected a substantial increase in merger activity, as
well as a modest increase in stock offenngs.
Offerings filed by first time
regrstrants (IPOs) totalled approximately $82 billion, nearly level with 1994.
Foreign companies' participation
in the United States public market
continued to show strong growth in 1995. One hundred and eighteen foreign
companies from 28 countries, including Royal Bank of Canada, Jilin Chemical
Company (China), PowerGen pIc and National Power pIc (Uni ted Kingdom),
CRVD (Brazil), Asia Pulp and Paper (Singapore), Portugal Telecom and
Jefferson Smurfit pIc (Ireland), en tered the United States public markets for
the first time. At year-end, there were 709 foreign companies from 43 countries
filing reports with the Commission.
Foreign companies registered public
offerings of $41 billion in 1995.

REGISTRATION STATEMENTS FILED
DOLLAR VALUE ($BILLIONS)
UNALLOCATED
SHELF
OTHER EO
83210%

252
3%

1994
TOTAL - $814.7
52

UNALLOCATED
SHELF
931 12% OTHER EO
188
2%

1995
TOTAL - $823.6

In the rulemaking area, a package of ini tia tives was published for comment
by the Commission to streamline and enhance the utility of disclosure. The
proposals would allow the use of abbreviated or summary financial information
in disclosure documents delivered to investors, streamhne director and executive
compensation disclosure in annual proxy and information statements, raise the
total assets threshold for Securities and Exchange Act of 1934 (Exchange Act)
registration, reduce the holding penod requirements in Rule 144 under the
Securities Act of 1933 (Securities Act), and exempt from federal registration
small offerings that are exempt under a California law.
The Commission also revised its prospectus delivery and other rules to
facilitate compliance with prospectus delivery requirements with the change to
a three business day settlement period for securities transactions (T+3). Use
of electronic media to deliver mandated disclosure documents was addressed
and facilitated by the issuance of an interpretive release providing guidance and
a degree of certainty to issuers that use electronic media to deliver or transmit
information to investors.
In addition, broad-based initiatives are being considered that may result
in substantial revisions to the registration and disclosure processes. In 1995,
the Commission established an Advisory Committee on the Capital Formation
and Regulatory Processes, reflecting the Commission's continuing efforts to
minimize regula tory burdens while maximizing investor protection. The Comrruttee
is considering fundamental issues relating to the regulatory framework governing
the capital formation process, such as whether Commission rules should provide
for registration of companies rather than securities.
An internal Task Force on Disclosure Simplification undertook a" top to
bottom" review of all forms and disclosure requiremen ts relating to securi ties
offerings and disclosure obligations of public companies. The purpose of the
review is to streamline and simplify regulations, including the elirrunation of
any requirements that have outlived their usefulness.
In 1995, the staff reviewed 30.8% of the reporting issuers, as well as 1,150
Securities Act and Exchange Act registration statements of first time filers.
Review of Filings

The following table summarizes the principal filings reviewed dunng the
last five years. The levels of reviews of new issuer filings, tender offers,
contested solicitations, and goingpnvate transactions, all of which are subject
to review, reflect the increases and decreases in the number of filings received.

53

FULL DISCLOSURE REVIEWS
1991

1992

1993

2,660

3,058

3,531

3,400 3,930

799

1,147

1,200

1,599 1,150

465
758
308

831
970
210

877
924
117

1,167
863
114

805
815
100

183
275

158
137

189
103

217
90

145
115

151

158

148

215

200

1,122
712
435

1,041
1,126
409

1,466
1,155
360

Tender Offers
(140-1)

37

27

56

82

140

Going Private
Schedules

68

61

61

75

77

Contested Proxy
Solicitations

65

58

35

42

59

188
214
160

141
150
245

149
149
1,143

163
180
847

225
205
195

Reporting Issuer
Reviews ~

New Issuer
Reviews 'Qj

1994

1995

Major Filing Reviews
Securities Act Registrations
Headquarters
New Issuers
ReIfeat Issuers
P/ Amdts. f!
Regions
Retstrations
P/ Amdts. f!
Exchange Act Initial
Reg istrations
Annual Report
Full
Full Financial
Special g;

Reviews

Proxy Statements
Merger/Going
Private
Others w/Financials
Other fli

1,085 1,345
1,405 1,585
455
585

~
 Includes companies subject to Exchange Act reporting whose financial statements
were reviewed during the year.
Includes
non-Exchange Act reporting companies whose Securities Actor Exchange
l?/
Act registration statements were reviewed during the year.
f! Includes only post-effective amendments with new financial statements.
Q/ Forms lO-K, lO-KSB,and 20-F reviewed in connection with the review of other
filings. Special reviews in years prior to 1995 may have been underrecorded and
therefore are not fully comparable to the 1995number.
f! 1993 and 1994 include reviews in connection with the executive compensation
disclosure project.

54

Rulemaking, Interpretive, and Legislative Matters
delivery In connection unih. T +3 settlement
The Commission proposed and adopted amendments to its rules and forms,
as well as a new rule under the Securities Act, in order to implement two solu tions
to prospectus delivery timing issues arising in connection wi th the change to
T+3 securi ties transaction settlement.':" The amendments and rule are based
on recommendations submitted by representatives of financial intermediaries.
Among other things, the initiatives for the first time allow prospectus disclosure
to be completed through the use of supplements to prospectuses subject to
completion (i.e., term sheets) and the confirmation of sale. In addition, the
Commission amended an exemption from T +3 clearance and settlement for
purchases and sales of securi ties pursuan t to a fum cornrru tmen t offering. This
exemption is now limited to offerings in which an alterna tive settle men t cycle
is agreed to by the issuer and the underwriter.

Prospectus

Electronic

delivery

of documents

to security

holders

The Commission issued an interpretive release't? and related rule proposals ISO
addressing the use of electronic media to deliver or transmit to investors
information under the federal securities laws. The Interpretive release provides
guidance and a degree of certainty to issuers who use electronic media In
complying with the applicable delivery requirements of the federal securities
laws. The Interpretive release also contains numerous examples applying these
concepts to specific fact situations and solicits comment on various matters to
assist the Commission in evaluating the need for additional interpretations. The
rule proposals include a number of technical amendments to the Commission's
rules and forms that are intended to codify some of the interpretations set out
in the interpretive release.
June 1995 Initiatives

On june 27, 1995, the Commission issued eight releases, seven proposing
rule changes and one stating interpretive positions, to streamline disclosure,
facilitate capital raising, and deter abusive practices.
1. Abbreviated

Financial

Statements

The Commission issued a release proposing new rules and amendments
that would allow the use of abbreviated financial statements in annual reports
to shareholders and other disclosure documents that are delivered to inves tors,
such as prospectuses, proxy and information statements, and documents furnished
to investors in connection with tender offers or going private transactions. lSI
The release also seeks comment on other approaches to streamlining the annual
report to shareholders, such as permi tting the use of a summary annual report,
or allowing registrants total flexibility by rescinding the Commission's requirements
for delivery of an annual report to shareholders.

55

2. Streamlining

Delivery

of Executive

and Dzrector Compensation

Disclosure

The Commission proposed amendments to Item 402 of Regulation S-K and
Regulation S-Bto streamline executive compensation disclosure in annual proxy
and information statements and to reformat director compensation disclosure.l"
The amendments would permit registrants to furnish the detailed executive
compensation disclosure currently required to be provided in the proxy or
information statement, in the annual report on Form 10-K. The proposed
amendments also would replace the current narrative disclosure of several
common elements of director compensation with a new tabular presentation in
the proxy statement.
Exemption for Certain California Limzted Issues
The Commission issued a release proposing a new Securi ties Act Section
3(b) exemption from the registration requirements of the federal securities
laws.l" Under the proposed exemption, offers and sales of securities in amounts
of up to $5 million, that satisfy the conditions of a recently-enacted exemption
from California state qualification requirements, also would be exempt from
federal registration. The federal antifraud prohibitions would continue to apply
to all such exempt transactions. The proposed exemption would provide that
purchasers in the exempt transaction receive "restricted securrties." No filing
with the Commission would be required.

3a

Small Offerzng

3b. Solzcitation of Comment Concerning
Solicztations in Exempt Offerings

Prohibitions

Against

General

In light of the California Exemption, which allows general solicitations
so long as sales are effected only to qualified purchasers, the Commission also
solicited comment on whether general solicitations should be permitted in
Regulation D and private placements.'>' The release includes questions about
whether Regulation D should allow general solicitations, who should be able
to use them, and the extent to which the content of such communications should
be restricted.
4.

Solicitations

of Interest

PrIOr to an Initial

Public Offering

The Commission Issued proposals that would allow many issuers that are
not subject to Exchange Act reporting requirements to "test the waters" for
in teres t in their com pany prior to the prepara tion and filing of an IPO regis tra tion
sta tement under the Securi ties ACt.155 The proposed rule is intended to allow
an issuer with no established market for its securities to assess potential investor
interest in the company before incurring the costs associated with the preparation
of a Securities Act registration statement. The proposal would require that
wri tten solicitation documents or broadcast scripts be submi tted to the Commission
on or before first use. If,after"testing the waters," an issuer decided to proceed
with a registered IPO, itwould have to file a registration statement and provide
investors with a prospectus. "Test the waters" solicitations would have to be
discon tmued once a regis tra tion sta temen t was filed. Sales of securi ties would
not be allowed until Zflcalendar days after the last publication or delivery of
the document or broadcast. Regulation A would be amended where appropriate
so that its "test the waters" provisions would operate in a parallel fashion.

56

5. Relief From Section

12(g) Registration for Small Issuers

The Commission proposed amendments to Its rules under the Exchange
Act governing the total assets threshold for entry into and exit from the full
disclosure systern.!" Under the proposals, issuers would be required to register
pursuant to Section 12(g) of the Exchange Act if they have 500 shareholders
of record and $10 million in total assets, an increase from the current asset
threshold of$5 million. Rules relating to exiting from the Exchange Act reporting
system also would be revised to allow issuers to cease reporting if they drop
below a total ?f'<;et8tlv(~sh0J('~(,[$10 millvir- wh-reve r the present standard IS
$5 million.
6.

Reduction

of Rule 144 Holding

Period

The Commission proposed amendments to the holding period requirements
contained in Rule 144 under the Securi ties Act to permi t resales of" restricted"
securities after a one-year, rather than a two-year holding period. IS? Also under
the proposal, securi ties held by non-affilia ted securi ty holders could be resold
withou t restriction after a holding period of two, rather than three years. These
proposals are designed to decrease the costs associated wi th priva te capi tal raising
by reducing the discount arising from the length of the holding period. The
Commission also requested comment on whether Rule 144 should be revised
to address new trading strategies, such as equity swaps and reminded Section
16 insiders of their obligations to report equity swap transactions.
7a. Streamlining
Acquisitions

DIsclosure

Requirements

Relating

to SIgnificant

Business

The Commission issued a release proposing amendments to the financial
statement requirements for significant acquisitions to eliminate the requirements
to provide audited financial statements for pending and recently completed
business acquisitions in Securities Act registration statements, other than
registrations by "blank check companies."!" The proposed rules are intended
generally to allow issuers to provide information about significant acquisi tions
in Securities Act registration statements on the same time schedule as for
Exchange Act reporting, thereby alleviating the need for such issuers to forego
public offerings and to undertake private or offshore offerings. In addition,
the proposed rules would provide an au tomatic waiver of the earliest year of
required financial statements for completed acquisitions that do not exceed a
specified significance level, if such audited financial statements are not readily
available.
7b.

Quarterly

Reporting

of Unregistered

EquIty

Sales

In connection with a review of offshore capital raising practices, the
Commission proposed amendments to its annual and quarterly reporting forms
for domestic issuers that would require disclosure of unregis tered sales of equi ty
securities during the previous fiscal quarter. 159 The proposed amendments are

57

limited to unregistered sales of common equity securities (and common equity
equivalents) because of the significant market impact the issuance of such
secunties often has and the current lack of public information abou t such sales.
8

Problematic

Practices

Under Regulation

S

The Commission issued an interpretation of Regulation S stating its views
with respect to certain practices In connection with offers, sales and resales
of securi ties purportedly made In offshore transactions in reliance on Regulation
5.J60 The release discusses transactions in which circumstances indicate that
securities are in essence being placed offshore temporarily to evade registration
requirements with the result that the incidence of ownership of the securities
never leaves the u.s. market or that a substantial portion of the economic risk
relating thereto is left in or is returned to the u.S. market dunng the restricted
period, or the transaction is such that there was no reasonable expectation that
the securities could be viewed as actually coming to rest abroad. The release
states that such transactions would not be covered by Regulation S or the safe
harbors and would be found not to be an offer and sale outside the U.S. for
purposes ofthe general statement, which provides that the regulatory requirements
under Section 5 of the Secur itres Act shall be deemed not to apply to offers
and sales of securities that occur outside the u.s.
The release also solicits comments on the need to amend Regulation S to
deter abuses and requests general comments as to which types of companies
are using Regulation S, how they are using it, and what mechanisms can be
used to prevent abuse. The Commission specifically requested comment as to
whether It should propose amendmen ts to the safe harbor for primary offerings
of domestic companies reporting under the Exchange Act that would (1) extend
the 40-day restncted period, (2) exclude certain discounted offers, (3) restrict
hedging and other risk shifting transactions during the res tricted period, or (4)
prohibit payment with certain types of non-recourse or other types of promissory
notes where the expectation of repayment derives solely from the resale of
securities.
Section

16

The Commission issued a release proposing amendments to the Section 16
rules.": as part of its continuing effort to improve the regulatory scheme
governing the reporting of certain insider holdings and transactions, as well as
the recovery of short-swing profit. In 1994, the Commission solici ted public
commen t on proposed amend men ts to this regula tory scheme.l'" and solici ted
further comment in September 1994as to the treatment of instruments that may
be settled only in cash.!" The most recent release proposes an alternative
amend men t to Rule 16b-3 tha t would exempt virtually all transactions between
an issuer and its officers and directors, in addition to an amendment to the rule
exempting transactions in dividend or interest reinvestment plans that would
reduce regulatory burdens. Comment also was solicited as to whether the
Commission should recommend that Congress rescind Section 16(b) of the

58

Exchange Act. The comment period on the earlier releases was extended to
comport with the close of the comment period relating to this release, and both
the 1994 and 1995 proposals will be considered by the Commission.
Electronic

Data Gathering,

Analysis,

and Retrieval

System

(EDGAR)

In view of the statutory requirement that the Commission certify that
electronic filings from a significant test group of filers were received and
reviewed for a period of six months before mandating electronic filing for all
registrants, the staff undertook a comprehensive study of the test period results.
Following its review of the study, which concluded that provision of information
through the EDGAR system ISat least as efficient and effective as through paper
filings, the Commission adopted as final the rules that had been applicable to
electronic filing during the statutorily mandated significant test period and made
them applicable to all domes tic regis tran ts and third parties filing wi th res pect
to those registrants. 164 Phase-in of registrants into the electronic filing system
recommenced on Ianuary 30,1995, and proceeded as outlined in a revised phasein schedule, with completion of phase-in set for May 1996. Minor amendments
to the electronic filing rules also were adopted to reflect the staff's expenence
with the rules since mandated electronic filing began in 1993. On September
28,1995, the Commission instituted its Internet World Wide Web Site, which
includes EDGARfilingsas well as certain Commission releases and announcements.
Public Hearings

on Safe Harbor for Portuard-looktng

Statements

The Commission issued a concept release In 1994 regarding disclosure of
forward-looking information and the effectiveness of the safe-harbor provisions
for that type of disclosure.!" The release solicited comment from the public
on various alternatives to the safe harbor provision that have been proposed
by several persons and announced public hearings to address these issues further
in a public forum. The hearings were held in Washington, D.C. on February
13, 1995, and in San Francisco, California on February 16, 1995.
Legal Proceedings Involving
Shareholders and Others

Directors,

Executzve

Officers,

Signijicani

The Commission proposed amendments that would expand disclosure
requirements relating to legal proceedings involving management, promoters,
control persons, and others by enlarging the classes of legal proceedings that
are subject to disclosure and by extending the period during which such disclosure
is required from the current five to ten years.t'" The proposals also would make
uniform all such requirements found in various forms, schedules, and reports.
Conferences
SEC Government-Business

Forum on Small

Business

Capital Formation

The fourteenth annual SECGovernment-Business Forum on Small Business
Capital Formation was held in Providence, Rhode Island on September 13-14,
1995. Approxima tely 150small business represen tatives, accoun tan ts, attorneys,
and government officials attended the forum. Numerous recommendations were
formulated wi th a view to elimina ting unnecessary governmental impedimen ts
59

to small businesses' ability to raise capital. A final report will be provided
to interested persons, including Congress and regulatory agencies, setting forth
a lis t of recommenda tions for legisla tive and regula tory changes approved by
the forum participants.
SEC/NASAA

Conference

Under Section

19(c) of the Securities

Act

The twelfth annual federal/state uniformity conference was held in
Washington, D.C. on March 27, 1995. Approximately 60 SEC officials met
with approximately 60 representatives
of the North American Securities
Administrators Associa tion to discuss methods of effectmg grea ter uniformi ty
in federal and state securities matters. After the conference, a final report
summanzing the discussions was prepared and distributed to interested persons
and participants.
Committees and Task Forces
Adtnsoru

Committee

on Capital

Formation

In 1995, the Commission es tablished an Ad visory Commi ttee on the Capi tal
Formation and Regulatory Processes, reflecting the Commission's continuing
efforts to minimize regulatory burdens while maximizing investor protection.
The Committee is considering fundamental issues relating to the regulatory
framework governing the capital formation process, such as whether Commission
rules should provide for registration of companies rather than securities.
Task Force on Disclosure

Simplijication

An internal Task Force on Disclosure Simplification initiated a "top to
bottom" review of all forms and disclosure requirements relating to securities
offerings and disclosure obligations of public companies. The purpose of the
review is to streamline and simplify regulations, including the elimination of
any requirements that have outlived their usefulness.

60

Accounting and Auditing Matters

The Chief Accountant is the principal adviser to the Commission on
accounting and auditing matters arising from the administration of the
various securities laws. The primary Commission activities designed to
achieve compliance with the accounting and financial disclosure requirements
of the federal securities laws include:
• rulemaking and interpretation
that supplements private-sector accounting
standards, implements financial disclosure requirements,
and establishes
independence
criteria for accountants;
• review and comment process for agency fzlings directed to improving
disclosures in filings, identifYIng emergIng accounting issues (tohich may
result in rulemaking or priuate sector standard-setting),
and identifying
actions;
problems that may warrant enforcement
• enforcement
actions that impose sanctions and serve to deter Improper
financial
reporting by enhancing
the care with which registrants
and
their accountants
analyze accounting
Issues, and
• oversight of private sector efforts, principally by the Financial Accounting
Standards Board (FASB) and the American Institute
of Certiiied Public
Accountants
(AICPA), which establish. accounting and auditing standards
designed to Improve financial accounting
and reporitng and the qualIty
of audit practice.
Key 1995 Results

The Commission continued its involvement in initiatives directed
toward reducing the disparities that currently exist between different
countries' accounting and auditing standards. During 1995, the International
Accounting Standards Committee (IASC) developed a work plan that, upon
successful completion,
would result in a comprehensive
core set of
international accounting standards. Target date for completion of the work
plan is June 1999; however, efforts are underway to accelerate that timetable,
possibly by as much as a year.
Accounting-Related

Rules and Interpretations

The agency's accounting-related
rules and interpretations supplement
private-sector
accounting
standards,
implement
financial disclosur e
requirements,
and establish independence
criteria for accountants.
The
agency's principal accounting requirements are embodied in Regulation
S-X, which governs the form and content of financial statements filed with
the SEC.
Debt Extinguishment.
The staff issued interpretive guidance regarding
the period in which a gain or loss should be recognized on the early
extinguishment of debt."" The guidance was issued in response to divergent
61

reporting practices by public companies by which certain companies were
recognizing such a gain or loss in a period earlier than the period in which
the debt is considered extinguished.
Oversight of Private-Sector

Standard-Setting

The SEC monitors the structure, activity, and decisions of the privatesector standard-setting
organizations,
which include the FASB. The
Commission and Its staff worked closely with the FASB in an ongoing effort
to improve the standard-setting
process, including the need to respond to
varIOUS regulatory, legislative, and business changes in a timely and
appropriate manner. A description of FASB activities in which the staff was
involved is provided below.
During 1995, the FASB completed work on an exposure draft of a
proposed standard that would specify when entities should be included in
consolidated frnancial statements. 168 The proposed standard would require a
controlling enti ty to consolidate all enti ties deemed to be under its control unless
such control is temporary. For purposes of this requirement, control of an entity
ISdefined as representing the power to use or direct the use of the individual
assets of another entity in essentially the same ways as the controlling entity
can use its own assets. If adopted as proposed, the new standard would represent
a significant change from existing practice in which consolidation policy generally
is based on the existence of majority voting interests.
In another consolidations-related
project, the FASB continued its joint
undertakmg wi th the Accounting Standards Board of the Canadian Insti tu te
of Chartered
Accountants
(CICA) to consider the current reporting
of Ftnanctal Accounting
Standards
No. 14,
requirements under Statement
"Financial Reporting for Segments of a Business Enterprise." An exposure
draft thatwould establish common standards on disaggregated disclosures was
issued after year-end.
In 1995, the FASB adopted a new standard on accounting for impairment
of long-lived asse ts.J'" Under the new standard, long-lived assets and certain
identifiable mtangibles to be held and used by an entity are reviewed for
Impairment whenever events or changes in circumstances indicate that the
carrying amount of an asset may not be recoverable. The approach set forth
in the new standard is referred as a "two-step" method because the test
for recognition of Impairment is different than the measurement of the
Impairment loss. Recognition of impairment occurs if the sum of the future
cash flows expected to result from the use of the asset and its eventual
disposition (an undiscounted
measure) is less than the asset's carrying
amount. However, the impairment loss would be measured by the amount
by which the asset's carrying amount exceeds its fair value. The standard
represents the culmination of a long range project that is expected to narrow
the range of divergent financial reporting practices in this area.
The FASBalso issued a final standard on accoun ting for stock compensa tion. 170
Statement 123,Accouniing jor Stock-Based Compensation, encourages companies
toadopta new accounting method that recognizes the costofstockoptionawards
based on estimated fair value at grant date. Alternatively, companies may elect
to continue to follow the existing accounting requirements set forth in Accounting
62

Principles Board Opinion No. 25, which generally do not result in an expense
charge for most options. Companies electing to continue to apply Opinion 25
would be required to provide footnote disclosure of the effect on net income
had the com pany recognized expense based on estima ted fair val ue at gran t da te.
The statement becomes effective for calendar year 1996.
The FASB made progress during 1995 on Its major long-term project to
address financial instruments and off-balance sheet financing issues. The FASB
is pursuing an approach to accounting for denvative instruments and hedging
that it believes would improve the current accounting for those instruments.
Under the FASB's approach, entities would select among two options, both of
which would rely on fair value measurements. The determination of fair value
would be based on the valuation guidance provided in FASB Statement 107,
Disclosures about Fair Value of Financial Instruments,
adopted in an earlier phase
of this project. In a related action, the FASBissued an exposure draft to provide
for more consistent reporting of securitizations and other financial transactions
in which financial assets are transferred in exchange for cash or other assets."!
The proposed standard addresses determining when financial assets should be
considered sold and derecognized from the balance sheet and when related
revenues and expenses should be recognized.
During 1995, Congress considered litigation reform issues that impact the
accounting profession. These issues include, among others, class action reforms,
the shifting from one party to another of Iingation costs and expenses, proportiona te
liability, substantive standards for accountants' liability, and safe harbors for
disclosures of forward-looking information. The Senate bill and the House of
Representatives bill took different approaches to these issues."? Both bills,
however, included provisions that would (1) codify the Commission's au thon ty
to set auditing standards related to illegal acts, related party transactions, and
the evaluation of an entity as a gomg concern and (2) require auditors to report
certain uncorrected illegal acts of registrants to the Commission. The Private
Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995 which included these provisions was
enacted after year- end.
In addition, the Commission has responded to Congressional mterest in
streamlining disclosure requirementsv" by, among other things, irutiating a
project to reexamine Regulation S-Xfor possible outdated accounting provisions
or provisions that may not be necessary because they du plicate generally accepted
accoun ting princi pies.
Finally, Congressional in teres t in the accoun ting for deri va tive ins trumen ts
continued in 1995. Commission testimony stressed the need for sound financial
statements of issuers of derivative instrurnents.!"
The FASB's Emerging Issues Task Force (EITF), in which the Commission's
Chief Accountant participates, continued to identify and resolve accountmg
issues. During 1995, the EITF reached consensus on a number of issues,
including questions relating to accounting for financial instruments, revenue
recognition, and business combinations, thereby narrowing divergent reporting
practices of public companies. Also during 1995, the EITF formed an Agenda
Committee in response to recommendations made by an FASB Committee to
Review the EITF.

63

Oversight of the Accounting Profession's Initiatives

The Commission and its staff continued to be active in overseemg the
auditing standard-setting
process and other activities of the accounting
profession. A discussion of the activities in which the SEC staff was involved
follows.
AICPA. The SEC oversaw various activities of the accounting profession
conducted primarily through the AICPA. These included (1) the Auditing
Standards
Board (ASB), which establishes
generally accepted auditing
standards;
(2) the Accounting Standards
Executive Committee (AcSEC),
which provides guidance through its issuance of statements of position and
practice bullenns and prepares
issue papers on accounting
topics for
consideration by the FASB; and (3) the SEC Practice Section (SECPS), which
seeks to improve the quality of audit practice by member accounting firms
that audit the financial statements
of public companies through various
requirements,
including peer review.
ASS. The staff continued to work closely with the ASB to enhance the
effectiveness of the audit process. The ASB issued a series of annual Audit
Risk Alerts to provide auditors with an overview of recent economic,
professional, and regulatory developments
that may affect 1995 year-end
audits.
SECPS. Two programs administered
by the SECPS are designed to
ensure that the financial statements
of SEC registrants
are audited by
accounting firms with adequate quality control systems. A peer review of
member firms by other accountants is required every three years and the
Quality Control Inquiry Committee (QCIC) reviews on a timely basis the
quality control implications of litigation against member firms that involves
public clients. The staff coordinates closely with the Public Oversight Board
(POB) in performing ItS oversight of the two programs.
The POB, which
is independent
of the AICPA (except for funding), also engages in other
activi ties directed towards im provemen ts In the financial reporting process.l"
The Commission exercises oversight of the SECPS through frequent
contacts with the POB and members of the executive, peer review, and
QCICs of the SECPS. The staff each year selects a random sample of peer
reviews and evaluates selected working papers of the peer reviewers and
the related POB files. This oversight has shown that the peer review process
contributes significantly to improving the quality control systems of member
firms and, therefore, enhances the consis tency and quali ty of practice before
the Commission.
Closed case summaries prepared by the QCIC and related POB oversight
files are also reviewed by SEC staff. This review and discussions with the
POB and QCIC staff provide SEC staff with enough information to conclude
that the QCIC process provides added assurances, as a supplement
to the
peer review process, that major quality control deficiencies, if any, are identified
and addressed on a timely basis. Therefore, the Commission believes that the
QCIC process benefits the public interest.
AcSEC. The AcSEC issued a statement of position calling for enhanced
footnote disclosures about risks and uncertainties.':" Also during 1995, the
AcSEC issued an exposure
draft of a proposed
accounting
guide on
environmental liabilities."?
64

Special Committee. In addition, the AICPA's Special Committee on
Financial Reporting issued a comprehensive report which focuses on the
financial information needs of users. 178The report of the Special Committee,
also referred to as the "Jenkins" Committee in recogrution of its chairman,
Edmund Jenkins, makes certain recommendations to enhance the utility of
business reportmg. However, since the Special Cornrruttee is not a standardsetting body, its recommendations will be considered by accounting standard
setters, predominately the FASB and by regulators, such as the SEC. The
FASB plans to issue an Invitation to Comment on the recommendations of
the Special Committee, as well as those made by the Association for
Investment Management and Research (AIMR) in its White Paper entitled
"Financial Reporting in the 1990s and Beyond."
International Accounting and Auditing Standards

Significant differences in accounting and auditing standards currently
exist between countries.
These differences
are an Impediment
to
multinational offerings of securities. The SEC, in cooperation with other
members of the International
Organization
of Securities Commissions
(IOSCO), actively participated m initiatives by international
bodies of
professional accountants to establish appropriate international standards
that might be considered for use in multinational offerings. In 1995, the
IASCissued a standard on disclosure and presentation of financial instruments. J79
Work also continued on major projects addressing recognition and measurement
earnings per share, 181intangible assets.!"
issues related to fmancial instrurnents.l'"
reporting financial information by business segrnents.!'" income taxes.!"
presentation of financial statements, J85 and accounting for retirement and other
employee benefit costs.!"
In August 1993, the Working Party informed the IASC of the necessary
core accounting standards that would comprise a comprehensive body of
principles for enterprises (not in a specialized industry) undertaking crossborder offerings and listings. In June 1994, the Working Party provided
the IASC with its evaluation of the acceptability of existing and recently
improved IASC standards and iden tified the projects that would be necessary
to complete the development of a core set of standards. In July 1995, the
IASC and IOSCO's Technical Committee announced that the Board of the
IASC has developed a work plan that the Technical Committee agrees will
result, upon successful completion, in International Accounting Standards
(lAS) comprising a comprehensive
core of standards.
Completion of
comprehensive core standards that are acceptable to the Technical Committee
will allow the Technical Committee to recommend endorsement of lAS for
cross-border capital raising and listing purposes in all global markets. Completion
of the work plan is estimated to be june 1999. Efforts are underway to accelerate
that work plan, possibly by as much as a year.
In addition to the existing projects in process, the work plan includes
planned projects on accounting in interim periods, discontinued operations,
provisioning
and contingencies,
leases, research and development,
impairment, investments, and goodwill.

65

In December 1994, the Commission eliminated the need to reconcile the
differences that would result from the application of SFAS No. 52, Forezgn
Currency Translation, if the issuer accounts for its operations in hyperinflationary
economies using the historical cost/constant currency method in accordance with
lAS 21, The Effects of Changes In Foreign Exchange Rates.187
This followed
a 1994 action in which the Commission revised financial sta tement requiremen ts
so that foreign private issuers may now submit, without reconciliation, a cash
flow statement prepared in accordance with lAS 7, Cash Flow Statements. Also,
the Commission proposed to eliminate the requirements to reconcile certain
differences attributable to the method of accounting for a business combination
(pooling of interests or purchase) and the amortization period of goodwill and
negative goodwill, provided that the financial statements comply with lAS 22,
Buszness Combinations P"
In the auditing arena, the staff closely monitored the efforts of the
International
Auditing Practices Committee (JAPC) of the International
Federation of Accountants to codify the In terna tional Standards on Audi ting
(ISAs). As a result of its oversight, the staff became concerned with the
introduction of black lettering, which resulted in portions of the standards
that were deemed by the IAPC to represent "basic principles and essential
procedures" being presented in bold type. As a result, uncertainty
was
introduced into the standards regarding the amount of work to be performed
by an auditor in order to represent that his or her audit complied with the
ISAs. The staff's concerns were communicated
to IOSCO and, through
IOSCO, to the IAPe. The IAPC did not address IOSCO's concerns in its
final standards.
As a result, IOSCO was unable to reach a consensus to
endorse the codified ISAs. The staff has advised the IAPC that additional
changes to the final codified standards are necessary before the staff would
recommend that the Commission support an IOSCO endorsement
of the
ISAs.

66

Other Litigation and Legal Activities
The General Counsel represents the Commission in all litigation in the
United States' Supreme Court and the courts of appeals. The General
Counsel defends the SEC and its employees when sued in district courts,
prosecutes administrative disciplinary proceedings against attorneys, appears
amicus curiae in significant private litigation involving the federal securities
laws, and oversees the regional offices' participation in corporate
reorganization cases. The General Counsel analyzes legislation that would
amend the federal securities laws or other laws affecting the work of the
agency, drafts congressional testimony, prepares legislative comments, and
advises the Commission on issues arising from the agency's regulaiorv and
enforcement activities including all public releases and rule proposals. In
addition, the General Counsel advises the Commission in administrative
proceedings under various statutes, and advises the Commission and
prepares both opinions with respect to appeals from administrative law
judges' decisions and self-regulatory organizations'(SRO)
disciplinary
actions, and orders resolving related motions.
Key 1995 Results

Issues of major importance were litigated in 1995 in cases in which
the Commission participated,
either as a party or as amicus curiae.
In
Mastrobuono
v. Shearson Lehman Hutton, Inc.,189 the United States Supreme
Court held that inclusion of a New York choice of law provision in a brokerdealer's arbitration agreement with its customers does not bar arbitrators
from awarding punitive damages that would otherwise have been available
in a court. In Gustafson v. Alloyd CO.,190 the United States Supreme Court held
that Section 12(2) of the Securities Act of 1933 (Securities Act) applies only
to public offerings of securities by the issuer or controlling persons of the Issuer.
In Plaut v. Spendthrift Farm, Inc.,191 the Supreme Court held that the part of
Section 27A of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934 (Exchange Act) that allowed
the reinstatement of certain private actions after dismissal on statuteofhmitations
grounds was an uncons titu tional viola tion of the separation of powers doctnne.
The Commission participated as amicus curiae in the foregoing cases. In Blount
v SEC,192 the Uni ted States Court of Appeals for the Dis tnct of Columbia Circui t
upheld, against constitutional challenge, the Commission's approval of Municipal
Securities Rulemaking Board Rule G-37, which imposes limitations on the
activities of certain municipal securities dealers who contribute to issuer officials
or who solicit or coordinate contributions on behalf of those officials.
The SEC continued to handle a large number and a wide variety of
legislative matters in 1995. The SEC testified, and the staff provided technical
and other assistance, with respect to bills addressing such subjects as revision

67

of the private securities litigation system, Glass-Steagall repeal, regulatory
reform, repeal of the Public Utility Holding Company Act of 1935 (Holding
Company Act), the regulation of municipal securities, and a proposed merger
of the SEC and the Commodity Futures Trading Commission (CFTC).
A record 74 new appeals were filed with the Commission in 1995. The
adjudicatory
staff kept pace with its 1994 output by submitting
to the
Commission a total of 82 draft opinions and orders resolving substantive
motions.
Significant Litigation Developments
Arbitration
In Mastrobuono

v. Shearson Lehman Hutton,
Inc.,193 the United States
Supreme Court, as urged by the SEC as amicus CUriae, held that inclusion
of a New York choice of law provision in a broker-dealer's
arbitration
agreemen t wi th its cus tomers does not bar arbi trators from awarding puni tive
damages that would otherwise have been available in a court, even though
New York decisional law does not permit punitive damages to be awarded
by an arbi tra tor.
Scope of Section 12(2) of the Securities Act
In Gustafson v. Alloyd Co.,194the United

States Supreme Court held that
Section 12(2) of the Securities Act applies only to public offerings of securities
by the issuer or controlling persons of the issuer. The SEC, as amicus curiae,
had contended that Section 12(2) applies to all types of sales. Section 12(2)
gives buyers a right of recission against sellers who make false or misleading
representations.
of Limitation
In Plaut v. Spendthrift Farm, Inc.,195 the Supreme Court held, contrary
to the position urged by the SEC as amicus curiae, that part of Section 27A
of the Exchange Act was unconstitutional
on the ground that it violated
the separation of powers doctrine. Section 27A, which had two parts, had
been enacted to prevent retroactive application of the one-year/three-year
statute of limitations the Court had adopted in Lamp], Pleva, Lipkind, Prupis
and Petigrow v. Gilbertson J" The part of Section 27A that the Court invalidated
allowed private actions under Section 10(b) of the Exchange Act to be
reinstated even though they had been finally dismissed prior to enactment
of Section 27A.
Statutes

Regulation of Municipal Securities
In Blount v. SEC,197 the United

States Court of Appeals for the District
of Colurnbra Circuit upheld the validity of Municipal Securities Rulemaking
Board Rule G-37, which imposes limitations
on the activities of certain
municipal securities dealers who contribute to issuer officials or who solicit
or coordinate contributions on behalf of those officials. The court found that
the Rule did not violate the First Amendment, was not impermissibly vague,
and did not violate the Tenth Amendment.
68

In United States v. Rudi,198 the United States District Court for the
Southern District of New York, as urged by the SEC as amicus curiae, refused
to dismiss an indictment charging the independent financial adviser to a
New Jersey county with securities fraud. The court held that Rudi s failure
to disclose kickbacks he allegedly received from the underwriter of the
county's bonds was "in connection with" the sale of the bonds for purposes
of Section 10(b) of the Exchange Act. The court also rejected Rudi's assertion
that Section 10(b) does not apply to a transaction between an issuer and
its underwnter.
Proxy

Rules-Shareholder

Proposals

In NYCERS v. SEC,199 the United States Court of Appeals for the Second
Circuit reversed a district court order regarding a SEC no-action letter
interpreting the" ordinary business" exception contained in the Commission's
shareholder proxy proposal rule, holding, as urged by the Commission, that
a no-action letter does not have the binding force of law and therefore is
not a legislative rule requiring notice and comment under the Administrative
Procedure Act. The court also dismissed plaintiffs' claim against the
Commission that the position taken in the no-action letter was arbitrary
and capricious,
holding that shareholders
who disagree with that
interpretation have the adequate judicial remedy of suing a company that
refuses to include a shareholder proposal.
of Anti-Fraud
Prouisions
In SEC v. Maio,2°o the United States Court of Appeals for the Seventh
Circuit affirmed a district court decision finding that the defendants had
engaged in fraudulent insider trading. In so doing, the Court joined the
United States Courts of Appeals for the Second and Tenth circuits in holding
that the SEC had validly exercised its rulemaking authority in adoptmg
Exchange Act Rule 14e-3,2°1which prohibits insider trading in connection
with a tender offer.
In SEC v. Lauer,2°2 the Court of Appeals for the Seventh Circuit held
that a program falsely represented as involving the use of commingled
investor funds for trading "prime bank" instruments constituted a security
and was properly enjoined as involving fraud in the sale of those secunties.
Violation

for Access to Commtssion Records
The Commission received approximately 100subpoenas for documents and
testimony in 1995. In some of these cases, the Commission declined to produce
the requested documents or testimony because the information sought was
privileged. The Commission's assertions of privilege were upheld in every
instance when the party issuing the subpoena challenged the assertion in court.
The Commission received 2,389 requests under the Freedom ofInformation
Act (FOIA) for access to agency records. There were 64 appeals to the SEC's
General Counsel from initial denials by the FOIA Officer. Three actions were
brought in federal court challenging Commission decisions under the FOIA. One
case was withdrawn by the plaintiff; the second is pending. In the third case,
the requester sought review of the FOIA Officer's initial denial of a request
Requests

69

without first appealing
to the Commission.
The court granted the
Commission's motion for summary judgment and the requester has appealed
to the United States Court of Appeals for the D.C. Circuit.i'"
Motzons

to Vacate Permanent

Injunctions

In SEC v. Worthen, John Worthen moved to vacate a permanent
injunction entered against him in 1974. Worthen, a twice-convicted securities
law violator, argued that his injunction should be vacated primarily because
it was entered upon his default.
The Commission opposed Worthen's
motion, arguIng that Worthen's injunction was valid and noted that Worthen
pled guilty to criminal contempt of the injunction in 1989. Worthen's
motion was denied without opinion. Worthen's appeal is pending.?"
In SEC v. Calvo, William Calvo moved to vacate a permanent injunction
arose out of Calvo's
entered against him in 1988.205 The injunction
participation, as underwriter's
counsel, in a public offering. The court
vacated the permanent injunction on the grounds that, in light of the effects
of the injunction, its continuance constituted fundamental unfairness.
Motions

for Attorneys'

Fees Under the Equal Access

to Justice

Act

Applications for attorneys' fees aggregatmg approximately $2 million
were filed by defendants in four Commission enforcement actions in which
the Commission did not obtain all or certain of the relief It sought against
a particular defendant. Three of those applications were denied, as the court
found that the Commission was substantially justified in bringing the action
or that the defendant did not otherwise qualify for an award of fees.206 In
one of those cases, SEC v. Littler, the court denied Equal Access to Justice
Act fees because even though the court declined to issue an injunction
against him, Littler was found to have violated the federal securities laws
and thus was not a prevailing party entitled to fees. The fourth is pending.
Actions

Agamst

the Commisszon

and the Staff'

Numerous court actions, seeking millions of dollars in the aggregate,
were brought against the Commission and its staff alleging constitutional,
statutory, and common law tort violations in connection with the conduct
of various enforcement investigations.
All of these actions were dismissed
except one, in which a summary judgment motion on behalf of the staff
member is pending.?"
Actions

Under the Right

to Financial

Privacy

Act

In FY 1995,30 actions were filed against the Commission in federal district
court pursuant to the Right to Financial Privacy Act (RFPA). The movants
in these cases sought to quash Commission subpoenas to financial institutions
for the movants' bank account records. In each of the cases decided, the court
denied the motion to quash and ordered the subpoena enforced, finding a
demonstrable reason to believe that the subpoenaed records were relevant to
a legitimate law enforcement inquiry and that the staff had complied with the
procedural requirements of the RFPA. The remainder of the cases are pending
or were wi thdrawn.
70

Asset Freezes
In Colello v. SEC, the court held that the SWIss-United States Treaty
on Mutual Assistance in Criminal Matters-which
enables U.S. law
enforcement agenCIes to freeze an individual's Swiss assets-violates
the
Fourth and Fifth Amendments to the United States Constitution.?"
In so
doing, the court rejected the government's argument that the Swiss appeals
process established pursuant to the Treaty provides an individual whose
Swiss assets have been frozen with an adequate opporturuty to challenge
the basis for a freeze for purposes of the Due Process Clause. The court
also rejected the government's
argument that the "reasonable suspicion"
standard-pursuant
to which Swiss asset freezes may be executed under
the Treaty-is
reasonable for purposes of the Fourth Amendment.
Challenges to Commission Rules
In U.S Securities Corporation v SEC, the court dismissed a pennon
for a writ of mandamus requiring the Commission to exempt petitioners
from membership in the National Association of Securities Dealers (NASD)
and from certain broker-dealer
reporting and net capital requirements
because petitioner was a small business. The court also dismissed the request
for a declaratory judgment that Section 15(b)(8) of the Exchange Act, which
requires all broker-dealers to be members of a national securities association,
is unconstitutional.
In Britton ti. Chalsty, the Magistrate Judge Issued a Report and
Recommendation that a declaratory judgment action against the Commission
be dismissed. The Magistrate Judge found, as urged by the Commission,
that the district court lacked jurisdiction to consider whether Commission
Rule 17a-3, which directs broker-dealers
to seek arrest information from
persons applying to become associated persons, violates Title VII of the Civil
Rights Act of 1964. The Magistrate Judge concluded that Section 25(b)(1)
of the Exchange Act provides that United States courts of appeals have
exclusive jurisdiction over challenges to Commission rules or orders.
Significant Adjudication Developments

The staff submitted to the Commission 82 draft opinions and orders
resolving subs tantive motions, consistent with 1994's record 81 draft opinions
and orders. The staff resolved by delegated authority another 72 motions.
The Commission issued 57 opinions and 34 related orders.
Seventy-fournew appeals were filed with the Commission in 1995,exceeding
the record 71 received in 1993. A higher percentage of the Commission's
adjudication docket than in prior years now is represented by appeals from
decisions of administrative law judges, including decisions in Commission Rule
2(e) proceedings agains t accoun tan ts.
Joint Arrangement under the Investment Company Act of 1940
For the first time in recent years, the Commission addressed in an adjudicatory
decision the reach of Section 17(d) of the Investment Company Act of 1940
(Investment Company Act) and Rule 17d-1 thereunder. These provisions require
prior Commission approval of any joint arrangement involving an inves tment
71

company and an affiliated person. In Sequoia Partners, L.P., the Commission
declined to approve a joint arrangement between Counselors Tandem Securities
Fund, Inc. (the Fund), and Sequoia Partners, L.P. (Sequoia), a partnership that
had acquired over 25 percent of the Fund's common stock.?" The Fund and
Sequoia had executed a settlement agreement that required the Fund both to
make a tender offer for its common shares at 95 percen t of net asset value (NA V),
and to reimburse Sequoia for $240,000 of expenses that Sequoia incurred in
a proxy contest with the Fund. The Commission rejected the application to
approve the reimbursement
as untimely, as the Fund already had placed the
$240,000 a t issue In escrow. The Commission further concl uded tha t Sequoia's
effort to obtain reimbursement constitu ted overreaching by an affiliate, which
is inconsistent with the Act's objective to prevent such self-dealing.
Lastly,
the Commission found that the proposed arrangement violated the "best price"
requirement (Exchange Act Rule 13e-4(f)(8)(ii)) of the Commission's tender offer
rules, because Sequoia thereby was to be paid almost 100 percent of NA Von
tender of its shares while other shareholders were to be paid 95 percent of NA V
on their tenders.
Acquisition Approved under the Holdzng Company Act
In its only Holding Company Act decision this year, the Commission
granted two applications
under that Act filed by Gaz Metropolitain,
Inc.
(GMLI) and Gaz Metropolitain and Company, Limited Partnership (GMLP),
Canadian public companies.?" Applicants sought, among other things,
permission for GMLP to complete its acquisition of the stock of Northern
New England Gas Corporation (NNEG), a Vermont exempt holding company
that owns all the stock of Vermont Gas Systems, Inc. (VGS), a Vermont
corporation
that provides gas service in that state.
In approving
the
acquisition
under Section 10(c)(2) of the Holding Company Act, the
Commission concluded that nothing in the Holding Company Act prevents
a foreign company that does not own or control public utility or holding
company securities from acquiring the securities of a domestic public utility
company.
Abueesiirejictent Supertiiston
Again this year the Commission reviewed a number of cases finding
sales practices abuses and deficient supervision.
In Dan A. Druz/II for
example, the Commission found a branch manager of Shearson Lehman
Brothers, Inc. to have failed reasonably to supervise and control the activities
of a salesman who executed over 100 unauthorized
trades in the accounts
of three different customers.
In Patricia A. ]ohnson,212 the Commission found that a former branch
manager of Paine Webber, Inc. failed to provide effective and reasonable
supervision of a registered representative
with a view towards preventing
that person's violations of the antifraud provisions.
Johnson disregarded
firm procedures and ignored numerous "red flags," including several customers'
complaints abou t the handling of their accounts, which included charges of misuse
of cus tomer funds. The Commission found that the limi ted action Johnson took
against the representative-placing
him on probation-was
insufficient. Johnson
Sales Practice

72

also had contended on appeal that this administrative
proceeding was
brought in violation of the federal statute of limitations contained in 28
u.s.c. 92462. The Commission concluded that Section 2462 does not apply
to proceedings brought under Section 15(b) of the Exchange Act that seek
only remedial sanctions.
In another appeal of a law judge's decision, Martin Herer Engelman,
Peter Paul Kim, and Lawrence David lsen."? the Commission found that a
Stuart-James, Inc. branch manager and his two assistants engaged in
pervasive fraud In their dealings with customers. Their misconduct included
inducing customers to buy speculative secunties with promises that these
investments were safe and would result in tremendous gains within short
periods of time, and withholding from customers information that investors
in the recommended securities stood to lose their entire investment.
The
Commission barred all three respondents from association with any broker
or dealer and entered cease and desist orders in this matter.
Unfair Commtssione/Exceseiue and Fraudulent Markups
In Atlanta-One,
lnc., et al.,214 the Commission agreed

with the NASD
that commissions representing between 14 and 89 percent of customers'
investments in foreign currency options traded by the firm were unfair. The
Commission found that general proscriptions against gouging customers
placed the respondents on notice that charging commissions at these rates
was conduct inconsistent with just and equitable principles of trade. The
Commission accordingly sustained the censures, 3D-day suspensions, fines,
and requalification requirements the NASD had imposed for this misconduct.
Finally, in one of a number of disciplinary actions concerning retail
markups on securities reviewed this year, HIbbard, Brown & Co. et al.,215 the
Commission found that an NASD member firm and its president and head
trader charged customers excessive and fraudulent markups in thousands
of sales of a common stock, generating over $8.7 million in excessive profits
in only eight trading days. The Commission concluded that these respondents
violated a dealer's fundamental duty to treat its customers fairly when they
arranged to acquire the stock at less than half the price that they were selling
it to their retail customers.
Concluding too that the inter-dealer market
for the stock was the result of a "stage-managed
performance"
which
produced wholly Illusory prices, the Commission rejected the respondents'
contention that the best evidence of the fairness of their retail prices was
the numerous inter-dealer transactions in the stock. The Commission instead
found that, because the firm was not a market-maker in the stock, the firm's
contemporaneous
cost of acquiring the stock provided the best evidence
of prevailing market price. The Commission sustained the NASD's censures
and fines of the three respondents and its determination
to expel the firm
from NASD membership and bar both the president and head trader from
association with any member.

73

Significant Legislative Developments

Congress actively considered, but did not enact, a number of bills that
would affect the work of the SEC. Most notably, (1) the House and Senate
passed separate litigation reform measures; (2) a House bill was introduced
to revise the federal securities laws and" deregulate" the United States capital
markets; (3) a House bill was introduced to amend or supplement provisions
of the Investment Company Act; (4)following extensive hearings, both the House
Banking and the House Commerce Committees approved legislation to repeal
the Glass-Steagall Act; (5) the House held hearings on proposals to repeal the
Public Utility HoldingCompany Act; (6) a Senate bill was introduced to delegate
to the states the regulation of smaller investment advisers; (7) a bill was
Introduced and hearings held In the House regarding the merger of the SEC
and the CFTC; (8) bills were introduced in the House and Senate regarding
the exemption from the securities laws of charitable organizations that issue
charitable gift annuities; and (9) three bills were introduced in the House and
one in the Senate addressing the regulation of participants in the derivatives
markets, and oversight hearings were held to explore the issue of Orange County,
California's derivatives-related losses. Legislative activity in most or all of
these areas IS expected to continue in 1996.
Securities Litigation Reform
House and Senate bills providing for the reform of the private securities
litrgation system were introduced in the opening days of the 104th Congress.
Both H.R. 1058 (passed by the House in March 1995) and S. 240 (passed by
the Senate in June 1995) contain provisions that would, among other things:
eliminate certain abuses associated with class action lawsuits; eliminate civil
racketeer influenced and corrupt organizations liability for securities law
violations; replace joint and several liability with proportionate liability for
defendants
who act recklessly; and provide for an express right of
contribution among co-defendants. Differences between the two bills exist
WIth respect to such highly controversial issues as: the creation of statutory
safe harbors for forward-looking statements; the codification of a definition
of "recklessness;" pleading standards for fraud actions; and the availability
of the fraud-on-the-market
theory of liability. As of September 30, 1995,
conferees had yet to be named to resolve the differences between the House
and Senate bills.
In testimony earlier In the year before House and Senate committees on
the respective bills, the SEC expressed support for efforts to make private
securities htigation more effective and to deter meritless lawsuits. At the
same time, the SEC opposed provisions that would (among other things)
eliminate recklessness as a basis for liability, establish a broadly applied
scheme of proportionate liability, and create an overly broad safe harbor
for forward-looking statements.
Glass-Steagall Repeal
Two major Glass-Steagall reform proposals were introduced early in the
104th Congress. The House Banking and Commerce Committees both held
hearings on and reported legislation (H.R. 1062) that would have, among other
74

things, (1) permitted banks to affiliate with securities firms through a
holding company structure, and (2) taken some steps to bring certain bank
securities activities within the federal securities regulatory scheme, but (3)
nonetheless allowed banks to conduct a range of broker-dealer activities
directly or through "separately identifiable departments or divisions" of the
bank. The SEC testified before both Committees, reaffirming its long tradition
of support for financial services modernization in the context of functional
regulation.
As of September 3D, 1995, H.R. 1062 had apparently been linked with
another bill (H.R. 1858) that contained a variety of regulatory relief provisions
and highly controversial provisions relating to bank insurance powers. It
was unclear whether disagreements over the issue of bank insurance powers
would prevent Glass-Steagall legislation from movmg forward in fiscal 1996.
For its part, the Senate did not actively take up the issue of Glass-Steagall
reform in 1995, though early in the year Senator D' Amato introduced a bill
to significantly broaden the scope of commercial as well as securities activities
permitted for companies that own banks.
Securities Deregulation
H.R. 2131, the "Capital Markets Deregulation and Liberalization Act
of 1995," was introduced in the House in July 1995. The bill, which seeks
to reduce regulatory overlap and lower the costs of raising capital, would,
among other things: preempt most state securities regulation; redefine the
suitability obligations of broker-dealers
with respect to "institutional
investors;" repeal much of the Williams Act (the statute regulating tender
offers); relax prospectus delivery requirements under the Securities Act;
grant the SEC general and specific exemptive authority under the Securities
Act; repeal the Trust Indenture Act of 1939; and reduce the number of SEC
Commissioners from five to three. No action had been taken on H.R. 2131
as of September 30,1995; however, hearings on the measure were scheduled
for November 1995.
Investment Adviser Regulation
The opening days of the 104th Congress saw the introduction of S. 148,
the "Investment Advisers Integnty Act," in the Senate. S. 148 would target
specific amounts from the SEC's budget that would have to be devoted to
enforcemen t of the Ad visers Act. The bill also would realloca te res ponsibili ty
for regulation of investment advisers between the federal and state securities
regulators; it would essentially exempt from registration with the SEC (and
make the states responsible for regulating) investment advisers that manage
less than $5 million in assets. Under the bill, the SEC would retain authority
to investigate allegations of fraud involving any investment adviser, whether
registered with the SEC or with a state regulator. The SEC also would have
discretionary rulemaking authority to require SEC regis tra tion of inves tmen t
advisers that manage between $1 million and $5 million in assets. The Senate,
however, took no action on 5.148 in 1995, and no comparable legislation was
introduced in the House.

75

Investment

Company

Act Amendments

H.R. 1495, the "Investment Company Act Amendments of 1995," was
introduced in Apn11995. Incorporating a number ofrecommendations
from
a 1992 SEC staff report, the bill seeks to modernize aspects of mvestment
company operation and regulation. H.R. 1495 would, among other things:
except from regulation under the Investment Company Act investment
pools that include only highly sophisticated purchasers, and streamline the
existing exception for "private" investment companies; require a majority
of fund directors to be independent; reduce the number of shares necessary
for approving certain important matters, such as advisory contracts and
changes in a fund's investment objective; give funds greater advertising
flexibility; authorize the creation of a mutual fund WIth a single unified
fee covenng all fund services and most expenses; and lift restrictions on
mutual funds making investments in other mutual funds in the same fund
complex. No counterpart to H.R. 1495 was introduced in the Senate in 1995,
and the House took no action on the bill prior to September 30, 1995;
however, hearings were held in the House early in fiscal 1996.
Regulation of Public Utzlzty Holdzng Companies
In June 1995, the SEC issued a staff report discussing the results of
a one-year study of the Holding Company Act. The report con tamed three
alternative legislative recommendations:
(1) repeal of the Holding Company
Act, accompanied by addrtional authority at the state and federal level for
the continued protection of consumers; (2) outright repeal of the Act; or
(3) full exemptive authority under the Act for the SEC. In testimony before
subcornrruttees of the House Commerce Comrruttee, the SEC expressed its
preference for the first alternative-conditional
repeal. Legislation embodying
this recommendation was subsequently introduced in October 1995.
Separately, the Senate in 1995considered and passed a telecommunications
bill (S. 652), one small part of which would broaden the ability of registered
public utility holding companies to diversify into telecommunications
and
information services, notwithstandmg the prohibitions on diversification imposed
by the Holding Company Act. House-passed telecommunications legislation
(H.R. 1555),however, would not affect the ability of registered holding companies
to engage m telecommunications or information services under the Holding
Company Act.
SEC-CFTC

Merger

H.R. 718, the "Markets and Trading Reorganization and Reform Act,"
was introduced in January 1995 and was referred primarily to the House
Banking Committee. The bill proposes to replace the SEC and the CFTC
with a new, merged Markets and Trading Commission. The SEC testified
before a subcommittee of the House Banking Committee regarding H.R. 718
in March 1995. The SEC testified that, while a merger of the two agencies
might make sense in a number of ways, the benefits of such a merger do
not at this point justify the time and political capital that would be needed
to accomplish it. In addition, the SEC expressed concern about specific

76

provisions of the bill, which could make the transition to unified regulation
very cumbersome. As of September 30,1995, H.R. 718 had not been reported
out of the Banking Committee.
Regulatory

Reform

The 104th Congress considered numerous regulatory reform bills in
1995. In general, the bills considered would alter the way that all federal
agencies, including the SEC, write and review rules. In a number of instances,
the SEC testified and/or provided written statements describing the likely impact
of specific bills on the agency's independence and its enforcement program.
In March 1995, the House passed H.R. 9 that would, among other things:
compensate private property owners for certain regulatory restrictions that limit
the use of their property; give the Office of Management and Budget an enhanced
role in analyzing agency rulemakings under the Regulatory Flexibili ty Act; and
require agencies to analyze benefits and costs in connection with their riskassessmen t activi ties. (Paperwork red uction provisions, originally part of H.R.
9, were passed as a separate measure by both the House and Senate and signed
into law as Pub. L. No. 104-13 in May 1995).
SEC 1996 Funding

The solu tion to the offsetting fee problem of the SEC's 1995 appropriation
was understood to be a one-time, stopgap measure. Work on the SEC's 1996
appropriation, therefore, required agreement on a long-term approach to
funding the agency. In June 1995, House Commerce Committee Chairman
BIiley announced an agreement in principle with the chairmen of the
Appropriations and Ways and Means Committees on a long-term funding
mechanism for the SEC. Under the agreement, securities registration fees
would be gradually reduced, while funding from the United States Treasury
general appropriation account for the agency would increase.
The House in July 1995 passed an appropriations bill (H.R. 2076) that
generally reflected this agreement: it would provide the SEC with funding
for 1996 at the $297 million level that was in place for 1995 (and a securities
registration fee rate of 1/29th of one percent in Section 6(b) of the Securities
Act). The Senate Appropriations Committee, by contrast, in September 1995
approved a bill that would have cut the SEC's funding for 1996 by 20 percent
from the 1995 level. The Senate subsequently passed legislation that would
cut the SEC's appropriation by 10 percent. At the end of fiscal 1995, the
SEC's funding still was uncertain, as was the funding for virtually all other
federal agencies.
Other Legislation

and Hearings

Bills also were introduced in the House and Senate in 1995 addressing,
among other things, the regulation of participants in the derivatives markets
and the disclosure obligations of issuers of municipal securities.

77

Corporate Reorganizations

The Commission, as a statutory adviser in reorganization cases under
Chapter 11 of the Bankruptcy Code, seeks to assure that the interests of
public investors are adequately protected. During 1995, there were 120
active Chapter 11 cases involving public companies.
The Commission
entered a formal appearance in 13 cases with significant public investor
interest.
The Commission also was actively involved during 1995 as a
statutory party in the Orange Countu-" bankruptcy, the largest municipal
bankruptcy ever filed under Chapter 9 of the Bankruptcy Code, in order
to protect the holders of the County's public debt securities and the municipal
bond market generally. The Commission sought in addition to prevent any
disruption of trading in the wake of the bankruptcy filing.
Commzttees
Official committees negotiate with debtors on the formulation of
reorganization plans and participate generally in all aspects of the case. The
Bankruptcy Code provides for the appointment of an official committee for
stockholders where necessary to assure adequate representation of their
interests.
During 1995, the Commission sought to assure that committees were
not hindered in their efforts to represent public investors, successfully
objecting to attempts to dissolve the committee in In re Amerzca West Airlines.i"
and to limit the scope of the committee's activities in In re UDC Homes F"
The Commission also reiterated its position that insider trading prohibitions
apply to members of official committees, who frequently receive confidential
information on a company's operations and prospects. In In re County of
Orange,219 In re House of Fabrics, Inc.,220 and In re Baldwin Buitders r" the
Commission supported the adoption of court orders permitting trading in
the debtor's securities only by committee members that engage in securities
trading in the regular course of their business and that implement procedures
designed to prevent the misuse of inside information.
Disclosure Statements/Reorganization
Plans
A disclosure statemen t is a combina tion proxy and offering statemen t used
to solicit acceptances for a reorganization plan. Such plans often provide for
the issuance of large quantities of new unregistered securities pursuant to an
exemption from Securities Act registration contained in the Bankruptcy Code.
During 1995,the staff reviewed 92 plans and disclosure statements and commented
on 75. Recurring problems with disclosure statements included inadequate
financial information, lack of disclosure on the issuance of unregistered securi ties
and insider transactions, and plan provisions that contravene the Bankru ptcy
Code. Most of the staff's comments were adopted by the debtors without the
need for formal Commission intervention.
In In re Trans World Airlmes P? In re Diversified, Inc.,223 and In re PharMor, Inc.224 the Commission objected to plan provisions that would have
discharged third parties, such as officers and directors, from liabilities. This
issue is of significance to investors because in many cases debtors seek to

78

use the Chapter 11 process to protect officers and directors from personal
liability for various kinds of claims, including liability under the federal
securities laws.
Enforcement Matters
Bankruptcy issues frequen tly arise in Commission enforcement actions.
In In re Bilzerian P" a case with significant implications for the enforcement
program, the district court overruled a bankruptcy court order that had
barred the Commission from bnnging an action to have its $33 million
securities fraud disgorgement
judgment
excepted from discharge in
Bilzerian's bankruptcy proceeding. In In re Steven Wezl,226 the Commission
blocked an attempt by a debtor to use the automatic stay of the Bankruptcy
Code to prevent enforcement
of a disgorgement
order entered in a
Commission law enforcement action.
Ethical Conduct Program

In 1995, the Ethics Office staff continued to respond to a demand for
counseling services at the rate of approximately 20 new matters per week.
These inquiries reflected unique or novel Issues, while routine or repetitive
inquiries were handled by ethics liaison officers and depu ties loca ted wi thin
each division and office.

79

Municipal Securities Initiatives
The Office of Municipal Securities (OMS) was established in 1995 as
part of the Commission's overall effort to provide a core of expertise and
coordination on urgent and ongoing municipal securities issues. OMS
provides expertise to the Commission and staff members, assists on
municipal securities enforcement cases, coordinates disclosure rules and
other ongoing municipal regulatory initiatives, and addresses new issues
that arise in the municipal securities area. In addition, OMS provides
assistance in legislative matters and works directly with issuers, investors,
brokers, dealers, municipal securities dealers, and other professionals on
issues relating to municipal securities.
Key 1995 Results

The staff, together with the Office of the General Counsel, coordinated
the SEC's participation
in the Orange County, California municipal
bankruptcy and related issues. The staff also worked with the Division of
Enforcement, both in Washington and in the regional and district offices,
providing technical assistance in the many municipal securities investigations
and enforcement proceedmgs undertaken since the beginning of 1995. In
addition, along with the Divisions of Market Regulation and Corporation
Finance, the staff provided guidance to the municipal markets including
issuer, broker, dealer, and municipal securities dealer organizations, in
conjunction with the implementation of amendments to Rule 15c2-12 of the
Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended (Rule 15c2-12) concerning
secondary market disclosure.
The staff appeared on behalf of the SEC before the House Subcommittee
on Capital Markets, Securities and Government Sponsored Enterprises of
the House Banking Committee and testified on the municipal securities
markets in the aftermath of the Orange County, California bankruptcy.
Municipal Securities Disclosure

The staff planned and organized the Commission's participation in a
teleconference
on municipal securities
disclosure
sponsored
by the
Government Finance Officers Association (GFOA), the National Association
of Counties, and the Public Securities Association (PSA). Chairman Arthur
Levitt and SEC staff participated in the teleconference and provided general
information and direction on municipal securities disclosure and the prudent
management of public funds. Specific information also was provided on
Rule 15c2-12. The teleconference provided information and responses to
queries from municipal
secunties
professionals,
including
issuers.
Approximately 1,200 individuals participated in the live broadcast of the
teleconference.

80

The staff worked to educate municipal market participants in the
implementation
of, and compliance with, amendments to Rule 15c2-12,
which require secondary market disclosure. The staff also provided guidance
to market participants regardmg recent SEC enforcement decisions that
apply the antifraud provisions of the federal securities laws to the municrpal
securities markets and professionals. In furtherance of this effort, the staff
metwith numerous organizations involved in the municipal finance industry.
Technical Assistance

In 1995, the staff provided support to Chairman Levitt's and Secretary
of the Treasury Rubin's joint efforts to increase the awareness of local
government financial officers of the need for the prudent management of
public funds in today's markets. The staff, working through the Office of
Legislative Affairs, also provided technical assistance to Congress on issues
involving municipal secunties, such as providing information on the
investment of public funds, suitability requirements, and the municipal
bankruptcy in Orange County, California.
The staff worked with the Division of Market Regulation on matters
relating to the Municipal Securities Rulemaking Board (MSRB), including
the implementation of MSRB rule G-37, which prohibits brokers, dealers,
and municipal securities dealers from engaging In municipal securities
business with issuers if certain political contributions have been made to
officials of such issuers. In addition, the staff worked with the Divisions
of Market Regulation and Corporation Finance on various issues surrounding
the implementation of amendments to Rule 15c2-12.
The staff worked with the Office of the General Counsel on the municipal
bankruptcy in Orange County, California, and other municipal securities
matters; assisted the Office of Compliance Inspections and Examinations
in oversight concerning municipal securi ties regula tions; provided technical
assistance to the Division of Investment
Management
on proposed
rulemaking; and assisted the Office of Investor Education and Assistance
on issues pertaining to individual investors and municipal securities price
transparency.
OMS staff provided technical assistance to the Division of Enforcement
on several municipal securities enforcement actions, including:
SEC v.
Stifel, NIcolaus and Company, Inc., Litigation Release No. 14587 (August 3,
1995),59 SEC Docket 2964; SEC v. Goodman and Harold Tzinberg, Litigation
Release No. 14471 (April 18, 1995), 59 SEC Docket 0457; SEC v. Terry D.
Busbee and Preston C. Bynum, Litigation Release No. 14387 (January 23,1995),
58 SEC Docket 1949; and SEC v. Nicholas A. Rudi, Joseph C. Salema, PublIC
Capital Advisors, Inc. formerly known as Consolidated
Inc, George L. Tuttle, Jr. and Alexander S. Williams,

Financial

Management,

Litigation Release No.

14421 (February 23, 1995), 58 Docket 2495.

81

Economic Research and Analysis
The Office of Economic Analysis (OEA) provides the Commission and
the operating divisions with the technical and analytical support necessary
to understand and evaluate the economic effects of Commission regulatory
policy. OEA plays a major role in the Commission's enforcement effort by
applying economic and statistical tools to issues such as materiality and
disgorgement.
Key 1995 Results

In 1995, the staff focused its efforts on a number of areas, including
enforcement cases, mutual fund disclosure, and market structure issues. The
staff provided technical assistance to the Division of Enforcement, designed a
survey to evaluate investors' understanding of financial products, and analyzed
various risk measures in connection with the Commission's release on mutual
fund risk disclosure.
Economic Analysis and Technical Assistance

The staff assisted the Division of Enforcement in approximately 40 cases
of insider trading, market manipulation, fraudulent financial reporting, and other
violations of securities laws. This work generally involved the application of
financial economics and statistical techniques to determine whether the elements
offraud are present and to estimate, where appropriate, the amountofdisgorgement
to be sough t. In particular, the staft assis ted in the developmen t of da ta presen ted
at trial in the action against First Jersey Securities, assisted in the taking of
testimony in cases involving complex fmancial instruments, and assisted in
evaluating reports of consultants and the testimony of experts hired by opposing
parties. The staff also assisted the Division of Enforcement in several largescale investigations.
The staff developed a survey, in cooperation With the Division ofInvestment
Management (1M),aimed at learning what individual investors understand about
financial products. Responses to a nationwide telephone survey of mu tual fund
owners were used to examine why investors choose particular mutual funds.
The statistical analysis focused on relations between the type of fund and venue,
purchase information, investment knowledge possessed by investors, and various
demographic variables. This survey led to a Profile Prospectus focus-group
program, which is currently being conducted by 1M and several mutual fund
families. The staff also provided an extensive statistical analysis of risk measures
In support
of 1M's concept release on mutual fund risk disclosure.
The staff provided extensive statistical analysis for the Commission's
Advisory Committee on Capital Formation and Regulatory Processes, which is
considering company registration versus the registration of individual securities

82

offerings. This analysis addressed the costs of new issues and the volume of
offerings, the effects of various possible thresholds for issuer participation in
company registration, and the impact of SEC review of prospectuses.
The staff provided advice and a variety of statistical analyses, rela ted to
market structure issues, to the Commission and operating divisions. These
included analyses of the impact of small order execu tion system trading activity
on the NASDAQ market, New York Stock Exchange specialists' profitability
and market participation, the effects of preferenced order flow and related pilot
programs, execu tion quali ty, market fragmen tation, and pa ymen t for order flow.
The staff continued to monitor the securities industry and developments
In the domestic and international
securities markets. In addition, the staff
analyzed 90 rule proposals to assess their potential effects on small entities
as required in the Regulatory Flexibility Act of 1980.
During the year, OEA initiated a variety of projects designed to expand
the Commission's understanding of the capital markets. These projects are longterm in nature and focus on the use and economics of soft dollar commissions,
price stabilization in the initial public offering aftermarket, the demand for
proprietary trading sys terns, and the trading of Amencan Deposi tory Receipts
and foreign securities in the over-the-counter market.

83

Policy Management and Administrative Support
Policy management and administrative support provide the Commission
and operating divisions with the necessary services to accomplish the
agency's mission. PoliC1Jmanagement is provided by the executive staff,
including the Office of Legislative Affairs; the Office of the Secretary; the
Office of Public Affairs, Policy Evaluation and Research; the Office of the
Executive Director; and the Office of Equal Employment Opportunity. The
responsibilities and activities of policy management include developing and
executing management policies, formulating and communicating program
policy, overseeing the allocation and expenditure of agency funds, maintaining
liaison with the Congress, disseminating information to the press, and
facilitating Commission meetings.
Administrative support includes services such as accounting, financial
management, fee collection, information technology management, data
processing, space and facilities management, and human resources
management. Under the direction of the Office of the Executive Director,
these support services are provided by the Offices of the Comptroller,
Information Technology, Administrative and Personnel Management, and
Filings and Information Services.
Key 1995 Results

In 1995, the Commission held 55 meetings and considered 240 matters.
Major activities of the Commission included amendments to streamline
financial disclosure requirements for foreign and domestic issuers, public
hearings on the safe harbors from liability for disclosure of "forward looking"
information,
rules to streamline prospectus delivery requirements
to
accommodate timing concerns raised by implementation of the trade date
plus three days settlement standard (known as T+3), the establishment of
a program of joint and coordinated examinations of broker-dealers and
investment company activities, and rules to implement the EDGAR system.
The agency collected fees for the United States Treasury in excess of
its appropriation for the thirteenth consecutive year. The SEC's total fee
collections in 1995 were $559 million and the net gain to the Treasury was
$292 million.
Policy Management

Commission Activities. During 55 Commission meetings held in 1995,
the Commission considered 240 matters, including the proposal and adoption
of Commission rules, enforcement actions, and other items that affect the

84

stability of the nation's capital markets and the economy. The Commission
also acted on 1,027 staff recommendations by seriatim vote. Significant
regulatory actions taken by the Commission included:
• proposing amendments to the National Market System rules on
execution of customer orders by brokerage firms:
• adopting comprehensive
revisions to its rules of practice for
administrative proceedings;
• conducting hearings in Washington,
D.C. and San Francisco,
California on possibly amending current rules on safe harbors for
corporate disclosure;
• proposing amendments to rules on codes of ethics for investment
company personnel; and
• issuing a concept release on improving disclosure of risks by mu tual
funds and other Investment companies.
Congressional interest in the agency's activities and initiatives remained
high. The Commission and staff members testified at 16 congressional
hearings during the year. In addition, the Congress actively considered
a number of important issues under the Commission's jurisdiction. These
were most notably:
• securities litigation reform;
• concerns relative to the municipal bond and government securities
markets;
• proposals for regulatory reform;
• Glass-Steagall reform and financial services modernization;
• proposals to merge the SEC and the Commodity Futures Trading
Commission;
• the regulation of public utility holding companies; and
• the SEC's appropriation.
Public Affairs.
The Office of Public Affairs, Policy Evaluation and
Research (OPAPER) communicated information on Commission activities
to those interested in or affected by Commission actions, including the
press, regulated entities, the general public, and SEC employees through
ongoing programs and special projects. The office published the SEC News
Digest daily, which provided information on rule changes, enforcement
actions against individuals or corporate entities, administrative actions,
litigation releases, acquisition reports, decisions on requests for exemptions,
upcoming Commission meetings, and other events of interest. OPAPER
published a regular newsletter, The SEC Employee News, and prepared a daily
summary of news clips for agency employees.
Special projects, such as
support for activities related to the Chairman's investor education initiatives,
the creation of the SEC's Internet Web site, and the agency's International
Institute for Securities Markets Development were undertaken.
Many of the agency's actions are of national and international Interest.
When appropriate, these actions are brought to the attention of regional,
national, and international press. The office issued 262 press releases on
upcoming events, SEC programs, enforcement actions, and special projects.

85

In addition, the office responded to approximately
50,000 requests for
specific mformation on the SEC or its activities. The office also coordinated
visi ts of domestic and foreign officials to the SEC. In total, programs for
776 foreign visitors and 103 United States visitors were coordinated during
the year.
Management Activities.
The Office of the Executive Director continued
to promote management
controls and financial integrity and to manage
audit follow-up requirements.
The office continued to analyze the efficiency
and effectiveness of opera ting di visions and su pport offices and to coordina te
and Implement the agency's compliance with and response to actions under
the National Performance Review (NPR) and the Government Performance
and Results Act of 1993, including development
of the agency's strategic
plan. Working closely WIth other senior officials, the staff formulated the
agency's budget submissions to the Office of Management and Budget and
the Congress.
Equal Employment
Opportunity.
The Office of Equal Employment
Opportunity
(EEO) provided the agency with support for compliance with
Title VII of the Civil Rights Act of 1964, as amended; the Age Discrimination
in Employment Act of 1967; the Rehabilitation
Act of 1973; and the Equal
Pay Act of 1963. This support was provided through the office's compliance
and affirmative employment
activities.
The primary services provided by the compliance branch included
counseling and dispute resolution, administrative fact-finding investigations,
and fmal agency decisions
on formal complaints
of employment
discrimination.
In connection with the affirmative employment
activity,
the office participated
in orientation
programs for new employees and
administered
the Federal Women's Program, the Hispanic Employment
Program, and the Black Employment
Program and sponsored, along with
the Office of Administrative
and Personnel Management (OAPM), the SEC's
Disability Issues Advisory Committee.
Freedom of lnjormatton Act and Privacy Act. The Office of Freedom of
Information Act (FOIA) and Privacy Act Operations responded to requests
for access to information
pursuant
to FOIA, the Privacy Act, and the
Government in the Sunshine Act, and processed requests under the agency's
confidential treatment rules. Confidential treatment requests were generally
made in connection with proprietary
corporate information and evaluated
in conjunction with access requests to prevent the unwarranted
disclosure
of information exempt under the FOIA.
The agency received 2,430 FOIA requests and appeals, 12 Privacy Act
requests and appeals, 42 Government
in the Sunshine Act requests, 11
government
referrals, and 8,300 requests and appeals for confidential
treatment.
All responses to FOIA, Privacy Act, and Government
in the
Sunshine Act requests were made within the statutory time-frame.

86

Administrative Support
Financial Management

and Operations.
In 1995, the SEC collected fees
in excess of its appropriation.
The SEC's total fee collections in 1995 were
$559 million, 188 percent of the agency's appropriated spending authority
of $297 million (WhICh consisted of $75 million in appropriated funds, an
appropriation of $192 million subject to reduction as offsetting fees were
received, and $30 million from a carry-over of prior year offsetting fee
collections).
The $559 million in total fee collections, rrunus the SEC's
current year spending authority of $267 million ($297 million less the $30
million from prior year offsetting fee collections), resulted in a net gain of
$292 million to the United States Treasury.
The SEC's total fee revenue in 1995 was collected from four basic
sources: registrations of securities under Section 6(b) of the Securities Act
of 1933 (comprising 71 percent of total fee collections), transactions of
covered exchange listed securities (19 percent), tender offer and merger
filings (7 percent), and miscellaneous filings (3 percent).
Offsetting fee
collections were generated from an increase in the fee rate under Section
6 (b) of the Securities Act from one-fiftieth of one percent to one-twentyninth of one percent.
During the year, the staff updated the agency's Five-Year Financial
Management Plan. This plan responds to current financial system issues,
recognizes new legislative and NPR requirements, and is consistent with
the agency's information technology plan.
In other financial areas, the staff implemented a new Electronic Time
and Attendance System, completed the testing of an off-the-shelf travel
management software package, and replaced an imprest fund based travel
advance program with an automated teller machine based system that uses
the government credit card for travel advances.
Information Resources Management.
The Office of Inforrnation Technology
(OIT) continued to develop and enhance SEC information resources. Notably,
full implementatIon of the Electronic Data Gathering, Analysis, and Retrieval
(EDGAR) project continued to proceed smoothly. As of September 3D,1995,
nearly 75 percent of all SEC registrants were filmg all of their required
material electronically. The last two groups of filers will enter the system
in November 1995 and May 1996.
A conference was held on August 14, 1995 to solicit public input on
how to improve and update the EDGAR system. In a further effort to solicit
input from the public and the securities industry, the SEC published a
Request for Information (RFI) in the Commerce Business Daily during the
week of October 9, 1995. Questions included in this RFI were drawn from
comments received at the August 14 conference.
The OIT continued implementing the agency's strategic automation
moderniza tion ini tia tive.
Several infrastructure
im prove men ts were
implemented,
including
the upgrade of staff workstations
and the
enhancement of the local area network/wide area network.
Upgraded
personnel, payroll, and financial management systems were among the new
systems implemented to enhance administrative functions.

87

Modifications to the agency's disaster recovery plans were initiated
to provide the agency with fully integrated backup capabilities for its local
area network and its mainframe computing resources, in the event of a
disaster at either of its computer facilities-the
main Operations Center in
Alexandria, Virginia or the Headquarters building In Washington, D.C.
Work also continued on the development of a backup capability for the
EDGAR system.
On September28, 1995, the Comrnissrorr's new World Wide Web (WWW)
site was inaugurated.
The WWW server was configured to provide basic
access to the EDGAR database of electronic filings on a 24-hour delayed
basis and to provide a forum for litigation releases, news digests, press
releases, Commission rulemaking activities, and a wide range of other
information of interest to the investing public. Key financial information
that previously was not easily accessible is now available worldwide to
students, public interest groups, individual investors, and any other
mterested party with access to a computer and Internet interface.
Admznistrative and Personnel Management. The OAPM provided a wide
range of personnel and office support functions to the agency's divisions
and offices. Personnel programs included recruitment and staffing, position
management and classification, employee compensation
and benefits,
training, performance management,
employee recognition, employee
relations, counseling, disciplinary actions, personnel security and suitability,
personnel action processing, and maintenance of official employee records.
Support programs included procurement and contracting, space acquisition,
lease administration, facilities management, property management, desktop
publishing, printing, publications, mail services, and telecommunications
management.
Efforts to streamline and reinvent personnel programs continued as
a result of the NPR. Based on focus group recommendations, new policies
on alternate work schedules and flexiplace were implemented in January
1995 to assist employees in balancing work and family demands.
The
streamlining of internal operations continued with the implementation of
the first phase of the new automated Personnel Resource System and the
establishment of a centralized photocopy center.
The SEC joined a consortium of federal agencies in sponsoring and
participating in an in-depth study by the National Academy of Public
Administration (NAPA). The purpose of the NAPA study is to discover and
evaluate organizations with innovative personnel programs and to generate
models for implementing change in human resources management that can
be shared with government agencies.
The SEC obtained authority from the Office of Personnel Management
to offer early retirements and implemented a Voluntary Early Retirement
program for members of the Senior Executive Service and employees in
grade 15 positions. As part of this effort, several special retirement planning
seminars were provided to eligible staff.

88

During 1995, overall training activities increased with mandatory HIV/
AIDS training for all employees, customer service training for all support
office employees, and conflict resolution techniques for managers and
supervisors.
A total of 2,597 employees attended 5,390 traming events.
The agency awarded contracts, purchase orders, and credit card
purchases totalling approximately $31,293,747 during 1995. As part of its
effort to encourage the use of the government-wide credit card for purchases
of commercially available goods and services under $2,500, OAPM issued
25 credit cards to purchasing agents and contracting officers throughout
the agency. The SEC administered 15 leases for an approximate total of
794,797 square feet of office and related space.
Public Reference
The SEC maintains public reference rooms in its
Washington, D.C., New York, and Chicago offices. In a continuing interest
to better serve the public, the procedures in the headquarters public reference
room were enhanced to expedite identification, location, and retrieval of
documents and microfiche. The public reference rooms made all company
filmgs and Commission rules, orders, studies, reports, and speeches available
to the public.
During 1995, the staff provided assistance to 28,070 visitors to the
headquarters
public reference room, responded
to 7,070 requests for
documents, processed 590 requests for certifications of filings and records,
and responded to 81,350 telephone inquiries. The public reference staff
received and filed 390,450 paper documents and 488,180 microfiche records
to the existing library of publicly available information.

89

Endnotes
ISEC v. Block, Exchange Act Release No. 14598 (Aug. 10, 1995), 59 SEC Docket
3112.
25EC v. Odulo, Exchange Act Release No. 14591 (Aug. 7, 1995), 59 SEC Docket
3105.

3SEC v. Pleasure Time Inc., Litigation Release No. 14440 (Mar. 15, 1995),58 SEC
Docket 2909.
4SEC v. Gallard, Litigation Release No. 14485 (May 2,1995),59 SEC Docket 69l.
55EC v. Norton, Litigation Release No. 14529 (June 14, 1995), 59 SEC Docket 1747.
6SEC v. United Communications, Ltd., Litigation Release No. 14424 (Feb. 27, 1995),
58 SEC Docket 2595.
7SEC v. Future Vision Direct Marketing, Inc., Litigation Release No. 14287 (Oct. 4,
1994),57 SEC Docket 2278.
BSEC v. Telecom Marketing, Inc., Litigation Release No. 14494 (Mar. 29,1995),58
SEC Docket 3106.
9SEC v. Qualified Pensions, Inc., Litigation Release No. 14636 (Sept. 13,1995),60
SEC Docket 708.
JOSECv. Bloch, Litigation Release No. 14511 (May 25,1995),59 SEC Docket 127l.
IJSECv. Bennett, Litigation Release No. 14503 (May 18, 1995), 59 SEC Docket1147.
uSEC v. International Breeders, Inc., Litigation Release No. 14607 (Aug. 17, 1995),
59 SEC Docket 3228.
135EC v. Naiman, Litigation Release No. 14463 (Apr. 10, 1995),59 SEC 260.
14SEC v. First Capital Holdings Corp., Inc., Litigation Release No. 14444 (Mar. 17,
1995),58 SEC Docket 3002.
15SEC v. Sojtpomt, Inc., Litigation Release No. 14480 (Apr. 27, 1995), 59 SEC
Docket 547.
16SECv. Digitran Systems, Incorporated, Litigation Release No. 14375(Jan. 4, 1995),
58 SEC Docket 159l.
17SEC v. Bradstreet, Litigation Release No. 14571 (July 26, 1995),59 SEC Docket
2819.
"Inthe Matter of The Cooper Companies, Inc., Exchange Act Release No. 35082 (Dec.
12,1994),58 SEC Docket 681.
19In the Matter ofMarvin E. Basson, CPA, Exchange Act Release No. 35840 (June 13,
1995),59 SEC Docket 1650.
WIn the Matter of C. Steven Bolen, Exchange Act Release No. 34974 (Nov. 15,1994),
58 SEC Docket 8.
21In the Matter of BT Securities Corporation, Exchange Act Release No. 35136 (Dec.
22, 1994),58 SEC Docket 1182.
22Inthe Matter of Gibson Greetings, Inc., Exchange Act Release No. 36357 (Oct. 11,
1995),60 SEC Docket HOI.
23SECv Schulte, Litigation Release No.14372 (Dec. 29, 1994), 58 SEC Docket1476.
24 In the Matter of Van Kampen American Capital Asset Management, Inc., Investment
Advisers Act Release No. 1525 (Sept. 29, 1995),60 SEC Docket 1284.
25In the Matter of Thomas M. Rogge, Investment Advisers Act Release No. 1472
(Feb. 22, 1995),58 SEC Docket 2474.

90

2h In the Matter ofAskin Capital Management,
L.P., Inves tment Advisers Act Release
No. 1492 (May 23, 1995), 59 SEC Docket 1233.
27SEC v. Busbee, Litigation Release No. 14387 (jan. 23, 1995), 58 SEC Docket 1949.
2BIn the Matter of Preston C. Bynum, Exchange Act Release No. 35870 (june 20,
1995),59 SEC Docket 1801.
29Inthe M~tterofDerryl W Peden, Exchange Act Release No. 35045 (Dec. 2, 1994),
58 SEC Docket 505.
30SEC v. Stifel, Nicolaus and Company, lnc., Litigation Release No. 14587 (Aug. 3,
1995),59 SEC Docket 2964.
31SEC v. Cochran, Litigation Release No. 14644 (Sept. 20, 1995),60 SEC Docket 833.
32SECv. Sutliffe, Litigation Release No. 14658 (Sept. 28, 1995),60 SEC Docke tl 006.
33SEC v. Goodman, Litigation Release No. 14471 (Apr. 18, 1995).
34SEC v. Rudi, Litigation Release No. 14421 (Feb. 23, 1995), 58 SEC Docket 2495.
35SEC v Brumfield, Litigation Release No. 14408 (Feb. 9, 1995),58 SEC Docket
2225, refiled after resolution of criminal proceedings, Litigation Release No. 14706 (Oct.
31,1995),60 SEC Docket 1888.
36SEC v. Croce, Litigation Release No. 14655 (Sept. 28, 1995),60 SEC Docket 1004.
37SEC v. Wagner, Litigation Release No. 14479 (Apr. 26, 1995),59 SEC Docket 546.
38SEC v. Schwartzberg, Litigation Release No. 14454 (Mar. 31, 1995), 59 SEC
Docket 152.
39SEC v. Seibald, Litigation Release No. 14449 (Mar. 28, 1995),58 SEC Docket3103.
4°SEC v. Woodward, Litigation Release No. 14548 (june 28,1995),59 SEC Docket
2122.
41In the Matter of Gabelli & Company, lnc., Exchange Act Release No. 35057 (Dec.
8,1994),58 SEC Docket 520.
42SEC v. Stratton Oakmont, lnc., Litigation Release No. 14355 (Dec. 15, 1994), 58
SEC Docket 806.
43In the Matter of F.N. Wolf & Co., Inc., Exchange Act Release No. 34892 (Oct. 25,
1994),57 SEC Docket 2576.
44In the Matter of Stephen T. Strabala, Exchange Act Release No. 36305 (Sept. 29,
1995),60 SEC Docket 1087.
45SEC v. Strabala, Litigation Release No. 14667 (Sept. 29, 1995),60 SEC Docket
1329.
46In the Matter of H.D. Vest Investment Securities, lnc., Exchange Act Release No.
35946 (July 10, 1995),59 SEC Docket 2330.
47SEC v. Saxena, Litigation Release No. 14348 (Dec. 8, 1994),58 SEC Docket 607.
48In the Matter of Account Management Corporation, Exchange Act Release No.
36314 (Sept. 29, 1995),60 SEC Docket 1157.
49In the Matter of Roger W. Honour, Investment Advisers Act Release No. 1527
(Sept. 29, 1995), 60 SEC Docket 1300.
50SEC v. Katoeske, Litigation Release No. 14399 (Feb. 6, 1995), 58 SEC Docket 2215.
51In the Matter ofJohn Logan Wallace, Investment Advisers Release No. 1470 (Feb.
21,1995),58 SEC Docket 2470.
52SEC v. Galleon Capital Management, Litigation Release No. 14315 (Nov. 1,1994),
57 SEC Docket 2939.
53Inthe Matter of Anthony J. Benincasa, Exchange Act Release No. 36273 (Sept. 25,
1995),60 SEC Docket 0852.

91

54Exchange Act Release Nos. 36165 (Aug. 29, 1995), 60 FR 46653 (Sept. 7, 1995);
36166 (Aug. 29, 1995), 60 FR 46660 (Sept. 7, 1995); 36167 (Aug. 29, 1995),60 FR 46667
(Sept. 7, 1995);36168 (Aug. 29, 1995),60 FR46637 (Sept. 7, 1995); 36169 (Aug. 29, 1995),
60 FR 46644 (Sept. 7, 1995) (five options exchanges); and 36296 (Sept. 28,1995),60 FR
52234 (Oct. 5, 1995) (NASD).
55ExchangeAct Release No. 34908 (Oct. 27, 1994),59 FR 54812 (Nov. 2, 1994).
56Exchange Act Release No. 36213 (Sept. 11,1995),60 FR 48078 (Sept. 18, 1995).
570rder Instituting Proceedings Pursuant to Section 8A of the Securities Act of
1933 and Sections 15(b) and 21C of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, and Findings
and Order Imposing Remedial Sanctions in the Matter ofBT Securities Corporation.
Exchange Act Release No. 35136 (Dec. 22, 1994), 58 SEC Docket 1182.
58ExchangeAct Release No. 35135 (Dec. 22,1994),59 FR 67358 (Dec. 29,1994),58
SEC Docket 1264.
59Exchange Act Release No. 36270 (Sept. 22,1995),60 FR 50223 (Sept. 28, 1995).
60Exchange Act Release No. 36310 (Sept. 29, 1995), 60 FR 52792 (Oct. 10, 1995).
61ExchangeAct Release No. 35124 (Dec. 20, 1994),59 FR 66702 (Dec. 28, 1994).
62ExchangeAct Release Nos. 27445 and 29185 (Nov. 16, 1989 and May 9,1991),54
FR 48703 (Nov. 24, 1989) and 56 FR 22490 (May 15, 1991).
63Letter regarding Application of Rules lOb-6 and 10b-13 to New York Stock
Exchange Specialists, Exchange Act Release No. 36044 (july 31, 1995), 60 FR 40212
(Aug. 7, 1995).
64Letterregarding Dividend Reinvestment and Stock Purchase Plans, Exchange
Act Release No. 35041 (Dec. 1, 1994),59 FR 63393 (Dec. 8, 1994), as modified by Letter
regarding Dividend Reinvestment and Stock Purchase Plans (May 12, 1995); and
Letter regarding Bank-Sponsored Investor Services Programs (Sept. 14,1995) and
Letter regarding First Chicago Trust Company of New York (Dec. 1, 1994).
65Letter regarding Legg Mason Wood Walker (Aug. 24, 1995); Letter regarding
Bear Steams Securities Corporation (june 14, 1995); Letter regarding U.S. Clearing
Corporation (Apr. 11, 1995).
66Letter regarding CS Holding (Mar. 31, 1995), [1995] Fed. Sec. L. Rep. (CCH)
1177018.
67Exchange Act Release No. 33137 (Nov. 3, 1993), 58 FR 60324 (Nov. 15, 1993).
68Letter regarding Distributions of Certain United Kingdom Securities and of
Certain Securities Traded on SEAQ International, Exchange Act Release No. 35234
Gan. 10,1995),60 FR 4644 (Ian. 24, 1995).
69Letter regarding Distributions of Certain Dutch Securities, Exchange Act Release No. 36412 (Oct. 19, 1995),60 FR 55391 (Oct. 25, 1995).
"Exchange Act Release No. 33741 (Mar. 9, 1994),59 FR 12748 (Mar. 17, 1994).
71Exchange Act Release No. 34961 (Nov. 10, 1994),59 FR 59590 (Nov. 17, 1994).
72Letterfrom Robert L.D. Colby, Depu ty Director, Division of Market Regulation,
SEC, to John S. Overdorff, Chair, and Gerald J. Laporte, Vice-Chair, Securities Law
and Disclosure Committee, National Association of Bond Lawyers (june 23, 1995);
Letter from Catherine McGuire, Chief Counsel, DIvision of Market Regulation, SEC,
to John S. Overdorff, Chair, Securities Law and Disclosure Committee, National
Association of Bond Lawyers (Sept. 19, 1995).
73Lettersdated June 22,1995 from Brandon Becker, Director, Division of Market
Regulation, SEC,to: Michael R. Bloomberg, Pres., Bloomberg, L.P.; Daniel Heimowitz,
Exec. V.P., Moody's Investor Services; Robert C. BuIik, Exec. V.P., Disclosure, Inc.;
92

Joel Mandelbaum, Pres., Thomson Municipal Services Group; and Aaron V. Klapow,
V.P., Kenny S&P Information
Services. Also, Letter from Robert Colby, Deputy
Director, Division of Market Regulation, SEC, to Joel Brenner, Storch & Brenner (Oct.
27,1995).
74Exchange Act Release No. 34961 (Nov. 10, 1994),59 FR 59590 at 59603-59604
(Adopting Release) (Nov. 17, 1994).
751994Adopting Release, td , 59 FR at 59604. There is no requirement
that a SID
be an instrumentality
of the state. A SID may be a private organization that has been
designated by the state to function as its SID.
76Letter regardmg Ontala Forest Products, Inc. (Dec. 14,1994).
77Letter regarding Browning-Ferris
Industries, Inc. (Iune 20,1995).
"Letter regarding First of America Brokerage Service, Inc. (Sept. 28, 1995).
79ExchangeActRelease
No. 34962 (Nov. 10, 1994),59 FR59612 (Nov. 17,1994),57
SEC Docket 3014.
80Letter regarding Investment Company Institute (Aug. I, 1995).
81Letter regarding Public Securities Association (Sept. 29,1995).
82Exchange Act Release No. 35224 Gan. 12, 1995),60 FR 4040 Gan.19, 1995),58 SEC
Docket 1662.
83Exchange Act Release No. 35990 (Iuly 19, 1995),60 FR 38384 Guly 26,1995).
84Exchange Act Release No. 36145 (Aug. 23, 1995),60 FR 45200 (Aug. 30, 1995).
85Exchange Act Release No. 35314 (Feb. 1,1995),60 FR 7241 (Feb. 7, 1995).
86Exchange Act Release No. 36088 (Aug. 10,1995),60 FR 42930 (Aug. 17,1995).
87Exchange Act Release No. 35637 (Apr. 21, 1995), 60 FR 20891 (Apr. 28, 1995).
88Exchange Act Release No. 36102 (Aug. 14,1995),60 FR 43626 (Aug. 22,1995).
B9Exchange Act Release No. 35038 (Dec. 1,1994),59 FR 63652 (Dec. 8, 1994).
90Exchange Act Release No. 35039 (Dec. I, 1994), 59 FR 63656 (Dec. 8, 1994).
"Exchange Act Release No. 35040 (Dec. 1,1994),59 FR 63662 (Dec. 8,1994).
9217CFR 240.17f-1 (1994).
93Exchange Act Release No. 35341 (Feb. 8, 1995),60 FR 8426 (Feb. 14, 1995).
'l4Exchange Act Release No. 36324 (Sept. 29, 1995),60 FR 52436 (Oct. 6, 1995).
95Exchange Act Release No. 36323 (Sept. 29,1995),60 FR 52440 (Oct. 6, 1995).
%Exchange Act Release No. 35121 (Dec. 19, 1994),59 FR 66570 (Dec. 27, 1994).
97Exchange Act Release No. 35751 (May 22, 1995),60 FR 27997 (May 26, 1995).
98
Exchange Act Release No. 35059 (Dec. 7, 1994),59 FR 64455 (Dec. 14, 1994).
99Exchange Act Release No. 36076 (Aug. 9, 1995), 60 FR 42200 (Aug. 15, 1995).
looExchange Act Release No. 36211 (Sept. 8, 1995),60 FR 48182 (Sept. 18, 1995).
lOlExchange Act Release No. 36403 (Oct. 20, 1995),60 FR 54898 (Oct. 26, 1995).
102Exchange Act Release No. 35990 Guly 19, 1995),60 FR 38384 Guly 26,1995).
l03Exchange Act Release No. 35428 (Feb. 28, 1994),60 FR 12583 (Mar. 7, 1995).
I04Exchange Act Release No. 35953 Guly 11, 1995),60 FR 36843 Guly 18, 1995).
105Exchange Act Release No. 35482 (Mar. 13 1995),60 FR 14806 (Mar. 20, 1995).
l06Exchange Act Release No. 35132 (Dec. 21, 1994),59 FR 67743 (Ian. 25, 1995).
7
Act Release No. 35198 (Ian, 6, 1995),60 FR 3286 Gan. 13, 1995).
10 Exchange
l08Exchange Act Release No. 35787 (May 31,1995),60 FR 30324 (Iune 8,1995).
I09Exchange Act Release No. 35557 (Mar. 31, 1995),60 FR 17598 (Apr. 6,1995).
llOExchange Act Release No. 36091 (Aug. 10,1995),60 FR 42931 (Aug. 17, 1995).
lllExchange Act Release No. 36162 (Aug. 29, 1995),60 FR 46138 (Sept. 5, 1995).

93

lI2Investment Company Act Release No. 20915 (Feb. 23, 1995),58 SEC Docket
2389.
1I3Investment Company Act Release No. 20916 (Feb. 23, 1995), 58 SEC Docket
2487.

114Investment Company Act Release No. 20917 (Feb. 23, 1995), 58 SEC Docket
24Ol.

115Investment Company Act Release No. 21259 (july 27, 1995), 59 SEC Docket
2793.
116Investment Company Act Release No. 21341 (Sept. 8, 1995), 60 SEC Docket
524.
117Investment Company Act Release Nos. 20874 (Feb. 1,1995),58 SEC Docket
1970 and 21332 (Sept. 1,1995),60 SEC Docket 0413.
118Investment Company Act Release No. 21217 Ouly 19, 1995), 59 SEC Docket
2513.
119Investment Company Act Release No. 21260 (July 27, 1995),60 FR 39574 (Aug.
2,1995).
12°FrankRussell Investment Company, Investment Company Act Release Nos.
21108 (June 2, 1995),59 SEC Docket 1503 (Notice), and 21169 (lune 28,1995),59 SEC
Docket 2105 (Order); The Managers Funds and The Managers Funds, L.P., Investment
Company Act Release Nos. 21354 (Sept. 13, 1995),60 SEC Docket 692 (Notice), and
21412 (Oct. II, 1995),60 SEC Docket 1439 (Order); Consulting Group Capital Markets
Funds and Smith Barney Mutual Funds Management Inc., Investment Company Act
Release Nos. 21318 (Aug. 23, 1995),60 SEC Docket 109 (Notice), and 21366 (Sept. 19,
1995), 60 SEC Docket 823 (Order); Tiff Investment Program, Inc. and Foundation
Advisers Inc., Investment Company Act Release Nos. 21268 (Aug. 3, 1995), 59 SEC
Docket 2952 (Notice), and 21328 (Aug. 30, 1995),60 SEC Docket 316 (Order).
121Vanguard STAR Fund, Investment Company Act Release Nos. 21372 (Sept. 22,
1995),60 SEC Docket 983 (Notice), and 21426 (Oct. 18, 1995),60 SEC Docket 1630
(Order); T. Rowe Price Spectrum Fund, Inc., Investment Company Act Release Nos.
21371 (Sept. 22, 1995),60 SEC Docket 681 (Notice), and 21425 (Oct. 18,1995),60 SEC
Docket 1628 (Order).
I22Vanguard Special Tax-Advantaged Retirement Fund, Inc., Investment Company
Act Release Nos. 14153 (Sept. 12, 1984),31 SEC Docket 437 (Notice), and 14361 (Feb.
7,1985),32 SEC Docket 549 (Order); T. Rowe Price Spectrum Fund, Inc., Investment
Company Act Release Nos. 17198 (Oct. 31, 1989),44 SEC Docket 515 (Notice), and
17242 (Nov. 29, 1989), 44 SEC Docket 1751 (Order), as amended by Investment
Company Act Release Nos. 18816 (june 29,1992),51 SEC Docket 1380 (Notice), and
18865 (july 25,1992),51 SEC Docket 2419 (Order).
I23H.R. 1495, 104th Cong., 1st Sess. (1995).
124PaineWebberIncorporated, Investment Company Act Release Nos. 20755 (Dec.
6,1994),58 SEC Docket 589 (Notice), and 20819 Oan. 4,1995),58 SEC Docket 1586
(Order); Prudential Securities Incorporated, Investment Company Act Release Nos.
20922 (Feb. 27, 1995),58 SEC Docket 2564 (Notice), and 20975 (Mar. 29, 1995), 58 SEC
Docket 3097 (Order); Dean Witter Reynolds, Inc., Investment Company Act Release
Nos. 20931 (Mar. I, 1995), 58 SEC Docket 2581 (Notice), and 20976 (Mar. 29,1995),58
SEC Docket 3098 (Order); Van Kampen American Distributors, Inc., Investment
Company Act Release Nos. 21014 (Apr. 17, 1995),59 SEC Docket 0438 (Notice), and
21073 (May 16, 1995), 59 SEC Docket 1125 (Order).
94

125SMCCapital, Inc. (pub. avail. Sept. 5, 1995).
126RobertsonStephens Investment Trust (pub. avail. Aug. 24, 1995).
127TheT. Rowe Price Funds (pub. avail. July 31,1995).
128Templeton Russia Fund, Inc. (pub. avail. Apr. 18, 1995).
129CiticorpSecurities, Inc. (pub. avail. Aug. 4, 1995).
130SalomonBrothers Inc. (pub. avail. May 26, 1995).
131MassMutual Institutional Funds (pub. avail. Sept. 28, 1995).
132T.Rowe Price Investment Services (pub. avail. Sept. 8, 1995).
133AmericanCouncil of Life Ins. (pub. avail. June 20,1995).
134Investment Company Act Release No. 21221 (july 21, 1995),59 SEC Docket
2608.
135Investment Company Act Release No. 21216 (Iuly 19, 1995),59 SEC Docket
2459.
136InvestmentAdvisersActReleaseNo.1469(Feb.14,
1995),58 SEC Docket 2279.
137Thompson Advisory Group, L.P. (pub. avail. Sept. 26,1995).
138FirstCall Corporation (pub. avail. Sept. 6, 1995).
139TheRegulation of Public Utility Holding Companzes, Report of the Division of
InvestmentManagement,
United States Securities and Exchange Commission (June
1995).
140Exemption of Issuance and Sale of Certain Securities by Public UtIlity and Nonutility
Subsidtarv Companies of Registered Holding Companzes, Holding Co. Act Release No.
26311 (june 28, 1995). The Council ofthe City of New Orleans, which has jurisdiction
over the retail rates of two public-utility subsidiary companies ofEntergy Corporation,
a registered holding company, has filed a petition for judicial review with the Court
of Appeals for the District of Columbia Circuit. Case No. 95-1434 (filed Aug. 24, 1995).
141Exemption of Issuance and Sale of Certain Securities by Public Utzlity and Nonutility
Subsidiary Companies of Registered Holding Companies, Holding Co. Act Release No.
26312 (june 28,1995).
142ExemptionofAcquisition by Registered Public-UtIlity Holding Companies of Securities
of Nonutilttu Companies Engaged in Certain Energy-Related and Gas-Related Businesses,
Holding Co. Act Release No. 26313 (Iune 28,1995).
143CINergy Corporation, Holding Company Act Release No. 26146 (Oct. 21, 1994).
144Southern Company, Holding Company Act Release No. 26211 (Dec. 30, 1994).
145EUACogenex, Inc., Holding Company Act Release No. 26232 (Feb. 15, 1995).
146Centraland South West Corporation, Holding Company Act Release No. 26293
(May 18, 1995).
147TheColumbia Gas System, Inc., Holding Company Act Release No. 26361 (Aug.
25,1995).
148SecuritiesAct Release No. 33-7141 (Feb. 21, 1995), 58 SEC Docket 2371 and
Securities Act Release No. 33-7168 (May 11, 1995), 59 SEC Docket 0727.
149SecuritiesAct Release No. 33-7233 (Oct. 6, 1995),60 SEC Docket 1348.
150SecuritiesAct Release No. 33-7234 (Oct. 6, 1995), 60 SEC Docket 1358.
15lSecurities Act Release No. 33-7183 (june 27, 1995),59 SEC Docket 1939.
152SecuritiesAct Release No. 33-7184 (June 27,1995),59 SEC Docket 1968.
153SecuritiesAct Release No. 33-7185 (June 27,1995),59 SEC Docket 1973.
154SecuritiesAct Release No. 33-7185 (June 27,1995),59 SEC Docket 1973.
155SecuritiesAct Release No. 33-7188 (June 27,1995),59 SEC Docket 1983.
156SecuritiesAct Release No. 33-7186 (June 27,1995),59 SEC Docket 1977.
95

157SecuritiesAct Release No. 33-7187 (June 27, 1995), 59 SEC Docket 1980.
158SecuntiesAct Release No. 7189 (June 27,1995),59 SEC Docket 1991.
159SecuritiesAct Release No. 7189 (June 27,1995),59 SEC Docket 1991.
I60SecuritiesAct Release No. 7190 (June 27,1995),59 SEC Docket 1998.
161ExchangeAct Release No. 34-36356 (Oct. 11,1995),60 SEC Docket 1393.
162ExchangeAct Release No. 34-34514 (Aug. 10,1994),57 SEC Docket 0932.
163ExchangeAct Release No. 34-34681 (Sept. 16,1994),57 SEC Docket 1780.
I64SecuritiesAct Release No. 33-7122 (Dec. 19, 1994), 58 SEC Docket 0865.
165SecuritiesAct Release No. 33-7101 (Oct. 13, 1994), 57 SEC Docket 2292.
I66SecuritiesAct Release No. 33-7106 (Nov. 1, 1994), 57 SEC Docket 2748.
167StaffAccounting Bulletin No. 94 (Apr. 18, 1995),59 SEC Docket 463.
I68Proposed Statement of Financial Accounting Standards, "Consolidated
Financial Statements: Policy and Procedures" (Oct. 16, 1995).
169Statement of Financial Accounting Standards No. 121, "Accounting for the
Impairment of Long-Lived Assets to be Disposed Of" (Mar. 1995).
170Statement of Financial Accounting Standards, "Accounting for Stock-Based
Compensation" (Oct. 1995).
l7IProposed Statement of Financial Accounting Standards, "Accounting for
Transfers and Servicing of Financial Assets and Extinguishments of Liabili ties" (Oct.
24,1995).
I72Compare S. 240, 104th Cong., 1st. Sess. (1995) with H.R.1058, 104th Cong., 1st
Sess. (1995).
I73See generally, H.R. 2131, 104th Con g., 1st Sess. (1995).
174Testimonyof Arthur Levitt, Chairman, SEC, Concerning Municipal Bond and
Government Securi ties Markets, Before the Senate Commi ttee on Banking, Housing,
and Urban Affairs (Jan. 5, 1995).
175SeeDirectors, Mana~ement, and Auditors: Allies in Protectin~ Shareholder
Interests, issued in 1995 by Public Oversight Board.
1765tatement of Position 94-6, "Disclosure of Certain Significant Risks and
Uncertainties (Dec. 30, 1994).
177 Proposed
Statement of Position, "Environmental Remediation Liabilities"
(June 30,1995).
178Reportofthe Special Committee on Financial Reporting, "Improving Business
Reporting-A Customer Focus."
179International Accounting Standard 32, "Financial Instruments: Disclosure
and Presentation" (June 1995).
I80Exposure Draft E48, Financial Instruments (Jan. 1994).
181DraftStatement of Principles, Earnings Per Share (Oct. 1993).
182ExposureDraft E50, Intangible Assets (June 1995).
183DraftStatement of Principles, Reporting Financial Information by Segment
(Sept. 1994).
184ExposureDraft E49, Income Taxes (Oct. 1994)
185DraftStatement of Principles, Presentation of Financial Statements (Mar.
1995).
186Issues Paper, Retirement Benefit and Other Employee Benefit Costs (Aug.
1995).
187ReleaseNo. 33-7119 (Dec. 13,1994).
I88ReleaseNo. 33-7117 (Dec. 13,1994).
96

189115S. Ct. 1212 (1995).
190115S. Ct. 1061 (1995).
191
115 S. Ct. 1447 (1995).
19~1 F.3d 938 (D.C Cir. 1995).
193115S. Ct. 1212 (1995).
194115S. Ct. 1061 (1995).
195115S. Ct. 1447 (1995).
196501U.S. 350 (1991).
19761F.3d 938 (D.C Cir. 1995).
198No.95 Cr. 166 (S.D.N.Y. Oct. 24, 1995), 1995 WL 628312.
19945F.3d 7 (2d Cir. 1995).
200
51 F.3d 623 (7th Cir. 1995).
20117CF.R. 240.14(e)-3.
20252F.3d 667 (7th Cir. 1995).
203Swan v. SEC, No. 95-1218 (D.D.C), appeal pending, No. 95-5376 (D.C Cir.).
204SECv. Worthen, 74-202-N (S.D. Cal.).
205SEC v. The Electronic Warehouse, 689 F. Supp. 53 (D. Conn. 1988), aff'd per
curiam, 891 F.2d 457 (1989), cert. denied, 496 U.S. 942 (1990).
206SECv. Price Waterhouse, 41 F.3d 305 (2d Cir. 1994); SEC v. Littler, 874 F. Supp.
345 (D. Utah 1994); SEC v. Grosby, No. 1P921411 (S.D. Ind.); SEC v Adler, CV 94-PT2018-S (N.D. Ala.).
207Hunterv. SEC, 879 F. Supp.494 (E.D. PA.1995) Dalyv. SEC, 95-5-285 (D. Colo.);
Kinlaw v. SEC, No. 3-93-CV-2010-T (N.D. Tex.).
208Coiellov. SEC, No. CV-94-6022-RAP (CD. Ca.)
209SequoiaPartners, L.P., Investment Company Act Release No. 20644 (Oct. 20,
1994),57 SEC Docket 2547.
2lOGazMetropolitain, Inc. et al., Holding Company Act Release No. 26170 (Nov. 23,
1994),53 SEC Docket 246.
211DanA. Druz, Exchange Act Release No. 35202 (Jan. 9, 1995),58 SEC Docket
1621.
212PatriciaA. Johnson, Exchange Act Release No. 35698 (May 10, 1995), 59 SEC
Docket 863, appeal filed, No. 95-1340 (D.C Cir.).
213Martin Herer Engelman, Peter Paul Kim, and Lawrence David Isen, Exchange Act
Release No. 35729 (May 18,1995),59 SEC Docket 1038, appeal fzled, No. 95-70564 (9th
Cir.).
214Atlanta-One, Inc., et al., Exchange Act Release No. 35455 (March 8, 1995),58 SEC
Docket 2670, appeal filed, No. 95-70360 (9th Cir.).
215Hibbard,Brown & Co. et al., Exchange Act Release No. 35476 (March 9,1995),58
SEC Docket 2769, appeals filed, Nos. 95-1556 (D.C Cir.) and 95-3270 (3d Cir.).
216InCounty of Orange, No. 94-22272-JR (Bankr. CD. CA).
217Inre America West Airlines, Inc., No. 91-07505-PHX-RGM (Bankr. D. AZ).
8
21 In re UDC Homes.lnc.,
No. 95-558 HSB (Bankr. D. DE).
219Inre County of Orange, No. 94-22272-JR (Bankr. CD. CA).
220Inre House of Fabrics, Inc., No. SV 94-50060-KL, (Bankr. CD. Cal).
221In re Baldwin Builders, Nos. ND 95-13057 RR and ND 95-13058 RR (Bankr. CD.
CA).
222Inre Trans World Airlmes.lnc., No. 95-43478-399 (Bankr. E.D. MO).
223Inre Diversified, Inc., No. 93-41173-293 (Bankr. N.D. OH).

97

224Inre Phar-Mor, Inc., No. 92-41599 through No. 92-41614 (Bankr. N.D. OH).
225Inre Bilzerian, Nos. 93-486-CIV-T-24A and 94-635-CIV-T-24 E (M.D. FL).
226Inre Steven Weil, No. 95-21570-BKC-RBR (Bankr. S.D. Fl).

98

I

99

ENFORCEMENT
DURING
FISCAL

Table
1
CASES INITIATED
BY THE COMMISSION
YEAR 1995 IN VARIOUS
PROGRAM
AREAS

(Each case initiated has been included In only one category
listed below, even though
many cases Involve multiple allegations
and may fall under more than one category
The number of defendants
and respondents
is noted parenthetically)
Program Area In Which a
CIvil Action or Administrative
Proceeding Was Initiated

CIvil
Actions jj

Administrative
Proceedings

Total

Securities Offenng Cases
(a) Non-regulated Entity
(b) Regulated Entity
Total securmes Offenng Cases

48 (182)
17 ( 82)
65 (264)

14 ( 32)
56 ( 83)
70 (115)

62 ( 214)
73 ( 165)
135 ( 379)

18 ( 29)
o ( 0)
2 ( 4)
o ( 0)
2 ( 2)

49 ( 81)
9 ( 9)
o ( 0)
4 ( 6)
12 ( 16)

67
9
2
4
14

22 ( 35)

74 (112)

96 ( 147)

Broker-dealer Cases
(a) Fraud Against Customer
(b) Failure to Supervise
(c) Govemment secunnes
(d) Books & Records
(e) Other
Total Broker-dealer Cases

%01
Total
Cases

28%

( 110)
(
9)
(
4)
(
6)
( 18)

20%

Issuer Financial Statement
and Reporting Cases
(a) Issuer Financial
Disclosure
(b) Issuer Reporting Other
Total Issuer Financial Statement
and Reporting Cases

28 ( 91)
o ( 0)

54 ( 84)
2 ( 2)

82 ( 175)
2(
2)

28 ( 91)

56 ( 86)

84 ( 177)

17%

Other Regulated Entity Cases
(a) Investment Advisers
(b) Investment Companies
(c) Transfer Agent
Total Other Regulated Entity Cases

13 ( 26)
2 ( 8)
O( 0)
15 ( 34)

37 (
10 (
1(
48 (

50 ( 89)
12 ( 31)
1(
1)
63 ( 121)

13%

lnsider Trading Cases

29 ( 90)

6 ( 6)

35 (

96)

7%

Contempt Proceedings

23 ( 55)

o(

0)

23 (

55)

5%
4%

63)
23)
1)
87)

Market Manipulation Cases

4 ( 7)

17 ( 35)

21 (

42)

Delinquent Filings
(a) Issuer Reporting
(b) Forms 3/4/5
Total Delinquent Filings Cases

1 ( 1)
1 ( 1)

1 ( 1)
7 ( 10)

2(
8(

2)
11)

2 ( 2)

8 ( 11)

10 (

13)

2%

Fraud Against Regulated Entities

3 ( 7)

5 ( 6)

8(

13)

2%

Corporate Control Cases

2 ( 11)

3 ( 8)

5(

19)

1%

Miscellaneous Disclosure/
Reporting

1(

1)

5 ( 9)

6(

194 (597)

292 (475)

GRANDTOTAL

v

Trus category Includes injunctive actions and CIViland cnrrnnal contempt proceedings

1nn

10)

486 (1,072)

1%
100%

Table 2
FISCAL 1995 ENFORCEMENT CASES
LISTED BY PROGRAM AREA
Name of Case

Release

Date Filed

34-34990
34-35605
34-36104
34-36288

11/21/94
04/14/95
08/15/95
09/28/95

34-34887
34-35216
34-35594
34-35664
34-35790

10/25/94
01/11/95
04/12/95
05/02/95
06/01/95

34-35946
34-35975
34-36071
34-36247

07/10/95
07/17/95
08/09/95
09/19/95

34-34833
34-34888
34-34905
34-34942
34-34975
LR-14535
34-35069
34-35058
34-35064
34-35105
34-35115
LR-14367
34-35273
LR-14372
34-35163
34-35196

10/13/94
10/25/94
10/27/94
11/04/94
11/15/94
11/29/94
12/08/94
12/08/94
12/08/94
12/16/94
12/19/94
12/21/94
12/22/94
12/27/94
12/28/94
01/06/95

34-35236
34-35237
34-35312

01/19/95
01/19/95
02/01/95

Broker-dealer: Books & Records
In
In
In
In

the
the
the
the

Matter
Matter
Matter
Matter

of
of
of
of

RIchard Allerton, Jr, et al.
George L. Tuttle, Jr., et al
Lehman Brothers Inc
Warren C. Trepp

Broker-dealer: Failure to Supervise
the Matter of Daniel R. Wolfgram
the Matter of Dennis W Reedy
the Matter of E. Ronald Lara
the Matter of Michael J. Spagnola
the Matter of Irving Stitsky
the Matter of H.D. Vest Investment
Securities Inc.
In the Matter of Walnut Street Securities, Inc.
In the Matter of Thomas Risher
In the Matter of John R. Moysey
In
In
In
In
In
In

Broker-dealer: Fraud Against Customer
In the Matter of Terence Patrick Mulrooney
In the Matter of Laurie J. Candy
In the Matter of Laurence M. Brown
In the Matter of DE Wine Investments Inc.
In the Matter of Philip L. Black
SEC v. Michael B. Curran
In the Matter of John Albert DeCastro Day
In the Matter of Joseph Kemprowski, et al.
In the Matter of John T Moran
In the Matter of Joseph J. Barbato, et al.
In the Matter of Kenneth Puckett
SEC v. Stephen A. Gonsalves
In the Matter of BT Securities Corp.
SEC v. Kenneth Schulte
In the Matter of Elizabeth Bamberg
In the Matter of Craig Medoff, et al.
In the Matter of Mathews, Holmquist &
Associates, et al.
In the Matter of Paul B. Holmquist
In the Matter of Laurence S. ZImmerman

101

Name of Case
In the Matter of Bede F. Howard
SEC v Daniel L. Osborn
In the Matter of Southern California Securities Inc.
In the Matter of James W Bullard, Jr.
In the Matter of Rita Barbato
In the Matter of Stephen B. Phillips
In the Matter of Thomas F. Bandyk
SEC v. William Hampton
In the Matter of Roberl Parker Adams
SEC v James McCurry, et al.
In the Matter of William J. Hampton
In the Matter of Thomas P. Gimettin Jr., et al.
In the Matter of Mark J. Hamel, et al.
In the Matter of Robert J. Raffa
In the Matter of Stephan A. Gonsalves
In the Matter of First Jersey Securities lnc., et al.
In the Matter of Timothy A. Hills
In the Matter of First Lauderdale Securities
lnc., et al.
In the Matter of Victor H. Strevel
In the Matter of Preston C. Bynum
SEC v Samuel L. Williams
In the Matter of Biltmore Securities
SEC v. Daniel C. Baxley
In the Matter of Samuel L Williams
In the Matter of M. Rimson & Co., tnc., et al.
In the Matter of Thomas V. Ackerly
In the Matter of Stuarl, Coleman & Co., lnc., et al
In the Matter of Roberl Matthew McGee
SEC v. Victor Strevel
In the Matter of Michael Herberl Novick, et al.
In the Matter of Daniel C. Baxley
SEC v. John L. Fauls, 11/
SEC v. Qualified Pensions, tnc., et al.
In the Matter of Richard G. Wiwi, et al.
SEC v. Robert M. Cochran, et al
In the Matter of Mark Nicholas Savoca
SEC v. Charles Zanford
SEC v. Wendell Jeffrey Lee
In the Matter of Calvin L Word
SEC v. Calvin L. Word, et al.
In the Matter of Richard A. Anders
In the Matter of Daniel L. Zessinger
SEC v Stephen T Strabala
SEC v. Roberl Simpson
SEC v. Benjamin Rex Moses
In the Matter of Thomas J. Word, et al.
In the Matter of Grant C. Ross
In the Matter of Stephen T. Strabala
102

Release No.

Date Filed

34-35336
LR-14407
34-35353
34-35379
34-35383
34-35384
34-35415
NONE
34-35504
LR-14450
34-35570
34-35973
34-35643
34-35644
34-35718
34-35741
34-35791

02/07/95
02/07/95
02/10195
02/15/95
02/16/95
02/16/95
02/24/95
03/15/95
03/17/95
03/24/95
04/05/95
04/19/95
04/25/95
04/25/95
05/15/95
05/19/95
06101/95

34-35813
34-35858
34-35870
LR-14554
34-35900
LR-14665
34-35974
34-36054
34-36073
34-36099
34-36116
LR-14664
34-36144
34-36152
LR-14719
LR-14636
34-36249
LR-14644
34-36261
LR-14652
LR-14659
34-36286
LR-14662
34-36287
34-36291
LR-14667
NONE
LR-14682
34-36304
34-36307
34-36305

06106/95
06/19/95
06/20195
06/23/95
06/27/95
07/10195
07/17/95
08103/95
08/09/95
08/14/95
08/18/95
08/22/95
08/23/95
08/25/95
09/12/95
09/13/95
09/19/95
09/20/95
09/21/95
09/22/95
09/27/95
09/28195
09/28/95
09/28/95
09/28/95
09/28195
09/29195
09/29195
09/29195
09/29195
09/29195

I

I

Name of Case

Release No.

Date Filed

Broker-dealer: Government Securities

SEC v. Steinhardt Management Co., tnc., et al.
SEC v. Terry D. Busbee, et al.

LR-14358
LR-14387

12/16/94
01/23/95

34-34927
LR-14355
34-35232
34-35458
34-35461
34-35460
34-35456
34-35457
34-35489
34-35521
34-35648
34-35902
LR-14587
34-36065

11/02/94
12/14/94
01/18/95
03/08/95
03/08/95
03/08/95
03/08/95
03/08/95
03/15/95
03/22/95
04/26/95
06/28/95
08/03/95
08/07/95

NONE
NONE
NONE
NONE
LR-14497
NONE
NONE
LR-14485
NONE
NONE
LR-14474
NONE
NONE
NONE
NONE
LR-14736
NONE
LR-14736
LR-14663
NONE
NONE
NONE
NONE

11/16/94
12/16/94
12/27/94
01/17/95
01/19/95
01/20/95
01/20/95
02/28/95
03/15/95
03/17/95
03/20/95
03/27/95
04/13/95
04/24/95
OS/26/95
06/05/95
06/21/95
08/04/95
08/04/95
08/15/95
09/07/95
09/12/95
09/29/95

Broker-dealer: Other

In the Matter of J. Edmund & Co., et al.
SEC v. Stratton Oakmont
In the Matter of Robin Rushing, et al.
In the Matter of Peter T Frankel
/n the Matter of James P. Cahill
In the Matter of Frank J. Romeo, Jr., et al.
In the Matter of Ronald F. Milardo
In the Matter of John D. O'Brien
In the Matter of Alan E. Rosenthal
In the Matter of Lai Sum Pang
In the Matter of James Capel Inc.
In the Matter of James E. Matuszewski
SEC v. Stifel, Nicolaus &
Inc.
In the Matter of Joel J. Matcovsky

co.,

Contempt-Civil

SEC
SEC
SEC
SEC
SEC
SEC
SEC
SEC
SEC
SEC
SEC
SEC
SEC
SEC
SEC
SEC
SEC
SEC
SEC
SEC
SEC
SEC
SEC

v. Dennis Santiago, et a/.
v Steven G. Weil
v. Teri Cooper, et a/.
v. Frank Custable, Jr., et al.
v. Michael Mcintyre
v Basic Energy & Affiliated Resources Inc.
v. Sarah Delaney, et al.
v John Gallard
v. John C. Trimpin
v. Bankers Alliance Corp., et al.
v. William B. Clark
v Fortune Plus Management
v. Robert Vecchioni
v. Frank Custable, et al.
v. Frank Custable, Jr., et a/.
v. Oscar William Olson
v. Karl L. Dahlstrom
v. Oscar William Olson
v. Danny Sterk, et al.
v. Prime One Partners Corp., et al
v. Howard Addison
v. Northport ASSOCIatestnc., et a/.
v. Jed: Group Ltd., et at.

103

Release No.

Name of Case

Date Filed

Corporate Control
SEC v. Concord Assets Group Inc.
In the Matter of Arthur E. FIllmore
SEC v. The Ventana Corp., et al.
-ln the Matter of Tnstar Corp.
In the Matter of Starion International

Ltd., et al

LR-14398
34-36259
LR-14646
34-36315
34-36318

02/02/95
09/21/95
09/21/95
09/29/95
09/29/95

34-34874
34-34904
34-34964
34-35075
34-35665
34-35794
34-35856
LR-14628

10/20/94
10/27/94
11/10/94
12/09/94
05/02/95
06/01/95
06/19/95
09/06/95

34-34989
LR-14359

11/21/94
12/16/94

34-34896
34-35241
LR-14423
34-36202
34-36290
LR-14675
LR-14677
34-35382

10/26/94
01/19/95
02/27/95
09/07/95
09/28/95
09/29/95
09/29/95
12/15/94

LR-14329
34-34994
34-34995
34-34996
LR-14381
LR-14319
LR-14362
LR-14369
LR-14391
LR-14408
LR-14429

11/08/94
11/22/94
11/22/94
11/22/94
12/06/94
12/08/94
12/20/94
12/21/94
01/24/95
02/09/95
03/06/95

Delinquent Filings: Forms 314/5
In the Matter
In the Matter
In the Matter
In the Matter
In the Matter
In the Matter
In the Matter
SEC v. David

of Porter C. McKinnon
of Devta L. Chandler
of Charles E. Fausel
of Allan J. McCorkle, et al.
of Floyd D. Wilkenson
of John D. Kuhns
of Janice A. Jones
GEiler

Delinquent Filings: Issuer Reporting
In the Matter of Norsul Oil & Mining Ltd.
SEC v Eutro Group Holding Inc.
Fraud Against Regulated Entities
In the Matter of Manufacturers & Traders Trust Co.
In the Matter of Donna Tumminia, et al.
SEC v. Michael J. Morse, et al.
In the Matter of Demitrios JulIUS Shiva
In the Matter of Edward L. Scherer
SEC v. LoUIS Bethune, et al.
SEC v. William P. Hoidas
In the Matter of Barc/ays Bank PLC
Insider Trading
SEC v Edward A. Cantor, et al
In the Matter of Ann E Hiles
In the Matter of Thomas L. Greulich Sf.
In the Matter of Robert T. McMahon
SEC v. Jeffrey C. Morris, et al.
SEC v. Thomas J. Farrell, et al.
SEC v. William K. Fisher
SEC v. Lawrence M. Mathe
SEC v. Angelo A. Corona to, et al.
SEC v. Charles Brumfield, et al.
SEC v. Michael Borlinghaus, et al.
104

Name of Case
SEC v. Richard A Galanti
SEC v. Sheri I. Kleinbaum, et al.
SEC v. Jack Seibald, et al.
SEC v. Gilbert N Schwartzberg, et al.
SEC v. Lawrence Ronald Freedman
SEC v. Stephen H. Wagner
SEC v. Herbert D. Conant
SEC v. Thomas F. Lanier, et al.
SEC v. Rathna Papa Rachuri, et al.
In the Matter of Vincent A. Mayer
In the Matter of Eugene R. Ehmann
SEC v. Frederick Augustus Moran, et al.
SEC v. Stefan HISlop, et al.
SEC v. Richard W Woodward, et al.
SEC v. Stephen C. Leung
In the Matter of Danny Omar Cherif
SEC v. Thomas H. Potts
SEC v. Jozef A. C. VanStratum
SEC v. Robert B. Frame, et al.
SEC v. Giovanni Malavasi
SEC v. Martyn I. Gefsky, et al.
SEC v. Richard J. Smith
SEC v. Nicholas Croce, et al
SEC v. Robert J. Young, et et.

Release No

Date Filed

LR-14445
LR-14447
LR-14449
LR-14454
LR-14458
LR-14479
LR-14525
LR-14507
LR-14510
34-35783
34-35826
LR-14532
LR-14533
LR-14548
LR-14551
34-35935
LR-14561
LR-14599
LR-14614
LR-14626
LR-14648
LR-14689
LR-14655
LR-14661

03/22/95
03/23/95
03/28/95
03/30/95
04/03/95
04/26/95
05/19/95
05/23/95
05/24/95
05/31/95
06/08/95
06/15/95
06/19/95
06/28/95
06/29/95
07105/95
07/17/95
08/09/95
08/24/95
09/06/95
09/21/95
09/27/95
09/28/95
09/29/95

IA-1447
IA-1448

10/18/94
10/20/94

IA-1449
LR-14315

10/21/94
10/31/94

IA-1452
IA-1456
LR-14348
IA-1457

11/16/94
12/06/94
12/08/94
12/08/94

IA-1459
IA-1463
IA-1461

01/03/95
01/11/95
01/13/95

IA-1466
LR-14524
IA-1467
IA-1468
LR-14420

02/02/95
02107/95
02/07/95
02/10/95
02/13/95

Investment Adviser
In the Matter of Chancellor Capital
Management Inc., et al.
In the Matter of Gerald B. Unterman
In the Matter of Midwest Advisory Services
Inc., et al.
SEC v. Galleon Capital Management, et al.
In the Matter of Credit Suisse Asset
Management Inc.
In the Matter of Center for Financial Planning Inc.
SEC v. San jay Saxena, et al.
In the Matter of Gabelli & Company Inc.
In the Matter of Sheer Asset Management
Inc., et al.
In the Matter of Louis Elwin Sharp
In the Matter of David Lee Ullom
In the Matter of Stock and Option Services
Inc., et al.
SEC v. Financial Concepts Group International
In the Matter of H. David Grace, et al.
In the Matter of Thomas J. Bowes
SEC v. Jay DeForest Moore

105

Name of Case

Release No

Date Filed

In the Matter of Kenneth Von Kohom, et al.
SEC v. Nicholas A. Rudl, et al
In the Matter of Mountain Capital
Management Inc, et a/.
In the Matter of Louis A Acevedo
In the Matter of Meridian Investment Co., et al.
In the Matter of K Lawrence Neill
In the Matter of LUISConuo
In the Matter of Chubb Securities Corp.
In the Matter of Askm Capital Management, L.P.,
et a/.
SEC v John T Nakoski
SEC v. Joseph Edwm Gtewettowsk), et a/.
In the Matter of Coles Fmancial Services,
lnc., et al
In the Matter of Clarke Lanzen Skalla
Investment Firm lnc., et al
SEC v. Mark G. Daly, et al.
In the Matter of Herbert I. Glass
In the Matter of John T. Nakoski
In the Matter of Clariden Asset
Management (NY) Inc, et al.
SEC v. Robert Burstem
In the Matter of Money Growth Institute tnc., et al.
In the Matter of Gary A Smith
In the Matter of Robert J. Kuss
In the Matter of Robert Burstein
In the Matter of Carmen W Ella, et a/.
In the Matter of Harold M Covert &
Associates tnc., et al.
SEC v. James A. Pearce, et a/.
In the Matter of WillIam Roderick McCarty, Jr.
SEC v. Homer W Forster
In the Matter of Stanley P. Kerry
In the Matter of Wayne B. Conwell, et al.
SEC v Robert Pierce, et al.
In the Matter of Valicenti Advisory Services
Inc., et al
In the Matter of Account Management Corp., et al.
In the Matter of Van Kampen American Capital
Asset Mgmt, lnc., et a/.
SEC v. Keypoint Financial Corp.

IA-1471
LR-14421

02/22/95
02/23/95

IA-1473
IA-1479
IA-1484
IA-1485
IA-1490
IA-1491

02/27/95
03/14/95
04/18/95
04/18/95
05/11/95
05/11/95

IA-1492
LR-14515
LR-14520

OS/23/95
05/30/95
05/30/95

IA-1493

06/05/95

IA-1501
LR-14534
IA-1503
IA-1505

06/16/95
06/19/95
06/22/95
07/10/95

IA-1509
NONE
IA-1506
IA-1508
IA-1509
IA-1511
IA-1513

07/10/95
07/13/95
07/14/95
07/17/95
07/26/95
07/28/95
07/31/95

IA-1515
LR-14629
IA-1519
LR-14313
IA-1523
IA-1524
LR-14653

08/17/95
09/05/95
09/13/95
09/22/95
09/25/95
09/26/95
09/26/95

IA-1528
IA-1529

09/29/95

IA-1525
LR-14669

09/29/95
09/29/95

IC-20698
IC-20757

12/06/94

09/29/95

Investment Company
In the Matter of Concourse Capital Asset
Management tnc , et a/.
In the Matter of The Commercial Bank, et al.
106

11/15/94

Nan It:: UI

l"dSl::l

In the Matter of SmIth Hayes
Financial Services Corp., et al.
SEC v. John J. Kaweske
In the Matter of John Logan Wallace
In the Matter of Thomas M. Rogge
In the Matter of Kemper Financial Services,
Inc., et al.
In the Matter of Leeb Investment Advisers, et al.
In the Matter of Thomas H. Richards
In the Matter of Cardinal Management Corp.
In the Matter of Roger W Honour
SEC v Michael Carnicle, et al.

Release No

Date Filed

IC-20876
LR-14399
IC-20904
IC-20908

02102/95
02/06/95
02/21/95
02/22/95

IC-20936
IC-21671
IC-21114
IC-21384
IC-21385
LR-14669

03/02/95
05/02/95
06/06/95

MER 617
MER 618
MER 621
MER 623
MER 624
MER 626
MER 631
LR-14347
MER 633
MER 634
MER 637
MER 638
MER 639
MER 641
MER 642
MER 643
MER 644
MER 646
MER 647
MER 645
MER 650
NONE
MER 656
MER 653
MER 660
MER 659
MER 661
MER 662
MER 666
MER 667
MER 672
MER 669

10/20/94
10/20/94
10/27/94
11/03/94
11/03/94
11/15/94
11/29/94
12/08/94
12/19/94
12/19/94
12/29/94
01/09/95
01/11/95
01/19/95
01/30/95
02/08/95

09/29/95
09/29/95

09/29/95

Issuer Financial Disclosure
In the Matter of Philip A Fitzpatrick, et al.
In the Matter of RIta C. Villa
In the Matter of Pantheon Industries tnc., et al.
SEC v. Joseph B. Hebb
In the Matter of Collins Industries tnc., et al.
In the Matter of C. Steven Bolen, CPA
SEC v. Abraham Gold, et al.
SEC v. Ernst Hiestand, et al.
In the Matter of Bernard Wemer, CPA, et al.
SEC v. First Capital Holdings
SEC v. Digitran Systems, tnc., et al.
In the Matter of Larry Uyeda
In the Matter of Ronald G. Sherry, CPA
In the Matter of Douglas P. Rosile, CPA
In the Matter of Harry Weinblatt
SEC v. Ross Freitas, et al.
In the Matter of L. Karl Denton, CPA
In the Matter of Thomas Milo Somers
SEC v. Sequoia Systems Inc., et al.
In the Matter of James Edward Palmer, et al.
In the Matter of Harry C. Berridge
SEC v. Network Equipment Technologies Inc.
SEC v. Victor G. Incendy, et al.
In the Matter of Douglas C. Hansen, CPA
SEC v. Martin Greenstein
In the Matter of Martin Greenstem, CPA
In the Matter of Ronald Effren, et al
In the Matter of Arden Franklin, CPA
SEC v. Softpomt lnc., et al.
SEC v. Michael Monus, et al.
In the Matter of John G. Rangos, Sr.
In the Matter of William R. Nelson

02/15/95
02/16/95
02/16/95
02/16/95
03/06/95
03/07/95

03/10/95
03/13/95
03/24/95
04/03/95
04/07/95

04/12/95
04/27/95
05/02195

05/09/95
05/09/95

107

Name of Case

Release No.

Date Filed

In the Matter of John J Cushma, CPA
In the Matter of Dale 0. Nolder, Jr
SEC v. Chambers Development Co., Inc
In the Matter of James A Merriam
SEC v. Raynard M. Fenster, et al.
In the Matter of Kemper Corp., et al.
In the Matter of Marvm E. Basson, CPA
In the Matter of Emest T. Szeker, Jr., et al.
In the Matter of Duane V Midgley, CPA
In the Matter of Michael A. Pinto, CPA
In the Matter of Gordon N Oakes, Jr., et al.
In the Matter of American Mobile Systems, Inc
In the Matter of Warren L. Rawls, CPA
SEC v. Curtis A. Younts, Jr., et al.
SEC v. First National Entertainment Corp., et al.
SEC v. Barry R. Benjamin, et al.
SEC v. William J. Young
SEC v. The Keith Group of Companies Inc., et al.
In the Matter of Kurzwell Applied Intelligence Inc.
In the Matter of Tracy Spadaro Maynard, et al.
SEC v Bemard F. Bradstreet, et al.
SEC v. ANVY, Inc., et al.
In the Matter of Wendell L. Gunn
In the Matter of Edwm F. Schaeffer, et al.
SEC v. Malcolm Cheek, et al.
In the Matter of John J French, CPA, et al.
In the Matter of Sound Aavice lnc., et al.
In the Matter of TCF Financial Corp.
In the Matter of John McMillan
In the Matter of Bion Environmental
Technologies Inc.
In the Matter of Robert W Zak, Jr., CPA
SEC v. John S. Nadolski, et al
In the Matter of Valley Systems, Inc.
SEC v. Nicholas J. Pace, et al.
In the Matter of Kerkhoff Industries, Inc., et al.
In the Matter of Roger D. Gnowles
In the Matter of Lawrence R. Reich, CPA, et al.
SEC v. Gary L. Holman
SEC v. Ernest W Greruit, et al
In the Matter of P. Andrew Baker
SEC v. Excal Enterprises, inc., et al.
In the Matter of Richard 0. Russell
In the Matter of Terry R. Kuntz, et al.
SEC v. Met Capital Corp., et al
In the Matter of Marvin Mears, et al.
In the Matter of Donald A. Vandenberg, CPA
In the Matter of Joseph E. Grendi, CPA, et al.

AAER 670
AAER 671
AAER 673
AAER 674
AAER 676
AAER 677
AAER 678
AAER 679
AAER 680
AAER 681
AAER 682
AAER 683
AAER 684
AAER 685
LR-14546
AAER 686
AAER 687
LR-14576
AAER 689
AAER 690
LR-14571
AAER 691
AAER 692
AAER 693
AAER 694
AAER 695
AAER 696
AAER 697
AAER 699

05/09/95
05/09/95
05/09/95
05/11/95
05/30/95
06/06/95
06/13/95
06/13/95
06/19/95
06/22/95
06/22/95
06/26/95
06/27/95
06/27/95
06/27/95
07/11/95
07/20/95
07/24/95
07/25/95
07/25/95
07/26/95
07/27/95
08/03/95
08/03/95
08/03/95
08/03/95
08/09/95
08/10/95
08/14/95

AAER 700
AAER 701
AAER 702
AAER 707
AAER 708
34-36232
AAER 711
AAER 712
AAER 713
AAER 715
AAER 716
AAER 718
AAER 719
AAER 720
LR-14674
IC-21383
AAER 723
AAER 724

08/16/95
08/15/95
08/18/95
09/14/95
09/14/95
09/14/95
09/18/95
09/18/95
09/20/95
09/21/95
09/21/95
09/26/95
09/26/95
09/26/95
09/27/95
09/29/95
09/29/95
09/29/95

108

Name of Case

Release No

In the Matter of John M. Waters
In the Matter of Roger Michael Rosenberg, et al
In the Matter of Goody's Family Clothmg Inc., et al
Issuer R~porting:

MER
MER
MER

726
727
729

Date Filed
09/29/95
09/29/95
09/29/95

Other

In the Matter of The Cooper Companies
In the Matter of Service Corporation International

34-35082
34-36237

12/12/94
09/15/95

34-34804
34-34892
34-35152
34-35262
34-35290
LR-14412
34-35346
34-35545
34-35586
34-35254
34-35645
34-35670
34-35768
34-35887
LR-14572
34-36118
LR-14615
34-36262
NONE
34-36312
34-36322

10/07/94
10/25/94
12/27/94
01/23/95
01/30/95
02/08/95
02/08/95
03/02/95
04/10/95
04/20/95
04/25/95
05/04/95
OS/25/95
06/23/95
07/26/95
08/18/95
08/24/95
09/21/95
09/21/95
09/29/95
09/29/95

34-34973
34-35081
LR-14514
34-36136

11/15/94
12/12/94
05/30/95
08/23/95

LR-14295
LR-14322
LR-14316

10/13/94
10/14/94
10/31/94

LR-14326

11/02/94

Market Manipulation
In the Matter of Cynthia Keefover
In the Matter of F N. Wolf & Co., Inc., et al.
In the Matter of Robert Peckerman
In the Matter of Leonard M. Tucker, et al.
In the Matter of Steven R. Cloyes
SEC v. Jeffrey C Hays, et al
In the Matter of Edward J. Barter
In the Matter of Leo M. Eisenberg
In the Matter of Paul Russo, et al
In the Matter of Stanley Berk
In the Matter of Patnck A Collins
In the Matter of Victor M. Wexler
In the Matter of Elliott B Rosenberg, et al
In the Matter of Scott Bedford
SEC v. Timothy Essaye
In the Matter of Paul Giles, et al.
SEC v. Michael J. Markowski, et al.
In the Matter of Robert Frencts CatoggJO,et al
SEC v. Robert 0 Glau, Jr.
In the Matter of Vmcent Militano, et al.
In the Matter of Harold W Ross, et al.
Miscellaneous

Disclosure/Reporting

In the Matter of Charles E. Campbell, et al
In the Matter of Ferdinand Russo, et al
SEC v. Mal Yerasi
In the Matter of Thomas J Blair, CPA
Offering Violations (By Non-Regulated Entities)
SEC v. Paul J. Myers
SEC v. Frank S Butler
SEC v. Fulcrum Holding Company Inc., et al.
SEC v. Basic Energy & Affiliated Resources Inc.,
et al.

109

Name of Case
SEC v. John W Walsh Jr., et al.
In the Matter of Frederick Entman, et al.
SEC v. Saul Foos
SEC v. The Trust Group, Ltd., et al.
SEC v. Broadcast Associates-I, et al.
SEC v. Melbourne Capital Corp, et al.
SEC v Edward V Ellis, Sr.
SEC v. Jonathan N. Googel, et al.
SEC v Bankers Alliance Corp., et al.
SEC v Telecom Marketing tnc., et al.
SEC v. Gary F. Neunen
SEC v. Northwest Starscan, LP, et al.
SEC v. Michael Goodman, et al.
In the Matter of Command Credit Corp., et al.
SEC v. Robert F. Harmon
SEC v. C'est Lestlal Waters, tnc., et al.
SEC v. John Gallard, et al.
SEC v. Comcoa Ltd., et al.
SEC v Panwortd Mmerals tntemstions! Inc.
SEC v. Lee F Pioske, et al.
SEC v. John G. Bennett, Jr., et al.
SEC v. Irwin Harry Bloch
SEC v. Personal Wealth Systems lnc., et al.
SEC v. Brian Walsh, et al.
SEC v. Untted Benefits Group, tnc., et al.
SEC v. Jeffrey Norton, et al.
SEC v. Harry G. Terezakis, et al.
In the Matter of Albert T Devaul
In the Matter of Global Lmk
Capital Markets Inc, et al.
SEC v. D'Acquisto Fmancial Group, lnc., et al
SEC v. Ellis L Deyon, et al.
SEC v. Sybans Clubs International tnc., et al.
SEC v. Edward M Beagan, et al.
In the Matter of Joseph Legrotte
In the Matter of Sidney Gould
SEC v. Daniel Odulo, et al.
SEC v. Ronald M. Zook, et al.
In the Matter of Brigit (Gitte) Mechlenburg
SEC v. lntemettonel Consultmg &
Management Ltd., et al
SEC v. Jerome E. Pinckney, et al.
SEC v. RIchard M. Lambert
In the Matter of Donald J Stoecklein
SEC v. The Better Life Club of America, inc., et al.
In the Matter of William E. Cooper
In the Matter of The CapItal Fund, et al.
SEC v. James P. McLaughlm
110

Release No.

Date Filed

LR-14353
34-35164
LR-14376
LR-14382
LR-14388
LR-14396
LR-14414
LR-14432
LR-14427
LR-14451
LR-14463
LR-14465
LR-14471
33-7162
LR-14476
LR-14484
LR-14485
LR-14080
LR-14606
LR-14504
LR-14503
LR-14511
LR-14688
LR-14523
LR-14589
LR-14529
LR-14542
34-35936

12/14/94
12/28/94
01/04/95
01/17/95
01/23/95
01/31/95
02115195
03/09/95
03/22/95
03/29/95
04/06/95
04/10/95
04/14/95
04/19/95
04/18/95
04/27/95
05/02/95
05/05/95
05/10/95
05/17/95
05/18/95
05/25/95
05/30/95
06/06/95
06/06/95
06/14/95
06/22/95
07/05/95

33-7194
LR-14562
LR-14586
LR-14577
LR-14575
34-36036
34-36037
LR-14591
LR-14594
34-36067

07/06/95
07/13/95
07/25/95
07/26/95
07/28/95
07/31/95
07/31/95
08/07/95
08/07/95
08/08/95

LR-14601
LR-14660
LR-14621
34-36177
LR-14624
34-36214
33-7214
LR-14685

08/10/95
08/24/95
08/29/95
09/01/95
09/01/95
09/11/95
09/12/95
09/13/95

Name of Case
SEC v. Bradley S. HIli
In the Matter of The Outer Space
Development Co., et al.
SEC v. Jenne Charles Spangler, et al
SEC v. Robert Cord Beatty, et al
In the Matter of Ronald Blame
SEC v. Lee F. Sutliffe
In the Matter of Sidney Friedman, et al
SEC v. Balance For Life lnc., et al
SEC v. Rufus L. Jackson, et al.
SEC v. Chnstopher M. Pederson
In the Matter of Stylex Homes Inc, et al.
SEC v. Envirommt Holdings Inc, et al.

Release No

Date Filed

LR-14697

09/13/95

33-7217
LR-14645
LR-14673
34-36277
LR-14658
33-7228
LR-14656
LR-14657
LR-14672
34-36299
LR-14683

09/18/95
09/20/95
09/25/95
09/26/95
09/27/95
09/28/95
09/28/95
09/28/95
09/28/95
09/29/95
09/29/95

LR-14287

10/03/94

34-37894
LR-14323
34-34910
33-7109
33-7115
LR-14385
34-35238
LR-14424
IA-1475
34-35441
34-35459
LR-14440
34-35496
34-35498
34-35500
34-35799
34-35539
34-35540
34-35541
34-35562
LR-14462
34-35588
LR-14570
34-35610
34-35611
34-35612
33-7165
LR-14490
IA-1489
34-35679

10/25/94
10/28/94
10/28/94
11/08/94
12/02/94
12/27/94
01/19/95
02/27/95
02128/95
03/03/95
03/08/95
03/13/95
03/15/95
03/16/95
03/16/95
03/16/95
03/28/95
03/28/95
03/28/95
04/04/95
04/07/95
04/10/95
04/17/95
04/17/95
04/17/95
04/17/95
04/26/95
05/03/95
05/04/95
05/05/95

Offering Violations (By Regulated Entities)
SEC v. Future Vision Direct Marketing lnc., et al.
In the Matter of Amencan Business
Securities Inc, et al.
SEC v. Jon D. Aldrich, et al.
In the Matter of Ronald Stephen Combs, et al.
In the Matter of Deltec Asset Management Corp.
In the Matter of Jeffrey D. Howes, et al.
SEC v. Gemco Oil Development, Inc, et al
In the Matter of Stephen A. Holloway, et al.
SEC v. United Communications Ltd, et al.
In the Matter of Sanjay Saxena, et al.
In the Matter of Kenneth L. Weinberg, et al.
In the Matter of Diane Burnell Kaechele
SEC v. Pleasure Time Inc, et al.
In the Matter of Robert L. McAtee
In the Matter of Charles Irvin
In the Matter of William Moore
In the Matter of John Martin Kealy
In the Matter of Peter J. Curley
In the Matter of Benjamin J Sisti
In the Matter of Jonathan N. Googel
In the Matter of Robert Johnston
SEC v. American Interactive Group
In the Matter of James W Cope
SEC v. Myron Barry Michaels, et al.
In the Matter of Wayne E. Wood
In the Matter of Ray S. Stoddard, et al.
In the Matter of George R. Duke
In the Matter of Delphoi Partners, et al.
SEC v. Kenton Capital Ltd., et al.
In the Matter of Blythe Olin Selden
In the Matter of Louis F. Vargas

111

Name of Case

Release No.

Date Filed

SEC v Marc M Joseph, et a/.
In the Matter of William Edwm Somdahl
In the Matter of Joseph Michael Haddad, Jr.
In the Matter of MIchael J. Murphy
In the Matter of Paul C. Keiley, et al.
In the Matter of Uoyd D. Pankey, et al.
In the Matter of RIchard Kevin Gerson
SEC v. Wealth tntemetionet Network, et al.
In the Matter of Lee F Pioske
In the Matter of William J Moriarly
SEC v. Amtel Communications Inc, et et.
In the Matter of David C. Wiley
In the Matter of Carmen J. Librandi
In the Matter of Milton Puryear
SEC v MIchael W Crawford, et a/.
In the Matter of Kinlaw Secunties Corp, et al
In the Matter of Thomas V Ackerly
SEC v. Gene Block
SEC v. International Breeders, Inc, et al.
In the Matter of Derek Vaughn States
In the Matter of Gus Zoppi, et al
In the Matter of Willtam P. Cadelori
In the Matter of Peter W Woodbridge
SEC v. Joy L. Bouwkamp, et a/.
In the Matter of Terry T. Steen, et a/.
In the Matter of Roberl Lee Gunther, et al.
In the Matter of Charles Joseph Bazarian
In the Matter of Jesse M Townsley, Jr., et al
In the Matter of Danny G. Pinkerton, et al.
In the Matter of Peter F. Olsen
In the Matter of Raymond Charles Gross, et al.
In the Matter of Jesse J. Hunt, Jr., et al.
In the Matter of Anthony A Benmcasa
SEC v. Jody M Felterman
In the Matter of Michael S. Goodman
In the Matter of Russell G. Koch, et al
In the Matter of Jerome L. Casperson
In the Matter of Jody M Felterman
In the Matter of Roberll. Moses
In the Matter of Kenneth MItchell Wiggms, Jr
tn the Matter of Thomas S. Drysdale
SEC v. Harvey P. Tabb, et al.

LR-14494
34-35728
34-35770
34-35825
34-35841
34-35851
34-35871
LR-14552
34-35948
34-35949
LR-14713
34-35986
34-36024
IA-1514
LR-14583
34-36048
34-36073
LR-14598
LR-14607
34-36143
34-36161
34-36170
34-36184
LR-14631
34-36190
34-36192
34-36191
34-36201
34-36217
34-36218
34-36221
34-36243
34-36273
LR-14654
34-36279
34-36282
34-36289
34-36294
34-36297
34-36298
34-36300
LR-14671

05/05/95
05/18/95
OS/25/95
06/08/95
06/13/95
06/16/95
06/20/95
07/06/95
07/10/95
07/10/95
07/17/95
07/18/95
07/26/95
08/01/95
08/01/95
08/02/95
08/09/95
08/09/95
08/14/95
08/23/95
08/28/95
08/30/95
09/05/95
09/06/95
09/06/95
09/06/95
09/06/95
09/07/95
09/11/95
09/11/95
09/13/95
09/18/95
09/25/95
09/26/95
09/26/95
09/26/95
09/28/95
09/28/95
09/29/95
09/29/95
09/29/95
09/29/95

34-38784

10/04/95

Transfer Agent
tn the Matter of The Chase Manhattan Bank, N.A.

112

Table 3
INVESTIGATIONS OF POSSIBLE VIOLATIONS OF THE ACTS
ADMINISTERED BY THE COMMISSION

Pending as of October 1,1994
..
Opened in Fiscal Year 1995

.

Total
Closed in Fiscal Year 1995

.

Pending as of September 3D, 1995

.

1,424
436

.................
...

1,860
329

.................

Formal Orders of Investigation
Issued in Fiscal Year 1995 ....

1,531

.....

245

Table 4
ADMINISTRATIVE PROCEEDINGS INSTITUTED
DURING FISCAL YEAR ENDING SEPTEMBER 30,1995
Broker-dealer Proceedings

149

Investment Adviser, Investment Company and Transfer Agent Proceedings

77

Stop Order Proceedings

46

Rule 2(e) Proceedings

19

5

Suspensions of Trading in SecuritIes in Fiscal Year 1995

113

Table 5
INJUNCTIVE ACTIONS

114

Fiscal Year

Actions Initiated

Defendants Named

1986
1987
1988
1989
1990
1991
1992
1993
1994
1995

163
144
125
140
186
171
156

488
373
401
422
557
503
487
571
620
549

172

197
171

Right to Financial Privacy

Section 21(h) of the Securities Exchange Actof 1934 [15 U.S.c. 78u(h)(6)J
requires that the Commission" compile an annual tabula tion of the occasions
on which the Commission used each separate subparagraph or clause of [Section
21(h)(2)] or the provisions of the Right to Financial Privacy Act of 1978 [12
U.s.c. 3401-22 (the RFPA)] to obtain access to financial records of a customer
and include it in its annual report to the Congress." During the fiscal year,
the Commission made nine applications for judicial orders pursuant to Section
21(h)(2). Set forth below are the number of occasions on which the Commission
obtained customer records pursuant to the provisions of the RFPA:
Section 1104 (Customer Authorizations)
Section 1105 (Administrative

Subpoenas)

Section 1107 (Judicial Subpoenas)

7
487
27

115

Table 6
TYPES OF PROCEEDINGS
ADMINISTRATIVE

Persons SUbject to, Acts Constituting,
Basis for, Enforcement
Action

PROCEEDINGS

and
Sanction

Any person
Violation of the federal secuntres laws.

Cease-and-desist
order, which may also
require a person to comply or take steps to
effect compliance with federal secunnes
laws, accounting and disqorqernent of Illegal
profits (Secuntles Act, Section 8A;
Exchange Act, Section 21 C(a), Investment
Company Act, Section 9(f}, Investment
Advisers Act, Section 203(k}}.

Broker-dealer,
municipal securities dealer,
government
securities dealer, transfer
agent, investment adviser or associated
person
Willful violation of secuntles laws or rules;
aiding or abetting such violation; failure
reasonably to supervise others, Willful
misstatement or omission In filing with the
Commission; conviction of or injunction
against certain cnmes or conduct.

Censure or limitation on activities;
revocation, suspension or denial of
registration; bar or suspension from
association (Exchange Act, Sections
15(b)(4}-(6}, 15B(c}(2}-(5}, 15(C}(c}(1 }-(2),
17A(c} (3}-(4); Investment Advisers Act,
Section 203(e}-(f}}.
Civil penalty up to $100,000 for a natural
person or $500,000 for any other person;
accounting and disgorgement of Illegal
profits Penalties are subject to other
limitations depending on the nature of the
violation. (Exchange Act, Section 21 B;
Investment Company Act, Section 9;
Investment Advisers Act, Section 203).
Temporary cease-and-desist
order, which
may, In appropriate cases, be issued ex
parte. (Exchange Act, Section 21C).

Registered

securities

association

Violation of or Inability to comply WIth the
Exchange Act, rules thereunder, or ItS own
rules; urnustrned failure to enforce
compliance WIth the foregoing or With rules
of the MUnicipal Securities Rulemaking
Board by a member or person associated
WIth a member.

116

Suspension or revocation of reqrstration:
censure or limitation of actrvttres, functions,
or operations (Exchange Act, Section
19(h}(1 )}.

Member of registered securities
association, or associated person
Entry of Commission order against person
pursuant to Exchange Act, Section 15(b);
willful violation of secunties laws or rules
thereunder or rules of Municipal Securities
Bulernakmq Board; effecting transaction for
other person with reason to believe that
person was committing vrolations of
seCUritIes laws.

Suspension or expulsion from the
association; bar or suspension from
association with member of assocratron
(Exchange Act, Section 19(h)(2)-(3».

National securities exchange
Violation of or inability to comply with
Exchange Act, rules thereunder or Its own
rules; unjustified failure to enforce
compliance with the foregoing by a member
or person associated with a member.

Suspension or revocation of registration;
censure or limitation of activilles, functions,
or operations (Exchange Act, Section 19(h)
(1

»

Member of national securities exchange,
or associated person
Entry of Commission order against person
pursuant to Exchange Act, Section 15(b);
willful violation of securities laws or rules
thereunder, effecting transaction for other
person with reason to believe that person
was committing VIolation of securities laws.

Suspension or expulsion from exchange; bar
or suspension from association with member
(Exchange Act, Section 19(h)(2)-(3».

Registered clearing agency
Vrolatron of or inability to comply with
Exchange Act, rules thereunder, or ItS own
rules; failure to enforce compliance with its
own rules by participants.

Suspensron or revocation of registration;
censure or limitation of actlvines, functions,
or operations
(Exchange Act, Section
19(h)(1

».

Participant in registered clearing agency
Entry of Oornrrusslon order against
participant pursuant to Exchange Act,
Section 15(b)(4); willful violanon of clearing
agency rules; effecting transaction for other
person with reason to believe that person
was committing violations of securities laws.

Suspension or expulsion from clearing
agency (Exchange Act, Section 19(h)(2».

Securities information processor
Violation of or inability to comply with
provlsions of Exchange Act or rules
thereunder.

Censure or limitation of actrvrties, suspension
or revocation of reqistration (Exchange Act,
Section 11A(b)(6)

117

Any person
Willful violation of Securities Act, Exchange
Act, Investment Company Act or rules
thereunder; aiding or abetting such violation,
willful misstatement in filing with
Commission.

Temporary or permanent prohibition against
serving In certain capacities with registered
Investment company (Investment Company
Act, Section 9(b)).

Officer or director of self-regulatory
organization
Willful violation of Exchange Act, rules
thereunder or the organization's own rules;
willful abuse of authonty or unjustified failure
to enforce compliance.

Removal from office or censure
Act, Section 19(h)(4».

(Exchange

Principal of broker-clealer
Officer, director, general partner, ten-percent
owner or controlling person of a brokerdealer for which a SIPC trustee has been

Bar or suspension from being or becoming
associated With a broker-dealer (SIPA,
Section 14(b)).

appointed.
Securities Act registration
Statement materially
Incomplete.

statement

Inaccurate

or

Stop order refusing to permit or suspending
effectiveness (Securities Act, Section 8(d».

Person subject to Sections 12, 13, 14 or
15(d) of the Exchange Act or associated
person
Failure to comply With such provisions or
having caused such failure by an act or
omission that person knew or should have
known would contnbute thereto.

Order directing compliance or steps
effecting compliance (Exchange Act, Section
15(c)(4)).

Securities registered pursuant to Section
12 of the Exchange Act
Noncompliance
by issuer With Exchange Act
or rules thereunder.

Denial, suspension of effective date,
suspension or revocation of registration
(Exchange Act, Section 120)).

Public

Summary suspension of over-the-counter
or
exchange trading (Exchange Act, Section
12(k)).

Interest requires trading suspension.

Registered

investment company

Failure to file Investment Company Act
registration statement or required report;
filing materially Incomplete or misleading
statement or report

Suspension
(Investment

Company has not attained $100,000 net
worth 90 days after Securities Act
registration statement became effective.

Stop order under Securities Act; suspension
or revocation of registration (Investment
Company Act, Section 14(a)).

118

or revocation of registration
Company Act, Section 8(e)).

AUorney, accountant, or other
professional or expert
Lack of reqursite qualifications
to represent
others; lacking in character or Integrity;
unethical or improper professional conduct;
willful violation of securities laws or rules, or
aiding and abetting such Violation.

Permanent or temporary denial of pnvileqe of
appearing or practrcmq before the
Commission (17 CFR Section 201.1 02(e)(1)).

Attorney suspended or disbarred by court,
expert's license revoked or suspended,
conviction of a felony or of a misdemeanor
mvolvmq moral turpitude.

Automatic suspension from appearance or
practice before the Commission (17 CFR
Section 201.1 02(e)(2)).

Securities violation in Commission-instituted
action; finding of securities Violation by
Commission in administrative proceedings.

Temporary suspension from practicrnq
before the Commission, censure; permanent
or temporary disqualification from practicing
before the Commission (17 CFR Section
201 102(e)(3».

Member or employee of Municipal
Securities Rulemaking Board
Willful Violation of Exchange Act, rules
thereunder, or rules of the Board; abuse of
authority.
CIVIL PROCEEDINGS

Persons Subject to, Acts Constituting, and
Basis for, Enforcement Action

Censure or removal from office (Exchange
Act, Section 15B(c)(8)).

IN FEDERAL

DISTRICT

COURTS

Sanction

Any person
Engaging In or about to engage In acts or
practices violating securities laws, rules or
orders thereunder (Including rules of a
registered self-regulatory organization).

Injunction against acts or practices
constituting Violations (plus other equitable
relief under court's general equity powers)
(Securities Act, Section 20(b); Exchange Act,
secnon 21 (d); Holding Company Act,
Section 18(e); Investment Company Act,
Section 42(d); Investment Advisers Act,
Section 209(d); Trust Indenture Act, Section
321).

Noncompliance
with provisrons of the laws,
rules, or regulations under Securities Act,
Exchange Act, or Holding Company Act,
orders Issued by Commission, rules of a
registered self-regulatory orqanizatron, or
undertaking in a registration statement.

Writ of mandamus, injunction, or order
directing compliance (Securities Act, Section
20(c), Exchange Act, Section 21 (e); Holding
Company Act, Section 18(f».

119

Violating the securities laws or a cease-anddesist order (other than through Insider
trading).

CiVil penalty up to $100,000 for a natural
person or $500,000 for any other person ill,
if greater, the gross gain to the defendant.
Penalties are subject to other limitations
dependent on nature of violation. (Securities
Act, Section 20(d); Exchange Act, Section
21 (d) (3); Investment Company Act, Section
42(e); Investment Advisers Act, Section
209(e».

Trading while In possession of material nonpublic information in a transaction on an
exchange or from or through a broker-dealer
(and transaction not part of a public
offering); aiding and abetting or directly or
Indirectly controlling the person who
engages in such trading.

Maximum civil penalty: three times profit
gained or loss avoided as a result of
transaction (Exchange Act, Section 21A(a)-

Violating Securities Act Section 17(a)(1) or
Exchange Act section 10(b), when conduct
demonstrates substantial unfitness to serve
as an officer or director.

Prohibition from acting as an officer or
director of any public company.
(Securities
Act, Section 20(e); Exchange Act, Section
21 (d)(2)).

(b)).

Issuer subject to Section 12 or 15(d) of
the Exchange Act; officer, director,
employee or agent of issuer; stockholder
acting on behalf of issuer
Payment to foreign official, foreign political
party or officral, or candidate for foreign
political office, for purposes of seeking the
use of Influence in order to assist Issuer in
obtaining or retaining business for or with, or
directing business to, any person.

Securities

Investor

Protection

clearing

Writ of mandamus, injunction or order
directing such exchange or associatron to
enforce compliance (Exchange Act, Section
21 (e)).

agency

Failure to enforce compliance by ItS
participants with its own rules.

120

Order directing discharge of obligations and
other appropriate relief (SIPA, Section 11 (b)).

or registered

Failure to enforce compliance by members
or persons associated With ItS members with
the Exchange Act, rules or orders
thereunder, or rules of the exchange or
association.
Registered

$10,000 (Exchange

Corporation

Refusal to commit funds or act for the
protection of customers.

National securities exchange
securities association

Maximum civil penalty'
Act, Section 32(c».

Writ of mandamus, Injunction or order
directing clearing agency to enforce
compliance (Exchange Act, Section 21 (e».

Issuer subject
Act

to Section

15(d) of 1934

Forfeiture of $100 per day (Exchange
Section 32(b»

Failure to file required information,
documents or reports.
Registered

investment

Act,

company

Name of company or of security issued by It
deceptive or misleading.

Officer, director, member
board, adviser, depositor,
of investment
company

lnjunctron against use of name (Investment
Company Act, Section 35(d}).

of advisory
or underwriter

Engage In act or practice constituting
of fiduciary duty involving personal
misconduct.

CRIMINAL

breach

PROSECUTION

Persons SUbject to, Acts Constituting,
Basis for, Enforcement
Action

and

Injunction against acting In certain capacities
for Investment company and other
appropriate relief (Investment Company Act,
Section 36(a}).

BY DEPARTMENT

OF JUSTICE
Sanction

Any person
Willful Violation of securities laws or rules
thereunder; willful misstatement in any
document required to be filed by securities
laws or rules; willful misstatement In any
document required to be filed by selfregulatory organization in connecnon With an
application for membership or association
with member.

Maximum penaltres: $1,000,000 fine and ten
years imprisonment for individuals,
$2,500,000 fine for non-natural persons
(Exchange Act, Sections 21 (d), 32(a));
$10,000 fine and five years imprisonment (or
$200,000 If a public utility holding company
for VIolations of the Holding Company Act)
(Securities Act, Sections 20(b) , 24;
Investment Company Act, Secnons 42(e),
49; Investment Advisers Act, Sections
209(e) , 217; Trust Indenture Act, Sections
321, 325; Holding Company Act, Sections
18(t),29).

Issuer subject to Section 12 or 15(d)
the Exchange Act; officer or director
issuer; stockholder
acting on behalf
issuer; employee or agent subject to
jurisdiction
of the United States

Issuer - $2,000,000; officer, director,
employee, agent or stockholder - $100,000
and five years imprisonment (Issuer may not
pay fine for others) (Exchange Act, Section
32(c)).

of
of
of
the

Payment to foreign official, foreign political
party or offlcial, or candidate for foreign
political office for purposes of seeking the
use of Influence In order to assist issuer in
obtaining or retaining business for or with, or
directing business to, any person.

121

Foreign Restricted List
The Securi ties and Exchange Commission maintains and publishes a Foreign
Restricted LIst, which is designed to put broker-dealers, financial institutions,
investors and others on notice of possible unlawful distributions of foreign
securities in the United States. The list consists of names of foreign companies
whose securities the Commission has reason to believe have been, or are being
offered for public sale in the United States in possible violation of the registration
requirement of Section 5 of the Securities Act of 1933 (Securities Act). The
offer and sale of unregistered securities deprives investors of all the protections
afforded by the Securities Act, including the right to receive a prospectus
containing the information required by the Act for the purpose of enabling the
investor to determine whether the investment is suitable. While most brokerdealers refuse to effect transactions in securities issued by companies on the
Foreign Restricted List, this does notnecessanly prevent promoters from illegally
offering such securities directly to investors in the United States by mail, by
telephone, and sometimes by personal solicitation.
The following foreign
corporations and other foreign entities comprise the Foreign Restricted List.
1.
2.
3.
4.
5.
6.
7.
8.
9.
10.
11.
12.
13.
14.
15.
16.
17.
18.
19.
20.
21.
22.
23.
24.
25.
26.
27.
28.
29.
30.

122

Aguacate Consolidated Mines, Incorporated (Costa Rica)
Alan MacTavish, Ltd. (England)
Allegheny Miningand Exploration Company, Ltd. (Canada)
Allied Fund for Capital Appreciation (AFCA, S.A.)(Panama)
Amalgamated Rare Earth Mines, Ltd. (Canada)
American Industrial Research S.A.,also known as Investigation
Industrial Americana, S.A.(Mexico)
American International Mining (Bahamas)
American Mobile Telephone and Tape Co., Ltd. (Canada)
AntelInternational Corporation, Ltd. (Canada)
Antoine Silver Mines, Ltd. (Canada)
ASCAEnterprisers Limited (Hong Kong)
Athol! Brose (Exports) Ltd. (England)
Athol! Brose Ltd. (England)
Atlantic and Pacific Bankand Trust Co., Ltd. (Bahamas)
Bank of Sark (Sark, ChannelIslands, D.K)
Briar Court Mines, Ltd. (Canada)
British Overseas Mutual Fund Corporation Ltd. (Canada)
California & Caracas Mining Corp., Ltd. (Canada)
Caprimex, Inc. (Grand Cayman, British WestIndies)
Canterra Development Corporation, Ltd. (Canada)
Cardwell Oil Corporation, Ltd. (Canada)
Caribbean Empire Company, Ltd. (BritishHonduras)
CayeChapel Club, Ltd. (British Honduras)
Central and Southern Industries Corp. (panama)
CerroAzul Coffee Plantation (Panama)
Cia. Rio Banano, S.A. (Costa Rica)
City BankA.S. (Denmark)
Claw Lake Molybdenum Mines, Ltd. (Canada)
Claravella Corpora tion (Costa Rica)
Compressed Air Corporation, Limited (Bahamas)

31.
32.
33.
34.
35.
36.
37.
38.
39.
40.
41.
42.
43.
44.
45.
46.
47.
48.
49.
50.
51.
52.
53.
54.
55.
56.
57.
58.
59.
60.
61.
62.
63.
64.
65.
66.
67.
68.
69.
70.
71.
72.
73.
74.
75.
76.
77.
78.
79.
80.

Continental and Sou thern Industries, S.A.(Panama)
Crossroads Corporation,S.A. (Panama)
Darien Exploration Company,S.A. (panama)
Derkglen, Ltd. (England)
De Veers Consolidated Mining Corporation, S.A.(Panama)
DoncannonSpirits,Ltd. (Bahamas)
Durman, Ltd., formerly known as Bankers International
InvestmentCorporation(Bahamas)
EmpresiaMinera Caudalosa de-Panama, S.A.(Panama)
Ethel Copper Mines, Ltd. (Canada)
Euroforeign Banking Corporation, Ltd. (panama)
Finansbankera/s (Denmark)
First Liberty Fund, Ltd. (Bahamas)
General Mining S.A.(Canada)
Global Explorations, Inc. (Panama)
Global Insurance Company, Linuted (BritishWestIndies)
Globus Anlage-Vermittlungsgesell-schaftMBH (Germany)
Golden Age Mines, Ltd. (Canada)
Hebilla Mining Corporation (Costa Rica)
Hemisphere Land Corporation Limited (Bahamas)
Henry Ost& Son, Ltd. (England)
Hotelera Playa Flamingo, S.A.
IntercontinentalTechnologies Corp. (Canada)
International Communications Corporation (Bntish WestIndies)
International Monetary Exchange (panama)
International Trade Development of Costa Rica, S.A.
IroncoMining& Smelting Company, Ltd. (Canada)
James G. Allan & Sons (Scotland)
[ojoba 011 & Seed Industries, S.A. (Costa Rica)
Jupiter Explorations, Ltd. (Canada)
Kenilworth Mines, Ltd. (Canada)
Klondike Yukon MiningCompany (Canada)
KoKaneeMoly Mines, Ltd. (Canada)
Land SalesCorporation (Canada)
Los Dos Hermanos, S.A. (Spain)
Lynbar Mining Corp. Ltd. (Canada)
Massive Energy Ltd. (Canada)
Mercantile Bankand Trust&Co., Ltd. (Cayman Island)
MultireaIProperties,Inc. (Canada)
J.P. Morgan & Company, Ltd., of London, England (not
to be confused wi th J.P. Morgan & Co., Incorporated, New York)
NorartMineralsLimited(Canada)
Normandie TrustCompany,S.A. (Panama)
Northern Survey (Canada)
Northern TrustCompany,S.A. (Switzerland)
Northland Minerals, Ltd. (Canada)
ObscoCorporation, Ltd. (Canada)
PadficNorthwest Developments, Ltd. (Canada)
Pan-Alaska Resources, S.A.(Panama)
PanamericanBank&TrustCompany(panama)
Pas car Oils Ltd. (Canada)
PaulpicGoldMines,Ltd.(Canada)

123

81.
82.
83.
84.
85.
86.
87.
88.
89.

PyrotexMiningand
Exploration Co., Ltd. (Canada)
Radio Hill Mines Co., Ltd. (Canada)
Rancho San Rafael, SA (Costa Rica)
Rodney Gold Mines Limited (Canada)
Royal Greyhound and Turf Holdings Limited (South Afnca)
SA Valles & Co., Inc. (Philippines)
San Salvador Savings & Loan Co., Ltd. (Bahamas)
SantackMines Lnruted (Canada)
Security Capital Fiscal & Guaranty Corporation, SA
(panama)
90. Silver Stack Mines, Ltd. (Canada)
91. Socie te Anonyme de Refinancement(Switzerland)
92. Strathmore Distillery Company, Ltd. (Scotland)
93. Strathross Blending Company Limited (England)
94. Swiss Caribbean Development & Finance Corporation
(Switzerland)
95. Tam O'Shanter, Ltd. (Switzerland)
96. Timberland (Canada)
97. Trans-American Investments, Limited (Canada)
98. Trihope Resources, Ltd. (WestIndies)
99. TrustCompanyofJamaica,
Ltd. (WestIndies)
100. United Mirungand MillingCorporation
(Bahamas)

101. Unitrustl.rrnitedflreland)
102.
103.
104.
105.
106.
107.
108.

124

Vacationland(Canada)
Val ores de Inversion, S.A. (Mexico)
Victoria Oriente, Inc. (Panama)
Warden Walker Worldwide InvestmentCo. (England)
Wee Gee Uranium Mines, Ltd. (Canada)
WestemIntemational
Explorations, Ltd. (Bahamas)
Yukon Wolverine MiningCompany (Canada)

Self-Regulatory Organizations:
Sheet Structure'

Expenses, Pre-tax Income, and Balance

In 1994, the total revenues of all self-regulatory organizations (SROs)
with marketplace jurisdiction rose approximately $80.0 million, an increase
of approximately 7% from 1993. The New York Stock Exchange (NYSE),
the National Association of Securities Dealers (NASD), the American Stock
Exchange (AMEX), and the Chicago Board Options Exchange (CBOE)
accounted for 86% of total SRO revenues, up from 85% in 1993. Revenues
were earned primarily from listing or issuer fees, trading fees, and market
data fees. For example:
• the NYSE reported total revenue of $452 million, an increase of 2%
from 1993, of which 40% consisted of listing fees, 20% consisted of
trading fees, and 15% consisted of market data fees;
• the NASD reported total revenue of $372 million, an increase of 12%
from 1993, of which 21% consisted of issuer fees and 36% consisted
of trading and market data fees; and
• the AMEX reported total revenue of $144 million, an increase of
10% from 1993, of which 11% consisted of listing fees.
The following SROs also reported increases in revenues:
• the Boston Stock Exchange (BSE) reported a $846,000 increase (6%)
to $14.9 million;
• the CBOE reported a $16.7 million increase (21%) to $97.7 million;
• the Pacific Stock Exchange (PSE) reported a $3.3 million increase
(8%) to $46.8 million; and
• the Philadelphia Stock Exchange (PHLX) reported a $1.8 million
increase (5%) to $40.6 million.
The Chicago Stock Exchange (CHX)Z reported a $298,000 decrease
(.42%) to $69.8 million. The Cincinnati Stock Exchange (CSE) reported total
revenues of$3.6 million for the six months ended June 30,1994, as compared
to its reported revenues of $6.1 million for the entire year ended December
31, 1993.
The CBOE experienced the largest percentage increase in total revenues,
21%, while the NASD reported the largest dollar volume mcrease in total
revenues, $39.9 million.

'After the close of its fiscal year ending December 31, 1993, the CSE
adopted a fiscal year ending June 30. The amounts included in this report
representing
total revenues, total expenses, total pre-tax income, total
liabilities, total assets, and total net worth for all SROs in 1994 include
financial information based on CSE's June 3D, 1994 fiscal year-end. Thus,
comparisons between the financial analysis provided in the SEC's 1994
Annual Report and this report may be misleading.
2The CHX adopted its current name in 1993. Previously, it was known
as the Midwest Stock Exchange.

125

The total expenses of all marketplace SROs were $1.1 billion in 1994,
an increase of $94.6 million (10%) over 1993. The NASD incurred the largest
dollar volume increase in expenses, $65.9 million (24%). FIve additional
SROs incurred increases in expenses as follows:
• the AMEX incurred a $9.4 million increase (8 % );
• the BSE incurred a $824,132 increase (6%);
• the NYSE incurred a $23.7 million increase (7%);
• the PHLX incurred a $3.7 million increase (10%); and
• the PSE incurred a $242,000 increase (1 %).
Two SROs incurred decreases in expenses:
• the CBOE incurred a $4.3 million decrease (5%); and
• the CHX incurred a $3.0 million decrease (4%).
The remaining SRO, the CSE, reported expenses of $2.0 million for
the six months ended June 30, 1994, as compared to its reported expenses
of $4.2 million for the entire year ended December 31, 1993.
Due to an increase in aggregate expenses, aggregate pre-tax income
of the marketplace SROs fell to $154.5 million in 1994, a declme of $15
million (9%) from 1993. The CBOE experienced
the largest dollar volume
and largest percentage Increase in pre-tax income, $20.9 million and 3,228%,
respectively.
The PSE also showed a large percentage Increase in pre-tax
income, 181 %. The remaInIng SROs reported pre-tax income in 1994, with
the exception of the PH LX which reported a pre-tax loss of $923,000. The
CSE reported pre-tax income of $1.4 million for the six months ended June
30, 1994, as compared to its reported pre-tax income of $1.9 million for
the year ended December 31, 1993.
The total assets of all marketplace SROs amounted to approximately
$1.9 billion in 1994, an increase of $184 million (11 %) over 1993. The NYSE
showed the largest dollar volume increase in total assets, $88.8 million
(12%), while the AMEX reported the largest percentage increase in total
assets, 14% ($17.1 million). The NASD, CHX, and CBOE also reported large
increases in total assets, equalling $43.9 million (11.6%), $31.2 million
(12.0%), and $8.8 million (10.4%), respectively.
The PHLX, BSE, and PSE
reported decreases of $352,000 (.45%), $3.2 million (16%), and $1.4 million
(4%), respectively.
The CSE reported total assets of $5.2 million as of June
30, 1994, as compared to its reported total assets of $5.7 million as of
December 31, 1993.
In 1994, the total liabrlities of marketplace SROs increased $94.3 million
(11 %) over the 1993 level. The NYSE showed the greatest dollar volume
increase in liabili ties, $44.8 million (12 %), while the AMEX reported the
greatest percentage increase, 32% ($9.3 million). Increases in liabilities also
were reported by the CHX ($29.9 million or 13%), the PHLX ($1.4 million
or 3%), and the NASD ($22.8 million or 21 %). Of the SROs reporting
financial information for a 12-month period, the CBOE reported the largest
dollar volume decline in liabilities, $4.7 million (18%), while the BSE
reported the greatest percentage decrease, $3.7 million (27%). The PSE
reported a decline in liabilities of $4.2 million (26%). The CSE reported
liabilities of $1.3 million as of June 30, 1994, as compared to its reported
liabilities of $2.7 million as of December 31, 1993.
126

The aggregate net worth of the marketplace SROs rose $90.1 million
in 1994 to $922.6 million, an increase of 11% over 1993. Of the SROs
reporting financial information for a 12-month period, the CBOE incurred
the largest percentage increase in net worth, 23% ($13.5 million), while the
largest dollar volume increase in net worth was reported by the NYSE, $44.0
million (13%). The PSE also reported a substantial increase In net worth
of $2.8 million (13%). Other marketplace SROs also experienced positive
growth in net worth, with the AMEX reporting an increase of $7.8 million
(9%); the NASD reporting an increase of$21.1 million (8%); the BSE reporting
an increase of $555,000 (9%); and the CHX reporting an Increase of $1.3
million (6%). The PH LX reported a decrease in net worth of $1.7 million
(7%). The CSE reported a total net worth of $3.9 million as of June 30,
1994, as compared to its reported net worth of $3.0 million as of December
31, 1993.
Clearing agency results have been presented in two charts by their
respective types: depositories and clearing corporations. Aggrega te cleanng
agency service revenue decreased almost 2%, to $476 million, in calendar
year 1994. Interest income increased 48%, or by almost $32 million. All
clearing agencies adjust fee structure and refunds of fees to provide
participants with attractively pnced services, to meet expenses and to
provide the amount of earmngs which they desire to retain.
All service revenues at depositories totaled over $287 million, down
9% or $29 million. This included a decrease of almost $25 million by
Depository Trust Company (DTC). Only Philadelphia Depository Trust
Company recorded an increase, which was 6%, or $600,000. Total depository
pre-tax income was up only $84,000, or 1%.
The depositories continued to expand their base for service revenues
by increasing the number of shares on deposit and the face value of debt
securities in custody. This was made possible by the further expansion
of deposi tory-eligible issues and the desire of partici pants to avail themselves
of depository services. At year-end there were more than 1.2 rrullion
depository eligible issues. In general, eligibili ty for all types of securities
increased.
For example, more than 95% of the principal amount of all
outstanding municipal bonds and notes were in the depository system. At
the end of 1994, the total value of securities in the depository system
approached $8 trillion, of which DTC alone controlled over $7.7 trillion.
Service revenue of clearing corporations increased to over $188 million,
up 13%. MBS Clearing Corporation's pre-tax earnings increased $5.7 million,
up 269%. The Midwest Clearing Corporation reported a gaIn of $227,000
compared to a loss of $953,000 in 1993. The Options Clearing Corporation's
pre-tax gain was $5.2 million, up 186%. The Stock Clearing Corporation
of Philadelphia showed a loss of $173,000, compared to a gain of $632,000
the previous year. The Government Securities Cleanng Corporation was
up 131%, or $2 million, to $3.6 million. Total pre-tax income was $23 million,
up 105%, for all clearing corporations.
The aggregate shareholders' equity of all cleanng corporations and
depositories rose to $116 million in 1994, up 4%. Participant clearing fund
contributions, which provide protection to the clearing agencies in the
127

event of a participant default, Increased by $95 million, or 4%, to almost
$2.8 billion. Should a participant default and its losses exceed its deposit,
the entire participants' fund of the clearing agency may be assessed on a
pro rata basis.

128

r-r-r-.,.....

""OJ'" 1,.(') LO r-;
O'> V r-; CD

co

MV-O)~
co N to LO

N"":~CDC'J('f')C>CO
~cqr-_~

r---:cimM
r- N c.o to

Lri"":NNV.,.....MN
CDr-com

LOr-CO
NCO.,.....
.......

<.er-C"JN
,....r-roQ)
r- m c.o C'J

......
r- c:o 0>
co co co e-,
t.t") 1.0 '"
C)
Moo-u:iN

co -e- a> ......

0' LO
VlDVV

(Y)

~

o

co

I-

~


u.J
(f)

a...

r-

0"> rMr-LOO'l

en

r-covra)~McD
('I")'CJ'"vv

C'JNf'--(j')

.,.....Q)vco
0"> co r- Q')
a:5 a>.,.....-.,.....-

co en

r-; co

~.,.....--..::r

(Y')('t')vv

r-;

01VO')
to LO

(f)

>-

z

('r') (Y)

.

M.....rlOren r- C'J
LON.,.....m

co

Lri~-N~

'T"'""tD C"? .......
NN(Y)('I")

..

en

a eo r-; C")

"0

.,.....r-L{')O
f'o-LOOCO

c:
to

cvj-..::Tt6cv5

l/l
:J

o

.c:

l-

.E

~

...J

~

u
z

~
x

::c
u

-e-

N(V)l.t')O)
mr-C'Jo
...... m.,.....-.;;:r
o Q') N (T)
vo-q- ....... .,.....NtO.,.....
r--.:cvja5C"J
r--.:Lrimo
.,-q-vrLO .......en eo

~

..

.,....."<;;f'"~CO
-q-cnMcr)

co

r- r- r-

to

-r--rioci

('Y)

..

NtOVOl

r-r-.,.....N
c.ovom
Lri cvi u-) c:i
CONr-V
.,.....NNM

.

LOr-cnm
v~ci~eO
r- r- r- co

(V)

..
oo:::r

N

-er r-

mT"""_com

<D

.

("I")O>Lf)

......

(Y)

CDCOVO
,.....NNC>
V C'J co CD

m-r-=-cicri
""".,......,.....0
l.t') u» r- eo

~et5::::

~L.riciL.ri
ONCON
M

(Y) (Y')

-e-

CD 0'>

oo::rlOO'>N

MM...::r-cvj
NNNN

co

~Lrio-iM
-er-co

(V)
NN("f)C"')

co

N

..

......O("l")

a co en r--,
0"> lO r- m
~-q:aic:i
M

0'> LO 0'>

oo::rlONN

lOU")
.......en
coenr- ...... co U") en LO
r-entOM
NI"-rna:>
.,....:""":N-cvi
~~N""":

OOLOO

("I") l.O r("I")lO~O

en

<.0 ...... ("I') N

..noo::r-e6cO

or-("I')C:O

en to (Y) -ec.o N I"- c.o
Noo::rVI"-

u:iO ......
-N
NNNN

oo::rlONN

NMt-N
LO N 0')

m en r~~-.;;fM
a co co 0>

co
u

-e- 0'> ......
NCOr-M
("I")

N <.D co
......
NNN

l.O

o

co

co

oo::r...... OM

u.J

(.0

...... C'O~N

lO c:o N 0

M1

a

""---'::-C"'1C"J

0 <o I"v-droci

MMLt"i..n

Mor-m

lO

cici~oo::r-

0)

lO lO

CONCON

O(Y)'"'I'"lO

c.o ...... ,....--v

co -e- CD c:o
c> r- c.o ......

..

Q,....Ol(Y)

O>OU')N
r--; co en
r-lO ............Mr-Oa:>
co co U') M
U")M(Y')N

NVL(')('l")

:;=-MIDLO

cn.,.....r-m

N ..................
......
NNN

O')r-,.....o

.

......
Q.....-

c.o

co co
r-; N

.,.....
co C'J co
Nm.,.....l(')

com .......,.....
m-t:t5-.:::TN-

Nr-N.,.....

('t') (Y) C"')

(Y)

'V"""

cncir--~

r-; r- ........
L(')
m ......
l.t')f'-

N

.,..... r-.,.....

M

-e-

(Y)

co L(')
oo:::r-"":r--~

u.J

NcOr---c.6

LO 'CJ'"

...... r-LOU")
co
MNVoo
r- co 'V 0
a) C"'"i""': r-..nO-NM
ooor- ....... eo c:o Lf) lO

.......l.(')
,..... ("I')

(Y) (Y) (Y)

...,.....,..
m (Y)

VL.(')OU")

co

aic:riciN
t.t")t.t")t.t")t"--

-c
z

u:
a
w

I-

~

u.J

o»
co

N Q') l.t').,.....
NCOLOC)
co LO a C')

<D("t')T"""L()
OU"')(V)LO

tOr-oeo

NOO-.:::t=--.:T
.,......,......,......,.....

NNMM
.,......,......,......,....

MO')VL.()
co c:o N L!)
O">VOLO

c.oO'o::TM
CO ...... 'CJ'"N
NCOt-.,.....

MO">ON

O,....('t)v

C"'i""':aioi
0

NN....:~

oma.nr............ ooo::r
c:o -e- -e- N
Na>cnu:i

N

("l")......0

-e- -e- <.0 a
a ("l")(V) <.0
-e co w r-,
MN-o->cO

e-, ex>
r- 0'> (T)
lOMt-O

lO
N

,....:~Mc:i
.........................

N ..................

CONt-N
(V) N

c.o

N

OOc.oN

..n..n..ntD

~

::i

o
(J)
z

o

o

c5V~T"""-M

y;~~;;

............
C'J

&i~;;Y;

or-CX)("f)

MCONV

-

~~

a:>

«o c» ......m
NCOoc:roo::r
oo::r~~a:5..n
OO~("l")

;;;;;;z;;;

enr-oo::rco
U') (0 I"-

("t)

NNNM

co ......mrOe-JcDc.D
co co co 0>

69-~~~

6'9~~090

......
N

(T)

mmo>o>
mo>o>O>

-e-

........................

129

N
N

~~~
-e- .,

..

-

<0

N ~

..

N"o)ol

130

.,

Table 9
SELF-REGULATORY ORGANIZATIONS-DEPOSITORIES
1994 REVENUES and EXPENSES 11
($ In Thousands)

Depository
Trust
Company
12/31/94

Midwest
Securities
Trust
Company
12/31/94

Participants
Trust
Company
12/31/94

Philadelphia
Depository
Trust
Company
12/31/94

Total

$227.127

$30,764

$18,753

$10,613

$287.257

72.665

1.667

11.913

1.021

87.266

Revenues
Depository Services
Interest
Other
Total Revenues ZI

0

365

365

299,792

32.431

30.666

11.998

374.887

$175.116

16.589

10.412

6,490

208,607

Expenses
Employee Costs
Data Processmg and
Comrnurucations Costs
Occupancy Costs
All Other Expenses
Total Expenses

35.208

2.158

6,191

632

44.189

42.902

3,116

6.018

411

52.447

45.682

10.068

4.045

3.920

63,715

$298.908

31.931

26.666

11,454

368.959

$884

$500

$4.000

$544

$5.928

Excess of Revenues
Over Expenses 'JJ
Shareholders' Equny
Participant's Fund

$19.385

$4,429

$19.073

$3.649

$46.536

$667,196

$7,305

$273,352

$752

$948.605

1/ Although efforts have been made to make the presentanons comparable. any smgle revenue or expense category may not be
completely comparable between any two clearing agencies because of (i) the varymg classincauon methods employed by the
clearmg agencies m reportmg operatmg results and (II) the groupmg methods employed by the Commission staff due to these
varymg classincauon methods IndiVidual amounts are shown to the nearest thousand Totals are the rounded result of the
underlymg amounts and may not be the anthrnetrc sums of the parts
ZI Revenues are net of refunds which have the effect of reducmg a clearing agency's base fee rates
'JJ Itns IS the result of operations and before the effect of mcorne taxes. which may significantly Impact a clearing agency's net
mcorne

131

Investment Companies and Investment Advisers

The tables below show the number of registered investment companies
and investment advisers and the amount of assets under management. All
figures are reported for fiscal year-end.

Number

Investment Companies
Investment Company
Portfolios
Investment Advrsers

of Active

Registrants

1991
3,660

1992
3,850

1993
4,300

1994
4,530

1995
4,900

% Change
1991-95
339%

16,000*
17,500

18,700
18,000

21,200
20,000

22,486
21,600

23,139
22,000

446%
257%

1994
$2,500
$9,600

~

$3,062
$10,600

% Change
1991-95
118 7%
96.3%

*Estimate
Assets

Under

Management

($ in billions)

Investment Companies
Investment Advisers

1991
$1,400
$5,400

1992
$1,800
$8,100

1993
$2,400
$9,600

The number of registered investment companies increased more than
8% during 1995. Many investment companies combine several separate
portfolios or investment series in one investment company registration
statement. The number of portfolios generally ranges from three to ten.
However, some unit investment trusts group as many as 1,320 separate
portfolios under one Investment Company Act registration.
The number
of portfolios increased almost 3% during 1995. Investment company assets
increased more than 22%.

Section

13(f)(1)

Reports

Section 13(f)(l) of the Exchange Act and Rule 13f-1 reqUire "institutional
investment managers" exercising investment discretion over accounts
holding certain equity securities with a fair market value of at least $100
million to file quarterly reports on Form 13F. For the quarter ending June
30, 1995, 1,231 managers filed Form 13F reports, for total holdings of
approximately $3.08 trillion.

133

Exemptions

Section 12(h) Exemptions
Section 12(h) of the Exchange Act authorizes the Commission to grant.
complete or partial exemption from the registration provisions of Section 12(g
or from the disclosure or insider reporting/trading provisions of the Exchange
Act where such exem ption is consis tent wi th the public in terest and the protectior
of investors. Four applications were pending at the beginning of 1995 and fou
applications were filed during the year. Requested relief was granted to fou
applicants.
Exemptions for Foreign Private Issuers
Rule 12g3-2 provides various exemptions from the registration provision;
of Section 12(g) of the Exchange Act for the securities of foreign private issuers
An important exemption is that contained in subparagraph (b), which provides
an exemption for certain foreign issuers that furnish to the Commission on a
current basis the material specified in the rule. Such material includes that
Information about which investors ought reasonably to be informed and which
the issuer has: (1) made or is required to make public pursuant to the law
of the country in which it is incorporated or organized; (2) filed or is required
to file with a stock exchange on which its securities are traded and which was
made public by such exchange; or (3) distributed or is required to distribute
to its securityholders.
Periodically, the SEC publishes a list of those foreign
issuers that appear to be current under the exemptive provision. The mostcurrent
list contains a total of 1,221 foreign issuers.

134

Corporate Reorganizations

During 1995, the SEC entered its appearance in 13 reorganization cases
filed under Chapter 11 of the Bankruptcy Code involving companies with
aggregated stated assets of about $4.2 billion and about 100,000 public
investors. Counting these new cases, the Commission was a party in a total
of 173 Chapter 11 cases during the year. In these cases, the stated assets
totalled approximately $80 billion and involved almost one million public
investors. During 1995, 78 cases were concluded through confirmation of
a plan of reorganization, dismissal, or liquidation, leaving 95 cases in which
the Commission was a party at year-end.
Table 11
REORGANIZATION PROCEEDINGS UNDER CHAPTER 11
OF THE BANKRUPTCY CODE IN WHICH
THE SEC ENTERED APPEARANCE

Debtor

FY
Opened

District

FY
Closed

Action Auto storesj/
ADI Electronics
AlA lndustnes, Inc
Aileen, Inc

EA
ED
ED
SD

MI
NY
PA
NY

1990
1987
1984
1994

1995
1995
1995

AI Copeland Enterpnses, Inc
Alexander's Inc
Allegheny lnternanonal, Inc 1/
Alliant Computer Systems Corp

WD
SO
WO
ED

TX

1991
1992
1988
1992

1995

NY
PA
MA

Amdura Corporatronj/
Amencan Mrcrotel, Inc
Amencan West Arrunes, Inc 1/
Anglo Energy, Inc 1/

D
D
D
SD

CO
NV
AZ
NY

1990
1995
1991
1988

Appletree Markets, Inc 1/
Baldwin BUilders
Banyon Corp y
Barton Industnes Inc

SD
CD
SD
WD

TX

1992
1995
1991
1991

1995

Bay Financial Corp, et al
B-E Holdmgs, Inc
Beker Industnes Corp 1/
Bonneville Pacrtic Corporation

D
ED
SD
D

MA
WI
NY

1990
1994
1986
1992

1995

Branch Industnes, Inc
Camera Enterpnses, Inc., et al
Cambridge Biotech Corp.
Carter Hawley Hale Stores Inc

SD
D
DM
CD

NY
MA

1995
1995

CA

1985
1989
1994
1991

Cascade lnternatrcnal Inc
Citywide secunues Corp Y
Chyron Corporalion
Coated Sales, Inc

SD
SD
ED
SD

FL
NY
NY
NY

1992
1985
1991
1988

CA
NY
OK

UT

1995
1995
1995
1995

1995

1995

1995
1995
1995

135

Table 11 - continued
REORGANIZATION
PROCEEDINGS
UNDER CHAPTER
OF THE BANKRUPTCY
CODE IN WHICH
THE SEC ENTERED APPEARANCE

FY
Closed

College Bound, Inc
Columbia Gas System, Inc
Commonwealth Equity Trust1/
Conston Corporation

SO
0
ED
ED

FL
DE
CA
PA

1993
1991
1994
1990

Continental Information Systems1/
Core Minerai, Inc 'JJ
County of Orange (Chapter 9)
CPT Corp

SO
WD
0

NY
TX
CD
MN

1989
1995
CA
1991

Crazy Eddie, Inc, et al
Crompton Co , Inc
Dakota Minerals, Inc
Damson 011 Co

SO
SO
0
SO

NY
NY
WY
TX

1989
1985
1986
1991

Dest Corp
Drversined lndustrres, Inc 1/
Drexel Burnham Lambert Group, Ltd 1/
Eagle Clothes, Inc

ND
ED
SD
SD

CA
MI
NY
NY

1989
1993
1990
1989

Eagle-Pitcher Industries, Inc 1/
Eastern Air Lines, Inc, et al
E L FltzgeraldY
Enterprise Technologies, Inc

SO
S D.
NO
SD

OH
NY
FL
TX

1991
1989
1993
1984

Envrropact, Inc
Everex Systems, Inc 1/
F & C International, Inc 1/
F & M Distributor Inc

SO
NC
S D.
ED

FL.
CA
OH
MI

1994
1993
1993
1995

Fed Depart fAllled Stores et al
Financial News Network, Inc
First City Bancorporanon
of Texas
First Republicbank Corp

SD
SO
NO
NO

OH
NY
TX
TX

1990
1991
1994
1989

Future Ccmrnurucauons, Inc
Gantos, Inc et al1/
General Technologies Group
Gulf USA Corporation, et al.

WD
WD
ED
0

OH
MI
NY
10

1994
1994
1990
1994

Hal, Inc 1/
Hannover Corporation of AmericaY
Harry SchrieberY
Healthcare lnternanonat, Inc 11

0

HI
LA
CO
TX

1994
1993
1993
1992

1995

CA
CA
NY
CO

1986
1994
1991
CA

1995
1995
1995

Helronencs, Inc
Hexcel Corporatronj,'
Hills Department storesj/
House of Fabrics Inc

136

F.Y
Opened

Dismct

Debtor

11

MD
0
WO
CD.
NO
SO

1995
1995
1995
1995
1995

1995

1995
1995
1995

1995
1995

1995
1995

1995
1995

1995

Table 11 - continued
REORGANIZATION PROCEEDINGS UNDER CHAPTER 11
OF THE BANKRUPTCY CODE IN WHICH
THE SEC ENTERED APPEARANCE
Debtor

Dismct

FY
Opened

FY
Closed

1995
1995

In re SportsTown, Inc
Infllght Services, Inc
Infotechnology Inc 1J
Integra-A Hotel and Restaurant Co

NO
SO
SO
0

GA
NY
NY
CO

1995
1987
1991
1993

Integrated Resources, Inc 1J
lnteloqrc Trace, Inc 1J
Inter Amencan Homes, Inc, et al
mternanonal Trading, Inc

SO
WO
0
NO

NY
TX
NJ
GA

1990
1994
1990
1994

1995
1995
1995

Jamesway Corporation
JWP, Inc
Kaiser Steel Corp
King of Video, Inc

SO
SO
0
0

NY
NY
CO
NV

1993
1994
1987
1989

1995

Kurzwerl Musrc Systems Inc 1
Laventhol & Horwath 1J
Leslie Fay Companies, Inc
Library Bureau Inc

0
SO
SO
NO

MA
NY
NY
NY

1990
1991
1993
1993

1995
1995

LlfeCo Investment
Lomas Financial Corp 1J
Lone Star Industnes, Inc 1J
MacGregor Sparling Goods, Inc

0
SO
SO

GA
NY
NY
0

1995
1990
1991
NJ

1995
1989

1995
Mallard Coach Co 1J
Marathon Office Supply, Inc
Marcade Group Inc
Martech USA, Inc Y

WO
CD
SO
D

IL
CA
NY
AK

1993
1988
1993
1994

1995
1995

Maxlcare Health Plus Inc 1J
McLean Industnes, Inc
MCorp (MCorp Financial, Inc
& MCorp Management)

CD
SO

CA
NY

1989
1987

1995

SD

TX

1989

SD

NY

1992

NO
0
0

CA
AZ
DE

1994
1995
1994

1995

Mendian Reserve, Inc.
Merry-Go-Round Enterprises, Inc
Midland Capital Corp
Midwest Communications Corp

WO
0
SO
ED

OK
MO
NY
KY

1989
1994
1986
1991

Monarch Capitol Corp
National Fmanctal Realty Trust1J
National Gypsum Company
New Valley Corp

0
SO
NO
SO

MA
IN
TX
NY

1991
1990
1991
1994

McCrory Parent Corp

1995

1995
Media VIsion Technology,
Megafoods Stores, Inc
MEl Diversified, Inc

Inc

1995

1995

137

Table 11 - continued
REORGANIZATION PROCEEDINGS UNDER CHAPTER 11
OF THE BANKRUPTCY CODE IN WHICH
THE SEC ENTERED APPEARANCE
Debtor
Newmark & tewis
Nutn Bevco, Inc y
NVF Company
D'Bnen Environmental

SD
SD
D
D

NY
NY
DE
NJ

1991
1988
1994
1995

OCCIdental Development Fund lilY
Occidental Development Fund IVY
OCCIdental Development Fund vy
Oliver's Stores

CD
CD
CD
ED

CA
CA
CA
NY

1989
1989
1989
1987

OLR Development Fund LP
OLR Development Fund II LP
Orbitron Capitol Corp
PanAm Corporation

CD
CD
WT
SO

CA
CA
TX
NY

1989
1989
1995
1991

Penn Pacific
Phar-Mor, Inc
Premier Benefit Capitol Trusty
Premium Sales Corporauonj/

ED
NO
MD
MD

OK
OH
FL
FL

1994
1994
1993
1993

Public
QMax
QT&T,
Oubrx

0
SO
ED
ND

NH
OH
NY
CA

1988
1989
1987
1987

Ramtek Corporatron
Reserve Rent-a-Car
Residential Resources Mortgage
Investment Corporanon
Revco 0 S Inc y

ND
D

CA
OH

1989
1993

0
ND

AZ
OH

1989
1988

R H Macy & Co Corp 11
Rose's Stores, Inc
Rymer Foods, Inc
Sahlen & Assocratesj/

SD
ED
ND
SD

NY
NC
ILL
NY

1992
1994
1993
1989

Sam S Brown Jr Y
Saratoga Standardbreds, Inc
Schepps Food Stores, Inc
Seatrain Lines, Inc 11

WD
ND
SD

GA
NY
TX
SD

1993
1990
1992

Sharon Steel Corp 11
SIS Corporation
Sorg Incorporated, et al
Southland Corporation

WD
ND
SD
NO

PA
OH
NY
TX

1987
1989
1989
1991

ED
D
CD

NY
MA
CA

1995
1987
1988

WD

MI

1991

Energy, Inc

Service Co of New Hampshire
Technology Group, Inc 11
Inc
Graphic Systems11

I/

Spectrum lntormatron
Iecnnolqres, Inc
Spencer Cos, Inc
Spnnq Meadows Assoclatesy
Standard a,l and Exploratron of
Delaware, Inc

138

FY
Opened

District

NY

FY
Closed

1995
1995

1995

1995
1995

1995
1995
1995
1995
1995
1995
1981
1995
1995

1995

Table 11 - continued
REORGANIZATION PROCEEDINGS UNDER CHAPTER 11
OF THE BANKRUPTCY CODE IN WHICH
THE SEC ENTERED APPEARANCE
Debtor

Drsmct

FY
Opened

FY
Closed
1995

Statewide Bancorp
Sterling Optical Corp
Swanton Corp
Systems for Health Care, Inc

0
SO
SO
NO

NJ
NY
NY
IL

1991
1992
19B5
19B8

Telstar Satellite Corp of Amerlcay
The Centennial Group, Inc
The Circle K
The First Connecticut Small
Business Investments Company

CD
CD
0

CA
CA
Al

1989
1992
1990

0

CT

1991

The Group, Inc
The lionel Corp 11
The Regina Co
Tidwell Industries, Inc

0
SO
0
NO

NV
NY
NJ
AL

1990
1991
1989
1986

Todd Shipyards Corp 11
Towle Manufact /Rosemar Silver
Trans World, Inc
Traweek Investment Fund No 22, ltd Y

0
SO
ED
CD

NJ
NY
MO
CA

1988
1990
1995
1988

Traweek Investment Fund No 21, ltd
Trump Tal Mahal Funding, Inc 11
TSL Holdings, Inc
UoC Homes, Inc

CO
0
SO
0

CA
NJ
CA
DE

1988
1991
1993
1995

USA Classrc Inc
Value Merchants
Wedgestone Financial
Wedtech Corp

SO
ED
0
SO

NY
WI
MA
NY

1994
1994
1991
1987

1995

Westworld Community Healthcare, Inc
Wheeling-Pittsburgh Steel Corp 11
Zale Corporation, Inc 11
lenox, Inc 11

CD
WD
NO
0

CA
PA
TX
NH

1987
1985
1992
1993

1995
1995
1995

Total Cases Opened (FY 1995)
Total Cases Closed (FY 1995)

1995

1995

1995
1995
1995

1995

13
78

Plan of reorqaruzatron confirmed
Debtor liquidated under Chapter 7
'jJ Chapter 11 case dismissed
y Debtor's secunties not registered under Section 12(g) of the Exchange Act

11
2J

139

The Securities Industry
Revenues, Expenses, and Selected Balance Sheet Items

Broker-dealers that are registered with the Commission earned a pretax profit of $3.5 billion in calendar year 1994. This was $9.5 billion less
than that earned the previous year. The pre-tax return on equity capital
of 6.5% was one of the worst of the last ten years.
A sharp rise in interest rates during most of 1994 was the most important
factor behind the poor profitability. The resultmg decline in bond prices
contributed to proprietary trading losses at securities firms as the values
of their bond inventories fell. Securities firms earned $20.2 billion in their
trading and investment accounts In 1994, a decline of over $5 billion from
last year.
Rising interest rates also discouraged debt offerings. Interest rates that
were high relative to the recent past made refinancings of debt particularly
unattractive. The market for new mortgage-backed securities, for example,
practically disappeared in 1994. The volume of new issues of equity also
fell sharply in 1994. The volume of IPOs and that of seasoned issues of
common and preferred stock all fell by over 30%. As a result, underwriting
revenues fell by $4.4 billion to $6.8 billion.
The agency business remained profitable in 1994. Exchange volume
set a new record, and securities commissions of $19.9 billion in 1994 were
unchanged from 1993's record level. The volume of margin debt outstanding
Increased in 1994, and combined with rising interest rates, resulted in a $1.4
billion increase in margin interest to $4.7 billion. The poor return from bond
mutual funds in 1994 discouraged investments in these instruments.
As
a result, revenues from retailing mutual funds declined $1.2 billion to $6.9
billion.
"All other revenues" are comprised pnmarily of interest income from
securities purchased under agreements to resell and fees from handling
private placements, mergers, and acquisitions.
These revenues grew by
over $13 billion in 1994 to $54.3 billion. Merger and acquisition activity
was exceptional In 1994, with the volume of announced deals second only
to that in 1988. The average value of reverse repurchase agreements on
the balance sheets of broker-dealers also increased in 1994, and combined
with higher interest rates, contributed to higher revenues.
Expenses rose 14% to $109.2 billion in 1994, primarily due to higher
Interest expenses. Interest expenses, the largest expense item in 1994,
increased by $13.6 billion (51%). Employee compensation fell slightly (by
4%) to $37.6 billion. Total assets rose by $12 billion to $1,252 billion. Equity
capital fell by $108 million to $53.8 billion.

140

Table 12
UNCONSOLIDATED

FINANCIAL INFORMATION

FOR BROKER-DEALERS

1990-19941/
($ in Millions)

1990
Revenues
Secunlies Commissions
Gains (Losses) In Trading and
Investment Accounts
Profits (Losses) from underwnunq
and Seiling Groups
Margin Interest
Revenues from Sale of Investment
Company Shares
All Other Revenues
Total Revenues
Expenses
Registered Representatives'
Compensation (Part II Only) 2J
Other Employee Compensauon
and Benefits
Cornpensanon to Partners and
Voting Stockholder Officers
Commissions and Clearance Paid
to Other Brokers
Interest Expenses
Regulatory Fees and Expenses
All Other Expenses 2J
Total Expenses
Income and Profitability
Pre-tax Income
Pre-tax Profit Margin
Pre-tax Return on EqUity
Assets, Liabilities and Capital
Total Assets
Liabilities
(a) Unsubordinated Liabilities
(b) Subordinated Liabilities
(c) Total Liabilities
Ownership Equity
Number of Firms

1991

1992

1993'

$ 12,0322

$ 14,2097

$ 16,2489

15,7465

22,641 3

21,8383

25,4272

20,2166

3,7283
3,1794

6,5926
2,7711

8,2997
2,6896

11,2487
3,2352

6,8480
4,6700

3,2416
33,4283
$ 71,3562

4,1763
34,4985
$ 84,8895

5,9501
35,5574
$ 90,5840

8,1153
40,9126
$ 108,8437

$

6,8806
54,2686
112,7734

$ 8,2672

$ 9,911 7

$ 12,1111

$

$

13,7076

12,5128

14,444 1

17,0669

20,931 3

20,5595

2,1506

2,5605

2,8929

3,4980

3,3334

2,9594
28,0931
5643
16,0186
$ 70,5661

3,2005
27,5118
5771
18,0279
$ 76,2336

3,722 1
24,5763
6392
20,4590
$ 81,4674 $

5,3378
26,6156
6297
24,0967
95,8051

5,3355
40,251 7
6280
25,430 1
109,2459

$

7901
11
22

$ 8,6559
102
236

$

13,0386
120
267

$657,2265

$787,7163

$ 978,635 0 $ 1,240,1598

607,8030
15,0908
622,8938

732,2902
16,3471
748,6373

916,5453
18,1558
934,7011

$ 34,3327

$ 39,0791

$ 43,9339

8,437

7,763

9,1166
101
220

7,793

$

1994'

$

19,9048

14,6960

$

$
$

53,9162

3,5275
31
65

$ 1,251,782 8

1,160,4560
25,7876
1,186,2436
$

19,8896

1,169,1633
28,811 1
1,197,9744
$

7,674

53,8084
7,631

Figures may not add due to rounding
r = reveed
p = preliminary
1/ Calendar, rather than fiscal, year data IS reported In thiS table
2J Registered representatives' compensation for firms that neither carry nor clear IS Included In "other expenses"
as thrs expense Item IS not reported separately on Part IIA of the FOCUS Report
Source

FOCUS Report

141

UNCONSOLIDATED

Table 13
ANNUAL REVENUES AND EXPENSES FOR BROKER-DEALERS
DOING A PUBLIC BUSINESS
1990 - 1994 11
($ In Millions)

Revenues
Securities Commissions
Gains (Losses) In Trading and
Investment Accounts
Profits (Losses) from UnderWriting
and Seiling Groups
Margin Interest
Revenues from Sale of Investment
Company Shares
All Other Revenues
Total Revenues
Expenses
Registered Representatives'
Cornpensatron (Part II only) ?J
Other Employee Compensation
and Benefits
Cornpensatron to Partners and
Voling Stockholder Officers
Commissions and Clearance Paid
to Other Brokers
Interest Expenses
Regulatory Fees and Expenses
All Other Expenses ?J
Total Expenses
Income
Pre-tax
Pre-tax
Pre-tax

and Prontabt Iity
Income
Profit Margin
Return on Equity

Number of Firms

1990

1991

1992

$11,6597

$13,7108

$15,4997

142

$ 19,341 1

14,869 5

21,371 7

20,790 7

24,0425

3,7280
3,1588

6,591 4
2,7324

8,2028
2,651 7

11,2486
3,2291

1994'
$ 19,2558
18,9164
6,844 7
4,652 7

3,241 6
32,5780
$69,2356

4,1762
33,7468
$82,3293

5,851 9
34,745 5
$87,7422

8,1153
40,0863
$106,0629

6,8699
53,0960
$109,6356

$ 8,2453

$ 9,9006

$11,791 1

$ 14,671 9

$ 13,6856

12,2092

14,066 5

16,601 4

20,5149

20,0805

1,9835

2,376 4

2,6955

3,2934

3,0972

2,7962
27,6306
5094
15,5804
$68,9544

3,0032
27,088 1
511 2
17,4575
$74,4034

3,5000
24,2358
5800
19,777 9
$79,1817

5,0833
26,2229
5733
23,5482
$ 93,9080

5,0643
395834
5348
24,831 8
$106,877 6

$

2812
04
09

$ 7,9259
96
233

$ 8,5605
98
222

$ 12,1549
11 5
265

$

5,424

5,115

5,139

5,091

Figures may not add due to rounding
r = revised
p = preliminary
V Calendar, rather than fiscal, year data ISreported In thrs table
?J Registered representatives' compensanon for firms that neither carry nor clear ISIncluded
as thiS expense Item ISnot reported separately on Part IIA of the FOCUSReport
Source FOCUSReport

1993'

In

"other expenses"

2,7579
25
54
5,237

Table 14
UNCONSOLIDATED BALANCE SHEET FOR BROKER-DEALERS
DOING A PUBLIC BUSINESS
YEAR-END, 1990 - 1994 jj
($ In Millions)

1990
Assets
Cash
Receivables from Other
Broker-dealers
Receivables from Customers
Receivables from Non-customers
Long Posinons in Securities
and Commodities
Securities and Investments
not Readily Marketable
Securities Purchased Under Agreements
to Resell (Part II only) {j
Exchange Membership
Other Assets {j
Total Assets

1991

1992

1993'
$

1994P

$ 10,9681

$ 10,3512

$ 11,0244

118,4131
37,1778
1,1577

161,4844
50,8611
2,1261

216,7937
49,3335
4,3267

289,1680
68,5261
6,4125

342,0283
66,9116
7,258.2

208,1663

245,1645

294,2945

363,8643

317,6271

1,1902

1,8639

2,3760

4,1244

4,4865

237,2356
3323
26,0143
$640,6555

272,2261
313 4
23,521 2
$767,911 8

350,4878
3153
26,5029
$955,4548

439,431 4
437,8056
3231
3483
30,6158
33.8189
$1,215,5938 $1,223,7863

$ 18,3422
46,0389
7,5105
55,5497

$ 24,9056
63,2919
13,7306
71,977 5

$ 33,9088
68,5690
6,6077
70,0897

$

13,1281 $

13,5019

L,ab,l,lies and EqUity Capital
Bank Loans Payable
Payables to Other Broker-dealers
Payables to Non-customers
Payables to Customers
Short Positrons in Securities
and Cornmocmes
Securities Sold Under Repurchase
Agreements (Part II only) {j
Other Non-subordinated Liabilities {j
Subordinated Liabilities
Total Llabllilies

104,6900

113,0009

157,2956

320,7733
40,9732
14,7630
$608,6408

385,6551
43,7388
15,4641
$731,7646

500,7141
59,5348
17,7265
$914,4461

607,8271
591,1855
83,1244
80,8468
25,3706
28,4954
$1,164,7176 $1,173,262 7

EqUity Capital

$ 32,0146

$36,1473

$ 41,0087

$

Number oflirms

5,424

5,115

5,091

41,9919 $ 34,7090
105,1152
130,7599
10,8360
11,9215
90,9429
98,5344
199,5095

50,8762 $
5,139

196,8101

50,5236
5,237

Figures may not add due to rounding
r =
 revised
p =
 preliminary
1/ Calendar, rather than fiscal, year data IS reported in this table
{j Resale agreements and repurchase agreements for firms that neither carry nor clear are included in "other
assets" and "other non-subordinated liabilities," respectively, as these Items are not reported separately on
Part IIA of the FOCUS Report
Source

FOCUS Report

143

Carrying and Clearing Firms

Data for carrying and cleanng firms that do a public business is presented
here to allow for more detail. Reporting requirements for firms that neither
carry nor clear are less detailed. Data aggregation of these two types of
firms results in loss of detail.
Carrying and cleanng firms are those firms that clear securities
transactions or maintain possession or control of customers' cash or securities.
This group produced 82 percent of the securities industry's total revenues
in calendar year 1994.
Brokerage activity accounted for about 24 cents of each revenue dollar
in 1994, abou t the same as the level in 1993. Securities commissions remained
the most important component, producing 15 cents of each dollar of revenue.
Margin interest generated about five cents of each dollar of revenue, while
revenues from mutual fund sales accounted for about four cents.
The dealer side produced 61 cents of each dollar of revenue in 1994,
down from 65 cents in 1993. Eighteen cents came from trading and
investments, a decrease from 24 cents in 1993. Seven cents came from
underwriting, down from twelve cents in 1993. Thirty-six cents came from
other securities-related
revenues, an increase from twenty-nine cents in
1993. This revenue item is comprised primarily of interest income from
securities purchased under agreements to resell and fees from handling
private placements, mergers, and acquisitions.
Expenses accounted for 98 cents of each revenue dollar in 1994, resulting
in a pre-tax profit margin of two cents per revenue dollar, about nine cents
lower than that in 1993. Interest expense was the most important expense
item, accounting for 42 cents of each revenue dollar in 1994 compared to
29cents in 1993.Employee-related expenses-compensation
received by registered
representatives, partners and other employees-consumed
33 cents of each
revenue dollar in 1994, compared to 37 cents in 1993.
Total assets of broker-dealers carrying and clearing customer accounts
were $1,192 billion at year-end 1994, a one percent increase from 1993.
Relative to other assets, the value of inventory on the books of brokerdealers declined during 1994, reflecting at least in part the decline in bond
prices that took place over the course of the year. Broker-dealer receivables
increased.
Total liabilities also increased by about one percent to $1,150 billion in
1994. Owners' equity fell two percent to $41.8 billion.

144

t/)

CD

/

t/)

£:

CD
C.

><

W

~

_ c:
fl!O
0)-=

E~
~c:
010)

!La.

E

<Il

c:
o

~
C

::J

8 ~
o
o

CD

~
e
~

CD

-

a:
o

t/)

CD

e~

o

U)

145

Table 16
UNCONSOLIDATED
REVENUES AND EXPENSES
CARRYING/CLEARING BROKER-DEALERS jJ
($ in Millions)

1993'

Dollars
Revenues
Securities Cornrmssions
Gams (Losses) m Trading and
Investment Accounts
Profits (Losses) from UnderWrltmg and Sellmg Groups
Margm Interest
Revenues from Sale of Investment Company Shares
Miscellaneous Fees
Revenues from Research
Other Securities Related Revenues
Commodities Revenues
All other Revenues
Total Revenues

$14,1780

FOR

1994'

Percent
of Total
Revenues
160%

Dollars
$13,991 5

Percent
of Total
Revenues
151%

Percent
Change
1992-1993
-13%

21,2410

239

16,8100

181

-209

10,5318
3,2291

119
36

6,2546
4,6527

67
50

-406
441

4,6305
4,1595
245
25,7539
1,2161
3,7320
$ 88,6964

52
47
00
290
14
42
1000%

4,1102
4,771 3
325
33,6025
2,0306
6,4069
$ 92,662 9

44
51
00
363
22
69
1000%

-11 2
147
327
305
670
717
45%

$14,6719

165%

$13,6856

148%

-67%

Expenses
Registered Representaltves'
Compensalion (Part II Only)
Other Employee Compensation
and Benefits
Cornpensanon to Partners and
Votmg Stockholder Officers
Commissions and Clearance Paid
to Other Brokers
Cornrnurucanons
Occupancy and Equipment Costs
Data Processmg Costs
Interest Expenses
Regulatory Fees and Expenses
Losses m Error Accounts and
Bad Debts
All Other Expenses
Total Expenses

3099
9,4706
$ 78,7091

03
107
887%

3998
9,4297
$ 90,962 8

04
102
982%

290
-04
156%

Income
Pre-tax
Pre-tax
Pre-tax

$ 9,9873
113
256

113%

$ 1,7001
18
40

18%

-830%

and Profitability
Income
Profit Margm
Return on EqUity

Number of Firms

15,8262

178

15,1726

164

-41

2,0199

23

1,9111

21

-54

2,7054
2,7205
3,4672
1,1920
25,8531
472 3

31
31
39
13
291
05

3,1787
3,0069
3,5231
1,3430
38,8960
4162

34
32
38
14
420
04

175
105
16
12.7
505
-119

825

786

Figures may not add due to roundmg
r = revised
p = prehrnmary
11 Calendar, rather than nscal, year data IS reported m nus table
Note Includes mtorrnaton for firms domg a public business that carry customer accounts or clear securmes
Source FOCUS Report

146

transactions

Table 17
UNCONSOLIDATED BALANCE SHEET FOR CARRYING/CLEARING
BROKER-DEALERS 11
($ in Millions)
Year-end 1993'
Percent
of Total
Assets
Dollars
Assets
Cash
Receivables from Other Broker-dealers
(a) Securities Failed to Deliver
(b) Securities Borrowed
(c) Other
Receivables from Customers
Receivables from Non-customers
Long Posmons In Securities and Commodities
(a) Bankers Acceptances, Certificates
of Deposu and Commercial Paper
(b) U S and Canadian Government Obhqanons
(c) State and MUniCipal Government Obhqanons
(d) Corporate ObllgallOns
(e) Stocks and Warrants
(f) Opnons
(g) Arbitrage
(h) Other Securities
(I) Spot Commodities
Securities and Investments Not Readily Marketable
Securities Purchased Under Agreements
to Resell (Part II Only)
Exchange Membership
Other Assets
Total Assets
Liabilities and EqUity Capital
Bank Loans Payable
Payables to Other Broker-dealers
(a) Securities Failed to Receive
(b) Securities Loaned
(c) Other
Payablesto Non-customers
Payables to Customers
Short Posiuons In Securities
and Commodities
Securities Sold Under Repurchase
Agreements (Part II Only)
Other Non-subordinated
Liabilities
Subordinated Liabilities
Total Liabilities
EqUity Capital
Number of Firms

$

12,0268
280,4340
17,6253
235,6547
27,1540
68,5261
6,0385
347,1544

10%
237
15
199
23
58
05
294

10,5784
221,1856
17,0857
67,0405
22,2735
1,4725
5,0257
2,1361
3565
3,8337

09
187
14
57
19
01
04
02
00
03

439,431 4
2872
24,9283
$1,182,6604

$

$

41,8634
94,3379
17,3705
64,4235
12,5439
10,0922
90,9429

372
00
21
1000%

35%
80
15
54
11
09
77

Year-end 1994P
Percent
oITotal
Dollars
Assets
$

12,3919
334,6326
21,9791
295,3987
17,2548
66,9116
6,7697
300,7849

10%
281
18
248
14
56
06
252

30%
193
247
254
-365
-24
121
-134

9,5083
189,061 0
15,4874
58,5029
19,9256
1,9496
4,2654
1,7196
3650
4,2049

08
159
13
49
17
02
04
01
00
04

-101
-145
-94
-127
-105
324
-15 1
-195
24
97

367
00
24
1000%

-04
71
125
08%

34,5723
122,3400
23,3116
79,6341
19,3943
11,6289
98,5344

29%
103
20
67
16
1.0
83

-174%
297
342
236
546
152
83

437,8056
3075
28,0481
$1,191,8568

$

Percent
Change
1993-1994

189,7235

160

185,8428

156

-20

607,8271

514

591,1855

496

-27

80,8993
24,2778
1,139,9641

68
21
964

78,6940
27,2893
1,150,0873

66
23
965

-27
124
09

42,6963
825

36%

$

41,7695

35%

-22%

786

Figures may not add due to rounding
r = revised
p = preliminary
1/ Calendar, rather than nscal, year data is reported In nus table
Note Includes mtormanon for films dOing a public busmess that carry customer accounts or clear secunues
Source FOCUSReport

transactions

147

Securities Traded on Exchanges
Market Value and Volume

The market value of equity and option transactions (trading in stocks,
options, warrants, and rights) on registered exchanges totaled $3.0 trillion
in 1994. Of this total, approximately $2.8 trillion, or 95%, represented the
market value of transactions in stocks, nghts and warrants; $139 billion,
or 5%, were options transactions (including exercises of options on listed
stocks).
The value of equity and option transactions on the New York Stock
Exchange (NYSE) was $2.5 trillion, up 9.0% from the previOus year. The
market value of such transactions on the American Stock Exchange (Amex)
decreased 0.01% to $82.6 billion and increased 6.2 % to $391.0 billions on
all other exchanges. The volume of trading in stocks (excluding rights and
warrants) on all registered exchanges totaled 90.5 billion shares, a 9.3%
increase from the previous year, with 85.0% of the total accounted for by
trading on the NYSE.
The volume of options contracts traded (excluding exercised contracts)
was 281.4 million contracts in 1994,21.0% greater than in 1993. The market
value of these contracts increased 25.7% to $94.5 billion. The volume of
contracts executed on the Chicago Board Options Exchange increased 30.8%
to 183.9 million. Option trading on the Amex and Pacific Stock Exchange
rose 1.4% and 27.9% respectively while option trading on the Philadelphia
Stock Exchange decreased 0.3%.

148

NASDAQ (Share Volume and Dollar Volume)

NASDAQ share volume and dollar value information has been reported
on a daily basis since November 1, 1971. At the end of 1994, there were
5,761 issues in the NASDAQ system, as compared to 5,391 a year earlier
and 3,050 at the end of 1980.
Share volume for 1994 was 74.4 billion, as compared to 66.5 billion in
1993 and 6.7 billion in 1980. This trading volume encompasses the number
of shares bought and sold by market makers plus their net inventory changes.
The dollar volume of shares traded in the NASDAQ system was $1.45 trillion
during 1994, as compared to $1.35 trillion in 1993 and $68.7 billion in 1980.
Share and Dollar Volume by Exchange

Share volume on all registered stock exchanges totaled 90.5 billion, an
increase of 9.3% from the previous year. The New York Stock Exchange
accounted for 85% of the 1994 share volume; the American Stock Exchange,
5%; the Chicago Stock Exchange, 4%; and the Pacific Stock Exchange, 2%.
The dollar value of stocks, rights, and warrants traded was $2.8 trillion,
7.9% higher than the previous year. Trading on the New York Stock Exchange
contributed 88% of the total. The Chicago Stock Exchange and Pacific Stock
Exchange contribu ted 4 % and 2 %, res pectivel y. The American Stock Exchange
accounted for 2% of dollar volume.

149

'0
tON
«)('t)CJ')
O~OOON
Mr-...,.OOO

CX)

en

cO ,....~cn- u-) ....: as
lC')

'V V

V

r;og~;;;:

OJ

E

cic.Oc:ON

r-

LOm,....mOCO
Mt-OLOVL()

'"
c=

oOC)COOtO

(0

"":c-riNOcSr--:

('I")

(Y)

"C

,....LOC)M

......

(Jj

N

LOci
<n

lC')

~

c:
OJ

E

«:

'"
U

«:

'"
OJ

.;=
;::

'"

U
Q>

CJJ

MLOm-..r-mQ')
OC"),....N(Y)(,Q

veNt-LOCO

No:>VNMr--:
C)LO
r-coU"')

~
en
w

(!J

z
«

:c

o
[IS
en
::i
z

o

en
~cn

«"0
ene

co
Q)

m
z 5
en

vor-

.......
mv

r-l.(')V

C")v

m~T"""-..nolNV

-e-

OOc>O'VL(')CON
LO
CODMO'>

co

C"J(,Ocoo

,;;

C;;
m

~U;~~
CO N coco

"C

OJ

c.6-q:ai

N

o-,

.a
OJ

"C

c:
OJ

E

c:
'"
g

'"
'"

'"

o

-e-

(Y)

en

:5

mC>OC>COMc.oc.o
L()
N,....MCO

r-CO ..............
ON
OMN(Y)lt)N
vr-QO'>(Y)C"')

LU

cvi co- v- u-)

en

cv)

N,....QCOr-ro
V N,....
LOt-CO

r--: r-~cD M Lri"
VNNN("I")M
ci

co
,..:

co r- co c>
e.O""":MM

v

...,.,....
r- 0

-e-

mNCOM

ci

a..ON"':

'"
~

'0
U

«:

OJ
0>

c:
ee
si:
u

~
'"
~::;

OJ

>X

en
C'\JLON
NO)
L.O
LOl"-tO
'V
MO>
Ooq-r-CX:>MC)

ceioNMu->evi
NOr-CO<OCO
NN

r-ooocoooc>
(Jj
en (Y)
co
...... -e-

..n
-e-

u
OJ

CJJ

cD

OJ

C")

en
en

,;;

(Y)

~

:OO.c

lllj::: l-

I-

a.. e
0'-

~~
5

c
w
u,

o

-e-

Vr-N-o::rO'>
COMNr-O>N
t'-.NO">O<DO

c:iciairova5
r-MVU"')COr-.
m 0> co to LO
NV-""':

CD

w

::::>

...J

~
IW

~
a:
«
~

U"')C"')Q)O")N
(Y) (,0
,.... (Y) (Y) N

.......

co ,.... LO (Y)
(Y) a
c:O~.....:Nvci
<'o<OC"')'Cf'L()...r- CD a en co co
c.O ...-R 01- e.O
...,......-r-('Y')O"'"
comr-o<DCO
T'"""-""':T"""-NNN

v .,..:

eo

0'> c> ........
r- 0
<X>lt")C"\J<o:::rcorOLOr.......
N .......
V cO oq-- ci
MCDroQ">tOcn

r--: a>

ocomr-COLO
V (0- cri 03 cO ID
O'O;;;f"O>vNLO
or-co.....-r-m
N""':T"""-N"NN

....... VVLOmm
(Y)LOCOQMVvN
(Y)L(')

c.qr-mL(')T'"""v-.:;r,....
U;
0> co eo N 1.0 0'> co
u-> cD eO ,...: ......:eO ,..:

~~~g~gcn

lC')

~

MO)"o::TCOLOM

N

LOtOvvCOQ')CO
VLOQ')OOCOLO
......
f'-(V)U"')LOr-Mf'-

U"')

M Ne.ONe.Oari,....:~r-f'-LONtDMr-m
tDCOMNC">vom

N

r.D

CO~ ~

N ci

T"""-

e.O

CX)MQ')VCOt'-Lt")CO

-eN

mO,....N('f')V

como>a>mcn
o>mmmmm
,.... ...............

,....

'"
OJ

>-

~


"C

c:
OJ

rn
u
150

'"::;
u

o
(/)

~O(Y)O,-CO
CD r- N
0>

r-

,-vcnvcov
LOeOMt.Oci""':

MOQONCOc.o
V-

co

r--

C"")

<.0

M

0
<D

(Y)

-e-

mOOOO'lQ)M

en

LO

L.O
O)

~"":mo:imci

N

cr>

~

CC)CJ'>O)OlQm

CD a
,.... 0>
COLOLOCOr-V
ll)
,co CD

a
(,0

N ~

cs ov c»
NV(Y)
--~

-etl.(')

'"
c::
.2
<:)

,....OOOcnNCD

OC'O
...... Lt")CDM
VNU")CON("f")

co vco -e- .......
en
...--:...--:~c.O...--cri

'"
ffi
0>
>-

V,-Qomv
.....-

T"""

.....-

,....

....-

(V)
(Y)

N

(V)

......

(Y')

....--

to

VV

C'\J-

eo

ll')

<.0
NCOD

r-

T""""

en
ci M cci
N,c.o

,-

X

en

-

en
co r- rCD

",-

E~
o>c::

:::>

=

O>(Y'),....,...-

r-

-e-

"":('I')-&.ria5""':"",
,....NtDlOCOC""')

M LO ex> LO
MCONONCD
NO>ONNV

(Y)

N

cD -:T ci ~ c.O .......:
CD co a co CD r-;
,-(Y)N,-,-'-

,-,-VCONCO
r-('t)MO">"'o:::J"'O'>
1.O r- v
<D

co r--;
a:ir--:u-iNcO"":

m('l")NtOOCO
NMQvCX)v

vOOOmOO

'"

(V)

ci
err

N
-e-

CX>OC>O

-eN

-e-

C'\Jvv
omo
C'f""i~
-

~

U")

-e- (,0 co It) ll)
,-r-r-r-Ncom

......N(Y)

CD N

O<.ONCO<DVCO
MC'JL(')Nc.o

.....

a

V

1O

Voc.oVMmr-

<::)

ci M t.O cO lfi cD oi

L.(')LOLOlOCOm

0>0

...... l(')CO

~,--M,....-<DN

.«£cv5cO..nNO

C>

-e- -e-e- '"

...... N

C'J-

-

'V

co crr av crr cri cn
0>0>0)0>0)0>
,-,-,....... ,-,-

(V)

0:
E
(;
u,

e..:>

'"
0>
0>

c::

'"

.<=.

dj

UJ
U)

OJ
U

::;
o
U)

151

Table 20
SHARE VOLUME BY EXCHANGES
(In Percentage)

1/

Year

Total Share
Volume
(In Thousands)

NYSE

AMEX

CHIC

PSE

PHLX

BSE

CSE

1945
1950
1955
1960
1961
1962
1963
1964
1965
1966
1967
1968
1969
1970
1971
1972
1973
1974
1975
1976
1977
1978
1979
1980
1981
1982
1983
1984
1985
1986
1987
1988
1989
1990
1991r
1992r
1993
1994

769,018
893,320
1,321,401
1,441,120
2,142,523
1,711,945
1,880,793
2,118,326
2,671,012
3,313,899
4,646,553
5,407,923
5,134,856
4,834,887
6,172,668
6,518,132
5,899,678
4,950,842
6,376,094
7,129,132
7,124,640
9,630,065
10,960,424
15,587,986
15,969,186
22,491,935
30,316,014
30,548,014
37,187,567
48,580,524
64,082,996
52,665,654
54,416,790
53,746,087
58,290,641
65,705,037
83,056,237
90,786,603

6587
7632
6885
6847
6499
7131
7293
7281
6990
6938
6440
6198
6316
7128
7134
7047
7492
7847
8099
8005
7971
7953
7988
7994
8068
8122
8037
8254
8152
8112
8309
8374
8133
8186
8201
8134
8290
8455

2131
1354
1919
2227
2558
2011
1883
1942
2253
2284
2841
2974
2761
1903
1842
1822
1375
10 28
897
935
956
1065
1085
1078
932
696
745
526
578
628
557
495
602
623
552
574
553
496

177
216
209
220
222
234
232
243
263
256
235
263
284
316
352
371
409
440
397
387
396
356
330
384
460
509
548
603
612
573
519
526
544
468
466
462
457
388

298
311
308
311
341
295
282
265
233
268
246
264
347
368
372
413
368
348
326
393
372
384
327
280
287
362
356
331
366
368
323
303
334
3.16
359
319
281
237

106
097
085
088
079
087
083
093
081
086
087
089
122
163
191
221
219
182
154
142
149
149
164
154
155
218
220
179
147
153
130
129
180
182
160
172
155
142

066
065
048
038
030
031
029
029
026
040
043
078
051
0.51
043
059
071
086
085
078
066
060
055
057
051
048
065
085
127
133
128
132
164
171
177
157
147
139

005
009
005
004
004
004
004
003
005
005
002
001
000
002
003
003
004
005
013
044
064
016
028
032
037
038
019
018
015
030
030
039
041
053
086
183
117
142

othersZ!
6.30
316
541
265
267
207
194
144
149
123
106
133
119
069
063
064
062
064
029
016
026
017
023
021
010
007
010
004
003
002
004
002
002
001
001
001
000
001

r=revlsed

Y Sharevolume for exchangesIncludes stocks, fights and warrants, calendar, rather than fiscal, year data IS reported In this table
2/ Includes all exchangesnot listed individually
Source SECForm R-31

152

Table 21
DOLLAR VOLUME BY EXCHANGES
(In Percentage)

11

Total Dollar
Volume
Year

($ In Thousands)

1945 $ 16,284,552
21,808,284
1950
1955
38,039,107
1960
45,309,825
1961
64,071,623
54,855,293
1962
1963
64,437,900
1964
72,461,584
89,549,093
1965
1966
123,697,737
1967
162,189,211
1968
197,116,367
1969
176,389,759
1970
131,707,946
1971
186,375,130
1972
205,956,263
178,863,622
1973
1974
118,828,270
1975
157,256,676
1976
195,224,812
1977
187,393,084
251,618,179
1978
1979
300,475,510
1980
476,500,688
491,017,139
1981
1982
603,094,266
1983
958,304,168
1984
951,318,448
1985
1,200,127,848
1,707,117,112
1986
1987
2,286,902,788
1,587,950,769
1988
1,847,766,971
1989
1,616,798,075
1990
1991
1,778,154,074
2,032,684,135
1992
1993
2,610,504,390
1994
2,817,671,150

1/
Y

NYSE

AMEX

CHIC

PSE

PHLX

SSE

8275
8591
8631
8380
8243
8632
8519
8349
81 78
7977
7729
7355
7348
7844
79 07
7777
82 07
8363
8520
8435
8396
8367
8372
8353
8474
8532
8513
8561
8525
85.02
8679
8681
8549
8615
8620
8647
8721
88 08

081
685
698
935
10 71
681
751
845
991
1184
1448
1799
1759
1111
998
10 37
6 06
440
367
388
460
613
694
733
541
327
332
226
223
256
232
196
235
233
231
207
208
2.01

2 00
235
244
272
275
275
272
315
344
314
3 08
312
339
376
4 00
429
454
490
464
476
479
416
383
433
5 04
583
628
657
659
6 00
532
546
546
458
434
428
410
349

178
219
190
194
199
2 00
239
248
243
284
279
265
312
381
379
394
355
350
326
383
353
364
278
227
232
305
286
293
3 06
3 00
253
262
284
277
305
287
238
209

096
103
103
103
103
105
106
1.14
112
110
113
113
143
199
229
256
245
2 03
1 73
169
162
162
180
161
160
159
155
158
149
157
135
133
177
1 79
154
1 70
152
134

116
112
078
060
049
046
041
042
042
056
066
104
067
067
058
075
100
124
119
094
074
061
056
052
049
051
066
085
120
144
133
134
156
163
1 72
152
135
131

CSE
006
011
009
007
007
007
006
006
008
007
003
001
001
003
005
005
006
006
017
053
075
017
035
040
040
043
016
019
018
041
035
049
054
074
083
109
137
168

Others Y
048
044
047
049
053
054
066
081
082
068
054
051
031
019
024
027
027
024
014
002
001
000
002
001
000
000
004
000
000
000
000
000
000
000
001
000
000
000

Dollar volume for exchangesIncludes stocks, nghts and warrants,calendar,ralher than fiscal, year data IS reported In this
table
Includes all exchangesnot listed individually
Source SECForm R-31

15~

tDv....-Q)ocn

....-COOOC'J....-COO
~('f')
cY)

0'>

~N

tD.......-('f")C%)l"-L(') 1"'-

r--...-o....1"--....-....-

en v en

r-: ~
en
<.0

~~-

r:::.

-

v

L(')

oo:::i

OOOOCO(O(Y')rr.....-r-O">I.O

co
,....:

""

c.6

""

""

(Q....-t'--OQV
<0 '"
'"
<D

~
0>

0

cD

(Y)

(Y)

N

N

-

a5

cri

""
L(')

0

N

<n

~::;

<n

~

a

u
Q)

en

vcooooC"J
~.... '"
0>

<D
'"

""

""

......:

,...:

c:

Q)

en

o~
u.J cc'"
cc>

(Y)

L(')

m
oi
(Y)

0>

~


M

ma
ci~
(Y)

r.nooo....-L(')r-co
m
(Y) C'J

a

<D

""
mr--OL(')....-r-...--C)
.....r....-v
0,..-to-

0

0>

u

ii3

Q)

u;

o

-;;;
E

tb~

o

o

cc'"
a...::;;;
Q;
.c

E
::>

z

COCOOL(')OIDV.......-....(Y')CONNO

mcn

VN
<0

""

L(')VlO

""'1"

oq--

M

<0

......

~

~

'"
""

Q;
..Cl

E
::>

z

1:1
u
.8

en

c:
0>

as

u.J
(.'J

z

«
:I:
o

[',S

154

o
u<n
Q)
-0

::>

U

.£

E

~


o
u.J

en
.,;
u

::;
o

en

Table 23
VALUE OF STOCKS LISTED ON EXCHANGES
($ In Billions)
New York
Stock
Exchange

As of
Dec 31
1938
1940
1941
1942
1943
1944
1945
1946
1947
1948
1949
1950
1951
1952
1953
1954
1955
1956
1957
1958
1959
1960
1961
1962
1963
1964
1965
1966
1967
1968
1969
1970
1971
1972
1973
1974
1975
1976
1977
1978
1979
1980
1981
1982
1983
1984
1985
1986
1987
1988
1989
1990
1991
1992
1993
1994
Source SEC Form 1392

$

475

465
419
358
476
555
738
686
683
670
763
938
1095
1205
1173
1691
2077
2192
1956
2767
3077
3070
3878
3458
4113
4743
5375
4825
6058
6923
6295
6364
7418
8715
7210
5111
6851
8583
7767
8227
9606
1,2428
1,1438
1,3054
1,5222
1,5295
1,8827
2,1285
2,1322
2,3661
2,9035
2,6921
3,5475
3,877 9
4,3149
4,2408

Exclusively
On Other
Exchanges

Amencan
Stock
Exchange
$

108
101
86
74
99
112
144
132
121
119
122
139
165
169
153
221
271
310
255
317
254
242
330
244
261
282
309
279
430
612
477
395
491
556
387
233
293
360
376
392
578
1035
894
776
801
520
632
703
670
841
1009
699
903
864
981
865

$

Total
$

30
31
33
32
31
28
36
40
38
31
43
42
41
53
40
43
43
47
40
39
60
54
48
47
56
41
29
43
42
42
29
39
29
50
68
66
58
59
65
59
49
46
39
43
59
72
47

583

566
505
432
575
667
882
818
804
819
916
1110
1292
1405
1354
1948
2388
2540
2242
3127
3373
3353
4261
3742
4417
5068
5731
5144
6527
7595
6826
6807
7956
9327
7638
5373
7187
8985
8185
8648
1,0223
1,3492
1,2382
1,3897
1,6088
1,5873
1,9518
2,2053
2,2051
2,4551
3,0090
2,7659
3,6421
3,9702
4,4202
4,3320

155

Table 24

APPROPRIATED

FUNDS vs FEES. COLLECTED

$ Millions

600
559

550

500

450

400

350

300

297.4

250

200

150

APPROPRIA

TED

100

50

o
FY1976

78
77

80
79

82
81

* Excludes disgorgements

156

84
83

86
85

88
87

from fraud actions.

90
89

92
91

94
93

95

on
-e-

N

...N
on

C>

-eN

N

157

>

a:

s

"'

a:
o
w

<IJ

-'-'

<"'
a:<IJ
I--

"'z
z:>
",0

"u
a:

"'zo
iii

<IJ

:!
::;;
o
o

e
o
.en
en
.-

E
E
o

a:

j

o

~
::;;
o

o

a:

"'zo
~
:!
::;;
o

-

o

U

eu
en
e
ctS

J::

o
><

z

"'a:
2:0

<
::;;
a:
;;:
x
u

........

:>u
u"'
wa:

x",0

W
"0

-

C
ctS

en

eu

I--

....

~
i!:

a:

o
z

sz

Q

a

::;;
::;;

o
o

z
o

~~

a:z
0<
Q.z

a:U:

8

-'

<

r=z

"'o

158

.: US GOVERNMENT PRINTING OFFICE 1996 409-993/20032

