1

9

Annual

9

6

Report

United States
Securities and Exchange Commission

UNITED STATES

SECURITIES AND EXCHANGE COMMISSION
WASHINGTON, D.C. 20549

The Honorable Albert Gore, Jr.
President of the Senate
Washington, D.C. 20510

The Honorable Newt Gingrich
Speaker of the House
of Representatives
Washington, D.C. 20515

Gentlemen:
I am pleased to transmit the annual report of the Securities and Exchange
Commission (SEC or Commission) for fiscal year 1996. The activities and
accomplishments set forth in the annual report continue the Commission's
long tradition of hard work and high achievement. I would like to take this
opportunity to offer my views of the Commission's progress in addressing
several of the major issues facing the Commission.
Enhancing Investor Protections
Under the Commission's regulatory scheme, securities firms and selfregulatory organizations serve as the first line of defense against violations
of the securities laws. The Commission's enforcement, examination, and
investor education activities back up that defense.
In the past year, the Commission continued its traditionally vigorous
enforcement program. For example, administrative proceedings were
instituted against the National Association of Securities Dealers (NASD) to
address its alleged failure to comply with certain of its own rules and its
failure to enforce compliance by market makers on the Nasdaq system with
NASD rules and the federal securities laws. In settling the proceedings, the
NASD agreed to spend an additional $100 million over the next five years
iii

on regulatory enhancements, in lieu of a financial penalty. Changes have
already been made in surveillance and enforcement. These and other
changes made in the context of our settlement will ensure that the NASD
moves into the next century as a vibrant marketplace and staunch defender
of investor interests.
Individual investors have become important players in the municipal
securities market. To protect them, the Commission continued to focus
increased attention on potentially illegal activities in this market. The
Commission brought two enforcement actions and issued a report arising out
of its investigation into the financial collapse of Orange County, California
and the Orange County Investment Pools. The enforcement actions concern
the fraudulent offer and sale of over $2.1 billion in municipal securities
issued in 1993 and 1994 by Orange County, the Flood Control District, and
a school district that was not named in the actions. These actions have also
led to a renewed interest in the securities law obligations of state and local
governments.
Working with the industry self-regulatory organizations and state
regulators, the Commission conducted a sales practice examination sweep of
small and medium-sized brokerage firms. The objective of the sweep was to
identify problem brokers and to ensure that appropriate supervisory
mechanisms are in place and, where necessary, to take appropriate
enforcement action. The joint sweep found deficiencies in sales practices
and in the hiring, retention, and supervisory mechanisms of more than 100
firms.
The Commission continued its strong emphasis on investor education,
through brochures, the internet, seminars, and town meetings. By working
with the securities industry, we have started initiatives that will serve
investors for decades to come.

iv

Securities Deregulation
This past year, we worked with the Congress to revise the securities
laws. Thanks to flexible and bipartisan congressional leadership, and the
cooperation of the industry and state regulators, we ended up with a bill that
can fairly be described as a milestone. The National Securities Markets
Improvement Act will make the SEC's rules work better for all participants
in the securities markets. The law eliminates redundant regulation of mutual
funds by the states and redundant regulation of certain listed securities; the
rules that used to constrain broker-dealer borrowing have been liberalized;
the SEC will be responsible for supervising large investment advisers, while
the states keep an eye on the smaller ones; the SEC budget has been put on
a more solid footing; and books and records and capital requirements will
become uniform throughout the securities industry.
Promoting Capital Formation
Throughout its existence, the Commission has balanced the need for full
disclosure and investor protection against the burden that its rules,
regulations, and requirements may impose on capital formation. During the
year, we continued to remove impediments to capital formation, starting
with our rules. An SEC Task Force on Disclosure Simplification
recommended that we eliminate or modify fully a quarter of our rules and
half of our forms related to corporate finance. We have already eliminated
44 rules and 4 forms; more will go in 1997.
In a far-reaching effort this past July, the Commission sought public
comment on some of the fundamental concepts governing offerings. Several
possible reforms were described, including the idea of "company
registration" put forth by the Advisory Committee on Capital Formation, led
by SEC Commissioner Wallman. '

v

Disclosure Developments
The Commission continued its efforts to simplify and streamline
disclosure. Working with the investment companies and state securities
regulators, the Commission continued to develop a new disclosure document
called the profile. The profile contains a brief summary of a mutual fund's
key features in a standardized format designed to facilitate comparison
among funds.

International Listings
The Commission continued to make progress in widening the range of
choices available to U.S. investors by promoting the internationalization of
our markets. In 1990, 434 foreign companies were registered in the U.S.
At the end of 1996, a record 843 foreign companies from 47 countries were
registered and filing reports with the Commission. We will continue to do
all we can to encourage more companies to list here and to work with our
regulatory counterparts to develop high-quality international accounting
standards, which will open the door to more companies from abroad.

Technological Challenges
Among the greatest challenges in the years ahead are those that have to
do with technology. In just one year, the SEC's home page has become one
of the most popular government sites on the World Wide Web. Our
EDGAR database of corporate information, which was on the cutting edge
of technology 10 years ago, is due for a major overhaul by 1997. Every
advance in communications brings new challenges in applying the securities
laws. We are racing to keep up. The internet has already changed the face
of brokerage and investment management, through on-line trading and other
innovations.

* * *

vi

Many challenges lie ahead for the Commission. The pace of change in
the securities markets has become even more pronounced in recent years,
and the SEC has succeeded by recognizing that fact and responding to it. I
have every confidence that the Commission will continue to perform its
responsibilities with the professionalism and dedication that all of us have
come to expect.

Sincerely,

Arthur Levitt
Chairman

vii

Table of Contents
Commission Members and Principal Staff Officers

xiii

Biographies of Commission Members

xvi

Arthur Levitt • Steven M.H. Wallman.
Isaac C. Hunt, Jr.

Norman S. Johnson.

Regional and District Offices
Enforcement
Key 1996 Results
Enforcement Authority
for Further Inquiry

xxi
1

• Enforcement Activities • Sources

International Affairs
Key 1996 Results

28

Arrangements for Mutual Information and Assistance
Exchange • Enforcement Cooperation • International Technical
Assistance • International Organizations and Multilateral
Initiatives
Investor Education and Assistance
Key 1996 Results

35

Investor Complaints • Plain English Initiative • Investor
Outreach.
Toll-Free Phone Line
Regulation of the Securities Markets
Key 1996 Results
Securities Markets, Trading, and Significant Regulatory
Issues.
Oversight of Self-Regulatory Organizations

viii

39

Investment Management Regulation . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Key 1996 Results

56

Significant Investment Company Act and Investment
Advisers Act Initiatives •
 Significant Public Utility
Holding Company Act Developments
Compliance Inspections and Examinations
Key 1996 Results

70

Investment Company and Investment Adviser Inspections •
Broker-Dealer Examinations.
Self-Regulatory Organization
Inspections
Full Disclosure
Key 1996 Results
Review of Filings.
Rulemaking, Interpretive,
Matters • Conferences

77

and Related

Accounting and Auditing Matters
Key 1996 Results

87

Accounting-Related Rules and Interpretations • Oversight
of Private Sector Standard-Setting • International
Accounting and Auditing Standards
Other Litigation and Legal Activities
Key 1996 Results

95

Significant Litigation Developments • Significant
Adjudication Developments • Counseling and Regulatory
Policy Services • Significant Legislative Developments •
Corporate Reorganizations • Ethical Conduct Program

ix

Municipal Securities Initiatives.
Key 1996 Results

. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .

Municipal Securities Disclosure
Outreach

116

• Technical Assistance •

119

Economic Analysis
Key 1996 Results
Economic Analysis and Technical Assistance
Program Management and Administrative
Key 1996 Results

Support

• Administrative

Support

Policy Management

123

Endnotes

133

Appendix

149

Enforcement Cases Initiated by the Commission During Fiscal Year
1996 in Various Program Areas • Fiscal 1996 Enforcement Cases
Listed by Program Area • Investigations of Possible Violations of the
Acts Administered by the Commission • Administrative Proceedings
Instituted During Fiscal Year Ending September 30, 1996 •
Injunctive Actions • Right to Financial Privacy • Types of
Proceedings.
Self-Regulatory Organizations: Expenses, Pre-tax
Income and Balance Sheet Structure • Consolidated Financial
Information of Self-Regulatory Organizations.
Self-Regulatory
Organizations--Clearing Corporations, 1995 Revenues and Expenses
• Self-Regulatory Organizations-Depositories,
1995 Revenues and
Expenses • Certificate Immobilization • Investment Companies and
Investment Advisers.
Section 13(t)(1) Reports.
Exemptions •
Corporate Reorganizations.
The Securities Industry: Revenues,
Expenses, and Selected Balance Sheet Items.
Unconsolidated
Financial Information for Broker-Dealers.
Unconsolidated Annual

x

Revenues and Expenses for Broker-Dealers Doing a Public Business,
1991-1995 • Unconsolidated Balance Sheet for Broker-Dealers Doing
a Public Business Year-end, 1991-1995 • Carrying and Clearing
Firms •
 Securities Industry Dollar in 1995 for Carrying/Clearing
Firms.
Unconsolidated Revenues and Expenses for
Carrying/Clearing Broker-Dealers • Unconsolidated Balance Sheet
for Carrying/Clearing Broker-Dealers.
Securities Traded on
Exchanges: Market Value and Volume. Nasdaq (Share Volume and
Dollar Volume) • Share and Dollar Volume by Exchange. Market
Value of Equity/Options Sales on U.S. Exchanges. Volume of
Equity/Options Sales on U.S. Securities Exchanges. Share Volume
by Exchanges • Dollar Volume by Exchanges • Securities Listed on
Exchanges • Value of Stocks Listed on Exchanges • Appropriated
Funds vs. Fees Collected. Budget Estimates and Appropriations •
Securities and Exchange Commission Organization Chart

xi

Commission Members and Principal Staff Officers
(As of November 4, 1996)

Commissioners
Arthur Levitt, Chairman
Steven M.H. Wallman, Commissioner
Norman S. Johnson, Commissioner
Isaac C. Hunt, Jr., Commissioner

Term Expires
1998
1997
1999

2000

Principal Staff Officers
Michael E. Schlein, Chief of Staff
Brian J. Lane, Director, Division of Corporation Finance
Meredith B. Cross, Deputy Director
William E. Morley, Senior Associate Director
Abigail Arms, Senior Associate Director
Robert A. Bayless, Associate Director
Wayne Carnall, Associate Director
Albert S. Dandridge, III, Associate Director
Howard F. Morin, Associate Director
Mauri Osheroff, Associate Director
David A. Sirignano, Senior Legal Advisor
William R. McLucas, Director, Division of Enforcement
Colleen P. Mahoney, Deputy Director
Paul V. Gerlach, Associate Director
Thomas C. Newkirk, Associate Director
Gary N. Sundick, Associate Director
Joan E. McKown, Chief Counsel
Vacant, Chief Litigation Counsel
xiii

Stephen J. Crimmins, Deputy Chief Litigation Counsel
George H. Diacont, Chief Accountant
James A. Clarkson, III, Director of Regional Office Operations
Barry Barbash, Director, Division of Investment Management
Heidi Stam, Associate Director
Robert Plaze, Associate Director
Douglas Scheidt, Associate Director
Jack Murphy, Associate Director
Richard Lindsey, Director, Division of Market Regulation
Robert L.D. Colby, Deputy Director

Larry E. Bergmann, Associate Director
Howard Kramer, Associate Director
Michael A. Macchiaroli, Associate Director
Catherine McGuire, Associate Director/Chief Counsel
Holly Smith, Associate Director
Richard Walker, General Counsel, Office of the General Counsel
Paul Gonson, Solicitor and Deputy General Counsel
Karen Burgess, Associate General Counsel
Anne E. Chafer, Associate General Counsel
Richard M. Hwnes, Associate General Counsel
Diane Sanger, Associate General Counsel
Jacob H. Stillman, Associate General Counsel
Lori A. Richards, Director, Office of Compliance Inspections and

Examinations
Mary Ann Gadziala, Associate Director
Gene Gohlke, Associate Director
C. Gladwyn Goins, Associate Director
Michael H. Sutton, Chief Accountant,

xiv

Office of the Chief Accountant

Brenda Murray, Chief Administrative Law Judge, Office of the
Administrative Law Judges
Erik R. Sirri, Chief Economist, Office of Economic Analysis
Victor H. Tynes, Jr., Director, Office of Equal Employment Opportunity
James M. McConnell, Executive Director, Office of the Executive Director
Fernando L. Alegria, Jr., Associate Executive Director
Michael Bartell, Associate Executive Director
Wilson A. Butler, Jr., Associate Executive Director
James Donahue, Associate Executive Director
Vacant, Director, Office of International Affairs"
Nancy M. Smith, Director, Office of Investor Education and Assistance
Kaye F. Williams, Director, Office of Legislative Affairs
Paul S. Maco, Director, Office of Municipal Securities
Jennifer Scardino, Director, Office of Public Affairs, Policy Evaluation and
Research

Jonathan G. Katz, Secretary of the Commission

*Michael D. Mann left the Commission on November 1, 1996.

xv

BIOGRAPHIES

OF COMMISSION MEMBERS

Chairman

Following his nomination by President Bill
Clinton and his confirmation by the Senate, Arthur
Levitt, Jr. was sworn in as the 25th Chairman of
the Securities and Exchange Commission in July
1993.
Before joining the Commission, Mr. Levitt
owned Roll Call, the newspaper of Congress. Mr.
Levitt served as the Chairman of the New York
City Economic Development Corporation from 1989 to 1993 and the
Chairman of the American Stock Exchange from 1978 to 1989. Prior to
accepting the AMEX Chairmanship, Mr. Levitt worked for 16 years on Wall
Street. He graduated Phi Beta Kappa from Williams College in 1952 before
serving for two years in the Air Force.
Upon his arrival at the SEC, Chairman Levitt quickly established four
priorities: improving investor protections; reforming the municipal debt
markets; raising the standards of practice for brokers and strengthening the
international preeminence of the U.S. capital markets.
During Chairman Levitt's tenure, the SEC has established the Office of
Investor Education and Assistance and created the SEC's World Wide Web
site, one of the most popular on the Internet, which allows the SEC to make
all corporate filings available to the public free of charge.
The SEC has worked to sever ties between political campaign
contributions and municipal underwriting business, a practice known as
"pay-to-play," as well as improving the disclosure and transparency of the
municipal bond market.

xvi

Chairman Levitt has also sought to raise the industry's sales practice
standards and eliminate the conflicts of interest in how brokers are
compensated.
The Commission, together with the industry, has developed the "Profile
Prospectus" and other plain English guidelines for investment products in an
effort to make disclosure documents easier to understand without
compromising the value of the information provided to investors.

Commissioner
Steven M.H. Wallman was nominated to the
Securities and Exchange Commission by President
Bill Clinton and confirmed by the Senate on June
29, 1994. He was sworn in as a Commissioner on
July 5, 1994. His term expires in June 1997.
Since arriving at the Commission,
Commissioner Wallman has concentrated on a
number of issues including capital formation;
technology and its implications for capital markets and structure, capital
formation and securities regulation; accounting models and financial
disclosure, including derivatives and risk disclosure; and international
securities regulation.
Prior to being nominated to the Commission, Mr. Wallman was in private
practice with the Washington law office of Covington & Burling. He joined
the firm in 1978 as an Associate, becoming a Partner in 1986. While at
Covington & Burling, Mr. Wallman specialized in general corporate,
securities, contract and business law. He is a member of the American Law
Institute and the American Bar Association.
Mr. Wallman also worked for the Boston Consulting Group in 1978.

xvii

Mr. Wallman received his J.D. from the Columbia University School of
Law in 1978. In 1976, he earned his Master's degree from the Sloan School
of Management at the Massachusetts Institute of Technology and his
undergraduate degree from M.LT. in 1975.
He and his wife live in Great Falls, Virginia.
Mr. Wallman was born on November 14, 1953.

Commissioner
Following his appointment by President
Clinton, and his confirmation by the Senate,
Norman S. Johnson was sworn in as a United
States Commissioner on February 13, 1996 in a
ceremony presided over by the Chief Federal
District Judge in Salt Lake City, Utah.
Prior to his nomination, Commissioner Johnson
was a senior Partner in the firm Van Cott, Bagley,
Cornwall & McCarthy and had a long and illustrious legal career focusing
on Federal and State securities law. Commissioner Johnson commenced his
career in the private practice after serving as a staff member of the SEC
from 1965 through 1967. In addition, Commissioner Johnson served as an
Assistant Attorney General in the Office of the Utah Attorney General from
1959 to 1965 and also served as a law clerk to the Chief Justice of the Utah
Supreme Court.
During his career, Commissioner Johnson served as President of the Utah
State Bar Association, was chosen as a State Delegate, House of Delegates,
American Bar Association, and was named Chairman of The Governor's
Advisory Board on Securities Matters, State of Utah. In addition,
Commissioner Johnson served on the Governor's Task Force on Officer and

xviii

Director Liability, State of Utah and numerous other committees and groups
concerned with the application of Federal and State securities laws.
Commissioner Johnson has received numerous honors and awards in
recognition of the outstanding contributions he has made to the Securities
Practice in the Rocky Mountain area. He has authored several articles
published in legal periodicals, one of which is much cited, "The Dynamics
of SEC Rule 2(e): A Crisis for the Bar."
Commissioner Johnson has involved himself in many community groups
including the Utah Supreme Court Committee on Gender and Justice.
Married since 1956 to the former Carol Groshell, Commissioner Johnson
has three grown daughters, Kelly, Catherine and Lisa, all whom reside in
the State of Utah.

Commissioner
Isaac C. Hunt, Jr. was nominated to the
Securities and Exchange Commission by President
Bill Clinton in August 1995 and confirmed by the
Senate on January 26, 1996. He was sworn in as
a Commissioner on February 29, 1996.
Prior to being nominated to the Commission,
Mr. Hunt was Dean and Professor of Law at the
University of Akron School of Law, a position he
held from 1987 to 1995. He taught securities law for seven of the eight
years he served as Dean. Previously, he was Dean of the Antioch School of
Law in Washington, D.C. where he also taught securities law. In addition,
Mr. Hunt served during the Carter and Reagan Administrations at the
Department of the Army in the Office of the General Counsel as Principal
Deputy General Counsel and as Acting General Counsel. As an associate at
the law firm of Jones, Day, Reavis and Pogue, Mr. Hunt practiced in the
fields of corporate and securities law, government procurement litigation,

xix

administrative law, and international trade. In addition, Mr. Hunt
commenced his career at the SEC as a staff attorney from 1962 to 1967.
Mr. Hunt was born on August 1, 1937 in Danville, Virginia. He earned
his B.A. from Fisk University in Nashville, Tennessee in 1957, and his
LL.B. from the University of Virginia School of Law in 1962.

xx

~13
• z
I ii

..

D

;

'"

Cl.l
CJ

~£
a: !!1
000

'" '"
Q)-

s: c:

5g

0«

Ul

o
;:

U;

o

w
o

•

o

'"
::=

en

u:
u,

Cl.l
CJ

t-

o

o

t-

o

a-:

co
c

en
c
c

; ~i
Ol

Z
<t

:E

...J

<t
Z

Q
e

w
a:

o

w

en

,
\

13
_ 0

8~

1
010

r!i!. fA
u U

.0=

c:

U
'"LL '"
~
c..
c:

'"

Ul

xxi

Central Regional Office
Daniel F. Shea, Regional Director
1801 California Street, Suite 4800
Denver Colorado 80202-2648
(303) 391-6800
Fort Worth District Office
Harol F. Degenhardt, District Administrator
801 Cherry Street, 19th Floor
Fort Worth, TX 76102
(817) 334-3821
Salt Lake District Office
Kenneth D. Israel, Jr., District Administrator
50 South Main Street, Suite 500
Salt Lake City, UT 84144-0402
(801) 524-5796
Midwest Regional Office
Mary Keefe, Regional Director
Citicorp Center
500 W. Madison Street, Suite 1400
Chicago, Illinois 60661-2511
(312) 353-7390
Northeast Regional Office
Carmen J. Lawrence, Regional Director
7 World Trade Center, Suite 1300
New York, New York 10048
(212) 748-8000

xxii

Boston District Office
Juan M. Marcelino, District Administrator
73 Tremont Street, 6th Floor
Boston, MA 02108-3912
(617) 424-5900
Philadelphia District Office
Vacant
The Curtis Center, Suite 1005E
601 Walnut Street
Philadelphia, PA 19106-3322
(215) 597-3100
Pacific Regional Office
Elaine M. Cacheris, Regional Director
5670 Wilshire Boulevard, 11th Floor
Los Angeles, CA 90036-3648
(213) 965-3998
San Francisco District Office
David B. Bayless, District Administrator
44 Montgomery Street, Suite 1100
San Francisco, CA 94104
(415) 705-2500
Southeast Regional Office
Charles V. Senatore, Regional Director
1401 Brickell Avenue, Suite 200
Miami, FL 33131
(305) 536-4700
Atlanta District Office
Richard P. Wessel, District Administrator
3475 Lenox Road, N.E., Suite 1000
Atlanta, GA 30326-1232
(404) 842-7600

xxiii

Enforcement
The Commission's enforcement program is designed to protect investors and
foster confidence by preserving the integrity and efficiency of the securities
markets. During the year, the agency prosecuted a wide range of cases.

Key 1996 Results
In 1996, the Commission brought a significant number of enforcement
actions, and sought and obtained relief drawn from remedies designed to
protect investors and the public interest. The Commission obtained court
orders requiring defendants to disgorge illegal profits of approximately $325
million. Civil penalties authorized by the Securities Enforcement Remedies
and Penny Stock Reform Act of 1990 (Remedies Act), the Insider Trading
Sanctions Act of 1984 (ITSA), and the Insider Trading and Securities Fraud
Enforcement Act of 1988 (ITSFEA) totaled over $67 million. (In some
instances, the payment of disgorgement pursuant to a court order was waived
based upon the defendant's demonstrated inability to pay. Courts also have,
in some cases, noted the appropriateness of civil penalties that were not
imposed because of a defendant's demonstrated inability to pay.)

ENFORCEMENT ACTIONS INITIATED
1992

1993

1994

1995

1996

Civil Injunctive Actions
Administrative Proceedings
Civil and Criminal Contempt
Proceedings
Reports of Investigation

156
226

172
229

196
268

171
291

180
239

11

15

33

32

_1

-.Q

-.Q

23
_1

-.2

Total

394

416

497

486

453

1

In Commission-related cases, criminal authorities obtained 78 criminal
indictments or informations and 57 convictions during 1996. The
Commission granted access to its files to domestic and foreign prosecutorial
authorities in 229 cases.

Enforcement Authority
The Commission has broad authority to investigate possible violations of
the federal securities laws. In its informal investigations, information is
requested on a voluntary basis. The Commission also may conduct formal
investigations and issue subpoenas to compel the production of books and
records and the appearance of witnesses to testify.
The federal court injunction, an order that prohibits future violations of
the law, always has been one of the Commission's principal enforcement
tools. In civil actions for injunctive relief, the Commission may seek
temporary restraining orders and preliminary injunctions, as well as
permanent injunctions, against violators. Conduct that violates the injunction
may result in fines or imprisonment. In addition to injunctive relief, the
Commission often seeks other equitable relief such as an accounting and
disgorgement of illegal profits. When seeking temporary restraining orders,
the Commission often requests a freeze order to protect investor funds and
assets. Civil penalties may be imposed for any violation of the federal
securities laws (except insider trading violations for which penalties are
available under ITSA and ITSFEA). The Remedies Act also affirmed the
authority of the federal courts to bar or suspend individuals from serving as
corporate officers or directors.
The Commission may institute several types of administrative
proceedings. These include proceedings against regulated entities (such as
broker-dealer firms or investment advisers) in which they may be censured
or limited in their activities, or in which their registrations may be
suspended or revoked. The Commission also may impose similar sanctions
on persons employed by regulated firms. In addition, individuals who take
2

~


part in an offering of penny stock may be barred from such participation. In
administrative proceedings against regulated firms and their employees, the
Remedies Act also authorized the Commission to impose penalties and order
disgorgement.
The Remedies Act further authorized the Commission to institute
administrative proceedings in which it can issue cease and desist orders. A
permanent cease and desist order can be entered against any person violating
the federal securities laws and may require disgorgement of illegal profits.
In emergency situations, the Commission may issue temporary cease and
desist orders against regulated firms or their employees.
Section B(d) of the Securities Act of 1933 (Securities Act) permits the
Commission to institute proceedings to suspend the effectiveness of a
registration statement that contains false and misleading statements.
Respondents can be ordered to comply, or to take steps to effect compliance,
with the relevant provisions. Pursuant to Rule 102(e) of the Commission's
Rules of Practice, administrative proceedings can be instituted against
professionals who appear or practice before the Commission, including
accountants and attorneys. The sanctions that can be imposed in these
proceedings include suspensions and bars from appearing or practicing
before the Commission.
The Commission is authorized to refer matters to other federal, state, or
local authorities or self-regulatory organizations (SROs). The agency often
provides substantial assistance to the Department of Justice for the criminal
prosecution of securities violations.

Enforcement Activities
Set forth below are summaries of significant enforcement actions initiated
in various areas during 1996. Defendants or respondents who consented to
settlements of actions did so without admitting or denying the factual

3

allegations contained in the complaint or the order instituting proceedings.
See Table 2 for a listing of all enforcement actions instituted in 1996.
Municipal Securities Cases
Individual investors have become important players in the municipal
securities markets, through direct purchases of municipal bonds and
investments in mutual funds that hold these securities. To protect investors
in municipal securities, the Commission has focused increased attention on
potentially illegal activities in this market.
The Commission brought two enforcement actions and issued a report
arising out of its investigation into the financial collapse of Orange County,
California, and the Orange County Investment Pools:
•

A civil action was filed against Robert L. Citron, Orange County's
former treasurer-tax collector, and Matthew R. Raabe, the former
assistant treasurer. I

•

Cease and desist proceedings were instituted against Orange County,
the Orange County Flood Control District, and the Orange County
Board of Supervisors. 2

•

A report of investigation was issued concerning the activity of
individual members of Orange County's board of supervisors."

The enforcement actions concern the fraudulent offer and sale of over
$2.1 billion in municipal securities issued in 1993 and 1994 by Orange
County, the Flood Control District, and a school district that was not named
in the actions. Among other things, disclosure documents used in the
offerings were false or misleading with respect to (1) Orange County's
Investment Pools, including the Pools' investment strategy and investment
results, manipulation of the Pools' yield, and investment in the Pools of
funds pledged to repay the securities; (2) Orange County's financial
condition; and (3) the tax-exempt status of the offerings. The defendants in

4

the civil action consented to the entry of an injunction, and the respondents
in the administrative proceedings consented to the entry of a cease and desist
order. The members of the board of supervisors named in the report of
investigation (which does not constitute an adjudication of any fact or issue
that it addresses) consented to the issuance of the report.
The Commission also instituted cease and desist proceedings against
Maricopa County, Arizona, the sixth largest county in the United States,
alleging antifraud violations in the July 1993 offer and sale of two series of
general obligation bonds (In the Matter of Maricopa County'). The county's
disclosure documents for the offerings contained financial statements for the
year ended June 30, 1992, but did not disclose that the county's financial
condition had worsened significantly by the time of the offerings. In the
period leading up to the offerings, the county had developed a deficit in its
General Fund and had doubled the deficit in its Medical Center Enterprise
Fund, in which current liabilities exceeded assets on June 30, 1993, by 40
percent more than on June 30, 1992. In addition, the county failed to
disclose that its cash flow had worsened since the close of the prior fiscal
year. The county also represented that bond proceeds would be used to
finance specific projects, when in fact it planned to use the bond proceeds to
finance its deficit. The County consented to the entry of a cease and desist
order. The Commission also instituted cease and desist proceedings against
the county's financial advisor, Peacock, Hislop, Staley & Givens, and Larry
S. Givens, an officer of the firm, for causing the county's violations (In the
Matter of Peacock, Hislop, Staley & Given, Inc. 5). The firm and Givens
consented to the entry of a cease and desist order by which they were
required to pay civil penalties of $50,000 and $25,000.
In the Commission's administrative proceedings against an underwriter,
First Fidelity Securities Group consented to the entry of the Commission's
order which found that, as a result of undisclosed kickback schemes engaged
in by the firm to secure underwriting business, First Fidelity defrauded
certain municipal issuers, as well as investors (In the Matter of First Fidelity
Securities Group'). The Commission found that First Fidelity delivered
official statements on the municipal bond offerings to investors that
5

misrepresented the underwriters' discounts or costs of issuance and did not
disclose the kickback scheme. The Commission also found that First
Fidelity violated rules of the Municipal Securities Rulemaking Board
(MSRB) regarding fair dealing, books and records, and gifts and gratuities.
First Fidelity consented to pay disgorgement plus prejudgment interest in the
amount of $1,793,309 and a civil penalty of $500,000.
In the first "pay to play" case, the Commission alleged violations of
MSRB Rule G-37 and related recordkeeping rules in cease and desist
proceedings against FAIC Securities, Inc. (In the Matter of FAlC Securities,
Inc.'). MSRB Rule G-37 provides that brokers, dealers, and municipal
securities dealers may not engage in municipal securities business with an
issuer within two years after making contributions to any official of that
issuer who has responsibility for the hiring of brokers, dealers, or municipal
securities dealers. During 1994, the chairman of FAIC's executive
committee and the chairman of FAIC's board of directors made
contributions through companies under their control to candidates for office
who could influence the awarding of municipal securities business for Dade
County, Florida, and the State of Florida. In this same period, FAIC was
selected to participate in three negotiated underwritings of certain municipal
securities by both Dade County and the Florida Housing Finance Authority.
The underwritings represented sales of approximately $379 million and
generated fees of $224,205 for FAIC. FAIC consented to the entry of a
cease and desist order by which its registration was revoked, and it was
required to disgorge its fees, plus prejudgment interest, and to pay a civil
penalty of $200,000.
The Commission alleged violations of MSRB Rule G-17, which requires
fair dealing by brokers in the municipal securities market, in cease and desist
proceedings against Lazard Freres and Merrill Lynch (In the Matter of
Lazard Freres & Co. U~).
Lazard Freres was the financial adviser to the
Massachusetts Water Resources Authority (MWRA) and the District of
Columbia. An individual who was at the relevant times a partner of Lazard
entered into a fee-splitting agreement with Merrill Lynch to market interest
rate swaps. Under the contract, Lazard was to receive an annual consulting

6

fee of between $800,000 and $1 million and a share of Merrill Lynch's
income from successful joint swap proposals. In recommending that the
MWRA and the District of Columbia select Merrill Lynch to provide
financial services, the partner failed to disclose the existence of the contract
or the resulting conflict of interest. Neither Lazard Freres nor Merrill
Lynch took adequate steps to ensure disclosure. The respondents consented
to the entry of a cease and desist order by which Lazard Freres was required
to pay a civil penalty of $2.5 million and to make restitution to the MWRA
and the District of Columbia of $2.12 million and $1.8 million. Merrill
Lynch was required to pay a civil penalty of $2.5 million and to make
restitution to the MWRA and the District of Columbia of $2 million and
$1.8 million.
Offering Cases
Securities offering cases involve the offer and sale of securities in
violation of the registration provisions of the Securities Act.
Internet Cases
Communications over the internet have at times been used to solicit the
purchase of unregistered securities or to further securities frauds. In SEC v.
Octagon Technology Group, Inc.," the Commission alleged that a computer
software company and two of its former officers created an elaborate sham
offering of offshore debt securities on the World Wide Web. The complaint
charged that the defendants created a website for a Panamanian shell
subsidiary of Octagon, on which they advertised "Interamerican hard
currency bonds." Although the bonds never existed and the subsidiary had
no business operations or assets, the defendants promised a risk-free
investment with guaranteed annual returns of 11.75 percent, and portrayed
the subsidiary as a successful provider of investment capital to Latin
American businesses. One of the defendants posted messages touting the
bonds on three investment-related internet newsgroups, without disclosing
his relationship to the offering. In addition, the website contained a
purported reproduction of an article in World Financial Report regarding the

7

bonds and the issuer. In fact, the World Financial Report was a fabrication
of the defendants. The defendants consented to the entry of injunctions, and
one of the individual defendants was ordered to pay a civil penalty of
$5,000.
The Commission charged Scott Frye with posting numerous messages on
the internet, in which he solicited investors with promises of riskless profits
and above average returns from investments in two Costa Rican enterprises,
ICP and the Jupiter Agro Development Project (SEC v. Scott A. FryelO).
Frye falsely represented that one of his companies had a major distribution
contract for its product with A&P Supermarkets, when no distribution
contracts existed, and falsely stated that a bank had guaranteed investors'
principal and 15 percent interest for a one-year investment. The Commission
has obtained a preliminary injunction and an asset freeze in this matter,
which was pending at the end of the year.
The Commission's action against IVT Systems, Inc. and Donald Spencer,
the founder, president, and majority shareholder of IVT, involved allegations
that the defendants used the internet, among other means of communication,
to engage in fraudulent securities offerings (SEC v. Donald B. Spencer").
The defendants solicited investments on the internet that they represented
would be used to finance the construction by IVT of a proposed ethanol
plant in the Dominican Republic. Potential returns of 50 percent and greater
were promised when there was no basis for this prediction. Spencer and
IVT consented to the entry of injunctions and an order requiring the
disgorgement of $113,500, representing the amount raised from 12
investors, plus interest.
In SEC v. Wye Resources, Inc., 12 the Commission charged that Wye
Resources and its former president, Rehan Malik, placed messages over the
internet through a New Orleans-based computer bulletin board service called
the Emerging Growth Stock BBS in connection with the offering of
approximately 5.3 million shares of unregistered Wye stock; advertisements
also were placed in U.S. publications. Wye Resources is a Canadian
corporation that claims to own interests in various gold and diamond mining

8

properties; certain of the messages and advertisements misrepresented the
status of the purportedly ongoing exploitation of certain mining properties in
Zaire. Malik consented to the entry of an injunction and an order requiring
him to pay a civil penalty of $25,000. This matter was pending as to Wye
Resources at the end of the year.
Other Offering Violations
In SEC v. Comparator Systems Corporation," the Commission alleged
that Comparator and three of its officers and directors sold tens of millions
of shares of Comparator stock to investors while making material
misrepresentations concerning the financial status of the company, its
purported proprietary interest in certain fingerprint identification technology,
and its other business activities. Among other things, the defendants claimed
that Comparator had developed a new generation of fingerprint identification
technology with substantial market potential and demonstrated a device to
investors that purportedly used the new technology. The complaint alleged,
however, that two of the individual defendants had stolen a prototype of a
device developed by persons who were not associated with Comparator.
The Commission also alleged that Comparator filed false and misleading
financial statements for its fiscal years 1994 and 1995 and for the first three
quarters of 1996, that grossly inflated the company's assets. Comparator
and two of the individual defendants, Robert Reed Rogers and Gregory
Armijo, consented to the entry of injunctions; Rogers and Armijo also were
barred from serving as officers or directors of public companies. A
preliminary injunction was entered by default against the final individual
defendant, Scott Hitt, who was formerly the executive vice-president of
Comparator. The Commission settled related administrative proceedings
against Comparator's former auditor and his accounting firm (In the Matter
of Eli Buchalter, CPA14). The cease and desist order also denied the
respondents the privilege of appearing or practicing before the Commission.
The Commission alleged that over $570 million was raised through the
fraudulent offer and sale of securities by Bennett Funding Group, Inc.
(BFG); Patrick Bennett, BFG's former chief financial officer; and three

9

related entities between 1991 and 1995 (SEC v. The Bennett Funding Group,
Inc. 15). The defendants sold assignments of purported equipment leases
when no underlying lease existed, including the sale of over $55 million in
fictitious and supposedly tax-exempt New York City Transit Authority
leases. In cases where the defendants did have an underlying lease, they
sometimes sold leases that already had been sold to other investors. The
Commission further alleged that materially false BFG financial statements
for 1992 and 1993 were used to sell promissory notes issued by two of its
subsidiaries. The proceeds from the sale of lease assignments and
promissory notes were diverted to various people and entities connected with
Patrick Bennett or the other defendants; the diversion of funds included the
payment of over $10 million to Bennett. Patrick Bennett consented to the
entry of a preliminary injunction and an asset freeze in these proceedings,
which were pending at the end of the year.
The Commission focused on several offering frauds purportedly involving
high-tech telecommunications securities. In SEC v. Douglas Frankel." the
Commission alleged that the defendant created and caused the broadcasting
of fraudulent infomercials to tout investments in wireless cable television and
specialized mobile radio ventures. Frankel repeatedly broadcast four halfhour infomercials during 1993 and 1994. Leads to potential investors
developed through the broadcasts were then sold to some 30 promoters of
high-tech securities. At least 13 of Frankel's clients are the subject of
various Commission enforcement actions charging them with registration or
antifraud violations. The infomercials falsely stated that the risks of the
investments were minimal and falsely projected exorbitant rates of return.
Frankel consented to the entry of an injunction and an order requiring him to
pay a civil penalty of $50,000.
The Commission filed an action against Paul L. Parshall, alleging that he
set up a new Utah corporation, Republic International Corporation, to
assume the identity of a defunct, but publicly-traded, corporation having the
same name (SEC v. Axiom Security Solutions, IncP). Through his own
transfer agent, TransGlobal Securities, Inc., Parshall issued common stock
of the new company in the names of the shareholders of the old company.

10

He then sold the newly created shell corporation to Axiom Security
Solutions, Inc., as a vehicle for taking Axiom public without going through
the required registration process. In addition, Parshall had the new Republic
International assume the identity of the old company for purposes of
delivering information to market makers and making filings with the
Commission. The defendants consented to the entry of injunctions and
orders by which Parshall was ordered to disgorge $150,000 plus $7,594 in
prejudgment interest and to pay a civil penalty of $100,000. Parshall also
was barred from serving as an officer or director of any public company.
The Commission instituted related administrative proceedings in which the
registration of Republic International's stock was revoked by default for
failure to make required periodic filings since 1990 (In the Matter of
Republic International Corporation'ry, The Commission also settled cease
and desist proceedings in which it barred an individual from participation in
penny stock offerings, based on the respondent's preparation of a fraudulent
filing on Form 8-K with respect to Axiom's acquisition of the new Republic
International and a fraudulent Form S-8 registration statement in connection
with Axiom's distribution of certain shares (In the Matter of Norman L.
Sirakl'1.

The Commission alleged in cease and desist proceedings that stocks were
purportedly issued in reliance upon Regulation S to evade registration
requirements (In the Matter of Candie's, Inc."). In three offerings of
securities issued by Candie's, Inc., and one offering of securities issued by
Response USA, Inc., large blocks of stock were sold to foreign purchasers
at a substantial discount to the prevailing market price, in return for shortterm, unsecured promissory notes. The securities were transferred to
accounts with a U.S. brokerage firm and then resold to U.S. customers
shortly after the expiration of the 40-day restricted period of Regulation S.
The foreign purchasers bore little economic risk, since the proceeds of the
U.S. sales could be used to payoff the promissory notes. The issuers, the
law firm that arranged the sales, and Salvatore Mazzeo, the president and
owner of the U.S. brokerage firm, consented to the entry of the cease and
desist order. In addition, Mazzeo was suspended from association with
regulated entities for a period of five months.
11

Financial Disclosure Cases
Actions involving false and misleading disclosures concerning matters that
affect the financial condition of an issuer, or involving the issuance of false
financial statements, often are complex and, in general, demand more
resources than other types of cases. Effective prosecution in this area is
essential to preserving the integrity of the full disclosure system. The
Commission brought 59 cases containing significant allegations of financial
disclosure violations against issuers, regulated entities, or their employees.
Many of these cases included alleged violations of the books and records and
internal accounting control provisions of the Foreign Corrupt Practices Act.
The Commission also brought 20 cases alleging misconduct by accounting
firms or their partners or employees.
The Commission filed an injunctive action against Giancarlo Parretti, a
former director and chief executive officer of Pathe Communications
Corporation (SEC v. Giancarlo Parretti''), and related administrative
proceedings against Florio Fiorini, Pathe's former chairman.F and
Fernando Cappuccio, a former director and chief financial officer of the
company."
The complaint in the injunctive action alleged that Pathe
entered into a purported $200 million sale and leaseback transaction in which
ownership of certain theater properties was transferred to Cinema 5 Europe
N.V. In fact, Cinema 5 was not independent of Pathe, and the transaction
was a sham. Pathe provided the funds to establish Cinema 5, the managing
directors of Cinema 5 were friends and business associates of Parretti, and
Cappuccio was Cinema 5' s sole representative in arranging the transaction.
As a result of the transaction, Pathe improperly recognized gains of more
than $100 million in financial statements for 1989 and the first quarter of
1990. The complaint also alleged that Parretti and Fiorini failed to record
material liabilities in Pathe's books and records when it acquired MGM/UA.
When they failed to raise equity financing required to complete the merger,
Parretti and Fiorini borrowed more than $300 million on a short-term basis
and committed Pathe to repay the loans after the merger. Pathe also sold
certain licensing rights to raise more than $100 million that could be used to
finance the merger; however, Pathe was obligated to repurchase the rights at

12

the buyer's option. The short-term loans and the repurchase contingency
were not recorded on Pathe's books and records. Parretti consented to the
entry of an injunction, and Fiorini and Cappuccio consented to the entry of
cease and desist orders.
The Commission charged a biotechnology firm, Cypress Bioscience Inc.,
with filing a Form lO-Q for the quarter ended September 30, 1993 that
contained financial statements which materially overstated revenue, and
materially understated losses, by improperly recognizing revenue from
purported bill and hold transactions (In the Matter of Cypress Bioscience
Inc.).24 Cypress also failed adequately to disclose a change in its
accounting policies by which it recognized revenue on goods that had not
been shipped, failed to disclose that an increase in third quarter revenues
between 1992 and 1993 was primarily attributable to the bill and hold
transactions, and failed to discuss the effect of the bill and hold transactions
on future revenue. Among other things, Cypress, the manufacturer of a
product used in the treatment of human immune system disorders,
recognized revenue generated by a volume discount program. Under the
program, customers could order an amount equivalent to a full year's usage,
but could take delivery at any time within 11 months and were not obligated
to pay until 30 days after delivery. In addition, expired products could be
returned for replacement. Forty-nine percent of Cypress' 1993 third quarter
revenue was attributable to this program. Cypress and Alex P. de Soto, its
chief financial officer, consented to the entry of the cease and desist order,
by which de Soto was denied the privilege of appearing or practicing before
the Commission.
In litigated proceedings instituted in 1994, the Chief Administrative Law
Judge (AU) found that the Bank of Boston Corporation violated the
reporting provisions of the Exchange Act by misstating or failing to disclose
in its Form lO-Q for the second quarter of 1989 certain material facts, and
known trends and uncertainties, concerning the deterioration of its loan
portfolio that could reasonably have been expected to have a material,
unfavorable effect on its financial condition and results of operations (In the
Matter of Bank of Boston Corp P). In the second quarter of 1989 the bank

13

showed a Provision Expense (i.e., an amount to be added to its loan loss
reserve) of $36 million and net income of $97.8 million. This Provision
Expense was in the same amount as in the previous five quarters. In the
third quarter of 1989, the bank had a Provision Expense of $370 million,
and an after-tax net loss of $125 million for the quarter. Although the value
of Bank of Boston's loan portfolio was adversely affected by declines in the
New England real estate market, the bank failed adequately to reflect this
decline in its periodic filings with the Commission. The AU found that
Bank of Boston's top management knew or should have known when it filed
its Form IO-Q on August 10, 1989 that its financials without explanation
were misleading, and that known trends and uncertainties in its real estate
portfolio would reasonably be expected to have a material unfavorable
impact on its fmancial condition. Disclosure in the Form IO-Q is required
in situations such as this because the bank knew, or should have known, that
(1) without explanation its fmancials were misleading, and (2) the bank's
financial statements and accompanying footnotes were insufficient, without a
narrative explanation, for an investor to judge the quality of earnings and the
likelihood that reported financial information is not indicative of material
changes in future operating results. The AU entered a cease and desist
order against Bank of Boston.
The Commission alleged that Christopher Kent Bagdasarian, the chief
executive officer and chairman of Normandy America Inc., and Sam Lance
White, a tax partner with Deloitte & Touche LLP, engaged in a fraudulent
scheme to fabricate Bagdasarian's investment track record, which was
included in the registration statement for Normandy's initial public
offering. 26 Normandy was a reinsurance company with no financial or
operating history and its business plan depended on the ability, through
Bagdasarian, to invest reinsurance premiums in equity securities. The
defendants told Normandy's underwriters that Bagdasarian had achieved a
ten-year annual return of 29.1 percent by managing assets ranging from
$250.6 million in 1990 to $731.3 million during 1994; in fact, the
defendants fabricated the assets and the investment results. This matter was
pending at the end of the year.

14

The Commission alleged that the former senior management of Platinum
Software Corporation devised and implemented a fraudulent accounting
scheme between March 1993 and January 1994 (In the Matter of Platinum
Software Corporation'').
Platinum improperly recorded the revenue from a
number of license agreements that were accompanied by side letters giving
the customer the right to cancel the agreement within a specified period of
time, backdated certain license agreements and shipping documents to record
revenue in a prior quarter, and improperly recognized revenue on sales that
were subject to significant uncertainty. Platinum and two of its vice
presidents, John F. Keane and William B. Falk, consented to the entry of
the cease and desist order. In a related civil action, SEC v. Gerald R.
Blackie,28 the Commission charged Blackie, Platinum's former chief
executive officer, president, and chairman; Jon R. Erickson, its former chief
financial officer; and Mark S. Tague, its former executive vice
president/corporate controller, with participation in the financial fraud at
Platinum. In addition, the defendants were alleged to have engaged in
insider trading by selling Platinum common stock while in possession of
material non-public information about the company's true financial
condition. The defendants consented to the entry of an injunction and orders
requiring them to disgorge $2,476,000 representing their losses avoided,
bonuses of $184,125 received from Platinum during the fraud, and
prejudgment interest. Blackie and Tague also were required to pay civil
penalties totaling $150,000. In related proceedings under Rule 102(e),
Erickson and Tague were denied the privilege of appearing or practicing
before the Commission (In the Matter of Jon R. Erickson, CPA;29 In the
Matter of Mark S. Tague, CPA30).
In SEC v. McDonnell Douglas Corporation." the Commission alleged
that the aircraft manufacturer failed to recognize a material loss on its $6.6
billion, fixed-price contract with the U.S. Air Force for the C-17 cargo jet.
As a result, McDonnell Douglas overstated its pre-tax income in financial
statements filed with the Commission for 1990. By June 1990, preliminary
estimates developed by the company's operating division, Douglas Aircraft
Company, projected costs substantially higher than the contract price. In
August 1990, the Department of Defense informed the company that a $6.5

15

billion cost estimate was not supportable and that progress payments would
be withheld until an acceptable cost estimate was submitted. During the last
half of 1990, cost overruns continued to rise and production efficiency
worsened or remained flat; nonetheless, McDonnell Douglas reported for
year-end 1990 that it would break even on the contract. McDonnell Douglas
consented to the entry of an injunction and an order requiring it to pay a
civil penalty of $500,000.
The Commission took action against Kendall Square Research
Corporation, which allegedly issued financial statements for 1992 and the
first two quarters of 1993 that were materially false and misleading in that
revenue and earnings were overstated (SEC v. Kendall Square Research
Corporation'').
The complaint alleged that the company recognized
revenue from purported sales of its computers that were subject to material
contingencies, which in certain instances were contained in side letters to the
purported sales contracts. In a number of instances, payment was contingent
on the buyers' receipt of outside funding from third parties. The
Commission also alleged that the three individual defendants, Henry
Burkhardt III, Kendall's former president and chief executive officer; Peter
Appleton Jones, its former highest ranking sales executive; and Karl G.
Wassmann III, its former chief financial and accounting officer, sold Kendall
common stock while in possession of material non-public information about
the company's true financial condition and results of operations. Burkhardt,
Jones and Wassmann consented to the entry of injunctions. Burkhardt was
ordered to pay a total of $1.1 million, representing his losses avoided and
civil penalties, and was barred from acting as an officer or director of any
public company. Jones was ordered to pay a total of $321,526, representing
his losses avoided and prejudgment interest. Wassmann was ordered to
disgorge a total of $241,548, representing his losses avoided and
prejudgment interest. Wassmann also was denied the privilege of appearing
or practicing before the Commission in related administrative proceedings
pursuant to Rule 102(e). The Commission also settled cease and desist
proceedings against Thomas J. MacCormack, Kendall's former director of
contract administration, in which the respondent was required to pay

16

$31,672.75 representing his losses avoided from sales of Kendall stock, plus
prejudgment interest (In the Matter of Thomas J. MacCormacI23).
The Commission alleged that Akhilesh Chandoke, the former president,
chief executive officer, and director of Automated Telephone Management
Systems, Inc. (ATM); Frank Mzyk, ATM's former controller and principal
accounting officer; and David Jacobs, its former secretary and vice president
of sales, engaged in a fraudulent scheme to inflate the company's revenue
for the fiscal year ended September 30, 1993 (SEC v. Automated Telephone
Management Systems, Inc. 34). ATM allegedly recognized $1.3 million in
revenue from a fictitious sales contract that represented 25 percent of the
company's revenue for 1993. The defendants concealed inventory, created
fictitious invoices, and backdated internal documents to conceal the fraud
from auditors. Chandoke and Mzyk consented to the entry of injunctions
and orders barring them from acting as officers or directors of public
companies. Default injunctions were entered against ATM and Jacobs, who
also was barred from serving as an officer or director of a public company.
In a related action, Earl V. Young, a former ATM director, consented to the
entry of an injunction and an order requiring him to pay a civil penalty of

$15,000 (SEC v. Earl V. Young35).
Insider Trading
Insider trading occurs when a person in possession of material non-public
information engages in securities transactions or communicates such
information to others who trade. The Commission often seeks ancillary
relief, including disgorgement of any profits gained or losses avoided, in
addition to permanent injunctions. The ITSA penalty provisions authorize
the Commission to seek a civil penalty, payable to the United States
Treasury, of up to three times the profit gained or loss avoided against
persons who unlawfully trade in securities while in possession of material
non-public information or who unlawfully communicate material non-public
information to others who trade. Civil penalties also can be imposed upon
persons who control insider traders. During 1996, the Commission brought
42 cases alleging insider trading violations.

17

In emergency situations, the Commission will take action to protect the
markets when the identity of potential violators has been concealed or is
otherwise unknown. In SEC v. Certain Purchasers of the Common Stock of
CBI Industries, Inc., 36 the Commission filed a complaint alleging that
unknown persons, acting through the offices of foreign financial institutions
(three Swiss and one German), made highly profitable purchases of common
stock issued by CBI Industries just days before the public announcement of a
proposed takeover of CBI by Praxair, Inc. Because the price of CBI stock
rose by over 50 percent following the public announcement, the defendants
stood to realize substantial profits. The court entered a temporary
restraining order that froze the shares of stock in the accounts at issue, along
with any proceeds from sales of such stock. Subsequently, the court entered
an injunction by default against the two individuals and seven companies that
had been identified as responsible for the trading. The order requires total
disgorgement of $1.4 million, plus $1.2 million in ITSA penalties from
seven of the defendants.
The Commission also filed an action, SEC v. Certain Purchasers of Call
Options of Duracell International, Inc., 37 alleging that unknown persons
purchased call options prior to the public announcement of a merger
agreement between Duracell International and The Gillette Company The
defendants' purchases resulted in profits of approximately $950,000. The
Commission obtained a preliminary injunction and an asset freeze in this
case, which was pending at the end of the year.
The Commission filed an action against six individuals, alleging that they
engaged in insider trading in the securities of Intuit, Inc., or tipped to others
who traded, prior to the announcement of a proposed merger between
Microsoft Corporation and Intuit on October 13, 1994 (SEC v. Kathleen
Lane"). Kathleen Lane learned of the proposed merger from her spouse,
Intuit's chief financial officer, and tipped her son and daughter who in turn
tipped the three other defendants. Seven months later, Lane learned that the
merger plans were to be abandoned and communicated this information to
her son and one of his tippees. The defendants consented to the entry of

18

injunctions and orders requiring the payment of a total of $472,342 in
disgorgement and penalties.
The Commission charged a psychiatrist with insider trading in the
securities of Lockheed Corporation (SEC v. Mervyn Cooper"). In 1994,
Mervyn Cooper provided marriage counseling to a Lockheed executive who
was involved in the due diligence process related to a planned merger
between Lockheed and Martin Marietta Corporation. The executive
confided confidential information concerning a major transaction involving
Lockheed, which Cooper tipped to Kenneth E. Rottenberg, who opened a
brokerage account in which he and Cooper jointly purchased call option
contracts for Lockheed stock. They also purchased shares of Lockheed
stock. As a result of their illegal trading, the defendants had combined
profits of $177,235.60. The defendants consented to the entry of injunctions
and orders requiring Cooper to disgorge profits of $53,458.02 plus
prejudgment interest and to pay a civil penalty of $53,458.02, and requiring
Rottenberg to disgorge $53,909.85.
A complaint filed by the Commission charged Donald Tyson and
Frederick Cameron with insider trading in 1992 in the common stock of
Arctic Alaska Fisheries Corporation (SEC v, Donald John Tyson~.
Tyson, who was then the chairman of the board of directors of Tyson
Foods, Inc. and a majority shareholder of the company, communicated
material non-public information to Cameron, a friend, concerning Tyson
Foods' proposed acquisition of Arctic Alaska. While in possession of that
information, Cameron purchased 9,000 shares of Arctic Alaska stock for
$59,625; following the public announcement of the proposed acquisition, he
realized a profit of $46,125 on the sale of the stock. The defendants
consented to the entry of an injunction and orders by which Cameron was
required to disgorge $46,125, plus prejudgment interest of $18,153.43, and
by which Cameron and Tyson each were required to pay civil penalties of
$46,125.
Three individuals were charged with insider trading in the common stock
of Skybox International, Inc. (SEC v. Hugo Aldo Sallustro"), Sallustro,

19

the managing director of Panini S.r.L., a European subsidiary of Marvel
Entertainment Group Inc., misappropriated information concerning a
possible acquisition of Skybox, and purchased Skybox stock while in
possession of this information; he also tipped Anna Baroni and Ferrucio
Carnponovo, who both traded Skybox stock. Following the public
announcement of Marvel's tender offer for Skybox, the defendants realized
total profits of $152,718. The defendants consented to the entry of
injunctions and orders requiring total payments of $165,980 representing
disgorgement plus prejudgment interest and $102,608 in civil penalties.
Regulated Entities
The NASD Proceedings

Under the Exchange Act, the Commission exercises oversight of SROs in
the securities business. Administrative proceedings were instituted during
the year against the NASD to address its alleged failure to comply with
certain of its own rules and its failure to enforce compliance by market
makers on the Nasdaq system with NASD rules and the federal securities
laws (In the Matter of National Association of Securities Dealers, Inc. 42).
In settling the proceedings, the NASD agreed to provide for more diversity
on its Board of Governors and certain policy making committees, improve
the process by which it disciplines member firms and admits new members,
and strengthen its enforcement efforts and enhance its surveillance regarding
market making activities. The NASD also represented that $25 million had
been authorized to enhance its market surveillance systems and that an
additional $75 million would be committed for this purpose over the next
five years. The Commission released a report of investigation regarding the
NASD and the Nasdaq marker" detailing a number of problem areas
including the anticompetitive pricing convention used by market makers, by
which most stocks were quoted only in even eighths (i.e., $.25, $.50, $.75),
so that spreads were never less that $.25. The report also discussed
regulatory deficiencies at the NASD.

20

Broker-Dealers
A significant number of Commission enforcement actions are filed each
year against broker-dealer firms and persons associated with them. These
actions focus on fraudulent sales practices as well as on violations of the
books and records, customer protection, and net capital provisions of the
federal securities laws. The Commission also can impose sanctions upon
firms and their senior management for failure reasonably to supervise
employees to prevent violative conduct.
In cease and desist proceedings, In the Matter of PaineWebber

Incorporated." the Commission alleged violations by PaineWebber in two
areas. The first area involved the offer and sale of certain public limited
partnership interests and other public investments (referred to by the firm as
direct investments) between 1986 and 1992. Sales and marketing materials
for four families of direct investments overstated benefits and understated
risks of the investments, and characterized certain direct investments as
suitable for conservative investors without sufficiently disclosing the risk of
loss of principal. PaineWebber sold direct investments to numerous
investors for whom they were unsuitable and in concentrations that were too
high given the investors' age, financial condition, sophistication, and
investment objectives. In connection with these sales, PaineWebber failed to
make and keep certain required records and failed reasonably to supervise
employees who made the sales. In the second area, PaineWebber failed
reasonably to supervise ten registered representatives, in eight branch
offices, who engaged in fraudulent sales practices in connection with certain
retail customer accounts. PaineWebber consented to the entry of a cease and
desist order that required the firm: (1) to comply with its representation that
it had paid, or was obliged to pay, a total of $292.5 million for the benefit
of investors; (2) to pay a civil penalty of $5 million; and (3) to comply with
certain other undertakings regarding implementation of policies and
procedures designed to prevent future violations. In a related civil action,
SEC v. PaineWebber Incorporated." the firm consented to the entry of an
order requiring the establishment of a $40 million claims fund (an obligation
included in the total required to be paid in the administrative proceedings).

21

The Commission took action against Gruntal & Co. Incorporated
(Gruntal), a broker-dealer, and its parent, Gruntal Financial Corp. (In the
Matter of Gruntal & Co., Incorporatedry. The Commission's order
alleged that, between 1984 and 1994, certain members of Gruntal's senior
management diverted securities and funds totaling over $11 million from
customer accounts, customer and vendor checks, dividend overages, and
other sources. Approximately $5 million was ultimately transferred to
Gruntal's profit and loss accounts or used to pay Gruntal expenses; the
remaining $6 million was embezzled by participants in the scheme. Gruntal
and Gruntal Financial consented to the entry of the cease and desist order
that required them to pay $5.5 million in disgorgement and prejudgment
interest, and required Gruntal to pay a civil penalty of $4 million. The
Commission also filed a related civil action, SEC v. Gruntal & Co.,
Incorporated" in which the defendants consented to an order establishing a
process for disgorgement and distribution of the diverted funds. In a related
action, the Commission charged that Edward E. Bao, a former executive
vice president and director of both Gruntal and Gruntal Financial, conceived
of and directed the scheme and engaged in insider trading by selling Gruntal
stock while aware of the scheme; this matter was pending at the end of the
year.
The Remedies Act authorizes the Commission to bring emergency
proceedings against regulated entities in which a temporary cease and desist
order can be entered to protect investors from imminent harm. The
Commission invoked this authority for the first time in a case against a
broker-dealer through which fraudulent sales practice abuses were being
committed (In the Matter of A.R. Baron & Co.48). The Commission
alleged that Jeffrey Weissman and Andrew Bressman, the top officers of
Baron, and others acting through Baron, carried out a manipulation of the
market for the common stock of Health Professionals, Inc., in May and June
of 1993. In 1995, Bressman and another Baron principal, Roman Okin,
acting through Baron, allegedly manipulated the market for the common
stock of Cypros Pharmaceutical, Inc. The manipulations involved serious
sales practice abuses, including rampant unauthorized trading in customer
accounts and imposition of a no net sale rule. The Commission instituted
22

and settled a separate proceeding against the firm in October 1996,49 in
which the Commission found that Baron had been involved in the
manipulation of Health Professionals and Cypros Pharmaceutical stock.
Baron consented to the entry of an order by which its registration was
revoked. In light of the revocation proceedings, Baron was dismissed as a
respondent from the emergency cease and desist proceedings, which were
pending at the end of the year as to Bressman and Okin. In related cease
and desist proceedings charging manipulations of Health Professionals from
1991 to 1993, the Commission barred Jeffrey Weissman from association
with regulated entities and ordered him to disgorge $350,000 and to pay a
civil penalty of $100,000. Weissman's father (who was the chairman of
Health Professionals until 1992) was ordered to disgorge $161,250, plus
prejudgment interest of $61,946 (In the Matter of Jeffrey Weissman50).
In In the Matter of Fahnestock and Co., Inc. ,51 the Commission
instituted proceedings against a broker-dealer and one of its branch managers
for failure to supervise Wendell Jeffrey Lee, a registered representative who
misappropriated customer funds. The Commission's order alleged that the
branch manager, William E. Bierlin, Jr., failed to follow existing
supervisory procedures, and that Fahnestock's policies and procedures
regarding checks drawn on customer accounts and wire transfers of cash
from customer accounts either were not followed or were inadequate to
detect and prevent Lee's violative conduct. The order also alleges that
Bierlin altered certain brokerage documents to conceal deficient supervisory
procedures, and produced the altered documents in response to a
Commission subpoena. These proceedings were pending at the end of the
year. The Commission instituted related proceedings against Lee, alleging
his misappropriation of $276,000 from two customer accounts (In the Matter
of Wendell Jeffrey LeeS2). Lee was barred by default from association with
broker-dealer firms and from participation in any offering of penny stocks.
In administrative proceedings, In the Matter of Kimberly D. Goodman."
the Commission alleged that the respondent, while a registered representative
associated with Refco Securities, Inc., assisted Steven D. Wymer, the
former owner of two investment advisory firms, in concealing Wymer's

23

misappropriation of more than $80 million from his clients' accounts at
Refco. Goodman signed audit confirmation letters that falsely verified the
portfolio balances of Wymer's clients. In addition, she misrepresented
account balances to Wymer's Refco clients and provided Wymer with the
blank Refco forms that he used to forge documents used to report fictitious
trades and portfolio balances to his clients. She received approximately
$313,000 in undisclosed cash and gifts from Wymer in return for her
assistance in his scheme. Goodman consented to the entry of an order by
which she was barred from association with any regulated entity.
Investment Advisers and Investment Companies

The Commission brought a number of significant cases in 1996 involving
investment advisers and investment companies. In addition to the
proceedings arising from its brokerage business (described above), Gruntal
& Co., Incorporated, also was the subject of proceedings based on violative
conduct in its investment advisory business (In the Matter of Gruntal & Co.,
Between 1993 and 1995, Gruntal executed certain
lncorporatedi'y.
transactions on a principal basis or by crossing advisory client orders with
orders from other Gruntal clients, contrary to its disclosures in filings with
the Commission and its obligation to obtain customer consent to such
transactions. Gruntal also charged commissions, commission equivalents,
and mark-ups or mark-downs on transactions for customers who had elected
to pay an all-inclusive, asset-based fee. In settling these proceedings,
Gruntal consented to pay a civil penalty of $1 million.
An investment adviser was charged in administrative proceedings with
inadequate disclosure of soft dollar arrangements (In the Matter of S Squared
Technology Corporatiotr'v.
Soft dollars are that portion of the
commissions generated by securities trades for an adviser's customers that
are used to pay for research, brokerage, or other products, services, or
expenses of benefit to the customer. Between June 1989 and August 1993,
S Squared used certain soft dollar credits to pay expenses such as its own
rent, salaries of its own employees, legal fees, and accounting fees, but
failed to make any meaningful disclosure of this use of soft dollars in
24

amendments to its Form ADV. S Squared consented to the entry of a cease
and desist order in which it was ordered to disgorge $878,250.31 plus
$275,175 in prejudgment interest to certain advisory clients, and to pay a
civil penalty of $50,000.
In administrative proceedings against Portfolio Management Consultants
(PMC) and Kenneth S. Phillips, PMC's president and one of its directors,
the Commission alleged a failure to obtain the best execution price for trades
on behalf of customers (In the Matter of Portfolio Management
Consultantst"). PMC provided "individualized managed accounts" for
some 800 customers, with over $200 million under management. PMC
represented that a single, all-inclusive wrap fee, equal to a percentage of
assets invested by the client, covered all brokerage, advisory, and custodial
services performed by PMC. Between October 1992 and April 1994, PMC,
acting as principal, routinely executed customer transactions at one price
while seeking and obtaining better prices for itself in contemporaneous
offsetting trades. PMC failed to disclose that prices obtained for customers
were not the most favorable under the circumstances, and failed to disclose
that, in addition to the wrap fee, it was receiving compensation in the form
of profits generated from principal trading. The Commission also instituted
related proceedings, which were pending at the end of the year, against
PMC's chairman and chief executive officer (In the Matter of Marc N.
Gematr').
The Commission instituted proceedings against McKenzie Walker
Investment Management, Inc., an investment adviser, and Richard C.
McKenzie, J r., its sole director, officer, shareholder, and primary portfolio
manager (In the Matter of McKenzie Walker Investment Management,
Inc. 58). McKenzie Walker charged clients either a performance-based fee
of 20 percent of the gain in their accounts (selected by some 26 clients) or
an asset-based fee of from 1 percent to 3 percent of assets under
management (selected by seven clients). From August 1992 through
September 1993, Richard McKenzie failed to allocate purchases and sales of
securities in an equitable way between its performance-based and asset-based
clients, but instead placed approximately twice as many profitable trades

25

with performance-based clients. As a result, McKenzie Walker's fees were
increased by at least $224,683. In addition, McKenzie Walker allocated a
disproportionate share of securities purchased in hot initial public offerings
to its performance based-clients. During the relevant period, $892,095 in
profits, and no losses, were allocated to performance-based clients, while
only $18,240 in profits and $24,375 in losses (for a net loss of $6,135) were
allocated to asset-based clients. The respondents consented to the entry of a
cease and desist order that required the disgorgement of $224,683 plus
$35,974 in prejudgment interest, and the payment of a civil penalty of
$100,000.
The Commission's cease and desist proceedings, In the Matter of Leeb
Investment Advisors, 59 involved the dissemination of false and misleading
statements in connection with the marketing of investments in the Leeb
Personal Finance Fund. The publisher of newsletters edited by Stephen L.
Leeb distributed advertisements for one of the publications in which it falsely
claimed that an investor using Leeb's Master Key (a market-timing model)
could have turned a $10,000 investment made in 1980 into $39,160,394 by
1992. Advertisements for the Fund that were sent to subscribers to the
publication falsely indicated that investing in the Fund was the equivalent of
following the publication's investment strategies, including use of the Master
Key. The six respondents consented to the entry of a cease and desist order
by which five of them (including Leeb, Leeb Investment Advisers, and
Leeb's publisher) were required to pay civil penalties totaling $300,000.
In SEC v. Seaboard Investment Advisers, Inc., 60 the Commission alleged
that Seaboard and Eugene W. Hansen, its chief executive officer and
controlling shareholder, engaged in a scheme to defraud investment advisory
clients by sending false and misleading advertisements. The advertisements,
in the form of letters reviewing each client's portfolio, falsely represented
that Seaboard's accounts had outperformed various well-known market
indices. The Commission further alleged that dissemination of the false
advertisements violated the terms of an order that had been entered less than
six months earlier in separate proceedings against the same respondents.
The earlier order required that all advertising materials be reviewed and
26

approved by Seaboard's vice president of compliance. This matter was
pending at the end of the year.
Michael C. Robertson, the former investment adviser to the Employees'
Retirement Fund for Fort Worth, Texas and the investment adviser to the
Oklahoma Police Pension Retirement System, and his advisory firm, M.C.
Robertson & Associates, Inc., were charged in administrative proceedings
with making materially false and misleading statements regarding the receipt
of compensation from broker-dealers and mutual funds in connection with
their advisory business (In the Matter of Michael C. Robertsotr').
Robertson and his firm received approximately $721,461 in undisclosed
service fees paid by three mutual funds in the Fort Worth fund's portfolio
and undisclosed commission payments totaling $13,863.72 in a commission
recapture program. The respondents also received undisclosed commission
payments totaling $48,205.12 in connection with the Oklahoma Police
Pension fund commission recapture program. This matter was pending at
the end of the year.

Sources for Further Inquiry
The agency publishes the SEC Docket, which includes announcements
regarding enforcement actions. SEC litigation releases describe civil
injunctive actions and report certain criminal proceedings involving
securities-related violations. These releases typically report the identity of
the defendants, the nature of the alleged violative conduct, and the
disposition or status of the case. The SEC Docket also contains Commission
orders instituting administrative proceedings, making findings, and imposing
sanctions in those proceedings, and initial decisions and significant
procedural rulings issued by Administrative Law Judges. In addition, recent
litigation releases, orders in administrative proceedings, and other
information of interest to investors are posted on the internet at the SEC's
World Wide Web site (http://www.sec.gov). The Commission's
Enforcement Complaint Center may be reached through the Enforcement
Division page of the website and e-mail messages may be sent directly to the
division at enforcement@sec.gov.

27

International Affairs
The Office of International Affairs develops and implements the SEC's
international enforcement and regulatory initiatives. The SEC works
bilaterally and multilaterally in the international arena to promote
cooperation and assistance and to encourage the development and adoption
of high regulatory standards. To further these goals, the office negotiates
and oversees the implementation of information-sharing arrangements for
enforcement and regulatory matters, and conducts a technical assistance
program/or countries with emerging securities markets.

Key 1996 Results
In 1996, the office made 230 requests to foreign governments for
enforcement assistance on behalf of the SEC and responded to 342 requests
for enforcement assistance from foreign governments. The international
affairs staff responded to a record 136 foreign requests for technical
assistance.
The SEC signed understandings to assist in law enforcement and
regulatory matters with securities authorities in Hong Kong, Russia, Egypt,
and Israel. The understanding with Hong Kong also covers the oversight of
investment management activity.
The SEC's leadership role in the Council of Securities Regulators of the
Americas (COSRA) and the International Organization of Securities
Commissions (IOSCO) continued to advance international regulatory and
market oversight issues. During the past year, COSRA approved a report
and resolution combatting illicit payments. COSRA also approved a report
on mechanisms for facilitating capital formation in the Americas and issued
guidelines on market structure.

28

Arrangements for Mutual Information and Assistance Exchange
The SEC needs to obtain foreign-based information to protect the U.S.
markets and investors from cross-border fraud and other violations of the
U.S. federal securities laws. The SEC has entered into over 29
arrangements with foreign counterparts for information sharing and
cooperation in investigating and prosecuting securities law violations. The
SEC uses these arrangements to expand cooperation to include oversight of
investment management activity.
On October 5, 1995, the SEC signed a Memoranda of Understanding
(MOU) and a Declaration on Cooperation and Supervision of Cross-Border
Investment Management Activity with the Hong Kong Securities and Futures
Commission. The MOU and Declaration provide for consultation and
cooperation in administering and enforcing securities laws and establish
procedures for assisting in the oversight of investment advisers and
investment companies in the U.S. and Hong Kong. The MOU and
Declaration were signed after Hong Kong changed its law to permit its
Commission to conduct investigations on behalf of foreign securities
authorities, to provide access to its files, and to take statements and obtain
documents.
In December 1995, the SEC signed an MOU and Protocol with the
Russian Federal Commission on Securities and the Capital Market. The
agreements provide for mutual enforcement assistance relating to activities in
the U.S. and Russian securities markets and a framework for the SEC's
technical assistance.
In February 1996, the SEC signed its first understandings with securities
authorities in the Middle East: the Israel Securities Authority (ISA) and the
Egyptian Capital Market Authority. The MOU with the ISA includes
commitments to consult and cooperate in the administration and enforcement
of U.S. and Israeli securities laws, and to coordinate cross-border offerings
of securities by U.S. and Israeli issuers. The MOU will become effective
when implementing legislation is passed in Israel. The MOU with the
29

Capital Market Authority furthers the U.S.-Egypt Joint Economic
Partnership and creates a framework for technical assistance and enforcement
cooperation.

Enforcement Cooperation
Assistance from foreign authorities helped the SEC to institute
enforcement proceedings. In 1996, the office made 230 requests to foreign
governments for enforcement assistance on behalf of the SEC and responded
to 342 requests for enforcement assistance from foreign governments. The
SEC received substantial assistance from foreign regulators in each of the
cases discussed below.
SEC v. "ye Resources, Inc. and Rehan Malik. 62 The SEC filed a
complaint against Wye Resources, Inc., a Canadian corporation
headquartered in Toronto, Ontario, and Rehan Malik, a resident of
Newfoundland, who was Wye's president. The complaint alleged that
during 1993 and 1994 Wye and Malik used the internet to target U.S.
investors as part of a fraudulent promotional campaign and illegally
distributed Wye stock to those investors. The SEC received assistance from
the Ontario Securities Commission under an MOU signed in 1988.
SEC v. Scorpion Technologies, Inc. 63 The SEC alleged that Scorpion
Technologies falsified disclosures of its business operations and financial
health through sham transactions. Approximately 20 million shares of the
company's stock were issued in purported reliance upon Regulation S, which
addresses offshore offers and sales of stock. This stock was issued to
offshore purchasers at a discount from the market price. It then was sold to
public investors in the U.S. without "coming to rest" in the hands of bonafide offshore purchasers. The SEC received assistance from authorities in
the United Kingdom, Hong Kong, and Guernsey in this case. In addition,
the U.S. Department of Justice obtained an indictment for money laundering
against the participants in this fraud.

30

In the Matter of A.R. Baron & Co. Inc., Andrew Bressman, and Roman
Okin.64 This case represents the first time the SEC obtained an
administrative temporary cease and desist order against a regulated entity,
A.R. Baron & Co. Inc., a broker-dealer registered with the SEC. The SEC
alleged that Baron conducted unauthorized trades in customer accounts;
refused to carry out customer sell orders; and refused to remit, or delayed in
remitting, proceeds of securities sales to customers. Baron also directed its
customer solicitation toward U.K. citizens. The U.K. Securities and
Investments Board assisted the SEC under the MOU signed in 1991.

International Technical Assistance
The SEC's technical assistance program helps regulators of foreign
markets to develop regulatory structures that promote investor confidence.
The international affairs staff responded to a record 136 foreign requests for
technical assistance. The cornerstone of the program is the International
Institute for Securities Market Development, a two-week, management-level
training program covering the development and oversight of securities
markets. Over 100 delegates from 65 countries attended the Market
Development Institute in 1996.
Also in 1996, 98 delegates representing 51 countries attended the oneweek International Institute for Securities Enforcement. The program
included practical training sessions for foreign securities regulators on
enforcement investigations, investment company and adviser inspections,
broker-dealer examinations, and market surveillance. The SEC also
provided technical assistance to the Newly Independent States of the former
Soviet Union (NIS), holding U.S. training programs for more than 60 key
securities officials from six NIS countries and overseas programs for larger
audiences in Russia, Moldova, and the Ukraine.
In July 1996, the SEC, Treasury and the Russian Federal Commission for
the Securities Market (FCSM) created a U.S.-Russia Capital Markets Forum
under the auspices of the Gore-Chernomyrdin Commission. The Forum will

31

provide recommendations to the Russian government on the development and
regulation of Russian capital markets. The Forum is chaired by U.S.
Treasury Secretary Rubin, SEC Chairman Levitt, and senior Russian
administration officials, including FCSM Chairman Vasiliev. Among other
issues, the Forum will address collective investment vehicles, market
infrastructure and enforcement.

International Organizations and Multilateral Initiatives
Through its involvement in international organizations, the SEC promotes
its views on the U.S. securities markets and develops consensus on issues in
international organizations. The SEC's participation in multilateral
organizations provides the agency with a better understanding of foreign
regulations, markets, and practices.
The International

Organization of Securities Commissions

With over 130 members, IOSCO promotes cooperation and consultation
among the world's securities regulators. In response to a call by the G-7
Ministers for enhanced cooperation to strengthen supervision of
internationally active financial institutions, in 1996 IOSCO produced a Joint
Statement with the Basle Committee on Banking Supervision. The Joint
Statement promotes arrangements to augment each regulatory authority's
ability to supervise internationally active firms operating from its
jurisdiction.
IOSCO and the International Accounting Standards Committee continued
to make progress in developing international accounting standards for use in
cross-border offerings. IOSCO also adopted a "Resolution on Providing
Certainty of the Enforceability of Netting Arrangements for Over-theCounter Derivative Transactions. "

32

Council of Securities Regulators of the Americas
COSRA enhances the efforts of countries in the Americas and the
Caribbean to develop sound securities markets that are fair to all investors.
COSRA's membership represents both developed and emerging markets. At
its annual meeting, COSRA approved a report and resolution on combatting
illicit payments, a report on facilitating capital formation in the Americas,
and a report and guidelines on market structure. COSRA also agreed on a
future work agenda concerning investor education and auditing oversight.
Combatting Illicit Payments by Public Companies
During 1996, the SEC contributed to international and U.S. government
initiatives to battle corruption and promote practical ways to combat bribery
by publicly held companies. For example, the SEC worked with the
Department of State in the negotiation of the Organization of American
States' (OAS) Convention Against Corruption, which was signed in 1996 by
23 countries in this Hemisphere. The OAS Convention and COSRA's report
on illicit payments calion nations to develop laws that prohibit illicit
payments to foreign officials, emphasize the importance of having
companies' books and records accurately reflect the disposition of assets, and
note the importance of sufficient internal accounting controls. The SEC,
with the Departments of State and Justice, also worked with the Organisation
for Economic Co-operation and Development Working Group on Bribery to
address foreign bribery through accounting and auditing requirements.
Initiatives With United Kingdom Regulators
During 1996, the SEC worked on a joint initiative with the U.K.
Securities and Investments Board (SIB) to conduct studies of the financial,
operational, and management controls used by U.S. and U.K. securities
firms that have significant cross-border derivatives and securities activities.
Through this exchange of information, securities regulators developed
understandings of each other's regulatory approaches. The SEC and the SIB
are reviewing internal controls used by firms with significant international

33

securities activities, including controls relating to market, credit, liquidity,
and funding risks. Since selected firms have significant operations in third
countries, the SEC and SIB are working with other regulators. The SEC
also is working with its U.S. and U.K. regulators on initiatives for
cooperation between securities and banking regulators in the supervision of
the global activities of financial institutions, including work on procedures
for cooperation and information-sharing during market emergencies.

34

Investor Education and Assistance
The Office of Investor Education and Assistance acts as a clearinghouse for
investors by answering questions and examining complaints. The office
educates investors on how to identify, avoid, and report securities fraud and
abuse through the creation and distribution of educational materials.

Key 1996 Results
During the year, the investor education staff analyzed and answered
44,974 complaints and inquiries. The total number of complaints and
inquiries has grown 30 percent since 1993. The majority of the complaints
(55 percent) involved broker-dealers. The remainder involved issuers,
investment companies, investment advisers, banks, transfer and clearing
agents, and various financial and non-financial entities.

Investor Complaints

Complaints by Major Entity Type
for Fiscal 1996
BrokerDe.~r 9,834

Mutual Funda 548

Investment

AdVISers

Other
279

1,598

35

The investor education staff alerts the Division of Enforcement if a
complaint contains egregious conduct, otherwise the firm or individual that
is the subject of the complaint is contacted to gain more information and to
determine if a resolution with the investor can be reached. Over 2,000
complaints and inquiries were referred to other SEC divisions and offices or
other regulatory offices for review or action.
Common stocks were cited in 4,778 of the 9,834 broker-dealer
complaints. Of the 9,834 broker-dealer complaints, 58 percent were related
to operational or other sales-related issues (as depicted below).

Broker Dealer Complaints by Major Complaint Type
for Fiscal 1996
3,500

I
3,095

3.000

2.500

2.000

1.500

1,000

500

0
(ij~

c: c:

g.E

~E
0.0

OU

"0

a>

m

CD so

a:c

r.h iii
~li

'"<pUE

Ul 0

s:

6

36

"0

a>

N

is

~

'"
c:

::>

'"
~
'"
C.
g;
c:

0

a>
a>

::i

a>

:0

s

5
c
::>

'"

g'",
"" E

8~

32e
8"-

a>
0;
Ul

'"

C>

l!!

s:

'"'"e"
a,
s:
C>

:f

c:

E

"

U

Plain English Initiative
The office started a plain English pilot program with the Divisions of
Corporation Finance and Investment Management to encourage companies to
write disclosure documents that investors can understand. In September
1996, the Bell Atlantic Corporation and NYNEX, the first volunteers in the
Division of Corporation Finance's pilot, filed the cover page and the
summary of their merger proxy and prospectus in plain English. The two
companies found that the switch to plain English did not cause delays or
greater costs, and reduced the number of investor inquiries normally
received. Other companies have since joined the pilot program.

Investor Outreach
In 1996, the office organized six investors' town meetings where
investors could meet and talk with Chairman Levitt. These meetings took
place in Columbus, Ohio; Boston, Massachusetts; Washington, D.C.; New
York, New York; Philadelphia, Pennsylvania; and Fairfax, Virginia. Over
6,000 investors attended the town meetings and millions more have viewed
them through television broadcasts and videotapes. The SEC held its first
seminar at the Columbus, Ohio town meeting and expanded the program at
the town meetings that followed. These seminars provide information on
how markets work and are regulated, and how individuals can invest wisely.
The office has recruited state securities regulators, self-regulatory
organizations, and representatives from broad-based industry groups to give
seminars.
In June 1996, the office released a brochure entitled, Investment Fraud
and Abuse Travel to Cyberspace. This brochure warns investors about
investment frauds on the internet. In September 1996, the office released
Ask Questions, Questions You Should Ask About Your Investments. Within
one month of its release, over 6,000 copies were requested and distributed.

37

In June 1996, the Commission opened an investor complaint program on
the internet. Approximately 10 percent of the 600 electronic mail messages
received in 1996 were complaints. The remainder were inquiries. Investors
also may access educational publications, investor alerts, speeches, and
information about enforcement proceedings of particular interest to investors
on the SEC's website (http://www.sec.gov).In1996.
the "What Every
Investor Should Know" section of the site received over 186,600 hits from
users across the country.

Toll-Free Phone Line
The Commission's toll-free investor information service (800-SEC-0330)
provides investors with educational materials, investor pre ection messages,
and information on how the Commission can assist them \. ith their
complaints and inquiries. During the year, the office received over 113,900
calls seeking assistance.

38

Regulation of the Securities Markets
The Division of Market Regulation oversees the operations of the nation's
securities markets and market participants. In calendar year 1996, the SEC
supervised approximately 8,500 registered broker-dealers with over 62,000
branch offices and over 530,600 registered representatives. In addition, the
SEC oversaw 8 active registered securities exchanges, the National
Association of Securities Dealers (NASD) and the over-the-counter (OTC)
securities markets, 15 registered clearing agencies, 748 transfer agents, the
Municipal Securities Rulemaking Board (MSRB), and the Securities Investor
Protection Corporation.
Broker-dealers filing FOCUS reports with the Commission had approximately
$1.6 trillion in total assets for fiscal year 1996 and $95.6 billion in total
capital, respectively. At the end of fiscal 1996, equity market capitalization
equalled approximately $9.2 trillion in the United States and $22.4 trillion
worldwide. Average daily trading volume reached 402.6 million shares on
the New York Stock Exchange (NYSE) and 540.9 million shares on the
Nasdaq Stock Market. The fastest growing market segment continues to be
in the area of derivatives activities.

Key 1996 Results
The division's achievements this year reflect its commitment to
streamlining regulation while reinforcing competition and investor
protections in light of recent technological developments in the markets.
Newly adopted order execution obligations will provide enhanced market
transparency, improved access to the best available prices, better interaction
of customer orders, and increased competition. Guidance was provided by
the division to facilitate trading in securities on the internet, subject to
certain conditions designed to protect investors. The Commission proposed
Regulation M to streamline and simplify anti-manipulation rules for offerings

39

and to facilitate the capital raising process. This initiative represents the
most significant change in the Commission's anti-manipulation regulation
since the trading practices rules were adopted over 40 years ago. The
division also played a leading role in international efforts to enhance investor
protection, including conducting joint reviews of select global financial
institutions with significant cross-border securities and derivatives activities.
These reviews provided in-depth analyses of the financial, operational, and
management controls used by these firms.

Securities Markets, Trading, and Significant Regulatory Issues
Derivatives
In 1994, the Derivatives Policy Group (DPG), consisting of the six firms
most active in the OTC derivatives market, was formed to address a broad
range of regulatory issues. Since 1995, five DPG firms have been reporting
to the Commission pursuant to a framework for voluntary oversight. In
1996, the five reporting members of the DPG provided the SEC with
quarterly credit and market risk information. In addition, the staff reviewed
reports prepared by DPG firms' external auditors concerning the firms'
implementation of management controls for OTC derivatives, and
mathematical models used to calculate risk associated with the firms'
portfolios.
The division participated in the preparation of a paper issued jointly by
the International Organization of Securities Commissions and the Basle
Committee on Banking Supervision that surveyed disclosures about trading
and derivatives activities of internationally active banks and securities firms
for the period 1993-1995. The survey provided supervisors with additional
information on derivatives activities disclosed in these firms' annual reports.
The Commission approved several self-regulatory organization (SRO)
proposals that strengthened market stability and integrity while facilitating

40

use of exchange-traded derivatives for risk management purposes, including
the following:
• proposals designed to readjust the position and exercise limits for
equity and index options,"
• accelerated listing standards for options on securities issued in a
restructuring transaction pursuant to a public offering or a rights
distribution." and
• extension of the 2-1/2 point strike price pilot program for one year. 67
In addition, the Commission approved several proposals to trade
derivative products on exchanges, including a proposal by four exchanges to
list and trade warrants based on narrow-based indexes.f and another
involving the listing and trading of options and/or warrants on several new
indexes." The Commission also approved the listing and trading of BuyWrite Option Unitary Derivatives," Flexibly-Structured Exchange Traded
Equity Options," and Country Baskets" and WEBS,73which are units
structured as open-end management investment companies that invest directly
in a portfolio of securities.
As a result of increased interest in international futures products, the
Commission acted on several futures-related matters, including amendments
to Rule 3a12-8 under the Exchange Act to designate the sovereign debt of
Mexico," Brazil, Argentina, and Venezuela" as exempted securities for
the purpose of futures trading. The Commission also issued letters to the
Commodity Futures Trading Commission not objecting to the designation of
contract markets for the following stock (or debt) index futures and futures
options: S&P 500/BARRA Growth Index and S&P 500/BARRA Value
Index," Mexico 30 Index," Nasdaq 100 Index," Mexican Indice de
Precios y Cotizaciones," PSE Technology Index." and Emerging Market
Debt Index".

41

International Activities
The SEC has a leading role in international efforts to improve regulatory
oversight of the global securities industry. The SEC undertook joint reviews
with SIB in furtherance of an August 1995 joint initiative to conduct an indepth analysis of the financial, operational, and management controls used
by select global financial institutions involved in significant cross-border
securities and derivatives activities. United States and United Kingdom
banking supervisors-the Federal Reserve Bank of New York, the Board of
Governors of the Federal Reserve, and the Bank of England--also
participated in the reviews, which were expanded to include the banking
activities of global financial conglomerates.
The joint reviews have improved communication channels between U.S.
and U.K. securities and banking supervisors, and have resulted in additional
discussions on the sharing of information in emergency situations.
Adoption of Order Execution Obligation Rules
On August 28, 1996, the Commission adopted new rules to improve the
handling and execution of customer orders in exchange-traded securities and
securities traded over-the-counter. 82 The rules are the most significant
national market system initiatives in 20 years. First, to the extent that they
deliver better prices to an electronic communications network (ECN), OTC
market makers and exchange specialists must include those prices in their
public quotes or deliver these better priced orders to an EeN that itself
delivers these prices to the public market. Second, OTC market makers and
exchange specialists must immediately display better priced customer limit
orders in their quotes. And third, OTC market makers and exchange
specialists responsible for a substantial trading volume in any security listed
on an exchange must publish firm two-sided quotations. The rules become
effective in January 1997.

42

Securities Trading Systems on the Internet
In June 1996, the staff granted no-action relief to Real Goods Trading
Corporation, a Pacific Stock Exchange listed company, permitting it to
operate an internet bulletin board on which investors can post indications of
interest to buy and sell the company's shares. The staff noted in particular
that buyers and sellers would have to execute and settle their transactions
independently of the trading system. Real Goods also represented that its
securities were currently registered with the SEC, but if its stock ever ceased
to be registered it would make available on its website the financial
information required of issuers of registered securities. 83
Government Securities Market
The Government Securities Act Amendments of 1993 reauthorized the
Department of the Treasury's rulemaking authority for the government
securities market and included provisions for transaction recordkeeping,
large position reporting, and the NASD's sales practice rulemaking
authority. The amendments also required the Commission to monitor private
sector efforts to improve the timely public dissemination and availability of
information concerning government securities transactions and quotations.
The Commission is required to report these developments to Congress
annually.
In this regard, the Commission notes that GovPx, an entity formed by
primary and inter-dealer brokers in the U.S. Treasury market, provides 24hour, worldwide distribution of securities information as transacted by the
primary dealers through five of the six inter-dealer brokers for all active and
off-the-run Treasury bills, notes, bonds, basis trader, government agency
securities, zero coupon securities, money market instruments and repurchase
transactions. In the absence of a real-time bid or offer, GovPx publishes a
proprietary indicative price.
GovPx extended its market coverage to provide worldwide distribution of
information regarding the interest rate swaps market. This service, known

43

as SwapPx, provides real-time, benchmark rates, data and analytics for U.S.
medium term swaps, basic swaps, and spot/forward swaps ranging in term
from 90 days to 30 years. SwapPx is available to all market participants.
With coverage over 23,000 screens, GovPx is distributed worldwide through
all the major vendors of securities information including Bloomberg,
Reuters, and Bridge.
In another development the MSRB began collecting price and volume
information for inter-dealer transactions in municipal securities and made
this available over Bloomberg and other electronic media. Beginning in
January 1998, the MSRB expects to also collect and disseminate transaction
information for retail and institutional trades.
A number of private, on-line data vendors (including Bloomberg, EJV
Partners, Interactive Data, Asset Backed Security Group, Muller Data
Corporation, among others) are offering a wide range of analytical products
and services that provided users with pricing-related information for both
mortgage pass-through securities and collateralized mortgage obligations
(CMOs). Increasingly, vendors are providing access to analytical pricing
models via the internet. These services typically provide basic pricing
information at little or no cost and offer access to systems that formerly
were available only through more costly leased vendor terminals. Most
vendors offer a combination of (1) end-of-day evaluated prices, derived from
a combination of actual transaction data and estimated prices, calculated
using various proprietary pricing techniques; (2) analytical modelling
software that allow users to generate mortgage securities pricing and yield
data, based upon various prepayment, interest rate and other assumptions
input by those users; and (3) historical pricing databases on outstanding
mortgage securities.
In the government mortgage securities market, a variety of pricing and
related information is available from major financial publications and from
on-line data vendors. Financial publications including The Wall Street
Journal, The New York Times, Barrons, and various industry newsletters
published on a daily or weekly basis representative prices for a range of
44

current-coupon agency pass-through securities. In addition, such
publications also are providing pricing information for most CMOs, typically
displayed in terms of the current spread of various CMO categories to U.S.
Treasury securities having equivalent maturities.
Automation Initiatives
Rule 17a-23 under the Exchange Act requires brokers and dealers that
operate automated trading systems to maintain participant, volume, and
transaction records, and to report system activity periodically to the
Commission."
Ninety-three filings for automated trading systems were
received by the division.
Automation reviews of the exchanges, Nasdaq, and clearing agencies
continued, including 5 on-site reviews which resulted in 10 reports and 50
recommendations for technology Improvements."
The Automation Review
Policy program monitored and assessed the SRO' s national market system
electronic data processing facilities. In addition, the staff completed 11
technology updates and performed 8 major special projects such as assessing
systems capacity at broker-dealers and information vendors, year 2000
readiness, and computer security at a major depository.
Two no-action letters were issued for relief from exchange registration to
the Chicago Board Brokerage, Inc., and the Institutional Real Estate
Clearinghouse."
Both systems file reports pursuant to Rule 17a-23. The
Commission issued a release permitting the Arizona Stock Exchange to
conduct an additional trading session during normal trading hours. 87 In
addition, a letter was issued exempting inter-dealer systems run by various
Nasdaq dealers from Rule 17a-23.88
Trading Practices Developments
In its most comprehensive reform of trading practices since their
adoption, the Commission proposed replacing the current trading practice
rules, Rules 10b-6, IOb-bA, IOb-7, 10b-8, and IOb-21 under the Exchange

45

Act (the trading practices rules), with new Regulation M.89 Reflecting
developments in the securities industry and market globalization, the new
regulation will provide greater flexibility for market participants, enhance
competition in the marketplace, and streamline the regulation of manipulative
conduct during securities offerings, without sacrificing investor protection.
Regulation M will consist of six rules, including a definitional rule,
covering:
• the activities of underwriters
distribution,

and other persons participating

• the activities of issuers and selling securityholders
distribution,

in a

conducting a

• Nasdaq passive market making,
• stabilization transactions and certain post-offering activities by
underwriters, and
•

short selling in anticipation of a public offering.

Odd-Lot Tender Offers by Issuers
On April 19, 1996, the SEC proposed an amendment to Rule 13e-4 that
would eliminate the record date requirement for issuer odd-lot tender offers
and proposed related class exemptions from Exchange Act Rules lOb-6 and
lOb-13.90 These proposals should provide issuers with greater flexibility in
reducing the number of small shareholdings where the costs to issuers of
servicing small shareholders, and the costs to the shareholders of selling
small holdings, are disproportionate to the value of the security holdings.
Municipal Securities
In August 1996, the MSRB proposed to amend its transaction reporting
system to significantly increase price transparency in the municipal securities

46

market. The MSRB's proposal would amend Board Rule 6-14 concerning
reports of sales and purchases and Rule 6-14 transaction reporting
procedures. Specifically, the proposal would add retail and institutional
customer transaction information to the inter-dealer transactions currently
included in the MSRB' s Transaction Reporting Program, effective January 1,
1998. In the interim period, the MSRB will prepare for this additional price
transparency by testing the ability of firms to provide the required
information in a timely manner.
Rule 15c2-12
A number of interpretive and no-action letters were issued by the division
regarding the application of the November 1994 amendments to Rule 15c212 under the Exchange Act. For example, the division issued no-action
letters regarding parity bond financing by municipal entities that permitted
them to undertake to provide continuing disclosure on behalf of certain
obligated persons, but only to the extent the municipal entities could obtain
the information about those obligated persons. 91 Exemptive relief under
Rule 15c2-12 also was granted that permitted underwriters to purchase and
sell certain offerings of municipal securities made by certain school districts
pursuant to the Rule's small issuer exemption." Due to the existence of a
state guarantee program, without exemptive relief, the school districts would
not have been able to satisfy all the conditions of the small issuer exemption.
Finally, a letter was issued to the American Bar Association addressing
the following issues under Rule 15c2-12:93
• disclosure in pooled financing;
• application of the amendments to successors or assignees of obligated
persons;
• conditioning the obligation to give material event notices on whether
an obligated person has knowledge of an event;

47

•
 what outstanding obligations (or portions thereof) should be counted
when considering the application of the $10 million threshold of the
small issuer exemption; and
•
 cross-referencing in an official statement or annual financial statement
to information that is other than "financial information or operating
data," such as demographic information regarding an obligated person.
Broker-Dealer Regulation
Application for Broker-Dealer Registration
Amendments to Form BD, the uniform broker-dealer registration form
under the Exchange Act,94were adopted by the Commission to respond to
design updates to the Central Registration Depository (CRD) system
operated by the NASD. These amendments will ultimately allow for
electronic filing of Form BD, as well as Forms U-4 and U-5 (the uniform
forms used to notify the SEC, the states, and the SROs of the employment
and termination, respectively, of broker-dealers' registered representatives).
Amendments to the disclosure section of Form BD will provide regulators
with better information about an applicant's disciplinary history.
The Commission also proposed amendments to Form BDW, the uniform
request for withdrawal from broker-dealer registration under the Exchange
Act, together with amendments to rules governing withdrawal from
registration under the Exchange Act. 95 These amendments would permit
broker-dealers that are withdrawing from registration to consent to an
extension of the effective date of their withdrawal, and would permit the
Commission to extend the effective date for such period as the Commission
by order may determine. The Commission also proposed revisions to
Exchange Act rules governing the filing of Forms BD and BDW to provide
for electronic filing of these forms and to accommodate the conversion of
existing registration information to the redesigned CRD system.

48

Foreign Broker-Dealers
On January 30, 1996, the staff issued a no-action letter" designed to
address concerns that foreign broker-dealers that effect transactions in
foreign securities in foreign markets for their offshore clients may become
subject to U.S. broker-dealer registration if the clients' orders are placed by
U. S. resident fiduciaries. This no-action position conditionally permits these
transactions to be effected without the foreign broker-dealers registering in
the United States.
Telemarketing Rules
The Telemarketing and Consumer Fraud Prevention Act (Telemarketing
Act)97requires the Commission to adopt a rule, or direct the SROs to adopt
a rule, that prohibits certain deceptive and abusive telemarketing practices in
connection with the sale of securities. After working with division staff, on
June 28, 1996, the NASD filed a proposed rule change addressing
telemarketing activities. Other SROs are expected to file comparable rule
changes.
Money Laundering
Work continued with the Financial Crimes Enforcement Network of the
Department of the Treasury on practical approaches to combat money
laundering. The division also participated in the Bank Secrecy Act Advisory
Group and in the United States delegation to the Financial Action Task
Force on Money Laundering.
Arbitration and Mediation
Attempting to strengthen the securities arbitration process, the division
worked closely with the NASD and other members of the Securities Industry
Conference on Arbitration to assess changes to the arbitration process
recommended in a January 1996 report by the NASD Arbitration Policy
Task Force. Recommendations arising out of that report included the
49

following: seeking earlier active involvement of arbitrators; using a list
selection method for appointing arbitrators; implementing a less discretionary
system for discovery; and using simplified discovery procedures for cases
involving larger claims.
Extension of Credit
In 1996, the Commission worked with Congress, the industry, and other
regulators to develop a margin proposal that addresses concerns raised about
the current margin scheme while maintaining the safeguards arising from
margin standards. As part of the NSMIA of 1996, Congress enacted a
margin reform bill that should improve the federal margin scheme by
reducing broker-dealers' costs in obtaining financing.
Financial Responsibility Rules
A no-action letter to the Securities Industry Association regarding the net
capital treatment of securities that cannot be publicly offered or sold without
registration under the Securities Act was issued by the staff. The no-action
letter provided that debt securities that cannot be publicly offered or sold
without registration under the Securities Act of 1933 (Securities Act) and
that are not rated investment grade by at least two nationally recognized
statistical rating organizations would be deemed liquid for purposes of
calculating net capital if they meet certain specified factors. 98
Unlisted Trading Privileges
The Joint Industry Plan for Unlisted Trading Privileges in OTC Securities
(OTC/UTP Plan), operating under temporary Commission approval, permits
exchanges to trade Nasdaq/National Market Securities subject to the terms of
the OTC/UTP Plan. Currently, any exchange participant to the plan may
trade up to 500 Nasdaq/National Market Securities. On October 1, 1996,
the Commission extended its temporary approval of the OTC/UTP Plan
through March 30, 1997, and temporarily approved the plan participants'
recently proposed revenue sharing agreement under the Plan. 99

50

Transfer Agent Regulation
In an effort to reduce the number of lost securityholders and to address
the associated problems of undeliverable principal, dividend, and interest
distributions, the SEC published a release requesting comment on rules
requiring that transfer agents conduct periodic searches in an effort to locate
such lost securityholders, and requiring transfer agents and broker-dealers to
file with the Commission lists of lost securityholders for which they hold
assets. The release also requests comment on the extent to which further
regulatory or remedial steps are necessary to reduce lost shareholders, such
as whether there should be a national database identifying lost
securityholders.J'"
In December 1994, the SEC published a concept release requesting
comment on a transfer agent-operated direct registration system (DRS) that
would expand investor choice regarding forms of security ownership. !OJ
Since publication of that release, the SEC has worked with industry
representatives to establish a DRS, which began pilot operation in November
1996. Under the DRS, investors are able to have their securities registered
in book-entry form directly on the books of the issuer, to receive a statement
of ownership in lieu of a securities certificate, and to transfer their securities
between issuers' transfer agents and the broker-dealers of their choice.
Investors also have the option to receive a certificate upon request.
Lost and Stolen Securities
Rule 17f-l under the Exchange Act sets forth participation, reporting, and
inquiry requirements for the SEC's Lost and Stolen Securities Program.
Statistics for calendar year 1995 (the most recent data available) reflect the
program's continuing effectiveness. As of December 31, 1995, 24,925
financial institutions were registered in the program, a 2 percent increase
over 1994. The number of securities certificates reported as lost, stolen,
missing, or counterfeit decreased from 2,954,692 in 1994 to 2,171,867 in
1995, a 26 percent decrease, but the dollar value of these reported
certificates increased from $3.8 billion in 1994 to $6.2 billion in 1995, a 63

51

percent increase. The aggregate dollar value of the securities contained in
the program's database increased from $96.4 billion in 1994 to $102.5
billion in 1995, a 6.4 percent increase. The total number of certificates
inquired about by institutions participating in the program decreased slightly
from 6,245,375 billion in 1994 to 6,221,425 billion, a decrease of 0.4
percent. In 1995, the dollar value of certificate inquiries that matched
previous reports of lost, stolen, missing, or counterfeit securities certificates
increased from $159 million in 1994 to $526 million in 1995, a 231 percent
increase.

Oversight of Self-Regulatory

Organizations

National Securities Exchanges
As of September 30, 1996, there were eight active securities exchanges
registered with the SEC as national securities exchanges: American Stock
Exchange, Boston Stock Exchange (BSE), Chicago Board Options Exchange
(CBOE), Cincinnati Stock Exchange (CSE), Chicago Stock Exchange
(CHX), NYSE, Philadelphia Stock Exchange, and Pacific Stock Exchange.
The agency granted exchange applications to delist 127 debt and equity
issues, and granted applications by issuers requesting withdrawal from listing
and registration for 191 issues.
The exchanges submitted 328 proposed rule changes during 1996. A
total of 299 pending and new filings were approved by the Commission, and
22 were withdrawn. Rule filings approved by the Commission included:
•
 an amendment of exchange circuit breaker rules to reduce the time
periods for halting trading on the exchanges from one hour to 30
minutes for a 250-point decline in the Dow Jones Industrial Average,
and from two hours to one hour for a 400-point decIine;l02

52

• permanent approval of the CSE's pilot program relating to the
preferencing of public agency market and marketable limit orders by
approved dealers and proprietary members, and approval of order
handling policies for preferencing dealers.!"
• permanent approval of the BSE's pilot program that permits competing
specialists on the floor of the BSE;I04
• establishment of continued listing criteria for certain specialized
securities on the NYSE; and
• revisions to NYSE customer margin provisions for OTC options
transactions.
National Association of Securities Dealers, Inc.
The NASD is the only national securities association registered with the
SEC and includes more than 5,500 member firms. Through a wholly-owned
subsidiary, the NASD owns and operates the Nasdaq Stock Market, which
trades more than 6,200 securities and is the world's second largest stock
market.
On August 8, 1996, the Commission announced the settlement of an
enforcement action against the NASD, citing various anti-competitive
practices on Nasdaq and various oversight failures by the NASD. As part of
the NASD's settlement with the Commission, the NASD agreed to undertake
a number of initiatives including changes in the NASD's governance
structure, improvements to the NASD's surveillance, enforcement, and
examination functions, and the creation of a comprehensive audit trail. In
cooperation with the Division of Enforcement, the market regulation staff
has worked extensively with the NASD to implement these undertakings.
The NASD submitted 54 proposed rule changes to the Commission
during the year. The Commission approved 49 proposed rule changes,

53

including some pending from the previous year.
changes approved by the Commission were:

Among the significant

• a rule providing for a comprehensive reorganization

of the NASD,105

• a rule governing the use of rights of first refusal in connection with
underwriting, 106
• a NASD rule clarifying a broker-dealer's suitability obligation toward
institutional customers and specifying which NASD Rules of Fair
Practice apply to transactions in government securities, and
• a rule defining when unlisted trading can commence consistent with
revised Section 12 of the Exchange Act. 107
Municipal Securities Rulemaking Board
The MSRB is charged with the primary rulemaking authority for
municipal securities dealers. The Commission received 15 new proposed
rule changes from the MSRB. A total of 12 new and pending proposed rule
changes were approved by the Commission. In particular, the Commission
published several interpretations dealing with MSRB Rule G-37, the rule
governing political contributions.!"
Clearing Agencies
Fifteen clearing agencies were registered with the Commission at the end
of 1996. The Commission extended the temporary registration as a clearing
agency of the Participants Trust Company, 109 MBS Clearing
Corporation,"? and the Government Securities Clearing Corporation. III
The Commission also granted an exemption from registration as a clearing
agency to the Clearing Corporation for Options and Securities.!" and
proposed an exemption from clearing agency registration for Cedel
Bank. 113

54

Registered clearing agencies submitted 163 proposed rule changes to the
Commission. The Commission approved 132 new and pending proposed
rule changes including the following:
• Options Clearing Corporation (OCC) and National Securities Clearing
Corporation (NSCC) Amended and Restated Options Exercise
Settlement Agreement, which establishes a two-way guarantee between
OCC and NSCC with regard to losses incurred upon the suspension of
a common member; 114
• Government Securities Clearing Corporation's (GSCC) amendment of
its rules to permit foreign entities to become members of GSCC; 115
and
• Depository Trust Company (DTC) implementation of its Initial Public
Offering Tracking System, which permits initial issuances of stock to
be conducted through book entry settlement with tracking of
subsequent sales during the initial period after the offer. 116
Applications for Re-entry
Rule 19h-1 under the Exchange Act prescribes the form and content of,
and is the mechanism by which the Commission reviews, proposals
submitted by SROs to allow persons subject to statutory disqualification, as
defined in Section 3(a)(39) of the Exchange Act, to become or remain
associated with member firms. In 1996, the Commission received 35 filings
from the SROs pursuant to Rule 19h-1: 29 from the NASD, 5 from the
NYSE and 1 from the CBOE. One application was denied in 1996;117one
filing was withdrawn.

55

Investment Management Regulation
The Division of Investment Management regulates investment companies
(which znclude mutual funds) and investment advisers under two companion
statutes, the Investment Company Act of 1940 and the Investment Advisers
Act of 1940. The division also administers the Public Utility Holding
Company Act of 1935.

Key 1996 Results
During the year, the Division of Investment Management provided
extensive assistance to Congress in drafting the National Securities Markets
Improvement Act of 1996. The Improvement Act modernizes investment
company and investment adviser regulation. Working with the investment
company industry and state securities regulators, the staff continued to
develop a new disclosure document called the profile, a short document that
provides investors with a summary of key information about a mutual fund.
Also, the Commission proposed and adopted several rule amendments that
are intended to reduce regulatory burdens on investment companies without
impeding investor protection. Finally, numerous interpretive and no-action
letters were issued by the staff to provide investment companies and
registered investment advisers with added flexibility in conducting their
businesses without adversely affecting shareholders and clients.

Significant
Initiatives

Investment

Company Act and Investment

Advisers Act

Legislation
In 1996, Congress passed H.R. 3005, the National Securities Markets
Improvement Act, which incorporates some provisions from earlier

56

legislative proposals to revise the securities laws. The President signed the
legislation into law on October 11, 1996.
The Improvement Act amends the federal securities laws to preempt state
regulation of investment companies and larger investment advisers, and
contains significant amendments to the Investment Company Act. Among
other things, the Improvement Act:
• gives the Commission enhanced rulemaking and enforcement authority
to guard against the use of deceptive or misleading fund names,
• excepts from regulation under the Investment Company Act investment
pools whose participants are all highly sophisticated persons,
• gives the Commission broader authority to require funds to maintain
records for Commission inspection and to add additional information
in shareholder reports,
• allows the Commission to give funds greater advertising flexibility,
• relaxes restrictions on mutual funds that make investments in other
mutual funds in the same fund complex,
• simplifies the calculation of registration fees and replaces the severe
penalties imposed on funds for late payment of registration fees with
interest payment provisions,
• replaces the specific limits on the amount, type, and timing of charges
that apply to variable insurance contracts with a requirement that
aggregate charges under variable insurance contracts be "reasonable",
and
• decreases the regulatory burdens on certain specialized investment
companies that invest in small businesses.

57

The Improvement Act fundamentally changes the regulation of investment
advisers by dividing regulatory responsibility for advisers between the
Commission and state securities regulators. When the provisions become
effective, the states will assume a primary role in the regulation of smaller
investment advisers, who will no longer register with the SEC. Only
investment advisers who manage $25 million or more in client assets, who
advise a mutual fund, or whose state does not register investment advisers,
may register with the SEC. These advisers will not be subject to state
registration. However, the Commission and state regulators may bring an
anti-fraud action against any investment adviser regardless of whether the
adviser is registered with the SEC or a particular state.
The Improvement Act gives the Commission new authority to deny or
withdraw the registration of an investment adviser convicted of any felony
within the previous ten years. The Improvement Act requires the
Commission to establish and maintain a toll-free telephone number to enable
investors to learn of an investment adviser's disciplinary history. Finally,
the Improvement Act requires an investment adviser to file with the SEC any
fee, application. report, or notice through any entity designated by the
Commission for that purpose.
Disclosure
Fund Profiles

The investment management staff continued its joint undertaking with the
investment company industry and state securities regulators to develop a new
disclosure document called the profile. The profile contains a brief
summary of a mutual fund's key features in a standardized format designed
to facilitate comparison among funds. The division anticipates that the
Commission will propose for public comment a rule relating to the use of
fund profiles in the first quarter of 1997.

58

Amendments to Mutual Fund Registration Form
The Commission continued to pursue initiatives to provide mutual fund
investors with clear and understandable information about their investments
and to improve risk disclosure. Along those lines, the staff began a top to
bottom review of the current disclosure form used by mutual funds. The
anticipated outcome of this review is a revised form that will result in
clearer and more investor friendly mutual fund prospectuses. The division
anticipates submitting a recommendation to the Commission in 1997.

Disclosure Simplification
The division continued to encourage investment companies to improve
their prospectuses by using plain English and eliminating unnecessary legal
terms, jargon, and long and complicated disclosure. The staff has met with
several funds to review new prospectus formats and provide guidance in
meeting disclosure requirements. Interpretive relief provided to the John
Hancock Funds allowed a novel format for prospectuses offering multiple
funds. lIB

Unit Investment Trust Performance
The Commission proposed amendments to Form S-6 and Rule 482 under
the Securities Act of 1933, and to Rule 34b-l under the Investment
Company Act of 1940,119 The proposed amendments would require
certain unit investment trusts (UITs) to use a uniform formula to calculate
yields quoted in their prospectuses, advertisements, and sales literature. Use
of the uniform formula by UITs will let investors assess more accurately the
anticipated yield from a UIT and compare yields among UITs. Comments
received on the proposal are being evaluated.

59

Rulemaking
Money Market Funds

To reduce the likelihood that tax-exempt money market funds would be
unable to maintain a stable net asset value, the Commission adopted amendments to Rule 2a-7. 120 The Commission also adopted new Rule 17a-9 to
make it easier and less costly for money market funds to sell portfolio
securities that the fund can no longer hold under Rule 2a-7.
Deferred Sales Loads

In order to allow funds to offer their shareholders more choices in how to
pay sales loads, the Commission adopted amendments to Rule 6c-1O.12I
The Commission also amended the registration form for mutual funds to
tailor prospectus disclosure requirements to the deferred sales load
arrangements made possible by the rule amendments.
Asset-Based Sales Loads

The Commission adopted an amendment to Rule 12b-1, the rule which
permits funds to use fund assets to pay for the distribution of their
shares.!" The amendment eliminates shareholder approval of a
distribution plan if the shareholders are all affiliated with the fund. In that
circumstance, which is common for a fund that has not yet made a public
offering, shareholder approval is a mere formality. The Commission also
proposed amendments to Rule 12b-1 to clarify the application of the rule to a
series fund, which offers a variety of investment portfolios, often with
different investment objectives. 123
Multiple Class Funds

The Commission proposed amendments to Rule 18f-3, the rule which
permits funds to issue multiple classes of shares. 124 Funds generally
establish multiple classes to offer shareholders choices in paying distribution

60

costs or to more efficiently distribute shares to different groups of
shareholders. The proposed amendments would clarify and expand the
methods a fund may use to allocate among classes income, gains and losses,
and expenses that are not attributable to a particular class, and also would
clarify the shareholder voting provisions of the rule.
Affiliated Underwriters
The Commission proposed amendments to Rule lOf-3, the rule which
permits a fund affiliated with a member of an underwriting syndicate to
purchase securities underwritten by the syndicate when certain safeguards are
met. 125 The proposed amendments would increase the percentage of an
underwriting that a fund may purchase and expand the scope of the rule to
include foreign securities. The proposed amendments, and a proposed new
companion rule, also would permit funds to acquire municipal securities in
group sales, which are sales that are allocated to members of the
underwriting syndicate in proportion to their respective underwriting
commitments.
Exemptive Orders
The Commission issued 419 exemptive orders to investment companies
(other than insurance company separate accounts). Most of these companies
requested, and ultimately received, exemptions from various provisions of
the Investment Company Act. A description of one of the more significant
types of orders the division reviewed during 1996 follows.
Hybrid Investment Companies
The Commission exempted certain index funds from the requirement that
they issue securities that can be redeemed at net asset value. Each fund's
series invests in a portfolio of equity securities intended to mirror the
performance of a single-country index. The funds issue securities in blocks
of shares that are redeemable, but individual shares are not redeemable. The
individual shares, however, are traded on a national securities exchange at
61

prices that approximate net asset value. The funds, which could not operate
without the requested exemptions, will provide a cost-effective way for
shareholders to match the performance of the indexes tracked by the funds
and the ability to buy and sell fund shares throughout the day. 126
Significant Interpretive and No-Action Letters
The division issued 602 interpretive and no-action letters and other types
of correspondence during 1996. Some of the more significant letters are
discussed below.

Closed-End Investment Companies
A letter was issued by the staff expressing concern that some closed-end
funds may not clearly describe the circumstances under which they will take
action to minimize the discount at which their shares trade.!" The letter
noted that the division is closely examining prospectus disclosure about
discounts and has asked the Commission's Office of Compliance Inspections
and Examinations to verify that closed-end funds are complying with
representations made to investors about minimizing a discount.

Foreign Investment Companies
The staff stated that it would not recommend enforcement action under
Section 7(d) of the Investment Company Act if a foreign fund that had
offered or sold its securities privately to fewer than 100 U.S. residents has
more than 100 U.S. resident shareholders because of (1) the relocation of
foreign securityholders to the U. S. or (2) certain offshore secondary market
purchases of securities by U.S. residents.!"

Fund Use of Adviser Performance Information
No-action letters were issued by the staff concluding that neither Section
34(b) of the Investment Company Act nor Section 206 of the Investment
Advisers Act prohibits a fund from including in its prospectus performance

62

information for its adviser's other accounts or for another registered fund
that was previously managed by the fund's portfolio manager.!" The
letters emphasized that a fund including such performance information in its
prospectus is responsible for ensuring that the information is not misleading
and does not obscure or impede an investor's understanding of the fund's
own performance information.
Discounts Offered With Fund Purchases
The staff stated that it would not recommend enforcement action under
Section 22(d) of the Investment Company Act'" if a bank holding
company and its subsidiary banks offered free checking and other privileges
to persons who maintained specified minimum balances in any combination
of bank deposit accounts, brokerage accounts, and the bank's proprietary
mutual funds.
Segregation Requirements
The staff took the position that any liquid asset, whether debt or equity,
could be placed in a segregated account and used to cover a fund's
obligations that result from certain trading practices, including options and
futures trading. 131
Custodial Arrangements
No enforcement action would be recommended by the staff under section
17(f) of the Investment Company Act or rule 17f-5 if U.S. investment
companies hold certain Russian government securities through a centralized
trading, clearance, and depository system operated by the Moscow Interbank
Currency Exchange for the Russian Central Bank. 132 This letter applied
the division's standards for determining if a securities clearing agency or
depository operates a central system for purposes of rule 17f-5 to the
Russian government securities market.

63

Commodity Pool "Funds of Funds"

Enforcement action would not be recommended by the staff if a
commodity pool, in determining whether it is an investment company, treats
the business activities of certain pools in which it has invested as if they had
been engaged in directly by the commodity pool. 133
Model Fees in Performance Results

To make it easier for investment advisers to compute past performance,
the staff permitted an investment adviser to advertise past performance from
which it had deducted a model fee equal to the highest fee actually charged
to an account, rather than actual fees charged. 134
Mutual Fund Internet Sites

Information about advisory services provided to a mutual fund that is
made available through the internet generally should not be considered an
advertisement for the fund's investment adviser for purposes of the
Investment Advisers Act. 135
Employers Providing Investment Advice

An employer that provides investment-related information to employees
about their defined contribution plan generally would not be "in the
business" of providing investment advice, and thus would not be required to
register as an investment adviser. 136 This position should encourage
employers to provide information to their employees about the investment
options in their defined contribution plans.
Insurance Products
The division reviews registration statements, processes exemptive orders,
and issues no-action and interpretive letters relating to insurance company
separate accounts that are registered as investment companies. The
64

following describes some of the more significant issues in this area that the
division addressed this past year.
Disclosure
Several no-action letters intended to improve prospectuses of insurance
products were issued by the staff. For example, the staff extended to
variable annuity issuers the ability to use a profile, similar to the profiles
that have been used by mutual funds in the last year, in conjunction with
their full prospectuses.!" Also, to allow variable annuity registrants to
remove information from their prospectuses that unnecessarily duplicates the
information investors receive in the prospectus for the underlying investment
funds.!" the staff indicated that it would not object if variable annuity
registrants move certain financial information to a location other than that
specified in the registration form or if variable annuity prospectuses contain
only limited information about underlying investment funds. In addition, a
real estate separate account was permitted to include, in its prospectus,
summary financial information for the sponsoring insurance company when
the complete insurance company financial statements were available to an
investor promptly upon request.!"
Protection from Claims
A no-action letter issued by the staff allowed insurance companies to
provide the assets of certain separate accounts protection from third party
claims without registering those separate accounts under the Investment
Company Act. The letter applies to separate accounts that support contracts
that pay a fixed rate of return for a specified period, but are subject to an
adjustment in the event of early withdrawal. Insurance companies had
avoided providing such protection for those assets so that they would not be
required to register the separate accounts under the Investment Company
Act. 140

65

Significant

Public Utility Holding Company Act Developments

Developments

in Holding Company Regulation

The Commission approved a June 1995 staff report recommending
conditional repeal of the Holding Company Act and, pending repeal or other
legislative action, recommending significant administrative reforms. The
Commission subsequently implemented a number of administrative reforms,
on a case-by-case basis. In order to compete on an equal footing with nonregulated entities, public utility companies are entering into business
combinations and engaging in non-traditional businesses. As a result, the
number and complexity of applications and requests for interpretive advice
and no-action relief has increased dramatically. The Commission expects
these trends to continue in 1997.

Registered Holding Companies
As of September 30, 1996, there were 15 public utility holding companies
registered under the Holding Company Act. The registered systems were
comprised of 98 public utility subsidiaries, 26 exempt wholesale generators,
51 foreign utility companies, 243 non-utility subsidiaries, and 48 inactive
subsidiaries, for a total of 481 companies and systems with utility operations
in 26 states. These holding company systems had aggregate assets of
approximately $139 billion, and operating revenues of approximately $52
billion for the period ended September 30, 1996.

Financing Authorizations
The Commission authorized registered holding company systems to issue
approximately $19.4 billion of securities, a decrease of 15 percent from last
year. The decrease reflects adoption of amendments to Rules 52 and 45
under the Holding Company Act exempting more financing transactions
from Commission approval. The total financing authorizations included, for
example, $1.4 billion for investments in enterprises engaged in energy

66

management, an increase of 714 percent over 1995, and $550 million for
investments in exempt wholesale generators and foreign utility companies.
Examinations
Examinations of ten subsidiary service companies, three parent holding
companies, and three special purpose corporations were conducted. The
examinations focused on the methods of allocation of costs of services and
goods shared by affiliate companies, internal controls, cost determination
procedures, accounting and billing policies, and quarterly and annual reports
of the registered holding company systems. By uncovering misallocated
expenses and inefficiencies through the examination process, the
Commission's activities resulted in savings to consumers of approximately
$11.3 million.
Applications and Interpretations
The Commission issued various orders under the Holding Company Act.
Some of the more significant orders included:
GPU, Inc.
The Commission authorized GPU, Inc., a registered holding company, to
organize a new subsidiary that will include all of the fossil fuel and
hydroelectric generation functions of GPU's operating companies. 141 The
Commission determined that the restructuring could benefit GPU's operating
companies and customers by increasing efficiencies and productivity and
reducing costs of construction, operation, and maintenance of GPU's nonnuclear generating facilities.

Fidelity Management & Research Company
The Commission granted a three-year exemption from the Holding
Company Act, except Section 9(a)(2), to Fidelity Management & Research
Company, a registered investment adviser, and Fidelity Management Trust

67

Company, the trustee or investment manager for various private investment
accounts, in connection with their holdings in El Paso Electric Company, a
public utility company. 142 The Commission noted that Fidelity would be
subject to extensive reporting requirements at the state and federal level.
Southern Company
The Commission authorized The Southern Company, a registered holding
company, to use financing proceeds to invest in exempt wholesale generators
(EWGs) and foreign utility companies (FUCOs), and to guarantee the
obligations of EWGs and FUCOs provided that the total proceeds used for
the purposes plus Southern's investment in EWGs and FUCOs does not
exceed 100 percent of Southern's consolidated retained earnings. 143 The
order requires Southern to provide quarterly information to facilitate the
Commission's monitoring of Southern's investments in EWGs and FUCOs
and their effects on the Southern system.
SEI Holdings, Inc.
The Commission authorized SEI Holdings, Inc., a non-utility subsidiary
of Southern Company, to engage in retail marketing of natural gas and
electric power to customers throughout the United States, subject to
compliance with applicable state law. 144 The Commission noted that
industry trends and competitive pressures make it important for registered
system companies to be poised to compete in new markets without the delays
that result from seeking a release of a reservation of jurisdiction on a stateby-state basis.
Consolidated Natural Gas Company
The Commission authorized Consolidated Natural Gas Company, a
registered gas holding company, to engage in the wholesale marketing and
brokering of energy commodities, including electric power, natural gas, and
other fuels, and to provide related services.'? The Commission
determined that the transaction satisfied the standards of Section 11(b) (1) of

68

the Holding Company Act, noting that the energy industry has evolved
toward an integrated market in which different forms of energy, particularly
gas and electricity, are interchangeable.
MCN Corporation

The Commission authorized MCN Corporation, an exempt holding
company with two gas utility subsidiaries operating almost exclusively in
Michigan, to acquire interests in Southern Missouri Gas Company, L.P., a
limited partnership that will construct, own, and operate a gas pipeline and
distribution system in Missouri. 146 The Commission specifically
determined that the combination of the Michigan and Missouri gas properties
would result in an "integrated gas public utility system," as defined in the
Holding Company Act.

69

Compliance Inspections and Examinations
The Office of Compliance Inspections and Examinations, together with
examination stafffrom the regional offices, conducts the SEC's nationwide
program of compliance inspections and examinations. Inspections and
examinations are authorized by the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the
Investment Company Act of 1940, and the Investment Advisers Act of 1940.
Entities subject to this oversight include brokers, dealers, municipal
securities dealers, self-regulatory organizations, transfer agents, investment
companies, and investment advisers.

Key 1996 Results
During 1996, the inspection staff continued initiatives to enhance
cooperation with foreign, federal, and state regulators, as well as with selfregulatory organizations (SROs). For example, in November 1995, the
office entered into a Memorandum of Understanding with other regulators of
broker-dealers to better coordinate examinations. Regional office examiners
and SRO and state regulators are working to implement the objectives of the
Memorandum and to assure maximum coordination of regulatory programs.
Increased cooperation among SEC examiners responsible for different
types of regulated entities was one of the office's key accomplishments.
For
example, when appropriate, SEC examinations of firms with broker-dealer
and investment advisory activities were conducted by multi-disciplinary
examination teams. The objective of these joint and cooperative efforts was
to increase effectiveness and productivity and enhance investor protection.

70

Investment Company and Investment Adviser Inspections
Investment Companies
During the year, examiners inspected 308 investment company complexes
with $708 billion under management, indicating an average frequency of
inspection for the 969 investment company complexes of once every 3.1
years. The complexes inspected managed 2,294 portfolios, which
represented approximately 23 percent of the mutual fund and closed-end
fund portfolios in existence at the beginning of 1996. This indicated an
average inspection frequency for mutual and closed-end funds of once every
4.3 years. The complexes inspected represented a mix of large and smaller
complexes. Twenty-seven of the inspections were done on a "for cause"
basis, which means the staff had some reason to believe that a problem
existed at the firm.
Serious violations found in 14 examinations warranted referrals for
further investigation by the Division of Enforcement. In 50 percent of the
examinations resulting in a referral, the examination staff found misconduct
involving fraud. In addition, of all referrals, 29 percent related to net asset
value calculations, 21 percent related to prohibited transactions, and 14
percent related to internal controls.
Investment Advisers
Advisers that appear to pose a higher risk to clients, such as those that
have actual custody of client funds and securities and those that have
discretionary management authority over clients' cash and securities, were
targeted for examination. Examiners in the regional offices were primarily
responsible for conducting inspections of all discretionary managers and
those non-discretionary managers with $100 million or more under
management.

71

The inspection staff completed 1,446 inspections of investment advisers,
including examinations of 1,204 advisers with discretionary management
authority. The non-investment company assets managed by the advisers
inspected totalled $1.3 trillion. The 1,204 inspections of discretionary
advisers covered 14 percent of all such advisers, indicating an average
inspection cycle for discretionary advisers of once every 7.1 years, which
increased from once every 9.3 years in 1995. The overall inspection cycle
for advisers has increased from once every 20 years in 1995 to once every
15.2 years. Regional office staff inspected 115 investment advisers for
cause.
Serious violations warranting enforcement referrals were uncovered in 78
of the examinations. In 95 percent of the examinations resulting in a
referral, the examination staff found misconduct involving fraud. In
addition, of all referrals, 42 percent involved conflicts of interest, 22 percent
related to custody of client funds or securities, and 18 percent related to
marketing or performance advertising.
Mutual Fund Administrators
Approximately 51 percent of all mutual fund complexes use third party
administrators to perform their accounting and administrative functions.
During 1996, examiners inspected 14 administrators. None of the
examinations resulted in enforcement referrals. As a result of administrator
inspections, two cause examinations of investment company fund complexes
were conducted.
Variable Insurance Products
In response to the rapid growth in variable insurance product assets and
the emergence of new channels of distribution, specialized insurance product
examination teams, consisting of headquarters and regional office staff,
conducted examinations in this area. These teams identified and examined
variable life and annuity contract separate accounts. The teams worked in
conjunction with the Division of Investment Management in planning and
72

executing these examinations. A total of 25 insurance company complexes
were examined. Deficiency letters were issued in 20 examinations.
Bank Advised Mutual Funds
Staff from the Commission and the Office of the Comptroller of the
Currency jointly examined mutual funds advised by national banks. During
the year, the examiners completed one examination started in the prior year,
and began two new examinations. The examiners reviewed key internal
control areas and analyzed portfolio transaction data relating to both mutual
fund and trust department client trading.
Sweep Inspections
Inspection of investment advisers without custody or discretionary
management authority over client funds and securities is the responsibility of
headquarter's staff. In 1996, 242 inspections were completed in six sweeps
in various regions of the country. State examiners participated in many of
these sweeps. A majority of the advisers examined were financial planners.
Typically, financial planners prepare financial plans that are implemented
through sales of mutual funds by the planners in their capacity as registered
representatives of broker-dealers. Many planners also sell insurance
products. Deficiency letters were sent in 98 percent of the sweep
examinations with most of the deficiencies concentrated in books and records
and brochure disclosures.

Broker-Dealer Examinations
During the year, the office continued to improve its broker-dealer
examination program. The broker-dealer program conducted oversight
examinations that tested the quality of SRO examination programs, cause
examinations that focused on activity that may violate the federal securities
laws, and surveillance examinations that assessed broker-dealer compliance
and industry practices and trends. The office is revising its examination

73

procedures to reflect current industry trends, rule amendments and new
product developments. The office is also developing a unified computerized
tracking system that will include a database of examination histories for
every broker dealer registered with the Commission.
The office conducted an examination sweep focusing on the sales
practices of registered representatives with histories of customer complaints,
litigation and disciplinary actions. The sweep also reviewed the hiring,
retention, and supervisory practices of the firms which employed them.
Many of the broker dealers involved in the sweep were small and medium
sized firms. The examination was a collaborative effort by the Commission,
the New York Stock Exchange (NYSE), the National Association of
Securities Dealers, Inc. (NASD), and the North American Securities
Administrators Association, Inc. (state securities regulators). The sweep
consisted of 179 examinations of 101 firms and disclosed that one-third of
the identified registered representatives were able to obtain new employment
during the review period despite their history of disciplinary actions and
customer complaints. The sweep also found that many branch managers
conducted only minimal background checks of potential hires, and
supervisors frequently conducted inadequate or no routine review of
customer transactions to detect sales practice abuses. One-fifth of the sweep
examinations resulted in referrals to the Division of Enforcement.
A total of 645 oversight and cause examinations of broker-dealers,
government securities broker-dealers, and municipal securities dealers were
conducted by the staff. Serious violations in 144 examinations warranted
referrals for further investigation by Division of Enforcement staff.
Findings in an additional 52 examinations were referred to SROs for
appropriate action. In 48 percent of the examinations resulting in a referral,
the examination staff found potential misconduct involving fraud. In
general, examination findings involved the underwriting and trading of
stocks of small capitalization companies, municipal securities, sales of
mutual funds, supervision over independent contractors, and large firms'
internal controls.

74

Self-Regulatory

Organization Inspections

Routine SRO inspections were also conducted by the staff. At least one
inspection was completed or begun of each SRO subject to the Commission's
oversight: the American Stock Exchange; the Boston Stock Exchange; the
Chicago Board Options Exchange; the Chicago Stock Exchange; the
Cincinnati Stock Exchange; the NASD; the NYSE; the Pacific Stock
Exchange; and the Philadelphia Stock Exchange. The SRO inspections
focused on:
• arbitration programs;
• listing and maintenance programs;
• financial and operational examination programs;
• market surveillance, investigations, and disciplinary programs;
• customer complaint review programs;
• programs for detecting and sanctioning sales practice abuses; and
• program and option trading programs.
The inspections resulted in recommendations to improve the programs'
effectiveness and efficiency. In addition, a cause inspection involving
unlisted trading privileges was also conducted.
Inspections of the regulatory programs administered by the NASD's 14
district offices were also conducted. These inspections included reviews of
nine district offices' broker-dealer examination, financial surveillance, and
formal disciplinary programs. The office also reviewed the district offices'
investigations of customer complaints and terminations of registered
representatives for cause.
Finally. the office conducted three inspections of clearing agencies.

75

SRO Final Disciplinary Actions
Section 19(d)(I) of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934 and Rule 19d-l
thereunder require all SROs to file reports with the Commission of all final
disciplinary actions. In 1996, a total of 1,036 reports were filed with the
SEC, as reflected in the following table:

Self-Regulatory Organization Reports
of Final Disciplinary Action

American Stock Exchange . . . .
Boston Stock Exchange
Chicago Board Options Exchange
Chicago Stock Exchange . . . . .
Cincinnati Stock Exchange
National Association of Securities
Securities Dealers
. . . . . .
National Securities
Clearing Corporation . . . . . .
New York Stock Exchange
Options Clearing Corporation
Philadelphia Stock Exchange . .
Pacific Stock Exchange
Total Reports

76

. . . . . . . . . . . .
. . . . . . . . . . .
. . . . . . . . . . . .

27
0
44
1
0

. . . . . . . . . . .,

793

. . . . . . . . . . . .

0
150
0
7
14

. . . . . . . . . . . .

1,036

Full Disclosure System
Thefull disclosure system is administered by the Division of Corporation
Finance. The system is designed to ensure investors receive material
information, foster investor confidence, contribute to the maintenance of fair
and orderly markets, aid capital formation, and prohibit fraud in the public
offering, trading, voting, and tendering of securities.

Key 1996 Results
A record $1.2 trillion in securities were filed for registration during the
year, a 45 percent increase over the $824 billion in 1995. Common stock
offerings of $691 billion filed for registration in 1996 (compared to $400
billion in 1995), including merger transactions, reflected an increase in
overall market activity. Offerings filed by first time registrants (IPOs),
totaling approximately $185.5 billion, were more than twice the level in
1995 (approximately $82 billion).

REGISTRATION STATEMENTS FILED
DOLLAR VALUE ($BILLIONS)
UNALLOCATED

SHELF

UNALLOCATED

B5 1

SHELF

1
12%

93

1%
OTHER

EaUITY

lBB

OTHER

EaUITY

23 B

2%

2%

1995
TOTAL - $823.6

1996
TOTAL - $1,192.7

77

Foreign companies' participation in the United States public markets
continued to show strong growth in 1996. One hundred and thirty-six
foreign companies from 30 countries, including Ashanti Goldfields (Ghana),
Guangshen Railway (China), Axa (France), Toronto-Dominion Bank
(Canada), SGL Carbon (Germany), and the Bank of Ireland entered the
United States public markets for the first time. At year-end, there were 843
foreign companies from 47 countries filing repons with the Commission.
Foreign companies registered public offerings of $78 billion in 1996.
The Commission is conducting a broad re-examination of the regulatory
framework for the offer and sale of securities under the Securities Act of
1933 (Securities Act). Two studies presented to the Commission in 1996 are
assisting these efforts. In March, the Task Force on Disclosure
Simplification (Task Force) delivered its report identifying ways to
streamline the registration and disclosure processes, including the elimination
of many outdated or duplicative disclosure requirements and forms. 147 In
July, the Commission received the Report of the Advisory Committee on the
Capital Formation and Regulatory Processes. 148 The Task Force and the
Advisory Committee on the Capital Formation and Regulatory Processes
(Advisory Committee) recommendations are the subject of a review by the
Commission and its staff and were the impetus for several rulemaking
initiatives undertaken by the Commission in 1996.

Review of Filings
In 1996, the staff reviewed 26 percent of the reporting issuers and 1,655
Securities Act and Securities Exchange Act of 1934 (Exchange Act)
registration statements of first time filers. The following table summarizes
the principal filings reviewed during the last five years. The levels of
review of new issuer filings, tender offers, contested solicitations, and going
private transactions, all of which are subject to review, reflect the increases
and decreases in the number of filings received.

78

FULL DISCLOSURE

Reporting Issuer Reviews ~I
New Issuer Reviews 121

REVIEWS

1992

1993

1994

1995

1996

3,058
1,147

3,531
1,200

3,400
1,599

3,930
1,150

3,210
1,658

Major Filing Reviews
Securities Act Registrations
New Issuers £1
Repeat Issuers
PIE Amdts. £1 gl
Exchange Act Initial Registrations
Annual Report Reviews
Full
Full Financial
Special ~I
Tender Offers (14D-1)
Going Private Schedules
Contested Proxy Solicitations
Proxy Statements
Merger/Going Private
Others wIFinancials

989
970
347
158

1,066
924
220
148

1,384
863
204
215

950
815
215
200

1,412
769
140
246

1,041
1,126
409
27
61
58

1,466
1,155
360
56
61
35

1,085
1,405
455
75
42

1,345
1,585
585
140
77
59

790
933
656
165
100
62

141
150

149
149

163
180

225
205

261
199

82

.wIncludes companies subject to Exchange Act reporting whose financial
statements were reviewed during the year.
Q/Includes non-Exchange Act reporting companies whose Securities Act or
Exchange Act registration statements were reviewed during the year.
£/Reviews of regional office small business filings were transferred to
headquarters at the end of 1996. Some of the small business filings included
in this category were completed in the regional offices during 1996.
g/Includes only post-effective amendments with new financial statements.
~/Forms 10-K, lO-KSB, and 20-F reviewed in connection with the review of
other filings. Special reviews in years prior to 1995 may have been
underrecorded and therefore are not fully comparable to the 1995 and 1996
numbers.

79

Rulemaking, Interpretive, and Related Matters
Securities Act Concept Release and Advisory Committee Recommendation
The Commission issued a concept release!" seeking public comment on
reforms that would streamline the current regulation of the capital formation
process where consistent with the Commission's investor protection mandate.
Various approaches, including a company registration concept recommended
by the Advisory Committee, are being considered.
Disclosure Simplification
In 1995, an internal Task Force initiated a top to bottom review of all
forms and disclosure requirements relating to public companies' securities
offerings and disclosure. The purpose of the review was to streamline and
simplify regulations. In March 1996, the Task Force issued its report, which
recommended that the Commission eliminate 81 rules and 22 forms, and
revise many others in order to simplify the process by which companies
raise capital. In total, the recommendations would eliminate or revise
approximately one-quarter of the rules and one-half of the forms and
schedules reviewed by the Task Force.
The Commission has taken action based on a number of the Task Force's
recommendations. For example, the Commission:
• proposed amendments to the rules under Section 13(d) of the
Exchange Act to allow all passive investors (i.e., investors who are
the beneficial owners of between 5 percent and 20 percent of the
outstanding voting shares of one class of securities and do not acquire
or hold these securities with the purpose or effect of changing or
influencing control of the issuer) to file a short form Schedule 13G
instead of a Schedule 13D;150
• eliminated 44 rules and 4 forms and adopted a number of minor and
technical amendments;'?' and

80

•
 published proposals to:
-

eliminate the Form D filing requirement for Regulation D and
Section 4(6) exemptions, although Form D itself would be retained;

-

eliminate Forms SR and 8-B;

-

amend the Securities Act registration forms to allow companies to
register, at the same time, a public offering under the Securities
Act and a class of securities under the Exchange Act by filing one
form; and

-

amend Form 8-A to provide automatic effectiveness for all
securities that are registered on that form and automatic
effectiveness upon filing of post-effective amendments to Securities
Act registration statements filed solely to add exhibits.!"

Electronic Delivery of Documents to Securityholders
In October 1995, the Commission issued a release acknowledging the
benefits that electronic technology gives to the financial markets and urging
the use of electronic media to send out information to shareholders and
investors. In May 1996, the Commission issued a second release mainly
addressing issues associated with the electronic delivery of information by
broker-dealers, transfer agents, and investment advisers under certain
Exchange Act rules and Investment Advisers Act of 1940 rules. 153 This
release included added guidance on Securities Act electronic delivery. At
the same time, the Commission adopted some technical amendments to its
rules and forms intended to facilitate electronic delivery. 154 Most of the
changes relate to rules that require distribution of information by mail, or
presentation of information in a specified type size or font, or in red ink or
bold-face type.

81

Small Offering Exemption for Certain California Limited Issues
The Commission adopted a new Securities Act Section 3(b) exemption
intended to aid small business in their capital formarion.!" Under the
exemption, offers and sales of securities in amounts of up to $5 million that
meet the conditions of Section 25102(n) of the California Corporations Code
also are exempt from federal registration. The federal antifraud prohibitions
still apply to all exempt transactions. The exemption provides that
purchasers in the exempt transaction receive restricted securities. No filing
with the Commission is required.
Relief from Section 12(g) Registration for Small Issues
To provide further relief for smaller companies, the Commission adopted
amendments to Rules 12g-1, 12g-4, and 12h-3 under the Exchange Act to
raise the threshold for registration from $5 million to $10 million in total
assers.!" Public companies registered under Section 12 must issue
periodic reports and are subject to other obligations, such as proxy and
tender offer regulation, beneficial ownership reporting, and Section 16
reporting and short-swing profit recovery. Companies with securities traded
on an exchange or on Nasdaq continue to be subject to Exchange Act
registration and reporting, regardless of size.
Section 16
The Commission adopted amendments to the Section 16 rules to improve
further the regulatory scheme governing the reporting of certain insider
holdings and transactions, as well as the recovery of short-swing profit.!"
The principal change is a new approach to Rule 16b-3 to exempt transactions
between an issuer and its officers and directors because these transactions
generally do not present the same opportunities for insider profit on the basis
of nonpublic information as do market transactions. The effective date for
the amendments was August 15, 1996, with new Rule 16b-3 becoming
available on that date subject to a phase-in period ending November I, 1996.

82

Expansion of Short-Term Registration to Include Companies with Nonvoting Common Equity
The Commission proposed amendments to Forms S-3 and F-3 under the
Securities Act to make short-form registration available to more companies.
The amendments propose including non-voting as well as voting common
equity in the computation of the required $75 million aggregate market value
of common equity held by non-affiliates of the registrant. 158 The
Commission also proposed amendments that would permit issuers to use the
aggregate market value of voting and non-voting common equity when
calculating the amount of public float (1) required to use Form F-2, (2) used
to determine when an issuer is a small business issuer, or (3) stated on
Forms lO-K and lO-KSB.
Derivatives Disclosure
The Commission proposed amendments that require issuers to make
information related to derivative financial and certain derivative commodity
instruments more useful to investors.!" The amendments would clarify
and expand upon the existing requirements for financial statement footnote
disclosures for these instruments and require disclosure outside the financial
statements of qualitative and quantitative information about market risk
inherent to these instruments. A related release was issued by the
Commission to propose a safe harbor for the new derivatives disclosure that
constitutes forward-looking information. 160
Reporting of Unregistered Equity Sales
The Commission adopted amendments to several rules and forms
applicable to domestic issuers to require reporting of unregistered sales of
equity securities.!" For Regulation S sales, the amendments require
current reporting on Form 8-K within 15 days of their occurrence. Other
exempt equity sales will be reported quarterly. These amendments were
adopted in response to the concern that the absence of a specific requirement
to report publicly unregistered equity offerings may have encouraged
problematic offering practices under Regulation S, and also may have
83

prevented shareholders from learning about potentially dilutive private
transactions.
Simplifying Disclosure Requirements Related to Significant Business
Acquisitions
The Commission adopted amendments to Rule 3-05 of Regulation S-X to
streamline the requirements for financial statements of significant businesses
acquired or to be acquired. 162 Changes also were made to Item 310 of
Regulation S-B and Form 8-K. The amendments permit companies, other
than blank check companies, to proceed with a registered offering without
the financial statements of a business that they acquired or are likely to
acquire until 75 days after the acquisition is completed. However, the
financial statements of a recent or likely acquisition are still required in
registration statements if the business that was or will be acquired exceeds
the 50 percent level of significance compared to the company acquiring it.
The amendments also:
• revise the thresholds for determining the financial statements of
acquired businesses that must be provided under both the Exchange
Act and Securities Act,
• eliminate the requirement to provide financial statements for businesses
faIling below the 20 percent significance level, and
• require audited financial statements for acquisitions as follows:

Significance Level
20 percent
40 percent
50 percent

Years of Audited
Financial Statements Required
one year
two years
three years

The significance level thresholds were formerly 10 percent, 20 percent, and
40 percent.
84

Offshore Press Conferences
The Commission proposed safe harbors designed to facilitate U.S. press
access to offshore press activities.l'" The safe harbors would clarify when
journalists may be given access to offshore press conferences, offshore
meetings, and press materials released offshore, where a present or proposed
offering of securities or tender offer is discussed, without violating the
provisions of Section 5 of the Securities Act, or the procedural requirements
of the tender offer rules issued under the Williams Act.

Conferences
SEC Government-Business

Forum on Small Business Capital Formation

The fifteenth annual SEC Government-Business Forum on Small Business
Capital Formation was held in Washington, D.C. on September 26-27,
1996. Approximately 150 small business representatives, accountants,
attorneys, and government officials attended the forum. Numerous
recommendations were formulated with a view to eliminating unnecessary
governmental impediments to small businesses' ability to raise capital. A
final report will be provided to interested persons, including the Congress
and regulatory agencies, setting forth a list of recommendations for
legislative and regulatory changes approved by the forum participants.
SEC/NASAA

Conference Under Section 19(c) of the Securities Act

The thirteenth annual federal/state uniformity conference was held in
Washington, D.C. on April 29, 1996. Approximately 60 Commission
officials met with approximately 60 representatives of the North American
Securities Administrators Association to discuss ways of achieving greater
uniformity in federal and state securities matters. After the conference, a
final report summarizing the discussions was prepared and distributed to
interested persons.

85

Ombudsman for Small Business
In June 1996, the Commission created an ombudsman position to serve as
the liaison and agency spokesperson for the concerns of small business. The
ombudsman is available to receive general information from small businesses
concerning the impact of any Commission proposal, rule, or regulation and
to help small businesses seeking general information about the Commission.
Small Business Town Hall Meetings
In September 1996, the Commission began holding local town hall
meetings for small businesses. These meetings give owners and investors in
small businesses an opportunity to meet with Commission and other federal
officials to raise concerns and learn about the available governmental
programs and opportunities for small companies under existing laws and
regulations. Meetings have been held in Los Angeles, California,
Minneapolis, Minnesota, Chicago, Illinois, St. Louis, Missouri, Ft.
Lauderdale, Florida, and Boston, Massachusetts. Future sessions will be
held throughout the country.

86

Accounting and Auditing Matters
The Chief Accountant is the principal adviser to the Commission on
accounting and auditing matters arising from the administration of the
various securities laws. The primary Commission activities designed to
achieve compliance with the accounting and financial disclosure
requirements of the federal securities laws include:
• rulemaking and interpretation that supplements private sector
accounting standards, implements financial disclosure requirements,
and establishes independence criteria for accountants;
• reviewing and commenting on filings with the agency directed toward
improving disclosures in filings, identifying emerging accounting issues
(which may result in rulemaldng or private sector standard-setting),
and identifying problems that may warrant enforcement actions;
• taking enforcement actions that impose sanctions and serve to deter
improper financial reporting by enhancing the care with which
registrants and their accountants analyze accounting issues; and
• oversight of private sector efforts, principally by the Financial
Accounting Standards Board (FASB) and the American Institute of
Certified Public Accountants (AICPA), which establish accounting and
auditing standards designed to improve financial accounting and
reporting and the quality of audit practice.

Key 1996 Results
The Commission proposed rules to require additional disclosures
concerning derivatives and other financial instruments. The Commission
also continued its involvement in initiatives directed toward reducing the
disparities that currently exist between different countries' accounting and
auditing standards. The International Accounting Standards Committee

87

(lASC) continued work on an accelerated work plan that would result in a
comprehensive core set of international accounting standards by March
1998.

Accounting-Related

Rules and Interpretations

The SEC's accounting-related rules and interpretations supplement private
sector accounting standards, implement financial disclosure requirements,
and establish independence criteria for accountants. The agency's principal
accounting requirements are embodied in Regulation S-X, which governs the
form and content of financial statements filed with the SEC. As part of a
major Commission initiative to streamline reporting requirements, certain
accounting provisions in Regulation S-X were eliminated because they were
outdated or no longer necessary since these standards duplicated generally
accepted accounting principles. 164
Derivatives
During the year, the Commission proposed rules for comment that would
require additional disclosures concerning derivatives and other financial
instruments. 165 The proposed disclosures are designed to help investors
better assess the market risks of registrants involved with these instruments
and better understand how those risks are managed. The proposals clarify
and expand existing requirements for financial statement footnote disclosures
about accounting policies for derivatives and require disclosures outside the
financial statements of qualitative and quantitative information about the
market risks inherent in derivatives and other financial instruments. The
Office of the Chief Accountant assumed a key role in developing these rules.
Business Combinations
The Office of the Chief Accountant issued interpretive guidance regarding
the effect of treasury stock acquisitions following consummation of a
business combination accounted for under the pooling-of-interests

88

method.!" This guidance was issued due to SEC concerns that certain
registrants had narrowly interpreted the prohibition against planned
transactions as relating only to transactions that were explicitly agreed to.
The guidance was issued to remind registrants that an intention to reacquire
stock issued to effect a business combination represents a planned transaction
that would preclude accounting for the combination as a pooling of interests.
Also in this area, the office issued guidance to clarify the limited
circumstances in which guidance published in Staff Accounting Bulletin 48
was intended to apply."? Although the accounting staffs earlier published
guidance was intended to address the transfer of nonmonetary assets in
exchange for a company's stock just prior to or at the same time as an initial
public offering, the guidance was inappropriately applied by some registrants
to the combination of two or more businesses.

Oversight of Private Sector Standard-Setting

Financial Accounting Standards Board
The SEC monitors the structure, activity, and decisions of the private
sector standard-setting organizations, which include the FASB. The
Commission and its staff worked closely with the FASB in an ongoing effort
to improve the standard-setting process, including the need to respond to
various regulatory, legislative, and business changes in a timely and
appropriate manner.
During 1996, the FASB continued its joint undertaking with the
Accounting Standards Board of the Canadian Institute of Chartered
Accountants to consider the current reporting requirements under Statement
of Financial Accounting Standards No. 14, "Financial Reporting for
Segments of a Business Enterprise." An exposure draft was issued that
would establish common standards on disaggregated disclosures. 168

89

In coordination with a similar project undertaken by the IASC, the FASB
issued an exposure draft that would revise the computation and presentation
of earnings per share and require certain disclosures about capital
structure.I" The approach taken in the FASB exposure draft generally is
consistent with the approach in the IASC exposure draft on this topic.
The FASB continued its efforts on its long-term project to address
financial instruments and off-balance sheet financing issues. For example,
the FASB issued an exposure draft on accounting for derivative instruments
and hedging that is intended to improve the current accounting for these
instruments.'?" The exposure draft would require that an entity recognize
all derivatives as either assets or liabilities on its balance sheet and measure
those instruments at fair value. Under the FASB's proposed approach,
derivatives may be designated as hedges to certain exposures if certain
conditions are met. Recognition of gains and losses from changes in the fair
value of a derivative would depend on the intended use of the derivative and
the resulting designation. In a related action, the FASB issued an exposure
draft that would establish standards for reporting and financial display of
comprehensive income and its components (revenues, expenses, gains, and
losses).!" Finally, the FASB issued a final standard to provide for more
consistent reporting of securitizations and other financial transactions in
which financial assets are transferred in exchange for cash and other
assets. 172
Also in 1996, the FASB issued an exposure draft of a proposed standard
on accounting for obligations related to the closure and removal of longlived assets.!? This project evolved from requests by the SEC and others
to address the issue of the appropriate accounting for nuclear
decommissioning costs.
During the year, the Financial Accounting Foundation (FAF), which
nominates FASB members and provides funding for the FASB, revised its
bylaws to change the composition of its Board of Trustees. The change in

90

the composition of the FAP's Board was made in consultation with the SEC
to include a greater representation by those who do not have a special
interest in the outcome of accounting standards setting.
The FASB's Emerging Issues Task Force (EITF) continued to identify
and resolve accounting issues. In particular, the EITF reached consensus on
a number of issues, thereby narrowing divergent reporting practices of
public companies. Those issues included questions relating to accounting for
financial instruments, business combinations, and costs associated with
modifying computer software for the year 2000.
American Institute of Certified Public Accountants
The SEC oversaw various activities of the accounting profession
conducted primarily through the AICPA. These included (1) the Auditing
Standards Board (ASB), which establishes generally accepted auditing
standards; (2) the SEC Practice Section (SECPS), which seeks to improve
the quality of audit practice by member accounting firms that audit the
financial statements of public companies through various requirements,
including peer review; and (3) the Accounting Standards Executive
Committee (AcSEC), which provides guidance through its issuance of
statements of position and practice bulletins and prepares issue papers on
accounting topics for consideration by the FASB.
ASB

The accounting staff continued to work closely with the ASB to enhance
the effectiveness of the audit process. During 1996, the ASB issued a
proposed Statement on Auditing Standards to clarify an auditor's existing
responsibility to plan and perform an audit to search for fraud.!" The
ASB also issued a series of annual Audit Risk Alerts to provide auditors with
an overview of recent economic, professional, and regulatory developments
that may affect 1996 year-end audits.

91

SECPS

Two programs administered by the SECPS are designed to ensure that the
financial statements of SEC registrants are audited by accounting firms with
adequate quality control systems. A peer review of member firms by other
accountants is required every three years and the Quality Control Inquiry
Committee (QCIC) reviews on a timely basis the quality control implications
of litigation against member firms that involves public clients. The Office of
the Chief Accountant coordinates closely with the Public Oversight Board
(POB) in performing its oversight of the two programs. The POB, which is
independent of the AICPA (except for funding), also engages in other
activities directed towards improvements in the financial reporting process.
The SEC oversaw the SECPS through frequent contacts with the POB
and members of the executive, peer review and quality control inquiry
committees of the SECPS. The Office of the Chief Accountant selected a
random sample of peer reviews and evaluated selected working papers of the
peer reviewers and the related POB files. As in prior years, this oversight
showed that the peer review process contributes significantly to improving
the quality control systems of member firms and, therefore, enhances the
consistency and quality of practice before the Commission.
Closed case summaries prepared by the QCIC and related POB oversight
files were also reviewed by the SEC. These reviews and discussions with
the POB and QCIC staff provided the accounting staff with enough
information to conclude that the QCIC process provides added assurances, as
a supplement to the peer review process, that major quality control
deficiencies, if any, are identified and addressed on a timely basis.
AcSEC

The AcSEC issued a statement of position to provide guidance on issues
relating to the recognition, measurement, display, and disclosure of
environmental liabilities. 175 During 1996, the AcSEC continued to address
accounting issues involving specialized industries, dedicating resources in
92

such areas as accounting for software revenue recognition, motion picture
accounting, and insurance accounting.

International

Accounting

and Auditing Standards

Significant differences in accounting and auditing standards currently
exist between countries. These differences are an impediment to
multinational offerings of securities. The SEC, in cooperation with other
members of the International Organization of Securities Commissions
(IOSCO), actively participated in initiatives by international bodies of
professional accountants to establish appropriate international standards that
might be considered for use in multinational offerings.
The International Accounting Standards Committee IASC and IOSCO's
Technical Committee have agreed to the development of a work plan that
identifies the projects which, upon successful completion, will comprise a
comprehensive core set of international accounting standards. The objective
of the work plan is the completion of a core set of international accounting
standards that will allow the Technical Committee to recommend
endorsement of the standards for cross-border securities offerings in all
global markets.
In April 1996, the IASC initiated a plan to accelerate its developmental
efforts with a view toward completion of the requisite core set of standards
by March 1998. The Commission is committed to working with its
securities regulatory colleagues, through IOSCO, and with the IASC to
provide necessary input to achieve the goal of establishing a comprehensive
set of international accounting standards as expeditiously as possible. From
the Commission's perspective, there are three key elements to this program
and the ultimate acceptance of its results.
•
 The standards must include a core set of accounting pronouncements
that constitute a comprehensive, generally accepted basis of
accounting.

93

•

The standards must be of high quality--they must result in
comparability and transparency, and they must provide for full
disclosure.

•

The standards must be rigorously interpreted and applied.

Significant progress was made on the remaining accounting areas
necessary to complete the core set of standards. For example, a final
standard was issued on accounting for income taxes.!" and exposure drafts
on segment reporting.!" earnings per share,'?" presentation of financial
staternents.!" and employee benefits'" were issued for comment.
Outstanding proposals concerning recognition and measurement of financial
statements and accounting for intangible assets (including research and
development and goodwill) are being reconsidered; new proposals are
expected early in 1997. Proposals on the remaining five areas comprising
the core set of standards are expected during 1997.

94

Other Litigation and Legal Activities
The Office of General Counsel provides legal services to the Commission
concerning its law enforcement, regulatory, legislative, and adjudicatory
activities. The office represents the Commission in appeals in enforcement
cases and provides technical assistance on legislative initiatives.

Key 1996 Results

The Court of Appeals for the Second Circuit affirmed the Commission's
judgment against Robert E. Brennan and First Jersey Securities Inc. In SEC
v. Fehn,181 the Court of Appeals for the Ninth Circuit upheld a
Commission aiding and abetting action on the ground that a provision of the
Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995 authorizing such actions
applied retroactively. In two criminal cases litigated by the Department of
Justice, United States v. Bryanl82 and United States v. 0 'Hagan, 183 two
courts of appeals rejected the misappropriation theory of insider trading.
The Commission participated in seeking rehearing in both cases. In SEC v.
Life Partners, Inc., 184 the Court of Appeals for the District of Columbia
Circuit held that investments in viatical settlements are not securities. The
Commission's petition for rehearing was denied. The SEC testified and the
staff provided technical and other assistance with respect to the National
Securities Markets Improvement Act of 1996 (Improvement Act), which was
enacted in October 1996.

Significant Litigation Developments

First Jersey Securities
In SEC v. First Jersey Securities, Inc., 185 the Court of Appeals for the
Second Circuit upheld the injunction and an award of $75,000,000 in
95

disgorgement and prejudgment interest against Robert E. Brennan and First
Jersey Securities for their perpetration of a massive and continuing
fraudulent scheme on public investors. Still pending in the Court of Appeals
for the Third Circuit is a related appeal, In re First Jersey Securities
Litigation, \86 in which the Commission seeks to have an injunction vacated
that was issued by the United States District Court for the Eastern District of
Pennsylvania on the motion of Brennan and First Jersey in a now settled
class action suit. The injunction bars the Commission's distribution of the
New York court's disgorgement award unless the distribution is approved by
the Pennsylvania court. This appeal was stayed when Brennan filed for
protection under the Bankruptcy Code.
Aiding and Abetting Liability
In SEC v. Fehn, \87 the Court of Appeals for the Ninth Circuit upheld an
injunction obtained by the Commission against an aider and abettor of
securities laws violations on the ground that Section 104 of the Private
Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995 applied retroactively to the case.
This act was adopted while the appeal was pending and authorizes the
Commission to bring aiding and abetting actions.
"In Connection with" Requirement Under Rule lOb-5
In McGann v. Ernst & Young,l88 the Court of Appeals for the Ninth
Circuit reaffirmed the principle that persons who make false or misleading
statements with the expectation that those statements will reach trading
markets engage in fraud "in connection with the purchase or sale of
securities," and need not have traded themselves in the securities. The court
rejected the argument that this reading of the antifraud provisions is no
longer valid after the Supreme Court's Central Bank decision.
Insider Trading
Two courts of appeals rejected the misappropriation theory of insider
trading liability, which had previously been accepted by all four circuits that

96

had considered it. Under this theory, it is a form of securities fraud to trade
while in possession of non-public material information that has been
deceptively misappropriated from its rightful owner. In United States v.
Bryan'" and United States v. O'Hagan I" the Courts of Appeals for the
Fourth and Eighth Circuits struck down the theory on the grounds that such
trading did not involve deception and that the misappropriation of
information was not in connection with the purchase or sale of a security,
both of which are elements of liability under Section 10(b) of the Securities
Exchange Act of 1936 (Exchange Act) and Rule lOb-5. The O'Hagan court
also struck down as beyond the Commission's power to promulgate SEC
Rule 14e-3, which bans trading while in possession of certain non-public
material information in connection with a tender offer. The Commission
filed briefs urging rehearing in both cases. Rehearing was denied in both,
and a petition for certiorari has been filed in the Supreme Court in
O'Hagan.
Definition of a Security
In SEC v. Life Partners, Inc., 191 the Court of Appeals for the District of
Columbia Circuit held that interests in viatical settlements sold as
investments are not investment contracts and therefore are not securities,
because the predominant entrepreneurial or managerial efforts of the sellers
occurred before investors gave the defendants their money. A viatical
settlement is the process through which a terminally ill patient sells at a
discount their life insurance policy to an investor or a group of investors.
The Commission's petition for rehearing was denied.
Statute of Limitations in Commission Proceedings
In Johnson v. SEC,I92the Court of Appeals for the District of Columbia
Circuit reversed a Commission order imposing a censure and six-month
suspension from supervisory activities. The court held that the sanction was
barred by the five-year statute of limitations in 28 U.S.c. 2462, which
applies where a "fine, penalty or forfeiture, pecuniary or otherwise," is
sought.

97

Arbitration
In Glennon v. Dean Witter Reynolds, Inc., 193 the Sixth Circuit Court of
Appeals, as urged by the Commission as amicus curiae, rejected a due
process challenge to an arbitral award of punitive damages in a case brought
against a broker-dealer. In deciding the case, the court assumed for the
purpose of deciding the case that the due process clause applies to
arbitrations, but held that the judicial review provided for under the Federal
Arbitration Act met those requirements.
Broker-Dealer Regulation
In Upton v. SEC,I94 the Court of Appeals for the Second Circuit held
that brokerage firms cannot meet their customer protection obligations under
Rule 15c3-3 by paying down obligations just before doing their weekly
computations under the rule, thus lowering the amount that need be set aside
in the customer protection account, and then restoring the obligations just
after doing the computation. The court vacated the sanction against
petitioner, however, because it found there was inadequate notice of this
principle in 1988 and 1989, when the firm engaged in the practice.
Regulation of Municipal Securities
In Blount v. SEC,195 the Supreme Court declined to review the decision
of the Court of Appeals for the District of Columbia Circuit upholding as
constitutional the Commission's approval of Municipal Securities
Rulemaking Board Rule G-37, the rule prohibiting pay-to-play practices.
Commission Quorum Rule
In Falcon Trading Group Ltd. v. SEC,I96 the Court of Appeals for the

District of Columbia Circuit upheld the Commission's quorum rule, which
provides that when the number of commissioners in office is only two, then
two commissioners constitute a quorum. The case was brought about in

98

response to a disciplinary ruling against Falcon Trading Group Ltd. and is
awaiting decision.
Forum Selection and Choice of Law Agreements
The Commission filed a brief as amicus curiae in the Court of Appeals
for the Ninth Circuit in Richards v. Lloyd's of London. 197 In the brief, the
Commission argues that contractual forum selection and choice of law
clauses, that require the Lloyd's Names to bring claims arising from their
investments in Lloyd's in British courts and provide that British law governs
resolution of the disputes violate the antiwaiver provisions of the federal
securities laws because British courts will not entertain claims under those
laws. The case is awaiting decision.
Requests for Access to Commission Records
The Commission received 110 subpoenas for documents and testimony in
1996. In some of these cases, the Commission declined to produce the
requested documents or testimony because the information sought was
privileged. The Commission's assertions of privilege were upheld in every
instance when the party issuing the subpoena challenged the assertion in
court.
The Commission received 2,443 requests under the Freedom of
Information Act (FOIA) for access to agency records. There were 62
appeals to the General Counsel from initial denials by the FOIA Officer.
Three actions were brought in federal court challenging Commission
decisions under the FOIA. The first case was withdrawn by the plaintiff and
the second is pending. 198 In the third, Parsons v. SEC,I99 the court
granted the Commission's motion to dismiss, upholding the Commission's
decision to withhold staff reports of routine examinations of a broker-dealer
and of an self-regulatory organization (SRO) pursuant to FOIA Exemption 8.

99

Motions to Vacate Permanent Injunctions
In SEC v. Worthen,zoo John Worthen moved to vacate a permanent
injunction entered against him by default in 1974. Worthen, a twiceconvicted securities law violator, argued that his injunction should be
vacated primarily because it was improper to enter a default judgment
against him while he was incarcerated for securities fraud. The Commission
opposed Worthen's motion, arguing that Worthen's injunction was valid and
noted that Worthen pled guilty to criminal contempt of the injunction in
1989. Worthen's motion was denied without opinion. The court of appeals
affirmed, rejecting Worthen's challenge to the validity of the default
judgment.
Actions Against the Commission and Staff
Numerous court actions, seeking millions of dollars in the aggregate,
were brought against the Commission and its staff alleging constitutional,
statutory, and common law tort violations in connection with the conduct of
various enforcement investigations. Decisions in all such actions were
favorable to the Commission. Of particular note, in Colello and Romano v.
SEC., plaintiffs sought equitable and monetary relief from the Commission,
present and former Commission employees, and the Department of Justice,
among others, based on the government's freeze of plaintiffs' Swiss assets
pursuant to the Swiss-United States Treaty on Mutual Assistance. In a prior
ruling, the court had held that the freeze violated the Fourth and Fifth
Amendments to the United States Constitution. 201 The court, however,
ruled that the doctrines of sovereign, absolute, and qualified immunity'"
bar plaintiffs from obtaining any relief against the defendants.
Also, in Hunter v, SEC,203 the court dismissed claims against the
Commission and granted summary judgment on behalf of a Commission
employee. The court held that there was no evidence to support plaintiff's
claim that a Commission investigator improperly disclosed financial records
relating to the subject of an ongoing Commission investigation to a witness
for personal purposes.

100

Actions Under the Right to Financial Privacy Act
In 1996, 14 actions were filed against the Commission in federal district
courts pursuant to the Right to Financial Privacy Act (RFPA) seeking to
quash Commission subpoenas to financial institutions for bank account
records. In each of the cases decided, the court enforced the subpoena,
finding that the Commission had established that the subpoenaed records
were relevant to a law enforcement inquiry and that the staff had complied
with the procedural requirements of the RFPA.
Stays Pending Appeal In Subpoena Enforcement Actions
In three separate actions.P' persons ordered by a district court to
produce documents or testify in Commission investigations filed motions in
appeals courts to stay the orders pending appeal. In each case, the
Commission successfully opposed the motions by demonstrating that:
• arguments as to why the subpoenas should not be enforced were not
likely to succeed on appeal,
• producing documents or testimony in a Commission investigation does
not constitute irreparable harm because a person may still challenge
the Commission's use of such evidence in any subsequent enforcement
action, and
• the public interest is served by requiring those who may possess
evidence of securities law violations to produce that information in a
timely manner.
Asset Freezes
In Law Practice of J.B. Grossman, P.A. v. SEC,205 petitioner
Grossman, counsel for the defendants in a Commission enforcement case,
sought a writ of certiorari urging the court to review the decision of the
Court of Appeals for the Eleventh Circuit affirming a finding of civil
101

contempt against his firm for violating a temporary restraining order (TRO)
and asset freeze. Grossman had transferred defendants' funds that were held
in a firm account while those funds were frozen by the TRO. Grossman
argued to the Supreme Court that his firm was entitled to treat the TRO and
asset freeze as having expired because they were extended beyond the 20day limit in Fed. R. Civ. P. 65(b). The Supreme Court denied the petition.

Significant Adjudication Developments
The staff submitted 81 draft opinions and orders resolving substantive
motions to the Commission. The Commission issued 46 opinions and 17
related orders, and the staff resolved by delegated authority an additional 98
motions. Appeals from decisions of administrative law ju .ges continue to
make up a high percentage of the Commission's docket.
Sales Practice Abuses and Deficient Supervision
As in previous years, the Commission reviewed several cases in this area.
For example, in Consolidated Investment Services, Inc., 206 the Commission
concluded that a broker-dealer and two of its officers failed reasonably to
supervise a registered representative who conducted a Ponzi-type scheme out
of the firm's one-person satellite office. The registered representative
defrauded more than 50 customers of $5 million. The Commission found
that the firm and its officers failed to inspect the satellite office during the
salesman's five-year tenure and ignored numerous red flags indicating his
failure to comply with established firm procedures. Noting that the firm and
its officers had been disciplined previously for similar misconduct, the
Commission suspended the firm for 30 days, barred the officers for one
year, and imposed a $50,000 penalty on each officer.
In Franklin N. Wolf, James H. Petrantis, and Richard T. Sullivan?"
the Commission determined that in six months three principals of a brokerdealer formerly registered with the National Association of Securities
Dealers (NASD) effected more than 2,400 retail sales in violation of an

102

Exchange Act rule governing the sale of low-priced securities. The
Commission rejected their claim that the rule was vague and observed that
before the period at issue, two of the three had reviewed an NASD Notice to
Members explaining the rule. The Commission also found that Sullivan,
who served as the firm's compliance director, was responsible for the firm's
failure to implement sufficient procedures to ensure compliance with the
rule. The Commission sustained the censures, fines, and suspensions
imposed on the respondents.
Fraud in the Offer/Sale of Securities; Manipulative Activity
The Commission considered several appeals involving fraudulent and
manipulative conduct. In Ivan D. Jones, Jr.,'lJJ8the Commission
determined that Jones, president of both a brokerage firm and a registered
investment adviser, misappropriated proceeds from two offerings. Jones
used the proceeds to benefit businesses in which he was an officer or part
owner. Jones claimed that one of the offerings involved the sale of real
estate partnerships and thus was not subject to the securities laws; however,
he was charged only with violation of the Investment Advisers Act of 1940
in connection with that offering. The antifraud provisions of that Act cover
all fraudulent conduct by investment advisers affecting clients or prospective
clients, whether or not the conduct involves securities.
In Thomas C. Kocherhans, 209 the Commission found that in six months
a registered representative effected 47 purchases of a particular common
stock within 15 minutes of the market close. Of the 47 purchases, 35 caused
the market to close at a price higher than the previously reported trade.
Kocherhans admitted that he made the purchases to assist his customers in
avoiding margin calls by increasing the equity in their margin accounts. The
Commission determined that Kocherhans had a second motive for marking
the close. The stock comprised more than 90 percent of Kocherhans'
personal holdings, and he was having substantial difficulty in meeting
margin calls. Given the seriousness of Kocherhans' misconduct, the
Commission sustained the censure, $50,500 fine, and one-year suspension
the NASD had imposed.

103

Effecting Transactions Based on Material, Non-public Information
In Ralph Joseph Presuui?" the Commission concluded that a registered
representative violated New York Stock Exchange (NYSE) rules by carrying
out securities transactions for customers acting on the basis of stock tips
featured in Business Week. The customers obtained the magazine before its
release to the public. Presutti learned several months into the scheme that
his customer was not obtaining the magazine from a newsstand, as Presutti
originally had been told, but from an employee of the printer. The
Commission found that, although Presutti knew the Business Week
information was market sensitive, he failed to investigate his customer's
claim that the advance copies were a perk given to the printer's employees
and continued for another year to effect the securities transactions.
Presutti's customer had paid the printer's employee for the advance copies.
The Commission sustained the censure and two-month suspension imposed
by the NYSE.
Excessive and Fraudulent Markups
The Commission further clarified the law governing excessive and
fraudulent markups. In Strategic Resource Management, Inc. ,211 the
Commission set aside the NASD's findings of excessive markups, rejecting
the NASD's treatment of the firm as a non-market maker for certain trades.
The Commission found that where a broker-dealer holds itself out as a
market maker and regularly conducts inter-dealer trades on both the buy and
sell sides of the market, it should be treated as a market maker for all
transactions, not just those involving other dealers. Further, the
Commission stated that the principal set forth in Kevin B. Waide212--in
riskless principle transactions, markups should be based upon the dealer's
contemporaneous cost--normally does not apply to market-making activity.
The Commission explained that a market maker's purchase or sale of a
security may occur when it holds the opposite order from a customer, thus
offsetting that customer's order. Although the transaction could be viewed
as happening on a riskless principal basis, it is part of a market maker's
normal function.
104

In Frank L. Palumbo, Salvatore A. Venezia and Sandra Solomon
Yenezia i" the Conunission determined that three officers of a brokerdealer formerly registered with the NASD recklessly overcharged customers.
These officers imposed markups ranging from 5.14 to 83.77 percent of the
prevailing market price in sales of three securities underwritten by the firm.
In a earlier disciplinary proceeding, respondents had been put on notice that
the firm's practice of basing its markups on unvalidated ask quotations was
improper. The Commission agreed with the NASD that the firm's markups
should have been based on the prices it paid to other dealers concurrently
with its retail sales, where available, and otherwise on the basis of its
contemporaneous purchases from retail customers, adjusted for a five
percent markdown.

Counseling and Regulatory Policy Services
The General Counsel provided technical assistance to Congress and others
on legislative proposals, including the Improvement Act, and to the
Conunission on regulatory issues. Regulatory issues included reorganization
of the NASD, adoption of the SEC's rules governing order handling by
broker-dealers, and implementation issues arising from the Small Business
Regulatory Enforcement Fairness Act of 1996. In addition, the General
Counsel prepared a report to Congress regarding protections for senior
citizens and qualified retirement plans required by the Private Securities
Litigation Reform Act of 1995.

Significant Legislative Developments
Charitable Giving Protection
On October 31, 1995, the SEC testified before the House Conunerce
Committee's Subconunittee on Teleconununications and Finance in support
of the Philanthropy Protection Act of 1995 (H.R. 2519). In December
1995, President Clinton signed H.R. 2519 into law (Pub. L. No. 104-62).
105

Charitable organizations and the securities issued by them generally are
exempt from registration and reporting requirements under the federal
securities laws. The Protection Act is intended to address interpretive
questions that arose with respect to pooled accounts maintained by charitable
organizations that contain donated property in which the donor retains a
remainder or annuity interest (charitable income funds). Provided the
charitable income fund qualifies to receive tax deductible contributions under
the Internal Revenue Code, the Act exempts:
• such funds from registration under the federal securities laws,
• securities issued by these funds,
• persons soliciting on behalf of the funds,
• charitable organizations sponsoring the funds, and
• persons associated with the funds.
Charitable income funds and persons soliciting on their behalf remain
subject to the antifraud provisions of the securities laws. The Act also
requires certain disclosures to donors, prohibits incentive-based
commissions, and preempts state regulation of charitable income funds with
a three-year opt-out period.
Securities Litigation Reform
In December 1995, the House and Senate voted to override President
Clinton's veto of the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995 (Pub.
L. No. 104-67), concluding a long legislative effort to bring about a revision
of both substantive and procedural law governing private actions under the
federal securities laws. For the most part, the Litigation Reform Act applies

106

only to private actions. Among the most significant measures instituted by
the Litigation Reform Act are:
• a statutory safe harbor for forward-looking statements;
• a system of proportionate, as opposed to joint and several, liability for
defendants in private actions who are not found to have knowingly
committed a violation of the securities laws;
• mandatory sanctions for violations of Rule 11(b) of the Federal Rules
of Civil Procedure; and
• a requirement that courts choose a lead plaintiff in securities class
actions to represent the class, with the presumption that the most
capable representative is the person or group with the largest financial
interest in the case.
Regulation of Public Utility Holding Companies
On February 8, 1996, the President signed into law the Telecommunications Act of 1996 (Pub. L. No. 104-104), a comprehensive
reform of federal telecommunications law. The Telecommunications Act
amends the Public Utility Holding Company Act of 1935 to permit
registered public utility holding companies to invest in telecommunications
activities through separate subsidiaries, to issue or sell securities to finance
the acquisition of telecommunications subsidiaries, and to guarantee
securities of these subsidiaries without prior SEC approval. The Act
authorizes the SEC to announce rules concerning additional reporting by
registered holding companies or their subsidiaries that own securities of
telecommunications subsidiaries.
SEC Appropriation
In September 1996, the House and the Senate passed an omnibus
appropriations bill for 1997, which the President signed into law on
107

September 30, 1996 (Pub. L. No. 104-208). The appropriations bill
provides funding authority for the SEC for 1997 at $305 million, which
includes $222 million in offsetting fee collections from an increase in the
securities registration fees from 1I50th to 1I33rd of one percent and new
transaction fees of 1I300th of one percent on sales of certain over-thecounter (Nasdaq) market securities. This funding level represents an
increase over the $297 million proposed in the House bill and a decrease
from the $306 million proposed in the Senate-reported bill. The SEC had
requested appropriations of $308 million.
Securities Deregulation
In 1996, Congress debated significant revisions to the federal securities
laws. The SEC testified on the following bills: (1) H.R. 1495, the
Investment Company Act Amendments of 1995 (before the House
Commerce Committee's Subcommittee on Telecommunications and Finance
in October 1995); (2) H.R. 2131, the Capital Markets Deregulation and
Liberalization Act of 1995 (before the House Commerce Committee's
Subcommittee on Telecommunications and Finance in November 1995); and
(3) S. 1815, the Securities Investment Promotion Act of 1996 (before the
Senate Banking Committee in June 1996).
The House and Senate both passed H.R. 3005, the Improvement Act,
which incorporated some provisions from earlier legislative proposals to
revise the securities laws (including H.R. 1495, H.R. 2131, and S. 1815).
The President signed the legislation into law on October 11, 1996 (Pub. L.
No. 104-290). The most significant provisions of the legislation are outlined
below.
Securities Registration

The Improvement Act for the most part preempts state blue-sky
registration of covered securities, which includes securities listed on the
NYSE, the American Stock Exchange (AMEX), and the National
Association of Securities Dealers Automated Quotation/National Market
108

System (Nasdaq/NMS), exchanges with substantially similar listing standards
as NYSE, AMEX, Nasdaq/NMS (as determined by the SEC), registered
investment companies, securities sold to qualified purchasers (to be defined
by the SEC), and securities sold in certain offerings exempt from federal
legislation. The Act also prohibits states from limiting or imposing
conditions on the sales of such securities. States retain securities registration
(and review) of small-cap Nasdaq offerings, regional exchange offerings,
offerings listed on the pink sheets, and certain offerings that are exempt
under the federal securities laws. In addition, states retain state law
authority to investigate and bring enforcement actions with respect to fraud
in connection with securities transactions.
Broker-Dealer Regulation
The Improvement Act preempts state regulation of broker-dealers in the
areas of financial responsibility, recordkeeping, reporting, margin, and
custody requirements to the extent that state requirements in these areas are
inconsistent with or exceed requirements established under the Exchange
Act. The Act also removes legislative restrictions on the sources from
which broker-dealers may obtain financing and encourages the SEC and
SROs to eliminate duplication in the examination process.
Exemptive Authority
The Improvement Act grants the SEC general exemptive authority under
the Securities Act of 1933 (Securities Act) and the Exchange Act.
Investment Companies
The Improvement Act makes significant amendments to the Investment
Company Act of 1940. These amendments:
•
 lift restrictions on mutual funds making investments in other mutual
funds in the same fund complex;

109

• simplify the system under which mutual funds pay registration fees;
• give funds greater advertising flexibility;
• permit greater flexibility in regulating variable insurance products;
• give the SEC authority to prohibit misleading and deceptive fund
names;
• permit investment advisers to qualified purchaser pools and foreign
persons to obtain fees based on investment performance;
• exempt from regulation under the Investment Company Act funds
whose securities are held only by qualified purchasers; and
• streamline the existing exception for private investment companies. In
addition, the Act exempts from most federal securities regulations
church employee pension plans if the assets are held for the exclusive
benefit of employees.

Investment Advisers
The Improvement Act prohibits investment advisers that manage less than
$25 million in assets from registering with the SEC, makes the states
responsible for regulating them, and preempts most state investment adviser
laws with respect to advisers registered with the SEC. The SEC retains
authority to regulate foreign advisers and advisers who are not regulated by
their home state. In certain circumstances, the SEC also has exemptive
authority to continue regulating advisers with assets under management of
less than $25 million. The SEC and the states each retain authority to
investigate allegations of fraud involving any investment adviser, whether
registered with the SEC or with a state regulator. In addition, the Act (1)
facilitates the creation of a one-stop filing depository for investment adviser
registrations; (2) prohibits regulation of books, records, and capital and
bonding requirements of investment advisers by states other than the

110

adviser's home state; (3) prohibits states from requiring registration or
licensing of investment advisers that do not have their principal place of
business or have less than six clients in the state; (4) allows the SEC to
prohibit registration of any person convicted of any felony; and (5) maintains
state authority to require filings made with the SEC and certain remedies to
assure fee payments and filings. The Act also authorizes appropriation of
$20 million to the SEC for enforcement of the Investment Advisers Act.
SEC Authorization

The Improvement Act authorizes the SEC to receive funding in the
amount of $300 million (plus $20 million in additional funds for enforcement
of the Investment Advisers Act) in 1997. The Act provides for a gradual
reduction over 10 years in fees for filings of registration statements under
Section 6(b) of the Securities Act. The securities registration fee is
authorized at $295 per $1 million (1I34th of one percent) in 1998 and
declines to $67 per $1 million (1I150th of one percent) in 2007. The Act
also extends transaction fees under Section 31 of the Exchange Act to sales
of securities in the over-the-counter markets. The transaction fee is
authorized at 1I300th of one percent beginning in 1997 through 2006 (the
same rate currently imposed on sales of exchange-registered securities) and
is scheduled to decline to 1I800th of one percent in 2007.
SEC Reports

The Improvement Act requires the SEC to prepare reports on a variety of
topics not later than October 11, 1997. These reports include (1) the extent
to which the states have acted to achieve uniform regulatory requirements
for securities that are not preempted by the Improvement Act, (2) the impact
of technological advances on the securities markets, (3) the market practice
known as preferencing (due April 9, 1997), (4) the impact of disparate state
licensing requirements on associated persons of registered broker-dealers, (5)
proposals to privatize EDGAR (due April 11, 1997), and (6) progress in the
development of international accounting standards and the outlook for
completion of a set of such standards acceptable to the SEC.
111

Regulatory Reform
In March 1996, the l04th Congress passed the Small Business Regulatory
Enforcement Fairness Act of 1996 (Pub. L. No. 104-121). Among other
things, the legislation (1) imposes certain obligations on all federal agencies
to assist small businesses in complying with agency rules; (2) expands the
class of litigants eligible for awards under the Equal Access to Justice Act
and makes such awards available if an agency's demand was unreasonable
when measured against the final outcome; (3) amends the Regulatory
Flexibility Act, among other things, permit small entities to challenge agencj
compliance with that Act; and (4) provides for congressional review of all
final agency rules. The SEC is implementing new requirements under these
laws.
SEC Testimony
In other areas, the SEC testified before Congress regarding mutual funds
and mutual fund investors (before the House Banking Committee's
Subcommittee on Capital Markets, Securities and Government Sponsored
Enterprises in June 1996), and frauds involving fictitious financial
instruments (before the Senate Banking Committee in July 1996).

Corporate Reorganizations
The Commission, as a statutory adviser in cases under Chapter 11 of the
Bankruptcy Code, seeks to assure that the interests of public investors are
protected. During the year, there were 109 active Chapter 11 cases
involving public companies. The Commission entered a formal appearance
in 14 cases with significant public investor interest. The Commission also
was actively involved in the Orange County214 bankruptcy, the largest
municipal bankruptcy ever filed under Chapter 9 of the Bankruptcy Code, in
order to protect the holders of the county's public debt securities and the
municipal bond market generally.

112

Committees
Official committees negotiate with debtors on the formulation of
reorganization plans and participate generally in all aspects of a Chapter 11
case. The Bankruptcy Code provides for the appointment of an official
committee for stockholders where necessary to assure adequate
representation of their interests.
During 1996, the Commission successfully supported a motion for an
equity committee in In re Hamburger Hamlet.215 The Commission was
unsuccessful in supporting the formation of an equity committee in In re
Edison Brothers Stores, Inc. ,216 in which the district court, on appeal,
sustained the bankruptcy judge's determination that management could
adequately represent shareholders because of its substantial stock ownership.
The U.S. Trustee, however, later appointed an official committee in In re
Edison Brothers Stores, Inc. Committees also were appointed in three cases
as a result of informal discussions with U.S. Trustees and the Case
Administrator for the District of North Carolina."?
The Commission reiterated its position that insider trading prohibitions
apply to members of official committees, who frequently receive confidential
information on a company's operations and prospects. In In re WRT
Energy218 and In re Baldwin Builders, 219 the Commission supported the
adoption of court orders permitting trading in the debtor's securities only by
committee members engaged in securities trading in the regular course of
their business and that implement procedures designed to prevent the misuse
of inside information.
Disclosure Statements/Reorganization

Plans

A disclosure statement is a combination proxy and offering statement used
to solicit acceptances for a reorganization plan. Such plans often provide for
the issuance of large quantities of new unregistered securities pursuant to an
exemption from Securities Act registration contained in the Bankruptcy
Code. During 1996, the Office of General Counsel commented on 66 of the

113

68 plans and disclosure statements it reviewed. In addition, the office
commented on 44 of the 52 amended disclosure statements it reviewed.
Recurring problems with disclosure statements included inadequate financial
information, lack of disclosure on the issuance of unregistered securities and
insider transactions, and plan provisions that contravene the Bankruptcy
Code. Most of the office's comments were adopted by the debtors without
the need for formal Commission intervention.
In In re NVF Corp. ,220 the Commission successfully objected to the
debtor's attempt to obtain a release from liability for Victor Posner, NVF's
principal shareholder, officer, and director. The release of third parties
from liability is significant to investors because in many cases debtors seek
to use the Chapter 11 process to protect officers and directors from personal
liability for various kinds of claims, including liability under the federal
securities laws. As a result of the Commission's comment process for plan
disclosure statements, improper third party release provisions were
abandoned in five cases.?"
In In re Americare Intemational/" and In re Micro Security P" the
Commission successfully objected to attempts to discharge claims of
creditors and sell the remaining asset-less public shell corporations.
Enforcement Matters
Bankruptcy issues frequently arise in Commission enforcement actions.
In In re Bilzerian P" the district court overruled a bankruptcy court order
that had refused to give collateral estoppel effect (i.e., to accept the factual
findings of the district court) to the Commission's $33 million securities
fraud disgorgement judgment. The district court directed the bankruptcy
judge to enter summary judgment for the Commission that its disgorgement
judgment is nondischargeable.
In In re ACI-HDT Supply,225 the Commission objected to the method of
calculating the claims of victims of a fraudulent Ponzi scheme. Relying on
Ninth Circuit precedent.i" the Commission argued that the claims of
114

defrauded investors should be based on out-of-pocket loss rather than benefit
of the bargain damages. The matter is pending.
In In re Hibbard Brown,227 a Chapter 11 case involving a penny stock
broker-dealer, the Commission objected to the fairness of a proposed
settlement with certain former registered representatives and employees who
are alleged to have defrauded investors of more than $115 million. The
Commission argued that the proposed contributions by these third parties
were inadequate to support a general release of all claims arising from their
fraudulent activity. After the Commission raised its objections, the
bankruptcy court appointed an examiner to evaluate the fairness of the
proposed settlement. The Commission is prepared to seek conversion of this
Chapter 11 case to a liquidation under Chapter 7 unless the proposed amount
of contributions by the third parties is increased substantially.

Ethical Conduct Program
In 1996, the staff responded to 1,135 counseling inquiries. The staff
continued to provide training, prepare memoranda on ethics issues, and
revise the Commission's Conduct Regulation.

115

Municipal Securities Initiatives
The Office of Municipal Securities provides expertise to the Commission and
staff, assists on municipal securities enforcement cases, coordinates
disclosure rules and other ongoing municipal regulatory initiatives, and
addresses new issues that arise in the municipal area. In addition, the office
provides assistance on legislative matters and works directly with issuers,
investors, brokers, municipal securities dealers, and other professionals on
issues relating to municipal securities.

Key 1996 Results

Together with the Office of the General Counsel, the Office of Municipal
Securities continued its efforts on the Orange County, California municipal
bankruptcy and related issues. The office also (1) provided the Division of
Enforcement and the regional and district offices with technical assistance in
municipal securities investigations and enforcement proceedings; (2)
provided guidance to participants in the municipal markets regarding the
secondary market disclosure required by amended Rule 15c2-12 of the
Securitfes Exchange Act of 1934; and (3) worked with the Division of
Market Regulation on the interpretation and implementation of Municipal
Securities Rulemaking Board (MSRB) Rule G-37, relating to restrictions on
political contributions, and Rule G-38, which requires disclosure of
consulting arrangements.

Municipal Securities Disclosure

The municipal securities office participated in a number of seminars and
conferences designed to assist municipal market participants. The office
used these forums, among other things, to explain to issuers, financial
advisers, dealers, and counsel how to implement and comply with
116

amendments to Rule 15c2-12, concerning secondary market disclosure.
These forums also were used to provide guidance on recent SEC
enforcement decisions that apply the antifraud provisions of the federal
securities laws to municipal securities. The office also prepared educational
materials to foster compliance with the federal securities laws.

Technical Assistance
In this area, the municipal securities office provided support to Chairman
Levitt's and Secretary of the Treasury Rubin's joint efforts to increase local
government finance officers' awareness of the need for the prudent
management of public funds in today's markets. In this regard, the
municipal securities office worked alongside the Office of Legislative Affairs
to provide technical assistance to Congress on issues, such as the investment
of public funds, suitability requirements, and the municipal bankruptcy in
Orange County, California.
In conjunction with the Division of Market Regulation, the municipal
securities staff assisted in implementing, amending, and interpreting of
MSRB Rules G-37 and G-38. MSRB Rule G-37 prohibits brokers, dealers,
and municipal securities dealers from engaging in municipal securities
business with issuers if certain political contributions have been made to
officials of such issuers. MSRB Rule G-38 requires disclosure of consulting
arrangements. The staff also worked with the Divisions of Market
Regulation and Corporation Finance to implement amendments to Rule
15c2-12.
The municipal securities staff worked with the Office of the General
Counsel on municipal bankruptcy and other municipal securities matters,
provided technical assistance to the Division of Enforcement and regional
and district offices on several municipal securities enforcement actions,
assisted the Office of Compliance Inspections and Examinations in oversight
matters concerning municipal securities regulations, provided expertise for

117

various compliance training programs, and assisted the Office of Investor
Education and Assistance on issues pertaining to individual investors and
municipal securities price transparency.

Outreach

As part of its outreach efforts, the municipal securities staff met
periodically with numerous organizations representing participants involved
in the municipal finance industry. Among the organizations represented
were the Government Finance Officers Association, National League of
Cities, National Association of Counties, U.S. Conference of Mayors,
Council of Infrastructure Financing Authorities. Public Securities
Association, California Debt Advisory Commission, and the National
Association of Bond Lawyers. The primary focus of these meetings was
methods of improving compliance with existing regulations. The recent
pamphlet prepared by several issuer groups Questions to Ask Before You
Approve A Bond Issue is a product of these meetings.
An ombudsman within the office acted as a point of contact and provided
municipal bond issuers ready access to the Commission. The ombudsman
also provided municipal bond issuers a means of obtaining general
information about the Commission and its initiatives.

118

Economic Analysis
The Office of Economic Analysis provides expertise in financial economics to
the Commission and the operating divisions, evaluates the economic impact
of proposed rules, conducts studies that are designed to expand the
Commission's understanding of capital markets, and plays a major role in
the Commission's enforcement effort by applying economic and statistical
tools to issues such as materiality and disgorgement. The office analyzes
rule proposals to assess (1) their potential effects on small entities, as
required by the Regulatory Flexibility Act and Section 502 of the Small
Business Investment Incentive Act, both enacted in 1980, and (2) their impact
on competition within the securities industry and among competing securities
markets, as required by the 1975 amendments to the Securities Exchange Act
of 1934.

Key 1996 Results
In 1996, the office participated in the Commission's investigation
regarding the National Association of Securities Dealers (NASD) and the
Nasdaq Market. The office also analyzed the economic impact of the
Commission's recently adopted Display Rule and amendments to the Quote
Rule (collectively Order Handling Rules), provided economic analysis for
the Advisory Committee on Capital Formation and the Regulatory Process,
and produced a report summarizing the results of the Commission's survey
of the financial literacy of mutual fund purchasers.

Economic

Analysis and Technical Assistance

The office analyzed 65 Commission and self-regulatory organization rules
to assess the costs and benefits, the Paperwork Reduction Act compliance
burdens, and the potential effects on small entities as required by the

119

Regulatory Flexibility Act of 1980. In general, increased staff resources
were devoted to rule reviews following passage of the Small Business
Regulatory Enforcement Act of 1996.
On August 29, 1996, the SEC adopted the Display Rule, which requires
the display of customer limit orders, and amended the Quote Rule, which
directs publication of quotations to improve both the quality of published
quorations and pricing efficiency in markets.
In the enforcement area, the office assisted the Division of Enforcement
in several cases involving insider trading, market manipulation, fraudulent
financial reporting, and other violations of securities laws. The economic
analysis staff applied financial economics and statistical techniques to
determine whether the elements of fraud were present and to estimate, where
appropriate, the amount of disgorgement to be sought. The office also
assisted in evaluating the testimony of experts hired by opposing parties.
The office also actively participated in the Commission's investigation
regarding the NASD and the Nasdaq Market by conducting extensive
statistical analyses of audit trail data on securities transactions and
quotations. The statistical analyses confirmed testimony on the existence and
functioning of a pricing convention and demonstrated the breadth and
magnitude of its impact.
In conjunction with the Office of the Comptroller of the Currency, the
office produced a report for a jointly sponsored study of the financial
literacy and knowledge of mutual fund purchasers. This study was based on
a survey of 2,000 randomly selected mutual fund investors and collected
information on the demographic, financial, and fund ownership
characteristics of the respondents. It paid particular attention to the
distribution channel (bank, broker, direct sales, etc.) through which
respondents bought mutual fund shares and the respondents' level of
financial literacy. The study included a number of important findings. For
example, although the survey respondents consulted the prospectus more
than any other source for information, it was rated as only the fifth best

120

source of information, regardless of the distribution channel used to purchase
shares. However, the likelihood that an investor who bought a fund actually
consulted the prospectus depended on the distribution channel used to buy
the fund. Finally, approximately one-third of all fund owners still believe
that money market funds are insured.
In July 1996, the Commission's Advisory Committee on Capital
Formation and Regulatory Processes issued its final report which
recommended a shift to a system of company registration versus the
registration of individual securities offerings. The economic analysis staff
provided extensive statistical analysis for the report, addressing the costs of
new issues, the volume of offerings, the effects of various thresholds for
issuer participation in a pilot program of company registration, and the value
added by SEC review of prospectuses.
As part of an evaluation of the Nasdaq OTC Bulletin Board, the office
analyzed the U.S. over-the-counter market for unregistered foreign equities.
The Nasdaq OTC Bulletin Board is a proprietary electronic quotation
medium on which broker-dealers post quotations and indications of interest
for unlisted domestic stocks and foreign equities. The office analyzed the
adequacy of price transparency as well as the potential harm to retail
investors from the lack of U.S. Generally Accepted Accounting Principles
financial disclosure by issuers of unregistered foreign equities. The size of
this market relative to worldwide trading in the same foreign equities, dealer
concentration, and the degree of retail participation also were evaluated.
During the year, the Commission proposed Regulation M to replace its
trading practice rules, which govern potentially manipulative trading during
a securities distribution. To facilitate the Commission's efforts, the office
analyzed data on potential manipulations and provided estimates of the
impacts of proposed changes to the existing rules.
The economic analysis staff analyzed the accuracy of transaction fees
collected by the Commission, certain applications by exchanges to trade
options and swaps contracts, certain applications for exemptions filed by

121

public utilities, and the extent of price improvement for certain stock
exchange transactions.
During the year, the office pursued a variety of projects designed to
expand the Commission's understanding of the capital markets. These
projects are long-term in nature and focus on the use and economics of soft
dollar commissions, the extent of price pressure resulting from the sale of
unregistered securities, price stabilization in the initial public offering
aftermarket, and the demand for proprietary trading systems.

122

Policy Management and Administrative Support
Policy management and administrative support provide the Commission and
operating divisions with the necessary services to accomplish the agency's
mission. Policy management is provided by the executive staff and Offices of
Legislative Affairs; the Secretary; Public Affairs, Policy Evaluation and
Research; the Executive Director; and Equal Employment Opportunity. The
responsibilities and activities of policy management include developing and
executing management policies, formulating and communicating program
policy, overseeing the allocation and expenditure of agency funds,
maintaining liaison with the Congress, disseminating information to the
press, andfacilitating Commission meetings.
Administrative support includes services such as accounting, financial
management, fee collection, information technology management, data
processing, space and facilities management, and human resources
management.
Under the direction of the Office of the Executive Director,
these services are provided by the Offices of the Comptroller, Information
Technology, Administrative and Personnel Management, and Filings and
Information Services.

Key 1996 Results
In 1996, the Commission held 30 meetings at which it considered 104
matters. Major activities of the Commission included the adoption of a wide
variety of rule amendments designed to simplify the disclosure process,
amendments to rules governing money market funds, and rules concerning
broker-dealers' order execution obligations designed to enhance the quality
of published quotations for securities and to enhance competition and pricing
efficiency in our markets.

123

The agency collected fees for the United States Treasury in excess of its
appropriation for the fourteenth consecutive year. In 1996, total SEC fees
collected as revenue were $774 million and the net gain to the Treasury was
$429 million.

Policy Management
Commission

Activities

During the 30 Commission meetings held in 1996, the Commission
considered 104 matters, including the proposal and adoption of Commission
rules, enforcement actions, and other items that affect the stability of the
nation's capital markets and the economy. The Commission also acted on
1,101 staff recommendations by seriatim vote. Significant regulatory actions
taken by the Commission included:
•

elimination of numerous disclosure rules and forms and adoption of
minor and technical amendments, in response to recommendations of
the Commission's Task Force on Disclosure Simplification (Task
Force);

• publication of proposals to implement additional recommendations
made by the Task Force to eliminate unnecessary requirements and
streamline the disclosure process;
• adoption of amendments to rules governing money market funds; and
•

adoption of rules on order execution obligations of broker-dealers.

Congressional interest in the agency's activities and initiatives remained
high. The Commission and staff members testified at 10 congressional

124

hearings during the year. In addition, the Congress actively considered a
number of important issues under the Commission's jurisdiction, including:
• the omnibus securities reform bill, the National Securities Markets
Improvement Act of 1996, which subsequently was enacted into law
(Pub. L. No. 104-290);
• bank sales of mutual funds;
• possible reform of the regulation of public utility holding companies;
and
•

the SEC's appropriation.

Public Affairs
The Office of Public Affairs, Policy Evaluation and Research
communicated information on Commission activities to those interested in or
affected by Commission actions, including the press, regulated entities, the
general public, and SEC employees. The office published the SEC News
Digest daily, which provides information on rule changes, enforcement
actions against individuals or corporate entities, administrative actions,
decisions on requests for exemptions, upcoming Commission meetings, and
other events of interest and The SEC Employee News, a regular newsletter.
The public affairs staff also prepared a daily summary of news clips for
agency employees. In addition, the office provided support for activities
related to the Chairman's investor education initiatives, the further
development of the SEC's internet website, and the agency's International
Institute for Securities Markets Development.
Many of the agency's actions are of national and international interest.
When appropriate, these actions are brought to the attention of regional,
national, and international press. The public affairs office issued 182 press
releases on upcoming events, SEC programs, enforcement actions, and
special projects. The office also responded to approximately 50,000 requests

125

for specific information on the SEC or its activities and coordinated visits of
domestic and foreign officials to the SEC. In total, programs for 952
foreign visitors were coordinated during the year.
Management Activities
The Office of the Executive Director continued to promote management
controls and financial integrity and to manage the agency's audit follow-up
system. The office continued to analyze the efficiency and effectiveness of
operating divisions and support offices and to coordinate and implement the
agency's compliance with and response to actions under the National
Performance Review (NPR) and the Government Performance and Results
Act of 1993, including development of the agency's strategic plan. Working
closely with other senior officials, the office formulated the agency's budget
submissions to the Office of Management and Budget and the Congress.
Equal Employment Opportunity
The Office of Equal Employment Opportunity provided the agency with
support for compliance with Title VII of the Civil Rights Act of 1964, as
amended; the Age Discrimination in Employment Act of 1967; the
Rehabilitation Act of 1973; and the Equal Pay Act of 1963. This support
included counseling, mediation, dispute resolution, administrative factfinding investigations, final agency decisions on formal complaints of
employment discrimination, EEO orientation programs for new employees,
and EEO training for managers and supervisors in various divisions.
Through the Securities and Exchange Commission-Securities Industry
Committee on Equal Opportunity, the office functioned as the industry
liaison for the agency on EEO issues. The office also administered the
Federal Women's Program, the Hispanic Employment Program, and the
Black Employment Program and sponsored, along with the Office of
Administrative and Personnel Management, the SEC's Disability Issues
Advisory Committee.

126

Freedom of Information Act and Privacy Act
The Office of Freedom of Information Act (FOIA) and Privacy Act
Operations responded to requests for access to information under FOIA, the
Privacy Act, and the Government in the Sunshine Act, and processed
requests under the agency's confidential treatment rules. Confidential
treatment requests were generally made in connection with proprietary
corporate information and evaluated in conjunction with access requests to
prevent the unwarranted disclosure of information exempt under the FOIA.
All responses to FOIA, Privacy Act, and Government in the Sunshine Act
requests were made within the statutory time frame.

Administrative

Support

Commission Operations
For the fourteenth consecutive year the SEC collected revenue in excess
of its appropriation. The SEC's total revenue was $774 million, 260 percent
of the agency's appropriated spending authority of $297.4 million. The
$774 million in total fees collected as revenue, minus the SEC's current year
spending authority of $287 million ($297.4 million less $10 million from
prior year offsetting fee collections) and $58 million in excess offsetting
collections, resulted in a net gain of $429 million to the United States
Treasury. Fee revenue was collected from four basic sources: securities
registered under Section 6(b) of the Securities Act of 1933 (75 percent of the
total 1996 fee revenue), transactions of covered exchange-listed securities
(17 percent), tender offer and merger filings (7 percent), and miscellaneous
filings (1 percent). Offsetting fee collections were generated from an
increase in the fee rate under Section 6(b) of the Securities Act from onefiftieth of one percent to one-twenty-ninth of one percent.

127

Financial Management
In this area, the Office of the Comptroller updated the agency's FiveYear Financial Management Plan. This plan responds to current financial
system issues, recognizes new legislative and NPR requirements, and is
consistent with the agency's information technology plan. To further
strengthen financial management, the office also began full-scale
implementation of a LAN-based travel management system in headquarters,
implemented a new budget system to increase agency-wide availability of
financial data, and installed a new on-line system to facilitate the transmittal
of budget allowances and preparation of budget estimates.
Information Resources Management
The Office of Information Technology continued to develop and enhance
SEC information resources. Notably, phase-in of all domestic filers to the
agency's Electronic Data Gathering, Analysis and Retrieval (EDGAR)
system was completed in May 1996.
On September 10, 1996, the EDGAR recompetition notice was released
in the Commerce Business Daily. This will be a fully competitive,
two-phase acquisition for replacement of the existing SEC EDGAR contract.
The requirements consist of two elements in phase 1. The first element of
phase 1 is a conceptual plan to modernize and privatize the EDGAR system.
The second is the capability to operate and maintain the governmentfurnished equipment and software of the existing system, and to provide
those portions of the existing system which will not be transferred by the
government at the conclusion of the current contract, e.g., the Dissemination
subsystem, a full text document storage and retrieval capability, and a means
for notifying filers of filing success or failure. Offerors must include both
elements in their proposals in order to be considered for award. All offerors
determined to be within the competitive range upon completion of phase 1
will be included in phase 2. The SEC in phase 2 will require those offerors
in the competitive range to bid a detailed modernization and privatization
plan. Competitive range offerors must have offered both a comprehensive

128

modernization and privatization conceptual plan and have demonstrated
within their proposals their capability to implement and transition to a new
system while maintaining the current system during transition. The Request
for Proposals was issued on October 30, 1996.
Continued emphasis was placed on the agency's strategic automation
initiative. For example, the office:
• developed new desktop querying systems to support reporting on the
agency's enforcement actions and to provide powerful tools to analyze
certain market data,
• developed replacements and/or enhancements for aging mainframe
software applications, and
• upgraded the SEC's personnel and payroll systems to enhance
administrative functions.
The agency's website provided basic access to the EDGAR database of
electronic filings on a 24-hour delayed basis, and served as a forum for
litigation releases, news digests, press releases, Commission rulemaking
activities, and a wide range of other information of interest to the investing
public. During the first full year of operation the system was heavily
accessed, serving over 44,453,180 files and 1,768,567,980,000 bytes of
data. This amounts to 75,450,000 pages of text. Average daily connections
exceeded 267,000 and daily data volume downloaded averaged over
10,500,000 bytes. The SEC's website address is http://www.sec.gov.

129

Substantial resources also were directed toward critical new initiatives,
including the Year 2000 and the Data Center Consolidation (Office of
Management and Budget (OMB) Bulletin 96-02) directives.
The Year 2000 initiative will ensure that all SEC
databases, applications, systems and user interfaces that are dependent
upon dates will be checked to ensure that the advent of the century
mark, the year 2000, does not adversely affect the SEC. To achieve
this, the information technology staff began inventorying all systems
(applications and databases) to certify that the change in the century
date will be accommodated.

• Year 2000 Initiative.

During the year, OMB issued a directive
mandating that all agencies with data centers below a certain minimum
level of processing power consolidate their data centers. As a result,
the information technology staff initiated a complete analysis/inventory
of data, applications, hardware, and software.

• Data Center Consolidation.

Administrative and Personnel Management
The Office of Administrative and Personnel Management provided a wide
range of personnel and office support functions. For example, the office:
• modified the agency's policies on alternate work schedules and
flexiplace to better assist employees in balancing work and family
demands while still meeting agency mission needs;
• initiated a project to "reinvent" the Personnel Operating Policies and
Procedures Manual to better meet customer needs, demonstrate support
for the agency's plain English initiative, and comply with NPR
streamlining initiatives;
• continued streamlining and automating internal processes by
implementing a second phase of the automated Personnel Resource
System;

130

•
 continued to participate actively in a consortium of federal agencies in
sponsoring Phase Two of the in-depth study by the National Academy
of Public Administration of innovative human resources practices and
implementing change;
•
 participated in job fairs, on-campus recruitment interviews at law
schools, and used various hiring programs and authorities available to
increase diversity in the agency (a total of 24.3 percent of new hires
were minorities during 1996, including 22.6 percent of new attorneys
and law clerks, 4.3 percent of new accountants, and 34.0 percent of
new securities compliance examiners);
• successfully passed the Office of Personnel Management's (OPM)
review and recertification of the delegated examining authority so that
it now handles hiring for the full range of competitive service positions
without OPM involvement; and
• coordinated training programs for 1,647 employees, who attended
5,408 varied training events.
The administrative and personnel management staff also acquired
additional space in the Operations Center in Alexandria, Virginia to
accommodate SEC employees being relocated from offices in the Judiciary
Plaza building in connection with the building renovation. Continued
security enhancements for headquarters and field offices were completed,
such as the relocation and expansion of the Judiciary Plaza Visitor's Center
and the establishment of a new Central Monitoring Station for a
comprehensive security camera system.
Finally, a new three-phase program was developed to provide litigation
copying support for the agency's Division of Enforcement. During 1996,
the first two phases were implemented and work on phase three was
initiated.

131

Public Reference
The SEC maintains public reference rooms in its Washington, D.C., New
York, and Chicago offices. Modifications were made to the headquarters
public reference room to better utilize the space. During the year, 36,682
visitors used the Commission's public reference rooms. At these facilities,
the public can examine and review Commission rules, orders, studies,
reports, and speeches made by SEC officials. A total of 815,655 microfiche
records were added to the existing collections of information made available
to the public.

132

Endnotes
ISEC v. Robert L. Citron, Litigation Release No. 14792 (Jan. 24, 1996),

61 SEC Docket 574.
2In the Matter of County of Orange, Release No. 34-36760 (Jan. 24,

1996), 61 SEC Docket 574.
3Report of Investigation in the Matter of County of Orange, California,

Release No. 34-36761 (Jan. 24, 1996), 61 SEC Docket 487.
4In the Matter of Maricopa County, Release No. 34-37748 (Sept. 30,

1996), 62 SEC Docket 2797.
5In the Matter of Peacock, Hislop, Staley & Given, Inc., Release No.

34-37777 (Oct. 2, 1996), 62 SEC Docket 2830.
6In the Matter of First Fidelity Securities Group, Release No. 34-36694

(Jan. 9, 1996), 61 SEC Docket 68.
7In the Matter of FAIC Securities, Inc., Release No. 34-36937 (Mar. 7,

1996), 61 SEC Docket 1256.
SIn the Matter of Lazard Freres & Co. [LC, Release No. 34-36419 (Oct.

26, 1995), 60 SEC Docket 1698.
9SEC v. Octagon Technology Group, Inc., Litigation Release No. 14942

(June 11, 1996), 62 SEC Docket 377.
!OSEC v. Scott A. Frye, Litigation Release No. 14702 (Oct. 30, 1995),

60 SEC Docket 1882.
USEC v. Donald B. Spencer, Litigation Release No. 14856 (Mar. 29,

1996), 61 SEC Docket 1960.
12SEC v. Wye Resources, Litigation Release No. 15073 (Sept. 26, 1996),

62 SEC Docket 2762.

133

I3SEC v. Comparator Systems Corporation, Litigation Release No. 14927
(May 31, 1996), 62 SEC Docket 236.

14Inthe Matter of Eli Buchalter, CPA, Release No. 34-37702 (Sept. 19,
1996), 62 SEC Docket 2495.

15SEC v. The Bennett Funding Group, Inc., Litigation Release No. 14991
(Apr. 15, 1996), 62 SEC Docket 1291.

16SEC v. Douglas Frankel, Litigation Release No. 14820 (Feb. 22,
1996), 61 SEC Docket 1043.

17SEC v. Axiom Security Solutions, Inc., Litigation Release No. 15096
(Sept. 30, 1996), 62 SEC Docket 2969.

18Inthe Matter of Republic International Corporation, Release No. 3437741 (Sept. 27, 1996), 62 SEC Docket 2846.

19Inthe Matter of Norman L. Sirak, Release No. 34-37740 (Sept. 27,
1996), 62 SEC Docket 2776.

WIn the Matter of Candie's, Inc., Release No. 34-36865 (Feb. 21, 1996),
61 SEC Docket 966.

21SEC v. Giancarlo Parretti, Litigation Release No. 14770, (Jan. 3,
1996), 60 SEC Docket 3336.

22In the Matter of Florio Fiorini, Release No. 34-36669, (Jan. 3, 1996),
60 SEC Docket 3240.

13In the Matter of Fernando Cappuccio, Release No. 34-36670 (Jan. 3,
1996), 60 SEC Docket 3246.

24In the Matter of Cypress Bioscience, Inc., Release No. 34-37701 (Sept.
19, 1996), 62 SEC Docket 2495.

25In the Matter of Bank of Boston Corp., Initial Decision No. 81 (Dec.
22, 1995), 62 SEC Docket 2495.

134

26SEC v. Christopher Kent Bagdasarian, Litigation Release No. 15075
(Sept. 26, 1996), 62 SEC Docket 2765.

27In the Matter of Platinum Software Corporation, Release No. 34-37185
(May 9, 1996), 61 SEC Docket 2615.

USEC v. Gerald R. Blackie, Litigation Release No. 14905 (May 9,
1996), 61 SEC Docket 2680.

29In the Matter of Jon R. Erickson, CPA, Release No. 34-37269 (June 3,
1996), 62 SEC Docket 159.

30In the Matter of Mark S. Tague, CPA, Release No. 34-37270 (June 3,
1996), 62 SEC Docket 162.

31SEC v. McDonnell Douglas Corporation, Litigation Release No. 14958
(June 24, 1996), 62 SEC Docket 676.

32SEC v. Kendall Square Research Corporation, Litigation Release No.
14895 (Apr. 29, 1996), 61 SEC Docket 2517.

33In the Matter of Thomas J. MacCormack, Release No. 34-37147 (Apr.
29, 1996), 61 SEC Docket 2427.

34SEC v. Automated Telephone Management Systems, Inc., Litigation
Release No. 14710 (Nov. 2, 1995), 60 SEC Docket 1893.

3SSEC v. Earl V. Young, Litigation Release No. 14981 (July 16, 1996),
62 SEC Docket 1043.

36SEC v. Certain Purchasers of the Common Stock of CBI Industries,
Inc., Litigation Release No. 14721 (Nov. 16, 1995), 60 SEC Docket 2124.
37SEC v. Certain Purchasers of Call Options of Duracell International,
Inc., Litigation Release No. 15045 (Sept. 16, 1996), 62 SEC Docket 2581.
38SEC v. Kathleen Lane, Litigation Release No. 14906 (May 9, 1996),
61 SEC Docket 2682.

135

39SEC v. Mervyn Cooper, Litigation Release No. 14878 (Apr. 16, 1996),

61 SEC Docket 2298.
40SEC v. Donald John Tyson, Litigation Release No. 15062 (Sept. 23,

1996), 62 SEC Docket 2747.
41SEC v. Hugo Aldo Sallustro, Litigation Release No. 14982 (July 18,

1996), 62 SEC Docket 1045.
42In the Matter of National Association of Securities Dealers, Inc.,

Release No. 34-37538 (Aug. 8, 1996), 62 SEC Docket 1363.
43Report Pursuant to Section 21 (a) of the Securities Exchange Act of
1934 Regarding the NASD and the Nasdaq Market, Release No. 34-37542
(Aug. 8, 1996), 62 SEC Docket 1375.
44In the Matter of PaineWebber Incorporated,

Release No. 34-36724

(Jan. 17, 1996), 61 SEC Docket 248.
4SSEC v. PaineWebber Incorporated,

Litigation Release No. 14787 (Jan.

18, 1996), 61 SEC Docket 338.
%In the Matter of Gruntal & Co., Incorporated,

Release No. 34-37085

(Apr. 9, 1996), 61 SEC Docket 2110.
47SEC v. Gruntal & Co., Incorporated,

Litigation Release No. 14865

(Apr. 9, 1996), 61 SEC Docket 2171.
48In the Matter of A.R. Baron & Co., Inc., Release No. 34-37240 (May

23, 1996), 61 SEC Docket 2869.
49In the Matter of A.R. Baron & Co., Inc., Release No. 34-37831 (Oct.

17, 1996), 63 SEC Docket 57.
SOInthe Matter of Jeffrey Weissman, Release No. 34-37661 (Sept. 9,

1996), 62 SEC Docket 2272.
SIIn the Matter of Fahnestock and Co., Inc., Release No. 34-37754

.,

(Sept. 30, 1996), 62 SEC Docket 2859.

-.'

136

52In the Matter of Wendell Jeffrey Lee, Release No. 34-37247 (May 28,
1996), 62 SEC Docket 10.
53In the Matter of Kimberly D. Goodman, Release No. 34-37710 (Sept.
23, 1996), 62 SEC Docket 2638.
54In the Matter of Gruntal & Co., Incorporated,
(Apr. 9, 1996), 61 SEC Docket 2110.

Release No. 34-37084

55In the Matter of S Squared Technology Corporation, Release No. IA1575 (Aug. 7, 1996), 62 SEC Docket 1560.
56In the Matter of Portfolio Management Consultants, Release No. 3437376 (June 27, 1996), 62 SEC Docket 511.
57In the Matter of Marc N. Geman, Release No. 34-37375 (June 27,
1996), 62 SEC Docket 510.
58In the Matter of McKenzie Walker Investment Management,
No. IA-1571 (July 16, 1996), 62 SEC Docket 1016.

Release

59In the Matter of Leeb Investment Advisors, Release No. 34-21671 (Jan.
16, 1996),61 SEC Docket 311.
fiJSEC v. Seaboard Investment Advisers, Inc., Litigation Release No.
15092 (Sept. 30, 1996), 62 SEC Docket 2965.
61In the Matter of Michael C. Robertson, Release No. 34-37729 (Sept.
26, 1996), 62 SEC Docket 2670.
62SEC v. Wye Resources, Inc. and Rehan Malik, Civil Act. No. 96-2223
(D.D.C. Sept. 26, 1996).
63SEC v. Scorpion Technologies, Inc., Civil Act. No. 95-1005 (LMM)
(S.D.N.Y. Feb. 9, 1996).
64In the Matter of A.R. Baron & Co. Inc., Andrew Bressman, and Roman
Okin, Administrative Proceedings File No. 3-9010.

137

65Release Nos. 34-36371 (Oct. 13, 1995), 60 FR 54269 (Oct. 20, 1995);
34-36409 (Oct. 23, 1995), 60 FR 55399 (Oct. 31, 1995); and 34-36757
(Jan. 22, 1996), 61 FR 2854 (Jan. 29, 1996). Release Nos. 34-36858 and
34-37196 (Feb. 16, 1996 and May 10, 1996), 61 FR 7295 (Feb. 27, 1996)
and 61 FR 24979 (May 17, 1996). Release No. 34-37676 (Sept. 13, 1996),
61 FR 49508 (Sept. 10, 1996).
66Release No. 34-37011 (Mar. 22, 1996),61 FR 14177 (Mar. 29, 1996).
67Release No. 34-37441 (July 15, 1996), 61 FR 38234 (July 23, 1996).
68Release Nos. 34-37007 and 34-37445 (Mar. 21, 1996 and July 16,
1996), 61 FR 14165 (Mar. 29, 1996) and 61 FR 38494 (July 24, 1996).
69Release No. 34-37189 (May 9, 1996), 61 FR 24982 (May 17, 1996).
Release Nos. 34-37693 and 34-37696 (Sept. 17, 1996), 61 FR 50358 and
50362 (Sept. 25, 1996). Release No. 34-36848 (Feb. 14, 1996), 61 FR 6872
(Feb. 22, 1996). Release No. 34-37195 (May 10, 1996), 61 FR 24976
(May 17, 1996). Release No. 34-37312 (June 14, 1996),61 FR 31573
(June 20, 1996). Release No. 34-36369 (Oct. 13, 1995), 60 FR 54274 (Oct.
20, 1995). Release No. 34-36935 (Mar. 6, 1996),61 FR 10417 (Mar. 13,

1996).
7°Release No. 34-36710 (Jan. 11, 1996),61 FR 1791 (Jan. 18, 1996).
"Release Nos. 34-36841 and 34-37336 (Feb. 14, 1996 and June 19,
1996), 61 FR 6666 (Feb. 21, 1996) and 61 FR 33558 (June 27, 1996).
72Release No. 34-36923 (Mar. 5, 1996), 61 FR 10410 (Mar. 13, 1996).
73Release No. 34-36947 (Mar. 8, 1996), 61 FR 10606 (Mar. 14, 1996).
74Release No. 34-36530 (Nov. 30, 1996), 60 FR 62323 (Dec. 6, 1995).

"Release No. 34-36940 (Mar. 7, 1996), 61 FR 10271 (Mar. 13, 1996).

.;

76Letter from Brandon Becker, Director, Division of Market Regulation,
SEC, to Blake Imel, Deputy Director, Division of Economic Analysis,
CFTC (Oct. 3, 1995).

.;,,
138

77Letter from Brandon Becker, Director, Division of Market Regulation,
SEC, to Elisse Walter, General Counsel, CFTC (Nov. 7, 1995).
78Letter from Robert L.D. Colby, Deputy Director, Division of Market
Regulation, SEC, to Blake Imel, Deputy Director, Division of Economic
Analysis, CFTC (Mar. 20, 1996).

"Letter from Richard R. Lindsey, Director, Division of Market
Regulation, SEC, to Stephen A. Sherrod, Chief, Financial Instruments Unit,
CFTC (May 7, 1996).
80Letter from Robert L.D. Colby, Deputy Director, Division of Market
Regulation, SEC, to Blake Imel, Deputy Director, Division of Economic
Analysis, CFTC (Feb. 1, 1996).
81Letter from Jonathan G. Katz, Secretary, SEC, to Elisse Walter,
General Counsel, CFTC (Oct. 10, 1995).
82Release No. 34-37619A (Sept. 6, 1996), 61 FR 48290 (Sept. 12,
1996).
83Letter regarding Real Goods Trading Corporation (June 24,1996). The
staff subsequently issued a second letter, substantially similar to Real Goods
Trading Corporation, letter regarding PerfectData Corp. (Aug. 5, 1996).
84Release No. 34-35124 (Dec. 20, 1994), 59 FR 66702 (Dec. 28, 1994).
8SRelease Nos. 34-27445 and 34-29185 (Nov. 16, 1989 and May 9, 1991),
54 FR 48703 (Nov. 24, 1989) and 56 FR 22490 (May 15, 1991).
86Letter regarding Chicago Board Brokerage, Inc. (Dec. 12, 1995) and
letter regarding Institutional Real Estate Clearinghouse (May 28, 1996).
87Release No. 34-37271 (June 3, 1996), 61 FR 29145 (June 7, 1996).
88Letter regarding
1995).

Merrill Lynch, Pierce, Fenner and Smith (Nov. 20,

89Release No. 34-37094 (Apri111,1996),

61 FR 17108 (Apr. 18, 1996).

139

90ReleaseNo. 34-37132 (Apr. 19, 1996) 61 FR 18306 (Apr. 25, 1996).
"Lerters regarding North Carolina Power Agency Number 1 (Oct. 23,
1995); Wisconsin Public Power Incorporated System (Apr. 17, 1996).
92Letterregarding The Bond Guarantee Program of the Texas Permanent
School Fund (Feb. 9, 1996).
93Letterregarding Rule 15c2-12 (Mar. 15, 1996).
94ReleaseNo. 34-37431 (July 12, 1996),61 FR 37357 (July 18, 1996). See
also Release No. 34-37632 (Sept. 4, 1996), 61 FR 47412 (Sept. 9, 1996)
(suspending the compliance date for the amendments to Form BD pending the
implementation of the redesigned CRD system).
95ReleaseNo. 34-37432 (July 12, 1996), 61 FR 37701 (July 19, 1996).
96Letterregarding Transactions in Foreign Securities by Foreign Brokers
or Dealers with Accounts of Certain Foreign Persons Managed or Advised by
U.S. Resident Fiduciaries (Jan. 30, 1996).
15 U.S.C. ~~
6101-08 (1996).

97

98Letter from Michael A. Macchiaroli, Associate Director, SEC, to
Rochelle Pullman, Chairman, SIA, (March 15, 1996).
99ReleaseNo. 34-37772 (Oct. 1, 1996), 61 FR 52980 (Oct. 9, 1996).
looReleaseNo. 34-37595 (Aug. 22, 1996), 61 FR 44249 (Aug. 28, 1996).
IOIReleaseNo. 34-35038 (Dec. 1, 1994), 59 FR 63652 (Dec. 8, 1994).
102ReleaseNos. 34-37457 (July 19, 1996), 61 FR 39176 (July 26, 1996)
(NYSE); 34-37458 (July 19, 1996), 61 FR 39167 (July 26, 1996) (AMEX);
and 34-37459 (July 19, 1996), 61 FR 39172 (July 26, 1996) (BSE, CBOE,
CHX, and Phlx).
103ReleaseNo. 34-37046 (Mar. 29, 1996), 61 FR 15322 (Apr. 5, 1996).

.;

I04ReleaseNo. 34-37045 (Mar. 29, 1996), 61 FR 15318 (Apr. 5, 1996).
140

105Release No. 34-37425 (July 11, 1996), 61 FR 37518 (July 18, 1996).
I06Release No. 34-36303 (Sept. 29, 1995), 60 FR 52232 (Oct. 5, 1995).
107Release No. 34-36612 (Dec. 20, 1995), 61 FR 204 (Jan. 3, 1996).
108Release Nos. 34-36857 (Feb. 16, 1996), 61 FR 7034 (Feb. 23, 1996);
34-37675 (Sept. 12, 1996),61 FR 49368 (Sept. 19, 1996); and 34-37591 (Aug.
21, 1996), 61 FR 44098 (Aug. 27, 1996).
I09Release No. 34-37024 (Mar. 26, 1996), 61 FR 14357 (Apr. 1, 1996).
1lORelease No. 34-37372 (Mar. 26, 1996), 61 FR 35281 (July 5, 1996).
lllRelease No. 34-36508 (Nov. 27, 1995), 60 FR 61719 (Dec. 1, 1995).
l12Release No. 34-36573 (Dec. 12, 1995), 60 FR 65076 (Dec. 18, 1995).
113Release No. 34-37309 (June 12, 1996), 61 FR 31201 (June 19, 1996)
114Release No. 34-37731 (Sept. 26, 1996),61

FR 51731 (Oct. 3, 1996).

115Release No. 34-36788 (Jan. 30, 1996), 61 FR 4500 (Feb. 6, 1996).
116Release No. 34-37208 (May 13, 1996), 61 FR 25253 (May 20, 1996).

l17Inthe Matter of Dennis T. Palmeri, Sr., Release No. 34-36487 (Nov. 16,
1995), 60 SEC Docket 2098; this filing was made by the CHX in 1995.
118JoOOHancock Funds, Inc. (pub. avail. June 28, 1996).
119Release No. IC-21538 (Nov. 22, 1995), 60 SEC Docket 2142.
120Release No. IC-21837 (Mar. 21, 1996), 61 SEC Docket 1494. The
Commission later suspended the compliance date for these amendments pending
the adoption of certain technical changes. Release No. IC-22135 (Aug. 13,
1996), 62 SEC Docket 1632.
121ReleaseNo. IC-22202 (Sept. 9, 1996), 62 SEC Docket 2199.
122Release No. IC-22201 (Sept. 9, 1996), 62 SEC Docket 2365.
141

123ReleaseNo. IC-22203 (Sept. 9, 1996), 62 SEC Docket 2367.

125ReleaseNo. IC-21838 (Mar. 21, 1996), 61 SEC Docket 1710.
l26'fhe CountryBasket Index Fund, Inc., Release Nos. IC-21736 (Feb. 6,
1996), 61 SEC Docket 824 (Notice), and IC-21802 (Mar. 5, 1996), 61 SEC
Docket 1306 (Order); The Foreign Fund, Inc., Release Nos. IC-21737 (Feb.
6, 1996), 61 SEC Docket 828 (Notice), and IC-21803 (Mar. 5, 1996), 61 SEC
Docket 1307 (Order).
127InvestmentCompany Institute (pub. avail. Feb. 15, 1996).
128InvestmentFunds Institute of Canada (pub. avail. Mar. 4, 1996).
129Nicholas-ApplegateMutual Funds (pub. avail. Aug. 6, 1996); Bramwell
Growth Fund (pub. avail. Aug. 7, 1996).
13oporticoFunds, Inc. (pub. avail. Apr. 11, 1996).
131MerrillLynch Asset Management, L.P. (pub. avail. July 2, 1996).
132UnitedExport-Import Bank of Russia (pub. avail. May 13, 1996).
133ManagedFutures Association (pub. avail. July 15, 1996).
134J.p.Morgan Investment Management Inc. (pub. avail. May 7, 1996).
13SMunderCapital Management (pub. avail. May 17, 1996).
136UnitedStates Department of Labor (pub. avail. Feb. 22, 1996 and Dec.
5, 1995).
137Letterfrom Heidi Starn, Associate Director, SEC, to Mark J. Mackey,
President & Chief Executive Officer, National Association for Variable
Annuities (June 4, 1996).
138CovaFinancial Services Life Insurance Company, et al. (pub. avail. Apr.
15, 1996).

142

I39'fIAA Real Estate Account (pub. avail. May 1, 1996).
14OJ'heEquitable Life Assurance Society of the United States (pub. avail.
Dec. 22, 1995).
141General Public Utilities Corporation,

Release No. 35-26463 (Jan. 26,

1996), 61 SEC Docket 661.
142Fidelity Management & Research Company, Release No. 35-26448 (Jan.

5, 1996), 61 SEC Docket 115.
143Southem Company,
Docket 1909.

Release No. 35-26501 (Apr. 1, 1996), 61 SEC

144SEIHoldings, Inc., Release No. 35-026581 (Sept. 26, 1996).
145Consolidated Natural Gas Company, Release No. 35-26512 (Apr. 30,

1996), 61 SEC Docket 2473.
146MCN Corporation,
Docket 2530.

Release No. 35-26576 (Sept. 17, 1996), 62 SEC

147Report of the Task Force on Disclosure Simplification

(Mar. 1996).

148Report of the Advisory Committee on the Capital Formation and
Regulatory Processes (July 24, 1996).
149Release No. 33-7314 (July 25, 1996), 62 SEC Docket 9.
15~elease No. 34-37403 (July 3, 1996), 62 SEC Docket 6.
151Release No. 33-7301 (May 31, 1996), 62 SEC Docket 2.
152Release No. 33-7301 (May 31, 1996), 62 SEC Docket 2.
153ReleaseNo. 33-7288 (May 9, 1996), 61 SEC Docket 18, and the first
interpretive release, Release No. 33-7233, (Oct. 6, 1995), 60 SEC Docket 8.
154Release No. 33-7289 (May 9, 1996),61 SEC Docket 18.
155Release No. 33-7285 (May 9, 1996), 61 SEC Docket 17.

143

156Release No. 34-37157 (May 9, 1996), 61 SEC Docket 17.
157Release No. 34-37260 (May 31, 1996), 62 SEC Docket 2.
158Release No. 33-7326 (Aug. 30, 1996), 62 SEC Docket 15.
159Release No. 33-7250 (Dec. 28, 1995), 60 SEC Docket 19.
160ReleaseNo. 33-7280 (Apr. 9, 1996), 61 SEC Docket 14.
161Release No. 34-37801 (Oct. 10, 1996), 62 SEC Docket 20.
162Release No. 33-7355 (Oct. 8, 1996), 62 SEC Docket 20.
163Release No. 33-7356 (Oct. 10, 1996), 62 SEC Docket 20.
164ReleaseNo. 33-7300 (May 31, 1996), 62 SEC Docket 0096.
165ReleaseNo. 33-7250 (Dec. 28, 1995),60 SEC Docket 3011.
I66StaffAccounting Bulletin No. 96 (Mar. 19, 1996),61 SEC Docket 1731.
167StaffAccounting Bulletin No. 97 (July 31, 1996),62 SEC Docket 1299.
168Proposed Statement of Financial Accounting Standards. "Reporting
Disaggregated Information About a Business Enterprise" (Jan. 19, 1996).
169Proposed Statement of Financial Accounting Standards, "Earnings Per
Share and Disclosure of Information About Capital Structure" (Jan. 19,

1996).
170Proposed Statement of Financial Accounting Standards, "Accounting
for Derivative and Similar Financial Instruments and for Hedging Activities"
(June 20, 1996).
17IProposed Statement of Financial Accounting Standards, "Reporting
Comprehensive Income" (June 20, 1996).

..,

172Statement of Financial Accounting Standards No. 125, "Accounting
for Transfers and Servicing of Financial Assets and Extinguishments of
Liabilities" (June 1996).

144

173Proposed Statement of Financial Accounting Standards, "Accounting
for Certain Liabilities Relating to Closure or Removal of Long-lived Assets"
(Feb. 1996).
174Proposed Statement on Auditing Standards, "Consideration
a Financial Statement of Audit" (May 1, 1996).

of Fraud in

175Statement of Position 96-1, "Environmental Remediation Liabilities"
(Oct. 10, 1996).
176IAS12 (revised 1996), Income Taxes (Oct. 1996).
177International Accounting Standards Committee, Exposure Draft E51,
Reporting Financial Information by Segment (Dec. 1995).
178International Accounting Standards Committee, Exposure Draft E52,
Earnings Per Share (Jan. 1996)
179International Accounting Standards Committee, Exposure Draft E53,
Presentation of Financial Statements (July 1996).
180International Accounting Standards Committee, Exposure Draft E54,
Employee Benefits (Oct. 1996).
181No. 94-16136 (9th Cir. 1996).
182

58 F.3d 933 (4th Cir. 1995).

18392F.3d 612 (8th Cir. 1996).
18487F.3d 536 (D.C. Cir. 1996).
185Nos. 95-6192 and 95-6194 (2d Cir.).
186Nos. 94-1844 and 94-1845 (3d Cir.).
187No.94-16136 (9th Cir. 1996).
18895F.3d 821 (9th Cir. 1996).
18958F.3d 484 (D.C. Cir. 1996).
145

19092F.3d 612 (8th Cir. 1996).
19187F.3d 536 (D.C. Cir. 1996).
19287F.3d 484 (D.C. Cir. 1996).
19383F.3d 132 (6th Cir. 1996).
19475F.3d 92 (2d Cir. 1996).
195116S. Ct. 1351 (1996).
196No.96-1052 (D.C. Cir.).
197Nos.95-55747 and 95-56467 (9th Cir.).
198BerlinerZisser Walter & Gallegos v. SEC, No. 95-D-94 (D. Colo.).
199Parsonsv. SEC, No. C-2-96-0001, Slip Op. (S.D. Ohio Sept. 6,
1996).
2°OSECv. Worthen, 1996 WL 593538 (9th Cir. Oct. 17, 1996).
201Coiello and Romano v. SEC, 908 F. Supp. 738 (C.D. Cal. 1995).
202Colello and Romano v. SEC, No. 94-6022, Slip Op. (C.D. Cal. Oct.
24, 1996).
203Hunter v. SEC, No. 94-5340, Slip Op. (E.D. Pa. Sept. 26, 1996).
204SECv. Krause, No. 96-15810 (9th Cir. May 20, 1996); SEC v. RNR
Enterprises, Inc., No. 96-6237 (2d Cir. Sept. 23, 1996); SEC v. B.M. C.
Enterprises, Inc., No. 96-55464 (9th Cir. Apr. 12, 1996).
205Law Practice of J.B. Grossman, P.A. v. SEC, 117 S. Ct. 53 (1996).
206Consolidated Investment Services, Inc., Release No. 34-36687 (Jan. 5,
1996), 61 SEC Docket 20 .
.'

207Pranklin N. Wolf, James H. Petrantis, and Richard T. Sullivan,
Release No. 34-36523 (Nov. 29, 1995),60 SEC Docket 2417.
146

2JJ8IvanD. Jones, Jr., Release No. 34-36355 (Oct. 10, 1995), 60 SEC
Docket 1377, appealjiled, No. 95-3119 (4th Cir.).
209Thomas C. Kocherhans, Release No. 34-36556 (Dec. 6, 1995), 60
SEC Docket 2589.
210Raiph Joseph Presutti, Release No. 34-37351 (June 24, 1996), 62 SEC
Docket 527.
211Strategic Resource Management, Inc., Release No. 34-36618 (Dec.
21, 1995). 60 SEC Docket 2902.
212Kevin B. Waide, 50 S.E.C. 932 (1992).
213FrankL. Palumbo, Salvatore A. Venezia and Sandra Solomon
Venezia, Release No. 34-36427 (Oct. 26, 1995), 60 SEC Docket 1736.
214InCounty of Orange, No. 94-22272-JR (Bankr. C.D. CA).
215Inre Hamburger Hamlet Restaurants, Inc., Case No. SV 95-19654GM (Bankr. C.D. CA).
216Inre Edison Brothers Stores, Inc., No. 96-177 (SLR) (D DE).
2I7In re Sizzler Restaurants International, Inc., Case No. SV 96-16076AG (Bankr. C.D. CA); In re Neostar Retail Group, Inc., Case No. 39636648-SAF-11 (Bankr. N.D. TX); In re Brendle's Inc., Case No. 96-50495C-11W (Bankr. M.D. N.C.).
218Inre "WRTEnergy Corp., Case No. 96BK-50212 (Bankr. W.D. LA).
219Inre Baldwin Builders, Nos. ND 95-13057 RR and ND 95-13058 RR
(Bankr. C.D. CA).
22JJInre NVF Company, Case No. 93-1020 (Bankr. D. DE).
221Inre Automotive Credit Finance,
(Bankr. N.D. TX); In re North Atlantic
30526 (Bankr. D. MN); In re St. Louis
(Bankr. E.D. MO); In re Sybaris Clubs

Inc., Case No. 395-34981 RCM-11
Technologies, Inc., Case No. 96Leasing Corp. No. 96-40001-293
Int'l, Inc., Case No. 94-B-16498
147

(Bankr. N.D. IL); In re Rexon, Inc., Case No. 95-19439 CEM (Bankr. D.
CO).

222Inre Americare International, Inc., Case No. 95-00787-881 (Bankr.
M.D. FL)

WIn re Micro Security Systems, Inc., Case No. 94B-23643 (Bankr. D.
Utah).

224Inre Bilzerian, No. 96-513-CIV-T-23B (M.D. FL).
225Inre ACI-HDT Supply Company, Case No. 95-08253-A11 (Bankr.
S.D. CA).
226Inre Tedlock Cattle Company, 552 F.2d 1351 (9th Cir. 1977).
227Inre Hibbard Brown & Co., Inc., Case No. 94 B 44809 (CB) (Bankr.
S.D. N.Y.).

148

I

149

............

- -

--

-

ENFORCEMENT
DURING FISCAL

---

--

-

~ -~

- --~---

Table 1
CASES INITIATED
BY THE COMMISSION
YEAR 1996 IN VARIOUS
PROGRAM
AREAS

(Each case initiated has been included
in only one category
listed below, even though
many cases involve multiple allegations
and may fall under more than one category.
The number of defendants
and respondents
is noted parenthetically.)
Program Area In Which a
Civil Acuon or Adrnrustranve
Proceeding Was Initiated

CIvil
Acnons 1/

securmes Offenng Cases
(a) Non-regulated Entity
(b) Regulated Enbty
Total Secunbes Offenng Cases

51 (201)
25 ( 87)
76 (288)

17 ( 26)
34 ( 55)
51 ( 81)

18 ( 60)
0)
2 ( 2)
2 ( 2)
0)

43
17
3
8
7

22 ( 64)

78 (105)

100 (169)

23 ( 76)
3 ( 4)

49 ( 71)
1 ( 1)

72 (147)
4 ( 5)

26 ( 80)

50 ( 72)

76 (152)

17%

Other Regulated Enbty Cases
(a) Investment Advisers
(b) Investment Compames
(c) Transfer Agent
(d) SROs
Total Other RegUlated Entrty Cases

8 ( 21)
2 ( 4)
0)
o ( 0)
10 ( 25)

34 ( 47)
4 ( 5)
1 ( 1)
2 ( 2)
41 ( 55)

42 (
6(
1(
2(
51 (

68)
9)
1)
2)
80)

11%

Contempt Proceedings

32 ( 47)

o(

0)

32 ( 47)

7%

lnsider Trading Cases

29 ( 92)

a(

0)

29 ( 92)

6%

Broker-dealer Cases
(a) Fraud Against Customer
(b) Failure to Supervise
(c) Govemment secunnes
(d) Books & Records
(e) Other
Total Broker-dealer Cases
Issuer Financial Statement
and Reporung Cases
(a) Issuer Financial
Disclosure
(b) Issuer Reporung Other
Total Issuer Financial Statement
and Reporung Cases

..

.'

a(

a(

a(

Admlnlstrabve
Proceedings

(
(
(
(
(

60)
22)
4)
11)
8)

Total

68 (227)
59 (142)
127 (369)

61
17
5
10
7

% of
Total
Cases

28%

(120)
( 22)
( 6)
( 13)
( 8)

22%

Delinquent FIlings
(a) Issuer Reporung
(b) Forms 3/4/5
Total Delinquent Filings Cases

5(
2(
7(

4)
5)
9)

1 ( 1)
7 ( 11)
8 ( 12)

6 ( 5)
9 ( 16)
15 ( 21)

3%

Market Mampulalion Cases

4 ( 13)

7 ( 15)

11 ( 28)

2%

Fraud Against Regulated Enbbes

3 ( 10)

1(

1)

4 ( 11)

1%

Corporate Control Cases

a(

0)

3(

3)

3(

3)

1%

Miscellaneous Disclosure/
Reporung

3(

7)

2 ( 2)

5(

9)

1%

212 (635)

241 (346)

453 (981)

100%

GRAND TOTAL

11 Ilus

category Includes ruuncnve actions and CIVil and cnrrmal contempt proceedings

Table 2
FISCAL 1996 ENFORCEMENT CASES
LISTED BY PROGRAM AREA

Name of Case

Release
Number

Date Filed

Broker-Dealer: Books & Records

In the Matter of Orlando Joseph Jett
In the Matter of James S. Small
In the Matter of Robert J. Dantone
SEC v. Linda M. King
In the Matter of Moors & Cabot, Inc.
SEC v. James W. Adams
In the Matter of Robert O. Glau
In the Matter of Monte S. Colbert,
CPA
In the Matter of Philip Greifeld, CPA
In the Matter of Flagship Securities.,
Inc.
In the Matter of The O.N. Equities
Sales Co.
In the Matter of William V. Giordano
In the Matter of The Robinson-Humphrey
Co., Inc.
In the Matter of F. Otto Busot
In the Matter of Lehman Brothers Inc.
In the Matter of Edward A. Cerullo
In the Matter of Michael 'Zaccaro
In the Matter of Westcap Securities, L.P.
In the Matter of Dickinson & Co.
In the Matter of James Warren
In the Matter of Fahnestock & Co.,
Inc.
In the Matter of James Thornton
In the Matter of Howe Barnes
Investments Inc.
In the Matter of Patricia Ann Bellows
In the Matter of Philadelphia Inv. Ltd.
In the Matter of Sandra Logay
In the Matter of Quest Capital Strategies,
Inc.

34-36696
34-36829
34-3753
LR-15054
34-37720
LR-15118
34-36438

01109/96
02/12/96
08/06/96
09/09/96
09/24/96
09/30/96
10/31195

AAER 835
AAER 836

09/30/96
09/30/96

34-37065

04/04/96

34-37755
34-36742

09/30/96
01/19/96

34-36773
34-37660
34-37673
34-36695
34-36703
34-36845
34-36338
34-37715

01125/96
09/09/96
09/12/96
01109/96
01111196
02/14/96
10/05/95
09/24/96

34-37754
34-37477

09/30/96
07/25/96

34-37707
34-36854
34-37743
34-36929

09/23/96
02/16/96
09/27/96
03/06/96

34-36909

02/29/96
151

Name of Case
In the Matter of Stanley L. Swoyer
In the Matter of Richardt-Alyn & Co.
SEC v. Atlantic Capital Corp.
SEC v. Robert C. Wilson
In the Matter of James M. Hatfield
In the Matter of Stephen J. Kandel
In the Matter of Frank Duca
SEC v. Gruntal & Co., Inc.
In the Matter of A.R. Baron & Co.,
Inc.
In the Matter of Al Rizek
SEC v. Kimberly D. Goodman
In the Matter of Robert Gilbert
In the Matter of Painewebber, Inc.
SEC v. Wayne T. Drinkwine
SEC v. James Zimmerman
In the Matter of David Arnold
In the Matter of Frederick C. Gartz
In the Matter of David G. Batu
In the Matter of Jeffrey L. Dunn
SEC v. Peter Tosto
In the Matter of Seth R. Roberts
In the Matter of Bernard Zelenka
In the Matter of George R. Johnston
In the Matter of John L. Fauls, III
SEC v. Richard J. Line
In the Matter of Kenneth J. Schulte
In the Matter of Mitchell A. Vazquez
SEC v. Peter M. Harrington
In the Matter of Robert M. Simpson
In the Matter of Gruntal & Co., Inc.
SEC v. Michael Anthony Pierce
In the Matter of Michael G. Cohen
In the Matter of Monness, Crespi, Hardt
& Co., Inc.
In the Matter of Alfred M. Bauer
SEC v. Stanley J. Feminella

152

Release
Number

Date Filed

34-37709
34-37727
LR-15082
LR-14761
34-36502
34-37483
34-37544
LR-14865

09123/96
09/26/96
09127/96
12/20/95
11122/95
07/26/96
08/08/96
04/09/96

34-37240
34-37422
LR-15005
34-37662
34-36724
LR-14781
LR-15029
34-36870
34-37556
34-37722
34-37723
34-37734
34-36978
34-37760
34-36614
34-36838
LR-14994
34-37494
AAER 766
LR-14812
34-36928
AAER 771
LR-14855
34-37742

OS/23/96
07/11196
08/06/96
09/09/96
01117/96
01116/96
08128/96
02/22/96
08/12/96
09125/96
09/25/96
09126/96
03/15/96
09/30/96
12/20/95
02/13/96
07/30/96
07/30/96
02/29/96
02/02/96
03/06/96
04/09/96
03121196
09/27/96

34-37712
34-37386
LR-14786

09/23/96
06/28/96
01/18/96

Name of Case
In the Matter of Richard J. Line
In the Matter of Craig I. Deitchman
SEC v. Craig I. Deitchman
SEC v. James Russell Cleveland
In the Matter of Kimberly D. Goodman
SEC v. Joseph Brooks
In the Matter of Robert E. Lindley
In the Matter of Valerie Jensen
In the Matter of Gary S. Missner
In the Matter of P. Michael Goodman
In the Matter of John S. Griffin
SEC v. Penn Capital Financial Services,
Inc.
SEC v. Edward F. Bao
In the Matter of Michael J. Randy
In the Matter of Linda J. Bustin
In the Matter of Kevin Bartholomew
In the Matter of George J. Conway
SEC v. Frank Duca
In the Matter of William F. Lincoln
In the Matter of Michael J. Eberle
In the Matter of Daniel L. Osborn
SEC v. Selheimer & Co.
In the Matter of Wendell Jeffrey Lee
SEC v. Thomas J. Fox
In the Matter of Benjamin Rex Moses
In the Matter of Fu-sung Peter Wu
In the Matter of First Fidelity
Securities Group
SEC v. Richard T. Taylor
SEC v. Fenchurch Capital
Management Corp.
In the Matter of Lazard Freres & Co.,
UC

Release
Number

Date Filed

34-37764
34-37325
LR-14879
LR-14919
34-37710
LR-14971
34-36599
34-36600
AAER 791
34-37111
34-36872

09/30/96
06/19/96
04/16/96
05/22/96
09123/96
06127/96
12/18/95
12/18/95
06/11196
01118/96
02/22/96

LR-14676
LR-14865
34-36735
34-37129
34-37153
34-37063
LR-14709
34-37168
34-37340
34-36642
LR-15070
34-37247
LR-15067
34-37286
34-37300

10/02/95
04/09/96
01118/96
04/19/96
04/30/96
01118/96
11102/95
05106/96
06120/96
12127/95
09/24/96
05128/96
09/24/96
06/07/96
06/11196

34-36694
LR-15077

01109/96
09/26/96

LR-14977

07/10/96

34-36419

10/26/95

153

Name of Case

In the Matter of FAIC Securities Inc.
In the Matter of Bradford P. Gillingham
In the Matter of Greenway Capital
Corp.
In the Matter of Jon Edelman
In the Matter of Bankers Pension
Services Inc.
In the Matter of Patrick J. Doherty
In the Matter of Lewco Securities Corp.

Release
Number

Date Filed

34-36937
34-36679

03/07/96
01104/96

34-37254
34-36847

05/30/96
02/14/96

34-37567
34-36839
34-36334

08/14/96
02/13/96
10/04/95

34-37278
NONE
NONE
NONE
NONE
NONE
NONE
NONE
NONE
34-37137
NONE
LR-15050
NONE
NONE
LR-14871
LR-14824
LR-14728
LR-14887
LR-14828
LR-14763
NONE
LR-14968

06/04/96
08/19/96
08/19/96
05/08/96
10/23/95
10/18/95
04/24/96
06/07/96
01108/96
03/25/96
04/29/96
08/29/96
OS/20/96
10/02/95
04/05/96
02/16/96
11/20/95
04/12/96
12/11/95
12/13/95
01/12/96
06/28/96

Contempt-Civil

-

;

-'
d

In the Matter of Transcorp Pensions
Services Inc.
SEC v. Pamela Woods
SEC v. Philip Snyder
SEC v. Oscar Olson
SEC v. Gene Block
SEC v. Jerry J. Fraschilla
SEC v. Yaska Ginsberg
SEC v. Vision Communications, Inc.
SEC v. Sarah Delaney
SEC v. Eugene Konev
SEC v. Geoffrey Paul Adams
SEC v. Michael J. Randy
SEC v. Alexander C. Fuentes
SEC v. Michael Schouman
SEC v. Sarah Delaney
SEC v. Carroll E. Siemens
SEC v. Michael J. Colello
SEC v. Michael J. Colello
SEC v. Renate Haag
SEC v. 0 'Neill, Lysaght & Sun
SEC v. Jeffrey L. Casperson
SEC v. Raymond C. Gross

.'

154

Name of Case

Release
Number

SEC
SEC
SEC
SEC
SEC
SEC
SEC
SEC
SEC
SEC
SEC

NONE
LR-15086
NONE
LR-14974
LR-14715
NONE
NONE
NONE
NONE
LR-15089
LR-15050

08/16/96
08/16/96
12/01/96
06/28/96
11/08/95
09/19/96
08/13/96
12/01/96
06107/96
08106/96
08/29/96

34-36664

12/29/95

34-36663
AAER 829

12/29/95
09/27/96

34-37766
34-37408
34 ..36678
34-37641

09/30/96
07/08/96
01/04/96
09/05/96

34-37352
34-37354
LR-14774

06/24/96
06/24/96
01/04/96

LR-14959
34-37353

06/24/96
06/24/96

v. Gateways to Space, Inc.
v. Gerard A. Spataro
v. Kupchinsky
v. Harvey P. Tabb
v. Owen R. Fox
v. Henry Don Jeffries
v. Melvin H. Cox
v. Hochman
v. Vista Communications Inc.
v. Danny Sterk
v. H. Ralph Sylvester

Corporate

Control

In the Matter of Michael N. Karp,
Esquire
In the Matter of Edward F. Duffy,
Esquire
In the Matter of Carolyn Safer Kenner

Delinquent

In
In
In
In
In

Date Filed

Filings: FOnDS 3, 4 & 5

the Matter of Stephen 1. Sogin
the Matter of Neil 1. Colvin
the Matter of Robert D. Carl, III
the Matter of Food Research Corp.
the Matter of Montgomery Medical
Ventures, L.P.
In the Matter of Richard D. Propper
SEC v. Robert D. Carl, III
SEC v. Montgomery Medical Ventures
L.P.
In the Matter of Jack Olshasky

Name of Case

Release
Number

Date Filed

Delinquent Filings: Issuer Reporting
SEC v. Wincanton Corp.
SEC v. American Cascade Energy Inc.
SEC v. Equity AU Inc.
In the Matter of Republic International
Corp.
SEC v. Parallel Technologies Inc.
SEC v. Cayman Resources Corp.

LR-15052
LR-14857
LR-14993

09/17/96
03/29/96
07/30/96

34-37741
LR-14848
LR-14894

09/27/96
03/19/96
04/26/96

LR-14950
34-37468
LR-14691
LR-14699

06/19/96
07/23/96
10/16/95
10/25/95

LR-15002
LR-14906
LR-14891
LR-14923
LR-14767
LR-14890
LR-1501O
LR-14870
LR-14706
LR-14850
LR-15100
LR-15062
LR-15045
LR-15033
LR-14986

08/05/96
05/09/96
04/25/96
OS/29/96
12/27/95
04/25/96
08/12/96
04/11/96
10/31/95
03/20/96
09/30/96
09/23/96
09/16/96
09/05/96
07/22/96

Fraud Against Regulated Entities
SEC v. William P. Dillon
In the Matter of David Lee Printy
SEC v. Ronald C. Black
SEC v. Jury Matt Hansen

Insider Trading

,

0-

SEC
SEC
SEC
SEC
SEC
SEC
SEC
SEC
SEC
SEC
SEC
SEC
SEC
SEC
SEC

v. Roger D. Wyatt
v. Kathleen Lane
v. Edward Warren Eizman
v. Nir Kantor
v. Joseph J. Evans
v. Roseann Martucci
v. Andrea Fiabane
v. John P. O'Grady
v. Charles Brumfield
v. Michael P. Angelos
v. Casey Abe
v. Donald John Tyson
v. Duracell International Inc.
v. Abul Bhuiyan
v. The Hallwood Group

Name of Case

Release
Number

SEC
SEC
SEC
SEC
SEC
SEC
SEC
SEC
SEC
SEC
SEC
SEC
SEC
SEC

LR-15040
LR-14731
LR-14747
LR-14775
LR-14754
LR-14843
LR-14843
LR-14854
LR-14752
LR-14721
LR-14989
LR-14982
LR-14933
LR-14932

09/12/96
11/27/95
12/06/95
01/04/96
12/11/95
02/27/96
03/12/96
03/25/96
12/11/95
11/14/95
07/19/96
07/18/96
06/06/96
06/06/96

34-37231

OS/21/96

IA-1571
IA-1548
IA-1576
LR-15030

07/16/96
01/19/96
08/08/96
08/30/96

APR-520

07/11/96

34-37376
34-36608
34-37729
IA-1544
34-37758
34-37669
IA-I553

06/27/96
12/20/95
09/26/96
12/28/95
09/30/96
09/12/96
02/22/96

LR-15092

09/30/96

v. Mary Ann Shank
v. William J. Rauwerdink
v. Harold Fitzgerald Lenfest
v. Linda Lou Taylor
v. Mervyn Cooper
v. Richard G. Marcus
v. Donald C. Ferguson
v. Michael G. Sargent
v. Nabeeh I. Totah
v. CBI Industries Inc.
v. John A. Prevost
v. Hugo Aldo Sallustro
v. Timothy J. Moriarty
v. James M. League, Jr.

Date Filed

Investment Adviser

In the Matter of Robert K. Williams
In the Matter of Mckenzie Walker
Investment Management, Inc.
In the Matter of Jay DeForest Moore
In the Matter of Ronald M. Zook
SEC v. Gary L. Hamby
In the Matter of IMS/CPAs &
Associates
In the Matter of Portfolio Management
Consultants Inc.
In the Matter of James A. Pearce
In the Matter of Michael C. Robertson
In the Matter of Steen Ronlov
In the Matter of Frederick V. Dona, Jr.
In the Matter of Tudor Investment Corp.
In the Matter of Leroy S. Brenna
SEC v. Seaboard Investment Advisers,
Inc.

1"7

Name of Case
SEC v. Benjamin Franklin Bush, III
In the Matter of Douglas L. Blair
In the Matter of Refco Securities Inc.
In the Matter of Wayne A. Maki
In the Matter of John Francis D 'Acquisto
SEC v. William Barney Thomas
In the Matter of Ira William Scott
In the Matter of Charles Russell Williams
In the Matter of S Squared Technology
Corporation
In the Matter of Joseph Edwin
Giewartowski
SEC v. Tudor Investment Corp.
SEC v. Randall E. Bradbury
In the Matter of Gerald Johnson
In the Matter of C&G Asset
Management Inc.
In the Matter of Patricia Owen-Michel
In the Matter of The Feldman Investment
Group, Inc.
In the Matter of John J. Kaweske
In the Matter of Concord Investment Co.
SEC v. Donald Malcolm Johnson
In the Matter of Cabot Money
Management Inc.
In the Matter of Keypoint Financial
Corp.
In the Matter of Gruntal & Co., Inc.
In the Matter of Marc N. Geman
SEC v. Tandem Management Inc.
In the Matter of Brian Jeffrey Sheen
In the Matter of Investors Income
Systems of Florida Inc.
In the Matter of Vigil Asset
Management Corp .. Inc.
In the Matter of Domenic P. Ferrante
In the Matter of Anthony J. Negus

158

Release
Number

Date Filed

LR-15101
lA-1574
34-37531
lA-1572
lA-1541
LR-15080
lA-1582
lA-1551

09/25/96
08/06/96
08/06/96
07/26/96
12/18/95
09/26/96
09/27/96
02/14/96

lA-1575

08/07/96

lA-1546
LR-15038
LR-14908
34-37737

01/16/96
09/12/96
05/13/96
09/27/96

lA-1536
lA-1584

11/09/95
09/27/96

lA-1538
34-36518
lA-1585
LR-14807

11/27/95
11/27/95
09/27/96
01/18/96

34-37573

08/15/96

lA-1534
34-37084
34-37375
LR-14670
lA-1533

11/06/95
04/09/96
06/27/96
10/02/95
10/31/95

lA-1547

01/16/96

IA-1588
34-37763
34-36749

09/30/96
09/30/96
01/22/96

Name of Case

Release
Number

Date Filed

Investment Company
SEC v. Duane V. Midgley
SEC v. Geoffrey Paul Adams
In the Matter of Vector Index
In the Matter of David F. Smith
In the Matter of Becky A. Swantson

AAER 815
LR-14806
IA-1569
34-37018
34-37019

09/16/96
01130/96
07/08/96
03/25/96
03/25/96

34-37748
AAER 734
LR-14964
AAER 740
AAER 833

09/30/96
10/31195
06/24/96
12/18/95
09/30/96

AAER 812

09/05/96

AAER 782
LR-14773
34-37749
AAER 777
AAER 783

05/10/96
12/22/95
09/30/96
04/29/96
05/16/96

AAER 800
AAER 776
LR-15071
AAER 807

07/03/96
04/29/96
09/24/96
08/06/96

34-36761

01124/96

AAER 823

09/24/96

AAER 821

09/24/96

Issuer Financial Disclosure
In the Matter of Maricopa County
Arizona
In the Matter of Calvin Shenkir, Jr.
SEC v. Americare International Inc.
In the Matter of Gerald M. Kudler
In the Matter of 3Net Systems Inc.
In the Matter of Advanced Medical
Products, Inc.
In the Matter of M. Susan Soltis,
CPA
SEC v. Edmund J. Lopinski, Jr.
In the Matter of Atlantis Group Inc.
SEC v. Kendall Square Research Corp.
In the Matter of Milton Mermelstein
SEC v. International Communications &
Technologies Corp.
In the Matter of Thomas J. MacCormack
SEC v. Michael W. Crow
SEC v. Jerald Beagelman
In the Matter of The County of Orange
California
SEC v. Healthcare Services Group,
Inc.
In the Matter of Wilshire Technologies,
Inc.

159

Name of Case
SEC v. Pierce Lowrey, Jr.
SEC v. Surendra Gupta
In the Matter of Urohealth System, Inc.
SEC v. Robert L. "Bob" Citron
SEC v. Bollinger Industries Inc.
In the Matter of William W. Krueger,
CPA
In the Matter of Russell Ponce
In the Matter of Fernando Cappuccio
In the Matter of Florio Fiorini
SEC v. Ronald A. Romito
In the Matter of Advanced Micro
Devices, Inc.
In the Matter of Octagon, Inc.
In the Matter of Morris F. Baughman,
CPA
In the Matter of William E. Moody, Jr.
In the Matter of American Aircraft Corp.
In the Matter of the County of Orange
California
SEC v. The AppleTree Companies,
Inc.
In the Matter of Cypress Bioscience
Inc.
SEC v. Gordon L. Hall
In the Matter of Robert McClernon,
CPA
In the Matter of Gary E. Stern,
CPA
In the Matter of Stanley Goodman
In the Matter of Eli Buchalter,
CPA
In the Matter of Everlast Filtration
Corp.
In the Matter of Frederick W. Smith,
CPA

160

Release
Number

Date Filed

AAER 738
LR-15097
34-36560
LR-14792
AAER 834

12/05/95
09/30/96
12/07/95
01124/96
09/30/96

AAER
AAER
AAER
AAER
AAER

01103/96
02/13/96
01103/96
01103/96
12/19/95

748
759
745
744
750

34-37730
34-37762

09/26/96
09/30/96

AAER 784
AAER 751
AAER 752

OS/23/96
01111196
01111196

34-36760

01124/96

AAER 840

09/30/96

AAER 817
AAER 830

09/19/96
09/26/96

AAER 820

09/24/96

AAER 732
34-36591

10/17/95
12/14/95

AAER 818

09/19/96

AAER 736

11106/95

AAER 828

09/27/96

Name of Case

In the Matter of Gibson Greetings,
Inc.
In the Matter of Peter C. Ferraro,
CPA
In the Matter of Louis R. Weiss
In the Matter of John M. Goldberger
In the Matter Rom N. DeGuzman,
CPA
In the Matter of Lawrence M. Gress
In the Matter of Diagnostek Inc.
In the Matter of Ronald A. Romito,
CPA
In the Matter of Mark S. Tague,
CPA
In the Matter of Jon R. Erickson,
CPA
In the Matter of David Sims
In the Matter of Bernard H. Levy,
CPA
In the Matter of Sulcus Computer
Corp.
In the Matter of Platinum Software
Corp.
In the Matter of Centuri Inc.
In the Matter of Charles W Wallin,
CPA
SEC v. Earl V. Young
SEC v. Comparator Systems Corp.
SEC v. McDonnell Douglas Corp.
SEC v. Gerald R. Blackie
SEC v. Stephen R. B. Bingham
SEC v. Automated Telephone Management
Systems Inc.
SEC v. Giancarlo Parretti
In the Matter of Richard A. Knight,
CPA

Release
Number

Date Filed

AAER 730

10/11/95

AAER 804
AAER 768
AAER 767

07/24/96
03/11/96
03/05/96

AAER 831
AAER 832
AAER 762

09/30/96
09/30/96
02/23/96

AAER 757

02/01/96

AAER 788

06/03/96

AAER 787
AAER 741

06/03/96
12/27/95

AAER 770

03/29/96

AAER 778

05/02/96

AAER 781
AAER 775

05/09/96
04/19/96

AAER 774
LR-14981
AAER 786
AAER 797
AAER 780
AAER 773

04/19/96
07/16/96
05/31/96
06/24/96
05/09/96
04/16/96

AAER 735
AAER 746

11/01/95
01/06/96

AAER 764

02/27/96

161

Name of Case

Release
Number

SEC v. Sage Technology Inc.
SEC v. Anthony Sarivola
In the Matter of Anthony Sarivola
In the Matter of Hein & Associates
In the Matter of Salomon Inc.

LR-14818
LR-14704
34-37768
34-37396
AAER 808

02/15/96
10/31/95
09/30/96
07/02/96
08/26/96

LR-14851
AAER 749
LR-15000
LR-14877

03/21/96
01/03/96
08/06/96
04/16/96

34-37661
LR-15000
34-37207
34-37698
34--3720
LR-14947
34-37272
LR-15026

09/09/96
08/06/96
05/13/96
09/18/96
05/13/96
06/12/96
06/04/96
08/14/96

34-37419
LR-14900
34-37674

07/11/96
05/02/96
06/20/96

LR-15117
LR-14902
LR-14732

09/30/96
05/07/96
11/27/95

34-36333

10/04/95

34-36886

02/26/96

Date Filed

Issuer Reporting: Other

SEC v. Victor R. Gomez
In the Matter of Edmund C. Lipinski
SEC v. Jerry B. Silver
SEC v. Tellus Industries Inc.

Market Manipulation

In the Matter of Jeffrey Weissman
SEC v. Allan G. Kern
In the Matter of David Anderson
In the Matter of Paul Stansberry
In the Matter of John Silseth
SEC v. Michael Zaman
In the Matter of Robert Sayegh
SEC v. John Fiebelkorn
In the Matter of Alexander
Sheshunoff, Sr.
SEC v. Steven McMichael
In the Matter of Michael J. Eberle

Miscellaneous DisclosurelReporting

SEC v. James S. Faller II
SEC v. Royce Laboratories, Inc.
SEC v. Thomas S. Mackie, Jr.
In the Matter of French American
Banking Corp.
In the Matter of Continental Capital
& Equity Corp.
162

Name of Case

Release
Number

Date Filed

Offering Violations (By
Non-Regulated Entities)
SEC v. Christopher Kent Bagdasarian
In the Matter Douglas W. Osborne
SEC v. Gary J. Divali
SEC v. Henry Don Jeffries
SEC v. Citi Financial Services
SEC v. James G. Freeman
SEC v. Mary S. Pate
SEC v. Melvin H. Cox
SEC v. American Telecom Interconnect
Inc.
SEC v. Dennis Lindsay Helliwell
SEC v. Raejean S. Bonham
SEC v. Thaddeus E. Watley
In the Matter of Raul N. Rodriguez
SEC v. Futrex Inc.
SEC v. Smartbox Systems Group, Inc.
SEC v. Express Communications Inc.
SEC v. Gregory Lee Miller
SEC v. Douglas Frankel
SEC v. Lazare Industries Inc.
In the Matter of Carl E. Lovell
SEC v. Carl E. Lovell
SEC v. Jetlease/Finance Corp.
SEC v. KS Resources
SEC v. Alexander Charles Fuentes
SEC v. Future Vision Direct
Marketing Inc.
SEC v. Investors Dynamics Corp.

09126/96
05121196

AAER 825
34-37232
NONE
NONE
LR-14789
LR-14970
LR-14915
LR-14880

08/02/96
09/12/96
01118/96
06/25/96
05/15/96
04/01196

LR-14892
LR-14816
LR-14899
LR-14896
34-37682
LR-15061
LR-14733
LR-14753
LR-14791
LR-14820
LR-14893
34-37108
LR-14873
LR-14867
LR-14766
LR-14860

04/24/96
02/13/96
04/26/96
05/01196
09/16/96
09/23/96
11/16/95
12/13/95
01123/96
02/21196
04/22/96
04/12/96
02/28/96
04/02/96
12/19/95
03/25/96

LR-14903
LR-14844

05/07/96
03/12/96

163

Name of Case

In the Matter of Joseph M. Aaron
In the Matter of Philip Forma, Sr.
SEC v. Aym Financial Corp.
SEC v. Joseph M. Aaron
SEC v. Scorpion Technologies Inc.
SEC v. Robert D. Gersh
SEC v. Douglas R. Damon
In the Matter of Henry P. Becker
In the Matter of Melvin H. Takaki
SEC v. The Bennett Funding Group,
Inc.
In the Matter of Anthony Escobar
SEC v. Michael Rosoff
SEC v. Offshore Financial Corp.
SEC v. Daniel R. Morris
SEC v. Robert E. Polansky
In the Matter of Voucher Investment
Fund Russ-Invest
In the Matter of William Scott
Smun
SEC v. Dan Stuart
SEC v. Kathy S. Kingsmore
SEC v. Direct Participation Services
Inc.
SEC v. Ted E. Mong
In the Matter of Candie's Inc.
SEC v Wye Resources Inc.
SEC v. Russell S. Smith
In the Matter of Stuart D. Cooper,
CPA
SEC v. Nu-Life International of Georgia
Inc.
SEC v. Robert D. Poirier
SEC v. The Home Link Corp.
SEC v. MTL International Finance
Inc.

164

Release
Number

Date Filed

34-36768
34-37637
LR-14837
LR-14796
AAER 758
LR-14742
LR-14782
34-37299
33-7302

01/25/96
09/04/96
03/06/96
01/18/96
02/09/96
11/19/95
12/22/95
06/11/96
05/31/96

AAER 772
34-37584
AAER 816
LR-15064
LR-14826
AAER 810

03/28/96
08/19/96
07/19/96

IC 21966

OS/21/96

34-37683
LR-14909
LR-15078

09/16/96
04/22/96
09/16/96

LR-15060
LR-15094
34-36865
LR-15073
LR-15083

09/19/96
09/30/96
02/21/96
09/26/96
09/27/96

AAER 743

12/28/95

LR-15099
LR-15091
LR-15017

09/20/96
09/30/96
07/29/96

LR-15090

09/30/96

09120/96

12/18/95
09/04/96

Name of Case
In the Matter of M. Charles Zanaty
SEC v. William B. Sellin II
In the Matter of Broad Capital
Associates, Inc.
SEC v. Axiom Security Solutions, Inc.
SEC v. Americomm Properties, Inc.
SEC v. Brent Molovinsky
In the Matter of Norman L. Sirak
In the Matter of George C.
Bergleitner, Jr.
In the Matter of Rhema Foundation
In the Matter of Charles E.
Michael, Jr.
SEC v. Scott A. Frye
SEC v. Donald B. Spencer
SEC v. Octagon Technology Group,
Inc.
SEC v. Boston Acceptance Corp.
In the Matter of James McCurry
SEC v. W. Ralph Wills, III
In the Matter of Vytas Jonusas
SEC v. Larry R. Ryan
In the Matter of Eugene Konev
In the Matter of Kevin P. Sisti
In the Matter of Robert Yecchioni
In the Matter of William E.
Powdrill, III
In the Matter of Stephen R. Parker
SEC v. David Edward Freitag
In the Matter of Michael D. Gibson
In the Matter of Curtis Lynch
SEC v. Painewebber, Inc.
In the Matter of William Cho
In the Matter of Domenick M. Schina
In the Matter of Nicholas P. Howard
In the Matter of Vincent P. Laban

Release
Number

Date Filed

33-7346
LR-15012

09/30/96
07/24/96

33-7338
LR-15096
LR-15006
LR-15088
34-37740

09/26/96
09/27/96
08/07/96
09/27/96
09/27/96

34-37708
33-7239

09/23/96
11/02/95

34-36561
LR-14702
LR-14856

12/07/95
10/27/95
03/29/96

LR-14942
LR-15059
34-36654
LR-15152
34-37362
LR-15044
34-37137
34-37266
34-36779

06/11/96
09/19/96
12/29/95
09/23/96
06/25/96
07/18/96
02/22/96
06/03/96
01126/96

34-36695
34-37664
LR-15098
34-37756
34-37751
LR-14787
34-36787
34-37685
34-36433
34-37700

12/29/96
09/10/96
09/30/96
09/30/96
09/30/96
01/18/96
01130/96
09/16/96
10/30/95
09/19/96

165

Name of Case
In the Matter of Larry R. Earp
In the Matter of Roc G. Hatfield
In the Matter of Stephen M. Jordan
SEC v. John Dankovich
SEC v. John S. Griffin
In the Matter of Ralph E. McKittrick
SEC v. William R. Palmer
SEC v. David M. Carmichael
SEC v. John Acord
SEC v. Tixmax I General Partnership
SEC v. Ronald A. Monzione
SEC v. Gary W Berus
SEC v. Joseph P. Medsker
SEC v. Internet Broadcast Group
In the Matter of Stires & Co., Inc.
In the Matter of Wayne J. Conners
In the Matter of American Financial
Partners Ltd.
SEC v. CNC Trading Co., Inc.
SEC v. Daniel E. Goodman
In the Matter of David C. Connolly
In the Matter of H. Ralph Sylvester
SEC v. Empower Telecommunications
Corp.
SEC v. Kenneth E. Edwards
In the Matter of Michael W. Adams
SEC v. Tina M. Applegate
In the Matter of Roswitha
Klement-Frances
In the Matter of Jerry Revalee
SEC v. Richard Jenkins
SEC v. Technology International Ltd.
In the Matter of Churchill Securities,
Inc.
In the Matter of Lawrence R. Hartz
In the Matter of Richard Jenkins

166

Release
Number

Date Filed

34-37665
34-36846
34-37671
LR-14847
LR-14802
34-36878
LR-15034
LR-1481O
LR-14739
LR-14898
LR-15107
LR-15105
LR-15104
LR-150 ~

34-37750
34-37757

01/30/96
02/23/96
09/05/96
02/01196
11115/95
03/20/96
09/30/96
09/30/96
09/30/96
09/26/96
09/30/96
09/30/96

34-37759
LR-15085
LR-15079
34-37410
34-37733

09/30/96
09/24/96
09/18/96
07/08/96
09/26/96

LR-15081
LR-15111
34-36454
LR-15044

09/26/96
09/27/96
11/03/95
05/15/96

34-36520
34-36519
LR-15009
AAER 754

11/28/95
11/28/95
07/10/96
01/17/96

34-37246
34-37167
34-37545

OS/24/96
05/03/96
08/08/96

09/11196
02/14/96
09/12/96

03120/96

Name of Case
SEC v. The Windgate Fund, UC
SEC v. Trans-American Ostrich Traders,
Inc.
In the Matter of Gary Steven Williky
SEC v. Thomas W Collins
SEC v. Michael Tropiano
In the Matter of Daniel D. Dietrich
In the Matter of Victor L. Kashner
In the Matter of Michael J. Clark
In the Matter of Kenneth A. Zak

Release
Number

Date Filed

LR-14864

04/09/96

LR-14835
34-36986
LR-14757
LR-14778
34-37486
34-37485
34-37566
34-36879

03/05/96
03/18/96
12/11/95
01111/95
07/26/96
07/26/96
08/14/96
03/23/96

34-37542

08/08/96

34-37538

08/08/96

34-37705

09/20/96

Self-Regulatory Organization
The NASD and the Nasdaq Market
In the Matter of National Association
of Securities Dealers, Inc.

Transfer Agent
In the Matter of Richard S. Berger

167

Table 5
INJUNCTIVE ACTIONS
Fiscal Year

Actions Initiated

Defendants Named

1987
1988
1989
1990
1991
1992
1993
1994
1995

144
125
140

401

1996

180

373

422
557

186
171
156
172

503

487
571

197
171

620
549
588

Right to Financial Privacy

Section 21(h) of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934 [15 U.s.c.
78u(h)(6)] requires that the Commission "compile an annual tabulation
of the occasions on which the Commission used each separate
subparagraph or clause of [Section 21(h)(2)] or the provisions of the
Right to Financial Privacy Act of 1978 [12 U.S.c. 3401-22 (the RFPA)] to
obtain access to financial records of a customer and include it in its
annual report to the Congress." During the fiscal year, the Commission
made one application for judicial orders pursuant to Section 21(h)(2).
Set forth below are the number of occasions on which the Commission
obtained customer records pursuant to the provisions of the RFPA:
Section 1104 (Customer Authorizations)
Section 1105 (Administrative

Subpoenas)

Section 1107 (Judicial Subpoenas)

11
426
5

169

Table 6

TYPES OF PROCEEDINGS
ADMINISTRATIVE

Persons Subject to, Acts Constituting,
Basis for, Enforcement
Action

PROCEEDINGS

and
Sanction

Any person
Violation of the federal secunnss

laws.

Cease-and-desist order, which may also
require a person to comply or take steps to
effect compliance with federal securities
laws; accounting and disgorgement of Illegal
profits. (Securities Act, Section 8A;
Exchange Act, Section 21C(a); Investment
Company Act, Section 9(t); Investment
Advisers Act, section 203(k)).

Broker-dealer,
municipal securities dealer,
government
securities dealer, transfer
agent, investment adviser or associated
person
Willful violation of securities laws or rules;
aiding or abetting such violation; failure
reasonably to supervise others; willful
misstatement or omission In filing with the
Commission; conviction of or injunction
against certain crimes or conduct.

Censure or limitation on activities;
revocation, suspension or denial of
registration; bar or suspension from
association (Exchange Act, Sections
15(b)(4)-(6), 158(c)(2)-(5), 15(C)(c) (1)-(2),
17A(c)(3)-(4); Investment Advisers Act,
Section 203(e)-(t)).
Civil penalty up to $100,000 for a natural
person or $500,000 for any other person;
accounting and disgorgement of illegal
profits. Penalties are subject to other
limitations depending on the nature of the
violation. (Exchange Act, Section 21B;
Investment Company Act, Section 9;
Investment Advisers Act, Section 203).
Temporary cease-and-desist
order, which
may, in appropriate cases, be issued ex
parte. (Exchange Act, Section 21C).

Registered

securities

association

Violation of or Inability to comply with the
Exchange Act, rules thereunder, or Its own
rules; unjustified failure to enforce
compliance with the foregoing or with rules
of the Municipal Secuntres Rulemaklng
Board by a member or person associated
with a member

170

Suspension or revocation of registration;
censure or limitation of activities, functions,
or operations (Exchange Act, Section
19(h)(1»).

Member of registered securities
association,
or associated person
Entry of Cornrrusslon order against person
pursuant to Exchange Act, Section 15(b),
willful violation of securities laws or rules
thereunder or rules of MunicIpal Secuntres
Rulemaklng Board; effecting transaction for
other person with reason to believe that
person was comrruttmq violations of
secuntres laws.
National

securities

exchange

Vrolanon of or Inability to comply with
Exchange Act, rules thereunder or ItS own
rules; unjustifled failure to enforce
compliance wrth the foregoing by a member
or person associated with a member

Member of national securities
or associated person

clearing

In registered

clearing

information

Suspension or expulsion from exchange; bar
or suspension from association with member
(Exchange Act, Section 19(h)(2)-(3)).

Suspsnsion or revocatron of registration;
censure or limitation of activities, functions,
or operations (Exchange Act, Section
19(h)(1

».

agency

Entry of Commission order against
participant pursuant to Exchange Act,
Section 15(b)(4); willful vrolatron of clearing
agency rules, effecting transaction for other
person with reason to believe that person
was committing violations of securities laws.

Securities

(1»

agency

VIolation of or Inability to comply with
Exchange Act, rules thereunder, or its own
rules; failure to enforce compliance with its
own rules by participants.

Participant

Suspension or revocation of registration,
censure or hrnrtatron of activrtres, functions,
or operations (Exchange Act, Section 19(h)

exchange,

Entry of Commission order against person
pursuant to Exchange Act, Section 15(b);
willful violation of securities laws or rules
thereunder, effecting transaction for other
person with reason to believe that person
was committing violation of securities laws

Registered

Suspension or expulsion from the
association; bar or suspension from
association with member of association
(Exchange Act, Section 19(h)(2)-(3».

Suspension or expulsion from cleanng
agency (Exchange Act, Section 19(h)(2)).

processor

Violation of or inability to comply with
provisrons of Exchange Act or rules
thereunder.

Censure or lirrntatron of activities; suspension
or revocation of registration (Exchange Act,
Section 11A(b)(6»

171

Any person
Willful violation of Securities Act, Exchange
Act, Investment Company Act or rules
thereunder; aiding or abetting such violation,
willful misstatement in filing with
Commission.
Officer or director
organization

of self-regulatory

Willful violation of Exchange Act, rules
thereunder or the organization's own rules;
willful abuse of authority or unjustified failure
to enforce compliance.

Principal

Removal from office or censure
Act, Section 19(h)(4».

(Exchange

of broker-dealer

Officer, director, general partner, ten-percent
owner or controlling person of a brokerdealer for which a SIPC trustee has been
appomtsd.
Securities

Temporary or permanent prohibition against
serving in certain capacities with registered
investment company (Investment Company
Act, Section 9(b».

Act registration

Bar or suspension from being or becoming
associated with a broker-dealer (SIPA,
Section 14(b».

statement

Statement materially Inaccurate or
Incomplete.

Stop order refusing to permit or suspending
effectiveness (Securities Act, Section 8(d».

Person subject to Sections 12, 13, 14 or
15(d) of the Exchange Act or associated
person
Failure to comply With such provisrons or
havmq caused such failure by an act or
orrussion that person knew or should have
known would contribute thereto.
Securities registered pursuant
12 of the Exchange Act

Order directing compliance or steps
effecting compliance (Exchange Act, Section
15(c)(4».

to Section

Noncompliance by Issuer With Exchange Act
or rules thereunder.

Denial, suspension of effective date,
suspension or revocation of reqistranon
(Exchange Act, Section 12@.

Public

Summary suspension of over-the-counter or
exchange trading (Exchange Act, Section
12(k».

Interest requires trading suspension.

Registered

investment

company

Failure to file Investment Company Act
reqistratron statement or required report;
filing materially Incomplete or rT'!sleading
statement or report

Suspension
(Investment

Company has not attained $100,000 net
worth 90 days after Securities Act
registration statement became effective

Stop order under Securities Act; suspension
or revocation of registration (Investment
Company Act, Section 14(a».

172

or revocation of registration
Company Act, Section 8(e».

Attorney, accountant,
or other
professional
or expert
Lack of requisite qualifications
to represent
others; lacking in character or Integrity,
unethical or Improper professional conduct;
willful violation of secunties laws or rules, or
aiding and abetting such violation.

Permanent or temporary denial of privilege of
appearing or practicing before the
Commission (17 CFR Section 201.1 02 (e)(1 »

Attorney suspended or disbarred by court;
expert's license revoked or suspended;
conviction of a felony or of a misdemeanor
Involving moral turpitude.

Automatic suspension from appearance or
practice before the Cornmlssron (17 CFR
Section 201.1 02 (e)(2».

Securities violation In Commission-instituted
action; finding of securities Violation by
Commission In administrative proceedings.

Temporary suspension from practicing
before the Commission; censure; permanent
or temporary disqualification from practicing
before the Commission (17 CFR Section
201 102(e)(3».

Member or employee of Municipal
Securities Rulemaking
Board
Willful Violation of Exchange Act, rules
thereunder, or rules of the Board; abuse of
authority.
CIVIL PROCEEDINGS

Persons Subject to, Acts Constituting,
Basis for, Enforcement
Action

and

Censure or removal from office (Exchange
Act, Section 15B(c)(8».

IN FEDERAL

DISTRICT

COURTS

Sanction

Any person
Engaging In or about to engage In acts or
practices Violating securities laws, rules or
orders thereunder (including rules of a
registered self-regulatory organization).

Injunction against acts or practices
constituting Violations (plus other equitable
relief under court's general equity powers)
(Securities Act, Section 20(b), Exchange Act,
Section 21 (d); Holding Company Act,
Section 18(e); Investment Company Act,
Section 42(d), Investment Advisers Act,
Section 209(d), Trust Indenture Act, Section
321)

Noncompliance With provisions of the laws,
rules, or requlanons under Securities Act,
Exchange Act, or Holding Company Act,
orders Issued by Comrrussron, rules of a
registered self-regulatory organization, or
undertaking in a registration statement

Writ of mandamus, mjunctron, or order
directing compliance (Securities Act, Section
20(c), Exchange Act, Section 21 (e), Holding
Company Act, Section 18(f»)

173

Violating the secunties laws or a cease-anddesist order (other than through insider
trading).

Civil penalty up to $100,000 for a natural
person or $500,000 for any other person QI,
If greater, the gross gain to the defendant.
Penalties are SUbject to other limitations
dependent on nature of Violation. (Securities
Act, Section 20(d); Exchange Act, Section
21 (d) (3); Investment Company Act, Section
42(e); Investment Advisers Act, Section
209(e».

Trading while In possession of material nonpublic information in a transaction on an
exchange or from or through a broker-dealer
(and transaction not part of a public
offenng); aiding and abetting or directly or
indirectly controlling the person who
engages in such trading.

Maximum Civil penalty: three times profit
gained or loss avoided as a result of
transaction (Exchange «ct. Section 21 A(a)-

Violating Securities Act Section 17(a)(1) or
Exchange Act section 10(b), when conduct
demonstrates substantial unfitness to serve
as an officer or director.

Prohrbrtion from acting as an officer or
director of any public company.
(Secunties
Act, Section 20(e); Exchange Act, Section
21 (d)(2».

(b)).

Issuer subject to Section 12 or 15(d) of
the Exchange Act; oHlcer, director,
employee or agent of Issuer; stockholder
acting on behalf of Issuer
Payment to foreign official, foreign political
party or official, or candidate for foreign
political office, for purposes of seeking the
use of influence in order to assist issuer in
obtaining or retaining business for or with, or
directing business to, any person.

Maximum civil penalty:
Act, Section 32(c)).

$10,000 (Exchange

Securities Investor Protection Corporation
Refusal to commit funds or act for the
protection of customers.

Order directing discharge of obligations and
other appropriate relief (SIPA, Section 11 (b)).

National securities exchange or registered
securities association
Failure to enforce compliance by members
or persons associated With its members With
the Exchange Act, rules or orders
thereunder, or rules of the exchange or
association.

Writ of mandamus, injunction or order
directing such exchange or assoclanon to
enforce compliance (Exchange Act, Section
21 (e».

Registered clearing agency
Failure to enforce compliance by its
participants With ItS own rules.

174

Wnt of mandamus, injunction or order
directing c1eanng agency to enforce
compliance (Exchange Act, Section 21 (e».

Issuer subject
Act

to Section

15(d) of 1934

Forfeiture of $100 per day (Exchange
Section 32(b».

Failure to file required information,
documents or reports.
Registered

investment

Act,

company

Name of company or of security Issued by It
deceptive or misleading.

Officer, director, member
board, adviser, depositor,
of investment company

Injunction
Company

against use of name (Investment
Act, Section 35(d»

of advisory
or underwriter

Engage in act or practice constituting
of fiduciary duty mvolvmq personal
misconduct.

CRIMINAL

breach

PROSECUTION

Persons Subject to, Acts Constituting,
Basis for, Enforcement
Action

and

Injunction against actmq In certain capacities
for Investment company and other
appropriate relief (Investment Company Act,
Section 36(a».

BY DEPARTMENT

OF JUSTICE
Sanction

Any person
Willful violation of securities laws or rules
thereunder; willful misstatement in any
document required to be filed by securities
laws or rules; willful misstatement in any
document required to be filed by selfregulatory organization in connection with an
application for membership or association
with member.

Maximum penalties: $1,000,000 fine and ten
years imprisonment for Individuals,
$2,500,000 fine for non-natural persons
(Exchange Act, Sections 21 (d), 32(a));
$10,000 fine and five years imprisonment (or
$200,000 if a public utility holding company
for violations of the Holding Company Act)
(Securities Act, Sections 20(b), 24;
Investment Company Act, Sections 42(e),
49; Investment Advisers Act, Sections
209(e), 217; Trust Indenture Act, Sections
321, 325; Holding Company Act, Sections
18(f),29).

Issuer SUbject to Section 12 or 15(d) of
the Exchange Act; officer or director of
Issuer; stockholder
acting on behalf of
Issuer; employee or agent subject to the
Jurisdiction of the United States

Issuer - $2,000,000; officer, director,
employee, agent or stockholder.
$100,000
and five years imprisonment (issuer may not
pay fine for others) (Exchange Act, Section
32(c)).

Payment to foreign official, foreign political
party or official, or candidate for foreign
political office for purposes of seeking the
use of influence in order to assist issuer In
obtaining or retaining business for or with, or
directing business to, any person.

175

Self-Regulatory Organizations: Expenses, Pre-Tax Income, and Balance
Sheet Structure)
In 1995, the total revenues of all self-regulatory organizations (SROs)
with marketplace jurisdiction rose approximately $151 million, an increase
of approximately 13% from 1994. The New York Stock Exchange (NYSE),
the National Association of Securities Dealers (NASD), the American Stock
Exchange (AMEX), and the Chicago Board Options Exchange (CBOE)
accounted for 89% of total SRO revenues, up from 86% in 1994. Revenues
were earned primarily from listing or issuer fees, trading fees, and market
data fees. For example:
•

The NYSE reported total revenue of $501 million, an increase of
11% from 1994, of which 39% consisted of listing fees, 20%
consisted of trading fees, and 15% consisted of market data fees.

•

The NASD reported total revenue of $438 million, an increase of
18% from 1994, of which 21 % consisted of issuer fees and 39%
consisted of trading and market data fees.

•

The AMEX reported total revenue of $153 million, an increase of
7% from 1994, of which 9% consisted of listing fees.

The remaining SROs also reported increases in revenues as follows:
•

The Boston Stock Exchange (BSE) reported a $796,000 increase
(5%) to $15.7 million.

1After

the close of its fiscal year ending December 31, 1993, the
Cincinnati Stock Exchange (CSE) adopted a fiscal year ending June 30. As
a result, the amounts set forth in this report representing total revenues, total
expenses, and total pre-tax income for all SROs include financial information
based on CSE's statements of revenues, expenses and members' equity for
the year ended June 30, 1995 and for the six months ended June 30, 1994.
Similarly, the amounts set forth in this report representing total liabilities,
total assets, and total net worth for all SROs include financial information
based on CSE's balance sheets as of June 30, 1995 and 1994.
176

•

The CBOE reported a $9.7 million increase (10%) to $107.3
million.

•

The Pacific Stock Exchange (PSE) reported a $9.9 million increase,
(21 %) to $56.7 million.

•

The Philadelphia Stock Exchange (PHLX) reported a $2.2 million
increase (5%) to $42.8 million.

•

The CHX2 reported a $351,000 increase (1 %) to $30 million.

The CSE reported total revenues of $7.9 million for the year ended June
30, 1995, as compared to its reported revenues of $3.6 million for the six
months ended June 30, 1994.
Of the SROs reporting financial information for a 12-month period in
both 1994 and 1995, the CSE experienced the largest percentage increase in
total revenues, 120%, while the NASD reported the largest dollar volume
increase in total revenues, $4.3 million (11%).
The total expenses of all marketplace SROs were $1.2 billion in 1995, an
increase of $141 million, or 13%, over 1994. The NASD incurred the
largest dollar volume increase in expenses, $69.6 million (20%). Seven
SROs incurred the following increases in expenses:
•

The AMEX incurred a $14.8 million increase (12%).

•

The BSE incurred a $775,000 increase (6%).

•

The NYSE incurred $31.7 million increase (9 %).

•

The PHLX incurred a $2.2 million increase (5%).

2The CHX adopted its current name in 1993. Previously, it was know as
the Midwest Stock Exchange.
177

•


The PSE incurred a $4.7 million increase (11)%.

•


The CBOE incurred a $9.5 million increase (12%).

•


The CHX incurred a $5.2 million increase (17) %.

The CSE reported expenses of $4.2 million for the fiscal year ended June
30, 1995, as compared to its reported expenses of $2.0 million for the six
months ended June 30, 1994.
Aggregate pre-tax income of the marketplace SROs rose to $163.4
million, an increase of $10.5 million (7%), from the $152.9 million reported
in 1994. The NYSE experienced the largest dollar volume increase in pretax income, $16.9 million (21 %). The PSE showed the largest percentage
increase in pre-tax income, 108% ($5.2 million). The remaining SROs
reported pre-tax income in 1995 with the exception of the PHLX and CHX
which reported pre-tax losses of $1 million and $5.5 million respectively.
The CSE reported pre-tax income of $3.9 million for the fiscal year ended
June 30, 1995, as compared to its reported pre-tax income of $1.4 million
for the six months ended June 30, 1994.
The total assets of all marketplace SROs amounted to approximately $1.8
billion in 1995, an increase of $140 million (9%) over 1994. The NYSE
showed the largest dollar volume increase in total assets, $54.9 million
(7 % ), while the PSE reported the largest percentage increase in total assets,
44 %, ($15.9 million). The BSE also reported a substantial percentage
increase in total assets, 44% ($7.1 million). The NASD, AMEX, CBOE,
and PHLX also reported increases in total assets, equalling $35.8 million
(9%), $11.8 million (9%), $14.1 million (15%), and $845,000 (l %)
respectively. The CHX reported a decrease of $3.1 million (8%). The CSE
reported total assets of $8.4 million as of June 30, 1995, as compared to its
reported total assets of $5.2 million as of June 30, 1994.
In 1995, the total liabilities of marketplace SROs increased $43.1 million
(6 %) over 1994 levels. The NASD showed the greatest dollar volume
increase in liabilities, $18.7 million (14 %), while the PSE reported the

178

greatest percentage increase, 82 % ($10 million). Increases in liabilities were
also reported by the CHX ($763,000 or 5%), the PHLX ($127,000 or
0.3%), the AMEX ($16.7 million or 17%), the BSE ($6.3 million or 63%),
and the CBOE ($486,000 or 2%). Only the NYSE reported a dollar volume
decline in liabilities, $1.8 million or 0.4%. The CSE reported liabilities of
$2.2 million as of June 30, 1995, as compared to its reported liabilities of
$1.3 million as of June 30, 1994.
The aggregate net worth of the marketplace SROs rose $98.3 million in
1995 to $1.02 billion, an increase of 11% over 1994. The PSE incurred the
largest percentage increase in net worth, 24% ($5.9 million), while the
largest dollar volume increase in net worth was reported by the NYSE,
$56.7 million (15%). The CBOE also reported a substantial increase in net
worth of $13.6 million or 19%. Other marketplace SROs also experienced
positive growth in net worth with the AMEX reporting an increase of $5.0
million or 5 %; the NASD reporting an increase of $17.1 million or 6 %; the
BSE reporting an increase of $823,000 or 13%; and the PHLX reporting an
increase of $718,000 million or 3%. The CHX reported a decrease in net
worth of $3.9 million or 17%. The CSE reported a total net worth of $6.2
million as of June 30, 1995, as compared to its reported net worth of $3.9
million as of June 30, 1994.
Clearing agency results have been presented in two tables by their
respective types: clearing corporations and depositories. In calendar year
1995, aggregate revenues from clearing agency services increased $54
million, or 11%, to $530 million from $476 million in 1994. Interest
income increased $49 million, or 50 %, to $146 million in 1995. All
clearing agencies adjust their fee structures and refunds of fees to provide
participants with attractively priced services, to meet expenses, and to
provide the amount of earnings which they desire to retain.
Service revenues at the depositories totalled $353 million, up $61 million,
or 23 %, from 1994. In part, this reflected the termination of Midwest
Securities Trust Company (MSTC) at the end of calendar year 1994 and the
redistribution of portions of its business. MSTC had $31 million in service
revenues during 1994 and $500 million in pre-tax earnings. In 1995,
Depository Trust Company (DTC) increased its service revenues by 2 % or

179

$5 million and increased its pre-tax earnings five-fold from $4 million to $21
million. The Philadelphia Depository Trust Company's 1995 service
revenues decreased by 3 % or $305,000, and its pre-tax earnings decreased
51 % from $544,000 in 1994 to $265,000 in 1995.
The depositories continued to expand their base for service revenues by
increasing both the number of equity shares and principal amount of debt
securities on deposit. This gain occurred, among other reasons, because of
the further expansion of depository-eligible issues and the participants'
increased use of depository services, e.g., in 1995, 99.96% of new issue
CUSIPs requested by underwriters were made depository eligible. At year
end 1995, DTC alone had more than 1.2 million depository-eligible issues
and a total value of securities in its depository system of $10 trillion.
Service revenues of clearing corporations for 1995 decreased 2.3 % to
$206 million from $210 million for 1994, and earnings for clearing
corporations decreased to $16 million in 1995 from $23 million in 1994, a
decrease of 31 %. The Midwest Clearing Corporation (MCC), with $9
million in 1994 revenues and $227,000 in 1994 earnings, was closed down
at the end of calendar year 1994, and portions of its business were
redistributed.
Regarding pre-tax earnings among individual clearing corporations, the
trend was mixed. National Securities Clearing Corporation reported
earnings of $3.7 million for 1995 compared with $2.6 million for 1994, a
gain of 37 %. Government Securities Clearing Corporation reported earnings
of $5,486 for 1995, against $3,561 for 1994, a gain of 54%. The Options
Clearing Corporation reported earnings of $3.2 million for 1995, down from
$5.2 million in 1994, a decline of 38 %. The Stock Clearing Corporation of
Philadelphia reported a 1995 loss of $717 million compared with a loss of
$173 million in 1994.
The aggregate shareholders' equity of all clearing corporations and
depositories rose from $116 million to $120 million. Aggregate participant
clearing funds, which protect clearing agencies in the event of a participant

180

default, increased by $883 million, or 32%, to $3.6 billion. If a participant
defaults and its losses exceed its deposit at a clearing agency, the entire
participants' fund of the clearing agency may be assessed on a pro rata basis.

181

r-- .,....co to
r--N.,.....,....

~


L,(')

to

(j)

u")NC"JN

~

_M'"

<0

COVOC'J
.-

...

<0
<0

MOO 0>

C-

r--u:i..-U")
r--..-..-~

....

.... on

<o~on
on cc

c>

C'JO)VtO

<0

<0

'"
-e-

M
N

O~

-

on

~

N

cc

~ on

'"

NtOVN
...-IONCTl
ONMU"':l

r--:NtOU")

...
-e-

...
on

o
o
o

1"--...-000
~'"
tO~tO~

<0

0'"

'"

....'"

M

~

....'"

....
on

"'.

"'-

»r

~N
~N

N

N

...

MO
MM
MN

<0

MVtOM
IOIOVIO
COtOVO)

........-

...
on

183

Table 9
SELF-REGULATORY ORGANIZATIONS-DEPOSITORIES
1995 REVENUES and EXPENSES 1/
($ in Thousands)

Depository
Trust
Company
12/31/95

Participants
Trust
Company
12/31/95

Philadelphia
Depository
Trust
Company
12/31/95

$312,154

$30,399

$10,308

115,519

12.243

1,390

129,152

(115,164)

(13,511)

713

(127,962)

312,509

29,131

12,411

354,051

$179,952

11,190

7,189

198,331

23,142

3,833

599

27,574

Total

Revenues
Depository Services
Interest
Other
Total Revenues

21

$352,861

Expenses
Employee Costs
Data Processing and
Conmunrcanons Costs
Occupancy Costs

43,838

5,295

509

49,642

All Other Expenses

65,556

7,853

3,849

77,258

$312,488

28,171

12,146

352,805

Over Expenses 'JJ

$21

$960

$265

$1,246

Shareholders' EqUity

$19,406

$19,573

$3,822

$42,801

$692,198

$264,385

$792

$957,375

Total Expenses
Excess of Revenues

Participant's Fund

1/ Although efforts have been made to make the presentations comparable, any Single revenue or expense
category may not be completely comparable between any two cleanng agencies because of (I) the varying
classmcanon methods employed by the cleanng agencies in reportmg operating results and (II) the
grouping methods employed by the Commission staff due to these varymg classmcanon methods
IndiVidual amounts are shown to the nearest thousand Totals are the rounded result of the underlYing
amounts and may not be the aruhrnenc sums of the parts
21 Revenues are net of refunds which have the effect of redUCing a c1eanng agency's base fee rates
'JJ Thrs ISthe result of operanons and before the effect of Income taxes, which may slgnrflcantly Impact a cleanng
agency's net Income

184

Certificate Immobilization

Book-entry deliveries continued to outdistance physical deliveries
in the settlement of securities transactions among depository
participants of the Depository Trust Company (DTC). This tendency
is illustrated in Table 10, CERTIFICATE IMMOBILIZATION TRENDS.
The table captures the relative significance of the mediums employed,
in a ratio of book-entry deliveries to certificates withdrawn from
DTC. The figure include Direct Mail by Agents and municipal bearer
bonds. In 1995, the total certificates withdrawn decreased by 19%
from 1994, while the number of book-entry deliveries increased by
34%. In 1995, the ration was almost 3 times the 1991 ratio of 11.6
book-entry deliveries rendered for every certificate withdrawn.

Table 10
CERTIFICATE IMMOBILIZATION TRENDS
Depository Trust Company
(Including Bearer Certificates)

1995

1994

1993

1992

1991

119,000

105,500

98,300

83,300

73,200

3,270

3,899

4,140

6,467

6,314

364

271

237

129

116

Book-entryDelivenes
at DTC (10 thousands)

Total of All Certificates
Withdrawn (10 thousands)

Book-entry Deliveries per
Certificates Withdrawn

185

Investment Companies and Investment Advisers
The tables below show the number of registered investment companies
and investment advisers and the amount of assets under management. All
figures are reported for fiscal year-end.

Number of Active Registrants

1992

1993

1994

1995

1996

% Change
1992-1996

Investment
Companies

3,850

4,300

4,530

4,900

5,285

37.2%

Investment
Company
Portfolios

18,700 21,200

22,486

23,139

24,265

29.8%

Investment
Advisers

18,000 20,000

21,600

22,000

22,400

24.8%

Assets Under Management
($ billions)

% Change
1992-1996
Investment
Companies

$1,800 $2,400

$2,500

$ 3,062 $ 3,794

110.8%

Investment
Advisers

$8,100 $9,600

$9,600

$10,600 $10,700

32.1 %

The number of registered investment companies increased by almost 8
percent during 1996. Many investment companies combine several separate
portfolios or investment series in one investment company registration
statement. The number of portfolios generally ranges from three to ten.
186

However, some unit investment trusts group as many as 1,256 separate
portfolios under one Investment Company Act registration. The number of
portfolios increased by almost 4.9% percent during fiscal year 1996. In
addition, the Commission was responsible for regulating 22,400 investment
advisers at the end of 1996, a 24.4 percent increase since 1992.

Section 13(f)(I) Reports
Section 13(t)(1) of the Exchange Act and Rule 13f-1 thereunder require
"institutional investment managers" exercising investment discretion over
accounts holding equity securities with a fair market value of at least $100
million to file quarterly reports on Form 13F. The Division of Investment
Management reviews approximately 50 requests each quarter from managers
seeking to keep some or all of the information required to be filed on Form
13F from being disclosed to the public.

187

Exemptions

Section 12(h) Exemptions
Section 12(h) of the Exchange Act authorizes the Commission to grant a
complete or partial exemption from the registration provisions of Section
12(g) or from the disclosure or insider reporting/trading provisions of the
Exchange Act where such exemption is consistent with the public interest
and the protection of investors. Four applications were pending at the
beginning of 1996 and no applications were filed during the year. Requested
relief was granted to one applicant.

Exemptions for Foreign Private Issuers
Rule 12g3-2 provides various exemptions from the registration provisions
of Section 12(g) of the Exchange Act for the securities of foreign private
issuers. Perhaps the most important of these is that contained in
subparagraph (b), which provides an exemption for certain foreign issuers
that furnish to the Commission on a current basis the material specified in
the rule. Such material includes that information about which investors
ought to be reasonably informed and which the issuer has:
•

made or is required to make public under the law of the country in
which it is incorporated or organized;

•

filed or is required to file with a stock exchange on which its
securities are traded and which was made public by such exchange;
or

•

distributed or is required to distribute to its securityholders.

Periodically, the SEC publishes a list of those foreign issuers that appear
to be current under the exemptive provision. The most current list contains
1,221 foreign issuers.

188

Table 11 (continued)
REORGANIZATION PROCEEDINGS UNDER CHAPTER
OF THE BANKRUPTCY CODE IN WHICH
THE SEC ENTERED APPEARANCE

11

F.Y.
Opened

F.Y.
Close

1996

WY

1991
1991
1989
1986

S.D.
N.D.
S.D.
S.D.

TX
CA
OR
NY

1991
1989
1991
1989

Edison Brothers Stores, Inc.
Enterprise Technologies, Inc.j/
Enviropact, Inc.2/
First City Bancorporation of Texas

D.
S.D.
S.D.
N.D.

DE
TX
FL
TX

1996
1984
1994
1994

First Republicbank Corp.
Future Communications, Inc.
F & M Distributor Inc.I/
Gander Mountain, Inc.

N.D.
W.D.
E.D.
E.D.

TX
OH
MI
WI

1989
1994
1995
1996

Gerant Industries, Inc.j/
Great American Recreation, Inc.
Gulf USA Corporation.j/
Hamburger Hamlet
Restaurants, Inc.

C.D.
D.
D.

CA
NJ
ID

1996
1996
1994

C.D.

CA

1996

M.D.
C.D.

LA
CA

1993
1986

C.D.
C.D.

CA
CA

1996
1995

Debtor

District

Columbia Gas System, Inc.j/
CPT Corp.
Crazy Eddie, Inc., et al.
Dakota Minerals, Inc.

D.
D.
S.D.
D.

DE
MN
NY

Damson Oil Co.
Dest Corp.
Eagle-Pitcher Industries, Inc.j/
Eastern Air Lines, Inc., et al.

1996
1996

1996

1996
1996

Hannover Corporation of

Americaj/
Helionetics, Inc.I/
Home Theater Products
International, Inc.
House of Fabrics Inc.

190

1996
1996

Table 11 (continued) 

REORGANIZATION PROCEEDINGS UNDER CHAPTER 11 

OF THE BANKRUPTCY CODE IN WHICH 

THE SEC ENTERED APPEARANCE 

F.Y.
F.Y.
Opened Closed

Debtor

District

I C H Corporation
Integra-A Hotel and
Restaurant Co.
International Tourist
Entertainment Corporation
International Trading, Inc.11

N.D.

TX

1996

D.

CO

1993

W.D. MI
N.D. GA

1996
1994

JWP, Inc.11
Kaiser Steel Corp.l/
King of Video, Inc.
Leslie Fay Companies, Inc.

S.D.
D.
D.
S.D.

1994
1987
1989
1993

NY
CO

NV
NY

1996
1996
1996

::,

,,

,, # ,

,, '

'#, ,

8 ,

,I

,

,

8,

Library Bureau Inc.
LifeCo Investment Group, Inc.
Lomas Financial Corp.11
Marathon Office Supply, Inc.21

N.D.
D.
S.D.
C.D.

NY
GA
NY
CA

1993
1995
1990
1988

.,

#I'
I

I!
,I!

1996
1996

I
!!I

:

1 ,;('
,!i;

'18iI

Maxicare Health Plus Inc.11
MCorp (MCorp Financial, Inc.
& MCorp Management)
Media Vision Technology, Inc.
Megafoods Stores, Inc.

C.D.

CA

1989

S.D.
N.D.
D.

TX
CA
AZ

1989
1994
1995

1996

, !I:, 1,

I1,

;:)!'
(I
, ,

(,'(I
'i ,: 1 I1

;!I:,!
::,I

ill

ri

Meridian Reserve, Inc.11
Merry-Go-Round
Enterprises, Inc.21
Micro Security System, Inc.21
Midwest Communications Cotp.

W.D. OK

1989

1996

MD
UT
KY

1994
1996
1991

1996
1996

',I,,
D.
D.
E.D.

1;

j

I

Table 11 (continued)
REORGANIZATION PROCEEDINGS UNDER CHAPTER
OF THE BANKRUPTCY CODE IN WHICH
THE SEC ENTERED APPEARANCE

11

F.Y.
Opened

F.Y.
Closed

GA
MA
DE
TX

1994
1991
1996
1991

1996

S.D.
D.

NY
DE

1994
1994

1996

D.

NJ

1995

1996

C.D.

CA

1989

1996

Debtor

District

Mitchell Communicationsgq/
Monarch Capitol Corp.
Morrison-Knudsen Corp.j/
National Gypsum Company

N.D.
D.
D.
N.D.

New Valley Corp.j/
NVF Company
O'Brien Environmental
Energy, Inc.11
Occidental Development
Fund IIIJI

1996

Occidental Development
Fund IVJI
Occidental Development
Fund VJI
OLR Development Fund LP
OLR Development Fund II LP

C.D.

CA

1989

1996

C.D.
C.D.
C.D.

CA
CA
CA

1989
1989
1989

1996
1996
1996

Orbitron Capitol Corp.~1
PanAm Corporation
Penn Pacific
Phar-Mor, Inc.

W.T.
S.D.
E.D.
N.D.

TX
NY
OK
OH

1995
1991
1994
1994

1996

Premier Benefit Capitol Trust
Premium Sales Corporation
Public Service Co. of New
Hampshire
QT&T, Inc.11

M.D.
M.D.

FL
FL

1993
1993

1996
1996

D.
E.D.

NH
NY

1988
1987

1996

192

Table 11 (continued) 

REORGANIZATION PROCEEDINGS UNDER CHAPTER 11 

OF THE BANKRUPTCY CODE IN WHICH 

THE SEC ENTERED APPEARANCE 

F.Y.
F.Y.
Opened Closed

Debtor

District

Ramtek Corporationll
Residential Resources Mortgage
Investment Corporation
Rymer Foods, Inc.
Seatrain Lines, Inc.11

N.D.

CA

1989

1996

D.
N.D.
S.D.

AZ
IL
NY

1989
1993
1981

1996

SIS Corporationl/
Sizzler International, Inc.
Southland Corporation
Spectrum Information
Technologies, Inc.l/

N.D.
C.D.
N.D.

OH

1989
1996
1991

1996

CA
TX

E.D.

NY

1995

1996

Spencer Cos., Inc.
SportsTown, Inc.11
Standard Oil and Exploration of
Delaware, Inc.
Sterling Optical Corp.

D.
N.D.

MA
GA

1987
1995

1996

W.D. MI
S.D. NY

1991
1992

Swanton Corp.l/
Telstar Satellite Corp. of
America31
The Centennial Group, Inc.11
The Circle K Corporationll

S.D.

NY

1985

1996

C.D.
C.D.
D.

CA
CA
AZ

1989
1992
1990

1996
1996

The Clothestime, Inc.

C.D.

CA

1996

The First Connecticut Small
Business Investments Company
The Group, Inc.
The Lionel Corp.11

D.
D.
S.D.

CT
NV
NY

1991
1990
1991

1996

1996

Table 11 (continued)
REORGANIZATION PROCEEDINGS UNDER CHAPTER 11
OF THE BANKRUPTCY CODE IN WHICH
THE SEC ENTERED APPEARANCE
F.Y.
F.Y.
Opened Closed

Debtor

District

Tidwell Industries, Inc.2/
Traweek Investment Fund
No. 22, Ltd.J/
Traweek Investment Fund
No. 21, Ltd.
TSL Holdings, Inc.

N.D.

AL

1986

1996

C.D.

CA

1988

1996

C.D.
S.D.

CA
CA

1988
1993

1996

D.
S.D.
E.D.
D.

DE
NY
WI
MA

1995
1994
1994
1991

1996

C.D.
W.D.

CA
LA

1987
1996

1996

UDC Homes, Inc.!/
USA Classic, Inc.
Value Merchants, Inc.
Wedgestone Financial
Westworld Community
Healthcare, Inc.!/
WRT Energy Corp.
Total Cases Opened (FY 1996) 41
Total Cases Closed (FY 1996)~/

16
46

II Plan of reorganization confirmed.
Z,I Debtor liquidated under Chapter 7.

'11 Debtor's securities not registered under Section 12(g) of the Securities Exchange
Act of 1934.

1/ The number of cases reported in this table as opened and closed in 1996 differ from those
reported in the Fiscal 1998 Budget Estimate. The numbers provided in this table are
accurate and supercede those provided in the Budget.

194

The Securities Industry
Revenues, Expenses, and Selected Balance Sheet Items
Broker-dealers that are registered with the Securities and Exchange
Commission earned a pre-tax profit of $11.3 billion in calendar year 1995,
$7.8 billion more than that earned the previous year. The pre-tax return on
equity capital of 20.1 % was about average when compared to the results of
the previous two decades.
Declining interest rates were the most significant factor behind the
increased profitability of securities firms in 1995. As interest rates fell
during the first half of 1995, the value of the bonds held in inventory by
broker-dealers increased, contributing to proprietary trading gains.
Securities firms earned $29 billion in their trading and investment accounts
in 1995, an increase of over $8.7 billion from last year.
Lower interest rates and higher price-earnings ratios also encouraged
debt and equity offerings. The value of new offerings of investment-grade
debt rose 24 % in 1995, while that for common stock increased 46 % . The
result was an increase in underwriting revenues of $2 billion to $8.9 billion
in 1995.
The agency business also was very profitable in 1995. Exchange
volume set a new record, and securities commissions of $23.2 billion in
1995 were $3.4 billion higher than 1994's near-record level. The volume of
margin debt outstanding increased in 1995 and, combined with a higher
average level of interest rates than that prevailing the previous year, resulted
in a $1.8 billion increase in margin interest to $6.5 billion. Investors
continued to invest heavily in mutual funds, particularly stock funds, which
typically generate higher sales fees for firms. As a result, revenues from
retailing mutual funds increased $.5 billion to $7.4 billion.
"All other revenues" are comprised primarily of interest income from
securities purchased under agreements to resell and fees from handling
private placements, mergers, and acquisitions. These revenues grew $14.2
billion in 1995 to $68.5 billion. Merger and acquisition activity was
exceptional in 1995, with the volume of announced deals setting a new
annual record. The average value of reverse repurchase agreements on the
balance sheets of broker-dealers also increased in 1995 contributing to higher
revenues.

195

Expenses rose 21 % to $132.1 billion in 1995, primarily due to higher
interest expenses. Interest expenses, the largest expense item in 1995,
increased $16.6 billion (41%). Employee compensation rose 10.5% to
$41.5 billion. Total assets rose $241 billion to $1,493 billion. Equity
capital rose $4.9 billion to $58.7 billion.

196

I able

UNCONSOLIDATED

12

FINANCIAL INFORMATION

FOR BROKER-DEALERS

1991 -19951/
($ in Millions)

1992

1991
Revenues
Securities Commissions
Gains (Losses) In Trading and
Investment Accounts
Profits (Losses) from Underwriting
and Seiling Groups
Margin Interest
Revenues from Sale of Investment
Company Shares
All Other Revenues
Total Revenues
Expenses
Registered Representatives'
Compensation (Part II Only) 2J
Other Employee Compensanon
and Benefits
Compensation to Partners and
Voting Stockholder Officers
Commrssrons and Clearance Paid
to Other Brokers
Interest Expenses
Regulatory Fees and Expenses
All Other Expenses 2J
Total Expenses
Income
Pre-tax
Pre-tax
Pre-tax

and Profitability
Income
Profit Margin
Return on EqUity

Assets liabilities and Capital
Total Assets
Liabilities
(a) Unsubordinated Liabilities
(b) Subordinated Liabilities
(c) Total Liabilities
Ownership EqUity
Number of Firms

1993

19,9048

19,8467

$ 16,2489

22.641.3

21,8383

25,4272

20.2186

28.9567

6,5926
2,7711

8,2997
2.6896

11,2487
3,2352

6.8438
4.6684

8.8652
6,4702

4,1763
34,4985
$ 84,8895

5,950.1
35,5574
$ 90.5840

8.1153
40,9126
$ 108,8437

$

6,8872
54,2934
112,7581

7,4335
68,4779
$ 143,4194

$ 9.9117

$ 12,1111

$

$

13,7110

14,444.1

17.0669

20,931 3

20.5522

22,2922

2.560.5

2,8929

3,4980

3.3324

3,7293

3,2005
27.5118
5771
18,0279
$ 76,2336

3,7221
24.5763
6392
20,4590
$ 81.4674

$

5.3378
26.6156
6297
24,0967
95.8051

5.3603
40,2504
6278
25.431 8
109.2659

$ 8.655.9
102
236

$

$

$787,7163

$ 978.635 0

732.2902
16.3471
748,6373

916,5453
18,1558
934,7011

$ 39.0791

$ 43,9339

7,763

7,793

14,6960

13.0386
120
267

$

1995'

$ 14,2097

9,1166
101
220

$

1994'

$
$

3,4922
31
65

$

$

23.2159

15.5265

5.6992
56.8838
6736
27,2991
$ 132.1036

$

11,3158
79
201

$ 1,240.1598

$ 1.251,7410

$ 1.493.021 6

1,160.4560
25,7876
1.186.2436

1,169.1366
28,8097
1,197.9463

1 403,081 0
31.2775
$1,434,3585

$

53.9162
7.674

$

53,7947
7,632

$

58,6631
7,670

Figures may not add due to rounding
r =
 reused
p =
 preliminary
jj Calendar. rather than fiscal, year data IS reported In trus table
2J Registered representatives' compensation for firms that neither carry nor clear IS Included In "other expenses"
as thiS expense Item IS not reported separately on Part IIA of the FOCUS Report
Source

FOCUS Report

197

UNCONSOLIDATED

Table 13
ANNUAL REVENUES AND EXPENSES FOR BROKER-DEALERS
DOING A PUBLIC BUSINESS
1991 - 19951/
($ in Millions)

Revenues
Securrtres Commissions
Gains (Losses) In Trading and
Investment Accounts
Profits (Losses) from llnderwntmq
and Seiling Groups
Margin Interest
Revenues from Sale of Investment
Company Shares
All Other Revenues
Total Revenues

.,
<-

Expenses
Registered Representalives'
Cnrnpsnsatron (Part II only) {j
Other Employee Cornpensauon
and Benefits
Cornpensanon to Partners and
Voting Stockholder Officers
Commissions and Clearance Paid
to Other Brokers
Interest Expenses
RegUlatory Fees and Expenses
Ali Other Expenses {j
Total Expenses
Income
Pre-tax
Pre-tax
Pre-tax

and Profitability
Income
Profit Margin
Return on Equrty

Number of Firms

1991

1992

1993

1994'

1995P

$13,7108

$15,4997

$ 19,3411

$ 19,2466

$ 22,405.1

20,7907

24,0425

18,9183

27,0896

8,2028
2,651 7

11,2486
3,2291

6,8405
4,6511

8,8822
5,9982

4,1762
33,7468
$82,3293

5,851 9
34,7455
$87,7422

8,1153
40,0863
$106,0629

6,8764
53,1214
$109,6543

7,3982
66,2189
$137,992 1

$ 9,9006

$11,7911

$ 14,671 9

$ 13,689.0

$ 15,506.2

21,371 7
6,591 4
2,7324

14,0665

16,601 4

20,514.9

20,0708

21,750.0

2,3764

2,6955

3,2934

3,096.1

3,512.0

3,0032
27,088 1
511.2
17,457.5
$74,403 4

3,5000
24,2358
580.0
19,777 9
$79,181.7

5,0833
26,222.9
5733
23,548.2
$ 93,908.0

5,088.4
39,582.1
534.6
24,832.5
$106,893.5

5,3566
54,564.8
6145
26,497.1
$127,801.2

$ 7,9259
96
233

$ 8,5605
98
222

$12,1549
11 5
265

$

2,7608
2.5
54

$10,1909
7.4
19.2

5,115

5,091

5,139

Figures may not add due to rounding.
r = revised
p = preliminary
1J Calendar, rather than nscal, year data IS reported In this table.
{j Registered representatives' compensanon for firms that neither carry nor clear IS Included
as this expense Item IS not reported separately on Part IIA of the FOCUS Report.
Source

198

FOCUS Report

5,139

In

"other expenses"

5,308

Table 14
UNCONSOLIDATED BALANCE SHEET FOR BROKER-DEALERS
DOING A PUBLIC BUSINESS
YEAR-END, 1991 -19951/
($ in Millions)
1991
Assets
Cash
Receivables from Other
Broker-dealers
Receivables from Customers
Receivables from Non-customers
Long Positions 10 Seeunnes
and Commodities
Securities and Investments
not Readily Marketable
Securities Purchased Under Agreements
to Resell (Part II only) Y
Exchange Membership
Other Assets Y
Total Assets
Liabilities and Equity Capital
Bank Loans Payable
Payables to Other Broker-dealers
Payables to Non-customers
Payables to Customers
Short POSitions in Securities
and Commodities
Securities Sold Under Repurchase
Agreements (Part II only) 21
Other Non-subordinated Liabilities
Subordinated liabilities
Total Liabilities
EqUity Capital
Number of firms

s 10,351 2

$

11,0244

1993
$

13,128.1

1995P

1994'
$

13.5004

s

14,5490

161,4844
50,861.1
2,1261

216,7937
49,3335
4,3267

289,1680
68,5261
6,4125

342,0001
66,911.6
7.2581

339,8241
66,2009
5.8505

245,1645

294,294.5

363,8643

317,6257

422,8667

1,863.9

2,3760

4,1244

4,4811

5,3594

272,2261
313.4
23,521 2
$767,9118

350,4878
439,431 4
437,8056
543,6251
3153
323.1
3537
4209
26,502.9
30,6158
33,8188
34,015.0
$955,454.8 $1,215,5938 $1,233,755.0 $1,432,711 6

$ 24,9056
63,291.9
13,730.6
71,977 5

$

113,000.9

21

1992

33,908.8 $ 41,9919 $ 34,471.4
68,569.0
105,115.2
130,7364
10,836.0
11,9215
6.607.7
70,089.7
90,942.9
98,5344
157,295.6

199,5095

$

196,8075

41,903.8
150,726.8
9,9772
96,671 0
195,149.3

385,655.1
43,738.8
15.464.1
$731,764.6

500,714.1
607,827.1
767,670.9
591.4231
59,534.8
83,1244
80,846.3
84,921.6
17,7265
25,3706
28,493.5
30,331.3
$914,446.1 $1,164,7176 $1,173,234.6 $1,377,3520

$ 36,147.3

s 41,008.7 s

5,115

5,091

50,876.2 $
5,139

50,520.4

s

5,237

55,3595
5,308

Figures may not add due to roundlOg
r =
 revised
p =
 preliminary
jJ Calendar, rather than fiscal, year data IS reported 10 thiS table.
Y Resale agreements and repurchase agreements for firms that neither carry nor clear are mcluded 10 "other
assets" and "other non-subordmated liabilities," respectively, as these Items are not reported separately on
Part IIA of the FOCUS Report
Source.

FOCUS Report

199

Carrying and Clearing Firms
Data for carrying and clearing firms that do a public business is
presented in more detail. Reporting requirements for firms that neither
carry nor clear are less detailed. Carrying and clearing firms clear securities
transactions or maintain possession or control of customers' cash or
securities. These firms produced 82 % of the securities industry's total
revenues in calendar year 1995.
Brokerage activity accounted for about 23 cents of each revenue dollar
in 1995, about one cent lower than the level in 1994. Securities
commissions remained the most important component, producing 14 cents of
each dollar of revenue. Margin interest generated about five cents of each
dollar of revenue, while revenues from mutual fund sales accounted for
about four cents.
The dealer side produced 68 cents of each dollar of revenue in 1995, up
from 61 cents in 1994. Twenty cents came from trading and investments, an
increase from 18 cents in 1994. Seven cents came from underwriting,
almost identical to that in 1994. Forty-one cents came from other securitiesrelated revenues, an increase from thirty-six cents in 1994. This revenue is
comprised primarily of interest income from securities purchased under
agreements to resell and fees from handling private placements, mergers,
and acquisitions.
Expenses accounted for 94 cents of each revenue dollar in 1995,
resulting in a pre-tax profit margin of six cents per revenue dollar, about
four cents higher than in 1994. Interest expense was the largest expense
item, accounting for 46 cents of each revenue dollar in 1995 compared to 42
cents in 1994. Employee-related expenses--compensation received by
registered representatives, partners, and other employees--consumed 29 cents
of each revenue dollar in 1995, compared to 33 cents in 1994.
Total assets of broker-dealers carrying and clearing customer accounts
were $1,394 billion at year-end 1995, a 17% increase from 1994. Relative
to other assets, the value of inventory on the books of broker-dealers
increased during 1995, reflecting at least in part the increase in bond prices
that took place over the course of the year. The relative value of reverse
repurchase agreements also increased.
Total liabilities also increased approximately 17 % to $1,349 billion in
1995. Owners' equity rose eight percent to $45.1 billion.

200

(/)

Q)

LO

(/)

c:

0)
0)

Q)

0-

,....

X

W

C en
.E
10-

m .u..
lo-

0
LO
~
Q)

..a
~

0

0)

c

.;::

co
(1)

~

0

+- ........

en

::s 0)
c
-C .C'
C

l0-

co

en o

a> 0
.+- u..
.C
l0-

Q)

:J

c:
Q)

>
Q)

::J

a:

a>

'5

o

(j)

(/)
Q)

~

•

:J

o

.!!

i

(J)

'"

-c.

"
!

U

ii
>>-

-.
e e

-I>.

°e

-!s
III

201

Table 16
UNCONSOLIDATED
REVENUES AND EXPENSES
CARRYING/CLEARING BROKER-DEALERS 11
($ in Millions)

1994'
Dollars
Revenues
Securities Commissions
Gains (Losses) In Trading and
Investment Accounts
Prollts (Losses) from UnderWriting and Selling Groups
Margin Interest
Revenues from Sale of Investment Company Shares
Miscellaneous Fees
Revenues from Research
Other Securities Related Revenues
Commodities Revenues
All other Revenues
Total Revenues
Expenses
Registered Representatives'
Compensallon (Part II Only)y
Other Employee Compensaton
and Benefits
Compensauon to Partnersand
Voting Stockholder Officers
Comrrussons and Clearance Paid
to Other Brokers
ccmmunlcaucns
Occupancy and Eqtnpment Costs
Oata Processing Costs
Interest Expenses
RegUlatory Fees and Expenses
Losses In Error Accounts and
Bad Debts
All Other Expenses
Total Expenses
Income and Profitability
Pre-tax Income
Pre-tax Profit Margin
Pre-tax Return on EqUity
Narnber otfnrns

$ 13,9920

FOR

1995P

Percent
of Total
Revenues

151%

Dollars

$ 16,2107

Percent
oITotal
Revenues

Percent
Change

1994-1995

138%

159%

16,8102

18.1

23,2375

19.8

382

6,2546
4,6511

67
50

8,2117
5,9982

70
51

313
290

4,086.9
4,795.4
325
33,7868
2,0300
6,224.8
$92,6643

4.4
52
00
365
22
67
1000%

4,3911
5,1769
31.3
48,1074
(981)
6,0245
$117,291.2

37
4.4
0.0
41.0
-0.1
5.1
1000%

74
80
-37
42.4
-104.8
-3.2
266%

$ 13,6890

148%

$ 15,506.2

13.2%

13.3%

15,169.7

164

16,189.9

13.8

6.7

1,911.0

2.1

2,1178

1.8

10.8

3,1790
3,007.1
3,524.1
1,342.9
38,894.7
416.2

3.4
3.2
38
14
42.0
0.4

3,261.3
3,129.2
3,799.2
1,415.7
53,499.0
4795

28
27
3.2
1.2
45.6
0.4

2.6
4.1
7.8
5.4
37.5
15.2

3,9999
9,433.8
$90,9674

4.3
10.2
982%

308.5
9,966.9
$109,6731

03
85
93.5%

-923
57
206%

$ 1,6970
18
40

18%

$ 7,618.1
65
175

65%

348.9%

785

786

Figures may not add due to rounding
r = revised
p = preliminary
11 Calendar, rather than nsca; year data IS reported In thiS table.
Note Includes information for firms dOing a public business that carry customer accounts or clear securities transactions
Source
FOCUS Report

202

UNGON:::iuLluA

II::U

t:iALANC~SHI::~T FOR CARRYING/CLEARING
BROKER-DEALERS 11
($ in Millions)
Year -end 1995P
Percent
ofTotal
Dollars
Assets

Year-end 1994'
Percent
ofTotal
Dollars
Assets
Assets
Cash
Receivables from Other Broker -dealers
(a) Secunnesfaledto Deliver
(b) Securities Borrowed
(c) Other
Receivables from Customers
Receivables from Non-customers
Long Posmons In Securities and Commodilles
(a) Bankers Acceptances, Certificates
of Depositand Commercial Paper
(b) U S and Canadian GovernmentObhgatlons
(c) State and MUnicipal GovernmentObllgatlOns
(d) Corporate Obligations
(e) Stocks and Warrants
(Q Options
(g) Arbitrage
(h) Other Securibes
(I) Spot Commodities
secunnes and Investments Not Readily Marketable
Securities Purc~ased Under Agreements
to Resell (Part II Only)
Exchange Membership
Other Assets
Total Assets
liabilities and EqUity Capital
Bank Loans Payable
Payables to Other Broker-dealers
(a) Securities Failed to Receive
(b) secunnes Loaned
(c) Other
Payables to Non-customers
Payables to Customers
Short Positions In Securities
and Commodities
Securities Sold Under Repurchase
Agreements (Part II Only)
Other Non-subordinated
Llabllilles
Subordinated Llabllilles
Total uaonues
EqUity Capital
Number of Firms

$

12.3907
334.6079
21.9760
295,3913
17,2406
66,9116
6,7697
300,7849

10%
281
18
24.8
14
56
06
252

9,5083
189,091.2
15,460.2
58,530.8
19,894.7
1,949.6
4.265.4
1,719.6
365 0
4.1995

08
159
13
49
17
02
04
01
00
04

09%
237
04
220
13
48
0.4
288

68%
-12
-731
39
26
-11
-223
336

19.6101
248.8268
12,7229
69,4454
33,741 5
5,5869
9,1825
2,0752
5564
4,9835

14
179
09
50
24
04
07
01
00
04

1062
316
-177
186
696
1866
1153
207
524
187

390
00
20
100.0%

242
188
-12
16.9%

41,6271
139.6560
6.0416
109,451 5
24.1629
9,7137
96,6711

30%
100
04
79
17
0,7
69

212%
142
-741
374
247
-165
-19

156

181,772 7

130

-22

591.423.1

496

767,6709

551

298

78,6939
27.2874
1,150.0614

66
23
965

82,2946
29,1688
1,348.5749

59
21
968

46
69
173

367
00
24
1000%

34,3348
122,316.1
23.308.9
79,6328
19.3743
11.6289
98.5344

29%
103
2.0
67
16
10
83

185,842.8

$

13.2324
330.5299
5,9201
306,9285
17.6814
66.2009
5.2606
401,7475

543,6251
3716
27,701 3
$1.393,652 9

437,805.6
3129
28048.1
$1.191,8308

$

$

Percent
Change
1994-1995

41,7694
785

35%

$

$ 45,0780

32%

79%

772

Figures may not add due to rounding
r = revised
p = preliminary
1/ Calendar. rather than fiscal. year data IS reported In nus table
Note Includes information for frrms dOing a public business that carry customer accounts or clear secunnes uansacnons
Source FOCUS Report

203

Securities Traded on Exchanges
Market VaIue and Volume
The market value of equity and option transactions (trading in stocks,
options, warrants, and rights) on registered exchanges totaled $3.7 trillion in
1995. Of this total, approximately $3.5 trillion, or 95%, represented the
market value of transactions in stocks, rights, and warrants; $170 billion, or
5 %, were options transactions (including exercises of options on listed
stocks).
The value of equity and option transactions on the New York Stock
Exchange (NYSE) was $3.1 trillion, up 24 % from the previous year. The
market value of such transactions on the American Stock Exchange (AMEX)
increased 27.4% to $105.3 billion and increased 26.5% to $494.5 billion on
all other exchanges. The volume of trading in stocks (excluding rights and
warrants) on all registered exchanges totaled 106.4 billion shares, a 17.6 %
increase from the previous year, with 84.7% of the total accounted for by
trading on the NYSE.
The volume of options contracts traded (excluding exercised contracts)
was 287.3 million contracts in 1995, 2.1 % greater than in 1994. The
market value of these contracts increased 25.8% to $118.9 billion. The
volume of contracts executed on the Chicago Board Options Exchange
decreased 2.9% to 178.5 million. Option trading on the AMEX and Pacific
Stock Exchange rose 7.9 % and 47.7 % respectively while option trading on
the Philadelphia Stock Exchange decreased 12.1 %.

Nasdaq (Share Volume and Dollar Volume)
Nasdaq share volume and dollar value information has been reported on
a daily basis since November 1, 1971. At the end of 1994, there were
5,761 issues in the Nasdaq system, as compared to 5,393 a year earlier and
3,050 at the end of 1980.
Share volume for 1994 was 74.3 billion, as compared to 66.5 billion in
1993 and 6.7 billion in 1980. This trading volume encompasses the number
of shares bought and sold by market makers plus their net inventory
changes. The dollar volume of shares traded in the Nasdaq system was
$1.45 trillion during 1994, as compared to $1.35 trillion in 1993 and 68.7
billion in 1980.

204

Share and Dollar Volume by Exchange
Share volume on all registered stock exchanges totaled 106.4 billion, an
increase of 17.6% from the previous year. The NYSE accounted for 85%
of the 1995 share volume; the AMEX, 5 %; the Chicago Stock Exchange,
4 %, and the Pacific Stock Exchange, 3 % .
The dollar value of stocks, rights, and warrants traded was $3.5 trillion,
25 % higher than the previous year. Trading on the NYSE contributed 88 %
of the total. The Chicago Stock Exchange and Pacific Stock Exchange
contributed 3 % and 2 % respectively. The AMEX accounted for 2 % of
dollar volume.

205

r-;

~

o
~

c::

0)

N<D('f")O>CO,....
__ aOONI'-r-~OOOtO

C1>

E

MNOci,....:-r=
m,....cnocx:>r-

"C

c::

r-Ol()VLOO

C1>

-r-=aiLri""":c6a:5

E

-c

U"')VVVlt")(O

'"
.e'"

U
<t:

5

u

~

L.OCT,)vmmro

M,....NM<'oV

a

cv

to-

l()

C1>

to

-=

("l')

a:5 v~N M,......,- ......
U"')..-r-c:oL.(')CD
ot-,....mvv
""':lC'icnNV""':
h

U"')VMVVLl')

'"

c:

s
a
:5
UJ

U
<t:
C1>
0>

c::

'"

.s:;;

~
.,...QOOLnNOa
....

~

<.c

<.c

..n

0)

...,

a5"-:

....

~

'"

J
1::
o

CV')Cf')0')C"J,....,....

tOC:O,....Ll')MO
MMNMOO

0-

C1>

""':""':NVc:SLri

CDMvLl'),....C:O
<.0 0 cn eo

c:o

"-:<6"-:0><6<6
eo
""':""':NNNM

,....t-MO,....O
CD r- 0
c.o

ex:

e-,

c;;

u

~
~

U"')

c::
o
r-coo>vU"')

mo..--r-o(V)

l()r-r-N..-cn

to co 0"> to 0"> N
C:OCT.lr--(.OLl')('I")
c.OcicxSa5c.6ro
vmVNU")f"or- co ,.... r- 0> to
'-:""':NNNM

.......
tcCO

,....cnCOr-LOr-L{')C1>
__
N"'-ONL(')

LONVCOf"o-V

C"\JU"')

co~o~,..:m(O-

M .......
-r--,...:N'cO
vt-('t')c.or-rC1>
'"

0>

c:

C'l'5"":
.......
r-

C'l'l"!.Nf"o-VroCOV

eg~~~g~~
~

'"u

.c:

0

0-

<:;
U

0>

c::

?ij
C1>
~

M

~

~o

U
c:
'"

!2
Ci.

"C
C1>

a

Q;
"In

"C

c::
ee

e;,
C1>

ex:

x
~
UJ
UJ
UJUJXUJcnUJ~O
::2cn:I:cn>-cn:I:CD
<t:CDUUZa..a..U

C7
ex:
E

<:;

u...
U
UJ

C1>
'"

0>

c::

'"

.s:;;

~

206

co

C1>

u

5
o

o»

O('l")C)T-COrr--Nmr--~T~m~coq-CTJ

mOQC)LONCON
NLO

to
'"

cOMLOO~N

a>

r--.:~-e-

M-

o

~~~

mmmO('f')T-

'"

'0

.s

'"

Cl

"O<n

OT-CTJ(Y')~
0'>
-e- r--;
LO LO CO rT- CO lO a> LO t--:
T--mcOcno-~

Q)
",U-

i3~

~

QiC

.ri@.

MOOQLONCO
N
0'> CXJ -eN
NLOLOT'""

M

~~

;;;

~~ll'i

~::;
u

Q)
U)

'"

e-,
==
.c
u
Q)
u
c::
Q)

E

'"

'"
'"

c=

~

'"

-e-

C")

0

0'>

::;
W

-;;;-

CO T- a.n (0 ('f')
NLO<X:)NMCO
~c:oq-r-mM

~-g
",-

~c=

I-

0

~

~

~

~- cD ~ cr)

..._0
0('1")
q..._..._T-T'""T-

'"
>X
ti5

a

~

Q)

Ol

-- =>
a::
~

'"
Q)

Ol

c=
ee
-'=
u

-s- -eto
'" e-, 0
CXJ CXJ

...:

NO...i
C")~

......

("')000

q- N

0

'"

'"
00-:

-e-

.ri
Q)

Q)

a::
__

......

enMNMO'>
......

C")

......

-e-

0'>

M,...,... T'""Men
Mu-icO;M~
NlOLOCOM

........
~N

e

<c
>.c

"l

;:::

0'>

0

....
'"

0'>

~
Cl

'"
0'>
0'>

oS

'"

0,

'0

Q)

a::

"'=>
3:~

OOOMQO

e

"0

'"
~~
~ c=

0

-0,

.ri

<c

......

CXJ
CXJ
0:)

u;

e
E~c=

c=
ee
-'=
U
"0

u;

.E

'"
Q)

Ol

q--

c=
Lt') co Lt') M N
CONONlON
OlONNq-,...

~

('I")

~ci-.:iu5~Lri

COO
N

('t')

0
"0
oX

coCO""""
0
__ ...-...- v

'"e

<Xl

r--OOOMq-cnO
O'J
co

~
O'J

~

..- v
........_...--

gM...-

C")

...- ('I")
-e- co
'" co
v
en....,.
m M
v co eo ........
Lt')

M

r--

"":u-iC"JcO-:C"J
MNtOOC:Ocn
MOvex;)q-('t')

M a;j
Ll)

Ll)

..n co
",- c:i

to

0')

cD

~
0

"?

a::
E

<5

u..

u
w

U)
Q)

u

::;

o

U)

207

Table 20
SHARE VOLUME BY EXCHANGES
(In Percentage)

t:

~

t:

1/

Year

Total Share
Volume
(In Thousands)

NYSE

AMEX

CHIC

PSE

PHLX

SSE

CSE

1945
1950
1955
1960
1961
1962
1963
1964
1965
1966
1967
1968
1969
1970
1971
1972
1973
1974
1975
1976
1977
1978
1979
1980
1981
1982
1983
1984
1985
1986
1987
1988
1989
1990
1991r
1992r
1993
1994
1995

769,018
893,320
1.321.401
1,441,120
2,142,523
1,711,945
1,880,793
2,118,326
2,671,012
3,313,899
4,646,553
5,407,923
5,134,856
4,834,887
6,172,668
6,518,132
5,899,678
4,950,842
6,376,094
7,129,132
7,124,640
9,630,065
10,960,424
15,587,986
15,969,186
22,491,935
30,316,014
30,548,014
37,187,567
48,580,524
64,082,996
52,665,654
54,416,790
53,746,087
58,290,641
65,705,037
83,056,237
90,786,603
107,069,656

6587
7632
6885
6847
6499
7131
7293
7281
6990
6938
6440
6198
6316
7128
7134
7047
7492
7847
8099
8005
7971
7953
7988
7994
8068
81.22
8037
8254
8152
8112
8309
8374
8133
8186
8201
8134
8290
8455
8449

21.31
1354
19.19
2227
2558
2011
1883
1942
2253
2284
2841
2974
2761
1903
1842
18.22
1375
1028
897
935
956
1065
1085
10.78
932
696
745
526
578
628
557
495
602
623
552
574
553
496
478

177
216
209
220
222
234
232
243
263
256
235
263
284
3.16
3,52
371
409
4.40
397
387
396
356
330
384
460
509
548
603
612
573
519
526
544
468
466
462
457
388
367

298
311
308
311
341
295
282
265
233
268
246
2.64
3.47
368
372
413
368
348
326
393
372
384
327
280
287
362
356
331
366
368
323
303
334
316
359
319
281
237
256

106
097
085
088
079
087
083
093
081
086
087
089
122
163
191
221
219
182
154
142
149
149
164
154
155
218
220
1.79
147
153
130
129
180
182
160
172
155
142
139

0.66
065
048
038
030
031
029
029
026
0.40
043
078
051
051
043
059
071
086
085
078
066
060
055
057
051
048
065
085
127
1.33
128
1.32
164
1 71
177
157
1.47
139
145

005
009
005
004
004
004
004
003
0.05
005
002
0.01
000
0.02
003
003
004
005
013
044
064
016
028
0,32
037
038
019
018
0,15
030
030
039
041
053
086
183
117
142
166

Others2!
630
316
541
2.65
267
207
194
144
1.49
123
106
133
119
069
063
0.64
062
064
029
016
026
017
023
021
010
007
010
0.04
003
0.02
004
002
002
001
001
001
000
001
000

r==revlsed

1/ Share volume for exchangesIncludes stocks, fights and warrants, calendar, rather than fiscal, year data ISreported In thiS table.
f/ Includes all exchangesnot listed individually
Source SECForm R-31

208

Table 21

DOLLAR VOLUME BY EXCHANGES

11

(In Percentage)
Total Dollar
Volume
Year

($ In Thousands)

1945 $ 16,284,552
1950
21,808,284
38,039,107
1955
45,309,825
1960
1961
64,071,623
1962
54,855,293
64,437,900
1963
1964
72,461,584
89,549,093
1965
123,697,737
1966
162,189,211
1967
197,116,367
1968
1969
176,389,759
131,707,946
1970
1971
186,375,130
1972
205,956,263
178,863,622
1973
1974
118,828,270
157,256,676
1975
1976
195,224,812
1977
187,393,084
251,618,179
1978
300,475,510
1979
476,500,688
1980
491,017,139
1981
1982
603,094,266
1983
958,304,168
951,318,448
1984
1,200,127,848
1985
1,707,117,112
1986
1987
2,286,902,788
1,587,950,769
1988
1989
1,847,766,971
1990
1,616,798,075
1,778,154,074
1991
1992
2,032,684,135
1993
2,610,504,390
1994
2,817,671,150
3,507,991,171
1995

1/
Z!

NYSE
8275
8591
8631
8380
82.43
8632
8519
8349
8178
7977
7729
7355
7348
7844
79 07
7777
82 07
8363
8520
84.35
83.96
8367
8372
8353
84.74
8532
8513
8561
8525
85 02
8679
8681
85.49
8615
8620
8647
8721
88 08
87.71

AMEX

CHIC

PSE

PHLX

BSE

081
685
698
935
10 71
681
751
845
991
1184
14.48
1799
1759
1111
998
10 37
606
440
367
388
460
613
694
733
541
327
332
226
223
256
232
196
235
233
231
2 07
2 08
201
210

200
235
244
272
275
275
272
315
344
314
3 08
312
339
376
4 00
429
454
490
464
476
479
416
383
433
5 04
583
628
657
659
6 00
532
5.46
546
458
434
428
410
349
326

1 78
219
190
194
199
200
239
248
243
284
279
265
312
381
379
394
355
350
326
383
353
364
278
227
232
3 as
286
293
306
3 00
253
262
284
277
3 as
287
238
2 09
224

096
103
103
103
103
105
106
114
1.12
110
113
113
143
199
229
256
245
203
1 73
169
162
162
180
161
160
159
155
158
149
157
135
133
177
1 79
154
170
152
134
127

116
112
078
060
049
046
041
042
042
056
066
104
067
067
058
075
100
124
119
094
074
061
056
052
049
051
066
085
1 20
144
133
134
156
163
1 72
152
135
131

006
006
017
053
075
017
035
040
040
043
016
019
018
041
035
049
054
074
083
109
137
168

048
044
047
049
053
054
066
081
082
068
054
051
031
019
024
027
027
024
014
002
001
a 00
002
001
000
000
004
000
000
000
000
000
a 00
000
001
000
000
000

1 43

1 99

000

CSE
006

all
009
007
007
007
006
006
008
007
003
001
001
003
005

a as

OthersZ!

Dollar volumefor exchangesIncludes stocks,fights andwarrants,calendar,ratherthanfiscal, yeardata IS reported In trus
table
Includes all exchangesnot listed individually
Source SECForm R-31

209

rar-r--r-T""""lO
CT"""U"')r-r-('f")

v,-q"vN

N'r-- ~
LO

-e-

en

r-co
LO
a:5

OCOn:Jcoococn"....
r-mCT"""C"')(y)"I:;f"f'o-

en......

co
v~

tlOOCDvr-v

c:

m

co
•

T"""

a
to

......
VOOOL()

o

0

N

0

e-J

~'"
.:

€'"

::>

u

a

0
N

MCOOQOO')

en
....
CD N

m

'"
en
a)

Q)
t/)

Q)
t/)

0:::

CO>

~

u

iii
Q)

o
u..

E

8
Q)

..c
E

('1").,...000...,.

....

....

cnNOT-ON
.... t--:
~

N
N

::>

:z

Q;

..c
E
::>
:z

mO')C'tJVT-r-U"')U"')
T"""U"')C,,--VT"""

C:O,....

v
N~

Ll)

V

M

'"

-'"
u

.E

t/)

0:::

'"
E
o

CO>

u;

u;

&3

~
o
'"

Q)

-c
::>

U

.E

?10

&I

t/)

'"

~


::>

o

t/)

Table 23
VALUE OF STOCKS LISTED ON EXCHANGES
($ in Billions)

As of
Dec 31
1938
1940
1941
1942
1943
1944
1945
1946
1947
1948
1949
1950
1951
1952
1953
1954
1955
1956
1957
1958
1959
1960
1961
1962
1963
1964
1965
1966
1967
1968
1969
1970
1971
1972
1973
1974
1975
1976
1977
1978
1979
1980
1981
1982
1983
1984
1985
1986
1987
1988
1989
1990
1991
1992
1993
1994
1995
Source SECForm 1392

NewYork
Stock
Exchange
$ 475
465
419
358
476
555
738
686
683
67.0
76.3
93.8
109.5
1205
1173
1691
2077
2192
1956
2767
3077
3070
3878
3458
4113
474.3
5375
4825
6058
692.3
6295
6364
7418
8715
7210
5111
6851
8583
7767
8227
9606
1,2428
1,143.8
1,3054
1,5222
1,5295
1,8827
2,1285
2,1322
2,3661
2,903.5
2,692.1
3,5475
3,877 9
4,3149
4,240.8
5,7555

American
Stock
Exchange
$ 108
101
86
7.4
99
112
144
132
121
119
122
139
165
169
153
221
271
310
255
317
254
242
330
244
261
282
309
279
430
612
47.7
395
491
556
387
233
293
360
376
392
578
1035
894
776
80.1
520
63.2
703
67.0
841
100 9
699
903
864
981
865
1133

Exclusively
On Other
Exchanges

Total
583
566
505
432
575
667
882
818
804
819
91.6
111.0
1292
1405
1354
1948
2388
2540
2242
3127
3373
3353
4261
3742
4417
5068
5731
5144
6527
7595
6826
6807
7956
9327
7638
5373
7187
8985
8185
8648
1,0223
1,3492
1,2382
1,3897
1,6088
1,5873
1,9518
2,2053
2,2051
2,4551
3,0090
2,7659
3,6421
3,9702
4,4202
4,3320
5,8756

$

$

30
31
33
32
31
28
36
40
38
31
43
42
41
53
40
43
43
47
40
39
60
54
48
47
56
41
29
43
42
42
29
39
29
50
68
66
58
59
65
59
49
46
39
43
59
72
47
68

211

Table 24

APPROPRIATED

FUNDS vs FEES* COLLECTED

$ Millions

800
I

750
700
L

650

,...,

L

600

:,-

L

550
500
450
400

~

..

I
I

350

?

,
'-

300

~

~ 1 297.4
I

I

250

J'
200 ~

~

/

I

I
~/

150

I

~ ....
tI

-

'"

rfi'

: APPROPRIATED
FUNDING

", __ fi'

100

• ~ ......
)..
50

"

!"

."COLLECTED

0
Fy1976
77

-

78

80
79

82
81

* Excludes disgorgements

212

"FEES
1__
~ ___
84
83

88

86

as

L _

87

from fraud actions.

90
89

1.

I

- - - I-

94

92
91

,

93

96
95

~
~:E

~j

~~

:;:gN

:g

~
~
~

~

~~-

~ ~

~ ~

gj

r-;

III
:;}

ill

-0

~v

ec cn cr

0>

~~

M

~
~
~
~

.+~
0>
M
0

III

~

g

M

n

0

E

<D
~ ~
g ~
~
...e
:E~

....
M

~

t:5

~IS
lll~

~
u:

~+

~

~

1fi0~
OM

~i~i;~

'~ci
+~

0

,;;
l:l

8

of

N

(,0
'<:t" co N ......
ll')
Nr-OCO
......
O

8
~

'+

ri

~~~:n:~~~

~

8
e
-c

0>
M
0

~~+ri'7~

ri

M

:;

l?
l;-

v~

!il

.. g

;f
~ ~

0>0

;!!~

..,

""°1ll8<D-~
~~~~~~

1!l

~

~
~
~
<D

~~
o:jm

EO

::l

u:

0

iii

<J,

s:

oj

~

5

~

ie

O~
~N

~ ~
N

+~

N

en

0

~
it:
n,
0
a:
a,
n,

(£

j

~
'"

cr~~~+~

s

~

M

N

"8

v

s

N

g

~

0>

N

g

0>

....
0>

0

~ ~ ~

~

0>

.2

iiii

u
w

~
~ ~
"
~ s~
~
<n

~~q;
!;(

~

::;:

~
~


IS

j::
W
lW

~:E

0
::>

u:

II)

~
~

5!5~~S

1'i

~~g

o

~

~:E

Lt);5 -

en

[£

~

~
~
~
~

E ~
~ ~
iii
E
~ ~
~
~
iii
~ IS

;;;,

z

£;

.... ~I~

+le

cnl.l)~~+N
'7
+

til

~

~

gJ
ri
')'

~ ~
:;}

.f

N

r-ll')r-N

~ ~.~?l~
~ ~~~~ ~

~
~

0>

t--,

._+N

0>

0>

~

~

0>

0>

0>

0>

0>

N

N

0>

~ 0

~!
0

Eo
E8~

Vi

~

-~ ~
~~

N

uM

.lllll
-c
v-

1l.

~~ ~
~~ ~
~=
5~ ~
~'i3
~
~u
-""" ~
~~
~~ ~
c~E
EO

<D

~
'"
~

~

~o

..

e:E

M

...:
')'

l!l

~

=<n

<nO

"5

::l

u:

'" :g
~~~~~
~"f~--~

;0,

~ ~
::;

~

.f

*

~

0>

**

N

N

0>

N

N

;0,

iii

~

!

~

00

~::E

'?

0>

0>

M
M
<D

r-or-I'-

R ~~~~ ~.
~ ~ ~
~
+~
N:!N(,O

~Ng
g!~
~~.;

~
E
g~~M~

s<
(.)

1'i

~ ,g~
~

N

!e

M

N

~

'<:t" ...... '<:t"CO(,OCOll')

;:;

_N._~

~

~

V

oj

'N+N

N

~

;\'l

~~ ot~~
~E

0

oca~~

::r~

Q.>8,
~..,

~=~E

E~~&

~
5'"

~
i.i

(/)

I~j-

~ge~g~
~i;8:
~a«-::Ug'

~...J

~;~~~~i~s~_s_8K~~~~
~o~~i<o~~~~~~~~~g~~

j

g

'C't)5

U>

OJ
~

::::.

;;;R~~fij

~~gsg

!i!H
.EE;:;~E
80s::t~

~;~~~
ECQ.>C;::;-

,g~~~~
'C E
~,J::;:

Q.>

~~~~~

!i~:1~
'C::::."'C>'C

~~~~~
I~i!~)~i~!~~~~lll~!
~

<

«

«

«~(/)(/)~

;0,,,,,,,,

""

213

>-

a:

s
w

z>0"
",0

a:

(J
w

,..----

'"
f---

-'-'
""W
a:'"
wZ
Z~
wO
"(J

'"

:l!0

a:Z

0'"
LL(J

~l!!

'"

~>~~

",,-'

IL.Ut-W

c(::;~t3

g~~~
a:

~

w
Z
0

iii

s'":l!
W'"
(JZ

s:::

0

f---

~g~~

0:

W
Z
0

I
Z
...0
w"'

iii

'"~
:l!
0
(J

":3
a:~

I--

w><
r-

r

e
«S
en

CD

;

'i:
::l
0

:J

w
-'
-'
0

f---.-

...

0:

e,

:l!

0
(J

""
~~
~~
ZLL
ill""
...
~

W-'
>W ...

I---

~~~
"''''W
~~~
",0:"

'"'0'"
"''''

OZ,",
0:-,

g""
(JO:
WW
ll.Z
",W

~"

Z

Wo:
2:0
......
::>(J
(JW
wo:

""

:l!
0:

;;:

'"

(J

~

~Q

!Z~
-,WZ

...
...'"::>

'"
iii
0

'"

",,:l!~

5g~

Wll.ll.
:l!ll.
wO
......
ZZ
WU

a:

W
Z
0

f---

(J

~~
",,,

f---.-

'"
~

ii:
U

""e,

w""
>z
z""
-:l!

iii

(J",

:l!
0
(J

~iii

CD

en.
en.

a:

:l!",

"""a:

'0

,.

~M

:l!W

s:::

0

Orr

-'

(1)
C)

.s:::

LL~

""W
ll.",

8~ ~

I

~~~

~~~
~f2~

:l!ll. :l!

0
«S

'"0Z

:;:~o",

0
.-

E
E

C~(I)

I---

-,,,,

0
(J

en
en
.-

W~

...Z

W
:l!
W
(J

I--

a:

0
LL
z
W

0:

W
Z
0

iii

0>Z-'
0""
(Jz
w""

~

0:

a:z

0
Z

~

00
Z
~i=C«

~g~~
Zfi1

'"~

...
'"""
'"...

W

:l!
0
(J

~

...Z

...
I---

'"3:
W

0

Sj

LL~
WZ
Z
0
"'w
",,(J
a:Z
0""
ll.Z

I--

a:ii:

0
(J

:rS

(J(J
(J

""
W

-'

2:",
"'W

~8

...::>
!!!.,

'----

""...
a:

Z
W
(J

~3:

~:3

'"
*U

214

S GOVERNMENT PRINTING OFFICE. 1997 - 425 .801 140025

