1

9

9

Annual

7

Report

United States
Securities and Exchange Commission

For sale by the U S Government Pnnung Office
Superintendent of Documents, Mall Stop SSOP, Washington, DC 20402-9328
ISBN 0-16-049588-1

UNITED STATES
SECURITIES AND EXCHANGE COMMISSION
WASHINGTON, D.C. 20549

The Honorable Albert Gore, Jr.
Vice President of the United States
and President of the Senate
Washington, D.C. 20510

The Honorable Newt Gingrich
Speaker of the House of
Representatives
Washington, D.C. 20515

Gentlemen:
I am pleased to send you the annual report of the Securities and
Exchange Commission for fiscal year 1997. The activities and
accomplishments identified in the annual report continue the
Commission's long tradition of hard work and high achievement. I have
highlighted some of the Commission's achievements below.
Enhancing Investor Protections
The Commission consistently brings cases against regulated entities
and associated individuals, sending a strong message to the industry that
misconduct relating to the sale of securities will not be tolerated. One
very significant matter in 1997 resulted from an undercover Federal
Bureau of Investigation operation involving a small brokerage firm. The
FBI, working in close cooperation with the SEC and the National
Association of Securities Dealers (NASD), conducted a sting operation
in which 45 stock promoters, company officials, and current or former
brokers were charged criminally for illegal kickbacks to brokers for sales
of over-the-counter and Nasdaq stocks. Based on the same conduct
underlying the criminal complaint, the SEC brought administrative
proceedings against 29 of the stock promoters, company officials,
brokers, and others.
Successful coordination between the Commission and criminal
authorities also resulted in the termination of a microcap fraud involving
the internet. In this matter, the chairman of a small company that was
promoted over the internet secretly distributed millions of shares to

iii

family members, to corporations he controlled, and as bribes to a
network of touters, traders, brokers, and promoters. He then manipulated
the market by, among other things, issuing false and misleading
information about the company and its value as an investment. After the
Commission suspended trading in the company's stock and brought an
emergency enforcement action to enjoin the fraud and to freeze assets,
the company's chairman pleaded guilty to stock fraud and agreed to
surrender most of his assets to a receiver for distribution to the victims of
his fraud. He is currently in prison. Four other individuals have also
pleaded guilty to criminal charges for their role in this scheme. In
Commission enforcement actions, participants in this scheme have been
ordered to surrender a total of more than $15 million in illegal profits.
The Commission also continued to focus on coordinating
examinations with foreign, federal, and state regulators and selfregulatory organizations. During the year, Commission staff conducted
examinations with the Hong Kong Securities and Futures Commission,
the Ontario Securities Commission, and the U.S. Office of the
Comptroller of the Currency, among others.
This past year, the Commission implemented new order handling
rules. The new rules reinforce the SEC's 1996 settlement with the
NASD and help protect investors in all markets. Since the rules were
implemented, the markets have witnessed an historic decline between the
"bid" and "asked" prices for securities. This means that investors are
getting better prices, which was an important goal of the rules. The
markets have become more fair for all investors, and in the long run, this
increased fairness and openness will be to everyone's benefit.
We also approved new "cold calling" rules proposed by the NASD
and the Municipal Securities Rulemaking Board and similar rules
proposed by the American Stock Exchange and the New York Stock
Exchange. The cold calling rules require that securities professionals
call investors only between 8:00 a.m. and 9:00 p.m., say who's calling
and why, put investors on a "do not call" list if they ask, and get written
approval before taking money directly from investors' bank accounts.
To inform investors about these rules, our Office of Investor Education
and Assistance prepared an educational brochure, Cold Calling Alert.

iv

The SEC's website transmitted its billionth page of text and data
during the year. Since going on-line in September 1995, our website has
received more than 95 million hits. Our website, featuring the agency's
EDGAR system, has changed the way information on public companies
and mutual funds is collected and disseminated.
Disclosure Developments
In the area of disclosure, the Commission proposed three major
initiatives to improve the disclosure of information about mutual funds to
investors, including: (1) permitting funds to use a summary document,
or profile; (2) revising the mutual fund registration form; and (3)
requiring a mutual fund, or other registered investment company, with a
name suggesting that the fund focuses on a particular type of investment
to invest at least 80 percent of its assets in the type of investment
suggested by its name. While some funds have worked successfully to
develop improvements in their prospectuses, these initiatives will be a
catalyst for change throughout the fund industry.
We also redoubled our efforts to make sure that our rules and
interpretations protect the millions of investors who today rely on
investment advisers. During the year, we created a Task Force on
Investment Adviser Regulation to implement the legislation enacted last
year splitting regulatory jurisdiction over advisers between the
Commission and the states, to review existing Commission regulations
and develop proposals to modernize them, and to develop a means by
which investors can easily obtain information about investment advisers.
In the accounting area, the Commission adopted rules requiring
additional disclosures concerning derivatives and other financial
instruments. The required disclosures are designed to help investors
better assess the market risks of registrants involved with these
instruments and better understand how those risks are managed.
Technological Challenges
One of the most significant areas the Commission has been focusing
on is automation and the many technological challenges facing the
industry. First and foremost among them is preparing for the year 2000.
This past year, our efforts centered on encouraging swift and aggressive

v

action and actively monitoring progress among exchanges, clearing
agencies, and the NASD. We also communicated with public
companies, reminding them of their disclosure requirements and offering
informal guidance about how to apply those requirements to the year
2000 problem. In addition, we worked with industry groups to educate
the public on the issue.
During the year, we began are-evaluation of the Commission's
approach to regulating markets, particularly the Commission's oversight
of alternative trading systems, registered exchanges, and foreign market
activities in the United States. In connection with this initiative, the
Commission issued a concept release to elicit public views on ways to
regulate the U.S. securities markets in light of technological advances.
International Listings
We continued our efforts to widen the range of choices available to
U.S. investors by promoting the internationalization of our markets. In
1990,434 foreign companies were reporting in the U.S.; today, there are
nearly 1,000 foreign companies from 51 countries. We will continue to
do all we can to encourage more companies to list here.

***
The markets today are very different from the ones that existed just a
few years ago. Change has always been the hallmark of our markets and
the SEC has succeeded by recognizing that fact and responding to it. I
have every confidence that the Commission will continue to perform its
responsibilities with the professionalism and dedication that all of us
have come to expect.
Sincerely,

Arthur Levitt
Chairman

vi

Table of Contents
Commission Members and Principal Staff Officers
Biographies of Commission Members
Arthur Levitt. Norman S. Johnson.
Paul R. Carey. Laura S. Unger

Xl

XIV

Isaac C. Hunt, Jr.

Regional and District Offices
Enforcement
Key 1997 Results

XIX

1

Enforcement Authority • Enforcement Activities • Sources
for Further Inquiry
International Affairs
Key 1997 Results

20

Arrangements for Exchange of Information and Assistance •
Enforcement Cooperation and International Cases •
Technical Assistance.
International Organizations •
International Market Oversight
Investor Education and Assistance
Key 1997 Results

26

Investor Complaints and Inquiries • Referrals • Plain
English Initiative • Investor Outreach
Regulation of the Securities Markets
Key 1997 Results

31

Securities Markets, Trading and Significant Regulatory
Issues. Broker-Dealer Regulation.
Oversight of
Self-Regulatory Organizations

vii

Investment Management Regulation
Key 1997 Results

50

Significant Investment Company Act Developments •
Significant Investment Advisers Act Developments •
Significant Public Utility Holding Company Act
Developments
Compliance Inspections and Examinations
Key 1997 Results

65

Investment Company and Investment Adviser Inspections •
Broker-Dealer and Transfer Agent Examinations.
Self-Regulatory Organization Inspections
Full Disclosure System
Key 1997 Results

73

Review of Filings • Rulemaking, Interpretive, and Related
Matters • Staff Legal Bulletins • Conferences
Accounting and Auditing Matters
Key 1997 Results

84

Accounting-Related Rules and Interpretations.
Oversight
of Private-Sector Standard Setting • International
Accounting and Auditing Standards
Other Litigation and Legal Activities
Key 1997 Results
Significant Litigation Developments • Significant
Adjudication Developments • Legal Policy •
Significant Legislative Developments • Corporate
Reorganizations • Ethical Conduct Program

viii

91

Municipal Securities Initiatives
Key 1997 Results

113

Municipal Securities Disclosure + Technical Assistance +
Outreach
Economic Research and Analysis
Key 1997 Results

116

Economic Analysis and Technical Assistance
Program Management and Administrative Support
Key 1997 Results
Policy Management

+ Administrative

120

Support

Endnotes

129

Appendix

147

Enforcement Cases Initiated by the Commission During Fiscal
Year 1997 in Various Program Areas + Fiscal 1997 Enforcement
Cases Listed by Program Area + Investigations of Possible
Violations of the Acts Administered by the Commission +
Administrative Proceedings Instituted During Fiscal Year Ending
September 30, 1997 + Injunctive Actions + Right to Financial
Privacy + Types of Proceedings + Self-Regulatory Organizations:
Expenses, Pre-Tax Income, and Balance Sheet Structure +
Consolidated Financial Information of Self-Regulatory
Organizations + Self-Regulatory Organizations--Clearing
Corporations, 1996 Revenues and Expenses + Self-Regulatory
Organizations--Depositories, 1996 Revenues and Expenses +
Certificate Immobilization + Section 13(f)( 1) Reports +
Exemptions + Corporate Reorganizations + The Securities
Industry + Unconsolidated Financial Information for BrokerDealers, 1992-1996 + Unconsolidated Annual Revenues and
Expenses for Broker-Dealers Doing a Public Business, 19921996 + Unconsolidated Balance Sheet for Broker-Dealers Doing a
Public Business Year-end, 1992-1996 + Carrying and Clearing
ix

Firms + Securities Industry Dollar in 1996 for Carrying/Clearing
Firms + Unconsolidated Revenues and Expenses for
Carrying/Clearing Broker-Dealers + Unconsolidated Balance
Sheet for Carrying/Clearing Broker-Dealers + Securities Traded
on Exchanges + Market Value of Equity/Options Sales on Ll.S.
Exchanges + Volume of Equity/Options Sales on U.S. Securities
Exchanges + Share Volume by Exchanges + Dollar Volume by
Exchanges + Securities Listed on Exchanges + Value of Stocks
Listed on Exchanges + Appropriated Funds vs. Fees Collected +
Budget Estimates and Appropriations + Securities and Exchange
Commission Organization Chart

x

Commission Members and Principal Staff Officers
(As of November 5, 1997)

Commissioners*

Term Expires

Arthur Levitt, Chairman**
Norman S. Johnson, Commissioner
Isaac C. Hunt, Jr., Commissioner
Laura S. Unger, Commissioner
Paul R. Carey, Commissioner

1998
1999

2000
2001
2002

Principal Staff Officers
Jennifer Scardino, Chief of Staff
Brian J. Lane, Director, Division of Corporation Finance
Meredith B. Cross, Deputy Director
William E. Morley, Senior Associate Director
Robert A. Bayless, Associate Director
Albert S. Dandridge, III, Associate Director
Martin Dunn, Associate Director
Howard F. Morin, Associate Director
Mauri Osheroff, Associate Director
David A. Sirignano, Associate Director

*Steven M.H. Wallman resigned from the Commission on October 2,
1997.
**On April 3, 1998, Arthur Levitt was confirmed for a second term as
Chairman of the Securities and Exchange Commission.

xi

William R. McLucas, Director, Division of Enforcement
Colleen P. Mahoney, Deputy Director
Paul V. Gerlach, Associate Director
Thomas C. Newkirk, Associate Director
Vacant, Associate Director
Joan E. McKown, Chief Counsel
Christian J. Mixter, Chief Litigation Counsel
Stephen J. Crimmins, Deputy Chief Litigation Counsel
Walter Schuetze, Chief Accountant
James A. Clarkson, III, Director of Regional Office Operations
Barry Barbash, Director, Division of Investment Management
Vacant, Associate Director
Robert Plaze, Associate Director
Douglas Sheidt, Associate Director
Kenneth J. Berman, Associate Director
Richard Lindsey, Director, Division of Market Regulation
Robert L.D. Colby, Deputy Director
Larry E. Bergmann, Associate Director
Howard Kramer, Associate Director
Michael A. Macchiaroli, Associate Director
Catherine McGuire, Associate Director
Vacant, Associate Director
Richard Walker, General Counsel, Office of General Counsel
Paul Gonson, Solicitor and Deputy General Counsel
Karen Burgess, Associate General Counsel
Anne E. Chafer, Associate General Counsel
Richard M. Humes, Associate General Counsel
Diane Sanger, Associate General Counsel
Jacob H. Stillman, Associate General Counsel
Lori A. Richards, Director, Office of Compliance Inspections and
Examinations
Mary Ann Gadziala, Associate Director
Gene Gohlke, Associate Director
C. Gladwyn Goins, Associate Director

xii

Michael H. Sutton, Chief Accountant, Office of the Chief Accountant
Brenda Murray, Chief Administrative Law Judge, Office of the
Administrative Law Judges

Erik Sirri, Chief Economist, Office of Economic Analysis
Vacant, Director, Office of Equal Employment Opportunity
James M. McConnell, Executive Director, Office of the Executive
Director

Fernando L. Alegria, Jr., Associate Executive Director
Michael Bartell, Associate Executive Director
Wilson A. Butler, Jr., Associate Executive Director
Vacant, Associate Executive Director
Marisa Lago, Director, Office of International Affairs
Nancy M. Smith, Director, Office of Investor Education and Assistance
Kaye F. Williams, Director, Office of Legislative Affairs
Paul S. Maco, Director, Office of Municipal Securities
Christopher Ullman, Director, Office of Public Affairs, Policy
Evaluation and Research

Jonathan G. Katz, Secretary to the Commission

xiii

Biographies of Commission Members
Chairman
Following his nomination by President
Bill Clinton and his confirmation by the
Senate, Arthur Levitt, Jr. was sworn in as the
25th Chairman of the Securities and Exchange
Commission in July 1993.
Before joining the Commission, Mr.
Levitt owned Roll Call, The Newspaper of
Congress. Mr. Levitt served as the Chairman
of the New York City Economic Development Corporation from 1989 to
1993 and the Chairman of the American Stock Exchange from 1978 to
1989. Prior to accepting the AMEX chairmanship, Mr. Levitt worked for
16 years on Wall Street. He graduated Phi Beta Kappa from Williams
College in 1952 before serving for two years in the Air Force.
Upon his arrival at the SEC Chairman Levitt quickly established
four priorities: improving investor protections; reforming the municipal
debt markets; raising the standards of practice for brokers; and,
strengthening the international preeminence of the U.S. capital markets.
j

During Chairman Levitt's tenure, the SEC has established the Office
of Investor Education and Assistance and created the SEC world wide
website, one of the most popular on the internet, which allows the SEC
to make all corporate filings available to the public free of charge.
The SEC has worked to sever ties between political campaign
contributions and municipal underwriting business, a practice known as
"pay-to-play," as well as improving the disclosure and transparency of
the municipal bond market.

xiv

Chairman Levitt has also sought to raise the industry's sales practice
standards and eliminate the conflicts of interest in how brokers are
compensated.
The Commission, together with the industry, has developed the
"Profile Prospectus" and other plain English guidelines for investment
products in an effort to make disclosure documents easier to understand
without compromising the value of the information provided to
investors.

Commissioner
Following his appointment by President
Clinton, and his confirmation by the Senate,
Norman S. Johnson was sworn in as a United
States Commissioner on February 13, 1996 in
a ceremony presided over by the Chief Federal
District Judge in Salt Lake City, Utah.
Prior to his nomination, Commissioner
Johnson was a senior partner in the firm Van Cott, Bagley, Cornwall &
McCarthy and had a long and illustrious legal career focusing on federal
and state securities law. Commissioner Johnson commenced his career
in the private practice after serving as a staff member of the SEC from
1965 through 1967. In addition, Commissioner Johnson served as an
Assistant Attorney General in the Office of the Utah Attorney General
from 1959 to 1965 and also served as a law clerk to the Chief Justice of
the Utah Supreme Court.
During his career, Commissioner Johnson served as President of the
Utah State Bar Association, was chosen as a State Delegate, House of
Delegates, American Bar Association, and was named Chairman of The
Governor's Advisory Board on Securities Matters, State of Utah. In
addition, Commissioner Johnson served on the Governor's Task Force
on Officer and Director Liability, State of Utah and numerous other
committees and groups concerned with the application of federal and
state securities laws.

xv

Commissioner Johnson has received numerous honors and awards in
recognition of the outstanding contributions he has made to the
Securities Practice in the Rocky Mountain area. He has authored several
articles published in legal periodicals, one of which is much cited, "The
Dynamics of SEC Rule 2(e): A Crisis for the Bar."
Commissioner Johnson has involved himself in many community
groups, including the Utah Supreme Court Committee on Gender and
Justice. Married since 1956 to the former Carol Groshell, Commissioner
Johnson has three grown daughters, Kelly, Catherine and Lisa, all whom
reside in the state of Utah.

Commissioner
Isaac C. Hunt, Jr. was nominated to the
Securities and Exchange Commission by
President Bill Clinton in August 1995 and
confirmed by the Senate on January 26, 1996.
He was sworn in as a Commissioner on
Februray 29, 1996.
Prior to being nominated to the
Commission, Mr. Hunt was Dean and
Professor of Law at the University of Akron School of Law, a position he
held from 1987 to 1995. He taught securities law for seven of the eight
years he served as Dean. Previously, he was Dean of the Antioch School
of Law in Washington, D.C. where he also taught securities law. In
addition, Mr. Hunt served during the Carter and Reagan administrations
at the Department of the Army in the Office of the General Counsel as
Principal Deputy General Counsel and as Acting General Counsel. As
an associate at the law firm of Jones, Day, Reavis and Pogue, Mr. Hunt
practiced in the fields of corporate and securities law, government
procurement litigation, administrative law, and international trade. In
addition, Mr. Hunt commenced his career at the SEC as a staff attorney
from 1962 to 1967.
Mr. Hunt was born on August 1, 1937 in Danville, Virginia. He
earned his B.A from Fisk University in Nashville, Tennessee in 1957
and his LL.B. from the University of Virginia School of Law in 1962.
xvi

Commissioner
Paul R. Carey was nominated to the
Securities and Exchange Commission by
President Bill Clinton and confirmed by the
Senate on October 21, 1997 for a term which
expires June 5, 2002.
Prior to being nominated to the
Commission, Mr. Carey served as Special
Assistant to the President for Legislative
Affairs at the White House where he had been since February of 1993.
Mr. Carey was the liaison to the United States Senate for the President,
handling banking, financial services, housing, securities, and other
related issues. Prior to joining the Administration, Mr. Carey worked in
the securities industry focusing on equity investments for institutional
clients.
Mr. Carey received his B.A. in Economics from Colgate University.
Mr. Carey was born in Brooklyn, New York on October 18, 1962.

Commissioner
Laura S. Unger was sworn in on
November 5, 1997 as a member of the
Securities and Exchange Commission, for a
term expiring June 2001. Before being
appointed to the Commission, Ms. Unger
served as Counsel to the United States Senate
Committee on Banking, Housing and Urban
Affairs where she advised the Chairman,
Senator Alfonse M. D'Amato (R-NY). As
counsel, Ms. Unger followed legislative issues relating to banking and
securities.
Prior to working for the Senate Banking Committee, Ms. Unger was
a Congressional Fellow for Banking and Securities matters in the office
XVll

of Senator D'Amato. Before coming to work on Capitol Hill, Ms. Unger
was an attorney in the Enforcement Division of the Securities and
Exchange Commission in Washington, D.C.
Ms. Unger received a B.A. in Rhetoric from the University of
California at Berkeley and a J.D. from New York Law School.

XVlll

~ti
0>m.;

f/)
Q)

o

D

a:

!!l

0;0
III

III

m-

s: c:
-!!!
:>-

0<
(J)

:i=

o

m

w
o

u:

11.

f/)
Q)

o

o

:i=

I-

o
-a:

o

I-

.2

m
Q

a:

lU

c:

Cl
Q)

*

c

z
~

-J

~

Z
~
~

W

1:
-~

III

m

ti

•\

6~

1
_0

0>0

I! lil

~u g
III

III
~

Q.u.

c:

III
(J)

xix

Central Regional Office
Daniel F. Shea, Regional Director
1801 California Street, Suite 4800
Denver, Colorado 80202-2648
(303) 391-6800
Fort Worth District Office
Harold F. Degenhardt, District Administrator
801 Cherry Street, 19th Floor
Forth Worth, Texas 76102
(817) 334-3821
Salt Lake District Office
Kenneth D. Israel, Jr., District Administrator
50 South Main Street, Suite 500
Salt Lake City, Utah 84144-0402
(801) 524-5796
Midwest Regional Office
Mary Keefe, Regional Director
Citicorp Center
500 W. Madison Street, Suite 1400
Chicago, Illinois 60661-2511
(312) 353-7390
Northeast Regional Office
Carmen J. Lawrence, Regional Director
7 World Trade Center, Suite 1300
New York, New York 10048
(212) 748-8000
Boston District Office
Juan M. Marcelino, District Administrator
73 Tremont Street, 6th Floor
Boston, Massachusetts 02108-3912
(617) 424-5900

xx

Philadelphia District Office
Ronald C. Long, District Administrator
The Curtis Center, Suite 1005E
601 Walnut Street
Philadelphia, Pennsylvania 19106-3322
(215) 597-3100
Pacific Regional Office
Elaine M. Cacheris, Regional Director
5670 Wilshire Boulevard, 11th Floor
Los Angeles, California 90036-3648
(213) 965-3998
San Francisco District Office
David B. Bayless, District Administrator
44 Montgomery Street, Suite 1100
San Francisco, California 94104
(415) 705-2500
Southeast Regional Office
Randall J. Fons, Regional Director
1401 Brickell Avenue, Suite 200
Miami, Florida 33131
(305) 536-4700
Atlanta District Office
Richard P. Wessel, District Administrator
3475 Lenox Road, N.W., Suite 1000
Atlanta, Georgia 30326-1232
(404) 842-7600

XXI

Enforcement
The Commission's enforcement program is designed to protect investors
and foster confidence by preserving the integrity and efficiency of the
markets.

Key 1997 Results
In 1997,the Commission's investigations and actions resulted in
significant sanctions against securities law violators. The Commission
obtained court orders requiring defendants to disgorge illegal profits of
approximately $214 million. Civil penalties authorized by the Securities
Enforcement Remedies and Penny Stock Reform Act of 1990 (Remedies
Act), the Insider Trading Sanctions Act of 1984 (ITSA), and the Insider
Trading and Securities Fraud Enforcement Act of 1988 (ITSFEA) totaled
more than $49 million.

Enforcement

Actions Initiated

1993

1994

1995

1996

1997

180
239
32

-l

189
285
14
_1

453

489

Civil Injunctive Actions
Administrative Proceedings
Contempt Proceedings
Reports of Investigation

172
229
15

196
268
33

-.Q

-.Q

171
291
23
_1

Total

416

497

486

In Commission-related cases, criminal authorities obtained 93
indictments or informations and 98 convictions during 1997. The
Commission granted access to its files to domestic and foreign
prosecutorial authorities in 197 instances.

1

Enforcement Authority
The Commission has broad authority to investigate possible violation;
of the federal securities laws. In its informal investigations, the staff
requests information on a voluntary basis. In its formal investigations, the
staff can use the Commission's subpoena power to compel witnesses to
testify or to produce books, records, and other evidence.
The federal court injunction, an order that prohibits future violations
of the law, has historically been one of the Commission' s principal
enforcement tools. Conduct that violates the injunction may result in fines
or i~prisonment. In actions seeking injunctions, the Commission also
may request temporary restraining orders and preliminary injunctions as
emergency reliefto address ongoing violations. In its emergency actions,
the Commission will often request freeze orders to protect investor funds
and assets. As additional sanctions in civil actions, the Commission
frequently seeks orders requiring disgorgement of illegal profits and the
payment of civil penalties. The Remedies Act authorized the courts to
impose civil penalties for any violation of the federal securities laws
(except insider trading violations for which penalties are available under
ITSA and ITSFEA). The Remedies Act also affirmed the equitable
authority of the courts to bar or suspend individuals from serving as
corporate officers or directors.
The Commission may institute several types of administrative
proceedings. These include proceedings against regulated entities (such as
broker-dealer firms or investment advisers) in which violators may be
censured or limited in their activities, or in which their registrations may be
suspended or revoked. The Commission may impose similar sanctions on
persons employed by regulated firms, and may bar respondents from
further participation in penny stock offerings. In administrative
proceedings against regulated firms and their employees, the Remedies Act
authorizes the Commission to order the payment of penalties and
disgorgement.
The Commission also may issue cease and desist orders in
administrative proceedings against any person violating the federal
securities laws. The Commission may require disgorgement of illegal
profits in its cease and desist proceedings. In emergency situations, the

2

Commission may issue temporary cease and desist orders against regulated
firms or their employees.
The Securities Act of 1933 (Securities Act) permits the Commission
to suspend the effectiveness of registration statements containing false or
misleading statements, and to order compliance with the law. Rule I02(e)
of the Commission's Rules of Practice provides for administrative
proceedings against professionals, including accountants and attorneys, in
which they may be barred or suspended from appearing or practicing
before the Commission based on violations of the federal securities laws or
other evidence of unfitness.
The Commission is authorized to refer matters to other federal, state,
or local authorities, or self-regulatory organizations (SROs). Any violation
of the federal securities laws can be prosecuted as a criminal violation, and
the staff often provides substantial assistance to the Department of Justice
in federal criminal actions.

Enforcement Activities
Most of the Commission's enforcement actions were resolved by
settlement with the defendants or respondents, who generally consented to
the entry of judicial or administrative orders without admitting or denying
the factual allegations made against them. Table 2 contains a list of all
enforcement actions instituted in 1997. The following summaries are
provided as a sampling of the year's significant actions.
Offering Cases
Securities offering cases involve the offer and sale of securities in
violation of the registration provisions of the Securities Act.
Internet Cases
The internet and the various commercial online services have become
popular sources of information about many areas of public interest,
including securities. In some instances, however, communications over
the internet have been used to solicit the purchase of unregistered securities
or to further securities frauds.

3

Successful coordination between the Commission and criminal
authorities resulted in the termination of a massive manipulation of the
stock of Systems of Excellence, Inc. (SOE), a manufacturer and distributor
of video teleconferencing equipment. Following an expedited
investigation, the Commission filed an action against Charles O. Huttoe,
SOE' s former chief executive officer, the publisher of a daily stock
newsletter that touted SOE over the internet, and eleven other individuals
and entities (SEC v. Charles 0. Huttoe'Y. The Commission alleged,
among other things, that Huttoe secretly distributed millions of SOE shares
to his family members and corporations under his control, manipulated the
market by issuing false favorable information, and then sold his shares into
the inflated market. Huttoe artificially inflated the price of SOE shares
through false and misleading press releases announcing nonexistent
multimillion dollar sales of SOE products, an acquisition that had not
occurred, and revenue projections for SOE that were without basis. The
Commission alleged that more than $10 million was obtained from the
dumping of SOE shares when the stock reached its high in June 1996.
Huttoe consented to the entry of an injunction, and the Commission
obtained relief as to a number of relief defendants in this action. Related
criminal actions were brought against Huttoe, the newsletter publisher, and
a former SOE auditor.
The Commission filed a complaint in SEC v. Merle S Finkel, 2
alleging that Finkel, a certified public accountant, issued materially false or
inaccurate audit reports on the financial statements of SOE and two other
publicly-traded companies, Twenty First Century Health, Inc., and
Combined Companies International Corp. The complaint alleged that,
with respect to each of the three issuers, Finkel's audit reports falsely
stated that he had conducted audits in accordance with generally accepted
auditing standards, and falsely represented that the financial statements
were fairly presented in conformity with generally accepted accounting
principles. Finkel consented to the entry of an injunction and a
Commission order denying him the privilege of appearing or practicing
before the Commission as an accountant.
The Commission filed a complaint against George Chelekis and two
companies that he controlled, KGC, Inc., and Hot Stocks Review, Inc.
(SEC v. George Chelekis, et al.3). Chelekis published and distributed

4

internet and print versions of investment newsletters known as the Hot
Stocks publications. Chelekis failed to disclose that he and the other
defendants received at least $1.1 million from more than 150 issuers, and
275,500 shares of stock from ten issuers, as payment for recommending
those issuers' securities. The defendants consented to the entry of an
injunction and orders requiring them to pay a total of $162,727,
r~presenting$75,050 in disgorgement,$12,627 in prejudgment interest,
and a $75,050 civil penalty.
Other Offering Violations
The Commission filed an action against First Interregional Advisors
Corporation, a company engaged in the financing and distribution of
equipment lease contracts, a related broker-dealer firm, and the individual
who acted as president of both companies (SEC v. First Interregional
Advisors Corporation, et al.4). The complaint alleged that First
Interregional promised investors that they were purchasing particular
leases or groups of leases with specific governmental units, from which
they would receive an income stream over the life of the lease. In fact,
most of the investors were sold leases that had already been sold to others.
Interregional did not have sufficient funds to meet obligations to investors.
The Commission obtained a temporary restraining order and the
appointment of a receiver in these proceedings, which were pending at the
end of the year.
The Commission alleged that Global Financial Traders, Ltd., an
investment newsletter publisher, and individuals and companies related to
Global, engaged in a manipulation and concerted telemarketing campaign
to sell unregistered stock of American Image Motor Company (SEC v.
Global Financial Traders, Ltd. 5). The defendants sold large amounts of
the stock from their own accounts. The Commission obtained a temporary
restraining order, an asset freeze, and a preliminary injunction against the
firm and its principals.
Municipal Securities Cases
Individual investors have become important players in the municipal
securities markets, through direct purchases of municipal bonds and
through investments in mutual funds that hold these securities. At the
same time, the overall size of the market has grown substantially. To
5

protect investors in municipal securities, the Commission has focused
increased attention on potentially illegal activities in this market.
In cease and desist proceedings against Syracuse, New York, and two
of its financial officers, the Commission alleged that the city
misrepresented its financial condition and results of operations when
offering and selling municipal securities issued in December 1995 and
February 1996 (In the Matter of The City of Syracuse, New York, et al.6).
The official statements used to sell the securities showed a surplus of
$400,000 in the city's general and debt service funds, when in fact the city
had a deficit of $9.4 million. As a result of that and other misstatements,
the city overstated its 1995 ending fund balance by $24.2 million. The city
also described summary financial information as audited, without
disclosing that some of the information was derived from financial
statements on which auditors had issued reports containing qualified
opinions. Syracuse and the two individual respondents consented to the
entry of cease and desist orders.
The Commission alleged failure to reasonably supervise by Smith
Barney, Inc., in connection with a bond offering by Dade County, Florida
in 1993 (In the Matter of Smith Barney, Inc. \ The county had originally
planned to issue fixed-rate bonds. Smith Barney proposed an alternative
financing structure under which the county would issue variable-rate
bonds. The county would then exchange its obligation to make variablerate payments for another issuer's obligation to make fixed-rate payments.
When the alternative financing structure was first proposed, the Smith
Barney employee's calculations showed that the county would realize
substantial savings by adopting its alternative. However, a subsequent
change in interest rates caused the potential savings to the county to fall
below the threshold it had set for use of the alternative structure. The
Smith Barney employee responsible for structuring the transaction then
manipulated variables in the calculations to create the false impression that
the alternative would generate savings in excess of the minimum required.
The use of faulty and inaccurate assumptions in the calculations resulted in
the overstatement of hypothetical savings by at least $5 million. In
reliance on these calculations, the county decided to adopt the alternative
financing structure. Smith Barney consented to the entry of an order in
which the Commission found that it had failed to supervise the employee
responsible for the transaction. The order censured the firm and required it
to pay disgorgement of $1,584,671, plus prejudgment interest of $452,365,

6

to Dade County. The firm also was required to pay a civil penalty of
$250,000.
The Commission charged CS First Boston Corporation and two of its
former investment bankers with fraud in the offer and sale of $11 0 million
in bonds issued by Orange County, Califomia(SEC v.
First Boston
Corporation, et al.8). The complaint alleged that the defendants misled
investors about the risks of the county's investment strategy and losses.
Information about the county's investment strategy, risks, and investment
losses was material to investors in the $110 million bond offering because
the county guaranteed the bonds' liquidity. Investors had the right to
liquidate their investment upon seven days' notice, and, if the bonds could
not be resold in that time, the county agreed to repurchase them. This case
was pending at the end of the year.

c.s.

Financial Disclosure Cases
Actions involving false financial statements, or false and misleading
disclosures about matters affecting an issuer's financial condition, tend to
be complex, and generally demand a greater commitment of resources than
other types of cases. Effective prosecution in this area is essential to
preserving the integrity of the full disclosure system. The Commission
brought 90 cases containing significant allegations of financial disclosure
violations against issuers, regulated entities, or their employees. Many of
these cases included alleged violations of the books and records and
internal accounting control provisions of the Foreign Corrupt Practices
Act.
The Commission filed an action charging Fabri-Centers of America,
Inc., a fabric and crafts retailer, Robert L. Norton, and Joseph E. Williams
with materially overstating Fabri-Centers' earnings and profitability prior
to a $74.75 million convertible debt offering in March 1992 and in the next
three fiscal quarters (SEC v. Fabri-Centers of America, Inc., et al. 9). The
overstatements allowed Fabri-Centersto sell its convertible debt at better
prices and on more favorable terms than if accurate information had been
provided. Fabri-Centers consented to entry of an injunction and an order
requiring the payment of $3 .28 million in disgorgement.
In administrative proceedings, the Commission alleged that W.R.
Grace & Co. failed to disclose fully the substantial retirement benefits it

7

had agreed to provide J. Peter Grace, Jr. on his retirement as chief
executive officer (In the Matter ofWR. Grace & Co. 10). W.R. Grace also
failed to disclose a related-party transaction with Grace's son in its 1993
Form 10-K and its 1994 proxy statement. The undisclosed transaction
involved the acquisition, by a group headed by Grace's son, of Grace Hotel
Services Corporation, a W.R. Grace subsidiary. W.R. Grace consented to
the entry of a cease and desist order. The company and three of its former
officers and directors also consented to the issuance of a Report of
Investigation under section 21 (a) of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934
(In the Matter ofWR. Grace & Co.l1). The 21(a) Report emphasized the
affirmative responsibilities of corporate officers and directors to ensure that
shareholders receive accurate and complete disclosure of information
required in proxy solicitations and periodic reports.
The Commission filed an action against Ferrofluidics Corporation and
five individuals alleging false and misleading statements about a sham
private placement of securities, the company's equity investments, and its
sales of products (SEC v. Ferrojluidics Corporation, et al. 12). The
defendants also disseminated favorable, but baseless, projections of the
company's profitability and business prospects. The company was in fact
experiencing significant losses, as well as difficulties in developing and
manufacturing its products. The complaint further alleged that two of the
defendants engaged in insider trading by selling Ferrofluidics stock while
in possession of material, non-public information about the company's true
financial condition. This action was pending at the end of the year. The
Commission also instituted five related administrative proceedings against
a total of eleven individuals and a broker-dealer firm.

In a civil action against Montedison, S.p.A., an Italian company, the
Commission alleged that the company concealed bribes paid to politicians
in Italy and to other persons (SEC v. Montedison, Sip.A. 13). By misstating
its financial condition and results of operation, Montedison was able to
conceal losses of$398 million and to materially overstate its assets for
fiscal years 1988 through 1991. These proceedings were pending at the
end of the year.
The Commission's complaint against Triton Energy Corporation and
some of its former officers was based on numerous improper payments
that were intended to influence Indonesian government employees in
violation of the Foreign Corrupt Practices Act (SEC v. Triton Energy

8

Corporation, et al. 14). The payments were falsely entered on corporate
books as routine business expenditures. The complaint alleged that Triton
Energy failed to maintain an adequate system of internal accounting
controls to detect and prevent improper payments to government officials
and to provide reasonable assurance that transactions were recorded as
necessary to permit preparation of financial statements in conformity with
generally accepted accounting principles. Triton Energy consented to the
entry of an injunction and an order requiring the payment of a $300,000
civil penalty. In addition, one of Triton's former officers consented to an
injunction and an order requiring the payment of a $50,000 civil penalty.
The Commission instituted related administrative proceedings against
former Triton employees David Gore, Robert Puetz, William McClure,
and Robert P. Murphy for their conduct in connection with the improper
payments and misbookings The respondents consented to the entry of
cease and desist orders.
Insider Trading
Insider trading occurs when a person in possession of material nonpublic information engages in securities transactions or communicates the
information to others who trade. The ITSA authorizes the Commission to
seek a civil penalty, payable to the United States Treasury, of up to three
times the profit gained or loss avoided by persons who unlawfully trade in
securities while in possession of material non-public information or who
unlawfully communicate material non-public information to others who
trade. Civil penalties also can be imposed upon persons who control
insider traders. In injunctive actions against insider traders, the
Commission often seeks disgorgement of illegal profits in addition to civil
penalties. During 1997, the Commission brought 57 cases alleging insider
trading violations.
The complaint filed against Roy Handojo alleged insider trading in the
stock of five companies involved in four separate merger negotiations
(SEC v. Roy Handojo'i). Handojo obtained material non-public
information while employed as an analyst by J.P. Morgan's Financial
Institutions Group, which participated in the negotiations as adviser. His
trading resulted in profits of more than $477,000. The Commission
obtained an order freezing assets in the defendant's brokerage and bank
accounts in these proceedings, which were pending at the end of the year.

9

The Commission filed an action against FrederickLiu, a Hong Kong
resident, alleging that he obtained material non-public information about
the proposed acquisition of Renaissance Hotel Group by Doubletree
Corporation (SEC v. Frederick LiuI6). The 1.4 million shares of
Renaissance common stock that Liu purchased for an average price of
$15.66 increased in total value by $11,270,000 after the public
announcement of the merger. Liu canceled the trades and abandoned the
trading profits when he learned of the Commission's emergency
enforcement action. Liu consented to the entry of an injunction and an
order requiring him to pay a civil penalty of $2 million.
In an emergency action, the Commission filed a complaint against an
unknown trader (since identified as Abdul Ismail) and Ong Congqin
Bobby (SEC v. One Unknown Purchaser of the Call Options of AP L
Limited, et al. I\ The complaint was subsequently amended to add an
additional defendant, Lum Kwan Sung, a resident of Singapore. The
Commission alleged that the defendants engaged in insider trading prior to
the public announcementthat APL Limited would be acquired by
Singapore-based Neptune Orient Lines, Ltd. Ismail purchased call options
anonymously through an account at a Swiss bank, while Ong purchased
calls through a Singapore subsidiary of a United States brokerage firm.
Lum purchased APL common stock. The court granted the Commission's
request for a temporary asset freeze and orders requiring the defendants to
identify themselves, allowing expedited discovery, and granting other
ancillary relief. Ismail has been dismissed from this action, which was
pending at the end of the year.
In an emergency action filed against Emanuel Pinez, the former chief
executive officer of Centennial Technologies, Inc., the Commission
alleged insider trading by Pinez while he was in possession of information
regarding Centennial's true financial condition (SEC v. Emanuel Pinez 18).
Pinez caused Centennial to record fictitious sales in which he secretly paid
for products with his own funds. Pinez also allegedly altered inventory
tags, which resulted in an overstatement of inventory. Pinez's apparent
motive for these transactions was to ensure that Centennial's reported
results met analysts' expectations. Pinez purchased put options and sold
call options on Centennial stock, while aware that Centennial's fmancial
condition was substantially worse than reported. The court granted the
Commission's request for a temporary restraining order and for orders

10

freezing assets, requiring an accounting, and providing other relief. Pinez
was indicted in related criminal proceedings.
Regulated Entities
The Commission exercises oversight of SROs in the securities
business. The Commission instituted administrative and cease and desist
proceedings against Stock Clearing Corporation of Philadelphia (SCCP)
and Philadelphia Depository Trust Company (Philadep) (In the Matter of
Stock Clearing Corp. of Philadelphia and Philadelphia Depository Trust
Co. 19). The Commission's order found that SCCP and Philadep failed to
comply with their own rules and procedures, failed to file necessary
proposed rule changes with the Commission and, in the case of SCCP,
violated margin lending requirements of Regulation T. Some ofSCCP's
and Philadep' s violations were the result of inadequate internal and risk
management controls. For example, specific funds collected from SCCP
and Philadep clearing members and maintained as collateral in the event of
a financial emergency, as required by SCCP' s and Philadep' s rules, were
not safeguarded against improper uses. As a result, these funds were
commingled with general operating funds and were available and used,
almost without limitation, to meet operating expenses and cover cash
shortfalls at the Philadelphia Stock Exchange. Other violations resulted
when SCCP and Philadep utilized procedures and methodologies that were
not approved by the Commission and conducted operations in a manner
contrary to their own rules and regulations. SCCP and Philadep consented
to the entry of a cease and desist order requiring them to comply with
detailed undertakings. The Commission instituted related proceedings
against Timothy J. Guiheen, the former president and chief executive
officer of the SCCP and Philadep; Guiheen consented to the entry of a
cease and desist order.2o The Commission also instituted cease and desist
proceedings against William N. Briggs, who was formerly employed by
the SCCP and Philadep and is currently chief financial officer of the
Philadelphia Stock Exchange/ ' The proceedings against Briggs were
pending at the end of the year.

11

Retail Sales Practices
The Commission consistently brings high profile cases against the
entities and individuals it regulates, sending a strong message to the
industry that misconduct relating to the sale of securities will not be
tolerated. Moreover, the Commission is placing greater emphasis on firm,
and their managers, increasing the number of cases alleging failure to
supervise, and imposing stiffer sanctions.
A number of proceedings have involved schemes in which brokers
sold securities in exchange for undisclosed payments from issuers or
promoters. In October 1996, as a result of an undercover investigation by
the Federal Bureau ofInvestigation(FBI), working in cooperation with the
Commission, NASD Regulation, and the U.S. Attorney's Office for the
Southern District of New York, 45 individuals were arrested and charged
variously with conspiracy, securities fraud, and criminal contempt
following extensive investigations into illegal payments made to securities
brokers in connection with sales of over-the-counter and Nasdaq stocks to
customers.t' The Commission brought administrative proceedings against
29 of the stock promoters, company officials, brokers, and others who
were arrested. The Commission's proceedings charged the individuals
with securities fraud based on the same conduct underlying the criminal
complaints and sought cease and desist orders, bars on promoting penny
stocks, and disgorgement. According to the criminal complaints,
undercover FBI agents operating a small brokerage firm in Manhattan
posed as brokers who managed millions of dollars and were willing to
accept payoffs to sell over-the-counter bulletin board and Nasdaq stocks to
customers. The payments were generally made by and through stock
promoters who, working with officers of the companies whose stocks were
being touted, paid the brokers as much as 40 percent of the value ofthe
stock being sold to the brokers' customers.
The Commission instituted administrative proceedings against 11
respondents alleged to have participated in a scheme to sell securities to
brokerage customers in return for undisclosed compensation (In the Matter
of John L. Banach, et a123). The respondents included John L. Banach, the
former president of Enrotek Corporation. Banach and others made
payments to registered representatives at two brokerage firms in exchange
for purchases of Enrotek stock by the brokerages' customers. These
proceedings were pending at the end of the year.
12

The Commission also instituted administrative proceedings against
four individuals, alleging that they participated in a scheme to sell common
stock of Teletek, Inc. in return for payments that were not disclosed to
24
customers (In the Matter a/Steven Ira Wertman, et al. ). Steven Ira
Wertman, a stock promoter, arranged for secret payments to Robert Bruce
Orkin, the owner and principal officer of a now defunct brokerage firm.
Wertman and Orkin also allegedly manipulated the market in Teletek
stock. These proceedings were pending at the end of the year. In related
proceedings, the Commission alleged that Thomas Cloutier, a former
registered representative with a broker-dealer firm, sold Teletek stock in
exchange for undisclosed compensation (In the Matter a/Thomas John
Cloutier25). These proceedings also were pending at the end of the year.
Broker-Dealers
A significant number of Commission enforcement actions are filed
each year against broker-dealer firms and persons associated with them.
These actions focus on fraudulent sales practices as well as on violations of
the books and records, customer protection, and net capital provisions of
the federal securities laws. The Commission can also impose sanctions
upon firms and their senior management for failure reasonably to supervise
employees to prevent violative conduct.
The order instituting proceedings against H. Beck, Inc., a registered
broker-dealer, and its chief executive officer, Gary S. Hurvitz, alleged that
an H. Beck registered representative engaged in a scheme to defraud
customers through the offer and sale of unregistered partnership interests
(In the Matter 0/ H Beck, Inc., et al. 26). The registered representative
churned the account of an H. Beck customer and attempted to cover up the
scheme by sending misleading statements and updates to investors. The
Commission charged that H. Beck and Hurvitz failed reasonably to
supervise the registered representati ve with a view toward preventing his
violations. The respondents failed to implement a system reasonably
designed to prevent and detect his violations, failed adequately to monitor
his day-to-day activities, and failed to take adequate action in response to
red flags regarding his conduct. These proceedings were pending at the
end of the year.

13

The Commission filed an action against Sterling Foster & Co., Inc., a
New York broker-dealer, and four of its employees, Adam Lieberman,
Craig Kellerman, Frank Monroig, and Dennis Rueb, alleging that they had
obtained at least $75 million in connection with the manipulation of
securities of six issuers (SEC v. Sterling Foster & Co., Inc., et al.27).
Sterling Foster, Lieberman, and Kellerman manipulated the price of
securities of six public companies and sold these securities at artificially
inflated prices to investors. Lieberman and Monroig trained Sterling
Foster representati ves to induce customers to purchase these securities
through "boiler-room" sales practices. Sterling Foster, Lieberman, and
Kellerman charged customers undisclosed excessive markups of at least
$75 million on purchases of these securities and prevented the customers
from selling their positions. Sterling Foster, Lieberman, Kellerman, and
Monroig consented to the entry of a temporary restraining order that
appointed a special compliance monitor for Sterling Foster. This action
was pending at the end of the year.
The Commission instituted administrative proceedings against Royal
Alliance Associates, Inc., a registered broker-dealer (In the Matter of Royal
All iance Associates, Inc. 28). The managing executive of Royal Alliance's
Greensboro office transferred funds among approximately 50 of his
customers through various deceptive means, including the use of separate
entities. When the scheme ended, 14 of the managing executive's
customers had suffered losses of about $600,000. The managing executive
of Royal Alliance's Cocoa Beach office misappropriatedapproximately
$400,000 from ten of his customers. The Commission alleged that Royal
Alliance lacked adequate supervisory and compliance procedures and
failed adequately to implement the procedures that were in place with
respect to its Greensboro and Cocoa Beach offices. Royal Alliance
consented to the entry of an order requiring payment of a civil penalty of
$50,000 and retention of an independent consultant to review the firm's
policies and procedures.
The Commission instituted public administrative proceedings against
GKN Securities Corporation, a registered broker-dealer, and Robert H.
Gladstone, GKN's executive vice president, alleging that they had failed
reasonably to supervise a number of GKN registered representatives with a
view to preventing securities law violations (In the Matter ofGKN
Securities Corp., et al.29). GKN grew rapidly between 1990 through 1992.
The number of customer complaints received by the firm rose substantially
14

during this period and included multiple complaints against particular
registered representatives supervised by Gladstone. Customer complaints
included unauthorized trading and failure properly to execute sale orders.
Gladstone did not regularly review the complaints or the conduct of the
registered representatives who were the subjects of the complaints. GKN
and Gladstone failed to establish adequate supervisory procedures to
monitor the sales practice activities of the registered representatives and
failed to put in place procedures to track and adequately respond to
customer complaints. GKN consented to pay a $100,000 civil penalty, to
implement and maintain policies and procedures designed to reasonably
detect and prevent violations and to retain an independent consultant to
review their policies and procedures. Gladstone consented to a 30-day
suspension from association and an II-month supervisory suspension.
Investment Advisers and Investment Companies
The Commission brought a number of significant cases in 1997
involving investment advisers and investment companies. In this area, the
Commission expressed concern over the use of "soft dollars." A soft dollar
arrangement involves the use of commission dollars generated by trades
executed in client accounts to pay for research, brokerage, or other
products, services, or expenses. This creates a potential conflict of interest
for the adviser that must be disclosed to clients for their consideration
when hiring an adviser.
A recent case dealing with the failure to disclose a soft dollar
arrangement to clients involved Oakwood Counselors, Inc., a registered
investment adviser, and its president and sole owner, Paul J. Sherman (In
the Matter of Oakwood Counselors, Inc., et al.30). The Commission
alleged that Oakwood entered into a soft dollar arrangement with a brokerdealer and, from January 1989 to June 1995, used soft dollar credits
generated by the arrangement to pay for most of its own expenses,
including phone bills, office equipment, client solicitation fees, and client
accounting and marketing expenses. This arrangement was not disclosed
to Oakwood's clients. Oakwood consented to the entry of an order
requiring it to pay disgorgementof$419,763
and a civil penalty of
$25,000.
The Commission instituted administrative and cease and desist
proceedings against Parnassus Investments, a registered investment adviser
15

that acted as adviser to the Parnassus Fund, a mutual fund based in San
Francisco, and to individuals (In the Matter of Parnassus Investments, et
al.31). The Commission alleged that the respondents overstated the fund's
net asset value for over two years by failing properly to value its holding of
Margaux, Inc., a thinly traded security. The overstated net asset value
caused redeeming shareholders to receive more than they were entitled to,
thereby diluting the holdings of remaining shareholders, and caused
purchasing shareholders to pay more for fund shares than their actual
value. This violation also had the effect of increasing Parnassus
Investment's compensation as adviser to the fund. The Commission
alleged that Parnassus improperly used soft dollar credits from the fund's
broker to benefit Parnassus instead of the fund and its shareholders.
Parnassus failed to disclose the improper use of soft dollar credits.
The Commission alleged a scheme by Devon Capital Management,
Inc., a registered investment adviser, that resulted in the loss of millions of
dollars of municipal bond proceeds invested by Pennsylvania school
districts (SEC v. John Gardner Black, et af. 32). Devon represented to its
school district advisory clients that their funds were fully protected by a
pool of securities equal to their principal investment and that they would
receive a specified rate of return over a fixed period. In fact, the
investment program resulted in a combined loss of approximately $71
million for the school districts. Devon concealed the loss by
misrepresenting the value of assets held as collateral. In addition, Devon
continued to accept new clients even though their investments were
immediately diluted. Devon, an affiliated company, and John Black, who
controlled both entities, used at least $2 million of school district funds for
personal and business expenses. The defendants consented to the entry of
injunctions and an order requiring further discovery as to disgorgement
and civil penalties.
In administrative proceedings against Ronald V. Speaker and Janus
Capital Corporation, the Commission alleged that Speaker, the portfolio
manager for a registered mutual fund, breached his fiduciary duty by
taking an investment opportunity without disclosing the opportunity to the
fund (In the Matter of Ronald V Speaker, et af. 33). An institutional
salesman for a broker-dealer offered Speaker the opportunity to purchase
securities in Time Warner, an offer that Speaker rejected on behalf of the
fund. Later that day, he learned of a bid from another broker-dealer for the
debentures at a price higher than the price he had been offered. Without

16

disclosing his conflict of interest to the fund, and without obtaining the
fund's prior consent, Speaker personally purchased $10 million of the
debentures in two transactions and sold the debentures that same day for a
total profit of $16,000. The compliance department at Janus became aware
of the trade, but took no action after reviewing the transaction. Speaker
consented to the entry of a cease and desist order and orders requiring him
to pay disgorgementof$16,000,
plus prejudgmentinterestof$5,199,
and
to pay a civil penaltyof$16,000.
He also consented to a suspension from
association for 90 days, and to limitations on his personal securities
transactions for a 3-year period. Janus consented to the entry of an order by
which it was censured and required to pay a civil penalty of $25,000.
The Commission instituted administrative proceedings against
Alliance Capital Management, L.P., a registered investment adviser,
alleging that Alliance failed reasonably to supervise Roger W. Honour (In
the Matter of Alliance Capital Management, L.p.34). Honour was the
portfolio manager for two technology funds with a total of $220 million
under management. On 24 occasions, he personally traded in securities
being bought or sold by the funds and other Alliance clients. On several
occasions, Honour was able to obtain better prices for himself than for
Alliance clients. While Honour was associated with Alliance, the adviser
lacked adequate procedures to detect and prevent either his personal trades
made on the same day as client trades or his trading in breach of his
fiduciary duties that did not occur on the same day as a client trade.
Alliance consented to the entry of an order that imposed a censure and
required the firm to pay a civil penalty of $100,000.
The Commission instituted administrative proceedings against
Fundamental Portfolio Advisors, Inc., a registered investment adviser;
Vincent J. Malanga, Fundamental's president; Lance M. Bronfman, the
former portfolio manager of the Fundamental U. S. Government Strategic
Income Fund; and Fundamental Service Corporation, a broker-dealer
affiliated with Fundamental (In the Matter of Fundamental Portfolio
Advisors, Inc., et al.35). The Income Fund failed to disclose risks that
stemmed largely from its substantial investment in inverse floating
collateralized mortgage obligations (inverse floaters). The fund was
marketed as a relatively safe and conservative investment with a limited
duration of three years or less. Because of the fund's investment in inverse
floaters, it actually had a heightened sensitivity to changes in interest rates.

17

The fund's duration also was much higher than three years. These
proceedings were pending at the end of the year.
The Commission's administrative proceedings against Mitchell
Hutchins Asset Management, Inc. arose from the adviser's management of
the Paine Webber Short- Term U.S. Government Income Fund (In the
Matter of Mitchell Hutchins Asset Management Inc. 36). The adviser
marketed the fund as a higher-yield and somewhat higher-risk alternative
to money market funds and certificates of deposit. The fund told investors
that it did not intend to invest in certain classes of interest only and
principal only stripped mortgage-backed securities. Nonetheless, the fund
began investing in such securities in the fall of 1993. The adviser failed to
review the securities purchased by the fund's portfolio manager or to
ensure that the fund's investments were consistent with the prospectus and
other public disclosures. When interest rates increased in 1994, the fund
incurred significant losses. Mitchell Hutchins consented to the entry of a
cease and desist order that required the firm to pay a civil penalty of
$500,000.

Sources for Further Inquiry
The agency publishes the SEC Docket, which includes
announcements regarding enforcement actions. SEC litigation releases
describe civil injunctive actions and also report certain criminal
proceedings involving securities-related violations. These releases
typically report the identity of the defendants, the nature of the alleged
violative conduct, and the disposition or status of the case, as well as other
information. The SEC Docket also contains Commission orders instituting
administrati ve proceedings, making findings, and imposing sanctions in
those proceedings; initial decisions; and significant procedural rulings
issued by administrative law judges.
Recent litigation releases, orders in administrative proceedings, and
other information of interest to investors are posted on the internet at the
SEC's World Wide Website (http://www.sec.gov). Persons who wish to
report possible instances of fraud on the internet -or any other violations of
the federal securities laws--may now send messages to the Commission
through its internet site. The Commission's Enforcement Complaint
Center may be reached through the Enforcement web page; visitors have

18

the option of using either an internet form or sending an electronic mail
message through the site. In addition, electronic mail may be sent directly
to the Division of Enforcement at enforcement@sec.gov.

19

International Affairs
The SEC works in the international arena to promote cooperation and
assistance and to encourage the adoption of high regulatory standards.
The Office of International Affairs develops and implements the SEC
international enforcement and regulatory initiatives. To further these
goals, the office negotiates and oversees the implementationof
information-sharingarrangementsfor
enforcement and regulatory
matters, conducts a technical assistance program for countries with
emerging securities markets, and ensures that the SEC's interests are
furthered through its participation in international organizations.

s

Key 1997 Results
In 1997, the office made 240 requests to foreign governments for
enforcement assistance on behalf of the SEC and responded to 363
requests for enforcement assistance from foreign governments. The
international affairs staff responded to 160 foreign requests for technical
assistance and provided training for 341 foreign capital markets officials
from 91 countries.
The SEC signed with the Bank of England the agency's first crossborder, cross-sectoral agreement to assist in regulatory cooperation. In
addition, the SEC signed memoranda of understanding to assist in law
enforcement with authorities in Germany and Portugal.
The SEC's leadership role in the International Organization of
Securities Commissions (IOSCO) and the Council of Securities Regulators
of the Americas (COSRA) continued to advance international regulatory
and market oversight issues. IOSCO published a paper on internet
enforcement and surveillance and continues to examine the impact of the
internet on securities regulation. rosco also adopted a comprehensive
resolution on recordkeeping and collection of information that will
facilitate enforcement cooperation. Finally, IOSCO approved a paper to
facilitate information sharing by regulators and market authorities during a
market or firm crisis.

20

Arrangements for Exchange of Information and Assistance
The SEC obtains foreign-based information to protect U.S. investors
and markets from cross-border fraud and other violations of the U.S.
federal securities laws. The SEC has entered into 32 arrangements with
foreign counterparts for information sharing and cooperation in the
investigation and prosecution of securities law violations. As an
outgrowth of its experience in the enforcement arena, the SEC has
expanded its arrangements to encompass cooperation on regulatory
matters.
The SEC signed a Memorandum of Understanding (MOU) with the
Bank of England and the Commodity Futures Trading Commission to
strengthen regulatory oversight of globally active U.S. and U.K. entities
engaged in securities and futures activities. The newly named U.K.
Financial Services Authority (FSA) also signed the MOU to confirm that
its provisions will continue upon the transfer of U.K. banking supervision
to the FSA in 1998. The MOU is the first formal understanding among
U.S. and U.K. securities, futures and banking regulators, and evidences
increased regulatory cooperation across international borders and across
financial sectors (securities and banking).
The SEC signed an MOU with the Bundesaufsichtsamtfur den
Wertpapierhandel (BA We) (Germany's securities regulator) for
cooperation and sharing information in enforcing U.S. and German
securities laws. The MOU is the first to be signed by the BA We with a
securities authority outside of the European Union.
The SEC signed an MOU with the Comissao do Mercado de VaIores
Mobiliarios (CVM) of Portugal, concerning consultation and cooperation
in enforcing U.S. and Portuguese securities laws. The MOU was signed
after Portuguese law was amended to allow the CVM to use its
investigatory powers on behalf of foreign regulators.

21

Enforcement Cooperation and International Cases
Assistance from foreign authorities helps the SEC to institute
enforcement proceedings. In 1997, the SEC made 240 requests to foreign
governments for enforcement assistance and responded to 363 requests for
enforcement assistance from foreign governments. The following are
significant cases involving either the SEC's receipt of assistance from
foreign regulators or substantial international dimensions.
SECv. Pinez. After the SEC sued the defendant in the U.S., he moved
over $1 million in alleged insider trading proceeds to an account in Jersey.
Based on information provided by the Jersey Financial Services
Commission, the SEC brought an action in Jersey and had the illegally
obtained proceeds frozen there.
SEC v. Montedison. With assistance of the Italian Commissione
Nazionale per le Societa e la Borsa, the SEC brought action against a
foreign issuer for fraudulent financial statements and disclosures. This
case demonstrates that foreign firms listing in the U.S. will be held to the
same disclosure standards as U.S. firms.
SEC v. Comparator. In this fraud case, the Malaysian Securities
Commission and the Malaysian Central Bank assisted the SEC for the first
time, obtaining bank records that revealed illegally obtained profits.
SEC v. Ong. The SEC alleged that two Singapore business people
bought millions of dollars of common stock and options of APL, a
Delaware corporation, in advance of the public announcementthat
Singapore-basedNeptune Orient Lanes had agreed to acquire APL. The
SEC obtained a temporary restraining order and freeze orders against the
defendants.
SEC v. Triton Energy Corp. The SEC alleged violations of the
Foreign Corrupt Practices Act by Triton Energy Corp., an international gas
and oil company based in Dallas, for allowing and concealing bribes to
Indonesian officials. In addition, administrative proceedings were
concluded against four former employees in connection with the improper
payments and misbookings.

22

Technical Assistance
The SEC's technical assistance program helps emerging foreign
securities markets to develop regulatory structures that promote investor
confidence. The technical assistance program is multifaceted and includes
training programs, review of foreign securities laws and regulations, and
responses to ad hoc requests. In the past year, the Office ofInternational
Affairs responded to 160 foreign requests for technical assistance and
provided U.S. training for 341 capital market officials from 91 countries.
The cornerstone of the training program is the International Institute
for Securities Market Development, a two-week, management-level
training program covering the development and oversight of securities
markets. Over 100 delegates from 66 countries attended the 1997 Market
Development Institute. An additional 101 delegates representing 50
countries attended the week -long International Institute for Securities
Enforcement and Market Oversight. SEC staff also conducted training
programs on enforcement and disclosure issues geared toward regulators
from targeted geographic regions. SEC staff contributed to IOSCO' s first
international educational program, which focused on the regulation and
supervision of market intermediaries.
The Office ofInternational Affairs strengthened its partnership with
the U. S. Agency for International Development (USAID), which provides
funding for many of the SEC's technical assistance programs. The two
agencies entered into a global agreement in 1997 that enables the SEC to
provide technical assistance to regulatory agencies and stock exchanges in
emerging economies throughout the world. USAID continues to fund the
SEC's technical assistance programs in the New Independent States of the
former Soviet Union and Central and Eastern Europe, including a regional
office training program. Also the SEC began a USAID- funded technical
assistance program with Egypt, which includes a short -term resident SEC
advisor in Cairo and training for staff of the Egyptian Capital Markets
Authority.

International

Organizations

Through its involvement in international organizations, the SEC
promotes its regulatory approach, fosters high regulatory standards, and
23

develops international consensus on many issues. The SEC also benefits
from a better understanding of foreign regulations, markets and practices
as a result of its participation in multilateral organizations.
International Organization of Securities Commissions
With over 150 members, loseo promotes cooperation and
consultation among the world's securities regulators. In 1997, loseo
completed work on:
•

a paper on internet enforcement and surveillance;

•

a resolution focusing on conducting successful investigations and
prosecutions of securities violations; and

•

a paper identifying the types of core information that may be
needed to assess and manage the impact of specific emergency
events and that should facilitate information sharing during a
crisis.

loseo's

key ongoing activities include:

•

working with the International Accounting Standards Committee
as that body develops international accounting standards for use in
cross-border offerings;

•

heightening regulators' awareness of the need for their industry to
address year 2000 computer issues;

•

examining a range of internet-related issues; and

•

developing a set of core principles for securities regulation.

Council of Securities Regulators of the Americas
COSRA enhances the efforts of countries in the Americas to develop
sound securities markets that are fair to all investors. COSRA's
membership represents both developed and emerging markets. In 1997,
eOSRA approved principles for effective oversight of independent

24

auditors. COSRA also launched a hemisphere-wide investor education
campaign, and will unveil investor education and protection materials that
focus on saving and investing.
Organization/or Economic Cooperation and Development (OECD)
In May 1997, the OECD Ministers agreed to enact national
legislation, as well as sign an international treaty, criminalizing foreign
bribery by the end of 1998. The agreement also calls for an end to the taxdeductibility of bribes and stricter accounting and auditing guidelines for
companies. The SEC worked with other U.S. government agencies in
developing the accounting and auditing guidelines that were adopted.

International Market Oversight
At the 1997 Denver Summit, the heads of state of the Group of Seven
(G-7) countries asked securities and banking regulators to cooperate in
enhancing regulatory oversight and to promote stronger risk management
and improved transparency in markets. The SEC is using its specialized
knowledge of foreign securities systems to contribute to two initiatives that
respond to the G-7 directive: (1) the SEC is working with IOSCO to
develop a core set of principles for regulating securities markets, which
should improve the quality of supervision; and (2) within the Joint Forum
on Financial Conglomerates, the SEC is working to facilitate information
exchange among securities, banking and insurance supervisors concerning
the activities of internationally active firms.

25

Investor Education and Assistance
The Office of Investor Education and Assistance serves investors who
complain to the SEC about investmentfraud or the mishandling of their
investments by securities professionals. The office also responds to a
broad range of investor inquiries, produces and distributes educational
materials, and organizes town meetings and seminars.

Key 1997 Results
During the year, the investor assistance specialists analyzed and
responded to 48,169 complaints and inquiries from the public. These
actions helped investors recover approximately $1 million.
As part of the agency's effort to educate investors, the office
organized five investors' town meetings and held twenty-four seminars on
how to invest wisely. The office also released two new publications
entitled, Cold Calling Alert and Corporate Bankruptcy.
The Office ofInvestor Education and Assistance began working with
securities regulators from throughout the Western Hemisphere, members
of the Council of Securities Regulators of the Americas, to plan an
international investor education week from March 29 to April 4, 1998.

Investor Complaints and Inquiries
In 1997, the investor assistance specialists analyzed and responded to
48,169 complaints and inquiries, 6 percent more than in 1996. Since 1993,
the volume of investor contacts has risen by over 36 percent.

26

OlEA Complaint & Inquiry
Totals by Fiscal Year
+6%

50000
45000
40000

+7%

+ 10%

~---~

---

48169

45370

42575

+12%

~38839

34713

35000

30201

30000

27504

25000
20000

22420
16419

15000
10000
-j

5000

-

0
1993

1994

L Complaints
%

1995

0

lnqumes

= percentage Increase/decrease

1996
•

1997

Totals

over previous year

Approximately two-thirds of the 48,169 investor contacts in 1997
were inquiries, and one-third were complaints. The most common investor
inquiries included (1) questions about the laws governing the securities
industry, (2) questions concerning the filing status of companies, and
(3) requests for SEC publications.
Of the 17,968 complaints the investor assistance specialists handled in
1997, approximately 55 percent involved broker-dealers, and
approximately 21 percent involved issuers. The remainder involved
mutual funds, investment advisers, banks, transfer and clearing agents, and
other financial and non-financial entities.
A majority of the broker-dealer complaints involved common stocks.
As the chart that follows demonstrates, investors most frequently
complained that their brokers engaged in unauthorized transactions.
During the year, complaints concerning unauthorized transactions
increased by 12 percent compared with 1996. Complaints concerning
misrepresentations declined by 8 percent compared with 1996, while
complaints concerning a broker's failure to follow instructions rose by 25

27

percent. A growing number of investors--1 0 percent more than in 1996-complained about cold calling problems during the year. From 1995 to
1997, cold calling complaints nearly doubled.

OlEA Broker Dealer Complaints by Major Complaint Type
Fiscal 1997
1370

1400

,

1200

-,

~4

i/

1000

;:~;

v

877

824

~.':.'

800
600

"

..

400

421
,

395

366

200

132

0
Unauthonzed

Transactions

Mlsrepresentations

Failure
to Follow
Instructions

Cold
Calling
Problems

UnsUitable
Investments

High
Pressure
Sales

Churning

During 1997, more than half of the office's initial contacts with
investors occurred over the telephone. The remainder came either in the
form of letters or through electronic mail (e-mail). In June 1996, the SEC
opened an internet e-mail box--"help@sec.gov"--for investor complaints
and inquiries. Since then, the investor assistance staff has processed and
substantively responded to over 3,486 complaints and inquiries by internet
e-mail.

Referrals
When a complaint contains allegations of egregious misconduct or
suggests a pattern of sales practice abuses by a broker-dealer, the Office of
Investor Education and Assistance refers the complaint to the Division of
Enforcement or the Office of Compliance Inspections and Examinations.
In 1997, the office referred over 2,000 complaints to other SEC divisions
and offices or other regulatory agencies.

28

Plain English Initiative
The Office ofInvestor Education and Assistance continued to work
with issuers to help them create disclosure documents in plain English.
The office also led plain English writing workshops for several groups
nationwide, including the New York Stock Exchange's Arbitration Board,
the Investment Company Institute, the Financial Accounting Standards
Board, the Practicing Law Institute, and various SEC offices and divisions.
Together with the Divisions of Corporation Finance and Investment
Management, the Office of Investor Education and Assistance developed
guidelines for preparing disclosure documents in plain English. In January
1997, the office prepared and distributed a draft handbook on writing
disclosure documents in plain English.

Investor Outreach
Because a well educated investor provides one of the most important
defenses against securities fraud, the SEC continued its aggressive investor
outreach program. During 1997, the agency's investor education
initiatives included:
•

Facts on Saving and Investing Campaign. At a June 1997 meeting
with the Council of Securities Regulators of the Americas, the
council finalized plans to kick -off national public awareness
campaigns in each country during the week of March 29 to April
4, 1998. Under a unified banner, 21 countries in the Western
Hemispherejoined the Facts on Saving and Investing Campaign,
with the slogan: "Get the facts. It's your money. It's your
future." In the United States, govemmentalagencies, the states,
consumer groups and industry organizations joined the campaign
to promote public awareness of savings and investing options
among the public and in the schools.

•

Investors' Town Meetings and Seminars. The Office ofInvestor
Education and Assistance organized town meetings in Fort
Lauderdale, Florida; San Francisco, California; Los Angeles,

29

California; Hamden, Connecticut; and Tulsa, Oklahoma. These
meetings gave investors an opportunity to talk with Chairman
Arthur Levitt and to attend educational seminars on how the
markets work and how to invest wisely. In coordination with the
securities industry, the office sponsored 24 educational seminars.
Over 13,000 investors attended town meetings in 1997, and
millions more have viewed them through television broadcasts
and videotape distribution.

30

•

New Publications. The Office of Investor Education and
Assistance distributes over a dozen brochures that explain in plain
English how the securities industry works, how to invest wisely,
and what to do if something goes wrong. In February 1997, the
office published a new pamphlet entitled, Corporate Bankruptcy.
This pamphlet answers frequently asked questions about what
happens when a public company files for protection under the
federal bankruptcy laws. In September 1997, the office released a
new brochure entitled, Cold Calling Alert. This brochure tells
investors what the cold calling rules are, how to deal with cold
calls, how to stop them, and how to evaluate investment
opportunities that come over the telephone.

•

Toll-Free Information Service. The SEC made improvements to
its toll-free information service (800-SEC-033 0) to better meet the
needs of investors. Investors may call the toll-freeline 24 hours a
day, 7 days a week, to hear investor protection messages, request
educational materials, and learn how the SEC can assist them with
their complaints and inquiries. The toll-free investor information
service received over 15,000 calls during the year.

•

Internet Site. The Office of Investor Education and Assistance
maintains and regularly updates the investor assistance and
complaints section of the SEC's internet website
(http://www.sec.gov). Investors who access this section can read
and download the SEC's educational publications and see the
agency's latest investor alerts. They can also link to other internet
sites that offer information for investors. During 1997, the
investor assistance and complaints section was viewed by over
200,000 users from around the world.

Regulation of the Securities Markets
The Division of Market Regulation oversees the operations of the nation's
securities markets and market participants. In calendar year 1997, the
SEC supervised approximately 8, 500 registered broker-dealers with over
63,000 branch offices and over 556,000 registered representatives. In
addition, the SEC oversaw 8 active registered securities exchanges, the
National Association of Securities Dealers and the over-the-counter
securities market, 15 registered clearing agencies, 748 transfer agents, the
Municipal Securities Rulemaking Board, and the Securities Investor
Protection Corporation.
Broker-dealersfiling FOCUS reports with the Commission had
approximately $2. 2 trillion in total assets and $120.4 billion in total
capitalfor fiscal year 1997. At the end of calendar 1997, equity market
capitalization equaled approximately $12. 8 trillion in the United States
and $35.5 trillion worldwide. Average daily trading volume reached 524
million shares on the New York Stock Exchange and 646 million shares on
the Nasdaq StockMarket.

Key 1997 Results
The Division issued a concept release that reexamines the regulation
of the U.S. securities markets in light oftechnological developments. The
concept release discusses the activities of two types of entities: (l) trading
systems that present alternatives to traditional exchange trading; and (2)
foreign markets, broker-dealers, and other entities that provide investors in
the U.S. with direct electronic links to foreign markets.
The order handling rules, which were implemented this year, appear
to have enhanced transparency in the marketplace. Regulation M was also
implemented this year. This new approach to public offerings has
simplified the process for all participants. This year the market
experienced significant trading volume and volatility. Technical support
for heavy volume is closely monitored by the staff. The levels at which
circuit breakers are triggered are also under review. Guidance on trading,

31

cleanng, and risk assessment are offered telephonically during volatile
trading sessions.
The Division conducted two studies that were submitted to Congress
this year. First, the Report on the Practice 0/ Preferencing discusses the
impact of preferencing on retail customers. Second, the Study a/State
Licensing Requirements/or Associated Persons a/Broker-Dealers
addresses the uniformity of requirements among the states and the
possibility of streamlining such requirements.
Finally, as part of the continuing implementation of the settlement
with the National Association of Securities Dealers (NASD), several major
rule proposals were enacted to address issues such as corporate
governance, listing standards, and anti-competitive conduct.

Securities Markets, Trading, and Significant Regulatory Issues
Concept Release Concerning Regulation of Alternative Trading Systems,
Exchanges, and Foreign Markets
On May 23,1997, the Commission issued a concept release'"
soliciting comment on ways to update the SEC's regulatory framework to
address recent changes in the U. S. securities markets resulting from
technological advances. The concept release focused on: (1) the rapid
growth in electronic trading systems that present alternatives to traditional
exchange trading; and (2) the development of technology that allows U.S.
investors to trade directly on foreign markets from the United States. The
comment period closed October 3, 1997.
Derivatives
The Commission approved several self-regulatory organization (SRO)
proposals that strengthened market stability and integrity while facilitating
use of exchange-traded derivatives for risk management purposes,
including the following:
•

32

proposals chaniing position and exercise limits for equity and
index optionsr'

•

proposals that provide the U.S. options exchanges greater
flexibility to set margin standardsr'" and

•

a proposal by the New York Stock Exchange (NYSE ) transfering
its options business to the Chicago Board Options Exchange
(CBOE).4o

The Commission also approved several proposals to list and trade new
options products, such as packaged butterfly spreads" and packaged
vertical spreads,42 and proposals to list and trade options based on various
domestic and international stock indices.43
In 1994, the Derivatives Policy Group (DPG), consisting of the six
firms most active in the OTC derivatives market, was formed to address a
broad range of regulatory issues. Since 1995, five DPG firms have been
reporting to the SEC under a framework for voluntary oversight. In 1997,
the five reporting firms provided the SEC with quarterly credit and market
risk information. The staff reviewed reports prepared by DPG firms'
external auditors concerning the firms' implementation of management
controls for OTC derivatives and mathematical models used to calculate
risk associated with the firms' portfolios.
The Division continued to work with the International Organization of
Securities Commissions (lOSCO) and the Basle Committee on Banking
Supervision on a survey regarding the trading and derivatives activities of
internationally active banks and securities firms for the period 1993-1997.
The survey provided additional information on derivatives activities
disclosed in these firms' annual reports.
Automation Initiatives
Rule 17a-23 under the Securities Exchange Act of 1934 (Exchange
Act) requires brokers and dealers that operate automated trading systems
to maintain participant, volume, and transaction records, and to report
system activity periodically to the SEC.44 The Division received 135
filings for automated trading systems.
Automation reviews of the exchanges, Nasdaq, and clearing agencies
continued, including 9 on-site reviews that resulted in 9 reports and 30
recommendations for technology improvements." Through the
33

Automation Review Policy program, the staff monitored and assessed the
SROs' national market system electronic data processing facilities. The
staff also completed 9 technology updates and performed 3 special reviews
of information vendors and broker-dealers. In addition, the staff undertook
numerous special projects to address relevant technology issues, including:
(1) systems capacity, (2) quoting stocks in sixteenths, and (3)
decimalization.
The staff issued no-action letters providing relief to the following
broker-dealers with respect to their operation of automated trading systems
without registration as an exchange under section 6 of the Exchange Act:
(1) TradeWeb LLC, (2) Niphix Investments Inc., and (3) Bloomberg
Tradebook LLC.46 In addition, the staff issued letters confirming that
previously issued no-action letters providing relief from exchange
registration will continue to apply if additional types of securities are
traded on the system 47 or if the ownership of the system sponsor changes
but does not affect the operation of the system."
In October 1996, the staff granted no-action reliefto The Flamemaster
Corporation, permitting it to operate an internet bulletin board on which
investors can post indications of interest to buy and sell the company's
49
shares. The staff noted in particular that buyers and seIIers would have
to execute and settle their transactions independently of the trading system.
Year 2000 Compliance
Throughout 1997, the Automation Review Policy program focused on
the industry's efforts to prepare its computer systems for the year 2000.
The Division undertook or was heavily involved in the following year
2000 projects:

34

•

ongoing oversight and review of SRO remediation efforts;

•

periodic surveys to assess SRO progress towards year 2000
compliance;

•

review of broker-dealer year 2000 compliance efforts;

•

development of a year 2000 examination checklist for agencywide use;

•

assessment of compliance among third-party vendors;

•

coordination with industry, other agencies, and Congress
regarding year 2000 issues; and

•

the Commission's Year 2000 Task Force, inc!uding the
preparation of a report to Congress on year 2000 issues.

Order Handling Ru1es
On January 20, 1997, the Commission began phasing in the order
handling rules. The order handling rules were designed to improve the
handling and execution of customer orders in exchange-traded securities
and securities traded over-the-counter (OTC). 50 As of October 13, 1997,
all exchange-listed and Nasdaq securities were phased-in. 5I
Trading Practices Developments
The Commission completed a comprehensive restructuring of its antimanipulation regulation of securities offerings by adopting Regulation M
and rescinding Exchange Act rules 10b-6, 10b-6A, 1Ob-7, 1Ob-8, and 10b21 (the trading practice rules).52 RegulationM is intended to prevent
manipulative conduct by persons with an interest in the outcome of an
offering, such as underwriters, issuers, and selling security holders. The
regulation provides streamlined and flexible regulation of market
participants and enhances marketplace competition, while retaining
investor safeguards. Regulation M consists of six rules, including a
definitional rule, covering:
•

the activities of underwriters and other persons participating in a
distribution;

•

the activities of issuers and selling security holders conducting a
distribution;

•

Nasdaq passive market making;

35

•

stabilization transactions and similar offering-related activities by
underwriters;

•

the recordkeeping of underwriting syndicate activity; and

•

short selling in anticipation of a public offering.

Odd-Lot Tender Offers by Issuers
In December 1996, the Commission amended rule 13e-4 to make it
easier for issuers to conduct continuous, periodic, or extended tender offers
to shareholders of odd-lots (i.e., 99 or fewer shares). S3 The amendment
provides issuers with greater flexibility in reducing the number of small
shareholdings where the costs to issuers of servicing such holdings, and
the costs to shareholders of seIling such holdings, are disproportionate to
their value.
Unlisted Trading Privileges
The Joint Industry Plan for Unlisted Trading Privileges in OTC
Securities (OTCIUTP Plan), operating under temporary Commission
approval, permits exchanges to trade Nasdaq/national market securities
subject to the terms of the OTCIUTP Plan. Currently, any exchange
participant to the plan may trade up to 500 Nasdaq/nationalmarket
securities. On June 30, 1997, the Commission extended its temporary
approval ofthe OTCIUTP Plan through December 30, 1997. S4 The
Commission also approved trading of Standard & Poor's Depository
Receipts and Standard & Poor's MidCaf 400 Depository Receipts
pursuant to unlisted trading privileges. S
Municipal Securities
The staff responded to requests for interpretive or no-action guidance
regarding the application of the November 1994 amendments to rule 15c212 under the Exchange Act. For example, on July 3, 1997, the Division
issued an interpretive letter stating that the initial assignment by Moody's
Investors Service, in January 1997, of modifiers to rating symbols was not
the type of event for which "material event" reporting was intended to be
required under rule l5c2-12. S6

36

Letters to the Commodity Futures Trading Commission
The staff responded to requests from the Commodity Futures Trading
Commission (CFTC) for SEC views regarding various proposals to trade
financial products. Of particular note, the staff issued letters to the CFTC
relating to:
•

the Chicago Mercantile Exchange's proposal to trade futures and
futures options on the Mini Standard & Poor's 500 Stock Price
Index;57

•

the application of the Singapore International Monetary Exchange
Limited (Simex) to permit the offer and sale to persons in the
United States of futures and futures options on the Morgan Stanley
Capital International Taiwan Index to be traded on or subject to
the rules of Simex;S8 and

•

the designation of the Chicago Board of Trade as a contract
market for futures and futures options on the Dow Jones Industrial
S9
Average.

International Activities
Supervisory Oversight
The SEC took a leading role to improve supervisory oversight of
participants in the global securities industry. During 1997, the staff
participated in bilateral and multilateral efforts to: (l) enhance the
cooperation among supervisors with oversight of internationally active
financial institutions; (2) strengthen risk management and capital
assessment in firms; (3) improve transparency in the derivatives markets;
and (4) reduce payment and settlement risk.
In furtherance of its August 1995 joint initiative with the Securities
Investment Board to conduct an analysis of the financial, operational, and
management controls used by major global financial conglomerates
involved in significant cross-border securities and banking activities, the
staff participated with United States and United Kingdom securities firms

37

and banking entities in oversight reviews of major global financial
conglomerates. The joint reviews have improved communication channels
between the United States and the United Kingdom and have resulted in
additional bilateral meetings to discuss firm-specific issues, as well as
additional discussions on the sharing of information in emergency
situations.
Within laSCO, SEC staffhave prominent roles in the standing
working groups on the regulation of secondary markets (WG2) and the
regulation of market intermediaries (W03). In 1997, WG2 prepared a
paper to provide guidance to supervisors on information sharing,
developed with their Bank of International Settlement counterparts a
disclosure framework for securities settlement systems, and continued to
work on the supervisory challenges presented by the year 2000. W03
initiated work on defining acceptable methodologies for determining
minimum capital standards and supervisory approaches, as well as risk
management and internal controls and systems, to be applied to
internationally active securities firms.
Memorandum of Understanding
In October 1997, Chairman Arthur Levitt signed a Memorandum of
Understanding (MOU) with the Bank of England. The MOU establishes a
framework to share supervisory information on globally active United
States securities firms and United Kingdom banking entities engaged in
cross-border securities and futures activities.

Broker-Dealer Regulation
Report on the Practice of Preferencing
Section 51 D(d) of the National Securities Markets Improvement Act
of 1996 (NSMIA) directed the Commission to conduct a study on the
impact on investors and the national market system of the practice of
preferencing on one or more registered exchanges. Congress specified that
the study should examine: (1) how preferencing impacts the execution
prices received by retail securities customers whose orders are preferenced;
(2) the ability of retail securities customers in all markets to obtain
executions of their limit orders in preferenced securities; and (3) the cost of

38

preferencing to retail securities customers. The Commission submitted its
report entitled Report on the Practice 0/ Preftrencing to Congress on April
11, 1997.
The Commission generally concluded that preferencing has not had a
deleterious effect on the national market system, has not diminished the
quality of preferencing exchanges as compared to other regional
exchanges, and has enhanced the preferencing exchanges' ability to
compete. More specifically, the Commission found that preferencing has
not diminished the ability of customers to receive quality executions. The
report reiterated broker-dealers' duties of best execution in selecting
markets for routing customer orders.
Study of State Licensing Requirements for Associated Persons
On October 10, 1997, the Commission submitted to Congress its
study of the impact of disparate state licensing requirements on associated
persons of registered broker-dealers, as requested by Congress. The report
is entitled Study a/State Licensing Requirements/or Associated Persons 0/
Broker-Dealers.
The Commission found that the states have achieved substantial
uniformity in their agent licensing requirements and procedures, but that
certain disparities exist that may cause unnecessary delays in the agent
licensing process. Accordingly, the Commission recommended that the
states work together and with industry participants to further streamline
state licensing requirements. The Commission offered in its report several
recommendations for the states and the industry to consider in working
toward this goal. Because the Commission believes that state regulators
perform a valuable service in scrutinizing individuals wishing to engage in
securities transactions in their jurisdictions, it did not recommend a
wholesale replacement of the existing state licensing process.
Electronic Record Retention for Broker-Dealers
The Commission amended rule 17a-4 to allow broker-dealers to use
electronic storage media (including optical disk and CD-ROM) to maintain
their records.6o The adopting release for the amendments includes a
Division no-action position that will permit broker-dealers, transfer agents,
and clearing agencies to fulfill their record retention and preservation
39

requirements set forth in rules under the Exchange Act by using electronic
storage media. The adopting release also includes an interpretation of rule
17a-4 that requires broker-dealers to retain electronic mail and internet
communications that relate to a broker-dealer's business.
Net Capital Rule
The Commission approved amendments to rule 15c3-1 (the net capital
rule) to permit broker-dealers to use theoretical option pricing models in
determining capital requirements for listed options and related positions." I
The amendments are intended to simplify the net capital rule's treatment
of options for capital purposes and more accurately reflect the risk inherent
in broker-dealer options positions.
Mortgage-Backed Securities
In December 1996, the Division issued a no-action letter that permits
broker-dealers to use an altemativemethod to calculate haircuts (i.e., the
percentage reduction in value when determining net capital) for certain
pass-through mortgage-backed securities.Y Rather than basing the haircut
on their remaining time to maturity as the current rule requires, under the
no-action letter, the haircut for pass-through mortgage-backed securities is
based on their market price relative to par value. Under the no-action
letter, capital charges for pass-through mortgage-backed securities are
better matched to the actual hedging practices of broker-dealers, thereby
substantially lowering haircuts for these broker-dealers and making the
capital charges consistent with the actual risk assumed by broker-dealers.
Books and Records Rules
The Commission proposed amendments to rules 17a-3 and 17a-4 in
response to concerns of the North American Securities Administrators
Association that the rules do not obligate broker-dealers to make and retain
certain types of records that would be valuable to state regulators during
examination and enforcement proceedings. 63 The proposed amendments
modify and expand recordkeeping requirements for: (1) purchase and sale
documents, (2) customerrecords, (3) associated person records, (4)
customer complaints, and (5) certain other matters. In addition, the
proposed amendments specify certain types of books and records that
broker-dealers must make available in their local offices.

40

Foreign Broker-Dealers
On April 9, 1997, the staff issued a letter granting no-action and
interpretive relief relating to rule 15a-6 in a number of important respects.
The letter expands the definition of a major U.S. institutional investor in
the rule to include any entity, including any investment adviser (whether or
not registered), with aggregate financial assets in excess of $100 million.
The letter also relaxes rule 15a-6' s chaperoning requirements and permits
the direct transfer of funds and securities between a U.S. institutional
investor and a foreign broker-dealer in transactions involving the clearance
and settlement of foreign securities or U. S. government securities.64
The staff granted no-action relief to Morgan Stanley & Co. (Morgan)
and its India affiliate (Morgan India) for transactions in Indian securities
executed in India by Morgan India for Morgan's U.S. institutional
customers. Indian law precludes Morgan, as a U.S. broker-dealer, from
holding funds and securities on behalf of its U.S. customers whose
transactions in Indian securities are executed through Morgan India.
Under the no-action letter, transactions in Indian securities between
Morgan's U.S. institutional customers and Morgan India may be cleared
and settled through each customer's custodian in India on a deliveryversus-payment basis or through India's National Stock Exchange
clearinghouse, which nets obligations of its members and guarantees
settlement of their trades.'"
Telemarketing Rules
The Telemarketing and Consumer Fraud Prevention Act
(Telemarketing Actj'" required the Commission to issue a rule, or direct
the SROs to issue a rule, that prohibits certain deceptive and abusive
telemarketing practices in connection with the sale of securities. The staff
worked with the SROs to combat cold-calling abuses in the securities
industry. As a result, several of the SROs adopted rules that prohibit
certain telemarketing practices in connection with the sale of securities.
On April 7, 1997, the Commission found that these rules satisfied the
requirements of the Telemarketing Act." To date, the NASD, the NYSE,
the American Stock Exchange (AMEX), the MSRB, the Philadelphia
Stock Exchange (PHLX), and the CBOE have adopted these types of rules.

41

Internet Issues
In response to a request from the Small Business Administration, the
staff granted no-action relief from broker-dealer registration to the Angel
Capital Electronic Network (the Network) and the universities and other
nonprofit entities that participate in its operation. The Network is an
internet website that allows accredited investors to gain access to a
password-controlled listing of small corporate stock offerings exempt frorr
registration under Regulation A or D and to download offering circulars.
Accredited investors can also review listings with the help of a "search
engine" that will sort listings based on various criteria, including state,
type of business, amount of capital needed, and minority ownership.I"
The staff granted no-action relief from broker-dealerregistration to
America Online, Compuserve, and Microsoft. The relief enables each
online service to connect its subscribers to Charles Schwab & Co., Inc.
(Schwab) and receive a nominal, flat fee per order from Schwab for each
securities order sent by its subscribers to Schwab through the online
service. The online services may not, among other things, recommend
specific securities, take part (other than by routing messages) in the
financial services offered by Schwab, answer questions or engage in
negotiations involving securities accounts or transactions, accept or route
orders, handle customer funds or securities, extend credit to customers in
connection with securities transactions, or receive any fee from Schwab
other than a flat fee per order transmitted. The fee may not vary depending
on the number of shares or value of the securities included in the order or
whether the order results in an executed trade.69
Money Laundering
The Division worked with the Financial Crimes Enforcement
Network of the Department of Treasury on practical approaches to combat
money laundering. The Division also participated in the Bank Secrecy Act
Advisory Group and in the United States delegation to the Financial
Action Task Force on Money Laundering.
Arbitration and Mediation
Continuing efforts to strengthen the securities arbitration process, the
Division worked closely with the NASD and other members of the
42

Securities Industry Conference on Arbitration. On July 1, 1997, the
Commission approved an NASD proposal to impose surcharges on its
members who are named in arbitration proceedings in order to fund
enhancements to its program/" On May 14, 1997, the Commission
approved an NASD proposal that increases to $25,000 the claims that can
be resolved under the NASD's simplified arbitrationprocedures.I'
Work
also continued on regulatory responses to the 1996 recommendations of
the NASD Arbitration Policy Task Force.
Extension of Credit
The staff granted no-action relief to permit registered broker-dealers
to underwrite a limited portion of a foreign distribution of securities, sold
on an installment basis, to qualified institutional buyers (QIBs) and other
institutional accredited investors. In those transactions, the staff generally
conditioned the relief on the fact that:
•

the global offering would be large, making it difficult for the host
market to absorb the full cost of the offering in one payment;

•

a limited portion of the offering, never exceeding 20%, would be
sold in the U.S.;

•

the U.S. portion of the offering would be sold in the United States
solely to QIBs and a limited number of other institutional
accredited investors;

•

it was customary in the host country, which would provide the
primary secondary market for these securities, to distribute
securities on an installment basis; and

•

the securities would be sold in the U.S. under substantially the
same terms and conditions as they would be sold in the host
country. 72

Transaction Confirmations
The staff, by delegated authority, granted exemptive relief from rule
1Ob-l 0 to permit registered broker-dealers to confirm transactions in U.S.

43

Treasury Inflation Indexed Securities (TIPS). Because the principal
amount of TIPS is adjusted daily for inflation, broker-dealers sought relief
relating to the required disclosure of the price and principal amount and
. ld -to-maturity
. on th e con firmation.
. 73
yie
The staff granted no-action relief to the NASD, NASD Regulation,
and Nasdaq, on behalf of all registered broker-dealers, to permit them to
send average-price and multiple capacity confirmations of individual
orders effected through multiple executions in compliance with the
Commission's order handling rules.74 The staff letter clarifies that brokerdealers will not have to send multiple confirmations where the individual
orders are filled through more than one execution.
The staff granted no-action relief to MBS Clearing Corporation
(MBSCC), on behalf of its members, to permit MBSCC broker-dealer
participants to confirm principal transactions with MBSCC non-brokerdealer participants, in certain government securities cleared through
MBSCC, by relying on MBSCC generated confirmations of the
transactions. The staffprovided that MBSCC participants may rely on
delivery of: (l) the MBSCC Purchase and Sale Report and the Message
Detail Report, to customer participants as confirmation of principal trades
between those MBSCC broker-dealer participants and MBSCC nonbroker-dealer participants; (2) the Purchase and Sale Report to customer
participants, but deliver pool allocation information to customers
independentlyofMBSCC;
and (3) the Message Detail Report to customers
to provide pool allocation information, but send all other information
required by rule 1Ob-l 0, including their capacity, to satisfy rule 1Ob-I0.75
Transfer Agent Regulation
Transfer agents maintain records of securityholders, including the
securityholders' addresses, on behalf of corporations. Because transfer
agents maintain these records, they typically send out dividend checks,
interest payments, and other items to securityholders. For various reasons,
transfer agents occasionally have outdated or incorrect addresses for some
securityholders. As a result, these lost securityholdersdo not receive
benefits or information from their companies. On October 7, 1997, the
Commission adopted two rules that should reduce the number of lost

44

11

securityholders.i'' The first rule requires transfer agents to search for the
correct address at least twice during a three-month period when the transfer
agents does not have a correct address for a securityholder. Under the rule,
a transfer agent does not have the correct address when two separate items
of correspondence mailed at least three months apart are returned to the
transfer agent as undeliverable. The second rule requires transfer agents to
file information about their lost securityholders with the SEC.
Lost and Stolen Securities Program
As of December 31, 1996,25,231 institutions were registered in the
program, a 1 percent increase over 1995. The number of securities
certificates reported as lost, stolen, missing, or counterfeit decreased 4
percent, from 2,171,867 in 1995 to 2,093,233 in 1996. The aggregate
dollar volume of these reported certificates has decreased 76 percent, from
$234,516,242,722in 1995 to $56,177,860,398in 1996. The total number
oflost and stolen reports received decreased 25 percent, from 217,030 in
1995 to 162,076 in 1996. However, the dollar value of recovery reports
received increased 265 percent, from $1,916,322,423 in 1995 to
$7,000,530,298 in 1996. The total number of certificates inquired about
by institutions participating in the program increased 37 percent, from
6,221,425 in 1995 to 8,538,192 in 1996. In 1996, the dollar value of
certificate inquiries that matched previous reports of lost, stolen, missing,
or counterfeit securities certificates increased 883 percent, from
$525,592,801 to $5,164,280,780.

Oversight of Self-Regulatory Organizations
National Securities Exchanges
As of September 30, 1997, there were eight active securities
exchanges registered with the SEC as national securities exchanges:
AMEX, Boston Stock Exchange (BSE), CBOE, Cincinnati Stock
Exchange (CSE), Chicago Stock Exchange, NYSE, PHLX, and Pacific
Exchange (PCX). The SEC granted exchange applications to delist 102
debt and equity issues, and granted applications by issuers requesting
withdrawal from listing and registration for 54 issues.

45

The exchanges submitted 209 proposed rule changes during 1997. A
total of272 pending and new filings were approved by the SEC, and 11
were withdrawn. Rule filings approved by the SEC included:
•

an amendment to revise circuit breaker rules to increase the
trading halt levels from declines of250 to 350 points and 400 to
550 points in the Dow Jones Industrial Average;77

•

proposals to trade equity securities in trading increments of
sixteenths of a dollar; 78

•

rules for Optimark, a new trading facility operated by the PCX
that matches contra-orders based on the price, quantity, and
relative willingness to buy or sell a particular security; 79 and

•

amendments to the Articles of Incorporation and By-Laws of the
PHLX to provide for a balanced Board of Governors and a revised
committee structure. 80

National Association of Securities Dealers, Inc.
The NASD is the only national securities association registered with
the SEC and includes more than 5,500 member firms. The NASD owns
and operates the Nasdaq Stock Market as a wholly-owned subsidiary.
The NASD submitted 95 proposed rule changes to the SEC during the
year. The SEC approved 73 proposed rule changes, including some
pending from the previous year, and 7 were withdrawn. Among the
significant changes approved by the SEC were:

46

•

a rule revising NASD Nasdaq National Market and SmallCap
I..istmg stan d ar d s; 81

•

proposals to revise corporate governance documents, disciplinary
proceedings, and procedures regarding mernbershiprf

•

an interpretationofNASD conduct rule 2110 relating to
.
..
d
83
anticompetitrve con uct;

•

audit trail procedures; 84and

•

the excess spread rule.85

The SEC also approved SR-NASD-97-7, which granted permanent
approval to the OTC Bulletin Board Service (OTCBB).86 The OTCBB
provides a real-time quotation medium that NASD member firms can use
to enter, update, and retrieve quotation information (including unpriced
indications of interest) for equity securities traded over-the-counter that are
neither listed on the Nasdaq Stock Market nor on a primary national
securities exchange. Under the terms of the rule approval, after March 31 ,
1998, all securities quoted on the OTCBB must be fully registered with the
SEC under section 12 of the Exchange Act to remain eligible to be quoted
on the OTCBB.
In addition, the SEC approved the Actual Size Rule to expand from
50 to 150 the number of securities in a pilot program for which market
makers may quote their actual size, reducing the minimum quotation size
requirement for market makers in certain securities listed on the Nasdaq
Stock Market to one normal unit of trading. The pilot was also extended
through March 28, 1998.87
As part of its settlement with the Commission in 1996, the NASD
committed to perform various undertakings in 1997. The staff received
and coordinated multiple rule changes as noted above from the NASD to
satisfy many of these undertakings. In addition, the staff, in conjunction
with the Division of Enforcement, continued to assist the NASD in
enhancing existing rules and procedures in accordance with the
undertakings.
Municipal Securities Rulemaking Board
The MSRB is the primary rulemaking authority for municipal
securities dealers. The SEC received 8 new proposed rule changes from
the MSRB. A total of 9 new and pending proposed rule changes were
approved by the SEC. Among these were interpretations of several rules
concerning political contributions, notice following a close-out, and the
use of consultants. 88 The SEC also approved a rule amendment to increase
transparency in the municipal market by adding retail and institutional

47

customer transaction information to the inter-dealer transactions that are
already part of the MSRB' s Transaction Reporting Program. 89
Clearing Agencies
Fifteen clearing agencies were registered with the SEC at the end of
1997. On July 1, 1997, the SEC proposed registering the EMCC90 to clear
91
and settle Brady bonds. The SEC also exempted Cede! Bank from
registration as a clearing agency and proposed exempting Euroclear from
registration as a clearing agency.92
Registered clearing agencies submitted 240 proposed rule changes to
the SEC. The SEC processed 123 new and pending proposed rule changes
including the following:

48

•

The Depository Trust Company (DTC) amended its charge back
and return of funds policies to shorten from ten business days to
one business day after the payable date the period within which a
paying agent can request that DTC return principal and income
payments that have been allocated to participants."

•

The National Securities Clearing Corporation (NSCC) amended
its rules to permit unit investment trusts to be processed through
NSCC's Fund/SERV, Networking and Mutual Fund Commission
Settlement Services. Prior to the rule change, unit investment
trusts were eligible for NSCC processing only through NSCC's
.
contmuous
net sett Iement system. 94

•

The Commission approved a proposed rule change filed by the
Options Clearing Corporation (GCC) to change the method by
which it values the equity securities and corporate debt securities
that its clearing members are permitted to deposit as margin
collateral. Under the rule change, OCC increased the valuation
rate that it applies to those securities from 60 percent to 70
percent.

Applications for Re-entry
Rule I9h-I under the Exchange Act prescribes the form and content
of, and is the mechanism by which the Commission reviews, proposals
submitted by SROs to allow persons subject to statutory disqualification
(as defined in section 3(a)(39) of the Exchange Act) to become or remain
associated with member firms. In 1997, the Commission received 42
filings from SROs pursuant to rule 19h-I. Of the 42 filings, the NASD
made 27, the NYSE made 14, and the AMEX made 1.

49

Investment Management Regulation
The Division of Investment Management regulates investment companies
(which include mutual funds) and investment advisers under two
companion statutes, the Investment Company Act of 1940 and the
Investment Advisers Act of 1940. The Division also administers the Public
Utility Holding Company Act of 1935.

Key 1997 Results
During 1997, the Division of Investment Management focused on
implementing the provisions of the National Securities Markets
Improvement Act of 1996 (NSMIA) and proposing revisions to the way
investment companies communicate with their shareholders. NSMIA
required the Commission to adopt a number of new rules, including rules
governing the new division of jurisdiction over investment advisers
between the SEC and the states. The Division proposed major changes to
the primary disclosure form used by all mutual funds and proposed the use
of a new disclosure document, called a "profile," that is intended to
provide investors with a summary of key information about a mutual fund.
The Division also issued many no-action and interpretive letters
addressing rapid changes occurring in the investment company and
investment advisory businesses.

Significant Investment Company Act Developments
Rulemaking
Mutual Fund Disclosure Initiatives
The Commission proposed three major initiatives in February 1997 to
improve the disclosure of information about mutual funds to investors.
These initiatives were the result of the Commission's efforts to identify
ways to promote more effective communication of information about
mutual funds. The efforts included:

50

•

Amendments to Mutual Fund Registration Form. The
Commission proposed amendments to Form N -1A, the mutual
fund registration form, to improve prospectus disclosure.f The
proposed amendments would (l) minimize prospectus disclosure
about organizational and legal matters that does not help investors
evaluate mutual funds and (2) focus disclosure on essential
information about a fund that investors need to know before
investing. In recognition of the importance of risk disclosure to
investors, the proposed amendments would require a new
risk/return summary at the beginning of a mutual fund prospectus
(and the proposed profile). The risk/return summary would
include a concise narrative description of a mutual fund's overall
risks, a bar chart of a fund's annual returns for 10 years that
illustrates performance fluctuations from year to year, and a table
that compares a fund's performance to that of a broad-based
securities market index.

•

Fund Profiles. The Commission proposed rule 498, which would
permit funds to use a short-form disclosure document called a
"profile.T" The proposed profile summarizes key information
about a mutual fund in a standardized format designed to facilitate
comparison among funds. If a fund uses a profile, an investor
could purchase the fund's shares based on the profile or could
request and review the fund's prospectus and other information
before making an investment decision. All investors would
receive a prospectus no later than confirmation of purchase.

•

Fund Names. The Commission also proposed rule 35d_1.97 It
would require a mutual fund (or other registered investment
company) with a name suggesting that the fund focuses on a
particular type of investment (e.g., stocks or bonds) to invest at
least 80 percent of its assets in the type of investment suggested by
its name. Under current staff guidelines, these funds are subject to
a 65 percent investment requirement. The proposed rule is
intended (1) to provide investors with greater assurance that a
mutual fund's investments are consistent with its name and (2) to
help reduce confusion when an investor selects a fund for specific
investment needs and asset allocation goals.

51

Private Investment Companies
The Commission adopted new rules to implement provisions of
NSMIA that exclude privately offered investment companies from
regulation under the Investment Company Act.98 The rules define terms
under the new exclusion for certain privately offered companies, all of
whose investors are highly sophisticated or qualified purchasers. The rules
also address several other matters, including transition issues for existing
privately offered investment companies with no more than 100 investors.
Affiliated Underwriters
The Commission adopted amendments to rule I Of-3.99 This rule
permits a fund affiliated with a member of an underwriting syndicate to
purchase securities underwritten by the syndicate when certain safeguards
are met. The amendments increase the percentage of an underwriting that
a fund may purchase, alone or with other funds having the same
investment adviser, from approximately 4 percent to 25 percent. The
amendments also expand the scope of the rule to permit purchases of the
securities of certain foreign and domestic issuers not registered under the
Securities Act. The amendments are intended to provide funds with
additional flexibility to make investments that may be in the best interest
of their shareholders, while continuing to protect those shareholders from
underwriters that seek to "dump" unmarketable securities on funds that
they control.
Money Market Funds
The Commission proposed technical amendments to rule 2a-7, the
rule that regulates money market funds. 100 The amendments would revise
the rule's terminology and its treatment of certain instruments to reflect
market usage. The amendments also would resolve interpretive issues,
including the application of other amendments adopted in 1996 concerning
tax-exempt money market funds and investments in asset-backed
securities. 101 The Commission also proposed to amend its advertising
rules to clarify the formula used to calculate yield for money market
~ dS. 102
lun

52

Foreign Custody Arrangements
The Commission adopted amendments to rule 17f-5, the rule that
governs the custody of fund assets outside of the United States. 103 The
amendments give funds greater flexibility in managing their foreign
custody arrangements, consistent with the safekeeping of fund assets. The
amendments expand the class of foreign banks and securities depositories
that may serve as fund custodians and permit a fund's board of directors to
delegate its responsibility to select and monitor foreign custodians.
Registration Fees for Certain Funds
The Commission adopted amendments to rule 24f-2, the rule that
prescribes the method by which certain funds calculate and pay registration
fees under the Securities Act. 104 The amendments implement provisions
ofNSMIA that simplify the method of determining fee amounts.
Multiple Class Funds
The Commission adopted amendments to rule 18f-3, the rule that
permits mutual funds to issue multiple classes of shares representing
interests in the same portfolio. lOS The amendments expand and clarify the
methods by which a multiple class fund may allocate among its classes
income, gains and losses, and expenses not allocated to a particular class.
The amendments also clarify the shareholder voting provisions of the rule.
Asset-BasedSales

Loads

The Commission adopted an amendment to rule 12b-l, the rule that
permits the use of mutual fund assets to pay for the distribution of fund
shares.106 The amendment clarifies the application of the rule to a series
fund offering a variety of investment portfolios.
Disclosure
Disclosure Improvement
For several years, the Division of Investment Management has
encouraged investment companies to improve their prospectus disclosure
by using plain English and eliminating legalistic, technical, and overly

53

complicated disclosure. In 1997, the number of investment companies that
improved their prospectus disclosure in this manner increased
substantially. The staff provided informal guidance concerning disclosure
requirements to many of these investment companies.
Filings Reviewed
In 1997, the staff reviewed 79 percent of the 1,870 new portfolios
filed with the Commission, including over 90 percent of newly filed
mutual fund and closed-end portfolios. The staff also reviewed 85 percent
of the 809 proxy statements filed, 15 percent of the 16,028 existing
portfolios filed, and 435 insurance contract filings.
Exemptive Orders
The Commission issued 324 exemptive orders to investment
companies (other than insurance company separate accounts) seeking relief
from various provisions of the Investment Company Act. Some of the
more significant developments with regard to exemptive orders in 1997 are
discussed below.
Funds of Funds
NSMIA permitted mutual funds to invest in other mutual funds that
are part of the same fund family. NSMIA also granted the Commission
specific exemptive authority to permit other types of funds-of- funds
arrangements. The Commission granted a number of exemptive orders to
funds seeking flexibility to invest in operating companies in addition to
investing in funds in their own family. 107 In addition, the Commission
granted an order permitting a fund that invests in its own fund family to
invest in unaffiliated funds in reliance on a separate provision in the
Investment Company Act. 108
Plain English Notices of Exemptive Applications
The process of issuing an exemptive order under the Investment
Company Act involves publishing for public comment a notice
summarizing the application. To further the SEC's goal of improving
communications with investors, the staff undertook an initiative to issue
plain English notices. These changes are designed to make the notices
54

easier to understand and more effective in communicating information to
the public.
Interpretive and No-Action Letters
The Division of Investment Management responded to 631 formal and
informal requests for interpretive guidance under the Investment Company
and Investment Advisers Acts during 1997. Some of the more significant
interpretive and no-action letters issued by the staff during the year are
discussed below.
Merger of Investment Advisers
The staff took the position that the merger of two publicly-traded,
widely-held financial services holding companies as equals does not
constitute an assignment of the advisory contracts of their respective
.
. sub Sl.d.lanes.
. 109
Investment
a dviser
Foreign Investment Companies
The staff concluded that an unregistered foreign fund would not
violate the public offering restrictions of the Investment Company Act if it
sells its securities exclusively to qualified purchasers in the United States,
complying with the provisions of section 3(c)(7) of the Investment
Company Act. In addition, an unregistered foreign fund generally may
rely on the definition of "U.S. Person" in Regulation S under the
Securities Act to determine whether a potential investor is a U.S .
resi.dent. no
Pricing of Fund Shares
The staff took the position that a mutual fund would not violate
Commission rules on pricing of mutual fund shares if it prices purchase
and sale orders placed with an authorized agent of the fund at the net asset
value next computed after receipt of the order by the agent.Ill
Private Fund Offerings on the Internet
The staff adopted the position that a company may create and
maintain a world wide website featuring information about private fund

offerings that can be accessed only by pre-qualified accredited investors
or qualified purchasers. Similarly, private funds and their advisers could
place information on a website without being required to register under
the Investment Company Act or the Investment Advisers Act,
respectively. In reaching these conclusions, the staff emphasized the
importance of a password protection system that limited access to prequalified purchasers. I 12
Purchasesfrom an Affiliated Underwriter
The staff agreed not to recommend enforcement action under the
Investment Company Act or the Investment Advisers Act against a fund
that purchases securities in a private placement for which the placement
agent is an affiliate of the fund's adviser because the placement agent's
compensation would be within specified limits and the transactions would
be structured to minimize potential conflicts of interest. 113
Closed-End to Open-End Fund Conversions
The staff agreed that a closed-end fund that converts to an open-end
fund without obtaining prior shareholder approval would not violate the
Investment Company Act if the conversion is triggered when certain
objective standards are met and those standards are disclosed
prominently in the fund's prospectus. 114
Allocation of Fund Advisory Fees
The staff adopted the position that advisory fees paid by a fund may
be reallocated between the fund's investment adviser and the fund's subadviser without shareholder approval if the total advisory fee does not
increase and the fund complies with all of the other requirements of the
Investment Company Act provision governing investment advisory
us
contracts.
Insurance Products
The Division of Investment Management reviews registration
statements, recommends rules, processes exemptive orders, and issues noaction and interpretive letters relating to variable annuities, variable life

56

insurance, and other insurance products that are securities. The following
describes some of the more significant issues in this area that the staff
addressed this past year.
Equity Index Annuities
Equity index annuities, recently introduced by the insurance industry,
are contracts that provide for accumulation of the contract owner's
payments at a rate of return that is based on changes in an index of equity
securities. The insurer also guarantees a minimum return (typically 90
percent of premiums accumulated at a 3 percent annual rate of interest) to
the contract owner if the contract is held to maturity. Equity index
annuities combine features of traditional insurance products and traditional
securities, and the Commission is considering their status under the federal
securities laws. The Commission published a concept release requesting
information about the structure of equity index annuities, the manner in
which they are marketed, and other related matters. 116
Disclosure for Retirement Plans
The staff issued a no-action and interpretive letter stating that it would
not object if insurers selling variable annuity contracts to group retirement
plans treat certain prospectus summaries as communications satisfying the
requirements of rule 482 under the Securities Act. This letter was intended
to improve disclosure to retirement plan participants investing in variable
•
117
annuity contracts.
Allocation of Purchase Payments During Variable Annuity Free Look
Period
The staff agreed in a no-action and interpretive letter that variable
annuity issuers may require that purchase payments received during the
free look period be allocated to a fixed interest rate option. The letter
applies to insurance companies required to refund a purchaser's payments
upon exercise of a free look right, which permits contract owners to
. a contract an d cance l iIt 1if th ey are not satis
. fired .118
examme

57

Protectionfrom

Claims

The staff adopted the position that insurance companies may provide
the assets of certain separate accounts with protection from third-party
claims without registering those separate accounts under the Investment
Company Act. The no-action and interpretive letter for this staff position
applies to separate accounts that support annuity contracts that pay a rate of
return based on a mathematical formula that takes into account changes in
a speciif ie d mar ket
et iIIId ex. 119

Significant Investment Advisers Act Developments
Formation of Task Force
In April 1997, the SEC formed a Task Force on Investment Adviser
Regulation in the Division oflnvestment Management. The Task Force is
responsible for implementing the provisions ofNSMIA relating to
investment advisers, overseeing SEC participation in an electronic filing
system for investment advisers, and developing a means by which
investors can easily obtain information about investment advisers. During
the year, the Task Force reviewed existing SEC regulations for investment
advisers and developed proposals to improve them.
Rulemaking
As a result ofNSMIA, a substantial number of small investment
advisers are prohibited from registering with the SEC and generally must
register with state securities regulators. To implement the reallocation of
regulatory authority mandated by NSMIA, the Commission adopted
several new rules, as well as changes to several existing rules and forms. 120
The most significant of these rules are:

58

•

rule 203A-I, which establishes procedures for advisers to
transition between SEC and state registration;

•

rule 203A-2, which creates exemptions from the prohibition on
registration with the SEC for four categories of investment
advisers;

•

rule 203A-3, which defines certain terms, including investment
adviser representative and place of business; and

•

amendments to Form ADV, which require advisers annually to
report their eligibility for SEC registration on a new Schedule I.

The Commission also adopted Form ADV -T, a temporary form by
which investment advisers indicated whether they were eligible to remain
registered with the SEC. Based on these filings, the Commission estimates
that approximately 7,500 investment advisers (or 33 percent of all those
previously registered) will remain registered with the SEC.
Interpretive and No-Action Letters
Some of the more significant interpreti ve and no action letters issued
by the staff during the year are discussed below.
Performance Advertising by Advisers
The staff took the position that an investment adviser may (1)
advertise its performance, using gross-of- fees performance information, as
long as net-of-fees performance information is presented with equal
prominence and (2) advertise the composite performance of advisory
accounts that include one or more mutual fund accounts, without
complying with the advertising rules that govern mutual funds, as long as
the advertisement does not identify any specific mutual fund. 121
Use of Client Lists in Adviser Advertising
The staff interpreted the advertising rules under the Investment
Advisers Act to permit an investment adviser to include in an
advertisement a list of some, but not all, of the adviser's clients. The staff
concluded that a list that does no more than identify certain clients is not a
prohibited testimonial and that an advertisement containing a partial client
. .
11StISnot
necessan '1y c.
la 1se or nus. 1ea dimg. 122

59

Principal and Agency Transactions
The staff concluded that a dual registrant (an entity registered both as
a broker-dealer and an investment adviser) is not subj ect to the Investment
Advisers Act restrictions on principal and agency cross transactions with
its wrap fee clients if the dual registrant:
•

provides only generalized investment advice, and

•

does not provide investment advice with respect to the specific
transactions that it executes for its clients pursuant to an
unaffiliated portfolio manager's instructions. 123

Significant Public Utility Holding Company Act Developments
Developments in Holding Company Regulation
As a result of the current trend toward industry consolidation, the
Commission considered a number of proposed utility combinations.
Several of these transactions involved combinations of companies that
owned gas properties with companies that owned electric properties. One
transaction resulted in the creation of a new registered holding company.
Registered holding companies also continued to demonstrate their interest
in nonutility activities, both in the United States and abroad. The
complexity of applications and requests for interpretive advice continued
to increase. The Commission expects these trends to continue in 1998, as
the restructuring of the industry continues.
Registered Holding Companies
As of September 30, 1997, there were 16 public utility holding
companies registered under the Holding Company Act. The registered
systems were comprised of 101 public utility subsidiaries, 46 exempt
wholesale generators (EWGs), 51 foreign utility companies (FUCOs), 280
nonutility subsidiaries, and 55 inactive subsidiaries, for a total of 533
companies and systems with utility operations in 28 states. These holding
company systems had aggregate assets of approximately $150 billion and

60

operating revenues of approximately $58 billion for the period ended
September 30, 1997.
Financing Authorizations
The Commission authorized registered holding company systems to
issue approximately $19.2 billion of securities, a decrease of less than one
percent from last year. The total financing authorizations included, for
example, $1.57 billion for investments in enterprises engaged in energy
management, an increase of 12 percent over 1996, and $350 million for
investments in EWGs and FUCOs.
Examinations
The staff examined three subsidiary service companies, three parent
holding companies, and three special purpose corporations. The
examinations focused on the methods of allocating costs of services and
goods shared by associate companies, internal controls, cost determination
procedures, accounting and billing policies, and quarterly and annual
reports of the registered holding company systems. By uncovering
misallocated expenses and inefficiencies through the examination process,
the Commission's acti vities resulted in savings to consumers of
approximately $1 0.6 million.
Applications and Interpretations
The Commission issued various orders under the Holding Company
Act. Some of the more significant orders are discussed below.
TUC Holding Company
The Commission authorized the acquisition by TUC Holding
Company, a company not previously subject to the Holding Company Act,
of(1) Texas Utilities Company, a Texas electric public utility holding
company exempt from all provisions of the Holding Company Act except
section 9(a)(2) and, through this acquisition, two electric utility
subsidiaries operating exclusively in Texas and (2) ENSERCH
Corporation, a Texas gas public utility company. 124 The Commission also
granted TUC Holding Company an order under section 3(a)(1) exempting
it from all provisions of the Holding Company Act, except section 9(a)(2),
61

following the acquisition. The Commission determined that a holding
company may acquire utility assets that will not, when combined with the
acquiring company's utility assets, make up an integrated system, provided
that there is de facto integration of contiguous utility properties and the
holding company will be exempt from registration under section 3 of the
Holding Company Act following the acquisition.

New Century Energies, Inc.
The Commission authorized the acquisition by New Century
Energies, Inc. (NCE) of (1) Public Service Company of Colorado, a
Colorado gas and electric public utility company and a holding company
exempt from all provisions of the Holding Company Act except section
9(a)(2) and (2) SouthwestemPublic Service Company, a New Mexico
electric public utility company. 125 As a result of the transaction, NCE will
own three separate integrated public utility systems. In finding that the
transaction satisfied the Holding Company Act's standards for having
more than one integrated system, the Commission evaluated several
factors, including the convergence of the gas and electric industry and the
loss of economies associated with separating existing gas and electric
operations. NCE has registered as a holding company under section 5 of
the Holding Company Act.

Houston Industries Incorporated
The Commission authorized a request by Houston Industries
Incorporated (HI), an exempt public utility holding company, and its
electric utility subsidiary company, Houston Lighting & Power
Company (HLP), for an exemption under section 3(a)(2) from all
provisions ofthe Holding Company Act, except section 9(a)(2),
following the consummation of certain transactions. 126 These
transactions involved the merger of HI and HLP, with the surviving
entity being renamed Houston Industries Incorporated (Houston), and
Houston's acquisition of Nor Am Energy Corp. (NorAm) as a new gas
utility subsidiary company. The Commission concluded that an
exemption for HI under section 3(a)(2) was appropriate, notwithstanding
that the ratio ofNorAm's operating revenues to HI's would be higher
than the same ratio had been in past cases. The Commission noted,
among other things, that HI would not be an unregulated entity through

62

which potential abuses could be undertaken, but instead would be a
public utility company subject to state and local regulation.
Central and South West Corporation
The Commission authorized Central and South West Corporation
(CS W), a registered holding company, to use financing proceeds to invest
in EWGs and FUCOs and to guarantee the obligations ofEWGs and
FUCOs in amounts that, together with all other such investments, do not
exceed 100 percent of CSW' s consolidated retained earnings. 127 The order
requires CSW to provide quarterly information to facilitate the
Commission's monitoring of CSW' s investments in EWGs and FUCOs
and their effects on the CSW system.
ConsolidatedNatural

Gas Company

The Commission authorized Consolidated Natural Gas Company, a
registered gas holding company, to acquire an interest in two foreign gas
pipeline projects. 128 The Commission determined that section 2(a) of the
Gas Related Activities Act of 1990, which modifies section 11(b)(1) of the
Holding Company Act, does not exclude a registered holding company
from engaging in international activities that fall within the scope of
section 2(a).
Rulemaking
Rule 58
The Commission adopted rule 58, which permits registered holding
companies, without the need of an application, to invest up to the greater of
15 percent of consolidated capitalization or $50 million in certain energyrelated companies that were previously found to be functionally related to
129
the business of registered public utility systems.
The rule identifies
several energy-related businesses, including energy management services,
the development of energy conservation and storage technologies, and the
production and sale of thermal energy products. Rule 58 codifies prior
orders and permits investments of a type that the Commission, in previous

63

instances, has found to satisfy the standards of the Holding Company Act.
Rule 58 thus reduces regulatory burdens and delays. Conforming
amendments were made to rules 45 and 52.

64

Compliance Inspections and Examinations
The Office of Compliance Inspections and Examinations, through
examination staff in headquarters and in the SEC's regional and district
offices, administers the SEC's nationwide program of compliance
inspections and examinations. Inspections and examinations are
authorized by the Securities Exchange Act of I 934, the Investment
Company Act of 1940, and the Investment Advisers Act of 1940. Entities
subject to this oversight include brokers, dealers, municipal securities
dealers, self-regulatory organizations (SROs), transfer agents, clearing
agencies, investment companies, and investment advisers.

Key 1997 Results
During the year, the inspections and examinations program focused on
areas within firms that appear to pose the greatest danger of compliance
risk. To accomplish this, the staff considered a variety of risk factors.
Areas covered and inspection techniques used varied from examination to
examination because of the diverse population of registrants, differing risk
assessment results, changing market conditions and industry
developments, the presence or absence of SRO oversight, and, most
importantly, variations in the effectiveness of internal compliance
procedures.
The staff also enhanced cooperation with foreign, federal, and state
regulators, as well as with SROs. The staff conducted coordinated
examinations with staff from foreign regulatory organizations and with the
U.S. Office of the Comptroller of the Currency. In addition, the staff
conducted joint examinations of broker-dealers and investment advisers
with state regulators and SROs. The staff also provided extensive training
and assistance to state regulators in order to implement the National
Securities Markets Improvement Act of 1996 (NSMIA).
Increased cooperation among SEC examiners responsible for different
types of regulated entities continues to be one of the office's key
accomplishments. For example, when appropriate, SEC examinations of
firms with broker-dealer and investment advisory activities were

65

conducted by multi-disciplinary examination teams. The objective of these
joint and cooperative efforts is to increase the efficiency and effectiveness
of SEC oversight of dual registrants.

Investment Company and Investment Adviser Inspections
Investment Companies
During the year, examiners inspected 240 investment company
complexes with $1.1 trillion under management, indicating an average
frequency of inspection for the 1,030 investment company complexes of
once every 4.3 years. The complexes inspected managed 2,377 portfolios,
which represented approximately 21.6 percent of the mutual fund and
closed-end fund portfolios in existence at the beginning of 1997. The
complexes inspected represented a mix of large and smaller complexes.
Serious violations found in 17 examinations warranted referrals for
further investigation by enforcement staff. In 76 percent ofthe
examinations resulting in a referral, the staff found misconduct involving
fraud. In addition, of all referrals, 70 percent related to the role of the
fund's board of directors, 65 percent related to registration and
Commission filings, and 59 percent related to books and records.
Investment Advisers
The examination staff continued to target for inspection those advisers
posing a higher risk to clients, such as those with actual custody of clients'
funds and securities and those with discretionary management authority
over clients' cash and securities. Examiners in the regional offices were
primarily responsible for inspecting all discretionary managers and nondiscretionary managers with $100 million or more under management.
In total, the examination staff completed 1,609 inspections of
investment advisers, including examinations of 1,034 advisers with
discretionary management authority. The non-investment company assets
managed by the advisers inspected totaled $1.9 trillion. The 1,034
inspections of discretionary advisers covered 11 percent of all such
advisers, indicating an average inspection cycle for discretionary advisers
of once every 9.1 years, which increased from once every 7.1 years in
66

1996. A primary reason for this change is the significant amount of time
spent by the inspections staff training state examiners in how to conduct
inspections of financial planners. Regional office examiners inspected 133
investment advisers for cause.
Serious violations warranting enforcement referrals were uncovered in
76 of the examinations. In 82 percent of the examinations resulting in a
referral, the examination staff found misconduct involving fraud. In
addition, of all referrals, 61 percent involved Form ADV or brochure
disclosure or delivery, 59 percent related to books and records, and 49
percent related to conflicts of interest.
During 1997, the Investment Advisers Supervision Coordination Act,
Title III ofNSMIA, went into effect. As a result of the Coordination Act, a
substantial number of small investment advisers were removed from
federal registration. This reduction in the population subject to SEC
oversight has enabled the staff to reconsider and significantly modify its
approach to investment adviser examinations. Most importantly,
beginning in 1998, the staff expects to examine approproximately20% of
all investment advisers each year. At that rate, all advisers will be
examined at least once every five years.
The staff also continued initiatives to enhance cooperation with
foreign regulators. Specifically, the staff conducted coordinated
examinations with stafffrom the Hong Kong Securities and Futures
Commission, the Ontario Securities Commission, and the Investment
Management Regulatory Organization in the United Kingdom.
Mutual Fund Administrators
Approximately 51 percent of all mutual fund complexes use third
party administrators to perform their accounting and administrative
functions. During 1997, examiners inspected 10 administrators as an
adjunctto mutual fund oversight. None of the examinations resulted in
enforcement referrals.
Variable Insurance Products
In response to the rapid growth in variable insurance product assets
and the emergence of new channels of distribution, specialized insurance
67

product examination teams conducted examinations in this area. These
teams identified and examined variable life and annuity contract separate
accounts. Special emphasis was placed on examining branch offices of
broker-dealers selling these products to determine patterns of sales practice
abuses. The teams examined 24 insurance company complexes,
representing 20 percent of the insurance sponsors as of the beginning of
1997. This maintains a five-year inspection cycle for insurance sponsors.
Deficiency letters were issued in 21 examinations.
In addition, the examination staff, in conjunction with the Division of
Enforcement, initiated a limited review of the marketing and sales
practices of 14 insurance company sponsors.
Bank Advised Mutual Funds
Based on a November 1995 agreement to better coordinate
examinations, staff from the SEC and the Office of the Comptroller of the
Currency jointly examined mutual funds advised by national banks, and
national banks providing advisory services to mutual funds. Examiners
completed one examination started in the prior year and two additional
examinations. The examiners reviewed key internal control areas and
analyzed portfolio transaction data relating to mutual fund and trust
department client trading. In addition, in October 1997, the Director of the
Office of Compliance Inspections and Examinations testified before the
Subcommittee on Financial Institutions and Consumer Credit of the
Committee on Banking and Financial Services of the U.S. House of
Representatives concerning the SEC's examination oversight of securities
firms affiliated with banks.
Soft Dollar Sweep
The SEC dedicated several months to inspecting the current state of
the soft dollar industry. The staff completed examinations of 75 brokerdealers and 280 investment advisers and investment companies. The
inspections covered soft dollar arrangements existing during the period
January 1, 1996 through October 31, 1996. Of the 355 examinations, 18
were referred to enforcement staff for further investigation.

68

State Training and Assistance
Through the first half of 1997, the SEC examined 268 investment
advisers with less than $25 million in assets under management in
conjunction with state examiners in 29 states. The goal was to train state
examiners as they established examination programs for the advisers
leaving federal registration and oversight as a result ofNSMIA. In
addition, the staff provided extensive training assistance to the states. This
included staff participation in state-sponsored training programs and onsite training programs in state capitals.

Broker-Dealerand

Transfer Agent Examinations

Broker-Dealers
The broker-dealer examination program conducted oversight
examinations that tested the quality of SRO examination programs, cause
examinations that focused on activity that may have violated the federal
securities laws, and surveillance examinations that assessed broker-dealer
compliance and industry practices and trends. The staff began a complete
overhaul of its examination modules and procedures to reflect current
industry trends, rule amendments and new product developments. The staff
also continued a project to update the office's computerized tracking
system for broker-dealer examinations.
The examination staff completed 312 oversight and 347 cause and
surveillance examinations of broker-dealers, government securities brokerdealers, and municipal securities dealers. While the examination program
attempts to maintain a balance between oversight and cause examinations,
the staff conducted more cause and surveillance examinations in 1997 in
order to respond to complaints by investors and indications of financial and
operational problems experienced by broker-dealers. In addition,
surveillance examinations were conducted to review industry practices and
broker-dealer compliance when oversight examinations were not
appropriate. The staff completed 110 examinations of broker-dealers'
branch offices, emphasizing the adequacy of supervision over the activities
of salespersons in branch offices.

69

Serious violations were uncovered in 136 examinations warranting
referrals for further investigation by enforcement staff. Findings in an
additional 48 examinations were referred to SROs for appropriate action.
In 30 percent of the examinations resulting in a referral, the examination
staff found misconduct involving fraud. The most common violations and
deficiencies found were recordkeeping deficiencies, misrepresentations
and unsuitable recommendations to customers, and unauthorized trading in
customers' accounts.
The broker-dealer examination program devoted significant attention
to abuses in the underwriting, trading, and selling oflow-priced,
speculative securities, often referred to as microcap securities.
Examinations also emphasized municipal securities underwriters'
compliance with Municipal Securities Rulemaking Board (MSRB) rule 036, supervision of registered representatives classified as independent
contractors and operating in franchised branch offices, the adequacy of
broker-dealers' internal controls and risk management, and soft dollar
practices (as noted above). The staff also began a review of clearing firm
policies and procedures with respect to the activities of introducing firms.
Broker-dealer examination staff also continued initiatives to enhance
cooperation with foreign, federal, and state regulators, as well as with
SROs. Examiners are working with SRO and state regulators to
implement the objectives of the Memorandum of Understanding to achieve
maximum coordination of regulatory programs. The examination staff
also began considering opportunities to coordinate examinations of brokerdealers, clearing agencies, and transfer agents with bank regulators.
Transfer Agents and Clearing Agencies
In 1997, the staff conducted 170 examinations of registered transfer
agents, which included 14 federally regulated banks. The program resulted
in 115 deficiency letters, 13 cancellations or withdrawals of registrations,
12 referrals to enforcement staff, 12 referrals to bank regulators, and 2 staff
conferences with registrants. In addition, the staff conducted an
examination sweep of registered transfer agents that act as recordkeepers
for retirement plans. The staff also conducted four inspections of clearing
agencies.

70

Self-Regulatory Organization Inspections
The staff completed 36 inspections of various SRO regulatory
programs during the year. The staff inspected at least one program at each
SRO subject to the Commission's oversight: the American Stock
Exchange, the Boston Stock Exchange, the Chicago Board Options
Exchange, the Chicago Stock Exchange, the Cincinnati Stock Exchange,
the National Association of Securities Dealers (NASD), the New York
Stock Exchange, the Pacific Exchange, the Philadelphia Stock Exchange,
and the MSRB. On a routine basis, SROs were inspected in the following
SRO programs:
•

arbitration programs;

•

listing, maintenance, and unlisted trading privileges programs;

•

financial/operationaland

•

market surveillance, investigatory, and disciplinary programs; and

•

customer communication review programs.

sales practice examination programs;

The staff also conducted routine inspections of the regulatory
programs administered by the NASD' s district offices. These inspections
included reviews of NASD district offices' examinations, fmancial
surveillance, and formal disciplinary programs. The staff also reviewed
the district offices' investigations of customer complaints and terminations
of registered representatives for cause.
Self-Regulatory Organization Final Disciplinary Actions
Section 19(d)( 1) of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934 and rule 19d1 thereunder require all SROs to file reports with the Commission of all
final disciplinary actions. In 1997, reports of 1,162 final disciplinary
actions were filed with the SEC, as reflected in the following table.

71

Self-Regulatory Organization
Reports of Final Disciplinary Action

Self-Regulatory Organization
American Stock Exchange
Boston Stock Exchange
Chicago Board Options Exchange
Chicago Stock Exchange
Cincinnati Stock Exchange
Government Securities Clearing Corporation
National Association of Securities Dealers
National Securities Clearing Corporation
New York Stock Exchange
Options Clearing Corporation
Philadelphia Stock Exchange
Pacific Exchange
Total Disciplinary Actions

72

Number of
Actions
16

o
60
5

o

2

893

o

179

o

4

J.
1,162

Full Disclosure System
The full disclosure system is administered by the Division of Corporation
Finance. The system is designed to provide investors with material
information,foster investor confidence, contribute to the maintenance of
fair and orderly markets, facilitate capital formation, and inhibit fraud in
the public offering, trading, voting, and tendering of securities.

Key 1997 Results
A record $1.4 trillion in securities were filed for registration during the
year, a 20 percent increase over the $1.2 trillion in 1996. Common stock
offerings of almost $800 billion filed for registration in 1997 (compared to
$691 billion in 1996) reflected an increase in overall market activity,
including merger transactions. Offerings filed by first time registrants
(IPOs ), however, totaled approximately $166 billion, almost 11 percent
less than the level in 1996 (approximately $185.5 billion).

REGISTRATION STATEMENTS FILED
DOLLAR VALUE ($BILLIONS)
UNAllOCATED
SHELF

UNAllOCATED
SHELF

85.7
7%

OTHER EQUITY

238

2%

1996
TOTAL - $1,192.7

152.4 OTHER EQUITY

11%

49.5

3%

1997
TOTAL - $1,445.7

73

Foreign companies' participation in the United States public market
continued to show strong growth in 1997. During the year, nearly 200
foreign companies (a record) from 37 countries entered the United States
public markets for the first time. At year-end, there were nearly 1,000
foreign companies from 51 countries filing reports with the Commission.
The over $100 billion registered in 1997 by foreign companies for public
offerings set a new record for an amount registered in a single year.
The Commission continued its efforts to relieve regulatory burdens
and simplify requirements relating to capital formation. This included
proposing or adopting a number of changes recommended by the 1996
Task Force on Disclosure Simplification. The broad reexamination of the
regulatory framework for the offer and sale of securities under the
Securities Act of 1933 (Securities Act) is continuing.

Review of Filings
In 1997, the Division of Corporation Finance set new records on the
number of filings with full year financial statements and the number of
issuers reviewed. Almost 27 percent of the reporting issuers were
reviewed, along with 1,255 Securities Act IPOs, 349 Securities Exchange
Act of 1934 (Exchange Act) new issuer registration statements, and 111
RegulationA exemptive filings. By the beginning of 1997, responsibility
for the review of all regional IPO small business filings and Regulation A
exemptive filings had been transferred from the regional offices to the
Division. These record results were accomplished without replacing the
regional office review staff, who were reassigned to other Commission
activities. These accomplishments are attributable to many factors,
including:

74

•

the efficiencies and flexibility gained through reassignments in the
Division;

•

more frequent and improved staff training; and

•

improved access to computerized research tools and disclosure
documents.

The following table summarizes the principal filings reviewed during
the last five years. The levels of reviews of new issuer filings, third party
tender offers, contested solicitations, and going private transactions, all of
which are subject to review, reflect the increases and decreases in the
number of filings received.

75

Full Disclosure Reviews

Reporting Issuer Reviews
New Issuer Reviews Q/
Major Filing Reviews
Securities Act Filings:
Home Office
IPOsQ!
Repeat Issuers
P/EAmdts.~
Regulation A
Regions d/
IPOs
PIEAmdts.~
Regulation A
Exchange Act Initial
Registrations
Annual Report Reviews:
Full
Full Financial
Special f!
Tender Offers (14D-l)
Going Private Schedules
Contested Proxy
Proxy Statements:
Merger/Going Private
Others wIFinancials

W

1993

1994

1995

1996

1997

3,531
1,2149'

3,400
1,599

3,930
1,150

3,210
1,658

3,513
1,604

877
924
115
0

1,167
863
114
0

805
815
100
0

1,267
769
56
0

1,255
723
41
111

189
105
89

217
90
100

145
115
69

145
84
77

0
0
0

148

215

200

246

349

1,466
1,155
360
56
61
35

1,085
1,405
455
82
75
42

1,345
1,585
585
140
77
59

790
933
656
165
100
62

1,149
1,208
800
234
94
83

149
149

163
180

225
205

261
199

233
238

¥Includes companies subject to Exchange Act reporting whose financial statements were
reviewed during the year.
!2/Includes reviews of Securities Act or Exchange Act registration statements of nonExchange Act reporting companies. Excludes reviews of Regulation A filers.
£IRevised.
QlReviews of regional office small business filings were transferred to the home office
during 1996.
~/Includes only post-effective amendments with new financial statements.
f/lncludes annual reports reviewed in connection with the review of other filings that
incorporated financial statements by reference. Special reviews in years before 1997
includes some reviews where the referenced proxy statement contained fmancial
statements.

76

Rulemaking, Interpretive, and Related Matters
Phase II Recommendations of Task Force on Disclosure Simplification
The Commission continued its consideration and implementation of
the recommendations of the 1996 Task Force on Disclosure Simplification
by adopting another set of changes to eliminate more rules and forms and
to simplify others.130 Among other things, the Commission:
•

simplified the Exchange Act registration process;

•

exempted American Depositary Receipts from Exchange Act
registration when the ADRs are listed on a national securities
exchange and registered under the Securities Act;

•

eased the rules so that issuers may now switch to a shorter
Securities Act registration form at the time any amendment is filed
if the issuers have become eligible to use the shorter form; and

•

provided automatic effectiveness upon filing of post-effective
amendments to Securities Act registration statements filed solely
to add exhibits.

Plain English
The Commission proposed rule changes to improve the readability of
prospectuses by requiring issuers to write portions of their documents in
plain English. 131 The proposed rules would apply to both corporate issuers
and mutual funds. They would require, among other things, that public
companies use plain English principles in the organization, language and
structure of the cover pages, summary, and risk factors section of the
prospectus. These principles include the use of the active voice, short
sentences, everyday words, tabular presentation, and the avoidance of legal
jargon and multiple negatives. The proposed rules encourage issuers to
apply these principles throughout the prospectus, and to use pictures,
logos, charts, graphs, or other design elements to convey information in a
more readable and understandable manner.

77

Expansion of Short Form Registration to Include Companies with Nonvoting Equity
The Commission adopted amendments to expand the availability of
the short Forms S-3 and F-3 under the Securities Act. 132 The amendments
changed the test for eligibility to include non-voting as well as voting
common equity in the computation of the required $75 million aggregate
market value of common equity held by non-affiliates of the registrant.
The Commission also adopted conforming amendments to other forms and
rules.
Regulation S
The Commission published for comment a proposal to amend
Regulation S, the Securities Act safe harbor for offshore sales of securities,
to address abusive practices. 133 The amendments would affect
unregistered offshore offerings of common stock and other types of equity
securities (including convertible securities) by United States publicly
traded companies. The proposals also would apply to unregistered
offerings by foreign companies where the principal market (more than 50
percent of worldwide trading) for their equity securities is in the United
States. These amendments are designed to eliminate the abusive practices
mainly by providing a longer restricted period and adding a holding period.
Offshore Press Conferences
The Commission adopted two new safe harbors under the Securities
Act and the Williams Act that are designed to eliminate perceived grounds
for the exclusion of any journalist from access to offshore press
activities. 134 In some foreign countries, it is common practice for
companies to conduct press conferences, issue press releases, and meet
with members of the press when offering securities or conducting a tender
offer. United States journalists, and journalists for foreign publications
with a significant United States circulation, have had difficulty obtaining
direct access to these offshore press activities because of uncertainty about
whether this type of access violates the United States federal securities
laws. The new safe harbors are intended to reflect existing offering
practices in certain foreign countries and level the playing field between

78

United States and foreign journalists with respect to accessing these press
activities.
Delayed Pricing for Offerings by Smaller Companies
The Commission proposed an amendment to Securities Act rule 430A
to permit certain smaller companies, including small business issuers, to
delay pricing of registered securities offerings after clearance of the
registration statement until the company desires to sell the securities. 135
The increased marketplace flexibility provided by the proposed rules is
intended to result in smaller issuers raising more capital through the public
markets rather than through exempt offerings conducted in the domestic
and offshore markets. Use of the proposed procedures would be
conditioned on the availability of adequate and current disclosure in order
that investors may make informed investment decisions at the time the
securities are offered and sold.
Derivatives and Market Risk Disclosure
The Commission adopted amendments to Regulation S-K, Regulation
S-X, and various forms to make information about deri vati ve financial
instruments and certain derivative commodity instruments more useful to
readers.136 The rules, which do not apply to small business issuers, have
been revised to:
•

require enhanced descriptions of accounting policies for
derivatives in the footnotes to the financial statements;

•

require disclosure outside the financial statements of quantitative
and qualitative information about market risk from derivative
financial instruments, certain derivative commodity instruments,
and other financial instruments; and

•

extend the statutory safe harbor for forward-looking statements to
the quantitative and qualitative information without regard to
whether the company otherwise would be eligible for the safe
harbor.

79

Reduction of Holding Period Requirements and Streamlining Rule 144 and
145
The Commission adopted amendments to the rule 144 holding period
requirements applicable to privately placed and other restricted
securities.137 The amendments permit limited resales of restricted
securities after a one-year holding period (instead of the previous two-year
period) and unlimited resales by non-affiliates after a two-year holding
period (instead of the previous three-year period). Parallel changes were
made to the resale provisions of Securities Act rule 145 covering securities
received in certain mergers and other business combination transactions.
The Commission also proposed additional changes to make rule 144
easier to understand and apply. 138 The proposals reorganize and rework
the text of the rule in a more succinct and straightforward fashion. In
addition, the rules would be simplified by:
•

providing a distinct exclusion from the rule 144 definition of
affiliate;

•

eliminating the manner of sale requirements;

•

increasing the threshold requirements for filing form 144 to reflect
inflation since their initial adoption; and

•

amending Securities Act rule 145 to eliminate the resale
limitations that are based on a presumptive underwriter approach.

At the same time, the Commission solicited comment on the need to:

80

•

further revise the rule 144 holding periods;

•

revise the volume limitation standard by eliminating the two
trading volume tests; and

•

address the application of the Securities Act to hedging activities.

Shareholder Proposals
The Commission proposed a package of reforms, including
amendments to rule 14a-8, the shareholder proposal rule, to address a
range of concerns raised by shareholder and corporate participants in the
shareholder proposal process. 139 The proposed changes include an
override mechanism to make it easier for shareholders to include a broader
range of proposals in companies' proxy materials. The amendments also
would provide companies with clearer ground rules and more flexibility to
exclude proposals that failed to attract significant shareholder support in
prior years. In addition, the Commission proposed to re-write the rule in
an easy to understand, question and answer format.
Definition of "Prepared by or On Behalf of the Issuer" for Purposes of
Determining if an Offering Document is Subject to State Regulation
The National Securities Markets Improvement Act of 1996 revised
section 18 of the Securities Act to reallocate regulatory responsibility
relating to securities offerings between the federal and state governments
based on the nature of the security or offering. Among other things, the
revised statute prevents states from directly or indirectly prohibiting,
limiting, or imposing any conditions on the use of any offering document
for a covered security if the offering document is prepared by or on behalf
of the issuer. Pursuantto a statutory mandate, the Commission adopted
new rule 146 to provide a definition of the term "prepared by or on behalf
of the issuer.,,140It provides that if an issuer or an agent or representative
authorizes an offering document's production and approves the document
before its use, it is prepared by or on behalf of the issuer.
EDGAR Rule Revisions
The Commission adopted a number of minor and technical
amendments to its rules governing electronic filing, including the
elimination of the transition rules used during the phase-in period for the
Electronic Data Gathering, Analysis and Retrieval (EDGAR) system. 141
The amendments codify several staff interpretations, add new rules, and
revise other rules to clarify issuers' electronic filing obligations.

81

Amendments to Forms and Schedules to Eliminate Provisions Requiring
Disclosure of Social Security Numbers
The Commission adopted revisions to its forms and schedules to
eliminate the need for individuals to provide their social security numbers
on documents filed with the SEC. 142 The Commission took this action in
response to increasing concerns about the improper use of social security
numbers for access to otherwise non-public information.

Staff Legal Bulletins
The staff began issuing stafflegal bulletins during the year to provide
advice to the public on frequently recurring issues. The bulletins contain
Division views on various topics, including:
•

the requirements issuers must satisfy when requesting confidential
treatment for required information;

•

periodic reporting requirements for issuers in reorganization or
liquidation;

•

the section 3(a)(l 0) exemption from Securities Act registration
available when a court or certain state regulators make a fairness
finding;

•

spinoffs, where a parent company distributes shares of its
subsidiary to its shareholders; and

•

disclosure obligations arising from year 2000 conversion.

The bulletins are publicly available and are posted on the SEC's
internet website.

82

Conferences
SEC Government-BusinessForum

on Small Business Capital Formation

The sixteenth annual SEC Government-BusinessForum on Small
Business Capital Formation was held in San Francisco, California on
September 18-19, 1997. Approximately 150 small business
representatives, accountants, attorneys, and government officials attended
the forum. Numerous recommendations were formulated with a view to
eliminating unnecessary governmental impediments to small businesses'
ability to raise capital. A final report will be provided to interested
persons, including the Congress and regulatory agencies, setting forth a list
of recommendations for legislative and regulatory changes approved by the
forum participants.
SECINASAA Conference Under Section 19(c) of the Securities Act.
The fourteenth annual federal/state uniformity conference was held in
Washington, D.C. on April 28, 1997. Approximately60 Commission
officials met with approximately 60 representatives of the North American
Securities Administrators Association to discuss methods of achieving
greater uniformity in federal and state securities matters. After the
conference, a final report summarizing the discussions was prepared and
distributed to interested persons and participants.
Small Business Town Hall Meetings
In September 1996, the Commission began holding local town hall
meetings for small businesses, where entrepreneurs could meet with SEC
and other federal officials to raise specific concerns and learn about the
available governmental programs and opportunities for small companies
under existing laws and regulations. During the year, a meeting was held
in Richmond, Virginia.

83

Accounting and Auditing Matters
The Chief Accountant is the principal advisor to the Commission on
accounting and auditing matters arisingfrom the administration of the
various securities laws. The primary Commission activities designed to
achieve compliance with the accounting and financial disclosure
requirements of the federal securities laws include:
•

•

•

•

rulemaking and interpretation that supplements private-sector
accounting standards and implements financial disclosure
requirements;
review and comment process for agency filings directed to
improving disclosures infilings, identifying emerging accounting
issues (which may result in rulemaking or private sector standardsetting), and identifying problems that may warrant enforcement
actions;
enforcement actions that impose sanctions and serve to deter
improper financial reporting by enhancing the care with which
registrants and their accountants analyze accounting issues; and
oversight of and participation in, private sector efforts,
principally by the Financial Accounting Standards Board (FASB),
the American Institute of Certified Public Accountants (AICPA),
the Independence Standards Board (ISB), and various
international accounting bodies, which establish accounting and
auditing standards and independence criteriafor accountants
designed to improve financial accounting and reporting and the
quality of audit practice, including standards applicable to
multinational offerings.

Key 1997 Results
The Commission adopted rules to require additional disclosures
concerning derivatives and other financial instruments. The Commission
also continued its involvement in initiatives directed toward reducing the
disparities that currently exist between different countries' accounting and

84

auditing standards. The Commission and the AICPAjointly announced
the formation of a new private sector body to establish independence
standards applicable to auditors of public companies.

Accounting-RelatedRules

and Interpretations

The agency's accounting-related rules and interpretations supplement
private-sector accounting standards, implement financial disclosure
requirements, and establish independence criteria for accountants. The
agency's principal accounting requirements are embodied in Regulation SX, which governs the form and content of financial statements filed with
the SEC.
During the year, the Commission adopted rules to require additional
disclosures concerning derivatives and other financial instruments. 143 The
required disclosures are designed to help investors better assess the market
risks of registrants involved with these instruments and better understand
how those risks are managed. The rules clarify and expand existing
requirements for financial statement footnote disclosures about accounting
policies for derivatives and require disclosures, outside the financial
tatements, of qualitative and quantitative information about the market
risks inherent in derivatives and other financial instruments.
In July 1997, the staff issued an interpretive release, in a question and
answer format, to provide guidance to registrants in imElementing the
market risk disclosures called for under the new rules. I 4

Oversight of Private-Sector Standard Setting
Financial Accounting Standards Board
The SEC monitors the structure, activity, and decisions of the privatesector standard-setting organizations, which include the FASB. The
Commission and its staff oversee the FASB' s ongoing efforts to improve
the standard-setting process, including the need to respond to various
regulatory, legislative, and business changes in a timely and appropriate
manner.

85

During 1997, the FASB completed its joint undertaking with the
Accounting Standards Board of the Canadian Institute of Chartered
Accountants to revisit the current reporting requirements under Statement
of Financial Accounting Standards No. 14, Financial Reporting/or
Segments of a Business Enterprise. A final standard was issued to
establish common standards on segment disclosures. 145
In a coordinated effort with the IntemationalAccounting Standards
Committee (lASC), the FASB issued another final standard to revise the
computation and presentation of earnings per share. 146 The approach taken
in the FASB standard generally is consistent with the approach set forth in
the IASC standard on this topic. In a related action, the FASB adopted a
final standard to require certain disclosures about capital structure. 147
The FASB continued its efforts on its long-term project to address
financial instruments and off-balance sheet financing issues. During the
year, the FASB deliberated to improve the current accounting for
derivative instruments and hedging. The FASB issued a draft standard that
would require all derivatives to be recognized as assets and liabilities and
measured at fair value. 148 Changes in fair value would be recognized in
earnings unless the instruments are designated as hedges and qualify for
hedge accounting. The FASB modified various aspects of its proposed
approach to qualifying for hedge accounting treatment based on various
comments. The comment period on the draft final standard ended on
October 14, 1997; a final standard is expected in early 1998.
In a related action, the FASB adopted standards for reporting and
displaying comprehensive income and its components (revenues, expenses,
. an d Iosses.) 149
gams,
During the year, the FASB began deliberations to reconsider the
accounting for business combinations presently encompassed by
Accounting Principles Board Opinion Nos. 16, Business Combinations,
and 17, Intangible Assets. Among the issues being considered is whether
the existence of two separate and distinct methods of accounting for
business combinations should continue. The FASB published a special
report, Issues Associated with the FASB Project on Business
Combinations, during 1997 to solicit comment.

86

The FASB issued an exposure draft to revise the disclosure
requirements concerning an employer's obligations for pensions and other
post-employment benefits. ISO The objective is to examine the disclosure
requirements of existing FASB standards on employers' accounting for
pensions and other post-employment benefits and determine how such
requirements can be simplified without losing useful information. The
impetus for these revisions stems from a study conducted by a working
group of the Financial Accounting Standards Advisory Committee
(FASAC) recommending that the FASB take an inductive approach to
disclosure effectiveness, beginning with an evaluation of pension
disclosure requirements.
The FASB' s Emerging Issues Task Force (EITF) continued to identify
and resolve accounting issues. The EITF reached consensus on a number
of issues, including questions relating to accounting for fmancial
instruments, business combinations, consolidation policies, and accounting
for the effects of competition on rate-regulated entities. The objective of
the EITF process is to narrow divergent reporting practices of public
companies within the context of existing authoritative accounting
standards.
American Institute of Certified Public Accountants
The SEC oversaw various processes and activities conducted through
the AICPA. These included (1) the Auditing Standards Board (ASB),
which establishes generally accepted auditing standards; (2) the SEC
Practice Section (SECPS), which seeks to improve the quality of audit
practice by member accounting firms that audit financial statements of
public companies; and (3) the Accounting Standards Executive Committee
(AcSEC), which provides guidance through its issuance of statements of
position and practice bulletins.
ASB. The staff oversaw efforts of the ASB to enhance the
effectiveness of the audit process. During 1997, the ASB issued a
Statement on Auditing Standards to clarify an auditor's existing
responsibility to plan and perform an audit to search for fraud.lsl The
ASB also issued a proposed standard to provide guidance to auditors when
performing an attestation engagement with respect to management's

87

152

discussion and analysis presentations of SEC registrants.
The ASB
issued a series of annual Audit Risk Alerts to provide auditors with an
overview of recent economic, professional, and regulatory developments
that may affect 1997 year-end audits.
SEeps. Two programs administered by the SECPS are designed to
ensure that the financial statements of SEC registrants are audited by
accounting firms that have adequate quality control systems. A peer
review of member firms by other accountants is required every three years,
and the Quality Control Inquiry Committee (QCIC) reviews on a timely
basis the quality control implications of litigation against member firms
that involves public company clients. The staff coordinates its oversight of
these two programs with the oversight activities of the Public Oversight
Board (POB). The POB is independent of the AICP A except for funding.
The Commission exercises oversight of the SECPS through frequent
contacts with the POB and members of the executive, SEC regulations,
peer review, and quality control inquiry committees of the SECPS. During
the year, the Office of the Chief Accountant selected a random sample of
peer reviews and evaluated selected working papers of the peer reviewers
and the related PO B files. The staff also reviewed closed case summaries
prepared by the QCIC and related POB oversight files are also reviewed by
the staff. These reviews and discussions with the POB and QCIC staffs
provided SEC staff with information to assess the QCIC process. As in
prior years, this oversight showed that the peer review process contributes
significantly to improving the quality control systems of member firms,
and that the QCIC process is an effective supplement to the peer review
process.
AcSEC. The AcSEC issued a statement of position to provide
..
from so ftw are transactions.
.
153 Th e
guiidance on revenue recognrtion
AcSEC also continued to address accounting issues involving specialized
industries, dedicating resources in such areas as accounting for certain
computer software costs, motion picture accounting, and insurance
accounting.
ISB. During the year, the SEC and the AICPAjointly announced the
formation of a new private sector body, the Independence Standards
Board. The ISB, with Commission oversight, is expected to establish

88

independence standards applicable to audits of public entities. The ISB' s
standards are expected to serve the public interest by promoting investors'
confidence in the audit process and in the securities markets. The ISB
consists of eight members. Four are public members who are not affiliated
with auditing firms, three are managing partners in auditing firms, and one
is the president of the AICPA. The Chairman of the ISB is required to be
one of the four public members. ISB standard-setting meetings will be
open to the public, draft ISB standards will be published for public
comment, and the SEC will oversee the ISB process.

International Accounting and Auditing Standards
The requirements for listing or offering of securities vary from
country to country. Issuers wishing to access capital markets in more than
one country may have to comply with requirements that differ in many
respects, including accounting principles to be used to prepare financial
statements. These differing requirements can increase compliance costs
for registrants and create inefficiencies in attempts to access multiple
capital markets. As a result, securities regulators around the world have
been working on several projects to reduce differences in reporting and
disclosure requirements.
The International Organization of Securities Commissions (IOSCO),
of which the SEC is a member, has been working with the International
Accounting Standards Committee (IASC) for several years on a project to
develop a core set of accounting standards for financial reporting in crossborder securities offerings. A brief chronology of the efforts related to this
project follows:
•

In 1994, IOSCO reviewed the existing IASC standards and
identified standards that need to be improved, including issues
deemed critical to the success of the project by some countries.

•

In July 1995, IOSCO and the IASC agreed on a core standards
work plan, and in April 1996, the IASC announced an intention to
complete that plan by March 1998. Completion of a
comprehensive set of core standards that is acceptable to IOSCO

89

will allow IOSCO's Technical Committee to recommend
acceptance of IASC standards for cross-border capital raising and
listing purposes.
•

In April 1996, the Commission released a statement in support of
the efforts ofIOSCO and the lASe. That statement indicated that,
if the IASC successfully completes the agreed-upon work plan, the
Commission will consider accepting the core standards in
securities offerings by cross-border issuers in the United States if
those standards satisfy the criteria for acceptance described by the
Commission in that statement. The Commission believes the
work ofIOSCO is an important effort to improve capital market
reporting and, therefore, capital market efficiency around the
world. Because of the importance of this issue, the Commission
continued to devote significant resources to this project.

•

During 1997, the IASC finalized standards for five ofthe twelve
projects on the core standards work program, 154 and exposure
drafts of proposed standards have been published for six of the
seven remaining areas. 155 The IASC also agreed to work with a
group of national standard setters to develop a standard on
financial instruments, and the IASC began to develop an interim
solution for financial instruments with a goal of completing its
core standards work program in 1998.

Finally, in October 1997 the Commission submitted a report to
Congress on the development of international accounting standards and the
outlook for successful completion of a set of international standards that
would be acceptable to the Commission for offerings and listings by
foreign corporations in United States markets.156 This report was
submitted pursuant to section 509(5) ofthe National Securities Markets
Improvement Act of 1996.

90

Other Litigation and Legal Activities
The Office of General Counsel provides legal services to the Commission
concerning its law enforcement, regulatory, legislative, and adjudicatory
activities. The office represents the Commission in appeals in enforcement
cases and provides technical assistance on legislative initiatives.

Key 1997 Results
In a major victory for the government, the Supreme Court, in United
States v. 0 'Hagan, 157 upheld the misappropriation theory of insider trading
liability. The Commission drafted substantial parts of the government's
brief in the case. The SEC testified and the staff provided technical and
other assistance with respect to the National Securities Markets
Improvement Act of 1996 (NSMIA), which was enacted in October 1996.

Significant Litigation Developments
Insider Trading
In United States v. 0 'Hagan, one of the most important victories for
the government in a securities enforcement case, the Supreme Court
upheld the validity of the misappropriation theory of insider trading
liability. Under this theory, it is a form of securities fraud to trade in
securities on material non-public information that has been deceptively
misappropriated. The Supreme Court also upheld the validity of
Commission rule 14e-3, which bans trading while in possession of certain
material non-public information in connection with a tender offer. The
Commission worked closely with the U.S. Solicitor General in litigating
this criminal insider trading case.
In the pending appeal in SEC v. Adler,158 the Commission argued that
a corporate insider who trades in his company's securities while in
possession of inside information violates the securities laws, whether or

91

not he uses that information in his trading. In the pending appeal in United
States v. Smith,159 the Commission filed a friend of the court brieftaking
the same position as in Adler.
The Shingle Theory and Excessive Markups
In the pending appeal in Banca Cremi v. Alex. Brown & Sons, Inc.,16o
the Commission filed friend of the court briefs in a private action alleging
fraud based on excessive undisclosed markups on purchases of
collateralized mortgage obligation bonds. The Commission argued that
the duty to disclose an excessive markup derives from the longstanding
"shingle theory," under which a broker-dealer makes an implied
representation of fair dealing with customers. The Commission also
argued that its prior releases and decisions and court decisions give
adequate guidance on excessive markups, including markups on debt
securities.
"In Connection With" Requirement
In Levitin v. Painewebber.Inc.l'" and Bissellv. Merrill Lynch & Co.,
Inc.,162 the Commission filed friend of the court briefs in appeals to the
Second Circuit of district court decisions restricting the scope of the "in
connection with the purchase or sale of a security" clause of section IO(b)
to misrepresentations or omissions that pertain to a security. The
Commission argued that in using the clause Congress intended, contrary to
the conclusion of the district court, that section IO(b) covers all deception
that could reasonably be expected to influence a securities transaction
including, for example, (I) misrepresentations about the qualifications of a
securities salesperson, (2) the risks of margin trading, (3) the terms of a
margin account, and (4) a brokerage firm's solvency. These cases are
awaiting decisions.
Securities Fraud and Conversion of Savings and Loan From Mutual to
Stock Ownership
In Dougherty v. Carver Federal Savings Bank,163 the Court of
Appeals for the Second Circuit, essentially for the reasons urged by the
Commission in a friend of the court brief, reversed a district court decision
dismissing a complaint alleging fraud in an initial public offering of stock

92

in a federally-chartered savings bank. The offering was made pursuant to a
plan of conversion from mutual to stock ownership approved by the Office
of Thrift Supervision (OTS). The court of appeals agreed with the
Commission that the OTS' s approval of the conversion did not preclude a
private action under the antifraud provisions of the securities laws for
misrepresentations or omissions alleged to have occurred in the sale of the
securities to investors.
Transnational Subject-Matter Jurisdiction
In Europe and Overseas Commodity Traders, S.A. v. Banque Paribas
London,l64 the Commission filed a friend of the court brief, arguing that
the federal courts have subject-matter jurisdiction over antifraud and
registration claims when misrepresentations from abroad are directed by
telephone to a person temporarily in the United States, in order to induce
him to buy securities. The case is awaiting decision.
Joint and Several Liability for Disgorgement
In SEC v. Hughes Capital Corp., 165 the Third Circuit held that the
burden is on the party challenging joint and several liability for
disgorgementto establish the manner in which liability should be
apportioned.
Litigation under the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995
The Commission filed a friend of the court brief in the District Court
for the Northern District of California in In re Silicon Graphics, Inc. Sec.
Litig. 166 The Commission argued that the district court had erred in
initially holding that the new pleading standard in the Private Securities
Litigation Reform Act of 1995 (Reform Act) eliminated recklessness as a
basis for liability under section 1O(b)and rule 10b-5. The district court, in
a late opinion, essentially agreed with the Commission's position and the
case is pending on appeal in the Court of Appeals for the Ninth Circuit. 167
The Commission filed a second friend of the court brief involving the
pleading standard of the Reform Act in the Court of Appeals for the Ninth
Circuit in the pending appeal in Zeid v. Kimberley.168 In that brief the
Commission argued that the pleading standard in the Reform Act did not
eliminate recklessness as a standard for liability and that courts should rely

93

upon the Second Circuit tests in interpreting the pleading standard of the
Reform Act.
Forum Selection and Choice of Law Agreements
In two cases in which investors are suing Lloyd's of London, the
Commission appeared as friend of the court to argue that contractual forum
selection and choice of law clauses, which, taken together, require
investors to bring claims arising from their investments in British courts
and provide that British law governs resolution of the disputes, violate the
anti waiver provisions of the federal securities laws, because British courts
will not entertain claims under those laws. In Richards v. Lloyd's of
London,169 a panel of the Court of Appeals for the Ninth Circuit agreed
and invalidated the choice clauses. Rehearing by the full court was granted
and the case is pending. In Haynsworth v. The Corporation,170 the Court
of Appeals for the Fifth Circuit upheld the choice clauses.
Requests for Access to Commission Records
The Commission received 96 subpoenas for documents and
testimony. In some of these cases, the Commission declined to produce
the requested documents or testimony because the information sought was
privileged. The Commission's assertions of privilege were upheld in every
instance when the party issuing the subpoena challenged the assertion in
court.
The Commission received 2,880 requests under the Freedom of
Information Act (FOIA) for access to agency records. There were 55
appeals to the Office of General Counsel from initial denials by the FOIA
Officer. Three actions were brought in federal courts challenging
Commission decisions to withhold, pursuant to FOIA Exemption 8,
documents related to Commission examinations. Exemption 8 protects
from disclosure matters that are "contained in or related to examination,
operating, or condition reports prepared by, on behalf of, or for the use of
an agency responsible for the regulation or supervision of financial
institutions." The courts upheld in each of the cases the Commission's
decision to withhold the requested materials.

94

Actions Against the Commission
In Solv-Ex Corp. v. SEC, 171 the bankruptcy court preliminarily
enjoined the Commission from disclosing any of Solv-Ex' s purported
confidential proprietary information in connection with the Commission's
ongoing investigation involving Solv-Ex. Among the issues under
investigation is whether Solv-Ex made material misstatements regarding
its technological processes. The court denied Solv-Ex's requests for notice
of and the right to attend the Commission's investigative testimony. The
Commission moved to dismiss the complaint or, altematively,for
summary judgment on a number of grounds, including that Solv-Ex
waived any right it may have had to confidentiality for its alleged propriety
information by providing that information to the Commission without an
agreement from the Commission to keep it confidential. The Commission
also appealed the preliminary injunction to the district court and sought a
stay from that court. Those motions are pending.
Challenges to NASD Arbitration Proceedings
Two lawsuits were filed against the Commission regarding NASD
arbitration proceedings. In Honn v. NASD, 172 a registered representative
alleged that the NASD did not provide a fair forum for a proceeding
against his former employer and that the Court should require the
Commission to oversee that proceeding. In Desiderio v. NASD, 173 the
plaintiff alleged that the arbitration clause of Form U-4 was improper and
that the Commission exceeded its statutory authority in permitting the
NASD to include the clause. The Commission moved to dismiss both
lawsuits for lack of jurisdiction and failure to state a claim. Those motions
are pending.
Actions Under the Right to Financial Privacy Act
In 1997, 19 actions were filed against the Commission in federal
district courts pursuant to the Right to Financial Privacy Act (RFP A)
seeking to quash Commission subpoenas to financial institutions for bank
account records. In each of the cases decided, the court enforced the
subpoena, finding that the Commission had established that the
subpoenaed records were relevant to a law enforcement inquiry and that
the staffhad complied with the procedural requirements of the RFPA.

95

Appeals From Subpoena Enforcement Actions
The Court of Appeals for the Second Circuit affirmed two district
court orders enforcing Commission administrative subpoenas. In Wells v.
SEC, 174 the court enforced a subpoena order of testimony holding, among
other things, that the Commission's omnibus formal order of investigation
authorized issuance of the subpoena despite the fact that the order did not
name the entity being investigated, predated the establishment of the entity
being investigated, and directed the staff to investigate an entire industry.
In SEC v. Waltzer & Associates, 175 the court enforced a subpoena seeking
insurance-related documents from a registered investment adviser. The
court rej ected the investment adviser's arguments that production of the
documents would violate the McCarran-FergusonAct, which vests
primary regulatory authority over the sale of insurance products to the
states.

Significant Adjudication Developments
The staff submitted to the Commission 79 draft opinions and orders
resolving substantive motions. The Commission issued 43 opinions and
29 related orders, and the staff resolved by delegated authority an
additional 124 motions. Appeals from decisions of administrative law
judges continue to make up a high percentage of the Commission's docket.
Sanctions
Collateral or Industry-Wide Bars
The Commission considered whether it properly may impose on
respondents so-called "collateral" or industry-wide bars. In Meyer
Blinder,176the Commission determined that section 15(b)( 6) of the
Securities Exchange Act of 1934 (Exchange Act) authorizes the agency to
bar an associated person of a broker-dealer from securities activities other
than broker-dealer activities. The Commission stated that a collateral bar
appropriately may be imposed when it is against the public interest to
allow a person to serve in any capacity in the securities industry. Factors
bearing on the public interest include the nature and scope of a

96

respondent's misconduct. In light of the egregiousness of his conduct, the
Commission exercised its authority to bar Blinder, the president of a nowdefunct broker-dealer, not only from associating with any broker-dealer,
but also from associating with any municipal securities dealer, investment
adviser, or investment company.
In Robert 1 Moses,177 by contrast, the Commission found that it
lacked the authority to bar a respondent from activities unrelated to the
securities industry. It accordingly set aside an administrative law judge's
sanction barring an individual who had been associated with various
broker-dealers from engaging in the telecommunicationsbusiness.

Penny Stock Bars
In Benjamin G. Sprecher, 178 the Commission determined that the
sanction of a penny stock bar is remedial, not punitive, in nature. The
Commission barred Sprecher, a securities attorney, from participation in
any offering of penny stock based on a criminal conviction for misconduct
occurring before the effective date of the Securities Enforcement Remedies
and Penny Stock Reform Act of 1990 (Remedies Act). The Commission
concluded that the bar did not violate either the Ex Post Facto or Double
Jeopardy Clauses of the Constitution.
In Russell G. Koch,179 the Commission rejected the claim that
imposing a penny stock bar on Koch, formerly a registered principal,
owner, and president of a broker-dealer, based on a permanent injunction
entered by a district court, was a retroactive application of the Remedies
Act. Although the injunction arose out of Koch' s pre-Remedies Act
conduct, it was entered more than three years after that Act became
effective and supplied an independent basis for the bar.

Disgorgement
In DonaldA. Roche, 180 the Commission found that Roche, a former
registered representative and branch manager of a broker-dealer, violated
the antifraud provisions of the securities laws when he made baseless price
predictions to customers, misled a reluctant customer to make a sale, and
churned three customer accounts. In ordering Roche to disgorge his illegal
profits from the churning, the Commission concluded that its order for

97

disgorgementwas not a "penalty" so as to trigger 28 U.S.C. ~ 2462's
general federal statute of limitations on proceedings in which a "fine,
penalty or forfeiture, pecuniary or otherwise" is sought.
Improper Professional Conduct
On remand from the United States Court of Appeals for the District of
Columbia Circuit, 181 in David J Checkosky and Norman A. Aldrich,182 the
Commission reaffirmed its earlier findings 183 that, under former rule 2(e)
of the Commission's Rules of Practice (now rule 102( e)), a partner and
audit manager for Coopers & Lybrand engaged in improper professional
conduct when their audit work deviated recklessly from the requirements
of Generally Accepted Auditing Standards and Generally Accepted
Accounting Principles. Responding to the District of Columbia Circuit's
directive that it address the mental state required for a finding of improper
professional conduct under rule 2(e), the Commission found that no
particular mental state is required.
Robert D. Potts, CPA 184 resolved the first litigated proceeding against
a concurring partner acting solely in that capacity. The Commission
determined that Potts' concurrence in the issuance of unqualified audit
opinions on a company's financial statements, which materially misstated
its income, recklessly deviated from professional standards and warranted
a suspension from practice before it.
Sales Practice Abuses/Fraud/Sale of Unregistered Securities
The Commission imposed sanctions ranging from a two-year brokerdealer bar to a permanent bar against two former principals, a regional
vice-president, and four branch managers of a broker-dealer in C. James
Padgett, et al. 185 The sanctions arose out of the respondents' abusive
practices, which included charging excessive markups, using telephone
sales scripts that contained misleading predictions of increases in the price
of speculative securities, discouraging customers from seIling certain
securities until another customer agreed to purchase them, and
conditioning customers' purchases of securities on their agreement to sell
those securities back to the firm.

98

In Stephen ThorliefRangeni'" resolving an appeal from a New York
Stock Exchange (NYSE) disciplinary action, the Commission found that a
former registered representative of Shearson Lehman Brothers, Inc. made
unsuitable recommendations of securities to three customers, all
inexperienced investors, and excessively traded in the customers' accounts.
The Commission sustained the censure and four-year suspension in all
capacities that the NYSE had imposed.
In Prime Investors, Inc., Kenneth James Wright, and Michael Lyn
Johnson,187 the Commission found that a member firm of the NASD, its
president, and one of its registered representatives offered and sold
unregistered, non-exempt securities in violation of the Securities Act of
1933 (Securities Act), made materially misleading statements in
connection with those offers and sales, and misused investor funds. The
Commission also found that the firm violated Federal Reserve System
prompt -payment and margin requirements with respect to several dozen
security trades. The Commission sustained the NASD' s sanctions, which
included the firm's expulsion from membership in the NASD.

Legal Policy
During 1997, the General Counsel had a significant role in
implementing NSMIA, including (l) the adoption of rules mandating a
new system of federal-state investment adviser regulation, and (2) the
preparation of a report on technology mandated by NSMIA. In the
administrative area, the General Counsel took the lead role in
implementing new administrative and rulemaking requirements arising out
of the Small Business Regulatory Enforcement Faimess Act of 1996, Pub.
L. No. 104-121,110 Stat. 857.
The General Counsel also has substantial responsibility for carrying
out the Commission's legislati ve program, including drafting testimony,
developing the Commission's position on pending bills in Congress, and
providing technical assistance to Congress on legislative matters. The staff
prepared a report to the President and Congress regarding the impact of the
Reform Act.

99

Significant Legislative Developments
In 1997, only one minor piece of securities legislation was enacted
into law--a bill extending the effective date of certain provisions of
NSMIA that apply to the regulation of investment advisers. However,
Congress held hearings and actively considered a variety of other
legislative initiatives in areas of significant interest to the Commission,
including financial services reform, securities litigation reform, repeal of
the Public Utility Holding Company Act, decimal trading, and accounting
for derivatives.
Amendment to Securities Reform Legislation
On March 31,1997, President Clinton signed a bill into law extending
the effective date of Title III ofNSMIA from April 9, 1997 to July 8, 1997.
(Pub. L. No.1 05-8, 111 Stat. 15 (1997». Title III ofNSMIA, called the
Investment Advisers Supervision Coordination Act (Coordination Act),
was designed in large part to eliminate duplicative state and federal
securities regulation. Under the Coordination Act, regulation of
investment advisers is divided between the Commission and the states. In
general, the Commission regulates advisers to registered investment
companies and advisers with $25 million or more in assets under
management. The states regulate smaller advisers.
The Coordination Act gave the Commission only six months to
implement the rules effecting the division of investment adviser regulation
between the states and the Commission. Although the Commission moved
quickly after enactment to propose implementing rules on December 20,
1996, the Commission was concerned that the six-month implementation
period was too short, and that certain small advisers who did not return the
necessary paperwork in a timely fashion would not be identified for
regulation by the appropriate state by the Act's effective date.
Congress responded to the Commission's concerns and, in March
1997, extended the CoordinationAct's effective date by 90 days, to July 8,
1997. The Commission subsequently adopted final rules on May 15, 1997
implementing NSMIA. The Coordination Act took effect on July 8, 1997.

100

Decimalization
On March 13, 1997, H.R. 1053, the Common Cents Stock Pricing Act
of 1997, was introduced in the House of Representatives to require the
Commission to issue rules setting a timetable for introducing securities
trading in decimal intervals. S. 838, a companion bill identical to H.R.
1053, was introduced on June 5, 1997 in the Senate. For several years
commentators have urged the U. S. stock exchanges to make this change,
because they argue that relatively large increments of one-eighth of a dollar
pricing ( 12-1/2 cents) allow dealers to take larger profits from trading than
would be taken if trading were in decimals (hundredths of dollars) instead.
The Subcommittee on Finance and Hazardous Materials of the House
Commerce Committee held hearings on H.R. 1053 in April 1997. The
bills ultimately were put on hold by their sponsors because several SROs
decided to make the change voluntarily by the year 2000, if possible. On
March 13, 1997, the American Stock Exchange (AMEX) voted to move to
decimal pricing, and on May 7, 1997, it began trading in sixteenths rather
than eighths of a dollar. The Nasdaq Stock Market also began trading in
sixteenths on June 2, 1997. Despite opposition voiced less than one month
earlier, the NYSE voted on June 5, 1997, to begin trading in decimals
instead of fractions by January 2000, and on June 24, 1997, the NYSE
began trading in sixteenths as an interim measure.
The industry has continued to move towards decimal pricing. The
Commission's staffhas held meetings with the markets to work out an
orderly transition of industry systems to decimals.
Securities Activities of Banks
In 1997, Congress again devoted considerable attention to GlassSteagall reform. Three major legislative proposals on the subject were
introduced and actively considered: (1) H.R. 10, the Financial Services
Competitiveness Act of 1997, was introduced on January 7, 1997; (2) H.R.
268, the Depository Institution Affiliation and Thrift Charter Conversion
Act, also was introduced on January 7, 1997; and (3) S. 298, the
Depository Institution Affiliation Act, and its identical companion bill
H.R. 669, also the Depository Institution Affiliation Act, were introduced
on February 11, 1997. In addition, the Department of the Treasury

101

released a legislative proposal to overhaul the Glass-Steagall Act.
Although the Treasury Proposal was widely discussed in Congress, it was
not formally introduced as a bill in 1997.
After extensive consideration of the three Glass-Steagall bills before
the House Banking Committee, as well as the Treasury Proposal, the
Committee reported H.R. lOon June 20, 1997. The bill then was referred
to the House Commerce Committee for its consideration. At the end of
1997, this committee was working on its version of H.R. 10, which
ultimately was reported out of committee on October 30, 1997. At the end
of the first session of the 105th Congress, the House leadership was
working to craft a version ofH.R. 10 that could be supported by both the
House Banking and House Commerce Committees and the affected
regulators and industries.
The Commission testified several times regarding the various bills
under consideration and its views regarding Glass-Steagall reform. The
Commission testified before the Subcommittee on Financial Institutions
and Consumer Credit of the House Banking Committee regarding H.R.
268 on February 13, 1997. On May 22, 1997, the Commission testified
before the House Banking Committee regarding financial reform generally
and H.R. 10 specifically. The Commission testified before the
Subcommittee on Finance and Hazardous Materials of the House
Commerce Committee regarding H.R. lOon July 17, 1997.
In general, the Commission has supported Glass-Steagall reform,
provided that the resulting regulatory structure is established along
"functional" lines. The concept of "functional regulation" would require
that banks engage in most securities activities through a registered brokerdealer, fully subject to the federal securities regulatory scheme. The
Commission has testified that this is important because banking law does
not contain specific provisions that provide for investor protection; the
Commission believes that investors that purchase securities through banks
should receive the same investor protections as those that purchase
securities from broker-dealers. Functional regulation would achieve this
result. The Commission's testimony on Glass-Steagall issues generally (l)
supported the elimination of the bank exclusions from the federal securities
laws, (2) advocated the concept of a "two-way street" to allow equal
competitive opportunities to all financial services providers, (3) criticized

102

the application of bank -oriented safety and soundness regulation to
securities firms' activities, which would inhibit risk-taking by securities
firms affiliated with banks, and (4) opposed the additional layers of
bureaucracy imposed on the financial services industry in the form of a
National Financial Services Council.
Litigation Reform
Congress actively considered a range of issues arising out of the
Reform Act hearings. In response to a request from President Clinton, the
Commission undertook to study the impact of the Litigation Reform Act.
On April 15, 1997, the Report to the President and the Congress on the

First Year of Practice Under the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act
of 1995 (Staff Report) was delivered. This report discusses the first year's
experience with the Litigation Reform Act and concludes that it is too soon
to draw definitive conclusions about the impact of the Litigation Reform
Act on the effectiveness of the securities laws and on investor protection.
The report does, however, make some preliminary observations.
The Commission testified on July 24, 1997 before the Subcommittee
on Securities of the Senate Banking Committee to discuss the Staff Report.
The testimony suggested that preemption of state law at present would be
premature, pending more experience with implementation of the Litigation
Reform Act, and that any preemption proposals should be narrowly
tailored to address documented abuses. In addition to the Commission
testimony, Commissioner Wallman submitted a statement of his own
views, in which he agreed that it was too soon to assess the effects of the
Litigation Reform Act, but arguing that preemption was ready to be
debated on its own merits.
Three follow-up litigation reform bills have been introduced in
Congress. In the House of Representatives, H.R. 1653, the Securities
Litigation Improvement Act of 1997, was introduced on May 16,1997,
and H.R. 1689, the Securities Litigation Uniform Standards Act of 1997,
was introduced on May 21, 1997. These bills, in varying degrees, would
preempt state fraud actions in securities that are nationally traded. The
bills thus would create a uniform federal standard for fraud involving
securities of widely-traded companies, such as those traded, for example,
on the NYSE, the AMEX, and the Nasdaq. In addition, S. 1260, the

103

Securities Litigation Uniform Standards Act of 1997, was introduced in the
Senate on October 7, 1997.
The Public Utility Holding Company Act of 1935
In 1997, Congress considered a number of bills to repeal the Public
Utility Holding Company Act of 1935 (PUHCA). Repeal ofPUHCA has
been stalled as Congress debates whether to simply repeal PUHCA or to
repeal it as part of more sweeping electric utility deregulation.
Specifically, six bills were introduced in 1997 to repeal PUHCA. Three
bills regarding PUHCA repeal were introduced in the House: H.R. 655,
the Electric Consumers' Power to Choose Act of 1997, on February 10,
1997; H.R. 1230, the Consumers Electric Power Act of 1997, on April 8,
1997; and H.R. 1960, the Electric Power Competition and Consumer
Choice Act of 1997, on June 19, 1997. All of the House bills link PUHCA
repeal to electric utility deregulation. In addition, three Senate bills were
introduced: S. 237, the Electric Consumers Protection Act of 1997, on
January 30, 1997; S. 621, the Public Utility Holding Company Act of
1997, on April 22, 1997; and S. 722, the Electric Utility Restructuring
Empowerment and Competitiveness Act of 1997, on May 8, 1997.
Notably, four of the bills introduced in 1997 are almost identical to bills
introduced and considered in previous years.
On April 29, 1997, the CommissiontestifiedregardingPUHCA
repeal
before the Senate Banking Committee. The testimony supported S. 621, a
bill that would largely implement conditional repeal ofPUHCA as
recommended by the Commission in its 1995 PUHCA study. The
testimony noted, however, that the bill does not adopt the Commission's
recommendation that the Federal Energy Regulatory Commission have
discretion to exercise jurisdiction over affiliate transactions of public utility
holding companies.
The Commission testified again regarding PUHCA repeal on June 24,
1997, during a series of workshops sponsored by the Senate Committee on
Energy and Natural Resources. These hearings focused on issues relating
to a more comprehensive energy reform, including deregulating the energy
power industry. The Commission's testimony restated support for
conditional PUHCA repeal, but did not take a position on the broader
issues involving comprehensive energy reform.

104

SEC-Commodity Futures Trading Commission Issues
During 1997, both the House and the Senate considered bills that
would substantially amend the Commodity Exchange Act (CEA)--S. 257
introduced on February 4, 1997, and H.R 467 introduced on January 21,
1997. Three elements of the bills are of particular interest to the
Commission as regulator of the securities exchanges and over-the-counter
(OTC) securities markets: (1) amendments and clarifications of the
Treasury Amendment (which excludes certain financial instruments from
the scope of the CEA); (2) the addition of a private transaction exemption
(which would codify in the CEA a swaps exemptive rule); and (3) addition
of a professional market exemption (which would essentially exempt from
most CEA regulation trading among institutional and wealthy individuals).
In a written statement dated March 14, 1997 to the Senate Agriculture
Committee, the Commission stated that it generally supported S. 257's
proposed amendments to the Treasury Amendment. With respect to the
private transaction exemption, the Commission stated that it was important
to enhance legal certainty for the market in privately-negotiatedOTC
swaps, but expressed a preference for an outright exclusion (rather than an
exemption) from the CEA for all institutional OTC transactions in
securities-based swaps. Finally, the Commission opposed the
professional-market exemption contained in S. 257. The Commission
stated that the broad exemption drafted in S. 257 would expose the futures
markets to additional risk of manipulation, call into question the validity of
the exchanges as price discovery mechanisms, and potentially could
undermine the Commission's ability to regulate trading and detect fraud
involving the securities underlying the futures and options traded in the
professional markets.
On April 15, 1997, the Commission testified before the Subcommittee
on Risk Management and Specialty Crops of the House Agriculture
Committee. In this testimony, the Commission expressed its support for
clarification of the Treasury Amendment, but continued to voice its strong
opposition to the professional-marketexemption.
In addition, the
Commission explained again that an exception from the CEA for swaps
and other privately-negotiatedOTC derivative transactions would be the

105

most appropriate way to provide legal certainty to participants in that
market.
SEC Appropriations
On March 14, 1997, the Commission testified before the
Subcommittee on Commerce, Justice, and State, the Judiciary, and Related
Agencies of the House Appropriations Committee. The testimony
supported the President's 1998 budget request of$317.4 million for the
Commission. The Commission testified again in support of the
Commission's budget request on March 19, 1997 before the Subcommittee
on Commerce, Justice, and State, the Judiciary, and Related Agencies of
the Senate Appropriations Committee.
From October 1, 1997 until final signing of the bill on November 26,
1997, the Commission operated pursuant to six continuing resolutions,
which provided the Commission with authority to operate at its fiscal 1997
budget level, and to continue to collect fees at the rates set in fiscal 1997 .
On November 26, 1997, H.R. 2267, "a bill making appropriations for the
Departments of Commerce, Justice, and State, the Judiciary, and Related
Agencies for the year ending September 30, 1998" was enacted becoming
Pub. L. No. 105-119. It provides the SEC $315 million for 1998 and
includes language that provides offsetting fees in accord with the levels
authorized in NSMIA.
SEC Reauthorization
On March 6, 1997, the Commission testified before the Subcommittee
on Finance and Hazardous Materials of the House Commerce Committee
concerning the Commission's authorization request, seeking
appropriations of $320 million for 1998 and $342.7 million for 1999. In
response to questions posed at this hearing, Chairman Levitt agreed to
conduct a study of issues presented by bills that would require disclosure
of corporate charitable contributions and would give shareholders a role in
selecting recipients of corporate charity (H.R. 994 and H.R. 995 introduced
on March 5, 1997).
On April 9, 1997, H.R. 1262 was introduced in the House of
Representativesto reauthorize the Commission for 1998 and 1999. The

106

bill reflected the Commission's authorization request. On May 21, 1997,
the Subcommittee on Finance and Hazardous Materials approved the SEC
authorization bill for full committee action. The House Commerce
Committee reported the bill on July 23, 1997. An effort was made to pass
the bill in the House on suspension calendar on October 1, 1997, but it was
blocked due to an unrelated partisan political dispute. The bill was
subsequently passed by the House on November 13, 1997. No Senate
action took place before the recess.
Year 2000 Computer Issue
In response to an inquiry from Congressman Dingell of the House
Commerce Committee, the Commission staff prepared a report on the year
2000 issue and, on July 30, 1997, the Commission testified regarding this
issue before the Subcommittee on Financial Services and Technology of
the Senate Banking Committee. The report addressed the Commission's
readiness to deal with the year 2000 issue, the readiness of the securities
industry and public companies, the Commission's position regarding
corporate disclosure as it relates to the year 2000 issue, and actions the
Commission intends to take to reduce risks associated with the issue. The
Commission's testimony stated that the securities industry is preparing to
correct year 2000 problems, but that failure to correct the problems will
ultimately be dealt with by the markets. It also described the
Commission's cooperative efforts with the Securities Industry Association,
which is spearheading efforts to organize testing to ensure that market
participants are year 2000 compliant. Senator Bennett of the Senate
Banking Committee requested that all of the agencies at the hearing report
on an ongoing basis regarding year 2000 issues.
Other SEC Testimony
There was considerable congressional interest in issues relating to
disclosure and accounting for derivatives during the 105th Congress. The
Commission testified before the Subcommittee on Securities of the Senate
Banking Committee regarding derivatives issues on March 4, 1997.
Additional testimony on these issues was provided on October 1, 1997
before the Subcommittee on Capital Markets, Securities and Government
Sponsored Enterprises of the House Banking Committee.

107

The Commission also testified about micro-cap fraud issues involving
penny stocks and other small company securities on September 22, 1997
before the Permanent Subcommittee on Investigations of the Senate
Committee on Governmental Affairs.

Corporate Reorganizations
The Commission, as a statutory adviser in cases under Chapter 11 of
the Bankruptcy Code, seeks to assure that the interests of public investors
are protected. During the year, the Commission entered a formal
appearance in 31 Chapter 11 cases involving companies with significant
public investor interest. The Commission, in order to protect the holders
of the orange county's public debt securities and the municipal bond
market generally, also was actively involved in the Orange County 188
Chapter 9 bankruptcy, which came to a successful conclusion during the
year.
Committees
Official committees negotiate with debtors on the formulation of
reorganization plans and generally participate in all aspects of a Chapter 11
case. The Bankruptcy Code provides for the appointment of an official
committee for stockholders where necessary to assure adequate
representation of their interests.
During 1997, the Commission, to assure that committees were not
hindered in their efforts to represent public investors, successfully objected
to attempts to prevent the retention of counsel by the official equity
•
•
T
committee
In
In
re G rossman 'B
s ros 189 an d to l'irnit. payment 0 f attorneys
fees to counsel for the official equity committee in In re Edison Brothers
Stores, Inc.190 Committees were appointed in three cases as a result of
informal discussions with U.S. Trustees. 191
Estate Administration
The Commission protects the interests of public investors by
participating in selected matters involving administration of the debtor's
estate. In In re Sizzler Restaurants International, Inc. et al. 192, the debtor,

108

at the outset of the Chapter 11 case, sought court approval oflucrative
employment agreements for 19 key officers and personnel. The
Commission argued that the court should independently review the facts
and circumstances of the case, that the debtors had not presented sufficient
evidence in support of their position and that until they presented strong
evidence of the need for and reasonableness of the particular payments, the
motion should not be granted. Concurring with the Commission's
position, the court continued the motion so that a full evidentiary hearing
could be held and additional briefs filed. Prior to the continued hearing
date, the debtors withdrew the motion.
In In re Home Theater Products International, Inc., 193 the
Commission objected to the approval of a proposed settlement that
provided for a substantial payment to the estate by the debtor's former
principal (who allegedly had engaged in a massive securities fraud) in
exchange for the release of all of the debtor's claims against the principal.
The settlement also sought to enjoin and release claims of shareholders and
the Commission. The Commission argued that its claims, as well as
shareholder claims, against the non-debtor principal were non-derivative
and, therefore, could not be enjoined under section 105(a) of the
Bankruptcy Code, as the debtor had argued, because the claims were not
property of the estate and their prosecution did not interfere with the
administration of the estate. The Commission also argued that section
524( e) and its underlying policy prohibit the release of third-party claims
against non-debtors. The court agreed with the Commission's position that
the debtor had not satisfied the elements of section 105(a) and on that basis
denied the motion.
In Munfordv. Munford, Inc. ,194 a divided panel of the United States
Court of Appeals for the Eleventh Circuit held, contrary to the position
urged by the Commission, that the Bankruptcy Code does not protect
leveraged buyout (LBO) payments made by a company to its shareholders
from recovery under fraudulent conveyance laws when the company later
goes into bankruptcy. The Commission previously had argued
successfully in the Tenth Circuit Court of Appeals, the only other court of
appeals to address this issue, that section 546( e) of the Bankruptcy Code,
which shields securities settlement payments from recovery as a fraudulent
conveyance or preference, aR~lies to LBO payments. See Kaiser Steel
Corp. v. Pearl Brewing Co. 9 The Commission filed a petition with

109

suggestion for rehearing by the full Court of Appeals, which was denied on
July 9, 1997. Petitions for review by the Supreme Court are pending. 196
Disclosure Statements/ReorganizationPlans
A disclosure statement is a combination proxy and offering statement
used to solicit acceptances for a reorganization plan. Such plans often
provide for the issuance of large quantities of new unregistered securities
pursuant to an exemption from Securities Act registration contained in the
Bankruptcy Code. During 1997, the Commission's bankruptcy staff
commented on 59 of the 64 plans and disclosure statements it reviewed. In
addition, the staff commented on 50 of the 65 amended disclosure
statements it reviewed. Recurring problems with disclosure statements
included inadequate financial information, lack of disclosure on the
issuance of unregistered securities and insider transactions, and plan
provisions that contravene the Bankruptcy Code. Most of the staff's
comments were adopted by the debtors; formal Commission objections
were filed in five cases. 197 In addition, the Commission prevented the
i
securities In
i firve cases. 198
un 1a wful Issuance
0 f secunnes
The Commission successfully objected to six plans of reorganization
that attempted to obtain a release from liability for certain of the debtors'
officers, directors, and other related persons. 199 The release of third parties
from liability is significant to investors because in many cases debtors seek
to use the Chapter 11 process to protect officers and directors from
personal liability for various kinds of claims, including liability under the
federal securities laws. Also, as a result of the Commission's comment
process for plan disclosure statements, im~roper third party release
provisions were abandoned in five cases.'

°

In six cases the Commission successfully objected to attempts to
discharge claims of creditors and sell the remaining assetless public shell
corporations.i'" The trafficking in public company corporate shells-which
can lead to stock market manipulation--is specifically prohibited by the
Bankruptcy Code.

110

Enforcement Matters
Bankruptcy issues fre~uently arise in Commission enforcement
actions. In In re Bilzerian, 02 the district court reversed a bankruptcy court
order that had refused to give collateral estoppel effect (i.e., to accept the
factual findings of the district court) to the Commission's $33 million
securities fraud disgorgementjudgment.
The district court, in finding that
every element necessary to prove nondischargeabilityof the debt was
established by the prior criminal and civil proceedings against Bilzerian,
directed the bankruptcy judge to enter summary judgment for the
Commission that its disgorgementjudgment is nondischar~eable.
Bilzerian has appealed the decision to the Eleventh Circuit. 03 The matter
is pending.
In In re Cross,204 the Commission appealed a bankruptcy court order
dismissing its adversary complaint seeking a determination that Cross'
$6.5 millionjudgment debt for disgorgementof proceeds from an illegal
offering of unregistered securities in the form of promissory notes is
nondischargeable under section 523( a)(2)( A) of the Bankruptcy Code as a
debt for money obtained by fraud. The bankruptcy court dismissed the
Commission's complaint, holding that the Commission lacked standing
under section 523 because it is not a creditor ofthe debtor, since the district
court in the Commission's action against the debtor directed payment of
the disgorgementaward to the court-appointedreceiver.i'"
The
Commission appealed the decision to the Bankruptcy Appellate Panel for
the Ninth Circuit arguing that the Commission is the creditor with the right
to enforce its judgment and hence the appropriate creditor to bring a
nondischargeabilityaction.i'"
The matter is pending.
In In re Hibbard Brown, 207 a Chapter 11 case involving a penny stock
broker-dealer, the Commission objected to the fairness of a proposed
settlement with certain former registered representatives and employees
who allegedly defrauded investors of more than $115 million. The
Commission argued that the proposed contributions by these third parties
were inadequate to support a general release of all claims arising from their
fraudulent activity. The matter is pending.

111

In In re Absolute Resourceio8 the Commission successfully objected
to the debtor's plan that continued the employment of its managers who
were the subject of a Commission law enforcement investigation that
uncovered facts that established management's misconduct.

Ethical Conduct Program
In 1997, the staff responded to 1,420 counseling inquiries and
reviewed and cleared 161 speeches and articles submitted by SEC
employees. The staff assisted two nominees for Commissioner in the
nomination process, including, among other things, advising on fmancial
disclosure, resolving conflicts of interest, and formulating ethics
agreements.

112

Municipal Securities Initiatives
The Office of Municipal Securities provides expertise to the Commission
and staff, assists on municipal securities enforcement cases, coordinates
disclosure rules and other ongoing municipal regulatory initiatives, and
addresses new issues that arise in the municipal area. In addition, the
office provides assistance on legislative matters and works directly with
issuers, investors, brokers, dealers, municipal securities dealers, and other
professionals on issues relating to municipal securities.

Key 1997 Results
The Office of Municipal Securities coordinated the Commission's
efforts to end pay-to-play practices in the municipal securities markets,
promoting education and compliance with related rules of the Municipal
Securities Rulemaking Board (MSRB) and encouraging voluntary action
by national and local bar associations to end the practice. The office
provided the Division of Enforcement and the regional and district offices
with technical assistance in municipal securities investigations and
enforcement proceedings. In addition, the office consulted with the
Division of Market Regulation on rulemaking and interpretation of
Commission rules relating to the municipal securities market, and worked
with the Division of Investment Management on rulemaking relating to
municipal securities. The office provided interpretive and other guidance to
the municipal markets, including issuers, brokers, dealers, and municipal
securities dealers, in conjunction with the implementation of amendments
(concerning secondary market disclosure) to rule 15c2-12 of the Securities
Exchange Act of 1934. The staff also worked with the Division of Market
Regulation regarding the interpretation and implementationofMSRB
rules
G-36, G-37, and G-38.

113

Municipal Securities Disclosure
The staff continued to educate municipal market participants in the
implementation of, and compliance with, amendments to rule 15c2-12,
concerning secondary market disclosure. The office provided guidance to
market participants regarding recent SEC enforcement decisions that apply
the antifraud provisions of the federal securities laws to municipal
securities. The staff assisted state and local government groups in
preparing materials to educate municipal market participants.

Technical Assistance
The Office of Municipal Securities worked with the Division of
Market Regulation on matters relating to the MSRB, including the
implementation of, amendments to, and interpretationofMSRB rules G37 and G-38. MSRB rule G-37 prohibits brokers, dealers, and municipal
securities dealers from engaging in municipal securities business with
issuers if certain political contributions have been made to officials of such
issuers. MSRB rule G-38 requires disclosure of consulting arrangements.
In addition, the staffworked with the Divisions of Market Regulation and
Corporation Finance on various issues surrounding the implementation of
amendments to rule 15c2-12 and certificates of participation in municipal
leases.
The municipal securities staff worked with the Office of General
Counsel on municipal bankruptcy and other municipal securities matters,
provided technical assistance to the Division of Enforcement in cases
involving municipal securities and the municipal securities market,
assisted the Office of Compliance Inspections and Examinations in
oversight of the municipal securities market and provided expertise for
training programs, and assisted the Office of Investor Education and
Assistance on issues pertaining to individual investors and municipal
securities price transparency.

114

Outreach
As part of its outreach efforts, the municipal securities staff met
periodically with numerous organizations representing participants
involved in the municipal finance industry. Among the organizations were
the Government Finance Officers Association, National League of Cities,
National Association of Counties, U. S. Conference of Mayors, Council of
Infrastructure Financing Authorities, Bond Market Association, National
Association of Bond Lawyers, and a variety of regional and local
municipal government educational groups.

115

Economic Research and Analysis
The Office of Economic Analysis provides expertise infinancial economics
to the Commission and the operating divisions, evaluates the economic
impact of proposed rules, conducts studies that are designed to expand the
Commission's understanding of capital markets, and plays a major role in
the Commission's enforcement effort by applying economic and statistical
tools to issues such as materiality and disgorgement. The office reviews
all rule proposals to assess their potential effects on: (1) small businesses
as required by the Regulatory Flexibility Act (RFA) and section 502 of the
Small Business Investment Incentives Act, both enacted in 1980; (2)
competition within the securities industry and competing securities
marke ts as required by the 1975 amendments to the Securities Exchange
Act of 1934; (3) efficiency, competition, and capitalformation pursuant to
section 106 of the National Securities Markets Improvement Act of 1996
(NSMIA); and (4) costs, prices, investment, innovation, and the economy
as required by the Small Business Regulatory Enforcement Fairness Act of
1996 (SBREF A).

Key 1997 Results
In 1997, the office analyzed the effects of preferencing on the
execution of customers' orders and competition among dealers and
markets. The analysis was incorporated into a study sent to Congress in
April, as required by NSMIA. The office also provided extensive analyses
of the impact of the new order handling rules on the Nasdaq market;
provided the Commission with data regarding the effects of new
Regulation M on issuers, underwriters, and securities offerings; and
analyzed how changes in rule 144 would impact resales of securities and
share prices.

116

Economic Analysis and Technical Assistance
The office analyzed 54 Commission and self-regulatory organization
rules to assess their costs and benefits, as well as their potential effects on
small entities, as required by the RF A.
The office provided substantial quantitative economic evidence to the
Division of Corporation Finance concerning the new holding periods for
the resale of private placements pursuant to rule 144 and analyzed over
200,000 filings of Form 144 that were made from January 1, 1988 through
April 30, 1996. This analysis provided data concerning the number of
companies using the rule to make private placements, the type and dollar
amount of securities sold, the price impact of resales of the securities into
the public markets, and the impact of resale restrictions. The Division of
Corporation Finance used the results of this analysis in crafting proposed
changes to the rule.
In April 1997, RegulationM replaced the Commission's trading
practice rules governing potentially manipulative trading during a
securities distribution. The economic analysis staff analyzed data to assess
the costs and benefits ofthe new rules and their likely effects on capital
formation and the economy. The office concluded that the rules would
promote capital formation and have no adverse effects on the economy.
The staff currently is studying the activities of underwriters in the period
immediately following securities distributions since Regulation M went
into effect.
The office participated in the program to monitor and assess the
impact of the Commission's new order handling rules, which were
implemented in January 1997, and provided data on the rules' effects on
bid-ask spreads, quotation depth, Small Order Execution System activity,
trade reporting practices, and the prices at which orders were executed
relative to contemporaneous price quotations. Prior to the implementation
of the new order handling rule, the office provided evidence that investors
often were confronted by artificially wide, inflexible spreads, and
frequently could not transact in the Nasdaq market at the best prices. The
office's analyses indicate that bid-ask spreads narrowed after the new order
handling rules went into effect and that investors have benefited from their
ability to trade at the improved price quotations.

117

Pursuant to section 51O(C) ofNSMIA, the office provided extensive
analysis and empirical data for the report to Congress on the practice of
preferencing. Preferencingprograms of exchanges allow a preferencing
dealer to take priority over same-priced orders or quotations entered prior
in time. Congress directed the Commission to examine whether retail
trades are disadvantaged by this practice.
As part of an evaluation of the Nasdaq Over-the-Counter(OTC)
Bulletin Board, the office continued to analyze the U.S. OTC market for
unregistered foreign equities. The Bulletin Board is a proprietary
electronic quotation medium on which broker-dealers post quotations and
indications of interest for unlisted domestic stocks and foreign equities.
The evaluation addressed concerns about the adequacy of price
transparency and potential harm to retail investors stemming from the lack
ofU .S. Generally Accepted Accounting Priniciples financial disclosure by
issuers of unregistered foreign equities. The study examined the degree of
retail participation, dealer concentration, and the size of the U.S. market
relative to worldwide trading in the same foreign equity.
In the enforcement area, the office assisted the Division of
Enforcement in many cases of insider trading, market manipulation,
fraudulent financial reporting, and other violations of securities laws. This
work generally involved the application of financial economics and
statistical techniques to determine whether the elements of fraud are
present and to estimate, where appropriate, the amount of disgorgementto
be sought. The economic analysis staff assisted in evaluating the
testimony of experts hired by opposing parties.
The office pursued a variety ofprojects designed to expand the
Commission's understanding of the capital markets. These projects are
long-term in nature and focus on the market impacts of unallocated shelf
offerings, the sale of unregistered securities, and restrictions on short sales.
The office worked with the Division of Investment Management on ways
to improve the formulation and display of mutual fund risk in disclosure
materials and designed a survey that will be administered to mutual fund
investors regarding their knowledge of fees and costs incurred in making
mutual fund purchase decisions.

118

Throughout the year, the economic analysis staff provided additional
advice and a variety of statistical analyses to the Commission and
operating divisions, including the extent of price improvement for New
York Stock Exchange SuperDot market orders, certain applications for
exemptions filed by public utilities, the accuracy of transaction fees
collected by the Commission, and certain applications by exchanges to
trade options and swaps contracts.

119

Policy Management and Administrative Support
Policy management and administrative support provide the Commission
and operating divisions with the necessary services to accomplish the
agency's mission. Policy management is provided by the executive staff
and Offices of Legislative Affairs; the Secretary; Public Affairs, Policy
Evaluation and Research; the Executive Director; and Equal Employment
Opportunity. The responsibilities and activities of policy management
include developing and executing management policies, formulating and
communicatingprogram policy, overseeing the allocation and expenditure
of agency funds, maintaining liaison with the Congress, disseminating
information to the press, and facilitating Commission meetings.
Administrative support includes services such as accounting,financial
management,fee collection, information technology management, data
processing, space andfacilities management, and human resources
management. Under the direction of the Office of the Executive Director,
these services are provided by the Offices of the Comptroller, Information
Technology, Administrative and Personnel Management, and Filings and
Information Services.

Key 1997 Results
The Commission held 57 meetings in 1997, during which it
considered 272 matters. Significant rules proposed or adopted and concept
releases issued by the Commission included:

'.

120

•

proposals to require plain English disclosure;

•

a package of reforms, including amendments to the shareholder
proposal rule, to address concerns raised by shareholders and
corporate participants in the shareholder proposal process;
adoption of new anti-manipulation rules affecting securities
offering participants;

•

adoption of rules relating to the reallocation of responsibilities for
regulating investment advisers between the SEC and the states;
and

•

a concept release soliciting comment on alternative approaches to
regulation of exchanges.

The agency collected fees for the United States Treasury in excess of
its appropriation for the fifteenth straight year. In 1997, total SEC fees
collected as revenue were $990.4 million and the net gain to the Treasury
was $630.1 million.

Policy Management
Commission Activities
During 57 Commission meetings held in 1997, the Commission
considered 272 matters, including the proposal and adoption of
Commission rules, enforcement actions, and other items that affect the
stability of the nation's capital markets and the economy. The
Commission also acted on 987 staff recommendations by seriatim vote.
Significant regulatory actions taken by the Commission included:
•

proposals to require plain English disclosure;

•

adoption of a new anti-manipulationregulation (Regulation M)
that simplifies, modifies, and eliminates provisions that restricted
the activities of securities offering participants;

•

publication of a concept release soliciting comment on alternative
approaches to regulation of exchanges;

•

proposals to address concerns raised by shareholders and corporate
participants in the shareholder proposals process; and

•

adoption of rules and amendments to implement the provisions of
the Investment Advisers Supervision Coordination Act that

121

reallocates responsibilities for regulating investment advisers
between the SEC and the states.
Management Activities
The Office of the Executive Director continued to promote
management controls and financial integrity and to manage the agency's
audit follow-up system. The office continued to analyze the efficiency and
effectiveness of operating divisions and support offices and to coordinate
and implement the agency's compliance with and response to actions
under the Government Performance and Results Act of 1993 (GPRA),
including development of the agency's strategic plan. Working closely
with other senior officials, the office formulated the agency's budget
submissions to the Office of Management and Budget and the Congress.
In early September, the SEC submitted a formal strategic plan to the
Office of Management and Budget and Congress, as required by the
GPRA. The plan presents strategic objectives and subobjectives used by
the SEC to accomplish its three major goals--protectinvestors, facilitate
capital formation, and maintain fair, honest, and efficient markets. Also
nearing completion is a performance plan that includes quantitative
performance indicators and targets to measure the SEC's success in
meeting its strategic goals.
Public Affairs
The Office of Public Affairs, Policy Evaluation and Research
communicated on Commission activities to those interested in or affected
by Commission actions, including the press, regulated entities, the general
public, and SEC employees. The office published the SEC News Digest
daily, which provides information on rule changes, enforcement actions
against individuals or corporate entities, administrative actions, decisions
on requests for exemptions, upcoming Commission meetings, and other
events of interest. The office also published a regular employee newsletter
and prepared a daily summary of news clips for agency employees. In
addition, the office provided support for the Chairman's investor education
initiatives, the SEC's internet website, and the agency's International
Institute for Securities Markets Developments.

122

Many of the agency's actions are of national and international interest.
When appropriate, these actions are brought to the attention of regional,
national, and international press. The public affairs office issued 109 press
releases on upcoming events, SEC programs, enforcement actions, and
special projects. The office also responded to 50,000 requests for specific
information on the SEC or its activities and coordinated visits of domestic
and foreign officials to the SEC. In total, programs for 816 foreign visitors
were coordinated during the year.
Equal Employment Opportunity
The Office of Equal Employment Opportunity (EEO) ensured the
agency's compliance with Title VII of the Civil Rights Act of 1964, as
amended, the Age Discrimination in Employment Act of 1967, the
RehabilitationAct of 1973, as amended, and the Equal Pay Act of 1963.
As required by these statutes, the SEC processed discrimination
complaints, publicized anti-discrimination policies, tracked the agency's
employee diversity statistics, and developed programs to increase agency
representation of minorities and women.
In 1997, the EEO office addressed formal and informal complaints of
discrimination through counseling, mediation and dispute resolution,
investigations, reports of investigation, and final agency decisions. The
office also met its affirmative employment responsibilities by training
employees and conducting special emphasis programs. Finally, working
with members of the industry, the SEC's EEO Director chaired the
Securities and Exchange Commission-Securities Industry Committee on
Equal Opportunity, an industry group dedicated to increasing the
representation of minority and women in the securities industry.
Freedom ofInformationAct

and Privacy Act

The Office of Freedom ofInformationAct (FOIA) and Privacy Act
Operations responded to requests for access to information under FOIA,
the Privacy Act, and the Government in the Sunshine Act, and processed
requests under the agency's confidential treatment rules. Confidential
treatment requests were generally made in connection with proprietary
corporate information and evaluated in conjunction with access requests to
prevent the unwarranted disclosure of information exempt under the FOIA.

123

All responses to FOIA, Privacy Act, and Government in the Sunshine Act
requests were made within the statutory time frame.

Administrative Support
Commission Operations
For the fifteenth consecutive year the SEC collected revenue in excess
of its appropriation. The SEC's total revenue was $990.4 million, 324
percent of its $305.4 million appropriation. The $990.4 million in total
revenue, minus the SEC's current year spending authority of $260.4
million ($305.4 million less $45 million from prior year offsetting
collections) and $99.9 million in excess offsetting collections, resulted in a
net gain to the United States Treasury of $630.1 million. Fee revenue
was collected from four basic sources: securities registrations (64 percent
of total 1997 fee collections), transactions of covered exchange-listed and
"off-exchange last sale reported" securities (28 percent), tender offer and
merger filings (6 percent), and miscellaneous filings (less than 2 percent).
Offsetting fee collections were generated from two of the sources. The
first source was an increase in the fee rate for registration statements under
section 6(b) of the Securities Act from one-fiftieth of one percent to onethirty-third of one percent. The second source was a new fee of one-threehundredth of one percent on transactions of "off -exchange" trades of
securities.
Financial Management
Throughout the year several financial initiatives occurred that will
have lasting impacts on SEC fees and administrative processes. For
example, the SEC:

124

•

eliminated all regulatory fees previously adopted pursuant to the
Independent Officers Appropriations Act;

•

received new offsetting collection authority in Title IV of the
National Securities Markets Improvement Act of 1996; and

•

began a substantial effort to migrate its existing in-house payroll
system and operations to an outside service provider.

Information Resources Management
During the year, the SEC contracted with an outside consultant to
perform an independent review of the operations of the Office of
Information Technology. The goal of the study was to examine the
feasibility of outsourcing many of the operational activities currently
performed in-house and refocus information technology staff resources on
core functions and more strategic areas such as capital planning, technical
architecture, project management, security, technical engineering, contract
management, quality assurance, and customer service. Based in large part
on this review, a major restructuring of the Office ofInformation
Technology is underway. The new organization will be staffed through a
phased approach that will span up to a 12-15 month period beginning in
December 1997.
The Office ofInformation Technology continued to address the
critical data management problem presented by the year 2000. The project
team within the Office ofInformation Technology completed an inventory
and first level assessment of all central systems, and prioritized each
system into a mission-critical or non-mission-criticalcategory.
The team
also conducted a second level assessment of the systems to identify those
that are already year 2000 compliant; should be eliminated, replaced, or
rewritten; or need further assessment and possible remediation. The SEC's
Electronic Data Gathering, Analysis, and Retrieval (EDGAR) system is
among those systems that are compliant and therefore presents no
problems or issues to the filing community or to the users of EDGAR data.
The EDGAR System
In October 1996, the SEC issued a Request for Proposals (RFP) on
privatization and the continued operation and modernizationofthe
EDGAR system. All respondents were to address the two major
requirements of Phase I: (I) a comprehensive conceptual plan for the
privatization and modernization of EDGAR; and (2) the demonstrated

125

capability to operate, enhance, and maintain the existing system at a
reasonable cost during the transition to a modernized EDGAR system.
The SEC staff prepared an analysis of the responses to the RFP and
presented it to the Office of Management and Budget and Congress.
Subsequently, in September 1997, the SEC released a report entitled,
Report to the Congress on Section 107 of the National Securities Markets
Improvement Act of 1996 - Privatization of EDGAR. The report concluded
that, for a minimum of three years from the date of award of a new
contract, EDGAR privatization should remain as it currently stands:
offerors may construct and operate a privatized EDGAR dissemination
subsystem.
On October 10, 1997, the SEC released to all offerors in the Phase 1
competitive range, a Phase 2 RFP outlining the privatization ground rules.
The Phase 2 RFP also provided specific direction regarding EDGAR's
next generation document structure. The SEC anticipates a contract award
in the second quarter of 1998.
The agency's internet website (http://www.sec.gov)continued to
provide the public with basic access to the EDGAR database of electronic
filings on a 24-hour delayed basis, and served as a forum for litigation
releases, news digests, press releases, Commission rulemaking activities,
and a wide range of other information of interest to the investing public.
The system continued to experience very heavy usage, servicing over 122
million files and 3.5 billion bytes of data to the public. This amounted to
nearly 1,100,000,000pages of text. The site averaged 335,000 files
downloaded per day.
Work continued on the agency's strategic automation initiatives. The
SEC implemented client-server based proceedings tracking systems;
developed correspondence tracking systems for internal office operations;
and began implementing a document management architecture for
Commission electronic materials. Work also progressed on the
development of an agency-wide casetracking system to track investigative
and legal matters.
The information technology staff made significant progress towards
implementing OMB Circular 96-02, Data Center Consolidation. The staff

126

prepared a cost analysis of four alternatives to the SEC's existing
mainframe operations and management. The replacement of the
Commission's existing mainframe with new technology was the most costeffective alternative. The Office of Management and Budget reviewed the
SEC's recommendations and approved a five-year experimental program.
Administrative and Personnel Management
The Office of Administrative and Personnel Management provided a
wide range of personnel and office support functions. For example, the
staff:
•

developed and began implementing the agency's Welfare to Work
Program;

•

coordinated the agency's first Balancing Work and Family Life
Resource Fair to provide employees with a wide range of
information on childcare and eldercare resources, stress and time
management, healthy lifestyles through nutrition and fitness,
transportation assistance, and other related topics;

•

participated in job fairs and on-campus recruitment interviews at
law schools, produced a revised Legal Opportunities at the SEC
recruitment brochure, and used various hiring programs and
authorities to increase diversity in the agency (a total of26 percent
of new hires were minorities, including 19 percent of new
attorneys and law clerks, 11 percent of new accountants, and 29
percent of new securities compliance examiners);

•

coordinated training programs for 2,139 employees, who attended
4,930 training events;

•

participated actively in a consortium of federal agencies in
sponsoring a series of National Academy of Public Administration
studies focusing on innovative human resources practices; and

•

administered 14 leases totaling approximately 828,500 square feet.

127

Public Reference
The SEC maintains public reference rooms in its offices in
Washington, D.C., New York, and Chicago. During the year, 34,930
visitors used the Commission's public reference rooms. A total of 160,366
paper documents and 645,438 microfiche records were added to the
existing library of information made available to the public. At these
facilities, the public can examine and review Commission rules, orders,
studies, reports, and speeches made by SEC officials.

128

Endnotes
ISEC v. Charles 0. Huttoe, Litigation Release No. 15154 (Nov. 7, 1996),
63 SEC Docket 528.
2SECv.

MerleS. Finkel, Litigation Release No. 15286, (Mar. 12, 1997),63
SEC Docket 528.

3SEC

v. George Chelekis, et al., Litigation Release No. 15264 (Mar. 12,
1997), 63 SEC Docket 2900.

4SEC v. First InterregionalAdvisors Corporation, Litigation Release No.
15276 (Mar. 7, 1997),64 SEC Docket 229.
5 SEC

v. Global Financial Traders, Ltd, Litigation Release No. 15291
(Mar. 14, 1997),64 SEC Docket 402.

6In

the Matter of The City of Syracuse, New York, Release No. 34-39149
(Sept. 30, 1997),65 SEC Docket 1555.
7In

the Matter of Smith Barney, Inc., Release No. 34-39118 (Sept. 23,
1997),65 SEC Docket 1338.

v. c.s. First Boston Corporation, Litigation Release No. 15160
(Nov. 20, 1996),63 SEC Docket 778.
8SEC

9SEC

v. Fabri-Centersof America, Inc., Litigation Release No. 15260
(Feb. 18, 1997),63 SEC Docket 2697.
10

In the MatterofWR. Grace & Co., Release No. 34-39156 (Feb. 18,
1997), 65 SEC Docket 2697.

II

In the Matter ofWR. Grace & Co., Release No. 34-39157 (Sept. 30,
1997),65 SEC Docket 1573.

129

12SECv. FerrojluidicsCorporation,
25, 1997),65 SEC Docket 1451.

Litigation Release No. 15508 (Sept.

13SEC v. Montedison, S.p.A., Litigation Release No. 15164 (Nov. 21,
1996),63 SEC Docket 783.
14SECv. Triton Energy Corporation, Litigation Release No. 15266 (Feb.
27, 1997), 63 SEC Docket 2901.
15SEC v. Roy Handojo, Litigation Release No. 15492 (Sept. 15, 1997),65
SEC Docket 1235.
16SECv. Frederick Liu, Litigation Release No. 15397 (June 26, 1997),64
SEC Docket 2208.
17SEC v. One Unknown Purchaser of the Call Options of AP L Limited,
Litigation Release No. 15334 (Apr. 15, 1997),64 SEC Docket 965.
18SECv.

Emanuel Pinez, Litigation Release No. 15258 (Feb. 14, 1997),63
SEC Docket 2695.
19In the Matter of Stock Clearing Corp. of Philadelphia, Release No. 3438918 (Aug. 11, 1997),65 SEC Docket 464.
20In

the MatterofTimothyJ.
Guiheen, Release No. 34-38917 (Aug. 11,
1997),65 SEC Docket 459.

21Inthe MatterofWilliamN
Briggs, Release No. 34-38919 (Aug. 11,
1997), 65 SEC Docket 481.
22Criminal and Public Administrative and Cease and desist Proceedings
Against 45 In Connection with KickbackSchemes, Release No. 34-37807
(Oct. 10, 1996),62 SEC Docket 3027.
23

In the Matter of John L. Banach, Release No. 34-38079 (Dec. 23, 1996),
63 SEC Docket 1431.

130

24In

the Matter of Steven Ira Wertman, Release No. 34-38751 (June 20,
1997),64 SEC Docket 2119.

25 In

the Matter of Thomas John Cloutier, Release No. 34-38946 (Aug. 18,
1997),65 SEC Docket 563.

26

In the Matter of H Beck, Inc., Release No. 34-38913 (Aug. 11, 1997),65
SEC Docket 457.
Sterling Foster & Co" Inc., LitigationRelease
1997), 63 SEC Docket 2698.

27SECv.

15261 (Feb. 18,

the Matter of Royal Alliance Associates, Inc., Release No. 34-38174
(Jan. 15, 1997),63 SEC Docket 1843.

28In

29 In

the Matter ofGKN Securities Corp., Release No. 34-38173 (Jan. 15,
1997), 63 SEC Docket 1834.

30

In the Matter of Oakwood Counselors, Inc., Release No. IA-1614 (Feb.
10, 1997),63 SEC Docket 2485.

31

In the Matter of Parnassus Investments, Release. No. IA-1634, (May 28,
1997), 64 SEC Docket 1830.

32SEC

v. John Gardner Black, Litigation Release No. 15511 (Sept. 26,
1997), 65 SEC Docket 2048.

33

In the Matter of Ronald V Speaker, Release No. IA-1605 (Jan. 13,
1997), 63 SEC Docket 1892.

34In

the Matter of Alliance Capital Management, L.P., Release No. IA1630 (Apr. 28, 1997),64 SEC Docket 1276.

the Matter of Fundamental Portfolio Advisors, Inc., Release No. 3439158 (Sept. 30,1997),65 SEC Docket 1593.

35 In

131

36 In

the Matter of Mitchell Hutchins Asset Management Inc., Release No.
34-39001 (Sept. 2, 1997),65 SEC Docket 838.

37Release No. 34-38672 (May 23, 1997),62 FR 30485 (June 4, 1997).
38Re1ease No. 34-39032 (Sept. 9, 1997), 62 FR 48683 (Sept. 16, 1997)
(regarding CBOE-96-79,PCX-97-09, and AMEX-96-19).
39Re1easeNos. 34-38710 (June 2, 1997),62 FR 31638 (June 10, 1997)
(regarding AMEX-97-21); 34-38709 (June 2, 1997),62 FR 31643 (June
10, 1997) (regarding CBOE-97-17); 34-38729 (June 10, 1997),62 FR
32669 (June 16,1997) (regardingNASD-97-14).
4oRe1easeNos. 34-38542 (Apr. 23, 1997),62 FR 23521 (Apr. 30, 1997)
(regarding NYSE-97-05); 34-38541 (Apr. 23, 1997),62 FR 23516 (Apr.
30,1997) (regardingCBOE-97-14).
41Release No. 34-39115 (Sept. 22, 1997),62 FR 50966 (Sept. 29, 1997)
(regarding CBOE-96-75).
42Re1easeNo. 34-39116 (Sept. 22, 1997),62 FR 50970 (Sept. 29, 1997)
(regarding CBOE-96-76).
43Release Nos. 34-38307 (Feb. 19, 1997),62 FR 8469 (Feb. 25, 1997)
(regarding AMEX-97-04); 34-38963 (May 29,1997),62 FR 30914 (June
5, 1997) (regarding AMEX-97-15); 34-38968 (Aug. 25, 1997),62 FR
46390 (Sept. 2,1997) (regardingAMEX-97-31);34-39253
(Oct. 17,
1997),62 FR 55442 (Oct. 24, 1997) (regardingAMEX-97-35); 34-38353
(Feb. 28, 1997),62 FR 10888 (Mar. 10, 1997) (regarding CBOE-96-59);
34-39244 (Oct. 15, 1997),62 FR 55289 (Oct. 23, 1997) (regarding CBOE97-25); 34-39011 (Sept. 3, 1997),62 FR 47840 (Sept. 11, 1997) (regarding
CBOE-97-26); 34-39012 (Sept. 3, 1997),62 FR 47850 (Sept. 11, 1997)
(regarding CBOE-97-27); 34-39013 (Sept. 3, 1997),62 FR 47845 (Sept.
11, 1997)(regarding CBOE-97-28); 34-39087 (Sept. 17, 1997),62 FR
50422 (Sept. 25, 1997) (regarding PCX-97-29); 34-38081 (Dec. 23, 1996),
62 FR 138 (Jan. 2, 1997) (regardingPCX-96-40); 34-38207 (Jan. 27,
1997),62 FR 5268 (Feb. 4, 1997) (regardingPHLX-97-02).

132

44Release No. 34-35124 (Dec. 20, 1994),59 FR 66702 (Dec. 28, 1994).
45Release Nos. 34-27445 (Nov. 16, 1989),54 FR 48703 (Nov. 24, 1989);
34-29185 (May 9, 1991),56 FR 22490 (May 15,1991).
46Letters regarding: (1) TradeWebLLC (June 13, 1997), (2) Niphix
Investments Inc. (Dec. 19, 1996), and (3) Bloomberg TradebookLLC
(Dec. 3, 1996). The Niphix letter also provided relief with respect to
registration as a securities information processor under Section 11A of the
Exchange Act and as a clearing agency under Section 17A of the Exchange
Act.
47Letter regarding Intervest Financial Services, Inc., dated Jan. 13, 1997
(trading of U. S. Treasury and foreign government securities).
48Letters regarding Chicago Board Brokerage, Inc., dated Sept. 12, 1997
and National Partnership Exchange, Inc., dated July 18, 1997.
49Letter regarding The Flamemaster Corporation, dated Oct. 29, 1996. The
staff noted in this no-action letter that it would no longer respond to noaction requests with respect to systems that were substantially similar to
the issues presented in the Flamemaster scenario or two other recent noaction letters for Real Goods Trading Corp. (June 24, 1996) and
PerfectDataCorp. (Aug. 5, 1996).
50Release No. 34-38139 (Jan. 8, 1997),62 FR 1385 (Jan. 10, 1997).
5IRelease Nos. 34-38246 (Feb. 5, 1997),62 FR 6468 (Feb. 12, 1997);
Release No. 34-38490 (Apr. 9, 1997),62 FR 18514 (Apr. 16, 1997);
Release No. 34-38870 (July 24, 1997),62 FR 40732 (July 30, 1997).
52

Release No. 34-38067 (Dec. 20, 1996),62 FR 520 (Jan. 3, 1997),
effective Mar. 4, 1997. In March 1997, the Commission issued a release
making technical revisions to Regulation M. Release No. 34-38363 (Mar.
4,1997),62 FR 11321 (Mar. 12, 1997).

133

53Release No. 34-38068 (Dec. 20, 1996),61 FR 68587 (Dec. 30, 1996).
54Release No. 34-38793 (June 30, 1997),62 FR 36596 (July 8, 1997)
(regarding S7-24-89).
55Release No. 34-39076 (Sept. 15, 1997),62 FR 49270 (Sept. 19, 1997)
(regarding CHX -97 -06).
56Letter regarding John M. McNally, Esq., dated July 3, 1997.
57Letter from Robert Colby, Deputy Director, Division of Market
Regulation, Securities and Exchange Commission, to Richard Shilts,
Acting Director, Market Analysis Section, Commodity Futures Trading
Commission, dated July 15, 1997.
58Letter from Howard Kramer, Senior Associate Director, Division of
Market Regulation, Securities and Exchange Commission, to David
Merrill, Deputy General Counsel, Office of the General Counsel,
Commodity Futures Trading Commission, dated July 30, 1997.
59Letter from Richard Lindsey, Director, Division of Market Regulation,
Securities and Exchange Commission, to Richard Shilts, Acting Director,
Market Analysis Section, Commodity Futures Trading Commission, dated
Aug. 28, 1997.
60

Release No. 34-38245 (Feb. 5, 1997),62 FR 6469 (Feb. 12, 1997).

61

Release No. 34-38248 (Feb. 6, 1997),62 FR 7474 (Feb. 12, 1997).

62Letter from Michael A. Macchiaroli, Associate Director, Division of
Market Regulation, Securities and Exchange Commission, to Raymond J.
Hennessy, Vice President, New York Stock Exchange, Inc., dated Dec. 30,
1996.
63Release No. 34-37850 (Oct. 22, 1996),61 FR 55593 (Oct. 28, 1996).

134

64Letter regarding Securities Activities of V.S.-Affiliated Foreign Dealers,
dated Apr. 9, 1997.
65Letter regarding Morgan Stanley India Pvt. Ld, dated Dec. 20, 1996.
6615
67

V.S.C.

SS 6101-08

(1996).

Re 1ease No. 34-38480 (Apr. 7, 1997),62 FR 18666 (Apr. 16, 1997).

6gLetter regarding Angel Capital Electronic Network, dated Oct. 25, 1996.
69Letterregarding Charles Schwab & Co., Inc., dated Nov. 27, 1996.
70ReleaseNo. 34-38807 (July 1,1997),64
71

SEC Docket 2292.

Release No. 34-38635 (May 14, 1997),64 SEC Docket 1498.

e.g., letters regarding Boliden Limited, dated June 5, 1997;
Canadian Hotel Income Properties, dated June 24, 1997; Laidlaw Inc.,
dated July 2, 1997; Avista Real Estate Investment Trust, dated July 21,
1997; and Canadian FracmasterLtd, dated Aug. 15, 1997.
72See,

73Letter regarding V.S. Treasury Inflation Indexed Securities, dated Jan.
17,1997).
74Letter regarding Rule 1Ob-l 0/Average Price, Multiple Capacity
Confirmations, dated May 6, 1997.
75Letter regarding MBS Clearing Corporation, dated June 27, 1997.
76Release No. 34-39176 [File No. S7-21-96], 62 FR 52229 (Oct. 7, 1997).
77Release Nos. 34-38221 (Jan. 31, 1997),62 FR 5871 (Feb. 7, 1997)
(regardingPHLX-97-03); 34-38221 (Jan. 31, 1997),62 FR 5871 (Feb. 7,
1997) (regarding BSE-96-12); 34-38221 (Jan. 31, 1997),62 FR 5871 (Feb.
7, 1997)(regardingCHX-96-33);34-38221
(Jan. 31,1997),62 FR 5871

135

(Feb. 7, 1997)(regardingAMEX-96-49);34-38221
5871 (Feb. 7, 1997) (regarding NYSE-96-38).

(Jan. 31,1997),62

FR

78Release Nos. 34-38897 (Aug. 1, 1997),62 FR 42847 (Aug. 8, 1997)
(regardingNYSE-97-21);34-38704
(May 30, 1997),62 FR 31467 (June 9,
1997) (regarding CHX-97-11); 34-38590 (May 9, 1997),62 FR 26832
(May 15, 1997) (regarding CHX-97-08); 34-38779 (June 26, 1997),62 FR
36087 (July 3, 1997) (regarding PHLX-97-27); 34-38780 (June 26, 1997),
62 FR 36087 (July 3,1997) (regardingPCX-97-15).
79Release No. 34-39086 (Sept. 17, 1997),62 FR 50036 (Sept. 24, 1997)
(regarding PCX -97-18).
80Release No. 34-38960 (Aug. 22, 1997),62 FR 45904 (Aug. 29, 1997)
(regardingPHLX-97-31).
81Release No. 34-38961 (Aug. 22, 1997),62 FR 45895 (Aug. 29, 1997)
(regarding NASD-97-16).
82Release No. 34-38908 (Aug. 7, 1997),62 FR 43385 (Aug. 13, 1997)
(regarding NASD-97 -28).
83Release No. 34-388845 (July 17, 1997),62 FR 39564 (July 23, 1997)
(regardingNASD-97-37).
84ReleaseNo. 34-38890 (Aug. 25, 1997),62 FR 47096 (Sept. 5, 1997).
8sReleaseNo.34-39120,(Sept.15,

1997)62 FR51170(Sept.

30, 1997).

86Release No. 34-38456 (Mar. 31, 1997),62 FR 16635 (Apr. 7, 1997)
(regarding NASD-97 -7).
87Release No. 34-39285 (Oct. 29, 1997),62 FR 59932 (Nov. 5, 1997)
(regarding NASD-97-26).
88ReleaseNos. 34-38365 (Mar. 5,1997),62 FR 11235 (Mar. 11, 1997)
(regarding MSRB-97-2); 34-38162 (Jan. 13, 1997),62 FR 3069 (Jan. 21,

136

1997)(regarding MSRB-96-13); 34-37997 (Nov. 29, 1996),61 FR 64781
(Dec. 6, 1996) (regarding MSRB 96-11).
89Release No. 34-37998 (Nov. 29, 1996),61 FR 64782 (Dec. 6, 1996)
(regarding MSRB-96-1 0).
90Release No. 34-38810 (July 1, 1997),62 FR 37093 (July 10, 1997).
91Release Nos. 34-38328 (Feb. 24, 1997),62 FR 9225 (Feb. 28, 1997); 3438329 (Feb. 24, 1997) 62 FR 9222 (Feb. 28, 1997).
92Release No. 34-38589 (May 9, 1997),62 FR 26833 (May 15, 1997).
93Release No. 34-38564 (Apr. 30, 1997),62 FR 25008 (May 7, 1997).
94Release No. 34-39096 (May 14, 1997),62 FR 27821 (May 21,1997).
95Release No. IC-22528 (Feb. 27, 1997),62 FR 10898 (Mar. 10, 1997).
96Release No. IC-22529 (Feb. 27, 1997),62 FR 10943 (Mar. 10, 1997).
97Release No. IC-22530 (Feb. 27, 1997),62 FR 10955 (Mar. 10, 1997).
98

Release No. IC-22405 (Dec. 18, 1996),6 I FR 68100 (Dec. 26, 1996);
Release No. IC-22597 (Apr. 3, 1997),62 FR 17512 (Apr. 9, 1997).
99

Release No. IC-22775 (July 31, 1997), 62FR42401

(Aug. 7,1997).

100
Release No. IC-22383 (Dec. 10, 1996),61 FR66621 (Dec. 18, 1996).
101
Release No. IC-21837 (Mar. 21, 1996),61 FR 13956 (Mar. 28, 1996).
102ReleaseNo.IC-22383(Dec.1O,

1996),61 FR66621 (Dec. 18, 1996).

103ReleaseNo. IC-22658 (May 12, 1997),62 FR 26923 (May 16, 1997).

137

104ReleaseNo. IC-22747 (July 14, 1997),62 FR 38495 (July 18, 1997);
Release No. IC-22815 (Sept. 10, 1997), 62 FR 47934 (Sep. 12, 1997).
105ReleaseNo. IC-22835 (Sept. 26, 1997),62 FR 51762 (Oct. 3, 1997).

107See,e.g., The Park A venue Portfolio, Release Nos. IC-22561 (Mar. 13,
1997),62 FR 13410 (Mar. 20, 1997) (notice) and IC-22607(Apr. 8, 1997)
(order); and The OjjitbankInvestment Fund, Release Nos. IC-22441 (Jan.
6, 1997),62 FR 1783 (Jan. 13, 1997)(notice) and IC-22489 (Feb. 3, 1997)
(order).
108
See SBSF Funds, Inc., Release Nos. IC-22486 (Jan. 30, 1997),62 FR
5659 (Feb. 6, 1997) (notice) and IC-22526 (Feb. 25, 1997) (order).
109DeanWitter Discover & Co.; Morgan Stanley Group Inc. (pub. avail.
Apr. 18, 1997).
Il0Goodwin, Proctor & Hoar (pub. avail. Feb. 28, 1997).
11ICharles Schwab & Co., Inc. (pub. avail. July 7, 1997).
112LampTechnologies, Inc. (pub. avail. May 29, 1997).
I I 3 Merrill

Lynch Asset Management (pub. avail. Apr. 28, 1997).

114TheDessauer Global Equity Fund (pub. avail. Apr. 3, 1997).
115INVESCO (pub. avail. Aug. 5, 1997).
116ReleaseNo. 33-7438 (Aug. 20, 1997),62 FR 45359 (Aug. 27, 1997).
117Aetna Life Insurance and Annuity Company (pub. avail. Jan. 6, 1997).
118StateFarm Life Insurance Company (pub. avail. Oct. 24, 1997).

138

119ValleyForge Life Insurance Company (pub. avail. Jan. 30, 1997).
120ReleaseNo. IA-1633 (May 15, 1997),62 FR 28112 (May 22, 1997).
121
Association for Investment Management and Research (pub. avail. Dec.
18, 1996).
I22Cambiar Investors, Inc. (pub. avail. Aug. 28, 1997).
123MorganLewis & Bockius (pub. avail. Apr. 16, 1997).

124TUCHolding Company, Release Nos. 35-26607 (Nov. 15, 1996),61 FR
59259 (Nov. 21, 1996) (notice) and 35-26749 (Aug. 1, 1997) (order).

125New Century Energies, Inc., Release Nos. 35-26497 (Mar. 22, 1996),61
FR 13901 (Mar. 28, 1996) (notice) and 35-26748 (Aug. 1, 1997)(order).

126Houston Industries Incorporated, Release Nos. 35-26594 (Oct. 18,
1996),61 FR 55331 (Oct. 25, 1996)(notice)and
(order).

35-26744 (July 24,1997)

127Central and South West Corporation, Release Nos. 35-26503 (Apr. 12,
1996),61 FR 17333 (Apr. 19, 1996) (notice) and 35-26653 (Jan. 24, 1997)
(order).

128ConsolidatedNatural Gas Company, Release Nos. 35-26470 (Feb. 9,
1996),61 FR 6046 (Feb. 15, 1996)(notice)and
(order).

35-26595 (Oct. 25,1996)

129ReleaseNo. 35-26667 (Feb. 14, 1997),62 FR 7900 (Feb. 20, 1997).
130

Release No. 33-7431 (July 18,1997),65

131

SEC Docket 1.

Release No. 33-7380 (Jan. 14, 1997),63 SEC Docket 14.

132
Release No. 33-7419 (May 8, 1997),64 SEC Docket 10.

l~O

133ReleaseNo. 33-7392 (Feb. 20, 1997),63 SEC Docket 19.
134ReleaseNo. 33-7470 (Oct. 10, 1997),65 SEC Docket 13.
135ReleaseNo. 33-7393 (Feb. 20, 1997),63 SEC Docket 19.
136ReleaseNo. 33-7386 (Jan. 28, 1997),63 SEC Docket 17.
137ReleaseNo. 33-7390 (Feb. 20, 1997),63 SEC Docket 19.
138ReleaseNo. 33-7391 (Feb. 20, 1997),63 SEC Docket 19.
139ReleaseNo. 34-39093 (Sept. 18, 1997),65 SEC Docket 9.
140ReleaseNo. 33-7418 (Apr. 30, 1997),64 SEC Docket 9.
141ReleaseNo. 33-7427 (July 1, 1997),64 SEC Docket 18.
142ReleaseNo. 33-7424 (June 25, 1997),64 SEC Docket 17.
143ReleaseNo. 33-7386 (Jan. 31,1997),63

SEC Docket 2182.

144Questions and Answers about the New "Market Risk" Disclosure Rules
(July 31, 1997).
145Statement of Financial Accounting Standards No. 131, Disclosures
about Segments of an Enterprise and Related Information (June 1997).
146Statement of Financial Accounting Standards No. 128, Earnings Per
Share (Feb. 1997).
147StatementofFinanciai Accounting Standards No. 129, Disclosure of
Information A bout Capital Structure (Feb. 1997).
148DraftProposed Statement of Financial Accounting Standards,
Accountingfor Derivative and Similar Financial Instrumentsandfor
Hedging Activities (Aug. 29, 1997).

140

149Statement of Financial Accounting Standards No. 130, Reporting
Comprehensive Income (Feb. 1997).
150Proposed Statement of Financial Accounting Standards, Employers'
Disclosures About Pensions and Other Post-retirement Benefits (June 30,
1997).
151Statement on Auditing Standards No. 82, Consideration of Fraud in a
Financial Statement of Audit (Feb. 1997).
152Proposed Statement on Standards for Attestation Engagements,
Management's Discussion and Analysis (Mar. 7, 1997).
1 53Statement

of Position 97-2, Software Revenue Recognition (Oct. 27,

1997).
154Leases(Approved Nov. 1997), Segment Reporting (Aug. 1997),
Presentation of Financial Statements (Aug. 1997), Earnings Per Share
(Feb. 1997), and Income Taxes (Oct. 1996).
155IntangibleAssets; Employee Benefits; Impairment of Assets; Interim
Financial Reporting; Discontinuing Operations; and Provisions,
Contingent Liabilities, and Contingent Assets.
156UnitedStates Securities and Exchange Commission Report on
Promoting Global Preeminence of American Securities Markets (Oct.
1997).
157117S.Ct. 2199 (1997).
15~ o. 96-6084 (11th Cir.).
159No.97-50137 (9th Cir.).
16~O. 97-1315 (4th Cir.).

141

161No.96-7794 (2d Cir.).
162No.96-9137 (2d Cir.).
163112F.3d 613 (2d Cir. 1997).
I~O.

96-7900 (2d Cir.).

165124F.3d 449 (3d Cir. 1997).
166

970 F.Supp. 746 (N.D. Cal. 1997).

167No.97-16240(9thCir.).
16~O. 97-16070(9thCir.).
169107F.3d 1422, reh'g granted, 121 F.3d 565 (9th Cir. 1997).
17°121F.3d 956 (5th Cir. 1997).
171
Solv-Ex Corp. v. SEC, Bankr. No. 11-97-14361 MA, Adversary No. 971159 M (Bankr. N.M.), No. 97-1201 MV/RLP (D. N.M.).

172Honnv. NASD, Civ. No. 3-96-182 (D. Minn.),
173Desideriov. NASD, No. 97-CV-312 (S.D.N.Y.).
174Wellsv. SEC, No. 96-6237 (2nd Cir. Aug. 22, 1997).
175SECv. Waltzer & Associates, No. 96-6261 (2nd Cir. Sept. 10, 1997).
176MeyerBlinder, Release No. 34-39180 (Oct. 1, 1997),65 SEC Docket
1970.

142

177

Robert 1Moses, Release No. 34-37795 (Oct. 8, 1996),62 SEC Docket
3046.
178 Benjamin

G. Sprecher, Release No. 34-38485 (Apr. 4, 1997),64 SEC

Docket 720.
179Russell G. Koch, Release No. 34-38658 (May 20, 1997),64 SEC
Docket 1617.
180DonaldA. Roche, Release No. 34-38742 (June 17, 1997),64 SEC
Docket 2042.
18lCheckoskyv. SEC, 23 F.3d452 (D.C. Cir. 1994).
182DavidJ. CheckoskyandNormanA.
Aldrich, Release No. 34-38183,
Accounting and Auditing Enforcement Release No. 871 (Jan. 21, 1997),
63 SEC Docket 1948, appealjiled, No. 97-1137 (D.C. Cir. Mar. 17, 1997).
183DavidJ. Checkoskyand NormanA. Aldrich, 50 S.E.C. 1180 (1992).
I84Robert D. Potts, CPA, Release No. 34-39126, Accounting and Auditing
Enforcement Release No. 964 (Sept. 24, 1997),65 SEC Docket 1376,
appealjiled, No. 97-3710 (8th Cir. Oct. 21, 1997).

185

C. James Padgett, et al., Release No. 34-38423 (Mar. 20,1997),64

SEC

Docket 319, appealjiled, No. 97-1361 (D.C. Cir. May 16, 1997).
186StephenThorliefRangen, Release No. 34-38486 (Apr. 8, 1997),64 SEC
Docket 731.
187 Prime

Investors, Inc., Kenneth James Wright, and Michael Lyn Johnson,
Release No. 34-38487 (Apr. 8, 1997),64 SEC Docket 742.
188InCounty of Orange, Case No. 94-22272-JR(Bankr.

C.D. Calif.).

143

189

In re Grossman's, Inc., Case No. 97-695 (PJW) (Bankr. D. Del.).

190In re Edison Brothers Stores, Inc., Case No. 96-177 (SLR) (D Del.).
191

In re Grossman's Bros, Inc., Case No. 97-695 (PJW) (Bankr. D. Del.);
In re Marvel Entertainment Group, Inc., Case Nos. 96-2069 through 962077 (Bankr. D. Del.); and In re Payless Cash ways Inc., Case No. 9750543-SJ-l1 (Bankr. W.D. Ohio).
192In re Sizzler Restaurants International, Inc. et al., Case No. SV 9616075-AG, Jointly Administered with Case Nos. SV 96-16076-AG
through SV 96-16079-AG(Bankr. C.D. Cal.).
193In re Home Theater Products International, Inc., Case No. SA 9613754-JR(Bankr. C.D. Cal.).
194Munford,Inc. v. Munford, 98 F.3d 604 (11th Cir. 1996), cert. denied,
118 S.Ct. 738 (1998).
195952

F.2d 1230 (10th Cir. 1991), cert. denied, 112 S. Ct. 3015 (1992).

196DFAInvestment Dimensions Group Inc., et. al v. Munford, Inc., No. 97550; Munfordv. Munford, Inc., No. 97-591.
197In re Advanced Promotion Technologies, Inc., Case No. 06-23875BKC-RBR(Bankr. S.D. Fla.); In re Baldwin Builders and In re Baldwin
Building Contractors, L.P., Case Nos. ND 95-13057RR and ND 95-13058
RR (jointly administered)(Bankr. C.D. Calif.); In re CliniCorp., Inc., Case
No. 96-32529-BKC-SHF(Bankr. S.D. Fla.); In re Reconversion
Technologies, Inc., Case No. 95-00821-M (Bankr. N.D. Okla.); and In re
Physicians Clinical Laboratory, Inc., Case No. SV 96-23185-GM (Bankr.
C.D. Calif.).
198Inre CliniCorp., Inc., Case No. 96-32529-BKC-SHF(Bankr. S.D. Fla.);
In re Marvel Entertainment Group, Inc., Case Nos. 96-2069 through 96-

144

2077 (Bankr. D. Del.); In re PCA Industries, Inc., No. 96-41374-293
(Bankr. E.D. Mo.); and In re Reconversion Technologies, Inc., Case No.
95-00821-M(Bankr. N.D. Okla.). In In re Audre Recognition Systems,
Inc., Case No. 95-10048-Bll (S.D. Calif.), the court overruled
Commission's objection but the offering, nevertheless, failed due to
Commission's announced opposition.
199 In

re Advanced Promotion Technologies, Inc., Case No. 96-23875BKC-RBR (Bankr. S.D. Fla.); In re Comptronix Corporation, Case No.
396-06840 (Bankr. M.D. Tn.); In re Baldwin Builders and In re Baldwin
Building Contractors, L.P., Case Nos. ND 95-13057 RR and ND 95-13058
RR (jointly administered)(Bankr. C.D. Calif.); In re JayhawkAcceptance
Corp., Case No. 397-31261-SAF-ll (Bankr. N.D. Tex.); In re Physicians
Clinical Laboratory, Inc., Case No. SV 96-23185-GM (Bankr. C.D.
Calif.); and In re Reconversion Technologies, Inc. Case No. 95-00821-M
(Bankr. N.D. Okla.).
re Automotive Credit Finance, Inc., Case No. 395-34981 RCM-l1
(Bankr. N.D. Tex.); In re North Atlantic Technologies, Inc., Case No. 9630526 (Bankr. D. Minn.); In re St. Louis Leasing Corp. No. 96-40001-293
(Bankr. E.D. Mo.); In re Sybaris Clubs Int'l, Inc., Case No. 94-B-16498
(Bankr. N.D. 11.);and In re Rexon, Inc., Case No. 95-19439 CEM (Bankr.
D. Col.).
200In

re Apogee Robotics, Inc., Case No. 94-22193-CEM (Bankr. D.
Colo.); In re ComtronixCorp., Case No. 396-06840 (Bankr. M.D. Tenn.);
In re Packaging Research Corp., Case No. 97-12748-CEM(Bankr. D.
Colo.); In re peA Industries, Inc., Case No. 96-41374-293 (Bankr. E.D.
Mo.); In re Protech, Inc., Case No. 97-60905-LK(Bankr. D. Colo.); and In
re Sunrise Energy Services, Inc., Case No. 395-34176-SAF-l1 (Bankr.
N.D. Tex.).
201 In

202In

re Bilzerian, No. 96-513-CIV-T-23B(M.D.

203SECv.

FL).

Bilzerian, No. 96-3634.

145

204

In re Cross v. SEC, No. SA-95-15228-JB,Adv.

No. SA-95-1975

(Bankr. C.D. Cal.).
203 B.R. 456 (Bankr. C.D. Cal. 1996).

205 SEC

v. Cross,

206SEC

v. Cross, BAP No. CC 96-2167 (1996).

207 In

re Hibbard Brown & Co., Inc., Case No. 94 B 44809 (CB) (Bankr.

S.D. N.Y.).
208In

re Absolute Resource Corp., Case No. 396-32263-11 (Bankr. N.D.

Tex.).

146

1"7

Table 1
ENFORCEMENT
CASES INITIATED BY THE COMMISSION
DURING FISCAL YEAR 1997 IN VARIOUS PROGRAM AREAS
(Each case Initiated has been Included In only one category listed below, even though
many cases Involve multiple allegations
and may fall under more than one category.
The number of defendants
and respondents
is noted parenthetically.)
Program Area In Which a
Civil Action or Administrative
Proceeding Was Inlliated
Secunlies Offenng Cases
Broker-dealer Cases
(a) Fraud Against Customer
(b) Failure to Supervise
(c) Govemment MUniCipal
Secunlies
(d) Books & Records
(e) Other
Total Broker-dealer Cases

CIVil
Acnons 11

Admlnlslralive
Proceedings

Total

66 (246)

55 ( 99)

121 ( 345)

10 ( 14)
o ( 0)

60 ( 92)
6 ( 8)

70 ( 106)
6 ( 8)

4
2
3
19

9
3
8
86

(
(
(
(

8)
4)
6)
32)

( 11)
( 6)
( 11)
(128)

13
5
11
105

(
(
(
(

19)
10)
17)
160)

% of
Total
Cases
25%

21%

Issuer Financial Statement
and Reporung Cases
(a) Issuer Financial
Disclosure
(b) Issuer Reporling Other
Total Issuer Financial Statement
and Reporting Cases

30 ( 83)
o ( 0)

60 ( 79)
6 ( 6)

90 ( 162)
6 (
6)

30 ( 83)

66 ( 85)

95 ( 168)

20%

Other Regulated Enlity Cases
(a) Investment Advisers
(b) Investment Companies
(c) Transfer Agent
(d) SROs
Total Other Regulated Entity Cases

14 ( 45)
1 ( 4)
o ( 0)
o ( 0)
15 ( 49)

31
6
1
3
41

45
7
1
3
56

( 104)
( 27)
( 2)
( 4)
( 137)

11%

InSiderTrading Cases

36 (126)

12 ( 12)

48 ( 148)

10%

Market Manipulation Cases

11 ( 47)

14 ( 28)

25 (

Delinquent Filings
(a) Issuer Reporting
(b) Fonns 3/4/5
Total Delinquent FIlings Cases
Contempt Proceedings

7 ( 7)
1 ( 1)
8 ( 8)
14 ( 18)

(
(
(
(
(

59)
23)
2)
4)
88)

75)

5%

0)
7( 10)
7( 10)

7 ( 7)
8 ( 11)
15 ( 18)

3%

o(

0)

14 (

18)

3%

o(

Related Party Transaction Cases

2 ( 2)

2 ( 2)

4 (

4)

1%

Miscellaneous

1 ( 3)

3 ( 5)

4 (

8)

1%

corporate Control Cases

1 ( 1)

o(

1 (

1)

0%

489 (1072)

100%

GRANDTOTAL

203 (615)

0)

286 (457)

11 This category Includes InJuncliveacnons and CIVIland cnrnmal contempt proceedings
148

Table 2
FISCAL 1997 ENFORCEMENT CASES
LISTED BY PROGRAM AREA

Name of Case

Release No. Date Filed

Broker-Dealer: Books & Records
In the Matter of Howard F. Rubin
In the Matter of James W Adams
In the Matter of Marsh Block & Co., Inc.
SEC v. J W Korth & Co.
SEC v. W'S. Clearing, Inc.

34.38264
34-38003
34.38263
LR-15244
LR-15281

02/11/97
10/02/96
02/11/97
02/04/97
03/07/97

34.39171

09/30/97

34.38775
34.39165
34-38173
34-38258

06/25/97
09/30/97
01/15/97
02/07/97

34-38174

01/15/97

34-37807
34-37807
34-37807
34-37807
34-38176
AAER858
34-37807
34-38995
34-38088
34-39108
3438510
34-37807

10/10/96
10/10/96
10/10/96
10/10/96
01/16/97
11/18/96
10/10/96
08/29/97
12/26/96
09/22/97
04/15/97
10/10/96

Broker-Dealer: Failure to Supervise
In the Matter of Christopher LaPorte
In the Matter of First Montauk
Securities Corp.
In the Matter of Frank Klaus
In the Matter ofGKN Securities Corp.
In the Matter of Lyle Moss
In the Matter of Royal Alliance
Associates, Inc.
Broker-Dealer: Fraud Against Customer
In the
In the
In the
In the
In the
In the
In the
In the
In the
In the
In the
In the

Matter
Matter
Matter
Matter
Matter
Matter
Matter
Matter
Matter
Matter
Matter
Matter

of Alexander Ruge
of Alfred P. Avasso
of Andrew Scudiero
of Bertram Slutzky
of Brian J McCahery
of Carmel Equity Partners
of Cary Cimino
of David Scott Rossman
of Dennis Lindsay Helliwell
of Dennis Murray Bissell
of Donald W Spinks
of Edward S. Pad nos

149

Name of ease

Release No. Date Filed

In the Matter of Edward Williamson
In the Matter of Euro-Atlantic
Securities, Inc.
In the Matter of Gamal Marwan
In the Matter of Gary J. Divall
In the Matter of George A. Rotelli
In the Matter of James Zimmerman
In the Matter of Jeffrey D. Pokross
In the Matter of Jeffrey Trenk
In the Matter of Jocelyn Jane O'Rourke
In the Matter of John Chapman
In the Matter of John 1. Bridges, Jr.
In the Matter of Joseph B. Johnson
In the Matter of Joseph P. Brooks
In the Matter of Mark Coleman Graves
In the Matter of Michael J. Oberholzer
In the Matter of Michael Lapp
In the Matter of Miron Leshem
In the Matter of Nicholas Giandomenico
In the Matter of Norman Lescht
In the Matter of Paul D. Blasetti
In the Matter of Paul Francis Mabry
In the Matter of Penn Capital Financial
Services, Inc.
In the Matter of Peter M Harrington
In the Matter of R.E. Anderson Cain
In the Matter of Richard Cedrone
In the Matter of Richard D. Henderson
In the Matter of Richard Langley, Jr.
In the Matter of Richard Mallion
In the Matter of Robert Alan Denton
In the Matter of Robert Albert Merrifield
In the Matter of Robert Mitchell
In the Matter of Robert Thomas Beatty
In the Matter of Roland Acevedo
In the Matter of Ronald J. Viemont
In the Matter of S Colin
In the Matter of Sandra Simpson

34-37807

10/10/96

34-39047
34-37807
34-38578
34-27822
34-38227
34-37807
34-37807
34-39027
34-37807
34-38957
34-39097
34-28517
34-39152
34-39127
34-37807
34-37807
34-39003
34-37807
34-38951
34-39163

09/10/97
10/10/96
05/07/97
10/15/96
02/03/97
10/10/96
10/10/96
09/08/97
10/10/96
08121197
09/19/97
04/16/97
09/30/97
09125/97
10/10/96
10/10/96
09/02/97
10/10/96
08/19/97
09/30/97

34-39168
34-38055
34-38122
34-37807
34-39004
34-37807
34-37807
34-38970
34-38177
34-37807
34-38994
34-37807
34-39283
34-38967
34-39154

09/30/97
10/03/96
01106/97
10/10/96
09/02/97
10/10/96
10/10/96
08/26/97
01116/97
10/10/96
08/29/97
10/10/96
08/18/97
08/25/97
09/30/97

150

Name of Case

Release No. Date Filed

In the Matter of Selheimer & Co.
In the Matter of Stanley J Feminella
In the Matter of Steve Bingaman
In the Matter of Steven Ira Wertman
In the Matter of Stuart Gregory Smith
In the Matter of Sy Siegel
In the Matter of Ted Harold Westerfield
In the Matter of Theodore Heitzmann
In the Matter of Thomas J Fox
In the Matter of Thomas John Cloutier
In the Matter of Vincent Poliseno
In the Matter of William P. Carroll
SEC v. Bernard Zelenka
SEC v. Brett 1. Bouchy
SEC v. Clyde Keith LaMonda
SEC v. First Interregional
Advisors Corp.
SEC v. Frank S. Colin
SEC v. Joseph C. Kane, Jr.
SEC v. Michael J Oberholzer
SEC v. R. E. Anderson Cain
SEC v. Robert C. White
SEC v. Stuart Gregory Smith

34-38337
34-38529
34-37807
34-38751
34-38878
34-37807
34-38904
34-37807
34-38863
34-38946
34-38327
33-7434
LR-15489
LR-15171
LR-1541I

02/26/97
04/21/97
10/10/96
06/20/97
07/28/97
10/10/96
08/06/97
10/10/96
07/23/97
08/18/97
02/24/97
08/18/97
09/04/97
12/02/96
07/11/97

LR-15276
LR-15138
LR-15348
LR-15481
LR-15181
LR-15238
LR-15420

03/06/97
10/28/96
04/24/97
09/09/97
12/06/96
01/30/97
07/07/97

Broker-Dealer: GovernmentlMunicipal
In the Matter of Derek Washington
In the Matter of Marion Bass Securities
Corp.
In the Matter of Mark S. Ferber
In the Matter of Michael Lissack
In the Matter of Mitchell Hutchins Asset
Management, Inc.
In the Matter of Peacock, Hislop, Staley
& Given, Inc.
In the Matter of Robert D. Gersh
In the Matter of Smith Barney, Inc.
In the Matter of Willie Daniels

Securities
34-38978

08/27/97

34-39170
34-38102
34-39119

09/30/97
12/19/96
09/23/97

34-39001

09/02/97

34-37777
34-38459
34-39118
34-38977

10/02/96
04/01/97
09/23/97
08/27/97
151

Name of Case

Release No. Date Filed

SEC v. First Boston Corp.
SEC v. First California Capital
Markets Group, Inc.
SEC v. Joseph P. Galluzzi
SEC v. Mark S. Ferber

LR-15160

11/20/96

LR-15423
LR-15211
LR-15193

07/28/97
01/09/97
12/19/96

34-38947
34-38497
34-39123
34-38475
34-39042

08/18/97
04/10/97
09/24/97
04/03/97
09/10/97

34-38150
34-39078
34-38028
LR-15176
LR-15316
LR-15313

01/10/97
09/15/97
12/09/96
12/04/96
04/04/97
04/02/97

None
None
None
None
None
None
LR-15347
None
None
LR-15142
LR-15463
None

09/30/97
01/31/97
12/11/96
03/25/97
09/16/97
06/04/97
04/21/97
03/03/97
11/12/96
10/22/96
08/05/97
02/11/97

Broker-Dealer: Other
In the Matter of Americorp
Securities, Inc.
In the Matter of Dennis T Palmeri, Sr.
In the Matter of Gerald P. Hirsch
In the Matter of Jaron Equities Corp.
In the Matter of Juergens Otto Winkler
In the Matter of National Financial
Services Corp.
In the Matter of Rodney B. Hedges
In the Matter of Steven A. Lapper
SEC v. Gerald P. Hirsch
SEC v. Michelle P. Suppes
SEC v. Timothy A. Hills
Contempt-Civil
SEC
SEC
SEC
SEC
SEC
SEC
SEC
SEC
SEC
SEC
SEC
SEC
152

v.
v.
v.
v.
v.
v.
v.
v.
v.
v.
v.
v.

Charles E. Smith
Frank J Custable
Geoffrey Adams
Gerald Hirsch
J Scott Eskind
James S. Faller
Jay R. Bishop
Kathryn Casperson
Machlene Soderquest
Michael J Colello
Michael J Randy
Robert J Carlo

Name of Case

Release No. Date Filed

SEC v. Robert 1. Gunther
SEC v. Rolon Colon

None
None

01/09/97
05/16/97

LR-15213

01/14/97

34-38192
34-38666
34-328228
34-39146
34-39125
34-38477
34-38476
LR-15190

01/22/97
OS/22/97
02/03/97
09/29/97
09/24/97
04/04/97
04/04/97
12/18/96

LR-15454
LR-15167
LR-15422
LR-15252
LR-15350
LR-15367

08/21/97
11/26/96
07/25/97
02/11/97
04/24/97
05/15/97

LR-15165

11/22/96

IA-161O
34-38135
34-38347
34-37940
34-38524
34-38496

01/23/97
01/08/97
02/27/97
11/12/96
04/18/97
04/10/97

Corporate Control
SEC v. RBF International Inc.
Delinquent Filings: Forms 3/4/5
In the Matter of Cortland First
Financial, Corp.
In the Matter of Herbert G. Brown
In the Matter of Jerry Silva
In the Matter of Mark S. Chanko
In the Matter of Nycal Corp.
In the Matter of Ronald W Daw
In the Matter of Steven K Clark
SEC v. Parris H Holmes, Jr.
Delinquent Filings: Issuer Reporting
SEC v. Airship International Ltd
SEC v. American Education Corp.
SEC v. BioCoral Inc.
SEC v. Digital Products Corp.
SEC v. JR. Consulting Inc.
SEC v. Nycal Corp.
SEC v. Tianrong Building Material
Holdings Ltd
Insider Trading
In
In
In
In
In
In

the
the
the
the
the
the

Matter
Matter
Matter
Matter
Matter
Matter

of Cecil H Suter
of David P. Schwartz
of David Schaen
of Fox-Pitt, Kelton, Inc.
of James 1. D'Angelo
of Janak C. Patel

153

Name of Case

Release No. Date Filed

In the Matter of Jeffrey F Green
In the Matter of Joseph Latona
In the Matter of Joseph P. Greenwald
In the Matter of Michael P. Sweeney
In the Matter of Milton Weinger
In the Matter of Nir Kantor
SEC v. Ong Congqin Bobby
SEC v. Bruce Van Wagner
SEC v. Carmelo Blacconeri
SEC v. Cecil H Suter
SEC v. Dale J. Lange
SEC v. David A. Schmidt
SEC v. David E. Lipson
SEC v. David R. Pfister
SEC v. Dhirein Patel
SEC v. Emanuel Pinez
SEC v. Eunice J. Leigh
SEC v. Frederick Liu
SEC v. Gregg Michael Brenner
SEC v. Harry C. Morgan
SEC v. J. Bristow Anderson
SEC v. Jacob Y Terner
SEC v. James M Gleason
SEC v. Jay Marcus
SEC v. John C. Larrabee
SEC v. Judy Hockett
SEC v. Mark J. Aronds
SEC v. Michael Jonsson
SEC v. Milton Mutchnick
SEC v. Morris Debah
SEC v. Paul H Borg
SEC v. Raeburn Evans
SEC v. Rangarao Panguluri
SEC v. Richard Beckwitt
SEC v. Robert Hunter
SEC v. Roy Handojo
SEC v. Samir Traboulsi
SEC v. Shahryar Soroosh

34-38685
34-38684
34-39160
34-38436
34-38300
34-37834
LR-15334
LR-15537
LR-15449
LR-15207
LR-15509
LR-15352
LR-15337
LR-15519
LR-15444
LR-15258
LR-15323
LR-15397
LR-15280
LR-15203
LR-15473
LR-15401
LR-15131
LR-15230
LR-15306
LR-15377
LR-15128
LR-15126
LR-15322
LR-15189
LR-15497
LR-15309
LR-15322
LR-15158
LR-15413
LR-15492
LR-15429
LR-15141

154

OS/28/97
OS/28/97
09/30/97
03/25/97
02/18/97
10/17/96
04/15/97
09/30/97
08/19/97
01/06/97
09/25/97
04/29/97
04/17/97
09/30/97
08/13/97
02/14/97
04/09/97
06/26/97
03/10/97
01/02/97
09/04/97
07/02/97
10/22/96
01/29/97
03/25/97
05/30/97
10/21/96
10/17/96
04/09/97
12/18/96
09117/97
03/31/97
04/07/97
11/14/96
07/16/97
09/12/97
08/04/97
10/29/96

Name of Case

Release No. Date Filed

SEC
SEC
SEC
SEC

LR-15302
LR-15302
LR-15289
LR-15439

03/20/97
03/20/97
02/05/97
08/08/97

AAER-885
AAER848
AAER839
AAER922
AAER877
AAER847
AAER843

OS/27/97
10/28/96
10/02/96
06/10/97
02/06/97
10/22/96
10/17/96

AAER-961

09/16/97

AAER-919
AAER-967
AAER-889
AAER-962
AAER-874
AAER 937
AAER909
AAER-958
AAER897
AAER-963
AAER864
AAER876
AAER 927
AAER844
AAER878

OS/29/97
09/29/97
02/27/97
09/18/97
01/29/97
07/17/97
04/29/97
09/11/97
03/13/97
09/24/97
12/16/96
02/05/97
06/24/97
10/21/96
02/06/97

AAER850
AAER906
AAER944
AAER-960
AAER-972

10/29/96
04/11/97
08/05/97
09/15/97
09/30/97

v.
v.
v.
v.

Susan 1. Hirsch
Susan S. Smirnoff
Walter E. Johnson
William M Fisher, Jr.

Issuer Financial Disclosure

J

In the Matter of Alan D. Rosskamm
In the Matter of Alan G. Lewis
In the Matter of Aura Systems, Inc.
In the Matter of B.J Thomas, CPA
In the Matter of C. Langford, CPA
In the Matter of Calvin M Dyer
In the Matter of Cambridge Biotech Corp.
In the Matter of Century Technologies,
Inc.
In the Matter of Combined Companies
International Corp.
In the Matter of Curtis 1. Dally
In the Matter of David Gore
In the Matter of David Hersh, CPA
In the Matter of David Keery, CPA
In the Matter of Dennis Klein
In the Matter of Dorothea Bossio
In the Matter of Douglas R. Coates, CPA
In the Matter of Duane V. Midgley, CPA
In the Matter of Elliot Stumacher
In the Matter of Ernest W Grendi, CPA
In the Matter of Frederick R. Grant, CPA
In the Matter of Gary A. Prince, CPA
In the Matter of Greg Steven Kaplan
In the Matter of Harry T. Couch, CPA
In the Matter of International Energy
Development Corp.
In the Matter of J.M Levy and Co.
In the Matter of James P. Brown
In the Matter of James R. Bryan, CPA
In the Matter of John R. Alfton

155

Name of Case
In the Matter of Karl G.
Wassman III, CPA
In the Matter of Kedar Gupta
In the Matter of Kenneth F Richey, CPA
In the Matter of Laser Photonics Inc.
In the Matter of Linda A. Hodge, CPA
In the Matter ofLynn K. Blattman
In the Matter of Lynn K. Ross
In the Matter of Mary Brennan
In the Matter of Matthew E.
Klenovic, CPA
In the Matter of Merle S. Finkel, CPA
In the Matter of Mickie E.
Higgins-Hallke, CPA
In the Matter of Midisoft Corp.
In the Matter ofNgai King Tak
In the Matter of Nicholas J. Pace, CPA
In the Matter of Pace American
Group, Inc.
In the Matter of Philip McInnes
In the Matter of Philip S. Present II, CPA
In the Matter of Ponder Industries Inc.
In the Matter of Quality Products, Inc.
In the Matter of Raymond J Bily
In the Matter of Richard J Lajoie, Jr.
In the Matter of Robert Jarkow
In the Matter of Robert L. Gresham, CPA
In the Matter of Ronald H Hoffman, CPA
In the Matter of Steven F
Broadbent, CPA
In the Matter of Timothy A. Ross, CPA
In the Matter of Troy Lee Wood
In the Matter of William B.
Sanders, CPA
In the Matter of William D. Kyle
In the Matter of William T. Manak
In the Matter of Wyatt Gene Ross
SEC v. Alexandria Elizabeth
156

Release No. Date Filed

AAER853
AAER-965
AAER926
AAER-971
AAER-887
AAER 903
AAER 954
AAER-969

11/12/96
09/25/97
06/24/97
09/30/97
02/18/97
04/10/97
09/10/97
09/30/97

AAER-867
AAER-895

01/06/97
03/12/97

AAER952
AAER846
AAER 946
AAER913

09/10/97
10/22/96
08/28/97
05/02/97

AAER894
AAER-968
AAER 904
AAER-938
AAER857
AAER-883
AAER910
AAER-892
AAER943
AAER 911

03/05/97
09/30/97
04/10/97
07/22/97
11/14/96
02/18/97
04/30/97
03/04/97
08/05/97
04/30/97

AAER-921
AAER-957
AAER852

06/03/97
09/11/97
10/31/96

AAER 955
AAER 941
AAER 879
AAER 953
AAER940

09/10/97
02/18/97
02/06/97
09/10/97
07/24/97

Name of ease

Release No. Date Filed

SEC v. Barry C. Nelsen
SEC v. Bruce A. Milliken
SEC v. Chester Holdings, Ltd.
SEC v. Don Haywood Pace
SEC v. Environmental Chemicals Group
SEC v. Fabri-Centers of America, Inc.
SEC v. Ferrofluidics Corporation
SEC v. Francis X Wazeter, III
SEC v. Fukuhara
SEC v. Greenway Environmental
Services, Inc.
SEC v. Guido Volante
SEC v. Irving M Mangel
SEC v. Jacob Adoni
SEC v. Jeffrey P. Sudikoff
SEC v. Jerry G. Kilgore
SEC v. Joseph C. Allegra
SEC v. Mark K. Curry
SEC v. Maury H Joseph
SEC v. Merle S. Finkel
SEC v. Michael Humphress
SEC v. Mitchell A. Hammer
SEC v. Montedison S.p.A.
SEC v. Patrick J. Leonard
SEC v. Policy Management
Systems, Corp.
SEC v. Ponder Industries, Inc.
SEC v. Scientific SoftwareIntercomp, Inc.
SEC v. Structural Dynamics
Research Corp.
SEC v. Timothy Ross
SEC v. Triton Energy
SEC v. Wyatt Gene Ross

AAER-908
AAER 928
AAER-901
AAER 845
AAER-862
AAER 886
AAER-966
AAER-976
AAER-973

04/22/97
06/24/97
04/01/97
10/21/96
12/11/96
02/18/97
09/25/97
09/30/97
09/30/97

AAER 914
None
AAER947
AAER872
AAER-974
LR-15345
AAER923
AAER950
AAER-959
AAER896
AAER 925
AAER-942
AAER859
AAER924

05/13/97
09/16/97
08/28/97
01/21/97
09/30/97
03/28/97
06/11/97
09/04/97
09/08/97
03/12/97
06/19/97
07/25/97
11/21/96
06/11/97

AAER 939 07/23/97
None
07/22/97
AAER-956 09/11/97
AAER 905
AAER 945
AAER-890
AAER 951

04/10/97
08/27/97
02/27/97
09/04/97

157

Release No. Date Filed

Name of Case
Issuer Reporting: Other
In
In
In
In
In
In

the
the
the
the
the
the

Matter
Matter
Matter
Matter
Matter
Matter

of Gareis USA Inc.
of Halsey Drug Co., Inc.
of Michael Goodbread, CPA
of Norman Gelman
of PaulL. Parshall
ofWR. Grace

34-38367
34-38210
AAER-861
34-38325
34-37814
34-39157

03/05/97
01128/97
12/10/96
02/24/97
10/11/96
09/30/97

34-37831
34-37832

10/17/96
10/18/96

34-39138
34-38061
34-39130
34-39133
34-38425
34-39134
34-38424
34-38004
34-37798
34-37925
34-39155
34-39132
LR-15353
LR-15153
LR-15291
LR-15516
LR-15391

09/26/97
12/19/96
09/25/97
09/25/97
03120/97
09/26/97
03/20/97
12/02/96
10/09/96
11/06/96
09/30/97
09/25/97
04/24/97
11/07/96
03/13/97
09/30/97
06/09/97

AAER 920
LR-15161
LR-15233
LR-15515
LR-15261
LR-15435

06/02/97
11/05/96
01128/97
09/30/97
02/14/97
08/07/97

Market Manipulation
In the Matter of A.R. Baron and Co., Inc.
In the Matter of Andrew Bressman
In the Matter of Cortlandt Capital
Corp.
In the Matter of Dale E. Barlage
In the Matter of David M Carmichael
In the Matter of Edward Christian Farni
In the Matter of Joseph Riccio
In the Matter of Kent T Black
In the Matter of Michael J Markonski
In the Matter of Phillip S. Sindler
In the Matter of Richard Cannistraro
In the Matter of Robert Gann
In the Matter of Sam Moore
In the Matter of Stephen D. Gellas
SEC v. Bradley J Simmons
SEC v. Charles 0. Huttoe
SEC v. Global Financial Traders, Ltd
SEC v. Leonard Greer and Judah Wernick
SEC v. Nicholas F. Coscia
SEC v. Pan World Minerals
International, Inc.
SEC v. Philip S. Sindler
SEC v. Richard P. Brown
SEC v. Sam Moore
SEC v. Sterling Foster & Co.
SEC v. Steven H. Schiffer
158

Name of Case

Release No. Date Filed

Miscellaneous
In the Matter of Dickinson & Co.
In the Matter of Pendleton C. Waugh
In the Matter of Sheldon S. Traube
SEC v. John T. Hall

34-38689
34-38761
34-38448
LR-15255

OS/28/97
06/24/97
03/27/97
02/13/97

LR-15264
34-38674
34-38714
34-39141
34-37827
34-38696
34-39090
34-38914
34-37989

02/25/97
OS/27/97
06/04/97
09/29/97
10/16/96
05/30/97
09/18/97
08/11/97
11/26/97

34-39161
34-38952
34-38579
34-39122
34-39062
34-39085
34-37927
34-38944
34-39091
33-7423
34-38913
34-39169
AAER-933

09/30/97
08/19/97
05/07/97
09/24/97
09/12/97
09/17/97
11/06/97
08/18/97
09/18/97
06/18/97
08/11/97
09/30/97
07/01/97

33-7454
34-38661
34-38079
34-38382
33-7457

09/22/97
OS/21/97
12/23/96
03/11/97
09/25/97

Offering Violations
SEC v. George Chelekis
In the Matter of Arthur Graves
In the Matter of Aubrey O'Connor
In the Matter of Cary S. Greene
In the Matter of Charles S. Christopher
In the Matter of Christopher D. Jennings
In the Matter of David Hengstler
In the Matter of David P. Silver
In the Matter of Desoto Broadcasting Inc.
In the Matter of Diversified Capital
Resources
In the Matter of Dominion Capital Corp.
In the Matter of Douglas R. Damon
In the Matter of Dwight Allen
In the Matter of Edward M Collins
In the Matter of Freddie Don Stewart
In the Matter of Gary V. Lewellyn
In the Matter of Gary W Berus
In the Matter of George Garey
In the Matter ofGFL Ultra Fund Ltd
In the Matter of H Beck, Inc.
In the Matter of Helen A. Roy
In the Matter of Helen T. Chalut
In the Matter of J.M Dickinson
Bransford
In the Matter of James G. Freeman
In the Matter of John Banach
In the Matter of Jon D. Aldrich
In the Matter of Joseph F. Reese

159

Name of ease

Release No. Date Filed

In the Matter of Kyle Weston
In the Matter of LDF Management Inc.
In the Matter of Lloyd John Newton
In the Matter of Mark A. Ritacco
In the Matter of Mark Anthony Suppes
In the Matter of Martin Kaiden
In the Matter of Matt Matson
In the Matter of Michael Donald
McGahee
In the Matter of Michael L. Cooperstock
In the Matter of National Partnership
In the Matter of Neal B. Stein
In the Matter of Paul Okuda
In the Matter of Peter C. Tosto
In the Matter of Raymond R. Newberg
In the Matter of Richard K Steele, Sr.
In the Matter of Richard Milbrodt
In the Matter of Robert C. White
In the Matter of Robert Tatarowicz
In the Matter of Ronald A. Monzione
In the Matter of Ronald J. Mitchellette
In the Matter of Shaner & Company Inc.
In the Matter of Sky Scientific Inc.
In the Matter of Spectrum Information
Technologies, Inc.
In the Matter of Suppes Securities, Inc.
In the Matter of The City of Syracuse,
New York
In the Matter of Thomas Ehrlich
In the Matter of Walter Herbert
Moore, Jr.
In the Matter of William H Malek
In the Matter of William Rossi
SEC v. Kenneth P. Kasarjian
SEC v. Affordable Prepaid Cellular, Inc.
SEC v. Alpha Diversified Industries Inc.
SEC v. B.M C. Enterprises Inc.
SEC v. Barnard Sackett

AAER-884
34-39142
34-39023
34-39164
34-38171
34-39050
34-38433

06/10/97
09/29/97
09/05/97
09/30/97
01/15/97
09/11/97
03/24/97

34-38083
34-39151
AAER-929
34-38304
AAER-934
34-38136
34-39153
34-37892
34-39121
34-38441
34-38036
34-39135
IA-1646
34-38027
AAER863

12/06/96
09/30/97
06/25/97
02/19/97
07/01/97
10/31/96
09/30/97
10/29/96
09/24/97
03/26/97
12/10/96
09/26/97
07/29/97
12/09/96
12/16/96

AAER-930
34-38172

06/25/97
01/15/97

AAER-970
34-38652

09/30/97
05/19/97

34-39006
34-39150
34-38677
LR-15324
LR-15378
LR-15493
LR-15400
LR-15504

09/03/97
09/30/97
05/17/97
04/10/97
OS/20/97
09/10/97
07/02/97
09/22/97

160

Name of Case

Release No. Date Filed

SEC v. Benefund, Inc.
SEC v. Berbun Associates Inc.
SEC v. Brian E. Willis
SEC v. Charles Anthony Ferracone
SEC v. Cihaco International, Inc.
SEC v. Club Atlanta Travel, Inc.
SEC v. Consumer Plus L. C.
SEC v. David I Namer
SEC v. Enserco, Inc.
SEC v. Environmental Chemicals
Group, Inc.
SEC v. Frank A. M Luca
SEC v. Geneva Group
SEC v. Georgia Pooley Helliwell
SEC v. Gerard Burns
SEC v. Gray Hawk Fund Company
SEC v. Harold E. Tobin
SEC v. Harold J Lee
SEC v. I-Net Providers
SEC v. Insnet World
Communications Inc.
SEC v. Interactive Medical
Technologies Ltd.
SEC v. James W Hall
SEC v. Jason S. Wall
SEC v. John C. Rockett
SEC v. John F. Aptt
SEC v. John Sebastian Ragazzo
SEC v. Joseph A. Bremont
SEC v. Keith Knuttson
SEC v. Mark A. Ritacco
SEC v. Mark E. Gatch
SEC v. Mark S. Shaner
SEC v. Marshall E. Melton
SEC v. Martin Kaiden
SEC v. Members Service Corp.
SEC v. Michael Snowhite
SEC v. Micro West Industries, Inc.

LR-15364
LR-15127
LR-15517
LR-15499
LR-15466
LR-15500
LR-15150
LR-15307
LR-15326

04/18/97
10/18/96
09/30/97
09/17/97
08/27/97
09/18/97
11/04/96
03/25/97
03/27/97

LR-15183
LR-15461
LR-15496
LR-15184
LR-15224
LR-15412
LR-15414
LR-15510
LR-15219

12/11/96
08/27/97
09/15/97
12/17/96
09/29/97
07/16/97
07/16/97
09/25/97
10/30/96

LR-15432

07/28/97

LR-15441
LR-15328
LR-15471
LR-15378
LR-15361
None
LR-15163
LR-15475
LR-15483
LR-15394
LR-15149
LR-15267
LR-15234
AAER 915
LR-15434
LR-15498

08/13/97
03/25/97
09/04/97
03/27/97
05/07/97
09/26/97
11/21/96
08/29/97
09/10/97
06/24/97
10/21/96
02/24/97
01/30/97
OS/22/97
08/06/97
09/17/97
161

Name of Case

Release No. Date Filed

SEC
SEC
SEC
SEC
SEC
SEC
SEC
SEC
SEC
SEC
SEC
SEC
SEC
SEC
SEC
SEC
SEC
SEC
SEC
SEC
SEC
SEC
SEC
SEC
SEC

LR-15229
LR-15269
LR-15369
LR-15317
LR-15502
LR-15480
LR-15514
LR-15199
LR-15468
LR-15472
LR-15247
AAER893
LR-15360
LR-15344
LR-15416
LR-15503
LR-15462
LR-15201
LR-15179
AAER936
LR-15494
LR-15458
LR-15106
LR-15505
LR-15506

v. Mustang Development Corp.
v. Neil A. Liechty
v. Norman G. Cornelius
v. NVID International, Inc.
v. Omni International Trading, Inc.
v. Phoenix Continental Corp.
v. Phoenix Metals USA II, Inc.
v. Richard Simonson
v. Richard Warren & Associates, Inc.
v. Rob Nite
v. Ronald J. Mitchel/ette
v. Simon M Rosenfeld
v. Southwest Income Trust
v. Stephen J. Murphy
v. Sunbelt Development Corp.
v. Terry Oneil Clifford
v. The Infinity Group Company
v. Theta Group, LLC
v. Thomas Mackie, Jr.
v. United Fire Technology, Inc.
v. Walter Clarence Busby, Jr.
v. Wedgewood Financial Group, Inc.
v. Western Executive Group
v. Whitworth Energy Resources, Ltd
v. William H Malek

01/23/97
02/27/97
05/01/97
04/03/97
09/18/97
05/15/97
09/29/97
12/26/96
08/19/97
09/03/97
01/30/97
03/05/97
05/05/97
04/21/97
07/15/97
09/17/97
08/27/97
12/06/96
11/27/96
07/16/97
09/11/97
04/04/97
10/02/96
09122/97
09119/97

Other Regulated Entity: Investment Adviser
In the Matter of Abraham and Sons
Capital, Inc.
In the Matter of Alliance Capital
Management LP 1940
In the Matter of August Mezzetta
In the Matter of Barbara B. Nolan
In the Matter of Benjamin Franklin
Bush, III
In the Matter of Cal amos Asset
Management, Inc.
162

IA-1673

09/29/97

IA-1630
IA-1656
IA-1655

04/28/97
09102/97
09/02/97

IA-1612

01/31/97

IA-1594

10/16/96

Name of Case

Release No. Date Filed

In the Matter of Carol A. Hamby
In the Matter of Consolidated Financial
Advisors, Inc.
In the Matter of D.L. Gresty & Co., Inc.
In the Matter of Donald Sussman
In the Matter of First Capital
Strategists
In the Matter of Gary L. Hamby
In the Matter of HP. Hambrick Co., Inc.
In the Matter of John D. Mackenzie
In the Matter of Kent A. Ahrens
In the Matter of LRS Capital
Management, Inc.
In the Matter of Michael Anthony Pierce
In the Matter of Norman L. Yu & Co.
In the Matter of Oakwood
Counselors Inc.
In the Matter of Parnassus Investments
In the Matter of Peter S. Alsop
In the Matter of Profinancial
Advisors Inc.
In the Matter of Profinancial Advisors,
Inc., et at.
In the Matter of Robert Pierce
In the Matter of Ronald V Speaker
In the Matter of Russell William Stein
In the Matter of Schuylkill Capital
Management Ltd.
In the Matter of Stephens Inc.
In the Matter of Teresa V Fernandez
In the Matter of Virgil Dean Damhof
In the Matter of Willy Kerzinger d/b/a
Commodity Pool Service
SEC v. American Growth Capital Corp.
SEC v. Carlo Dalelio
SEC v. Channa Wickermeratne a/k1a
Channa Wick
SEC v. Emmanuel A. Lagpacan

IA-1661

09/10/97

IA-1672
IA-1665
AAER 948

09/26/97
09/16/97
09/02/97

IA-1648
IA-1668
IA-1622
IA-1662
IA-1615

08/13/97
09/22/97
03/18/97
09/15/97
02/18/97

IA-1644
IA-1616
IA-1607

07/18/97
03/04/97
01/21/97

IA-1614
IA-1634
IA-1652

02/10/97
OS/28/97
08/27/97

IA-1670

09/22/97

None
IA-1620
IA-1605
IA-1632

08-01-97
03/17/97
01/13/97
05/09/97

IA-1675
IA-1666
IA-1650
IA-1671

09/30/97
09/16/97
08/21/97
09/26/97

IA-1658
LR-15440
None

09/04/97
08/12/97
09/26/97

LR-15368
LR-15430

05/13/97
08/01/97
163

Name of Case

Release No. Date Filed

SEC
SEC
SEC
SEC
SEC
SEC
SEC
SEC
SEC
SEC

LR-15123
LR-15166
LR-15395
LR-15511
LR-15122
LR-15156
LR-15154
LR-15427
LR-15159
IA-1671

v. George A. Rotelli
v. Hyannis Trading Advisors Inc.
v. J Scott Eskind
v. John Garder Black
v. Kent A. Ahrens
v. Peter C. Bucchieri
v. Robert C. Cowan
v. Robert L. Gray
v. Teresa V Fernandez
v. Virgil Dean Damhof

10/15/96
11/25/96
06/20197
09/26/97
10/15/96
11/13/96
11/05/96
08/01/97
11/19/96
09/26/97

Other Regulated Entity: Investment Companies
In the Matter of Edward D. Jones Co.
In the Matter of Fundamental Portfolio
Advisers, Inc.
In the Matter of George W Meyers
In the Matter of Hudson Investors
Fund Inc.
In the Matter of Terence Michael Coxon
In the Matter of Vilis Pasts
SEC v. Trustcap Financial Group, Inc.

IC-22316

11/06/96

34-39158
IC-22723

09/30/97
06/23/97

IC-22799
IC-22460
IC-22820
LR-15297

08/26/97
01113/97
09/15/97
03/17/97

34-38918
34-38917
34-38919

08/11/97
08/11/97
08/11/97

34-39034

09/09/97

34-38358
AAER-917

03/04/97
OS/28/97

Other Regulated Entity: SRO
In the Matter of Stock Clearing Corp.
of Philadelphia
In the Matter of Timothy J Guiheen
In the Matter of William N Briggs
Other Regulated Entity: Transfer Agent
In the Matter of Frank P. Meadows III
Related Party Transactions
In the Matter of John Thomas Royall
In the Matter Steven W Koinis
164

Name of Case

Release No. Date Filed

SEC v. John Thomas Royall
SEC v. Steven W Koinis

LR-15273 03/04/97
AAER-898 03/14/97

165

Table 3
INVESTIGATIONS OF POSSIBLE VIOLATIONS OF THE ACTS
ADMINISTERED BY THE COMMISSION

Pending as of October 1, 1996
Opened In Fiscal Year 1997

1,614
408

Total
Fiscal Year 1997

2,022
289

Pending as of September 30, 1997

1,733

Formal Orders of Investigation
Issued in Fiscal Year 1997

265

Closed

In

Table 4
ADMINISTRATIVE PROCEEDINGS INSTITUTED
DURING FISCAL YEAR ENDING SEPTEMBER 30, 1997
Broker-dealer Proceedings

138

Investment Adviser, Investment Company and Transfer Agent Proceedings

52

Stop Order Proceedmgs

49

Rule 102 Proceedings

,

Suspensions of Trading in Securities in Fiscal Year 1997

166

29

13

Table 5
INJUNCTIVE ACTIONS
Fiscal Year

Actions Initiated

1988
1989
1990
1991
1992
1993
1994
1995
1996
1997

Defendants Named

401
422
557
503
487
571
620
549
588
597

125
140
186
171
156
172

197
171
180
189

Right to Financial Privacy
Section 21(h) of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934 [15 U.s.c.
78u(h)(6)] requires that the Commission"
compile an annual tabulation of
the occasions on which the Commission used each separate
subparagraph
or clause of [Section 21(h)(2)] or the provisions of the
Right to Financial Privacy Act of 1978 [12 U.S.c. 3401-22 (the RFPA)] to
obtain access to financial records of a customer and include it in its
annual report to the Congress."
During the fiscal year, the Commission
made no applications
for judicial orders pursuant to Section 21(h)(2). Set
forth below are the number of occasions on which the Commission
obtained customer records pursuant to the provisions of the RFPA:
Section

1104 (Customer

Authorizations)

Section

1105 (Administrative

Section

1107 (Judicial

Subpoenas)

Subpoenas)

15
559
18

167

Table 6
TYPES OF PROCEEDINGS
ADMINISTRATIVE

PROCEEDINGS

Persons Subject to, Acts Constituting,
and Basis for, Enforcement Action

Sanction

Any person
Violation of the federal secunties laws

Cease-and-desist order, which may also
require a person to comply or take steps to
effect compliance With federal seeunnes
laws; accounting and dlsgorgement of illegal
profits. (Secunties Act, SeclJon 8A,
Exchange Act, Section 21 C(a); Investment
Company Act, Section 9(f); Investment
Advisers Act, Section 203(k))

Broker-dealer,
municipal securities
dealer, government securities dealer,
transfer agent, investment adviser or
associated person
Willful violanon of secunties laws or rules;
aiding or abetting such violation, failure
reasonably to supervise others; wIllful
misstatement or omission in filing With the
Commission; conviction of or Injunction
aqamst certain cnmes or conduct

Censure or limitation on activrties:
revocanon, suspension or denial of
registration, bar or suspension from
association (Exchange Act, Sections
15(b)(4)-(6), 15B(c)(2)-(5), 15(C)(c)(1 )-(2),
17A(c)(3)-(4); Investment Advisers Act,
SeclJon 203(e)-(f)).
Civil penalty up to $110,000' for a natural
person or $550,000' for any other person;
accounlJng and disgorgement of Illegal
profits Penalties are subject to other
limitations depending on the nature of the
viotanon, (Exchange Act, Secllon 21 B,
Investment Company Act, Section 9;
Investment Advisers Act, Section 203)
Temporary cease-and-desist order, which
may, in appropnate cases, be issued ex
parte. (Exchange Act, Section 21 C).

Registered

securities

association

Violanon of or Inability to comply with the
Exchange Act, rules thereunder, or rts own
rules, unjustifJed failure to enforce
compliance With the foregOing or with rules of
the MuniCipal Securities Rulemaklng Board
by a member or person associated With a
member.

Suspension or revocation of registration;
censure or limItatIon of activities, functions,
or operations (Exchange Act, SeclJon
19(h)(1 ))

'Adjusted for inflation under Debt Collection Improvement Act.

168

Member of registered securities
association,
or associated person
Entry of Commission order against person
pursuant to Exchange Act, Section 15(b);
willful violation of secunties laws or rules
thereunder or rules of MUniCipal Secunties
Rulemaklflg Board; effecting transaction for
other person with reason to believe that
person was cornrrutnnq violations of
securities laws.
National securities

exchange

Violation of or inability to comply with
Exchange Act, rules thereunder or Its own
rules, unjustified failure to enforce
compliance with the foregOing by a member
or person associated with a member

Member of national securities
or associated person

clearing

in registered

clearing

information

Suspension or revocation of registration;
censure or limitation of activities, functions,
or operations (Exchange Act, Section
19(h)(1 ))

agency

Entry of Commission order against
parttcipant pursuant to Exchange Act,
Section 15(b)(4), Willful violation of cleanng
agency rules, effecting transaction for other
person with reason to believe that person
was committing violations of secuntles laws.

Securities

Suspension or expulsion from exchange; bar
or suspension from association with member
(Exchange Act, Section 19(h)(2)-(3)).

agency

Violation of or inability to comply with
Exchange Act, rules thereunder, or ItS own
rules; failure to enforce compliance with ItS
own rules by participants

Participant

Suspension or revocation of registration;
censure or limitation of acnvmss, functions,
or operations (Exchange Act, Section 19(h)
(1 )).

exchange,

Entry of Commission order aqamst person
pursuant to Exchange Act, Section 15(b);
willful violation of secunties laws or rules
thereunder, effecting transaction for other
person with reason to believe that person
was committing violation of secunnss laws

Registered

Suspension or expulsion from the
association, bar or suspension from
association with member of association
(Exchange Act, Section 19(h)(2)-(3))

Suspension or expulsion from clearing
agency (Exchange Act, Section 19(h)(2))

processor

Violation of or mabihty to comply with
provisions of Exchange Act or rules
thereunder.

Censure or limitation of actrvmes, suspension
or revocation of registration (Exchange Act,
Section 11A(b)(6)).

169

Any person
Willful violation of sacunnes Act. Exchange
Act. Investment Company Act or rules
thereunder; aiding or abetting such violation;
willful misstatement In filing with
Commission
Officer or director
organization

of self-regulatory

Willful violation of Exchange Act, rules
thereunder or the orqanrzanon's own rules;
Willful abuse of authority or unjustified failure
to enforce compliance

Principal

Removal from office or censure (Exchange
Act, Section 19(h)(4».

of broker-dealer

Officer. director, general partner, ten-percent
owner or controlling person of a brokerdealer for which a SIPC trustee has been
appointed
Securities

Temporary or permanent prohibition against
serving In certain capacities with registered
Investment company (Investment Company
Act. Section 9(b»

Act registration

Bar or suspension from being or becoming
associated with a broker-dealer (SIPA,
Section 14(b»

statement

Statement materially Inaccurate or
Incomplete

Stop order refusmq to permit or suspending
effectiveness (Secuntles Act. Section 8(d».

Person subject to Sections 12, 13, 14 or
15(d) of the Exchange Act or associated
person
Failure to comply with such provisrons or
having caused such failure by an act or
orrussron that person knew or should have
known would contribute thereto
Securities registered pursuant
12 of the Exchange Act

Order directing compliance or steps
effecting compliance (Exchange Act. Section
15(c)(4))

to Section

Noncompliance by Issuer with Exchange Act
or rules thereunder.

Denial. suspension of effective date.
suspension or revocation of registration
(Exchange Act. Section 12(J))

Public Interest requires trading suspension

Summary suspension of over-the-counter or
exchange trading (Exchange Act, Section
12(k)).

Registered

investment

company

Failure to file Investment Company Act
registration statement or required report;
filing matenally Incomplete or misleading
statement or report

Suspension or revocation of registration
(Investment Company Act, Section 8(e)).

Company has not attained $100.000 net
worth 90 days after Secunties Act registration
statement became effective.

Stop order under Secuntles Act; suspension
or revocation of registration (Investment
Company Act. Section 14(a)).

170

Attorney, accountant, or other
professional or expert
Lack of rsqursite qualifications to represent
others; lacking In character or Integnty;
unethical or improper professional conduct;
willful violanon of secunnes laws or rules, or
aiding and abetting such violanon.

Permanent or temporary denial of pnvllege of
appeanng or practicing before the Commission
(17 CFR secncn 201.1 02(e)(1 )).

Attorney suspended or disbarred by court,
expert's license revoked or suspended,
conviction of a felony or of a misdemeanor
Involving moral turpitude

Automatic suspension from appearance or
practice before the Commission (17 CFR
Section 201 102(e)(2)).

securmes violation In Cornrrussron-rnstmrted
actron, finding of secunnes violation by
Commission In administrative proceedings.

Temporary suspension from practicing before
the Commission, censure, permanent or
temporary disqualification from practicing
before the Oornmissron (17 CFR Section
201.102(e)(3)).

Member or employee of Municipal
Securities Rulemaking Board
Willful violation of Exchange Act, rules
thereunder, or rules of the Board; abuse of
authority.
CIVIL PROCEEDINGS

Persons Subject to, Acts Constituting,
and Basis for, Enforcement Action

Censure or removal from office (Exchange
Act, SeclJon 15B(c)(8)).

IN FEDERAL DISTRICT COURTS

Sanction

Any person
Engaging in or about to engage in acts or
practices vlolatJng secunnes laws, rules or
orders thereunder (Including rules of a
registered self-regulatory orqaruzanon).

Injunction against acts or practices
consntunnq violations (plus other equitable
relief under court's general equity powers)
(Securities Act, Section 20(b); Exchange Act,
Section 21 (d), Holding Company Act, Section
18(e); Investment Company Act, Section
42(d); Investment Advisers Act, Secbon
209(d); Trust Indenture Act, Section 321)

Noncompliance with provisions of the laws,
rules, or regulations under Securities Act,
Exchange Act, or Holding Company Act,
orders Issued by Commission, rules of a
registered self-regulatory organization, or
undertaking In a registration statement.

Wnt of mandamus, InJunction, or order
dlrecllng compliance (Secunties Act, Section
20(c), Exchange Act, Section 21 (e); Holding
Company Act, Section 18(f)).

171

Violating the secunnas laws or a cease-anddesist order (other than through insider
trading)

Civil penalty up to $110,000' for a natural
person or $550,000' for any other person m,
If greater, the gross gain to the defendant.
Penalties are subject to other limitations
dependent on nature of vlolanon. (Securities
Act, Section 20(d); Exchange Act, secnon
21(d) (3); Investment Company Act, Section
42(e); Investment Advisers Act, Section
209(e)).

Trading while in possession of matenal nonpublic Information In a transaction on an
exchange or from or through a broker-dealer
(and transaction not part of a public offering);
aiding and abetting or directly or indirectly
controlling the person who engages In such
trading.

Maximum civil penalty. three nmes profit
gained or loss avoided as a result of
transaction (Exchange Act, Section 21A(a)(b))

Violating Securities Act Secbon 17(a)(1) or
Exchange Act section 10(b), when conduct
demonstrates substanbal unfitness to serve
as an officer or director.

Prohibition from acting as an officer or
director of any public company. (Securities
Act, Section 20(e), Exchange Act, Secbon
21 (d)(2))

Issuer subjectto
Section 12 or 15(d) of
the Exchange Act; officer, director,
employee or agent of issuer; stockholder
acting on behalf of issuer
Payment to foreign officral, foreign political
party or official, or candidate for foreign
political office, for purposes of seeking the
use of Influence In order to assist Issuer in
obtaining or retaining business for or with, or
directing business to, any person

Securities

Investor

Protection

Maximum cIvil penalty
Act, Section 32(c))

$11,000' (Exchange

Corporation

Refusal to commit funds or act for the
protection of customers.

Order directing discharge of obligations and
other appropnate relief (SIPA, Section 11(b)).

National securities exchange or
registered securities association
Failure to enforce compliance by members or
persons associated With its members with the
Exchange Act, rules or orders thereunder, or
rules of the exchange or associanon.
Registered

Wnt of mandamus, injunction or order
directing such exchange or assoclanon to
enforce compliance (Exchange Act, secnon
21 (e)).

clearing agency

Failure to enforce compliance by its
parncipants With Its own rules

Wnt of mandamus, injunction or order
directing cleanng agency to enforce
compliance (Exchange Act, Section 21(e)) .

•Adjusted for inflation under Debt Collecbon Improvement Act.

172

Issuer subject
Act

to Section

15(d) of 1934

Forfeiture of $110' per day (Exchange Act,
Secbon 32(b))

Failure to file required information,
documents or reports.
Registered

investment

company

Name of company or of secunty Issued by it
deceptive or misleading.

Injunction against use of name (Investment
Company Act, Secbon 35(d)).

Officer, director, member of advisory
board, adviser, depositor, or underwriter
of investment company
Engage In act or practice constituting breach
of fiduciary duty mvolvmq personal
misconduct.

CRIMINAL PROSECUTION

Injunction against acting In certain capacities
for investment company and other
appropnate relief (Investment Company Act,
secuon 36(a»

BY DEPARTMENT

OF JUSTICE
Sanction

Persons Subject to, Acts Constituting,
and Basis for, Enforcement Action
Any person
Willful violation of securibes laws or rules
thereunder; wIllful misstatement in any
document required to be filed by securities
laws or rules; willful misstatement In any
document required to be filed by self.
regulatory organization in connection with an
application for membership or assocrauon
with member.

Maximum penalties: $1,000,000 fine and ten
years irnpnsonmsnt for mdrvrduals,
$2,500,000 fine for non-natural persons
(Exchange Act, Sections 21 (d), 32(a»,
$10,000 fine and five years impnsonrnent (or
$200,000 If a public utility holding company
for violations of the Holding Company Act)
(Securities Act, Sections 20(b), 24;
Investment Company Act, Sections 42(e), 49;
Investment Advisers Act, Secbons 209(e),
217, Trust Indenture Act, Sections 321, 325,
Holding Company Act, Sections 18(f), 29).

Issuer SUbject to Section 12 or 15(d)
the Exchange Act; officer or director
issuer; stockholder acting on behalf
issuer; employee or agent subject to
jurisdiction of the United States

Issuer - $2,000,000; officer, director,
employee, agent or stockholder. $100,000
and five years impnsonment (Issuer may not
pay fine for others) (Exchange Act, Section
32(c))

of
of
of
the

Payment to foreign officral, foreIgn political
party or official, or candidate for foreign
political office for purposes of seeking the
use of influence m order to assist Issuer In
obtaining or retaining business for or with, or
directing busmess to, any person

'Adjusted for mflanon under Debt Collection Improvement Act.

173

Self-Regulatory Organizations: Expenses, Pre-Tax Income, and
Balance Sheet Structure
In 1996, the total revenues of all self-regulatory organizations
(SROs) with marketplace jurisdiction rose approximately $211 million,
an increase of approximately 16% from 1995. The New York Stock
Exchange (NYSE), the National Association of Securities Dealers
(NASD), the American Stock Exchange (AMEX), and the Chicago
Board Options Exchange (CBOE) accounted for 89% of total SRO
revenues, unchanged from 1995. Revenues were earned primarily from
listing or issuer fees, trading fees, and market data fees. For example:
•

The NYSE reported total revenue of $561 million, an increase of
12% from 1995, of which 41% consisted of listing fees, 17%
consisted of trading fees, and 15% consisted of market data fees.

•

The NASD reported total revenue of $556 million, an increase of
27% from 1995, of which 20% consisted of listing fees, 40%
consisted of trading and market data fees.

•

The AMEX reported total revenue of $170 million, an increase
of 11% from 1995, of which 9% consisted of listing fees.

The remaining SROs also reported increases in revenues as follows:

174

•

The Boston Stock Exchange (BSE) reported a $275,000 decrease
(-2%) to $15.4 million.

•

The CBOE reported a $1.4 million increase (1%) to $108.7
million.

•

The Pacific Exchange (PCX) reported a $3.6 million increase
(6%) to $60.3 million.

•

The Philadelphia Stock Exchange (PHLX) reported a $2.9
million increase (7%) to $45.7 million.

•

The Chicago Stock Exchange (CHX) reported a $6.9 million
increase (23%) to $36.9 million.

•

The Cincinnati Stock Exchange (CSE) reported a $752,000
increase (9%) to $8.6 million.

Of the SROs reporting financial information for a 12-month period
in fiscal year 1996, the NASD reported the largest percentage increase in
total revenues, 27% as well as the largest dollar volume increase in total
revenues, $118.5 million.
The total expenses of all marketplace SROs were $1.3 billion in
1996, an increase of$120 million, or 10%, over 1995. The NASD
incurred the largest percentage increase in expenses, 15%, as well as the
largest dollar volume increase in expenses, $62.8 million. Additionally,
the following SROs incurred the following increases in expenses:
•

The AMEX incurred a $14.6 million increase (10%).

•

The BSE incurred a $335,000 increase (2%).

•

The NYSE incurred a $29.6 million increase (7%).

•

The PCX incurred a $2.8 million increase (6%).

•

The PHLX incurred a $2 million increase (5%).

•

The CSE incurred a $261,000 million increase (6%).

•

The CBOE incurred a $6.7 million increase (8%).

•

The CHX incurred a $834,000 increase (2%).

Aggregate pre-tax income of the marketplace SROs rose to $260
million, an increase of$96.8 million (59%), from the $163.4 million
reported in 1995. The NASD experienced the largest dollar volume
increase in pre-tax income, $60.7 million, as well as the largest
percentage increase (225%). The remaining SROs reported positive pretax income in 1996 with the exception of the PHLX which reported a
pre-tax loss of $72,000. While PHLX reported a pre-tax loss, it did show
improvement from its 1995 pre-tax loss of$1 million. The BSE and the

175

CBOE were the only two SROs reporting a positive pre-tax income for
1996 that dropped from their 1995 levels.
The total assets of all marketplace SROs amounted to approximately
$2.1 billion in 1996, an increase of$332 million (19%) over 1995. The
NYSE showed the largest dollar volume increase in total assets, $149
million (17%), while the PHLX showed the largest percentage increase
in total assets, 61% ($41.4 million). The CSE also showed a significant
percentage increase in total assets, 30% ($2.5 million). The NASD,
AMEX, CBOE and PCX also reported increases in total assets equaling
$89.6 million (20%), $22.8 million (16%), $12.1 million (11%), and $4.7
million (9%) respectively.
In 1996, the total liabilities of marketplace SROs increased $174.4
million (23%) over 1995 levels. The PHLX showed the greatest
percentage increase, 94% ($41.3 million), while the NYSE reported the
greatest dollar volume increase, $74.7 million (18%). Increases in
liabilities were also reported by the AMEX ($16.3 million or 36%), BSE
($3.1 million or 19%), CHX ($4.3 million or 28%), and NASD ($34.8
million or 23%).
The aggregate net worth of the marketplace SROs rose $157.4
million in 1996 to.$1.178 billion, an increase of 15% over 1995. The
CSE incurred the largest percentage increase in net worth, 43% ($2.7
million), while the NYSE reported the largest dollar volume increase in
net worth, $74.4 million (17%). The PCX and NASD also reported
substantial increases in net worth of $6.3 million (21 %) and $54.8
million (18%) respectively. Net worth increases were also reported by
CBOE ($10.6 million, (12%)) and AMEX ($6.5 million (6%)).
Clearing agency results have been presented in two tables by their
respective types: clearing corporations and depositories. In calendar year
1996, aggregate revenues from clearing agency services increased $70
million, or 12%, to $629 million from $560 million in 1995. Interest
income declined $90 million, or 62%, to $55 million in 1996. All
clearing agencies adjust their fee structures and refunds of fees to provide
participants with attractively priced services, to meet expenses, and to
provide the amount of earnings which they desire to retain.

176

Service revenues at the depositories totaled $360 million, up $6
million or 2%, from 1995. In 1996, The Depository Trust Company
(DTC) increased its service revenues by 6% ($20 million) and increased
its pre-tax earnings from $21,000 to $301,000. The Philadelphia
Depository Trust Company's 1996 service revenues increased 18% ($1.8
million). Nevertheless, its pre-tax earnings decreased 105%, from
$263,000 in 1995 to a loss of$12,000 in 1996.
Depositories continued to expand their base for service revenues by
increasing both the number of equity shares and principal amount of debt
securities on deposit. This gain occurred, among other reasons, because
of the further expansion of depository-eligible issues and the
participants' increased use of depository service. At year end 1996, DTC
alone had more than 1.3 million depository-eligible issues and a total
value of securities in its depository system of $12 trillion.
Service revenues of clearing corporations for 1996 increased 16% to
$206 million in 1996 from $177 million for 1995, and earnings for
clearing corporations decreased to $9.5 million in 1996 from $16
million in 1995, a decrease of 59%.
The results were mixed for individual clearing corporations' pre-tax
earnings. For example, the National Securities Clearing Corporation did
not report any earnings for 1996 compared with $3.7 million for 1995, a
decrease of 100%. The Government Securities Clearing Corporation
reported earnings of$3.9 million for 1996 compared with $5.5 million
for 1995, a decrease of28%. The Options Clearing Corporation reported
earnings of $3.3 million for 1996 compared with $3.2 million for 1995,
an increase of 3%. The Stock Clearing Corporation of Philadelphia
reported a 1996 gain of $986,000 compared with a loss of $717,000 in
1995, an increase of238%.
The aggregate shareholders' equity of all clearing corporations and
depositories decreased from $120 million to $117 million. Aggregate
participant clearing funds, which protect clearing agencies in the event of
a participant default, increased by $1.6 billion, or 44%, to $ 5.2 billion.
If a participant defaults and it losses exceed its deposit at a clearing
agency, the entire participants' fund of the clearing agency may be
assessed on a pro rata basis.

177

U"') ll? cY')
O')U')T-C)

c.o

eo

00')<.0

co v,.....l()

,.....
(,0 l()

CXJN 0

to

0 l() <.0
"-_C"{C't1.~

ONtO
0'>
r-(O",,-o

~Z9;;;;9.

iA;;;;;;;;;

tl'9~'&9'tl'9

,.....0)
(0

-e-

-e-

0">

c.o

.......

...... 0'> CD

-e-

......-,...:c.6a>

UJ

"CTv'Vv

U)

a..

N

DOOCl('\")
COtOr-1""-

<.0

('f')'"=Tv'"=T

L()

r-

or-

NNOa5
MNNrcoO'>q~

~~z;;;
<Do> .......-eco r- (Y) c.o

OO<'oCO
.......
..-Ct?C)
co 0 co

r-

C'JOOM

"":-.:i6o

cDNNO
T"""or-NN

..

"'CT 0') a» co
CDL{')CTJO

co

cOON..n

~
Z

0') 0

vc.oen""lOt'

....:......
-....:N-

Cf)

co c.o

r-

cnMf'-O

"":NMu-:>

C'.icO'o::ia:i
a>-.::rcoo
mq-r-:"1.

~

z
o

en r-

l()

0)

e-, r-

('I')v""-N
N..- <.0<.0

~"":"":M

"""'"=T0)"'l:T
('I") &.OCl

co

co

-e- co
,...:c.or-en
r-;to to a

to ......

r--:.,--C"i..o
('f")v"o::Tv

.

If')(''l')OI,l''')
If')C''J
U")

~cor-o
NM~..n

r-

If')~~CO

«
CD

a:

r- 0> Lf) ('t')
cr') r--,....
0
o ec ee co
LONe)"":
v l() a <.0

o

>a:

vvll')L(')

~

..-

r-

e"")
C"')('I')

a:

U.
Cf)~

\1)0

1)ZI
lIlaM

I-i=~

«,....

e:t>tO

~~
c:
ell

(J)

~
o

UJ
U)

<..:>

..r::
l-

C"')

'V

......
...--......
q-

V(Y)vO
("f)L{')OM
___<.000>

.E

oaiot6

::E

r-N(Y)('f)

a:

Lt') co O'l
r- a> a.n
VN..£V~

to-

L()

t6crir--:o:i

..

or-Ll')O')

Nr-I,{)CO
CJ)NvN

-:ciLOe.D

r-OO(Y')M

... ..

or-O')

('I').q

'V

L(')

lOO('l")C)

0')

ONCOC"')
0'> -e- co -e-

r-T"""lOf'("l') T"""

to

T--T"""-C'tiv

..

CD V 'T"'""
CONlOv
r- CD -e-

:::-!:!i

<3
Z

o

'" '"

co
<..:>

u:
w

!;(

..

.

("")~oor-

r-T"""~'«:r
T"""~O<O
("l')Q')r-o

.......

to

co
vr-ao~
..-:C'S 000
r- to r-

cOvL6c:i
("l')T"""T"""N

co r- ..-en
v (OC'I') co
c.o Lf) to- ('l')
"":""':«5

UJ

«
Z
Cl

C1>

N~C'.i~

NNT"""N

N

~
..J

MCOC"')T"""
("f')('I")VL{')

r-NU")v

a
U-

«

C'J r-

MNmM

cOC'icOa:S

lO

.
..

co

a co r- r-

oiC't'icn....r

LO C') c.o
to r- co .......
OOr-lON

LO

r--NON
ll)COClv
OL(')CO<.o

Ol

(Y)

......

N"":"":U;;

w

r--U-m

C"')...q-~~

c.o r-- ..- -eNcor-a

::::>
CD

..J
W

If') C'I 0
IJ')
T"""T"""OIJ')
l(') ("I") l(') C'J

otricn0:5
co C'I N 0>

lJ")..-f'-N

""

UJ
U)

lJ")OCJ)N

00"><.0

-

NO<.OLJ")
OMCO("f)
0> r-. r-, 0>

O~('r')O::>

-.:iC"'i"":oi

t.ri~~M

co

--

0') <::) ..-

...-LOOU">

-e-

~-v..n..n

C"') l,(') cY')

I,l"')CO~O
COT"""tOT"""

'"

C'J

N

COL{')l(')r('f') C'J 0

to

a co co en
Mcri~v

C"J

to

r-OM~

C""iocDai

t-Nlf')C"')
tONvT"""

(()NOC"')

an r.D r--"":

T"""T"""T"""T"""

co

Cl

:J

a
Cf)
Z

a

o

Vt,(')VCO

v('f")vU")
vC'Jlt")-.::f'

ONOM

NL(')~("f')
C)Ll") .......M

r-T-O>U"')

Nv

~Mc;r)ci

aioiMeO

C"')~I,{)r......or- .........-

M~ifl~

..-NvL()

;;;;;;;;;;;;

co

(Y')

to

Q')

.......
r-

....:-.:roi~

COOT-CD

..- en to co
an c5

en co

(,Q 0
M(,OT"""O

'"=TvNO
cO
r--.,-

c:na:iLO- ~

;;;;;Z;;;;

t.l9'W6l9'W

,....C"')vr-

~r-LOCO

NMq"tO

..
178

-e- to

C".I 0

en

U")

('I')

cY)

to

cY)

co

r-.-

00.

o~

I,l')U")NCOCOm
""TC"')Lr)ONO>tO
00
(0"'('1")0
(,0

......

U'"J

Moo::t-

N
""

co

'"

'"

-....:a;iU")-C"')l,()

r-;

U')ocno
......
......
_

co

co ..-

l,l")

~NU")M

~O

to

en

N

f=

...

cr:
o
a.
cr:

...
C>

.,,;

lrJC"')

NCO

NM

CX)l{)MCO

...
V

o
ec

...
en

M(O

N(Yjr-.:

'"

..-

«

CO')

oo::t

MOr-...... MtO<.o
oo::tNlJ")..--MVN

mcom
......
co 0> 0 en
eONWr--:

o

oC>

C"')

LOom

r-.:

~"'''''

z

M
00

'"

MOcnOOOU")

... ...
""

N

'"

cD

~

...

o

o

Cl;:'

~f3
cr:en
l5z
..JW

UfL(i)

r-; C'J
"''''
~'"
NCO.

0

cn

NOlOOC>NOl

=
r-;
~

...

;;

o
......
M

r-.

oo::t-

cn ......
M

U")

V

NN

C"')

0

'"
'"

C>

o
ci

...
'"
""

;;

Ix"
We:

:~-gm 5

:0 0

l'tI

~~ffl.=

;:S:J~
zz....
«~-

co
co

to
""T

e-;
co ..-

to

<D

0

tOoov

M

(,Oo.n
......
...... OMCOV
ONlr>NO'l

'"
....:r-.:

C"')

co

r.D

N

C)w

cr:cr:

Oeo
>om

cr:m

~~
:J

co

<D..-

U")

0

"'~
~

...

~

C"')

.....-.:i

o
W

q:

u,
..J
W

en

mocO)

0'"

..ncr>
""'"

0000

..-""

0>

'"

'"

U'")C"')O'J

'"
"'.

;;

..-

""
'"

cY)"'"

MN
.... -

-

0

NVOr-

to

co-.rvtO("I')U")
to M e-, M..-{Y)

-

g
o
-:

1.0 to ......
C'I')
MMCOoo::t
...... ...,.NN

COO>u")""TO>Ncn

U')C)ll")O

......
M

ari

r-.:..-:

a)

... ""~O...

..n

.......... ('0")0("')00>
NMI.O
V

'"

;;i

......

....n
1.0

179

Table 9
SELF-REGULATORY ORGANIZATIONS-DEPOSITORIES
1996 REVENUES and EXPENSES 11
($ in Thousands)

Depository
Trust
Company
(12/31/96)

Participants
Trust
Company
(12/31/96)

Philadelphia
Depository
Trust
Company
(12/31/96)

$332,345
22,299
$354,644

$15,278
14,024
$29,302

$12,191
767
$12,958

$359,814
37,090
$396,904

$205,762
19,359
50,566

$11,249
3,954
7,270

$7,148
3,200
0

$224,159
26,513
57,836

16,788
61,868
$354,343

1,151
4,738
$28,362

0
2,622
$12,970

17,939
69,228
$395,675

Excess of Revenues
Over Expenses 31

$301

$940

$(12)

$1,229

Shareholders' EqUity
Participant's Fund

$19,707
$675,171

$20,073
$269,061

$3,840
$2,223

$43,620
$946,455

Revenues
Depository Services
Interest Income
Total Revenues 21

Total

~
Employee Costs
Data Processing
Occupancy Costs
Depreciation and
Amortization of
Intangibles
All Other Expenses
Total Expense

1/ Although efforts have been made to make the presentallons comparable, any Single revenue or expense
category may not be completely comparable between any two deposnones because of (I) the varying
claSSificatIOn methods employed by the deposnones In reporting operating results and (II) the grouping
methods employed by the SEC's staff due to these varying classification methods IndiVidual amounts are
shown to the nearest thousand Totals are the rounded result of the underlYing amounts and may not be
the arithmetiC sums of the parts
{j Revenues are net of refunds which have the effect of reducmq a clearing agency's base fee rates
31 This IS the result of operations and before the effect of Income taxes, which may Significantly Impact a
depOSitory's net Income

180

Certificate Immobilization
Book entry deliveries continued to outdistance physical deliveries in
the settlement of securities transactions among depository participants of
The Depository Trust Company (DTC). This tendency is illustrated in
Table 10, Certificate Immobilization Trends. The table captures the
relative significance of the mediums employed, in a ratio of book-entry
deliveries to certificates withdrawn from DTC. The figures includes
Direct Mail by Agents and municipal bearer bonds. In 1996, the total
certificates withdrawn decreased by 15% from 1995, while the number of
book-entry deliveries increased by 14%. In 1996, the ratio was almost 4
times the 1992 ratio of book-entry deliveries rendered for every
certificate withdrawn.

Table 10

CERTIFICATE IMMOBILIZATION TRENDS
The Depository Trust Company

Book-entry Deliveries
at DTC (millions)

136.0

119.0

106.0

98.3

83.3

Total of All Certificates
(in thousands)

2,769

3,270

3,899

4,140

6,467

49.0

36.4

27.1

23.7

12.9

Book-entry Deliveries
per Certificates Withdrawn

181

Section 13(1)(1) Reports
Section 13(f)(1) of the Exchange Act and rule 13f-l require
"institutional investment managers" exercising investment discretion
over accounts holding certain equity securities with a fair market value
of at least $100 million to file quarterly reports on Form 13F. For the
quarter ended September 30, 1997, 1,925 managers filed Form 13F
reports. For the quarter ended June 30, 1997, the total market value of
holdings reported on Form 13F was approximately $6.1 trillion.

Exemptions
Section 12(h) Exemptions
Section 12(h) of the Exchange Act authorizes the Commission to
grant a complete or partial exemption from the registration provisions of
section 12(g) or from the disclosure or insider reporting/trading
provisions of the Exchange Act where such exemption is consistent with
the public interest and the protection of investors. Three applications
were pending at the beginning of 1997, and one application was filed
during the year. Requested relief was granted to one applicant.
Exemptions for Foreign Private Issuers
Rule 12g3-2 provides various exemptions from the registration
provisions of section 12(g) of the Exchange Act for the securities of
foreign private issuers. A frequently used exemption is that contained in
subparagraph (b), which provides an exemption for certain foreign
issuers that furnish specified documents to the Commission on a current
basis. Such documents include information material to an investment
decision that the issuer has:

182

•

made or is required to make public pursuant to the law of the
country in which it is incorporated or organized;

•

filed or is required to file with a stock exchange on which its
securities are traded and which was made public by such
exchange; or

1

•

distributed or is required to distribute to its securityholders.

Periodically, the SEC publishes a list of those foreign issuers that
appear to be current under the exemptive provision. The current list
contains over 1,400 foreign issuers.

i,

Rule 10b-6 and Regulation M Exemptions
During 1997, the Commission granted 8 written exemptions
pursuant to paragraph (h) of rule 10b-6. Also, the Commission granted 5
written exemptions pursuant to rule 101 (d) of Regulation M and 5
written exemptions pursuant to rule 102 (e) of Regulation M.

183

Corporate Reorganizations
During 1997, the Commission entered its appearance in 31
reorganization cases filed under Chapter 11 of the Bankruptcy Code
involving companies with aggregated stated assets of approximately $5
billion and 110,000 public investors. Counting these new cases, the
Commission was a party in a total of 95 Chapter 11 cases during the
year. In these cases, the stated assets totaled approximately $30 billion
and involved almost 725,000 public investors. During the year, 41 cases
were concluded through confirmation of a plan of reorganization,
dismissal, or liquidation, leaving 54 cases in which the Commission was
a party at year-end.
Table 11
REORGANIZATION PROCEEDINGS UNDER CHAPTER 11
OF THE BANKRUPTCY CODE IN WHICH
THE SEC ENTERED APPEARANCE
FY
Opened

FY
Closed
1997
1997

Debtor

District

50% Off Stores, Inc.j/
ACI-HDT Supply Co.11
Action Auto Rental, Inc.
Advanced Promotion
Technologies, Inc.

W.
S.D.
D.

TX
CA
OH

1997
1996
1993

S.D.

FL

1997

Aileen, Inc.
Alexander's Inc.l!
Alliance Entertainment Corp.
Alliant Computer Systems
Corp.j/

S.D.
S.D.
D.

NY
NY
NY

1994
1992
1997

1997

E.D.

MA

1992

1997

American Microtel, Inc.
Apogee Robotics, Inc.~
Audre Recognition Systems, Inc.
Autolend Group, Inc.

D.
D.
S.D.
D.

NV
CO
CA
NM

1995
1997
1997
1997

184

1997

~
~
,
-'

~

Table 11 (continued)
REORGANIZA nON PROCEEDINGS UNDER CHAPTER 11
OF THE BANKRUPTCY CODE IN WHICH
THE SEC ENTERED APPEARANCE

~
"

j
-~

-'!

~
')

!

i
1

~
1
i

FY
Opened

FY
Closed

1997
1997

Debtor

District

Automobile Credit
Finance, Inc. et al.l!
Baldwin Buildersj/
Barry's Jewelers, Inc.
Barton Industries, Inc.j/

N.D.
C.D.
C.D.
W.D.

TX
CA
CA
OK

1997
1995
1997
1991

B-E Holdings, Inc.
Ben Franklin Retail Stores, Inc.
Best Products Co.11
Bonneville Pacific Corp.

E.D.
N.D.
E.D.
D.

WI
IL
VA
UT

1994
1996
1997
1992

Bradlees, Inc.
Cambridge Biotech Corp.j/
Carter Hawley Hale Stores, Inc.
Cincinnati Microwave, Inc.

S.D.
D.M.
C.D.
S.D.

NY
MA
CA
OH

1996
1994
1991
1997

Clinicorp, Inc.11
Clothestime, Inc.
College Bound, Inc.j/
Comptronix Corp.j/

S.D.
C.D.
S.D.
D.

FI
CA
FL
DE

1997
1996
1993
1997

1997
1997

CPT Corp.
Craig Consumer Electronics, Inc.
Crazy Eddie, Inc., et al.2/
Dakota Minerals, Inc.Y

D.
C.D.
S.D.
D.

MN
CA
NY
WY

1991
1997
1989
1986

1997
1997

1997

1997

1997

1997

185

Table 11 (continued)
REORGANIZA nON PROCEEDINGS UNDER CHAPTER 11
OF THE BANKRUPTCY CODE IN WHICH
THE SEC ENTERED APPEARANCE
FY
Opened

FY
Closed

Debtor

District

Damson Oil Co.l!
Dest Corp.l/
Eagle-Pitcher Industries, Inc.j/
Eastern Air Lines, Inc., et al.l!

S.D.
N.D.
S.D.
S.D.

TX
CA
OH
NY

1991
1989
1991
1989

1997
1997
1997

Edison Brothers Stores, Inc.j/
First City Bancorporation
of Texas, Inc.
First Connecticut Small
Business Investments Company
First Merchants Acceptance Corp.

D.

DE

1996

1997

N.D.

TX

1994

D.
D.

CT
DE

1991
1997

1997

First RepubIicbank Corp.j/
Fruehauf Trailer Corp.
Future Communications, Inc.
Gander Mountain, Inc.

N.D.
D.
W.D.
E.D.

TX
DE
OH
WI

1989
1997
1994
1996

1997

Great American Recreation, Inc.
Grossman's Inc.
The Group, Inc.J/
Hamburger Hamlet
Restaurants, Inc.

D.
D.
D.

NJ
DE

NY

1996
1997
1990

C.D.

CA

1996

C.D.
C.D.
N.D.

CA
CA
TX

1996
1995
1996

1997

D.

CO

1993

1997

Home Theater Products
International, Inc.
House of Fabrics, Inc.j/
I C H Corp.
Integra-A Hotel and
Restaurant, Co.11

186

1997

Table 11 (continued)
REORGANIZA nON PROCEEDINGS UNDER CHAPTER 11
OF THE BANKRUPTCY CODE IN WHICH
THE SEC ENTERED APPEARANCE
FY
Opened

FY
Closed

Debtor

District

International Tourist
Entertainment Corp.
Jayhawk Acceptance Corp.
King of Video, Inc.
Leslie Fay Companies, Inc.j/

W.D.
N.D.
D.
S.D.

MI
TX
NV
NY

1996
1997
1989
1993

1997

Library Bureau, Inc.Y
LifeCo Investment Group, Inc.11
Marvel Entertainment
Group, Inc., et al.
MCorp (MCorp Financial, Inc.
& MCorp Management)

N.D.
D.

NY
GA

1993
1995

1997
1997

D.

DE

1997

S.D.

TX

1989

Media Vision Technology, Inc.
Megafoods Stores, Inc.
Midwest Communications Corp.I/
Monarch Capitol Corp.j/

N.D.
D.
E.D.
D.

CA
AZ
KY
MA

1994
1995
1991
1991

National Gypsum Co.
Neostar Retail Group, Inc.
NVF Company 11
Omega Environmental, Inc.

N.D.
N.D.
D.
W.

TX
TX
DE
W

1991
1997
1994
1997

Packaging Research Corp.
PanAm Corporationj/
Payless Cashways, Inc.
PCA Industries, Inc.

D.
S.D.
W.
E.D.

CO
NY
MO
WI

1997
1991
1997
1997

1997
1997

1997

1997

187

Table 11 (continued)
REORGANIZATION PROCEEDINGS UNDER CHAPTER 11
OF THE BANKRUPTCY CODE IN WHICH
THE SEC ENTERED APPEARANCE
FY
Opened

FY
Closed

OK
OH
CA

1994
1994
1997

1997

W.

TX

1997

1997

1997

Debtor

District

Penn Pacific Corp.
Phar-Mor, Inc.j/
Physician Clinical Labortary, Inc.
Protech Inc. d.b.a. Omega
Test Systems'[/

E.D.
N.D.
C.D.

Public Service Co. of New
Hampshirej/
RDM Sports Group, Inc.
Reconversion
Technologies, Inc., et al.
Rymer Foods, Inc.

D.
N.D.

NH
GA

1988
1997

N.D.
N.D.

OK
IL

1997
1993

Sizzler International, Inc.11
Solv-ex Corp.
Southland Corp.
Spencer Cos., Inc.j/

C.D.
D.
N.D.
D.

CA
NM
TX
MA

1996
1997
1991
1987

W.D.
D.
S.D.

MI
NY
NY

1991
1997
1992

C.D.

CA

1989

1997

S.D.
S.D.
B.D.
D.

CA
NY
WI
MA

1993
1994
1994
1991

1997
1997
1997
1997

Standard Oil and Exploration
of Delaware, Inc.
Stratosphere Corp.
Sterling Optical Corp.
Telstar Satellite Corp. of
Americaj/
TSL Holdings, Inc.j/
USA Classic, Inc.2/
Value Merchants, Inc.21
Wedgestone Financial

188

1997

1997

Table 11 (continued)
REORGANIZA nON PROCEEDINGS UNDER CHAPTER 11
OF THE BANKRUPTCY CODE IN WHICH
THE SEC ENTERED APPEARANCE

Debtor

District

Western Fidelity Funding, Inc.
Westmoreland Coal Company
WRT Energy Corp.

D.
D.
W.D.

Total Cases Opened (FY 1997)
Total Cases Closed (FY 1997)

FY
Opened
CO
CO
LA

FY
Closed

1997
1997
1996
31
41

1/ Chapter 11 plan confirmed.

'J./
Jj

11

Debtor liquidated under Chapter 7.
Chapter 11 case dismissed.
Debtor's securities not registered under section 12(g) of the
Securities Exchange Act of 1934.

189

The Securities Industry
Revenues, Expenses, and Selected Balance Sheet Items
Broker-dealers registered with the Securities and Exchange
Commission earned a pre-tax profit of $17.0 billion in calendar year
1996. This was $5.6 billion more than that earned the previous year.
The pre-tax return on equity capital of27.3% was better than the average
results of the previous decade.
The most important factor affecting broker-dealer profits was record
transaction activity. Sales of mutual funds grew by 45% in 1996. Sales
of equity funds, which typically generate more revenues than bond funds,
contributed disproportionately to this growth. The dollar value of equity
trades executed on the exchanges and the Nasdaq increased by 30%. The
amount of margin debt outstanding grew proportionately. This increase
in transactions translated into revenue growth. Securities commissions
rose by $4.6 billion to $27.8 billion in 1996. Margin interest of $7.4
billion represented an increase of $0.9 billion. Revenues from retailing
mutual funds grew by $2.6 billion to $10.1 billion.
Investment banking also was an important profit center in 1996.
The value of new equity offerings increased by over 50% while that for
new debt offerings grew by over 30%. The result was a $3.8 billion
increase in profits from underwriting to $12.6 billion.
"All other revenues" grew by $15.8 billion to $84.3 billion in 1996.
These revenues are comprised primarily of interest income from
securities purchased under agreements to resell and fees from handling
private placements, mergers, and acquisitions. These underlying
business segments showed substantial growth in 1996. Announced
mergers and acquisitions deals rose by 25%, the dollar value of private
placements grew by almost 60%, and the dollar value of reverse
repurchase agreements rose 15%.
Proprietary trading gains were $30.7 billion in 1996. This was only
modestly larger than exceptionally high profits earned in 1995, when
declining interest rates drove up the value of the bond inventory
maintained by securities firms.

190

Expenses rose 18% to $156.0 billion in 1996, primarily due to
higher employee compensation. Interest expense, the largest expense
item in 1996, increased by $8.3 billion (14.6%) to $65.2 billion.
Employee compensation rose 22.9% to $51.1 billion. Total assets grew
by $255.1 billion to $1,748.8 billion. Equity capital increased by $6.9
billion to $65.6 billion.

191

Table 12
UNCONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL INFORMATION FOR BROKER-DEALERS
1992 - 19961/
($ in Millions)

1992
Revenues
Securities Cornrmssrons
Gams (Losses) m Trading and
Investment Accounts
Profits (Losses) from Underwrltmg
and Sellmg Groups
Margin Interest
Revenues from Sale of Investment
Company Shares
All Other Revenues
Total Revenues
Expenses
Registered Representatives'
Compensation (Par111Only) 21
Other Employee Compensation
and Benefits
Compensation to Partners and
Voling Stockholder Officers
Cornrrnssrons and Clearance Paid
to Other Brokers
Interest Expenses
Regulatory Fees and Expenses
All Other Expenses 21
Total Expenses
Income and Profitability
Pre-tax Income
Pre-tax Profit Margm
Pre-tax Return on EqUity
Assets Liabilities and Capital
Total Assets
lIabllllles
(a) Unsubordmated Liabilities
(b) Subordinated liabilities
(c) Total Liabilities
Ownership EqUity
Number of Firms

1993

1994

1996"

23,2148

$ 27,8368

$ 16,2489

$ 19.9048

21,8383

25,4272

20,2186

28,962.7

30.7016

8.299 7
2.6896

11,2487
3,2352

6,8438
4,6684

8,8652
6,4702

12.6242
7.390 1

5,9501
35,5574
$ 90.584.0

8,1153
40,9126
$ 108,8437

6.8872
54,2934
$ 112.7581

7,4335
68,4676
$ 143,4140

10,0793
84,2889
$ 172.9211

$12,1111

$ 14,6960

$

$

$

$

19.8467

13,711 0

$

1995'

15,5265

17,0669

20.931 3

20,5522

22,2854

27,9010

2,8929

3,4980

3,3324

3,7293

4.3663

3,7221
24.5763
6392
20,4590
$ 81,4674

5,3378
26,6156
629.7
24,0967
$ 95.8051

5,3603
40,2504
6278
25,431 8
$ 109,2659

$ 9.1166
101
220

$ 13.0386
120
267

$

$978,6350

$1.240,1598

$1,251,7410

$1,493,643 9

$1,748,7804

916,5453
18,1558
934,7011

1,160,4560
25,7876
1,186.2436

1,169,1366
28,8097
1,197,9463

1,403,6551
31,2792
1,434,9343

1.646,5579
36,631 7
1,683,1896

$ 43,9339

$ 53,9162

53,7947

$ 58,7095

7,793

7.674

$

3,4922
31
65

7,632

5,700 2
56,877 0
6741
27,2964
$ 132,0889

7,350 6
65.2041
6711
31.6719
$ 155,9684

$

$

11,3251
79
201

7.722

Figures may not add due to roundmg
r = revised
p = preliminary
1/ Calendar, rather than fiscal, year data IS reported In thiS table
21 Registered representatives' compensation for firms that neither carry nor clear IS Included m "other expenses"
as thiS expense Item IS not reported separately on Par1I1Aof lhe FOCUS Report
Source

192

FOCUS Report

18.803.5

$

16,9527
98
273

65.5910
7,776

Table 13

UNCONSOLIDATED ANNUAL REVENUES AND EXPENSES FOR BROKER-DEALERS
DOING A PUBLIC BUSINESS
1992 - 19961/
($ in Millions)

1992
Revenues
Securities Commissions
Gains (Losses) rn Tradrng and
Investment Accounts
Profits (Losses) from Underwflling
and Seiling Groups
Margin Interest
Revenues from Sale of Investment
Company Shares
All Other Revenues
Total Revenues

1993

$15,4997

$ 19,341 1

20,7907

24.0425

1994
$19,2466
18,9183

1996"

1995'
$ 22,616 7

$ 27,245 1

27,0881

28,3483

8,2028
2,651 7

11,2486
3,2291

6,8405
4.651 1

8,8650
6,4394

12,6150
7.3579

5.8519
34,7455
$87.742.2

8,1153
40,0863
$106,0629

6,8764
53,121 4
$109.6543

7,4334
67,4931
$139.9356

10.0793
82,751 6
$168.3973

$11,791 1

$ 14,6719

$13,6890

$ 15,5062

s 18,6767

16,6014

20,5149

20,0708

21.8606

27.4274

2.6955

3,2934

3,0961

~

Registered Representatives'
Compensation (Part II only) 21
Other Employee Compensation
and Benefits
Compensation to Partners and
Voting Stockholder Officers
Commissions and Clearance Paid
to Other Brokers
Interest Expenses
Regulatory Fees and Expenses
All Other Expenses 21
Total Expenses

3,5000
24.235 8
5800
19,777 9
$79.181 7

5,0833
26.2229
5733
23.5482
$ 93.9080

5,0884
39,5821
5346
24,832 5
$106,8935

5,4574
55,8233
6162
26,6708
$129,4459

7,1042
63,603 6
6234
30,9984
$152,5543

Income
Pre-tax
Pre-tax
Pre-tax

$ 8,5605
98
222

$12,1549
115
265

$ 2,7608
25
54

$ 10,4897
75
197

$ 15,8430
94
267

5.091

5,139

5,310

5,402

and Profitability
Income
Profit Margin
Return on Equity

Number of Firms

5,237

4,1206

3,511 3

Figures may not add due to rounding.
r = revised
p = preliminary
Y Calendar, rather than fiscal. year data ISreported In thiS table
21 Registered representatives' compensation for firms that neither carry nor clear IS Included rn "other expenses"
as thiS expense Item IS not reported separately on Part IIA of the FOCUS Report
Source FOCUS Report

193

UNCONSOLIDATED

Table 14
BALANCE SHEET FOR BROKER-DEALERS
DOING A PUBLIC BUSINESS
YEAR-END, 1992-19961/
($ in Millions)

1993

1992
Assets
Cash
Receivables from Other
Broker -dealers
Receivables from Customers
Receivables from Non-customers
Long Positions In Securities
and Commodities
Securities and Investments
not Readily Marketable
Securities Purchased Under Agreements
to Resell (Part II only) 21
Exchange Membership
Other Assets 21
Total Assets

uaorhnes and Egulty Caortal
Bank Loans Payable
Payables to Other Broker-dealers
Payables to Non-customers
Payables to Customers
Short Posmons In Securities
and Commodities
Securrties Sold Under Repurchase
Agreements (Part II only) 21
Other Non-subordmated lrabihttes
Subordinated liabilities
Total LiabllJlies

$ 11,0244

$

EqUity Capital

13,5004

$

14,8627

1996'
$

16,8527

289,1680
68,5261
6,4125

342,000 1
66,9116
7,2581

358,5569
71,0042
7,421 0

477,8078
87,0647
7,0796

294,2945

363,8643

317,6257

422,8687

448,6351

2,3760

4,1244

4,4811

5,3662

5,4550

350,4878
3153
26,5029
$955,4548

439,4314
437,8056
3231
3537
30,6158
33,8188
$1,215,593 8 $1,233,7550

544,8323
624,3323
4241
4646
34,2061
36,2370
$1,459,542 3 $1,703,928 8

$ 33,9088
68,5690
6,6077
70,0897

$

$

41,9919
105,1152
10,8360
90,9429

$ 34,471 4
130,7364
11,9215
98,5344

199,5095

196,8075

45,7176 $ 58,2856
207,7378
152,3288
14,9438
18,2825
143,5161
111,4899
195,1493

236,9177

500,7141
59,5348
17,7265
$914,4461

607,8271
591,423 1
767,6761
832,5320
83,1244
80,8463
85,3894
107,8735
25,3706
28.4935
30.931 3
36,2306
$1,164,7176 $1.173,234 6 $1.403,6263 $1,641,3757

$ 41,0087

$

5,091

Number of films

$

1995'

216,7937
49,3335
4,3267

157,2956

21

13,1281

1994

50,8762

$ 50,5204

$ 55.9160

5,139

5,237

5,310

$

62,5531
5,402

Figures may not add due to roundmg
r = revised
p = prehrmnary

1/ Calendar, rather than nscal, year data

21

IS reported m thiS table
Resale agreements and repurchase agreements for firms that neither carry nor clear are mciuded m "other assets" and

'other non-subordmated
Report
Source

194

FOCUS Report

liabilities,"

respectively, as these Items are not reported separately on Part IIA of the FOCUS

Data for carrying and clearing firms that do a public business is
presented in more detail. Reporting requirements for firms that neither
carry nor clear are less detailed. Carrying and clearing firms clear
securities transactions or maintain possession or control of customers'
cash or securities. These firms produced 82% of the securities
industry's total revenues in calendar year 1996.
Brokerage activity accounted for about 23 cents of each revenue dollar
in 1996, virtually identical to the level in 1995. Securities commissions
remained the most important component, producing 14 cents of each dollar
of revenue. Margin interest generated about 5 cents of each dollar of revenue, while revenues from mutual fund sales accounted for about 4 cents.
The dealer side produced 67 cents of each dollar of revenue in 1996,
down from 68 cents in 1995. Seventeen cents came from trading and
investments, an increase from 20 cents in 1995. Eight cents came from
underwriting, up one cent from 1995. Forty-one cents came from other
securities-related revenues, almost identical to that in 1995. This revenue
item is comprised primarily of interest income from securities purchased
under agreements to resell and fees from handling private placements,
mergers, and acquisitions.
Expenses accounted for 91 cents of each revenue dollar in 1996,
resulting in a pre-tax profit margin of 9 cents per revenue dollar, about 2
cents higher than that in 1995. Interest expense was the most important
expense item, accounting for 44 cents of each revenue dollar in 1996
compared to 46 cents in 1995. Employee-relatedexpenses--compensation
received by registered representatives, partners and other employees-consumed 29 cents of each revenue dollar in 1996, compared to 28 cents in
1995.
Total assets of broker-dealers carrying and clearing customer accounts
were $1,651 billion at year-end 1996, a 16% increase from 1995. Relative
to other assets, the value of inventory on the books of broker-dealers
declined during 1996, while the value of receivables from customers and
other broker-dealers increased.
Total liabilities also increased by about 16% to $1,601 billion in 1996.
Owners' equity rose 10% to $50.1 billion.
195

8

1i
.,

!
E
0

o

.;

..
c:

t:
Q.

I

-.,

~

.,.

I>

E

1i
-c:

....

!.,

8

ii.2

.5

Q.c:

1

I>!.

~~

Q.

!C.l
.,

/

;;,
I>

a:

en i
(1) i
en
..
w

co

c::

(J)
(J)

(1).

a.!
X.5

,-

W

c

CIJ
"E
~
~

ctS
0

LOO
.,...
(1)

.0
~

.L1..
C>
C

.~
ctS

C'
+-' 0
(1)

en 0,
~

c

"'0 .~
~

c

en
Q)

"+-'

"t::
~

U
Q)

(J)

III

c:

ctS

0

/

~

o

L1..

I

~

(1)

:J

c::
(1)

>
(1)

a:

'0
en
~

:J

o

(J)

I
III

c

!
196

Table 16
UNCONSOLIDATED
REVENUES AND EXPENSES
CARRYING/CLEARING BROKER-DEALERS 1/
($ in Millions)

1995'

Dollars
Revenues
Securities Commissions
Gams (Losses) m Tradmg and
Investment Accounts
Profits (Losses) from Underwrltmg and Seiling Groups
Margm Interest
Revenues from Sale of Investment Company Shares
Miscellaneous Fees
Revenues from Research
Other Securities Related Revenues
Commodities Revenues
All Other Revenues
Total Revenues

$ 16,4243

Percent
of Total
Revenues
138%

1996"
Percent
ofTotaJ
Dollars
Revenues
$ 19,5613

138%

Percent
Change
1995-1996
191%

23,2362

195

23,7434

167

2.2

8,194.5
6,439.4

69
54

11,7651
7,3579

83
52

43.6
143

4,3929
5,1769
313
49,3800
(934)
6,0112
$119,1933

37
43
00
414
-01
50
1000%

5,9014
6,3751
1117
58,1334
1,6195
7,6494
$142,2182

4.1
45
01
409
11
54
1000%

34.3
23.1
256 9
177
-1,833.9
27.3
193%

s 15,5062

130%

$ 18,6767

131%

204%

Expenses
Registered Representatives'
Compensation
Other Employee Cornpensanon
and Benefits
Compensation to Par1nersand
Votmg Stockholder OHlcers
Commissions and Clearance Paid
to Other Brokers
Cornmunrcatons
Occupancy and EqUipment Costs
Data Processmg Costs
Interest Expenses
Regulatory Fees and Expenses
Losses m Error Accounts and
Bad Debts
All Other Expenses
Total Expenses

3059
10,1041
$111,2781

0.3
85
934%

Income and Prolitability
Pre-tax Income
Pre-tax Proht Margin
Pre-tax Return on EqUity

$ 7,9152
66
181

66%

Number of Firms

FOR

16,301.1

137

20,5145

144

258

2,1178

18

2,3689

17

11.9

3,3220
3,146.3
3,8148
1,421.3
54,7575
4812

28
26
32
1.2
459
04

3,8183
3,4368
4,0855
1,701 3
62,3429
4687

2.7
2.4
29
12
43.8
03

14.9
92
71
19.7
13.9
-2.6

3324
11,8578
$129,6037

02
83
91.1%

8.7
17.4
16.5%

$ 12,6144
89
264

89%

59.4%

773

761

Figures may not add due to roundmg
r = revised
p = prellmmary
1/ Calendar, rather than fiscal, year data ISreported m thiS table
Note Includes mformatlon for firms domg a public business that carry customer accounts or clear secunues transactions
Source FOCUS Report

197

UNCONSOLIDATED

Table 17
BALANCE SHEET FOR CARRYING/CLEARING
BROKER.DEALERS 11
($ in Millions)
1995'

Assets
Cash
Receivables from Other Broker -deaters
(a) Secunnes failed to Deliver
(b) Securities Borrowed
(c) Other
Receivables from Customers
Receivables from Non-customers
Long Posnons In Secunues and Ccmmomnes
(a) Bankers Acceptances, Certificates
of Deposn and Commercial Paper
(b) U S and Canadian Government Obligations
(c) State and MUniCipal Government ObligatIOns
(d) Corporate Obhqauons
(e) Stocks and Warrants
(I) Options
(g) Arbitrage
(h) Other Secunnes
(I) Spot Commodities
Securities and Investments Not Readily Marketable
Securities Purchased Under Agreements
to Resell
Exchange Membership
Other Assets
Total Assets
liabilities and EqUity CaMal
Bank Loans Payable
Payables to Other Broker-dealers
(a) Securities Failed to Receive
(b) Securities Loaned
(e) Other
Payables to Non-customers
Payables to Customers
Short Positions In Securities
and Commodities
Secuntres Sold Under Repurchase
Agreements (Part II Only)
Other Non-subordinated
Liabilities
Subordinated lrabrhues
Total liabilities

EqUity Capital
Number of firms

$

Dollars
13,5460
349,2628
6,0881
324,9732
18,2014
71,0042
6,8310
401,7496

10%
246
04
229
13
50
05
283

19,610 1
248,8289
12,722,9
69,4454
33,7415
5,5869
9,1825
2,0752
5564
4,9903

14
175
09
49
24
04
06
01
00
04

544,8323
3748
27 880 2
$1,420,471 2

$

45,4409
141,2580
6,3216
110,3963
24,5401
14,6717
111,4899

384
00
20
1000%

32%
99
04
78
17
10
78

Percent
oITotal
Assets

Dollars
$

15,3475
458,4470
7,3813
426,8846
24,1811
87,0647
6,4751
422,4498
20,9768
253,0708
10,8296
83,8137
37,5353
6,4767
7,0894
2,3037
3537
4,877 3

13
153
07
51
23
04
04
01
00
03

52
70
17
-149
207
112
159
-228
110
-364
-23
146
78
144
162%

57,6308
190,5101
9,2169
158,1233
23,1699
17,853
143,5161

35%
115
06
96
14
11
87

268%
349
458
432
-56
217
287

°

128

219,1927

133

206

767,676 1

540

832,5320

504

84

45,6306

773

58
21
968%
32%

104,8574
35,1320
$1,601,224 1
$

50,061 5

64
21
970%

267
180
165%

30%

97%

761

Figures may not add due to rounding
r = revsed
p = preliminary
1/ Calendar, rather than fiscal. year data IS reported In thiS table
Note Includes Information for firms dOing a publiC business that carry customer accounts or clear secunnes nsnsacnons
Source FOCUS Report

198

133%
313
212
314
329
226
-52

378
00
19
1000%

624,3323
4041
31 8878
$1,651,2857

$

09%
278
04
259
15
53
04
256

Percent
Change
1995-1996

181,772 7

82,7624
29,7688
$1,374,840 6
$

1996'
Percent
oITotal
Assets

Securrnes Traded on Exchanges
Market Value and Volume
The market value of equity and option transactions (trading in
stocks, options, warrants, and rights) on registered exchanges totaled
$4.7 trillion in 1996. Of this total, approximately $4.5 trillion, or 96%,
represented the market value of transactions in stocks, rights, and
warrants; $208 billion, or 4%, were options transactions (including
exercises of options on listed stocks).
The value of equity and option transactions on the New York Stock
Exchange (NYSE) was $4.0 trillion, up 30.4% from the previous year.
The market value of such transactions on the American Stock Exchange

(AMEX) increased 24.5% to $131.2 billion and increased 16.3% to
$575.2 billion on all other exchanges. The volume of trading in stocks
(excluding rights and warrants) on all registered exchanges totaled 125.7
billion shares, an 18.2% increase from the previous year, with 86% of the
total accounted for by trading on the NYSE.
The volume of options contracts traded (excluding exercised
contracts) was 294.8 million contracts in 1996,2.6% greater than in
1995. The market value of these contracts increased 24.6% to $148.1
billion. The volume of contracts executed on the Chicago Board Options
Exchange decreased 2.6% to 173.9 million. Options trading on the
AMEX and Pacific Stock Exchange rose 17.4% and 9.6% respectively
while options trading on the Philadelphia Stock Exchange decreased
2.6%.
Nasdaq (Share Volume and Dollar Volume)
Nasdaq share volume and dollar value information has been reported
on a daily basis since November 1, 1971. At the end of 1996, there were
6,384 issues in the Nasdaq system, as compared to 5,955 a year earlier
and 3,050 at the end of 1980.
Share volume for 1996 was 138.1 billion, as compared to 101.2
billion in 1995 and 6.7 billion in 1980. The dollar volume of shares
traded in the Nasdaq system was $3.3 trillion during 1996, as compared
to $2.4 trillion in 1995 and 68.7 billion in 1980.
199

Share and Dollar Volume by Exchange
Share volume on all registered stock exchanges totaled 125.9 billion,
an increase of 17.6% from the previous year. The NYSE accounted for
86% of the 1996 share volume; the AMEX, 4%; the Chicago Stock
Exchange, 3%, and the Pacific Stock Exchange, 2%.
The dollar value of stocks, rights, and warrants traded was $4.5
trillion, 29% higher than the previous year. Trading on the NYSE
contributed 89% of the total. The Chicago Stock Exchange and Pacific
Stock Exchange contributed 3% and 2% respectively. The AMEX
accounted for 2% of dollar volume.

200

L(')ooor-L()..-r-emCO'o::Tr-

c.oMO")OO.....-L(')
aOONr-...,.

o

""l:t'OOO<.Dm

N

r-C)MOO

Ncici"':~M

ci
o

lriOMM
......
'q"'L{')C"')

..C)

0") 0
L(')-.;:f"

r-...,.

CO
1.0 ON

r-; ""'

0>

M

ciLri""':cOa5o
""'...,.VL(')(DCO

NM

....

'"
"E
OJ
E

"0

<::
OJ

E

...:

'"

~
~'"

B

O")""TO")C')QOCO

OJ

...... NM«)""'=TV
r- Lt') <.0 C"') -e-

<n

N

ooq--e-..iM"':..--""':

OJ

€

,....r-COL(')(OLO
r- ......
O")"'o::1'...,.oo:::r

e-,
.c

l!'icnN~'-:ai
""l:TM...,.vL(')L(')

"0
OJ

'"
<::
g

"0
<::
OJ

~

o
......r-ONNlt)

C'JC"')L(')NL()r001
crJ
C"')f"'-L[')

"0
OJ

-.::i"Lt"iciMN""':
acero-cooco

¥

...... M(V')<o:;T

......
L(')

mCT>oo:rC')

N
ro
N

.....-L(')t-COCOCO

r--:u:iM..nc:i~
NNMC"')LO(O

I-

"CT'OOO

N

'"
'"

-eM

0>

c.o.,.....COM

~Ncri'N
co N<.O 0
ci-.:TO
r-MU")N

~

M

lij
OJ

>X

ci5

a>C7)N.....-,....cn
co ...... L(') ('I")C)CO

M ............ CO ...... ...,.ON
.....-'VO<DNC"')L(')CD

MNMOOO>

N<.Qr-C'f")Nt-("f')r-

oq: r-- M eO ,...: cO ..n
'V ("f')Ot-NN-.::r
o e-, c.o M <.0 c.o 00
<rioiLrievio""":C¥'5
COL(')Mr...... O')L{')
o

"":Noo:rOl!'i~
M oo::t'l.(')
...... corocnCOCOr-CO
<.6""':m<Dccio
r-MC).....-C)
r-Oc.oCOLOL(')

......

.,.:

"":NNNC'I'i...,.-

o

......r-o('\")('O")

C:O ......
....-COr-COCOM

"'...,.
00 r-...,.o
r-r-N..-O')N

N"'l;f"OtO
......NNcn
c.otOt-(Y)(Or-M
......

..nr--crio::iciu-i"':""':

-.::icit-:cn<6cD

OlMOr-c.ot-NL{')
,....r-c.oC""')O")
..................

COmtOcnNM
C')t---<,OU":lMC"')

o;cOcc5ma5cn
(1)vNL(')r-

......

en co r"":NNNM"I:i

CO ......

r-

en

'"

OJ
C>

""':m..nMN"a5a5ci
C"')L(')C"')r...... OlOM
o~

.,.:

Ie

.<::

'-'

..ti
"0
OJ

Q;

.,.....
N
0")
0')

en

Q')

......

C"')"'"
C'> 0'> en
en
............01

..- ..-

L(')

Q')

(D
0')

C'>

..-

U5
C>
OJ
a::

;:;;
0:

<:

E

o

u...

'"
Q)

C>

<::

t.)

w

<n

ee
.<::
'-'

..ti

201

MO"'-ool"'-O
NOlr-oo:::r.,.-CO

en -e- co oo:::r en co
M Lri c:i ..,..:N- Lr)0'> 0':1 0

CV)

u:;
~

1.0-

r-

cia5cio.,.--e-.j

'V

Lri
co

.,..... Q")

...-Q)(V)oo:::rQ)tO

lJ"')COr-oo::rr-<o::r
co c.o 0> lJ"')

...-OOOa.n(V)Mco
N<o::TU;~

NOOO"'CT""=TOOCO
M
LO-.::rOO
Ll)
NlJ"')r-or:;r

M

"':"":..n

s'"
co:

o

.......L{')(,OC"lor-

LO CONM
COvt-OlM...-

co,....

0')

("f')

N M

.....-

Q')

r-(V')t-'"C:1"cnc.o
............. ...-C"')cnc.o
..rlcO""':Ct"i"'-:cn

«o

lJ"')

C"?

C'\J

NONe.eN
ONN~...-(V)

M...r
.......

-e" c.o-

...-- Lri <.r:i
OCOlOr-OM
N ............
...-oo:::r
......

c:i

VCX)NCOVCO
('t')

en -e-

Q)

CV)

'"'=%"_<.Q.CO_r--_~~
L(')N CO..-N
NtOOCOcnv
Ooo:::rCO'OCTMr-

Q')

to

o:>..nC'ioc.ciLri
l,()C.D
CO O>ON

...... NMoo:::rlOtO
0> en cn 0'> en
Q) en o» 0'> C'l

......

...-

......

...-

LO

lJ"')

-e-

MMc.OcO
M...-CO

<.00000)00..~
,,",0>
'0> 0>

~

<Olf')COMt-.m
~N

co

NOOO'"d""O)LOr-co
......M N
o
-e- co M

r--:

~c.D""':ai~ci
C)OM-..rr-o>
,.... ...... ...-.,.-...-

cv5

M

c.oOQOLO...-NO
M
"'CTCOLO
to
r- M LO
0NN
0>
-e-

cnOl<.DcnNC')Qoo:::r
COr--..-C)l(')tOvLO
-.::r...-O'>NO">LOMCO

t6",t6oiciNN

ON
oo::t'COLO.........
M<ONr......O<.o

l.t"i"':-.i""':cx:iev)~

a

en

............en

Q)

to

':;

o

(/)

202

Table 20
SHARE VOLUME BY EXCHANGES
(In Percentage)

,
j

i

!

i

1

Year

Total Share
Volume
(10 Thousands)

NYSE

1945
1950
1955
1960
1961
1962
1963
1964
1965
1966
1967
1968
1969
1970
1971
1972
1973
1974
1975
1976
1977
1978
1979
1980
1981
1982
1983
1984
1985
1986
1987
1988
1989
1990
1991
1992
1993
1994
1995
1996

769,018
893,320
1,321,401
1,441,120
2,142,523
1,711,945
1,880,793
2,118,326
2,671,012
3,313,899
4,646,553
5,407,923
5,134,856
4,834,887
6,172,668
6,518,132
5,899,678
4,950,842
6,376,094
7,129,132
7,124,640
9,630,065
10,960,424
15,587,986
15,969,186
22,491,935
30,316,014
30,548,014
37,187,567
48,580,524
64,082,996
52,665,654
54,416,790
53,746,087
58,290,641
65,705,037
83,056,237
90,786,603
107,069,656
125,922,577

6587
76.32
6885
6847
6499
71 31
72 93
72 81
6990
6938
6440
61 98
6316
71 28
71 34
7047
7492
7847
8099
8005
79.71
7953
79.88
7994
8068
81 22
8037
82.54
81.52
8112
8309
8374
81 33
81 86
8201
8134
8290
8455
84.49
85.95

11

AMEX

21 31
1354
1919
2227
2558
2011
18.83
1942
2253
2284
2841
2974
2761
1903
1842
1822
1375
1028
897
935
956
10.65
1085
1078
932
696
745
526
578
628
557
495
602
623
552
5.74
553
496
478
429

1/

CHIC

PSE

PHLX

BSE

CSE

Others{j

177
216
209
220
222
234
232
243
263
2.56
235
263
284
316
352
371
4.09
440
397
387
396
356
330
384
460
509
5.48
603
612
5.73
5.19
5.26
544
468
4.66
462
457
388
367
337

2.98
311
308
311
341
295
282
265
233
268
246
264
347
368
372
413
368
348
326
393
372
384
327
280
287
362
356
331
366
368
323
303
334
316
3.59
319
281
2.37
256
2.40

1 06
097
085
088
079
087
083
093
081
086
087
089
1 22
163
1 91
221
219
1 82
1 54
1 42
1 49
1 49
1 64
1 54
1 55
218
220
1 79
1 47
1 53
1 30
1 29
1 80
1 82
1 60
172
1 55
1.42
1.39
1.28

066
065
048
038
030
031
029
029
026
040
043
078
051
051
043
059
071
086
085
078
066
060
055
057
051
048
065
085
1 27
1 33
1 28
1 32
1 64
1 71
1 77
157
147
139
145
129

005
009
005
004
004
004
004
003
005
005
002
001
000
002
003
003
004
005
013
044
064
016
028
032
037
038
019
018
015
030
030
039
041
053
086
1 83
117
1 42
1 66
1 42

630
316
541
265
267
207
1 94
1 44
1 49
1 23
1 06
1 33
1 19
069
063
064
062
064
029
016
026
017
023
021
0.10
007
010
004
003
002
004
002
0.02
001
001
001
000
001
000
000

Share volume for exchanges mcludes stocks, nghts and warrants, calendar, rather than fiscal. year data
thiS table
21 Includes all exchanges not "sled indiVidually

IS

reported

10

Source SEC Form R-31

203

Table 21

DOLLAR VOLUME BY EXCHANGES

11

(In Percentage)
Total Dollar
Volume
(In Thousands)

Year
1945
1950
1955
1960
1961
1962
1963
1964
1965
1966
1967
1968
1969
1970
1971
1972
1973
1974
1975
1976
1977
1978
1979
1980
1981
1982
1983
1984
1985
1986
1987
1988
1989
1990
1991
1992
1993
1994
1995
1996

1/

21

$

16,284,552
21,808,284
38,039,107
45,309,825
64,071,623
54,855,293
64,437,900
72,461,584
89,549,093
123,697,737
162,189,211
197,116,367
176,389,759
131,707,946
186,375,130
205,956,263
178,863,622
118,828,270
157,256,676
195,224,812
187,393,084
251,618,179
300,475,510
476,500,688
491,017,139
603,094,266
958,304,168
951,318,448
1,200,127,848
1,707,117,112
2,286,902,788
1,587,950,769
1,847,766,971
1,616,798,075
1,778,154,074
2,032,684,135
2,610,504,390
2,817,671,150
3,507,991,171
4,511,779,836

NYSE

AMEX

CHIC

PSE

PHLX

BSE

8275
8591
8631
8380
8243
8632
8519
8349
8178
7977
7729
7355
7348
7844
7907
7777
8207
8363
8520
8435
8396
8367
8372
8353
8474
8532
8513
8561
8525
8502
8679
8681
8549
8615
8620
8647
8721
8808
8771

081
685
698
935
1071
681
751
845
991
1184
1448
1799
1759
1111
998
1037
606
440
367
388
460
613
694
733
541
327
332
226
223
256
232
196
235
233
231
207
208
201
210
1 91

200
235
2.44
272
275
275
272
315
344
314
308
312
339
376
400
429
454
490
464
476
479
416
383
4.33
504
583
628
657
659
600
532
546
546
458
4.34
428
4.10
349
326

178
219
190
194
199
200
239
248
243
284
279
2.65
312
381
379
394
355
350
326
383
353
364
278
227
232
305
286
293
306
300
253
262
284
277
305
287
2.38
209
224

096
103
103
103
103
105
106
114
112
110
113
113
143
199
229
256
245
203
173
169
162
162
180
161
160
159
155
158
1.49
157
135
133
177
179
154
170
1.52
1.34
1.27

116
112
078
060
049
046
041
042
042
056
066
104
067
067
058
075
100
124
119
094
074
061
056
052
049
051
066
085
120
144
1.33
134
1.56
163
172
152
1.35
131
143

301

203

119

1.32

8891

CSE
006
011
009
007
007
007
006
006
008
007
003
001
001
003
005
005
006
0.06
017
053
075
017
035
040
040
043
016
019
018
041
035
0.49
054
074
083
109
137
168
199
163

Others 2/
048
044
047
049
053
054
066
081
082
068
054
051
031
019
024
027
027
024
014
002
001
000
002
001
000
000
0.04
000
000
000
000
000
000
000
001
000
000
000
000
000

Dollar volume lor exchangesIncludes stocks, fights and warrants, calendar, ratherthan fiscal, year data ISreported In thiS
table
Includes all exchangesnot listed individually

204

Source' SECForm R-31

r--VOO('l')C"')OrtOO)NOr-00
",",Coor-V

r-",

u-i M

.,..:,...:_-_

a;j

~

<.t")

"-

~

"-

CO

en

a5

NOOO'lNO)Ml.l")
O'>U">
,....<.oNVO)

co....-

r~

aooor--CONCO
,....

N CO
V-.::r

0)

eO

CO

r-coo
co (0

......o<.o

to

T-

<D

<.t")

It'i

1.0 ...... 000<.0
('I")

ll')

CO

m
<:>

a;j
~

CO

CO

N

<.t")

~

<D

'"

U")

M

N

....

U")

<.t")

N

......
VOOOLO
N
N

N
N

'"
'"

<5

'"

CT

'"
zs
.!!!

~

'"co
0

"0

ee
.r::

;;;

~'"
~

>:

i3
ee

~

U
Q)

0'"
u.J
'"
cr::1li
u.J
cr::>_

til
u

'0

ii

'"
'"
'-'

Q)

Q)

'"

E

.3

u..
u.J-i!!; '"

cr::",
0..:::;;:;;
.c

Q)

.c
0'>
It')

VON

E

O')r-c:ocn
Lt")
....

N

;ij

LO

r-oooo"'U")

<.t")

:;

'"

<.t")

Q)

€

z
'"

:;
'-'
5l

"0

ffi
1;;

~
Q)

:;
'0
"0

co
Q)

OVON<.OVOrr-,....
a.n(OmV(T)
COO
NNVMN

...rcwi"":cO
<:>

~

cD

:;
'"
u:i

n;

r--

-i5

8

0>

co

g
E

.g
"0
Q)

<o<.Oor-o...,...

U")v
r-......

,....c.o..v

N

...,...

0>

M

""

o
v

va

oc.o..-

......
ov

co

""

"0

co

8-

'"
:;;
'"

'"
'"
~

n;

:;

N

~'"

'"
""

'-'

u..

:;

5l

'"
Q)

"0

'"
13

E
0

U
u.J

til
Q)

><

'-'

~

0
til

u.J

:;

205

Table 23
VALUE OF STOCKS LISTED ON EXCHANGES
($ in Billions)

As 01
Dec 31

1938
1940
1941
1942
1943
1944
1945
1946
1947
1948
1949
1950
1951
1952
1953
1954
1955
1956
1957
1958
1959
1960
1961
1962
1963
1964
1965
1966
1967
1968
1969
1970
1971
1972
1973
1974
1975
1976
1977
1978
1979
1980
1981
1982
1983
1984
1985
1986
1987
1988
1989
1990
1991
1992
1993
1994
1995
1996

206

New York
Stock
Exchange

American
Stock
Exchange

Exclusively
On Other
Exchanges

$ 475

$ 10 8

$

465
419
358
476
555
738
686
683
670
763
938
1095
1205
117 3
1691
2077
2192
1956
2767
3077
3070
3878
3458
4113
4743
5375
4825
6058
6923
6295
6364
7418
8715
7210
5111
6851
8583
7767
8227
9606
1,2428
1,1438
1,3054
1,5222
1,5295
1,8827
2,1285
2,1322
2,3661
2,9035
2,6921
3,5475
3,877 9
4,3149
4,2408
5,7555
6,9477

101
86
74
99
112
144
132
121
119
122
139
165
169
153
221
271
310
255
317
254
242
330
244
261
282
309
279
430
612
477
395
491
556
387
233
293
360
376
392
578
1035
894
776
801
520
632
703
670
841
1009
699
903
864
981
865
1133
1062

Total

$ 583

30
31
33
32
31
28
36
40
38
31
43
42
41
53
40
43
43
47
40
39
60
54
48
47
56
41
29
43
42
42
29
39
29
50
68
66
58
59
65
59
49
46
39
43
59
72
47
68
57

566
505
432
575
667
882
818
804
819
916
1110
1292
1405
1354
1948
2388
2540
2242
3127
3373
3353
4261
3742
441 7
5068
5731
5144
6527
7595
6826
6807
7956
9327
7638
5373
7187
8985
8185
8648
1,0223
1,3492
1,2382
1,3897
1,6088
1,5873
1,9518
2,2053
2,2051
2,4551
30090
2,7659
36421
39702
4,4202
4,3320
5,8756
70596
Source SEC Form 1392

Table 24

APPROPRIATED

FUNDS vs FEES* COLLECTED

$ Millions

1000

990

950
900

850
800
750
700
650
600
550
500
450
400
350
-_ ._ ..... _ 305

300
250

200
150
100

o
FY1976 78
80
82
84
86
88
90
92
94
96
77
79
81
83
85
87
89
91
93
95
97

*

Excludes disgorgements from fraud actions.

207

m

'"

a

....

'"

208

>

..'"
..
'"s

U
en

....

-

C"
",en
..z
z::>
..0
elU

~t~~

~~3~
:iA.ca:
.. >0
::>
wz
... C

z
0
in
en

2

e

-

.o
en

en
.E
E

o

o

..'"

!!!

::IE
2
0
U

-

Z
...
0
..1=

~~
Cel

'"

..

:02

.... CIIW

~~~
::IEoC
Oz::IE
C"

...

.. '"

en

)(-

..0

,-----1

!Z~

:5

~
::>
0
en

.."z
C2i=!

59~
........

;;

~

......
ZZ
-

Z

2

.. "

i!~el
en
..C

2
0
u

-

...~
0
~

~~

i~
OC

...Z

-

..'"

....
:r'"
..

::IE
u
Z

Z
0

~
2

2 ...
"0

~~
-2

-

(,)
(I)

::»

..

"'

I=g
::>u
u ..

%
o

..'"

en.
en.

-

~'"

~
2
'"

en
::J

~iffi

...

.. "

C

.J.

w-'

ffi~

~

...l:2

gc
u'"
...
z
CII"
~el

"'C

(I)

I

0
0
U

~~
~~

2 ..

W

m

C

Z
0
in

~!i~
~~~
...~~~
~

'"....

~~
2en
-'

e
><

-

Ore

~fd:i~
2'"
::IE
8~ ~

C)

m
e

Q~U)

..en
c"
"'1=

..en en
Z
uz
zo
0
:$1=01=

(I)

s:

~l!!

en
%
!!: zu

'"..
2
0
U

-

z>
Oel
1=0
c"
20
",z
0%
...
u

f-l

...

UZ
..c

a::z
~
00
Z
...I=oc
0Cz~
~ucen
zS iii
-w
:l

2

8

...

...
-

Z
...

--'

Z
0
1="
cll!

2

~

°8u
c

..

~ii:

o

e

~

"z
-::>

1I:~

0

~
~
'"0z

~en
1=..

~g
!2~

c

-

..

~
Z

u

~il

!~
"
209

