1

9

9

8

Annual Report

United States
Securities and Exchange Commission

For sale by the U.S. Government Pnntinq Office
Supenntendent of Documents, Mall Stop: SSOP,Washington, DC 20402-9328
ISBN 0-16-050008-7

The Honorable Albert Gore, Jr.
Vice President of the United States
and President of the Senate
Washington, D.C. 20510

The Honorable J. Dennis Hastert
Speaker of the House of
Representatives
Washington, D.C. 20515

Gentlemen:
I am pleased to send you the annual report of the Securities and Exchange
Commission (SEC or Commission) for fiscal year 1998. The activities
and accomplishments identified in the annual report continue the
Commission's long tradition of effective enforcement in and regulation of
our nation's capital markets. I have highlighted some of the
Commission's achievements below.
Enhancing Investor Protections
The Commission remains vigilant in pursuing its law enforcement
responsibilities. This past year, in an undercover investigation in the
over-the-counter market, the Commission filed enforcement actions
against 58 defendants. Of the 58 defendants, 14 are or have been the
subject of parallel criminal proceedings involving conduct related to that
alleged in our complaints.
The Commission sanctioned a broker-dealer and four individuals for more
than $5 million in fines for fraudulent sales practices. The Commission
determined that the broker-dealer's compensation, production, hiring, and
training policies created an environment that enabled the firm's brokers to
engage in abusive sales practices such as churning, unauthorized and
unsuitable trading, and lying to customers. This action makes clear that

iii

brokerage firms must place the interests of their clients first, and must
avoid practices that put the firm and its brokers in conflict with the
interests of their clients.
We also kept up our focus of coordinating examinations with foreign,
federal, and state regulators and self-regulatory organizations to enhance
cooperation. During the year, Commission staff conducted examinations
with the Hong Kong, China Securities and Futures Commission; the
United Kingdom's Financial Services Authority acting as the Investment
Management Regulatory Organization; the Australia Securities Authority;
and the Bundesaufsichtsamt Fur Das Kreditwesen.
To motivate Americans to get the facts they need to save and invest
wisely, the Commission and a coalition of other government agencies,
businesses, and consumer organizations launched a "Facts on Saving and
Investing Campaign". As part of this campaign, the Commission released
a brochure entitled Get the Facts on Saving and Investing, which explains
the basics of saving and investing, and conducted the first-ever national
town meeting on saving and investing.
Disclosure Developments
For the past several years, the Commission has been actively reevaluating
the current securities registration system. In November 1998, we
published proposals that would modernize the regulation of capital
formation and provide significant benefits to public investors, issuers of
securities, and securities professionals The proposals are based on the
recognition that these benefits will be recognized only if the registration
system is flexible enough to adapt to changes in the capital markets of
today and the future. The proposals also would update and simplify the
regulations applicable to takeover transactions to address changes in deal
structure and advances in technology.
We also overhauled the prospectus disclosure requirements for mutual
funds in order to provide investors with clearer and more understandable
information about funds. At the same time, we permitted a mutual fund

IV

to offer investors a new disclosure document, called the "Profile," that
summarizes key information about the fund.
Technology
One of the most significant areas we have been focusing on is automation
and the many technological challenges facing the industry. First among
them is preparing for the year 2000. This past year, our Compliance
Inspections and Examination staff conducted nationwide examinations
that were dedicated to obtaining information on the year 2000 problem.
We also announced a moratorium on the implementation of new
Commission rules that would require major reprogramming of computer
systems by securities industry participants. As we approach the
millennium, the Commission will continue its year 2000 program, taking
any actions we believe will help ensure that the securities industry is
prepared for the year 2000.
In light of the important role of technology, and the increasing
competition in today's securities markets, we adopted a new regulatory
framework for alternative trading systems. The new framework allows
alternative trading systems to choose to register as exchanges or to
register as broker-dealers and comply with additional requirements
specifically designed to address their unique role in the market. It also
better integrates alternative trading systems into the regulatory
framework for markets, and is flexible enough to accommodate the
business objectives of, and the benefits provided by, alternative trading
systems.
We awarded a three-year contract for the modernization of our Electronic
Data Gathering, Analysis, and Retrieval (EDGAR) system. While
EDGAR is one of the government's most successful large information
system initiatives, the dramatic changes in technology over the past few
years necessitate its modernization. EDGAR modernization will improve
substantially the presentation quality and structure of SEC filings. The
EDGAR architecture will be converted to an Internet-based system and
will support the attachment of graphical files. This modernization will
greatly benefit issuers, investors, SEC staff, and other data users.

v

International Listings
We continued our efforts to widen the range of choices available to U.S.
investors by promoting the internationalization of our markets. In 1990,
434 foreign companies were reporting in the U.S.; today, there are over
1,100 foreign companies from 56 countries. We will continue to do all
we can to encourage more companies to list here to afford U. S. investors
the protections of U.S. securities laws.
Accounting
An area of great concern to the Commission is inappropriate earnings
management. While this is not a new problem, it has risen in a market
unforgiving of companies that miss Wall Street's estimates. During the
year, our staff issued guidance on various issues relating to the
presentation of earnings per share

***
The markets today are very different from the ones that existed just a few
years ago. Over the last five years, the markets have experienced
phenomenal growth and technological advances that have made our
markets more accessible to more people. Change has always been the
hallmark of our markets, and the SEC has succeeded by recognizing that
fact and responding to it. I have every confidence that the Commission
will continue to perform its responsibilities with the professionalism and
dedication that all of us have come to expect.

S7iAt
Arthur Levitt
Chairman

VI

Table of Contents
Commission Members and Principal Staff Officers
Biographies of Commission Members
Arthur Levitt. Norman S. Johnson.
Laura S. Unger. Paul R. Carey

XIV

Isaac C. Hunt, Jr. •

Regional and District Offices
4
1:

,

1

XI

Enforcement
Key 1998 Results

XIX

1

,

1

1

i

Significant Enforcement Actions

,J
j

International Affairs
Key 1998 Results

11

Regulatory Initiatives • International Organizations •
Enforcement Cooperation.
Technical Assistance
Investor Education and Assistance
Key 1998 Results

16

Investor Complaints and Inquiries • Investor Outreach
Regulation of the Securities Markets
Key 1998 Results

21

Securities Markets, Trading and Significant Regulatory
Issues. Broker-Dealer Issues. Oversight of
Self-Regulatory Organizations

vii

Investment Management Regulation
Key 1998 Results

38

Significant Investment Company Act Developments •
Significant Investment Advisers Act Developments •
Significant Public Utility Holding Company Act
Developments
Compliance Inspections and Examinations
Key 1998 Results

52

Investment Company and Investment Adviser Inspections •
Broker-Dealer and Transfer Agent Examinations.
Self-Regulatory Organization Inspections
Full Disclosure System
Key 1998 Results

58

International Activities. Review of Filings •
Recent Rulemaking, Interpretive, and Related Matters •
Conferences
Accounting and Auditing Matters
Key 1998 Results

69

Accounting-Related Rules and Interpretations.
Oversight
of Private Sector Standard Setting • International
Accounting and Auditing Standards
Other Litigation and Legal Activities
Key 1998 Results
Significant Litigation Developments • Significant
Adjudication Developments • Legal Policy •
Significant Legislative Developments.
Corporate
Reorganizations • Ethical Conduct Program

Vlll

77

Municipal Securities Initiatives
Key 1998 Results

95

Municipal Securities Disclosure • Outreach •
Technical Assistance
Economic Research and Analysis
Key 1998 Results

97

Economic Analysis and Technical Assistance
Program Management and Administrative Support
Key 1998 Results

102

Policy Management • Administrative Support
Endnotes

107

Appendix

116

Enforcement Cases Initiated by the Commission During Fiscal Year
1998 in Various Program Areas • Fiscal 1998 Enforcement Cases
Listed by Program Area. Investigations of Possible Violations of
the Acts Administered by the Commission • Administrative
Proceedings Instituted During Fiscal Year Ending September 30,
1998 • Injunctive Actions • Right to Financial Privacy • Types of
Proceedings.
Self-Regulatory Organizations: Expenses, Pre-Tax
Income, and Balance Sheet Structure • Consolidated Financial
Information of Self-Regulatory Organizations.
Self-Regulatory
Organizations-Clearing Corporations, 1997 Revenues and
Expenses.
Self-Regulatory Organizations-Depositories,
1997
Revenues and Expenses • Certificate Immobilization • Section
13(£)(1) Reports • Exemptions • Corporate Reorganizations •
The Securities Industry: Revenues, Expenses, and Selected
Balance Sheet Items • Unconsolidated Financial Information for

ix

Broker-Dealers, 1993-1997 • Unconsolidated Annual Revenues
and Expenses for Broker-Dealers Doing a Public Business, 19931997 • Unconsolidated Balance Sheet for Broker-Dealers Doing a
Public Business Year-end, 1993-1997 • Carrying and Clearing
Firms • Securities Industry Dollar in 1997 for Carrying/Clearing
Firms • Unconsolidated Revenues and Expenses for
Carrying/Clearing Broker-Dealers.
Unconsolidated Balance Sheet
for Carrying/Clearing Broker-Dealers.
Securities Traded on
Exchanges.
Market Value of Equity/Options Sales on U.S.
Exchanges.
Volume of Equity/Options Sales on U.S. Securities
Exchanges • Share Volume by Exchanges • Dollar Volume by
Exchanges • Securities Listed on Exchanges • Value of Stocks
Listed on Exchanges.
Appropriated Funds vs. Fees Collected.
Budget Estimates and Appropriations • Securities and Exchange
Commission Organization Chart

x

Commission Members and Principal Staff Officers
(As of November 5, 1998)

Commissioners

Term Expires

Arthur Levitt, Chairman
Norman S. Johnson, Commissioner
Isaac C. Hunt, Jr., Commissioner
Laura S. Unger, Commissioner
Paul R. Carey, Commissioner

2003
1999

2000
2001
2002

Principal Staff Officers
Jennifer Scardino, Chief of Staff
Brian J. Lane, Director, Division of Corporation Finance
Vacant, Deputy Director
Martin Dunn, Senior Associate Director
William E. Morley, Senior Associate Director
Robert A. Bayless, Associate Director
Mauri OsherofT, Associate Director
Shelley E. Parratt, Associate Director
David A. Sirignano, Associate Director
Vacant, Associate Director
Richard Walker, Director, Division of Enforcement
Vacant, Deputy Director
William Baker, Associate Director
Paul V. Gerlach, Associate Director
Thomas C. Newkirk, Associate Director
Joan E. McKown, Chief Counsel
Christian J. Mixter, Chief Litigation Counsel

xi

Stephen J. Crimmins, Deputy Chief Litigation Counsel
Walter Schuetze, Chief Accountant
James A. Clarkson, m, Director of Regional Office Operations
Vacant, Director, Division of Investment Management*
Kenneth J. Berman, Associate Director
Barry Miller, Associate Director
Robert Plaze, Associate Director
Douglas Sheidt, Associate Director
Richard Lindsey, Director, Division of Market Regulation
Robert L.D. Colby, Deputy Director
Larry E. Bergmann, Associate Director
Belinda Blaine, Associate Director
Michael A. Macchiaroli, Associate Director
Catherine McGuire, Associate Director
Harvey Goldschmid, General Counsel, Office of General Counsel
Paul Gonson, Solicitor and Deputy General Counsel
David M. Becker, Deputy General Counsel
Karen Burgess, Associate General Counsel
Anne E. Chafer, Associate General Counsel
Richard M. Humes, Associate General Counsel
Diane Sanger, Associate General Counsel
Jacob H. Stillman, Associate General Counsel
Lori A. Richards, Director, Office of Compliance Inspections and
Examinations
Mary Ann Gadziala, Associate Director
Gene Gohlke, Associate Director
C. Gladwyn Goins, Associate Director

*Paul Roye joined the Commission as Director of the Division of
Investment Management on November 22, 1998.

'VII

Lynn E. Turner, Chief Accountant, Office of the Chief Accountant
Brenda Murray, Chief Administrative Law Judge, Office of the
Administrative Law Judges

Erik R. Sirri, Chief Economist, Office of Economic Analysis
Deborah Balducchi, Director, Office of Equal Employment Opportunity
James M. McConnell, Executive Director, Office of the Executive
Director

Michael Bartell, Associate Executive Director
Wilson A. Butler, Jr., Associate Executive Director
Margaret Carpenter, Associate Executive Director
Jayne Seidman, Associate Executive Director
Marisa Lago, Director, Office of International Affairs
Nancy M. Smith, Director, Office of Investor Education and Assistance
Susan Ochs, Director, Office of Legislative Affairs
Paul S. Maco, Director, Office of Municipal Securities
Christopher Ullman, Director, Office of Public Affairs, Policy
Evaluation and Research

Jonathan G. Katz, Secretary to the Commission

Xlll

Biographies of Commission Members
Chairman
Arthur Levitt is the 25th Chairman ofthe
United States Securities and Exchange
Commission. First appointed by President
Clinton in July 1993, the President reappointed
Chairman Levitt to a second five-year term in
May 1998. His term expires on June 5, 2003.
As SEC Chairman, Arthur Levitt's top priority
is investor protection, which is reflected by the
key successes of his first term: reforming the debt markets; improving
broker sales and pay practices; promoting the use of plain English in
investment literature as well as in SEC communications with the public;
preserving the independence of the private sector standard setting
process, ensuring the independence of accountants; and encouraging
foreign companies to list on U. S. markets.
Chairman Levitt created the Office of Investor Education and Assistance
and has held a series of investor town meetings to educate investors about
how to safely and confidently participate in the securities markets. Under
Chairman Levitt's leadership the Commission created a web site
(www.sec.gov), which allows the public free and easy access to corporate
filings, and an 800 number that enables the public to report problems and
request educational documents.
Chairman Levitt has also worked to sever ties between political campaign
contributions and the municipal underwriting business, as well as
improving the disclosure and transparency of the municipal bond market.
Chairman Levitt has sought to raise the industry's sales practice standards
and eliminate the conflicts of interest in how brokers are compensated. In

XIV

partnership with the securities industry, Chairman Levitt developed the
"Fund Profile" and other plain English guidelines for investment products
to make disclosure documents easier to understand while maintaining the
value of the information provided to investors.
In his second term, Chairman Levitt will maintain his focus on investor
protection by: increasing cooperation with the criminal authorities to
combat securities fraud; fighting fraud in the micro cap stock market,
working to ensure that the securities industry's computers are prepared
for the year 2000 (Y2K); maintaining quality accounting standards;
harmonizing international accounting standards; and creating a regulatory
framework that embraces new technology.
Before joining the Commission, Mr. Levitt owned Roll Call, a newspaper
that covers Capitol Hill. From 1989 to 1993, he served as the Chairman
of the New York City Economic Development Corporation, and from
1978 to 1989 he was the Chairman of the American Stock Exchange.
Prior to joining the AMEX, Mr. Levitt worked for 16 years on Wall
Street. He graduated Phi Beta Kappa from Williams College in 1952
before serving two years in the Air Force.

Commissioner
Following his appointment by President
Clinton, and his confirmation by the Senate,
Norman S. Johnson was sworn in as a United
States Commissioner on February 13, 1996 in a
ceremony presided over by the Chief Federal
District Judge in Salt Lake City, Utah.
Prior to his nomination, Commissioner Johnson
was a senior partner in the firm Van Cott, Bagley, Cornwall & McCarthy
and had a long and illustrious legal career focusing on federal and state
securities law. Commissioner Johnson commenced his career in the
private practice after serving as a staff member of the SEC from 1965
through 1967. In addition, Commissioner Johnson served as an Assistant

xv

Attorney General in the Office of the Utah Attorney General from 1959
to 1965 and also served as a law clerk to the Chief Justice of the Utah
Supreme Court.
During his career, Commissioner Johnson served as President of the Utah
State Bar Association, was chosen as a State Delegate, House of
Delegates, American Bar Association, and was named Chairman of The
Governor's Advisory Board on Securities Matters, State of Utah. In
addition, Commissioner Johnson served on the Governor's Task Force on
Officer and Director Liability, State of Utah and numerous other
committees and groups concerned with the application of federal and
state securities laws
Commissioner Johnson has received numerous honors and awards in
recognition of the outstanding contributions he has made to the Securities
Practice in the Rocky Mountain area. He has authored several articles
published in legal periodicals, one of which is much cited, "The Dynamics
of SEC Rule 2( e) A Crisis for the Bar."
Commissioner Johnson has involved himself in many community groups,
including the Utah Supreme Court Committee on Gender and Justice.
Married since 1956 to the former Carol Groshell, Commissioner Johnson
has three grown daughters, Kelly, Catherine and Lisa, all whom reside in
Utah.

Commissioner
Isaac C. Hunt, Jr. was nominated to the
Securities and Exchange Commission by
President Bill Clinton in August 1995 and
confirmed by the Senate on January 26, 1996.
He was sworn in as a Commissioner on
February 29, 1996
Prior to being nominated to the Commission,
Mr. Hunt was Dean and Professor of Law at

xvi

the University of Akron School of Law, a position he held from 1987 to
1995. He taught securities law for seven of the eight years he served as
Dean. Previously, he was Dean of the Antioch School of Law in
Washington, D.C. where he also taught securities law. In addition, Mr.
Hunt served during the Carter and Reagan administrations at the
Department of the Army in the Office of the General Counsel as Principal
Deputy General Counsel and as Acting General Counsel. As an associate
at the law firm of Jones, Day, Reavis and Pogue, Mr. Hunt practiced in
the fields of corporate and securities law, government procurement
litigation, administrative law, and international trade. In addition, Mr.
Hunt commenced his career at the SEC as a staff attorney from 1962 to
1967.
Mr. Hunt was born on August 1, 1937 in Danville, Virginia. He earned
his B.A from Fisk University in Nashville, Tennessee in 1957 and his
LL.B. from the University of Virginia School of Law in 1962.

Commissioner
Laura S. Unger was sworn in on November
5, 1997 as a member of the Securities and
Exchange Commission, for a term expiring
June 2001. Before being appointed to the
Commission, Ms. Unger served as Counsel to
the United States Senate Committee on
Banking, Housing and Urban Affairs where
she advised the Chairman, Senator Alfonse
M. D' Amato (R-NY). As counsel, Ms.
_
Unger followed legislative issues relating to banking and securities.
Prior to working for the Senate Banking Committee, Ms. Unger was a
Congressional Fellow for Banking and Securities matters in the office of
Senator D' Amato. Before coming to work on Capitol Hill, Ms. Unger
was an attorney in the Enforcement Division of the Securities and
Exchange Commission in Washington, D.C.

xvii

Ms. Unger received a B.A. in Rhetoric from the University of California
at Berkeley and a J.D. from New York Law School.

Commissioner
Paul R. Carey was nominated to the Securities
and Exchange Commission by President Bill
Clinton and confirmed by the Senate on
October 21, 1997 for a term which expires
June 5,2002.
Prior to being nominated to the Commission,
Mr. Carey served as Special Assistant to the
President for Legislative Affairs at the White
House where he had been since February of 1993. Mr. Carey was the
liaison to the United States Senate for the President, handling banking,
financial services, housing, securities, and other related issues. Prior to
joining the Administration, Mr. Carey worked in the securities industry
focusing on equity investments for institutional clients.
Mr. Carey received his B.A. in Economics from Colgate University.
Mr. Carey was born in Brooklyn, New York on October 18, 1962.

xviii

~u

D

g',E
a: !!!
ti°

'" '"
-~
0«
Ql-

s: c:
::l-

(f)

en
w

o

u:

LL

o

t-

a-:
O

-

~
~
~

z

«
..J

«
z

.2
~

w

a:
~

w')

,
\

(3

5~

1
-0

0>0

~

u

""

l1J

0
c:

'"o ~'"
1l.lL.
c:
'"
(f)

xix

Central Regional Office
Daniel F. Shea, Regional Director
1801 California Street, Suite 4800
Denver, Colorado 80201-1648
(303) 844-1000
Fort Worth District Office
Harold F. Degenhardt, District Administrator
801 Cherry Street, 19th Floor
Forth Worth, Texas 76102
(817) 978-3821
Salt Lake District Office
Kenneth D. Israel, Jr., District Administrator
50 South Main Street, Suite 500
Salt Lake City, Utah 84144-0402
(801) 524-5796
Midwest Regional Office
Mary Keefe, Regional Director
Citicorp Center
500 West Madison Street, Suite 1400
Chicago, Illinois 60661-2511
(312) 353-7390
Northeast Regional Office
Carmen 1. Lawrence, Regional Director
7 World Trade Center, Suite 1300
New York, New York 10048
(212) 748-8000
Boston District Office
Juan M. Marcelino, District Administrator
73 Tremont Street, 6th Floor
Boston, Massachusetts 02108-3912
(617) 424-5900

xx

Philadelphia District Office
Ronald C. Long, District Administrator
The Curtis Center, Suite 1120 E.
601 Walnut Street
Philadelphia, Pennsylvania 19106-3322
(215) 597-3100
Pacific Regional Office
Valerie Caproni, Regional Director
5670 Wilshire Boulevard, 11th Floor
Los Angeles, California 90036-3648
(213) 965-3998
San Francisco District Office
David B. Bayless, District Administrator
44 Montgomery Street, Suite 1100
San Francisco, California 94104
(415) 705-2500
Southeast Regional Office
Randall J. Fons, Regional Director
1401 Brickell Avenue, Suite 200
Miami, Florida 33131
(305) 536-4700
Atlanta District Office
Richard P. Wessel, District Administrator
3475 Lenox Road, N.E., Suite 1000
Atlanta, Georgia 30326-1232
(404) 842-7600

XXI

Enforcement
The SEC's enforcement program seeks to protect investors and foster
confidence by preserving the integrity and efficiency of the markets.

Key 1998 Results
In 1998, the SEC obtained judicial and administrative orders requiring
securities law violators to disgorge illegal profits of approximately
$426 million. Civil penalties authorized by the Enforcement Remedies
and Penny Stock Reform Act of 1990, the Insider Trading Sanctions
Act of 1984, and the Insider Trading and Securities Fraud Enforcement
Act of 1988 totaled more than $51 million.

Enforcement Actions Initiated

Civil Injunctive Actions
Administrative Proceedings
Contempt Proceedings
Reports of Investigation

1994 1995 1996 1997
196 171 180 189
268 291 239 285
14
23 23
32
-..Q _1
-.2 _1

Total

487 486

453

489

1998
214
248
15
---.Q

477

In SEC-related cases, criminal authorities obtained 74 indictments or
informations and 61 convictions during 1998. The SEC granted access to
its files to domestic and foreign prosecutorial authorities in 286 instances

Significant Enforcement Actions
Most of the SEC's enforcement actions were resolved by settlement with
the defendants or respondents, who generally consented to the entry of
judicial or administrative orders without admitting or denying the factual
allegations made against them. The following is a sampling of the year's
significant actions.
.
Internet-Related Cases
•

The Commission filed a complaint against Steven Samblis, a self-styled
stock picker, and his corporation New Stock, Inc., for failing to disclose
that Samblis was paid for the companies he hyped in the magazine he
published, "New Stock" (SEC v. Steven Samblis, et al. 1). The SEC
alleged that Samblis enthusiastically recommended the securities of
certain publicly-traded companies without disclosing that he had been
paid at least $20,000 to make these recommendations. The SEC also
alleged that Samblis was paid to issue thousands of e-mails over the
Internet regarding these same securities. In addition to a preliminary
injunction, the SEC seeks a permanent injunction, disgorgement, and civil
money penalties.

•

The SEC filed a complaint against a radio talk show host, Jerome M.
Wenger, who promoted the stock ofa company on his radio program,
"The Next SuperStock," without disclosing that he was being paid by the
company to do so (SEC v. Jerome M Wenge?). Wenger received
$4,000 in cash and stock that he sold for approximately $71,000. The
SEC's complaint seeks a finaljudgment permanently enjoining Wenger
and ordering him to disgorge his ill-gotten gains plus prejudgment interest
and to pay civil penalties. Wenger was arrested and charged criminally by
the U.S. Attorney's Office with securities fraud.

2

Broker-Dealer Cases
•

The SEC filed an action against Michael R. Milken and MC Group, a
firm owned and controlled by Milken (SEC v. Michael R. Milken and
MC Group']. Me Group, through Milken and others, acted as a
broker in connection with two transactions in which it introduced
companies; proposed business arrangements involving the purchase,
sale, or exchange of securities; and participated in negotiations
regarding the structure of the transactions and securities to be issued.
As a result of these activities, MC Group received $42 million in
transaction-based compensation. The SEC alleged that Milken
violated the 1991 SEC order barring him from associating with a
broker, and that MC Group failed to register as a broker, conduct for
which Milken was responsible. Milken and MC Group consented to
the entry of injunctions and to orders requiring them to pay
disgorgement of $42 million plus prejudgment interest of $5 million.

•

The SEC charged a broker-dealer, Olde Discount Corp., with creating
an environment which encouraged its registered representatives to
engage in churning, unauthorized trading, misrepresentations and
omission of material facts, and unsuitable recommendations (In the
Matter of Olde Discount Corp., et al.4). In an order issued by
consent, the Commission made findings against the firm and three of
its senior executives. The Commission held Olde Discount directly
liable for fraudulent sales practices flowing from the firm's
compensation, production, hiring, and training practices. The
Commission also found that the firm's founder, Ernest aide, failed to
supervise and caused the violations and that two former sales
executives willfully induced and caused those violations and failed to
supervise. The Commission imposed remedial relief, censures, ceaseand-desist orders, and a total of $5 .15 million in penalties against the
firm and four individuals.

3

Microcap Cases
•

The SEC filed 5 federal civil enforcement actions against 58
defendants resulting from an undercover investigation into illegal
manipulation of the over-the-counter markets for "penny stock" or
"micro cap" securities (SEC v. Szur, et aI.5). Of the 58 defendants 14
are, or have been, the subject of parallel criminal proceedings
involving conduct related to that alleged in the SEC's complaints.
The fraudulent schemes alleged in the 5 actions filed include:
payments of undisclosed bribes totaling approximately $3.3 million to
brokers who, in tum, induced their customers to purchase micro cap
securities; manipulation of the prices set by market makers for
purchase and sale of those microcap stocks; and material
misrepresentations about the issuers of micro cap securities. The SEC
is seeking permanent injunctions, court orders prohibiting the
defendants from future participation in offerings of penny stocks, and
disgorgement and prejudgment interest. These cases were pending at
the end of the fiscal year.

•

The SEC filed an emergency lawsuit in federal district court to halt
the unregistered and fraudulent sale and manipulation of the stock of
Electro-Optical Systems Corporation (EOSC ) by Thomas Cavanagh
and other defendants (SEC v. Thomas Edward Cavanagh, et ai.6).
The court ordered the defendants to immediately cease their
fraudulent activity and froze their assets pending further litigation.
The SEC also temporarily suspended trading in the securities of
EOSC for a ten-day period because of questions regarding the
accuracy of statements and material omissions concerning the
company. The complaint alleged, among other things, that defendants
were conducting a fraudulent scheme to create a controlled market
for the stock ofEOSC in order to artificially inflate the price of the
stock which they sold to unsuspecting investors, including numerous
small investors purchasing over the Internet. The complaint alleged
that defendants and relief defendants had made at least $5 million on
sales ofEOSC stock, and the fraud was continuing. As a result of
defendants' actions, the complaint alleged, the price ofEOSC stock
rose more than 1000% in one day and was maintained by defendants

4

at that level for several months through control of the supply of the
stock and issuance of false and misleading information about the
company and its potential product. The court entered a temporary
restraining order prohibiting violations of the securities laws.
Investment Adviser and Investment Company Cases
•

The SEC instituted administrative and cease-and-desist proceedings
against Monetta Financial Services, Inc. (Monetta), a registered
investment adviser; Robert Bacarella, Monetta's president; and William
Valiant, Paul Henry, and Richard Russo--each of whom is a director of
one of two mutual funds advised by Monetta (In the Matter of Monetta
Financial Services, Inc., et al. \ The SEC alleged that Monetta
received profitable short-term trading opportunities in certain "hot" initial
public offerings (IPOs) from broker-dealers underwriting those offerings
to whom Monetta had directed brokerage business generated by the
funds. At Bacarella's direction, Monetta directed the hot IPOs to the
personal accounts of Valiant, Henry, and Russo who accepted them
without disclosing the practice to the funds' shareholders and obtaining
the consent of disinterested representatives of the Funds. Valiant, Henry,
and Russo then "flipped" or sold the hot IPO shares for profits totaling
more than $51,000. This is a process called "spinning." The SEC further
alleged that Monetta's allocation of the shares resulted in conflicts of
interest because the receipt of the shares by Valiant, Henry, and Russo
placed them in a position where their judgment and exercise of their
responsibilities to the funds in general could be influenced by
considerations of personal gain dispensed by Monetta. Monetta's IPO
allocations constituted material information that was relevant to the
operation of the funds because of these serious conflicts of interest. The
SEC is seeking disgorgement and civil penalties. The case was pending
at the end of the fiscal year.

•

The SEC filed an injunctive action against Sweeney Capital Management,
Inc. (SCM), a registered investment adviser; Timothy Sweeney, its
owner; and Susan Gorski, a portfolio manager, for misappropriating more
than $109,000 in client-owned soft dollar credits and for failing to
disclose SCM's use of soft dollar credits for a variety of defendants'

5

business and personal expenses (SEC v. Sweeney Capital Management
Inc., et al.8). The complaint alleged that during the fiscal year ended
December 31, 1994, SCM paid approximately 70% of its operating
expenses with soft dollars misappropriated from its advisory clients and a
hedge fund whose assets SCM managed. The defendants engaged in
other fraudulent soft dollar practices, including submitting false invoices
to soft dollar brokers for non-existent consulting work to pay for
Gorski's salary, SCM's rent, and personal loans to Sweeney and
submitting multiple invoices for the same goods and services. The SEC
also alleged that defendants filed false forms with the SEC, distributed
misleading marketing materials to the public, made false claims to
investors about the competitiveness of SCM's advisory fees, misused
client assets in its custody, and misappropriated an elderly client's funds.
The SEC is seeking permanent injunctions, disgorgement, and civil
penalties. This case was pending at the end of the fiscal year.
Offering Violations
•

The SEC obtained a temporary restraining order in its action against
International Heritage Incorporated (Heritage Incorporated),
International Heritage, Inc. (IHI), and other individuals associated
with these two entities for a fraudulent pyramid scheme (SEC v.
International Heritage, Inc., et al.9). The SEC alleged that IHI raised
more than $150 million from over 155,000 investors through a
pyramid scheme. In addition to selling interests in the pyramid
scheme, the defendants sold $5 million in notes convertible into shares
of IHI common stock. The defendants knowingly misrepresented
IHI's financial condition to investors and concealed the fact that IHI
was operating a pyramid scheme. The Court also appointed a
receiver for IHI. This matter was pending at the end of the fiscal
year

•

The court in SEC v. American Automation, Inc., et al. 10 entered a
preliminary injunction against American Automation, Inc., Kendyll R.
Horton, Hazel A. Horton, and Merle B. Gross. In addition, the court
ordered the continuation of an asset freeze, previously granted in
connection with a temporary restraining order against all defendants,

6

including five relief defendants. The court also appointed a receiver
to take possession of the assets of American Automation. The SEC's
complaint alleged that the defendants raised over $4.5 million through
the fraudulent offer and sale of American Automation stock to over
1,400 investors in several states. The complaint also alleged that the
defendants told investors that American Automation would develop
and place automated insurance vending machines in high traffic areas
and that projected profits would be almost $100 million by the end of
its third year of operation; however, no automated vending machines
have been sold and American Automation's only source of revenue
has come from investors' funds. Additionally, the defendants
allegedly used investor funds to pay for their personal expenses and
for business expenses unrelated to American Automation's
operations. This matter was pending at the end of the fiscal year.
Financial Disclosure Cases
•

The SEC instituted administrative proceedings in which it alleged that
KPMG Peat Marwick LLP engaged in improper professional conduct
and issued an unqualified report on the 1995 year-end financial
statements of a client from which it lacked independence (In The
Matter of KPMG Peat Marwick LLp11). Peat Marwick organized and
capitalized KPMG BayMark, a firm owned by Edward R. Olson and
three others, as a vehicle for new lines of business, including the
"corporate turnaround" business. As part of a turnaround
engagement, KPMG BayMark installed Olson as president and chief
operating officer of Porta Systems Corp., a financially troubled audit
client of Peat Marwick's Long Island office. When Peat Marwick
audited Porta's 1995 year-end financial statements and prepared its
audit report, its financial and business relationships with Porta and
KPMG BayMark impaired Peat Marwick's independence. This case
was pending at the end of the fiscal year.

•

The Commission issued a settled cease-and-desist order against Sony
Corporation and Sumio Sano (In the Matter of Sony Corp. and Sumio
Sano12) and filed a related settled complaint against Sony in the U.S.
District Court for the District of Columbia for violations of the federal

7

securities laws based on Sony's inadequate disclosures concerning the
performance of its subsidiary, Sony Pictures (SEC v. Sony Corp. 13).
Without admitting or denying the matters set forth therein, Sony
consented to the issuing of a cease-and-desist order in which the
Commission found, among other things, that Sony, a Japanese
corporation whose securities trade on the New York Stock Exchange
in the form of American Depositary Receipts, violated the periodic
reporting provisions applicable to foreign private issuers. Specifically,
the Commission found that during the four months preceding Sony's
November 1994 writedown of approximately $2.7 billion of goodwill
associated with the acquisition of its Sony Pictures subsidiary, Sony
made inadequate disclosures about the nature and extent of Sony
Pictures' net losses and their impact on the consolidated results Sony
was reporting. The Commission also noted that during the relevant
period, Sony did not report the results of Sony Pictures as a separate
industry segment, but instead reported the combined results of Sony
Pictures and Sony's profitable music business as a single
"entertainment" segment, which had the effect of obscuring the losses
sustained by Sony Pictures. The Commission ordered Sony to cease
and desist from committing or causing violations of the periodic
reporting provisions of the Exchange Act and to comply with various
undertakings. Without admitting or denying the allegations in the
Commission's complaint, Sony consented to the entry ofa final
judgment imposing a $1 million civil penalty.
Insider Trading Cases
•

8

The SEC obtained a temporary restraining order against unknown
purchasers who traded just before the September 2, 1998
announcement that DST Systems, Inc. intended to acquire USCS
International, Inc. (SEC v. One or More Unknown Purchasers of Call
Options and Common Stock of USCS International, Inc. 14). The SEC
alleged that the unknown persons purchased 200 out-of-the-money
USCS call options and 61,800 shares ofUSCS common stock for
more than $1.6 million through an account in Zurich, Switzerland.
The buyers sold the option contracts on September 3, obtaining
profits of nearly $70,000, and transferred the proceeds to

Switzerland. The SEC also alleged that on September 3 the unknown
persons sold all 61,800 shares ofUSCS common stock for profits of
as much as $500,000. This action was pending at the end of the fiscal
year.
Municipal Securities Cases
As part of the SEC's initiative to address unfair practices in the municipal
securities industry, the SEC recently brought two "yield-burning" cases
•

One was filed against Rauscher Pierce Refsnes, Inc. and its former
Senior Vice President, James R. Feltham, in connection with the
issuance of$129 million of Series 1992B Refunding Certificates of
Participation by their financial advisory client, the State of Arizona
Department of Administration (DOA) (SEC v. Rauscher Pierce
Refsnes, Inc. and James R. Fe1tham15). The SEC alleged that
Rauscher and Feltham sold certain United States Treasury securities
(escrow securities) to DOA at above-market prices, which reduced
the yields on those securities. According to the SEC's complaint, that
practice allowed Rauscher to make illegal, undisclosed profits of
$707,037 at the expense of the federal government, while purporting
to comply with the federal tax laws governing the certificates offering
The complaint also alleged, among other things, that Rauscher and
Feltham charged DOA a fraudulent and excessive undisclosed markup
on the escrow securities and that Rauscher's profit was unreasonable
in light of the circumstances surrounding the sale. The matter was
pending at the end of the fiscal year.

•

The second case alleged that Meridian Capital Markets, Inc., a former
municipal securities dealer, and two of its registered representatives,
Steven T. Snyder and Martin 1. Stallone, charged school districts and
other governmental authorities in Pennsylvania and West Virginia
excessive prices on Treasury securities sold in connection with 22
advance refundings and 2 other types of tax-exempt refinancings (In
the Matter afMeridian Securities, Inc., et a1.16). In conjunction with
the Internal Revenue Service and the Department of Justice, the SEC
entered into a $3.8 million settlement with all parties except Snyder.

9

The settlement preserved the tax-exempt status of the bonds issued,
thereby protecting investors. The case against Snyder was pending at
the end of the fiscal year.

10

International Affairs
The SEC operates in a global marketplace. Our international affairs
staffpromotes international cooperation among regulators and
encourages the adoption of high regulatory standards by negotiating
information-sharing arrangements for enforcement and regulatory
matters, conducting technical assistance programs, and furthering the
SEC's interests In international organizations

Key 1998 Results
The SEC develops global regulatory initiatives to better protect U S
investors. This year, the Asian financial crisis highlighted the importance
of high regulatory standards and the need for disclosure and transparency.
We devoted substantial resources to respond to the Asia crisis, in addition
to implementing international enforcement and technical assistance
programs.

Regulatory Initiatives
In 1998, the importance of cross-border and cross-sector regulatory
cooperation in promoting financial stability was noted by the Group of
Seven (G-7) countries (Canada, France, Germany, Italy, Japan, the UK,
and the U. S) The SEC worked closely with the U S Treasury
Department on initiatives of the G-7 and the Group of Twenty- Two
Finance Ministers and Central Bank Governors (G-22).

11

Work on Financial Stability
G-7 Summit
Our staff helped shape the G-7 Finance Ministers Summit Report, which
called for improved international cooperation among regulators and law
enforcement authorities, and compliance with Ten Key Principles of
Information Sharing.
G-22
In response to the Asian financial crisis, the G-22 issued reports on
transparency and accountability, and strengthening the international
financial architecture. We played an active role in the development of
these reports.
Core Principles of Securities Regulation
In 1998, the International Organization of Securities Commissions
(IOSCO) adopted the "Objectives and Principles of Securities
Regulation" (the Core Principles), which represent consensus on sound
practices for regulating securities markets. Our staff worked within
IOSCO to develop the Core Principles. The principles will guide
securities regulators and assist international organizations in assessing
securities regulation in emerging markets.
International Disclosure Standards
In 1998, IOSCO adopted non-financial statement disclosure standards
that will allow issuers to prepare a single disclosure document for capital
raising and listing in multiple jurisdictions.
International Accounting Standards
The SEC chairs IOSCO's working party on multinational disclosure and
accounting. In early 1999, the International Accounting Standards
Committee expects to finalize a core set of standards. The SEC and other

12

IOSCO members will then consider whether to allow foreign issuers to
use these standards for cross-border securities offerings.
Responses to Changes in Technology
Our staff contributed to IOSCO's development ofa complementary
international regulatory approach to the Internet, including the issuance of
a 1998 report entitled "Securities Activity on the Internet."
Year 2000 Prepardness
Through its work with IOSCO and other international organizations, the
SEC is promoting Y2K preparedness internationally, including testing and
contingency planning.

International Organizations
The SEC promotes its views on the U.S. securities markets and develops
international consensus on regulatory and market oversight issues in
various international forums.
International Organization of Securities Commissions
IOSCO is the predominant international forum for collaboration in the
securities regulatory community. Its membership includes 90 countries,
covering most of the world's securities regulators.
Council of Securities Regulators of the Americas (COSRA)
COSRA is a regional organization whose membership includes the SEC
as well as securities regulators from 25 nations in North, Central and
South America, and the Caribbean. In 1998, COSRA's key initiatives
included (1) launching an innovative, hemisphere-wide "Facts on Saving
and Investing Campaign," including town meetings, radio and television
shows, and seminars, and (2) producing a report on collective investment

13

schemes that provides information about the mechanisms used to oversee
a variety of investment vehicles.
Organization for Economic Cooperation and Development (DECD)
Our staff's expertise on disclosure resulted in the inclusion of strict
accounting and auditing guidelines for companies in the DECD's treaty
criminalizing foreign bribery. The treaty will go into effect in early 1999.

Enforcement Cooperation
The SEC needs assistance from foreign authorities to protect U.S.
investors from cross-border fraud. We have entered into over 30 formal
information-sharing arrangements with foreign counterparts.
1998 Enforcement Coo eration Results
275
Requests to Foreign Authorities for
Enforcement Assistance
15% increase from 1997
412
Requests for Enforcement Assistance from
Forei n Authorities
13% increase from 1997
The following cases illustrate the effectiveness and importance of the
SEC's international enforcement program.
•

14

SEC v. Euro Security Fund, et al. In this insider trading matter, the
SEC identified substantial purchases in the United States, through
European banks, of Elsag Bailey's options and equities immediately
prior to an announcement of a tender offer for Elsag Bailey by a
Swiss-Swedish company The SEC simultaneously obtained a U.S.
court order freezing $6.6 million in potential profits and requested
information about the identity of traders from European securities
authorities With this assistance, the SEC identified one of the foreign
traders as a company insider and obtained information to support a
preliminary injunction

•

SEC v. Cavanaugh, et at In this micro cap fraud case, several
Spanish entities controlled accounts involved in a manipulative trading
scheme. The SEC's counterpart in Spain was instrumental in helping
the SEC locate $5 million in proceeds at a bank in Spain The money
was then frozen to permit its return to defrauded U.S. investors.

Technical Assistance
The SEC's technical assistance program helps emerging securities
markets develop regulatory structures that promote investor confidence
The program is multifaceted and includes training, reviewing foreign
securities laws, and responding to detailed requests
1998 Technical Assistance Results
216
Requests for Technical Assistance
from Foreign Authorities
(35% increase from 1997)
U.S. Training Provided
374 Officials from 94 Countries
Overseas Training Provided
Over 200 Officials
The cornerstone of the SEC's technical assistance program is the
International Institute for Securities Market Development, a two-week,
management-level training program covering the development and
oversight of securities markets. In addition, the SEC conducts a weeklong International Institute for Securities Enforcement and Market
Oversight.
Our staff participated in a range of training initiatives in conjunction with
the China Securities Regulatory Commission, including a program on
accessing the U.S. capital markets, and commented on Chinese draft
securities legislation.

15

Investor Education and Assistance
Our Investor Education and Assistance staff serves investors who
complain to the SEC about investment fraud or the mishandling of their
investments by securities professionals. The staff responds to a broad
range of investor inquiries, produces and distributes educational
materials, and organizes town meetings and seminars.

Key 1998 Results
During the year, the investor assistance specialists analyzed and
responded to 51,3 11 complaints and inquiries from the public. Our
actions helped investors recover approximately $1.2 million. We
launched the Facts on Saving and Investing Campaign, an unprecedented
campaign to help Americans become financially fit. As part of the
campaign, we conducted the first-ever National Town Meeting on Saving
and Investing.
The SEC participated in 6 investors' town meetings and organized 32
educational seminars on investing wisely. In addition, we released three
new publications, A Plain English Handbook: How to Create Clear SEC
Disclosure Documents, Get the Facts on Saving and Investing, and
Investment Clubs. We also compiled the Financial Facts Tool Kit, a
collection of educational brochures from the campaign's partners.

Investor Complaints and Inquiries
Rising Volume of Investor Requests for Assistance
In 1998, our investor assistance specialists analyzed and responded to
51,311 complaints and inquiries, an increase of more than 7% over 1997.
The volume of investor contacts agencywide has increased more than

16

45% since 1993. About 30% of the investor complaints and inquiries are
received through our Investor Education and Assistance electronic
mailbox (help@sec.gov).

SEC Complaint & Inquiry
Totals by Fiscal Year
+7%

55000
50000
45000

+ 12%
r:-388 39./

o

48169

70/

42575

347 13/

30000
25000
20000 10000
5000

+7%
~453

+10%

40000
35000

15000

~51311

+6%

~

30201
2~P4

-

-

22,.g0

21.!!.78

20010

-

-

f-

-

-

-

-

1993

o

Complaints

%
"other contacts

= percentage

Includes

lnquiries

20378

17968

-

-

--;::=f--

-

-

-

-

f---

-

-

-

-

f---

1995

0

f-

-

-

1994

25287

-

-

1~6

1~19

-

-

22295

1996

II

Other Contacts"

increase/decrease

i

f-

1997
•

-

1998

Totals

over previous year

repeat contacts, contacts WIth InsuffICient Informatron
and contacts not within our Jurisdiction.

to process,

Complaint Trends
The most common investor inquiries we received in 1998 involved (1)
questions about the laws governing the securities industry, (2) questions
concerning the filing status of companies, and (3) requests for SEC
publications.

17

The most common complaints received were
•
•
•
•
•
•
•
•
•
•

misrepresentation in selling a product,
unauthorized transactions;
delays in transfers of accounts or transfer problems,
failure to follow an investor's instructions;
about the way a corporation conducts its ordinary business;
failure to process or delays in handling orders;
failure to distribute money to investors;
problems concerning 401K plans or pension plans;
failure to send stock certificates to investors, and
harassing cold calls from broker-dealers.

Referrals
When a complaint contains allegations of serious misconduct or suggests
a pattern of widespread abuses, the investor assistance staff refers the
complaint to the Division of Enforcement or the Office of Compliance
Inspections and Examinations. In 1998, investor assistance specialists
referred over 1,700 complaints to SEC divisions and offices or to other
regulatory agencies

Investor Outreach
Because a well educated investor provides one of the most important
defenses against securities fraud, we have a number of programs to
educate investors
The Facts on Saving and Investing Campaign.
The Facts on Saving and Investing Campaign is an ongoing educational
effort to motivate individuals throughout the Western Hemisphere to get
the facts about saving and investing. During the kick-off week of March
29 to April 4, 1998, 21 countries throughout the Americas participated in
the campaign. In the United States, campaign partners-Including federal

18

agencies, 46 states, consumer organizations, and financial industry
associations--held educational events and distributed information. Key
campaign events during the year included:
•

National Town Meeting on Saving and
Meeting was held in Washington, D.C.
34 cities throughout the United States.
simulcast over the Internet through the
Education's Web site.

Investing. The National Town
and transmitted by satellite to
The audio portion was
Alliance for Investor

•

Widespread Distribution of the "Ballpark Estimate." The "Ballpark
Estimate" is a single-page worksheet created to help individuals
calculate how much they will need to save each year for retirement.

Investors' Town Meetings and Seminars
We participated in town meetings in Bangor, Maine, Des Moines, Iowa;
Los Angeles, California; Minneapolis, Minnesota; Palo Alto, California;
and Washington, D.C. In coordination with the securities industry, we
held 32 educational seminars as part of the town meeting program.
New Publications
Our investor assistance staff has prepared and distributes over a dozen
brochures that explain in plain English how the securities industry works,
how to invest wisely, and what to do if something goes wrong. This year
we published:

•

Get the Facts on Saving and Investing-an introduction to the basics
of saving and investing.

•

A Plain English Handbook: How to Create Clear SEC Disclosure
Documents-a guide for writing in plain English.

19

•

Financial Facts Tool Kit-a collection of educational brochures from
campaign partners to help individuals save and invest wisely.
In August 1998, we unveiled an on-line version of the tool kit at
www.sec.gov/consumer/toolkit.htm. Within two weeks of its
release, the on-line toolkit received more than 16,000 hits.

•

Investment Clubs-a new brochure on investment clubs, which have
been popular with individual investors.

Toll-Free Information Service
Our toll-free information service (800-SEC-0330) provides investor
protection information and allows investors to order educational
materials. During the year, we received over 65,000 calls to this service.
Internet Site
Investors who access the SEC's Web site can read and download the
agency's educational publications and see our latest investor alerts.
During 1998, the investor assistance and complaints section was viewed
by over 250,000 users from around the world.

20

J!

j
t
Regulation of Securities Markets
The Division of Market Regulation oversees the operations of the
nation's securities markets and market participants. In 1998, the SEC
supervised approximately 8,300 registered broker-dealers with over
70,000 branch offices and over 591,000 registered representatives. In
addition, the SEC oversaw 8 active registered securities exchanges, the
National Association of Securities Dealers and the over-the-counter
securities market, 16 registered clearing agencies, 1,210 transfer agents,
the Municipal Securities Rulemaking Board, and the Securities Investor
Protection Corporation.
Broker-dealers filing FOCUS reports with the Commission had
approximately $2.4 trillion in total assets and $145 billion in total
capital for fiscal year 1998. Average daily trading volume reach 666
million shares on the New York Stock Exchange and 786 million shares
on the Nasdaq Stock Market in calendar year 1998.

Key 1998 Results
The Commission proposed and adopted important rules to revise the
regulation of exchanges and give alternative trading systems the option of
registering as an exchange or a broker-dealer subject to enhanced
regulation relating to transparency, fair access, and systems capacity.
These rules are part of our efforts to ensure that the SEC's regulatory
framework responds to change in the U.S. securities markets due to
technological advances.
We adopted an alternative regulatory structure for over-the-counter
(GTC) derivatives dealers. These dealers, which must be affiliated with
fully regulated securities firms, will operate subject to exemptions that
permit them to compete more effectively in the global market place.

21

We also approved the rule filing implementing the merger of the
American Stock Exchange (AMEX) and the National Association of
Securities Dealers, Inc (NASD) on October 30, 1998.
Our staff conducted an extensive review of the debt securities markets in
the United States, with particular emphasis on price transparency. As a
result of the staff's efforts, the NASD has agreed to pursue measures that
should improve price transparency in the corporate bond market.
The Commission continues to monitor industry progress in preparing for
the year 2000. The Commission adopted rules requiring certain brokerdealers and non-bank transfer agents to report on the status of their year
2000 preparations, including a report prepared by an independent public
accountant regarding their processes for preparing for year 2000.

Securities Markets, Trading, and Significant Regulatory Issues
Corporate Debt Transparency
During 1998, the staff reviewed the debt securities market in the United
States, with particular emphasis on price transparency. This review found
that, as a whole, the market for government securities is characterized by
reasonably good quality pricing information for investors. It also found
that GovPX, a private information vendor formed by a consortium of
interdealer brokers and primary dealers in the U.S. Treasury market,
currently distributes quotation and transaction information provided by
five ofthe six interdealer brokers in Treasury bills, bonds, and notes. I?
The staff found improvement in price transparency in the municipal
securities market, but determined that price transparency is deficient in
the corporate bond market. Accordingly, Chairman Levitt announced on
September 9, 1998 that the Commission had requested that the NASD act
on certain recommendations of the staff to improve price transparency in
the corporate bond market. 18

22

The NASD specifically agreed to:

1,

•

adopt rules requiring dealers to report transactions in U S. corporate
bonds and preferred stocks to the NASD and to develop systems to
receive and redistribute transaction prices,

•

create a database of transactions in corporate bonds and preferred
stocks, and

•

create a surveillance program to better detect fraud in these markets

,

e

Alternative Trading Systems
In April 1998, the Commission published two releases to address changes
in the securities markets due to technological developments. First, we
proposed a new regulatory framework for alternative trading systems,
which was adopted--Iargely as proposed--in December 1998. The new
framework allows alternative trading systems to choose to register as
exchanges or broker-dealers and comply with additional requirements
specifically designed to address their unique role in the market. Most of
the rule amendments and new rules composing this framework become
effective on April 21, 1999, with the remainder becoming effective on
August 30, 1999.
Second, we proposed allowing registered exchanges to be for-profit and
proposed certain deregulatory measures to provide registered exchanges,
and other markets operated by self-regulatory organizations (SROs),
opportunities to better compete. These measures were adopted in
December 1998. Specifically, we adopted a streamlined procedure to
allow SROs to quickly begin trading new derivative securities products.
In addition, SROs may operate pilot trading systems for up to two years
without filing for approval of the system by the Commission During this
trial two-year period, the pilot trading system is subject to strict volume
limitations. Finally, we made clear that we will work to accommodate,
within the existing requirements for exchange registration, exchanges
wishing to operate under a proprietary structure.

23

Automation Initiatives
Rule 17a-23 under the Exchange Act establishes recordkeeping and
reporting requirements for registered broker-dealers that operate brokerdealer trading systems. In 1998, our staff reviewed 34 initial operation
reports, 25 notices of proposed material change, 155 quarterly activity
reports, and 7 reports of cessation of operations.
Order Handling Rules
The staff issued several no-action letters to electronic communications
networks (ECNs) regarding their compliance with the provisions in the
order handling rules applicable to the ECN Display Alternative. In 1998,
letters were issued for the Instinet Real-Time Trading Service, the Island
System, the Bloomberg Tradebook System, the TONTO System, the
Routing and Execution DOT Interface Electronic Communications
Network, the ATTAIN System, BRUT, the Strike System, and the PIM
Global Equities Trading System. 19
Matching Services
The Commission issued an interpretive release concluding that entities
that provide trade matching services for transactions in institutional
securities are clearing agencies and must be registered with the SEC. The
release requested comment on ways to encourage entities to provide
matching services through modified regulation as clearing agencies or
conditional exemption from registration. 20
Merger of Depository Trust Company and Participants Trust Company
The Commission approved proposals relating to a merger between The
Depository Trust Company (DTC) and Participants Trust Company
(PTC)?1 In addition, we approved a proposed rule change filed by DTC
that incorporated the rules and procedures of PTC, with certain
modifications, into DTC's rules and procedures and increased the size of
DTC's Board of Directors. 22

24

II
Reduction of Clearing Services
The Commission approved a series of proposals relating to the
Philadelphia Stock Exchange's (PID..X) withdrawal from the securities
depository business that was offered through its wholly-owned subsidiary,
Philadelphia Depository Trust Company (Philadep) and to its
restructuring and limiting its clearance and settlement business offered
though its wholly-owned subsidiary, Stock Clearing Corporation of
Philadelphia (SCCP).23
Trading Reconstruction
Trading Analysis a/October 27 and 28, 1997
On September 14, 1998, the staff issued a report entitled Trading
Analysis a/October 27 and 28, 1997. The report analyzes the impact of
the cross-market trading halt circuit breaker procedures that were
triggered for the first time on October 27, 1997 when the Dow Jones
Industrial Average declined 554 points (7%). The report's findings were
reflected in the SRO revisions of circuit breaker procedures that became
effective on April 15, 1998?4
Staff Legal Bulletin-Circuit

Breakers

The staff's trading analysis of October 27 and 28, 1997 also resulted in
the publication of a staff legal bulletin on September 9, 1998.25 The
bulletin provides guidance to broker-dealers on handling customer orders
and notifying customers when marketwide circuit breakers halt trading. It
also reminds broker-dealers about their responsibility to maintain
adequate internal systems capacity.
The Year 2000
The Commission continues to monitor industry progress in preparing for
the year 2000 and work with the SROs and industry groups on a range of
year 2000 issues, including testing and contingency planning. The
purpose of these coordinated actions is to promote remediation of

25

industry systems, so that the consequences of any year 2000-related
failures can be minimized
Surveys of SROs
Since 1996, our staff has conducted five surveys of the exchanges,
clearing agencies, and NASD regarding their year 2000 efforts. As part
of these surveys, they ask the SROs to report the progress made in
moving their mission critical systems through the various phases towards
achieving year 2000 compliance. They also request that the SROs report
on any problems meeting time schedules and their contingency planning
efforts.
Moratorium on Rules
As part of its efforts to support market participants' efforts to remediate
and test systems that are critical to the operation of the nation's capital
markets, the Commission announced a moratorium on the implementation
of new Commission rules that require major reprogramming of computer
systems by SEC-regulated entities between June 1, 1999 and March 31,
2000.26 This moratorium further facilitates participants' efforts to
allocate significant time and resources to addressing potential problems
caused by the year 2000 problem.
Broker-Dealer and Transfer Agents Reporting Requirements
In July 1998, we amended rule 17a-5 under the Exchange Act to require
certain broker-dealers to file new Form BD- Y2K with the Commission
and with their designated examining authority. We also adopted new rule
17Ad-18 under the Exchange Act to require non-bank transfer agents to
file new Form TA- Y2K with the Commission.V The first forms were
filed on August 31, 1998, reflecting broker-dealer and transfer agents'
year 2000 efforts as of July 15, 1998. The second and final forms are
required to be filed no later than April 30, 1999, reflecting the brokerdealers' and the transfer agents' efforts to prepare for the year 2000 as of
March 15, 1999. In addition, in October 1998, we amended rule 17a-5
and rule 17Ad-18 to require certain broker-dealers and certain non-bank

26

transfer agents to file with their second Y2K form a report prepared by an
independent public accountant regarding their processes for preparing for
the year 2000.28 By the end of 1998, over 6,700 reports had been
received.
AMEX/NASD Merger
On April 8, 1998, the AMEX and the NASD Boards unanimously
approved the terms of a Transaction Agreement that would result in
AMEX becoming a subsidiary of the NASD At a Special Meeting of
Members on June 25, 1998, the AMEX Membership ratified the
Transaction Agreement. Our staff discussed the proposed merger
extensively with the NASD and AMEX and reviewed the Transaction
Agreement and the overall terms of the merger The NASD submitted
two rule filings and AMEX submitted one rule filing relating to the
merger, which the Commission published for notice and comment and
approved on October 30, 1998.29
International Securities Exchange
On November 10, 1998, the International Securities Exchange (ISE)
announced its intention to register with the SEC as a for-profit all
electronic options exchange." Our staff held extensive discussions with
the ISE regarding its structure during the preceding months. To fund the
formation of this new exchange, memberships have been sold to a
consortium of broker-dealers.
Intermarket Trading Systems
The Commission published on July 24, 1998 a proposal to amend the
Intermarket Trading System (ITS) Plan to expand the inter-market
linkage to include all listed securities and to change the requirement for
approving Plan amendments from a unanimous vote to a two-thirds
majority vote." We also published a proposal on July 15, 1998 to amend
the ITS Plan to link Pacific Stock Exchange's (PCX) OptiMark System to
ITS.32

27

Derivatives
The Commission also approved several SRO proposals that strengthened
market stability and integrity while facilitating the use of exchange-traded
derivatives for risk management purposes
Foreign Debt Obligations
On June 8, 1998, the Commission proposed an amendment to rule 3a12-8
under the Exchange Act to add Belgium to the list of countries whose
debt obligations are exempted by the rule, thereby permitting the sale of
futures on those debt obligations in the United States.33
Hedge Funds
On September 23, 1998, 14 commercial and investment banks announced
a private-sector acquisition of Long Term Capital Management (LTCM),
a large hedge fund that had relied heavily on the use of leverage to
implement its investment strategies. Our staff testified before a
Congressional subcommittee on the issues arising from the financial
turmoil surrounding LTCM.34 We are also working with other members
of the President's Working Group on Financial Markets on a study of
hedge funds.
Trading Practice Developments
Rule 15c2-11
The Commission proposed amendments to rule 15c2-1l that, among
other things, would require all broker-dealers to: (1) review information
about the issuer when they first publish or resume publishing a quotation
for a security subject to the rule, (2) document that review, (3) annually
update the information if they publish priced quotations, and (4) make the
information available to other persons upon request. 35
An exemption was issued to Nasdaq and NASD Regulation (NASDR) to

permit broker-dealers that had been publishing quotations for unregistered

28

foreign equity securities and American Depositary Receipts (ADRs) in the
over-the-counter Bulletin Board (OTCBB) to initiate quotations for those
securities in the Pink Sheets." The exemption related to an NASD rule
change prohibiting the quotation in the OTCBB of unregistered foreign
equity securities and ADRs after March 30, 1998.37
Rule JOb-J3
Our staff granted exemption letters from rule 10b-13 to United Kingdom
(UK.) market makers and principal traders to continue their UK. market
activities during cross-border tender and exchange offers subject to the
City Code.38
Regulation M
Our staff granted an exemption from rule 101 of Regulation M that
permits broker-dealers effecting block transactions through the facilities
ofthe NYSE and AMEX to make bids or purchases required by NYSE or
AMEX rules in conjunction with the block transactions."

Broker-Dealer Issues
OTC Derivatives Dealers
On October 23, 1998, the Commission approved an alternative regulatory
structure for a class of registered dealers that are active in the OTC
derivatives markets. This structure permits a US. securities firm to
establish a separately capitalized entity, called an OTC derivatives dealer.
Among the rules amended was the net capital rule that will allow OTC
derivatives dealers to use Value-at-Risk models to calculate market risk
capital. The rule changes will permit these dealers to compete more
effectively against banks and foreign dealers in global OTC derivatives
markets. The rules become effective on January 4, 1999.40

29

Internet Issues
The staff issued two no-action letters dealing with Internet dividend
reinvestment plans The first letter conditionally grants relief from the
section 15(a) broker-dealer registration requirements to StockPower, Inc.
Among other things, StockPower represented that it would pass through
to participating bank transfer agents certain charges imposed by third
parties, but would not otherwise receive transaction-related
•
41
compensation.
The second letter conditionally grants relief from the section 15(a)
broker-dealer registration requirements to issuers and their directors,
officers, and employees. Under this letter, an issuer may (1) use
StockPower software to offer issuer dividend reinvestment and stock
purchase plans (DRSPP) related materials on the Internet, (2) allow
investors to communicate directly with bank transfer agents operating
those DRSPPs, and (3) place "tombstone" ads on the Web site without
those ads being considered seIling efforts or methods.?
Extension of Credit
In 1998, the Commission began to issue orders exempting broker-dealers
from Exchange Act section II(d). We issued these orders using our
general exemptive authority under section 36 of the Exchange Act. In all
cases, the relief is based on specified representations.
We granted relief from section 11(d) for the installment sale of a large
global offering 43 In addition, we permitted for the first time the
installment sale of securities in a non-privatization offering to the U S
public at large 44
We also permitted the acceptance of payment by credit card for the
purchase of shares in a venture capital fund. The credit cards had to be
issued by financial institutions unaffiliated with the broker-dealer selling
the shares." Finally, we permitted the margining of mutual fund shares
offered through a wrap fee mutual fund asset allocation program. The
mutual fund shares were acquired in exchange for shares that were also

30

acquired through the program and sold to a customer more than 30 days
prior to the extension of credit. Some of the exchanged shares offered
through the program were in mutual funds managed and advised by an
unaffiliated broker-dealer. 46
Transaction Confirmations
Our staff confirmed that in transactions effected as agent, the yield to
maturity (YTM) required to be disclosed by rule I Ob-I 0 under the
Exchange Act must take into account sales commissions charged by
broker-dealers. They also clarified that, under rule 1Ob-I 0, YTM
calculations in agency transactions do not have to include incidental
transaction fees and miscellaneous charges. In addition, they granted
temporary no-action relief, for six months, to permit broker-dealers not
currently in compliance with that requirement to make the systems
changes necessary to comply with the rule."
Floor Trading
On August 21, 1998, in response to a request from the Intermarket
Surveillance Group, staff clarified that any compensation arrangement
that results in an exchange member sharing in the trading profits or
trading losses of a customer account, however structured, would
constitute an interest in the account for purposes of section I 1(a)(1) of
the Exchange Act and rule 11a-I. Because some compensation
arrangements may give rise to violations of section 11(a)(1) or other
securities laws, the staff stated that a SRO cannot fulfill its obligation
under section I9(g) of the Exchange Act to determine if violations exist
unless it surveils and investigates its members' compensation
arrangements. They also clarified that an SRO is not fixing commission
rates by prohibiting a compensation arrangement that results in a violation
of applicable securities laws 48
Net Capital
In a no-action letter to the NYSE and the NASD Regulation, staff stated
that an introducing broker may include its proprietary assets held at a

31

clearing firm (PAIB Assets) as allowable assets in its net capital
computation so long as the introducing and clearing brokers follow the
guidance described in the letter. Because introducing and clearing
brokers must make operational changes to comply with the terms of the
letter, introducing firms may continue their current practice of treating
PAlB Assets as allowable until June 1, 1999.49
Additionally, our staff issued a no-action letter to the Government
Securities Clearing Corporation (GSCC) regarding deficit charges for
repurchase transactions. When computing net capital, GSCC netting
members may exclude certain outstanding repurchase deficits from their
calculations when they meet the conditions discussed in the letter. 50
Books and Records
In October 1998, the Commission reproposed for comment amendments
to the Commission's books and records rules for broker-dealers 51 The
reproposed amendments incorporate comments received in response to
the original proposal and are designed to clarify and expand broker-dealer
recordkeeping requirements with respect to purchase and sale documents,
customer records, associated person records, customer complaints, and
certain other matters. In addition, the reproposed amendments specify
the books and records that broker-dealers would have to make available
at their local offices. The reproposed amendments are specifically
designed to assist securities regulators in conducting sales practice
examinations.
Arbitration
The Commission approved several significant rule proposals that affect
the way securities industry disputes are resolved. On June 22, 1998, we
approved an NASD rule change that ended the NASD's requirement for
securities industry employees to arbitrate their statutory discrimination
claims Securities firms and employees, however, may still voluntarily
enter into agreements to arbitrate these clairns.f We also published for
public comment a proposal by the NYSE that would make its arbitration
forum unavailable for the arbitration of statutory employment

32

discrimination claims unless the agreement to arbitrate the claims was
entered into after the dispute arose. 53 In addition, on October 15, 1998,
we approved two NASD rule proposals that provide for the list selection
of arbitrators by parties for both investor and intra-industry arbitration
cases, giving parties a greater role in choosing who will decide their
cases. 54
Lost and Stolen Securities
As of December 31, 1997, 25,436 institutions were registered in the
program, a 1% increase of 1996. The number of securities certificates
reported as lost, stolen, missing or counterfeit decreased 4% from
2,093,233 in 1996 to 2,007,611 in 1997. The aggregate dollar value of
these reported certificates decreased 78% from $56,177,860,398 in 1996
to $11,809,945,634 in 1997. The total number oflost and stolen
recovery reports received increased 16% from 162,076 in 1996 to
192,586 in 1997. The dollar value of recovery reports received increased
178% from $7,000,530,298 in 1996 to $19,468,888,875 in 1997. The
total number of certificates inquired about by institutions participating in
the program increased .03% from 8,538,192 in 1996 to 8,565,639 in
1997. In 1997, the dollar value of certificate inquires that matched
previous reports of lost, stolen, missing, or counterfeit securities
certificates decreased 4% from $5,164,280,780 to $4,961,362,068.

Oversight of Self-Regulatory Organizations
National Securities Exchanges
As of September 30, 1998, there were eight active securities exchanges
registered with the SEC as national securities exchanges: AMEX, Boston
Stock Exchange (BSE), Chicago Board Options Exchange (CBOE),
Cincinnati Stock Exchange (CSE), Chicago Stock Exchange (CHX),
New York Stock Exchange (NYSE), Philadelphia Stock Exchange
(PHLX), and Pcx. We granted exchange applications to delist 123 debt
and equity issues, and granted applications by issuers requesting
withdrawal from listing and registration for 55 issues. The exchanges

33

submitted 313 proposed rule changes during 1998. We approved 243
pending and new filings, and 26 were withdrawn. Approved rule filings
included:
•

amendments to revise the circuit breaker rules to increase the trading
halt levels from declines of 350 and 550 points to declines of 10%,
20%, and 30% of the Dow Jones Industrial Average," and

•

a proposal by the NYSE to modify its margin requirements to
accommodate changes to the federal margin requirements. 56

National Association of Securities Dealers, Inc.
The NASD is the only national securities association registered with the
SEC and includes more than 5,500 member firms. The NASD owns and
operates The Nasdaq Stock Market as a wholly-owned subsidiary The
NASD submitted 98 proposed rule changes to the SEC during the year.
We approved 83 proposed rule changes, including some pending from the
previous year, and the NASD withdrew 7. Among the significant changes
we approved or that were effective upon filing were:
•

rules adopting the Order Audit Trail System to track orders in Nasdaq
equity securities from the point of origination or receipt through
execution.V

•

an NASD proposal requiring each registered representative who
engages in proprietary or agency trades in equities, preferred
securities, or convertible debt securities, or who directly supervises
such activities, to register as a limited representative-equity trader;"

•

amendments to NASD rule 3010 to require tape recording of
conversations when a certain percentage, varying from 40% of a small
firm to 20% of a larger firm, of a member firm's sales force is
comprised of registered persons who were employed within the last
three years by a firm that has been expelled from membership in a
securities industry SRO that has had its registration as a broker-dealer
revoked by the SEC;59 and

34

•

amendments to the NASD rules on continuing education to establish a
supervisors' program, separate from the registered representatives'
continuing education program."

At Congressman Dingell' s request, the staff also prepared a report
discussing changes made by the NASD in response to the Commission's
1996 21 (a) report. They noted that, although the changes are ongoing,
the NASD has made significant improvements to its policies and
procedures.
Letters to the Commodity Futures Trading Commission
Our staff responded to requests from the Commodity Futures Trading
Commission (CFTC) for our views regarding various proposals to trade
financial products. In addition, they issued a letter to the CFTC on
December 4, 1997 objecting to the designation of the Chicago Board of
Trade (CBOT) as a contract market for futures and futures options on the
CBOT Dow Jones Utilities Average Index (DJUA) and the Dow Jones
Transportation Average (DJTA).61 On July 16, 1998, the Commission
issued an order upholding the staff's position.f concluding that neither
the DJUA or the DJT A satisfies the substantial segment requirement of
the law." The CBOT appealed the Commission's decision to the Seventh
Circuit Court of Appeals, where it is pending.
Self-Regulatory Organization Corporate Governance
The Commission approved several SRO proposals in 1998 enhancing
public and non-industry participation in the SRO governing processes
Specifically, we approved proposals ensuring that the public and nonindustry members of the NASD, PHLX, and CHX governing boards
equal or exceed the number of industry members. 64 The public governors
include senators, representatives, professors, and distinguished individuals
who have no connection with the securities industry. The non-industry
governors include representatives from both large and small companies
. who are not directly involved in the securities business. Similar changes
to the membership of many important SRO committees, including those

35

that involve SRO oversight responsibilities and policymaking, have been
. .
d .65
propose d or Institute
Municipal Securities Rulemaking Board
The Municipal Securities Rulemaking Board (MSRB) is the primary
rulemaking authority for municipal securities dealers. In 1998, we
received 23 new proposed rule changes from the MSRB. A total of 19
new and pending proposed rule changes were approved, and one was
withdrawn. Approved proposals included interpretations of rules
concerning consultants, transaction reporting procedures, continuing
education requirements for registered persons, and political
contributions." The MSRB also focused on strengthening the
underwriting process by addressing syndicate practices and disclosure
requirements In this regard, we approved an amendment to rule G-32
that strengthened the provisions relating to dissemination of official
statements among dealers and incorporated a long-standing interpretation
relating to disclosures required to be made to customers in connection
with negotiated sales of new issue municipal securities. 67
We also approved an amendment to rule G-38 concerning consultants
that clarified the definition of payment and whether bank affiliates and
their employees may be deemed consultants under the rule." In addition,
we approved the MSRB' s commencement of a service to provide daily
reports from the MSRB Transaction Reporting Program." This service
will summarize information about customer and interdealer transactions in
municipal securities that are reported to the MSRB.
Tradepoint
On November 20, 1997, Tradepoint filed an application for exemption
from registration as a national securities exchange under section 6 of the
Exchange Act. Tradepoint, a Recognised Investment Exchange under the
U'K. Financial Services Act of 1986, is a screen-based electronic market
for the trading of securities listed on the London Stock Exchange.
Tradepoint wishes to make its system available in the United States,

36

primarily to institutional investors. We solicited comments on the filing
on July 2, 1998.70
Clearing Agencies
Sixteen clearing agencies were registered with the Commission at the end
of 1998. On February 13, 1998, we registered the Emerging Markets
Clearing Corporation (EMCC) as a clearing agency to clear and settle
Brady bonds." We also exempted Euroclear from registration as a
clearing agency Registered clearing agencies submitted 98 proposed rule
changes to us, and we processed 96 new and pending proposed rule
changes.
Applications for Re-entry
Rule 19h-l under the Exchange Act prescribes how the Commission
reviews proposals submitted by SROs to allow persons subject to a
statutory disqualification to become or remain associated with member
firms. In 1998, we received 22 filings or notices from SROs
recommending that certain persons be permitted to become or remain
associated with member firms notwithstanding a statutory
disqualification: 15 from the NASD, 5 from the NYSE, 1 from the
AMEX, and 1 from the CBOE. One filing was withdrawn.

37

Investment Management Regulation
The Division of Investment Management regulates tnvestment compantes
(which include mutual funds) and investment advisers under two
companion statutes, the Investment Company Act of 1940 and the
Investment Advisers Act of 1940. The Division also administers the
Public Utility Holding Company Act of 1935.

Key 1998 Results
During 1998, the Commission adopted major changes to the primary
disclosure form used by mutual funds We also adopted a rule permitting
the use of a "profile," which is a new disclosure document intended to
provide investors with a summary of key information about a mutual
fund. These initiatives are part of the SEC's continuing efforts to
increase the effectiveness of disclosure provided to investors. In addition,
we continued implementing provisions of the National Securities Markets
Improvement Act of 1996 (NSMIA) and issued no-action and interpretive
letters addressing numerous changes in the investment company and
investment advisory industries.

Significant Investment Company Act Developments
Rulemaking
Mutual Fund Disclosure Initiatives
•

38

Amendments to Mutual Fund Registration Form. The Commission
adopted amendments to Form N-IA, the mutual fund registration
form, to improve prospectus disclosure 72 The amendments. (1)
minimize prospectus disclosure about organizational and legal matters
that do not help investors evaluate mutual funds and (2) focus

disclosure on essential information about a fund that investors need to
know before investing. In recognition of the importance of risk
disclosure to investors, the amendments require a new risk/return
summary at the beginning of a mutual fund prospectus (and the new
profile). This risk/return summary includes a concise narrative
description of a mutual fund's overall risks, a bar chart of a fund's
annual returns for 10 years that illustrates performance fluctuations
from year to year, and a table that compares a fund's performance to
that of a broad-based securities market index.
•

Fund Profiles. The Commission adopted rule 498, which permits
funds to use a short-form disclosure document called a "profile.?"
The profile summarizes key information about a mutual fund in a
standardized format designed to facilitate comparison among funds
If a fund uses a profile, an investor can purchase the fund's shares
based on the profile, or request and review the fund's prospectus and
other information before making an investment decision All investors
would receive a prospectus no later than confirmation of purchase.

Money Market Funds
The Commission adopted technical amendments to rule 2a-7, the rule that
regulates money market funds." The amendments revise the rule's
terminology and its treatment of certain instruments to reflect market
usage. The amendments also resolve certain interpretive issues, including
the application of other amendments adopted in 1996 concerning taxexempt money market funds and investments in asset-backed securities.
We also amended our advertising rules to clarify the formula used to
calculate yield for money market funds and reduce the potential for
investors to be misled or confused by the presentation of the money
market fund's short term total return.
Delivery of Disclosure Documents to Households
The Commission proposed a new rule 154 under the Securities Act that
enables issuers and broker-dealers to satisfy prospectus delivery
requirements by sending a single prospectus to two or more investors

39

sharing the same address." We also proposed similar amendments to
rules 30d-1 and 30d-2 under the Investment Company Act, and to rules
14a-3, 14c-3 and 14c-7 under the Exchange Act, which govern the
delivery of annual or semi-annual reports to shareholders. The proposed
rule and rule amendments would provide greater convenience for
investors and cost savings for issuers by reducing the amount of
duplicative information that investors receive.
Advisory Contracts
The Commission proposed amendments to rule 15a-4, the rule that
permits an investment adviser, in certain circumstances, to advise
temporarily an investment company under a contract that the investment
company's shareholders have not approved." The proposed amendments
would (1) expand the exemption provided by the rule to include
temporary advisory contracts entered into after a merger or similar
business combination involving the fund's adviser or a controlling person
of the adviser and (2) lengthen the period during which the adviser may
serve under a contract without shareholder approval.
Disclosure
Filings Reviewed
In 1998, the staff reviewed 80% of the 2,100 new portfolios filed with the
SEC, including 96% of newly-filed open-end and closed-end portfolios.
The staff also reviewed 91% of the 645 proxy statements filed, 20 % of
the 18,715 post-effective amendments filed, and 100% of the 200
insurance contract filings.
Exemptive Orders
The Commission issued 320 exemptive orders to investment companies
(other than insurance company separate accounts) seeking relief from
various provisions of the Investment Company Act. We also issued 53
exemptive orders to investment companies that are insurance company
separate accounts. Over 13% of all exemptive orders issued in 1998

40

(other than orders issued to insurance company separate accounts)
concerned mergers involving investment advisory firms or funds. The
number of these types of orders nearly doubled from the previous year,
reflecting the trend toward consolidation in the financial services industry.
Some of the other significant developments with regard to exemptive
orders in 1998 are discussed below
Open-End Interval Fund
The Commission issued an order permitting a registered closed-end fund
to convert into an open-end fund that would redeem its shares at monthly
intervals rather than daily. The fund invests in equity securities of issuers
in developing countries, and sought relief in order to provide its
shareholders with greater liquidity while maintaining a relatively illiquid
portfolio. Under the terms of the order, the fund's new investors will be
limited to "qualified purchasers," as defined by section 2(a)(51) of the
Investment Company Act. 77
Mutual Insurance Company
The Commission issued an order permitting certain registered and
unregistered funds to enter into insurance agreements with an affiliated
mutual insurance company. The agreements would provide limited
insurance coverage for certain money market assets held by the funds."
Denial of a Request for a Hearing
The Commission denied a request for a hearing on an application
concerning the foreign custody arrangements of certain unit investment
trusts. The Commission's order, among other things, reiterated the
standard for determining whether a person requesting a hearing is an
"interested person" with respect to an application for purposes of rule
0-5(c) under the Investment Company Act. The Commission denied the
hearing request because the person was not an interested person and
failed to demonstrate that a hearing was necessary or appropriate in the
public interest or for the protection of investors. 79

41

Interested Director Status
The Commission issued an order finding that a director of a fund
complex, who also is an outside director for the parent company of a
broker-dealer firm that provides de minimis distribution services to the
fund complex, should be deemed an independent director under the
Investment Company Act. 80
Interpretive and No-Action Letters
The Division's Office of Chief Counsel, which handles most requests for
guidance directed to the Division, responded to 888 formal and informal
requests for guidance during 1998 Some of the more significant
interpretive and no-action letters are discussed below.
Termination of Investment Advtsory Contract
The Commission stated that it may consider pursuing enforcement action
against a closed-end fund if the fund excluded a shareholder proposal
seeking termination of the fund's investment advisory contract. The fund
contended that under applicable state law only its directors could
terminate the contract. The Commission concluded, however, that
section 15(a)(3) of the Investment Company Act provided the fund's
shareholders with independent authority to terminate the contract. Due
to the novelty of this request, the Commission and not our staff
considered this matter. 81
Fund Supermarkets
Our staff provided interpretive guidance regarding certain legal issues
under rule 12b-l of the Investment Company Act arising from the
participation of mutual funds in fund supermarkets. The staff concluded
that whether a fund's payment of all or part of a supermarket fee must be
made pursuant to a rule 12b-1 plan depends on an analysis by the board
of directors of the purpose for which the payment is made.82

42

Reorganization of Investment Advisers
Our staff concluded that if a reorganization does not result in a change of
actual control or management of an investment adviser, the adviser may
rely on rule 202(a){l)-1 under the Investment Advisers Act and rule 2a-6
under the Investment Company Act to conclude that no assignment of the
adviser's contracts will occur as a result of the reorganization. Whether
there is a change of actual control or management, however, is a factual
issue to which the staffwill not respond. 83
Our staffagreed that the acquisition by J.P. Morgan & Co. Incorporated
(JPM) of 45% of the outstanding equity interest of American Century
Companies, Inc. (ACC), amounting to 10.83% of the voting power in ACC,
along with certain minority stockholder protections, would not result in an
assignment of the advisory contracts of the mutual funds advised by a
subsidiary of ACC. The staff based its position on representations that,
among other things, JPM would not have a controlling influence over the
management or policies of ACe. 84
Delayed Offerings of Securities by Closed-End Funds
Our staff took the position that a closed-end fund may conduct a delayed
at-the-market shelf offering of equity securities to the general public in
reliance on rule 415(a){l)(x) under the Securities Act to take advantage
of opportunities when its shares are trading at a premium to its net asset
value. The fund must meet the substantive requirements of the rule
(including those that do not apply to funds), file quarterly reports with the
Commission, register the offering on Form N-2, and make sure that the
gross proceeds to the fund less the underwriting commission equal or
exceed net asset value. 85
Section I3(f) Confidential Treatment Filings
Our staff issued a letter providing general guidance to investment
managers with section 13(f) reporting obligations and reminding filers of
the Commission's long-standing position that confidential treatment may
be accorded to Form 13F information only in limited circumstances."

43

Deferred Compensation Plans for Investment Company Directors
Our staff clarified its position regarding the status of deferred
compensation plans for investment company directors under the
Investment Company Act. They stated that investment companies that
wish to implement deferred compensation plans are not required to seek
orders from the Commission covering the plans. 87
Investment Adviser Advertisements
Our staff stated that it would not recommend enforcement action under
section 206(4) of the Investment Advisers Act or rule 206(4)-1 (a)(l)
thereunder, ifDALBAR, Inc. advertises certain numerical ratings of
unaffiliated investment advisers, notwithstanding the staff's position that
the numerical ratings, based on DALBAR's surveys of investment
advisory clients, are testimonials by DALBAR and the advisory clients.
The staffbased its position on representations that, among other things, a
DALBAR rating does not emphasize the favorable client responses or
ignore the unfavorable responses. The staff also provided guidance
regarding some of the factors that advisers should consider when
determining whether any advertisements containing a DALBAR rating
would be false or misleading 88
Private Investment Companies
Our staff took the position that the securities of an investment company
that relies on the exclusion from the definition of investment company
provided by section 3(c)(1) or section 3(c)(7) of the Investment Company
Act (Investing Pool), which are held by the Investing Pool's
"knowledgeable employees," may be excluded when determining whether
all of the beneficial owners of the Investing Pool's securities are qualified
purchasers for purposes of rule 2a51-3(b). They also took the position
that those securities owned by "knowledgeable employees" may not be
excluded for purposes of rule 2a51-3(a).89

44

Foreign Investment Companies
Our staff stated that a foreign fund generally would not be deemed to be
making a public offering for purposes of section 7(d) of the Investment
Company Act if certain functions (known as the "ten commandments"
activities) that, for US. tax purposes, previously had been performed
offshore by or on behalf of the foreign fund, are performed in the U.S 90
Our staff also confirmed that as long as a foreign fund is conducting only
a global private offering, a foreign investor who is temporarily in the U S.
may meet with the fund's personnel, and purchase an interest in the fund,
without causing the fund to be deemed to be making a public offering for
purposes of section 7(d) of the Investment Company Act or to have to
count or qualify the foreign investor under section 3(c)(1) of 3(c)(7) of
the Act.91
Interpretive Releases
Offshore Internet Offers
The Commission provided interpretive guidance concerning the
application of the registration requirements of the U.S. securities laws to
offshore offers of securities or investment services made on Internet Web
sites by foreign investment companies and investment advisers. The
release indicates that offshore offers and solicitation activities would not
be considered to be made "in the US." if the Internet offer is not targeted
to the U.S. The release suggests non-exclusive measures, such as the use
of disclaimers that state that the offer is not being made in the U. S., or
screening mechanisms designed to ensure that offering materials or other
communications are not sent to U.S. persons, as a means of indicating
that offers are not targeted to the U. S 92
Principal and Agency Transactions by Investment Advisers
The Commission provided interpretive guidance concerning section
206(3) of the Investment Advisers Act. This section generally prohibits
an adviser from engaging in or effecting principal or agency transactions

45

with an advisory client unless the adviser discloses certain information
and obtains the client's consent prior to the completion of the transaction.
This guidance (I) supersedes a prior position taken by the Commission
and permits investment advisers to make required disclosures and obtain
client consent after execution but before settlement of a principal or
agency transaction and (2) clarifies that if an investment adviser receives
no compensation for effecting an agency transaction between advisory
clients, the transaction is not subject to section 206(3).93
Insurance Products

FormN-6
The Commission proposed a.new Form N-6 for insurance company
separate accounts that are registered as unit investment trusts and that
offer variable life insurance policies. The form would register these
separate accounts under the Investment Company Act and register their
securities under the Securities Act. It would focus prospectus disclosure
on essential information to assist investors in deciding whether to invest
in a particular variable life insurance policy. In addition, it would
minimize prospectus disclosure about technical and legal matters, improve
disclosure of fees and charges, and streamline the registration process by
replacing two forms that were not specifically designed for variable life
insurance policies with a single form tailored to these products. 94
Separate Account Conversions
Our staff took the position that the conversion of a managed separate
account into a unit investment trust with an underlying fund could
proceed, without registering interests in the separate account or the
shares of the underlying fund on Form N-14 under the Securities Act,
where the restructuring involved a change in legal form only that would
not materially change a contract holder's interest in the contract, the
underlying portfolio assets, or the separate account. This position applies
only to reorganizations of managed separate accounts that are similar in
all material respects to the reorganization described in the letter. 95

46

State and Local Government Deferred Compensation Plans
Our staff took the position that an insurance company that offers and sells
group annuity contracts and interests in separate investment accounts
funding the group annuity contracts to state and local government
deferred compensation plans qualifying under section 457 of the Internal
Revenue Code of 1986, as amended, is not required to register the group
annuity contracts or the separate investment accounts under the federal
securities laws. They had previously taken the position that registration
was not required in these cases subject to certain conditions restricting
the ability of an employer to withdraw assets from the plan." but
modified their position in light of the amendment of section 457 by the
Small Business Job Protection Act of 1996 that extended an "exclusive
benefit" requirement to section 457 state and local government plans."

Significant Investment Advisers Act Developments
Rulemaking
Rule Amendments Under NSMIA
Under NSMIA, the Commission is primarily responsible for regulating
investment advisers with more than $25 million of assets under
management; smaller investment advisers must register with state
securities regulators and generally are prohibited from SEC registration
During 1998, the Commission adopted amendments to rules governing
this jurisdictional division.
•

Multi-State Advisers. The Commission amended rule 203A-2 to
permit investment advisers required to register in 30 or more states,
but that do not have $25 million of assets under management or
otherwise meet the criteria for SEC registration, to register with the
SEC.98

•

Investment Adviser Representatives.
The Commission amended rule
203A-3(a) to revise the definition of investment adviser representative

47

to permit certain supervised persons employed by or associated with
SEC-registered investment advisers to provide advisory services to
one or a few institutional business clients without being subject to
state qualification requirements. Under the revised rule, supervised
persons may have the greater of 5 natural person clients or a number
of natural person clients equal to 10% of all their clients before being
subject to state qualification requirements. 99
Performance Fees
The Commission liberalized rule 205-3 to give investment advisers and
eligible clients greater flexibility in negotiating the terms of a performance
fee arrangement. The amendments eliminate requirements for specific
contractual terms and disclosures when advisers charge a performance
fee, and raise the financial thresholds for client eligibility They also
expand client eligibility to include certain qualified purchasers, such as
high net worth individuals and "knowledgeable employees" of the
investment adviser. 100
Year 2000
In January 1998, our staff issued a Legal Bulletin describing investment
advisers' obligations under the Investment Advisers Act regarding their
preparedness for the year 2000 computer problem. Advisers that are
unprepared or uncertain about their year 2000 readiness must disclose
this fact to their clients if the failure to address the year 2000 issue could
have a material effect on their clients. 101
The Commission also adopted a new rule 204-5, and accompanying Form
ADV -Y2K, to require most registered investment advisers to file reports
with the SEC on their readiness for year 2000. Under the rule, advisers
must report on their year 2000 preparedness with respect to all clients,
and those advisers that are sponsors or administrators of a fund complex
must report on the readiness of the investment companies they advise. 102

48

Significant Public Utility Holding Company Act Developments
Developments in Holding Company Regulation
As a result ofthe current trend toward consolidation, the Commission
considered a number of proposed utility combinations, including several
involving companies that owned gas properties with companies that
owned electric properties. Three of these proposals resulted in the
creation of new registered holding companies. Registered holding
companies also continued to demonstrate their interest in nonutility
activities, both in the U.S and abroad. As a result, the complexity of
applications and requests for interpretive advice continued to increase.
The Commission expects these trends to continue in 1999, as the
restructuring of the industry continues.
Registered Holding Companies
As of September 30, 1998, there were 19 public holding companies
registered under the Public Utility Holding Company Act. The registered
holding companies systems' were comprised of 101 public utility
subsidiaries, 37 exempt wholesale generators (EWGs), 114 foreign utility
companies (FUCOs), 498 nonutility subsidiaries, and 87 inactive
subsidiaries, for a total of 856 companies and systems with utility
operations in 31 states. These holding company systems had aggregate
assets of approximately $188 billion and operating revenues of
approximately $73 billion for the period ended September 30, 1998.
Financing Authorizations
The Commission authorized registered holding company systems to issue
approximately $19.5 billion of securities, an increase of less than 1% from
last year. The total financing authorizations included $3.9 billion for
investments in EWGs and FUCOs.

49

Examinations
The staff examined three service companies, three parent holding
companies, and nine special purpose corporations. The examinations
focused on: (1) the methods of allocating costs of services and goods
shared by associate companies, (2) internal controls, (3) cost
determination procedures, (4) accounting and billing policies, and (5)
quarterly and annual reports of the registered holding company systems.
By uncovering misallocated expenses and inefficiencies through the
examination process, consumers saved approximately $9.9 million.
Applications and Interpretations
The Commission issued various orders under the Public Utility Holding
Company Act. Some of the more significant orders included:
Sempra Energy
The Commission authorized the acquisition by Sempra Energy, a
company not previously subject to the Holding Company Act, of (1)
Pacific Enterprises, a California public utility holding company exempt
from all provisions of the Holding Company Act except section 9(a)(2),
and, through this acquisition, Southern California Gas Company; and (2)
Enova Corporation, a California public utility holding company exempt
from all provisions of the Holding Company Act except section 9(a)(2),
and through this acquisition, San Diego Gas & Electric Company.i'" The
Commission also granted Sempra Energy an order under section 3(a)(l)
exempting it from all provisions of the Holding Company Act, except
section 9(a)(2), following the acquisition. In approving the transaction,
the Commission determined that a holding company may acquire utility
assets that will not, when combined with the acquired company's utility
assets, make up an integrated system, provided that there is defacto
integration of contiguous utility properties and that the holding company
will be exempt from registration under section 3 of the Holding Company
Act following the acquisition.

50

WPL Holdings, Inc.
The Commission authorized the acquisition by WPL Holdings, Inc.
(WPL), a public utility holding company exempt from registration by
order of the Commission under section 3(a)(I) of the Holding Company
Act, ofIES Industries, Inc., a public utility holding company exempt from
registration by rule 2 under section 3(a)(1) of the Holding Company Act,
with the surviving entity to be renamed Interstate Energy Corporation
(Interstatej.l'" The Commission also authorized the acquisition by WPL
Acquisition Co., a wholly-owned subsidiary ofWPL, ofInterstate Power
company, a public utility company. As a result of these transactions,
Interstate will own, directly and indirectly, four electric and gas utility
companies. In finding that the transactions satisfied the Holding
Company Act's standards for having more than one integrated system,
the Commission evaluated several factors, including the loss of economies
associated with divesting existing gas and electric operations. Interstate
has registered as a holding company under section 5 of the Holding
Company Act.
Financing Orders
The Commission authorized two regulated holding companies, American
Electric Power Company (AEP) and Cinergy Corporation, to use
financing proceeds to invest in EWGs and FUCOs, and to guarantee the
obligations of EWGs and FUCOs, in amounts that, together with all other
investments in EWGs and FUCOs, do not exceed 100% of each holding
company's consolidated retained earnings.l'" The orders require AEP
and Cinergy to provide quarterly information to facilitate the monitoring
of their respective investments in EWGs and FUCOs and their effects on
the holding company systems.

51

Compliance Inspections and Examinations
The Office of Compliance Inspections and Examinations manages the
SEC's examination program. Inspections and examinations are
authorized by the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the Investment
Company Act of 1940, and the Investment Advisers Act of 1940. Entities
subject to this oversight include brokers, dealers, municipal securities
dealers, self-regulatory organizations, transfer agents, clearing
agencies, investment companies, and investment advisers.

Key 1998 Results
During 1998, the staff conducted examinations concentrating on the areas
of greatest compliance risk (1. e., Smart Exams). The examinations
included an assessment of risk factors, identification of areas to be
covered, and the refinement of the appropriate inspection techniques.
The areas the staff covered and the inspection techniques they used varied
because of the diverse population of registrants, risk assessment results,
market conditions, and/or other industry developments. The staff
considered the unique characteristics of each registrant and, in particular,
the presence or lack of effective internal controls and compliance
procedures.
We continued to increase cooperation among SEC examiners responsible
for different types of regulated entities to increase effectiveness and
productivity and enhance investor protection. For example, when
appropriate, SEC examinations of firms with broker-dealer and
investment advisory activities were conducted by multi-disciplinary
examination teams.
Our staff also enhanced cooperation with foreign, federal, and state
regulators, as well as with self-regulatory organizations (SROs). The
staff conducted coordinated examinations with staff from the Hong Kong

52

Securities and Futures Commission, the United Kingdom's Financial
Services Authority acting as the Investment Management Regulatory
Organization, the Australia Securities Authority, and the
Bundesaufsichtsamt FOr Das Kreditwesen.
We issued a report on soft dollar practices based on 355 examinations of
broker-dealers and money managers. The report described the current
state of soft dollar practices and made recommendations for regulatory
action and industry compliance practices.
The staff conducted approximately 4,350 special reviews of registrants'
programs for dealing with the year 2000 computer problem. The staff
discussed the year 2000 problem with registrants and gathered selected
information about their remediation programs. In approximately 9% of
these reviews, the staff brought significant deficiencies to registrants'
attention The most commonly noted deficiencies were failing to plan for
external testing and lagging significantly behind the Commission's
guidance that corrections should be completed by December 3 1, 1998.

Investment Company and Investment Adviser Inspections
Investment Companies
Our examiners inspected 259 investment company complexes, including
17 fund administrators discussed below. Excluding special inspections
and year 2000 reviews, this number resulted in an average frequency of
inspection for the 1,128 investment company complexes of once every
4.7 years. The complexes inspected had total assets of $1.1 trillion in
2,636 portfolios, which represented approximately 37% of the mutual
fund and closed-end fund portfolios in existence at the beginning of 1998.
The complexes inspected represented a mix oflarge and small complexes.
Twenty of the inspections were done on a "for cause" basis, which means
the staff had some reason to believe that a problem existed.
Serious violations found during 11 examinations warranted referrals for
further investigation by the Division of Enforcement. The most common

53

violations resulting in referrals involved fraud, the role of the fund's
Board of Directors, registration and Commission filings, and books and
records.
Investment Advisers
The staff completed 1,280 inspections of investment advisers, not
including the year 2000 reviews, achieving an average inspection
frequency of once every 5 years. The non-investment company assets
managed by the advisers inspected totaled $1.7 trillion. The staff
inspected 78 investment advisers for cause.
Serious violations warranting enforcement referrals were uncovered in 52
of the examinations. The most common violations resulting in referrals
involved fraud, Form ADV or brochure disclosure or delivery, books and
records, and conflicts of interest.
Mutual Fund Administrators
Many mutual fund complexes use third party administrators to perform
their accounting and administrative functions During 1998, examiners
inspected 17 fund administrators. One of the examinations resulted in an
enforcement referral.
Variable Insurance Products
In response to the rapid growth in variable insurance product assets and
the emergence of new channels of distribution, specialized insurance
product teams conducted examinations in this area. These teams
identified and examined variable life and annuity contract separate
accounts. Special emphasis was placed on examining branch offices of
broker/dealers selling these products to determine patterns of sales
practice abuses. A total of 3 1 insurance company complexes were
examined, representing 25% of all the insurance sponsors as of the
beginning of 1998. This maintains a five-year inspection cycle for
insurance sponsors. None of these examinations resulted in an
enforcement referral.

54

Broker-Dealer and Transfer Agent Examinations
Broker-Dealers
A total of338 oversight and 308 cause and surveillance examinations of
broker-dealers, government securities broker-dealers, and municipal
securities dealers were conducted in 1998. Of these examinations, 123
took place in broker-dealers' branch offices, reflecting an emphasis on
examining the adequacy of supervision over the activities of salespersons
in branch offices. Serious violations in 139 examinations warranted
referrals for further investigation by Enforcement staff Findings in an
additional 55 examinations were referred to SROs for appropriate action.
The most common violations and deficiencies found were record keeping
deficiencies, misrepresentations and unsuitable recommendations to
customers, and unauthorized trading in customers' accounts.
The broker-dealer examination program devoted significant attention to
abuses in the underwriting, trading, and retail selling of low-priced,
speculative securities, frequently referred to as "microcaps."
Examinations also emphasized the supervision of registered
representatives classified as independent contractors operating in
franchised branch offices, the adequacy of broker-dealers' internal
controls and risk management activities, and retail sales of variable
annuities and mutual funds. The office also completed a review of
clearing firm policies and procedures.
During 1998, our staff continued initiatives to enhance cooperation with
foreign, federal, and state regulators, as well as with SROs. Examiners
worked with SRO and state regulators to achieve maximum coordination
with other broker-dealer regulatory programs. They also coordinated
overlapping examinations of broker-dealers, clearing agencies, and
transfer agents with bank regulators.

55

Transfer Agents
In 1998, our staff conducted 191 examinations of registered transfer agents,
including 20 federally regulated banks. This program resulted in 143
deficiency letters, 68 cancellations or withdrawals of registrations, 8 referrals
to the Division of Enforcement, 20 referrals to bank regulators, and 4 staff
conferences with delinquent registrants. In addition, the staff conducted year
2000 reviews of transfer agents, and completed 4 routine inspections of
clearing agencies

Self-Regulatory Organizations Inspections
In 1998, the staff inspected at least one program at the following SROs.
American Stock Exchange, Boston Stock Exchange, Chicago Board
Options Exchange, Chicago Stock Exchange, Cincinnati Stock Exchange,
National Association of Securities Dealers, New York Stock Exchange,
Pacific Stock Exchange, and Philadelphia Stock Exchange. The SRO
inspections focused on:
•

arbitration programs;

•

listing, maintenance, and unlisted trading practices programs;

•

financial and operational examination programs;

•

market surveillance, investigatory, and disciplinary programs;

•

customer communication review programs;

•

programs for detecting and sanctioning sales practice abuses; and

•

ethics and conflicts of interest.

The inspections resulted in recommendations to improve the programs'
effectiveness and efficiency.

56

Our staff also conducted inspections of the regulatory programs
administered by the NASD's 13 district offices. These inspections
included reviews of NASD district offices' broker-dealer examination,
financial surveillance, and formal disciplinary programs The staff also
reviewed the district offices' investigations of customer complaints and
terminations of registered representatives for cause.
SRO Final Disciplinary Actions
Section 19(d)(1) of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934 and Rule 19d-1
require all SROs to file reports with the Commission of all final
disciplinary actions. In 1998, a total of 1,358 reports were filed with the
SEC, as reflected in the following table.

SRO Reports of Final Disciplinary Action
American Stock Exchange
Boston Stock Exchange
Chicago Board Options Exchange
Chicago Stock Exchange
Cincinnati Stock Exchange
National Association of Securities Dealers
National Securities Clearing Corporation
New York Stock Exchange
Options Clearing Corporation
Philadelphia Stock Exchange
Pacific Exchange

14
0
100
4
3
1,026
0
171
0
23

Total Reports

1,358

11

57

Full Disclosure System
Thefull disclosure system's goals are to foster investor confidence,
provide investors with material information; contribute to the
maintenance of fair and orderly markets; reduce the costs of capital
raising; and inhibit fraud in the public offering, trading, voting, and
tendering of securities. The Division of Corporation Finance tries to
achieve this goal by reviewing the financial statements and business
disclosure in periodic reports and transactional filings by corporate
issuers and undertaking rulemaking that facilitates capital formation.

Key 1998 Results
Companies filed registration statements covering a record $2.55 trillion in
proposed securities offerings during the year, a 76% increase over the
$1.45 trillion in 1997. An increase in overall market activity, including
merger transactions, resulted in $1.45 trillion in common stock offerings
filed for registration in 1998 compared to nearly $800 billion in 1997.
Offerings filed by first time registrants (!POs) were a record, totaling
approximately $257 billion, 55% more than the $166 billion filed in 1997.
Registration Statements Filed
Dollar Value (Billions)

Security

1997
$ Value

1998
$ Value

% Change

Common Stock
Asset Backed
Debt
Unallocated Shelf"
Other Equity
Total

797.2
271.8
174.8
152.4
495
1,445.7

1,453.7
476.2
291.6
259.8
64.8
2,546.1

82%
75%
67%
70%
31%
76%

* A transactional filing where the issuer registers a dollar amount of securities without
specifying the particular amounts of each different security to be issued.
58

In November 1998, we published proposals that would modernize the
regulation of capital formation. We also issued a release proposing to
update and simplify the regulations applicable to takeover transactions
These important releases are discussed in more detail under Recent
Rulemaking, Interpretive, and Related Matters.

International

Activities

Foreign companies' participation in the United States public markets
continued to show strong growth in 1998. During the year,
approximately 160 foreign companies from 34 countries entered the
United States public markets for the first time. At year-end, there were
over 1,100 foreign companies from 56 countries filing reports with us
Public offerings filed by foreign companies in 1998 totaled over $170
bilIion--a new record for an amount registered in a single year.

Review of Filings
In 1998, our Division of Corporation Finance reviewed 2,828, or nearly
21%, of the reporting issuers, along with 1,320 Securities Act IPOs, 338
registration statements under the Securities Exchange Act and 81
Regulation A exemptive filings. The following table summarizes the
principal filings reviewed during the last five years. Because the staff
reviews all new issuer filings (including IPOs), third party tender offers,
contested solicitations, and going private transactions, the number of
these filings that are reviewed reflects the increases and decreases in the
number of filings received.

59

Full Disclosure Reviews

Reporting Issuer Reviews
New Issuer Reviews .12/
Major Filing Reviews
Securities Act Filings
IPOs f./
Repeat Issuers
P/E Amdts. f;;./ !I/
Regulation A
Exchange Act Initial
Registrations
Annual Report Reviews
Full f;./
Full Financial
Tender Offers
(l4D-I)
Going Private
Schedules
Contested Proxy
Solicitations
Proxy Statements
Merger/Going Private
Others w /Financials

i!./

1994

1995

1996

1997

3,400
1,599

3,930
1,150

3,210
1,658

3,513 2,828
1,604 1,658

1,384
863
204
100

950
815
215
69

1,412
769
140
77'

1,255 1,320
720
723
41
28
111
81

215

200

246

1,540
1,405

1,930
1,585

1,446
933

82

140

165

234

259

75

77

100

94

115

42

59

62

83

59

163
180

225
205

261
199

233
238

219
257

349

1998

338

1,949 1,527
1,208
997

g/ Includes companies subject to Exchange Act reporting whose financial
statements were reviewed during the year .
.12/ Includes reviews of Securities Act or Exchange Act registration statements
of non-Exchange Act reporting companies. Excludes reviews of Regulation
A filers.
f;;./ Includes Regional Office reviews of small business filings for years prior
to 1996.
!I/ Includes only post-effective amendments with new financial statements.
f;./ Includes annual reports reviewed in connection with the review of other
filings that incorporated financial statements by reference.

60

Recent Rulemaking, Interpretive, and Related Matters
Reform of Commission Rules Under the Securities Act
For the past several years, we have been actively reevaluating the
registration system in response to the realities of the current marketplace
and changes in technology. On November 13, 1998, we published
proposals intended to create a more flexible system and provide
significant benefits to public investors, issuers of securities, and securities
professionals. 106 The proposed rules have the following objectives:
•

to continue providing investors with the information they need when
they make an investment decision;

•

to better enable small businesses to meet their capital requirements in
a changing market environment;

•

to permit more communications to investors and the market around
the time of an offering;

•

to give analysts more flexibility to report about foreign government
issuers and smaller, unseasoned companies;

•

to make it easier for companies to tum a public offering into a private
offering, and vice versa; and

•

to provide issuers with incentives to offer securities publicly rather
than privately.

The proposed rules, if adopted, also would result in more timely
information being available to the marketplace, as companies would be
required to:
•

file annual and quarterly financial results sooner;

•

make and update risk factors disclosure in their periodic reports;

•

accelerate the due dates for some Form 8-K current reports; and

61

•

expand the events that must be discussed in the current report Form
8-K

Regulation of Takeover and Security Holder Communications
On November 3, 1998, we issued a release proposing to update and
simplify the regulations applicable to takeover transactions.l'" The goal
is to conform the regulations with the realities of today' s environment.
The proposed rules, if adopted, would'
•

permit significantly more communications with security holders and
the markets before the filing of a registration statement involving a
takeover transaction, a proxy solicitation, or a tender offer;

•

put stock tender offers on a more equal regulatory footing with cash
tender offers;

•

integrate the forms and disclosure requirements for tender offers with
going private transactions and consolidate the disclosure
requirements in one location;

•

permit security holders to tender their securities during a limited
period after the successful completion of a tender offer;

•

more closely align merger and tender offer disclosure requirements;
and

•

update the tender offer rules to clarify certain requirements and
reduce compliance burdens where consistent with investor protection.

Plain English Initiative
During the year, we adopted the plain English rules to improve the
readability of prospectuses. 108 Our original release proposing the rules
was issued for public comment in January 1997.109
New Rule 421(d), the plain English rule, requires public companies to
prepare the cover page, summary, and risk factors section of their
prospectuses using the following basic principals:

62

•

short sentences;

•

definite, concrete, everyday language;

•

active voice;

•

tabular presentation or bullet list for complex material,
whenever possible;

•

no legal jargon or highly technical business terms; and

•

no multiple negatives.

Cross-Border Tender Offers, Business Combinations, and Rights
Offerings
On November 13, 1998, we issued a release soliciting public comment on
tender offer and registration exemptive rules for cross-border tender
offers, business combinations, and rights offerings.'!" If adopted, these
rules would make it easier for U.S. holders of foreign companies to
participate in these types of transactions. Currently, offerors often
exclude U. S. holders from these transactions because of the need to
comply with U.S. securities regulations.
Amendments to Beneficial Ownership Reporting Under Exchange Act
Section 13(d)
We adopted amendments to our beneficial ownership disclosure rules
under Section 13(d) of the Exchange Act. III The amendments allow the
use of the short-form Schedule 13G by:
•

passive investors (those that do not have the purpose or effect of
changing or influencing control of the issuer) if they do not own 20%
or more of the outstanding securities; and

•

more institutional investors.

63

Use of Internet Web Sites to Offer Securities, Solicit Securities
Transactions, or Advertise Investment Services Offshore
We issued an interpretive release that provides guidance on when offers
of securities or investment services made on Internet Web sites by foreign
issuers, investment companies, investment advisers, broker-dealers, and
exchanges would not be considered to be an offering "in the United
States." 112
The release also suggests measures that foreign Web site offerors could
implement to guard against targeting their offers to the United States.
For example, a foreign offeror could post an offer on its Web site without
registering the offer, if:
•

the offeror includes a meaningful disclaimer on the Web site that
would specify intended offerees by identifying jurisdictions in which
the offer is or is not being made; and

•

the offeror takes steps reasonably designed to prevent sales to U.S.
persons.

International Disclosure Standards
International disclosure standards are intended to facilitate cross border
capital raising and listing by permitting companies to comply with one set
of non-financial disclosure requirements for offerings in several
jurisdictions. For several years we have been working with the
International Organization of Securities Commissions (lOSCO) to
develop a set of international standards for non-financial statement
disclosures.
In May 1998, a draft of the standards was posted on the IOSCO Web site
(www.iosco.org) as a consultation document. IOSCO approved the nonfinancial statement disclosures standards at its annual conference in

64

September 1998. In February 1999, the Commission exposed for public
comment amendments to its regulations in order to conform with these
standards.
Amendments to Regulation S
We adopted Regulation S in 1990 to clarify the applicability of the
Securities Act registration requirements to offshore transactions. Since
its adoption, a number of abusive practices have developed involving
unregistered sales of equity securities by U.S. companies purportedly in
reliance upon the Regulation. These transactions have resulted in indirect
distributions of those securities into the United States without the
investor protection provided by registration. To address the continuing
abuses, we adopted measures 113 designed to eliminate the abusive
practices, while preserving many of the benefits of the Regulation for
capital formation.
Small Business Proposals
Rule 701 provides an exemption from the registration requirements of the
Securities Act for offers and sales of securities made to employees of
private companies. The staff proposed rules that would raise the amount
of securities that could be offered under the exemption. 114
Rule 504 of Regulation D exempts public sales by private companies of
up to $1 million of securities in a year from the registration requirements
of the Securities Act. 115 The staff has proposed amendments to address
concerns that the regulation may facilitate fraudulent securities
transactions by microcap companies.
Shareholder Proposals
We issued a release adopting amendments to Rule 14a-8, the shareholder
proposal rule, and related rules. 116 The proposals represented a package
of reforms to address a range of concerns raised by both shareholder and
corporate participants in the proposal process. The revisions:

65

•

recast Rule 14a-8 into a plain English question and answer format;

•

reverse the Cracker Barrel interpretive position so that employmentrelated shareholder proposals raising social policy issues are not
automatically excludable on ordinary business grounds; and

•

provide shareholders and companies with clearer guidance on
companies' exercise of discretionary voting authority.

Year 2000 Interpretive Releases
We issued an interpretive release to elicit more meaningful year 2000
disclosure from public companies.l'" The release provides specific
guidance on disclosure by companies with a year 2000 disclosure
obligation, including:
•

the company's state of readiness,

•

the costs to address the company' s Year 2000 issues,

•

the risks of the company's Year 2000 issues, and

•

the company's contingency plans.

In addition, we published guidance in the form of frequently asked
questions to clarify some recurring issues raised by the Year 2000
interpretive release. 118
Proposed Amendments to Form S-8
Form S-8 is the short-form Securities Act registration statement used
primarily for legitimate employee benefit plans. Some companies,
including micro cap companies, have used Form S-8 improperly to
compensate consultants whose primary service to the company is
promotion and public sale of the company's securities. We issued a
release proposing amendments to Form S-8 and related rules designed to
deter this abuse.119 The proposals also would facilitate tax and estate
planning by permitting the form to be used to register options that would
be exercised by family members of employees.

66

Paper Filings No Longer Accepted
We adopted a new electronic filing rule (Rule 14 of Regulation S-T) to
make it clear that we will no longer accept filings made in paper that
should have been filed electronically. 120
Other Rulemaking Proposals
During the year, we also proposed:
•

amendments to Rule 135b to provide that an options disclosure
document prepared in accordance with Rule 9b-l under the Exchange
Act is not a prospectus and accordingly is not subject to civil liability
under Section 12(a)(2) of the Securities Act;121and

•

technical amendments to require disclosure of a business enterprise's
"operating segments," rather than its "industry segments," in
conformity with the Financial Accounting Standards Board's
Statement of Financial Accounting Standards No. 13.122

Staff Legal Bulletins
The Divisions of Corporation Finance, Market Regulation, and
Investment Management published Staff Legal Bulletin No.6 on July 22,
1998. The bulletin addresses disclosure obligations in connection with
the January 1, 1999 conversion by 11 member states of the European
Union to a common currency, the "euro."
On September 4, 1998, the Division of Corporation Finance published
Staff Legal Bulletin NO.7. The bulletin provides helpful information on
the plain English rule that applies to companies filing registration
statements under the Securities Act.

67

Conferences
Small Business Town Hall Meetings
Since 1996, several informal town hall meetings between our staff and
small businesses have been conducted through the United States. These
town hall meetings tell small businesses about the basic requirements for
raising capital through the public sale of securities They also provide us
with information on the concerns and problems facing small businesses.
During 1998, we held small business town hall meetings in Las Vegas,
Nevada; Austin, Texas; and Salt Lake City, Utah.
SECINASAA Conference Under Section 19(c) of the Securities Act
The 15th annual federal/state uniformity conference was held in
Washington, D.C. on May 4, 1998. Approximately 60 SEC officials met
with approximately 60 representatives of the North American Securities
Administrators Association, Inc. to discuss methods of achieving greater
uniformity in federal and state securities matters. After the conference, a
final report summarizing the discussions was prepared and distributed to
interested persons and participants.
SEC Government-Business Forum on Small Business Capital Formation
The 17th annual Government-Business Forum on Small Business Capital
Formation was held in Chicago, IL on September 24-25, 1998. This
platform for small business is the only governmentally-sponsored national
gathering for small business, which offers annually the opportunity for
small businesses to let government officials know how the laws, rules, and
regulations are affecting their ability to raise capital. Next year's
Government-Business Forum will be in the Washington, D.C. area.

68

Accounting and Auditing Matters
The Chief Accountant is the principal advisor to the Commission on
accounting and auditing matters arismg from the admtnistration of the
federal securities laws. Activities designed to achieve compliance with
the accounting and financial disclosure requirements of the securities
laws include:
•

•

•

•

rulemaking and interpretation initiatives that supplement privatesector accounting standards and implement financial disclosure
requirements;
review and comment process for agency filings directed to improving
disclosures in filings, identifying emerging accounting issues (which
may result in rulemaking or private sector standard setting), and
identifying problems that may warrant enforcement actions;
enforcement actions that impose sanctions and serve to deter
improper financial reporting by enhancing the care with which
registrants and their accountants analyze accounting issues; and
oversight of private sector efforts, principally by the Ftnancial
Accounting Standards Board (FASB), the American Institute of
Certified Public Accountants (AICPA), the Independence Standards
Board (ISB), and various international accounting bodies, which
establish accounting, auditing, and independence standards designed
to improve financial accounting and reporting and the quality of
audit practice, including standards applicable to multtnauonal
offerings.

Key 1998 Results
We adopted revised rules and the staff issued interpretive guidance to
conform with the provisions of new FASB standards on segment
reporting and earnings per share presentations. We also continued our
involvement in initiatives directed toward reducing the disparities that

69

currently exist between different countries' accounting and auditing
standards. We issued a policy statement acknowledging the
Independence Standards Board (ISB) as the private sector body to
establish independence standards applicable to auditors of public
compames.

Accounting-Related

Rules and Interpretations

The Commission's accounting-related rules and interpretations
supplement private sector accounting standards and implement financial
disclosure requirements. Our principal accounting requirements are
contained in Regulation S-X, which governs the form and content of
financial statements filed with us.
Derivatives
During 1998, our accounting staff reviewed compliance by SEC
registrants with recently adopted rules to require additional disclosures
concerning derivatives and other financial instruments.t" The required
disclosures are designed to help investors better assess the market risk
exposures of registrants involved with these instruments and better
understand how those risks are managed. The rules clarify and expand
existing requirements for financial statement footnote disclosures about
accounting policies for derivatives and require disclosures outside the
financial statements of qualitative and quantitative information about the
market risks inherent in derivatives and other financial instruments.
Segment Reporting
We issued revised rules for segment reporting to conform with changes
made by the FASB in its new standard on segment disclosures.i" The
new standard was the result ofajoint undertaking of the FASB and the
Accounting Standards Board of the Canadian Institute of Chartered
Accountants. 125

70

Earnings Per Share
During 1998, our staff issued an accounting bulletin to provide guidance
on various issues relating to the presentation of earnings per share. 126
The bulletin responded to certain revisions to the requirements for
presenting earnings per share adopted in a new FASB standard. 127
Year 2000
We issued guidance to assist registrants in complying with their disclosure
obligations involving year 2000 issues.

Oversight of Private Sector Standard Setting
FASB. The SEC monitors the structure, activity, and decisions of the
private-sector standard-setting organizations, which include the FASB.
The Commission and staff work closely with the FASB in an ongoing
effort to improve the standard-setting process, including the need to
respond to various regulatory, legislative, and business changes in a
timely and appropriate manner. This close involvement includes staff
participation on all FASB task forces formed to consider major FASB
projects.
A description of FASB activities in which the staff was involved is
provided below.
To further its long-term project to address financial instruments and offbalance sheet financing issues, the FASB issued a final standard on
accounting for derivative instruments and hedging activities.V" The
standard requires that an entity recognize all derivatives as either assets or
liabilities on the balance sheet and measure those instruments at fair value.
Certain derivative instruments may be specifically designated as a hedge if
certain restrictive conditions are met. Under the standard, the recognition
of gains and losses of a derivative depends on the intended use of the
derivative and the resulting designation. Due to the complexities
associated with derivative instruments, the FASB has formed a

71

Derivatives Implementation Group to (1) identify issues related to the
Implementation of the new standard, and (2) develop recommendations
for their resolution.
In a related action, the FASB published the first special report on the
most frequently asked questions raised on its standard on reporting of
securitizations and other financial transactions in which financial assets
are transferred in exchange for cash and other assets. 129 The report is
designed to aid understanding and implementing Statement 125 and
represents the first of several reports on questions affecting a broad range
of companies and financial institutions. 130
The FASB continued its deliberations on the accounting for business
combinations presently encompassed by Accounting Principles Board
Opinion Nos. 16, Business Combinations, and 17, Intangible Assets.
They are considering whether two separate and distinct methods of
accounting for business combinations should continue. Commentators
responded to a FASB special report, Issues Associated with the FASB
Project on Business Combinations, published to solicit comment about
the scope, direction, and conduct of the project.
The FASB' s discussions have focused primarily on accounting for
goodwill arising from a purchase business combination. The FASB is not
limiting its evaluation solely to accounting practices used in the United
States, but also is evaluating practices in accounting for goodwill
followed in other countries, such as the United Kingdom, which recently
adopted a revised approach to accounting for goodwill. Comments will
be solicited on a position paper prepared by the G4+ 1 to narrow
significant differences in the existing business combination standards
within the members' jurisdictions. J3l
The FASB began work on a research project on business reporting. This
project evolved from previous recommendations made by the AlCPA
Special Committee on Financial Reporting and the Association for
Investment Management and Research through its study, Financial
Reporting in the 1990s and Beyond. Its objectives are to:

72

•

develop recommendations for the voluntary and broad disclosure of
certain types of nonfinancial information for all or selected industries
that users of business reporting find helpful in making their investment
decisions;

•

develop recommendations for ways to coordinate generally accepted
accounting principles and SEC disclosure requirements and to reduce
redundancies; and

•

study present systems for the electronic delivery of business
information and consider the implications of technology for business
reporting in the future.

The FASB's Emerging Issues Task Force (EITF), in which our Chief
Accountant participates, continued to identify and resolve accounting
issues. During 1998, the EITF reached consensus on several significant
issues, including questions relating to accounting for financial
instruments, consolidation policies, and deferred compensation
arrangements. The objective of the process is to narrow divergent
reporting practices of public companies within the context of existing
authoritative accounting standards.

AICP A. Our accounting staff oversaw various processes and activities
conducted through the AICPA. These included (1) the Auditing
Standards Board (ASB), which establishes generally accepted auditing
standards; (2) the Accounting Standards Executive Committee (AcSEC),
which provides guidance through its issuance of statements of position
and practice bulletins; and (3) the SEC Practice Section (SECPS), which
seeks to improve the quality of audit practice by member accounting firms
that audit the financial statements of public companies.
ASB. During 1998, the ASB issued a standard to provide guidance to
auditors when performing an attestation engagement with respect to
management's discussion and analysis presentations of SEC registrants. 132
The ASB also issued guidance on agreed-upon procedures to be followed
by auditors in reporting year 2000 readiness by broker-dealers and certain
transfer agents subject to SEC reporting requirements.l" The ASB

73

issued a series of annual Audit Risk Alerts to provide auditors with an
overview of recent economic, professional, and regulatory developments
that may affect 1998 year-end audits.
AcSEC. The AcSEC issued a position statement on accounting for
internal use computer software costs, 134 reducing diversity in accounting
for such costs. A position statement also was issued on the reporting of
start-up costs. 135 The AcSEC continued to address accounting issues
involving specialized industries, dedicating resources in such areas as
motion picture accounting, insurance accounting, and revenue recognition
from software transactions.
SEeps. Two programs administered by the SECPS are designed to
ensure that the financial statements of SEC registrants are audited by
accounting firms that have adequate quality control systems. A peer
review of member firms by other accountants is required every three
years, and the Quality Control Inquiry Committee (QCIC) reviews on a
timely basis the quality control implications of litigation against member
firms that involves public company clients.
The Commission exercises oversight of the SECPS through frequent
contacts with the Public Oversight Board (POB) and members of the
Executive, SEC Regulations, Peer Review, and Quality Control Inquiry
Committees of the SECPS. During the year, our accounting staff
selected a random sample of peer reviews and evaluated selected working
papers of the peer reviewers and the related POB files. The staff also
reviewed QCIC closed case summaries and related POB oversight files.
These reviews, together with discussions with the POB and QCIC staffs,
provided us with information to assess the SECPS and QCIC processes.
This oversight showed that the peer review and QCIC processes continue
to result in member firms focusing on and achieving the important goal of
maintaining and improving effective quality control systems. To help the
profession continue to achieve that goal, the SEC staff requested the POB
to study the audit process, including an assessment of the design and
effectiveness of member firm's quality control systems. We will
cooperate with and monitor the Panel on Audit Effectiveness, which was
appointed by the POB to undertake this study.

74

ISB. During 1998, we worked closely with the ISB, a new private sector
body formed to establish independence standards applicable to audits of
public entities. The standards are expected to promote investors'
confidence in the audit process and in the securities markets. The ISB
consists of eight members. Four are public members who are not
affiliated with auditing firms, three are managing partners in auditing
firms, and one is the president of the AICPA. The Chairman of the ISB is
required to be one of the four public members. ISB standard-setting
meetings are open to the public; draft ISB standards are published for
public comment. We oversee the ISB process in the same manner as we
oversee the FASB process.
In February 1998, we issued a policy statement acknowledging the ISB as
the private sector body responsible for establishing independence
standards for auditors of public entities.F" However, as in the areas of
accounting and auditing, we retain the authority to supplement or modify
ISB standards and to pursue enforcement and disciplinary proceedings.
The ISB issued a rule proposal that would require auditors of public
companies to disclose in writing to the company's audit committee all
relationships with the company that could affect auditor independence. A
final standard, Independence Discussions with Audit Committees, was
adopted after year-end.

International Accounting and Auditing Standards
Requirements for listing or offering of securities vary from country to
country. Issuers wishing to access capital markets in more than one
country may have to comply with requirements that differ in many
respects, including accounting principles to be used in the preparation of
financial statements. The differing requirements are believed to increase
compliance costs for registrants and create inefficiencies in accessing
multiple capital markets. Also, some countries' accounting principles are
more comprehensive and result in financial statements that provide
greater transparency of underlying transactions and events than others.

75

As a result, securities regulators around the world have been working on
several projects to enhance the quality of reporting and disclosure
requirements around the world.
For the past several years, the International Accounting Standards
Committee (lAS C) has been working to complete a core set of
accounting standards for financial reporting in cross-border securities
offerings. The International Organization of Securities Commissions
(IOSCO), of which we are a member, will assess the completed set of
standards to determine whether they should be endorsed for cross-border
listings and offerings of securities.
Our accounting staff will assess the completed core standards in 1999, to
determine whether we should propose changing the current reconciliation
requirements for foreign issuers that file financial statements prepared
using IASC standards.
During 1998, the SEC staff began parallel efforts to identify auditing and
quality control issues that could affect the effectiveness of financial
statements prepared in accordance with IASC standards. Potential issues
include:
•

whether the accounting profession and firms have adequate auditing
standards, training, and technical resources to result in high quality
audits of financial statements prepared using international accounting
standards; and

•

what type of quality controls to monitor the application of auditing
standards are needed for audits on non-U.S. GAAP financial
statements (for example, a peer review function like that administered
by thePOB).

The SEC staff also has participated in discussions with the International
Auditing Practices Committee (lAPC) of the International Federation of
Accountants and has, through IOSCO, commented on some ofIAPC's
recent proposed international standards on auditing.

76

Other Litigation and Legal Activities
The Office of General Counsel provides legal services to the
Commission concerning its law enforcement, regulatory, legislative, and
adjudicatory activities. The office represents the Commission in appeals
in enforcement cases and provides technical assistance on legislative
initiatives.

Key 1998 Results
With assistance from the General Counsel, the Commission adopted a
rule clarifying the "improper professional conduct" for which accountants
can be sanctioned under SEC Rule of Practice 102(e). The Commission
also testified regarding, and the staff played a significant role in the
enactment of, the Securities Litigation Uniform Standards Act of 1998,
which was signed by President Clinton in November 1998.

Significant Litigation

Developments

Primary Violator Liability
In SEC v. US. Environmental.T' the United States Court of Appeals for
the Second Circuit ruled that a stockbroker could be liable as a primary
violator, and not just as an aider and abettor, for stock price manipulation
if he had, at the direction of the promoter of a manipulation, executed
matched orders and wash sales transactions that he knew were part of the
promoter's manipulative scheme. The court of appeals ruled that a
stockbroker could be so liable even if he did not stand to benefit
personally from the manipulative scheme (aside from receiving
commissions for executing the trades) and did not share the promoter's
purpose to manipulate the market.

77

In Klein v. Boyd, 138 the Commission filed a friend of the court brief
arguing that a person-sin this case a lawyer--who drafts a document
knowing that it contains material misrepresentations and omissions, and
who knows that the document will be given to investors, is liable as a
primary violator, even if his identity is not known to the investors. The
parties subsequently settled the case, and the appeal was dismissed.
Insider Trading
In SEC v. Adler, 139 the Court of Appeals for the Eleventh Circuit ruled
that the possession of material nonpublic information by an insider who
trades in his company's stock gives rise to a strong, but rebuttable,
inference that the insider used the information. In so ruling, the court did
not accept the position, urged by the Commission, that an insider who
trades in his company's stock while in possession of material nonpublic
information is liable for insider trading regardless of whether his trading
was based on that information.
In United States v. Smith,140 a criminal case in which the Commission had
filed a friend of the court brief, the United States Court of Appeals for the
Ninth Circuit stated in dictum that, in order for an insider to violate the
prohibition against insider trading in his company's stock, he must not
only have traded while in possession of nonpublic information but must
also have used the information in his trading. Because it was a criminal
case, the court declined to adopt an inference of use from the fact of
possession, but expressly left open whether it would do so in a civil case
brought by the Commission.
The Shingle Theory and Excessive Markups
In Banca Cremi v. Alex. Brown & Sons, Inc.,141the court of appeals, as
urged by the Commission in friend of the court briefs, held that a brokerdealer has a duty to disclose excessive markups by virtue of the "shingle
theory," under which a broker-dealer makes an implied representation of
fair dealing with customers. The court also agreed with the Commission
that whether a markup is excessive must be determined on a case-by-case

78

basis, taking into account all relevant factors. The court, however,
viewed debt securities as subject to the same 5% markup guideline
applicable to equity securities, in contrast with the Commission's position
that markups on debt securities should be significantly lower than those
on equity securities.
In Grandon v. Merrill Lynch & Co., 142 the court of appeals took judicial
notice of the Commission's briefs in the Banca Cremi case. The Second
Circuit endorsed the shingle theory, agreed with the Commission that
excessiveness of markups must be determined based on all relevant
factors in each case, and held that the absence of clear guidelines did not
preclude finding any percentage excessive in appropriate circumstances.
The court also recognized the Commission's longstanding view that
markups on debt securities should be significantly lower than those on
equity securities.
In the pending appeal in Press v. Chemical Investment Services Corp., 143
the lower court had dismissed the plaintiff's claim of a fraudulent
undisclosed excessive markup on the ground that the markup was below
3% and, in the district court's view, the Commission's decisions and
releases had established a safe harbor of3% to 3-1/2% for markups on
debt securities, below which markups as a matter of law could not be
excessive. The Commission filed a friend of the court brief in the court of
appeals, urging that there is no safe harbor percentage for excessiveness
of markups.
"In Connection With" Requirement
In Jakubowski v. SEC, 144 the court of appeals ruled in favor of the
Commission in a Commission action in which the defendant purchased
savings and loan conversion stock from the savings institutions by
misrepresenting on stock order forms that the purchasers were deposit
account holders, who had nontransferable stock subscription rights as
required by applicable banking regulations. The court rejected the
defendant's argument that the antifraud provisions of section 1O(b) of the
Securities Exchange Act of 1934 (Exchange Act) prohibit only
misrepresentations about the stock itself or the consideration paid,

79

holding that in the circumstances of this case the misrepresentations of the
purchasers' identities were "in connection with the purchase or sale" of
the stock within the meaning of section 1O(b) because they induced the
institutions to sell.
The Commission addressed the pleading standard under the Private
Securities Litigation Reform Act 1995 (Reform Act) in friend of the court
briefs filed in the pending appeals in Hoffman v. Comshare, Inc., 145 and In
re Silicon Graphics, Inc. Sec. Litig. 146 These briefs took the position that
the pleading standard did not eliminate recklessness as a basis for liability
and that courts should rely upon the Second Circuit tests in interpreting
the pleading standard of the Reform Act.
Disciplinary Standards for Accountants
In Potts v. SEC, 147 the United States Court of Appeals for the Eighth
Circuit affirmed a Commission decision disciplining an accountant for
improper professional conduct as concurring partner in an audit The
court found that substantial evidence supported the Commission's finding
that the accountant had recklessly failed to comply with the applicable
professional standards, and it rejected the accountant's assertion that
those standards were unconstitutionally vague as applied to a concurring
partner.
The Double Jeopardy Clause
In SEC v. Palmisano.r'" the United States Court of Appeals for the
Second Circuit rejected a defendant's claim under the multiple
punishment prong of the Fifth Amendment's Double Jeopardy Clause that
the Commission action for disgorgement and a civil penalty was barred by
his prior criminal conviction for the same misconduct. The court found
that neither disgorgement nor the civil penalty was punishment for
purposes of the Double Jeopardy Clause.

80

Significant Adjudication Developments
The staff submitted to the Commission 80 draft opinions and orders
resolving substantive motions. The Commission issued 47 opinions and
35 orders, and the staff resolved by delegated authority an additional 71
motions. Appeals from decisions of administrative law judges continue to
make up a high percentage of the Commission's docket.
Jurisdiction
The Commission in Morgan Stanley & Co., Inc. 149 considered whether it
has jurisdiction under the Exchange Act to consider an appeal of a
decision ofthe National Association of Securities Dealers, Inc (NASD)
to deny Morgan Stanley an exemption from a two-year prohibition
against engaging in municipal securities business in Massachusetts due to
a violation of Municipal Securities Rulemaking Board (MSRB) rule G-37
Section 19(d) of the Exchange Act authorizes Commission review of
NASD action generally if it:
•

imposes any final disciplinary sanction,

•

denies membership to any applicant,

•

prohibits or limits access to services offered by such organization, or

•

bars any person from becoming associated with a member.

The Commission concluded that, because the NASD's decision to deny
Morgan Stanley an exemption did not fall into any of these jurisdictional
categories, it was not reviewable by the Commission.
Sanctions
In VIctor Teicher, Victor Teicher & Co., L.P., & Ross S. Frankel, ISO the
Commission reaffirmed its authority under Meyer Blinder'?' to impose
collateral bars. It found that Ross S. Frankel's misconduct satisfied the
two-pronged test for imposing such a bar because it was both egregious

81

and, by its nature, flowed across the various securities professions and
posed a risk of harm to the investing public. Commissioner Isaac Hunt,
dissenting in part, stated his view that the Commission and its staff may
not seek collateral sanctions in litigated matters, and should not seek them
in settled matters.
Fraud/Sales Practices ViolationslFailure to Supervise
The Commission in LiC: Wegard & Co., Inc. & Leonard B. Greer'r'
concluded that the respondents deliberately assisted two brokerage firms
in manipulating securities. The respondents' purchases of certain
securities played a significant role in causing the price to nearly double in
10 trading days. The Commission concluded that scienter was established
by the firm's trading pattern, which was inconsistent with the legitimate
business objective of seeking a profit.
In Steven P. Sanders and Daniel M Porush, 153 the Commission upheld
NASD findings that Sanders was responsible for customers being charged
excessive and fraudulent prices, and that Porush was responsible for
deficient written supervisory procedures and a supervisory system that
failed to prevent or detect the pricing violations at issue The
Commission found that, because Stratton Oakmont dominated and
controlled the market for the underlying security, it was appropriate to
calculate Stratton's markups in the warrants based on its
contemporaneous wholesale cost In finding Porush liable for supervisory
failure, the Commission rejected his defense that, although Porush held
the title of president during the period at issue, another individual at the
firm was the actual chief executive officer. The Commission noted that
Porush executed a registration form for the firm, in which he described
himself as president, and that the record established that Porush did have
some supervisory responsibility.
The Commission remanded an administrative proceeding against D.E.
Wine Investments, Inc., W Randal Miller, Kenneth Karpf, and Duncan
Winel54 because it determined that the law judge's calculation ofD.E.
Wine's markups and markdowns conflicted with Commission precedent

82

in several respects. Specifically, the Commission found that the law
judge:
•

improperly gave a preference to trades involving D.E. Wine over
other market makers in determining the prevailing market price for
the securities at issue,

•

failed to use interdealer trades occurring after the particular retail
trade in question to determine the prevailing market price, and

•

erroneously based some of the markups on D.E. Wine's
contemporaneous costs.

The Commission also considered and rejected respondents' argument that
they were entitled to base their retail prices on quotations, in view of the
abundance of information in the record concerning interdealer trades.
The Commission remanded the case for further factual findings and a
revised analysis consistent with its opinion.
Denial of Access Claims/Market Listing Issues
In Interactive Brokers LLC, 155 the Commission set aside action of the
Pacific Exchange, Inc. (PCX) restricting the use of hand-held brokerage
order routing terminals in its options trading crowds. Hand-helds are
computer devices that can receive customer orders directly. Floor
brokers carry them onto the trading floor, speeding execution of orders.
A pilot program to use hand-helds was established by the PCX in 1995.
Subsequently, the PCX adopted a formal policy on hand-helds that
created certain restrictions. The Commission held that the PCX
restriction on Interactive's use of hand-helds was an unlawful prohibition
or limitation of access to services. The Commission found that the pilot
program, which was never submitted to the Commission for its approval
as required by the Exchange Act, was an invalid rule. Because PCX's
restriction on the use of hand-he Ids was imposed under an invalid rule,
the Commission set it aside and ordered the PCX to allow the use of
hand-helds in trading crowds.

83

Net Capital Violations
In First Colorado Financial Services Company, Inc. and Mark P.
Augustine, 156 the Commission modified and remanded NASD disciplinary
action against First Colorado Financial Services and its registered
financial and operations principal Mark P. Augustine. The Commission,
unlike the NASD, determined that First Colorado, an introducing firm
operating as a $5,000 broker, did not violate the net capital rule by
participating in the firm commitment underwriting when the firm placed
for its customer a single order for 500 shares of a company (without
soliciting the order from its customer or marketing the offering). The
Commission, however, agreed with the NASD that First Colorado,
through Augustine, had filed an inaccurate Financial and Operational
Combined Uniform Single Report. Therefore, the proceedings were
remanded for a redetermination of sanctions because it was unclear what
sanctions the NASD would have imposed for the reporting violation
alone.
Denial of Proposed Futures and Futures Options Trading on Stock
Indices Under the Commodity Exchange Act
Following a hearing conducted pursuant to the Commodity Exchange Act
(CEA), the Commission in The Chicago Board of Trade 157 denied the
applications of the Chicago Board of Trade (CBOT) to trade futures and
futures options contracts on the Dow Jones Utilities Average Index and
the Dow Jones Transportation Average Index. These applications were
the first for non-diversified stock indices received by the Commission
since 1984 Non-diversified stock indices reflect securities of issuers in
the same or similar industry. The CEA requires that the Commission find
that a non-diversified stock index reflects a substantial segment of the
market as a whole, or be comparable to such a measure, in order to allow
the CBOT to trade in these stock indices. The Commission found, based
on the totality of the circumstances and in light of its experience in
regulating the equity markets, that the Dow Jones Utilities Average Index
and Dow Jones Transportation Average Index did not satisfy the CEA's
substantial segment requirement. In addition, the Commission interpreted
the "comparable to" standard to require that the proposed index must be

84

comparable to the widely-published index both in measuring and
reflecting the segment. Accordingly, the Commission rejected the
CBOT's view that an index was comparable to a second widely-published
index if the first index's movement tracked the widely-published index's
movement. Because the proposed contracts' inability to satisfy the
substantial segment requirement was alone sufficient to deny the CBOT's
applications, the Commission did not resolve the question whether the
proposed contracts met the alternative requirement that they not be
readily susceptible to manipulation.

Legal Policy
The General Counsel's responsibilities include providing legal and policy
advice on SEC enforcement and regulatory initiatives before they are
presented to the Commission for a vote. The General Counsel also
advises the Commission on administrative law matters, and has substantial
responsibility for carrying out the Commission's legislative program,
including drafting testimony, developing the Commission's position on
pending bills in Congress, and providing technical assistance to Congress
on legislative matters.
On the regulatory front, the General Counsel played a significant role in
drafting an SEC rule clarifying the improper professional conduct for
which accountants can be sanctioned under SEC Rule of Practice 102( e)
In the administrative area, the General Counsel took a lead role in
coordinating the preparation of reports to Congress on the year 2000
readiness of the securities industry, and on several matters related to the
Small Business Regulatory Enforcement Fairness Act of 1996 In the
legislative area, the General Counsel played a significant role in the
enactment of the Securities Litigation Uniform Standards Act of 1998.

85

Significant Legislative Developments
Litigation Reform
On November 3, 1998, President Clinton signed into law S. 1260, the
Securities Litigation Uniform Standards Act of 1998. The Act preempts
class actions involving certain securities (generally, nationally traded
securities and shares of open-end mutual funds) that are brought by
private plaintiffs in state court or under state law. The Act does not
preempt actions, such as shareholder derivative suits, that relate to certain
provisions of state corporate governance law. Notably, the Uniform
Standards Act does not affect the standard of liability in federal securities
fraud actions, and its legislative history stresses the importance of liability
for reckless conduct in such actions.
•

86

In addition to its testimony regarding the impact of prior securities
litigation reform given on October 21, 1997 before the Subcommittee
on Finance and Hazardous Materials of the House Commerce
Committee, the Commission testified twice in 1998 with regard to the
House and Senate versions of the Uniform Standards Act, H.R. 1689
and S. 1260 The Commission testified regarding the Senate bill on
October 29, 1997 before the Subcommittee on Securities of the
Senate Banking Committee, and regarding the House bill on May 19,
1998 before the Subcommittee on Finance and Hazardous Materials
of the House Commerce Committee. The Commission's testimony
initially expressed concern that the bill was too broad and that the
need for further legislation to reform securities litigation was not
clearly established. Eventually, however, the Commission was able to
support the bill, based on the addition of the corporate law carve-out
and other amendments, and based on reassurances in the legislative
history that the bill was not meant to alter the intent standard for
private securities litigation that had been established by the Private
Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995, and specifically, that
liability for reckless conduct would be preserved.

Foreign Corrupt Practices Act
On November 10, 1998, President Clinton signed into law S. 2375, the
International Anti-Bribery Act of 1998, which amended the Foreign
Corrupt Practices Act of 1977 (FCP A). This statute implements the
Convention on Combating Bribery of Foreign Public Officials in
International Business Transactions, a treaty negotiated by the
Organization for Economic Cooperation and Development. The
Convention establishes standards for prohibiting bribery of foreign
officials to obtain or retain business. The International Anti-Bribery Act
adds the concept of nationality jurisdiction to the FCP A, so that the
FCPA now covers acts of United States businesses and nationals in
furtherance of unlawful payments that take place wholly outside the
United States, whether or not the transactions involve interstate
commerce. The Act also changes certain provisions of the FCP A to
conform them to the Convention by banning payments made to secure
any improper advantage, expanding the definition of covered foreign
official to include officials of public international organizations, and
subjecting both foreign and United States citizens to civil and criminal
penalties. The Commission testified in support of these changes at a
hearing on the House version ofthe bill (H.R. 4353) on September 10,
1998 before the Subcommittee on Finance and Hazardous Materials of
the House Commerce Committee.
Securities Activities of Banks
In 1998, Congress again devoted considerable attention to Glass-Steagall
reform. The leading vehicle for banking reform, H.R. 10, the Financial
Services Competitiveness Act of 1998, was the subject of extensive
negotiations between the Banking and Commerce Committees before it
passed the House by a one-vote margin in May 1998. The bill was
referred to the Senate and, after several days of hearings, reported out of
the Senate Banking Committee in September 1998. Although H.R. 10
was never scheduled for a floor vote in the Senate, Representative Leach
re-introduced the Senate Banking Committee version ofH.R. 10 (as
H.R. 4870) in the House shortly before adjournment, and he expressed

87

his intention to do so again when the 106th Congress convened in January
1999.
On June 25, 1998, the Commission testified before the Senate Banking
Committee regarding H.R. 10 and its views regarding Glass-Steagall
reform. In general, the Commission has supported Glass-Steagall reform,
provided that the resulting regulatory structure is established along
functional lines. The concept of functional regulation would require that
a bank engage in most securities activities through a registered brokerdealer, fully subject to the federal securities regulatory scheme. The
Commission has testified that this is important because banking law does
not contain specific provisions that provide for investor protection; the
Commission believes that investors who purchase securities through
banks should receive the same investor protections as those who purchase
securities from broker-dealers. Functional regulation would achieve this
result. The Commission's testimony on HR. 10:
•

supported the elimination of the bank exclusions from the federal
securities laws;

•

advocated the concept of a "two-way street" to allow equal
competitive opportunities to all financial services providers; and

•

criticized the application of bank-oriented safety and soundness
regulation to securities firms' activities, which would inhibit risktaking by securities firms affiliated with banks.

SEC-Commodity Futures Trading Commission Issues
In 1998, Congress imposed a moratorium on the Commodity Futures
Trading Commission's (CFTC's) regulation of the over-the-counter
(OTC) derivatives market, in response to a May 7, 1998 CFTC concept
release on the OTC derivatives market suggesting that the CFTC might
revisit the existence and scope of exemptions under CFTC rules for swaps
and hybrid instruments. The concept release raised concerns in the OTC
derivatives market about legal uncertainty and the validity and
enforceability of existing and future OTC derivatives contracts. Because

88

of the size and importance of the OTC derivatives market to the United
States economy, the Treasury Department, along with the Commission
and the Federal Reserve Board, sought legislative action to prevent the
CFTC from dismantling the swaps and hybrid instruments exemptions or
from imposing additional requirements on such products.
Two bills were introduced in the House to prevent the CFTC from acting
further with respect to OTC derivatives--H.R. 4062, on June 16, 1998,
and H.R. 4507, on August 6, 1998. The Commission testified in support
of the principles behind these bills at hearings on June 10, 1998 before the
House Agriculture Committee; on July 24, 1998 before the House
Banking Committee; and on July 30, 1998 before the Senate Agriculture
Committee. Ultimately, language inserted into H.R. 4328, the omnibus
spending bill passed at the end of the 105th Congress, placed a
moratorium on CFTC regulation of the OTC derivatives market until
March 30, 1999, or until the enactment of CFTC authorizing legislation.
As a result of the CFTC's concept release and the collapse of Long-Term
Capital Management, the President's Working Group on Financial
Markets is now preparing separate studies on hedge funds and the OTC
derivatives market, both of which are expected to be the subject of
congressional hearings in fiscal 1999.
Year 2000 Computer Issue

In response to an inquiry from Congressman Dingell of the House
Commerce Committee, the SEC staff submitted a report in June 1998 on
the readiness of the United States securities industry and public
companies to respond to the year 2000 computer issue, and on their
disclosure obligations regarding year 2000 issues. The Commission
testified four times in 1998 regarding year 2000 readiness and disclosure
issues--on October 22, 1997 and June 10, 1998 before the Subcommittee
on Financial Services of the Senate Banking Committee, and on July 6,
1998 and September 17, 1998 before the Senate Special Committee on
the Year 2000 Technology Problem. Congress passed S. 2392, the Year
2000 Information Disclosure Act of 1998, a bill promoted by the
Administration's Year 2000 Task Force and by industry groups, and that
was signed into law on October 19, 1998. The Act attempts to

89

encourage businesses and other entities to share information about their
year 2000 solutions by creating a safe harbor from private liability for
most statements about this information. The Act's safe harbor does not
apply to actions under the securities laws based on information contained
in SEC filings or on disclosures accompanying a solicitation of the offer
or sale of securities.
SEC Appropriations and Fees
On March 18, 1998, the Commission testified before the Subcommittee
on Commerce, Justice, and State, the Judiciary, and Related Agencies of
the House Appropriations Committee. The testimony supported the
President's 1999 budget request of $341.1 million for the Commission.
The Commission testified again in support of the Commission's budget
request on March 19, 1998 before the Subcommittee on Commerce,
Justice, and State, the Judiciary, and Related Agencies of the Senate
Appropriations Committee.
From October 1, 1998 until final signing of an omnibus appropriations bill
on October 21, 1998, the Commission operated pursuant to six
continuing resolutions, which provided the Commission with authority to
operate at its fiscal 1998 budget level. On October 21, 1998, H.R. 4328,
the Omnibus Consolidated and Emergency Supplemental Appropriations
Act of 1998, was enacted. The Act provides the SEC with $324 million
for 1998, and its legislative history states that the SEC is expected to use
an additional $6 million from its carryover funds. Separately, the SEC
also received $7.4 million in funding for year 2000 preparations. Because
of controversy over the census, which is included in the CommerceJustice-State appropriations package with the SEC, all agencies in that
package, including the SEC, are funded only though June 15, 1999. In
addition, three ultimately unsuccessful bills were introduced in 1998 to
cap SEC fee collections under section 31 of the Exchange Act--H.R.
4120, introduced June 23, 1998; H.R. 4213, introduced July 14, 1998;
and H.R. 4269, introduced July 17, 1998.

90

SEC Reauthorization
H.R. 1262, a bill reauthorizing the SEC at funding levels of $320 million
for 1998 and $342.7 million for 1999, passed the House on November
13, 1997. When the bill failed to move in the Senate, the House
Commerce Committee attached to H.R. 1689, the House version of the
Securities Litigation Uniform Standards Act, language reauthorizing the
SEC for appropriations of up to $351.3 million for 1999. This language
was preserved in conference and ultimately signed into law as part of S
1260 on November 3, 1998.
Bankruptcy
The omnibus spending bill signed into law on October 21, 1998 contained
provisions amending the Bankruptcy Code to protect the SEC's ability to
obtain asset freezes and receivers despite a bankruptcy filing by a
defendant. On March 18, 1998, our staff in the Division of Enforcement
testified in support of these provisions before the Subcommittee on
Commercial and Administrative Law of the House Judiciary Committee.
The new provisions remove any doubt that, in the context of a regulatory
proceeding, asset freezes, receiverships, and actions taken to recover
assets are unaffected by the automatic stay that follows the filing of a
debtor's bankruptcy provision. They may discourage defendants from
filing for bankruptcy as a litigation tactic.
The Public Utility Holding Company Act of 1935
In 1998, Congress continued to consider several bills to repeal the Public
Utility Holding Company Act of 1935 (PUHCA). Repeal ofPUHCA has
been stalled as Congress debates whether to simply repeal PUHCA or to
repeal it as part of more sweeping electric utility deregulation. Two bills
were introduced in 1998 to repeal PUHCA, both similar to a bill (S. 621)
that had been introduced in 1997. These were H.R. 3976, the Public
Utility Holding Company Act of 1998, introduced on May 22, 1998,
which was virtually identical to S. 621, and S. 2287, the Comprehensive
Electricity Competition Act, introduced on July 10, 1998, which linked
PUHCA repeal to reform of other aspects of the federal regulatory

91

scheme for electricity. Although the Commission was not asked to testify
regarding either of these bills, its testimony in prior years has supported
S. 621, the model for HR. 3976, but has taken no position on the broader
issues of electric utility deregulation.

Corporate Reorganizations
The Commission, as a statutory adviser in cases under Chapter 11 of the
Bankruptcy Code, seeks to assure that the interests of public investors in
companies undergoing bankruptcy reorganization are protected. During
the past year, the Commission entered a formal appearance in 36 Chapter
11 cases with significant public investor interest.
Committees
Official committees negotiate with debtors on the formulation of
reorganization plans and participate in all aspects of a Chapter 11 case.
The Bankruptcy Code provides for the appointment of official
committees for stockholders where necessary to assure adequate
representation of their interests During 1998, committees were
appointed in two cases as a result of informal discussions by our staff
with U S. Trustees, who have broad administrative responsibilities in
bankruptcy cases
Disclosure StatementslReorganization

Plans

A disclosure statement is a combination proxy and offering statement
used to solicit acceptances for a reorganization plan. During 1998, the
Commission's bankruptcy staff commented on 92 of the 130 disclosure
statements it reviewed. Recurring problems with disclosure statements
included inadequate financial information, lack of disclosure on the
issuance of unregistered securities and insider transactions, and plan
provisions that contravene the Bankruptcy Code Most of the staff's
comments to debtors or plan proponents were adopted, formal
Commission objections were filed in seven cases.

92

The Commission made successful formal objections to five plans of
reorganization that improperly attempted to release officers, directors,
and other related persons from liability. The staffwas able to obtain the
deletion of improper third party release provisions in six cases during the
disclosure statement review and comment process. This is a significant
issue for investors because in many cases debtors improperly seek to use
the bankruptcy discharge to protect officers and directors from personal
liability for various kinds of claims, including liability under the federal
securities laws.
In three cases, the Commission successfully objected to attempts to
discharge claims of creditors and sell the remaining assetless public
corporate shell. The staffwas able to prevent improper attempts to use
the debtor's public shell in four cases during the disclosure statement
review and comment process. The trafficking in public company
corporate shells-which can lead to stock market manipulation-vis
specifically prohibited by the Bankruptcy Code
Law Enforcement Matters
Bankruptcy issues frequently arise in Commission enforcement actions.
In In re Bilzenan.r" the Eleventh Circuit concluded that the district court
was correct to apply the legal doctrine of collateral estoppel (that is, to
accept the factual findings of another court and preclude relitigation of
the issue) to the Commission's $33 million securities fraud disgorgement
judgment. The court found that all of the legal requirements for
excluding a debt from discharge in bankruptcy were established by the
prior criminal and civil proceedings against Bilzerian, and directed the
bankruptcy court to enter an order holding that the Commission's fraud
claim was not discharged by Bilzerian's bankruptcy 159
In In re Cross,160 the Commission appealed a bankruptcy court order
dismissing its $6.5 million debt against Cross, which was based upon an
illegal offering of unregistered debt securities, to the Bankruptcy
Appellate Panel for the Ninth Circuit. The Commission argued that this
debt could not be discharged in Cross' bankruptcy because it was based
on his fraudulent conduct. The bankruptcy court had held that the

93

Commission lacked standing as a creditor because payment of the
Commission's claim was to be made to a court-appointed receiver. 161
The Appellate Panel agreed with the Commission's position and reversed
the bankruptcy court's decision, holding, that "as the chief enforcer of the
securities laws, the Commission should not have to depend upon the
receiver to enforce its judgments," and that "designating the receiver as
the depository was merely a procedural step done for administrative
convenience.v'f'' The panel concluded that the Commission held a valid
claim against the debtor and was entitled to argue that this claim could
not be discharged in Cross' bankruptcy.
In In re Hibbard Brown, 163 a Chapter 11 case involving a penny stock
broker-dealer, the Commission objected to confirmation of a plan that
sought to implement an unfair settlement with former registered
representatives and employees who defrauded investors of more than
$115 million. The Commission argued that the proposed contributions by
these third parties were not enough to justify a release of all claims
arising from their fraudulent activity. The bankruptcy court confirmed
the plan notwithstanding the Commission's objection.
Ethical Conduct Program
In 1998, our ethics staff responded to 1,475 counseling inquiries and
reviewed and cleared 162 speeches and articles submitted by SEC
employees. The staff assisted in the renomination process of the
Chairman.

94

Municipal Securities Initiatives
The Office of Municipal Securities provides expertise on municipal
securities matters to the Commission and its divisions, and to municipal
market participants.

Key 1998 Results
The Office of Municipal Securities devoted significant attention to alerting the
municipal market of the need to disclose material issues arising from the year
2000. The staff also continued to coordinate the agency's efforts to end payto-play practices in the municipal securities markets.

Municipal Securities Disclosure
The Office of Municipal Securities worked closely with various SEC divisions
and offices and municipal market participants on a number of important
disclosure issues. Some of those issues included'
•

the need to disclose material issues arising from the year 2000;

•

implementation of, and compliance with, amendments to rule 15c2-12,
which requires secondary market disclosure; and

•

recent SEC enforcement decisions that apply the antifraud provisions of
the federal securities laws to municipal securities.

Outreach
Our municipal securities staff met with numerous organizations representing
participants involved in the municipal finance industry. Among the
organizations were the Government Finance Officers Association, National

95

League of Cities, National Association of Counties, The Bond Market
Association, National Association of Bond Lawyers, and a variety of regional
and local municipal government educational groups. The meetings focused
on methods of improving compliance with existing regulations. The Office of
Municipal Securities acted as a point of contact for municipal bond issuers
and provided them access to the Commission.

Technical Assistance

The Office of Municipal Securities provided technical assistance to various
SEC divisions and offices on various municipal securities matters. Some of
the more significant matters included:
•

enforcement cases involving municipal securities and the municipal
securities markets (e.g., Securities and Exchange Commission v.
Rauscher Pierce Refsnes, Inc. and James R FeithamJ64 and In the
Matter of Meridian Securities Inc. et al. 165);

•

the tax exempt aspects of municipal securities, including the tax
regulations relating to situations involving potential yield burning;

•

Municipal Securities Rulemaking Board rule G-37, which prohibits payto-play practices in the municipal securities markets;

•

Municipal Securities Rulemaking Board rule G-38, which requires
disclosure regarding consulting arrangements;

•

various issues surrounding the implementation of amendments to rule
15c2-12;

•

issues pertaining to individual investors and municipal securities price
transparency; and

•

municipal bankruptcy and other municipal securities matters.

96

Economic Research and Analysis
The SEC's economtc analysis program provides the techmcal and analytical
support necessary to understand and evaluate the economic effects of
Commission regulatory policy, including the costs and benefits of
rulemaking initiatives. The staff reviews all rule proposals to assess their
potential effects on:
•

•

•
•

small businesses as required by the Regulatory Flexibility Act and
Section 502 of the Small Business Investment Incentives Act, both enacted
in 1980;
competition within the securities industry and competing securiues
markets as required by the 1975 amendments to the Securities Exchange
Act of 1934;
efficiency, competition, and capital formation pursuant to Section 106 of
the National Securities Markets Improvement Act; and
costs, prices, investment, innovation, and the economy as required by the
Small Business Regulatory Enforcement Fairness Act.

Key 1998 Results
Our economic analysis staff analyzed the performance of the two circuit
breakers triggered by the sharp decline in stock prices on October 27,
1997. The staff also provided economic advice, empirical data, and
analytical support in connection with important policy initiatives, such as
the Securities Act Reform Release, the Exchange Concept Release, and
Regulation ATS. These initiatives are designed to modernize and
streamline securities regulations.

97

Economic Analysis and Technical Assistance
Securities Offerings and Capital Formation
Our economic analysis staff provided substantial quantitative economic
evidence on a number of rulemaking projects.
•

Securities Act Reform Release. Provided economic advice and
analysis focusing on how various aspects of the proposal designed to
streamline the securities offering process could lower capital-raising
costs and enhance the availability of information to investors.

•

Shareholder Proposals. Provided extensive empirical data and
analyses in connection with proposed changes to the proxy rules,
concentrating on how the rule change could affect the number of
shareholder proposals submitted and shareholder wealth.

•

Regulation S. Analyzed the impact of new disclosure requirements
governing offshore distributions of securities, focusing on the timing
and amount of sales and the cost of raising capital under the amended
regulation.

•

Securities Act Rule 701. Analyzed 1,300 filings of Form 701 for a
five-year period and provided data on the number of companies using
the rule to issue securities to employees, consultants, and advisers
under compensatory plans or contracts, such as profit sharing and
savings plans.

Mutual Funds
Our staff provided advice and analytical support to the Division of
Investment Management in connection with the development of the
profile prospectus and methods of displaying the riskiness of funds. The
advice and technical assistance focused on ways to improve mutual fund
disclosures to help investors evaluate and compare funds.

98

Market Structure and Trading Practices
Our economic analysis staff provided data, analyses, and economic advice
to help craft policy initiatives.
•

The Exchange Concept Release and Regulation ATS. The staff
provided data, analyses, and economic advice to help the Division of
Market Regulation craft the Exchange Concept Release and
Regulation ATS. These address the need to update the regulatory
framework for exchanges and alternative trading systems (ATSs) in
response to rapid technological developments affecting the securities
markets. The advice and analysis focused on how the new display
and access requirements of Regulation ATS could enhance market
transparency, narrow bid-ask spreads, and provide investors with
opportunities for better transaction prices.

•

Report to the President's Working Group on Financial Markets. The
staff provided extensive empirical data and analytical support,
including an analysis of the performance of the two circuit breakers
triggered by the sharp decline in stock prices on October 27, 1997.
The analyses was incorporated into a report issued by the Division of
Market Regulation in September of 1998.

•

Nasdaq's Fixed Income Pricing System. The staff conducted the firstever empirical analysis of this system's bond trading data. The
analysis assessed the transparency and trading patterns of
approximately 1,350 below-investment-grade corporate bonds.

•

Regulation M. This rule, which went into effect in April 1997,
replaces the Commission's trading practice rules governing potentially
manipulative trading during a securities distribution. The staff
conducted a study of the aftermarket activities of underwriting
syndicates and provided a comprehensive review and analysis of
empirical data on underwriters' use of penalty bids and short -covering
following the completion of securities distributions.

99

•

Order Handling and Tick Size Rules. The staff analyzed the effect of
the Commission's new order handling rules and reductions in the
minimum tick size from eighths to sixteenths. The analyses examined
the impact of these events on bid-ask spreads, quotation depth, and
transaction prices relative to contemporaneous price quotations. The
analyses indicated these changes narrowed bid-ask spreads and that
investors have benefited from their ability to trade at the improved
price quotations.

Enforcement Issues
Our economic analysis staff provided assistance in investigations and
enforcement actions involving the Nasdaq market, yield burning, insider
trading, mutual fund trade allocation, market manipulation, fraudulent
financial reporting, and other violations of securities laws. The staff
applied financial economics and statistical techniques to determine
whether the elements of fraud were present and to estimate the amount of
disgorgement to be sought. They also assisted in evaluating the
testimony of experts hired by opposing parties.
Inspections and Examinations
Our economic analysis staff worked closely with the SEC's Office of
Inspections and Examinations (OCIE) to:
•

apply large sample and statistical techniques to improve the efficiency
and effectiveness of OCIE' s examinations and inspections;

•

assist in developing a system to prioritize broker-dealer examinations
based on empirical data from regulatory reports; and

•

assist OCIE in a number of its inspections involving securities
exchanges, Nasdaq market makers, electronic communications
networks, and mutual fund complexes.

100

Special Projects
In addition to working with the SEC divisions and offices, the economic
analysis staff:
•

analyzed the extent oftrading in ATSs and the accuracy of transaction
fees collected by the Commission;

•

provided assistance in connection with applications by exchanges to
trade options and swaps contracts and in conjunction with
applications for exemptions filed by public utilities; and

•

provided several offices and divisions with assistance in understanding
the economic value of complex financial instruments and transactions,
such as collateralized mortgage obligations and wrapper agreements.

101

Policy Management and Administrative Support
Our policy management and administrative support staff provide the
Commission and operating divisions with the necessary services to
accomplish the agency's mission. The responsibilities and activities
include developing and executing management policies, formulating and
communicating program policy, overseeing the allocation and
expenditure of agency funds, maintaining liaison with the Congress,
disseminating information to the press, and facilitating Commission
meetings. Administrative support services include information
technology, financial, space and facilities, and human resources
management.

Key 1998 Results
The Commission held 50 meetings in 1998, during which it considered
186 matters The Commission acted on 1,051 staff recommendations by
seriatim vote. The agency collected $1.78 billion in fees, of which $250
million was used to directly fund the agency in 1998.

Policy Management
Commission Activities
During the 50 Commission meetings held in 1998, the Commission
considered 186 matters, including the proposal and adoption of
Commission rules, enforcement actions, and other items that affect the
nation's capital markets and the economy. The Commission also acted on
1,051 staff recommendations by seriatim vote.

102

Significant Regulatory Actions
•

Adoption of requirements for plain English disclosure.

•

Adoption of measures intended to deter microcap fraud

•

Adoption of a new mutual fund disclosure document, the profile
prospectus.

•

Interpretations and rules for issuers, broker-dealers, investment
advisers, and transfer agents concerning year 2000 computer
problems.

•

Proposal on regulation of exchanges and alternative trading systems.

•

Adoption of reforms to address concerns about the shareholder
proposal process.

Management Activities
Our staff continued to promote management controls and financial
integrity and to manage the agency's audit follow-up system. In addition,
we analyzed the efficiency and effectiveness of operating divisions and
support offices and coordinated and implemented the agency's
compliance with and response to actions under the Government
Performance and Results Act of 1993, including development of the
agency's strategic plan. Working closely with other senior officials, the
office formulated the agency's budget submissions to the Office of
Management and Budget and the Congress.
Public Affairs
Our Public Affairs, Policy Evaluation and Research staff:
•

informed those interested in or affected by Commission actions of
SEC activities;

103

•

published the SEC News Digest, which provides information on rule
changes, enforcement actions against individuals or corporate entities,
administrative actions, decisions on requests for exemptions,
upcoming Commission meetings, and other events of interest;

•

provided support for the Chairman's investor education initiatives, the
SEC's Internet Web site, the agency's foreign visitors program, and
the SEC International Institute for Securities Market Development;
and

•

responded to over 50,000 requests for specific information on the
SEC or its activities and coordinated programs for 878 foreign
visitors.

Equal Employment Opportunity
Our Equal Employment Opportunity (EEO) staff monitored the SEC's
compliance with EEO laws and regulations. In an effort to establish and
maintain a discrimination-free workplace, our staff counseled employees,
mediated complaints of discrimination, and investigated complaints not
resolved through mediation. We trained managers and supervisors on
prevention of sexual harassment and upholding the EEO responsibilities
of the Commission. The SEC sponsored minority recruitment events and
programs to promote diversity and cultural awareness within the SEC and
the industry.
Freedom ofInformation

Act and Privacy Act

Our Freedom of Information Act (FOIA) and Privacy Act staff responded
to requests for access to information under FOIA, the Privacy Act, and
the Government in the Sunshine Act, and processed requests under the
agency's confidential treatment rules. In 1998, we received 3,155 FOIA
requests and appeals, 12 Privacy Act requests and appeals, 21
Government in the Sunshine Act requests, 12 government referrals, and
8,733 requests and appeals for confidential treatment.

104

Administrative Support
Financial Operations
The SEC deposited $1.78 billion in fees in the U.S. Treasury in fiscal
1998, of which $250 million was used to directly fund the agency in 1998.
Of the $1.78 billion in total fees collected, 58% were from securities
registrations; 36% were from securities transactions, and 6% were from
tender offer, merger, and other filings.
Offsetting fee collections were affected by the enactment of Title IV of
the National Securities Markets Improvement Act of 1996 (NSMIA).
Specifically, NSMIA extended the collection of existing transaction fees
to the over-the-counter market at the rate of 1/300 of 1% starting in
1997. It also increased the frequency of transaction fee collections on the
exchanges, which resulted in the collection of 20 months of transaction
fees from the exchanges in 1998 as the shift to the new schedule
occurred. Starting in 1999, all transaction fee collections will be based on
a 12-month cycle
In addition, NSMIA reduced the registration fee rate from roughly $303
per million (1/33 of 1%) in 1997 to $295 per million (1/34 of 1%) in
1998 NSMIA further reduces the registration fee rate to $278 per
million (1/36 of 1%) in 1999
Year 2000
In 1998, preparations for year 2000 compliance of our internal systems
remained our highest management priority. We completed an assessment
of all mainframe, client/server, and PC-based applications, and developed
our strategy for repairing, replacing or retiring these applications. We
continued assessing and upgrading the agency's infrastructure (including
hardware, software, and PC's) to achieve year 2000 compliance Test
plans, including independent verification and validation, were prepared
On July 1, 1998, the SEC awarded a contract to TRW for the
modernization and ongoing maintenance of the EDGAR system. The first

105

release of the three-year modernization effort was implemented in
November with major components affecting text management and the
dissemination of EDGAR filing data. The text management subsystem
allows SEC and public reference room users to retrieve and print
EDGAR filings using a new browse-based interface and Internet
technology. The new privatized dissemination system significantly
reduced the cost for subscribers who purchase and reformat the EDGAR
data.
The agency's Internet Web site provides the public with electronic access
to the EDGAR database and a wide range of other information of interest
to the investing public. The site averaged 650,000 connections and over
25 gigabytes of data downloaded each day.
Administrative and Personnel Management
This year, our staff:
•

continued efforts to migrate our in-house personnel/payroll system
and operations to the Department of the Interior;

•

met our goal of hiring 10 employees under the Welfare to Work
Program;

•

consolidated our desktop publishing, printing, publications, and mail
room operations to improve efficiency, increase automation, and
dispose of outdated equipment; and

•

conducted special recruitment efforts through organizations and
educational institutions involving minorities and persons with disabilities,
resulting in 210./0 of new hires in 1998 being minorities or persons with
disabilities.

106

ENDNOTES
SEC v. Steven Samblis, et al., Litigation ReI. No. 15609 (Jan. 6, 1998),
M.D. Fla.
2 SEC v. Jerome M Wenger, Litigation Release No. 15707 (Apr. 15,
1998), S.D.N.Y.
3 SEC v. Michael R. Milken and MC Group, Litigation ReI. No. 15654
(Feb. 26, 1998), S.D.N.Y.
4 In the Matter of Olde Discount Corp,. et al., Securities Act ReI. No.
7577 (Sept. 10, 1998).
5 SECv.
Szur, etal., Litigation ReI. No. 15595 (Dec. 18, 1997),
S.D.N.Y.
6 SEC v. Thomas Edward Cavanagh, et al., Litigation ReI. No. 15669
(March 13, 1998), S.D.N.Y
7 In the Matter of Monetta Financial Services, Inc., et aI., Securities Act
ReI. No. 7510 (Feb. 26, 1998).
8 SEC v. Sweeney Capital Management Inc., et al., Litigation ReI. No.
15664 (March 10,1998), N.D. Cal.
9 SEC v. International Heritage, Inc., et al., Litigation ReI. No. 15672
(March 17, 1998), N.D Ga.
10 SEC v. American Automation, Inc., et al., Litigation ReI. No. 15872
(Sept. 4, 1998), N.D. Tex.
11 In The Matter of KPMG Peat Marwick LLP, Exchange Act ReI. No
39400 (Dec. 4, 1997).
12 In the Matter of Sony Corp. and Sumio Sano, Exchange Act ReI. No.
40305 (Aug. 5, 1998).
13 SEC v. Sony Corp., Litigation ReI. No. 15832 (Aug 5, 1998), D D.C.
14 SEC v. One or More Unknown Purchasers of Call Options and
Common Stock of USCS International, Inc.), Litigation ReI. No 15875
(Sept. 9, 1998), S.D.N.Y.
15 SEC v. Rauscher Pierce Refsnes, Inc. and James R. Feltham,
Litigation Release No. 15613 (Jan. 8, 1998), D. Ariz.
1

107

In the Matter of Meridian Securities, Inc., et al., Securities Act ReI
No. 7525 (Apr. 23, 1998).
17 The SEC, Department ofthe Treasury, and the Federal Reserve Board
issued a "Joint Study of the Regulatory System for Government
Securities" in March 1998
III The Importance 0/ Transparency in America's Debt Market, Remarks
by SEC Chairman Arthur Levitt at the Media Studies Center, New York,
New York (Sept. 9,1998)
19 Letters regarding Instinet Real-Time Trading Service (Jan. 17, 1997),
the Island System (Jan. 17, 1997), the Bloomberg Tradebook System
(Jan. 17,1997), the TONTO System (Jan. 17, 1997), the Routing and
Execution DOT Interface Electronic Communications Network (Oct. 6,
1997), the ATTAIN System (Feb. 4, 1998), the Brass Utility System
(Apr. 21, 1998), the Strike System (Nov 13,1998), and the PIM Global
Equities Trading System (Nov. 13, 1998).
20 Release No. 39829 (Apr. 6, 1998), 63 FR 17943 (Apr. 13, 1998).
21 Release No. 34-40357 (Aug. 24, 1998),63 FR 46261 (Aug. 31, 1998).
22 Release No. 34-40361 (Aug. 25,1998),63
FR 46262 (Aug. 31,1998).
23 Release No. 34-39445 (Dec. 11, 1997), 62FR66709(Dec.
19, 1997).
24 Release No. 34-39846 (Apr. 9, 1998),63 FR 18477 (Apr. 15, 1998)
(regarding AMEX-98-09, BSE-98-06, CHX-98-08, NASD-98-27,
NYSE-98-06, and PHLX-98-15)
25 Staff Legal Bulletin NO.8 (MR) (Sept. 9, 1998).
26 Release No. 34-40377 (Aug. 27,1998),63
FR47051 (Sept. 3,1998).
27 Release Nos. 34-40162 (July 2, 1998),63 FR 37668 (July 13, 1998)
(regarding broker-dealers); 34-40163 (July 2, 1998),63 FR 37688 (July
13, 1998) (regarding transfer agents).
28 Release Nos. 34-40608 (Oct. 28, 1998), 63 FR 59208 (Nov. 3, 1998)
(regarding broker-dealers); 34-40587 (Oct. 22, 1998), 63 FR 58630
(Nov. 2, 1998) (regarding transfer agents).
29 Release No. 34-40622 (Oct. 30, 1998), 63 FR 59819 (Nov. 5, 1998)
(regarding AMEX-98-32, NASD-98-56, and NASD-98-67).
30 Press Conference by David Krell, President & CEO, ISE, Nov. 10,
1998, New York City.
31 Release No. 34-40204 ( July 15, 1998), 63 FR 39306 (July 22, 1998).
16

108

Release No. 34-40260 (July 21,1998),63 FR40748 (July 30,1998).
Release No. 34-40077 (June 8, 1998), 63 FR 32628 (June 15, 1998).
34 See Testimony of Richard R. Lindsey, Director, Division of Market
Regulation, SEC, before the House Committee on Banking and Financial
Services, dated Oct. 1, 1998.
35 Release No. 34-39670 (Feb. 25, 1998), 63 FR 9661 (Feb. 25, 1998)
36 Letter regarding Rule 15c2-11: OTC Bulletin Board: Removal ofF oreign
Equities and ADRs, dated Mar. 13, 1998.
37 Release No 34-38456 (Mar. 31, 1997) 63 FR16635 (Apr. 7, 1998).
38 Letter regarding Principal Trading and Market Making Activities in
Certain Securities on the London Stock Exchange, dated June 29, 1998
and Letter regarding Application of Rule 10b-13 During Return of
Capital Share Redemptions, dated July 22, 1998.
39 Letter regarding Exchange DistributionslBlock
Crossing Transactions,
dated Aug. 7, 1998.
40 Release No. 34-40594 (Oct 23, 1998), 63 FR 59362 (Nov. 3, 1998).
41 Letter regarding StockPower Inc., dated Mar. 26, 1998.
42 Letter regarding StockPower Inc., dated July 13, 1998
43 Letter regarding Hili Winterthur International Holdings Limited, dated
July 8, 1998.
44 Letter regarding Telecom Corporation of New Zealand Limited, dated
Feb. 20, 1998.
45 Letter regarding Technology Funding Securities Corporation, dated
May 20, 1998.
46 Letter regarding Wrap Fee Programs of Prudential Securities, Inc. and
Wexford Clearing Services Corp., dated Aug. 3, 1998.
47 Letter regarding Rule 1Ob-l O/Calculation of Yield to Maturity, dated
Aug. 24, 1998.
48 Letter regarding Intermarket Surveillance Group, dated Aug. 21, 1998.
49 Letter regarding Net Capital Treatment of Proprietary Accounts of
Introducing Brokers, dated Nov. 3, 1998.
50 Letter regarding Deficit Charges for Repurchase Transactions, dated
Apr. 1, 1998.
51 Release No. 34-40518 (Oct. 2, 1998), 63 FR 54404 (Oct. 9, 1998).
52 Release No 34-40109 (June 22,1998),63
FR 35299 (June 29, 1998).
32

33

109

Release No. 34-40479 (Sept. 24, 1998),63 FR 52782 (Oct. 1, 1998).
54 Release Nos. 34-40555
(Oct. 14, 1998), 63 FR 56670 (Oct. 22,
1998), and 34-40556 (Oct. 14, 1998), 63 FR 56957 (Oct. 23, 1998).
55 Release No. 34-39846 (Apr. 9,1998),63
FR 18477 (Apr. 15, 1998)
(regarding AMEX-98-09, BSE-98-06, CHX-98-08, NASD-98-27,
NYSE-98-06, and PHLX-98-15).
23 Release No. 34-40529 (Oct. 7,1998) 63 FR 55667 (Oct. 16, 1998)
(regarding NYSE-98-16).
57 Release No. 34-39729 (Mar 6, 1998),63 FR 12559 (Mar. 13, 1998)
(regarding NASD-97-56).
58 Release No. 34-39516 (Jan. 2, 1998),63 FR 1520 (Jan. 9, 1998)
regarding NASD-97-21).
59 Release No. 34-39883 (Apr. 17, 1998), 63 FR 20232 (Apr. 23, 1998)
(regarding NASD-97-69).
60 Release No. 34-39712 (Mar. 3, 1998),63 FR 1193 (Mar. 11, 1998)
(regarding NASD-98-03, CBOE-97-68, MSRB-98-02, and NYSE-9733). Note that the Commission approved at the same time similar
amendments to the rules ofthe CBOE, the Municipal Securities
Rulemaking Board, and the NYSE.
61 Letter from Jonathan G. Katz, Secretary, SEC, to Jean A. Webb,
Secretary, CFTC, dated Dec. 4, 1997.
62 Release No. 34-40216 (July 16, 1998).
63 7 U.S.c. S 2a(ii)(III).
64 Release Nos. 34-39326 (Nov. 14, 1997),62 FR 62385 (Nov. 21, 1997)
(regarding NASD -97-71, NASD-96-20, and NASD-96-29); 34-39759
(Mar. 6, 1998),63 FR 14153 (Mar. 24, 1998) (regarding CHX-97-36);
34-38960 (Aug. 22, 1997), 62 FR 45904 (Aug. 29, 1997) (regarding
PHLX-97-31).
65Id (Discussing committee changes in context of general corporate
governance reorganization.)
66 Release Nos. 34-40499 (Sept. 29, 1998), 63 FR 53739 (Oct. 6, 1998)
(regarding MSRB 97-9); 34-39495 (Dec. 29, 1997), 63 FR 585 (Jan. 6,
1998) (regarding MSRB 97-18); 34-40167 (July 2, 1998),63 FR 37434
(July 10, 1998) (regarding MSRB 98-10); 34-39712 (Mar. 3, 1998); 63
53

110

FR 11939 (Mar. 11, 1998) (regarding CBOE-97-68, MSRB-98-02,
NASD-98-03, and NYSE-97-33).
67 Release No. 34-40230 (July 17, 1998), 63 FR 40148 (July 27, 1998)
(regarding MSRB 97-14).
68 Release No. 34-40014 (May 20, 1998), 63 FR 29282 (May 28, 1998)
(regarding MSRB 98-1).
69 Release Nos. 34-40337 (Aug. 19, 1998), 63 FR 45544 (Aug. 26, 1998)
(regarding MSRB-98-9); 34-40349 (Aug. 20, 1998), 63 FR 45545 (Aug.
26, 1998) (regarding MSRB-98-11 ) (establishing an effective date of
Aug. 24, 1998, for the MSRB to begin operation of the Service).
70 Release No. 34-40161 (July 2, 1998),63 FR 37146 (July 9,1998).
71 Brady bonds are named after former U.S. Treasury Secretary Nicolas
Brady who developed a plan that allowed certain countries to issue
collaterized debt securities in exchange for outstanding bank loans as part
of an internationally supported debt restructuring. Typically, the
collateral would be U.S. Treasury securities; more recently, however,
some bonds have been issued without collateral.
72 Release No. IC-23064 (Mar. 13, 1998),63
FR 13916 (Mar. 23, 1998).
73 Release No. IC-23065 (Mar. 13, 1998), 63 FR 13968 (Mar. 23, 1998).
74 Release No IC-22921 (Dec. 2, 1997),62 FR 64968 (Dec. 9, 1997).
75 Release No. IC-22884 (Nov. 13, 1997),62 FR 61933 (Nov. 20, 1997)
76 Release No. IC-23325 (July 22, 1998), 63 FR 40231 (July 28, 1998).
77 Emerging Markets Growth Fund, Inc., Release Nos. IC-23433 (Sept.
11, 1998),63 FR 49717 (Sep. 17, 1998) (notice); and 23481 (Oct. 7,
1998) (order).
78 Daily Money Fund, et al., Release Nos. IC-23004 (Jan. 20, 1998), 63
FR 3933 (Jan. 27, 1998) (notice); and 23030 (Feb. 18, 1998) (order).
79 In the Matter of the Chase Manhattan Bank, NA. and Chemical Bank,
Release No. IC-23186 (May 14, 1998).
80 Europacijic Growth Fund, et al., Release Nos. IC-23307 (July 9,
1998),63 FR 38219 (July 15,1998) (notice); and 23374 (Aug. 4,1998)
(order).
81 The New Germany Fund, Inc. (pub. avail. May 8, 1998).
82 Investment Company Institute (pub. avail. Oct. 30, 1998).
83 Zurich Insurance Company (pub. avail. Aug. 31, 1998).

111

American Century Companies, Inc'!1.P. Morgan & Co. Incorporated
(pub. avail. Dec. 23, 1997).
85 Pilgrim America Prime Rate Trust (pub. avail. May 1, 1998).
86 Letter to Confidential Treatment Filers (pub. avail. June 17, 1998).
87 Investment Company Institute (pub. avail. May 14, 1998).
88 DALBAR, Inc. (pub. avail. Mar. 24, 1998).
89 Paragon Advisers, Inc. (pub. avail. Oct. 1, 1998).
90 Goodwin Procter & Hoar (pub. avail. Oct. 5, 1998).
91 Wilmer, Cutler & Pickering and Davis Polk and Wardwell (pub. avail.
Oct. 5, 1998).
92 Statement of the Commission Regarding the Use of Internet Web Sites
to Offer Securities, Solicit Securities Transactions or Advertise
Investment Services Offshore, Release Nos. IC-23071 and IA-I710 (Mar.
23, 1998),63 FR 14806 (Mar. 27, 1998).
93 Release No. IA-1732 (July 17, 1998), 63 FR 39505 (July 23, 1998).
94 Release Nos 33-7514 and IC-23066 (Mar. 13, 1998),63 FR 13988
(Mar. 23, 1998).
95 Rydex Advisor Variable Annuity Account (pub. avail. Sept. 29, 1998).
96 State Street Bank and Trust Company (pub. avail. Aug. I, 1996).
97 Massachusetts Mutual Life Insurance Company (pub. avail. Aug. 10,
1998).
98 Release No. IA-1733 (July 17, 1998), 63 FR 39708 (July 24, 1998).
84

1d.

99

Release No. IA-173I (July 15, 1998), 63 FR 39022 (July 21, 1998).
101 Staff Legal Bulletin NO.5 (CF/IM) (Jan. 12, 1998).
102 Release No. IA-1769 (Oct. 1, 1998),63 FR 54307 (Oct. 8, 1998).
103 Sempra Energy, Release Nos. 35-26711 (Apr. 25, 1997),62 FR
24141 (May 2, 1997) (notice); and 35-26890 (June 26, 1998) (order).
104 WPL Holdings, Inc., Release Nos. 35-26593 (Oct. 11, 1996),61 FR
54687 (Oct. 21, 1996) (notice); and 35-6856 (Apr. 14, 1998) (order).
105 American Electric Power Company, Release Nos. 35-26708 (Apr. 18,
1997),62 FR20024 (Apr. 24,1997) (notice); and 35-26864 (Apr. 27,
1998) (order). Cinergy Corporation, Release Nos. 35-26698 (Mar. 28,
1997),62 FR 16206 (Apr. 4, 1997) (notice); and 35-26848 (Mar. 23,
I 998) (order).
100

112

Release No. 33-7606A (Nov. 13, 1998), 63 FR 233 (Dec. 4, 1998).
107 Release No. 33-7607 (Nov. 3, 1998), 63 FR 233 (Dec. 4, 1998).
108 Release No. 33-7497 (Jan. 22, 1998), 66 SEC Docket 8.
109 Release No. 33-7380 (Jan. 14, 1997),63
SEC Docket 14.
110 Release No. 34-40678 (Nov. 13, 1998), 68 SEC Docket 10.
III Release No. 34-39538 (Jan. 12, 1998),66 SEC Docket 6.
112 Release No. 33-7516 (Mar. 23, 1998),66 SEC Docket 16.
113 Release No. 33-7505 (Feb. 17, 1998), 66 SEC Docket 11.
114 Release No. 33-7511 (Feb. 27, 1998), 66 SEC Docket 11.
115 Release No. 33-7541 (May 1, 1998),67 SEC Docket 4.
ll6 Release No. 34-40018 (May 21, 1998),67 SEC Docket 4.
117 Release No. 33-7558 (July 29, 1998),67 SEC Docket 14.
118 Release No. 33-7609 (Nov. 9, 1998),68 SEC Docket 9.
119 Release No. 33-7506 (Feb. 17, 1998), 66 SEC Docket 11.
120 Release No. 33-7472 (Oct. 24, 1997),65
SEC Docket 15.
121 Release No. 33-7550 (June 25, 1998), 67 SEC Docket 9.
122 Release No. 33-7549 (June 24, 1998),67
SEC Docket 9.
123 Release No. 33-7386 (Jan. 31,1997),63
SEC Docket 2182.
124 Financial Reporting Release No. 54 (Jan. 5, 1999), 68 SEC Docket
17.
125 Statement of Financial Accounting Standards No. 131, Disclosure
about Segments of an Enterprise and Related Information (June 1997).
126 Staff Accounting Bulletin No. 98 (Feb. 3, 1998), 66 SEC Docket
1422.
127 Statement of Financial Accounting Standards No. 128, Earnings Per
Share, (Feb. 1997).
128 Statement of Financial Accounting Standards No. 133, Accountingfor
Derivative and Similar Financial Instruments andfor Hedging Activities,
(June 1998).
129 Special Report, A Guide to Implementation
of Statement 125 on
Accounting for Transfers and Servicing of Financtal Assets and
Extinguishments of Liabilities, Questions and Answers (Sept. 1998).
130 Invitation to Comment, Methods of Accounting for Business
Combinations: Recommendations of the G4+ 1 for Achieving
Convergence (Dec. 15, 1998). The G4+ 1 includes representatives from
106

113

the accounting standards boards of Australia, Canada, New Zealand, the
United Kingdom, and the U.S. Repesentatives of the International
Accounting Standards Committee participate as observers.
131 Statement on Standards for Attestation Engagements No.8,
Management's Discussion and Analysis (June 1998).
132 Statement of Position 98-8, Engagements to Perform Year 2000
Agreed-Upon Procedures Attestation Requirements Pursuant to [Various
Securities Exchange Act Rules] (Sept. 30, 1998).
133 Statement of Position 98-8, Engagements
to Perform Year 2000
Agreed-Upon Procedures Attestation Requirements Pursuant to [Various
Securities Exchange Act Rules] (Sept. 30, 1998).
134Statement of Position 98-1, Accountingfor the Costs of Computer
Software Developed or Obtained for Internal Use (May 4, 1998).
135 Statement of Position 98-5, Reporting on the Costs of Start-up
Activities (Apr. 3, 1998).
136 Financial Reporting Release No. 50 (Feb. 18, 1998), 66 SEC Docket
1657.
137155F.3d 107 (2d Cir. 1998).
13!Nos. 97-1143, 97-1261 (3d Cir.) (en bane).
139137 F.3d 1325 (11th Cir. 1998).
14°155 F.3d 1051 (9th Cir. 1998).
141132F.3d 1017 (4th Cir. 1997).
142147F.3d 184 (2d Cir. 1998).
143No.98-7123 (2d Cir.).
144150F.3d 675 (7th Cir. 1998).
14~0. 97-2098 (6th Cir.).
14~0. 97-16240 (9th Cir.).
147151F.3d 810 (8th Cir. 1998).
148135 F.3d 860 (2d Cir. 1998).
149Morgan Stanley & Co., Inc., Exchange Act ReI. No. 34-39459 (Dec.
17, 1997),66 SEC Dcoket 351.
150Victor Teicher, Victor Teicher & Co., L.P., & Ross S. Frankel,
Exchange Act ReI. No. 34-40010 (May 20, 1998),67 SEC Docket 542,
appealfiled, No. 98-1287 (D.C. Cir. June 24, 1998).

114

151MeyerBlinder, Exchange Act ReI. No. 34-39180 (Oct. 1, 1997),65
SEC Docket 1970.
152
L.C. Wegard & Co., Inc. & Leonard B. Greer, Exchange Act ReI.
No. 34-40046 (May 29, 1998), 67 SEC Docket 814.
153Steven P. Sanders and Daniel M. Porush, Exchange Act ReI. No.
34-40600 (Oct. 26, 1998), 68 SEC Docket 982.
154D.E. Wine Investments, Inc., W. Randal Miller, Kenneth Karpf, and
Duncan Wine, Exchange Act ReI. No. 34-39517 (Jan. 6, 1998), 66
SEC Docket 763.

155Interactive Brokers UC,

Exchange Act ReI. No. 34-39765 (Mar.
17, 1998), 66 SEC Docket 2346.
156FirstColorado Financial Services and Mark P. Augustine, Exchange
Act ReI. No. 34-40436 (Sept. 14, 1998), 68 SEC Docket 24.
157The Chicago Board of Trade, Exchange Act ReI. No. 34-40216 (July
16, 1998), 67 SEC Docket 1640, appeal filed, No. 98-2923 (7th Cir.
July 31, 1998).
158Inre Bilzerian, Case No. 91-10466-8P7 (Bankr. M.D. Fla.).
159SEC v. Bilzerian, 153 F. 3d 1278 (l1th Cir. 1998).
160Inre Cross, Case No. SA-95-15228-JB (Bankr. C.D. Cal.).
161SEC v. Cross, 203 B.R. 456 (Bankr. C.D. Cal. 1996).
162SECv. Cross, 218 B. R. 76 (Bankr. 9th Cir. 1998).
163Inre Hibbard Brown & Co., Inc., Case No. 94 B 44809 (CB) (Bankr.
S.D. N.Y.).
164 Case No. CV-98-0027 PHX ROS (Ariz., Jan. 8, 1998) (amended
complaint, filed March 6, 1998); Amended Order Denying Motion to
Dismiss, 1998 V.S. Dist. LEXIS 13164 (Aug. 24, 1998).
165 Release No. 33-7525, Admin Proc. File No. 3-9582 (Apr. 23, 1998)

115

117

ENFORCEMENT
DURING FISCAL

Table
1
CASES INITIATED
BY THE COMMISSION
YEAR 1998 IN VARIOUS
PROGRAM
AREAS

(Each case initiated has been included
in only one category
listed below, even though
many cases involve multiple
allegations
and may fall under more than one category.
The number of defendants
and respondents
is noted parenthetically.)
Program Area In Which a
Civil Action or Admlnistrabve
Proceeding Was InrtJated

% of
Total
Cases

CIVil
Acbons

Admlnistrabve
Proceedings

Secunbes Offenng Cases

82 (335)

61 (129)

143 ( 464)

Broker-dealer Cases
(a) Fraud Against Customer
(b) Failure to sopervse
(c) GovemmenVMumclpal

10 ( 20)
o ( 0)

28 ( 44)
8 ( 10)

38(
64)
8 ( 10)

5
1
4
20

15
3
5
59

27)
10)
7)
98)

2O(
38)
4 ( 11)
9 ( 35)
79 ( 158)

29 ( 70)
2 ( 7)

46 ( 70)
2 ( 4)

75 ( 140)
4 ( 11)

31 ( 77)

48 ( 74)

79 ( 151)

17%

41
6
3
50

48
6
3
57

12%

secumes
(d) Books & Records
(e) Other
Total Broker-dealer Cases
Issuer Financial Statement
and Reporbng Cases
(a) Issuer Financial
Disclosure
(b) Issuer Repornng Other
Total Issuer Rnanclal Statement
and Reporbng Cases
other Regulated Errtrty Cases
(a) Investment AdVisers
(b) Investment Compames
(c) Transfer Agent
Total Other Regulated Errtrty Cases

( 11)
( 1)
( 28)
( 60)

7 ( 21)
0)
0)
7 ( 21)

o(
o(

(
(
(
(

(
(
(
(

75)
10)
5)
90)

lnsider Trading Cases

38 ( 90)

3 ( 03)

Market ManipulabOn Cases

18 (138)

12 ( 17)

Delinquent Filings
(a) Issuer Repornng
(b) Forms 3/4/5
Total Delinquent FIlings Cases

10 ( 10)
3 ( 5)
13 ( 15)

1(
6 (
7 (

Contempt Proceedings

15 ( 31)

o(

Total

( 96)
( 10)
5)
(
( 111)

41 (

30%

17%

93)

9%

30 ( 155)

6%

3)
6)
9)

11 ( 13)
9 ( 11)
2O(
24)

4%

0)

15 (

31)

3%

Fraud Against Regulated Errtrty

o(

0)

2 ( 6)

2 (

6)

.5%

Related Party Transacbon Cases

1 (

1)

1(

1)

2 (

2)

.5%

Miscellaneous

4 (

8)

3 (

5)

7 (

13)

.5%

Corporate Control Cases

o(

0)

2 ( 2)

2 (

2)

.5%

229 (776)

248 (434)

477 (1210)

100%

GRAND TOTAl

118

Table 2
FISCAL 1998 ENFORCEMENT CASES
LISTED BY PROGRAM AREA

Release No.

Name of Case
Broker-Dealer:

Books & Records

In the Matter of Russo Securities, Inc., et aI.
In the Matter of 1.W. Korth & Co., et aI.
SEC v. The Nikko Securities Co. International, Inc.
In the Matter of Nikko Securities, Co., et aI.
Broker-Dealer:
In the Matter
In the Matter
In the Matter
In the Matter
In the Matter
In the Matter
In the Matter
In the Matter

34-39312
34-40173
LR-15861
34-40375

11/7/97
7/7/98
8/17/98
8/27/98

34-39812
34-39360
34-40508
34-40366
34-40468
34-40269
34-40459
34-40309

3/27/98
11/26/97
9/30/98
8/26/98
9/24/98
7/28/98
9/23/98
8/7/98

LR-15542
34-40484
34-40174
LR-15915
34-40486
34-40068
34-40076
34-40507
LR-15655
34-39210
LR-15917
34-39848

10/24/97
9/25/98
7/7/98
9/30/98
9/28/98
6/4/98
6/5/98
9/30/98
2/26/98
10/7/97
9/23/98
4/10/98

Failure to Supervise

of George 1. Kolar
of Anthony S. Battaglia, Jr.
of 1. David Glover, Jr.
of Dean Witter Reynolds, Inc., et aI.
of Joseph W. Pellechia
ofPFS Investments, Inc.
of NYLIFE Securities
of Cesar A. Montilla

Broker-Dealer:

Date Filed

Fraud Against Customer

SEC v. David Scott Heredia
In the Matter of John W. Gillette, Jr.
In the Matter of Heman Jose Perez
SEC v. Rita K. Savla
In the Matter of Timothy B. Daley
In the Matter of Charles Meizoso
In the Matter of Michael Cardascia
In the Matter of Craig Leibold, et aI.
SEC v. Robert Tommassello, et aI.
In the Matter of Brent Duane Green
SEC v. Luis Bulas, If.
In the Matter of Jamie Charles Spangler

119

Date Filed

Name of Case

Release No.

In the Matter of David W. D'Andrea
SEC v. Chimneyvile Investments Group, et al.
In the Matter of Thomas Anthony Calise
In the Matter of Jeoffrey A. Egan
In the Matter of John T. Fortier
In the Matter of Joseph Miceh, Jr.
In the Matter of Robert 1. Meledandria, Jr.
In the Matter of Ted C. Beattie, et al.
In the Matter of Mark David Anderson
In the Matter of Dean McDermott, et al.
In the Matter of Thomas F. Ferris
SEC v. James Frith, et al.
In the Matter of John von der Lieth, ill, et al.
In the Matter of Eugene McCloskey
In the Matter of David Walter Connochie
In the Matter of Eric S. Blumen, et al.
In the Matter ofH.1. Meyers & Co., Inc., et aI.
SEC v. Edward 1. Paradis, Jr., et al.
In the Matter of Robert Putnam
In the Matter of Kerrigan Sean Weber
SEC v. Bing Sung
SEC v. Larry K. O'Dell
In the Matter of Olde Discount Corp., et al.
In the Matter of Jean M. Yawn
SEC v. Heman Jose Perez
In the Matter of Ted E. Mong

34-40060
LR-15867
34-39795
34-40322
34-40460
34-40061
34-40477
34-40480
34-39399
33-7502
34-39918
LR-15581
34-40471
34-40067
34-39993
34-39375
34-40510
LR-15706
34-39986
34-39508
LR-15916
LR-15858
34-40423
34-39961
LR-15544
34-40093

6/3/98
8/31/98
3/25/98
8/13/98
9/23/98
6/3/98
9/24/98
9/25/98
12/4/97
1/30/98
4/27/98
12/5/97
9/24/98
6/4/98
5/14/98
12/1/97
9/30/98
4/14/98
5/13/98
12/31/97
9/30/98
8/24/98
9/10/98
5/6/98
10/10/97
6/15/98

34-40450

9/18/98

LR-15565
34-39388
34-39912
34-40376
LR-15569

11/20/97
12/3/97
4/23/98
8/27/98
11/21/97

Broker-Dealer:

Government Securities

In the Matter of Brian M. Cohen

Broker-Dealer:

Municipal Securities

SEC v. Richard P. Poirier, Jr., et al.
In the Matter of Lazard Freres & Co. LLC
In the Matter of Steven T. Snyder
In the Matter of Wheat, First Securities, Inc.
SEC v. Steven Strauss
120

Name of Case

Release No.

Date Filed

In the Matter of City of Moorehead Mississippi
In the Matter of James E. Eaton
SEC v. Dain Rauscher, Inc., et al.
In the Matter of Oliver Williams
In the Matter of Merrill Lynch Pierce
Fenner & Smith Inc.
In the Matter of County of Nevada, et al.
In the Matter of Armscott Securities, LTD
SEC v. James Pannone and Sakura Global CapitaI
In the Matter of Freeman B. Irby, III
SEC v. Rauscher Pierce Refsnes, Inc., et al
In the Matter of Pacific Matrix Financial Group, Inc.
In the Matter of Credit Suisse First Boston
Corp., et al.
In the Matter of Meridian Securities, Inc., et al
In the Matter of Howe Solomon and Hall, et aI.

34-40478
34-39515
LR-15829
34-40347

9/24/98
1/2/98
8/3/98
8/20/98

34-40352
34-39612
34-39398
LR-15630
34-39362
LR-15613
34-39600

8/24/98
2/2/98
12/4/97
2/4/98
11/26/97
1/8/98
1/30/98

34-39595
34-39905
34-40038

1/29/98
4/23/98
5/28/98

LR-15653
LR-15638
LR-15654
LR-15609
34-39277
34-40501
34-39807
34-39968
34-39947

2/25/98
12/19/97
2/26/98
1/6/98
10/24/97
9/30/98
3/26/98
5/8/98
5/4/98

NONE
NONE
NONE
NONE

3/30/98
2/9/98
8/6/98
5/14/98

Broker-Dealer: Other
SEC v. The Oakford Corporation, et al
SEC v. Nicholas A. Zahareas, et al.
SEC v. Michael R. Milken, et aI.
SEC v. Steven Samblis, et al.
In the Matter of Richard G. Strauss
In the Matter of Allen Weinstein
In the Matter of Jerry G. Allison
In the Matter of Paul I. Comi
In the Matter of Nations Securities, et al.

Contempt-Civil
SEC
SEC
SEC
SEC

v. David A. Colvin
v. Michael Carnicle, et al.
v. David A. Colvin
v. Club Atlanta Travel, et aI.

121

Name of Case

Release No.

SEC
SEC
SEC
SEC
SEC
SEC
SEC
SEC
SEC
SEC
SEC

NONE
NONE
NONE
NONE
NONE
NONE
LR-15643
NONE
LR-15582
LR-15930
NONE

1/13/98
9/30/98
9/2/98
3/31/98
2/13/98
12/18/97
2/18/98
9/30/98
1/16/98
8/28/98
9/17/98

34-40130
NONE

6/25/98
5/18/98

34-40362
34-40127
34-40128
LR-15642
34-40346
34-39464
LR-15854
34-39463
LR-15658

8/25/98
6/25/98
6/25/98
2/17/98
8/20/98
12/18/97
8/19/98
12/18/97
3/3/98

LR-15575
NONE
LR-15831

11/28/97
5/26/98
8/4/98

v.
v.
v.
v.
v.
v.
v.
v.
v.
v.
v.

Dimples Group, Inc.
Jamie Edelkind
Gilboa Peretz, et al.
Robert D. Wyatt
First Zurich National USA, LLC, et al.
Maureen Schouman
Environmental Chemicals Group, Inc., et al.
Edelkind
Sidney W. Sers
John M. Toal
The Barr Financial Group, Inc., et al.

Date Filed

Corporate Control: Tender Offers
In the Matter of WHX Corporation
In the Matter of Bisco Industries, Inc.
,,
"

:
,

Delinquent Filings: Forms 3/4/5
In the Matter of Jacqueline Badger Mars
In the Matter of Jayne Kathryn Rand
In the Matter of James D. Scott
SEC v. Robert Foisie
In the Matter of David L. Chandler
In the Matter of Graham F. Lacey
SEC v. David L. Chandler
In the Matter of Alan R. Mishkin
SEC v. Kuslima Shogen, et al.

Delinquent Filings: Issuer Reporting
SEC v. Xavier Corp.
SEC v. Equisure, Inc.
SEC v. Chancellor Group, Inc.

122

Date Filed

Name of Case

Release No.

SEC v. Quadratech, Inc.
SEC v. LRG Restaurant Group, Inc.
SEC v. Inamed Corp.
SEC v. Viking Resources
SEC v. Holly Holdings, Inc.
SEC v. Integrated Waste Services, Inc.
SEC v. Safetech Industries, Inc.
In the Matter of Kuslima Shogen, et aI.

LR-15745
LR-15744
LR-15647
LR-15584
LR-15593
LR-15570
LR-15887
34-39710

5/15/98
5/15/98
2/18/98
12/9/97
12/17/97
11/20/97
9/18/98
3/3/98

34-40466
34-40444

9/23/98
9/16/98

LR-15928
LR-15666
LR-15641
LR-15783
LR-15799
LR-15788
LR-15708
LR-15785
LR-15721
LR-15549
LR-15756
LR-15625
LR-15965
LR-15754
LR-15875
LR-15779
LR-15697
34-40168
34-40425

9/24/98
3/11/98
1/13/98
6/17/98
7/6/98
5/21/98
4/16/98
6/17/98
4/24/98
11/4/97
5/26/98
1/22/98
4/1/98
5/29/98
9/8/98
6/11/98
4/7/98
7/6/98
9/10/98

Fraud Against Regulated Entity
In the Matter of Sean P. Brennan, et aI.
In the Matter of Stanley Berk, et aI.
Insider Trading
SEC v. Hamilton Richardson Duncan, Jr.
SEC v. Roger H. Licht, et aI.
SEC v. S. Jim Farha
SEC v. Changnian Liu
SEC v. Frank 1. Papson
SEC v. Terry Shilling
SEC v. Robert G. Scott, Jr.
SEC v. My Dang
SEC v. Greg E. Skudlarick
SEC v. Andrew S. Lane, et aI.
SEC v. Herbert Lawson
SEC v. William M. Fromm
SEC v. Arjun Sekhri, et aI.
SEC v. William Lockwood
SEC v. One or More Unkown Purchasers
SEC v. Craig Ryan Spradling
SEC v. Guoping Wu, et aI.
In the Matter of My Dang
In the Matter of Andrew Paul Tomasko

123

Date Filed

Name of Case

Release No.

SEC v. Lloyd Myers, et aI.
SEC v. James R. Beers
SEC v. Cosmos Anastassiou, et aI.
In the Matter of Mark Muenster
SEC v. James Bowman, et aI.
SEC v. HaIton Technologies, LTD
SEC v. Ellison C. Morgan, et aI.
SEC v. Alejandro C Zaffaroni, et aI.
SEC v. Alan M. Stricoff, et aI.
SEC v. Daniel Lambert, et aI.
SEC v. Scott Evans, et aI.
SEC v. Bharat Koetcha, et aI.
SEC v. Terri R. Scott
SEC v. Heidi Flannery
SEC v. Mitchell Sher
SEC v. Roger D. Wyatt, et aI.
SEC v. Anindya N. Bakrie
SEC v. Benjamin Goldfield, et aI.
SEC v. Brad E. Hollinger
SEC v Miko Leung, et aI.
SEC v. Myles R. Wren
SEC v. Brent Gale, et aI.

LR-1591O
LR-15823
LR-15840
34-40078
LR-15914
LR-15893
LR-15920
LR-15843
LR-15551
LR-15924
LR-15648
LR-15765
LR-15913
LR-15768
LR-15741
LR-15676
LR-15834
LR-15678
LR-15736
LR-15631
LR-15860
LR-15769

9/28/98
7/30/98
8/11/98
6/8/98
9/30/98
9/18/98
9/30/98
8/12/98
1115/97
9/29/98
2/19/98
6/3/98
9/29/98
6/4/98
5/15/98
5/27/98
8/6/98
3/19/98
5/12/98
1/29/98
8/27/98
6/4/98

IA-1758
IA-1677
IA-1744

9/25/98
10/7/97
8/13/98

IA-1754
IA-1747

9/23/98
8/19/98

IA-l711

3/27/98

IA-1724
IA-1764

5/28/98
9/29/98

Investment Adviser
In the Matter of Pankowski Assoc., et aI.
In the Matter of Mark E. Gatch
In the Matter of Charles E. Duquette
In the Matter of CS First Boston
Investment Mgmt. Corp.
In the Matter of William 1. Ferry
In the Matter of Feeley & Wilcox Asset
Management Corp., et aI.
In the Matter of Cowan Asset Management,
Inc., et aI.
In the Matter ofProfitek, Inc., et al.

124

Name of Case

Release No.

Date Filed

In the Matter of Eugene Bilotti
In the Matter of Robert Hardy
In the Matter of Finarc, LLC, et al.
In the Matter of John 1. Kenny, et al.
In the Matter of Donna L. Snyder
In the Matter of Rothschild Investment Corp.
In the Matter of Nicholas-Applegate
Capital Management
In the Matter of Renaissance Capital
Advisors, Inc., et al.
In the Matter of Steven L. Down
In the Matter of Terry O. Clifford
SEC v. Timothy 1. Lyons
In the Matter of Brian D. Schrauger, et al.
In the Matter of American Growth Capital Corp.
In the Matter of Brack Stanford, et al.
In the Matter of Scott S. Bell, et al.
In the Matter of Reservoir Capital
Management Inc., et al.
In the Matter of John Gardner Black, et al.
In the Matter of Paul 1. Jackson
In the Matter of Emanual Lagpacan
SEC v. RCS Financial Services, et al.
SEC v. John W. Gillette, Jr.
SEC v. Steven Schaefer, et al.
In the Matter of Piper Capital Mngmt., et al.
In the Matter ofRupay-Barrington
Services, Inc., et al.
SEC v. Sanjay Saxena & Mumtaz Saxena
In the Matter of Monetta Financial Services,
Inc., et al.
In the Matter of Hugh P. Gee
In the Matter of A. Morgan Maree, Jr., et al.
SEC v. Barr Financial Group, Inc., et al.
SEC v. Sweeney Capital Managaement, Inc., et al.
Inthe Matter of Seaboard Investment Adviser,
Inc., et al.

IA-1689
lA-I 703
lA-I 763
1A-1723
lA-I 745
1A-1714

12/23/97
2/27/98
9/29/98
5/28/98
8/13/98
4/13/98

lA-I 741

8/12/98

1A-1688
1A-17l5
1A-1676
LR-15842
1A-1695
IA-1743
IA-1734
1A-1707

12/22/97
4/13/98
10/6/97
8/12/98
1/20/98
8/13/98
7/17/98
3/13/98

1A-17l7
1A-1720
1A-1762
1A-1725
NONE
LR-15812
LR-15886
1A-1737

4/24/98
5/4/98
9/29/98
6/12/98
5/5/98
7/10/98
3/27/98
7/28/98

lA-I 761
LR-15889

9/28/98
9/18/98

lA-I 702
lA-I 698
1A-17l8
LR-15932
LR-15664

2/26/98
1/29/98
12/4/97
9/3/98
3/10/98

1A-1757

9/25/98

125

Date Filed

Name of Case

Release No.

In the Matter of Nicholas C. Bogard
In the Matter of Thomas O'Connell
In the Matter of Geoffrey Paul Adams
In the Matter of George E. Brooks, et al.
In the Matter of Bell Capital Management, et al.
In the Matter of ABN AMRO-NSM International
Funds Management
In the Matter of Rhumbline Advisers, et al.
In the Matter of Ellen Griggs
In the Matter of Bradbury Financial
Group, Inc., et al.

IA-1756
IA-1770
IA-l708
IA-1719
IA-1768

9/23/98
4/8/98
3/16/98
4/27/98
9/30/98

IA-1767
IA-1765
IA-1750

9/30/98
9/29/98
9/14/98

IA-1680

10/27/97

IC-23229
IC-23468
IC-23470
IC-23469
IC-23131
IC-23434

6/1/98
9/28/98
9/28/98
9/28/98
4/28/98
9/14/98

AAER-I037
AAER-I030
AAER-I067
AAER-I027
AAER-I018
AAER-I043
AAER-I063
LR-15802
AAER-I082
AAER-I064
AAER-I059
AAER-993
AAER-I052
AAER-I015

5/18/98
4/30/98
8/19/98
4/27/98
3/25/98
6/8/98
5/13/98
7/8/98
9/29/98
8/12/98
7/31/98
12/4/97
7/8/98
3/10/98

Investment Company
In
In
In
In
In
In

the
the
the
the
the
the

Matter
Matter
Matter
Matter
Matter
Matter

of Stephen G. Calandrella, et al.
of Bryon G. Borgardt, et al.
of Concord Growth Corp.
of Reid Rutherford
ofR. James Brower
of Stephen H. Brown

Issuer Financial Disclosure
In the Matter of Richard Valade
In the Matter of Leslie Danish, CPA
In the Matter of Frank Palumbo, CPA
In the Matter of Albert Glenn Yesner, CPA
In the Matter of Joy Lynn Schneider Green
SEC v. Global Timber Corp.
SEC v. Paul R. Safronchik, et al.
SEC v. Latin American Resources, Inc., et al.
In the Matter of Donna Laubscher, CPA, et al.
In the Matter of Paul E. Niezel, CPA
In the Matter of Maria Mei Wenner, CPA
SEC v. Peter T. Caserta, et al.
In the Matter of Charles T. Young, CPA
In the Matter of Jerry Stone

126

Name of Case

Release No.

Date Filed

In the Matter of Vena tor Group, Inc., et al.

AAER-I049
AAER-I033
AAER-I038
AAER-1045
AAER-I028
AAER-I017
AAER-I019
AAER-I0l1
AAER-I016
AAER-I050
AAER-I013
AAER-I047
AAER-I013
AAER-I031
AAER-994
AAER-992
AAER-988
AAER-I003
AAER-990
AAER-I053
AAER-I020
AAER-I077
AAER-I00l
AAER-I034
AAER-997
AAER-981
AAER-I072
AAER-I073
AAER-I062
AAER-I044
AAER-I057
AAER-I048
AAER-I058
AAER-I071

6/29/98
5/4/98
5/22/98
6/17/98
4/27/98
3/25/98
3/25/98
1/30/98
3/19/98
7/6/98
3/4/98
6/22/98
3/4/98
5/4/98
12/4/97
12/1/97
11/17/97
12/31/97
11/25/97
3/25/98
9/17/98
12/22/97
5/12/98
12/22/97
10/30/97
9/9/98
9/9/98
8/5/98
6/17/98
7/30/98
6/29/98
7/30/98
9/3/98

AAER-I076
AAER-I061
AAER-977

9/17/98
8/5/98
10/6/97

SEC v. Arthur Toll, et al.
In the Matter of Jeffrey M. Steinberg and John Geron
SEC v. Guy Marcel De Vreese
In the Matter of Joseph Sanfellipo
In the Matter of Sensormatic Electronics Corp.
In the Matter of Thomas H. Pike
SEC v. James Patrick Kittler
SEC v. Raymond E. Simmons
In the Matter of Frank 1. Cooney
SEC v. Robert B. Peltz
In the Matter of Paul Safronchick, CPA
SEC v. Sol Greenbaum, et al.
In the Matter of William D. Tetsworth, Jr.
In the Matter ofKPMG Peat Marwick LLP
In the Matter of Robert Gossett, et al.
SEC v. John Logan
In the Matter of Oliver G. Richard III, et al.
SEC v. Healthtec International, Inc.
SEC v. Paul Jain
SEC v. Ronald G. Assaf, et al.
SEC v. Thomas F. Casey
SEC v. Robert Howard, et al.
In the Matter of Pepsi Cola Puerto Rico Bottling Co.
In the Matter of Presstek, Inc.
SEC v. Bond Dellapp Fletcher, et al.
In the Matter of Steven M. Scarano, CPA
In the Matter of Charles Lipton, CPA
In the Matter of Sony Corp., et al.
In the Matter of Thomas D. Leaper, CPA, et al.
In the Matter of Barbara 1. Cavallo
SEC v. Charles T. Young, et al.
SEC v. Ronald 1. Hottovy, et al.
SEC v. Jui-Teng Lin, et al.
In the Matter of Audre Recognition Systems,
Inc., et al.
SEC v. Sony Corporation & Sumio Sano
SEC v. James G. Hanley

7/8/98

127

Name of Case

Release No.

Date Filed

In the Matter of James Bogner
SEC v. Joseph Dimauro, et aI.
In the Matter of Corrpro Companies, Inc., et aI.
In the Matter of Erick A. Gray
In the Matter of Gaston E. Oxman
In the Matter of Ivor R. Ellul, et aI.
In the Matter of Pinnacle Micro Inc., et aI.
SEC v. Eugene McCloskey, et aI.
In the Matter of Kenneth O'NeaI, et aI.
In the Matter of Ermin Ianacone, et aI
In the Matter of New Jersey Resources Corp., et
SEC v. William P. Trainor, et aI.
In the Matter of Paul Mount
In the Matter of Warren 1. Christensen, et aI.
In the Matter of Michael W. Crow
In the Matter of Lee PharmaceuticaIs, et aI.
SEC v. Steven 1. Henke, et aI.
SEC v. Sanjeev "Tony" Sachdeva, et aI.
In the Matter of James A. Terrano, et aI.
SEC v. Russell C. Faust
In the Matter of Lawrence 1. Simmons, CPA
In the Matter of Stephen P. Morrin, CPA
SEC v. DonaId F errarini, et aI.
In the Matter of Peter F. Kuebler, CPA

AAER-978
AAER-1075
AAER-1080
AAER-1050
AAER-1050
AAER-1056
AAER-975
AAER-1040
AAER-983
AAER-987
AAER-1002
AAER-1065
AAER-1010
AAER-1039
AAER-I025
AAER-1023
AAER-1083
AAER-996
AAER-999
AAER-1006
AAER-1024
AAER-991
AAER-1008
AAER-1060

10/10/97
9/9/98
9/24/98
7/6/98
7/6/98
7/30/98
10/3/97
6/4/98
11/7/97
11/17/97
12/31/97
8/21/98
1/30/98
5/27/98
4/22/98
4/9/98
9/30/98
12/18/97
12/23/97
1120/98
4/20/98
12/1/97
1129/98
3/25/98

34-40697
LR-15817
LR-15826
34-40281

12/23/97
7/20/98
7/30/98
7/30/98

34-40494
34-39596
LR-15595

9/29/98
1/29/98
12118/97

aI.

Issuer Reporting: Other
In the Matter of Thomas F ehn
SEC v. Solv-Ex Corp., et aI.
SEC v. Sam D. Schwartz, et aI.
In the Matter ofIncomnet, Inc.

Market Manipulation
In the Matter of Mike Zaman
In the Matter of Ronald W. Driol
SEC v. Joseph Pignatiello, et aI., 97-9303

128

Name of Case

Release No

SEC v. Douglas G. McCaskey, et aI.
SEC v. Bio-Tech Industries, Inc., et aI.
SEC v. Jerome M. Wenger
SEC v. Barclay Davis & World Syndicators, Inc.
SEC v. Thomas Edward Cavanagh, et aI.
In the Matter ofIan Fishman, et aI.
SEC v. Sheldon Kraft
SEC v. Mohamed Khairy Mohamed Zayed IT, et aI.
SEC v. Jeffrey Szur, et aI.
SEC v. International Automated Systems, Inc., et aI.
In the Matter of Texas Vanguard Oil, et aI.
SEC v. Leonard Alexander Ruge, et aI.
SEC v. Andrew Scudiero, et aI.
In the Matter of Sheldon Kraft
In the Matter of Douglas 1. Elliott
In the Matter ofIrwin Frankel
SEC v. Technigen Corp., et aI.
SEC v. Michelle Sotnikow
In the Matter of Rosario Russell Ruggiero
SEC v. Waldron & Co., Inc., et aI.
In the Matter of John Marsala
In the Matter of Eugene Laff, et aI.
In the Matter of Raymond R. Newberg
SEC v. Rafi M. Khan, et aI.
SEC v. Paul Montie, et aI.
SEC v. George Badger, et aI.
In the Matter of Douglas C. Selander

LR-15865
LR-15900
LR-15707
LR-15600
LR-15669
34-40115
LR-15617
LR-15907
LR-15595
LR-15898
34-39757
LR-15595
LR-15595
34-39579
34-40043
34-40504
LR-15723
LR-15888
34-40259
LR-15897
34-40503
34-40256
34-40464
LR-15827
LR-15739
LR-15595
34-40502

9/1/98
9/24/98
4/15/98
12/22/97
3/13/98
6/24/98
1/14/98
9/23/98
12/18/97
9/23/98
3/16/98
12/18/97
12/18/97
1/26/98
5/29/98
9/30/98
4/27/98
9/18/98
7/23/98
9/23/98
9/30/98
7/23/98
9/23/98
7/30/98
5/14/98
12/18/97
9/30/98

LR-15718
34-40307
34-40505
LR-15921
LR-15859
34-40125
LR-15674

4/21/98
8/6/98
9/30/98
9/30/98
8/3/98
6/25/98
3/17/98

Date Filed

Miscellaneous
SEC v. New Era Technologies International, Inc.
In the Matter of Spacedev, Inc., et aI.
In the Matter of James W. Nearen
SEC v. Intercontinental Resources, et aI.
SEC v. David Bednarsh
In the Matter of Frank Berger, et aI.
SEC v. Michael Cardascia, et aI.

129

Name of Case

Release No

Date Filed

Offering Violations
SEC v. Grady A. Sanders, et al.
SEC v. Accelerated Funding Mortgage Corp., et al.
In the Matter of James Ray Ross
SEC v. Internet Casino Sports Gaming LLC, et al.
SEC v. Uniglobe Trading Company, Inc., et al.
SEC v. Green Oasis Environmental, et al.
In the Matter of Jon Mark Stewart
SEC v. Hollywood Trenz, Inc., et al.
SEC v. Patrick Antrim, et al.
SEC v. Mark A. Osheroff, et al.
SEC v. Bruce Baumann
SEC v. Scott L. Klion, et al.
SEC v. Association of Individual Ministries, et al.
SEC v. Austria Trust Company, Ltd., et al.
SEC v. Michael D. Richmond, et al.
In the Matter of Timothy 1. Brannon
In the Matter of Robert M. Marcus
In the Matter of Joseph P. Medsker, et al.
SEC v. Daniel T. Todt, et ak
SEC v. Teddy Wayne Solomon, et al.
SEC v. Golden Eagle International, et al.
SEC v. George Wallace Stewart, et al.
In the Matter of Michael Graber
In the Matter of Craig Curtis Peterson
SEC v. American Internet Partners, Inc.
In the Matter of AmeriVision Communications,
Inc., et al.
In the Matter of Robert G. Bettiga
In the Matter of Susan L. Henry
SEC v. David Morgenstern, et al.
In the Matter of Coahoma County, et al.
In the Matter of Frank P. Zitkevitz
SEC v. vn Visionary Investments, Inc., et al.
SEC v. First Zurich National, LLC, et al.
In the Matter of Betty Ann Rubin

130

9/30/98
5/19/98
6/26/98
8/10/98
11/21/97

NONE
LR-15751
34-40134
LR-15845
LR-15568
LR-15864
34-40296
LR-15730
NONE
LR-15719
LR-15755
LR-15766
LR-15805
LR-15728
LR-15813
34-39949
34-40056
NONE
LR-15775
LR-15880
LR-15733
LR-15705
34-39425
34-39427
LR-15640

8/3/98
5/4/98
6/23/98
4/23/98
5/21/98
6/3/98
7/9/98
4/23/98
7/15/98
5/4/98
6/2/98
12/18/97
6/5/98
1115/97
5/7/98
4/14/98
12/11/97
12/11/97
2/11/98

34-40282
34-40184
34-40183
LR-15902
34-40194
34-40313
LR-15904
LR-15639
34-40116

7/30/98
7/9/98
7/9/98
9/23/98
7/13/98
8/10/98
9/23/98
2/2/98
6/24/98

711/98

Name of Case

Release No.

SEC v. Trinity Gas Corp., et al.
SEC v. Michael D. Jenkins, et al.
SEC v. International Capital Management, Inc., et al.
SEC v. Derryl W. Peden
In the Matter of Global Casinos, Inc., et al.
SEC v. Omnigene Development, Inc., et al.
SEC v. Christian Schindler, et al.
SEC v. Jerald F. Albin, et al.
SEC v. Medco, Inc., et al.
In the Matter of Anthony Lollis
In the Matter of Kenneth Alan Larson
In the Matter of Innovative Consulting Services,
Inc., et al.
In the Matter of David Freitag
SEC v. Scott B. Walker, et al.
In the Matter ofBret L. Boteler
SEC v. Larry C. Talley, SR
SEC v. Paramount Capital Management, Inc.
SEC v. Kellin Investment Corp., et al.
SEC v. Shane T. Vaessen, et al.
SEC v. City Services Corp., et al.
SEC v. Appalachian Investment Corp., et al.
In the Matter of Meda Belle McKinney
In the Matter of Lawrence A. Krause, et al.
SEC v. Mamie Tang, et al.
In the Matter of Gilbert Mintz, et al.
In the Matter of Erik W. Chan
In the Matter of City of Anaheim, et al.
In the Matter of Newport-Mesa
Unified School District
In the Matter of Christopher M. Pedersen
In the Matter of Rudy Crosswell, et al.
In the Matter ofPrirne Advisors, Inc., et al.

LR-15588
LR-15841
LR-15922
LR-15807
34-40469
LR-15899
LR-15684
LR-15881
LR-15539
34-39428
34-39426

12/l 0/97
8/12/98
9/30/98
7/13/98
9/24/98
9/23/98
2/26/98
9/ll/98
10/8/97
12/1l/97
12/ll/97

34-40452
34-40462
LR-15869
34-39533
LR-15925
NONE
LR-15866
LR-15911
LR-15687
LR-15879
34-40453
34-39226
LR-15912
34-40417
34-40416
33-7590

9/22/98
9/23/98
9/2/98
l/9/98
9/30/98
11/l8/97
9/l/98
9/24/98
3/l6/98
9/l0/98
9/22/98
10/9/97
9/28/98
9/9/98
9/9/98
9/29/98

33-7589
34-40131
34-40265
34-40292

9/29/98
6/25/98
7/27/98
7/3l/98

Date Filed

131

Name of Case

Release No.

Date Filed

In the Matter of Brent W. Berry
In the Matter of Ronald G. Bajorek
SEC v. United Energy Partners, Inc., et al
In the Matter of Paul L. Nieto
In the Matter of James D. Rocco
SEC v. Autocorp Equities, Inc., et al.
SEC v. Marshall Neil Craig Ronald, et al.
SEC v Certain United Investment Trusts, et al
SEC v. Michael A. Todd, et al.
SEC v. Commercial Express, et al.
In the Matter of Charles O. Huttoe
In the Matter of David T. Barr
SEC v. Titan Petroleum Corp., et al.
SEC v. Steven M. Scarano
In the Matter of Schneider Securities Inc., et aI.
SEC v. Rynell & Assoc , Inc., et al.
SEC v CaIvin Douglas Brace, et al.
In the Matter of James B. Boswell
SEC v. Daniel Schneider, et al.
SEC v. William Madon
SEC v. Terry V. Koontz, et al.
SEC v. Nichi Capital, Ltd., et aI.
SEC v Michael Hall, et al.
In the Matter of Phillip Pepe
In the Matter of Brian Patrick Cork
In the Matter of Michelle Sotnikow
SEC v. Clarence Wayne Cook
SEC v. Environmental Energy, Inc., et al.
SEC v. Vladislav Zubkis, et al.
In the Matter of Randy Depoister
SEC v. Calman H. Rifkin, et al.
SEC v. Edward Snyder, et al.
In the Matter of Donald E. Whorl
SEC v. Thomas A. Nelson, et al.
In the Matter of Orlando R. Landa
In the Matter of Jeffrey A. Lobel
SEC v. First Americans Bank, et al.

34-39396
34-40470
LR-1571l
34-39714
34-39752
LR-15839
LR-15882
LR-15850
LR-15837
LR-15890
34-39431
34-39918
LR-15764
LR-15873
34-39929
LR-15838
LR-15828
34-39535
LR-15670
LR-15598
LR-15892
LR-15688
LR-15901
34-39429
34-39424
34-40509
LR-15853
LR-15822
LR-15552
34-40483
LR-15594
LR-15835
34-40415
LR-15936
IA-1753
34-39901
LR-15734

12/3/97
9/24/98
1/30/98
3/4/98
3/13/98
8/10/98
9/16/98
8/11/98
8/10/98
9/17/98
12/11/97
4/24/98
5/19/98
9/9/98
4/29/98
8/10/98
7/31/98
1/9/98
1/20/98
12/16/97
9/17/98
3/27/98
9/23/98
12/11/97
12/11/97
9/30/98
8/6/98
7/28/98
10/31/97
9/25/98
12/17/97
5/22/98
9/9/98
9/22/98
9/22/98
4/22/98

132

5/7/98

Name of Case

Release No

SEC v. James Michael Cogley, et aI.
In the Matter of James D. Stoeger
SEC v. David A. Colvin, et aI
In the Matter of Kuo-Chang Wong
In the Matter of Cecil R. Glass, ill
SEC v. Lennox Investment Group, Inc., et aI.
In the Matter of Daniel E. Goodman
In the Matter of Patricia S. Gale
In the Matter of Robert Francis Bucheit, Sf.
In the Matter of Roger D. Byrd
SEC v. Richard C. Powelson, et aI.
In the Matter of Richard E. Tobin
SEC v. Louis G. Karabochos, et aI.
SEC v. Phebe W. Erdman
SEC v. Stephen Desimone, et aI.
SEC v. Innovative Consulting Services, Inc., et aI.
SEC v. Albert E. Carter, et aI.
SEC v. GeraId A. Dobbins, et aI.
SEC v. Millennium Software Solutions
In the Matter of Joseph P. Tufo
SEC v. Nolan W. Wade, et aI.
In the Matter of Kevin C. Speranzi, et aI.
In the Matter of Raymond A. Basile
In the Matter of Emanuel B. Nedwick
In the Matter of Jeffrey Price and Michael Ostrach
In the Matter of Norman G. Cornelius
SEC v. Hugh F. Rollins
In the Matter of Charles F. Kirby, et aI.
SEC v. DaVId W. Laing, et aI.
SEC v. Interactive Products & Services, Inc., et aI.
SEC v, Vincent Setteducate
In the Matter of Nancy A. Swoffer
In the Matter of Bradford A. Orosey, et aI.
SEC v. Joel & Leslie Steinger
SEC v. James Staples, et aI.
SEC v. American Automation, Inc., et al.
SEC v. Friendly Power Co. LLC, et aI.

LR-15851
34-39599
LR-15683
34-40394
34-39536
LR-15789
34-39703
34-40489
34-39932
34-39715
NONE
34-40023
LR-15908
LR-15742
LR-15597
LR-15891
LR-15787
LR-15665
LR-15583
34-40388
LR-15923
34-40396
34-39930
34-40248
34-39844
34-39756
LR-15857
34-39971
LR-15558
LR-15700
LR-15561
34-40488
34-40429
LR-15729
LR-15903
LR-15804
LR-15927

Date FIled
8/11/98
1/29/98
2/19/98
9/3/98
1/9/98
6/22/98
2/27/98
9/28/98
4/30/98
3/4/98
5/5/98
2/23/98
9/28/98
5/15/98
12/19/97
9/18/98
6/18/98
3/10/98
12/8/97
9/1/98
9/25/98
9/3/98
4/29/98
7/22/98
4/9/98
3/16/98
8/21/98
5/7/98
11/13/97
4/8/98
11/14/97
9/28/98
9/10/98
5/1/98
9/24/98
7/10/98
7/17/98

133

Name of Case

Release No.

SEC v. International Heritage, Inc., et al.
In the Matter of Dyke Ferrell
SEC v. Hurst Capital Corp., et al.
SEC v. Capital Acquisitions, Inc., et al.

LR-15672
34-39534
LR-15656
LR-15868

3/16/98

34-39319
LR-15556

11/12/97
11/12/97

34-40389
34-39797
34-39559

9/1/98

Date Filed

1/9/98

2/18/98
12/19/97

Related Party Transactions
In the Matter of DeGeorge Financial Corporation
SEC v. Peter R. DeGeorge

Transfer Agent
In the Matter of Interstate Transfer Co., et al.
In the Matter of Holladay Stock Transfer, Inc., et al.
In the Matter of Robert Bogutski

134

3/25198
1/20/98

Table 3
INVESTIGATIONS OF POSSIBLE VIOLATIONS OFTHEACTS
ADMINISTERED BYTHE COMMISSION

Pending as of October 1, 1997
Opened in Fiscal Year 1998
Total

1,733
536

Closed in Fiscal Year 1998

2,269
430

Pending as of September 30, 1998

1,839

Formal Orders of Investigation
Issued in Fiscal Year 1998

275

Table 4
ADMINISTRATIVE PROCEEDINGS INSTITUTED
DURING FISCAL YEAR ENDING SEPTEMBER 30, 1998
Broker-dealer Proceedings

126

Investment Adviser, Investment Company and Transfer Agent Proceedings

58

'Rule 102 Proceedings

25

Suspensions ofTrading in Securities in Fiscal Year 1998

11

135

Table 5
INJUNCTIVE ACTIONS
Fiscal Year

Actions Initiated

1989
1990
1991
1992
1993
1994
1995

1996
1997
1998

140
186
171

Defendants Named

422
557
503
487

156
172

571

620
549
588
597
745

197
171
180
189
214

Right to Financial Privacy

Section 21(h) ofthe Securities Exchange Act of 1934 [15 U.S.c. 78u(h)(6)] requires
that the Commission" compile an annual tabulation of the occasions on which the
Commission used each separate subparagraph or clause of [Section 21(h)(2)] or the
provisions of the Right to Financial Privacy Act of 1978 [12 U.S. C. 3401-22 (the
RFPA)] to obtain access to financial records of a customer and include itin its
annual report to the Congress." During the fiscal year, the Commission made no
applications for judicial orders pursuant to Section 21(h)(2). Set forth below are
the number of occasions on which the Commission obtained customer records
pursuant to the provisions of the RFPA:
Section 1104 (Customer Authorizations)
Section 1105 (Administrative

Subpoenas)

Section 1107 (Judicial Subpoenas)

136

10

370
32

Table 6
TYPES OF PROCEEDINGS
ADMINISTRATIVE PROCEEDINGS

Persons SUbject to, Acts Constituting,
and Basis for, Enforcement Action

Sanction

Any person
Violation of the federal securities

laws.

Cease-and-desist order, which may also
require a person to comply or take steps to
effect compliance with federal securities
laws; accounting and disgorgement of illegal
profits. (Securities Act, Section 8A;
Exchange Act, Section 21C(a); Investment
Company Act, Section 9(f); Investment
Advisers Act, Section 203(k».

Broker-dealer, municipal securities
dealer, government securities dealer,
transfer agent, investment adviser or
associated person
Censure or limitation on activities;
revocation, suspension or denial of
registration; bar or suspension from
association (Exchange Act, Sections
15(b)(4)-(6), 15B(c)(2)-(5),15(C)(c)(1
)-(2),
17A(c)(3)-(4); Investment Advisers Act,
Section 203(e)-(f).

Willful violation of securities laws or rules;
aiding or abetting such violation; failure
reasonably to supervise others; willful
misstatement or omission in filing with the
Commission; conviction of or Injunction
against certain crimes or conduct.

Civil penalty up to $110,000* for a natural
person or $550,000* for any other person;
accounting and disgorgement of illegal
profits. Penalties are subject to other
limitations depending on the nature of the
violation. (Exchange Act, Section 21 B;
Investment Company Act, Section 9;
Investment Advisers Act, Section 203).
Temporary cease-and-desist order, which
may, in appropriate cases, be issued ex
parte. (Exchange Act, Section 21C).

Registered securities association
Violation of or Inability to comply with the
Exchange Act, rules thereunder, or its own
rules; unjustified failure to enforce
compliance with the foregoing or with rules of
the Municipal Securities Rulemaking Board
by a member or person associated with a

Suspension or revocation of registration;
censure or limitation of activities, functions,
or operations (Exchange Act, Section
19(h)(1 )).

member.

*Adjusted

for inflation under Debt Collection

Improvement

Act.

137

Member of registered securities
association, or associated person
Entry of Commission order against person
pursuant to Exchange Act, Section 15(b);
willful violation of securities laws or rules
thereunder or rules of Municipal Securities
Rulemaking Board; effecting transaction for
other person with reason to believe that
person was committing violations of
securities laws.

Suspension or expulsion from the
association; bar or suspension from
association with member of association
(Exchange Act, Section 19(h)(2)-(3».

National securities exchange
Violation of or inability to comply with
Exchange Act, rules thereunder or its own
rules; unjustified failure to enforce
compliance with the foregoing by a member
or person associated with a member.

Suspension or revocation of registration;
censure or limitation of activities, functions,
or operations (Exchange Act, Section 19(h)
(1

».

Member of national securities exchange,
or associated person
Entry of Commission order against person
pursuant to Exchange Act, Section 15(b);
willful violation of securities laws or rules
thereunder, effecting transaction for other
person with reason to believe that person
was committing violation of securities laws.

Suspension or expulsion from exchange; bar
or suspension from association with member
(Exchange Act, Section 19(h)(2)-(3».

Registered clearing agency
Violation of or inability to comply with
Exchange Act, rules thereunder, or its own
rules; failure to enforce compliance with its
own rules by participants.

Suspension or revocation of registration;
censure or limitation of activities, functions,
or operations (Exchange Act, Section
19(h)(1».

Participant in registered clearing agency
Entry of Commission order against
participant pursuant to Exchange Act,
Section 15(b)(4); willful violation of clearing
agency rules; effecting transaction for other
person with reason to believe that person
was committing violations of securities laws.

Suspension or expulsion from clearing
agency (Exchange Act, Section 19(h)(2».

securities Information processor
Violation of or inability to comply with
provisions of Exchange Act or rules

thereunder.

138

censure or limitation of activities; suspension
or revocation of registration (Exchange Act,
Section 11A(b)(6».

Any person
Willful violation of Securities Act, Exchange

Act, Investment Company Act or rules
thereunder; aiding or abetting such violation;
willful misstatement in filing with
Commission.

Temporary or permanent prohibition against
serving in certain capacities with registered
investment company (Investment Company
Act, Section 9(b».

Officer or director of self-regulatory
organization
Willful violation of Exchange Act, rules
thereunder or the organization's own rules;
willful abuse of authority or unjustified failure
to enforce compliance.

Removal from office or censure
Act, Section 19(h)(4».

(Exchange

Principal of broker~ealer
Officer, director, general partner, ten-percent
owner or controlling person of a brokerdealer for which a SIPC trustee has been
appointed.

Bar or suspension from being or becoming
associated with a broker-dealer (SIPA,
Section 14(b».

securities Act registration statement
Statement materially inaccurate
incomplete.

or

Stop order refuSing to permit or suspending
effectiveness (Securities Act, Section 8(d».

Person SUbject to SectIons 12, 13, 14 or
15(d) of the Exchange Act or associated

person
Failure to comply with such provisions or
having caused such failure by an act or
omission that person knew or should have
known would contribute thereto.

Order directing compliance or steps
effecting compliance (Exchange Act, Section
15(c)(4».

Securities registered pursuant to Section
12 of the Exchange Act
Noncompliance by issuer ~
or rules thereunder.

Exchange Act

Public interest requires trading suspension.

Denial, suspension of effective date,
suspension or revocation of registration
(Exchange Act, Section 120».
Summary suspension of over-the-counter or
exchange trading (Exchange Act, Section

12(k».
Registered Investment company
Failure to file Investment Company Act
registration statement or required report;
filing materially incomplete or misleading
statement or report.

Suspension or revocation of registration
(Investment Company Act, Section 8(e».

Company has not attained $100,000 net
worth 90 days after Securities Act registration
statement became effective.

Stop order under Securities Act; suspension
or revocation of registration (Investment
Company Act, Section 14(a».

139

Attorney, accountant, or other
professional or expert
Lack of requisite qualifications to represent
others; lacking in character or integrity;
unethical or improper professional conduct;
willful violation of securities laws or rules, or
aiding and abetting such violation.

Permanent or temporary denial of privilege of
appearing or practicing before the Commission
(17 CFR Section 201.1 02(e)(1».

Attorney suspended or disbarred by court;
expert's license revoked or suspended;
conviction of a felony or of a misdemeanor
involVing moral turpitude.

Automatic suspension from appearance or
practice before the Commission (17 CFR
Section 201.1 02(e)(2».

Securities Violation in Commission-instituted
action; finding of securities violation by
Commission in administrative proceedings.

Temporary suspension from practicing before
the Commission; censure; permanent or
temporary disqualification from practicing
before the Commission (17 CFR Section
201.102(e)(3».

Member or employee of Municipal
Securities Rulemaking Board
Willful violation of Exchange Act, rules
thereunder, or rules of the Board; abuse of
authority.

Censure or removal from office (Exchange
Act, Section 15B(c)(8».

CIVIL PROCEEDINGS IN FEDERAL DISTRICT COURTS

Persons Subject to, Acts Constituting,
and Basis for, Enforcement Action

Sanction

Any person
Engaging in or about to engage in acts or
practices Violating securities laws, rules or
orders thereunder Qncluding rules of a
registered self-regulatory organization).

Injunction against acts or practices
constituting violations (plus other equitable
relief under court's general equity powers)
(Securities Act, Section 20(b); Exchange Act,
Section 21 (d); Holding Company Act, Section
18(e); Investment Company Act, Section
42(d); Investment Advisers Act, Section
209(d); Trust Indenture Act, Section 321).

Noncompliance with provisions of the laws,
rules, or regulations under Securities Act,
Exchange Act, or Holding Company Act,
orders issued by Commission, rules of a
registered self-regulatory organization, or
undertaking in a registration statement.

Writ of mandamus, injunction, or order
directing compliance (Securities Act, Section
20(c); Exchange Act, Section 21 (e); Holding
Company Act, Section 18(f».

140

II
II
I

1
I

i

Violating the securities laws or a cease-anddesist order (other than through insider
trading).

Civil penalty up to $110.000* for a natural
person or $550,000* for any other person Q[,
if greater, the gross gain to the defendant.
Penalties are subject to other limitations
dependent on nature of violation. (Securities
Act. Section 20(d); Exchange Act, Section
21 (d) (3); Investment Company Act, Section
42(e); Investment Advisers Act, Section
209(e».

Trading while in possession of material nonpuolic information in a transaction on an
exchange or from or through a broker-dealer
(and transaction not part of a public offering);
aIding and abetting or directly or indirectly
controlling the person who engages in such
trading.

Maximum civil penalty: three times profit
gained or loss avoided as a result of
transaction (Exchange Act, Section 21A(a)-

Violating Securities Act Section 17(a)(1) or
Exchange Act section 1O(b). when conduct
demonstrates substantial unfitness to serve
as an officer or director.

Prohibition from acting as an officer or
director of any public company. (Securities
Act, Section 20(e); Exchange Act. Section
21 (d)(2».

(b».

Issuer subject to Section 12 or 15(d) of
the Exchange Act; officer, director,
employee or agent of Issuer; stockholder
acting on behalf of Issuer
Maximum civil penalty:
Act, Section 32(c».

Payment to foreign official. foreign political
party or official. or candidate for foreign
political office. for purposes of seeking the
use of influence in order to assist issuer in
obtaining or retaining business for or with. or
directing business to. any person.

$11.000*

(Exchange

Securities Investor Protection Corporation
Refusal to commit funds or act for the
protection of customers.

Order directing discharge of obligations and
other appropriate relief (SIPA, Section 11 (b».

National securities exchange or
registered securities association
Failure to enforce compliance by members or
persons associated with its members with the
Exchange Act, rules or orders thereunder. or
rules of the exchange or association.

Writ of mandamus, injunction or order
directing such exchange or association to
enforce compliance (Exchange Act, Section

21 (e».

Registered clearing agency
Writ of mandamus, injunction or order
directing clearing agency to enforce
compliance (Exchange Act. Section 21 (e)).

Failure to enforce compliance by its
participants with its own rules.

*Adjusted

for inflation under Debt Collection

Improvement

Act.

141

Issuer sUbject to Section 15(d) of 1934
Act
Forfeiture of $110* per day (Exchange Act,
Section 32(b».

Failure to file required information,
documents or reports.

Registered Investment company
Injunction
Company

Name of company or of security issued by it
deceptive or misleading.

against use of name (Investment
Act, Section 35(d».

Officer, director, member of advisory
board, adviser, depositor, or underwriter
of investment company
Engage in act or practice constituting
of fiduciary duty involving personal
misconduct

Injunction against acting in certain capacities
for investment company and other
appropriate relief (Investment Company Act,
Section 36(a».

breach

CRIMINAL PROSECUTION BY DEPARTMENT OF JUSTICE
Persons SUbject to, Acts Constituting,
and Basis for, Enforcement Action

Sanction

Any person
Willful violation of securities laws or rules
thereunder; willful misstatement in any
document required to be filed by securities
laws or rules; willful misstatement in any
document required to be filed by selfregulatory organization in connection with an
application for membership or association
with member.

Maximum penalties: $1,000,000 fine and ten
years imprisonment for individuals,
$2,500,000 fine for non-natural persons
(Exchange Act, Sections 21 (d), 32(a»;
$10,000 fine and five years imprisonment (or
$200,000 if a public utility holding company
for violations of the Holding Company Act)
(Securities Act, Sections 20(b), 24;
Investment Company Act, Sections 42(e), 49;
Investment Advisers Act, Sections 209(e),
217; Trust Indenture Act, Sections 321, 325;
Holding Company Act, Sections 18(1), 29).

Issuer subject to Section 12 or 15(d) of
the Exchange Act; officer or director of
issuer; stockholder acting on behalf of
issuer; employee or agent subject to the
jurisdiction of the United States

Issuer. $2,000,000; officer, director,
employee, agent or stockholder - $100,000
and five years imprisonment Qssuer may not
pay fine for others) (Exchange Act, Section
32(c».

Payment to foreign official, foreign political
party or official, or candidate for foreign
political office for purposes of seeking the
use of influence in order to assist issuer in
obtaining or retaining business for or with, or
directing business to, any person.

*Adjusted for inflation under Debt Collection

142

Improvement

Act.

Self-Regulatory Organizations:
Balance Sheet Structure

Expenses, Pre- Tax Income, and

In 1997, the total revenues of all self-regulatory organizations (SROs)
with marketplace jurisdiction rose approximately $262.7 million, an
increase of approximately 17% from 1996. The New York Stock
Exchange (NYSE), the National Association of Securities Dealers
(NASD), the American Stock Exchange (AMEX), and the Chicago
Board Options Exchange (CBOE) accounted for 89% of total SRO
revenues, unchanged from 1996. Revenues were earned primarily from
listing or issuer fees, trading fees, and market data fees. For example:
•

The NYSE reported total revenue of$639 million, an increase of 14%
from 1996, of which 41 % consisted of listing fees, 18% consisted of
trading fees, and 15% consisted of market data fees.

•

The NASD reported total revenue of $634 million, an increase of
21% from 1996, of which 18% consisted of listing fees, 42%
consisted of trading and market data fees.

•

The AMEX reported total revenue of $198 million, an increase of
16% from 1996, of which 8% consisted of listing fees.

The remaining SROs also reported increases in revenues as follows:
•

The Boston Stock Exchange (BSE) reported a $2 million increase
(14%) to $17.5 million.

•

The CBOE reported a $17.9 million increase (16%) to $126.5 million.

•

The Pacific Exchange (pCX) reported a $14.8 million increase (25%)
to $75.1 million.

•

The Philadelphia Stock Exchange (Plfl.X) reported a $9.4 million
increase (27%) to $44.2 million.

•

The Chicago Stock Exchange (CHX) reported a $4.3 million increase
(12%) to $41.2 million.

143

•

The Cincinnati Stock Exchange reported a $251,000 decrease (-3%)
to $8.4 million.

Of the SROs reporting financial information for a 12-month period in
fiscal year 1997, the PHLX reported the largest percentage increase in
total revenues (27%). The NASD reported the largest dollar volume
increase in total revenues, $109.6 million.
The total expenses of all marketplace SROs were $1.5 billion in 1997, an
increase of $248 million, or 20%, over 1996. The CBOE incurred the
largest percentage increase in expenses, 37%. The largest dollar volume
increase in expenses was incurred by the NASD, $122.6 million.
Additionally, the following SROs incurred the following increases in
expenses:
•

The AMEX incurred a $15.1 million increase (10%).

•

The BSE incurred a $ 1.1 million increase (8%).

•

The NYSE incurred a $55.3 increase (13%).

•

The PCX incurred a $11.1 million increase (23%).

•

The PHLX incurred a $6 million increase (18%).

•

The CSE incurred a $884,000 increase (20%).

•

The CBOE incurred a $34 million increase (37%).

•

The CHX incurred a $1.9 million increase (5%).

Aggregate pre-tax income of the marketplace SROs rose to $271 million,
an increase of$14.7 million (6%), from the $256 million reported in
1996. The NYSE experienced the largest dollar volume increase in pretax income, $21.9 million. The remaining SROs reported positive pre-tax
income in 1997. The CBOE and NASD reported positive pre-tax income
for 1997 that dropped significantly from their 1996 levels. The CSE also
showed a positive pre-tax income for 1997 that dropped from it's 1996

144

level. The remaining SROs all experienced increased pre-tax income
above their 1996 reported levels.
The total assets of all marketplace SROs amounted to approximately $2.4
billion in 1997, an increase of$330.7 million (16%) over 1996. The
NYSE showed the largest dollar volume increase in total assets, $162
million (16%), while the NASD showed the largest percentage increase in
total assets, 27% ($149.3 million). The BSE also showed a significant
percentage increase in total assets, 25% ($6.5 million). The AMEX,
CSE, CBOE, and PCX also reported increases in total assets equaling
$25.5 million ($15%), $2.3 million (21%), $13.4 million (l1%), and
$10.8 million (l9% ) respectively.
In 1997, the total liabilities of marketplace SROs increased $168.1 million
(18%) over 1996 levels. The NASD showed the greatest percentage
increase, 61% ($113. 2 million), as well as the greatest dollar volume
increase. Increases in liabilities were also reported by the AMEX ($12
million or 20%), BSE ($5.6 million or 29%), NYSE ($76 million or
15%), and CBOE ($3 million or 13%).
The aggregate net worth of the marketplace SROs rose $162.6 million in
1997 to $1.341 billion, an increase ofl4% over 1996. The CSE incurred
the largest percentage increase in net worth, 25% ($2.2 million), while the
NYSE reported the largest dollar volume increase in net worth, $86
million (17%). Net worth increases were also reported by the other
marketplace SROs as follows: AMEX ($13 3 million or 12%), BSE
($950,000 or 13%), CBOE ($10 million or 11%), NASD ($36 million or
10%), PCX ($8.8 million or 24%), PHLX ($2.9 million or 12%) and
CHX ($1.7 million or 9%).
Clearing agency results have been presented in two tables by their
respective types: clearing corporations and depositories. In calendar year
1997, aggregate revenues from clearing agency services (both tables)
increased $41 million or 7% to $607 million from $566 million in 1996.
Interest income declined $2 million, or 4% to $53.5 million in 1997. All
clearing agencies adjust their fee structures and refunds of fees to provide
participants with attractively priced services, meet expenses, and provide
the amount of earnings which they desire to retain.

145

Serv.ce revenues at the depositories totaled $388 million, up $29 million
or 8% from 1996. In 1997, The Depository Trust Company (DTC)
increased its service revenue by 10% ($34 million). Its pre-tax earnings
decreased 38%, from $301,000 to $186,000. In addition, the
Philadelphia Depository Trust Company's 1997 service revenues
decreased 27%. Its operating pretax loss increased fourteen-fold from a
loss of $12,000 in 1996 to $1.68 million in 1997.
Depositories continue to expand their base of service revenues by
increasing both the number of equity shares and principal amount of debt
securities on deposit. This gain occurred, among other reasons, because
of the continued expansion of depository-eligible issues and the
participants' increased use of depository services. At year end 1997,
DTC alone had more than 1.3 million depository-eligible issues and a
total value of securities in its depository system of more than $17 trillion.
Service revenues of clearing corporations for 1997 increased 24% to
$219 million from $177 million for 1996, and earnings for clearing
corporations decreased to $6.2 million in 1997 from $9.5 in 1996, a
decrease of35%.
The results were mixed for individual clearing corporations' pre-tax
earnings. For example, the National Securities Clearing Corporation did
not report any earnings for 1997, which is no change from 1996. The
Government Securities Clearing Corporation reported earnings of $5. 1
million for 1997, compared with $3.9 for 1996, an increase of31%. The
Options Clearing Corporation reported earnings before taxes of$146,000
for 1997 compared with $3.3 million in 1996, a decrease of96%. The
Stock Clearing Corporation of Philadelphia reported a 1997 loss of
$511,000 compared with income of $986,000 in 1996.
The aggregate shareholders' equity of all clearing corporations and
depositories increased from $117 million to $128 million. Aggregate
participant clearing funds, which protect clearing agencies in the event of
a participants' default, increased from $5.2 billion to $6.2 billion. Ifa
participant defaults and its losses exceed its deposit at a clearing agency,
the entire participants' fund of the clearing agency may be assessed on a
pro rata basis.

146

LnMO>N
l() -r- Lf) m
OOlMO

"'l:T__ ......L()
"'l:Tr-m"'l:T
-r-CDOC"')

"!C'f1lJ1.~

cOe:t5lric:ri
vco<.O ......
q-:~Ul

..,..:......-¥"'"'--.:T
o l() N CO

19

~

~~~~
-r- -r-

¥"'"'.,.....

NmCON
MM<O~
CD"'l:TNN

e-, co

l()

CON

0""""

-r--r-NN

NwmN
CDr-O"'l:T

ov
......co
r-t-mo~

69' 69' 69" 69-

f!l9.fflWW.

(fl69'~;;

-r-cnr-a

NO><OM

co

('l")

N(f';)uitri
Ncvl«5""':
I,(') c.o l() .......

U;~f:;f:;

m

l()

NN<O

co

........

ONc.Ooq:

......
-..,..:NN

mo_rto m

("f") ........Ocn
oq Q')

NOc:OO

vi
c
a

wf:;;;;~

~

NNr-V
mq"'"":,cY{

Q)

0..

a

"C

Q)

><
U
c,

en

cOeDoLri

q«:!.~~

~qCX!.~

...... <.0 me
qvv(O

vee"'<::/'"

........

<.0 N to m
("t)O>ON
co r- CO N

~
~
:c

~
Z

mvm<.o
COr-CDC"')

"'Ct'L(')CO

«
«
«
«

Z
0

mo
.......<.o
m-r-r-N
r-r-""'-r-

~~~

M

M"r:::'"('f')Q)

0')0)tr)C)

No ......
m
eqC'!,LO_

"":MMm

~ ......
v

"'O"'V(Y')('I')

Lf)

"'

NNON
__ NNN

cONeD"":

LO co

:::J

C"')CO ......0
-r-Nr-N

O>...-~N
t-C"')<oc::»
OO("l')C"')

NO>LnN
C7')1,(')C'>?N
N..co co

...-('I")om

U">Clm("l')
Ll) e-, LO to

oN"v--.:r
Vq(y)V

a,

O<oCOO

5
"E
a

...... ""Ct"("I?

.vott5a.O
N('f')('l")V

U

'"
'"
'"

'i3

.

"0

«

«
«

vmv("t)
tOO')com
coco.,.....m

NlO

........
N

co.......
om
MMLOd

«5r--a;,...:
CD CD 0

Q)

<3
05

MM-.:rr--.:

vvClC)q"

co

"C
:::J

-r-mcnm
("t)VOtO
Nm..-o

MOtr)"<t"

Q)

NNNN

liI
0..

-c

Q)

t::

o

a:

0

C')ll">(Y')C'J
..............
0('1')
NCOIJ") e-,

W
(I)

>a:

~gti~

~

v

Ovro..-

oo::rov~
__ covco

m ......1/') ......
('I').,....L(')N
......
000>

C'iC"'icv:i'c6

O"":cOol

e-,

0("1') co
MvV....,.

l,()U")(O

NOIJ")~
......01J")~
(Y)ll')Nv

ONNI"-.
or-('\")co
co "'Ct' co co

cr500N.q
OeD
__ ........

OOO>N....,.

00 co q-:.

t6cv:i'a5-ei
NNO>
VVVl()

.......

~
:c
~

8-

CONt-tO
cor-r-v
NO)('f')V

a:

cnm-.:ic5

""iii

"5

c

"E
:::J
a

Q)

ooC"')~o

'"

:::J
C

Mvtt)tO

-c

U
U

"-

~
~
Z

~

::>

........
..- ("1')0
co r- co 00
0> L{) ...... (Y)

Cl

C)
W

....=,...:~~

ens;

r-.LLm

(i)
"C

c:
CO

(/)

«

UJ

(I)

u

~

« .....£

~
a:

~

q-...-vCD
('I')VVL()

.
..

C1>0 .... :J
0
:oZ I s:
alO':t

l--m
~m

cic5N-ei

I""-('I')N(Y)
('I')vLO<o

a:
Ii..

....J
W

OlCOV<D
N(Dl.t')tO
0)100<.0

°
....J

-c

(3
Z

0

mcO~"":

MU")com
......-r- ..- C\J

COQCDOl

ec eo eo ee

co

""':t:'iVcvl

tria:iOM
~~

""':N~~

oo<.Oa:i-:

.~~

..

«

L() en LO
U') co CD
NvN....-

Lf)

v ......T"""' Ln
Nl/')vO
co"Ct"co ......

e-,

-~

r-.....-o>LO

r-COO'>N

__

-r-vvrvoeor0)

C">(Y)v<r

-r--r-NN

covoco
v(Y)coo
-r- (0 T"""'

~~~

cno

......C"')

q-COr-N
co r- co U')
r-COvN

00

........

~&r>o-ci

C"'i"":cnM

NN~

~

:

,.......-~ON

o co L() <0
C'I? co (Y) W
r-r-cnC"'l

co ......

.

.

0)

,.......
L() L() ("I')

co co eo en
c.O

co N

«
N

OCOU')("\J

ro

L() .......
("l') ""
-r-- ..,..,:

«5&r>C'ieD

e-JeOoC'i
N~NN

NNL()CO
COlOLOL{')
LO....-r-O
N"uico-"":

('I")

""':~Mc.D

t-como

NNNN

~r-NN
OO>NrO>cDVlf)

UJ
(I)

<0 r- r- CD
v <.D 1.0 co
qqv~

LOOLl'>rl()('I')WO

s-cvl~"'fI¥'-cD
eo co cn

~..nLOr--:

CO

-r--r-T"""'-r-

~-r-""""'-

::i
0

o

Q)

'"
a

-5

a>

E

g

.9
E
Q)

:;;

:::
'i3
e-,
Q)
£i

-5

E

=:;

.E
C
a

'"
e

.8

'"'"
-c

"E
Q)
E
Q)

U

'"

<D

en
a>
U

u:

Z
0

C

Q)

Q)

""iii

Z

en

19
'"
0.
'"
ta>

~
C")cocu

-c

a
W
~
-c
a

.5
"0

Q)

T"""',-~(Y)

r-

Q)

;:
c::
a

-5
"C
:::J

N-.:rq:lL'i

«

'"

~

<3
.5
0)
L() 0)
L() __ rN

.

a>
a>
Q)

co

OC"')OtO
-r-LOr-m
(Y) -r- 0> 0>

0> r- U')
O>CO(C)V
Oll')NN

mOON

cv)-=«im

e-,

-r- L() LO
<or-vN
...-('I')co..-

co

"":"':cO«i

CO
U

N<DM
vCDMO
........
co r-

0'--"""'-

N l() -e- 0'>
vVLnCD

«
«

(y)("I')cr'>M

MO(OO
cDNLOV
cDM (0 I.t')

W

NexicO"":

:
.. ..

OLOtcSai

LL
Z

~"":Ncn

C"')MMv
("1')0 co to

0>

C¥i""':a:ia:i

c.oOO>N

oor-r-

0> co -rr- CO -r- rr-Ll')Nll')

........
cnCJ')N
NCO ""'v
VCOVL()

L(')COCJ')('I')
r-- 0> LO "I;f"

mect:i..,..:
NC"')(Y)'V

Lf)

('I')NCOCO

"'ON-rcomvm
I.t')co(,O('W"J

Mvoa
l()C)('I')
........

X
:c

c..:>

COMm....,.
LOON
......

en e-;

r-OOO
'q"LOr-~
NC")r-C"')

U')

NOLO
........
0(")",<::/",0

NU")(Y')v
N'q"T-(O
NQMN

cDMcDro

cics5mLO

<t:ir--:"':a5

(,0

-r-,-..--N

-r-NNC"?

'"
=

~"";Mffi
('f')LOmc:

"C

EOO~

12

E

'"
e
e
~
~
:c
Q)

("I') -e- Ll)N
NlOVV
-r- 0> to r--

l(')vCON
l(') -r- ('t)L(')
L() -r- C") co

es
::!E

<:

eo

-r- Ol
(,0 00
VNOLO

NOMa
('t)(O en.,....
"Ct" ~r-...-

C":irt'io"":
-e- L() r- 0')

mev;05rt'i
N~U")r--

.qm-=~
~

~t;;6;;;

t;;6;~f:;

'619-t.9'~~

en

r-

&.ri"":dLri

cD-r=a5~

cO..n"-:rt'i
(Y) ~
co "'-

("I')v ........
O>
-r- ............ ...-

~N

co N -r- C'J
('t)VCOU">
r- r-: N c.o

OO>COLO
<.0...-00>
e-, Lt> eo co

-e-

~~~~

mOON

wt;;t;;~

6'9~'619'~

c,

"C

ffi
Cl
(I)

-c

Z

Q)

-5

7n
a

'"

~LO<or-

~~~~~~~~~~E~~~~
a
:::J
c

'"
c

~

~

19

ttl
19

£
~

~

..
U

.5

~

Q)

0:

"5

vL()w
........ "'CI"' II') to e-,
mmo>O)
mOl
en 0>
o>O>O>mU)mmmm
-r- ___ ~,_~...-...---r--r-

Vl/')CDr-::::!.~L()<.or-

.l!J

'"
'"
-c
'"

:E
ee
:::::;

~

~

Vll')<or0'> m en m

~~~~

'"
°c

0>

c

liI

€
a

:;;:
1i>

Z

~~'o

Q)
Q)

.r=

l-

~

\.-Nv~
Q)w.~tO
Q)CUCD...--

gEEa
0°0U U
-cc:c:~
c.-.-

Q)

C'O

Q)o>o>E

~~:a c:
lDC'OC'Oc1>

.s::;;\.-~Q)

08.8..0
~gg~
ogg..c::

~~~g
c:"O -0._

.=;~~~

(/).E.: =e

~EE.N
aau

liI UUQ)
Q)cc>._- c=

- ~l!i.iij

~Q;Q)t:
U:Q:O:~

... ...
«

...
'"

.......'"
U">

....

...
<D

<D

"''''
-:
'"

...

co
U">

...

...

N

...

<D

co
..,

'"
<D
.... a>

r-.~

-e- <D
a>
a> <D
0;"":

...

co

...

...
'"

....
ei
'" ....
co
a>

<:>

<:>

g

...'"

...
<:>
-e-

..,

c:nr-..,.Lt">NOr-

...""

N

r-Or-CDr-

N
r-

...... N(Q(I')CO

....
r-;
<D

s
<:>

.,;

U;;

..,

-e-

...

...
<D
<D

e-,
<D
<0

...

N

~c.or-CD...,........ oe,ooo
C'\I
N

~C"')~

~

<:>

~.....

<:>
U">

...
N

en
~

'"

'"

..,.OOLt">
...... t.n

e-, '"

oi
<D

co

e-,

co
co
co

... ... ... .....,
....

a;

<:>
a>

l3:

.,;

...

...

a>

oi

-e-

<:>

......

... ...
..,
co

cno

COr-cnN
N('I")N~

<:>

... ...

..,

...

N

<D

....
'"

...

"0

c:

:>

u.
Cl

5

.,
Oij

zs
148

Table 9
SELF-REGULATORY ORGANIZATIONS-DEPOSITORIES
1997 REVENUES and EXPENSES 11
($ in Thousands)

Depository
Trust
Company
(12/31/97)

Participants
Trust
Company
(12/31/97)

Philadelphia
Depository
Trust
Company
(12/31/97)

$366,280
12,850
$379,130

$13,290
15,635
$28,925

$8,856
544
$9.400

$388,426
29,029
$417.455

$216,939
23,709
40,479

$12,905
4,669
4,812

$5,778
838
0

$235,622
29,216
45,291

19,508
78,309
$378,944

0
5,464
$20,073

0
$4.464
$11,080

19,508
88,237
$417,874

Excess of Revenues
Over Expenses 'JJ

$186

$1,075

$(1,680)

($419)

Shareholders' EqUity
Participant's Fund

$19,893
$717,475

$20,073
$260,507

$3,704
$2,060

$43,670
$980,042

Revenues
Depository Services
Interest Income
Total Revenues 21
Expenses
Employee Costs
Data Processing
Occupancy Costs
Depreuanon and
AmortizatIOn of
Intangibles
All Other Expenses
Total Expense

Total

jJ Although the staff tned to make the presentations comparable, any Single revenue or expense
category may not be completely comparable between any two depositones because of (I) the

varying classlncanon methods employed by the depositories In reporting operating results and (II)
the grouping methods employed by the SEC's staff due to these varying classmcanon methods
IndiVIdual amounts are shown to the nearest thousand Totals are the rounded result of the
underlying amounts and may not be the arhhmenc sums of the parts.
21 Revenues are net of refunds which have the effect of reducmq a clearing agency's base fee rates
'JJ Ilus ISthe result of operations and before the effect of wntedowns and Income taxes, which may slgmflcantly
Impact a depoatory's net Income.

149

Certificate of Immobilization
Book entry deliveries continued to outdistance physical deliveries in the
settlement of securities transaction among depository participants of The
Depository Trust Company (DTC). This tendency is illustrated in Table
10, Certificate Immobilization Trends. The table captures the relative
significance of the mediums employed, in a ratio of book-entry deliveries
to certificates withdrawn from DTC. The figures includes Direct Mail by
Agents and municipal bearer bonds. In 1997, the total certificates
withdrawn increased by less than 1% from 1996, while the number of
book-entry deliveries increased by 11%. In 1997, the ratio was over
twice the 1993 ratio of book-entry deliveries rendered for every
certificate withdrawn.

Table 10
CERTIFICATE IMMOBILIZATION TRENDS
The Depository Trust Company

Book-entry Deliveries
at DTC (millions)

151.0

136.0

119.0

106.0

98.3

Total of all Certificates
(in thousands)

2,858

2,769

3,270

3,899

4,140

52.7

49.0

36.4

27.1

23.7

Book-entry Deliveries
per Certificates Withdrawn

150

Section 13(1)(1) Reports
Institutional investment managers file Forms 13F to report certain equity
securities holdings of accounts over which they exercise investment
discretion (accounts with a fair market value of at least $100 million).
The SEC estimates that approximately 2,000 managers are subject to this
filing requirement.
Generally, the Form 13F filings are public in the Commission's public
reference room within two days of filing; however, the public interest in
having these reports available electronically has increased. For example,
the Commission, and the Commission believes that investors, find the
information contained in the filings useful in determining institutional
investor holdings of an issuer. Issuers, too, should find detail as to these
holdings useful because much of their shareholder list may reflect
holdings in "street name" rather than beneficial ownership. Mandatory
electronic dissemination of this data would help ensure timely and
efficient dissemination of this important information. It also would result
in more uniform treatment of public filings made with the SEC by
reporting entities and third-party filers.
The Commission therefore recently adopted rule amendments to require
electronic filing of these reports through use of the SEC's EDGAR
system. (Release No. IC-23640 (Jan. 12, 1999), 64 FR 2843 (Jan. 19,
1999». The Commission's action thus affords these reports the same
degree of public availability as other electronic filings made with the SEC.

151

Exemptions

Section l2(h) Exemptions
Section l2(h) of the Exchange Act authorizes us to grant a complete or
partial exemption from the registration provisions of Section l2(g) or from
the disclosure or insider reporting/trading provisions of the Exchange Act
where such exemption is consistent with the public interest and the protection
of investors. The applicants for the three applications pending at the
beginning of 1998 did not proceed with their requests during the year.
Requested relief was granted to the one application that was :filedduring the
year.
Exemptions for Foreign Private Issuers
Rule l2g3-2 provides various exemptions from the registration provisions of
Section l2(g) of the Exchange Act for the securities of foreign private
issuers. A frequently used exemption is that contained in subparagraph (b),
which provides an exemption for certain foreign issuers that furnish specified
documents to us on a current basis. Such documents include information
material to an investment decision that the issuer has:
•

made or is required to make public pursuant to the law of the country in
which it is incorporated or organized;

•

:filedor is required to :filewith a stock exchange on which its securities
are traded and which was made public by such exchange; or

•

distributed or is required to distribute to its security holders.

Periodically, we publish a list of those foreign issuers that appear to be
current under the exemptive provision. The current list contains over 1,500
foreign issuers.

152

Corporate Reorganizations
During 1998, the Commission entered its appearance in 36 new
reorganization cases filed under Chapter 11 of the Bankruptcy Code
involving companies with approximately $4 billion in assets and 75,000
public investors. Adding these new cases, the Commission was a party in
a total of 90 Chapter 11 cases during the year, involving companies with
approximately $23 billion in assets and 450,000 public investors. During
the year, 24 cases were concluded through confirmation of a plan,
dismissal, or liquidation, leaving 66 cases in which the Commission was a
party at year-end.
Table 11
REORGANIZATION PROCEEDINGS UNDER CHAPTER 11
OF THE BANKRUPTCY CODE IN WHICH
THE SEC ENTERED APPEARANCE

Debtor

District

FY
Opened

Action Auto Rental, Inc.
Advanced Promotion
Technologies, Inc.I/
Aileen, Inc.
Alliance Entertainment Corp.

D.

OH

1993

S.D.
S.D.
D.

FL
NY
NY

1997
1994
1997

American Microtel, Inc.
American Rice, Inc.
Apparel America, Inc.
APS Holdings, Inc.

D.
S.D.
S.D.
D.

NY
TX
NY
DE

1995
1998
1998
1998

Audre Recognition Systems, Inc.
Autolend Group, Inc.
Barry's Jewelers, Inc.
B-E Holdings, Inc.

S.D.
D.
C.D.
E.D.

CA
NM
CA
WI

1997
1997
1997
1994

FY
Closed

1998

1998

153

Table 11 (continued)
REORGANIZATION PROCEEDINGS UNDER CHAPTER 11
OF THE BANKRUPTCY CODE IN WInCH
THE SEC ENTERED APPEARANCE

Debtor

District

FY
Opened

Ben Franklin Retail Stores, Inc.
Bonneville Pacific Corp.
Bradlees, Inc.
Bruno's, Inc.

N.D.
D.
S.D.
D.

II..
UT
NY
DE

1996
1992
1996
1998

Builders Transport, Inc.
Cable & Co. Worldwide, Inc.
Carter Hawley Hale Stores, Inc.
Chimneyville Investments Group,
Inc.

N.D.
S.D.
C.D.

GA
NY
CA

1998
1998
1991

S.D.

MS

1998

Cincinnati Microwave, Inc.
Clothestime, Inc.I/
CPT Corp.I/
Craig Consumer Electronics, Inc.

S.D.
C.D.
D.
C.D.

OH
CA
MN
CA

1997
1996
1991
1997

D.
S.D.

NV
NY

1998
1989

N.D.

TX

1994

N.D.

IL

1998

D.
D.

DE
DE

1997
1998

Debbie Reynolds, Hotel &
Casino Inc.
Eastern Air Lines, Inc.1J
First City Bancorporation
of Texas, Inc.
First Enterprise Financial Group,
Inc. and First Enterprise
Acceptance Company
First Merchants Acceptance Corp.j/
FP A Medical Management, Inc.

154

FY
Closed

1998
1998

1998

1998

Table 11 (continued)
REORGANIZATION PROCEEDINGS UNDER CHAPTER 11
OF THE BANKRUPTCY CODE IN WHICH
THE SEC ENTERED APPEARANCE

Debtor
Fruehauf Trailer Corp.I/
Future Communications, Inc.
Gander Mountain, Inc.
Geotek Communications, Inc.
Global Environmental
Industries, Inc.
Great American Recreation, Inc.
Grossman's Inc.j/
Gulfstar Industries, Inc.j/
Guy F. Atkinson Co. of California
Hamburger Hamlet
Restaurants. Inc.l/
Home Theater Products
International.Jnc.j/
I C H Corp.I/
International Tourist
Entertainment Corp.j/
Jayhawk Acceptance Corp.j/
King of Video, Inc.
Lifeone,lnc. ~a
National Affiliated Corp.
Manhattan Bagel Co., Inc.
Marvel Entertainment
Group, Inc.I/

District

FY
Opened

FY
Closed
1998

D.
W.D.
E.D.
D.

DE
OH
WI
DE

1997
1994
1996
1998

W.D.
D.

TX
NJ

1998
1996

D.
M.D.
N.D.

DE
FL
CA

1997
1998
1998

1998
1998

C.D.

CA

1996

1998

C.D.
N.D.

CA
TX

1996
1996

1998
1998

W.D.
N.D.

MI
TX

1997
1997

1998
1998

D.

NY

1989

W.D.
D.

LA
NJ

1998
1998

D.

DE

1997

1998

155

Table 11 (continued)
REORGANIZATION PROCEEDINGS UNDER CHAPTER 11
OF THE BANKRUPTCY CODE IN WHICH
THE SEC ENTERED APPEARANCE

Debtor

District

FY
Opened

FY
Closed

1998

MCorp (MCorp Financial, Inc.
& MCorp Management)l!
Media Vision Technology, Inc.
Megafoods Stores, Inc.11
Molten Metal Technology, Inc.

S.D.
N.D.
D.
D.

TX
CA
AZ
MA

1989
1994
1994
1998

National Gypsum Co.
Neostar Retail Group, Inc.
Omega Environmental, Inc.
OTS Holdings, Inc.

N.D.
N.D.
W.D.
C.D.

TX
TX
WA
CA

1991
1997
1997
1998

Pacific Diagnostic Technologies,
Inc.
Pacific Northwest Housing, Inc.
Packaging Research Corp.2/
Payless Cashways, Inc.

N.D.
D.
D.
W.D.

CA
OR
CO
MO

1998
1998
1997
1997

E.D.
E.D.

WI
OK

1997
1994

C.D.
D.

CA
NV

1997
1998

N.D.

GA

1997

N.D.
C.D.

OK
CA

1997
1998

PCA Industries, Inc.
Penn Pacific Corp.
Physician Clinical Laboratory,

Inc.I/
Powertel USA, Inc.
RDM Sports Group, Inc.
Reconversion
Technologies, Inc.11
Reddie Brake Supply Co., Inc.

156

1998

1998

1998

1998

Table II (continued)
REORGANIZATION PROCEEDINGS UNDER CHAPTER 11
OF THE BANKRUPTCY CODE IN WHICH
THE SEC ENTERED APPEARANCE

Debtor

District

FY
Opened

FY
Closed

1998

Reliance Acceptance Corp.
f/k/a Cole Taylor Financial
Group, Inc.
Rymer Foods, Inc.
Sierra-Rockies Corp.
Solv-ex Corp.
Southland Corp.I/

D.
N.D.
C.D.
D.
N.D.

DE
IL
CA
NM
TX

1998
1993
1998
1997
1991

Standard Oil and Exploration
of Delaware, Inc.j/
Sterling Optical Corp.
Stratosphere Corp.I/
Stream Logic Corp.

W.D.
S.D.
D.
N.D.

MI
NY
NY
CA

1991
1992
1997
1998

Struthers Industries, Inc.
Substance Abuse Technologies,
Inc.lI
Tan Books & Records, Inc.
The Sled Dogs Co.

N.D.

OK

1998

S.D.
N.D.
D.

FL
IL
MN

1998
1998
1998

Tradetech Americas, Inc.
United States Leather, Inc.
Venture Stores, Inc.
Westbridge Capitol Corp.

N.D.
E.D.
D.
D.

IL
WI
DE
DE

1998
1998
1998
1998

Western Fidelity Funding, Inc.
Western Pacific Airlines, Inc.
Westmoreland Coal Co.
WRT Energy Corp.

D.
D.
D.
W.D.

CO
CO
CO
LA

1997
1998
1997
1996

1998
1998

1998

157

Table 11 (continued)
REORGANIZATION PROCEEDINGS UNDER CHAPTER 11
OF THE BANKRUPTCY CODE IN wmca
THE SEC ENTERED APPEARANCE

District

Debtor
Wiz Technology, Inc.
Winco Corp.

C.D.
C.D.

Total Cases Opened (FY 1998)
Total Cases Closed (FY 1998)

11

Y

158

Chapter 11 plan confirmed.
Debtor liquidated under Chapter 7.

CA
CA

FY
Opened

FY
Closed

1998
1998
36
24

The Securities Industry: Revenues, Expenses, and Selected Balance
Sheet Items
Broker-dealers registered with the Securities and Exchange Commission
earned a pre-tax profit of $20. 1 billion in calendar year 1997. This was
$3.1 billion more than that earned the previous year. The pre-tax return
on equity capital of 27.1 % was better than the average results of the
previous decade.
An important factor affecting broker-dealer profits was record transaction
activity. Sales of mutual funds grew by over 40% in 1997. The dollar
value of equity trades executed on the exchanges and the Nasdaq
increased by 41%. The amount of margin debt outstanding grew by 30%.
This increase in transactions translated into revenue growth. Securities
commissions rose by $4.9 billion to $32.7 billion in 1997. Margin interest
of $10.6 billion represented an increase of $3.2 billion. Revenues from
retailing mutual funds grew by $2.3 billion to $12.4 billion.
Underwriting revenues of$14.6 billion were a $2.3 billion increase over
the previous year. While the value of new debt offerings grew by 42%,
the more profitable equity offerings were flat in 1997. Proprietary trading
gains were $36.1 billion in 1997, an increase of $5.3 billion.
"All other revenues" grew by $17.6 billion to $101.3 billion in 1997.
These revenues are comprised primarily of interest income from securities
purchased under agreements to resell and fees from handling private
placements, mergers, and acquisitions. These underlying business
segments showed substantial growth in 1997. Announced M&A deals
rose by 47%, the dollar value of private placements grew by 74%, and
the dollar value of reverse repurchase agreements rose 15%.
Expenses rose 21 % to $187.7 billion in 1997, primarily due to higher
interest expenses. Interest expense, which was the largest expense item in
1997, increased by $16.2 billion (25%) to $80.9 billion. Employee
compensation rose 14.9% to $58.6 billion. Total assets grew by $332.6
billion to $2,080.2 billion. Equity capital increased by $16.5 billion to
$82.3 billion.

159

Table 12

UNCONSOLIDATED

FINANCIAL INFORMATION FOR BROKER-DEALERS
1993 - 1997 jJ
($ in Millions)

1993
Revenues
Securities Commissions
Gams (Losses) In Trading and
Investment Accounts
Pronts (Losses) from Underwntlng
and Selling Groups
Margin Interest
Revenues from Sale of Investment
Company Shares
All Other Revenues
Total Revenues
Expenses
Registered Represenlallves'
Compensalion (Par111Only) 21
Other Employee Compensation
and Benefits
Compensalion to Par1ners and
Voting Stockholder Officers
Comrmssions and Clearance Paid
to Other Brokers
Interest Expenses
Regulatory Fees and Expenses
All Other Expenses 21
Tolal Expenses
Income
Pre-tax
Pre-tax
Pre-tax

and Profitabl lily
Income
Proht Margin
Return on EqUity

Assets liabilities and CaPItal
Tolal Assets
Liabilities
(a) Unsubordinated liabilities
(b) Subordinated Liabilities
(c) TOIaI LiabllilJes
Owners/up EqUity
Number of Firms

1994

1995

160

FOCUS Report

s

19,846.7

$ 23,214.8

25,427.2

20,218.6

28,962.7

30,768.2

36,067.5

11,2487
3,2352

6,843.8
4,668.4

8,865.2
6,470.2

12,6133
7,3860

14,640.9
10,632.0

s

8,115.3
40,912.6
108,843.7

6,887.2
54,2934
$ 112,758.1

7,4335
68,467.6
$ 143,414.0

10,0811
83,6972
$ 172,411.5

12,420.2
101,250.7
$ 207,7295

$

14,696.0

$

$

$ 19,904.8

$

$

13,711.0

15,526.5

27,865.6

18,734.2

$

32,7183

22,194.3

$

20,931.3

20,552.2

22,285.4

3,498.0

3,332.4

3,7293

4,396 7

5,018.8

5,337.8
26,6156
629.7
24,096.7
$ 95,805.1

5,360.3
40,2504
627.8
25,431.8
$ 109,265.9

5.700.2
56,877.0
674.1
27,296.4
$ 132,088.9

7,364.2
64,698.5
672 9
31,664.9
$ 155,433.0

8,867.4
80,889.5
845.4
38,421.9
$ 187,668.4

$

$

s

$

13,038.6
120
267

3,492.2
3.1
6.5

27,901.7

11,325.1
7.9
20.1

16,978.5
9.8
27.3

31,431.2

s

20,0611
9.7%
27.1%

$1,240,159.8

$1,251,741.0

$1,493,643.9

$1,747,647.1

$2,080,206 3

1,160,456.0
25,787.6
1,186,243.6

1,169,136.6
28,809.7
1,197,9463

1,403,655.1
31,279.2
1,434,934.3

1,645,303.5
36,577.4
1,681,880.9

1,950,057.0
47,879.1
1,997,936.1

53,916.2

$ 53,794.7

$ 58.709.5

$

7,674

7.632

$

7,722

Figures may not add due to rounding.
r = reased
p = preliminary
1/ Calendar, rather than nscal, year data is reported in this table.
?I Registered representatives' compensation for firms that neither carry nor clear is Included
as thiS expense Item IS not reported separately on Par1IJA of the FOCUS Report
Source'

1997P

199&

65,766.2
7,774

In

.other expenses"

$

82,270.3
7,804

UNCONSOLIDATED

Table 13
ANNUAL REVENUES AND EXPENSES FOR BROKER-DEALERS
DOING A PUBLIC BUSINESS
1993 - 1997 jJ

($ in Millions)

1995

1996'

$ 19.246.6

s 22.6167

s 27.2451

24,042.5

18,918.3

27,088.1

28.322.0

31,872 5

11,248.6
3.229.1

6,840.5
4,6511

8.8650
6,439.4

12,6133
7,3538

14,628.1
10,499.4

8,115.3
40,0863
$106,0629

6,876.4
53,121.4
$109,654.3

7,433.4
67,4931
$139,935.6

10,081 1
82.689.7
$168,305.0

$ 14,671.9

$13,689.0

$ 15,5062

$ 18.646.0

22,108.8

20,5149

20,070.8

21,8606

27,416.8

30.8282

3,2934

3,096.1

3,5113

4,121 9

4.731.5

5,083.3
26,2229
5733
23.548.2
$ 93.908.0

5.088.4
39,582.1
534.6
24,832.5
$106,893.5

5,4574
55,8233
6162
26,670.8
$129,4459

7,099.3
63,595.3
622.3
30,983.6
$152,4852

8,426.4
78,915.5
7886
37,527.2
$183,3262

$ 12,1549
11.5
26.5

$ 2,760.8
2.5
54

$ 10,4897
75
197

$ 15,819.8
94
268

$17,8893
89
257

5,237

5,310

5,395

5,471

1993
Revenues
Securities Commissions
Gains (Losses) in TradlOg and
Investment Accounts
Profits (Losses) from Underwriting
and Selling Groups
MarglO Interest
Revenues from Sale of Investment
Company Shares
All Other Revenues
Total Revenues
Expenses
Registered Representatives'
Compensallon (Part II only) Y
Other Employee Compensation
and Benefits
Compensallon to Partners and
Voting Stockholder Officers
cemnnssons and Clearance Paid
to Other Brokers
Interest Expenses
Regulatory Fees and Expenses
All Other Expenses '!J
Total Expenses
Income
Pre-tax
Pre-tax
Pre-tax

and Profitability
Income
Profit Margin
Return on EqUIty

Number of Rrms

$19.3411

5,139

1994

1997'
$ 31,915.1

12,421 8
99,8785
$201,2155

Figures may not add due to rounding.
r = rensed
p = preliminary
y calendar. rather than hscal, year data is reported in thiS table.
'!J Registered representatives' compensation for firms that neither carry nor clear IS included 10 "other expenses"
as thiS expense item is not reported separately on Part IIA of the FOCUS Report
Source: FOCUS Report

161

Table 14
UNCONSOUDATED
BALANCE SHEET FOR BROKER-DEALERS
DOING A PUBUC BUSINESS
YEAR-END, 1993 - 1997 11
($ in Millions)

1993

~
Cash
Receivables from Other
Broker -dealers
Receivables from Customers
Receivables from Non-customers
long Positions In Securities
and Commodibes
Securities and Investments
not Readily Marketable
Secunties Purchased Under Agreements
to Resell (Part II only) 2J
Exchange Membership
Other Assets 2/
Total Assets

s

13,128.1

1994
$

13,500 4

1995

s

14,862.7

1996'
$

16.824.7

1997p

s

23.338.5

289.168 0
68.526.1
6,412.5

342,000.1
66.911.6
7.258.1

358,556.9
71,004.2
7,421.0

477,645.9
87.064.8
7.080.4

591,094.5
118.272.7
11,857.6

363,864 3

317,625.7

422.868.7

448,069.1

496.140.4

4.124.4

4,481.1

5.453.8

8,037.8

5,366 2

439,431.4
323.1
30.615.8
$1,215.593 8

437,805.6
544.832.3
353 7
424.1
33,818.8
34.206.1
$1.223,755.0 $1.459.542.3

$

s

624.210.7
716.089.1
460.2
545.4
36.234.1
46.826.1
$1.703.043.7 $2.012,202.1

Liabilities and Eouitv Caoital
Bank loans Payable
Payables to Other Broker-deaJers
Payables to Non-customers
Payables to Customers
Short Positions in Securities
and Commodities
Secunties Sold Under Repurchase
Agreements (Part II only) 2/
Other Non-subordinated Liabilibes 2/
Subordinated Liabilities
Total liabilities

199.509 5

196.807.9

195.149.3

236,586.2

607.827.1
83.124.4
25,370.6
$1.164,717.6

591,423.1
80.846.3
28,493.5
$1,173.2346

767.676.1
85,389.4
30.9313
$1,403,626.3

852.523.9
107.867.5
36.2295
$1,640,741.1

991.885 3
132.335.3
47,422.6
$1,935,441.6

Equity Capital

s

$

s

s

s

Number of firms

41.991.9
105.115.2
10,836.0
90.942.9

50,876.2
5.139

34.471.4
130,736.4
11.921.5
98,534.4

50.520.4
5.237

s

45,717.6
152,3288
14,943.8
111.489.9

55.916.0
5.310

$

38.165.7
207.726.7
18,124.7
143,517.0

62.302.5
5.395

s

38,323.3
264.231.1
26,493.9
187.852.9
246,897.3

76,760.4
5,471

Agures may not add due to rounding.
r = revised
p = preliminary
Y Calendar, rather than fiscal, year data is reported in thiS table
2/ Resale agreements and repurchase agreements for firms that neither carry nor clear are included in "other assets" and
"other non-subordinated liabilities." respectively. as these items are not reported separately on Par1I1A of the FOCUS
Report
SOIIce:

162

FOCUS Report

Carrying and Clearing Firms
Data for carrying and clearing firms that do a public business is presented
in more detail. Reporting requirements for firms that neither carry nor
clear are less detailed. Carrying and clearing firms clear securities
transactions or maintain possession or control of customers' cash or
securities. These firms produced 82% of the securities industry's total
revenues in calendar year 1997.
Brokerage activity accounted for about 24 cents of each revenue dollar in
1997, about the same as the level in 1996. Securities commissions remained
the most important component, producing 14 cents of each dollar of revenue.
Margin interest generated about six cents of each dollar of revenue, while
revenues from mutual fund sales accounted for about four cents.
The dealer side produced 64 cents of each dollar of revenue in 1997, down
from 67 cents in 1996. Sixteen cents came from trading and investments, a
decline from 17 cents in 1996. Eight cents came from underwriting, about
the same as in 1996. Forty cents came from other securities-related revenues,
down about one cent since 1996. This revenue item is comprised primarily of
interest income from securities purchased under agreements to resell and fees
from handling private placements, mergers, and acquisitions.
Expenses accounted for 92 cents of each revenue dollar in 1997, resulting in a
pre-tax profit margin of eight cents per revenue dollar, about one cent less
than that in 1996. Interest expense was the most important expense item,
accounting for 45 cents of each revenue dollar in 1997 compared to 44 cents
in 1996. Employee-related expenses-compensation
received by registered
representatives, partners and other employees-consumed
28 cents of each
revenue dollar in 1997, compared to 29 cents in 1996.
Total assets of broker-dealers carrying and clearing customer accounts were
$1,957 billion at year-end 1997, a 1<)0./0 increase from 1996. Relative to other
assets, the value of reverse repurchase agreements and the inventory on the
books of broker -dealers declined during 1997, while the value of receivables
from customers and other broker -dealers increased.
Total liabilities increased by about 18% to $1,897 billion in 1997. Owners'
equity rose by 21 % to $60.7 billion.
163

~
I')

::::;.

=

I

en

c

CD

Co

w><

t--

en
en

~

e

A

j

~

..-

II

z

C tn
.E

i~"2~~

i If liP

as

ii:
C)
0 c:
C °C

~ I,

!

~

~ ~j
(1)

....

-0

-

o-

.....
.-

~

::s

~

JI

CO

0
U.

g

!

CD

I/)
(I)

l..,

c

tn

~
CD
0::

II

~
...
<'Cl

(I)

~

a8'

1
:J

...

13

~

0

"":

e.

1 ~

I"

!
f _I

'5[

!S

~

CJ
CI)

~

::::;.

0 0
CI)

..

!Jl
~
c

~

0

U)

C

0

u
'E

......
.c
::s
C)
co
c:
~
I- "

E()()

iii
c

.E E

"2~
;;]

e

;;]

u

o~

51 13
B~

Ol;:~

o
... 0
...0 Q.
0"'"(1)
-1/)0:

~
::::;.

I

II:

A

i

t

a

E~U)
;;];;]::1
~.g'o
01/)0

~I

;'~u.
lU,=W
Ego

e1/)-0:
.. ::1
;;].!o

II:

164

<'Cl

.8;
E

CD

(/)

....

CI(I)

tf.

en

0

;;]

8
o

;;]-

....0

e~

~

~~U)

Table 16
UNCONSOLIDATED
REVENUES AND EXPENSES
CARRYING/CLEARING
BROKER-DEALERS 11
($ in Millions)

1997.

199&

Dollars
Revenues
Securities CommissIOns
Gains (Losses) In Trading and
Investment Accounts
Profits (Losses) from Underwriting and Seiling Groups
Margin Interest
Revenues from Sale of Investment Company Shares
Miscellaneous Fees
Revenues from Research
Other Securities Related Revenues
Commodities Revenues
All Other Revenues
Total Revenues
Expenses
Registered Representatives'
Compensation
Other Employee Compensation
and Benefits
Compensation to Partners and
Voting Stockholder Officers
Commissions and Clearance Pard
to Other Brokers
Communications
Occupancy and Equipment Costs
Data Processing Costs
Interest Expenses
RegUlatory Fees and Expenses
Losses In Error Accounts and
Bad Debts
All Other Expenses
Total Expenses
Income
Pre-tax
Pre-tax
Pre-tax

and Profitability
Income
Profit Margin
Retum on EQUIty

Number of Rrms

$ 19,560.1

FOR

Percent
oITota!
Revenues

Dollars

13.8%

$23,171.7

Percent
oITotal
Revenues

Percent
Change
1996-1997

13.6%

18.5%

23,733.3

167

26,896.6

157

133

11,7651
7,353.8

83
52

13,8306
10,4994

8.1
61

17.6
428

5,901.4
6,375.1
1054
58,1361
1,570.9
7,644.1
$142,145.3

4.2
45
01
409
1.1
5.4
100.0%

7,2055
8,351.6
685
68,1968
331.5
12,271.2
$170,823.4

4.2
4.9
0.0
399
02
7.2
1000%

221
310
-350
17.3
-789
605
20.2%

$ 18,6460

131%

$22,1088

12.9%

186%

20,503.7

14.4

23,4251

13.7

142

2,368.5

1.7

2,8096

1.6

186

3,811.0
3,434.5
4,084.4
1,700.1
62,338.2
4684

27
24
2.9
1.2
438
0.3

4,487.5
3,897.6
4,551.0
1,9668
77,317.1
603.2

26
23
27
12
453
04

17.8
135
114
15.7
240
288

332.2
11,8505
$129,537.7

s 12,6076
8.9
26.4
756

0.2
83
911%

454.3
15,3795
$157,000.4

03
9.0
91.9%

368
298
21.2%

8.9%

$13,823.0
8.1
25.0

8.1%

9.6%

786

Rgures may not add due to rounding.
r = revised
p = preliminary
jJ calendar, rather than fiscal, year data is reported in this table.
Note: Includes information for firms doing a public business that carry customer accounts or clear securities transactions.
Source: FOCUS Report

165

Table 17

UNCONSOLIDATED

BALANCE SHEET FOR CARRYING/CLEARING
BROKER-DEALERS 11
($ in Millions)
1997P

1996'
Dollars

Percent
of Total
Assets

15,319.8
458,383.8
7,381.3
426,882.9
24,119.7
87,064.8
6,474.8
422,3331

0.9%
27.8
0.4
25.9
1.5
53
04
25.6

20,976.8
252,967.2
10,8296
83,813.7
37,5222
6,476.7
7,089.4
2,303.7
3537
4,877.3

13
153
07
5.1
23
0.4
0.4
0.1
0.0
0.3

Dollars

~

~".

Cash
Receivables from Other Broker-dealers
(a) Securities Failed to Deliver
(b) Secuntes Borrowed
(c) Other
Receivables from Customers
Receivables from Non-customers
Long Positions m Securities and conmemnes
(a) Bankers Acceptances, Certificates
of Deposit and Commercial Paper
(b) U.S. and Canadian Government Obligations
(c) State and MUnicipal Government Obligations
(d) Corporate Obligations
(e) Stocks and Warrants
(I) OplJons
(g) Arbitrage
(h) Other secenues
(I) Spot Commodities
SecunlJes and Investments Not Readily Marketable
secunties Purchased Under Agreements
to Resell
Exchange Membership
Other Assets
Total Assets
liabilities and Equity Caortal
Bank Loans Payable
Payables to Other Broker -dealers
(a) SecurilJes Failed to Receive
(b) Securities Loaned
(c) Other
Payables to Non-customers
Payables to Customers
Short Posnors in secennes
and Commodities
Securities Sold Under Repurchase
Agreements (Part" Only)
Other Non-subordinated
lIabilllJes
Subordinated UabilllJes
Totai liabilities
EqUity Gapitai
Number of Rrms

$

624,210.7
399.9
31 ,885.3
$1,650,949.4

37.8
0.0
1.9
100.0%

37,510 ..8
190,501.8
9,211.4
158,120.8
23,169.7
17,695.1
143,517.0

2.3%
11.5
0.6
9.6
1.4
1.1
8.7

219,186.7
852,523.9

$

1.1%
29.5
0.8
27.2
15
6.0
0.6
237

23,191.6
267,463.0
13,203.2
89,235.0
50,667.1
7,458 8
8,802.8
3,209.1
639.4
7,542.3

1.2
13.7
0.7
4.6
2.6
0.4
0.4
0.2
0.0
0.4

106
57
219
65
35.0
15.2
24.2
393
808
54.6
14.7
12.4
29.6
18.6%

38,135.3
253,096.8
16,879.3
207,674.7
28,542.8
26,106.3
187,852.9

1.9%
129
0.9
10.6
1.5
1.3
9.6

1.7%
32.9
83.2
31.3
232
47.5
30.9

13.3

224,307.8

11.5

2.3

51.6

991,885.3

50.7

16.3

128,885.9
46,412.5
$1,896,682.6

6.6
2.4
96.9%

22.9
32.1
18.5%

60,703.6

3.1%

21.3%

50,030.6

3.0%

$

$

786

Rgures may not add due to rounding.
r = revised
p = preliminary
11 Calendar, rather than fiscal, year data is reported in this table.
Note: Includes mfonnatioo for finns doing a public business that carry customer accounts or clear securities transactiOllS.
Source: FOCUS Report

166

407%
259
110.4
24.6
22.4
35.8
73.1
9.8

36.6
0.0
2.1
100.0%

6.4
2.1
97.0%

756

21,556.7
577,081.9
15,530.5
532,039.0
29,512.4
118,272 7
11,2093
463,8701

Percent
Change
1995-1996

716,089.1
449.3
41,314.9
$1,957,386.2

104,853.4
35,130.1
$1,600,918.7
$

$

Percent
oITotal
Assets

Securities Traded on Exchanges
Market Value and Volume
The market value of equity and option transactions (trading in stocks,
options, warrants, and rights) on registered exchanges totaled $6.9 trillion
in 1997. Of this total, approximately $6.6 trillion, or 96%, represented
the market value of transactions in stocks, rights, and warrants; $295
billion, or 4% were options transactions (including exercises of options
on listed stocks).
The value of equity and option transactions on the New York Stock
Exchange (NYSE) was $5.8 trillion, up 45.7% from the previous year.
The market value of such transactions on the American Stock Exchange
(AMEX) increased 55.3% to $203.8 billion and increased 39.8% to
$803.8 billion on all other exchanges The volume of trading in stocks
(excluding rights and warrants) on all registered exchanges totaled 159.7
billion shares, a 27% increase from the previous year, with 86.9% of the
total accounted for by trading on the NYSE.
The volume of options contracts traded (excluding exercised contracts)
was 353.8 million contracts in 1997, 20% greater than in 1996. The
market value of these contracts increased 47.9% to $219 billion. The
volume of contracts executed on the Chicago Board Options Exchange
increased 7.6% to 187.2 million. Option trading on the AMEX and
Pacific Stock Exchange rose 43% and 37.8% respectively while option
trading on the Philadelphia Stock Exchange increased 38.4%
Nasdaq (Share Volume and Dollar Volume)
Nasdaq share volume and dollar volume information has been reported on
a daily basis since November 1, 1971. At the end of 1997, there were
6,208 issues in the Nasdaq system, as compared to 6,384 a year earlier
and 3,050 at the end of 1980.
Share volume for 1997 was 163.9 billion, compared to 138.1 billion in
1996 and 6.7 billion in 1980. The dollar volume of shares traded in the

167

Nasdaq system was $4.5 trillion during 1997, compared to $3.3 trillion in
1996 and $68.7 billion in 1980.
Share and Dollar Volume by Exchange
Share volume on all registered stock exchanges totaled 159.9 billion, an
increase of 27% from previous year. The NYSE accounted for 87% of
the 1997 share volume; the AMEX, 4%; the Chicago Stock Exchange,
4%; and the Pacific Stock Exchange, 2%.
The dollar value of stocks, rights, and warrants traded was $6.6 trillion,
45.4% higher than the previous year. Trading on the NYSE contributed
89% of the total. The Chicago Stock Exchange and Pacific Stock
Exchange contributed 3% and 2% respectively. The AMEX accounted
for 2% of dollar volume.

168

Table 18
MARKET VALUE OF EQUITY/OPTIONS SALES ON U.S. EXCHANGES
($ in Thousands)
Total
Market
Value

Stocks

2J

Warrants

11

Equity Options
Exercised
Traded

Non-Equity
Options 'JJ

39,172,724
42,983,539
44,457,669
51,461,348
59,451,448
100,422,278

45,590,003
41,400,009
58,587,028
68,071,671
80,243,345
114,459,480

35,008,397

22,826,973

6,348,353

0
0
0
415,222
17,839,130
9,531,183
41,741,218

0
0
0
272,894
10,150,071
9,896,540
33,328,829

Rights

All Registered Exchanges for Past Six Years
Calendar Year:

1992
1993
1994
1995
1996
1997

2,148,790,741
2,728,667,287
2,956,599,170
3,678,326,943
4,719,336,203
6,879,408,633

2,031,942,219
2,609,854,352
2,816,810,031
3,506,785,001
4,510,874,989
6,559,348,106

658,074
584,699
678,024
970,523
869,986
616,256

83,842
65,339
183,095
235,647
34,861
27,363

26,585,937
33,779,350
35,883,322
50,802,752
67,861,575
104,535,151

Breakdown of 1997 Data by Registered Exchanges
All Registered Exchanges
Exchanges:

AMEX
BSE
CHX~
CSE
NYSE
PSE
PHLX
CBOE

203,786,939
80,847,329
212,965,835
90,534,913
5,847,854,938
150,850,620
89,229,253
179,391,835

139,498,701
80,847,329
212,965,835
90,534,913
5,846,637,135
122,766,544
65,974,522
123,126

98,090
0
0
0
503,200
13,430
1,535
0

6,425
0
0
0
20,838
100
0
0

0
0
0
5,648
81,344
3,825,473
104,198,662

Figures may not sum due to rounding.
of equity security sales is reported in connection with fees paid under Section 31 of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934 as amended by the Securities Acts Amendments of 1975.
It covers odd-lot as well as round-lot transactions.
2J Includes voting trust certificates, certificate of deposit for stocks, and American Depositary Receipts for stocks but excludes rights and warrants.
'JJ Includes all exchange trades of call and put options in stock indices, interest rates, and foreign currencies.
~ The Chicago Stock Exchange was formerly the Midwest Stock Exchange. The name change took effect on June 11, 1993.

1/ Data on the value and volume

~

Source: SEC Form R-31 and Options Clearing Corporation Statistical Report.

O-r-CX)r-Ov

cnr-~~roN
VC:O

'V

O>W

CO

Lrici""':e-Jll'ici'

~~~

cnOM,....O)ro

C'>("f')VOlCOLO
OO .......vf"-'VN
COO>LOI"--V<O

cO cD ci
-r- N ~
.,....,....,....N
A

,....oc>or-mr-r0>
co to co co
co
.,....N<O

~

NNc.O

'"
c:

o

.;=

o
lOCOMor-m
M
...,........
m

CO,....

Q('I")'V

CON

.........

(Y'),....

CJ)

0>

cD.....:m~cnNcnr,....,....,......--,....N

MNMcn<.OCO

r-ooc>VI"--OC)

,....,-Mcnc.oN

o

Mr-Vmc.oCO

'<T

a5,....AM~m,...,:

N

LOCO("f')r-MLO
~N

~N
NO

~.....:
L{)

"'-OOOMmoo
L(')
NO
V
LOO

U"')("I")N("f')vM

ON<ON,.....U')
NNV,....('I"),....

~tD-=..nc.O,....:
CO<or-OMCO
,....,....,....v,.....

roNCO
VCO
CJ')vo>MOlM
<oCO
....... LOL()N

("f')

to

ci,....-

L{)

C'")

r-;
T"""

t::

o

CO)

NcO-:e--;WN

a:

..n N ci

~
~
~

c.oOCOO>v.,....
VCOVC"")r-r-

u5 t.O

~~~

0)-

<OCOcnONl(')

c:

o

fii

o

C-

O
c..:>
C>

c:

.~
0)

N('f")<q-LO(Or-

0)0>0)0>0>0>

cn orcn .....
cn ,....
cn cn o»

.....

T"'""

,....

13
c:
'"
o
"5-

o
"0

c:

'"

'7
a:
E

o

u..

c..:>
w

(/)

;"
'-'

::;
o

(/)

170

Table 20

SHARE VOLUME BY EXCHANGES 11
(In Percentages)

Year

Total Share
Volume
(in Thousands)

NYSE

AMEX

CHIC

PSE

PHl.X

BSE

CSE

Others

1945
1950
1955
1960
1961
1962
1963
1964
1965
1966
1967
1968
1969
1970
1971
1972
1973
1974
1975
1976
1977
1978
1979
1980
1981
1982
1983
1984
1985
1986
1987
1988
1989
1990
1991
1992
1993
1994
1995
1996
1997

769,018
893,320
1,321,401
1,441,120
2,142,523
1,711,945
1,880,793
2,118,326
2,671,012
3,313,899
4,646,553
5,407,923
5,134,856
4,834,887
6,172,668
6,518,132
5,899,678
4,950,842
6,376,094
7,129,132
7,124,640
9,630,065
10,960,424
15,587,986
15,969,186
22,491,935
30,316,014
30,548,014
37,187,567
48,580,524
64,082,996
52,665,654
54,416,790
53,746,087
58,290,641
65,705,037
83,056,237
90,786,603
107,069,656
125,922,577
159,856,674

65.87
76.32
68.85
68.47
64.99
71.31
72.93
72.81
69.90
69.38
64.40
61.98
63.16
71.28
71.34
70.47
74.92
78.47
80.99
80.05
79.71
79.53
79.88
79.94
80.68
81.22
80.37
82.54
81.52
81.12
83.09
83.74
81.33
81.86
82.01
8134
82.90
84.55
84.49
85.95
86.85

21.31
13.54
19.19
22.27
25.58
20.11
18.83
19.42
22.53
22.84
28.41
29.74
27.61
19.03
18.42
18.22
13.75
10.28
8.97
9.35
9.56
10.65
10.85
10.78
9.32
696
7.45
5.26
5.78
6.28
5.57
4.95
6.02
6.23
5.52
5.74
5.53
4.96
4.78
4.29
3.88

1.77
2.16
2.09
2.20
2.22
2.34
2.32
2.43
2.63
2.56
2.35
2.63
2.84
3.16
3.52
3.71
4.09
440
3.97
3.87
3.96
3.56
3.30
3.84
4.60
5.09
5.48
6.03
6.12
5.73
5.19
5.26
5.44
4.68
4.66
4.62
4.57
3.88
3.67
3.37
3.75

2.98
3.11
3.08
3.11
3.41
2.95
2.82
2.65
2.33
268
246
2.64
3.47
3.68
3.72
4.13
3.68
3.48
3.26
3.93
372
3.84
3.27
280
287
3.62
3.56
3.31
3.66
3.68
3.23
3.03
3.34
3.16
3.59
3.19
2.81
2.37
2.56
2.40
2.01

1.06
0.97
0.85
088
0.79
0.87
0.83
0.93
0.81
0.86
0.87
089
1.22
1.63
1 91
2.21
219
1.82
1.54
142
1.49
1.49
1.64
1.54
1 55
2.18
2.20
1 79
1.47
1.53
1.30
129
1.80
1.82
1.60
1.72
1.55
1.42
1.39
1.28
109

0.66
065
0.48
0.38
0.30
0.31
029
029
0.26
0.40
0.43
0.78
051
0.51
0.43
0.59
071
0.86
0.85
078
066
060
0.55
0.57
051
0.48
0.65
0.85
1 27
133
1.28
1.32
1 64
1 71
1.77
1.57
1.47
1.39
1.45
1.29
1.24

0.05
0.09
0.05
0.04
0.04
0.04
0.04
0.03
0.05
005
0.02
0.01
0.00
0.02
0.03
0.03
0.04
005
013
0.44
0.64
0.16
028
0.32
0.37
038
019
0.18
015
0.30
0.30
0.39
0.41
0.53
0.86
1.83
1.17
142
1.66
1.42
118

6.30
3.16
5.41
265
2.67
2.07
1.94
1.44
1.49
1.23
1.06
1.33
1.19
0.69
0.63
0.64
0.62
0.64
0.29
0.16
026
0.17
023
0.21
010
0.07
0.10
004
0.03
0.02
0.04
0.02
0.02
0.01
001
0.01
0.00
0.01
0.00
0.00
000

jJ Share volume for exchanges includes stocks, rights, and warrants; calendar, rather than calendar. fiScal, year data are reported
in thiS table.
2/ Includes all exchanges not listed individually.
Source. SEC Form R-31

171

Table 21
DOLLAR VOLUME BY EXCHANGES
(In Percentages)

11

Total Dollar
Volume
Year
1950
1955
1960
1961
1962
1963
1964
1965
1966
1967
1968
1969
1970
1971
1972
1973
1974
1975
1976
1977
1978
1979
1980
1981
1982
1983
1984
1985
1986
1987
1988
1989
1990
1991
1992
1993
1994
1995
1996
1997

1/
2/

(10

Thousands)

21,808,284
38,039,107
45,309,825
64,071,623
54,855,293
64,437,900
72,461.584
89,549,093
123,697,737
162,189,211
197,116,367
176,389,759
131,707,946
186,375,130
205,956,263
178,863,622
118,828,270
157,256,676
195,224,812
187,393,084
251,618,179
300,475,510
476,500,688
491,017,139
603,094,266
958,304,168
951,318,448
1,200,127,848
1,707,117,112
2,286,902,788
1,587,950,769
1,847,766,971
1,616,798,075
1,778,154,074
2,032,684,135
2,610,504,390
2,817,671,150
3,507,991,171
4,511,779,836

$

6,559,991,725

NYSE
8591
86.31
8380
8243
8632
8519
8349
81.78
79.77
77.29
7355
7348
78.44
79.07
7777
8207
8363
85.20
8435
8396
83.67
83.72
8353
84.74
8532
8513
85.61
85.25
85.02
8679
8681
8549
86.15
8620
8647
87.21
88.08
87.71
88.91
8913

AMEX

CHIC

PSE

PHLX

6.85
698
935
1071
681
7.51
845
991
1184
1448
1799
17.59
11.11
998
10.37
606
4.40
367
388
460
613
694
7.33
5.41
327
332
2.26
223
256
232
196
235
233
2.31
2.07
208
201
210
1.91
213

2.35
244
272
2.75
2.75
2.72
3.15
3.44
3.14
3.08
3.12
3.39
3.76
4.00
4.29
4.54
4.90
4.64
4.76
4.79
4.16
3.83
4.33
504
5.83
6.28
6.57
6.59
6.00
532
546
546
458
434
428
4.10
3.49
3.26
3.01
3.25

2.19
1.90
194
1.99
2.00
239
2.48
2.43
2.84
2.79
2.65
3.12
3.81
3.79
3.94
3.55
3.50
3.26
383
353
364
2.78
227
2.32
3.05
286
2.93
3.06
3.00
2.53
2.62
2.84
2.77
305
287
238
2.09
2.24
2.03
1.87

1.03
1.03
1.03
1.03
1.05
1.06
1.14
112
110
1.13
1.13
1.43
199
229
256
245
2.03
173
1.69
1.62
162
180
1.61
1.60
159
1.55
158
1.49
157
135
1.33
1.77
179
154
1.70
1.52
134
1.27
1.19
1.01

SSE
1.12
0.78
060
0.49
046
0.41
0.42
0.42
056
066
104
067
067
058
0.75
100
1.24
119
0.94
074
061
056
052
0.49
0.51
0.66
0.85
120
1.44
133
1.34
156
1.63
172
1.52
1.35
1.31
1.43
132
123

CSE
0.11
009
0.07
007
007
006
0.06
0.08
007
003
001
001
0.03
0.05
005
006
006
017
0.53
0.75
017
035
0.40
040
043
016
0.19
0.18
0.41
0.35
0.49
0.54
0.74
0.83
1.09
137
1.68
1.99
1.63
1.38

Others
0.44
0.47
0.49
053
054
066
0.81
082
068
054
051
0.31
0.19
0.24
027
0.27
0.24
0.14
002
001
000
0.02
001
000
000
0.04
0.00
0.00
0.00
0.00
0.00
0.00
0.00
001
0.00
000
0.00
0.00
0.00
0.00

Dollar volume for exchanges mcludes stocks, rights, and warrants; calendar, rather than fiScal, year data are reported
thiS table.
Includes all exchanges not listed individually.
Source: SEC Form R-31

172

10

?J

U')VONt-OMN

Vcr")

NO

r-c.o..-r-O

r-('I')VV('f')

NN

..;

V

0

CO

~

(")

0<

mc>or-NCDC"')r...-"1
0>,....

U")oo

...-..-NVC"")
......

an

0

CX)

cD

co,..... CO
r-;

N

U")

l()

O>

N

o

~

~

10

10

0r-

(")

N

'"
'"

!E
:::>

N

Ll)..-OOC"')('I')C')..ex)
U"') ..-

co

-.;i

..-

Q')
N

co
..-

~~>
~~
0..:::;:
.c
'"
E

OONOOOOO
10

CD

....
10

M

a:5

CD

CD

'"

~ ~ooooo~

GeO

05

'"

<.>

en

en
.~

c=
0>

Q;

u;
'"
E
o
o

LU
a: _

10
N

10

C'\i

'"

0'"

moooooO'>
0> CD
o~
V

~
"-"-OOCOr-COLO
<.0

co

N

V

co

VOODOOV
CD

CD

10

:::>

z

L()('t)ONcomr-("f')
0('1')
"-malmo
..- 0
r- U') ..-

"":N'

N

en

....

(")

en

co
en
r-;
V

m

comor-or-o..to ....- r- ......
..- 0

e-, ..-

co

N

co

~

N
0>

co
E

o

LL.

U
LU

en

~
':i

o
en

173

Table 23
VALUE OF STOCKS USTED ON EXCHANGES
($ in Billions)
As of
Dec 31
1938
1941
1942
1943
1944
1945
1946
1947
1948
1949
1950
1951
1952
1953
1954
1955
1956
1957
1958
1959
1960
1961
1962
1963
1964
1965
1966
1967
1968
1969
1970
1971
1972
1973
1974
1975
1976
1977
1978
1979
1980
1981
1982
1983
1984
1985
1986
1987
1988
1989
1990
1991
1992
1993
1994
1995
1996
1997

174

New York
Stock
Exchange
$ 47.5
419
35.8
47.6
555
738
686
683
670
76.3
938
109.5
120.5
1173
169.1
207.7
2192
1956
2767
307.7
307.0
3878
3458
411.3
474.3
5375
482.5
605.8
692.3
6295
636.4
741.8
871.5
721.0
511.1
685.1
858.3
776.7
822.7
960.6
1,242.8
1,143.8
1,305.4
1,522.2
1,529.5
1,882.7
2,128.5
2,132.2
2,366.1
2,903.5
2,692.1
3,547.5
3,877.9
4,314.9
4,240.8
5,755.5
6,947.7
9,413.1

American
Stock
Exchange
$ 10.8
8.6
7.4
9.9
11.2
14.4
13.2
12.1
119
12.2
13.9
16.5
169
153
22.1
27.1
310
25.5
317
254
24.2
330
24.4
261
28.2
309
27.9
43.0
612
47.7
395
49.1
55.6
38.7
23.3
293
36.0
37.6
392
57.8
103.5
89.4
77.6
80.1
52.0
63.2
70.3
67.0
841
100.9
69.9
90.3
86.4
98.1
86.5
113.3
106 2
131.3

ExcluSively
On Other
Exchanges
$ .....

3.0
31
33
3.2
31
28
36
40
38
3.1
43
42
4.1
53
4.0
4.3
4.3
4.7
4.0
39
6.0
5.4
4.8
47
5.6
4.1
29
43
4.2
42
29
3.9
2.9
50
6.8
6.6
58
5.9
6.5
5.9
4.9
46
3.9
4.3
5.9
7.2
47
6.8
5.7
36

Total
58.3
50.5
432
57.5
66.7
882
81.8
80.4
81.9
91.6
111.0
129.2
140.5
135.4
1948
238.8
254.0
2242
312.7
3373
3353
426.1
374.2
441.7
506 8
5731
5144
652.7
7595
682.6
680.7
795.6
9327
763.8
537.3
718.7
8985
818.5
864.8
1,022.3
1,3492
1,238.2
1,389.7
1,608.8
1,587.3
1,951.8
2,205.3
2,205.1
2,455.1
3,009.0
2,765.9
3,6421
3,970.2
4,420.2
4,332.0
5,875.6
7,059.6
9,548.0
Source: SEC Form 1392
$

Table 24

APPROPRIATED

1,800

FUNDS vs FEES* COLLECTED

$ Millions

,781

1,700
1,600
1,500
1,400
1,300
1,200
1,100
1,000
900
800
700
600
500
400

",

---

.'---

300
200

315

100

o

~m

n

n

N

* Excludes

~

~

~

~

disgorgemeuts

M

~

~

~

~

from fraud

~

~

~

~

~

~

~

~

~

~

ac:tious.

175

siii

~

~
~

~

N

~I
]J
~

...

~

~ ~
~

..

1011

~~
~

(/)

z

0
i=

~

...
~ ~

:g

M

-c
C'lz

Itla

~«
CO(/)

..:Ej

~

I-W
l-

~~

l!!

g

~ E+

!:! ~~~~~m
..;

.,

'"

U?!~
+z:

~ll)~~+C'\I

+

:e ~
~

c:q. ";
~m

+~

:E
i=

so

W
IW

o

a
::>

~ ~
lil
~

M~

~

.. ..~

1:1

~g

s
M

~

CD

~

a

~~~~+~

~~

ii

..,e
~~
~

...

..

u~

i

t
~~
S-&. i
...
~~
c=~

~!l

*'" ~ *'"

~

~

'0 -

.......",...N

"!

ljl

M

-:

"'
li

~

Ii

~

~ ~ ~

~
~

~

!?!
on

s s s '"
U!i}~'l'
'"
~
~'f~~
m

;:"

18

~

~

'l'

5 '"1!!

~

N

N

1!!

'"
=:

..
g

.;

ll:;

oBll=
I~f ji1>!
=)2
s=

,8

~
176

,8

i

'0

j

i

g-

i jj c.jH
i
~
~&ll _ll18=j~-~Z
w

~ fJ~
1>1 O~1>iil> 1> gii~
~ ~
MO

jl

~ci

...S.8

~<l;

s>-0

ll~

u'"

&~

~

i

8~

8-

~~~
d

s

~
8"'=
.. ~~ !...
=:li!

N~~

:;

g

i~
~
~wj'
:::I

1ll ill

~

~ ~~~~ !?!
~ :8G;:8~
~
..... +N

K

.s

~~
~ll
Q-

~

S

i~ j

0

0

g

m

I

E~

...
M

~ ~

_ ..~

E

Ii

~_fn

!

~

! 1ll

~
'"
~

~~~Ie~~
N....:roimC"ic
...;

.s

~

~

+~

-c

e

~

5l
I
g

::lSl

SllG

'"

N.

go

N

~~~~~g

:e
r-,

~
.s
~
~
~

i:g

'"

:;;,
g~8fg~~

!

.. If

8

.....
0

jj

s

:go ...

'M+ri'C"i

~

8 1ll
~
~ ~
go
~

8

~~r:f~rifi

M.

~
~
:ll
.., ~:;
E ~
'0
.s

I
~!~
+g

lQoo:rCON
..... ln
N ..... OCO .......
O
.... co ..... r.n .....

.....
0_..-

Ii

'"

~M

ill

~
~

8

... m

&

!~

~

88

..... U')

~ ...
s
& +

~
~ ~

~

U)

!!S

a:

a.
0
a:
a.
a.

~

~ ~~ ~ ~

M.

~

-c

..........

.,-g:+g'g

:g
.... ~
st ~~
iii"":
'"fro re ?J

~

:;}

~I
~J

~

~~~~~~

:;}

....:8 ..,:i

~
1:1
~~
~
~

.~

8
'" ~

~

~

~

'M+;:;C;;:;

i

iii

~~
~~

N"..nroi"':06r.ri

:ll

<l;

~

;~;;;~~

N

iiij Jiij~~j.j.Jii~~

~~i(W) !i
~,*.~i

~::lf..s

j~..,1!j
C'II.E~i

S~li'
~~ i~!
:815.!~
\i~O~8

mn
'i

~~.

iiiJ"~

ilIff
...

;:"",

:;;,

>
a:

1!
W

z>

.....
0"
>:,0

a:
U
W
Ul

I

r-

::EO
a:Z
0"

...u

......

..w
a:Ul
wZ

;1;l!!

Ul

~

"U

~l:i~~

wo

zu

-

~~3f3

:;D..CCt

m
>0
::> wz

a:
w
z

-

"

z::>

ll.

..

OZ
zO'"
.. >:,W
Ul .. U
,,::E>

-

za:a:

°

~~~

iii
Ul

"';1;

~
::E

...Ul

..w

Q~
z::>

°
U

e
o
.t/)

::>u

W
::EUl

I--

I----

.-

z

E
E

~
I

8

0'"

~~

z ...

°2l

~

ffi~

...

;1;

I--

1---1 e:cn~
",a:"
zWC
_Q.z

....

,"0"

ua:

L

WW
ll.Z
UlW
;1;"

C
CO

~~

J:

1-1-

><

~

wO

I

W
"C

~~

i=::>

°

w ...
o
ll.ll.
::Ell.
WO

CO

U

-

t/)

CD
......

.'-

.

Ul
W

Ul

...wz

~~F
ooa:

C

en

..

I-

::>u
uw
wa:
)(-

()

CD

...

Oz::E

C)

()

>w

~~ffi

~~

CD

;:,

°

8 ~

z

I

w

......
W

a:

ll.
::E

..

a:

a:

I-

-'

t/)

o
o

I

..
ii:

0
Q.

!,!Ul

~~
z ...

I

0"
Z

I

U
w
..

-

en.
~

...

-

gz
w

U

177

