Remarks to the SEC Investor Advisory Committee
Presented by Dr. Jean Rogers
July 14, 2016
Good morning. I am Dr. Jean Rogers, Founder and CEO of the Sustainability Accounting
Standards Board (SASB). I’d like to thank the SEC Investor Advisory Committee for the
opportunity to speak today.
SASB is an independent 501(c)3 non-profit whose mission is to issue standards for disclosure
of sustainability issues that help public corporations disclose material, decision-useful
information to investors in their mandatory filings such as the Forms 10-K or 20-F. That mission
is accomplished through a rigorous process that includes evidence-based research and broad,
balanced stakeholder participation. More than 2,800 individuals—affiliated with companies with
$11T market capital and investors representing $23.4T assets under management—participated
in industry working groups to provide input on SASB’s standards. SASB has issued standards
for 79 industries that help companies to comply with Regulation S-K in a cost-effective manner.
A company using SASB standards has available to it a short list of sustainability standards,
most with quantifiable metrics, that are reasonably likely to be material to companies in its
industry. The company is responsible for evaluating whether those matters are material to that
company. SASB uses the legal standard of materiality established under the US federal
securities laws.
Today I will discuss the questions the SEC has posed in its Regulation S-K Concept Release. In
this release, the SEC asks “which, if any, sustainability disclosures are important to an
understanding of a registrant’s business and financial condition and whether there are
considerations that make these disclosures important to investment and voting decisions.”
Because the costs of compiling and disclosing information about sustainability related matters
are borne by the registrant, and ultimately all of its shareholders, disclosures must be important
to voting and investment decisions. For this reason, materiality, as viewed through the lens of
the reasonable investor, is central to this discussion and to any actions the Commission may
take regarding sustainability disclosures.
In discussing SASB’s response to the release, I will cover four primary topics: 1) rising investor
demand for sustainability information, 2) the current inadequacies of sustainability disclosure, 3)
the need for a market standard for the disclosure of material sustainability information, and 4)
SASB’s qualifications to fill this need.
First, I will discuss investor demand for sustainability information, which has increased
dramatically in the past 40 years.
There has been an enormous increase in investor interest in sustainability-related information
since the SEC last considered the need for rulemaking in this area, in the 1970s. In a 2015 CFA
Institute survey, 73 percent of institutional investors indicated that they take environmental,
social and governance (ESG) issues into account in their investment analysis and decisions, to

help manage investment risks.1 The number of customers using ESG data on Bloomberg
terminals has quadrupled from 2010 to 2015.2 More than one out of every $6 under professional
management in the United States is invested based on SRI strategies.3 Writing recently to
CEOs, the chairman and CEO of the world’s largest investment management corporation,
BlackRock’s Laurence Fink, made clear to corporations that BlackRock recognizes the financial
and operational impact of certain sustainability-related issues.
Second, I will discuss the frustration with and burden of current sustainability disclosure
practices from both investor and registrant perspectives.
In spite of investor demand, disclosures made today are not adequate to support investment
and voting decisions. While sustainability disclosure exists, both inside the mandatory filings as
well as outside, it is largely not material (as defined under U.S. securities laws) or decisionuseful. It is not comparable, complete, or reliable. Most importantly, it has a significant positive
bias. A 2015 PwC study found that 82 percent of investors said they are dissatisfied with how
risks and opportunities are quantified; 79 percent of the investors polled said they are
dissatisfied with the comparability of sustainability reporting between companies in the same
industry.4
The four principal means by which investors currently obtain this information—the Form 10-K,
standalone sustainability reports, questionnaires, and shareholder resolutions—are fraught with
problems. I will take each in turn.
The problem with sustainability disclosure in the Form 10-K is that while such disclosure is
already required by law, there’s a proliferation of boilerplate information.
As the Commission has noted,5 certain sustainability information should be disclosed under
existing SEC rules. In particular, Item 303 of Regulation S-K requires that companies describe
known trends, events, and uncertainties that are reasonably likely to have material impacts on
their financial condition or operating performance in the MD&A section of Form 10-K or 20-F.
SEC guidance clarifies that a disclosure duty exists under Item 303 “where a trend, demand,
commitment, event or uncertainty is both presently known to management and reasonably likely
to have material effects on the registrant’s financial condition or results of operation”6). Also,
Item 503 requires disclosures of significant risk factors.
Because of these requirements, companies often address sustainability matters in SEC filings—
in fact, SASB research shows that three-quarters of the disclosure topics in SASB standards are
already addressed. Importantly, however, more than 40 percent of all 10-K disclosure on
1

CFA Institute, ENVIRONMENTAL, SOCIAL AND GOVERNANCE SURVEY, p. 5 (June 2015),
https://www.cfainstitute.org/Survey/esg_survey_report.pdf . Survey studied 1,325 institutional investors. Id. at 3.
2
Bloomberg, SUSTAINABLE BUSINESS AND FINANCE: CUSTOMERS USING ESG DATA (2015),
http://www.bloomberg.com/bcause/customers-using-esg-data.
3
US SIF, 2016 REPORT ON US SUSTAINABLE, RESPONSIBLE AND IMPACT INVESTING TRENDS,
http://www.ussif.org/Files/Publications/USSIF_ImpactofSRI_FINAL.pdf.
4
PwC, SUSTAINABILITY DISCLOSURES: IS YOUR COMPANY MEETING INVESTOR EXPECTATIONS, (July 2015),
http://www.pwc.com/us/en/cfodirect/publications/in-the-loop/sustainability-disclosure-guidance-sasb.html.
5
Securities and Exchange Commission, FR-82, COMMISSION GUIDANCE REGARDING DISCLOSURE RELATED TO CLIMATE CHANGE, p. 3
(Feb. 2, 2010), https://www.sec.gov/rules/interp/2010/33-9106.pdf.
6
Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations, Exchange Act Release No. 6835 (May
18, 1989).

sustainability topics consists of boilerplate language.7 (For examples, please see Appendix D.)
Current sustainability disclosures in SEC filings do not provide investors with comparable,
industry-specific data with which to evaluate risk and compare performance.

The problem with standalone sustainability reports is that information is largely immaterial, not
comparable, and biased.
While stand-alone sustainability reports are available to investors in the “total mix” of
information, they are not designed for investors and do not provide decision-useful information.
While these reports often describe matters as “material,” the term is not consistent with the
definition under the U.S. securities law.8 A recent study by researchers at Harvard9 found that
approximately 80 percent of what companies disclose in their sustainability reports is not
material to investors. How is an investor to know which 20 percent is material? In the context of
investment decision-making, these reports can “bury the shareholders in an avalanche of trivial
information,” an outcome that the Supreme Court sought to avoid in establishing the materiality
standard in the TSC v. Northway decision.10 Because the leading framework that supports
preparation of these standalone reports is designed for use by a range of stakeholders, it
contains over 400 Key Performance Indicators for companies to select from, resulting in low
comparability between peers in the same industry.
The most important problem with sustainability reports, from an investor perspective, is the
positive bias. A 2013 study of highly rated (GRI A and A+)11 sustainability reports revealed that
90 percent of known negative events were not reported by the company.12 These reports were
found to “camouflage real sustainable-development problems, presenting an idealized version
of company situations.”13 This phenomenon is sometimes referred to as “greenwashing.”
In conclusion, stand-alone sustainability reports do not produce investor-grade information, and
they do not present a true and fair representation of performance on material factors, which is
what investors need in order to understand and price risk.14
The problem with questionnaires is selective disclosure and corporate burden.
Investor frustration with the availability and quality of sustainability disclosures in Commission
filings or in stand-alone sustainability reports is evidenced by the extent to which investors seek
ESG data directly from companies. In a 2014 PwC survey, 89 percent of institutional investors

7

See Appendix B for an overview of SASB research findings on the current state of sustainability disclosures in SEC filings. More
detailed analysis has been published and is available in the form of SASB industry research briefs, available at
http://www.sasb.org/approach/our-process/industry-briefs.
8
This presents risks for issuers, since under Section 10(b) and Rule 10b-5 of the Securities Exchange Act they can be held liable for
material false statements made outside the 10-K.
9
Mozaffar Khan, George Serafeim and Aaron Yoon, Corporate Sustainability: First Evidence on Materiality, THE ACCOUNTING
REVIEW (Harvard Business School, March 9, 2015), http://hbswk.hbs.edu/item/corporate-sustainability-first-evidence-on-materiality.
10
426 U.S. at 448-49 (1976).
11
See discussion infra, p. 20.
12
Olivier Boiral, Sustainability Reports as Simulacra? A Counter-Account of A and A+ GRI Reports, ACCOUNTING, AUDITING &
ACCOUNTABILITY JOURNAL, Vol. 26, No. 7, p. 1036–71 (2013), http://www.emeraldinsight.com/doi/pdfplus/10.1108/AAAJ-04-201200998.
13
Id., at p. 1061.
14
EY, TOMORROW’S INVESTMENT RULES 2.0: EMERGING RISK AND STRANDED ASSETS HAVE INVESTORS LOOKING FOR MORE FROM
NONFINANCIAL REPORTING (2015), http://www.ey.com/Publication/vwLUAssets/EY-tomorrows-investment-rules-2/$FILE/EYtomorrows-investment-rules-2.0.pdf.

indicated they are very likely to request ESG information directly from the company (e.g., via
questionnaires).15
Companies are annually subject to ESG evaluations by 150 ratings systems on approximately
10,000 performance metrics, leading to “survey fatigue.”16 In addition to the cost burden, this
practice of selective disclosure favors large investors who can conduct surveys and command
responses. For any information that is material, it might also run afoul of the SEC’s Regulation
FD (Fair Disclosure).
The last resort, shareholder resolutions, are costly and inefficient for both companies and
investors.
Further evidence of investor dissatisfaction with the poor quality and availability of decisionuseful sustainability disclosures is seen with the rise of ESG related resolutions, which today
account for 67 percent of all shareholder proposals.
These four various approaches to obtaining material sustainability information are costly for
companies and their shareholders, and inefficient for investors.
Third, I will explain why effective sustainability disclosure to investors requires a market
standard.
Sustainability issues often constitute the types of “risks,” “trends,” and “uncertainties” that
issuers should address in their SEC filings. The absence of a market standard for disclosure of
material ESG factors has made it difficult for issuers to comply with, and for the Commission to
enforce, effective disclosure under Regulation S-K.17 I will now discuss what type of market
standard will yield effective sustainability disclosure.
Because of the nature of sustainability issues, industry-specific standards are needed.
The market standard for sustainability disclosure must be industry-specific. Industries have
distinct profiles with respect to value drivers, resource needs, operating contexts, regulatory
environment, and customer expectations, all of which can potentially give risk to material
information. For example, exposure to counterfeit drugs is likely to be material for
pharmaceuticals companies (but not mining). Product safety is likely to be material for
automobile companies (but not real estate). Water risk is likely to be material for beverage
manufacturers and agriculture (but not banking). Carbon emissions are likely to be material for
marine transportation (but not stock exchanges). An industry lens is essential to keep
sustainability disclosures linked to business strategy, cost-effective for registrants, and decision-

15

PwC, SUSTAINABILITY GOES MAINSTREAM: INSIGHTS INTO INVESTOR VIEWS, p. 7 (May 2014), https://www.pwc.com/us/en/pwcinvestor-resource-institute/publications/assets/pwc-sustainability-goes-mainstream-investor-views.pdf.
16
Gregory Unruh, David Kiron, Nina Kruschwitz, Martin Reeves, Holger Rubel, and Alexander Meyer zum Felde, Investing for a
Sustainable Future, MIT SLOAN MGMT. REV., p. 11 (May 2016), http://marketing.mitsmr.com/offers/SU2016/57480-MITSMR-BCGSustainability2016.pdf?utm_source=WhatCounts%2c+Publicaster+Edition&utm_medium=email&utm_campaign=surpt16&utm_cont
ent=Download+the+Report+(PDF)&cid=1.
17
In a June 9, 2016 webinar on the Concept Release and sustainability hosted by Financial Executives International, with more than
300 attendees, 65.2% of participants indicated that disclosure reform needs to address the establishment of a standard for the
disclosure of sustainability-related information (in order to reduce liability risks, eliminate cost burdens, and eliminate duplicative
disclosure). Also, 71.8% of participants indicated that such a market standard would: streamline their responses to investor
inquiries regarding sustainability information and reduce the costs thereof; improve understanding and management of sustainability
issues, and level the playing field. The full webinar is available at
http://event.on24.com/wcc/r/1188808/2E6E10B609363E6EC24E85D3DDA66C70.

useful for investors. SASB research confirms that the materiality of sustainability issues varies
greatly from industry to industry (see Appendix B).
An industry-specific approach to sustainability disclosure is favored by investors. Financial
analysts interpret the performance of companies and their securities through an industry lens.
Nearly three-quarters of respondents to an EY investor survey considered industry-specific
reporting criteria and key performance indicators (KPIs) to be very or somewhat beneficial to
their investment decision making.18 However, in the absence of industry-specific standards,
investors lack complete, comparable data sets on sustainability performance. (For examples of
the varying quality of sustainability disclosure, see Appendix D). Industry-by-industry standards
will allow for peer-to-peer comparison and benchmarking. They will also make the information
available to all investors, at the same time, avoiding selective disclosure of material information
in uncontrolled environments.
Line item requirements are not appropriate for sustainability issues.
Line-item requirements are generally not appropriate for sustainability issues because
sustainability issues are likely not material for all companies; when they are material, they
manifest in unique ways and thus require industry-specific metrics. Requiring these line items to
be disclosed would result in a corporate disclosure burden and a large volume of information
that is immaterial to investors.
Securities law already provides us with the answer: if an issue is likely to materially affect the
financial condition or operating performance of a company, then disclosure to investors is
compelled. The patterns of materiality for sustainability topics are industry-specific. Therefore, a
market standard for effective sustainability disclosure must take an industry approach.
Last, I will discuss how SASB standards enable effective sustainability disclosure.
SASB was founded in 2011 as an independent 501 (c)(3) standards-setting organization in
order to advance research initially conducted at the Initiative for Responsible Investment (IRI) in
the Kennedy School of Government at Harvard University. The SASB board of directors,
currently chaired by former New York City Mayor Michael Bloomberg, is distinguished by the
level of regulatory and securities law expertise of its members. Former SEC Chair Mary
Schapiro is vice chair of SASB’s board. Former SEC Chair Elisse Walter, former SEC
Commissioner Aulana Peters, and former FASB Chair Robert Herz have served on SASB’s
board for several years. Alan Beller, former Director of the SEC’s Division of Corporation
Finance and Senior Counselor to the SEC, joined SASB’s board in June 2016. SASB’s staff,
which now numbers 30, is made up of professionals with backgrounds in finance, accounting,
economics, sustainability, and law. The standards setting function is organized by sector and
staffed by analysts with sector experience and quantitative analysis skills.
SASB standards are designed to help registrants effectively disclose material sustainabilityrelated information and comply with existing regulatory obligations, working within the
framework of existing U.S. securities laws. SASB has identified disclosure topics that meet the
materiality test set forth by the Supreme Court and used by the SEC in setting its standards –
EY, TOMORROW’S INVESTMENT RULES 2.0: EMERGING RISK AND STRANDED ASSETS HAVE INVESTORS LOOKING FOR MORE FROM
NONFINANCIAL REPORTING, p. 24 (2015), http://www.ey.com/Publication/vwLUAssets/EY-tomorrows-investment-rules-2/$FILE/EYtomorrows-investment-rules-2.0.pdf.
18

that is, information that would alter the "total mix" of information available to the reasonable
investor, and, consistent with the two-part test19 that companies use to determine their
disclosure obligations, would affect the financial condition or operating performance of a
company. The standards are cost-effective, identifying the minimum set of disclosure topics
likely to constitute material information for companies in an industry. On average, each SASB
standard includes just five topics and 13 metrics per industry. In order to keep SASB standards
cost-effective for registrants, SASB relies on metrics already in use by industry, from roughly
200 entities, such as CDP, EPA, OSHA, GRI, and industry organizations such as IPIECA, EPRI
and GRESB (see Appendix C).
SASB’s provisional standards are the result of intensive research and dialogue, in what has
been the most comprehensive analysis of the relationship between sustainability information
and the disclosure requirements of federal securities laws ever performed. SASB has used an
inclusive and transparent standards-development process.20 More than 2,800 individuals—
affiliated with companies with $11T market capital and investors representing $23.4T assets
under management—participated in industry working groups. In these working groups, 82
percent of issuers and investors agreed that the proposed disclosure topics in SASB standards
would likely constitute financially material information.
Importantly, SASB standards are the only sustainability standards available for all industries of
the economy. SASB develops standards for 79 industries, because each industry has a
unique profile with respect to environmental, social, or governance factors that are
reasonably likely to be material to an investor. (For an overview of SASB disclosure topics by
industry, please see Appendix A.) SASB standards enable companies to provide quantitative
performance data, along with management’s narrative, on sustainability-related risks in an
industry context. This enables investors to discern risk profiles, evaluate corporate performance
in the context of industry performance, and adjust investment decisions accordingly.
Sustainability disclosures have not kept pace with investor needs. The SEC’s rules governing
MD&A and risk factors would seem to require much sustainability disclosure; what has been
missing is a comprehensive, industry-specific, and materiality-based set of standards and
metrics that would facilitate such disclosure. SASB’s framework is the only sustainability
reporting solution specifically designed to meet the needs of the U.S. capital markets.
SASB provides the tools for companies to make better disclosures consistent with SEC
requirements.
Because of SASB’s approach, with its emphasis on due process, use of the U.S. securities laws
as its framework, and industry-specificity, we believe it would be appropriate for the SEC to
acknowledge the SASB framework as a credible set of standards and metrics that can be used
by companies to fulfill their regulatory reporting requirements.
By addressing sustainability disclosure via the disclosure effectiveness initiative, the SEC has
an opportunity to reduce boilerplate information, eliminate selective disclosure, alleviate
corporate disclosure fatigue, and improve investor decision-making. SASB is grateful for the
Commission’s work to help disclosure evolve to meet the challenges and opportunities
Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations, Exchange Act Release No. 6835 (May
18, 1989).
20
Provisional SASB standards were set in accordance with the best practices of the American National Standards Institute (ANSI).
SASB is an ANSI-accredited standards-setting organization.
19

companies and their investors face in the 21st century. We fully support your efforts to
modernize disclosure while protecting investors and facilitating efficient functioning of the
markets and formation of capital.
Thank you for your time today.

Appendix A: Disclosure Tables

Appendix B: Examples of Industry Specific Issues

Please refer to the interactive online version of the SASB Materiality Map for a comparison of likely
material sustainability issues across different industries and sectors. www.sasb.org/materiality/sasbmateriality-map/.

Appendix C: Sample of Industry Metrics Referenced in SASB Standards
Health Care









WHO Prequalification of Medicines Programme (PQP)
FDA FAERS and MedWatch
FDA Clinical Investigator Inspections
Rx-360 International Pharmaceutical Supply Chain Consortium
Centers for Medicare & Medicaid Services requirements
Provisions of the Patient Protection and Affordable Care Act (PPACA)
Hospital Values Based Purchasing Performance score
HIPAA and HITECH

Financials









FINRA
Basel III
Federal Financial Institutions Examination Council’s (FFIEC
Equator Principles (EP III)
Dodd-Frank Act Stress Test (DFAST)
COSO ERM Framework
Dodd-Frank Wall Street Reform and Consumer Protection Act
FEMA special flood hazard areas

Services







Consumption










Technology & Communication











EICC Validated Audit Process
EPEAT® • Basel Action Network’s e-Steward® standard
U.S. EPA’s Responsible Recycling Practices (R2) standard
(SEC) CF Disclosure Guidance: Topic No. 2, Cybersecurity
International Electrotechnical Commission - IEC 62474
ENERGY STAR®
Digital Advertising Alliance (DAA) Self-Regulatory Program
Children’s Online Privacy Protection Act (COPPA)
Directive 2002/58/EC (ePrivacy Directive)
National Institute of Standards andTechnology (NIST)

Non-Renewable Resources









Transparency International’s Corruption Perception Index
IFC Performance Standards on Environmental and Social
Sustainability
IPIECA Oil and Gas Industry Guidance on Voluntary Sustainability
Reporting
Renewable Volume Obligation (RVO)
International Union for Conservation of Nature (IUCN) Protected Areas
Pipeline and Hazardous Materials Safety Administration (PHMSA)
ANSI/API Recommended Practice 754 – Process Safety Performance
Indicators for the Refining and Petrochemical Industries
Mine Safety and Health Administration (MSHA)

Transportation












New Car Assessment Program
EU End of Life of Vehicle Directive
NHTSA
Corporate Average Fuel Economy
AIAG
Federal Aviation Administration (FAA)
International Civil Aviation Organization (ICAO)
Federal Motor Carrier Safety Administration (FMCSA) - Behavior
Analysis and Safety Improvement Categories (BASICs)
International Maritime Organization (IMO) metrics and conventions
International Convention for the Prevention of Pollution from Ships
(MARPOL)
Federal Rail Administration (FRA) Recommended Violation Defects

Student Right-to-Know-Act
Gainful Employment Rule
National Council on Problem Gambling's Internet Responsible
Gambling Standards
CDC Foodborne illness standards
USDA Dietary Guidelines for Americans
Advertising Self-Regulatory Council















Marine Stewardship Council
Roundtable for Responsible Soy
Roundtable for Sustainable Palm Oil
Rainforest Alliance
Sustainable Agriculture Initiative
World Health Organization (WHO) Acute Toxicity Hazard Categories
Global Food Safety Initiative (GFSI)
Natural Resources Conservation Service (NRCS) Comprehensive
Nutrient Management Plan (CNMP)
Food Safety and Inspection Service (FSIS) of the U.S. Department of
Agriculture (USDA)
USDA Smart Snacks in School criteria
Children’s Food and Beverage Initiative (CFBAI) Uniform Nutrition
Criteria
FDA’s Recalls, Market Withdrawals, & Safety Alerts
USDA’s Current Recalls and Alerts
Children’s Food and Beverage Initiative (CFBAI) Uniform Nutrition
Criteria
Sustainable Apparel Coalition Higg Index
ICTI CARE Process (ICP)
California DTSC Candidate Chemicals List
U.S. Green Building Council’s (USGBC) LEED
ISO 14040 and ISO14044
ENERGY STAR®
WaterSense
ANSI/BIFMA e3 level®: Business Furniture

Resource Transformation



















REACH substances of very high concern (SVHC)
American Chemistry Council’s Responsible Care Management System
World Health Organization (WHO) Acute Toxicity Hazard Categories
Center for Chemical Process Safety’s “Process Safety Leading and
Lagging Metrics
U.S. Consumer Product Safety Commission
Airworthiness Directives - FAA, ESSA
OECD Anti-corruption guidelines
EPEAT®
Basel Action Network’s e-Steward® standard
U.S. EPA’s Responsible Recycling Practices (R2) standard
(SEC) CF Disclosure Guidance: Topic No. 2, Cybersecurity
International Electrotechnical Commission - IEC 62474
ENERGY STAR®
Heavy Duty (HD) National Program
Forest Stewardship Council
Sustainable Forest Initiative
Programme for the Endorsement of Forest Certification
American Tree Farm System

Renewable Resources & Alternative Energy

















Renewable Fuel Standard (EPA RFS2 )
International Food Policy Research Institute Global Hunger Index
California Air Resources Board Low Carbon Fuel Standard Program
European Union Renewable Energy Directive
Roundtable on Sustainable Biomaterials (RSB) certification
Basel Action Network’s e-Steward® standard
U.S. EPA’s Responsible Recycling Practices (R2) standard
IEC 61400-1, Edition 3.0—Design requirements
Forest Stewardship Council
Sustainable Forest Initiative
Programme for the Endorsement of Forest Certification
American Tree Farm System
International Finance Corporation’s (IFC) Performance Standards on
Environmental and Social Sustainability
International Union for Conservation of Nature (IUCN) Protected Areas
United Nations Environment Program
International Labour Organization (ILO) conventions

Infrastructure


















EPA Hazard Potential Classification
U.S. EPA National Environmental Policy Act (NEPA)
National Institute of Standards and Technology (NIST) Smart Grid
Interoperability Standards
Department of Energy’s (DOE) Federal Energy Management Program
(FEMP) M&V Guidelines
State renewable portfolio standards (RPS)
System Average Interruption Duration Index (SAIDI)
U.S. National Primary Drinking Water Regulations
The U.S. Safe Drinking Water Act
The European Drinking Water Directive
World Health Organization (WHO) Guidelines for Drinking-water
Quality
FEMA Special Flood Hazard Areas (SFHA)
Global Real Estate Sustainability Benchmark (GRESB) Real Estate
Survey Guidance
US Green Building Council LEED
Green Globes
ENERGY STAR
HERS® Index Score
WaterSense

Appendix D: Range of Disclosure Quality on Material Topics in Form 10-K
Health Care Sector
Industry
Pharmaceuticals

Pharmaceuticals

Topic
Employee
Recruitment,
Development,
and Retention

Counterfeit
Drugs

Boilerplate

Improved disclosure

Bristol Myer Squibb - Form 10-K for FY 2015
Failure to attract and retain highly qualified
personnel could affect our ability to
successfully develop and commercialize
products.

AstraZeneca – Form 20-F for FY 2015
To achieve our strategic priorities, we continue
to acquire, retain and develop a talented and
diverse workforce united in the pursuit of our
Purpose and Values.

Our success is largely dependent on our
continued ability to attract and retain highly
qualified scientific, technical and management
personnel, as well as personnel with expertise
in clinical research and development,
governmental regulation and
commercialization. Competition for qualified
personnel in the biopharmaceutical field is
intense. We cannot be sure that we will be able
to attract and retain quality personnel or that
the costs of doing so will not materially
increase.

… Voluntary employee turnover increased
marginally to 9.2% in 2015 from 8.8% in 2014.
However, the voluntary employee turnover
rate among our high performers in 2015
reduced to 4.0% from 6.8% in 2014. We seek
to reduce regretted turnover through more
effective hiring and induction, high-level
reviews of resignations, risk assessments and
retention plans.

Sanofi – Form 20-F for FY 2015
Counterfeit versions of our products could
harm our patients and reputation.

Pfizer – Form 10-K for FY 2015
Counterfeit Products

Our industry continues to be challenged
by the vulnerability of distribution channels to
illegal counterfeiting and the presence of
counterfeit products in a growing number of
markets and over the Internet. Counterfeit
products are frequently unsafe or ineffective,
and can potentially be life-threatening. To
distributors and patients, counterfeit products
may be visually indistinguishable from the
authentic version. Reports of adverse reactions
to counterfeit drugs or increased levels of
counterfeiting could materially affect patient
confidence in the authentic product, and harm
the business of companies such as ours or
lead to litigation. In addition, it is possible that
adverse events caused by unsafe counterfeit
products could mistakenly be attributed to the
authentic product. If a product of ours was the

… We undertake significant efforts to
counteract the threats associated with
counterfeit medicines, including, among other
things, working with the FDA and other
regulatory authorities and multinational
coalitions to combat the counterfeiting of
medicines and supporting efforts by law
enforcement authorities to prosecute
counterfeiters; assessing new and existing
technologies to seek to make it more difficult
for counterfeiters to copy our products and
easier for patients and healthcare providers to
distinguish authentic from counterfeit
medicines; implementing business practices
designed to protect patient health; promoting
public policies intended to hinder
counterfeiting; working diligently to raise public
awareness about the dangers of counterfeit
medicines; and working collaboratively with

Selected SASB Metrics
HC0102-16 - Employee turnover by
voluntary and involuntary for:
Executives/Senior Managers, Mid-level
Managers, Professionals, All others
(EEO-1 categories: technicians, sales,
admin support, service workers).

HC0102-20 - Description of methods
and technologies used to maintain
traceability of products throughout the
supply chain and prevent counterfeiting.

Industry

Biotechnology

Health Care
Delivery

Topic

Manufacturing
& Supply Chain
Quality
Management

Quality of Care
& Patient
Satisfaction

Boilerplate

Improved disclosure

subject of counterfeits, we could incur
substantial reputational and financial harm.

wholesalers, pharmacies, customs offices,
and law enforcement agencies to increase
inspection coverage, monitor distribution
channels, and improve surveillance of
distributors and repackagers.

Biogen Inc. – Form 10-K for FY 2015

Alexion Pharmaceuticals – Form 10-K for
FY 2015
Manufacturing

Risks Relating to Compliance with [current
Good Manufacturing Practices] cGMP.
We and our third-party providers are generally
required to maintain compliance with cGMP
and other stringent requirements and are
subject to inspections by the FDA and
comparable agencies in other jurisdictions to
confirm such compliance. Any delay,
interruption or other issues that arise in the
manufacture, fill-finish, packaging, or storage of
our products as a result of a failure of our
facilities or the facilities or operations of third
parties to pass any regulatory agency
inspection could significantly impair our ability
to develop and commercialize our products.
Significant noncompliance could also result in
the imposition of monetary penalties or other
civil or criminal sanctions and damage our
reputation.

Quest Diagnostics – Form 10-K for FY 2015
We strive to provide the highest quality
possible and, to meet that goal, we have
adopted the Quest Diagnostics Quality
Program. This program includes policies and
procedures that document, measure and
monitor the effectiveness of our laboratory
operations in providing and improving quality

… In March 2013, we received a Warning
Letter (Warning Letter) from the FDA
regarding compliance with current Good
Manufacturing Practices (cGMP) at ARIMF.
The Warning Letter followed receipt of a Form
483 Inspectional Observations by the FDA in
connection with an FDA inspection that
concluded in August 2012. The observations
relate to commercial and clinical manufacture
of Soliris at ARIMF. We responded to the
Warning Letter in a letter to the FDA dated in
April 2013. As previously announced, the FDA
issued Form 483s in August 2014 and August
2015 relating to observations at ARIMF. The
inspectional observations from the August
2015 letter have since been closed out by the
FDA. The observations are inspectional and
do not represent a final FDA determination of
compliance. We continue to manufacture
products, including Soliris, in this facility. While
the resolution of the issues raised in the
Warning Letter is difficult to predict, we do not
currently believe a loss related to this matter is
probable or that the potential magnitude of
such loss or range of loss, if any, can be
reasonably estimated.
Davita Healthcare – Form 10-K for FY 2015
Two principal non-financial metrics we track
are quality clinical outcomes and teammate
turnover. We have developed our own
composite index for measuring improvements
in our clinical outcomes, which we refer to as
the DaVita Quality Index (DQI). Our clinical
outcomes as measured by DQI have improved

Selected SASB Metrics

HC0101-29 - Description of FDA
enforcement actions taken in response
to violations of current good
manufacturing practices (cGMP),
including: product deemed adulterated,
form 483s, suggested recall (Class I, II,
III), Warning Letters, Border Alerts,
license suspension or revocation,
product seizure, Consent Decrees,
criminal prosecution. Description of
corrective actions implemented in
response to actions.

HC0301-01 - Hospital Values Based
Purchasing Total Performance score,
broken down by Clinical Process
Domain score, Outcome Domain score,
and Patient Experience Domain score.

Industry

Medical
Equipment &
Supplies

Topic

Product Safety

Boilerplate

over each of the past several years which we
believe directly decreases patient mortalities.
Our patient mortality percentages have
decreased from 19.0% in 2001 to 13.7% in
2014.

Abbot Laboratories – Form 10-K for FY 2015

Baxter International – Form 10-K for FY
2015
The company is undertaking a field corrective
action with respect to the SIGMA Spectrum
Infusion Pump, which is predominantly sold in
the United States. The United States Food
and Drug Administration (FDA) categorized
the action as a Class 1 recall during the
second quarter of 2014. Remediation is
expected to include software-related
corrections and a replacement pump in a
limited number of cases. In 2014, the
company recorded a charge of $93 million
related primarily to cash costs associated with
remediation efforts and utilized $4 million in
2014. During 2015, the company refined its
expectations relating to the costs associated
with the remediation effort and recorded
partial reversals of the cash and non-cash
reserves totaling $26 million and $10 million,
respectively.
UnitedHealth Group - Form 10-K for FY
2015
Beginning in 2015, quality bonus payments
were paid only to plans rated 4 stars and
higher. We expect that approximately 56% of
our Medicare Advantage members will be in
plans rated four stars or higher for payment
year 2016 compared with approximately 39%
of members in plans rated four stars or higher
for payment year 2015. We further expect that
at least 63% of our Medicare Advantage
members will be in plans rated four stars or
higher for payment year 2017. We continue to
dedicate substantial resources to advance our
quality scores and star ratings to strengthen
our local market programs and further improve
our performance.

Significant safety concerns could arise for
Abbott's products, which could have a material
adverse effect on Abbott's revenues and
financial condition.
… If serious safety issues arise with an Abbott
product, sales of the product could be halted by
Abbott or by regulatory authorities. Safety
issues affecting suppliers' or competitors'
products also may reduce the market
acceptance of Abbott's products. In addition, in
the ordinary course of business, Abbott is the
subject of product liability claims and lawsuits
alleging that its products or the products of
other companies that Abbott promotes have
resulted or could result in an unsafe condition
for or injury to patients.
Centene Corp – Form 10-K for FY 2015

Managed Care

Plan
Performance

Improved disclosure

and meeting the requirements of the agencies
that regulate the U.S. clinical laboratory testing
industry.

The governmental healthcare programs in
which we participate are subject to the
satisfaction of certain regulations and
performance standards. For example, under
Health Reform Legislation, Congress
authorized CMS and the states to implement
managed care demonstration programs to
serve dually eligible beneficiaries to improve
the coordination of their care. Participation in
these demonstration programs is subject to
CMS approval and the satisfaction of
conditions to participation, including meeting
certain performance requirements. Our inability
to improve or maintain adequate quality scores
and star ratings to meet government
performance requirements or to match the

Selected SASB Metrics
HC0301-02 - Number of Serious
Reportable Events (SREs) as defined by
the National Quality Forum.

HC0201-01 - List of products recalled.
HC0201-02 - List of products listed in
the FDA‘s MedWatch Safety Alerts for
Human Medical Products (Medical
Devices) database.

HC0303-07 - Mean Medicare Advantage
plan rating (1—5 stars) for each of the
following plan types: HMO, local PPO,
regional PPO, PFFS, and SNP.

Industry

Topic

Boilerplate

Improved disclosure

Selected SASB Metrics

Boilerplate

Improved disclosure

Selected SASB Metrics

Prudential Financial Inc.- Form 10-K for FY
2015
The occurrence of natural or man-made
disasters could adversely affect our operations,
results of operations and financial condition.

American International Group - Form 10-K
for FY 2015
Natural Catastrophe Risk… We recognize that
climate change has implications for insurance
industry exposure to natural catastrophe risk.
With multiple levels of risk management
processes in place, we actively analyze the
latest climate science and policy to anticipate
potential changes to our risk profile, pricing
models and strategic planning. For example,
we continually consider changes in climate
and weather patterns as an integral part of the
underwriting process. In addition, we are
committed to providing innovative insurance
products and services to help our clients be
proactive against the threat of climate change,
including expanding natural disaster
resilience, promoting adaptation, and reducing
greenhouse gas emissions.

performance of our competitors could result in
limitations to our participation in or exclusion
from these or other government programs.

Financials Sector
Industry
Insurance

Topic
Environmental
Risk Exposure

The occurrence of natural disasters, including
hurricanes, floods, earthquakes, tsunamis,
tornadoes, fires, explosions, pandemic disease
and man-made disasters, including acts of
terrorism and military actions, could adversely
affect our operations, results of operations or
financial condition, including in the following
respects:
... Finally, climate change may increase the
frequency and severity of weather related
disasters. In addition, climate change regulation
may affect the prospects of companies and
other entities whose securities we hold and
other counterparties, including reinsurers, and
affect the value of investments, including real
estate investments we hold or manage for
others. We cannot predict the long-term impacts
on us from climate change or related regulation.

… The estimates below are the Occurrence
Exceedance Probability (OEP) losses, which
reflect losses that may occur in any single
event due to the defined peril. The 1-in-100
and 1-in-250 PMLs are the probable maximum
losses from a single natural catastrophe event
with probability of 1 percent and 0.4 percent in
a year, respectively. The following table
presents an overview of OEP modeled losses
for top perils and countries.
[SEE TABLE ON PAGE 184]

FN0301-01 - Probable Maximum Loss
(PML) of insured products from weatherrelated natural catastrophes, by
insurance segment, type of event, and
type of risk insured.
FN0301-02 - Total annual losses
attributable to insurance payouts from
(1) modeled natural catastrophes and (2)
non-modeled natural catastrophes.
FN0301-03 - Description of how
environmental risks are integrated into:
(1) The underwriting process for
individual contracts (2) The management
of firm-level risks and capital adequacy
FN0301-04 - List of markets, regions,
and/or events for which the registrant
declines to voluntarily write coverage for
weather-related natural catastrophe
risks.

Industry
Insurance

Topic
Integration of
Environmental,
Social, and
Governance
Risk Factors in
Investment
Management

Boilerplate
American International Group - Form 10-K
for FY 2015
We understand that climate change potentially
poses a serious financial threat to society as a
whole, with implications for the insurance
industry in areas such as catastrophe risk
perception, pricing and modeling assumptions.
Because there is significant variability
associated with the impacts of climate change,
we cannot predict how physical, legal,
regulatory and social responses may impact our
business.
Such catastrophic events, and any relevant
regulations, could expose us to:
... • loss resulting from a decline in the value
of our invested assets;
... • declines in value and/or losses with
respect to companies and other entities whose
securities we hold and counterparties we
transact business with and have credit exposure
to, including reinsurers, and declines in the
value of investments; and

Investment
Banking &
Brokerage

Integration of
Environmental,
Social, and
Governance
Risk Factors in
Advisory,
Underwriting,
and Brokerage
Activities

Goldman Sachs Group - Form 10-K for FY
2015
Our commodities activities, particularly our
physical commodities activities, subject us to
extensive regulation and involve certain
potential risks, including environmental,
reputational and other risks that may expose us
to significant liabilities and costs.
… These activities subject us and/or the entities
in which we invest to extensive and evolving
federal, state and local energy, environmental,
antitrust and other governmental laws and

Improved disclosure

Selected SASB Metrics

Aviva - Form 20-F for FY 2015
The Committee agreed the refreshed Aviva
Group Corporate Responsibility (CR) strategy
during 2015… The CR strategy was
considered and approved by the Committee
because CR is integral to the way we run our
whole business and we recognise that our CR
performance and reputation helps build the
pride of our employees and win the trust of our
customers.

FN0301-16 - Discussion of how
environmental, social, and governance
(ESG) factors are integrated into the
investment of policy premiums
FN0301-17 - Discussion of the
investment portfolio risks presented by
climate change, natural resource
constraints, human rights concerns, or
other broad sustainability trends.

... Governance Committee Responsibilities
and allocation of agenda time
… Corporate Responsibility – 11%
- Recommend and review the Group’s CR
strategy and monitor external developments
and environmental regulations.
- Review the Group’s Environment and
Climate Change Business Standard and
monitor compliance with the CR strategy.
- Work with the Risk Committee to monitor any
CR risk exposures.
Activities during 2015 … Corporate
Responsibility
- The Committee received reports from
management during the year on the Aviva
Community Fund, the Group’s low carbon
investment strategy, the Group’s health and
safety compliance and the Group’s Human
Rights Policy
HSBC Holdings - Form 20-F for FY 2015
Climate business
HSBC helps facilitate investment in areas
including infrastructure and renewable energy
that help lower carbon dioxide emissions. In
2015, the Group issued a green bond for the
first time when HSBC France raised E500m
($554m) to fund customers and projects in the
following sectors: renewables, energy
efficiency, sustainable waste and water
management, sustainable land use, climate

FN0102-15 - Discussion of how
environmental, social, and governance
(ESG) factors are incorporated into core
products and services
FN0102-16 - Amount of sustainabilityfocused services, activities, and
products, broken down by: (1)
origination, (2) market making, and (3)
advisory and underwriting

Industry

Topic

Boilerplate
regulations worldwide, including environmental
laws and regulations relating to, among others,
air quality, water quality, waste management,
transportation of hazardous substances, natural
resources, site remediation and health and
safety. Additionally, rising climate change
concerns may lead to additional regulation that
could increase the operating costs and
profitability of our investments.

Commercial
Banks

Customer
Privacy & Data
Security

Bank of America - Form 10-K for FY 2015
A cyber attack, information or security breach,
or a technology failure of ours or of a third party
could adversely affect our ability to conduct our
business, manage our exposure to risk or
expand our businesses, result in the disclosure
or misuse of confidential or proprietary
information, increase our costs to maintain and
update our operational and security systems
and infrastructure, and adversely impact our
results of operations, liquidity and financial
condition, as well as cause reputational harm.
Our businesses are highly dependent on the
security and efficacy of our infrastructure,
computer and data management systems, as
well as those of third parties with whom we
interact. Cyber security risks for financial
institutions have significantly increased in recent
years in part because of the proliferation of new
technologies, the use of the Internet and
telecommunications technologies to conduct
financial transactions, and the increased

Improved disclosure
change adaptation, and clean buildings and
transportation.
HSBC also pledged to invest $1bn in a
portfolio of green, social or sustainable bonds.
We also helped CLP Windfarms become the
first Indian corporate to issue a public green
bond, and Vestas Wind Systems, based in
Denmark, issue the first green bond by a wind
turbine manufacturer… We helped finance
466 efficient buses in 2015, in countries
including Ghana and South Africa. Since the
team was created in 2005, it has helped
finance 4,500 buses and equipment such as
workshops and ticketing systems. We are also
a member of the United Nations Partnership
on Sustainable, Low Carbon Transport. In
2015, we also helped finance three renewable
energy deals in the US, and an energy
efficiency programme in the UK to install
around seven million electricity and gas smart
meters in homes and businesses.
HSBC Holdings - Form 20-F for FY 2015
HSBC remains susceptible to a wide range of
cyber risks that impact and/or are facilitated by
technology. The threat from cyber attacks is a
concern for our organisation and failure to
protect our operations from internet crime or
cyber attacks may result in financial loss
and/or loss of customer data or other sensitive
information which could undermine our
reputation and our ability to attract and keep
customers.
For example, in 2015 a case was detected in
which a former HSBC employee exposed
online details of 86,000 US consumer
mortgage customers, and pay details for 2,000
current and former HSBC employees. The
regulators were notified, and customers
contacted and offered credit protection
services.
Moreover, during 2015, we were subjected to
23 ‘denial of service’ attacks on our external
facing websites across the Group. A denial of

Selected SASB Metrics
FN0102-17 - Deal size of advisory and
underwriting transactions for companies
in the following sectors/industries:
Energy/Oil & Gas, Materials/Basic
Materials, Industrials, and Utilities

FN0101-06 - Number of data security
breaches and percentage involving
customers’ personally identifiable
information
FN0101-07 - Discussion of management
approach to identifying and addressing
vulnerabilities and threats to data
security

Industry

Topic

Boilerplate

Improved disclosure

sophistication and activities of organized crime,
hackers, terrorists and other external parties,
including foreign state actors…

service attack is the attempt to intentionally
disrupt, paralyse and potentially extract data
from a computer network by flooding it with
data sent simultaneously from many individual
computers.
Discover Financial Services - Form 10-K
for FY 2015
Fraudulent activity associated with our
products or our networks could cause our
brands to suffer reputational damage, the use
of our products to decrease and our fraud
losses to be materially adversely affected.

First Data Corp.- Form 10-K for FY 2015
Consumer
Finance

Customer
Privacy & Data
Security

Fraud by merchants or others could have a
material adverse effect on our business,
financial condition, and results of operations.
We may be subject to potential liability for
fraudulent electronic payment transactions or
credits initiated by merchants or others.
Examples of merchant fraud include when a
merchant or other party knowingly uses a stolen
or counterfeit credit, debit or prepaid card, card
number, or other credentials to record a false
sales transaction, processes an invalid card, or
intentionally fails to deliver the merchandise or
services sold in an otherwise valid transaction.
Criminals are using increasingly sophisticated
methods to engage in illegal activities such as
counterfeiting and fraud. It is possible that
incidents of fraud could increase in the future.
Failure to effectively manage risk and prevent
fraud would increase our chargeback liability or
other liability. Increases in chargebacks or other
liability could have a material adverse effect on
our business, financial condition, and results of
operations.

MasterCard Inc. - Form 10-K for FY 2015
Consumer
Finance

Transparent
Information &
Fair Advice for
Customers

Regulations affecting the global payments
industry may materially and adversely affect our
overall business and results of operations.
... Consumer Financial Protection Bureau
(“CFPB”) - In the United States, the CFPB could
regulate consumer financial products, including
amending existing requirements or imposing

We are subject to the risk of fraudulent activity
associated with merchants, customers and
other third parties handling customer
information. The risk of fraud continues to
increase for the financial services industry in
general. We incurred fraud losses of $112
million and $113 million for the years ended
December 31, 2015 and 2014, respectively.
Credit and debit card fraud, identity theft and
related crimes are prevalent and perpetrators
are growing ever more sophisticated. Our
resources and fraud prevention tools may be
insufficient to accurately predict and prevent
fraud. Additionally, our risk of fraud continues
to increase as acceptance of the Discover
card grows internationally and we expand our
direct banking business and introduce new
products and features. Our financial condition,
the level of our fraud charge-offs and other
results of operations could be materially
adversely affected if fraudulent activity were to
significantly increase.
Synchrony Financial - Form 10-K for FY
2015
Consumer Financial Services Regulation
…On June 19, 2014, we entered into a
consent order with the CFPB (the “2014 CFPB
Consent Order”) that required us to refund $56
million to cardholders who enrolled in a debt
cancellation product over the telephone from
January 2010 to October 2012 ($11 million of

Selected SASB Metrics

FN0201-04 - Amount of fraudulent
transaction activity, percentage from: (1)
card-not-present fraud and (2) cardpresent and other fraud.
FN0201-05 - Description of data security
and fraud prevention efforts related to
new and emerging technologies and/or
new and emerging threats

FN0201-06 - Amount of legal and
regulatory fines and settlements
associated with disclosure,
transparency, or marketing

Industry

Mortgage
Finance

Topic

Environmental
Risk to
Mortgaged
Properties

Boilerplate

Improved disclosure

new ones. The CFPB also has supervisory and
independent examination authority as well as
enforcement authority over certain financial
institutions, their service providers, and other
entities, which could include us due to our
processing of credit, debit and prepaid
transactions. It is not clear whether and/or to
what extent the CFPB will regulate broader
aspects of payment card networks.
Fannie Mae - Form 10-K for FY 2015

which was refunded prior to the 2014 CFPB
Consent Order), pay civil money penalties of
$3.5 million, and implement a compliance plan
related to the sale of “add-on” products to the
extent the Bank restarts telesales of such
products (which were discontinued in October
2012). In the second quarter of 2015, we
completed the consumer refunds.

The occurrence of a major natural or other
disaster in the United States could negatively
impact our credit losses and credit-related
expenses, and could disrupt our business
operations in the affected geographic area or
nationally.
We conduct our business in the residential and
multifamily mortgage markets and own or
guarantee the performance of mortgage loans
throughout the United States. The occurrence of
a major natural or environmental disaster,
terrorist attack, cyber attack, pandemic, or
similar event (a “major disruptive event”) in a
regional geographic area of the United States
could negatively impact our credit losses and
credit-related expenses in the affected area or,
depending on the nature of the event, nationally.

Ocwen Financial Corporation - Form 10-K
for FY 2015
A significant portion of our business is in the
states of California, Florida, New York, Texas
and New Jersey, and our business may be
significantly harmed by a slowdown in the
economy or the occurrence of a natural
disaster in those states.
A significant portion of the mortgage loans that
we originate and service are secured by
properties in California, Florida, New York,
Texas and New Jersey. Any adverse
economic conditions in these markets,
including a downturn in real estate values, will
likely increase our obligations to advance
delinquent principal and interest and to make
advances for delinquent taxes and insurance
and foreclosure costs and the upkeep of
vacant property in foreclosure to the extent
that we determine that such amounts are
recoverable. We could also be adversely
affected by business disruptions triggered by
natural disasters or acts or war or terrorism in
these geographic areas

Selected SASB Metrics

FN0202-01 - Number and value of
mortgage loans in Federal Emergency
Management Agency (FEMA) special
flood hazard areas
FN0202-02 - Description of how climate
change and other environmental risks
are incorporated into mortgage
origination and underwriting
FN0202-03 - Amount and percentage of
credit risk for mortgage loans that is
attributable to default risk from weatherrelated natural catastrophes, by
geographic region

Technology & Communications Sector
Industry
Hardware

Topic
Product
lifecycle
management

Boilerplate
MSI - Form 10-K for FY 2012
We are subject to a wide range of product
regulatory and safety, consumer, worker
safety and environmental laws.
… Laws focused on: the energy efficiency of
electronic products and accessories; recycling
of both electronic products and packaging;
reducing or eliminating certain hazardous
substances in electronic products; and the
transportation of batteries continue to expand
significantly.
... These laws impact our products and
negatively affect our ability to manufacture and
sell products competitively. We expect these
trends to continue. In addition, we anticipate
that we will see increased demand to meet
voluntary criteria related to reduction or
elimination of certain constituents from
products, increasing energy efficiency, and
providing additional accessibility.

Semiconductors

Energy
Management in
Manufacturing

Applied Materials - Form 10-K for FY 2012
Applied is exposed to risks as a result of
ongoing changes in the various industries in
which it operates.
The global semiconductor, flat panel display,
solar and related industries in which Applied
operates are characterized by ongoing
changes affecting some or all of these
industries that impact demand for and/or the
profitability of Applied's products, including:
... - the increasing focus on reducing energy
usage and improving the environmental
impact and sustainability associated with
manufacturing operations.

Improved disclosure
EMC - Form 10-K for FY 2012
Material use and waste is a second major
area of impact for the IT industry.
We are continuously pursuing opportunities to
reduce material used in our products and
operations, recycle what cannot be reused,
and handle any waste with integrity and
responsibility for the environment and human
health. We are working with our suppliers and
industry peers to identify substitutes for
materials that can damage our ecology and
human health. For example, we have
eliminated the use of leaded solder in our
products and reduced brominated flame
retardants by greater than 50% in all new
printed circuit boards. We are currently
working with our suppliers to evaluate
alternatives for the use of phthalates, a
material of high concern, in our products. We
have also identified and qualified a plasticizer
for our cable sheathing that is free of
halogens, PVCs, and phthalates though
demand within the industry is not yet sufficient
to mitigate the supply chain risks of switching
to this substitute material.
Intel - Form 10-K for FY 2012
We seek to reduce our global GHG emissions
by investing in energy conservation projects in
our factories and working with suppliers to
improve energy efficiency. We take a holistic
approach to power management, addressing
the challenge at the silicon, package, circuit,
micro-architecture, macro architecture,
platform, and software levels. We recognize
that climate change may cause general
economic risk
… We have been purchasing wind power and
other forms of renewable energy at some of
our major sites for several years. We purchase
renewable energy certificates under a multiyear contract. This purchase has placed Intel

Selected SASB Metrics
TC0103-03 - Percentage of products by
revenue that contain IEC 62474
declarable substances.
TC0103-04 - Percentage of eligible
products by revenue meeting the
requirements for EPEAT® certification or
equivalent.

TC0201-03 - Total energy consumed,
percentage grid electricity, percentage
renewable energy

Industry

Electronic
Manufacturing
Services &
Original Design
Manufacturing

Topic

Supply chain
management &
materials
sourcing

Boilerplate

Jabil Circuit - Form 10-K for FY 2013
Compliance or the failure to comply with
current and future environmental, health and
safety, product stewardship and producer
responsibility laws or regulations could cause
us significant expense.
We are subject to a variety of federal, state,
local and foreign environmental, health and
safety, product stewardship and producer
responsibility laws and regulations, including
those relating to the use, storage, discharge
and disposal of hazardous chemicals used
during our manufacturing process, those
governing worker health and safety, those
requiring design changes, supply chain
investigation or conformity assessments or
those relating to the recycling or reuse of
products we manufacture

Improved disclosure
at the top of the EPA’s Green Power
Partnership for the past four years and is
intended to help stimulate the market for
green power, leading to additional generating
capacity and, ultimately, lower costs.
Benchmark - Form 10-K for FY 2012
Sustainability
… Our sustainability priorities include:
upholding the principle of human rights and
observing fair labor practices within our
organization and our supply chain; protecting
the environment by conserving energy and
natural resources and preventing pollution
through appropriate management technology
and practices; ensuring ethical organizational
governance; and applying fair, transparent
and accountable operating practices. All
Benchmark manufacturing facilities are either
currently certified or undergoing certification to
ISO 14001. We have endorsed the Electronics
Industry Citizenship Coalition Code of
Conduct, and flowed specific requirements to
our supply chain through our Purchase Order
Terms and Conditions, Supplier Assurance
Manual, and Supplier Code of Conduct. We
have also completed a B-level Global
Reporting Initiative (GRI) Report as a baseline
for our sustainability efforts.

Selected SASB Metrics

TC0101-10 - Percentage of products by
revenue that contain critical materials.
TC0101-11 - Percentage of tungsten, tin,
tantalum, and gold smelters within the
supply chain that are verified conflict-free
TC0101-12 - Discussion of the
management of risks associated with the
use of critical materials and conflict
minerals

Transportation Sector
Industry
Rail
Transportation

Topic
Accident &
Safety
Management

Boilerplate

Improved disclosure

Kansas City Southern - Form 10-K for FY
2015
The operation of any railroad carries with it an
inherent risk of catastrophe, mechanical
failure, collision, and property loss... Collisions,
environmental mishaps, or other accidents can
cause serious bodily injury, death and
extensive property damage, particularly when
such accidents occur in heavily populated
areas... Even with insurance, if any

CSX Corporation - Form 10-K for FY 2015
The Company measures and reports safety
and service performance. The Company
strives for continuous improvement in these
measures through training, innovation and
investment... At CSX, operational success is
built on employee commitment to maintaining
a constant focus on safety. CSX remains the
industry leader with the lowest personal injury

Selected SASB Metrics
TR0401-06 - Number of accidents and
incidents
TR0401-07 - (1) Total recordable injury
rate, (2) fatality rate, and (3) near miss
frequency rate.

Industry

Topic

Boilerplate
catastrophic interruption of service occurs,
KCS may not be able to restore service
without a significant interruption to operations
which could have an adverse effect on KCS’s
consolidated financial statements.

Air Freight &
Logistics

Automobiles

Environmental
Footprint of
Fuel Use

Product Safety

CH Robinson - Form 10-K for FY 2015
Changing fuel costs and interruptions of fuel
supplies may have an impact on our net
revenue margins. In our truckload
transportation business, which is the largest
source of our net revenues, fluctuating fuel
prices may result in decreased net revenue
margin. While our different pricing
arrangements with customers and contracted
carriers make it very difficult to measure the
precise impact, we believe that fuel costs
essentially act as a pass-through cost to our
truckload business. In times of fluctuating fuel
prices, our net revenue margin may also
fluctuate.

Ford Motor Company - Form 10-K for FY
2015
Should we or government safety regulators
determine that a safety or other defect or a
noncompliance exists with respect to certain of
our vehicles prior to the start of production, the
launch of such vehicle could be delayed until
such defect is remedied. The costs associated
with any protracted delay in new model
launches necessary to remedy such defects,
or the cost of recall campaigns or warranty
costs to remedy such defects in vehicles that
have been sold, could be substantial. These
recall and warranty costs could be
exacerbated to the extent they relate to global
platforms. Furthermore, launch delays or recall
actions also could adversely affect our

Improved disclosure
across Class I railroads this year. The FRA
reportable personal injury frequency index
improved 9 percent year over year to 0.89.
The reported FRA train accident frequency
rate weakened 2 percent year over year to
2.45.
FedEx Corp. - Form 10-K for FY 2015
In furtherance of our commitment to protecting
the environment, we have made significant
progress over the last several years in an
effort to increase FedEx Express vehicle fuel
efficiency 30% from a 2005 baseline by 2020
— we have already reached more than 29%
cumulative improvement in fuel economy.
Having nearly achieved our goal, the company
expects to surpass and then revisit the goal in
2016. We also continue with our goal to
reduce aircraft emissions by 30% by 2020 on
an emissions per available-ton-mile basis, a
goal that we increased from 20% in 2012. We
have also established a goal of obtaining 30%
of our jet fuel from alternative fuels by the year
2030. These efforts help us continue to reduce
our environmental footprint as evidenced in
2014 when we saved 100 million gallons of jet
fuel at FedEx Express and avoided more than
976,000 metric tons of carbon emissions — all
while our volumes were up.
General Motors - Form 10-K for FY 2015
Recall Campaigns
... We recorded recall-related charges of $1.1
billion in the year ended December 31, 2015
including adjustments to prior periods of $0.3
billion. Adjustments to prior periods relate to
changes in estimated costs based on new
information including claims emergence and
development patterns. There were
approximately 12 million vehicles subject to
recalls announced in the year ended
December 31, 2015.

Selected SASB Metrics

TR0202-01 - Gross global Scope 1
emissions.
TR0202-02 - Description of long-term
and short-term strategy or plan to
manage Scope 1 emissions, emissions
reduction targets, and an analysis of
performance against those targets.
TR0202-03 - Total fuel consumed,
percentage renewable for (1) road
transport and (2) air transport

TR0101-06 - Number of vehicles
recalled.

Industry

Topic

Boilerplate
reputation or market acceptance of our
products as discussed above under “Lowerthan-anticipated market acceptance of Ford’s
new or existing products or services.
Delta Airlines - Form 10-K for FY 2015

Airlines

Accidents &
Safety
Management

We are at risk of losses and adverse publicity
stemming from a serious accident involving
our aircraft.
An aircraft crash or other serious accident
could expose us to significant liability.
Although we believe that our insurance
coverage is appropriate, we may be forced to
bear substantial losses from an accident in the
event that the coverage was not sufficient. In
addition, any accident involving an aircraft that
we operate or an aircraft that is operated by an
airline that is one of our regional carriers or
codeshare partners could create a negative
public perception about safety, which could
harm our reputation, resulting in air travelers
being reluctant to fly on our aircraft and
therefore harm our business.

Marine
Transportation

Environmental
Footprint of
Fuel Use

Seaspan Corp. - Form 20-F for FY 2015
Clean Air Act
The Clean Air Act, or the CAA, and its
implementing regulations subject our vessels
to vapor control and recovery requirements
when cleaning fuel tanks and conducting other
operations in regulated port areas and to air
emissions standards for our engines while
operating in U.S. waters. The EPA has
adopted standards that apply to certain
engines installed on U.S. vessels and to
marine diesel fuels produced and distributed in
the United States. These standards, which are

Improved disclosure

China Southern Airlines - Form 20-F for FY
2015
The Group endeavors to maintain strict
compliance with all laws and regulations
applicable to flight safety
… The Air Safety Management Department of
the Company implements safety-related
training programs on an ongoing basis in all of
the Group’s operations to raise the safety
awareness of all employees. As a result,
overall flight safety has gradually improved.
For "incidents" which include various events
and conditions prescribed by the CAAC which
do not involve serious personal injury or
material damage to flight equipment, the
Group has kept the number consistently below
what is prescribed by the CAAC. For example,
the Company’s "Air Transportation Incidents
Per Ten Thousands Hours Ratio" was 0.034,
0.012 and 0.02 in 2015, 2014 and 2013,
respectively. In comparison, CAAC’s published
maximum acceptable Air Transportation
Incidents Per Ten Thousands Hours Ratio was
0.5, 0.5 and 0.5 in 2015, 2014 and 2013,
respectively. This ratio is defined as the
number of occurrences of air transportation
incident for every 10,000 hours of flight time.
Matson Inc. - Form 10-K for FY 2015
Effective in 2015, Horizon received a
conditional waiver (subsequently transferred to
Matson pursuant to the Horizon Acquisition)
from the EPA ECA regulations for three dieselpowered vessels used in the Alaska service
that permits the use of 2.0 percent sulfur
content fuel on these vessels for a limited
time, subject to the installation and testing of
an exhaust gas cleaning system (known as
‘scrubbers’) on such vessels. The conditional
waiver includes a schedule by which such
installation and testing is to be completed, with

Selected SASB Metrics

TR0201-08 - Description of
implementation and outcomes of Safety
Management System
TR0201-09 - Number of accidents

TR0301-04 - Air emissions for the
following pollutants NOx, SOx, and
particulate matter (PM)

Industry

Topic

Boilerplate
being implemented in two stages (effective in
2011 and 2016, respectively) are consistent
with Annex VI of MARPOL and establish
significant reductions for vessel emissions of
particulate matter, sulfur oxides and nitrogen
oxides.

Road
Transportation

Environmental
Footprint of
Fuel Use

J.B, Hunt Transport - Form 10-K for FY
2015
Rapid changes in fuel costs could impact our
periodic financial results.
Fuel costs can be very volatile. We have a fuel
surcharge revenue program in place with the
majority of our customers, which has
historically enabled us to recover the majority
of higher fuel costs. Most of these programs
automatically adjust weekly depending on the
cost of fuel. However, there can be timing
differences between a change in our fuel cost
and the timing of the fuel surcharges billed to
our customers. In addition, we incur additional
costs when fuel price increases cannot be fully
recovered due to our engines being idled
during cold or warm weather and empty or outof-route miles that cannot be billed to
customers. Rapid increases in fuel costs or
shortages of fuel could have a material
adverse effect on our operations or future
profitability. As of December 31, 2015, we had
no derivative financial instruments to reduce
our exposure to fuel-price fluctuations.

Improved disclosure
dates of installation ranging from the second
half of 2015 to the end of 2016. The estimated
costs for the installation of scrubbers on all
three vessels is approximately $27.7 million, of
which approximately $10.1 million was
incurred as of December 31, 2015 related to
the installation on one vessel. The Company
expects the installation of the other two
vessels to be completed later in 2016.
Knight Transportation - Form 10-K for FY
2015
We are subject to commodity price risk with
respect to purchases of fuel. The price and
availability of diesel fuel can fluctuate due to
market factors that are beyond our control.
Because we do not recover the full amount of
fuel price increases, we believe fuel
surcharges are effective at mitigating some,
but not all, of the risk of high fuel prices. As of
December 31, 2015, we did not have any
derivative financial instruments to reduce our
exposure to fuel price fluctuations, but we may
use such instruments in the future. At our
average level of fuel purchasing during 2015,
a 10% increase in the average price per
gallon, net of fuel surcharge collection, would
decrease pretax earnings, on an annualized
basis, by approximately $6.4 million.

Selected SASB Metrics

R0402-01 - Gross global Scope 1
emissions
TR0402-02 - Description of long-term
and short-term strategy or plan to
manage Scope 1 emissions, emissions
reduction targets, and an analysis of
performance against those targets
R0402-03 - Total fuel consumed,
percentage renewable

Non-Renewable Resources Sector
Industry
Oil & Gas –
Exploration &
Production

Oil & Gas –
Exploration &
Production

Topic
Greenhouse
Gas Emissions

Health, safety
& emergency
management

Boilerplate

Improved disclosure

Chevron Corp. - Form 10-K for FY 2015
Consideration of GHG issues and the
responses to those issues through
international agreements and national,
regional or state legislation or regulations are
integrated into the company’s strategy and
planning, capital investment reviews, and risk
management tools and processes, where
applicable. They are also factored into the
company’s long-range supply, demand and
energy price forecasts. These forecasts reflect
long-range effects from renewable fuel
penetration, energy efficiency standards,
climate-related policy actions, and demand
response to oil and natural gas prices. The
actual level of expenditure required to comply
with new or potential GHG emissions laws and
regulations and amount of additional
investments in new or existing technology or
facilities, such as carbon dioxide injection, is
difficult to predict with certainty and is
expected to vary depending on the actual laws
and regulations enacted in a jurisdiction, the
company’s activities in it and market
conditions.

Royal Dutch Shell - Form 20-F for FY 2015
Our direct GHG emissions decreased from 76
million tonnes of CO2 equivalent in 2014 to 72
million in 2015. The level of flaring in our
Upstream businesses fell by 8% in 2015
compared with 2014, despite an increase in
flaring levels in Malaysia in line with increased
oil production in 2015. Our emissions also
decreased as a result of divestments (for
example, in Nigeria and the Geelong refinery in
Australia), a higher level of maintenance
shutdowns and the start-up of Quest. These
decreases were partially offset by updated
Global Warming Potentials (GWPs). GWP is an
index used to compare the impact of emissions
from various greenhouse gases to the impact of
emissions from the equivalent mass of CO2.
Our 2014 reporting was based on the GWPs
from the Second Assessment Report published
by the International Panel on Climate Change
(IPCC). Consistent with updated UK
regulations, our 2015 reporting is based on the
GWPs from the Fourth Assessment Report. For
example, as a result, GWP for methane
increased from 21 to 25.

Exxon Mobil Corporation - Form 10-K for
FY 2015
Safety, business controls, and environmental
risk management.

Royal Dutch Shell - Form 20-F for FY 2015

Our results depend on management’s ability to
minimize the inherent risks of oil, gas, and
petrochemical operations, to control effectively
our business activities, and to minimize the
potential for human error. We apply rigorous
management systems and continuous focus to
workplace safety and to avoiding spills or other
adverse environmental events. For example,
we work to minimize spills through a combined
program of effective operations integrity
management, ongoing upgrades, key

Safety is central to the responsible delivery of
energy. We develop and operate our facilities
with the aim of preventing any incidents that
may harm our employees, contractors or nearby
communities, or cause damage to our assets or
adversely impact the environment... While we
continually work to minimise the likelihood of
incidents, some do occur. We investigate all
incidents to understand the underlying causes
and translate these into improvements in
standards or ways of working that can be
applied broadly across similar facilities in Shell.
As set out in “Performance indicators” on pages
20-21, our total recordable case frequency
(injuries per million working hours) was 0.94 in

Selected SASB Metrics
NR0101-01 - Gross global Scope 1
emissions, percentage covered under a
regulatory program, percentage by
hydrocarbon resource
NR0101-02 - Amount of gross global
Scope 1 emissions from: (1) combustion,
(2) flared hydrocarbons, (3) process
emissions, (4) directly vented releases,
and (5) fugitive emissions/leaks
NR0101-03 - Description of long-term
and short-term strategy or plan to
manage Scope 1 emissions, emissions
reduction targets, and an analysis of
performance against those targets

NR0101-17 - (1) Total Recordable Injury
Rate (TRIR), (2) Fatality Rate, and (3)
Near Miss Frequency Rate for (a) fulltime employees, (b) contract employees,
and (c) short-service employees.
NR0101-18 -Process Safety Event (PSE)
rates for Loss of Primary Containment
(LOPC) of greater consequence (Tier 1)

Industry

Metals &
Mining

Topic

Greenhouse
Gas Emissions

Boilerplate

Improved disclosure

equipment replacements, and comprehensive
inspection and surveillance

2015, compared with 0.99 in 2014, and there
were 51 operational Tier 1 process safety
events in 2015, compared with 57 in 2014.

Freeport-McMoRan Inc. - Form 10-K for FY
2015
Regulation of greenhouse gas emissions and
climate change issues may increase our costs
and adversely affect our operations.

Rio Tinto - Form 20-F for FY 2015

Many scientists believe that emissions from
the combustion of carbon-based fuels
contribute to greenhouse effects and,
therefore, contribute to climate change.
Carbon-based energy is a significant input in
our operations, and our revenues include sales
of oil, natural gas liquids and natural gas, and
other carbon-based energy products. The
potential physical impacts of climate change
on our operations are highly uncertain, and
would vary by operation based on particular
geographic circumstances. As a result of the
Paris Agreement reached during the 21st
Conference of the Parties to the United
Nations Framework Convention on Climate
Change in 2015, a number of governments
have pledged ""Nationally Determined
Contributions"" to control and reduce
greenhouse gas emissions. In the U.S., the
EPA has finalized regulations governing
greenhouse gas emissions from new,
modified, and existing power plants. While
these rules are being challenged in court,
increased regulation of greenhouse gas
emissions may increase our costs and may
also affect the demand for the oil and gas we
produce.

Climate change and energy.
In 2008 we set a target of ten per cent reduction
in total greenhouse gas (GHG) emissions
intensity, to be achieved by 2015. We have
exceeded this target and reduced our total GHG
emissions intensity by 21.1 per cent compared
with 2008. This represents a reduction in our
total GHG emissions of 18.1 million tonnes of
carbon dioxide equivalent (CO2-e) over the
same period. We have extended our GHG
emission intensity target period to 2020. The
new target is for a 24 per cent reduction in
emissions intensity from our 2008 baseline. Our
climate change programme focuses on
reducing the energy intensity of our operations,
as well as the carbon intensity of our energy.
Our total GHG emissions were 31.3 million
tonnes of CO2-e in 2015, 2.5 million tonnes
lower than in 2014.
Our business is inherently energy intensive.
The majority of our GHG emissions are
generated as a result of energy use (electricity,
fuel) and chemical processes (anodes and
reductants) during mining, milling and smelting
activities at our sites. The majority (67 per cent)
of the electricity we use is from hydro, wind and
solar power. In 2015 we commissioned a
1.7MW hybrid photovoltaic/diesel solar project
to supply power to our mining operations at
Weipa. This is the first time a remote operation
has been supplied with power from solar
photovoltaics on this scale."

Selected SASB Metrics

NR0302-01 - Gross global Scope 1
emissions, percentage covered under a
regulatory program.
NR0302-02 - Description of long-term
and short-term strategy or plan to
manage Scope 1 emissions, emissions
reduction targets, and an analysis of
performance against those targets

Industry

Topic

Boilerplate
Alcoa Inc. - Form 10-K for FY 2015

Metals &
Mining

Water
Management

Climate change, climate change legislation or
regulations and greenhouse effects may
adversely impact Alcoa’s operations and
markets.
…. The potential physical impacts of climate
change on the Company’s operations are
highly uncertain, and will be particular to the
geographic circumstances. These may include
changes in rainfall patterns, shortages of water
or other natural resources, changing sea
levels, changing storm patterns and intensities,
and changing temperature levels. These
effects may adversely impact the cost,
production and financial performance of
Alcoa’s operations.

Construction
Materials

Product
Innovation

USG Corporation - Form 10-K for FY 2015
The adoption of green building codes and
standards such as the Leadership in Energy
and Environmental Design, or LEED, rating
system established by the U.S. Green Building
Council to encourage the design and
construction of buildings that are
environmentally friendly, combined with an
increase in customer preference for products
that can assist in obtaining LEED credit or are
otherwise environmentally preferable, has
increased demand for products, systems and
services that contribute to building sustainable
spaces. Many of our products meet the
requirements for the awarding of LEED credits,

Improved disclosure
BHP Billiton Ltd. - Form 20-F for FY
2014/2015
We anticipate climate change is likely to make
the patterns and cycles of water flow less
predictable and require our operations to
implement adaptive responses. Managing our
shared water resources is therefore a complex
task for our business.
... We report on our water use publicly,
consistent with the Input Output model of the
Minerals Council of Australia’s Water
Accounting Framework (WAF). We are working
with the ICMM to support broader adoption
across the industry. The WAF aims to improve
data integrity and comparability across the
sector to allow a more meaningful analysis on
which to base policy making and deliver
improved outcomes.
Under the WAF, water is categorised as Type 1
(close to drinking water standards), Type 2
(suitable for some purposes), and Type 3
(unsuitable for most purposes). In FY2015, our
total water input (water intended for use) was
340,200 megalitres across the Group, with 85
per cent defined as Type 2 or Type 3. Our use
of Type 2 and Type 3 water demonstrates our
approach to utilising lower-quality water
wherever feasible.
CRH - Form 20-F for FY 2015
CRH believes that excellence in environmental
management, together with a proactive
approach to addressing the challenges and
opportunities of climate change, is fundamental
to making our businesses better. The Group
works with stakeholders including customers
and the wider building materials industry to
implement programmes that promote energy
and resource efficiency, achieve targeted
emissions reductions, enhance biodiversity and
realise environmentally driven product and
process innovation.

Selected SASB Metrics
R0302-05 - Total fresh water withdrawn,
percentage recycled, percentage in
regions with High or Extremely High
Baseline Water Stress
R0302-06 - Number of incidents of noncompliance with water-quality permits,
standards, and regulations

NR0401-11 - Percentage of products
that can be used for credits in
sustainable building design and
construction certifications.
NR0401-12 - Total addressable market
and share of market for products that
reduce energy, water, and/or material
impacts during usage and/or production

Industry

Construction
Materials

Topic

Greenhouse
Gas Emissions

Boilerplate

Improved disclosure

and we continue to develop new products and
systems to address market demand for
products that enable construction of buildings
that require
fewer natural resources to
build, operate and maintain. Our competitors
also have developed and introduced to the
market more environmentally responsible
products.

In 2015 CRH products incorporated a significant
23 million tonnes of externally sourced
alternative raw materials. Recycled asphalt
pavement and shingles together now provide a
fifth of asphalt requirements in our US
operations, while lower carbon warm-mix
asphalt now accounts for approximately 40% of
the Group’s US asphalt sales. We also provide
low carbon cement for sustainable construction
applications.

We expect that there will be increased demand
over time for products, systems and services
that meet regulatory and customer
sustainability standards and preferences and
decreased demand for products that produce
significant greenhouse gas emissions.
Vulcan Materials - Form 10-K for FY 2015
Climate change and climate change legislation
or regulations may adversely impact our
business — A number of governmental bodies
have introduced or are contemplating
legislative and regulatory change in response
to the potential impacts of climate change.
Such legislation or regulation, if enacted,
potentially could include provisions for a ""cap
and trade"" system of allowances and credits
or a carbon tax, among other provisions.
… There is also a potential for climate change
legislation and regulation to adversely impact
the cost of purchased energy and electricity.
The impacts of climate change on our
operations and the company overall are highly
uncertain and difficult to estimate. However,
climate change legislation and regulation
concerning greenhouse gases could have a
material adverse effect on our future financial
position, results of operations or cash flows.

CEMEX - Form 20-F for FY 2015
Enabling a Low-Carbon and Resource-Efficient
Industry. We dedicate significant efforts to
address key sustainability-related issues, from
biodiversity and conservation to renewable
energy, climate change and emissions
monitoring. Climate change poses significant
challenges to our society, and we are
committed to applying our skills and,
technologies to contribute to the development of
a low-carbon economy. We have successfully
increased alternative fuel substitution rates to
26.6% in 2015, and are well on track to meet
our ambitious target of 35% substitution rate by
2020. CEMEX has been working for more than
a decade in the identification, documentation
and registry of different projects that mitigate
carbon emissions beyond the business-asusual scenario.
As of March 31, 2015, CEMEX achieved the
approval for 23 carbon dioxide offset projects
registered either under the Clean Development
Mechanism (“CDM”) or the Verified Carbon
Standard representing a total reduction
potential of almost three million tons of carbon
dioxide per year.

Selected SASB Metrics

NR0401-01 - Gross global Scope 1
emissions, percentage covered under a
regulatory program
NR0401-02 - Description of long-term
and short-term strategy or plan to
manage Scope 1 emissions, emissions
reduction targets, and an analysis of
performance against those targets

Industry
Oil & Gas –
Refining &
Marketing

Oil & Gas –
Refining &
Marketing

Topic
Health, safety
& emergency
management

Water
Management

Boilerplate

Improved disclosure

Valero Energy - Form 10-K for FY 2015
A significant interruption in one or more of our
refineries could adversely affect our business.

Statoil - Form 20-F for FY 2015
Statoil uses serious incident frequency (SIF) as
a key indicator to monitor safety performance.
This indicator (number of serious incidents,
including near misses, per million hours
worked) combines actual consequences of
incidents and the potential for incidents to
develop into serious or major accidents. The
SIF has significantly improved over the last
years, from 1.1 incidents per million hours
worked in 2011 to 0.6 incidents per million
hours worked in 2015.

Our refineries are our principal operating
assets. As a result, our operations could be
subject to significant interruption if one or more
of our refineries were to experience a major
accident or mechanical failure, be damaged by
severe weather or other natural or man-made
disaster, such as an act of terrorism, or
otherwise be forced to shut down. If any
refinery were to experience an interruption in
operations, earnings from the refinery could be
materially adversely affected (to the extent not
recoverable through insurance) because of
lost production and repair costs. Significant
interruptions in our refining system could also
lead to increased volatility in prices for crude
oil feedstocks and refined products, and could
increase instability in the financial and
insurance markets, making it more difficult for
us to access capital and to obtain insurance
coverage that we consider adequate.
Chevron Corp - Form 10-K for FY 2015
The company’s operations could be disrupted
by natural or human causes beyond its control
... Chevron's risk management systems are
designed to assess potential physical and
other risks to its operations and assets and to
plan for their resiliency. While capital
investment reviews and decisions involve
uncertainty analysis, which incorporates
potential ranges of physical risks such as
storm severity and frequency, sea level rise,
air and water temperature, precipitation, fresh
water access, wind speed, and earthquake
severity, among other factors, it is difficult to
predict with certainty the timing, frequency or
severity of such events, any of which could
have a material adverse effect on the
company's results of operations or financial
condition.

Selected SASB Metrics
NR0103-09 - (1) Total Recordable Injury
Rate (TRIR), (2) Fatality Rate, and (3)
Near Miss Frequency Rate for (a) fulltime employees and (b) contract
employees
NR0103-10 - Process Safety Event
(PSE) rates for Loss of Primary
Containment (LOPC) of greater
consequence (Tier 1) and lesser
consequence (Tier 2).

Total recordable injuries per million hours
worked (TRIF) improved from 3.0 in 2014 to 2.7
in 2015. The TRIF for Statoil’s employees was
2.3 and the TRIF for Statoil’s contractors was
2.8.

Statoil - Form 20-F for FY 2015
Changes in physical climate parameters could
impact the costs of Statoil's operations, for
example through restrained water availability
and prolonged droughts, or through increasing
frequency of other extreme weather events.
… Statoil is committed to using resources
efficiently and strives to apply high standards
for waste management, emissions to air and
impact on ecosystems – in all operations.
Statoil’s fresh water consumption decreased
from 14.8 million cubic metres in 2014 to 14.5
million cubic metres in 2015. Improving water
efficiency in the onshore activities in North
America through means such as water recycling
and substituting fresh water with brackish water,
is a priority.

NR0103-05 - Total fresh water
withdrawn, percentage recycled,
percentage in regions with High or
Extremely High Baseline Water Stress

Industry
Iron & Steel
Producers

Topic
Energy
Management

Boilerplate
Steel Dynamics - Form 10-K for FY 2015
The cost and availability of electricity and
natural gas are also subject to volatile market
conditions.
Steel producers like us consume large
amounts of energy, inasmuch as mini-mills
melt ferrous scrap in electric arc furnaces and
use natural gas to reheat steel or steel billets
for rolling into finished products. We rely on
third parties for the supply of energy resources
we consume in our steelmaking activities. The
prices for and availability of electricity, natural
gas, oil and other energy resources are also
subject to volatile market conditions, often
affected by weather conditions as well as
political and economic factors beyond our
control. As large consumers of electricity and
gas, we must have dependable delivery in
order to operate. Accordingly, we are at risk in
the event of an energy disruption

Improved disclosure
ArcelorMittal - Form 20-F for FY 2015
Energy efficiency is not only an effective first
response to reducing carbon emissions, it also
reduces costs, not only for the Company but
those who make use of its steel.
… In the U.S., the Company has ongoing
activities in place with the aim of reducing
energy consumption at all of its facilities by one
per cent each year over the next ten years
through a special Department of Energy
initiative. In 2014, 24 energy projects were
completed which saved the Company
approximately $20.4 million. In 2015, five major
projects came online that are expected to save
the Company over $7 million yearly. The
Company continues to work towards both the
goal of reducing energy intensity by ten per cent
by 2023 and reducing yearly energy costs. In
the Europe segment, the Energize program is
on track to meet its target of a 12% savings in
energy intensity between 2011 and 2016.

Selected SASB Metrics
NR0301-04 - Total purchased electricity
consumed, percentage renewable.
NR0301-05 - Total fuel consumed,
percentage from: (1) coal, (2) natural
gas, (3) renewable sources

Services Sector
Industry
Restaurants

Topic
Food Safety

Boilerplate
Starbucks Corporation - Form 10-K for FY
2013
Incidents involving food-borne illnesses, food
tampering, food contamination or mislabeling,
whether or not accurate, as well as adverse
public or medical opinions about the health
effects of consuming our products, could harm
our business.
… Any report linking us to the use of unclean
water, food-borne illnesses or food tampering,
contamination, mislabeling or other food-safety
issues could damage our brand value and
severely hurt sales of our beverages and food
products, and possibly lead to product liability
claims, litigation (including class actions) or
damages.

Improved disclosure

Selected SASB Metrics

Yum! Brands - Form 10-K for FY 2013
In late December 2012 our KFC China sales
began to be negatively impacted by intense
media attention surrounding an investigation by
the Shanghai FDA (SFDA) into poultry supply
management at our China Division. In January
2013 the SFDA concluded its investigation and
released its recommendations to Yum! China.
During 2013 our team in China undertook a
comprehensive review of our supply chain,
incorporated the SFDA’s recommendations
and, as part of our commitment to quality, took
additional steps to further strengthen our overall
poultry supply chain practices, including
increased testing of product received from
suppliers.

SV0203-05 - Percentage of restaurants
inspected by a food safety oversight
body, percentage receiving critical
violation
SV0203-06 - Number of recalls, total
amount of food product recalled.
SV0203-07 - Number of confirmed
foodborne illness outbreaks, percentage
resulting in CDC investigation.

Industry

Topic

Boilerplate

Improved disclosure

Selected SASB Metrics

… KFC China sales were further negatively
impacted beginning in April of 2013 by the
intense media surrounding avian flu in China.
The combined impacts of the media attention
surrounding the SFDA investigation and avian
flu resulted in a 13% decline in China Division
same-store sales for the full year. Operating
Profit for 2013 declined 26%, prior to foreign
currency translation, due primarily to sales deleverage at KFC.
Yum! Brands - Form 10-K for FY 2013
Restaurants

Nutritional
Content

We could be party to litigation that could
adversely affect us by increasing our expenses
or subjecting us to significant monetary
damages and other remedies.
… In addition, the restaurant industry has been
subject to claims that relate to the nutritional
content of food products, as well as claims that
the menus and practices of restaurant chains
have led to the obesity of some customers.
We may also be subject to this type of claim in
the future and, even if we are not, publicity
about these matters (particularly directed at
the quick service and fast-casual segments of
the industry) may harm our reputation and
adversely affect our results.

Hotels &
Lodging

Energy &
Water
Management

Hilton Worldwide - Form 10-K for FY 2013
We are subject to the business, financial and
operating risks inherent to the hospitality
industry, any of which could reduce our
revenues and limit opportunities for growth.
… changes in operating costs, including
energy, food, compensation, benefits and
insurance

Darden Restaurants - Form 10-K for FY
2013/2014
Health and Wellness
In September 2011, we announced a
comprehensive health and wellness
commitment to reduce our calorie and sodium
footprints and to provide greater choice and
variety on our children's menus. Across our
brands, we are working toward a 10 percent
reduction of calories and sodium over five years
and a 20 percent reduction of calories and
sodium over 10 years. And we are establishing
specific nutrition standards to guide the
development of our children's meals to simplify
parental search for healthier options that their
children enjoy.

Marriot International - Form 10-K for FY 2013
Environmental Responsibility and "Green"
Hotels.
Our sustainability strategy supports business
growth and reaches beyond our hotels to
preserve and protect our planet's natural
resources. Marriott's environmental goals are
to: (1) further reduce energy and water
consumption by 20% by 2020; (2) empower our
hotel development partners to build green
hotels; (3) green our multi-billion dollar supply

SV0203-08 - Percentage of meal options
consistent with the Dietary Guidelines for
Americans or foreign equivalent, sales
from these options
SV0203-09 - Percentage of children‘s
meal options consistent with national
dietary guidelines for children or foreign
equivalent, sales from these options.

SV0201-01 - Total energy consumed,
percentage grid electricity, percentage
renewable
SV0201-02 - Total water withdrawn,
percentage recycled, percentage in
regions with High or Extremely High
Baseline Water Stress.

Industry

Topic

Boilerplate

Improved disclosure

Selected SASB Metrics

chain; (4) educate and inspire associates and
guests to conserve and preserve; and (5)
address environmental challenges through
innovative conservation initiatives including
rainforest protection and water conservation.
… Working in partnership with the U.S. Green
Building Council (USGBC) for Leadership in
Energy and Environmental Design (LEED®)
and the Green Building Certification Institute
(GBCI), Marriott is empowering our hotel
development partners to build green hotels. In
2011, we developed the first LEED Volume
Program (LVP) to provide a streamlined path to
certification for the hospitality industry through a
green hotel prototype. The LEED Volume
Program that Marriott offers can save our
owners 25 percent in energy and water
consumption for the life of their buildings and
should recover their initial investment in two to
six years. Marriott has more than 110 LEEDcertified buildings, with more in the
development pipeline.

Casinos &
Gaming

Energy
Management

Boyd Gaming Corp. - Form 10-K for FY
2013
Energy price increases may adversely affect
our cost of operations and our revenues.
Our casino properties use significant amounts
of electricity, natural gas and other forms of
energy. In addition, our Hawaiian air charter
operation uses a significant amount of jet fuel.
While no shortages of energy or fuel have
been experienced to date, substantial
increases in energy and fuel prices, including
jet fuel prices, in the United States have, and
may continue to, negatively affect our results
of operations. The extent of the impact is
subject to the magnitude and duration of the
energy and fuel price increases, of which the
impact could be material. In addition, energy
and gasoline price increases could result in a
decline of disposable income of potential
customers, an increase in the cost of travel

Caesar’s Entertainment- Form 10-K for FY
2013
As part of our Code of Commitment, we accept
our duty to help preserve the planet for current
and future generations. For the past five years,
we have been advancing a strategy to reduce
our effect on the environment in our main areas
of impact. Our multi-year strategy, CodeGreen,
is a structured, data-driven and disciplined
program that leverages the passion of our
employees and engages our guests and
suppliers. Since our baseline year of 2007, we
have reduced energy consumption across all
our properties by more than 18%, and
greenhouse gas emissions by more than 20%,
both on an air-conditioned square foot basis,
and we reduced absolute water consumption by
7%. Nearly 25% of our total waste was recycled
in 2012. Additionally, we have received Green
Key certifications at all 31 of our properties with

SV0202-01 - Total energy consumed,
percentage grid electricity, percentage
renewable

Industry

Cruise Lines

Topic

Fuel Use & Air
Emissions

Boilerplate
and a corresponding decrease in visitation and
spending at our properties, which could have a
significant adverse effect on our business,
financial condition and results of operations.
Norwegian Cruise Lines - Form 10-K for FY
2013
We are subject to complex laws and
regulations, including environmental laws and
regulations, which could adversely affect our
operations and any changes in the current
laws and regulations could lead to increased
costs or decreased revenue.
… The U.S. and various state and foreign
government and regulatory agencies have
enacted or are considering new environmental
regulations and policies, such as requiring the
use of low-sulfur fuels, increasing fuel
efficiency requirements and further restricting
emissions, including those of green-house
gases. Compliance with such laws and
regulations may entail significant expenses for
ship modification and changes in operating
procedures which could adversely impact our
operations as well as our competitors’
operations.

Improved disclosure

Selected SASB Metrics

hotels in North America, most at the four key
level.

Carnival Corp. - Form 10-K for FY 2013
Maritime Environmental Regulation
… Our environmental efforts are focused on,
among other things, reducing emissions such
as greenhouse gases (“GHGs”)... sulfur oxide
(“SOx”) and nitrogen oxide (“NOx”). These
emissions result from the combustion of the
marine fuels consumed by our ships, which
accounts for substantially all of our total GHG
and other emissions. Further, reducing fuel
consumption continues to be one of our most
important cross-brand initiatives, which has and
will continue to help reduce emissions and
mitigate the impact of high fuel prices. We have
and will continue to implement our energysaving strategy through our environmental
management systems. This strategy includes
installing some of the best available energy
reduction technologies on our ships, such as
propulsion and cooling systems, and evaluating
alternative fuels and emission reduction
technologies. In addition, we are designing
more energy efficient ships that will enter our
fleet in the future, while continuing to reduce the
fuel consumption of our existing fleet.
We measure our ability to use direct energy
efficiently by calculating the amount of primary
source energy we consume. We have achieved
a 21% cumulative reduction in unit fuel
consumption since 2007 and look to further
manage and reduce our fuel consumption costs
in the future. We control our GHG and other
emissions by managing our energy
consumption. Our ship fuel consumption and
emission rates and our total ship fuel GHG
emissions are as follows:
[SEE TABLE ON PAGE 23]

SV0205-01 - Gross global Scope 1
emissions
SV0205-02 - Description of long-term
and short-term strategy or plan to
manage Scope 1 emissions, emissionsreduction targets, and an analysis of
performance against those targets
SV0205-03 - Total energy consumed,
percentage from (1) heavy fuel oil, (2)
onshore power supply (OPS), and (3)
renewables
SV0205-04 - Air emissions for the
following pollutants: NOx , SOx , and
particulate matter (PM)
SV0205-05 - Average Energy Efficiency
Design Index (EEDI) for new ships.

Industry
Leisure
Facilities

Topic
Energy
Management

Boilerplate
Walt Disney Company - Form 10-K for FY
2012/2013
The businesses in the Parks and Resorts
segment generate revenues predominately
from the sale of admissions to theme parks;
sales of food, beverage and merchandise;
charges for room nights at hotels; sales of
cruise vacation packages; and sales and
rentals of vacation club properties. Significant
costs include … utilities…

Improved disclosure

Selected SASB Metrics

Vail Resorts - Form 10-K for FY 2013/2014
Environmental Stewardship and Social
Responsibility

SV0204-01 - Total energy consumed,
percentage grid electricity, percentage
renewable

Environmental stewardship is a core philosophy
for us. Our resorts operate in some of the
world's greatest natural environments, and we
are compelled to care for and conserve them.
Through our sustainability program, we focus
on resource conservation, forest health and
building stronger local communities through
contributions to local non-profits. Our
environmental stewardship efforts are diverse
and touch nearly every area of our operations.
One of the most encompassing programs is our
commitment to energy reduction. After reaching
an initial goal to reduce our energy
consumption by 10%, we have set a new goal
of another 10% reduction by 2020.

Resource Transformation Sector
Industry

Topic

Boilerplate
Braskem S.A. - Form 20-F for FY 2015

Chemicals

Product Design
for Use-phase
Efficiency

Chemical Distribution Unit
… Our Chemical Distribution Unit distributes a
large and diverse portfolio of products
consisting of more than 1,000 products. We
classify the products distributed by our
Chemical Distribution Unit as:
· solvents, including aliphatic solvents, aromatic
solvents, synthetic solvents and ecologicallyfriendly solvents (having lower toxicity and
greater biodegradability than standard
solvents) …

Improved disclosure
E. I. Du Pont de Nemours and Company Form 10-K for FY 2015
Business Segments
... DuPont Sustainable Solutions, within the
company's Safety & Protection segment, is
comprised of two business units: clean
technologies and consulting solutions. Effective
January 1, 2016, the clean technologies
business unit will become part of the Industrial
Biosciences segment with the focus on working
with customers to improve the performance,
productivity and sustainability of their products
and processes. The company will explore a
range of options to maximize the growth of the
consulting solutions business unit which
effective January 1, 2016 will be reported within
Other. Sustainable solutions net sales
accounted for about 2 percent of the company's

Selected SASB Metrics
RT0101-14 - Revenue from products
designed for use-phase resource
efficiency

Industry

Topic

Boilerplate

Syngenta - Form 10-K for FY 2015
Chemicals

Chemicals

Electrical &
Electronic
Equipment

Greenhouse
Gas Emissions

Water
Management

Product
Lifecycle
Management &
Innovation for

Overview

Improved disclosure
total consolidated net sales for the years ended
December 31, 2015, 2014 and 2013,
respectively.
E. I. Du Pont de Nemours and Company Form 10-K for FY 2015
Climate Change

… In future years, climate change may have
both positive and negative impacts on
Syngenta’s results…. Legislation may be
enacted in the future that limits carbon dioxide
emissions in the manufacture of Syngenta’s
products or increases the costs associated with
such emissions. Syngenta works actively to
make its production operations more energy
efficient and to reduce the rate of carbon
dioxide emissions per unit of sales revenue.

The company believes that climate change is
an important global issue that presents risks
and opportunities. Expanding upon significant
global greenhouse gas (GHG) emissions and
other environmental footprint reductions made
in the period 1990-2010, as of 2014 the
company reduced its environmental footprint,
achieving reductions of 9 percent in GHG
emissions intensity and 8 percent in water
consumption versus a 2010 baseline. In
addition, as of 2014, the company achieved an
11 percent reduction in energy intensity from
non-renewable resources versus a 2010
baseline. The company continuously evaluates
opportunities for existing and new product and
service offerings in light of the anticipated
demands of a low-carbon economy.

LyondellBasell Industries N.V. - Form 10-K
for FY 2015
Costs and limitations on supply of raw
materials and energy may result in increased
operating expenses.

Braskem S.A. - Form 20-F for FY 2015

… Additionally, there is growing concern over
the reliability of water sources, including around
the Texas Gulf Coast where several of our
facilities are located. The decreased availability
or less favorable pricing for water as a result of
population growth, drought or regulation could
negatively impact our operations.
Gen Cable Corporation - Form 10-K for FY
2015
Changes in the legislative environment could
affect the growth and other aspects of
important markets served by us. The wire and
cable industry growth has been partially driven

Compliance with Environmental Laws in Brazil
… Additionally, we have a series of recycling
programs that includes recycling of solid waste
and wastewater. We recycle or reuse 26.8% of
the solid waste generated by our facilities and
28.2% of the water used in our production
processes.

Selected SASB Metrics

RT0101-01 - Gross global Scope 1
emissions, percentage covered under a
regulatory program
RT0101-02 - Description of long-term
and short-term strategy or plan to
manage Scope 1 emissions, emissionreduction targets and an analysis of
performance against those targets

RT0101-07 - (1) Total water withdrawn,
percentage in regions with High or
Extremely High Baseline Water Stress
and (2) percentage recycled water usage

Ingersoll-Rand - Form 10-K for FY 2015
Global climate change and related regulations
could negatively affect our business.

RT0202-07 - Percentage of eligible
products by revenue that meet ENERGY
STAR® criteria
Quantitative

Industry

Topic
Environmental
Efficiency

Containers &
Packaging

Energy
Management

Boilerplate

Improved disclosure

by energy related legislation, including
alternative and renewable energy sources,
investment incentives for utilities and
government infrastructure spending. We cannot
predict the impact, positive or negative, of
legislative efforts or changes in laws or industry
standards on our future financial results, cash
flows or financial position.
Sealed Air Corporation - Form 10-K for FY
2015
Raw material pricing, availability and allocation
by suppliers as well as energy-related costs
may negatively impact our results of
operations, including our profit margins.

We have committed to increase energy
efficiency and reduce our climate impact with
operational and product-related climate targets,
including among other initiatives: ... (ii) $500
million investment in product-related research
and development from 2015-2020 to fund the
long-term reduction of greenhouse gas
emissions…
Packaging Corporation - Form 10-K for FY
2015
Energy supply. Energy at our packaging mills
is obtained through purchased or selfgenerated fuels and electricity. Fuel sources
include natural gas, by-products of the
containerboard manufacturing and pulping
process (including black liquor and wood
waste), purchased wood waste, coal, and oil.
Each of our mills self-generates process steam
requirements from by-products (black liquor
and wood waste), as well as from the various
purchased fuels. The process steam is used
throughout the production process and also to
generate electricity.

We use petrochemical-based raw materials to
manufacture many of our products. The prices
for these raw materials are cyclical, and
increases in market demand or fluctuations in
the global trade for petrochemical- based raw
materials and energy could increase our costs.

Containers &
Packaging

Product
Lifecycle
Management

Sealed Air Corporation - Form 10-K for FY
2015
Environmental, Health and Safety Matters
… In some jurisdictions in which our packaging
products are sold or used, laws and regulations
have been adopted or proposed that seek to
regulate, among other things, minimum levels
of recycled or reprocessed content and, more
generally, the sale or disposal of packaging
materials. We maintain programs designed to

Selected SASB Metrics
RT0202-08 - Revenue from renewable
energy-related and energy efficiencyrelated products

RT0204-04 - Total energy consumed,
percentage grid electricity, percentage
renewable

In 2015, our packaging mills consumed about
59 million MMBTU’s of fuel to produce both
steam and electricity. Of the 59 million
MMBTU’s consumed, about 59% was from mill
generated by-products, and 41% was from
purchased fuels. Of the 41% in purchased
fuels, 54% was from natural gas, 32% was
from purchased wood waste, and 14% was
from coal and other purchased fuels.
Crown Holdings – Form 10-K for FY 2015
ENVIRONMENTAL MATTERS
… The Company is dedicated to a long-term
environmental protection program and has
initiated and implemented many pollution
prevention programs with an emphasis on
source reduction. The Company continues to
reduce the amount of metal used in the
manufacture of steel and aluminum containers
through “lightweighting” programs. The

RT0204-10 - Percentage of raw
materials from (1) recycled content (2)
renewable resources
RT0204-11 - Revenue from products that
are reusable, recyclable, and/or
compostable

Industry

Topic

Boilerplate
comply with these laws and regulations and to
monitor their evolution.

Aerospace &
Defense

Industrial
Machinery &
Goods

Fuel Economy
& Use-phase
Emissions

Fuel Economy
& Emissions in
Use-phase

Boeing - Form 10-K for FY 2015
Airline Industry Environment
… Airline financial performance also plays a
role in the demand for new capacity. Airlines
continue to focus on increasing revenue
through alliances, partnerships, new marketing
initiatives, and effective leveraging of ancillary
services and related revenues. Airlines are also
relentlessly focusing on reducing costs by
renewing fleets to leverage more efficient
airplanes and in 2015 benefited significantly
from lower fuel costs

Deere & Company- Form 10-K for FY 2015
ENVIRONMENTAL MATTERS
… The U.S. Environmental Protection Agency
has issued stringent emissions regulations for
off-road engines, and governmental agencies
throughout the world are similarly enacting
more stringent laws to reduce off-road engine
emissions. John Deere has achieved and plans
to continue to achieve compliance with these
regulations through significant investments in
the development of new engine technologies
and after-treatment systems. Compliance with
emissions regulations has added and will
continue to add to the cost of John Deere’s
products.

Improved disclosure
Company recycles nearly 100% of scrap
aluminum, steel and copper used in its
manufacturing processes. Many of the
Company’s programs for pollution prevention
reduce operating costs and improve operating
efficiencies.
General Dynamics - Form 10-K for FY 2015
Our Aerospace group is at the forefront of the
business-jet industry. We deliver a family of
Gulfstream aircraft, provide aircraft services
and perform completions for aircraft produced
by other original equipment manufacturers
(OEMs).
… Gulfstream has an ongoing environmental
sustainability program, including the use of
renewable fuels. In 2015, we finalized an
industry-first, three-year agreement that
provides Gulfstream with a consistent supply of
renewable fuels for daily flight operations from
its headquarters in Savannah, Georgia. Each
gallon of renewable fuel burned is expected to
achieve a more than 50-percent reduction in
greenhouse gas emissions on a lifecycle basis,
relative to petroleum-based jet fuel.
Cummins Inc. - Form 10-K for FY 2015
Product Environmental Compliance
… We received certification from the EPA that
we met both the EPA 2013 and 2014
greenhouse gas (GHG) regulations and rules.
The EPA 2013 regulations add the requirement
of On-Board Diagnostics, which were
introduced on the ISX15 in 2010, across the full
on-highway product line in 2013 in addition to
maintaining the same near-zero emission
levels of NOx and Particulate Matter (PM)
required in 2010. On-Board Diagnostics
provide enhanced service capability with
standardized diagnostic trouble codes, service
tool interface, in-cab warning lamp and service
information availability. The new GHG and fuelefficiency regulations were required for all
heavy-duty diesel and natural gas engines
beginning in January 2014. Our GHG

Selected SASB Metrics
RT0204-12 - Description of strategies to
reduce the environmental impact of
packaging throughout its lifecycle

RT0201-09 - Revenue from alternative
energy-related products
RT0201-10 - Discussion of strategies
and approach to address fuel economy
and greenhouse gas emissions of
products

RT0203-03 - Sales-weighted fleet fuel
efficiency for medium- and heavy-duty
vehicles.
RT0203-04 - Sales-weighted fuel
efficiency for non-road equipment
RT0203-06 - Sales-weighted emissions
of (a) NOx and (b) PM for: (1) marine
diesel engines, (2) locomotive diesel
engines, and (3) other non-road diesel
engines

Industry

Topic

Boilerplate

Improved disclosure

Selected SASB Metrics

certification was the first engine certificate
issued by the EPA and uses the same proven
base engine with the XPI fuel system, Variable
Geometry Turbocharger (VGTTM), Cummins
Aftertreatment System with DPF and SCR
technology.

Consumption I – Food & Beverage Sector
Industry
Non-Alcoholic
Beverages

Topic
Health &
Nutrition

Boilerplate

Improved disclosure

Dr. Pepper Snapple - Form 10-K for FY 2014
We may not effectively respond to changing
consumer preferences, trends, health concerns
and other factors.

Coca-Cola FEMSA - Form 20-F for FY 2014
In our company we are conscious that weight
issues and obesity are worldwide health
problems, which need a collective effort for
their solution. We believe that neither
beverages nor any other product by itself is the
direct cause of these problems, as they are
complicated issues related to dietary habits and
physical activity. However, as industry leaders,
we would like to be a part of the solution. That
is why we are committed to find, together with
public and private institutions of the countries in
which we operate, a comprehensive solution to
this problem. Through innovation, we have
developed new products and expanded the
availability of low or zero calorie beverages as
well as bottled water. Approximately 40% of our
brands are calorie free or low- or non-caloric
beverages. In addition, we inform our
consumers through front labeling on nutrient
composition and caloric content of our
beverages.

Consumers' preferences can change due to a
variety of factors, including the age and ethnic
demographics of the population, social trends,
negative publicity, economic downturn or other
factors. For example, consumers are
increasingly concerned about health and
wellness, focusing on the caloric intake
associated with regular CSDs and the use of
artificial sweeteners in diet CSDs. As such, the
demand for CSDs has decreased as
consumers have shifted towards NCBs, such
as water, ready-to-drink teas and sports drinks.
If we do not effectively anticipate these trends
and changing consumer preferences, then
quickly develop new products in response, our
sales could suffer. Developing and launching
new products can be risky and expensive. We
may not be successful in responding to
changing markets and consumer preferences,
and some of our competitors may be better
able to respond to these changes, either of
which could negatively affect our business and
financial performance.

Selected SASB Metrics
CN0201-05 - Revenue from (1) zeroand low-calorie, (2) no-added-sugar, and
(3) artificially sweetened beverages
CN0201-06 - Description of the process
to identify and manage products and
ingredients of concern and emerging
dietary preferences

Industry

Topic

Boilerplate
PepsiCo Inc. - Form 10-K for FY 2014

Non-Alcoholic
Beverages

Water
Management

Our business, financial condition or results of
operations may be adversely affected by
increased costs, disruption of supply or
shortages of raw materials and other supplies.
… Water is also a limited resource in many
parts of the world. The lack of available water
of acceptable quality and increasing pressure
to conserve water in areas of scarcity and
stress may lead to supply chain disruption,
adverse effects on our operations or higher
production costs that could adversely affect our
business, financial condition or results of
operations.

Alcoholic
Beverages

Responsible
Drinking &
Marketing

Boston Beer - Form 10-K for FY 2014
Changes in Public Attitudes and Drinker Tastes
Could Harm the Company’s Business.
Regulatory Changes in Response to Public
Attitudes Could Adversely Affect the
Company’s Business.

Improved disclosure
The Coca-Cola Company - Form 10-K for FY
2014
Water Quality and Quantity
Our Company has a robust water stewardship
and management program and continues to
work to improve water use efficiency, treat
wastewater prior to discharge and achieve our
goal of replenishing the water that we and our
bottling partners source and use in our finished
products. We regularly assess the specific
water-related risks that we and many of our
bottling partners face and have implemented a
formal water risk management program. We
are actively collaborating with other companies,
governments, nongovernmental organizations
and communities to advocate for needed water
policy reforms and action to protect water
availability and quality around the world. We
are working with our global partners to develop
and implement sustainability-related water
projects that address local needs. We are
encouraging improved water efficiency and
conservation efforts throughout our system.
Through these integrated programs, we believe
that our Company is in an excellent position to
leverage the water-related knowledge we have
developed in the communities we serve —
through source water availability assessments
and planning, water resource management,
water treatment, wastewater treatment systems
and models for working with communities and
partners in addressing water and sanitation
needs. As demand for water continues to
increase around the world, we expect
commitment and continued action on our part
will be crucial to the successful long-term
stewardship of this critical natural resource.
Diageo - Form 10-K for FY 2014
We will continue to work with others to
implement programmes that tackle misuse in
ways that go beyond these Commitments. The
choice of programme in each market reflects
local stakeholder concerns but our focus is

Selected SASB Metrics
CN0201-03 - (1) Total water withdrawn
and (2) total water consumed,
percentage of each in regions with High
or Extremely High Baseline Water Stress

CN0202-07 - Description of efforts to
promote responsible consumption of
alcohol

Industry

Alcoholic
Beverages

Topic

Water
Management

Boilerplate
The alcoholic beverage industry has become
the subject of considerable societal and
political attention in recent years, due to
increasing public concern over alcohol-related
social problems, including driving under the
influence, underage drinking and health
consequences from the misuse of alcohol,
including alcoholism. As an outgrowth of these
concerns, the possibility exists that advertising
by beer producers could be restricted, that
additional cautionary labeling or packaging
requirements might be imposed, that further
restrictions on the sale of alcohol might be
imposed or that there may be renewed efforts
to impose increased excise or other taxes on
beer sold in the United States.
AmBev SA - Form 10-K for FY 2014
Climate change, or legal, regulatory or market
measures to address climate change, may
negatively affect our business or operations,
and water scarcity or poor quality could
negatively impact our production costs and
capacity.
... We also face water scarcity and quality
risks. The availability of clean water is a limited
resource in many parts of the world, facing
unprecedented challenges from climate
change and the resulting change in
precipitation patterns and frequency of extreme
weather, overexploitation, increasing pollution,
and poor water management. We have
implemented an internal strategy in order to
considerably reduce the use of water in our
operative plants, however, as demand for
water continues to increase around the world,
and as water becomes scarcer and the quality
of available water deteriorates, we may be
affected by increasing production costs or
capacity constraints, which could adversely
affect our business and results of operations.

Improved disclosure

Selected SASB Metrics

always on initiatives that can be shown to shift
awareness, attitudes and behaviour.
This year, Diageo supported 373 programmes,
including Commitments programmes in 53
countries, many of which have been evaluated
to show measurable effects on awareness,
attitudes and behaviour. Johnnie Walker’s Join
the Pact campaign has a goal to give one
million kilometres of safe rides home to
consumers across the globe who have pledged
never to drink and drive. So far it has given
about 423,025 rides, representing around
265,491 kilometres.

Diageo - Form 10-K for FY 2014
Water is the main ingredient in all of Diageo’s
brands. To sustain our production growth
around the world and respond to the growing
global demand for water, Diageo aims to
improve water use efficiency and minimise the
amount of water used at production sites,
particularly in water-stressed areas.
Performance: Diageo used 6.9 litres of water to
produce one litre of packaged product, a 2.4%
decrease from 2013. While some savings are
the result of major investments, most come
from operational improvements related to
equipment, processes, culture and behaviours.

CN0202-02 - (1) Total water withdrawn
and (2) total water consumed,
percentage of each in regions with High
or Extremely High Baseline Water Stress

Industry
Agricultural
Products

Agricultural
Products

Topic
Water
Withdrawal

Climate Change
Impacts on
Crop Yields

Boilerplate
Archer Daniels Midland - Form 10-K for FY
2014
… In addition, if certain non-agricultural
commodity raw materials, such as water or
certain chemicals used in the Company’s
processing operations, are not available, the
Company’s business could be disrupted. Any
major lack of available water for use in certain
of the Company's processing operations could
have a material adverse impact on operating
results. Certain factors which may impact the
availability of non-agricultural commodity raw
materials are out of the Company’s control
including, but not limited to, disruptions
resulting from weather, economic conditions,
manufacturing delays or disruptions at
suppliers, shortage of materials, and
unavailable or poor supplier credit conditions.

Improved disclosure

Selected SASB Metrics

Fresh Del Monte - Form 10-K for FY 2014
We have experienced crop disease, insect
infestation, severe weather and other adverse
environmental conditions from time to time,
including hurricanes, droughts, floods and
earthquakes in our sourcing locations. Severe
weather conditions may occur with higher
frequency or may be less predictable in the
future due to the effects of climate change.
When crop disease, insect infestations, severe
weather, earthquakes and other adverse
environmental conditions destroy crops planted
on our farms or our suppliers’ farms or prevent
us from exporting them on a timely basis, we
may lose our investment in those crops or our
purchased fruit cost may increase.

Bunge Ltd. - Form 10-K for FY 2014
Adverse weather conditions, including as a
result of future climate change, may adversely
affect the availability, quality and price of
agricultural commodities and agricultural
commodity products, as well as our operations
and operating results.

… [Our] Asset impairment and other charges,
net, was $11.2 million in 2014 compared with
$37.1 million in 2013… Asset impairments and
other charges (credits), net, for 2014 were: …
$1.3 million asset impairment charge related to
the adverse effect to our non-tropical fruit
plantations of continued drought conditions in
Chile in the other fresh produce segment.
Adecoagro SA - Form 20-F for FY 2014
Unpredictable weather conditions, pest
infestations and diseases may have an adverse
impact on agricultural production and may
reduce the volume and sucrose content of
sugarcane that we can cultivate and purchase
in a given harvest.

… Our sugar production depends on the
volume and sucrose content of the sugarcane
that we cultivate or that is supplied to us by
third-party growers. Both sugarcane crop yields
and sucrose content depend significantly on
weather conditions, such as rainfall and
prevailing temperatures, which can vary
substantially. For example, droughts and other
adverse weather conditions in the CenterSouth of Brazil have resulted in reduced crop
yields across the region in recent years

… We experienced drought conditions during
the first half of 2013 in the countries where we
operate, which resulted in a reduction of
approximately 21% to 31% in our yields for the
2012/2013 harvest, for corn and soybean,
compared with our historical averages. The
actual yields following the drought generated a
decrease in Initial Recognition and Changes in
Fair Value of Biological Assets and Agricultural
Produce in respect of corn, soybean and the
remaining crops of $5.9 million, $16.6 million

CN0101-06 - (1) Total water withdrawn
and (2) total water consumed,
percentage of each in regions with High
or Extremely High Baseline Water Stress
CN0101-07 - Discussion of water
withdrawal risks and description of
management strategies and practices to
mitigate those risks

CN0101-21 - Average crop yield and
five-year standard deviation per major
crop type by major operating region
CN0101-22 - Identification of principal
crops and discussion of risks and
opportunities presented by climate
change

Industry

Meat, Poultry
& Dairy

Topic

Food Safety

Boilerplate
Pilgrim’s Pride - Form 10-K for FY 2014
If our poultry products become contaminated,
we may be subject to product liability claims
and product recalls.
Poultry products may be subject to
contamination by disease-producing
organisms, or pathogens, such as Listeria
monocytogenes, Salmonella and generic
E.coli. These pathogens are generally found in
the environment, and, as a result, there is a
risk that, as a result of food processing, they
could be present in our processed poultry
products. These pathogens can also be
introduced as a result of improper handling at
the further processing, foodservice or
consumer level. These risks may be controlled,
although not eliminated, by adherence to good
manufacturing practices and finished product
testing. We have little, if any, control over
proper handling once the product has been
shipped. Illness and death may result if the
pathogens are not eliminated at the further
processing, foodservice or consumer level.
Even an inadvertent shipment of contaminated
products is a violation of law and may lead to
increased risk of exposure to product liability
claims, product recalls and increased scrutiny
by federal and state regulatory agencies and
may have a material adverse effect on our
business, reputation and prospects.
Kraft Foods Group - Form 10-K for FY 2014

Processed
Foods

Food Safety

Product recalls or other product liability claims
could materially and adversely affect us.
Selling products for human consumption
involves inherent legal and other risks,
including product contamination, spoilage,
product tampering, allergens, or other
adulteration. We could decide to, or be
required to, recall products due to suspected or

Improved disclosure
and $2.7 million, respectively, for the year
ended December 31, 2013.
Industrias Bachoco - Form 20-F for FY 2014
During 2013, the Company informed the
National Service of Sanity, Safety and Food
Quality (SENASICA, by its Spanish acronym)
the presence of a H7N3 avian flu outbreak in
some of the Company’s farms located in the
state of Guanajuato and in the limits of the
Jalisco and Guanajuato states. The financial
effects derived from the outbreak were a
charge to cost of sales in 2013 for $350,821
related to the destruction of birds and eggs
inventory.

Campbell Soup Co. - Form 10-K for FY
2013/2014
Voluntary Product Recall
On November 8, 2013, the company voluntarily
recalled a range of Plum products packaged in
resealable pouches after discovering a
manufacturing defect that may cause spoilage
in some pouches. In the first quarter of 2014,
the company recognized costs of $16 ($11
after tax or $.03 per share) associated with the

Selected SASB Metrics

CN0102-11 - Number of recalls issued,
total weight of products recalled.

CN0103-08 - Notice of food safety
violations received, percentage corrected
CN0103-09 - Number of recalls issued,
total amount of food product recalled

Industry

Processed
Foods

Topic

Health &
Nutrition

Boilerplate

Improved disclosure

confirmed product contamination, adulteration,
misbranding, tampering, or other deficiencies.
Product recalls or market withdrawals could
result in significant losses due to their costs,
the destruction of product inventory, and lost
sales due to the unavailability of the product for
a period of time. We could be adversely
affected if consumers lose confidence in the
safety and quality of certain food products or
ingredients, or the food safety system
generally. Adverse attention about these types
of concerns, whether or not valid, may damage
our reputation, discourage consumers from
buying our products, or cause production and
delivery disruptions.
Mondelez International - Form 10-K for FY
2014
We must correctly predict, identify and interpret
changes in consumer preferences and demand
and offer new products to meet those changes.

recall, including estimates for customer returns
and consumer rebates, costs associated with
returned product and the disposal and write-off
of inventory.

… Prolonged negative perceptions concerning
the health implications of certain food products
could influence consumer preferences and
acceptance of some of our products and
marketing programs. For example, recently,
consumers have increasingly focused on
health and wellness, including weight
management and reducing sodium and added
sugar consumption. In addition, consumer
preferences differ by region, and we must
monitor and adjust our use of ingredients to
respond to these regional preferences. We
might be unsuccessful in our efforts to
effectively respond to changing consumer
preferences and social expectations.
Continued negative perceptions and failure to
satisfy consumer preferences could materially
and adversely affect our reputation, product
sales, financial condition and results of
operations.

Selected SASB Metrics

PepsiCo Inc. - Form 10-K for FY 2014
Continue to broaden the range of our product
portfolio, including expanding our offerings of
more nutritious products… We anticipate that
the consumer demand for convenient,
functional nutrition, fruits, vegetables, protein
and value-added dairy, local and natural
ingredients, and better-for-you snacking and
beverage options will continue to grow as
consumer tastes and preferences continue to
evolve. To meet this growing demand, we plan
to continue to grow our portfolio of more
nutritious products as well as to reduce added
sugar, sodium and saturated fat in certain key
brands, while continuing to focus on the great
taste consumers expect from our beverages,
foods and snacks. At the end of 2014,
approximately 20% of our net revenue came
from our nutrition businesses. We expect that
our increased investments in global research
and development will enable us to continue to
meet the growing demand for convenient,
nutritious products and a broad variety of snack
and beverage options.

CN0103-10 – Revenue from products
labeled and/or marketed to promote
health and nutrition attributes
CN0103-11 - Revenue from products
that meet Smart Snacks in School
criteria or foreign equivalent.
CN0103-12 - Description of the process
to identify and manage products and
ingredients of concern and emerging
dietary preferences

Consumption II – Consumer Goods & Retailing Sector
Industry
Apparel,
Accessories &
Footwear

Topic
Management
of Chemicals in
Products

Boilerplate
Hanes Brands Inc. - Form 10-K for FY 2015
Governmental Regulation and Environmental
Matters
We are subject to U.S. federal, state and local
laws and regulations that could affect our
business, including those promulgated under
the Occupational Safety and Health Act, the
Consumer Product Safety Act, the Flammable
Fabrics Act, the Textile Fiber Product
Identification Act, the rules and regulations of
the Consumer Products Safety Commission
and various environmental laws and
regulations. Some of our international
businesses are subject to similar laws and
regulations in the countries in which they
operate. Our operations also are subject to
various international trade agreements and
regulations. While we believe that we are in
compliance in all material respects with all
applicable governmental regulations, current
governmental regulations may change or
become more stringent or unforeseen events
may occur, any of which could have a material
adverse effect on our financial position or
results of operations.

Apparel,
Accessories &
Footwear

Labor
Conditions in
the Supply
Chain

L Brands - Form 10-K for FY 2015
We may be impacted by our manufacturers'
ability to manufacture and deliver products in a
timely manner, meet quality standards and
comply with applicable laws and regulations.
... Our business could also suffer if our thirdparty manufacturers fail to comply with
applicable laws and regulations. While our
internal and vendor operating guidelines
promote ethical business practices and our
employees periodically visit and monitor the
operations of our third-party manufacturers, we
do not control these manufacturers or their
practices. The violation of labor, environmental
or other laws by a third-party manufacturer

Improved disclosure
VF Corporation - Form 10-K for FY 2015
Sustainability
VF’s approach to Sustainability and
Responsibility (“S&R”) is to responsibly
manage its business, from the way it makes,
distributes and markets products to the ways it
preserves the environment and supports local
communities. In 2014, VF launched its
inaugural S&R Report, a compilation of the
many actions and investments taking place
across VF for our businesses to operate in a
sustainable manner. During 2015, VF
continued to expand its global sustainability
infrastructure and governance practices by
requiring our top brands to report on their S&R
practices and strategies on at least an annual
basis.
… Other current initiatives include… iii)
continuing our innovative approach to
responsible chemical management in our
supply chain via the CHEM-IQSM chemical
management program, an industry-leading
method that allows us to identify and eliminate
harmful chemicals before they enter our
manufacturing process.
PVH Corp - Form 10-K for FY 2015
We require our manufacturers, and the
manufacturers used by our licensees (and the
licensees themselves), to operate in
compliance with applicable laws, rules and
regulations regarding working conditions,
employment practices and environmental
compliance. Additionally, we impose upon our
business partners operating guidelines that
require additional obligations in those areas in
order to promote ethical business practices,
and our staff and third parties we retain for
such purposes periodically visit and monitor
the operations of these independent parties to
determine compliance. We are a signatory of
the Accord on Fire and Building Safety in

Selected SASB Metrics
CN0501-01 - Description of processes to
maintain compliance with restricted
substances regulations
CN0501-02 - Description of processes to
assess and manage risks associated with
chemicals in products

CN0501-05 - Percentage of (1) tier 1
suppliers and (2) suppliers beyond tier 1
that have been audited to a labor code of
conduct, percentage conducted by a
third-party auditor
CN0501-06 - Priority non-conformance
rate and associated corrective action rate
for suppliers’ labor code of conduct
audits
CN0501-07 - Discussion of greatest (1)
labor and (2) environmental, health, and
safety risks in the supply chain

Industry

Topic

Boilerplate
used by us, or the divergence of a third-party
manufacturer’s or partner’s labor or
environmental practices from those generally
accepted as ethical or appropriate, could
interrupt or otherwise disrupt the shipment or
finished products to us or damage our
reputation.

Appliance
Manufacturing

Product Safety

These risks could have a material adverse
effect on our results of operations, financial
condition and cash flows.
Stanley Black & Decker - Form 10-K for FY
2015
The Company’s products could be recalled.
The Consumer Product Safety Commission or
other applicable regulatory bodies may require
the recall, repair or replacement of the
Company’s products if those products are
found not to be in compliance with applicable
standards or regulations. A recall could
increase costs and adversely impact the
Company’s reputation.

Toys & Sporting
Goods

Labor
Conditions in
the Supply
Chain

Mattel Inc. - Form 10-K for FY 2015
Mattel’s business depends in large part on the
success of its vendors and outsourcers, and
Mattel’s brands and reputation may be harmed
by actions taken by third-parties that are
outside Mattel’s control. In addition, any
material failure, inadequacy, or interruption
resulting from such vendors or outsourcings
could harm Mattel’s ability to effectively
operate its business.

Improved disclosure

Selected SASB Metrics

Bangladesh to improve fire and building safety
in Bangladesh’s apparel factories and we
continue to collaborate with factories,
suppliers, industry participants and other
engaged stakeholders to improve the lives of
our factory workers and others in our sourcing
communities

Whirlpool Corp. - Form 10-K for FY 2015
As part of our ongoing effort to deliver quality
products to consumers, we are currently
investigating a limited number of potential
quality and safety issues globally. As
necessary, we undertake to effect repair or
replacement of appliances in the event that an
investigation leads to the conclusion that such
action is warranted. As part of that process, in
2015, Whirlpool engaged in thorough
investigations of incident reports associated
with two of its dryer production platforms
developed by Indesit, prior to Whirlpool's
acquisition of Indesit in October 2014.
… In September 2015, we recorded a liability
related to this corrective action. We estimate
the most probable cost of the corrective action
is €245 million (approximately $274 million as
of September 30, 2015). Approximately 90% of
the affected units were manufactured by
Indesit prior to its acquisition by the Company
in October 2014.
Hasbro Inc. - Form 10-K for FY 2015
We require our third-party manufacturers to
comply with our Global Business Ethics
Principles, which are designed to prevent
products manufactured for us from being
produced under inhumane or exploitive
conditions. Our Global Business Ethics
Principles address a number of issues,
including working hours and compensation,
health and safety, and abuse and

CN0601-01 - Number of recalls and total
units recalled

CN0604-05 - Number of facilities audited
to a social responsibility code of conduct.
CN0604-06 - Direct suppliers’ social
responsibility audit compliance: (1)
priority non-conformance rate and
associated corrective action rate and (2)
other non-conformances rate and
associated corrective action rate

Industry

E-Commerce

Topic

Logistics &
Packaging
Efficiency

Boilerplate
As a part of its efforts to cut costs, achieve
better efficiencies and increase productivity
and service quality, Mattel relies significantly
on vendor and outsourcing relationships with
third parties for services and systems including
manufacturing, transportation, logistics and
information technology. Any shortcoming of a
Mattel vendor or outsourcer, particularly an
issue affecting the quality of these services or
systems, may be attributed by customers to
Mattel, thus damaging Mattel’s reputation, and
brand value, and potentially affecting its results
of operations.
Amazon.com Inc. - Form 10-K for FY 2015
We May Experience Significant Fluctuations in
Our Operating Results and Growth Rate
… Our sales and operating results will also
fluctuate for many other reasons, including due
to risks described elsewhere in this section
and the following:
… - increases in the prices of fuel and
gasoline, as well as increases in the prices of
other energy products and commodities like
paper and packing supplies;

E-Commerce

Employee
Recruitment,
Inclusion, and
Performance

EBay Inc. - Form 10-K for FY 2015
Our success largely depends on key
personnel. Because competition for our key
employees is intense, we may not be able to
attract, retain, and develop the highly skilled
employees we need to support our business.
The loss of senior management or other key
personnel could harm our business.
Our future performance depends substantially
on the continued services of our senior
management and other key personnel,
including key engineering and product
development personnel, and our ability to

Improved disclosure

Selected SASB Metrics

discrimination. In addition, we require that our
products supplied by third-party manufacturers
be produced in compliance with all applicable
laws and regulations, including consumer and
product safety laws in the markets where those
products are sold. Hasbro has the right and
exercises such right, both directly and through
the use of outside monitors, to monitor
compliance by our third-party manufacturers
with our Global Business Ethics Principles and
other manufacturing requirements.

Land’s End Inc. - Form 10-K for FY 2015
Sustainability Initiatives
… We select paper for use in our catalog
materials based on ecological values, quality,
availability and cost. Our catalog covers
contain 10% post-consumer waste. The
remainder of our catalog paper contains 100%
chain-of-custody-certified fiber. This paper is
third-party certified through programs such as
the Forest Stewardship Council, the
Sustainable Forestry Initiative and the Program
for the Endorsement of Forest Certification.
Between 2003 and 2015, use of corrugated
cardboard packaging was reduced by 25%. In
addition, the corrugated cardboard we use now
contains a minimum of 60% recycled fiber.
JD.com Inc. - Form 20-F for FY 2015
We invest significant resources in the
recruitment of employees in support of our
fast-growing business operations. In 2015, we
recruited additional employees in connection
with the expansion of our fulfillment
infrastructure and additional research and
development personnel in connection with the
expansion of our technology platform. We
have established comprehensive training
programs that cover such topics as our
corporate culture, employee rights and
responsibilities, team-building, professional
behavior, job performance, management skills,

CN0404-05 - Description of strategies to
reduce the environmental impact of
product delivery

CN0404-10 - Employee engagement as
a percentage
CN0404-11 - (1) Voluntary and (2)
involuntary employee turnover rate

Industry

Food Retailers
& Distributors

Topic

Energy & Fleet
Fuel
Management

Boilerplate

Improved disclosure

attract, retain, and motivate key personnel.
Competition for key personnel is intense,
especially in the Silicon Valley where our
corporate headquarters are located, and we
may be unable to successfully attract,
integrate, or retain sufficiently qualified key
personnel. In making employment decisions,
particularly in the Internet and high-technology
industries, job candidates often consider the
value of the equity awards they would receive
in connection with their employment and
fluctuations in our stock price may make it
more difficult to attract, retain, and motivate
employees…

leadership and executive decision-making. We
have a special dedicated training facility, JD
Corporate University, to further strengthen our
internal training programs. As of December 31,
2015, over 400 management trainees had
undergone our dedicated management training
program. We have also sponsored certain
senior and mid-level management to attend
part-time MBA education. In November 2013,
we set up a “Go to College at Jingdong”
program in collaboration with external
educational and training institutions, offering
tailored courses to our employees and allowing
them to obtain a college degree through online
education. To boost our strategy of exploring
oversea markets, we also have been recruiting
international management trainees from top
universities in the United States.
Whole Foods - Form 10-K for FY 2014
We are committed to supporting wise
environmental practices and being a leader in
environmental stewardship. Since 2004, we
have purchased over 4.3 billion kilowatt hours
of wind-based renewable energy, earning
seven Environmental Protection Agency
(“EPA”) Green Power awards. We have 17
stores and one distribution center using or
hosting rooftop solar systems, four stores with
fuel cells, two stores with rooftop farms, and
one store with non-HFC refrigeration and a
rooftop combined heat and power (CHP)
system. We also have installed electric vehicle
charging stations at more than 45 U.S. stores.
We have made a commitment to reduce
energy consumption at all of our stores by 25%
per square foot by 2015, and we build our new
stores with the environment in mind, using
green building innovations whenever possible.
Twenty-three of our stores have received
Leadership in Energy and Environmental
Design (“LEED”) certification by the U.S.
Green Building Council; 29 stores have earned
Green Globes certification from the Green
Building Initiative; and 45 stores have received
GreenChill Certification awards from the EPA.

Wal-Mart Stores- Form 10-K for FY 2014
The Retail Industry
We operate in the highly competitive retail
industry in all of the markets we serve. We
face strong sales competition from other
discount, department, drug, dollar, variety and
specialty stores, warehouse clubs and
supermarkets, as well as e-commerce and
catalog businesses. Many of these competitors
are national, regional or international chains or
have a national or international online
presence. We compete with a number of
companies for prime retail site locations, as
well as in attracting and retaining quality
employees (whom we call "associates"). We,
along with other retail companies, are
influenced by a number of factors including,
but not limited to: … fuel and energy costs.

Selected SASB Metrics

CN0401-04 - Operational energy
consumed, percentage grid electricity,
percentage renewable energy
CN0401-05 - Fleet fuel consumed,
percentage renewable

Industry
Food Retailers
& Distributors

Multiline and
Specialty
Retailers &
Distributors

Topic
Product
Labeling &
Marketing

Energy
Management in
Retail &
Distribution

Boilerplate
Kroger - Form 10-K for FY 2014
GOVERNMENT REGULATION
Our stores are subject to various laws,
regulations, and administrative practices that
affect our business. We must comply with
numerous provisions regulating, among other
things, health and sanitation standards, food
labeling and safety, equal employment
opportunity, minimum wages, and licensing for
the sale of food, drugs, and alcoholic
beverages

Costco Wholesale - Form 10-K for FY 2014
Factors associated with climate change could
adversely affect our business.
We use natural gas, diesel fuel, gasoline, and
electricity in our distribution and warehouse
operations. Increased U.S. and foreign
government and agency regulations to limit
carbon dioxide and other greenhouse gas
emissions may result in increased compliance
costs and legislation or regulation affecting
energy inputs that could materially affect our
profitability. In addition, climate change could
affect our ability to procure needed
commodities at costs and in quantities we
currently experience. We also sell a
substantial amount of gasoline, the demand for
which could be impacted by concerns about
climate change and which also could face
increased regulation.

Improved disclosure
Whole Foods - Form 10-K for FY 2014
GMO Transparency
We believe that quality and transparency are
inseparable, and providing detailed information
about the products we sell is part of our
mission. Accordingly, we announced in March
2013 that all food products in our stores in the
U.S. and Canada must be labeled by 2018 to
indicate whether they contain genetically
modified organisms (“GMOs”). We are the first
national grocery chain to set a deadline for full
GMO transparency. Currently, we have
thousands of products within our stores that
are certified organic and/or Non-GMO
Project™ verified. This includes over 8,000
products carrying the “Non-GMO Project
Verified” seal.

Home Depot Inc. - Form 10-K for FY 2014
In fiscal 2014, our energy management team
continued to implement strict operational
standards that establish energy efficient
practices in all of our U.S. facilities. These
include HVAC unit temperature regulation and
adherence to strict lighting schedules, which
are the largest sources of energy consumption
in our stores, as well as use of energy
management systems in each store to monitor
energy efficiency. We estimate that by
implementing and utilizing these energy saving
programs, we have saved over 8.6 billion
kilowatt hours (kWh) since 2004. We set a goal
to reduce our kWh per square foot in our U.S.
stores by 20% by 2015. We met that goal in
fiscal 2013, well in advance of our targeted
date, and estimate a reduction of almost 32%
as of the end of fiscal 2014.
Through our supply chain efficiencies
described above under "Logistics," we targeted
a 20% reduction in our domestic supply chain
greenhouse gas emissions from 2008 to 2015.
We also continued to monitor our "carbon
footprint" from the operation of our stores as

Selected SASB Metrics
CN0401-13 - Notices of violations
received for non-conformance with
regulatory labeling and/or marketing
codes
CN0401-14 - Amount of legal and
regulatory fines and settlements
associated with food marketing and/or
labeling
CN0401-15 - Revenue from products
labeled as (1) containing genetically
modified organisms (GMOs) and (2) nonGMO

CN0403-01 - Total energy consumed,
percentage grid electricity, percentage
renewable energy

Industry

Topic

Boilerplate

Improved disclosure

Selected SASB Metrics

well as from our transportation and supply
chain activities. Through our supply chain and
energy reduction initiatives, we have exceeded
our goal by reducing our absolute carbon
emissions by over 1.9 million metric tons from
2008 to 2013, including the reduction of over
125,000 metric tons in 2013.

Renewable Resources & Alternative Energy Sector
Industry
Solar Energy

Topic
Product
Lifecycle
Environmental
Impacts

Boilerplate
Enphase Energy - Form 10-K for FY 2014
Further, new geographic markets and the
larger commercial and utility-scale installation
markets have different characteristics from the
markets in which we currently sell products,
and our success will depend on our ability to
properly address these differences. These
differences may include:
... - differing regulatory requirements,
including… recycling…

Biofuels

Water
Management in
Manufacturing

Rex American Resources - Form 10-K for
FY 2014
Our plants depend on an uninterrupted supply
of energy and water to operate. Unforeseen
plant shutdowns could harm our business.
Our plants require a significant and
uninterrupted supply of natural gas, electricity
and water to operate. We generally rely on
third parties to provide these resources. If
there is an interruption in the supply of energy

Improved disclosure
First Solar Inc. - Form 10-K for FY 2014
CdTe Solar Module Collection and Recycling
Program

Selected SASB Metrics
RR0102-11 - Percentage of products sold
that are recyclable or reusable

First Solar is committed to extended producer
responsibility and takes into account the
environmental impact of its products over their
entire life cycle. We established the solar
industry’s first comprehensive module
collection and recycling program. First Solar’s
module recycling process is designed to
maximize the recovery of valuable materials,
including the glass and encapsulated
semiconductor material, for use in new
modules or other new products and minimizes
the environmental impacts associated with our
modules at the end of their useful life.
Approximately 90% of each collected First
Solar module can be recycled into materials for
use in new products, including new solar
modules.
Aemitis Inc. - Form 10-K for FY 2014

RR0102-12 - Weight of end-of-life
material recovered, percentage of
recovered materials that are recycled

General

RR0101-03 - (1) Total water withdrawn
and (2) total water consumed, percentage
of each in regions with High or Extremely
High Baseline Water Stress

We own and operate a 55 million gallon per
year capacity ethanol production facility located
in Keyes, California. The facility produces its
own combined heat and power (CHP) through
the use of a natural gas-powered steam
turbine, and is designed to reuse 100% of its
process water with zero water discharge.

RR0101-04 - Discussion of water
management risks and description of
strategies and practices to mitigate those
risks

Industry

Pulp & Paper
Products

Pulp & Paper
Products

Topic

Greenhouse
Gas Emissions

Air Quality

Boilerplate
or water for any reason, such as supply,
delivery or mechanical problems and we are
unable to secure an adequate alternative
supply to sustain plant operations, we may be
required to stop production. A production halt
for an extended period of time could result in
material losses.
Neenah Paper Inc. - Form 10-K for FY 2014
Greenhouse gas ("GHG") emissions have
increasingly become the subject of political
and regulatory focus. Concern over potential
climate change, including global warming, has
led to legislative and regulatory initiatives
directed at limiting GHG emissions. In addition
to certain federal proposals in the United
States to regulate GHG emissions, Germany
and all the states in which we operate are
currently considering GHG legislation or
regulations, either individually and/or as part of
regional initiatives. While not all are likely to
become law it is reasonably possible that
additional climate change related mandates
will be forthcoming, and it is expected that they
may adversely impact our costs by increasing
energy costs and raw material prices, requiring
operational or equipment modifications to
reduce emissions and creating costs to comply
with regulations or to mitigate the financial
consequences of such compliance.
Resolute Forest - Form 10-K for FY 2014
Changes in laws and regulations could
adversely affect our results of operations.
We are subject to a variety of foreign, federal,
state, provincial and local laws and regulations
dealing with trade, employees, transportation,
taxes, timber and water rights, pension funding
and the environment. Changes in these laws
or regulations or their interpretations or
enforcement have required in the past, and
could require in the future, substantial
expenditures by us and adversely affect our
results of operations. For example, changes in
environmental laws and regulations have in the
past, and could in the future, require us to

Improved disclosure

Resolute Forest - Form 10-K for FY 2014
Sustainable performance and development

Selected SASB Metrics

RR0202-01 - Gross global Scope 1
emissions

… Our key sustainability commitments include:
• We surpassed, two years ahead of schedule,
the goal we set as a member of the World
Wildlife Fund Climate Savers program to
reduce our scope 1 and 2 greenhouse gas
emissions by 65% by 2015, compared to 2000
levels. We reduced our emissions by 67.5%.
This improvement goes beyond capacity
reductions: over 50% of the improvement came
from reductions in energy consumption, fuel
switching and fuel mix improvements.

Glatfelter - Form 10-K for FY 2014
We are subject to various federal, state and
local laws and regulations intended to protect
the environment as well as human health and
safety. At various times, we have incurred
significant costs to comply with these
regulations and we could incur additional costs
as new regulations are developed or regulatory
priorities change.
We will incur material capital costs to comply
with new air quality regulations including the
U.S. EPA Best Available Retrofit Technology
rule (BART; otherwise known as the Regional
Haze Rule) and the Boiler Maximum
Achievable Control Technology rule (Boiler

RR0202-02 - Description of long-term
and short-term strategy or plan to
manage Scope 1 emissions, emission
reduction targets, and an analysis of
performance against those targets

RR0202-03 - Air emissions for the
following pollutants: NOx (excluding
N2O), SOx, volatile organic compounds
(VOCs), particulate matter (PM), and
hazardous air pollutants (HAPs)

Industry

Forestry &
Logging

Topic

Ecosystem
Services &
Impacts

Boilerplate

Improved disclosure

spend substantial amounts to comply with
rules and regulations relating to air emissions,
wastewater discharge, waste management,
landfill sites, including investigation and
remediation costs and greenhouse gas
regulations. Environmental laws and their
enforcement are becoming increasingly
stringent. Consequently, our compliance and
remediation costs could increase materially.
Rayonier Inc. - Form 10-K for FY 2014
The impact of existing regulatory restrictions
on future harvesting activities may be
significant.

MACT). These rules will require process
modifications and/or installation of air pollution
controls on boilers at two of our facilities. We
have begun converting or replacing four coalfired boilers to natural gas and upgrading site
infrastructure to accommodate the new boilers,
including connecting to gas pipelines. The total
cost of these projects is estimated at $85
million to $90 million
Plum Creek Timber- Form 10-K for FY 2014
Environmentally Responsible Resource
Management.

U.S. federal, state and local laws and
regulations, as well as those of other countries,
which are intended to protect threatened and
endangered species, as well as waterways
and wetlands, limit and may prevent timber
harvesting, road building and other activities
on our timberlands. Restrictions relating to
threatened and endangered species apply to
activities that would adversely impact a
protected species or significantly degrade its
habitat. The size of the restricted area varies
depending on the protected species, the time
of year and other factors, but can range from
less than one acre to several thousand acres.
A number of species that naturally live on or
near our timberlands, including, among others,
the northern spotted owl, marbled murrelet,
several species of salmon and trout in the
Pacific Northwest, and the red cockaded
woodpecker, Red Hills salamander and
flatwoods salamander in the Southeast, are
protected under the Federal Endangered
Species Act (the “ESA”) or similar U.S. federal
and state laws. A significant number of other
species, such as the gopher tortoise and longeared bat are currently under review for
possible protection under the ESA. As we gain
additional information regarding the presence
of threatened or endangered species on our
timberlands, or if other regulations, such as
those that require buffers to protect water

We believe that environmentally sound
management practices contribute to our growth
in value by providing greater predictability in
the management of our assets. We follow the
principles of the Sustainable Forestry
Initiative® program (“SFI”) which are aimed at
the sound management of all natural
resources, including soils, air, watersheds,
fisheries and wildlife habitats. Forestry
practices on all of our timberlands have been
independently audited and certified under the
SFI program. Our planning efforts for species
listed as threatened or endangered under the
Endangered Species Act have resulted in three
major habitat conservation agreements under
which we manage approximately 0.9 million
acres of our timberlands. Our manufacturing
business follows a set of internally developed
environmental principles

Selected SASB Metrics

RR0201-01 - Area of forestland certified
to a third-party forest management
standard, percentage certified to each
standard.
RR0201-02 - Area of forestland with
protected conservation status
RR0201-03 - Area of forestland in
endangered species habitat

Industry

Topic

Boilerplate

Improved disclosure

Selected SASB Metrics

Boilerplate

Improved disclosure

Selected SASB Metrics

CBRE Group Inc. - Form 10-K for FY 2014
We provide valuation services that include
market value appraisals, litigation support,
discounted cash flow analyses, feasibility and
fairness opinions and property condition and
environmental consulting

Jones Lang LaSalle - Form 10-K for FY 2014
We provide Energy and Sustainability Services
to occupiers and investors to help them develop
their corporate sustainability strategies, green
their real estate portfolios, reduce their energy
consumption and carbon footprint, upgrade
building performance by managing Leadership
in Energy and Environmental Design ("LEED")
construction or retrofits and provide sustainable
building operations management. We have
more than 1,500 energy and sustainability
accredited professionals. Cumulatively, we have
helped our U.S. clients reduce greenhouse gas
emissions by an estimated 11.9 million metric
tons and saved them an estimated $2.5 billion in
energy costs from 2007-2013 (see
jll.com/sustainability for details). In 2013 alone,
we documented $39 million in estimated energy
savings for our U.S. clients and reduced their
greenhouse gas emissions by 220,000 tons.
Our sustainability teams worked on a total of
1,852 buildings, a 33% increase compared to
2012. We generally negotiate compensation for
Energy and Sustainability Services for each
assignment based on the scale and complexity
of the project or shared savings.
Simon Property - Form 10-K for FY 2014

bodies, become more restrictive, the amount of
our timberlands subject to harvest restrictions
could increase.

Infrastructure Sector
Industry
Real Estate
Services

Real Estate
Owners,
Developers &
Investment
Trusts

Topic
Sustainability
Services

Energy
Management

Vornado Realty Trust - Form 10-K for FY
2014
We may incur significant costs to comply with
environmental laws and environmental
contamination may impair our ability to lease
and/or sell real estate.
... We may become subject to costs or taxes,
or increases therein, associated with natural
resource or energy usage (such as a “carbon

Sustainability and Energy Efficiency
We incorporate sustainable thinking into
all areas of our business, from property
development and operations, to doing business
with customers, to engaging with the
communities we serve, as well as our
employees.

IF0403-01 - Revenue from energy and
sustainability.

IF0402-01 - Energy consumption data
coverage as a percentage of floor area,
by property subsector
IF0402-02 - Total energy consumed by
portfolio area with data coverage,
percentage grid electricity, and

Industry

Topic

Boilerplate
tax”). These costs or taxes could increase our
operating costs and decrease the cash
available to pay our obligations or distribute to
equity holders.

Fluor Corporation - Form 10-K for FY 2014
Engineering &
Construction
Services

Workforce
Health &
Safety

Our project sites can place our employees and
others near large equipment, dangerous
processes or substances or highly regulated
materials, and in challenging environments.
Safety is a primary focus of our business and
is critical to our reputation. Often, we are
responsible for safety on the project sites
where we work. Many of our clients require
that we meet certain safety criteria to be
eligible to bid on contracts, and some of our
contract fees or profits are subject to satisfying
safety criteria. Unsafe work conditions also
have the potential of increasing employee
turnover, increasing project costs and raising
our operating costs. If we fail to implement
appropriate safety procedures and/or if our
procedures fail, our employees or others may
suffer injuries or even loss of life. Although we
maintain functional groups whose primary
purpose is to implement effective health,
safety and environmental procedures
throughout our company, the failure to comply
with such procedures, client contracts or
applicable regulations could subject us to
losses and liability. And, despite these
activities, in these locations and at these sites,
we cannot guarantee the safety of our

Improved disclosure
One main focus of our sustainability strategy is
on energy conservation and energy efficiency.
Through the continued use of energy
conservation practices, energy efficiency
projects, and continuous monitoring and
reporting, we have reduced our energy
consumption at comparable properties every
year since 2003. As a result, excluding new
developments and expansions, we reduced the
electricity usage over which we have direct
control by 280 million kWhs since 2003. This
represents a 30% reduction in electricity usage
across a portfolio of comparable properties and
reflects an annual value of over $28 million in
avoided operating costs.
Chicago & Bridge Company - Form 10-K for
FY 2014
Our core competencies, which we believe are
significant competitive strengths, include:
Strong Health, Safety and Environmental
(“HSE”) Performance. Because of our long and
outstanding safety record, we are sometimes
invited to bid on projects for which other
competitors do not qualify. Our HSE
performance also translates directly to lower
costs and reduced risk to our employees,
subcontractors and customers. According to the
U.S. Bureau of Labor Statistics, the national
Lost Workday Case Incidence Rate for
construction companies similar to CB&I was 0.7
per 100 full-time employees for 2013 (the latest
reported year), while our rates for 2013 and
2014 were only 0.05 per 100 employees and
0.03 per 100 employees, respectively.

Selected SASB Metrics
percentage renewable, each by property
subsector
F0402-03 - Like-for-like change in
energy consumption of portfolio area
with data coverage, by property
subsector
IF0402-04 - Percentage of eligible
portfolio that (1) has obtained an energy
rating and (2) is certified to ENERGY
STAR®, by property subsector.

IF0301-05 - (1) Total recordable injury
rate (TRIR) and (2) fatality rate for (a)
direct employees and (b) contract
employees

Industry

Waste
Management

Water Utilities

Topic

Workforce
Health &
Safety

End-Use
Efficiency

Boilerplate
personnel, nor damage to or loss of work,
equipment or supplies.
Waste Management - Form 10-K for FY
2014
Our business is subject to operational and
safety risks, including the risk of personal
injury to employees and others.
Providing environmental and waste
management services, including constructing
and operating landfills, involves risks such as
truck accidents, equipment defects,
malfunctions and failures, mass instability or
waste slides, severe weather and natural
disasters, which could potentially result in
releases of hazardous materials and odors,
injury or death of employees and others...
While we seek to minimize our exposure to
such risks through comprehensive training
and compliance programs, as well as vehicle
and equipment maintenance programs, if we
were to incur substantial liabilities in excess of
any applicable insurance, our business,
results of operations and financial condition
could be adversely affected. Any such
incidents could also tarnish our reputation and
reduce the value of our brand.
York Water Company - Form 10-K for FY
2014
Weather conditions and overuse may interfere
with our sources of water, demand for water
services, and our ability to supply water to our
customers.
… Cool and wet weather, as well as drought
restrictions and our customers' conservation
efforts, may reduce consumption demands,
also adversely affecting our revenue and
earnings.

Improved disclosure

Selected SASB Metrics

Clean Harbors - Form 10-K for FY 2014
Health and Safety is our #1 priority—
companywide. Employees at all levels of our
Company share this philosophy and are
committed to ensuring our safety goals are met.
Our commitment to health and safety benefits
everyone—our employees, our customers, the
community, and the environment. In 2014 we
continued with our very successful Safety Starts
With Me: Live It 3-6-5 program which is a key
component in our overall safety program and
along with our many other programs has
continued to lower our Total Recordable
Incident Rate, or "TRIR;" Days Away, Restricted
Activity and Transfer Rate, or "DART;" and
Experience Modification Rate, or "EMR." For the
year ended December 31, 2014, our Company
wide TRIR, DART and EMR were 1.57, 1.01
and 0.54, respectively. For the year ended
December 31, 2013, our Company wide TRIR,
DART and EMR were 1.78, 1.11 and 0.60,
respectively.

IF0201-12 - (1) Total recordable injury
rate (TRIR), (2) fatality rate, and (3) near
miss frequency rate (NMFR) for (a)
direct employees and (b) contract
employees
IF0201-13 - Safety Measurement
System BASIC percentiles for: (1)
Unsafe Driving, (2) Hours-of-Service
Compliance, (3) Driver Fitness, (4)
Controlled Substances/Alcohol, (5)
Vehicle Maintenance, and (6) Hazardous
Materials Compliance

Aqua America Inc. - Form 10-K for FY 2014
Business
... Water usage is also affected by changing
consumption patterns by our customers,
resulting from such causes as increased water
conservation and the installation of water saving
devices and appliances that can result in
decreased water usage. It is estimated that in
the event we experience a 0.50% decrease in
residential water consumption it would result in
a decrease in annual residential water revenue
of approximately $2,000,000, and would likely
be partially offset by a reduction in incremental
water production expenses such as chemicals
and power.

IF0103-11 - Customer water savings
from efficiency measures by market

Industry
Electric Utilities

Electric Utilities

Topic
Greenhouse
Gas Emissions
& Energy
Resource
Planning

End-Use
Efficiency &
Demand

Boilerplate

Improved disclosure

Exelon Corp. - Form 10-K for FY 2014
Exelon, as a producer of electricity from
predominantly low-carbon generating facilities
(such as nuclear, hydroelectric, wind and solar
photovoltaic), has a relatively small GHG
emission profile, or carbon footprint, compared
to other domestic generators of electricity. By
virtue of its significant investment in lowcarbon intensity assets, Generation’s emission
intensity, or rate of carbon dioxide equivalent
(CO2e) emitted per unit of electricity
generated, is among the lowest in the
industry. Exelon does produce GHG
emissions, primarily at its fossil fuel-fired
generating plants; CO2, methane and nitrous
oxide are all emitted in this process, with CO2
representing the largest portion of these GHG
emissions. GHG emissions from combustion
of fossil fuels represent the majority of
Exelon’s direct GHG emissions in 2014,
although only a small portion of Exelon’s
electric supply is from fossil generating plants.
Other GHG emission sources at Exelon
include natural gas (methane) leakage on the
natural gas systems, sulfur hexafluoride (SF6)
leakage in its electric transmission and
distribution operations and refrigerant leakage
from its chilling and cooling equipment as well
as fossil fuel combustion in its motor vehicles
and usage of electricity at its facilities.
AES Corporation - Form 10-K for FY 2014
Regulatory Framework

Southern Co. - Form 10-K for FY 2014
Global Climate Issues

… Retail Regulation. DP&L is subject to
regulation by the PUCO, for its distribution
services and facilities, retail rates and
charges, reliability of service, compliance with
renewable energy portfolio, energy efficiency
program requirements and certain other
matters… In addition, DP&L’s rates include
various adjustment mechanisms including, but
not limited to, those to reflect changes in fuel
costs to generate electricity or purchased
power prices, and the timely recovery of costs
incurred to comply with alternative energy,

PECO’s PAPUC-approved Phase I EE&C plan
had a four-year term that began on June 1,
2009 and concluded on May 31, 2013. The
Phase I Plan set forth how PECO would meet
the required reduction targets established by Act
129’s EE&C provisions, which included a 3.0%
reduction in electric consumption in PECO’s
service territory and a 4.5% reduction in PECO’s
annual system peak demand in the 100 hours of
highest demand by May 31, 2013. On March 20,
2014, the PAPUC issued its final report stating

… The EPA's greenhouse gas reporting rule
requires annual reporting of CO2 equivalent
emissions in metric tons for a company's
operational control of facilities. Based on
ownership or financial control of facilities, the
Southern Company system's 2013 greenhouse
gas emissions were approximately 102 million
metric tons of CO2 equivalent. The preliminary
estimate of the Southern Company system's
2014 greenhouse gas emissions on the same
basis is approximately 112 million metric tons of
CO2 equivalent. The level of greenhouse gas
emissions from year to year will depend on the
level of generation, the mix of fuel sources, and
other factors.

Exelon Corp. - Form 10-K for FY 2014
Energy Efficiency Programs.

Selected SASB Metrics
IF0101-01 - (1) Gross global Scope 1
emissions, (2) percentage covered under
emissions-limiting regulations, and (3)
percentage covered under emissionsreporting regulations
IF0101-02 - Description of long-term and
short-term strategy or plan to manage
Scope 1 emissions, emission-reduction
targets, and an analysis of performance
against those targets

IF0101-13 - Percentage of electric load
served by smart grid technology.
IF0101-14 - Customer electricity savings
from efficiency measures by market

Industry

Topic

Boilerplate

Improved disclosure

renewables, energy efficiency, and economic
development costs. These components
function independently of one another, but the
overall structure of DP&L’s retail rates and
charges are subject to the rules and
regulations established by the PUCO.

that PECO was in full compliance with all Phase
I targets.
… On February 28, 2014, PECO filed a Petition
for Approval to amend its EE&C Phase II Plan to
continue its DLC demand reduction program for
mass market customers from June 1, 2014 to
May 31, 2016. PECO proposed to fund the
estimated $10 million annual costs of the
program by modifying incentive levels for other
Phase II programs. The costs of the DLC
program will be recovered through PECO’s
Energy Efficiency Program Charge along with
other Phase II Plan costs. The PAPUC granted
PECO’s Petition in an Order that became final
on May 5, 2014.

Selected SASB Metrics

	
	

	

Sustainability Accounting Standards Board

July 1, 2016
Brent J. Fields
Secretary
United States Securities and Exchange Commission
100 F Street, N.E.
Washington, D.C. 20549
BOARD OF DIRECTORS
Michael R. Bloomberg
CHAIR
Mary Schapiro, JD
VICE CHAIR
Steven O. Gunders, CPA
TREASURER
Elisse Walter, JD
SECRETARY
Jean Rogers, PhD
CEO (ex-officio)
Alan L. Beller, JD
Audrey Choi
Jack Ehnes
Dan Hanson, CFA
Robert H. Herz, CPA
Erika Karp
Shawn Lytle
Ken Mehlman, JD
Clara Miller
Catherine Odelbo
Kevin Parker
Aulana L. Peters, JD
Arnie Pinkston, JD
Curtis Ravenel
Laura Tyson, PhD
Ted White, JD

1045 Sansome Street, Suite 450
San Francisco, CA 94111
(415) 830-9220
sasb.org

Re: Concept Release on Business and Financial Disclosure Required by
Regulation S-K
Dear Mr. Fields:
I write on behalf of the Sustainability Accounting Standards Board (SASB), an
independent 501(c)(3) nonprofit organization that issues sustainability accounting
standards for the disclosure of material sustainability information in SEC filings.
SASB’s provisional standards—developed following a robust due process with
significant market input—are designed to be cost-effective and work within the
framework of the U.S. securities laws. They help registrants effectively disclose
material sustainability-related information and comply with regulatory obligations.
By issuing standards that help companies provide investors with decision-useful
sustainability disclosure, SASB supports the SEC’s mission to protect investors;
maintain fair, orderly, and efficient markets; and, facilitate capital formation.
The Commission’s Regulation S-K Concept Release1 (Concept Release) raises
important questions regarding the need to update long-standing disclosure
requirements to meet the needs of today’s investors. Our comments focus
primarily on the need for improved disclosure of sustainability-related matters.
The principal points made in this letter2 are:
• Today’s reasonable investors use sustainability disclosures. There
has been an enormous increase in investor interest in sustainabilityrelated information since the SEC last evaluated the requirements on
disclosure of sustainability-related information. In a 2015 CFA Institute
survey, 73 percent of institutional investors indicated that they take
environmental, social and governance (ESG) issues into account in their
investment analysis and decisions, to help manage investment risks.3
•

While Regulation S-K already requires disclosure of material
sustainability information, the resulting disclosure is insufficient.
More than 40 percent of all 10-K disclosure on sustainability topics
consists of boilerplate language. This preponderance of vague language

																																																								
1

Business and Financial Disclosure Required by Regulation S-K; Concept Release (“Concept Release”),
81 Fed. Reg. 23916 (April 22, 2016)
2
Appendix A provides answers to specific questions raised in the Concept Release.
3
CFA Institute, ENVIRONMENTAL, SOCIAL AND GOVERNANCE SURVEY, p. 5 (June 2015),
https://www.cfainstitute.org/Survey/esg_survey_report.pdf . Survey studied 1,325 institutional investors.
Id. at 3.

	

1	

	
	

	

does not help investors to understand or price risk or to evaluate
performance on the topics disclosed.
•

Line-item disclosure requirements are not appropriate for
sustainability issues. Sustainability issues are not material for all
companies, and when they are material, they manifest in unique ways
and require industry-specific metrics. Requiring generally applicable lineitem disclosures would result in additional corporate reporting burden and
a large volume of information that is immaterial to investors.

•

To evaluate sustainability performance, an industry lens is needed.
Sustainability issues impact financial performance in specific ways that
vary by topic and industry. As such, investors need guidance on which
sustainability issues are material to which industries, and they need
industry-specific metrics by which to evaluate and compare performance
in the context of industry characteristics and value drivers.

•

Effective sustainability disclosure requires a market standard. A
market standard for the industry-specific disclosure of sustainabilityrelated information would provide a market-informed process that allows
for future evolution of investor needs and issuers’ business models more
efficiently than governmentally-mandated, universal line-item disclosure.

•

The Commission should acknowledge SASB standards as an
acceptable disclosure framework for use by companies preparing
their SEC filings. SASB, through extensive research, analysis, and due
process, issues standards for 79 industries, consistent with the definition
of “materiality” under the federal securities laws. SASB standards enable
companies to make better disclosures on material sustainability-related
information to investors consistent with SEC requirements, without the
need for rulemaking. SASB standards are designed to be cost-effective
for issuers and decision-useful for analysts and investors, providing the
ability to compare and benchmark performance, which is essential for
informing investment decisions.

	

Investor Demand for Sustainability Information Has Increased Dramatically in the Past 40
Years
As the Concept Release notes, disclosure of sustainability information has not been examined
in detail by the SEC since the mid-1970s, when questions involving environmental disclosures
received considerable attention from the Commission and the federal courts. At that time, the
SEC rejected calls for increased requirements for such disclosures because of, among other
things, a lack of sufficient investor interest. The percentage of holdings of “ethical investors” was
estimated at “two thirds of one percent” of all U.S. stock and bond holdings. Hence, the
Commission determined, these disclosures were of interest to only “an insignificant percentage”
of investors. The Concept Release, after describing this history, notes that interest in this area
“may be evolving.” We strongly concur.

	

2	

	
	

	

Overwhelming evidence confirms that, in the past
four decades, investors have come to recognize
that sustainability4 information is material and to
demand disclosure of the same. Shifts in the
global business context underscore the need to
revisit the disclosure of sustainability issues,
including ESG5 factors, and investor interest in
them. For example, climate risk was not on the
radar of investors or the Commission 40, or even
20, years ago. Internationalization of
manufacturing and supply chains has generated
concomitant concerns about how U.S. companies
are managing environmental, human rights, and
governance issues abroad. The rise of the
Internet and social media has increased the
velocity with which reputation and license to
operate can be damaged because of the poor
management of sustainability factors that were
not considered relevant 40 years ago.	
While interest in sustainability issues was first
voiced by so-called “ethical investors,” today the
decisions of mainstream investment analysts on
whether to buy, sell, or hold a security are
increasingly influenced by ESG performance.
ESG issues can and do affect the financial
condition or operating performance of companies,

	

																																																								
4

For the purpose of the SASB standards, sustainability refers to corporate activities that maintain or
enhance the ability of a company to create value over the long term. Sustainability accounting refers to
the measurement, management, and reporting of such corporate activities. Sustainability accounting
reflects the management of a corporation’s environmental and social impacts arising from production of
goods and services, as well as the management of the environmental and social capitals necessary to
create long-term value. It also includes the impacts that sustainability challenges have on innovation,
business models, and corporate governance, and vice versa. Therefore, the SASB’s sustainability topics
are organized under five broad sustainability dimensions: environment, social capital, human capital,
business model and innovation, and leadership and governance.
For more on SASB’s definition of sustainability, please refer to SASB’s Conceptual Framework, open for
comment through July 6, 2016: http://www.sasb.org/wp-content/uploads/2016/04/SASB-ConceptualFramework-04.04.2016.pdf.
5
There is no one definition of ESG. The term has been described as “a generic term used in capital
markets and used by investors to evaluate corporate behaviour and to determine the future financial
performance of companies. ESG factors are a subset of non-financial performance indicators which
include sustainable, ethical and corporate governance issues such as managing the company’s carbon
footprint and ensuring there are systems in place to ensure accountability.” (FT.com/Lexicon
http://lexicon.ft.com/Term?term=ESG). The CFA Institute defines it as the “environmental, social and
governance issues that Investors are considering in the context of corporate behavior. Often these ESG
issues have been considered nonfinancial or nonquantifiable in nature and have medium to long-term
time frame in their effect on a Company.” (The CFA Institute, Center for Market Integrity, ENVIRONMENTAL,
SOCIAL AND GOVERNANCE FACTORS AT LISTED COMPANIES, A MANUAL FOR INVESTORS, (2008)
http://www.cfapubs.org/doi/pdf/10.2469/ccb.v2008.n2.1).

	

3	

	
	

	

and thus are of interest to mainstream investors as economic actors,6 as evidenced by the
following proof points:
•

A 2016 study shows that nearly 75 percent of investors cite improved sustainabilityrelated revenue performance and operational efficiency as strong reasons to invest in a
company.7

•

More than 60 percent of investors believe that solid sustainability performance reduces a
company’s risks; nearly the same number also strongly believe that it lowers a
company’s cost of capital.8

•

60 percent of institutional investors participating in a 2015 survey saw “non-financial”
information relevant across all industries, and “two thirds (said) companies do not
adequately disclose information about ESG risks.”9

•

Research from Harvard Business School found that companies that perform well on
material sustainability factors, evaluated based on SASB criteria, enjoy enhanced
market returns (six percent annualized alpha) over firms that perform poorly on material
factors.10	

•

Of the investors surveyed by PwC in 2014 (representing 50 percent of U.S. institutional
AUM), 80 percent reported that an assessment of performance on environmental, social

																																																								
6

It is also noteworthy that, according to US SIF’s 2014 REPORT ON US SUSTAINABLE, RESPONSIBLE AND
IMPACT INVESTING TRENDS, in the U.S., socially responsible investments (SRI)—often called “ethical
investing” in the 1970s—have grown 929 percent since 1995. More than one out of every $6 under
professional management in the United States is invested based on SRI strategies.
(http://www.ussif.org/files/publications/sif_trends_14.f.es.pdf .) US SIF is a non-profit organization that
undertakes educational, research, and programmatic activities to “rapidly shift investment practices
towards sustainability, focusing on long-term investment and the generation of positive social and
environmental impacts.” See http://www.ussif.org/about.
7
Gregory Unruh, David Kiron, Nina Kruschwitz, Martin Reeves, Holger Rubel, and Alexander Meyer zum
Felde, Investing for a Sustainable Future, MIT SLOAN MGMT. REV., p. 4 (May 2016),
http://sloanreview.mit.edu/projects/investing-for-a-sustainable-future/. 579 investors responded to this
survey. The investment community was broadly represented and included respondents from pension
funds, endowment organizations, insurers, banks, and asset management companies. Among these
groups, a significant number of respondents came from asset management companies (36%). Investors
self-identified as follows: strategic (39%); institutional (24%); and retail (11%) investors. Few identified
themselves as mission-oriented or socially responsible investors.
8
Id.
9
EY, TOMORROW’S INVESTMENT RULES 2.0: EMERGING RISK AND STRANDED ASSETS HAVE INVESTORS
LOOKING FOR MORE FROM NONFINANCIAL REPORTING p. 7, (2015),
http://www.ey.com/Publication/vwLUAssets/EY-tomorrows-investment-rules-2/$FILE/EY-tomorrowsinvestment-rules-2.0.pdf.
10
Mozaffar Khan, George Serafeim and Aaron Yoon, Corporate Sustainability: First Evidence on
Materiality, THE ACCOUNTING REVIEW (Harvard Business School, March 9, 2015),
http://hbswk.hbs.edu/item/corporate-sustainability-first-evidence-on-materiality. This is the first significant
study to differentiate between those sustainability factors that are likely to have material impacts and
those that are not, using SASB’s provisional standards to make this determination. Using historical data,
the study tracked the performance of 2,307 unique firms over 13,397 unique firm-years across six sectors
and 45 industries, and found that firms enjoyed significantly higher market returns when they addressed
material sustainability factors, and still higher returns when they efficiently concentrated on material
sustainability factors to the exclusion of immaterial sustainability factors. Id. at p. 12, 23. 

	

4	

	
	

	

and governance (ESG) issues had factored into their investment decision-making
process during the 12 months preceding the survey.11
•

Roughly half of the total global institutional assets—$60 trillion—are now managed by
signatories to the Principles of Responsible Investment (PRI).12 PRI promotes an
approach to investing that incorporates ESG factors into investment decisions. PRI
signatories have grown in number from 100 to 1,500 since PRI’s inception 10 years ago.
(See Figure B.)	

																																																								
11

PwC, SUSTAINABILITY GOES MAINSTREAM: INSIGHTS INTO INVESTOR VIEWS, p. 2, (May 2014),
https://www.pwc.com/us/en/pwc-investor-resource-institute/publications/assets/pwc-sustainability-goesmainstream-investor-views.pdf. Survey respondents represented large financial institutions such as thirdparty investment managers, banks, pension funds, foundations, endowments, sovereign wealth funds,
insurance companies, and family offices.
12
Gunnar Friede, Timo Busch and Alexander Bassen, ESG and Financial Performance: Aggregated
Evidence from More Than 2000 Empirical Studies, Journal of Sustainable Finance & Investment, Vol. 5,
No. 4, pp. 210 (2015), http://www.tandfonline.com/doi/full/10.1080/20430795.2015.1118917.
PRI signatories make the following commitment: "As institutional investors, we have a duty to act in the
best long-term interests of our beneficiaries. In this fiduciary role, we believe that environmental, social,
and corporate governance (ESG) issues can affect the performance of investment portfolios (to varying
degrees across companies, sectors, regions, asset classes and through time).” “Incorporating ESG issues
into investment analysis and decision-making processes” is the first of six principles to which PRI
signatories commit.
For more information on PRI see its website: https://www.unpri.org/about.

	

5	

	
	

	

•

The number of customers using ESG data on Bloomberg terminals has quadrupled from
13
2010 to 2015. (See Figure B.)

•

Setting aside prior guidance, the U.S. Department of Labor affirmed in 2015 that the
Employment Retirement Income Security Act (ERISA) does not prohibit pension fund
managers from considering ESG factors in making investment decisions. “Fiduciaries
should appropriately consider factors that potentially influence risk and return.
Environmental, social, and governance issues may have a direct relationship to the
economic value of the plan’s investment.”14 Under this guidance, managers of U.S.
pension funds—representing more than $21.7 trillion in AUM15—are now able to
consider ESG factors in keeping with their fiduciary duty.

•

Collaborative research examining more than 2,000 empirical studies of ESG and
financial performance over three decades found that 62.6 percent of studies showed a
positive correlation between the inclusion of ESG factors in investment decision making
and financial performance.16

•

“Evidence shows that companies that have better ESG management tend to outperform
in the long term, and they’re more resilient during times of economic downturn,”
according to Christina Zimmermann at Wellington Management. “We do this to get better
risk-adjusted returns.”17

•

“Our goal is to inextricably weave ESG factors into the fabric of industry standards,
making them part of the investment decision making process,” says Mamadou-Abou
Sarr of Northern Trust.18

•

Writing recently to the CEOs of S&P 500 and large European companies, the chairman
and CEO of the world’s largest investment management corporation, BlackRock’s
Laurence Fink, made clear to corporations that BlackRock recognizes the financial and
operational impact of sustainability-related issues. “Over the long-term, environmental,
social and governance (ESG) issues—ranging from climate change to diversity to
board effectiveness—have real and quantifiable financial impacts.”19

																																																								
13

Bloomberg, SUSTAINABLE BUSINESS AND FINANCE: CUSTOMERS USING ESG DATA (2015),
http://www.bloomberg.com/bcause/customers-using-esg-data.
14
U.S. Department of Labor, IB 2105-1, p. 5, https://s3.amazonaws.com/publicinspection.federalregister.gov/2015-27146.pdf.
15
See, e.g., Willis Towers Watson, U.S. PENSION FUND ASSETS REMAIN STABLE (February 2, 2016),
https://www.willistowerswatson.com/en-US/press/2016/02/global-pension-fund-assets-crab-sideways.
16
Gunnar Friede, Timo Busch, and Alexander Bassen, ESG and Financial Performance: Aggregated
Evidence from More Than 2000 Empirical Studies, JOURNAL OF SUSTAINABLE FINANCE & INVESTMENT, Vol.
5, No. 4, pp. 217-18 (Dec. 2015), http://www.tandfonline.com/doi/full/10.1080/20430795.2015.1118917.
17
Institutional Investor, ESG BECOMING MAINSTREAM, p. 3 (November 2015),
http://institutionalinvestor.com/images/416/2015-11-ESG_Report_AM.pdf.
18
15 Mamadou-Abou Sarr, TAKING STOCK OF THE PRI ON ITS TENTH ANNIVERSARY (Institutional Investor
May 9, 2016), http://www.institutionalinvestor.com/gmtl/3552447/article/3551587/partner-content-aretarget-date-funds-on-target.html#.V0OidmO8mlc.
19
Letter from BlackRock’s Larry Fink to CEOs of S&P 500 and large European companies, February 2,
2016. A copy of the letter can be found at http://www.businessinsider.com/blackrock-ceo-larry-fink-letterto-sp-500-ceos-2016-2. Mr. Fink later wrote, in a letter to BlackRock shareholders, “Generating
sustainable long-term returns for our clients also requires us to factor the ESG challenges companies

	

6	

	
	

	

Thus, the Commission’s finding of 40 years ago—that an “insignificant percentage” of U.S.
shareholders is interested in sustainability disclosures—quite emphatically can no longer be
supported.
Frustration and Burden of Ineffective ESG Disclosures
Today’s investors are interested in having access to accurate and useful sustainability
information, but that need is not matched by the availability and quality of such information.
Sustainability information generally is not “investment-grade”; it is largely not material (as
defined under U.S. securities laws); is not industry-specific, comparable, complete, auditable,
nor reliable. A 2015 study found that 82 percent of investors said they are dissatisfied with how
risks and opportunities are identified and quantified in financial terms; 79 percent of the
investors polled said they are dissatisfied with the comparability of sustainability reporting
between companies in the same industry.20
Underlying this problem is the fact that sustainability information disclosed outside Commission
filings (which is where most sustainability information is disclosed today) is generally formulated
without applying the standard for materiality used under federal securities laws: “a substantial
likelihood that the disclosure of the omitted fact would have been viewed by the reasonable
investor as having significantly altered the ‘total mix’ of information made available.”21
Sustainability reports prepared following frameworks with more expansive definitions of
materiality (for example the definition used by the Global Reporting Initiative [GRI]) 22 are useful
in many contexts, including surfacing issues about which a broad range of stakeholders may
care. But, in the context of investment decision-making, they produce information that can “bury
the shareholders in an avalanche of trivial information,” an outcome that the Supreme Court
sought to avoid in establishing the materiality standard in the TSC v. Northway decision.23
How do investors obtain sustainability information today? There are four principal means—none
of which presently works well.
SEC filings: As the Commission has noted,24 certain sustainability information should be
disclosed under existing SEC rules. In particular, Item 303 of Regulation S-K requires that
companies describe known trends, events, and uncertainties that are reasonably likely to have
material impacts on their financial condition or operating performance in the MD&A section of
Form 10-K or 20-F. The MD&A requirement calls for companies “to provide investors and other
users with material information that is necessary to [form] an understanding of the company’s

																																																																																																																																																																																			
face today, such as climate or changing labor markets, into our investment analysis and decision-making
processes.” A full copy of his letter to shareholders can be found at
https://www.blackrock.com/coorporate/en-us/investor-reations/larry-fink-chairmans-letter.”
20
PwC, SUSTAINABILITY DISCLOSURES: IS YOUR COMPANY MEETING INVESTOR EXPECTATIONS, (July 2015),
http://www.pwc.com/us/en/cfodirect/publications/in-the-loop/sustainability-disclosure-guidance-sasb.html.
21
TSC Industries v. Northway, Inc., 426 U.S. 438 (1976).
22
See infra, p. 20-22, for a more detailed discussion of GRI.
23
426 U.S. at 448-49 (1976).
24
Securities and Exchange Commission, FR-82, COMMISSION GUIDANCE REGARDING DISCLOSURE RELATED
TO CLIMATE CHANGE, p. 3 (Feb. 2, 2010), https://www.sec.gov/rules/interp/2010/33-9106.pdf.

	

7	

	
	

	

financial condition and operating performance, as well as its prospects for the future.”25 Also,
under Item 503(c) of S-K companies are required to disclose risk factors—factors that may
affect a company’s business, operations, industry or financial position, or its future financial
performance.26
Because of these requirements, companies often include sustainability-related information in
SEC filings. In fact, SASB research shows that three-quarters of SASB disclosure topics are
already addressed by issuers in their SEC filings. Importantly, however, more than 40 percent of
all 10-K disclosure on sustainability topics consists of boilerplate language.27 This
preponderance of vague language does not help investors to evaluate performance on the
topics disclosed.28 Fifteen percent of 10-K sustainability disclosures are metrics-based, but the
utility of such disclosures is limited because the calculation and reporting methodologies used
are not standardized. (See Appendix B.)
Consider the varied usefulness of these instances of water management disclosure made by
two companies in the alcoholic beverages industry, one using boilerplate and one using metrics:
•

“Climate change and water availability may negatively affect our business and financial
results. … Clean water is a limited resource in many parts of the world and climate
change may increase water scarcity and cause a deterioration of water quality in areas
where we maintain brewing operations. The competition for water among domestic,
agricultural and manufacturing users is increasing in some of our brewing
communities. … The above risk, if realized, could result in a material adverse effect on
our business and financial results.”—Molson Coors, Form 10-K filed 12-Feb-15

•

“Overall this year, Diageo has delivered improved performance across all water and
other environmental target areas versus the prior year, and progressed towards meeting
2015 goals. We reduced absolute water use by 9% or 2,268,000 cubic metres while
water efficiency improved by 2.4% compared to the prior year. In water-stressed
locations, we have reduced water wasted by 12%, an important contribution towards our
target of a 50% reduction versus the company’s 2007 baseline.”—Diageo, Form 20-F
filed 12-Aug-14]

As for risk factor disclosures, the SEC adopted this requirement for periodic reports in 2005 to
provide “investors with a clear and concise summary of the material risks to an investment in the

																																																								
25

Securities and Exchange Commission, FR-72, COMMISSION GUIDANCE REGARDING MANAGEMENT’S
DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS OF FINANCIAL CONDITION AND RESULTS OF OPERATIONS (Dec. 19, 2003),
https://www.sec.gov/rules/interp/33-8350.htm.
26
17 C.F.R. 229.503(c).
27
See Appendix B for an overview of SASB research findings on the current state of sustainability
disclosures in SEC filings. More detailed analysis has been published and is available in the form of
SASB industry research briefs, available at http://www.sasb.org/approach/our-process/industry-briefs.
28
Such disclosures are often interpreted by analysts as red flags indicating that management has
identified a risk but understands it too poorly to provide more useful information; the resulting increase in
valuation model risk premia leads to a higher cost of capital. See Ole-Kristian Hope, Danqi Hu, and Hai
Lu, The Benefits of Specific Risk-Factor Disclosures (working paper, University of Toronto, Feb. 26,
2016), http://papers.ssrn.com/sol3/papers.cfm?abstract_id=2457045. The researchers found that analysts
are better able to assess fundamental risk when firms’ risk-factor disclosures are more detailed and avoid
vague, abstract, or “boilerplate” language.

	

8	

	
	

	

issuer’s securities.”29 However, for the most part, risk factor disclosures are unhelpful to
investors. Risk factor disclosure is often approached largely as a “cheap form of liability
insurance.”30 Many companies provide limited disclosure about risk mitigation efforts, in part
because such descriptions are often thought by lawyers as detracting from the liabilityprotection aspect of the risk disclosure and because, as the Concept Release itself notes, the
Commission staff “has discouraged registrants from including mitigating language in their Item
503 risk factor disclosure because of concern that mitigating language could dilute investors’
perception of the magnitude of the risk.”31
A recent comprehensive study reviewed the risk factor disclosures of 50 large companies and
concluded that the disclosures “often are generic and do not provide clear, concise and
insightful information.” 32 Further, the disclosures typically are not tailored to the specific
company. Instead, they tend to represent a listing of generic risks with little to help investors
distinguish between the relative importance of each risk to the company. In addition, the
language is often repetitive and written with legal language and a compliance-oriented approach
(instead of using plain English to help investors better understand and evaluate companyspecific risks). The information, in other words, is characterized by the prevalent use of vague
boilerplate language.33 It should be noted that the “insurance” provided by such boilerplate
comes at a price, in the form of higher costs of capital for companies with poor transparency.34
Analysts overcompensate for risks that are disclosed with boilerplate language.
Thus, current sustainability disclosures in SEC filings do not provide investors with comparable,
industry-specific data with which to evaluate and compare performance.
Stand-alone reports: 81 percent of the S&P 500 companies now produce stand-alone
sustainability reports.35 These are typically glossy, attractive publications, often developed in
consultation with a company’s marketing department or a public relations firm, that describe a
company’s achievements with respect to environmental, social, governance, and related
matters. Research has shown that these reports are not sufficient to meet investor needs,36 for
two principal reasons.

																																																								
29

Final Rule: Securities Offering Reform, Release No. 33-8591 (July 19, 2005)
See generally, Robert B. Robbins and Philip L. Rothenberg, Securities Disclosure: Writing Effective
Risk Factor Disclosure in Offering Documents and Exchange Act Reports, INSIGHTS, Vol. 19, No. 5
(Pillsbury Winthrop Shaw Pittman LLP May
2005), http://www.pillsburylaw.com/siteFiles/Publications/77EA643CE089DDA568EFF79F0A35F681.pdf.
31
Concept Release, 81 Fed. Reg. at 23960
32
Investor Responsibility Research Center Institute, THE CORPORATE RISK FACTOR DISCLOSURE
LANDSCAPE (January 2016), http://irrcinstitute.org/wp-content/uploads/2016/01/FINAL-EY-RiskDisclosure-Study.pdf.
33
Id.
34
See, Ole-Kristian Hope, Danqi Hu, and Hai Lu, The Benefits of Specific Risk-Factor Disclosures
(working paper, University of Toronto, Feb. 26, 2016),
http://papers.ssrn.com/sol3/papers.cfm?abstract_id=2457045.
35
Governance and Accountability Institute, FLASH REPORT: EIGHTY-ONE PERCENT (81%) OF THE S&P
500 INDEX COMPANIES PUBLISHED CORPORATE SUSTAINABILITY REPORTS IN 2015 (March 15, 2016),
http://www.ga-institute.com/nc/issue-master-system/news-details/article/flash-report-eighty-one-percent81-of-the-sp-500-index-companies-published-corporate-sustainabi.html.
36
PwC, SUSTAINABILITY GOES MAINSTREAM: INSIGHTS INTO INVESTOR VIEWS, pp. 6-7, (May 2014),
https://www.pwc.com/us/en/pwc-investor-resource-institute/publications/assets/pwc-sustainability-goesmainstream-investor-views.pdf.
30

	

9	

	
	

	

•

First, stand-alone sustainability reports are not designed for use by investors. While they
can be important marketing and communications tools, providing an extensive overview
of sustainability topics to a broad set of stakeholders—ranging from employees and
customers to vendors and community organizations—they are of limited utility for
purposes of investment decision-making. These reports often describe matters as
“material” but use that term far more loosely than is the case under the U.S. securities
laws. Thus, the reports are typically filled with large amounts of immaterial information
which is not balanced, standardized, reliable, nor comparable for investors.37

•

Second, a 2013 study of highly rated (GRI A and A+)38 sustainability reports revealed
that 90 percent of known negative events were not reported by the company.39 These
reports were found to “camouflage real sustainable-development problems, presenting
an idealized version of company situations.”40 This phenomenon is sometimes referred
to as “greenwashing.”41

Thus, stand-alone sustainability reports do not produce investor-grade information, and they do
not present a true and fair representation of performance on material factors, which is what
investors need in order to understand and price risk.42
Investor questionnaires: Investor frustration with the availability and quality of sustainability
disclosures in Commission filings and/or in stand-alone sustainability reports is evidenced by
the extent to which investors seek ESG data directly from companies. In a 2014 PwC investor
survey, 89 percent of respondents indicated they are very likely to request ESG information
directly from the company (e.g., via questionnaires).43 Companies are annually subject to ESG
evaluations by 150 ratings systems on approximately 10,000 performance metrics, leading to
“survey fatigue.”44 7.5 percent of participants in a recent SASB webinar conducted on behalf of

																																																								
37

This presents significant risks for issuers, since under Section 10(b) and Rule 10b-5 of the Securities
Exchange Act they can be held liable for material false statements made outside the 10-K.
38
See discussion infra, p. 20.
39
Olivier Boiral, Sustainability Reports as Simulacra? A Counter-Account of A and A+ GRI Reports,
ACCOUNTING, AUDITING & ACCOUNTABILITY JOURNAL, Vol. 26, No. 7, p. 1036–71 (2013),
http://www.emeraldinsight.com/doi/pdfplus/10.1108/AAAJ-04-2012-00998.
40
Id., at p. 1061.
41
This process of “greenwashing” is not unlike the situation that led to the creation of the Financial
Accounting Standards Board (FASB) in 1973. The Wheat Committee, which was established to study the
accounting standards-setting process, observed that financial statements were often used as a “strategic
weapon” and as a result were often biased and unreliable. Similarly, without any governing standards and
professional norms, sustainability reports are frequently self-promotional and often do not provide a
balanced view of material information needed by investors to inform their decision-making.
42
EY, TOMORROW’S INVESTMENT RULES 2.0: EMERGING RISK AND STRANDED ASSETS HAVE INVESTORS
LOOKING FOR MORE FROM NONFINANCIAL REPORTING (2015),
http://www.ey.com/Publication/vwLUAssets/EY-tomorrows-investment-rules-2/$FILE/EY-tomorrowsinvestment-rules-2.0.pdf. “Investors say repeatedly that they do not receive enough accurate,
standardized non-financial information relevant to companies’ risk and performance assessment.
Specifically, almost two-thirds of respondents say companies do not adequately disclose information
about ESG risks, and nearly 40% call for companies to do so more fully in the future.”
43
PwC, SUSTAINABILITY GOES MAINSTREAM: INSIGHTS INTO INVESTOR VIEWS, p. 7 (May 2014),
https://www.pwc.com/us/en/pwc-investor-resource-institute/publications/assets/pwc-sustainability-goesmainstream-investor-views.pdf.
44
Gregory Unruh, David Kiron, Nina Kruschwitz, Martin Reeves, Holger Rubel, and Alexander Meyer zum
Felde, Investing for a Sustainable Future, MIT SLOAN MGMT. REV., p. 11 (May 2016),

	

10	

	
	

	

the Institute of Management Accountants indicated that they receive more than 250 such
requests for ESG information per year.45 Information asymmetry is a by-product of investor
ESG surveys. Because questionnaires follow different formats and seek information in nonstandardized ways, information made available to one investor may differ from that provided to
another. This practice of selective disclosure favors large investors who can conduct surveys
and command responses, as well as ratings agencies and information brokers who sell this data
to others. It might also run afoul of the SEC’s Regulation FD (Fair Disclosure), which prohibits
companies from selectively disclosing material nonpublic information to analysts, institutional
investors, and others without concurrently making widespread public disclosure.46
Shareholder resolutions: Further evidence of
investor dissatisfaction with the poor quality and
availability of decision-useful sustainability
disclosures is seen with the rise of sustainabilityrelated resolutions, which accounted for 40 percent of
all shareholder proposals in 2011, but today account
for 67 percent of them.47 These numbers are likely to
continue to grow: 75 percent of investors who
responded to the above-mentioned 2014 PwC survey
indicated that they will likely sponsor or co-sponsor
shareholder proposals to obtain information related to
the management of sustainability issues.48
Information is often provided to the shareholders who
sponsor resolutions in exchange for dropping the
proposals, but it is not disclosed publicly or to all
investors, also contributing to information asymmetry
and raising potential Regulation FD issues.
Not only are these various approaches to obtaining
material ESG information ineffective, but
questionnaires and resolutions are both burdensome
and costly for registrants. For example, GE reported
that in 2014 it received more than 650 questions from
numerous investors, analysts, and sustainability
ratings groups. Answering them required the time of
more than 75 people and took several months, “with
virtually no value to (GE’s) customers or shareholders

																																																																																																																																																																																			
http://marketing.mitsmr.com/offers/SU2016/57480-MITSMR-BCGSustainability2016.pdf?utm_source=WhatCounts%2c+Publicaster+Edition&utm_medium=email&utm_ca
mpaign=surpt16&utm_content=Download+the+Report+(PDF)&cid=1.
45
Institute of Management Accountants, INSIDE TALK WEBINAR SERIES, April 5, 2016
http://imamedia.imanet.org/webinars/2016/04-05/index.html. 1,296 people participated in the webinar, of
whom, 1,069 were Certified Management Accountants.
46
17 C.F.R. 243.100 - 243.103.
47
Heidi Welsh and Michael Passoff, Helping Shareholders Vote Their Values, PROXY PREVIEW, p. 5 (As
You Sow Feb. 17, 2016), including proposals focused on: diversity; human rights & labor; environment,
and; sustainability). http://www.proxypreview.org/.
48
PwC, SUSTAINABILITY GOES MAINSTREAM: INSIGHTS INTO INVESTOR VIEWS, p. 5, (May 2014),
https://www.pwc.com/us/en/pwc-investor-resource-institute/publications/assets/pwc-sustainability-goesmainstream-investor-views.pdf.

	

11	

	
	

	

and even less impact on the environment.”49 Similarly, making and responding to shareholder
proposals can be time-consuming and costly for both investors and corporations.
Effective Sustainability Disclosure Requires a Market Standard
This much is evident: sustainability issues often constitute the types of “risks,” “trends,” and
“uncertainties” that issuers should address in their SEC filings. And, as discussed above, many
such issues are indeed addressed therein. SASB believes, and research supports, that the
absence of a market standard for these types of disclosures has made it difficult for issuers to
comply effectively with, and for the Commission to enforce effectively, the disclosure
requirements of Regulation S-K. Detailed standards, including SEC rules and U.S. Generally
Accepted Accounting Principles (GAAP), established by the FASB, govern the disclosure of
financial information. However, there have not been generally accepted standards that govern
disclosure of material sustainability information, which might be characterized as “pre-financial
statement” data; i.e., information that is likely to affect financial performance in due course. The
need for standardization of pre-financial statement data that relates to known trends and
uncertainties has been recognized by disclosure experts for many years, including by the FASB
in a thorough study of the matter issued in 2001.50
Consistent, true, and fair disclosure of performance on material sustainability topics—equal to
the quality that markets have come to expect and rely on for financial information—can best be
accomplished via the use of such a market standard. Standards provide a common reference
point, create consistency with traditional financial data, extend the mosaic of information
consistently, and make sustainability data an accepted part of the analytical and decisionmaking process.51
The SEC’s Concept Release examines “whether our current requirements appropriately balance
the costs of disclosure with the benefits” and “whether, and if so how, we could lower the cost to
registrants of providing information to investors.”52 Augmenting the reporting requirements for
financial statements with such a market standard for the disclosure of sustainability factors
would improve the effectiveness of sustainability disclosure for all involved. Two significant

																																																								
49

Ann R. Klee, Ratings Good for the Environment?, ENVIRONMENTAL FORUM (Environmental Law Institute
May–June 2015), https://www.eli.org/the-environmental-forum/may-june-2016.
50
FASB, IMPROVING BUSINESS REPORTING: INSIGHTS INTO ENHANCING VOLUNTARY DISCLOSURES, (January
2001),
http://www.fasb.org/cs/ContentServer?c=Document_C&pagename=FASB%2FDocument_C%2FDocume
ntPage&cid=1176156460184. This report was preceded by a comprehensive study by the Jenkins
Committee to determine users’ information needs to identify the types of data most useful in predicting
earnings and cash flows for the purpose of valuing equity securities and assessing the prospect of
repayment of debt securities or loans.
There is also much legal commentary that reaches this same conclusion. See, e.g., Larry Backer,
Transparency and Business in International Environmental Law, available at
http://ssrn.com/abstract=1984346. (January 2012) ( “To those who advocate for greater transparency,
regardless of the area or mechanism of disclosure, communication of material information for monitoring
and enforcement is key. For companies, however, transparency frameworks continue to lack the precision
of financial reporting rules and continue to run the risk that reporting might be reduced to communication
commercial in purpose and rhetorical in form.”) (emphasis in original).
51
See Bruno Bertocci, BEHIND THE SCENES: HOW ASSET MANAGERS USE ESG DATA, p. 10 (UBS July
2015), http://fsa.sasb.org/wp-content/uploads/2015/03/How-Asset-Managers-user-ESG-Data-UBS-andSASB-July-2015.pdf.
52
Concept Release, 81 Fed. Reg. at 23917.

	

12	

	
	

	

outcomes would include reducing the cost burden related to communicating material
sustainability information to investors borne by registrants and improving the utility of this
information to investors.53 The U.S. capital markets are long overdue for sustainability
accounting standards that are created by the market—with substantial investor and issuer
input—specific to particular industries and consistent with the U.S. securities laws.
SASB Standards Enable Effective Sustainability Disclosure
SASB standards are designed specifically to address the aforementioned needs of issuers and
investors. Unlike other frameworks, they are designed to help registrants effectively disclose
material sustainability-related information and comply with regulatory obligations, working within
the framework of existing U.S. securities laws.
1. Description of SASB:
SASB was founded in 2011 as an independent 501 (c)(3) standards-setting organization in
order to advance research initially conducted at the Initiative for Responsible Investment (IRI) in
the Kennedy School of Government at Harvard University.54 The SASB board of directors,
currently chaired by former New York City Mayor Michael Bloomberg, is distinguished by the
level of regulatory and securities law expertise of its members. Former SEC Chair Mary
Schapiro is vice chair of SASB’s board. Former SEC Chair Elisse Walter, former SEC
Commissioner Aulana Peters, and former FASB Chair Robert Herz have served on SASB’s
board for several years. Alan Beller, former Director of the SEC’s Division of Corporation
Finance and Senior Counselor to the SEC, joined SASB’s board in June 2016.55 SASB’s staff,
which now numbers 30, is made up of professionals with backgrounds in finance, accounting,
sustainability, and law. The standards setting function is organized by industry and staffed by

																																																								
53

In a June 9, 2016 webinar on the Concept Release and sustainability hosted by Financial Executives
International, with more than 300 attendees, 65.2% of participants indicated that disclosure reform most
needs to address the establishment of a standard for the disclosure of sustainability-related information
(rather than reducing liability risks, eliminating cost burdens, or eliminating duplicative disclosure). Also,
71.8% of participants indicated that such a market standard would: streamline their responses to investor
inquiry regarding sustainability information and reduce the costs thereof; improve understanding and
management of sustainability issues, and level the playing field. The full webinar is available at
http://event.on24.com/wcc/r/1188808/2E6E10B609363E6EC24E85D3DDA66C70.
54
In 2010, researchers at IRI began researching non-financial materiality and its application at an industry
level. Steve Lydenberg and David Wood of the IRI, along with their colleague Dr. Jean Rogers, set out to
develop and test a methodology for determining industry-specific material issues and their associated
performance indicators. A method for identifying material factors at the industry level was honed and
applied to six industries. Tailored performance indicators were developed for the material factors in each
industry, derived from evaluating indicators already in use by companies and analysts to describe those
particular issues. The results were published in August 2010, as From Transparency to Performance.
55
Other SASB board members are: Audrey Choi, CEO Morgan Stanley’s Institute for Sustainable
Investing; Jack Ehnes, CEO CalSTRS; Steven Gunders, Partner, Deloitte & Touche LLP (retired); Dan
Hanson, Partner and Head of US Equities, Jarislowsky Fraser Global Investment Management; Erika
Karp, CEO, Cornerstone Capital Inc.; Shawn Lytle, President Delaware Holdings, Inc.; Ken Mehlman,
Member and Global Head of Public Affairs, KKR; Clara Miller, President, F.B. Heron Foundation;
Catherine Odelbo, Executive Vice President, Corporate Strategy and Partnerships, Morningstar, Inc.;
Kevin Parker, CEO, Sustainable Insight Capital Management; Arnie Pinkston, Executive Vice President
and General Counsel, Allergan (retired); Curtis Ravenel, Global Head, Sustainable Business and Finance
Group, Bloomberg; Laura Tyson, Director, Institute for Business and Social Impact at the Haas Business
School, University of California (Berkeley); and, Ted White, Managing Partner, Fahr, LLC.

	

13	

	
	

	

analysts with sector experience and quantitative analysis skills. SASB is headed by CEO and
founder Dr. Jean Rogers, a former Loeb Fellow at Harvard University who holds a Ph.D. in
environmental engineering and has more than 20 years’ experience in sustainability and
management consulting across a wide range of industries, including utilities, extractives,
financials, and real estate.
These are the most significant attributes of SASB standards:
•

SASB provisional standards are the result of intensive research and dialogue over the
past five years, in what has been the most comprehensive analysis of the relationship
between sustainability information and the disclosure requirements of federal securities
laws ever performed. Over 2,800 individuals participated in SASB’s Industry Working
Group process through which provisional standards were developed and issued.56 Onethird of the participants were issuers; one-third of the participants were investors and
analysts; and one-third were intermediaries, academics, and NGOs. Working with asset
owners, industry analysts, issuers, academics, and sustainability subject-matter experts,
and building on decades of work by others, SASB conducted research that enables
investors to discern—for the first time—patterns of material sustainability risk and
exposure across equity portfolios. SASB standards (unlike other frameworks) are
designed specifically for use by issuers in SEC filings. They present an opportunity to
meet the market need for cost-effective, decision-useful sustainability disclosure,
facilitating compliance with Regulation S-K.57

•

A SASB standard for a given industry has several components: disclosure topics,
performance metrics associated with each topic, and a technical protocol for each metric,
as well as industry-specific activity metrics which can serve as normalizing factors for
analysts to evaluate sustainability-related performance. (See Appendix C.) On average,
SASB standards include five topics and 13 metrics per industry. 80 percent of the
metrics are quantitative, and 20 percent are qualitative or descriptive. The technical
protocol provides guidance on what information to collect and how to report it (e.g.,
boundaries and units of measurement). Each industry standard also contains disclosure
guidance, e.g., disclosure of sustainability topics in SEC filings, accounting of
sustainability topics, and reporting format.58 SASB has developed provisional standards
for 79 industries in 10 sectors and is now in a process of deep consultation with
interested parties, who are encouraged to submit comments and other materials relating

																																																								
56

A full list of SASB Industry Working Group participants can be found here: http://www.sasb.org/wpcontent/uploads/2016/06/SASB-Industry-Working-Group-Participants-Final.pdf.
SASB Industry Working Group Due Process Reports are available for each of 10 sectors. These reports
can be found under the Sectors tab on SASB’s website – www.sasb.org. An example of one such report
can be found here: http://www.sasb.org/wp-content/uploads/2014/02/NRRDueProcessReview_forSC.pdf.
Please also refer to the SASB Blog, INDUSTRY EXPERTISE INFORMS SASB TOPICS AND METRICS, December
9, 2015. http://www.sasb.org/industry-expertise-informs-sasb-topics-metrics/.
57
See comments made by SEC Commissioner Kara M. Stein, “Disclosure in the Digital Age: Time for a
New Revolution,” speech at the Rocky Mountain Securities Conference (SEC May, 6, 2016),
https://www.sec.gov/news/speech/speech-stein-05062016.html - _ftnref11.
58
SASB standards can be downloaded free of charge at http://www.sasb.org/standards/download/; the
Standards Navigator is a comprehensive resource for using and viewing SASB Standards, and for
downloading industry-specific resources including Industry Briefs, Mock 10-Ks, and Technical
Bulletins. This tool provides SASB’s industry-specific disclosure topics, metrics, and technical protocols in
an accessible and easy-to-use way. Access to the Standards Navigator is provided here:
http://www.sasb.org/standards-navigator/.

	

14	

	
	

	

to the standards. SASB plans to finalize the standards for all 79 industries within the next
18 months.
•

SASB standards are the only sustainability standards developed in accordance with the
definition of “materiality” defined by federal securities laws. SASB has identified
disclosure topics that meet the materiality test set forth by the Supreme Court and used
by the SEC in setting its standards – that is, information that would be important or
would alter the "total mix" of information available to the reasonable investor. In addition,
any topics identified as likely being material have undergone a rigorous analysis of the
likelihood and magnitude of its effect on the financial condition or operating performance
of a company, or on the entire industry. Direct evidence was sought to establish a link
between performance on the sustainability-related factor and financial performance.
Actual or potential financial impacts were characterized by their impact on revenue and
growth, operating expenses, the cost of capital, and/or the value of assets or liabilities.
Where possible, SASB analysts modelled the range of impact using a typical discounted
cash flow analysis to understand possible impacts within a five-year time horizon. If
financial materiality and the link to financial impact could not be demonstrated for a
particular topic, the topic was not included in the standards. See Appendix G for a more
detailed discussion of SASB’s standards setting process.

•

SASB standards are cost-effective, identifying the minimum set of disclosure topics likely
to constitute material information for companies in an industry.59 On average, there are
just five topics per industry included in the standards. Whenever possible, if those
metrics adequately characterize performance on material factors, SASB references
metrics already in use by industry, from roughly 200 entities, such as CDP, EPA, OSHA,
GRI, and industry organizations such as IPIECA, EPRI and GRESB. (See Appendix E.)

•

SASB standards are decision-useful because they provide investors with material,
comparable, industry-specific, and reliable data that support investment decisions,
including understanding and pricing risk, and inform typical investment activities such as
portfolio construction, security selection, fundamental analysis, and valuation. SASB has
no views on investment strategies, but believes all investors should have access to
material information in a format that is easily accessible, complete, comparable, and
reliable, including information on material sustainability factors. Information disclosed via
the standards is also auditable.60

																																																								
59

SASB is currently in discussions with academic institutions to perform an independent cost-benefit
study of compliance with Regulation S-K using the provisional SASB standards. Benefits may include
focusing issuer resources on material factors, elimination of the need to respond to hundreds of investor
questionnaires, mitigation of the risk of shareholder resolutions and selective disclosure, reduced risk of
omission or incomplete disclosure of material information, and streamlining disclosure of material
sustainability-related information. Costs may include additional controls and independent third-party
assurance of disclosures made using the SASB standards. SASB would be pleased to inform the
Commission and its staff of the results of the study once completed.
60
There appears to be market recognition that third-party assurance would be valuable for investors. For
instance, a CFA Institute survey of the Institute’s members conducted in 2015 found that 69 percent of
respondents thought that independent third-party verification of ESG information is important to obtain.
CFA Institute, Environmental, Social and Governance Survey (June 2015),
https://www.cfainstitute.org/Survey/esg_survey_report.pdf. In this regard, senior SASB staff persons have
met on a regular basis with the PCAOB’s Board and its staff to describe the development status of the
SASB standards.

	

15	

	
	

	

•

SASB has used an inclusive and transparent standards-development process.61 More
than 2,800 individuals—affiliated with companies with $11T market capital and investors
representing $23.4T assets under management—participated in industry working groups
to provide input on SASB’s provisional standards. In these working groups, 82 percent of
issuers and investors agreed that SASB’s proposed disclosure topics likely constitute
material information. SASB will continue to involve market participants as it codifies the
provisional standards into final standards and then maintains the standards.

Information disclosed via SASB standards would provide investors with investment-grade and
reliable data while also, among other things:
•

Enabling issuers to replace boilerplate language with complete disclosure supported by
decision-useful metrics (and thus comply with SEC guidance cautioning against the use
of generic language in the MD&A62)

•

Reducing information asymmetry and the cost burden related to questionnaires

•

Enhancing competiveness via improving the management of material ESG factors over
time63

We also believe that SASB standards would reduce liability risk for users of the standards. We
recognize that this view may be contrary to that of some observers; in our meetings with
company officials and others we have often heard of liability concerns with respect to use of
these standards. But we do not think these concerns are well-founded. Existing boilerplate-type
disclosures on sustainability topics are likely to expose a company to greater liability risk than
would disclosures called for by the industry-specific market standard developed by SASB.64

																																																								
61

Provisional SASB standards were set in accordance with the best practices of the American National
Standards Institute (ANSI). SASB is an ANSI-accredited standards-setting organization.
62
Securities and Exchange Commission, COMMISSION GUIDANCE REGARDING MANAGEMENT'S DISCUSSION
AND ANALYSIS OF FINANCIAL CONDITION AND RESULTS OF OPERATIONS, 17 CFR parts 211, 231, and 241
[Release Nos. 33-8350; 34-48960; FR-72], https://www.sec.gov/rules/interp/33-8350.htm . See also,
Securities and Exchange Commission, INTERPRETIVE GUIDANCE REGARDING DISCLOSURE RELATED TO
CLIMATE CHANGE, 17 CFR parts 211, 231, and 241 [Release Nos. 33-9106; 34-61469; FR-82],
https://www.sec.gov/rules/interp/2010/33-9106.pdf.
63
Mozaffar Khan, George Serafeim and Aaron Yoon, Corporate Sustainability: First Evidence on
Materiality, THE ACCOUNTING REVIEW, p. 22-23 (Harvard Business School, March 9, 2015),
http://hbswk.hbs.edu/item/corporate-sustainability-first-evidence-on-materiality. See also, GS SUSTAIN,
CHANGE IS COMING: A FRAMEWORK FOR CLIMATE CHANGE—A DEFINING ISSUE OF THE 21ST CENTURY,
(Goldman Sachs May 21, 2009), http://www.goldmansachs.com/our-thinking/archive/crossing-therubicon-immersive/change-is-coming-a-framework-for-climate-change.pdf. In an accompanying May 2010
interview, Anthony Ling, managing director and chief investment officer, Global Investment Research,
Goldman Sachs, notes that by including analysis of performance on ESG factors in its equity analysis,
Goldman Sachs is “equipping investors to be able to pick those stocks which we believe will form the
basis of a core, long-term portfolio that will generate outperformance with relatively low volatility and
turnover in the years to come” (emphasis added). This interview can be viewed at
http://www.goldmansachs.com/our-thinking/archive/crossing-the-rubicon-immersive.
64
There is case law support for this conclusion. For example, an issuer’s risk factor disclosure that it
could not be certain either that “it has been, or will at all times be, in complete compliance with all
environmental requirements” or that it “will not incur additional material costs or liabilities in connection
with these requirements in excess of amounts it has reserved” was deemed too “vague” and “general”
and mere “boilerplate”; accordingly, the court refused to dismiss a lawsuit alleging fraud where the
company knew of serious environmental exposures. Loritz v. Exide Technologies et al., Fed. Sec. L. Rep.

	

16	

	
	

	

Also, SASB standards are industry-specific.65 The advantages of this approach have been
noted by the SEC itself: “The benefits associated with disclosing certain items of information
may be greater in some cases than in others, such as when an item of disclosure reflects an
important part of one registrant’s operations but an immaterial part of another’s. In this context,
it may be important to consider various approaches to trigger disclosure where it is more likely
to be important, rather than in all cases. It may also be useful to have disclosure requirements,
or guidance in fulfilling these requirements, that are specific to certain industries or other
subsets of registrants.”66 And, even within a particular industry, an issue that is material for one
company may be immaterial for another, given differences in, among other things, business
models and financial condition. 67

																																																																																																																																																																																			
(CCH) at 98,142 (C.D.Calif. 2014). There is also recent case law that a company can be held liable for
securities fraud under Section 10(b) of the Securities Exchange Act for the omission from the MD&A of a
known trend or uncertainty that is reasonably expected to have a material impact on the company’s
revenues, and “generic cautionary language” is inadequate. See Stratte-McClure v. Morgan Stanley,
776 F.3d 94, 100–01 (2d Cir.2015) (defendant failed to disclose potential subprime mortgage losses;
mere “patchwork commentary on the relevant market trends” is insufficient). Moreover, in any fraud
lawsuit under Section 10(b) a plaintiff must plead a strong inference that the defendant acted with “the
required state of mind”. An incomplete disclosure of material sustainability information in an SEC filing
could provide a plaintiff with the grounds for satisfying that pleading requirement. Also, with respect to
stand-alone sustainability reports, Section 10(b) applies to any public statements made by a public
company, so a company can be sued for a fraudulent statement or material omission in such a report.
See, e.g., In re BP p.l.c. Securities Litigation, 922 F. Supp. 2d 600 (S.D. Texas 2013) (purported
misstatements in BP sustainability reports, among other documents and statements, were alleged as the
basis for a securities fraud lawsuit in connection with the Deepwater Horizon oil spill; motion to dismiss
granted in part and denied in part). It is likely that the rigorous controls, internal review process and
possible third-party audit or review -- activities that typically accompany a company’s SEC filings -- would
lead to more reliable sustainability disclosures where made within SEC filings than where made outside,
thereby reducing the potential for inaccuracies and resultant fraud claims. In addition, the Securities
Exchange Act (as amended in 1995 by the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act) insulates forwardlooking statements from liability when they are “accompanied by meaningful cautionary statements
identifying important factors that could cause actual results to differ materially from those in the forwardlooking statement.” Courts have often held that mere “boilerplate” about risks is insufficient to satisfy
these safe harbor requirements. See, e.g., In re Harman Intern. Indus. Inc. Sec. Litig., 791 F. 3d (D.C. Cir.
2015). SASB-type disclosures would not be viewed as boilerplate and hence, when forward-looking in
nature, would almost certainly be protected by the safe harbor. Finally, aside from private litigation, better
sustainability disclosure would likely reduce exposure to investigations or lawsuits from law enforcement
authorities. This includes others besides the SEC. In particular, state attorneys general have recently
announced investigations into energy companies’ SEC disclosures about climate change risks. This
includes investigations by the New York Attorney General into filings made by Peabody Energy, which
settled with New York in November 2015, and by ExxonMobil, where the investigation is ongoing. See
John C. Richter, Brandt Leibe, and William S. McClintock, “Should Energy Companies Expect More
Climate Change Probes?” (Law 360, April 18, 2016) available at
http://www.kslaw.com/imageserver/KSPublic/library/publication/2016articles/4-18-16_Law360.pdf. Thus,
although the case law in this area is not definitive, we think the concern about expanded liability exposure
is likely unfounded; use of SASB standards would likely reduce, rather than increase, liability risk.
65
Because SASB standards are industry-specific, they help issuers understand factors that are
reasonably likely to be material to an investor and make disclosures that are specific to their own
situation.
66
Concept Release, 81 Fed. Reg. at 23919 (emphasis added).
67
In fact, an industry lens is arguably more important for sustainability purposes than for traditional
financial analysis because the key environmental, social, governance and other sustainability issues differ
from one industry to the next based on, for example, how companies use resources to bring goods and

	

17	

	
	

	

An industry-specific approach to sustainability disclosure is favored by investors. Financial
analysts interpret the performance of companies and their securities through an industry lens.
Nearly three-quarters of respondents to an EY investor survey considered industry-specific
reporting criteria and key performance indicators (KPIs) to be very or somewhat beneficial to
their investment decision making, and more than 70 percent saw metrics that link “non-financial”
risks to expected performance as equally beneficial.68 See Appendix C for a more detailed
discussion of the industry-specific focus of SASB standards, a closer view of what is included in
a SASB standard, as well as examples of industry-specific SASB disclosure topics, value
drivers impacted by these issues, and selected metrics for their disclosure.
SASB research confirms that the materiality of sustainability issues varies greatly from industry
to industry. (See Appendix C69.) For example, climate risk permeates 72 of 79 industries, or 93
percent of the U.S. equity market. But how climate risk manifests itself—via the physical effects
of climate change; the ability to transition to a low-carbon, resilient economy; and sensitivity to
climate-related regulatory risk—varies from industry to industry.70 (See Appendix D.)
Because investors want and need industry-specific standards through which to analyze
sustainability performance over time,71 we do not believe that requiring additional line-item
sustainability-related disclosures would be a good idea. Investment analysts cover industries,
not issues. Generally applicable line-item sustainability disclosure, often sought by groups with
specific policy objectives,72 would likely result in disclosure of immaterial information, because
although sustainability-related issues may manifest themselves across industries, they do so
differently from one industry to another. More boilerplate, box-check exercises in disclosure
would serve neither investors or registrants. They would not make disclosure more effective.
Moreover, establishing a market standard for the industry-specific disclosure of sustainabilityrelated information would provide a market-informed process that allows for future evolution of
investor needs and issuers’ business models more efficiently than would governmentally-

																																																																																																																																																																																			
services to market, and in doing so, how they impact society and the environment. Sustainability issues
impact financial performance in specific ways that vary by topic and industry. Investors need data through
which performance on sustainability issues that are likely material can be tracked to evaluate and
compare performance.
68
EY, TOMORROW’S INVESTMENT RULES 2.0: EMERGING RISK AND STRANDED ASSETS HAVE INVESTORS
LOOKING FOR MORE FROM NONFINANCIAL REPORTING, p. 24 (2015),
http://www.ey.com/Publication/vwLUAssets/EY-tomorrows-investment-rules-2/$FILE/EY-tomorrowsinvestment-rules-2.0.pdf.
69
Please refer to the interactive online version of the SASB Materiality MapÔ for a comparison of likely
material sustainability issues across different industries and sectors. www.sasb.org/materiality/sasbmateriality-map/.
70
SASB, CLIMATE RISK: TECHNICAL BULLETIN 2016-01 (working draft Jan. 27, 2016),
http://using.sasb.org/wp-content/uploads/2016/02/SASB-Technical-Bulletin-Climate-Risk-02022016c.pdf.
71
EY, Tomorrow’s Investment Rules 2.0: Emerging Risk and Stranded Assets Have Investors Looking for
More from Nonfinancial Reporting, pp. 24-25, (2015), http://www.ey.com/Publication/vwLUAssets/EYtomorrows-investment-rules-2/$FILE/EY-tomorrows-investment-rules-2.0.pdf.
72
Concept Release, 81 Fed. Reg. at 23971, fn. 672 (citing the Business Roundtable’s concern that “some
groups are seeking to use the federal securities laws to address various societal concerns” and
“suggesting that Commission guidance about when disclosure might be appropriate in this area would be
more appropriate than expanding the disclosure requirements”).

	

18	

	
	

	

mandated, universally required line-item disclosure. 73 The same problems exist with respect to
developing SEC industry guides, which would also be a time consuming and difficult task.74
SASB’s overall approach is set forth in its Conceptual Framework,75 a foundational document
that guides SASB’s provisional standards development process and explains the concepts and
definitions relevant to SASB’s work. See Figure D for a high-level overview of this process,
including the fundamental tenets of SASB’s standards setting approach, the criteria for
disclosure topic selection, and the principles underlying metrics selection.

																																																								
73

See infra p. 34, 36, 38, and 39 for a more detailed discussion of line-item disclosures.
With respect to line item disclosure, we note that the Concept Release states that in response to its
request for comment on the disclosure effectiveness initiative the SEC “received many letters
recommending the Commission adopt a rule requiring disclosure of political spending,” and cites, among
20 such letters, the letter submitted by SASB. Concept Release, 81 Fed. Reg. 23971 fn. 683. This is not
accurate; SASB did not recommend the adoption of any such rule in its comment letter to the SEC. See
SASB’s November 12, 2014 comment letter on Disclosure Effectiveness Review:
https://www.sec.gov/comments/disclosure-effectiveness/disclosureeffectiveness-22.pdf.
75
SASB, Conceptual Framework (Oct. 2013), http://www.sasb.org/wp-content/uploads/2013/10/SASBConceptual-Framework-Final-Formatted-10-22-13.pdf. SASB’s original Conceptual Framework was open
for a 45-day period of public comment in 2013. As SASB’s provisional standard-setting work is now
complete, and SASB works toward the codification and ongoing maintenance of the standards, SASB has
proposed an updated Conceptual Framework.
74

	

19	

	
	

2.

	

Discussion of other sustainability organizations:

In the Concept Release, the SEC seeks input on existing sustainability reporting
organizations.76 SASB is very familiar with the broad landscape of sustainability and industry
organizations, and has worked closely with many in development of the SASB standards. In
order to keep the SASB standards cost-effective for registrants, SASB references metrics
already in use by industry, from roughly 200 entities, such as CDP, EPA, OSHA, GRI, and
industry organizations such as IPIECA, EPRI and GRESB. (See Appendix E.) SASB benefits
greatly from the work of these organizations and is able to cite the best available metrics that
appropriately characterize performance on sustainability topics that are likely to be material and
therefore should be disclosed in mandatory filings.
The most well-established such organization, devoted to corporate sustainability reporting, is
the Global Reporting Initiative (GRI). GRI is an international NGO founded in 1999 that
pioneered the concept of stand-alone sustainability reporting to multiple stakeholders. Its
accomplishments have been great, but its audience and approach to sustainability reporting are
very different from SASB’s.
GRI advances an expansive sustainability agenda rather than focus on investor decisionmaking. Its guidance is designed for companies to voluntarily report to a broad range of
stakeholders – employees, interest groups, policy makers, suppliers, customers, communities,
and others, in addition to investors. On the other hand, SASB, as we have explained, is focused
on investors’ interests and reporting of material sustainability-related information in SEC filings.
Because of its international focus and underlying sustainable development agenda, GRI uses a
broad definition of materiality which can be problematic for U.S. registrants seeking to make
disclosures in SEC filings consistent with U.S. securities law.77
Another element of GRI’s approach has traditionally been to reward companies for the quantity
of disclosures rather than their quality. Under GRI frameworks G3 and G3.1, GRI reporters selfdeclared an “Application Level” for their reports (A+ through C) based largely on how many
sustainability “indicators” were described in a company’s sustainability report.78 Companies

																																																								
76

Concept Release, 81 Fed. Reg. at 23973
GRI, G4 ONLINE – MATERIALITY. https://g4.globalreporting.org/how-you-should-report/reportingprinciples/principles-for-defining-report-content/materiality/Pages/default.aspx.
GRI’s current definition of materiality, set forth in the G4 reporting framework, which was introduced in
2013, states: “Materiality is the threshold at which Aspects become sufficiently important that they should
be reported…In financial reporting, materiality is commonly thought of as a threshold for influencing the
economic decisions of those using an organization’s financial statements, investors in particular. The
concept of a threshold is also important in sustainability reporting, but it is concerned with a wider range
of impacts and stakeholders. Materiality for sustainability reporting is not limited only to those Aspects
that have a significant financial impact on the organization.” GRI goes on to advise companies, “(a)
combination of internal and external factors should be used to determine whether an Aspect is material,
including factors such as the organization’s overall mission and competitive strategy, concerns expressed
directly by stakeholders, broader social expectations, and the organization’s influence on upstream (such
as supply chain) and downstream (such as customers) entities. Assessments of materiality should also
take into account the basic expectations expressed in the international standards and agreements with
which the organization is expected to comply”.
78
GRI, SUSTAINABILITY REPORTING GUIDELINES, (2000-2011)
https://www.globalreporting.org/resourcelibrary/G3-Guidelines-Incl-Technical-Protocol.pdf. The G3
Framework was in place from 2006 to 2011. The G3.1 Framework was in place from 2011 through 2013
77

	

20	

	
	

	

historically selected the topics on which they reported from a list of over 160 possible GRI topics
in the G3 and G3.1 frameworks that, with the exception of some sector supplement topics, could
apply to any company in any industry.79 This is the main reason why, as discussed above,
sustainability reports generally include information that is immaterial for purposes of investment
decision-making. These reports tended to make the reporting company look as good as
possible to stakeholders other than investors. As previously noted, a 2013 study of A and A+
GRI reports showed that 90 percent of known negative events were not included in them.80 The
G4 guidelines are designed in part to improve the quality of voluntary reporting; however, it
remains to be seen whether they will be effective in that regard. BlackRock’s recently published
views on ESG issues notes that G4 guidelines list “over 400 indicators on corporate
sustainability performance” and include “factors that go beyond investment-related issues.”81 As
a result, comparing the performance of companies under the GRI approach will continue to be
difficult, if not impossible. GRI reports are also cumbersome and costly for companies to
produce compared to using SASB’s standards which include, on average, just five topics for a
given company within an industry. Moreover, GRI’s “one size fits all approach” to addressing
literally hundreds of environmental and social issues still misses many of the financially-material
issues that are important to investors because these issues are industry-specific. As a leading
U.S. investor advocate stated this month, GRI “has not distilled into a framework investors can
use".82
Moreover, the contrast between GRI’s and SASB’s approach to standard setting could hardly be
more stark. GRI, which is based in Amsterdam, developed the G4 framework with minimal input
from U.S. investors.83 SASB’s focus is sustainability disclosure specific to SEC filings; it uses

																																																																																																																																																																																			
when GRI released the G4 guidelines. Under GRI’s “Application Level” grading system for G3 and G3.1
reports, companies self-declared Application Levels for GRI reports were “based on (their) own
assessment of (their) report content against the criteria in the GRI Application.” Companies that “had
considered” all possible indicators and that reported on at least 20 of them, and who had reported on
Level B and Level C Profile Disclosures, could declare a B Level report. Companies declaring an A Level
designation for their reports also had to report on Level B and C Profile Disclosures, in addition to
responding to “each core and Sector Supplement indicator with due regard to the materiality Principle by
either: a) reporting on the indicator or b) explaining the reason for its omission.” “An organization (could)
self-declare a “plus” (+) at each level (ex., C+, B+, A+)” if their report had been externally assured.
Companies could request a “GRI Application Level Check” to confirm their self-declared Application
Level. GRI gave companies two reporting cycles to transition to reporting under the G4 guidelines, and
stopped supporting G3 and G3.1 reporting of January 1, 2016. G4 does not employ an Application Level
system. Instead, reports are designated as “core” or “comprehensive”. See G4 SUSTAINABILITY REPORTING
GUIDELINES, https://www.globalreporting.org/standards/g4/Pages/default.aspx.
79
GRI, G3.1 CONTENT INDEX,
https://webcache.googleusercontent.com/search?q=cache:Q4SUny5QfisJ:https://www.globalreporting.org
/resourcelibrary/G3-1-Index-and-Checklist.xls+&cd=1&hl=en&ct=clnk&gl=us&client=safari.
80
Olivier Boiral, Sustainability Reports as Simulacra? A Counter-Account of A and A+ GRI Reports,
ACCOUNTING, AUDITING & ACCOUNTABILITY JOURNAL, Vol. 26, No. 7, p. 1036–71 (2013),
http://www.emeraldinsight.com/doi/pdfplus/10.1108/AAAJ-04-2012-00998.
81
BlackRock, VIEWPOINT, EXPLORING EGS: A PRACTITIONER’S PERSPECTIVE, p. 4 (June 13, 2016)
https://www.blackrock.com/corporate/en-us/literature/whitepaper/viewpoint-exploring-esg-a-practitionersperspective-june-2016.pdf.
82
Peter Cripps, The Irresistible Force, ENVIRONMENTAL FINANCE, (June 17, 2016), quoting CalPERS’
Senior Portfolio Manager of Investments and Director of Global Governance, Anne Simpson. The article
also states that Ms. Simpson “favors the methodology devised by the Sustainable Accounting Standards
Board and hopes that investors and companies will rally around it.”
83
GRI G4 DEVELOPMENT, FIRST PUBLIC COMMENT PERIOD, 26 AUGUST – 24 NOVEMBER, 2011, FULL SURVEY
REPORT, (February 10, 2012) https://www.globalreporting.org/resourcelibrary/G4-PCP1-Full-Report.pdf.

	

21	

	
	

	

U.S. securities law as its starting point, with input from investors throughout the standard-setting
process, guided throughout by an independent board comprising several high-ranking former
SEC officials.
Another organization cited in the Concept Release is the International Reporting Council (IIRC).
The IIRC is a global coalition of regulators, investors, companies, standard setters, the
accounting profession and NGOs. The framework established by the IIRC is designed with
investors in mind; it promotes integrated reporting (that is, the combined reporting of strategic,
financial and sustainability-related information in an annual or sustainability report) but does not
develop actual disclosure standards for use in such reports. The framework remains at the level
of principles. Its work complements that of SASB; indeed, citing the alignment between the two
organizations, SASB and the IIRC entered into a Memorandum of Understanding in 2014.84
Our Recommendation
Because of SASB’s approach, with its emphasis on due process and use of the U.S. securities
laws as its framework, we believe it would be appropriate for the SEC to acknowledge the SASB
framework as a credible set of standards and metrics that can be used by companies to fulfill
their regulatory reporting requirements. The Commission could make this acknowledgement in
an interpretive release or in some similar format.
Such recognition by the SEC of standards set by outside organizations has precedent. For
example, in its adoption of a final rule under Section 404 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act, the
Commission referred to the Committee of Sponsoring Organizations of the Treadway
Commission (COSO) Framework as an acceptable approach for management’s evaluation of
internal control. The SEC Release stated:
After consideration of the comments, we have modified the final requirements to specify
that management must base its evaluation of the effectiveness of the company's internal
control over financial reporting on a suitable, recognized control framework that is
established by a body or group that has followed due-process procedures, including the
broad distribution of the framework for public comment. The COSO Framework satisfies

																																																																																																																																																																																			
“1832 individuals and organizations provided feedback to the online survey.... Mediating Institutions from
Europe formed the largest overall number of participants with 22.5% representation, followed then by
European business representatives at 12.65%.” (Emphasis added.) Just 15% of all participants were
North American (no breakdown of U.S. vs. Canada and Mexico). North American investors accounted for
less than 1% of stakeholders weighing in on the G4 guidelines. Also, there is very little U.S.
representation on GRI’s Stakeholder Council. See GRI Stakeholder Council Members
https://www.globalreporting.org/information/about-gri/governance-bodies/stakeholdercouncil/Pages/Stakeholder-Council-Members.aspx. GRI announced that it will transition the G4
Guidelines to a set of modular Sustainability Reporting Standards via its independent standards-setting
body, the Global Sustainability Standards Board, GSSB, before the end of 2016. Details on the transition
from the G4 Guidelines to GSSB standards for sustainability reporting can be found at:
https://www.globalreporting.org/standards/transition-to-standards/Pages/default.aspx.
84
SASB. SASB and IIRC Announce Memorandum of Understanding, http://www.prnewswire.com/newsreleases/sasb-and-iirc-announce-memorandum-of-understanding-240298181.html.
With respect to integrated reporting, SASB considers itself an advocate of integrated reporting within the
context of the U.S. securities laws. The mandatory SEC filings for which SASB standards are designed
are integrated to the extent they include material strategic, financial, and sustainability-related
information.

	

22	

	
	

	

our criteria and may be used as an evaluation framework for purposes of management's
annual internal control evaluation and disclosure requirements.85
The SEC took a similar approach in its conflict-minerals rule adopted pursuant to Section 1502
of the Dodd-Frank Act. The rule requires that an issuer’s due diligence with respect to conflict
mineral determinations “follow a nationally or internationally recognized due diligence framework”
so as to “enhance the quality” and “promote comparability” of conflict mineral reports. The
Commission stated that guidance issued by the Organization for Economic Cooperation and
Development (OECD) can be used as a framework for purposes of satisfying the rule, noting
that the OECD had adopted the framework by following due process procedures, including the
opportunity for input from a broad range of interested parties.86 Similarly, as discussed above,
SASB has followed, and continues to follow, due process in the setting of its standards.
And, just last month, the SEC proposed rules aimed at overhauling and modernizing disclosure
requirements for companies with material mining operations. The proposed rules would align
the SEC's disclosure requirements with industry standards developed by a non-governmental
organization, the Committee for Mineral Reserves International Reporting Standards
(CRIRSCO).87
Summary and Conclusion
In the words of former SEC Chair and SASB board member Elisse Walter, “Disclosure is the
foundation of securities laws, in the United States and many other nations, and transparency is
the engine that propels our capital markets forward. But as the world continues to evolve—and
its economies along with it—our disclosure requirements and reporting standards have not
always kept pace.”88

																																																								
85

Securities and Exchange Commission, Final Rule: Management's Report on Internal Control Over
Financial Reporting and Certification of Disclosure in Exchange Act Periodic Reports [SEC Release Nos.
33-8238; 34-47986; IC-26068; File Nos. S7-40-02; S7-06-03] (June 5, 2003);
https://www.sec.gov/rules/final/33-8238.htm.
86
Securities and Exchange Commission, Final Rule: Conflict Minerals, [SEC Release No. 34-67716],
August 22, 2012, at 205-207; https://www.sec.gov/rules/final/2012/34-67716.pdf.
There are other precedents for the SEC’s reliance on private-sector initiatives in promulgating its rules.
Most prominent is the Financial Accounting Standards Board; although the history of and statutory
framework for development of accounting standards is different from the one here, the important point of
comparison is that the FASB is a private sector body that the SEC has long relied on to promulgate
accounting standards. See generally, Policy Statement: Reaffirming the Status of the FASB as a
Designated Private-Sector Standard Setter [SEC Release Nos. 33-8221; 34-47743; IC-26028; FR-70]
(April 25, 2003). Another example is the SEC’s adoption in 1999 of revised disclosure requirements for
foreign private issuers to conform to the disclosure requirements endorsed by a non-governmental body,
the International Organization of Securities Commissions (of which the SEC is a member). Securities and
Exchange Commission, Final Rule: International Disclosure Standards [SEC Release Nos. 33-7745; 3441936; International Series Release No. 1205] (September 28, 1999). Here, unlike these other examples
where non-governmental rulemaking has been incorporated into the SEC’s rules themselves, we are
merely urging that the SEC acknowledge the appropriateness of the SASB standards for use by
companies seeking to make more fulsome and complete MD&A and risk factor disclosures.
87
Securities and Exchange Commission, Proposed Rule: Modernization of Property Disclosures for
Mining Registrants, [SEC Release Nos. 33-10098; 34-78086], June 16, 2016. The SEC's proposing
release describes CRIRSCO as "an international initiative to standardize definitions for mineral resources,
mineral reserves, and related terms for public disclosure." Id. at 17.
88
Elisse Walter, former SEC Chair and SASB board member, addressing delegates of the Sustainable
Stock Exchanges Global Dialogue, Geneva, Switzerland (Oct. 14, 2014).

	

23	

	
	

	

Sustainability disclosures in particular have not kept pace with investor needs. The SEC’s rules
governing MD&A and risk factors would seem to require much sustainability disclosure; what
has been missing is a comprehensive, industry-specific, and materiality-based set of standards
and metrics that would facilitate such disclosure. The development of both is the sine qua non
behind SASB’s establishment and work over the past five years.
As discussed above, other sustainability frameworks and guidance are designed for stakeholder
engagement and voluntary reporting outside of SEC filings to a broad range of interested parties
and stakeholders. The U.S. capital markets have their own unique needs, different from those of
suppliers, customers, communities, interest groups, and other stakeholders. Investors demand
reliable and comparable sustainability information with clear links to financial performance. We
respectfully submit that SASB’s framework is the only sustainability reporting solution
specifically designed to meet the needs of the U.S. capital markets.
SASB’s approach is principles-based. Our standards are voluntary, and companies themselves
must decide whether to make disclosures consistent with SASB standards. SASB merely
provides the tools for companies to make better disclosures consistent with SEC requirements.
The standards provide suitable criteria for assurance by independent third parties and allow
investors to obtain reliable, benchmarkable data on material sustainability factors. Because of
SASB’s approach, with its emphasis on due process and adherence to U.S. securities law, we
believe it would be appropriate for the SEC to acknowledge SASB standards, once they
become final, as an acceptable framework for companies to use in their mandatory filings to
comply with Regulation S-K in a cost-effective and decision-useful manner.
Thus, from the SEC’s standpoint, we believe that the reasons for adopting our recommendation
are many. The SEC would be responding to a clear investor demand; it would respond to this
demand without having to engage in time-consuming and potentially controversial rulemakings,
as would likely be the case under a line-item approach; it would demonstrate leadership in this
important area of public interest; it would decrease the level of investor confusion that results
from reliance on rose-colored sustainability reports; it would reduce the disparity of information
that exists between large investors (who frequently obtain access to particular sustainabilityrelated information) and small investors (who generally lack such access); it would lessen the
occurrence of possible violations of Regulation FD; and it would, most fundamentally, improve
the quality of material “pre-financial statement” disclosures made to investors.
We should note, however, that we would also support additional actions by the SEC to improve
the quality of sustainability disclosures. For instance, the Commission could adopt a fairly
straightforward, principles-based rule such as a requirement that registrants provide a
description of sustainability-related risks that exist over the next five years, along with
performance data and mitigation approaches. SASB standards are a perfect complement to
support issuers in making cost-effective, comparable disclosures to investors. Such a
requirement would lead to better risk disclosures than exist today.
*

*

*

The objective of the SEC’s disclosure effectiveness review is to “improve the disclosure regime
for both investors and registrants.” We are grateful for the Commission’s work to help disclosure
evolve to meet the challenges and opportunities companies and their investors face in the 21st
century. We are fully supportive of your efforts to modernize disclosure while protecting

	

24	

	
	

	

investors and facilitating efficient functioning of the markets and formation of capital. We
appreciate your consideration of our comments.
Sincerely,

Jean Rogers, Ph.D., P.E.
CEO and Founder
Sustainability Accounting Standards Board
cc:

Chair Mary Jo White
Commissioner Kara M. Stein
Commissioner Michael S. Piwowar
Keith Higgins, Director, Division of Corporation Finance

	

25	

	
	

	

Appendix A: Responses to Formal Concept Release by Section and Question
III.B.1. Principles-Based and Prescriptive Disclosure Requirements
6. Should we revise our principles-based rules to use a consistent disclosure threshold?
If so, should a materiality standard be used or should a different standard, such as an
“objectives-oriented” approach or any other approach, be used? If materiality should be
used, should the current definition be retained? Should we consider a different definition
of materiality for disclosure purposes? If so, how should it be defined?
SASB Comment: SASB believes that the current definition of “materiality” serves
investors and issuers well; for purposes of disclosing sustainability information, it is an
appropriate standard. Based on that standard, a great deal of sustainability-related
information is immaterial, as it is not likely to affect a company’s financial condition or
results of operations. Recent research from the Harvard Business School indicates that
approximately 80 percent of what companies currently report related to sustainability
(outside of their 10-K) is immaterial to investors.89
A lowering of the materiality standard either by broadening the consideration for
disclosure to include interested persons beyond reasonable investors, or requiring a
lower threshold in which there is not likely to be a financial impact from a known trend,
demand, commitment, event, or uncertainty could cause issuers to “simply bury the
shareholders in an avalanche of trivial information,” a result the Supreme Court warned
against in the TSC v. Northway decision.90 SASB’s approach—consistent with the
Supreme Court’s definition—is to focus on those topics that are reasonably likely to
affect an investment decision.
Some other frameworks for sustainability disclosure have taken a broader approach to
materiality. SASB believes the use of the well-accepted definition of materiality requires
that issuers distinguish material information from anecdotal or “nice to know” information
that is not likely to influence an investor’s decision to buy or sell a security.
All of the topics in SASB standards are considered known trends, risk, or uncertainties
within the particular industry. As part of SASB’s standards setting process, we
maintained a threshold of 75 percent consensus on the likely materiality of the topic
between issuers and investors. If 75 percent consensus was not obtained, the topic was
not taken forward for standard setting. The materiality of the topics was further
substantiated by research that indicates a tangible link from performance on the
sustainability-related factor to financial performance. (See Figure E. See also Appendix
G.)

																																																								
89

Mozaffar Khan, George Serafeim and Aaron Yoon, Corporate Sustainability: First Evidence on
Materiality, THE ACCOUNTING REVIEW (Harvard Business School, March 9, 2015),
http://hbswk.hbs.edu/item/corporate-sustainability-first-evidence-on-materiality.
90
426 U.S. 438, 448-49 (1976).

	

26	

	
	

	

9. Do registrants find it difficult to apply principles-based requirements? Why? If they are
uncertain about whether information is to be disclosed, do registrants err on the side of
including or omitting the disclosure? If registrants include disclosure beyond what is
required, does the additional information obfuscate the information that is important to
investors? Does it instead provide useful information to investors?
SASB Comment: The rules governing the disclosure of known trends and uncertainties
in the MD&A,91 as well as risk factors,92 are principles-based. The extensive use of
boilerplate language to disclose sustainability-related information93 indicates that
registrants find it challenging to effectively disclose such information. We believe this
result stems from the absence of accepted standards for such disclosure rather than
from the principles-based disclosure requirements.

																																																								
91

17 C.F.R. 229.303 (Item 303(a)(3)(ii)) (2011).
17 C.F.R. 229.503 (2011).
93
See Appendix B for an overview of SASB research findings. Detailed analyses available in the form of
SASB industry research briefs at http://www.sasb.org/approach/our-process/industry-briefs. SASB is
developing a Disclosure Navigator tool for public use, also described at greater length in Appendix B.
92

	

27	

	
	

	

III.B.3. Compliance with Environmental Laws (Item 101(c)(1)(xii))
50. Is disclosure about the material effects that compliance with provisions regulating
the discharge of materials into the environment, or otherwise relating to the protection of
the environment, may have upon a registrant’s capital expenditures, earnings and
competitive position important to investors? If so, should we require registrants to
present this disclosure in a specific format? Would this disclosure be more appropriate
in MD&A or the business section?
SASB Comment: SASB research shows that compliance with environmental laws can
be material in some but not all industries. Capital expenditure (CAPEX) required for
controls to ensure compliance with new regulation and/or policy related to reducing
greenhouse gas emissions is one example of investor interest in this type of information.
Investors are also increasingly interested in seeing shifts in planned CAPEX of
companies with potentially stranded assets in industries such as coal, and oil and gas
production.94
IV.B.3. Content and Focus of MD&A (Item 303—Generally)
90. There are various sources of Commission and Division guidance on MD&A. These
include Commission releases, sections of the Division’s Financial Reporting Manual and
staff Compliance and Disclosure Interpretations. Given the amount of Commission and
staff guidance on MD&A, should we consolidate guidance in a single source? If so,
which guidance remains helpful, and is there guidance that we should not include in a
consolidation? Would consolidation of this guidance facilitate registrants’ compliance
with the item’s requirements, or is the existing form of this guidance sufficient?
SASB Comment: Consolidation of guidance into a single source would likely make such
guidance easier to follow. MD&A guidance from 1989, 2002, 2003, and SAB 99 could be
consolidated into one document. Issuers would also benefit from additional summaries
of relevant case law.
96. Should we require auditor involvement (e.g., audit, review or specified procedures)
regarding the reliability of MD&A disclosure, and if so, what should the nature of the
involvement be? What would be the benefits and costs to registrants and to investors?
SASB Comment: There clearly would be benefits from a third-party assurance of
information contained in the MD&A, and the SASB standards are designed to be
auditable. However, a requirement for such assurance would add to the costs imposed
on issuers, including additional audit fees and the cost of improved internal control over
MD&A data. On the other hand, it should be noted that greater accuracy and reliability of
MD&A disclosures could well reduce issuers’ cost of capital and liability exposure. We
think it likely that registrants’ investment of upgrading internal controls over this data
would be offset by the reduction in costs associated with investor surveys, as well as the
benefits of controlled performance-related data on material factors. SASB research
conducted during the provisional standards-setting phase indicates that a high degree of

																																																								
94

See, e.g., Andrew Grant, James Leaton, Paul Spedding and Mark Fulton, Sense and Sensitivity:
Maximizing Value with a 2D Portfolio, Carbon Tracker, (Carbon Tracker Initiative May 2016),
http://www.carbontracker.org/wp-content/uploads/2016/05/Sense-Sensitivity_Full-report2_28042016.pdf.
Investors would like to see CAPEX disclosures showing how companies are transitioning toward a lesscarbon-intensive economy, rather than “pursu[ing] volume at all costs.”

	

28	

	
	

	

this data is collected and reported.95 Quantifying more specifically the extent to which
registrants already have and are managing this data is the focus of ongoing SASB
research. Existing PCAOB standards – AT 101 and AT 701 – would govern the
procedures used for audits or other procedures (for instance, a review or examination) of
ESG information.
99. Does the two-step test for disclosure of a known trend, demand, commitment, event
or uncertainty result in the most meaningful forward-looking disclosure? Why or why
not? How do registrants determine when something is “reasonably likely” to occur?
SASB Comment: The two-step test first considers the likelihood of occurrence of the
known trend or uncertainty. If management cannot determine that the known trend or
uncertainty is not reasonably likely to occur, then management must evaluate the
consequences on the assumption that it will come to fruition. Disclosure is then required
unless management decides that a material effect on the company’s financial condition
or results of operation is not reasonably likely to occur.
We believe that this test has worked well. It has been used by SASB in its standardsetting. Now that SASB’s provisional standards have been issued, they are an excellent
starting point for issuers to evaluate known trends and uncertainties within an industry,
as identified by peers and substantiated by evidence of financial impact either on one
company or on the industry as a whole. In this regard, SASB has developed a “Mock 10K” for six industries to demonstrate effective disclosure on sustainability-related matters
in an MD&A context.96
100. Should we revise the two-step test to apply a different standard in the first prong
and if so, how? For example, should we require disclosure when a trend, event or
uncertainty is more likely than not, probable, or reasonably possible to occur, rather than
“reasonably likely” to occur?
SASB Comment: The 2,800 participants in SASB’s working groups weighed in (with 75
percent consensus) that the topics in SASB standards were reasonably likely to be
material. “Reasonably likely” (more than a remote possibility) is an appropriate standard
for sustainability-related information.97
101. Should we eliminate the two-step test in favor of a different standard for identifying
required and optional forward-looking disclosure and, if so, what test would be

																																																								
95

Preliminary SASB research shows that SASB metrics are presently recorded and tracked internally as
follows: 5% associated with required public disclosure, such as SEC filings and/or regulatory disclosure
such as GHG emissions; 20% are included in voluntary sustainability and/or industry trade association
reports; 27% are required to be tracked but not publicly reported, (e.g., OSHA Equal Employment
Opportunity Commission data); 48 are optionally, but commonly tracked internally, (e.g., energy and
water use).
96
SASB MOCK 10-K LIBRARY, http://using.sasb.org/mock-10-k-library/.
97
A detailed summary of SASB Industry Working Group outcomes is available in the Industry Working
Group Due Process Reports published for each of 10 sectors. These reports can be found under the
Sectors tab on SASB’s website – www.sasb.org. An example of one such report can be found here:
http://www.sasb.org/wp-content/uploads/2014/02/NRRDueProcessReview_forSC.pdf . Please also refer
to the SASB Blog, INDUSTRY EXPERTISE INFORMS SASB TOPICS AND METRICS, December 9, 2015.
http://www.sasb.org/industry-expertise-informs-sasb-topics-metrics/.

	

29	

	
	

	

appropriate? For example, should we revise Item 303 to incorporate the
probability/magnitude standard from Basic v. Levinson? Which standard – the two-part
test, Basic’s probability/magnitude standard, or some other standard – should we
require, and why? Would any particular formulation be more or less burdensome for
registrants?
SASB Comment: The two-step test is most appropriate for forward-looking
sustainability-related information. The probability/magnitude standard is more difficult to
apply in this context because of uncertainty as to the magnitude of the financial impact of
most sustainability issues. SASB standards provide a way to fortify management’s
discussion with analysis that enables investors and management alike to evaluate the
company’s prospects and outlook with respect to material risks that the industry is facing
due to sustainability-related matters.
SASB utilizes the two-step test in consideration of what is reasonably likely to be
material for companies in a given industry, and agrees with SEC guidance regarding the
need for “early warning” disclosures of material risks and uncertainties that, if realized,
could have a material adverse effect on a particular company’s liquidity, capital
resources or operating results.”98 SASB favors keeping the two-step test in place and
believes the current application of the standard in the first prong of the test – requiring
disclosure when it is “reasonably likely” the known trend, demand, commitment, event or
uncertainty will come to fruition – serves issuers and investors well. Introducing a new
test at this time likely would lead to uncertainty.
102. We have stated previously that quantification of the material effects of known
material trends and uncertainties can promote understanding and may be required to the
extent material. Should we revise Item 303 to specifically require registrants, to the
extent practicable, to quantify the material effects of known trends and uncertainties as
well as the factors that contributed to those known trends and uncertainties? Why?
SASB Comment: With respect to sustainability related information, for topics that are
known trends or uncertainties, issuers may be able only to characterize the nature of
their performance with respect to the underlying drivers of value; for example, safety
record, emissions trends, critical resource use and availability, labor relations and
obligations, or vulnerability of assets to weather related events. These are pre-financial
statement measures, best characterized and are best understood in the context of an
industry benchmark.
IV.C.1 Risk Factors (Item 503(c))
145. How could we improve risk factor disclosure? For example, should we revise our
rules to require that each risk factor be accompanied by a specific discussion of how the
registrant is addressing the risk?
SASB Comment: Yes. The SEC should require registrants to accompany risk factors
with a specific discussion that includes performance and how the registrant is
addressing the risk. Issuers pay a risk premium when it comes to cost of capital for

																																																								
98

Catherine T. Dixon, SEC Disclosure and Corporate Governance: Financial Reporting Challenges for
2011 (Harvard Law School Forum on Corporate Governance and Financial Regulation March 15, 2011)
https://corpgov.law.harvard.edu/2011/03/15/sec-disclosure-and-corporate-governance-financial-reportingchallenges-for-2011/.

	

30	

	
	

	

including boiler plate risks but not addressing risk management or mitigation. In many
cases, companies are saying much more about how these material risks are being
managed outside of their mandatory filings, albeit in a non-comparable, and uncontrolled
manner (for example, websites, questionnaires, and sustainability reports). It is therefore
obvious from disclosures outside the 10-K that issuers can and should be saying more to
provide a complete disclosure to investors that characterizes the nature of the risk.
146. Should we require registrants to discuss the probability of occurrence and the effect
on performance for each risk factor? If so, how could we modify our disclosure
requirements to best provide this information to investors? For example, should we
require registrants to describe their assessment of risks?
SASB Comment: SASB standards provide a way for registrants to disclose their
performance on risks in a cost-effective and comparable way that levels the playing field
for all companies within an industry, reducing the risk of disclosure of “competitive”
information. Registrants should describe their performance in the context of the industry,
and any factors or measures that management is taking to ensure a positive trend or
outcome, ultimately to reduce the risk of volatile sustainability-related events or a longterm erosion of value.
147. How could we modify our rules to require or encourage registrants to describe risks
with greater specificity and context? For example, should we require registrants to
disclose the specific facts and circumstances that make a given risk material to the
registrant? How should we balance investors’ need for detailed disclosure with the
requirement to provide risk factor disclosure that is “clear and concise”? Should we
revise our rules to require registrants to present their risk factors in order of
management’s perception of the magnitude of the risk or by order of importance to
management? Are there other ways we could improve the organization of registrants’
risk factors disclosure? How would this help investors navigate the disclosure?
SASB Comment: SASB Mock 10-Ks99 are designed specifically for this condition: to
allow management to provide a view of how they are managing risk, along with
underlying performance data that can provide context for the investor to understand and
price the relative risk of a particular security vis à vis industry peers.
148. What, if anything, detracts from an investor’s ability to gain important information
from a registrant’s risk factor disclosure? Do lengthy risk factor disclosures hinder an
investor’s ability to understand the most significant risks?
SASB Comment: Risk factors that do not have accompanying comparable performance
data are challenging for investors to use. Investors need to be able to discern
performance on a risk factor in an industry context.
149. How could we revise our rules to discourage registrants from providing risk factor
disclosure that is not specific to the registrant but instead describes risks that are
common to an industry or to registrants in general? Alternatively, are generic risk factors
important to investors?

																																																								
99

	

SASB MOCK 10-K LIBRARY, http://using.sasb.org/mock-10-k-library/.

31	

	
	

	

SASB Comment: Risks facing an industry, particularly sustainability-related risks, are
essential for investors to understand. These risks alter the risk/return profile of an
industry. However, not all companies perform the same when it comes to risks the
industry is facing, whether it is resource scarcity, the threat of regulation, or supply chain
issues. Investors manage industry risks by tilting or weighting their portfolio towards
companies that are managing those risks well and avoiding ones that are poor
performers—or by ensuring that the security pricing adequately reflects the risk the
investor is taking. SASB standards enable companies to provide quantitative
performance data, along with management’s narrative, on sustainability-related risks in
an industry context. This enables investors to discern corporate performance and adjust
accordingly. It also enables issuers to provide their “story” substantiated by comparable
data. In some cases, leading companies that manage sustainability-related risks well are
not given credit because the information is not comparable and dismissed as
“greenwashing”. SASB standards could be used to address industry-related risks while
companies also provide a narrative to provide investors with decision-useful information.
153. Are there ways, in addition to those we have used in Item 503, our Plain English
Rules and guidance on MD&A, to ensure that registrants include meaningful, rather than
boilerplate, risk factor disclosure?
SASB Comment: We believe that the SASB standards can provide management’s view
on known trends and uncertainties underpinned by analysis using metrics that are
comparable between industry peers. As demonstrated in SASB Mock 10-Ks, a registrant
that uses SASB standards to describe its material risks provides meaningful and
comparable disclosure to investors.
154. Risk profiles of registrants are constantly changing and evolving. For example,
registrants today face risks, such as those associated with cybersecurity, climate
change, and arctic drilling, that may not have existed when the 1964 Guides and 1968
Guides were published. Is Item 503(c) effective for capturing emerging risks? If not, how
should we revise Item 503(c) to make it more effective in this regard?
SASB Comment: Sustainability topics are dynamic because they can arise from social
and environmental externalities. The materiality of a particular topic can vary based on
investor views, social norms, changing technology, new regulation, and resource
availability, for example. While the broad landscape of sustainability issues is highly
dynamic (e.g., fracking chemicals, counterfeit drugs, water shortages, automobile safety
recalls) within an industry, the trends are observable and the rate of change is
manageable. Emerging topics are either due to, or precipitate, changes in the way
companies in the industry do business. For this reason, an industry approach is the best
lens for evaluating emerging sustainability-related topics. In SASB’s standards setting
process, emerging topics were identified that were not yet substantiated by tangible
evidence of financial impact or significant investor interest. These issues will be
evaluated again in the codification phase for evidence of materiality.

	

32	

	
	

	

IV.E.3 Industry Guides
209. Should some or all of the Industry Guides be updated? If so, which ones? Should
additional Industry Guides or industry-specific rules for other industries be developed? If
so, which industries would benefit from such guidance? Should industry-specific
disclosure in Regulation S-K or staff guidance be limited to certain industries? If so, what
criteria should be used to identify those industries?
SASB Comment: Industries have unique characteristics that give rise to material
financial and non-financial information, making industry guides essential tools that
enable registrants to focus on providing material information, and investors to interpret a
registrant’s performance in the context of their industry. Many industries have unique
valuation methods and all have distinct value drivers. With respect to sustainabilityrelated information, SASB develops standards for 79 industries. Each industry has a
unique profile with respect to environmental, social, or governance factors that are
reasonably likely to be material to an investor.
Examples of sustainability-related disclosure topics that are likely material and how they
vary from industry to industry include:
• Exposure to counterfeit drugs (Pharmaceuticals)
• Product safety and volume of recalls (Automobiles)
• Access to water resources (Beverages)
• The carbon-intensity of the energy supply and the ability to meet renewable
portfolio standards (Utilities)
• Worker safety (Mining)
• Value of reserves and impacts of fracking practices (Oil and Gas Exploration and
Production)
It is important that the Commission recognize the industry-specific nature of material
ESG risks, either in industry guides as they are updated, in new industry guides that may
be developed, and/or by referring to the SASB industry standards as an acceptable
framework for compliance with Regulation S-K.
An industry lens is essential to keep ESG disclosures cost-effective for registrants
(SASB standards contain, on average, just five topics per industry) as well as decisionuseful for investors. Industry benchmarking is a critical function of financial analysts, for
selection and valuation of securities. Disclosure standards by industry allow for peer-topeer comparison and benchmarking. Without industry data, disclosures on material
factors by a registrant, even if detailed, are challenging for financial analysts to interpret
and use.
Industry conditions change over time, but they do not change so frequently that industry
standards cannot be developed and maintained. For example, 10 years ago, fracking
was not on the radar. Today, we face a broad array of climate risks that are only
beginning to be understood by industry. SASB’s evidence-based process of developing
and maintaining standards with extensive market feedback and industry input, is a
suitable and rigorous process that can be responsive to changing industry conditions.
SASB’s dedicated sector analysts monitor industry conditions daily, and update
evidence of materiality for industry issues on an ongoing basis. This evidence can be
accessed in SASB’s Standards Navigator tool, which is a digital, searchable form of
SASB standards.

	

33	

	
	

	

In addition to developing industry standards that allow for disclosure of material ESG
risks, SASB sources activity metrics for each industry from relevant industry associations
and other organizations. Where suitable activity metrics are not available, SASB
develops new metrics, such that the data can be easily interpreted by industry analysts.
These activity metrics are industry value drivers that can be used to normalize and
compare both financial and non-financial data. Examples include:
• Number of company owned and franchise restaurants, and number of employees
at each (Restaurants)
• Passenger load factor, number of departures, and age of fleet (Airlines)
• Wellhead production, by type (Oil and Gas)
• Number of assets and leasable floor area, and occupancy rates, by property
subsector (Real estate)
Activity data is useful for investors of all types, and can be applied to financial as well as
ESG data.
SASB recommends that the SEC incorporate SASB standards by reference into the
industry guides that it is updating, so that registrants understand which sustainabilityrelated risks they should be disclosing, and how to disclose them in a decision-useful,
comparable format.
Additionally, SASB recommends that the SEC more broadly recognize SASB as a
suitable framework for use by registrants to comply with Regulation S-K, in the event
that the Commission does not produce industry guides for all industries.
Using the Bloomberg Industrial Classification System (BICS) as an underlying taxonomy,
SASB has mapped registrants’ primary, secondary, and tertiary revenue streams to
SASB industry standards, so that registrants with significant activities in multiple
industries can understand which industry standards may apply to them. Registrants are
able to go to SASB’s website and and determine which industry standards apply to their
company by simply typing in their ticker symbol.100
215. What types of investors or audiences are most likely to value the information that
registrants would not disclose but for the Industry Guides?
SASB Comment: Investors need access to material information in order to understand
and price risk. The type of ESG information that is financially material is best determined
by industry, because of the types of resources that industries use to bring goods and
services to market, and how they impact, or are impacted by, society and the
environment. This, in turn, can affect the risk profile and/or the financial condition or
operating performance of some or all companies in an industry. Investors use industry
information to assess the risk/return profile of their portfolio depending upon their
industry allocation. They also use it in comparing and valuing securities with respect to
an industry benchmark.

																																																								
100

	

SASB, SICS Look-up Tool, http://www.sasb.org/lookup-tool/.

34	

	
	

	

IV.F.3 Disclosure of Information Relating to Public Policy and Sustainability Matters
216. Are there specific sustainability or public policy issues that are important to
informed voting and investment decisions? If so, what are they? If we were to adopt
specific disclosure requirements involving sustainability or public policy issues, how
could our rules elicit meaningful disclosure on such issues? How could we create a
disclosure framework that would be flexible enough to address such issues as they
evolve over time? Alternatively, what additional Commission or staff guidance, if any,
would be necessary to elicit meaningful disclosure on such issues?
SASB Comment: As changes occur in the broader economy, the information that
markets need to efficiently allocate capital may also change in ways that require public
companies to adjust their disclosures. In today’s world, sustainability issues can impact
financial performance in very specific ways that vary by topic and industry. To elicit
meaningful disclosure on these issues, and to enable investors to make informed
decisions about them, understanding what sustainability issues are likely to constitute
material information for companies in a given industry is necessary, as are standardized
metrics by which performance on these issues can be evaluated. To provide investors
with this disclosure, the capital markets need sustainability accounting standards that
are created by the market, specific to industry, and compatible with U.S. securities laws.
SASB was created to fill this need. SASB standards are designed to be integrated into
the MD&A and other relevant sections of mandatory SEC filings, such as the Form 10-K
and 20-F, so that information is reliable and that all investors have access to material,
comparable information without the need to source it from questionnaires or purchase it
from commercial vendors. SASB’s standards development process is evidence-based
and market-informed in order to ensure that the standards are cost-effective for
companies and are decision-useful for investors. Please refer to Figure E (adjacent to
our response to Question 6.)
Provisional SASB standards are now available (free of charge) for 79 industries on
SASB’s website. Each standard consists of industry-specific disclosure topics,
accounting metrics for each disclosure topic, and technical protocol for compiling data.
The SASB Standards Navigator is a comprehensive resource for using and viewing
SASB Standards and for downloading industry-specific resources, including industry
briefs, mock 10-Ks, and technical bulletins. This tool provides SASB’s industry-specific
disclosure topics, metrics, and technical protocols in an accessible and easy-to-use way.
SASB standards and other products are designed to support investors in their efforts to
integrate sustainability information into core activities, such as the following:
• Fundamental analysis: The availability of sustainability fundamentals
alongside financial fundamentals provides the data needed to adjust
equity and debt valuation models, as well as evaluate management
quality for individual securities selection.
• Comparison and benchmarking: The data that results from thousands
of publicly traded companies disclosing standardized, industry-specific
sustainability accounting metrics will enable investors to perform peer-topeer comparisons on critical dimensions of sustainability performance
and establish industry benchmarks against which issuers can be
compared.

	

35	

	
	

	

•

•

Portfolio management: The SASB’s Sustainable Industry Classification
System™ (SICS™) groups industries with similar business models and
sustainability impacts. The SASB standards identify sustainability topics
that are reasonably likely to constitute material information for companies
within a specific industry. Together, SICS™ and the industry-specific
disclosure topics will help investors identify and manage under- or
overexposure to certain types of sustainability risks and opportunities.
Active engagement: Investors and companies can use the SASB
standards—and the information they yield—to guide conversations,
resulting in more focused, more productive engagements on material
sustainability factors.

SASB’s proposed Rules of Procedure101 cover the processes for reviewing, modifying,
and adopting SASB’s Provisional Standards as the initial Sustainability Accounting Code
(hereafter “the SASB Code” or “the Code”), and the processes for ongoing review and
maintenance of SASB standards through updates to the Code outline the means by
which SASB will revise SASB standards to ensure that they address issues as they
evolve over time. An overview of this process is shown in Figure F.

	
Figure F

																																																								
101

SASB, Proposed Rules of Procedure: Exposure Draft, http://www.sasb.org/wpcontent/uploads/2016/01/SASB-Rules-of-Procedure-04.04.2016.pdf. The rules of procedure are open for
public comment through July 6, 2016, at http://www.sasb.org/comment.

	

36	

	
	

	

217. Would line-item requirements for disclosure about sustainability or public policy
issues cause registrants to disclose information that is not material to investors? Would
these disclosures obscure information that is important to an understanding of a
registrant’s business and financial condition? Why or why not?
SASB Comment: Line-item requirements are generally not appropriate for sustainability
issues because sustainability issues are likely not material for all companies; when they
are material, they manifest in unique ways and thus require industry-specific metrics.
Requiring these line items to be disclosed would result in a corporate disclosure burden
and a large volume of information that is immaterial to investors. Additionally, how is the
SEC to select issues for which it would seek to promulgate line-item disclosure
requirements? Is child labor more important than climate risk? Is product safety more
important than human trafficking? There are hundreds of potential social and
environmental issues and judgment regarding their importance to investors is
treacherous without a reliable basis for conclusion. Securities law already provides us
with the answer: if it is likely to affect the financial condition or operating performance of
a company then disclosure to investors is compelled. The patterns of materiality for
sustainability topics are industry-specific. Therefore, SASB recommends that instead of
identifying specific mandatory line items for disclosure, the SEC point to existing
disclosure requirements (such as MD&A) and standards (such as SASB standards) that
map the likely materiality of sustainability topics by industry and identify industry-specific
accounting metrics. This approach ensures that companies disclose topics only when
they are material and that investors receive information that is material and comparable.
Through its industry focus, SASB systematically assesses the relevance of each
sustainability topic and the potential for material impacts on companies in 79 industries.
This ensures that topics recommended for disclosure are included in the standards on
the basis of evidence amassed in an industry context as well as input from a balanced
group of industry experts. From one industry to the next, SASB may recommend
different approaches to the disclosure of information related to these topics. This is
because general sustainability topics often have unique impacts on different business
models, and analysts may need industry-specific performance metrics to assess risk
and/or future outlook.
A private sector standard affords more responsiveness to changing conditions over time
than line item mandates that are promulgated by rulemaking.
218. Some registrants already provide information about ESG matters in sustainability or
corporate social responsibility reports or on their websites. Corporate sustainability
reports may also be available in databases aggregating such reports. Why do some
registrants choose to provide sustainability information outside of their Commission
filings? Is the information provided on company websites sufficient to address investor
needs? What are the advantages and disadvantages of registrants providing such
disclosure on their websites? How important to investors is integrated reporting, as
opposed to separate financial and sustainability reporting? If we permitted registrants to
use information on their websites to satisfy any ESG disclosure requirement, how would
this affect the comparability and consistency of the disclosure?
SASB Comment: Corporations have many important stakeholders and a variety of
channels through which they may communicate sustainability information, including
websites, sustainability reports, and corporate social responsibility reports. While these

	

37	

	
	

	

reports serve a broad range of stakeholder needs, they employ different processes and
controls from those used in mandated SEC filings. Stand-alone sustainability reports are
problematic to investors, as the sole source for sustainability-related information, for the
following reasons:
• Large amounts of immaterial information: These reports lack focus on
the sustainability issues that are of most interest to investors, namely
those most likely to have material impacts on a company’s financial
condition or operating performance. As a result, companies also field
requests for sustainability information in the form of surveys and
questionnaires from investors and ratings agencies, creating a significant
burden on the issuer with limited benefit to its shareholders. This selective
disclosure is also problematic in view of Regulation FD.
• Inconsistent definition of “materiality”: Many companies are using
different definitions of “materiality” in their sustainability reports and SEC
filings. This is common practice for companies that follow Global
Reporting Initiative (GRI) guidance, which recommends prioritizing
material issues on the basis of stakeholder interest (as opposed to
following the Supreme Court definition of “materiality”). A company’s use
of a definition of “materiality” that deviates from the securities law
definition creates confusion and potential liability risks.
• Unreliable data: Information included in SEC filings is likely to be
prepared with greater care and more internal control than non-SEC
information. Information in corporate sustainability reports reports is often
not investment grade.
• Biased account: Standalone sustainability reports are often prepared by
corporate communications departments or public relations firms. They
tend to be positively biased and do not provide investors with a true and
fair representation of performance on material risks. A recent study
published in Accounting, Auditing and Accountability Journal 102 indicated
that 90 percent of known negative corporate events were not reported in
A and A+ rated sustainability reports. This practice of producing a glowing
sustainability report is known as “greenwashing”.
An historical analogy is relevant here. The Wheat Committee report that
precipitated the creation of the FASB in 1972 noted that financial
statements were often used as a “strategic weapon” and therefore were
positively biased and unreliable. Similarly, without standards and
professional norms and codes of conduct, sustainability reports are
frequently strategic communications for issuers. The public relations firms
that are contracted to produce them are hired explicitly to provide a
positive view of performance because companies want to present a
positive image to various stakeholders, such as employees and
prospective employees. This is a very different objective than providing
investors with a balanced view of material information with which to
inform investment decisions.
Lack of standardization: Because sustainability reports vary widely
between companies in terms of the topics and metrics used, investors are
not able to compare and benchmark the performance of companies within

																																																								
102

Olivier Boiral, Sustainability Reports as Simulacra? A Counter-Account of A and A+ GRI Reports,
ACCOUNTING, AUDITING & ACCOUNTABILITY JOURNAL, Vol. 26, No. 7, p. 1036–71 (2013),
http://www.emeraldinsight.com/doi/pdfplus/10.1108/AAAJ-04-2012-00998.

	

38	

	
	

	

an industry. A 2013 report by GRI and RobecoSAM highlights the extent
of the lack of comparability. 94 reports from Banks & Diverse Financials
industry, 38 percent of which were graded A or A+ by GRI, were analyzed
for disclosure topics. 896 distinct topics were identified as “material.” 634
of the topics were identified as GRI topics, while 236 were identified as
“other” material topics.103 A similar situation was found in the Technology
and Hardware industry.
For these reasons, sustainability reports and websites do not meet the needs of
investors.
219. In an effort to coordinate ESG disclosures, several organizations have published or
are working on sustainability reporting frameworks. Currently, some registrants use
these frameworks and provide voluntary ESG disclosures. If we propose line-item
disclosure requirements on sustainability or public policy issues, which, if any, of these
frameworks should we consider in developing any additional disclosure requirements?
SASB Comment: SASB is very familiar with the broad landscape of sustainability and
industry organizations, and has worked closely with many in development of the SASB
standards.
Establishing materiality, however, is a fact-specific determination and therefore should
be left to the issuer, which knows the facts best. Most existing sustainability reporting
frameworks are designed to meet the needs of diverse stakeholders, including suppliers,
customers, current and prospective employees, communities, policy makers, and special
interest groups. This fact, coupled with their use of proprietary and expansive definitions
of “materiality,” results in the disclosure of a great deal of immaterial information.
The capital markets have their own needs, unique from those of suppliers, customers,
communities, employees, policy makers, interest groups, and other stakeholders whose
interests are the focus of sustainability reports. Investors demand reliable and
comparable sustainability information with clear links to financial performance.
Complementing the work of the SEC, the Financial Accounting Standards Board, and
other organizations and initiatives, SASB aims to improve disclosure effectiveness, with
a premium placed on material, decision-useful information for investors. Therefore, the
standards address sustainability topics that are reasonably likely to affect the financial
condition or operating performance of a company or an entire industry and provide
companies with a way to better satisfy the requirements of Regulation S-K. SASB
standards are the only ones designed to meet the need of the capital markets for the
following reasons:
•

Consistent with U.S. securities laws: SASB standards are developed
using the definition of “materiality” applied under U.S. federal securities
laws. That definition, set forth by the U.S. Supreme Court in TSC
Industries v. Northway, 426 U.S. 438 (1976), is that a fact is material if
“there is a substantial likelihood” that a “reasonable investor” would view

																																																								
103

RobecoSAM and the Global Reporting Initiative, Defining Materiality: What Matters to Reporters and
Investors – Do investors and reporters agree on what’s material in the Technology Hardware &
Equipment and Banks & Diverse Financials sectors?, 2015 p. 10.

	

39	

	
	

	

•

•

•
•

its omission or misstatement as “having significantly altered the total mix
of information.” SASB identifies sustainability topics that are reasonably
likely to be material for a specific industry and then develops
corresponding metrics.
Decision-useful for investors: SASB standards are designed to be
integrated into the MD&A and other relevant sections of mandatory SEC
filings, such as the Form 10-K and 20-F, so that information is reliable
and all investors have access to material, comparable information without
the need to source it from questionnaires or purchase it from commercial
vendors.
Cost-effective for companies: SASB standards identify the minimum
set of sustainability factors that are likely to be material for companies in
an industry. On average, each standard has five disclosure topics and 13
accounting metrics.
Industry-specific: Only SASB produces standards that identify
sustainability topics and metrics at the industry level. Provisional
standards are available for 79 industries.
Created by the markets: More than 2,800 individuals—affiliated with
companies with $11T market capital and investors representing $23.4T
assets under management—participated in industry working groups to
provide input on SASB’s provisional standards. In these working groups,
82 percent of issuers and investors agreed that SASB’s proposed
disclosure topics are likely to constitute material information. SASB will
continue to involve market participants as it codifies and maintains the
standards.

SASB recognizes that sustainability reporting is a valuable tool for communicating on
sustainability achievements to a broad group of stakeholders. These reports also help
flag emerging issues that may become of interest to investors over time. SASB
references metrics already in use by industry, from roughly 200 entities, such as GRI,
CDP, EPA, OSHA and industry organizations such as IPIECA, EPRI and GRESB. (See
Appendix E.) SASB greatly appreciates the efforts of these and other organizations to
determine appropriate sustainability-related metrics for topics that are likely to be
material. The technical protocol for each metric in each SASB standard cites the source
reference from other organizations. Incorporating other metrics by reference, where
appropriate, allows SASB to rely on the expertise of industry associations and other
organizations in determining the best metric to use to capture performance on a given
issue and helps keep the use of SASB standards cost-effective for registrants.
SASB is developing a more extensive document showing links between SASB standards
and information collected under the guidance of other reporting frameworks and industry
associations.	
220. Are there sustainability or public policy issues for which line-item disclosure
requirements would be consistent with the Commission’s rulemaking authority and our
mission to protect investors, maintain fair, orderly and efficient markets and facilitate
capital formation, as described in Section III.A.1 of this release? If so, how could we
address the evolving nature of such issues and keep our disclosure requirements
current?

	

40	

	
	

	

SASB Comment: A market standard for the industry-specific disclosure of sustainabilityrelated information would provide a market-informed process that allows for future
evolution of investor needs and issuers’ business models more efficiently than
governmentally-mandated, universal line-item disclosure.
SASB suggests that the Commission acknowledge SASB’s standards as an
acceptable and appropriate disclosure framework for use by companies in their
SEC filings to comply with Regulation S-K in a cost-effective and decision-useful
manner.
As noted in the response to question 216, SASB’s Rules of Procedure include a process
to codify and maintain the standards over time, with industry feedback, to ensure the
standards address the changing nature of sustainability issues.
221. What, if any, challenges would registrants face in preparing and providing this
information? What would be the additional costs of complying with sustainability or
public policy line-item disclosure requirements, including the administrative and
compliance costs of preparing and disseminating disclosures, beyond the costs
associated with current levels of disclosure? Please quantify costs and expected
changes in costs where possible.
SASB Comment: SASB’s research shows that information regarding 75 percent of
SASB disclosure topics is already being disclosed in the Form 10-K, but rarely in a
decision-useful way. More than 40 percent of all disclosures on sustainability topics
contain boilerplate language: broad, nonspecific wording that does not describe the
realities of the registrant’s particular operating context. Meanwhile, only about 15 percent
of issuers disclose sustainability information using metrics.
To move from boilerplate disclosure to metrics, companies will need to strengthen their
internal controls and procedures, as well as consider the need for independent
assurance. However, improved disclosure on material sustainability factors will have
benefits for companies. First, they will avoid the cost and burden of shareholder
resolutions and questionnaires. Second, research shows that by focusing on the limited
set of sustainability-related risks and opportunities identified by the SASB standards—
those reasonably likely to have material impacts—companies can achieve superior
results, including return on sales, sales growth, return on assets, and return on equity, in
addition to improved risk-adjusted shareholder returns.104
SASB standards are designed to provide a cost-effective way for companies to disclose
material, decision-useful sustainability information to investors. SASB achieves this
objective in two key ways:
• Because they focus on only those sustainability issues that are
reasonably likely to have material impacts, SASB standards identify the
minimum set of topics for consideration in each industry, the majority of
which are already addressed in SEC filings by many public companies in
some fashion.

																																																								
104

Mozaffar Khan, George Serafeim and Aaron Yoon, Corporate Sustainability: First Evidence on
Materiality, THE ACCOUNTING REVIEW, P. 26 (Harvard Business School, March 9, 2015),
http://hbswk.hbs.edu/item/corporate-sustainability-first-evidence-on-materiality.

	

41	

	
	

	

•

A significant percentage of the metrics in SASB standards are aligned
with initiatives already in use.105 As part of its standards-development
process, SASB identifies and documents existing metrics and practices
used to account for performance on each disclosure topic. When possible,
SASB harmonizes its standards with existing metrics, definitions,
frameworks, and management disclosure formats, thereby minimizing the
corporate reporting burden. SASB is in the process of identifying an
academic institution to conduct an analysis of the costs and benefits
associated with the use of SASB standards.

222. If we propose line-item disclosure requirements that require disclosure about
sustainability or public policy issues, should we scale the disclosure requirements for
SRCs or some other category of registrant? Similarly, should we exempt SRCs or some
other category of issuer from any such requirements?
SASB Comment: It is not necessary to scale disclosure requirements for SRCs. Every
public company, regardless of size, is required to file a Form 10-K or 20-F and should
thus include a discussion of material sustainability-related information.
SASB standards provide a minimum set of issues likely to constitute material information
on an industry-by-industry basis, making it easier for SRCs to comply with existing
requirements to disclose material information.
223. In 2010, the Commission published an interpretive release to assist registrants in
applying existing disclosure requirements to climate change matters. As part of the
Disclosure Effectiveness Initiative, we received a number of comment letters suggesting
that current climate change–related disclosures are insufficient. Are existing disclosure
requirements adequate to elicit the information that would permit investors to evaluate
material climate change risk? Why or why not? If not, what additional disclosure
requirements or guidance would be appropriate to elicit that information?
SASB Comment: More work is needed to evaluate the systemic nature of climate risk
and data needed to understand its financial impact on global capital markets. The
Financial Stability Board’s (FSB)106 Task Force on Climate Related Disclosure (TCFD)107
is undertaking this work.
In support of this work, SASB has meticulously mapped the industry exposure to
climate-related financial risk and presented appropriate metrics for its disclosure in
SASB’s Technical Bulletin on Climate Risk.108 Based on this research, climate change is

																																																								
105

SASB, Op Cit, p. 20.
The Financial Stability Board (FSB) is an international body that monitors and makes
recommendations about the global financial system, FSB members include the SEC, the Board of
Governors of the Federal Reserve System, and the U.S. Department of Treasury, in addition to 23
international institutions and the EU.
107
Task Force on Climate Related Disclosure (TCFD) was launched in December 2015 by the FSB at the
request of the G20. The TCFD is aimed at helping companies better understand what financial markets
need from disclosure in order to measure and manage climate risk, and is mandated to make
recommendations for improving voluntary financial disclosure of those risks. More on the TCFD can be
found at: https://www.fsb-tcfd.org.
108
SASB, CLIMATE RISK: TECHNICAL BULLETIN 2016-01 (working draft Jan. 27, 2016),
http://using.sasb.org/wp-content/uploads/2016/02/SASB-Technical-Bulletin-Climate-Risk-02022016c.pdf.
106

	

42	

	
	

	

likely to have material financial impacts on companies in 72 out of 79 industries.
However, climate risk manifests differently in each industry, and thus each industry
requires unique performance metrics. For example, investors in real estate are
interested in the vulnerability of assets and the quality of building stock. In health care,
event preparedness and business continuity risk is important, as are changing disease
migration patterns. In oil and gas, the carbon intensity of reserves and current emissions
are important to assess fundamental and relative risk.
SASB’s Technical Bulletin on Climate Risk maps the patterns of climate risk exposure
that are embedded within a typical diversified investment portfolio. The Bulletin enables
investors to understand and account for climate risk by outlining the financial impacts, as
well as the appropriate industry-specific disclosures, for the following types of climateimpact: (See Appendix D.)
• Physical effects: Encompass the range of current and projected acute
(punctuated) and progressive impacts that climate change will have on
the physical environment, leading to risks and opportunities for business
entities.
• Transition to a low-carbon, resilient economy: Includes the marketbased responses to the transition to a low-carbon, resilient economy.
These comprise the mitigation and adaptation responses of business
entities, customers, and suppliers, which may create a range of risks and
opportunities.
• Climate regulation: Encompasses the spectrum of policies, rules, nonbinding agreements, and other regulatory mechanisms that exist or are
likely to come to bear in response to climate change.
While it may be tempting to consider disclosure of greenhouse gas (GHG) emissions
data as a line-item requirement to address climate risk, GHG emissions are a great
example of something that can be measured across the board but may not be material
across the board. GHG emissions are only material for those carbon-intensive industries
that may be regulated and/or need to transition to lower carbon business models. A
recent review of 2014 CDP emissions data available in the Bloomberg Professional
Services terminal shows that just 7 out of 79 industries are responsible for over 85
percent of the annual GHG emissions from public equities.109 The other 72 industries do
contribute nominally to such emissions, but are affected by climate risk in other ways
that are more complex, from a disclosure point of view. For example, financed emissions
in a bank’s loan portfolio (i.e., emissions induced by loans to, and investments in,
companies that emit greenhouse gases) are more likely to be material than would be the
bank’s own (Scope 1) GHG emissions. Such nuanced distinctions would be lost were a
line-item requirement on GHG emissions be promulgated.
SASB recommends that the SEC point companies to SASB standards for industryspecific metrics through which to disclose climate risk in a meaningful and cost-effective
manner.	

																																																								
109

SASB, Analysis of 2014 CDP data for Global Scope 1 Greenhouse Gas (GHG) Activity Emissions
th
accessed via the Bloomberg Professional Service on June 30 , 2016.

	

43	

	
	

	

V.E. Presentation and Delivery of Important Information
327. What disclosure requirements, if any, would generate more meaningful disclosure if
we modified or eliminated the specific formatting or presentation requirements and
permitted greater flexibility in the manner of presentation?
Investors need comparable data, year-on-year trends where possible (last three years of data),
and management’s view on the issue. See SASB’s Mock 10-K (prepared for six industries) for a
format for disclosing material sustainability-related risks and opportunities using the SASB
standards in the MD&A section of the Form 10-K.110
V.G. Structured Disclosures
330. How can the quality of structured disclosures be enhanced?
SASB Comment: SASB standards are designed to be SEC-compliant and are ideal for
disclosure in the MD&A section of the 10-K because of the broad range and long-term nature
of sustainability issues, as well as the varying levels of risk and uncertainty inherent in them.
XBRL is currently the only broad-based format for tagging disclosures internationally. SASB
thus favors leveraging this existing infrastructure and allowing for voluntary XBRL tagging of
sustainability-related disclosure information in the MD&A section of SEC filings.
SASB fully supports the SEC’s pilot to allow iXBRL filings and hopes that there
will widespread adoption and a mandate for iXBRL in the future. iXBRL has the potential to
reduce errors in data submission, simplify disclosure, and reduce the costs of disclosures for
preparers while improving data quality. As the XBRL reporting tool infrastructure is well
established, and XBRL tagging is used on an international basis. We believe that the cost of
switching to iXBRL would be relatively low, and outweighed by the benefits of enhanced data
quality.111
SASB has prepared a complete XML taxonomy and a pilot XBRL taxonomy, and will
develop the infrastructure to support an XBRL taxonomy when XBRL tagging is allowed in
the MD&A.
SASB would be interested in participating in any task force that addresses the disclosure of
sustainability information and the technological means to enhance consumption of this
information.

331. Are there changes to the EDGAR system that the Commission should make to
render the structured disclosure filed by registrants more useful?
SASB Comment: As noted in the response to question 330, SASB believes that switching
to iXBRL and consolidating the reporting process into a single submission would reduce
errors, save time, and improve data quality. In addition, SASB recommends that EDGAR
accept XBRL tags in the MD&A section, as investors increasingly want to query and analyze
non-financial data elements that may be disclosed (and ideally tagged) in the MD&A.

																																																								
110

SASB MOCK 10-K LIBRARY, http://using.sasb.org/mock-10-k-library/.
AICPA, “RESEARCH SHOWS XBRL FILING COSTS LOWER THAN EXPECTED,”
(2015) https://www.aicpa.org/InterestAreas/FRC/AccountingFinancialReporting/XBRL/DownloadableDocu
ments/XBRL%20Costs%20for%20Small%20Companies.pdf.
111

	

44	

	
	

	

332. Are company-specific custom extensions, such as element or axis extensions,
useful to investors or other users of structured disclosures? If so, how might these
custom extensions be made more useful for enhancing automated analysis? If not, are
there better ways to express disclosures that are unique to a company (e.g., business
segment, product line)?  
SASB Comment: Greater standardization and stronger rules on company-specific
extensions will improve data comparability.
SASB standards have been developed to meet the market need for comparable
sustainability information. SASB sees the need for stronger rules on company-specific
extensions for XBRL tagging in order to achieve such comparability. Clear, strong
protocols for company-specific extensions are the basis for other similar XBRL
taxonomies such as EDINET, the Japanese equivalent of the EDGAR system. While the
decision to use SASB standards is a determination that must be made by an individual
company, we see the importance of reducing confusion in the marketplace and
promoting greater comparability through the reduction in company-specific extensions.
The use of a broadly-accepted market standard will provide data aggregators, their
investment clients and standards setters with improved comparability, consistency, and
traceability of data, reducing the time and cost of analyzing disclosures. It would also
reduce preparer costs through the reuse of tags, and improve peer-to-peer performance
benchmarking.
333. Should we require registrants to provide additional disclosures in a structured
format? If so, which disclosures? For example, are there categories of information in
Parts I and II of Form 10-K or in Form 10-Q that investors would want to receive as
structured data?
SASB Comment: See the response to question 330. SASB standards are designed for
issuers to achieve consistent measurement and structured presentation of material
sustainability factors, which in turns allows peer-to-peer comparisons. XBRL tagging of
SASB standards in an issuer’s digital filing aids the process both of using the standard
and ensuring a structured and comparable output for investors.

	

45	

	
	

	

Appendix B – The Current State of Sustainability Disclosure in SEC Filings
During its standards development process, SASB analyzed the state of disclosure in annual
SEC filings of the likely material sustainability disclosure topics included in each provisional
SASB standard. Disclosure analyses were carried out at different points in time between April
2013 and February 2016 in conjunction with research and related Industry Working Group
convenings for the 79 industries in SASB’s Sustainable Industry Classification System
(SICS).112 The analyses focused on identifying and categorizing disclosure practices by the top
ten companies by revenue in each industry on their most recent Forms 10-Ks and 20-Fs. The
analyses focused on identifying relevant disclosures mainly in Items 1, 1A, 3, 7 and 7A of the
Form 10-K, or the equivalent sections of the Form 20-F, and classifying such disclosures based
on the categories presented below. Figure G summarizes the results of these disclosure
Figure G

																																																								
112

SASB research analysts used the latest available annual SEC filings (i.e., Form 10-Ks and 20-Fs) for
the top companies, by revenue, per SICS industry (A maximum of 10 companies per industry were
analyzed. Due to industry composition, the number of companies analyzed for some industries was less
than ten). Dates of analyses per sector were as follows: Health Care, April 2013; Financials, April 2013;
Technology & Communications, February 2014; Non-Renewable Resources, May 2014; Transportation,
August 2014; Services, October 2014; Resource Transformation, February 2015; Consumption I, May
2015; Consumption II, July 2015; Renewable Resources & Alternative Energy, October 2015;
Infrastructure, February 2016.

	

46	

	
	

	

analyses aggregated by SICS sector.
•
•
•
•

No Disclosure: The company does not provide any disclosure that is relevant to the
topic under analysis.
Boilerplate: The company provides disclosure using uniform language that has a
definite, unvarying meaning in the same context that denotes that the words have not
been sufficiently and individually fashioned to address the topic presented.
Industry-specific: The company provides disclosure that is fashioned in a way that can
only be understood in the context of the industry under analysis or that provides
sufficient and individual additional insights into how a particular topic is managed.
Metrics: The company provides disclosure using quantitative information, which may or
may not include SASB metrics, to measure performance on the topic under analysis.

SASB is developing an interactive Disclosure Navigator tool that will be available to the public in
late 2016. The Disclosure Navigator is a machine learning-based application that is capable of
reading individual company 10-K & 20-F filings and extracting excerpts from them that are
relevant to SASB industry-specific disclosure topics. The Disclosure Navigator’s “engine” is an
algorithm based on the above-mentioned disclosure analyses previously completed by SASB’s
research team. It will recursively train itself on identifying relevant excerpts and will continue to
improve as more data becomes available with each filing year.
Upon its initial release, the Disclosure Navigator will allow for sector-, industry-, topic- and
company-level disclosure analysis of SASB disclosure topics. Over time, we expect that it will
be able to rate the quality of disclosure using rubrics under development by the SASB research
team.

	

47	

	
	

	

Appendix C – Examples of the Industry-specificity of Sustainability Factors, Related
SASB Disclosure Topics, Value Drivers and Metrics
The SASB Materiality Map™ is an interactive tool that identifies and compares likely material
sustainability issues across different industries and sectors and illustrates the potential for

Infrastructure

Renewable
Resources &
Alternative Energy

Consumption

Resource
Transformation

Services

Transportation

Non-Renewable
Resources

Technology and
Communications

Financials

Health
Care

Figure H – Excerpt – SASB Materiality Map™

Environment
GHG emissions
Air quality
Energy management
Fuel management
Water and wastewater management
Waste and hazardous materials management
Biodiversity impacts
Social Capital
Human rights and community relations
Access and affordability
Customer welfare
Data security and customer privacy
Fair disclosure and labeling
Fair marketing and advertising
Human Capital
Labor relations
Fair labor practices
Employee health, safety and wellbeing
Diversity and inclusion
Compensation and benefits
Recruitment, development and retention
Business Model and Innovation
Lifecycle impacts of products and services
Environmental, social impacts on assets & operations
Product packaging
Product quality and safety
Leadership and Governance
Systemic risk management
Accident and safety management
Business ethics and transparency of payments
Competitive behavior
Regulatory capture and political influence
Materials sourcing
Supply chain management
Sector Level Map Key
Issue is likely to be material for more than 50% of industries in sector
Issue is likely to be material for less than 50% of industries in sector
Issue is not likely to be material for any of the industries in sector

	

48	

	
	

	

material impacts of 30 sustainability issues across 79 industries.
Sustainability issues are divided into five dimensions:
. Environment
. Social Capital
. Human Capital
. Business Model & Innovation
. Leadership & Governance
The SASB Materiality Map™ helps issuers focus their sustainability strategies on the most
important issues and provides investors with a “heat map” of portfolio exposure to sustainability
risks and opportunities.
See Figure H for a static excerpt of the Map. A full, interactive version of the SASB Materiality
Map™ is available here.

	

49	

	
	

	

Material topics affect the financial condition or operating performance of a company. Figure I,
with excerpts from select SASB standards, provides a small number of examples of the
industry-specific sustainability topics in SASB’s standards. The table illustrates the specificity of
sustainability topics in SASB standards by industry, the value drivers that affect the financial
condition of a company due to performance on the sustainability-related topic, and the detailed
nature of the metric that characterizes performance on the topic.

Figure I

	

50	

	
	

	

Every SASB standard comprises industry-specific disclosure topics, technical protocol for
compiling data, and accounting metrics for the disclosure of the issue. Each disclosure topic is
associated with at least one value driver. (See Figure J.)
Figure J

	

51	

	
	

	

Appendix D – The Industry-specifity of Climate-related Risk
SASB published its Technical Bulletin on Climate Risk113 in January, 2016. The Bulletin was
issued in to provide a complete view of climate change impacts across all industries and to
inform the efforts of The Financial Stability Board’s (FSB)114 Task Force on Climate Related
Disclosure (TCFD).115
The Bulletin illustrates the pervasive nature of climate risk which was determined to affect 72 of
79 industries, or 93 percent of the U.S. equity market in terms of market capitalization.
SASB’s Climate Change Framework, used to analyze climate risk, is characterized by three
unique aspects:
• Identification of where and how climate risk may have material impacts on corporate
financial value  
• Recognition that climate-related impacts manifest themselves in industry-specific
ways  
• Development of metrics that help corporate issuers disclose decision-useful
information to investors in a cost-effective way.  
SASB identified three distinct types of climate risk via this Framework – physical risk, regulatory
risk, and transitional risk (associated with transitioning to a low carbon economy). It also
identified four channels of financial impact through which these risks can ultimately impact
investment returns – cash flow, operating impacts, asset value impacts and financing impacts.
The Bulletin’s key findings were:
• Climate risk is systemic in nature
• Climate risk is diverse
• Climate risk is not currently disclosed adequately and understanding it requires
specialized disclosures
• The financial implications of climate risk are tangible and identifiable
While overall climate risk was found to be ubiquitous, SASB research found that the impact of
climate risk manifests itself differently from industry to industry. SASB’s Climate Risk Materiality
Map (see Figure K) provides an industry-by-industry look at how different industries are
impacted by different types of climate-related risk.	It draws on relevant disclosure topics from
the SASB standards to present a climate-specific view of the SASB Materiality Map.  

																																																								
113

SASB, CLIMATE RISK: TECHNICAL BULLETIN 2016-01 (working draft Jan. 27, 2016),
http://using.sasb.org/wp-content/uploads/2016/02/SASB-Technical-Bulletin-Climate-Risk-02022016c.pdf.
114
The Financial Stability Board (FSB) is an international body that monitors and makes
recommendations about the global financial system, FSB members include the SEC, the Board of
Governors of the Federal Reserve System, and the U.S. Department of Treasury, in addition to 23
international institutions and the EU.
115
Task Force on Climate Related Disclosure (TCFD) was launched in December 2015 by the FSB at the
request of the G20. The TCFD is aimed at helping companies better understand what financial markets
need from disclosure in order to measure and manage climate risk, and is mandated to make
recommendations for improving voluntary financial disclosure of those risks. More on the TCFD can be
found at: https://www.fsb-tcfd.org.

	

52	

	
	

	

Figure K – Climate Risk Materiality Map

	

53	

	
	

	

	

54	

	
	

	

	

55	

	
	

	

Appendix G – SASB’s Standards Setting Process

SASB’s provisional standards development process (summarized in Figure L) began with a
three-month, in-house research phase to identify disclosure topics and related accounting
metrics. SASB’s research team examined two types of evidence, evidence of interest and
evidence of financial impact, in order to determine a minimum set of disclosure topics for each
industry. Evidence of interest was gathered by searching tens of thousands of industry-related
documents (i.e., Form 10-Ks, shareholder resolutions, CSR reports, media, and SEC comment
letters) for keywords related to 30 general sustainability issues. This provided a “heat map” that
indicated interest in certain issues by investors and other stakeholders. Evidence of financial
impact was gathered by examining sell-side research, investor call transcripts, third-party
research, datasets on sustainability issues and related costs and regulatory actions, and news
articles, among other sources of sustainability and financial information.
Figure L

After identifying the minimum set of disclosure topics for an industry, for which there was solid
evidence of both investor interest and financial impact, SASB identified and documented
existing metrics and practices used to account for performance on each disclosure topic.
When possible, SASB harvested existing metrics and management disclosure formats. When
high-quality metrics and management disclosures were not available, SASB constructed new
ones. The result of Phase 1 was an Industry Brief that outlined the proposed set of disclosure
topics and accounting metrics for each industry.116

																																																								
116

SASB industry research briefs are available free of charge at http://www.sasb.org/approach/ourprocess/industry-briefs.

	

56	

	
	

	

SASB then released each Exposure Draft Standard for a 90-day public comment period. During
this time, any member of the public could download the Exposure Draft Standard from SASB’s
website and provide feedback. At the conclusion of the public comment period, SASB
incorporated feedback received into the standard. The provisional Sustainability
Accounting Standard was then published and made available to the public.
The provisional standards can be used by investors and companies; provisionality does not
impair their use. During the provisional phase, SASB welcomes feedback from the public. At the
end of the provisional period, based on the codification process outlined in the Rules of
Procedure, SASB will codify the standards and remove the provisional label.
Several factors make SASB’s process unique:
•

•
•

Providing research to industry working groups presents a point of departure for the
evaluation of issues and metrics, which facilitates reaching consensus on disclosure
topics that are reasonably likely to constitute material information for companies in an
industry.
Collecting feedback via online surveys reduced the likelihood of groupthink and allowed
SASB to host large working groups, at no expense or charge to participants.
The public had multiple opportunities to provide feedback on SASB standards, including
industry working groups (open to anyone with five-plus years of industry experience),
public comment periods (open to all), and the Delta Series event (open to all). SASB
actively seeks balanced feedback from its three stakeholder groups: corporations,
market beneficiaries, and public interest/intermediaries.

SASB’s process is transparent. A summary of feedback received during industry working groups
and public comment periods (as well as SASB’s responses) is available in SASB’s reports to the
Standards Council. These reports are posted to the sector pages on SASB’s website after the
Standards Council’s review of the sector.117	

																																																								
117

View Standards Council reports sector by sector, by selecting a sector from the drop-down “sector”
menu at http://www.sasb.org.

	

57	

