SEC INVESTOR ADVISORY COMMITTEE

Panel on Sustainability Reporting
10:30 AM – 12 Noon
July 14, 2016
Opening Remarks of Daniel L Goelzer

Senior Counsel 

Baker & McKenzie

Good morning. I appreciate the opportunity to meet with the Committee to
discuss the important subject of sustainability reporting under the federal securities laws.
I was asked to provide an overview of the Commission’s traditional approach to
pubic company reporting of information relating to corporate social responsibility,
environmental impact, and other matters that fall under the broad heading of
sustainability or ESG.1 I will also offer a few comments on how, in my view, the
Commission should approach these issues today.
The Basic SEC Framework
The framework that the Commission has traditionally applied to ESG reporting
was established in the 1970s, in response to rulemaking petitions and litigation seeking
to compel the Commission to adopt environmental and equal employment disclosure
requirements. As a personal aside, when I arrived in the General Counsel’s office as a
new staff attorney in 1974, I was assigned to that litigation – NRDC v. SEC2 – and it was
one of the main things I worked on during my first years at the Commission.
To comply with one of the court’s orders in the litigation, the Commission invited
comment and held 19 days of public hearings on disclosure of environmental and
socially significant matters. Following those proceedings, the Commission issued a
release3 in 1975 that reached four basic conclusions -	 First, in formulating disclosure policy, the Commission is generally not
authorized to consider the promotion of social goals unrelated to the
objectives of the federal securities laws. Disclosure requirements must be
necessary or appropriate to protecting investors or to informing their
investment or proxy voting decisions.
	 Second, the Commission’s disclosure authority should be exercised to
require information based on its economic significance to investors. The
Commission recognized however that, in the area of proxy disclosure, “the
primacy of economic matters * * * is somewhat less.”4

	 Third, looking at the markets in 1975, the Commission concluded that only
a very small fraction of investors were motived by social responsibility
considerations. Accordingly, the Commission found that there was no
basis to require public companies to disclose information describing
corporate social practices.
	 Fourth, even without specific disclosure requirements, ESG disclosures
may sometimes be necessary to prevent other statements from being
materially incomplete or misleading. In this regard, in 1976, the Supreme
Court held that an omitted fact is material if there is a substantial likelihood
that it “would have been viewed by the reasonable investor as having
significantly altered the ‘total mix’ of information available.”5 Stated
differently, a fact is material if there is a substantial likelihood that it would
be significant to a reasonable investor’s investment or proxy voting
decisions.
The Commission also acknowledged that Congress could expand its disclosure
responsibilities. It concluded that the National Environmental Policy Act was such an
expansion in the sense that it required the Commission to consider environmental
protection as a factor in disclosure.6 As a result, the Commission adopted two rules.
	 First, as part of the description of the business, companies must describe
the material effects that compliance with environmental protection laws
may have on capital expenditures, earnings and competitive position and
on estimated expenditures for environmental control facilities.7
	 Second, with respect to legal proceedings against the company, the
Commission set a lower threshold for disclosure of environmental
litigation than for other types of cases.8
Consistent with these mid-1970s determinations, the Commission did not adopt
any further rules requiring disclosure of ESG matters until, in 2010, Congress directed it
to do so in some specific areas.9
However, since 1975, two important changes have occurred in the disclosure
requirements which do potentially call for some types of sustainability disclosures.
	 Item 303 of Regulation S-K – Management’s Discussion and Analysis –
seeks to provide investors with a view of the company’s financial condition
and results of operations “through the eyes of management.” As relevant
to sustainability disclosures, Item 303 requires disclosure of known trends,
events, and uncertainties that are reasonably likely to have material
effects on the company’s business, financial position or results of
operations.10
	 Item 503(c) of Regulation S-K -- Risk Factors — requires a discussion of
the most significant factors that make an investment in the company
speculative or risky and an explanation of the effects of those risks.

2

Both of these requirements are inherently forward-looking, or predictive and
potentially implicate some of the concerns that sustainability reporting seeks to address.
However, the level of sustainability disclosures in MD&A and Risk Factors is, in practice,
limited and usually quite general.
Financial Statement Disclosure – The FASB
Another piece of the traditional approach to sustainability reporting is financial
statement disclosure. The Financial Accounting Standards Board promulgates the
accounting principles under which financial statements filed with the Commission must
be prepared. Accounting Standards Codification Topic 450 deals with loss
contingencies – that is, possible losses that depend on whether some future event
occurs or fails to occur. Losses resulting from pending litigation and from
environmental remediation obligations are examples of loss contingencies.
ASC 450 requires disclosure of contingencies based on the likelihood that the
uncertain event will occur and result in a material loss.
	 If the uncertain event is “remote” (that is, the chance of its occurring is
slight), the contingency need not be disclosed.
	 However, if the occurrence of the future event is either “probable” or
“reasonable possible”, the contingency must be disclosed in the footnotes
to the financial statements and, in some cases, the loss must be accrued.
Several years ago, the FASB explored requiring disclosure of remote
contingencies that would have a severe impact on the company (for example, disrupt
normal functioning of the business).11 However, the Board withdrew that proposal in
2012.
Recent History
That completes my overview of the traditional approach to sustainability
reporting.12 There have, however, been several more recent developments that are
also relevant.
First, in 2010, the Commission issued an interpretive release providing guidance
on how the existing disclosure requirements apply to climate change matters.13 The
release discusses topics such as the legislation and regulation, business and market
impacts, and physical impacts. It also provides examples of circumstances in which
companies could be required to disclose information concerning the consequences of
climate change-related matters for their business.
Second, Congress has directed the Commission to adopt several ESG-related
disclosure requirements. I would put in that category the Dodd-Frank Act provisions
regarding conflict minerals, resource extraction payments, mine safety, and
CEO/median employee pay-ratios.14
Finally , public company voluntary sustainability reporting has become common.
These reports typically appear on corporate websites and are not filed with the
3

Commission. They are often aimed at broader audiences than investors – such as
customers, employees, local communities, and others with an interest in the
environmental or social impact of the company’s operations. The processes underlying
data collection and preparation of these voluntary reports are often less rigorous than
those that apply to SEC reporting. Also, there is no consistency across companies or
industries as to what is disclosed.
Suggestions for the Way Forward
I would like to close with some suggestions about how the Commission should
approach ESG disclosure.
First, in my view, the underlying principles of the traditional disclosure approach
remain valid. The Commission’s focus should be on requiring disclosures that are
relevant to investment or proxy voting decisions, not other policy goals. As a corollary,
the Commission should retain the existing definition of materiality, which looks to
significance to the reasonable investor.
Second, the Commission’s disclosure system needs to take into account the fact
that today investors can and do use of sustainability information in economically-based
investment decision-making. Unlike the small percentage of investors that used ESG
information in 1975, there is growing demand for this information – not because
investors are necessarily more socially conscious – but because many believe that ESG
disclosures are relevant to their assessment of the long-term profitably and viability of
the businesses in which they invest.
Third, the Commission’s approach to sustainability reporting should be primarily
principles-based, rather than prescriptive. Sustainability issues affect different
companies and different industries in different ways. Across-the-board disclosure rules
are likely to be either under- or over-inclusive and difficult to justify on a cost-benefit
basis.
Finally, the Commission should look for ways to leverage non-governmental
efforts to create disclosure frameworks that provide decision-useful information to
investors. For example, the Sustainability Accounting Standards Board is developing
industry-specific disclosure standards that are intended to dove-tail with the
Commission’s existing requirements, particularly MD&A. Over time, I think there is
great potential for this sort of approach to result in an industry-by-industry consensus
about the type of sustainability information that companies should disclose, without the
need for the Commission itself to grapple with these issues by developing detailed
guidance or writing new disclosure rules.
* * *
Thank you for your attention. I look forward to discussing these issues with the
Committee.

4

Contact information:
Daniel L. Goelzer
Baker & McKenzie LLP
815 Connecticut Avenue, NW
Washington, DC 20006-4078
Tel: +1 202 835 6191
Fax: +1 202 416 7191
daniel.goelzer@bakermckenzie.com

Endnotes:
1

“ESG” – which stands for “environmental, social, and governance” -- is
often used as a shorthand way of referring generally to a broad range of factors that are
relevant to evaluating corporate responsibility and long-term sustainability.
2

The Court of Appeals decision that finally ended this litigation is Natural
Resources Defense Council, Inc. v. Securities and Exchange Commission, 606 F.2d
1031 (D.C. Cir. 1979). The lower court opinions are reported at 389 F. Supp. 689
(D.D.C. 1974) (NRDC I ) and 432 F. Supp. 1190 (D.D.C. 1977) (NRDC II ).
3

Securities Act Releases No. 5627 (Oct. 16, 1975), 40 Fed. Reg. 51656
(1975). See also Securities Act Release No. 5704 (May 6, 1976), 41 Fed. Reg. 21632
(1976).
4

Release No. 5627, supra note 3, 40 Fed. Reg. at 51659.

5

TSC Industries, Inc. v. Northway, Inc. 426 U.S. 438, 449 (1976).

6

Release No. 5627, supra note 3, 40 Fed. Reg. at 51662.

7

Item 101(c)(1)(xii) of Regulation S-K. Item 101(c)(1)(xii) requires
companies to disclose, as part of the Description of Business, “the material effects that
compliance with federal, state and local provisions which have been enacted or adopted
regulation the discharge of materials into the environment, or otherwise relating to the
protection of the environment, may have upon the capital expenditures, earnings and
competitive position” of the company and its subsidiaries; and “any material estimated
capital expenditures for environmental control facilities for the remainder of [the
company’s] current fiscal year and its succeeding fiscal year and for such further
periods as the [company] may deem material.”
8

Item 103 of Regulation S-K requires generally companies disclose
material pending or contemplated legal proceedings, “other than ordinary routine

5

litigation incidental to the business.” Instruction 5 provides that litigation arising under
environmental laws may not be deemed ordinary routine litigation incidental to the
business, and must be disclosed, if (1) the litigation is material; (2) the litigation involves
more than 10 percent of current assets, or (3) a government agency is a party to the
litigation, unless the company reasonably believes any sanctions will be less than
$100,000.
9

See note 14, infra.

10

Item 303 generally requires a company to disclose “material events and
uncertainties known to management that would cause reported financial information not
to be necessarily indicative of future operating results or of future financial condition.
The disclosure focuses “on currently known trends, events, and uncertainties that are
reasonably expected to have material effects” on the company’s business, financial
position or results of operations.
11

See Financial Accounting Standards Board, Exposure Draft, Proposed
Accounting Standards Update, Contingencies (Topic 450), Disclosure of Certain Loss
Contingencies (July 20, 2010).
12

It should be noted that there have been a limited number of environmental
disclosure enforcement actions based the framework. For example –
	 Allied Chemical. In 1977, the Commission brought an enforcement action
against Allied Chemical Corporation alleging that Allied violated Rule 10b5 by failing to disclose potential environmental liabilities which could result
from the discharge of Kepone and other toxic chemicals. No claims had
been asserted, but the company allegedly knew that Kepone was harmful
and could lead to liability. See Litigation Release No. 7811 (1977).
	 United States Steel Corporation. In 1979, the Commission brought an
enforcement action against United States Steel Corporation. This case is
somewhat unique in that the Commission alleged that USS should have
disclosed its policy of “actively resisting environmental requirements which
it maintained were unreasonable.” This policy alleged resulted in delaying
necessary environmental capital expenditures. See Securities Exchange
Act Release No. 16223 (1979).
	 Occidental Petroleum. In 1980, the Commission brought an enforcement
action against Occidental Petroleum Corporation alleging that it had failed
to disclose in its filings potential liabilities arising from the discharge of
toxic waste by a subsidiary, Hooker Chemical, including at the notorious
Love Canal disposal site. See Securities Exchange Act Release No.
16950 (1980).

6



Lee Pharmaceuticals. In 1998, the Commission brought an enforcement
action against Lee Pharmaceuticals alleging that Lee violated Rule 10b-5
by misrepresenting and failing to disclose a material environmental liability.
See Securities Exchange Act Release No. 39843 (1998).

13

Commission Guidance Regarding Disclosure Related to Climate Change,
Securities Act Release No. 9106 (February 2, 2010).
14

Section 1502 of the Dodd-Frank Act adds Section 13(p) to the Securities
Exchange Act. Section 13(p) directs the SEC to adopt rules requiring public companies
to disclose whether certain “conflict minerals” originating in the Democratic Republic of
the Congo and adjoining areas are necessary to the functionality or production of a
product manufactured by the company. The specific minerals consist of cassiterite,
columbite-tantalite, wolframite, their derivatives (tin, tantalum and tungsten), and gold.
Under the Commission’s implementing rules, conflict minerals disclosure is required to
be made on a new report, Form SD. Where the company determines that its products
contain, or may contain, conflict minerals originating from the DRC or its neighbors, it
must also file a conflict minerals report as an exhibit to Form SD. Some aspects of a
conflict minerals report are subject to an independent audit requirement..
Section 1504 of the Dodd-Frank Act adds Section 13(q) to the Securities
Exchange Act. Section 13(q) directs the SEC to require certain disclosures from
“resource extraction issuers,” which are companies required to file an annual report with
the SEC under the Exchange Act that are engaged in the “commercial development of
oil, natural gas and minerals.” The Commission’s implementing rules require resource
extraction issuers to disclose certain payments made (either directly by the issuer or
through a subsidiary or other controlled entity), during the fiscal year covered by the
report, to a foreign government or to the U.S. federal government for the purpose of the
commercial development of oil, natural gas, or minerals.
Under Section 1503 of the Dodd-Frank Act, mining companies are required to
include certain specified information about mine safety and health in quarterly and
annual reports filed with the SEC. In addition, mining companies are required to file a
Form 8-K when they receive certain notices from the Mine Safety and Health
Administration. Section 1503 applies to a public company that is “an operator, or that
has a subsidiary that is an operator, of a coal or other mine.”
Section 953(b) of the Dodd-Frank Act requires the SEC to amend Item 402 of
Regulation S-K to require that companies disclose the median of the annual total
compensation of all employees (except the CEO), the annual total compensation of the
CEO and the ratio of the median of the annual total compensation of all employees to
the annual total compensation of the CEO.
8072473-v1\WASDMS

7

