UNITED STATES OF AMERICA
Before the
SECURITIES AND EXCHANGE COMMISSION
SECURITIES ACT OF 1933
Release No. 10103 / June 23, 2016
ADMINISTRATIVE PROCEEDING
File No. 3-17314
_____________________________________
In the Matter of
:
:
MERRILL LYNCH, PIERCE,
:
FENNER & SMITH INCORPORATED, :
:
:
Respondent.
:
:

ORDER INSTITUTING CEASE AND
DESIST PROCEEDINGS PURSUANT TO
SECTION 8A OF THE SECURITIES
ACT OF 1933, MAKING FINDINGS AND
IMPOSING A CEASE AND DESIST
ORDER

I.
The Securities and Exchange Commission (“Commission”) deems it appropriate and in
the public interest that cease-and-desist proceedings be, and hereby are, instituted pursuant to
Section 8A of the Securities Act of 1933 (“Securities Act”) against Merrill Lynch, Pierce, Fenner
& Smith Incorporated (“Merrill Lynch” or “Respondent”).
II.
In anticipation of the institution of these proceedings, Merrill Lynch has submitted an
Offer of Settlement (“Offer”) which the Commission has determined to accept. Solely for the
purpose of these proceedings and any other proceedings brought by or on behalf of the
Commission, or to which the Commission is a party, and without admitting or denying the
findings herein, except as to the Commission’s jurisdiction over it and the subject matter of these
proceedings, which are admitted, Merrill Lynch consents to the entry of this Order Instituting
Cease-and-Desist Proceedings Pursuant to Section 8A of the Securities Act of 1933, Making
Findings and Imposing a Cease-and-Desist Order (“Order”), as set forth below.
III.
On the basis of this Order and Merrill Lynch’s Offer, the Commission finds1 that:

1

The findings herein are made pursuant to Respondent's Offer of Settlement and are not binding on
any other person or entity in this or any other proceeding.

Summary
1.
These proceedings involve Merrill Lynch’s failure to adequately disclose
certain fixed costs in a proprietary volatility index linked to structured notes known as Strategic
Return Notes (“SRNs”) of Bank of America Corporation (“BAC”). Merrill Lynch offered and
sold approximately $150 million of these volatility notes to approximately 4,000 retail investor
accounts in 2010 and 2011. The disclosures made it appear as if the volatility product had
relatively low fixed costs. The offering materials emphasized that investors would be subject to
a 2% sales commission and a 0.75% annual fee. The offering materials failed to adequately
disclose a third fixed, regularly occurring cost included in its proprietary volatility index known as
the “Execution Factor” (distinct from “holding” or “decay” costs associated with daily
calculation of the underlying index which are variable and depend upon market conditions). As
a result, the disclosures in the offering materials of the fixed costs associated with the SRNs were
materially misleading.
Respondent
2.
Merrill Lynch, Pierce, Fenner & Smith Incorporated (“Merrill Lynch”) is a
registered broker-dealer headquartered in New York, New York. Merrill Lynch is an indirect,
wholly-owned subsidiary of BAC.
Facts
Strategic Return Notes
3.
Volatility products are complex financial instruments marketed and sold to both
retail and institutional clients; this case arises from Merrill Lynch’s retail sales of SRNs, which
were the first structured volatility product offered and sold to retail investors by BAC through
Merrill Lynch. A number of other large financial institutions marketed similar volatility products
during the same time period.
4.
Between October 2010 and July 2011, BAC offered and sold approximately $150
million in SRNs linked to the Investable Volatility Index (“VOL” or “Index”). The public
offering price was $10 per unit and the underwriting discount was $0.20. Underwriting fees to
Merrill Lynch were approximately $3 million.
5.
Merrill Lynch was principally responsible for preparation of BAC’s offering
documents. These included the following prospectuses in registration statements filed with the
Commission by BAC: a Prospectus dated April 20, 2009; a Medium Term Notes, Series L,
Prospectus Supplement dated April 21, 2009; nine Final Pricing Supplements for offerings issued
on October 4, 2010, November 8, 2010, December 3, 2010, December 31, 2010, February 7, 2011,
March 7, 2011, April 4, 2011, May 9, 2011 and July 5, 2011 (collectively the “Pricing Supps”);
and a fact sheet entitled “Investible Volatility Index” that was filed with the Commission as a free
writing prospectus (together with Pricing Supps, Offering Documents).

2

6.
The SRNs had a five-year term and permitted earlier redemption as specified in
the Pricing Supps. The SRNs paid no interest. Investors were entitled to a cash payment at
maturity or during specified redemption periods dependent upon the level of the VOL.
7.
According to the Pricing Supps, the VOL “provides a measure of market volatility
in the equity markets” and “is designed to measure the return of an investment in the forward
implied volatility of the S&P 500 index for a three-month period with a mid-point approximately
five months in the future.” The VOL does so by reference to publicly available levels of implied
volatility on the S&P 500 index and uses those levels to calculate levels of forward implied
volatility over different intervals of time. The VOL then treated those levels of forward implied
volatility like assets that were bought and sold as part of a hypothetical portfolio. The hypothetical
portfolio is rebalanced every business day to maintain a constant exposure to the specified forward
implied volatility. In the daily rebalancing process, a fixed cost known as the “Execution Factor” is
applied to each synthetic purchase of forward implied volatility as part of the Index calculation.
Relevant Statements
8.
The Cover Page and Key Features sections of the retail Pricing Supps disclosed
certain fixed costs associated with the SRNs. The Cover Page represented that “Return [will be]
reduced by a 2% sales charge and an Index Adjustment Factor that will accrue daily at the rate of
0.75% per annum.” T he Key Features section of the Pricing Supps represented that the “SRNs
provide a positive return for investors if the level of the [Index], adjusted as described below,
increases by at least the sum of (i) approximately 2% and (ii) the accrued Index Adjustment Factor
. . . the level of the Index will be reduced by the Index Adjustment Factor of 0.75% per annum . .
.” The Key Features section further represented that the Index Adjustment Factor would lower
the level of the VOL by 3.67% over the five year term of the note.
9.
In addition, the Key Features section of the retail Pricing Supps represented that, as
a result of the cumulative and combined effects of the sales charge and Index Adjustment Factor,
“in order for you to receive at least the $10 Original Offering Price per unit on the maturity date,
the level of the Index must increase by more than 5.93% from the Starting Value.” The fixed
costs represented by the 2% sales charge and the 0.75% Index Adjustment Factor were described
multiple times in the Pricing Supps, in narrative language which explained the amount of each
fixed cost, what it was multiplied against and how often it applied.
Execution Factor
10.
Merrill Lynch did not adequately include in the Offering Documents an additional
regularly occurring fixed cost, known as the “Execution Factor,” that was included in the Index. The
Execution Factor increased by 1.5% the cost, or level, of each unit of forward implied volatility being
purchased as part of that day’s rebalancing. Because the hypothetical portfolio completely turned
over each quarter, the Execution Factor imposed a cost of 1.5% on the Index each quarter. The Index
also included a feature called the Index Multiplier which increased the daily Index calculation by
120% including the effect of the Execution Factor.
11.
The Pricing Supps included a 4-page narrative or description of the VOL. The
Execution Factor was not mentioned in that narrative description of the Index.

3

12.
Under the heading “[t]he method by which the Index is calculated includes
features which may reduce the amount payable on the SRNs,” the Risk Factors section of the
Pricing Supps provided in relevant part: “The methodology of the Index includes an ‘Execution
Factor’ that is designed to reflect the transaction costs that would be incurred in attempting to
implement an investment strategy that replicates the Index. The Execution Factor has the effect
of reducing the actual level of the Index on any given Index Business Day.” Because the forward
implied volatility levels from which the Index is calculated do not themselves account for
transaction costs, the Pricing Supps stated that the Execution Factor was intended to represent
the transaction costs that would be incurred by an investor pursuing a strategy that replicates the
Index.
13.
Annex A to the Pricing Supps included a complex six-step mathematical formula
used to calculate the level of the VOL. The following description of the Execution Factor was
provided at step four of the Index calculation: “The Execution Factor is equal to 1.015 and is
designed to reflect the transaction costs that would be incurred in implementing a strategy that
replicates the Index. The Execution Factor is only applied to the equation where n1 or n2 is to be
increased from the level n1 t-1 or n2 t-1, respectively.” A sample Annex A is attached hereto.
14.
A reasonable retail investor would have considered it important to the total mix of
information available when purchasing the SRNs that the Execution Factor imposed a transaction
cost of 1.5% of the Index value each quarter, accruing on a daily basis. Merrill Lynch’s failure to
adequately include the Execution Factor rendered the cost disclosures relating to the fixed 2% sales
charge and 0.75% Index Adjustment Factor materially misleading.
Merrill Lynch’s Negligence
15.
As an issuer of securities, BAC had a duty to disclose all material information
necessary to make statements contained in the retail Pricing Supps, in light of the circumstances
under which they were made, not misleading. BAC delegated to Merrill Lynch principal
responsibility for drafting and reviewing the retail Pricing Supps. Within Merrill Lynch, primary
responsibility for drafting and reviewing the retail Pricing Supps was spread among different groups
(as supplemented by outside counsel). Merrill Lynch failed to have in place an effective policy,
procedure or internal communication process to provide reasonable assurances that the
individuals with primary responsibility for drafting, reviewing and approving the retail Pricing
Supps prepared disclosures for BAC regarding the Execution Factor that were not materially
misleading in light of the disclosure of other fixed, regularly occurring costs.
*

*

*

16.
As a result of the negligent conduct described above, Merrill Lynch violated
Section 17(a)(2) of the Securities Act which prohibits obtaining money or property by means of
material misstatements and omissions in the offer or sale of securities.

4

IV.
In view of the foregoing, the Commission deems it appropriate and in the public interest
to impose the sanctions agreed to in Merrill Lynch’s Offer.
Accordingly, pursuant to Section 8A of the Securities Act, it is hereby ORDERED that:
A.
Merrill Lynch cease and desist from committing or causing any violations and any
future violations of Section 17(a)(2) of the Securities Act.
B.
Merrill Lynch shall, within ten (10) days of the entry of this Order, pay a civil
monetary penalty in the amount of $10 million to the Securities and Exchange Commission for
transfer to the general fund of United States Treasury in accordance with Exchange Act Section
21F(g)(3). If timely payment is not made, additional interest shall accrue pursuant to 31 U.S.C.
3717. Payment to the Commission must be made in one of the following ways:
i.

Merrill Lynch may transmit payment electronically to the Commission,
which will provide detailed ACH transfer/Fedwire instructions upon
request;

ii.

Merrill Lynch may make direct payment from a bank account via Pay.gov
through the SEC website at http://www.sec.gov/about/offices/ofm.htm; or

iii.

Merrill Lynch may pay by certified check, bank cashier’s check, or United
States postal money order, made payable to the Securities and Exchange
Commission and hand-delivered or mailed to:
Enterprise Services Center
Accounts Receivable Branch
HQ Bldg., Room 181, AMZ-341
6500 South MacArthur Boulevard
Oklahoma City, OK 73169

Payments must be accompanied by a cover letter identifying BAC as a Respondent in
these proceedings and the file number of these proceedings. Proof of payment must be sent to
Reid A. Muoio, Deputy Chief, Complex Financial Instruments Unit, Division of Enforcement,
Securities and Exchange Commission, 100 F St. NE, Washington, DC 20549.
By the Commission.
Brent J. Fields
Secretary

5

6

7

8

