ADMINISTRATIVE PROCEEDING
File No. 3-17603
Colorado-Based Marijuana Company and CEO Settle Fraud Charges
September 30, 2016 – The Securities and Exchange Commission today announced that
Colorado-based Rainbow International, Corp., a/k/a Raintree Brands Incorporated (“Rainbow
International”), and its CEO, Donald R. Corn, agreed to settle fraud charges relating to several
false or misleading statements they made about Rainbow International’s purported operations in
the marijuana industry.
An SEC investigation found that, from May 5, 2014 to September 4, 2014, Rainbow
International and Corn claimed that Rainbow International had acquired cannabidiol, a chemical
derived from hemp plants, and that the company maintained a working relationship with over
twenty companies wanting to acquire its cannabidiol. That claim was false; Rainbow
International had not acquired cannabidiol and did not have a relationship with any company
wanting to acquire its cannabidiol. Rainbow International and Corn also falsely claimed that
Rainbow International was developing topical products, that it was generating rental revenues,
and that Corn had invested significantly more personal funds in the company than he actually
had.
The SEC’s order instituting a settled administrative proceeding finds that Rainbow International
and Corn violated the antifraud provisions of the Securities Act of 1933 and the Securities
Exchange Act of 1934. Without admitting or denying the SEC’s findings, Rainbow International
and Corn consented to a cease-and-desist order. The order also imposes an officer and director
bar and a penny stock bar on Corn. In a separate order, the SEC temporarily suspended trading
in Rainbow International stock.
The SEC’s investigation was conducted by Laura Ordaz of the Denver Regional Office with
assistance from Judy Bizu, and was supervised by LauraMetcalfe, Kurt Gottschall, and Julie
Lutz. The SEC appreciates the assistance of the Financial Industry Regulatory Authority
(FINRA).
See also:

Order

