ADMINISTRATIVE PROCEEDING
File No. 3-17319
SEC Charges Former Registered Representative with Misappropriating Investor Funds
From Pooled Oil and Gas Investments
June 28, 2016 – The Securities and Exchange Commission today announced fraud charges
against a former registered representative, Jan E. Helen, for allegedly misappropriating investor
funds from two oil and gas pooled investment vehicles that he managed, Janco Energy Partners
II, LLC (“JEP II”) and Janco Energy Partners III, LLC (“JEP III”).
The SEC’s Enforcement Division alleges that from approximately November 2012 through the
present, Helen has been the sole owner and control person of Janco Properties, LLC, which is the
manager and investment adviser to JEP II and JEP III. Pursuant to their offering documents, JEP
II and JEP III were formed to invest in working interests in oil and gas exploration. According
to the SEC’s order, however, from approximately March 2013 through June 2014, Helen
misappropriated investor funds by taking at least $165,200 in unauthorized and undisclosed
personal loans from JEP II and JEP III. Among other things, the Enforcement Division alleges
that Helen began misappropriating investor funds from JEP III less than a week after it received
its first investor contribution. Helen’s alleged scheme was uncovered during the summer of
2014, during a regulatory review of Helen’s then-broker-dealer, Janco Partners, Inc.
Based upon this conduct, the SEC’s Enforcement Division alleges that Helen willfully violated
Section 17(a) of the Securities Act of 1933, Section 10(b) of the Securities Exchange Act of
1934 and Rule 10b-5 thereunder with respect to JEP III, and, in the alternative, willfully aided
and abetted and caused JEP III’s violations of Section 10(b) of the Exchange Act and Rule 10b5(b) thereunder, and that Helen willfully violated Section 206(4) of the Investment Advisers Act
of 1940 and Rule 206(4)-8 thereunder with respect to JEP II and JEP III. The matter will be
scheduled for a public hearing before an administrative law judge, who will prepare an initial
decision stating what, if any, remedial actions are appropriate.
The investigation was conducted by Marc D. Ricchiute and Tracy W. Bowen and supervised by
Kurt L. Gottschall in the Denver Regional Office. The Enforcement Division’s litigation will be
led by Mr. Ricchiute and Danielle R. Voorhees. The SEC appreciates the assistance of the
Financial Industry Regulatory Authority.
See also: Order

