UNITED STATES OF AMERICA
Before the
SECURITIES AND EXCHANGE COMMISSION
SECURITIES ACT OF 1933
Release No. 10236 / October 18, 2016
SECURITIES EXCHANGE ACT OF 1934
Release No. 79112 / October 18, 2016
INVESTMENT ADVISERS ACT OF 1940
Release No. 4553 / October 18, 2016
INVESTMENT COMPANY ACT OF 1940
Release No. 32320 / October 18, 2016
ADMINISTRATIVE PROCEEDING
File No. 3-17629
ORDER INSTITUTING ADMINISTRATIVE
AND CEASE-AND-DESIST PROCEEDINGS,
PURSUANT TO 8A OF THE SECURITIES
ACT OF 1933, SECTIONS 15(b) AND 21C OF
THE SECURITIES EXCHANGE ACT OF
1934, SECTION 203(f) OF THE
INVESTMENT ADVISERS ACT OF 1940,
AND SECTION 9(b) OF THE INVESTMENT
COMPANY ACT OF 1940, MAKING
FINDINGS, AND IMPOSING REMEDIAL
SANCTIONS AND A CEASE-AND-DESIST
ORDER

In the Matter of
PAUL T. LEBEL,
Respondent.

I.
The Securities and Exchange Commission (“Commission”) deems it appropriate and in the
public interest that public administrative and cease-and-desist proceedings be, and hereby are,
instituted pursuant to Section 8A of the Securities Act of 1933 (“Securities Act”), Sections 15(b),
and 21C of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934 (“Exchange Act”), Section 203(f) of the
Investment Advisers Act of 1940 (“Advisers Act”), and Section 9(b) of the Investment Company
Act of 1940 (“Investment Company Act”) against Paul T. Lebel (“Lebel” or “Respondent”).
II.
In anticipation of the institution of these proceedings, Respondent has submitted an Offer
of Settlement (the “Offer”) which the Commission has determined to accept. Solely for the
purpose of these proceedings and any other proceedings brought by or on behalf of the

Commission, or to which the Commission is a party, and without admitting or denying the findings
herein, except as to the Commission’s jurisdiction over him and the subject matter of these
proceedings, which are admitted, and except as provided herein in Section V, Respondent consents
to the entry of this Order Instituting Administrative and Cease-and-Desist Proceedings, pursuant to
8A of the Securities Act of 1933, Sections 15(b) and 21C of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934,
Section 203(f) of the Investment Advisers Act of 1940, and Section 9(b) of the Investment
Company Act of 1940, Making Findings, and Imposing Remedial Sanctions and a Cease-andDesist Order (“Order”), as set forth below.
III.
On the basis of this Order and Respondent’s Offer, the Commission finds1 that
Respondent
1.
Respondent was a registered representative of various broker-dealers for almost 13
years when he became associated as a registered representative with registered broker-dealer and
investment adviser LPL Financial LLC (“LPL”) in August of 2008. From August 2008 to
November 2014, he conducted his work from his home, a branch office of LPL. Respondent, age
56, is a resident of Cambridge, Massachusetts and is not currently registered or licensed with any
broker-dealer or investment adviser.
Background
2.
During his employment with LPL, Lebel defrauded four customers by churning
several of their accounts. In particular, Lebel exercised de facto control over these customers’
accounts and excessively traded mutual fund shares which carry large front-end load fees (A
shares). Lebel’s excessive trading was inconsistent with the customers’ investment objectives, and
willfully disregarded the customers’ interest. Mutual fund A shares are designed for long-term,
buy-and-hold investing and are unsuited for any known strategy involving frequent trading. From
August 2008 through August 2014, Lebel executed numerous mutual fund A share trades that, in
light of Lebel’s customers’ investment objectives, were fraudulent, made to the detriment of
Lebel’s customers, and without justification other than the generation of commissions for Lebel.
The commissions paid to Lebel for those trades totaled $50,037.
3.
As a result of the conduct described above, Lebel willfully violated Sections
17(a)(1) and 17(a)(3) of the Securities Act and Section 10(b) of the Exchange Act and Rules 10b5(a) and 10b-5(c) thereunder, which prohibit fraudulent conduct in the offer or sale of securities
and in connection with the purchase or sale of securities.

1

The findings herein are made pursuant to Respondent's Offer of Settlement and are not
binding on any other person or entity in this or any other proceeding.
2

Disgorgement and Civil Penalties
4.
Respondent has submitted a sworn Statement of Financial Condition dated March
29, 2016 and other evidence and has asserted his inability to pay disgorgement plus prejudgment
interest and a civil penalty.
IV.
In view of the foregoing, the Commission deems it appropriate, in the public interest to
impose the sanctions agreed to in Respondent Lebel’s Offer.
Accordingly, pursuant to Section 8A of the Securities Act, Sections 15(b) and 21C of the
Exchange Act, Section 203(f) of the Advisers Act, and Section 9(b) of the Investment Company
Act, it is hereby ORDERED that:
A.
Respondent Lebel cease and desist from committing or causing any violations and
any future violations of Sections 17(a)(1) and 17(a)(3) of the Securities Act, Section 10(b) of the
Exchange Act and Rules 10b-5(a) and 10b-5(c) thereunder.
B.

Respondent Lebel be, and hereby is:
barred from association with any broker, dealer, investment adviser,
municipal securities dealer, municipal advisor, transfer agent, or nationally
recognized statistical rating organization; and
barred from participating in any offering of a penny stock, including: acting
as a promoter, finder, consultant, agent or other person who engages in
activities with a broker, dealer or issuer for purposes of the issuance or
trading in any penny stock, or inducing or attempting to induce the purchase
or sale of any penny stock.

C.
Any reapplication for association by the Respondent will be subject to the
applicable laws and regulations governing the reentry process, and reentry may be conditioned
upon a number of factors, including, but not limited to, the satisfaction of any or all of the
following: (a) any disgorgement ordered against the Respondent, whether or not the Commission
has fully or partially waived payment of such disgorgement; (b) any arbitration award related to the
conduct that served as the basis for the Commission order; (c) any self-regulatory organization
arbitration award to a customer, whether or not related to the conduct that served as the basis for
the Commission order; and (d) any restitution order by a self-regulatory organization, whether or
not related to the conduct that served as the basis for the Commission order.
D.
Respondent shall pay disgorgement of $50,037.00 and prejudgment interest of
$6,489.00, but payment of such amount except for $10,000.00 is waived based upon Respondent’s
sworn representations in his Statement of Financial Condition dated March 29, 2016 and other
documents submitted to the Commission. Payment shall be made in the following installments:
3

$833.34 to be paid in quarterly installments over three years with the first payment due 30 days
from the date this Order is issued. If any payment is not made by the date the payment required by
this Order, the entire outstanding balance of disgorgement shall be due and payable immediately,
without further application.
Payment must be made in one of the following ways:
(1)

Respondent may transmit payment electronically to the Commission, which
will provide detailed ACH transfer/Fedwire instructions upon request;

(2)

Respondent may make direct payment from a bank account via Pay.gov
through the SEC website at http://www.sec.gov/about/offices/ofm.htm; or

(3)

Respondent may pay by certified check, bank cashier’s check, or United
States postal money order, made payable to the Securities and Exchange
Commission and hand-delivered or mailed to:

Enterprise Services Center
Accounts Receivable Branch
HQ Bldg., Room 181, AMZ-341
6500 South MacArthur Boulevard
Oklahoma City, OK 73169
Payments by check or money order must be accompanied by a cover letter identifying Paul
T. Lebel as a Respondent in these proceedings, and the file number of these proceedings; a copy of
the cover letter and check or money order must be sent to John Dugan, Associate Regional
Director, Division of Enforcement, Securities and Exchange Commission, 33 Arch Street, 24th
Floor, Boston, Massachusetts 02110-1424.
E.
Based upon Respondent's sworn representations in his Statement of Financial
Condition dated March 29, 2016 and other documents submitted to the Commission, the
Commission is not imposing a penalty against Respondent.
F.
The Division of Enforcement ("Division") may, at any time following the entry of
this Order, petition the Commission to: (1) reopen this matter to consider whether Respondent
provided accurate and complete financial information at the time such representations were made;
and (2) seek an order directing payment of disgorgement, pre-judgment interest and the maximum
civil penalty allowable under the law. No other issue shall be considered in connection with this
petition other than whether the financial information provided by Respondent was fraudulent,
misleading, inaccurate, or incomplete in any material respect. Respondent may not, by way of
defense to any such petition: (1) contest the findings in this Order; (2) assert that payment of
disgorgement, interest, and penalty should not be ordered; (3) contest the amount of disgorgement
and interest to be ordered and the imposition of the maximum penalty allowable under the law; or
(4) assert any defense to liability or remedy, including, but not limited to, any statute of limitations
defense.
4

V.
It is further Ordered that, solely for purposes of exceptions to discharge set forth in Section
523 of the Bankruptcy Code, 11 U.S.C. §523, the findings in this Order are true and admitted by
Respondent, and further, any debt for disgorgement, prejudgment interest, civil penalty or other
amounts due by Respondent under this Order or any other judgment, order, consent order, decree
or settlement agreement entered in connection with this proceeding, is a debt for the violation by
Respondent of the federal securities laws or any regulation or order issued under such laws, as set
forth in Section 523(a)(19) of the Bankruptcy Code, 11 U.S.C. §523(a)(19).

By the Commission.

Brent J. Fields
Secretary

5

