ADMINISTRATIVE PROCEEDING
File No. 3-17253
SEC Charges St. Louis Investment Adviser and its Principal with Fraud
May 19, 2016 – The Securities and Exchange Commission today announced charges against St.
Louis resident James A. Winkelmann, Sr., and Blue Ocean Portfolios, LLC, an SEC-registered
investment adviser, for allegedly fraudulent offerings that raised $1.4 million from 24 investors,
most of whom were Blue Ocean advisory clients.
The SEC’s Enforcement Division alleges that Winkelmann and Blue Ocean claimed that the return
on Blue Ocean’s “Royalty Unit” securities was driven by Blue Ocean’s advertising conversion
rate, which they misrepresented in four separate offerings, leading investors to believe they would
be repaid more rapidly. The Enforcement Division alleges that the advertising conversion rate was
inflated by more than 100 percent in the first offering memorandum, by more than 75 percent in
the second offering, by more than 50 percent in the third offering, and by approximately 15 percent
in the fourth offering.
The Enforcement Division also alleges that:


Winkelmann misrepresented the success of the Royalty Unit offerings to prospective
investors, including by sending an email to an advisory client in which Winkelmann
overstated the amounts earlier Royalty Unit investors had been repaid by over 85%.



Winkelmann and Blue Ocean made materially misleading statements regarding one of
Winkelmann’s business associates by not disclosing that the associate was barred by the
Missouri Division of Securities from acting “as an agent or an investment adviser
representative in the State of Missouri” as a result of his improper offer of securities to
advisory clients.



Winkelmann and Blue Ocean failed to disclose the conflict of interest between themselves
and their advisory clients who purchased Royalty Units, and made materially misleading
statements about the “alignment” of these investors’ interests and Winkelmann’s, whose
interests were competing, not aligned.



Winkelmann and Blue Ocean failed to disclose that Blue Ocean was paying material
amounts of Royalty Unit investor proceeds to companies owned and controlled by
Winkelmann, and that Blue Ocean ultimately paid over $100,000 from Royalty Unit
proceeds as purported “management fees” to certain of Winkelmann’s other companies.



Winkelmann and Blue Ocean violated or caused violations of the custody provision of the
Investment Advisers Act of 1940, which is designed to protect advisory client funds, and
also violated or caused violations of the Act’s compliance and reporting provisions.

Based upon the foregoing, the Enforcement Division alleges that Winkelmann and Blue Ocean
violated, caused, or caused and willfully aided and abetted, violations of, Section 17(a) of the

Securities Act of 1933, Section 10(b) of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934 and Rule 10b-5
thereunder, and Sections 206(1), 206(2), 206(4), and 207 of the Investment Advisers Act of 1940
and Rules 206(4)-2 and 206(4)-7.
The matter will be scheduled for a public hearing before an administrative law judge, who will
prepare an initial decision stating what, if any, remedial actions are appropriate. The investigation
was conducted by David F. Benson and supervised by Paul A. Montoya of the Enforcement
Division’s Asset Management Unit. The Enforcement Division’s litigation will be led by
Benjamin J. Hanauer. The SEC appreciates the assistance of the Missouri Division of Securities.
See also: Order

2

