UNITED STATES OF AMERICA
Before the
SECURITIES AND EXCHANGE COMMISSION
SECURITIES ACT OF 1933
Release No. 10120 / August 15, 2016
SECURITIES EXCHANGE ACT OF 1934
Release No. 78572 / August 15, 2016
INVESTMENT ADVISERS ACT OF 1940
Release No. 4485 / August 15, 2016
INVESTMENT COMPANY ACT OF 1940
Release No. 32214 / August 15, 2016
ADMINISTRATIVE PROCEEDING
File No. 3-17387
ORDER INSTITUTING
ADMINISTRATIVE AND CEASEAND-DESIST PROCEEDINGS
PURSUANT TO SECTION 8A OF THE
SECURITIES ACT OF 1933, SECTION
21C OF THE SECURITIES
EXCHANGE ACT OF 1934, SECTIONS
203(e), 203(f) AND 203(k) OF THE
INVESTMENT ADVISERS ACT OF
1940, AND SECTION 9(b) OF THE
INVESTMENT COMPANY ACT OF
1940

In the Matter of
Donald F. (“Jay”) Lathen,
Jr.,
Eden Arc Capital
Management, LLC, and
Eden Arc Capital
Advisors, LLC,
Respondents.

I.
The Securities and Exchange Commission (“Commission”) deems it appropriate
and in the public interest that public administrative and cease-and-desist proceedings be,
and hereby are, instituted pursuant to Section 8A of the Securities Act of 1933 (“Securities
Act”) and Section 21C of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934 (“Exchange Act”), against
Donald F. (“Jay”) Lathen, Jr. (“Lathen”), Eden Arc Capital Management, LLC (“EACM”),
and Eden Arc Capital Advisors, LLC (“EACA”), Sections 203(e), (f) and (k) of the
Investment Advisors Act of 1940 (“Advisers Act”) against Lathen and EACM, and Section
9(b) of the Investment Company Act of 1940 (“Investment Company Act”) against Lathen.

II.

A.

SUMMARY

After an investigation, the Division of Enforcement alleges that:
1.
Since approximately March 2011, Respondents engaged in a fraudulent
scheme involving the establishment of a fund that would profit from the use of
misrepresentations and omissions of material facts to issuers of medium and long-term
bonds and notes (“bonds”) by falsely portraying Lathen and other individuals as owners of
those bonds, in order to redeem the instruments prior to maturity at par pursuant to survivor
options, in violation of Section 17(a) of the Securities Act, Section 10(b) of the Exchange
Act and Rule 10b-5 thereunder, which prohibit fraudulent conduct in the offer and sale of
securities and in connection with the purchase or sale of securities.
2.
Since approximately October 2012 through approximately February 2016,
EACM willfully violated Section 206(4) of the Advisers Act and Rule 206(4)-2 thereunder
(the “custody rule”) and Lathen willfully aided, abetted, and caused EACM’s custody rule
violations by failing to custody the funds and securities of EACM’s client, Eden Arc
Capital Partners, LP (“EACP” or the “Fund”) in an account under EACP’s name or in an
account that contained only clients’ funds and securities, under EACM’s name as agent or
trustee for the clients. Instead, Lathen and EACM placed EACP’s funds and securities in
brokerage accounts titled in the name of Lathen and various third parties.

B.

RESPONDENTS

3.
Donald F. “Jay” Lathen, Jr. (“Lathen”), age 48, is a resident of New
York, NY. Lathen is the sole owner and control person, CEO, CFO and Chief Compliance
Officer of Eden Arc Capital Management, LLC (“EACM”), which is the adviser to Eden
Arc Capital Partners, LP (“EACP” or “the Fund”). Lathen is also the 100% owner of Eden
Arc Capital Advisors, LLC (“EACA”).
4.
Eden Arc Capital Management, LLC (“EACM”), incorporated in
Delaware, is an investment adviser that was registered with the Commission between
October 31, 2012 and February 23, 2016, with its principal place of business in New York,
NY. It is the adviser to Eden Arc Capital Partners, LP (“EACP” or “the Fund”) and
receives management fees from the Fund, with different investors paying different fees,
ranging from 0.5% to 2% of assets under management. Lathen is the sole member of
EACM.
5.
Eden Arc Capital Advisors, LLC (“EACA”), incorporated in Delaware,
is the general partner of Eden Arc Capital Partners, LP. Its principal place of business is
New York, NY. Lathen is 100% owner of EACA. EACA receives incentive fees from the

2

Fund ranging from 16% to 30% of fund profits, with different investors paying different
fees.

C.

RELATED ENTITIES

6.
Eden Arc Capital Partners, LP (“EACP” or the “Fund”) is a pooled
investment vehicle that Lathen started in 2011. At its peak, EACP had approximately $52
million of assets and 22 investors, including the general partner, EACA. According to
EACM’s January 2016 amendment to its Form ADV, EACP had over $31 million of
assets. EACP is a Delaware limited partnership with its principal place of business in New
York, NY.
7.
EndCare is a marketing vehicle that Lathen founded to attract terminally
ill individuals. In the EndCare marketing materials, Lathen described EndCare as an
“end of life financial assistance program.” In the Fund’s March 2011 Private Placement
Memorandum, it states, “In July 2009, Mr. Lathen founded and has been the President
and CEO of EndCare, a specialty investment company focused on survivor’s option
corporate bonds.”
D.

FACTS

The Fund’s Strategy: Investing in Instruments with “Survivor Options”
8.
to the Fund.

Beginning in or around March 2011, Lathen began obtaining subscriptions

9.
As described to current and prospective investors in the Fund’s documents,
the Fund’s investment strategy involved purchasing medium and long-term bonds and
certificates of deposit (“CDs”) that contain “survivor options” or “death puts” (“Survivor
Option Investments” or “SO Investments”). The Fund’s March 2011 Private Placement
Memorandum (“PPM”), which lists EACA as the general partner, explained that such
provisions “allow the investment, typically a fixed income security, to be sold back or
‘‘put’’ to the issuer, at par plus accrued interest, upon the death of the holder.”
10.
The PPM further explained: “By purchasing SO Investments at a discount
to par, the Partnership hopes to generate superior uncorrelated risk-adjusted returns through
an eventual exercise of the survivor’s option put right.” According to the PPM, “there are
numerous opportunities to purchase SO Investments in the secondary market at a discount
to par.”
11.
In addition to purchasing the SOInvestments at a discount, the Fund –
which as a corporate entity cannot die – employed a strategy to exercise the death puts, and
to do so with sufficient speed and certainty to lock in high yields resulting from the ability
to quickly sell the SO Investments back to the issuers at par.

3

12.
Accordingly, the PPM defined the “key element” of EACP’s strategy as
acquiring “[Survivor Option] Investments in joint accounts” with terminally ill individuals
(“Participants”) who “must have a life expectancy of less than 6 months as determined by a
physician.”
13.
In return, the PPM stated that the Fund would compensate the Participants
“for agreeing to be an owner of a joint account.” Meanwhile, because the strategy required
an additional natural person to be on the joint accounts with Participants, Lathen himself
would “serve as Nominee for the Partnership on the Joint Accounts for no consideration”
according to the PPM.
14.
On or around April 19, 2011, the Fund opened and began executing the
strategy described in its offering documents.
15.
On or around May 1, 2011, the Fund entered into an Investment
Management Agreement with EACM. Also parties to the Investment Management
Agreement were Lathen and Lathen’s relative, described in the Investment Management
Agreement as “nominees for the Investment Manager.”
16.
The Investment Management Agreement authorized Lathen and his relative
to act on behalf of EACM and the Fund, and to purchase SO Investments and establish
joint accounts with Participants.
17.
Paragraph 4 of the Investment Management Agreement (“Appointment of
Nominees”) provided, in relevant part:
…In performing its duties hereunder, the Nominees covenant and agree
that:
(a) It will hold, as and from the date hereof, the SO Investment, and all
right, title and interest therein and benefit to be derived therefrom, as
nominee for and on behalf of the Partnership [Fund] only;
(b) It has no legal or beneficial interest in the SO Investments;
(c) All other attributes of the beneficial ownership of the SO Investments
shall be and remain in Partnership; ….
The Fund’s Use of Participants and Joint Brokerage Accounts
18.
On or around May 8, 2011, through Endcare, Lathen began signing up
terminally ill Participants in order to purchase SO Investments for the Fund.
19.
Using contacts at nursing homes and hospices to identify patients that had a
prognosis of less than six months left to live, and conducting due diligence into the
patients’ medical condition, Lathen found Participants he could use to execute the Fund’s

4

strategy. In return for agreeing to become a joint owner on an account with Lathen and/or
another individual, the Participants were promised a fixed fee—typically, $10,000.
20.
Lathen required the Participants or their agents to sign a Participant
Agreement in which the Participants agreed to “become joint owner with Lathen and/or
one or more designee(s)…appointed by Lathen on one or more brokerage Account(s).”
21.
Lathen required the Participants or their agents to sign a Limited Power of
Attorney form, appointing Lathen and EACM the “true and lawful attorney” to “open,
manage, handle, and direct brokerage accounts titled in the undersigned’s name either
individually or jointly,” among other powers.
22.
On or around May 8, 2011, Lathen began submitting applications to the
Fund’s prime broker to open joint accounts on behalf of himself and Participants, and at
times an additional account holder (Lathen’s relative).
23.
Lathen included his relative as an additional account holder so that if Lathen
were to unexpectedly pre-decease the terminally ill individual, the relative could return the
assets in the joint accounts to the Fund.
24.
The account opening form listed Lathen, the Participant, and at times
Lathen’s relative, as joint owners, purportedly holding the assets in the account as joint
tenants with right of survivorship.
25.
In reality, Lathen, the Participant, and Lathen’s relative were not owners of
the accounts or the assets therein, but nominees for the Fund.
26.
Since May 2011, Lathen signed up over 60 Participants for use as nominees
on the Fund’s brokerage accounts.
27.
None of the Participants ever received more money than the initial one-time
fee they were paid after the brokerage account was opened and the securities were
purchased in the account.
28.
Since May 2011, Lathen has opened up over 60 accounts with the Fund’s
prime brokers, listing Lathen and the respective Participant as joint account holders. None
of those accounts listed the Fund as an owner, or Lathen and the Participant as nominees,
trustees or agents for the Fund.
29.
Every account that Lathen opened from May 2011 forward was opened as
purported joint account with rights of survivorship between Lathen and a Participant (and
at times Lathen’s relative as a third accountholder).
30.
At all relevant times, as Lathen himself was aware, the Fund could not
lawfully be a joint owner on such accounts because, as a corporate entity, it would not have
been entitled to “survivorship” rights.

5

EACP’s Funding of the Joint Accounts
31.
In or around May 2011, EACP began funding the various joint accounts in
order to purchase SO Investments, in accordance with the Fund’s disclosed investment
strategy.
32.
Since May 2011, the Fund purchased approximately 2350 SO Investments
from dozens of issuers through the joint accounts. The Fund’s money, together with
margin loans advanced by the Fund’s prime brokers, represented the sole source of
purchase monies for the SO Investments.
33.
Since May 2011, the Fund paid all costs associated with the joint accounts
and the SO Investments contained in the accounts, including brokerage fees, margin calls,
and income taxes.
34.
Neither Lathen nor any of the Participants ever provided any purchase
money for the SO Investments or paid any of the costs associated with holding the
investments in the joint accounts.
The Fund Profits from the Survivor Options Through
Lathen’s Misrepresentations And Omissions to the Issuers of the Instruments
35.
Since May 2011, when Lathen began purchasing SO Investments in the
joint accounts, his purpose in purchasing the bonds and CDs was to redeem them prior to
maturity upon the death of the Participants.
36.
Beginning in August 2011, Lathen began to “put” the SO Investments back
to the respective issuers by exercising the survivor option upon the death of the Fund’s
nominee Participants.
37.
In order to exercise the survivor option, the SO Investments required
redemption by a surviving owner. Therefore, when a Participant died, Lathen redeemed
the instruments at full face value by sending letters to the issuers, which were located in
various states, stating that the “joint owner” or “joint and beneficial owner” on the account
that held the SO Investment had died. Lathen also represented that as the “surviving joint
owner on the account,” he was immediately entitled to redemption.
38.
Lathen knew, or was reckless in not knowing, that those representations
were false. Lathen, EACM, and EACA also omitted to disclose material information, such
details of EACA and EACM’s relationship to the investments, and documents, such as the
PPM, Participant Agreements, the Investment Management Agreement, the Profit Sharing
Agreement, and the Discretionary Line Agreement, that would have disclosed the falsity of
the ownership language in his redemption letters.

6

39.
As a result of Respondents’ misrepresentations and/or omissions, issuers
paid out over $100 million dollars in early redemptions.
40.
Although Lathen caused the issuers to pay that money to him directly, as the
purported surviving joint owner of the SO Investments, all of the money actually belonged
to the Fund.
The Fund’s Performance
41.
The Fund has received all income generated in the joint accounts, including
income interest on the SO Investments while they were held in the accounts, and all gains
from the early redemptions of the SO Investments.
42.
audited.

In each year since inception, the Fund has had its financial statements

43.
In each year since inception, Lathen and EACM have calculated the Fund’s
assets based on the Fair Value of the SO Investments held in the joint accounts, as
indicated in the Fund’s audited financial statements.
44.
In each year since inception, Lathen and EACM have calculated the Fund’s
income as the income generated through the ownership and redemption of the SO
Investments, as reflected in the Fund’s audited financial statements.
45.
Since inception, the Fund has earned over $9.5 million in profits, largely
through early redemption of SO bonds and CDs held in the joint accounts.
Lathen Attempts to Change the Fund’s Governing Documents
In Order to Further Disguise the Scheme
46.
In January 2013, Lathen replaced the Investment Management Agreement
with a Discretionary Line Agreement between the Fund and Lathen, and a Profit Sharing
Agreement between the Fund, Lathen, and EACM.
47.
Whereas the Investment Management Agreement explicitly provided that
Lathen and EACM were the managers of the Fund’s investments, which were held by the
Fund’s Nominees and Participants, the new agreements purported to change the
relationship between the parties to that of a lender (the Fund) and a borrower (Lathen).
Thus, under the Discretionary Line Agreement, the Fund was to advance money to Lathen,
on a non-recourse basis, at a rate of prime plus three percent per annum.
48.
However, as reflected in the corresponding Profit Sharing Agreement,
Lathen simultaneously promised the Fund that he would return all profits and losses he
derived from the joint accounts to the Fund.

7

49.
In fact, since the new agreements were executed in January 2013, the
Fund—not Lathen, nor any of the Participants—has continued to earn all income
associated with the ownership of the SO Investments in the joint accounts.
50.
Just as before the new agreements were executed in January 2013, the
Fund’s audited financial statements have continued to calculate the Fund’s assets based on
the Fair Value of the SO Investments held in the joint accounts, and continued to attribute
to the Fund all income associated with the ownership and redemption of those SO
Investments.
51.
For example, Note (1) to the Fund’s audited financial statements for 2014
explains that the Fund’s money is “deposited into the Joint Accounts and used to acquire
investments in securities which contain a ‘survivor’s option’ or similar feature…Under the
Agreements it has executed with the Managing Member…[the Fund] is entitled to receive
all of the profits and/or losses from the Joint Accounts.”
52.
In addition, just as before the new agreements were executed in January
2013, Lathen and the Participants do not pay taxes on the gains in the joint accounts.
53.
In February 2015, Lathen further modified the Discretionary Line
Agreement by including the Participants as borrowers, on a non-recourse basis.
54.
As with the January 2013 change to the Fund’s documents, the addition of
the Participants as borrowers has not changed the economic reality of the relationship
between the Fund and the accounts held by the Lathen, the Participants, and Lathen’s
relative: all profits have continued to flow to the Fund from the joint accounts; no
Participant has paid any interest to the Fund as a result of the Discretionary Line
Agreement; and the accounting for the Fund’s assets and net income in its audited financial
statements has not changed.
55.
As indicated by the fact that the Discretionary Line Agreement and Profit
Sharing Agreement did not have any economic impact on the Fund, Lathen’s replacement
of the Investment Management Agreement with a purported lending relationship between
the Fund and its manager was done with the intent to hide what had been plainly stated in
the Investment Management Agreement: that the Fund was the real owner of all the assets
in the joint accounts held by persons that were acting as nominees for the Fund.
56.
Since the Fund began, Lathen has similarly altered the agreements that he
signed with the Participants in an effort to obscure the Participants’ lack of ownership
rights over the accounts he opened using their names.
57.
In early versions of the agreement (the “Participant Agreement”),
Participants agreed that they “will not be permitted to pledge, borrow against, withdraw or
exercise any right of ownership with respect to the Investments or other assets in the
Account(s) without the express written permission of Lathen, which permission may be
withheld in Lathen’s sole discretion.” In later versions, Lathen removed that language, but

8

the agreements nonetheless stated: “Participant shall have no additional payments with
respect to the account(s) unless the Account(s) are terminated and the funds in the
Account(s) disbursed prior to Participant’s death,” but “Lathen does not intend to terminate
the Account(s) during Participant’s lifetime and, therefore, it is unlikely that Participant or
Participant’s estate will receive any additional amounts.”
58.
While early Participant Agreements did not make any mention of what
might happen in the unlikely event that Lathen were to pre-decease the terminally ill
Participant, later versions attempted to create some appearance of survivorship rights for
the Participants in such a scenario.
59.
However, Lathen’s changes to the Participant Agreement did not actually
change the Participants’ lack of ownership rights over the accounts.
60.
At all times since the Fund’s inception, Lathen has maintained the
unfettered ability to move securities into and out of the accounts without consent from or
notice to the Participants. That ability to disregard any illusory rights of the Participants is
in fact a point on which he has assured prospective fund investors: “Jay Lathen has full
discretion to move assets from one JTWROS [joint tenancy with right of survivorship]
account to another at any time.”
61.
For example, when one Participant signed her Participant Agreement when
her death was particularly imminent, Lathen funded her account by making journal
transfers from other Participants’ accounts because, as Lathen explained, she “was very
sick and we knew she was very sick. And so, there was a desire to move a significant
amount of positions into her account before she perished.”
62.
In another instance, upon learning that one Participant had been cured,
Lathen transferred the cash and positions out of the account he held with the Participant,
even though she was still alive and had been named on the account documents as a joint
owner of her account.
63.
On at least one occasion, when a government entity inquired about one of
the Participants for the purpose of determining the Participant’s eligibility for public
assistance, EACP represented that the Participant – who at the time was listed as an owner
on a joint account – would not be entitled to any funds beyond the initial $10,000 payment
“now or in the future.”
64.
Despite the changes that Lathen has made to the Fund and Participant
documents over the years, the representations he has made to issuers in order to redeem the
SO Investments have continued to be false.
EACM’s Failure to Custody the Fund’s Assets in the Fund’s Name, as Aided,
Abetted, and Caused by Lathen

9

65.
In October 2012, EACM, through Lathen, registered with the Commission
as an investment adviser by filing a Form ADV (Uniform Application for Investment
Adviser Registration and Report by Exempt Reporting Advisers), signed by Lathen. From
that point through January 2016, EACM has filed a number of amendments to its Form
ADV.
66.
As reflected in each of EACM’s amendments to its Form ADV through
January 2016, Lathen maintained Fund assets in brokerage accounts in the names of the
Participants and Lathen, and at times, Lathen’s relative. Specifically, in each Form ADV
through January 2016, EACM has represented that (i) the custodian of the Fund’s assets is
the prime broker where the joint accounts are held, (ii) the amount of regulatory assets
under management is the value of the assets held in the joint accounts, and (iii) that EACM
or a related person has custody of client assets.
67.
The funds and securities held in the joint accounts belong to EACP. Lathen
and EACM failed to custody the assets of EACP in accounts in EACP’s name or in an
account that contained only EACP’s assets, under EACM’s name as agent or trustee for
EACP.
Lathen, EACM, and EACA’s Profits from the Scheme
68.
Through December of 2015, Lathen set up over 60 joint brokerage accounts
with various Participants. The Fund’s profits through December 2015 have been over $9.5
million. And, for the period from May 2011 through September 2015, EACM has claimed
total returns for the Fund of 74.73%.
69.
Respondents have profited through this strategy. Specifically, Lathen (as
the principal of EACM) and EACM have profited through their fraudulent activity through
management fees of between .5% and 2% of assets under management. In addition, Lathen
(as the sole owner of the EACA), and EACA profited through their fraudulent activity
through performance fees of between 16% and 30% of Fund profits.
70.
Lathen, EACA, and EACM have obtained these profits by means of a
scheme to defraud issuers. Lathen, EACA, and EACM have made untrue statements of
material fact and omitted to state material facts necessary in order to make the statements
made, in light of the circumstances under which they were made, not misleading. Such
statements and omissions operated as a fraud against the issuers of the bonds.
E.

VIOLATIONS

71.
As a result of the bond-related conduct described above, from
approximately March 2011, Respondents violated Section 17(a) of the Securities Act,
directly or indirectly, singly or in concert, by use of the means or instruments of
transportation or communication in interstate commerce, or of the mails, in the offer or sale
of securities, have: (a) employed devices, schemes and artifices to defraud; (b) obtained
money or property by means of untrue statements of material fact, or have omitted to state

10

material facts necessary in order to make statements made, in light of the circumstances
under which they were made, not misleading; and (c) engaged in transactions, practices,
and courses of business which operated or would have operated as a fraud or deceit upon
purchasers.
72.
As a result of the bond-related conduct described above, from
approximately March 2011, Respondents violated Section 10(b) of the Exchange Act and
Rule 10b-5 thereunder, directly or indirectly, singly or in concert, by use of the means or
instrumentalities of interstate commerce, or of the mails, or of the facilities of a national
securities exchange, in connection with the purchase or sale of securities, have (a)
employed devices, scheme and artifices to defraud; (b) made untrue statements of material
fact, or omitted to state material facts necessary in order to make statements made, in light
of the circumstances under which they were made, not misleading; and (c) engaged in acts,
practices and courses of business which operated or would have operated as a fraud or
deceit upon investors.
73.
As a result of the conduct described above, from approximately October
2012 through approximately February 2016, EACM violated and Lathen willfully aided
and abetted and caused EACM’s violations of Section 206(4) of the Advisers Act, which
prohibits fraudulent conduct by an investment adviser, and Rule 206(4)-2 thereunder,
which requires client funds and securities to be held in an account under EACP’s name, or
in an account that contained only EACP’s funds and securities, under EACM’s name as
agent or trustee for EACP.

III.
In view of the allegations made by the Division of Enforcement, the Commission
deems it necessary and appropriate in the public interest that public administrative and
cease-and-desist proceedings be instituted to determine:
A.
Whether the allegations set forth in Section II hereof are true and, in
connection therewith, to afford Respondents an opportunity to establish any defenses to such
allegations;
B.
What, if any, remedial action is appropriate in the public interest against
EACM pursuant to Sections 203(e) of the Advisers Act including, but not limited to,
disgorgement and civil penalties pursuant to Section 203 of the Advisers Act;
C.
What, if any, remedial action is appropriate in the public interest against
Lathen pursuant to Sections 203(f) of the Advisers Act including, but not limited to,
disgorgement and civil penalties pursuant to Section 203 of the Advisers Act;
D.
What, if any, remedial action is appropriate in the public interest against
Lathen pursuant to Section 9(b) of the Investment Company Act including, but not limited

11

to, disgorgement and civil penalties pursuant to Section 9 of the Investment Company Act;
and
E.
Whether, pursuant to Section 8A of the Securities Act, and Section 21C of
the Exchange Act, Respondents should be ordered to cease and desist from committing or
causing violations of and any future violations of Section 17(a) of the Securities Act, Section
10(b) of the Exchange Act and Rule 10b-5 thereunder, and whether Respondents should be
ordered to pay a civil penalty pursuant to Section 8A(g) of the Securities Act, Section
21B(a) of the Exchange Act, and whether Respondents should be ordered to pay
disgorgement pursuant to Section 8A(e) of the Securities Act, and Sections 21B(e) and
21C(e) of the Exchange Act.
F.
Whether, pursuant to Section 203(k) of the Advisers Act, EACM and Lathen
should be ordered to cease and desist from committing or causing violations of and any
future violations of Section 206(4) of the Advisers Act and Rule 206(4)-2 thereunder,
whether Lathen and EACM should be ordered to pay a civil penalty pursuant to Section
203(i) of the Advisers Act, and whether Lathen and EACM should be ordered to pay
disgorgement pursuant to Section 203 of the Advisers Act.

IV.
IT IS ORDERED that a public hearing for the purpose of taking evidence on the
questions set forth in Section III hereof shall be convened not earlier than 30 days and not
later than 60 days from service of this Order at a time and place to be fixed, and before an
Administrative Law Judge to be designated by further order as provided by Rule 110 of the
Commission's Rules of Practice, 17 C.F.R. § 201.110.
IT IS FURTHER ORDERED that Respondents shall file an Answer to the
allegations contained in this Order within twenty (20) days after service of this Order, as
provided by Rule 220 of the Commission's Rules of Practice, 17 C.F.R. § 201.220.
If Respondents fail to file the directed answer, or fail to appear at a hearing after
being duly notified, the Respondents may be deemed in default and the proceedings may be
determined against them upon consideration of this Order, the allegations of which may be
deemed to be true as provided by Rules 155(a), 220(f), 221(f) and 310 of the Commission's
Rules of Practice, 17 C.F.R. §§ 201.155(a), 201.220(f), 201.221(f) and 201.310.
This Order shall be served forthwith upon Respondents as provided for in the
Commission’s Rules of Practice.
IT IS FURTHER ORDERED that the Administrative Law Judge shall issue an
initial decision no later than 300 days from the date of service of this Order, pursuant to
Rule 360(a)(2) of the Commission’s Rules of Practice.

12

In the absence of an appropriate waiver, no officer or employee of the Commission
engaged in the performance of investigative or prosecuting functions in this or any factually
related proceeding will be permitted to participate or advise in the decision of this matter,
except as witness or counsel in proceedings held pursuant to notice. Since this proceeding is
not “rule making” within the meaning of Section 551 of the Administrative Procedure Act, it
is not deemed subject to the provisions of Section 553 delaying the effective date of any
final Commission action.
By the Commission.

Brent J. Fields
Secretary

13

