UNITED STATES OF AMERICA
Before the
SECURITIES AND EXCHANGE COMMISSION

SECURITIES ACT OF 1933
Release No. 10228 / October 4, 2016
SECURITIES EXCHANGE ACT OF 1934
Release No. 79032 / October 4, 2016
INVESTMENT ADVISERS ACT OF 1940
Release No. 4545 / October 4, 2016
INVESTMENT COMPANY ACT OF 1940
Release No. 32301 / October 4, 2016
ADMINISTRATIVE PROCEEDING
File No. 3-17614
ORDER INSTITUTING ADMINISTRATIVE
AND CEASE-AND-DESIST PROCEEDINGS
PURSUANT TO SECTION 8A OF THE
SECURITIES ACT OF 1933, SECTION 21C
OF THE SECURITIES EXCHANGE ACT OF
1934, SECTIONS 203(f) AND 203(k) OF THE
INVESTMENT ADVISERS ACT OF 1940,
AND SECTIONS 9(b) AND 9(f) OF THE
INVESTMENT COMPANY ACT OF 1940

In the Matter of
LAURENCE I. BALTER d/b/a
ORACLE INVESTMENT
RESEARCH,
Respondent.

I.
The Securities and Exchange Commission (“Commission”) deems it appropriate and in the
public interest that public administrative and cease-and-desist proceedings be, and hereby are,
instituted pursuant to Section 8A of the Securities Act of 1933 (“Securities Act”), Section 21C of
the Securities Exchange Act of 1934 (“Exchange Act”), Sections 203(f) and 203(k) of the
Investment Advisers Act of 1940 (“Advisers Act”), and Sections 9(b) and 9(f) of the Investment
Company Act of 1940 (“Investment Company Act”) against Laurence I. Balter doing business as
Oracle Investment Research (“the Respondent”).
II.
After an investigation, the Division of Enforcement alleges that:

SUMMARY
1.
This proceeding involves multiple breaches of fiduciary duty and violations of the
antifraud provisions of the federal securities laws from January 2011 to April 2014 (the “Relevant
Period”) by Laurence I. Balter (“Respondent”), a formerly registered investment adviser to the
Oracle Mutual Fund (the “Fund”) and between 100 and 120 separate accounts (“Separately
Managed Accounts” or “SMAs”). Balter engaged in three distinct schemes. First, he fraudulently
allocated profitable trades to his own accounts to the detriment of several client accounts. Second,
Balter falsely told his SMA clients who invested in the Fund that they would not pay both advisory
fees and Fund management fees for the portions of their accounts invested in the Fund. Third,
Balter made trades for the Fund that deviated from two of its fundamental investment limitations.
Together, the violations caused significant harm to Balter’s clients.
2.
By virtue of this conduct, Respondent willfully violated Securities Act
Section 17(a), Exchange Act Section 10(b) and Rule 10b-5 thereunder, Advisers Act
Sections 206(1), 206(2), 206(4) and 207, and Rule 206(4)-8 thereunder, and Investment Company
Act Section 34(b), and willfully aided and abetted and caused violations of Investment Company
Act Sections 13(a) and 34(b).
RESPONDENT
3.
Laurence Isaac Balter d/b/a Oracle Investment Research. Balter, 46 years old, is
a resident of Kihei, Hawaii. He was the founder, principal, chief compliance officer, and sole owner
of Oracle Investment Research (“Oracle”), which was a sole proprietorship for most of its existence.
During most of the Relevant Period, Oracle had its principal place of business in Fox Island,
Washington and was registered with the Commission as an investment adviser from June 2, 2010
until August 26, 2013, when it withdrew its investment adviser registration. At its peak, in February
2013, Oracle had $47 million in regulatory assets under management, including the assets of the
Fund. Balter held securities license series 7, 24, 63 and 66, and from 2000 to until September 16,
2010, he was a registered representative with two dual registrants. Balter also was registered as an
investment adviser with the state of Washington from September 26, 2013 through December 20,
2013, when he withdrew the registration. Balter attempted to register Oracle Investment Research,
LLC as an investment adviser in Hawaii beginning in late September 2013, but he never completed
the application. Neither Balter nor Oracle is currently registered with the Commission or any other
securities authority.
OTHER RELEVANT ENTITY
4.
Oracle Mutual Fund. The Fund (ticker symbol “ORGAX”) was a series of the
Oracle Family of Funds, an Ohio statutory business trust registered as an investment company under
the Investment Company Act with the Commission from June 8, 2010 until March 6, 2014. Balter
served as the President, a Trustee, and the sole employee of the Oracle Family of Funds and as the
portfolio manager, chief compliance officer, administrator for and adviser to the Oracle Mutual
Fund. The Fund ceased operations on August 31, 2013 and withdrew its registration on November
21, 2013.
2

BACKGROUND
5.
The majority of Balter’s advisory clients were individual investors, many of whom
were over 60 years old, retired or nearing retirement, and unsophisticated investors with little
investment experience. Clients were generally charged an annual fee of 1.50 percent to 1.70
percent of assets under management. Balter used a buy-and-hold strategy for most of his advisory
clients and primarily invested those clients in large-cap securities and in the Fund.
6.
In addition to advising individuals, Balter also managed the Oracle Mutual Fund, in
which he invested the majority of his SMA clients. The Fund’s stated investment objective, as set
forth in its Prospectus, was “long-term capital appreciation while secondarily striving for income.”
The Fund generally held between 13 and 18 securities in sectors focused on supply chain growth in
the developing world. Balter was entitled to receive, as adviser to the Fund, management fees of
0.70 percent of average daily net assets and, as administrator to the Fund, fees of 0.20 percent of
average net assets. However, to the extent that the Fund’s operating expenses, including Balter’s
management and administrator fees, exceeded 1.00 percent (1.50 percent after January 1, 2013) of
the Fund’s average net assets, Balter agreed to waive those fees.
A.

Balter Cherry-Picked Profitable Trades For Himself Without His Clients’ Knowledge

7.
In May 2012 Balter began to employ a day-trading strategy for himself and a few of
his SMA clients. Balter executed these day trades through omnibus accounts at two different
brokerage firms, one of which was the custodian for Balter’s advisory client accounts from
June 2010 through June 2013 (“Broker 1”) and another from July 2013 through December 2013
(“Broker 2”). In June 2013 Broker 1 unilaterally terminated its relationship with Balter/Oracle and
Balter/Oracle began its relationship with Broker 2.
8.
Balter’s Forms ADV Part 2A, Item 11 filed on March 23, 2011, January 5, 2012
and July 22, 2013 state that “client trades are placed prior to any advisor personal transactions.”
Similarly, Balter’s Compliance Manual, which was effective for all relevant periods and which he
certified receiving and reviewing, required him to make “an equitable allocation of the securities to
the client” before “contemporaneously purchasing the same securities as a client.”
9.
Further, Balter’s Compliance Manual provided that “[c]lients must always receive
the best price, in relation to employees, on same day transactions.” It required him to “first give
priority on all purchases and sales of securities to [his] clients, prior to the execution of transactions
for [his] proprietary accounts” and mandated that “personal trading must be conducted so as not to
conflict with the interests of a client.”
10.
However, Balter regularly executed trades for himself and one client (“Client A”),
and occasionally executed trades for himself and other clients in the same omnibus account,
without pre-allocating or making an equitable allocation of the trades. Indeed, in virtually all
instances in which Balter made trades in the omnibus trading account, he did not allocate the trades
until after they were executed—in other words, after he knew the profitability of the trade.
Moreover, Balter disproportionately allocated profitable trades to his own accounts and
unprofitable trades to his client accounts, primarily those of Client A.
3

11.
Despite Balter’s representation in his Form ADV that he would trade for his clients
before he traded for himself, during the Relevant Period there are multiple days on which he traded
before his clients in the same securities. On many of those days, he received a better price for his
trade than he did for his clients’ trades. Almost all of the trades in which Balter traded before his
clients and received a better price for the same security were made from his omnibus account and
then allocated manually to his and his clients’ accounts, respectively, later in the day.
12.
None of Balter’s clients, including Client A, was aware that Balter was executing
his own trades in a single account that also included his clients’ trades, or that he was cherrypicking the profitable trades from that account. Balter sent daily emails to Client A, purporting to
report the results from that day’s trading in Client A’s accounts, that underreported the losses that
Client A sustained from Balter’s cherry-picking scheme.
13.
Balter knew, or was reckless in not knowing, that his day-trading strategy
disproportionately allocated profitable trades to his personal accounts and losing trades to his
clients’ accounts. Moreover, Balter knew or should have known that his trading in the omnibus
account conflicted with the disclosures in his Form ADV and was inconsistent with his written
policies and procedures. These misrepresentations and omissions constituted breaches of Balter’s
fiduciary duty to his clients.
14.
Balter allocated a disproportionate number of profitable trades to his own accounts
and a disproportionate number of unprofitable trades to client accounts, thereby profiting from this
scheme. From April 21, 2012 to May 30, 2013, when Balter’s personal and SMAs were at Broker
1, Balter earned first-day returns in the omnibus account of approximately $220,000, or about a
0.63 percent return on his investment. At the same time, Client A suffered first-day losses of
approximately $1,365,000, or about a -0.38 percent return. Other clients collectively suffered total
losses of more than $34,000, representing about a -0.14 percent return on their investments. From
July 22, 2013 to December 27, 2013, when Balter’s personal and SMAs were at Broker 2, his
account had total net profits of approximately $118,000, or about a 1.39 percent return on his
investment, while Client A had total losses of more than $700,000, or about a -0.78 percent return.
Ultimately, Balter reaped approximately $490,000 in ill-gotten gains from his cherry-picking
scheme.
15.
In December 2013, Broker 2 advised Balter that it had concerns about the trading it
observed in his block account, including the fact that trading in the same account as his clients was
inconsistent with the disclosures he made in Item 11 of Form ADV Part 2A. Shortly thereafter,
Broker 2 notified Balter that it was terminating its relationship with him and that he would need to
move his client accounts off of Broker 2’s platform. Balter did not disclose to his clients that he
had previously traded alongside client accounts and continued to execute his own personal trades
in a single account that also included Client A’s trades, without making an equitable allocation of
the trades beforehand. He did not tell Client A that Broker 2 had raised concerns about trading for
himself and Client A in the block account.

4

B.

Balter Misrepresented the Fund’s Management Fees to Investors

16.
In offering and selling the Fund to his SMA clients, Balter materially
misrepresented the fees that he would charge his clients in connection with an investment in the
Fund. He told many of his clients in emails and verbal conversations that he would not “doubledip” by charging them both advisory fees (which were based on a percentage of assets under
management in the client’s account) and Fund management fees (which were based on a
percentage of assets under management in the Fund) for the portions of their accounts invested in
the Fund. In addition, all of Balter’s Form ADVs similarly stated that there was no “‘double
dipping’ on the fee” and that his clients would “get [a] proration of the fund management fee
credited to the account.”
17.
Contrary to his representations, Balter did not apply any such credit to the quarterly
advisory fees he manually deducted from his clients’ accounts. Balter knew, or was reckless in not
knowing, when he offered and sold interests in the Fund that his representations about applying a
management fee credit to his clients’ accounts were false. Moreover, he knew or should have
known that no such credit was provided to his clients. By making these misrepresentations, Balter
breached his fiduciary duty to his clients. It was important to clients to have complete and accurate
information regarding the fees associated with an investment in the Fund before making an
investment decision.
C.

Balter Caused the Fund to Deviate from its Fundamental Investment Limitations

18.
Section 8(b) of the Investment Company Act requires that a registered investment
company’s registration statement contain a recital of certain investment policies, including (1) its
subclassification as a “diversified” or “non-diversified” company under Investment Company Act
Section 5(b) and (2) its concentration of investments in a particular industry or group of industries.
Once a registered investment company subclassifies itself as a “diversified” company and recites a
concentration policy, Section 13(a)(1) and (3) of the Investment Company Act requires it to obtain
authorization by a vote of a majority of its outstanding voting securities to change “its
subclassification from a diversified to a non-diversified company” or to “deviate from its policy in
respect of concentration of investments in any particular industry or group of industries as recited in
its registration statement.”
19.
The Fund’s Statement of Additional Information (the “SAI”), which was first filed
with the SEC on January 3, 2011 as part of its registration statement and “should be read in
conjunction” with the Fund’s prospectus and incorporated therein by reference, designated the Fund
as “diversified” under the requirements of Investment Company Act Section 5(b)(1) and touted its
diversified nature as something that would make it “less subject to the risk that its performance may
be hurt disproportionately by the poor performance of relatively few securities.” The SAI further
identified the diversified subclassification set forth in Investment Company Act Section 5(b)(1) as a
fundamental investment limitation that could not be changed without the favorable vote of the
holders of a majority of the outstanding voting securities of the Fund. The registration statement
containing the SAI and identical disclosures was further filed with the SEC on December 30, 2011
and December 28, 2012.
5

20.
The SAI also disclosed that the Fund “may not … invest 25% or more of its net
assets, calculated at the time of purchase and taken at market value, in securities of issuers in any one
industry” and stated that this restriction was a fundamental investment limitation that could not be
changed without the favorable vote of the holders of a majority of the outstanding voting securities
of the Fund.
21.
As president and sole employee of the Fund, Balter was responsible for preparing and
approving the SAI disclosures described in paragraphs 19 and 20. He also approved them in his
capacity as a member of the Fund’s Board of Trustees.
22.
As investment adviser to the Fund, Balter was responsible for day-to-day
management of the Fund’s portfolio and bound by the investment limitations set forth in the SAI.
Specifically, as set forth in the Fund’s written compliance manual, he was required to ensure that the
Fund’s portfolio was in compliance with all of its investment objectives, policies and restrictions,
including those concerning diversification and industry concentration.
23.
However, in many quarters of the Fund’s existence, Balter made investments for the
Fund that resulted in the Fund changing from a diversified to a non-diversified company, and in
many quarters, he also purchased securities that caused the Fund to deviate from its concentration
policy. Balter knew, or was reckless in not knowing, that the Fund was not “diversified,” as
promised to investors in the SAI. Moreover, as the Fund’s adviser, Balter knew or should have
known that the Fund had deviated from its concentration policy. By making these investments,
Balter breached his fiduciary duty to his clients.
24.
Balter made material misstatements regarding the Fund’s subclassification as a
diversified company and its concentration policy in the offer and sale of interests in the Fund. He
misled prospective and existing investors by causing the Fund’s registration statements to
misrepresent the Fund’s subclassification as a diversified company and its concentration policy.
Also, he misled the Board of Trustees, which asked him at every one of the Board’s quarterly
meetings whether the Fund was in compliance with its fundamental investment limitations regarding
diversification and industry concentration and to which he repeatedly represented that the Fund was
compliant and that holdings appearing to exceed the diversification or industry concentration
thresholds were a result of market fluctuations, not of the violative trades that he caused to be
executed.
25.
Balter’s violations had a significant impact on the Fund’s performance. As a result,
the Fund’s investors suffered harm as a result of the Fund’s failure to comply with the diversification
and industry concentration limitations.
VIOLATIONS
26.
As a result of the conduct described above, Respondent willfully violated
Section 17(a) of the Securities Act, which prohibits fraudulent conduct in the offer and sale of
securities.

6

27.
As a result of the conduct described above, Respondent willfully violated
Section 10(b) of the Exchange Act and Rule 10b-5 thereunder, which prohibit fraudulent conduct
in connection with the purchase or sale of securities.
28.
As a result of the conduct described above, Respondent willfully violated
Sections 206(1) and 206(2) of the Advisers Act, which prohibit fraudulent and deceptive conduct
by an investment adviser with respect to any client or prospective client.
29.
As a result of the conduct described above, Respondent willfully violated
Section 206(4) of the Advisers Act and Rule 206(4)-8 thereunder, which prohibit making an untrue
statement of a material fact or omitting any material fact to any investor or prospective investor in
a pooled investment vehicle and engaging in any act, practice or course of business that is
fraudulent or deceptive with respect to any investor or prospective investor in a pooled investment
vehicle.
30.
As a result of the conduct described above, Respondent willfully violated
Section 207 of the Advisers Act, which makes it “unlawful for any person willfully to make any
untrue statement of a material fact in any registration application or report filed with the
Commission … or willfully to omit to state in any such application or report any material fact
which is required to be stated therein.”
31.
As a result of the conduct described above, Respondent willfully aided and abetted
and caused the Fund’s violations of Section 13(a) of the Investment Company Act, which requires
that any change in an investment company’s classification from diversified to non-diversified
under Investment Company Act Section 5(b) or any deviation from an investment company’s
policy in respect of concentration of investments in any particular industry be authorized by the
vote of a majority of outstanding voting securities.
32.
As a result of the conduct described above, Respondent willfully violated and aided
and abetted and caused the Fund’s violations of Section 34(b) of the Investment Company Act,
which prohibits any person from making any untrue statement of a material fact in any report filed
pursuant to the Investment Company Act.
III.
In view of the allegations made by the Division of Enforcement, the Commission deems it
necessary and appropriate in the public interest that public administrative and cease-and-desist
proceedings be instituted to determine:
A.
Whether the allegations set forth in Section II hereof are true and, in connection
therewith, to afford Respondent an opportunity to establish any defenses to such allegations;
B.
What, if any, remedial action is appropriate in the public interest against Respondent
pursuant to Section 203(f) of the Advisers Act including, but not limited to, disgorgement and civil
penalties pursuant to Section 203 of the Advisers Act;

7

C.
What, if any, remedial action is appropriate in the public interest against Respondent
pursuant to Section 9(b) of the Investment Company Act including, but not limited to,
disgorgement and civil penalties pursuant to Section 9 of the Investment Company Act; and
D.
Whether, pursuant to Section 8A of the Securities Act, Section 21C of the Exchange
Act, Section 203(k) of the Advisers Act, and Section 9(f) of the Investment Company Act,
Respondent should be ordered to cease and desist from committing or causing violations of and any
future violations of Section 17(a) of the Securities Act, Section 10(b) of the Exchange Act and
Rule 10b-5 thereunder, Sections 206(1), 206(2), 206(4) and 207 of the Advisers Act and
Rule 206(4)-8 thereunder, and Sections 13(a) and 34(b) of the Investment Company Act, whether
Respondent should be ordered to pay a civil penalty pursuant to Section 8A(g) of the Securities Act,
Section 21B(a) of the Exchange Act, Section 203(i) of the Advisers Act, and Section 9(d) of the
Investment Company Act, and whether Respondent should be ordered to pay disgorgement
pursuant to Section 8A(e) of the Securities Act, Sections 21B(e) and 21C(e) of the Exchange Act,
Section 203 of the Advisers Act, and Section 9 of the Investment Company Act.
IV.
IT IS ORDERED that a public hearing for the purpose of taking evidence on the questions
set forth in Section III hereof shall be convened not earlier than 30 days and not later than 60 days
from service of this Order at a time and place to be fixed, and before an Administrative Law Judge
to be designated by further order as provided by Rule 110 of the Commission’s Rules of Practice,
17 C.F.R. § 201.110.
IT IS FURTHER ORDERED that Respondent shall file an Answer to the allegations
contained in this Order within twenty (20) days after service of this Order, as provided by Rule 220
of the Commission’s Rules of Practice, 17 C.F.R. § 201.220.
If Respondent fails to file the directed answer, or fails to appear at a hearing after being duly
notified, the Respondent may be deemed in default and the proceedings may be determined against
him upon consideration of this Order, the allegations of which may be deemed to be true as
provided by Rules 155(a), 220(f), 221(f) and 310 of the Commission's Rules of Practice, 17 C.F.R.
§§ 201.155(a), 201.220(f), 201.221(f) and 201.310.
This Order shall be served forthwith upon Respondent as provided for in the Commission’s
Rules of Practice.
IT IS FURTHER ORDERED that, pursuant to Rule 360(a)(2) of the Commission’s Rules
of Practice, 17 C.F.R. § 201.360(a)(2), the Administrative Law Judge shall issue an initial decision
no later than 120 days from the occurrence of one of the following events: (A) The completion of
post-hearing briefing in a proceeding where the hearing has been completed; (B) Where the
hearing officer has determined that no hearing is necessary, upon completion of briefing on a
motion pursuant to Rule 250 of the Commission’s Rules of Practice, 17 C.F.R. § 201.250; or (C)
The determination by the hearing officer that a party is deemed to be in default under Rule 155 of
the Commission’s Rules of Practice, 17 C.F.R. § 201.155 and no hearing is necessary.
8

In the absence of an appropriate waiver, no officer or employee of the Commission engaged
in the performance of investigative or prosecuting functions in this or any factually related
proceeding will be permitted to participate or advise in the decision of this matter, except as witness
or counsel in proceedings held pursuant to notice. Since this proceeding is not “rule making” within
the meaning of Section 551 of the Administrative Procedure Act, it is not deemed subject to the
provisions of Section 553 delaying the effective date of any final Commission action.
By the Commission.

Brent J. Fields
Secretary

9

