UNITED STATES OF AMERICA
Before the
SECURITIES AND EXCHANGE COMMISSION
SECURITIES ACT OF 1933
Release No. 10239 / October 27, 2016
ADMINISTRATIVE PROCEEDING
File No. 3-17647

In the Matter of
CURT KRAMER
AND HOPE CAPITAL, INC.

ORDER INSTITUTING CEASE-ANDDESIST PROCEEDINGS PURSUANT TO
SECTION 8A OF THE SECURITIES ACT
OF 1933, MAKING FINDINGS, AND
IMPOSING REMEDIAL SANCTIONS AND
A CEASE-AND-DESIST ORDER

Respondents.

I.
The Securities and Exchange Commission (“Commission”) deems it appropriate that ceaseand-desist proceedings be, and hereby are, instituted pursuant to Section 8A of the Securities Act
of 1933 (“Securities Act”), against Curt Kramer and Hope Capital, Inc. (together, the
“Respondents”).
II.
In anticipation of the institution of these proceedings, Respondents have submitted an Offer
of Settlement (the “Offer”) which the Commission has determined to accept. Solely for the
purpose of these proceedings and any other proceedings brought by or on behalf of the
Commission, or to which the Commission is a party, and without admitting or denying the findings
herein, except as to the Commission’s jurisdiction over them and the subject matter of these
proceedings, which are admitted, and except as provided herein in Section V, Respondents consent
to the entry of this Order Instituting Cease and-Desist Proceedings Pursuant to Section 8A of the
Securities Act of 1933, Making Findings, and Imposing Remedial Sanctions and a Cease-andDesist Order (“Order”), as set forth below.

III.
On the basis of this Order and Respondents’ Offer, the Commission finds1 that:
1.
Curt Kramer, age 42, is a resident of Glen Head, New York. From 2007 to at
least 2009, he was the owner, sole officer, and registered agent of Hope Capital, Inc.
2.
Hope Capital, Inc. (“Hope Capital”) is a New York corporation with its principal
place of business in Great Neck, New York.
3.
From mid-December 2008 through mid-May 2009, Kramer and Hope Capital sold
over 113.5 million shares of Spongetech Delivery Systems, Inc. (“Spongetech”) stock to the
investing public in violation of the registration requirements of Section 5 of the Securities Act, and
for profits of $525,603.
4.
Kramer and Hope Capital obtained these Spongetech shares from two Spongetech
affiliates, RM Enterprises International, Ltd., a/k/a RM Enterprises International, Inc., (“RM
Enterprises”) and Flo Weinberg, Inc. (“Weinberg”). As noted in Spongetech’s public filings, RM
Enterprises was the majority shareholder of Spongetech and was controlled by Spongetech’s CEO
and CFO. Spongetech’s public filings also stated that Weinberg was a wholly owned subsidiary of
RM Enterprises. RM Enterprises and Weinberg shared the same address as Spongetech.
5.
Kramer and Hope Capital purchased the 113.5 million shares from RM Enterprises
and Weinberg in 16 private transactions, and at significant discounts from market prices. Kramer
negotiated the purchase of the shares with Spongetech’s CFO.
6.
After Kramer and Hope Capital received the shares, they sold the shares in U.S.
public markets within days or a few weeks of the purchases. The discount Kramer and Hope
Capital received enabled them to promptly sell the Spongetech shares at a profit.
7.
No registration statement was filed as to any of the shares that Kramer and Hope
Capital sold to the investing public, and no exemption from registration requirements was
applicable to these transactions.
8.
From December 16, 2008 through May 26, 2009, Kramer and Hope Capital sold
over 113.5 million shares of Spongetech stock in illegal, unregistered transactions and obtained
profits of $525,603.
9.
Kramer and Hope Capital used the mails and other means of interstate commerce in
connection with these offers and sales of Spongetech shares.

1

The findings herein are made pursuant to Respondents’ Offer of Settlement and are not
binding on any other person or entity in this or any other proceeding.
2

10.
As a result of the conduct described above, Kramer and Hope Capital violated
Sections 5(a) and 5(c) of the Securities Act, which prohibit the direct or indirect sale or offer for
sale of securities through the mails or interstate commerce unless a registration statement has been
filed or is in effect.
Undertakings
Respondents Curt Kramer and Hope Capital have undertaken to:
Forgo directly or indirectly, including but not limited to, through any of their affiliates or
successors, acquiring any security from any affiliate of an issuer of securities, as the term
“affiliate” is defined by Securities Act Rule 144(a)(1).
IV.
In view of the foregoing, the Commission deems it appropriate to impose the sanctions
agreed to in the Respondents’ Offer.
Accordingly, it is hereby ORDERED that:
A.
Pursuant to Section 8A of the Securities Act, Respondents Kramer and Hope Capital
cease and desist from committing or causing any violations and any future violations of Sections
5(a) and 5(c) of the Securities Act.
B.
Respondents Kramer and Hope Capital shall comply with the undertaking
enumerated in Section III above.
C.
Respondents Kramer and Hope Capital shall, pursuant to the installment plan set
forth in paragraph E below, jointly and severally pay disgorgement of $525,603 and prejudgment
interest of $54,144 to the Securities and Exchange Commission. The Commission will hold funds
paid pursuant to this paragraph in an account at the United States Treasury pending a decision
whether the Commission, in its discretion, will seek to distribute funds or, transfer them to the
general fund of the United States Treasury, subject to Section 21F(g)(3). If timely payment is not
made, additional interest shall accrue pursuant to SEC Rule of Practice 600.
D.
Respondent Kramer shall, within 120 days of the Order being issued, pay civil
money penalties totaling $100,000 to the Securities and Exchange Commission. The Commission
may distribute civil money penalties collected in this proceeding if, in its discretion, the
Commission orders the establishment of a Fair Fund pursuant to 15 U.S.C. § 7246, Section 308(a)
of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002, as amended. The Commission will hold funds paid pursuant to
this paragraph in an account at the United States Treasury pending a decision whether the
Commission, in its discretion, will seek to distribute funds or, subject to Exchange Act Section
21F(g)(3), transfer them to the general fund of the United States Treasury. If timely payment is not
made, additional interest shall accrue pursuant to 31 U.S.C. §3717.
3

E.
Respondents shall pay disgorgement of $525,603, prejudgment interest of $54,144,
to the Securities and Exchange Commission. Payment shall be made in the following installments:
(i)
(ii)
(iii)

$226,583 within 14 days of the entry of the Order;
$226,582 within 60 days of the Order being issued; and
$126,582 within 120 days of the Order being issued.

If any payment is not made by the date the payment is required by this Order, the entire
outstanding balance of disgorgement, prejudgment interest, and civil penalties, plus any additional
interest accrued pursuant to SEC Rule of Practice 600 and/or pursuant to 31 U.S.C. 3717, shall be
due and payable immediately, without further application.
Payment must be made in one of the following ways:
(1)

Respondents may transmit payment electronically to the Commission,
which will provide detailed ACH transfer/Fedwire instructions upon
request;

(2)

Respondents may make direct payment from a bank account via Pay.gov
through the SEC website at http://www.sec.gov/about/offices/ofm.htm; or

(3)

Respondents may pay by certified check, bank cashier’s check, or United
States postal money order, made payable to the Securities and Exchange
Commission and hand-delivered or mailed to:
Enterprise Services Center
Accounts Receivable Branch
HQ Bldg., Room 181, AMZ-341
6500 South MacArthur Boulevard
Oklahoma City, OK 73169

Payments by check or money order must be accompanied by a cover letter identifying
Kramer and Hope Capital as Respondents in these proceedings, and the file number of these
proceedings; a copy of the cover letter and check or money order must be sent to Antonia Chion,
Associate Director, Division of Enforcement, Securities and Exchange Commission, 100 F St., NE,
Washington, DC 20549.
F.
Regardless of whether the Commission in its discretion orders the creation of a
Fair Fund for the penalties ordered in this proceeding, amounts ordered to be paid as civil money
penalties pursuant to this Order shall be treated as penalties paid to the government for all
purposes, including all tax purposes. To preserve the deterrent effect of the civil penalty,
Respondents agree that in any Related Investor Action, they shall not argue that they are entitled
to, nor shall they benefit by, offset or reduction of any award of compensatory damages by the
amount of any part of Respondents’ payment of civil penalties in this action (“Penalty Offset”). If
the court in any Related Investor Action grants such a Penalty Offset, Respondents agree that they
4

shall, within 30 days after entry of a final order granting the Penalty Offset, notify the
Commission’s counsel in this action and pay the amount of the Penalty Offset to the Securities and
Exchange Commission. Such a payment shall not be deemed an additional civil penalty and shall
not be deemed to change the amount of the civil penalty imposed in this proceeding. For purposes
of this paragraph, a “Related Investor Action” means a private damages action brought against
Respondents by or on behalf of one or more investors based on substantially the same facts as
alleged in the Order instituted by the Commission in this proceeding.
V.
It is further Ordered that, solely for purposes of exceptions to discharge set forth in Section
523 of the Bankruptcy Code, 11 U.S.C. §523, the findings in this Order are true and admitted by
Respondent Kramer, and further, any debt for disgorgement, prejudgment interest, civil penalty or
other amounts due by Respondent Kramer under this Order or any other judgment, order, consent
order, decree or settlement agreement entered in connection with this proceeding, is a debt for the
violation by Respondent Kramer of the federal securities laws or any regulation or order issued
under such laws, as set forth in Section 523(a)(19) of the Bankruptcy Code, 11 U.S.C. §523(a)(19).

By the Commission.

Brent J. Fields
Secretary

5

