UNITED STATES OF AMERICA
Before the
SECURITIES AND EXCHANGE COMMISSION
SECURITIES ACT OF 1933
Release No. 10087 / June 2, 2016
SECURITIES EXCHANGE ACT OF 1934
Release No. 77979 / June 2, 2016
ADMINISTRATIVE PROCEEDING
File No. 3-17273
ORDER INSTITUTING ADMINISTRATIVE
AND CEASE-AND-DESIST PROCEEDINGS,
PURSUANT TO SECTION 8A OF THE
SECURITIES ACT OF 1933, SECTIONS 4C
AND 15(b) OF THE SECURITIES
EXCHANGE ACT OF 1934, AND RULE
102(e)(1) OF THE COMMISSION’S RULES
OF PRACTICE, MAKING FINDINGS, AND
IMPOSING REMEDIAL SANCTIONS AND A
CEASE-AND-DESIST ORDER

In the Matter of
DONALD J. STOECKLEIN,
ESQ.
Respondent.

I.
The Securities and Exchange Commission (“Commission”) deems it appropriate and in the
public interest that public administrative and cease-and-desist proceedings be, and hereby are,
instituted pursuant to Section 8A of the Securities Act of 1933 (“Securities Act”), Sections 4C1 and
15(b) of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934 (“Exchange Act”), and Rule 102(e)(1)(iii)2 of the
Commission’s Rules of Practice against Donald J. Stoecklein (“Respondent”).
1

Section 4C provides, in pertinent part, that:
The Commission may censure any person, or deny, temporarily or permanently, to any
person the privilege of appearing or practicing before the Commission in any way, if that
person is found . . . (3) to have willfully violated, or willfully aided and abetted the
violation of, any provision of the securities laws or the rules and regulations thereunder.

2

Rule 102(e)(1)(iii) provides, in pertinent part, that:
The Commission may . . . deny, temporarily or permanently, the privilege of appearing or
practicing before it . . . to any person who is found…to have willfully violated, or
willfully aided and abetted the violation of any provision of the Federal securities laws or
the rules and regulations thereunder.

II.
In anticipation of the institution of these proceedings, Respondent has submitted an Offer
of Settlement (the “Offer”) which the Commission has determined to accept. Solely for the
purpose of these proceedings and any other proceedings brought by or on behalf of the
Commission, or to which the Commission is a party, and without admitting or denying the findings
herein, except as to the Commission’s jurisdiction over him and the subject matter of these
proceedings, which are admitted, and except as provided herein in Section V, Respondent consents
to the entry of this Order Instituting Administrative and Cease-And-Desist Proceedings, Pursuant
to Section 8A of the Securities Act of 1933, Sections 4C and 15(b) of the Securities Exchange Act
of 1934, and Rule 102(e) of the Commission’s Rules of Practice, Making Findings, and Imposing
Remedial Sanctions and a Cease-and-Desist Order (“Order”), as set forth below.
III.
On the basis of this Order and Respondent’s Offer, the Commission finds3 that:
Respondent
1.
Stoecklein, age 68, resides in San Diego, California. At all relevant times,
he was an attorney licensed to practice in the State of California. He practiced securities law,
including the preparation and filing of documents with the Commission. In 1995, Stoecklein
consented to the entry of a Commission order that he cease and desist from committing or causing
any future violations of Sections 5(a), 5(c), and 17(a) of the Securities Act and Section 10(b) of the
Exchange Act and Rule 10b-5 thereunder. In re Donald J. Stoecklein, Rel. No. 33-7207 (Sept. 1,
1995) (“1995 Cease-and-Desist Order”). In 2012 and 2013, Respondent participated in an offering
of NuGold Resources, Inc. (“NuGold”) stock, which is a penny stock.
Other Relevant Entity
2.
NuGold is a Nevada corporation headquartered in Citrus, California. It
purports to be in the business of buying and selling gold. On October 12, 2012, NuGold filed a
registration statement on Form S-1, seeking to register the offer and sale of 450,000 of its shares of
common stock for $0.15 per share in a $67,500 public offering. The NuGold registration statement
was amended nine times, most recently on December 12, 2013 (hereinafter, NuGold’s initial Form
S-1 registration statement and all amendments thereto are collectively referred to as the “NuGold
Registration Statements”). NuGold’s registration statement has not become effective.

3

The findings herein are made pursuant to Respondent's Offer of Settlement and are not
binding on any other person or entity in this or any other proceeding.
2

Background
3.
From October 2012 to December 2013, NuGold falsely stated in the
NuGold Registration Statements that NuGold’s named CEO, who is not Stoecklein, was NuGold’s
sole officer, director, and employee (“CEO”). The NuGold Registration Statements also stated
falsely that “[W]e are reliant upon [CEO] to make appropriate decisions.” In reality, Stoecklein
controlled and directed virtually all of the company’s operations. In particular, Stoecklein opened
and controlled NuGold’s bank account (over which the CEO had no signatory authority),
negotiated transactions on NuGold’s behalf but without the CEO’s input, and obtained the CEO’s
blanket permission to use his signature on documents, including the NuGold Registration
Statements. In addition, Stoecklein was primarily responsible for preparing all of NuGold’s
Registration Statements filed with the Commission. The NuGold Registration Statements never
disclosed Stoecklein’s control over NuGold’s operations or the 1995 Cease-and-Desist Order
against Stoecklein.
4.
From October 2012 to December 2013, the NuGold Registration Statements
also stated that the CEO “received 4,100,000 shares of common stock, at a price of $0.01 per share
as the founder of NuGold Resources, Inc. . . . The proceeds from the sale of the shares to [CEO],
$41,000, constituted the majority portion of the initial cash capitalization of the company.” These
statements were false and misleading. NuGold’s CEO did not contribute the $41,000 to NuGold.
Rather, Stoecklein contributed the money to the company.
5.
The false statements in NuGold’s Registration Statements regarding the
CEO’s sole control over NuGold and the source of the initial cash capitalization for NuGold were
material. NuGold’s failure to disclose Stoecklein’s 1995 Cease-and-Desist Order was also material
given his control over the company.
Violations
6.
As a result of the conduct described above, Stoecklein willfully violated
Sections 17(a)(1) and 17(a)(3) of the Securities Act.
IV.
In view of the foregoing, the Commission deems it appropriate and in the public interest to
impose the sanctions agreed to in Respondent Stoecklein’s Offer.
Accordingly, pursuant to Section 8A of the Securities Act, Sections 4C and 15(b) of the
Exchange Act, and Rule 102(e)(1)(iii) of the Commission’s Rules of Practice, it is hereby
ORDERED that:
A.
Respondent Stoecklein shall cease and desist from committing or causing any
violations and any future violations of Section 17(a)(1) and (3) of the Securities Act.

3

B.

Respondent Stoecklein be, and hereby is:

(1)
prohibited from acting as an officer or director of any issuer that has a class
of securities registered pursuant to Section 12 of the Exchange Act, or that is required to file
reports pursuant to Section 15(d) of that Act; and
(2)
barred from participating in any offering of a penny stock, including: acting
as a promoter, finder, consultant, agent, or other person who engages in activities with a broker,
dealer, or issuer for purposes of the issuance or trading of any penny stock, or inducing or
attempting to induce the purchase or sale of any penny stock.
C.
Respondent Stoecklein is denied the privilege of appearing or practicing before the
Commission as an attorney.
D.
Stoecklein shall, within 10 days of the entry of this Order, pay a civil money
penalty in the amount of $80,000.00 to the Securities and Exchange Commission for transfer to the
general fund of the United States Treasury, subject to Exchange Act Section 21F(g)(3). If timely
payment is not made, additional interest shall accrue pursuant to 31 U.S.C. §3717.
E.

Payment must be made in one of the following ways:
(1)

Respondent may transmit payment electronically to the Commission, which
will provide detailed ACH transfer/Fedwire instructions upon request;

(2)

Respondent may make direct payment from a bank account via Pay.gov
through the SEC website at http://www.sec.gov/about/offices/ofm.htm; or

(3)

Respondent may pay by certified check, bank cashier’s check, or United
States postal money order, made payable to the Securities and Exchange
Commission and hand-delivered or mailed to:

Enterprise Services Center
Accounts Receivable Branch
HQ Bldg., Room 181, AMZ-341
6500 South MacArthur Boulevard
Oklahoma City, OK 73169
Payments by check or money order must be accompanied by a cover letter identifying
Stoecklein as a Respondent in these proceedings, and the file number of these proceedings; a copy
of the cover letter and check or money order must be sent to C. Dabney O’Riordan, Division of
Enforcement, Securities and Exchange Commission, 444 South Flower Street, Suite 900, Los
Angeles, CA 90071.
F.
Amounts ordered to be paid as civil money penalties pursuant to this Order shall be
treated as penalties paid to the government for all purposes, including all tax purposes. To
4

preserve the deterrent effect of the civil penalty, Respondent agrees that in any Related Investor
Action, he shall not argue that he is entitled to, nor shall he benefit by, offset or reduction of any
award of compensatory damages by the amount of any part of Respondent’s payment of a civil
penalty in this action (“Penalty Offset”). If the court in any Related Investor Action grants such a
Penalty Offset, Respondent agrees that he shall, within 30 days after entry of a final order granting
the Penalty Offset, notify the Commission’s counsel in this action and pay the amount of the
Penalty Offset to the Securities and Exchange Commission. Such a payment shall not be deemed
an additional civil penalty and shall not be deemed to change the amount of the civil penalty
imposed in this proceeding. For purposes of this paragraph, a “Related Investor Action” means a
private damages action brought against Respondent by or on behalf of one or more investors based
on substantially the same facts as alleged in the Order instituted by the Commission in this
proceeding.
V.
It is further Ordered that, solely for purposes of exceptions to discharge set forth in Section
523 of the Bankruptcy Code, 11 U.S.C. §523, the findings in this Order are true and admitted by
Respondent, and further, any debt for disgorgement, prejudgment interest, civil penalty or other
amounts due by Respondent under this Order or any other judgment, order, consent order, decree
or settlement agreement entered in connection with this proceeding, is a debt for the violation by
Respondent of the federal securities laws or any regulation or order issued under such laws, as set
forth in Section 523(a)(19) of the Bankruptcy Code, 11 U.S.C. §523(a)(19).

By the Commission.

Brent J. Fields
Secretary

5

