UNITED STATES OF AMERICA
Before the
SECURITIES AND EXCHANGE COMMISSION

SECURITIES ACT OF 1933
Release No. 10001 / January 6, 2016
SECURITIES EXCHANGE ACT OF 1934
Release No. 76839 / January 6, 2016
INVESTMENT ADVISERS ACT OF 1940
Release No. 4306 / January 6, 2016
ADMINISTRATIVE PROCEEDING
File No. 3-17036
ORDER INSTITUTING
ADMINISTRATIVE AND CEASEAND-DESIST PROCEEDINGS
PURSUANT TO SECTION 8A OF THE
SECURITIES ACT OF 1933,
SECTION 15(b) OF THE SECURITIES
EXCHANGE ACT OF 1934, AND
SECTION 203(e) OF THE
INVESTMENT ADVISERS ACT OF
1940, MAKING FINDINGS, AND
IMPOSING REMEDIAL SANCTIONS
AND A CEASE-AND-DESIST ORDER

In the Matter of
J.P. Morgan Securities LLC,
Respondent.

I.
The Securities and Exchange Commission (“Commission”) deems it appropriate and in
the public interest that public administrative and cease-and-desist proceedings be, and hereby
are, instituted pursuant to Section 8A of the Securities Act of 1933 (“Securities Act”), Section
15(b) of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934 (“Exchange Act”), and Section 203(e) of the
Investment Advisers Act of 1940 (“Advisers Act”) against J.P. Morgan Securities LLC (“JPMS”
or “Respondent”).
II.
In anticipation of the institution of these proceedings, Respondent has submitted an Offer
of Settlement (the “Offer”) which the Commission has determined to accept. Solely for the
purpose of these proceedings and any other proceedings brought by or on behalf of the
Commission, or to which the Commission is a party, and without admitting or denying the
findings herein, except as to the Commission’s jurisdiction over it and the subject matter of these

proceedings, which are admitted, Respondent consents to the entry of this Order Instituting
Administrative and Cease-and-Desist Proceedings Pursuant to Section 8A of the Securities Act
of 1933, Section 15(b) of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, and Section 203(e) of the
Investment Advisers Act of 1940, Making Findings, and Imposing Remedial Sanctions and a
Cease-and-Desist Order (“Order”), as set forth below.
III.
On the basis of this Order and Respondent’s Offer, the Commission finds1 that:
Summary
This matter arises from false and misleading statements in certain JPMS marketing
materials regarding how JPMS compensated registered representatives in its U.S. Private Bank
(“JPM Private Bank”). Between 2009 and 2012, JPMS made false and misleading statements in
certain marketing materials distributed to its private banking customers concerning the factors
JPMS used to determine compensation for its JPM Private Bank registered representatives, also
known at JPMS as “advisors” (“Advisors”). On its private banking website and in certain other
JPM Private Bank marketing materials distributed to current and prospective customers, JPMS
stated that Advisor compensation was based solely on the performance of the investments in
customer accounts. Specifically, JPMS stated that it “compensate[s] our advisors based on our
clients’ performance; no one is paid on commission” (“Compensation Misstatement”). Although
JPMS did not pay JPM Private Bank Advisors commissions, contrary to JPMS’ representations,
Advisor compensation was not “based on clients’ performance” but was instead comprised of
salary and a discretionary bonus that took into consideration a number of other factors.
Between March 2009 and February 2011, the Compensation Misstatement was identified
by JPMS employees as inaccurate on four occasions but JPMS failed to correct the misstatement.
Respondent
1.
JPMS, a wholly-owned subsidiary of JPMorgan Chase & Co., is a Delaware
limited liability company headquartered in New York, New York. JPMS is registered with the
Commission as a broker-dealer since 1985 and as an investment adviser since 1965.

1

The findings herein are made pursuant to Respondent’s Offer of Settlement and are not binding on any other
person or entity in this or any other proceeding.

2

Other Relevant Entities
2.
JPMorgan Chase Bank, N.A. (“JPMCB”), a wholly-owned subsidiary of
JPMorgan, is a nationally-chartered bank, incorporated in 1824, and headquartered in New York,
New York. JPMCB acts as the investment manager and bank for JPM Private Bank, the
marketing name for JPMorgan’s business unit that provides banking and investment services to
high net worth and ultra-high net worth customers. JPMCB is not registered under the Advisers
Act, as it is excluded pursuant to Section 202(a)(11)(A) of the Advisers Act.
3.
JPMorgan Chase & Co. (“JPMorgan”) is a Delaware corporation
headquartered in New York, New York. JPMorgan is a global financial services firm and bank
with $2.6 trillion in assets as of December 31, 2014. JPMorgan’s stock is traded on the New
York Stock Exchange (ticker symbol JPM).
4.
J.P. Morgan Private Bank (“JPM Private Bank”) is the marketing name of a
business unit within JPMorgan that provides banking and investment services in the U.S. to high
net worth and ultra-high net worth customers. JPM Private Bank provides brokerage services
through JPMS.
Background
5.
The JPM Private Bank caters to the investment and banking needs of high net
worth and ultra-high net worth customers. The JPM Private Bank offers a broad range of
services beyond that of a traditional brokerage, such as investment management (investment
advisory), lending, trust and estate services, and wealth advisory (tax efficient wealth transfer
advice). These services are conducted through a team assigned to each customer, including a
primary relationship manager known as a “Banker” and another registered representative on the
account who handles the investment needs of the customer known as an “Investor.”
Collectively, during the relevant time period the Banker and Investor in the JPM Private Bank
were sometimes referred to as Advisors.
Facts
JPMS’ Misleading Marketing Materials Concerning Advisor Compensation
6.
JPM Private Bank Advisors were not paid commissions but instead were paid a
salary plus a discretionary bonus that took into consideration a number of factors. None of the
factors JPMS used to determine the discretionary bonus were tied to portfolio performance as
advisor compensation was not based on the performance of the investments in customer
accounts.
7.
The Compensation Misstatement appeared in several marketing pieces prepared
for current and prospective customers: (i) a prospecting card; (ii) JPMS’ private banking website;
(iii) a private banking website for JPMS’ Tampa regional office; (iv) a pitch book; and (v) a
marketing letter.
3

A.

Prospecting Card

8.
In March 2009 the Compensation Misstatement appeared in a JPM Private Bank
document known as the U.S. Private Bank About Global Wealth Management prospecting card
(“Prospecting Card”). The Prospecting Card was an index-sized card containing key points
about the JPM Private Bank which was disseminated to Advisors within the JPM Private Bank to
be used with current and prospective customers. The Prospecting Card was part of a wallet kit
which could fit a handful of index-sized marketing materials, including a trust and estates card,
an investments card, and the Prospecting Card.
9.
The Prospecting Card was a new concept developed and launched by JPMS in
March 2009 during the financial crisis. The Prospecting Card was considered a “big deal” at
JPMS as it was a marketing tool that could be distributed by Advisors to current and prospective
customers during a time of financial market instability. The Prospecting Card was widely
disseminated internally at JPMS as part of its preparation and internal review. Despite this
internal review, the Compensation Misstatement was not corrected even after identified by an
employee.
10.
During the relevant time period, JPM Private Bank Compliance and Supervisory
Manager (“SM”) review and approval was required for marketing materials prior to mass
distribution to the public, which JPM Private Bank policy defined as 12 or more individuals.
The individual submitting the marketing materials for approval was required to ensure the
accuracy of the information included in the materials. JPM Private Bank policy did not require
Compliance and SMs to verify the accuracy of the information included in the materials; such
review and approval was required for all customer-facing marketing materials to ensure the
materials were fair, balanced, and that all appropriate disclosures were made.
11.
The concept of the Prospecting Card came about in and around February 2009
through the Latin American unit of J.P. Morgan’s Private Bank. With respect to compensation,
that unit’s prospecting card stated “conduct[s] a fee-based business.”
12.
One month later, in March 2009, the Private Wealth Management (“PWM”)
regional marketing manager (“Marketing Manager”) submitted for Compliance and SM approval
a Prospecting Card modifying the language of the Latin America Private Bank prospecting card.
The Prospecting Card was modified to include the Compensation Misstatement. On March 11,
2009, Compliance and SM approved the Prospecting Card with the Compensation Misstatement.
13.
After receiving the mandatory internal compliance and SM review and approval,
the marketing department disseminated the Prospecting Card to personnel throughout the JPM
Private Bank. The Prospecting Card was also discussed at a mandatory meeting for all
employees of the JPM Private Bank and PWM teams.
14.
After the review and comment process, more than 50,000 wallet kits were mailed
to the various regional offices of the JPM Private Bank for distribution to current and prospective
4

customers. At their discretion, Advisors distributed the Prospecting Card that contained the
Compensation Misstatement to their current and prospective customers.
15.
The Compensation Misstatement continued to appear in various versions of the
Prospecting Card until at least May 2012.
B.

JPMS’ Private Bank Webpage

16.
In June 2010, JPMS made revisions to its national website that included, among
other things, the launch of a JPM Private Bank “About Us” webpage (“JPM Private Bank
Webpage”). The JPM Private Bank Webpage consisted of a one page bullet point description of
the JPM Private Bank. Primarily designed for prospective customers to get an overview of the
JPM Private Bank, it provided a general description of the Firm and its capabilities. At the
direction of the JPM Private Bank’s global head of marketing, the language on the JPM Private
Bank Webpage was lifted from the Prospecting Card. Once the change to the JPM Private Bank
Webpage was made, the Prospecting Card and the JPM Private Bank Webpage contained the
identical Compensation Misstatement.
17.
Prior to the change being implemented to the JPM Private Bank Webpage, the
JPM Private Bank’s marketing department received the required review and approval from
Compliance. The already approved language from the Prospecting Card used in the JPM Private
Bank Webpage was not again reviewed by Compliance prior to approval.
18.
57,000 hits.

From June 2010 to May 2012, the JPM Private Bank Webpage received over

19.
On May 3, 2012, almost two years after the Compensation Misstatement first
appeared on the JPM Private Bank Webpage, JPMS corrected the JPM Private Bank Webpage to
read “Our professionals at J.P. Morgan Private Bank are not paid on commission.”
C.

Tampa Webpage

20.
The Compensation Misstatement also appeared on the JPM Private Bank’s Tampa
branch office webpage (“Tampa Webpage”). In February 2011, the Firm launched an online
marketing project to create a separate Tampa office webpage which could be accessed either
from J.P. Morgan’s website or when an individual entered applicable search terms on Google.
This was a pilot program and the Tampa office was the only branch office of the JPM Private
Bank to have its own webpage at the time.
21.
JPMS used certain information from the JPM Private Bank Webpage to create the
Tampa Webpage, including the Compensation Misstatement. The content for the Tampa
Webpage was approved by Compliance and was available for the viewing public from March 9,
2011 until November 8, 2012.
22.
In November 2012, JPMS corrected the Tampa Webpage to read “Our
professionals at J.P. Morgan Private Bank are not paid on commission.” This correction, made
5

only after Commission staff brought it to JPMS’ attention, was made six months after JPMS
removed the Compensation Misstatement from the JPM Private Bank Webpage.
D.

Pitch Books

23.
In March 2009, the Marketing Manager worked on a pitch book for the JPM
Private Bank using previously prepared and approved pitch books as a guide. The 29-page pitch
book (“Pitch Book”) consisted of PowerPoint slides designed to be used by Advisors in the JPM
Private Bank when they made introductory presentations to current and prospective customers
regarding the JPM Private Bank’s capabilities and services. One of the slides in the Pitch Book
contained the Compensation Misstatement.
24.
After the Marketing Manager completed a draft, the Pitch Book was disseminated
internally for review and discussion. The marketing department also distributed the Pitch Book
to eight to ten Advisors in the JPM Private Bank for feedback prior to using it with current and
prospective customers.
E.

Marketing Letter

25.
In November 2009, an Advisor included the Compensation Misstatement in a
marketing letter which he submitted for approval to send to his contact list of current and
prospective customers.
26.
JPM Private Bank Compliance and a SM reviewed and approved the marketing
letter for distribution to current and prospective customers.
JPMS’ Failure to Correct the Compensation Misstatement
27.
From March 2009 through February 2011, the Compensation Misstatement was
identified by JPMS employees as inaccurate on four occasions but JPMS failed to correct the
misstatement.
A.

March 2009

28.
Prior to publicly disseminating the Prospecting Card, on March 10, 2009, a Vice
President of the JPM Private Bank (“VP-PWM”) sent an email to the Marketing Manager
concerning the Compensation Misstatement that appeared in a Pitch Book the Marketing
Manager had circulated internally for comment. The VP-PWM’s wrote:
“Why not be blunt and say “paid on salary and
bonus”; technically, I do not see any compensation
based on the client’s performance.”
29.
Although the VP-PWM flagged the Compensation Misstatement for correction,
the Pitch Book was not corrected. The next day, March 11, 2009, the same Marketing Manager
submitted the Prospecting Card for Compliance and SM review and approval with the
6

Compensation Misstatement uncorrected. Such approval was granted that same day. The
Prospecting Card contained the same Compensation Misstatement the VP-PWM had
unsuccessfully attempted to correct.
B.

May 2009

30.
On May 5, 2009, one of JPMS’ compliance officers for the JPM Private Bank
(“Compliance Officer”) also raised concerns about the accuracy of the Compensation
Misstatement. While the Compliance Officer had previously approved marketing materials
containing the Compensation Misstatement, this time when reviewing a Pitch Book the
Compliance Officer noted in an email to a member of the marketing department:
“Give objective, candid advice, delivered by teams
whose compensation is based on your success--this
sounds strange and can be misinterpreted. This is
also repeated on the 4th bullet, slide 10--this is not
necessarily accurate--bonuses and compensation are
based on far more that [sic] a single client's
performance.”
31.
Despite this comment, the language was not completely corrected in the Pitch
Book. The Compensation Misstatement was corrected in one slide in the Pitch Book, but
remained in the other. Moreover, this same Compliance Officer approved marketing materials
containing the Compensation Misstatement on three occasions during the subsequent 16 months.
C.

August 2010

32.
Almost 16 months after first identifying the Compensation Misstatement as
inaccurate, the Compliance Officer once again noted the error. On August 30, 2010, an
individual in the JPM Private Bank submitted a Pitch Book to the Compliance Officer for review
and compliance approval. The Compliance Officer wrote in an email:
“She can make the statement that our advisors are
paid a salary with discretionary bonus and are not
paid by commission. But her statement is not
exactly accurate.”
33.
Despite the Compliance Officer noting for a second time that the Pitch Book
contained the Compensation Misstatement, the Compensation Misstatement remained
unchanged.
D.

February 2011

34.
In February 2011, a JPM Private Bank Advisor submitted marketing slides to the
Marketing Manager for comment. On February 8, 2011, the Marketing Manager responded by
email:
7

“I would caution you on two of the statements as I
do not believe they are based in fact.
…
JPM advisors are compensated based on our clients
performance. While its [sic] true that our advisors
are not paid commissions…; stating “paid on client
performance” could be misleading. Perhaps lead
with “not paid on commissions.”
35.
Notably, the Marketing Manager did not recommend amending the Compensation
Misstatement. She merely suggested reversing the order of the statement so as not to lead with
the Compensation Misstatement.
36.
As discussed above, although the Compensation Misstatement was identified by
JPMS employees as inaccurate on four occasions between March 2009 and February 2011,
JPMS failed to correct the Compensation Misstatement on each of these occasions. It was not
until May 2012, more than three years after the Compensation Misstatement first appeared in
certain of JPMS’ marketing materials, that JPMS corrected the Compensation Misstatement on
some of its marketing materials.
Violations
Section 17(a)(2) of the Securities Act
37.
Section 17(a)(2) of the Securities Act prohibits any person, in the offer or sale of
any security, from obtaining money or property by means of any untrue statement of material
fact or any omission to state a material fact necessary in order to make the statements made, in
light of the circumstances under which they were made, not misleading. Section 17(a)(2) of the
Securities Act does not require a showing of scienter. Aaron v. SEC, 466 U.S. 680 (1980). A
showing of negligence is sufficient to establish violations of these provisions. Id. at 701-702.
38.
As a result of the conduct described above, Respondent JPMS willfully2 violated
Section 17(a)(2) of the Securities Act which prohibits fraudulent conduct in the offer or sale of
securities.
JPMS’ Remedial Efforts
39.
In determining to accept JPMS’ Offer, the Commission considered remedial acts
undertaken by Respondent.
2

A willful violation of the securities laws means merely “‘that the person charged with the duty knows what he is
doing.’” Wonsover v. SEC, 205 F.3d 408, 414 (D.C. Cir. 2000) (quoting Hughes v. SEC, 174 F.2d 969, 977 (D.C.
Cir. 1949)). There is no requirement that the actor “‘also be aware that he is violating one of the Rules or Acts.’” Id.
(quoting Gearhart & Otis, Inc. v. SEC, 348 F.2d 798, 803 (D.C. Cir. 1965)).

8

IV.
In view of the foregoing, the Commission deems it appropriate and in the public interest,
to impose the sanctions agreed to in Respondent’s Offer.
Accordingly, pursuant to Section 8A of the Securities Act, Section 15(b) of the Exchange
Act, and Section 203(e) of the Advisers Act, it is hereby ORDERED that:
A.
Respondent JPMS cease and desist from committing or causing any violations
and any future violations of Section 17(a)(2) of the Securities Act.
B.

Respondent JPMS is censured.

C.
Respondent JPMS shall, within ten (10) days of the entry of this Order, pay a civil
money penalty in the amount of $4,000,000 to the Securities and Exchange Commission for
transfer to the general fund of United States Treasury in accordance with Exchange Act Section
21F(g)(3). If timely payment is not made, additional interest shall accrue pursuant to 31 U.S.C.
§ 3717. Payment must be made in one of the following ways:
(1) Respondent JPMS may transmit payment electronically to the Commission, which
will provide detailed ACH transfer/Fedwire instructions upon request;
(2) Respondent JPMS may make direct payment from a bank account via Pay.gov
through the SEC website at http://www.sec.gov/about/offices/ofm.htm; or
(3) Respondent JPMS may pay by certified check, bank cashier’s check, or United States
postal money order, made payable to the Securities and Exchange Commission and handdelivered or mailed to:
Enterprise Services Center
Accounts Receivable Branch
HQ Bldg., Room 181, AMZ-341
6500 South MacArthur Boulevard
Oklahoma City, OK 73169
Payments by check or money order must be accompanied by a cover letter identifying
J.P. Morgan Securities LLC as a Respondent in these proceedings, and the file number of these
proceedings; a copy of the cover letter and check or money order must be sent to Glenn S.
Gordon, Associate Regional Director, Division of Enforcement, Securities and Exchange
Commission, Miami Regional Office, 801 Brickell Avenue, Suite 1800, Miami, FL 33131.
D.
Amounts ordered to be paid as civil money penalties pursuant to this Order shall
be treated as penalties paid to the government for all purposes, including all tax purposes. To
9

preserve the deterrent effect of the civil penalty, Respondent agrees that in any Related Investor
Action, it shall not argue that it is entitled to, nor shall it benefit by, offset or reduction of any
award of compensatory damages by the amount of any part of Respondent’s payment of a civil
penalty in this action (“Penalty Offset”). If the court in any Related Investor Action grants such
a Penalty Offset, Respondent agrees that it shall, within 30 days after entry of a final order
granting the Penalty Offset, notify the Commission's counsel in this action and pay the amount of
the Penalty Offset to the Securities and Exchange Commission. Such a payment shall not be
deemed an additional civil penalty and shall not be deemed to change the amount of the civil
penalty imposed in this proceeding. For purposes of this paragraph, a "Related Investor Action"
means a private damages action brought against Respondent by or on behalf of one or more
investors based on substantially the same facts as alleged in the Order instituted by the
Commission in this proceeding.

By the Commission.

Brent J. Fields
Secretary

10

