UNITED STATES OF AMERICA
Before the
SECURITIES AND EXCHANGE COMMISSION
SECURITIES ACT OF 1933
Release No. 10012 / January 31, 2016
ADMINISTRATIVE PROCEEDING
File No. 3-17077

In the Matter of
Barclays PLC and
Barclays Bank PLC

CORRECTED ORDER UNDER RULE 405 OF
THE SECURITIES ACT OF 1933,
GRANTING A WAIVER FROM BEING AN
INELIGIBLE ISSUER

Barclays PLC and Barclays Bank PLC (“Companies”) have submitted a letter, dated
January 27, 2016, constituting an application for relief from the Companies being considered
“ineligible issuers” under Clause (1)(vi) of the definition of ineligible issuer in Rule 405 of the
Securities Act of 1933 (“Securities Act”). The Companies request relief from being considered
“ineligible issuers” under Rule 405, due to the entry on January 31, 2016, of an order instituting
administrative and cease-and-desist proceedings against Barclays Capital Inc. (“BCI”) (the “Ceaseand-Desist Order”). The Cease-and-Desist Order requires, among other things, BCI to cease and
desist from committing or causing any violations and any future violations of Section 17(a)(2) of the
Securities Act and Section 15(c)(3) of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934 and Rule 15c3-5
thereunder and Rules 301(b)(2) and 301(b)(10) of Regulation ATS.
Under Clause (1)(vi) of the definition of ineligible issuer in Rule 405 of the Securities
Act, an issuer becomes an ineligible issuer and thus unable to avail itself of well-known
seasoned issuer status, if “[w]ithin the past three years (but in the case of a decree or order
agreed to in a settlement, not before December 1, 2005), the issuer or any entity that at the time
was a subsidiary of the issuer was made the subject of any judicial or administrative decree or
order arising out of a governmental action that: (A) [p]rohibits certain conduct or activities
regarding, including future violations of, the anti-fraud provisions of the federal securities
laws…”
Under Clause (2) of the definition of ineligible issuer in Rule 405 of the Securities Act,
an issuer shall not be an ineligible issuer if the Commission determines, upon a showing of good
cause, that it is not necessary under the circumstances that the issuer be considered an ineligible
issuer.

Based on the representations set forth in the Companies’ January 27, 2016 request, and
on other considerations, the Commission has determined that the Companies have made a
showing of good cause under Clause (2) of the definition of ineligible issuer in Rule 405 of the
Securities Act and that Barclays PLC and Barclays Bank PLC should not be considered
ineligible issuers by reason of the entry of the Cease-and-Desist Order. Any different facts from
those represented or failure to comply with the terms of the Cease-and-Desist Order would
require us to revisit our determination that good cause has been shown and could constitute
grounds to revoke or further condition the waiver. The Commission reserves the right, in its
sole discretion, to revoke or further condition the waiver under those circumstances.
Accordingly, IT IS ORDERED, pursuant to Clause (2) of the definition of ineligible
issuer in Rule 405 of the Securities Act, that a waiver from Barclays PLC and Barclays Bank
PLC being ineligible issuers under Rule 405 of the Securities Act is hereby granted.
By the Commission.

Brent Fields
Secretary

2

