UNITED STATES OF AMERICA
Before the
SECURITIES AND EXCHANGE COMMISSION
SECURITIES ACT OF 1933
Release No. 10111 / July 14, 2016
SECURITIES EXCHANGE ACT OF 1934
Release No. 78325 / July 14, 2016
INVESTMENT ADVISERS ACT OF 1940
Release No. 4452 / July 14, 2016
INVESTMENT COMPANY ACT OF 1940
Release No. 32176 / July 14, 2016
ADMINISTRATIVE PROCEEDING
File No. 3-17342
ORDER INSTITUTING
ADMINISTRATIVE AND CEASEAND-DESIST PROCEEDINGS
PURSUANT TO SECTION 8A OF THE
SECURITIES ACT OF 1933, SECTION
21C OF THE SECURITIES
EXCHANGE ACT OF 1934, SECTIONS
203(e) AND 203(f) OF THE
INVESTMENT ADVISERS ACT OF
1940 AND SECTION 9(b) OF THE
INVESTMENT COMPANY ACT OF
1940

In the Matter of
RD LEGAL CAPITAL,
LLC and RONI
DERSOVITZ,
Respondents.

I.
The Securities and Exchange Commission (“Commission”) deems it appropriate
and in the public interest that public administrative and cease-and-desist proceedings be,
and hereby are, instituted pursuant to Section 8A of the Securities Act of 1933 (“Securities
Act”), Section 21C of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934 (“Exchange Act”), Sections
203(e) and 203(f) of the Investment Advisers Act of 1940 (“Advisers Act”), and Section
9(b) of the Investment Company Act of 1940 (“Investment Company Act”) against RD
Legal Capital, LLC (“RDLC”) and Roni Dersovitz (“Dersovitz,” and together with RDLC,
“Respondents”).
II.
After an investigation, the Division of Enforcement alleges that:

A.

SUMMARY

1.
Since at least June 2011, Respondents defrauded investors by (i)
marketing and selling investments in two funds based on misrepresentations concerning
the type and diversification of assets under management in these funds, and (ii) by
withdrawing money from the funds using valuations based on unreasonable assumptions,
thereby draining the funds of liquidity at the expense of investors.
2.
Respondents’ misrepresentations to investors were oral and written, and
varied both over time and from investor to investor, but their false and misleading
statements were consistent in at least one critical respect: Respondents marketed RD
Legal-branded funds as opportunities to invest in receivables backed by law firms
relating to settled litigation. In fact, since the funds’ inception in 2007, Respondents
invested the funds’ money however they saw fit, including in unsettled cases, cases
unaffiliated with any law firm, and other cases for which collection was still subject to
litigation risk.
3.
By the end of 2011, more than half of the funds’ assets were invested in
unsettled cases or a default judgment. By December 2013, over 60% of the funds’ assets
were invested in a default judgment relating to litigation associated with the Iranian
terrorist bombing of the United States Marine Barracks in Beirut, and by 2015, the
percentage of the funds’ investments in unsettled cases or a default judgment rose to over
80% of the funds’ assets.
4.
By virtue of their conduct, Respondents willfully violated Section 17(a) of
the Securities Act, Section 10(b) of the Exchange Act and Rule 10b-5 thereunder.
Dersovitz also willfully aided and abetted and caused RDLC’s violations of Section 17(a)
of the Securities Act and Section 10(b) of the Exchange Act and Rule 10b-5 thereunder.
B.

RESPONDENTS

5.
Dersovitz, age 56, is a resident of Tenafly, New Jersey. He is the
president and chief executive officer of RDLC, and the owner of RDLC and RD Legal
Funding, LLC. He is an attorney licensed in New York and New Jersey. He began
operating his legal-financing business through RD Legal Funding, LLC in 2001 and
through RDLC in 2007.
6.
RDLC is a Delaware limited liability company with its principal office in
Cresskill, New Jersey. RDLC is the managing partner and investment manager of the
investment funds RD Legal Funding Partners, LP and RD Legal Funding Offshore Fund,
Ltd., respectively. RDLC was registered with the Commission as an investment adviser
from 2009 through August 2014.

2

C.

OTHER RELEVANT ENTITIES

7.
RD Legal Funding Partners, LP (“RDLP”) is a Delaware limited
partnership that commenced operations in September 2007. Its principal place of
business is in Cresskill, New Jersey. RDLC is the general partner of RDLP.
8.
RD Legal Funding Offshore Fund, Ltd. (“RDLOF,” and together with
RDLP, the “Funds”) is an exempted company incorporated in September 2007 under the
laws of the Cayman Islands and managed from RDLC’s offices in New Jersey. The
Funds have over 150 current investors who allocated over $150 million to the Funds.
D.

BACKGROUND

9.
The Funds offered investors preferred returns of 1.06% per month
(compounded to 13.5% annually), which the Funds hoped to earn through investments in
certain legal receivables. Profits in excess of those returns were allocated to RDLC’s
capital account, out of which most expenses—and Dersovitz’s personal profits—were
paid.
10.
The Funds’ stated strategy was to invest in the legal receivables of
attorneys in connection with settlements those attorneys had obtained on behalf of their
clients.
11.
Contrary to Respondents’ many written and oral statements about the
nature and concentration of the Funds’ investments, the overwhelming majority of the
Funds’ assets were associated with legal receivables, the collection of which was subject
to ongoing—and, at times, protracted—litigation risk. In June 2011, over 40% of the
Funds’ assets were invested in receivables associated with ongoing litigation. By early
2016, that proportion had ballooned to over 90%.
E.

RESPONDENTS’ MISREPRESENTATIONS

12.
Respondents marketed the Funds as opportunities to profit by purchasing,
at a discount, receivables arising primarily from “settled law suits” and, on occasion,
other kinds of resolved cases. Respondents’ descriptions of the Funds’ investments
changed over time, but never accurately disclosed the true composition or concentration
of investments in the Funds.
i. Respondents Misrepresented the Type and Concentration of Investments in the
Funds’ Marketing Materials and Offering Documents.
13.
Respondents used many different written materials to market the Funds.
Dersovitz collaborated with others at RDLC, including RDLC’s Director of Investor
Relations (the “IR Director”), in generating the Funds’ marketing materials. Dersovitz
maintained final editorial authority over the contents of the Funds’ marketing materials at
all times relevant herein.

3

14.
A 2011 RDLC presentation (the “2011 Presentation”) stated that the
Funds’ investment strategy consisted of “purchas[ing] attorney fees only on settled
cases,” which the presentation claimed constituted “94.99% of the portfolio as of [August
31, 2011].”
15.
Subsequent iterations of the 2011 Presentation and other materials given to
potential investors similarly falsely stated that:
a. 95% of the Funds’ investments consisted of “the purchase of a legal
fee at a discount from a law firm, once a settlement has been reached
and the legal fee is earned”;
b. the purchased receivables “stem primarily from the legal fee” portion
of “settlement proceeds”;
c. the Funds differ from other legal-funding firms in that they pursue a
“‘post-settlement’ strategy” as opposed to “pre-settlement funding”;
d. the dollar value of the legal fee “can be accurately determined”
because the litigation is “past the point of potential appeals or other
disputes”;
e. the Funds’ “primary focus is on purchasing the aforementioned
receivables of settled cases, or non-appealable judgments”; and
f. the Funds’ investments “were principally comprised of purchased legal
fees associated with settled litigation.”
16.
From at least 2011, the Funds’ offering documents falsely noted that “[a]ll
of the Legal Fee Receivables purchased by the Partnership arise out of litigation in which
a binding settlement agreement or memorandum of understanding has been reached
between the parties.” In or around June 2013, months after the majority of the Funds’
assets had been invested in receivables for which there was collection risk because of
ongoing litigation, this statement in the Funds’ offering documents was modified to
include “litigations in which … a judgment has been entered” as another category of
cases for which the Funds purchased legal fees. But even this after-the-fact modification
failed to disclose that the Funds had substantial investments in ongoing litigation for
which there was no settlement or judgment. The modification also failed to capture the
significant distinction between a judgment obtained after full litigation and a default
judgment—an important failure given that the Funds had invested the majority of their
assets in receivables associated with a single default judgment, as discussed below.
17.
Moreover, the Funds’ marketing materials trumpeted the reasons why
investing in settlements was safe. For example, the 2011 Presentation also assured
investors by stating that the settlements in which the Funds invested were “typically paid
by investment grade obligors” such as “rated insurers, municipalities, and corporations,”
and subsequent iterations similarly stated that “[c]ases [were] paid by rated insurers,
municipalities and corporations.”
4

18.
At various times, the Funds’ marketing documents also misleadingly
emphasized the relative comfort that investors could take in advancing monies to law
firms, which would see their “license at risk” if they did not remit the purchased legal fee
to the Funds upon collection. The documents further maintained that “[d]efendant(s)
have no incentive to settle if they cannot make payment.”
19.
Respondents also made numerous misrepresentations concerning the
concentration of investments in the Funds. First, Respondents trumpeted diversification
as an important aspect of the Funds’ strategy. For example, the 2011 Presentation
emphasized that the Funds’ “portfolio obligor investment matrix [was] designed to create
a diversified portfolio in investment positions” and had “exposure limits on Obligors
(corporate, municipal insurance company)” and “selling attorney limitations.”
Subsequent presentations to investors stated that “aggregate portfolio exposures [are]
strictly controlled based on the credit worthiness of the relevant ‘Payor.’” Other
marketing materials represented that the “funds offer a diversified approach to the
standard legal receivable strategy.” Presentations also misleadingly explained that “[i]n
the event there is excessive risk, it is participated out,” meaning that interests in the
purchased receivables would be sold to independent third parties.
20.
Respondents’ statements were particularly misleading in describing the
Funds’ concentrated exposure to investments in certain receivables relating to the
litigation captioned Peterson, et al. v. Islamic Republic of Iran, et al., 10 Civ. 4518
(S.D.N.Y.) (the “Peterson Receivables”).
21.
Dersovitz began investing the Funds’ assets in Peterson Receivables as
early as 2010. The Peterson Receivables were assets in which Dersovitz invested fund
monies that involved the pursuit, by numerous plaintiffs, of assets from the Islamic
Republic of Iran on the basis of default judgments they had obtained for victims and
relatives of the 1983 Marine barracks bombing in Beirut (the “Peterson Case”). By
August 2012, the Peterson Receivables were valued at over 20% of the Funds’ portfolio,
a proportion that grew to approximately two-thirds of the portfolio by the middle of
2014.1

1

Thousands of individuals filed suit against Iran and obtained default judgments in the early 2000s.
In 2007, the Peterson plaintiffs and their attorneys located what they believed were $1.75 billion in bonds
belonging to Bank Markazi (the Iranian national bank) in an account at Citibank, N.A. in New York, New
York. In 2010, the plaintiffs filed several fund-turnover actions against the assets, and the cases were
eventually consolidated before Judge Katherine B. Forrester, as Peterson, et al. v. Islam Republic of Iran, et
al., 10 Civ. 4518 (S.D.N.Y.). In the summer of 2012 Congress enacted Section 502 of the Iran Threat
Reduction and Syria Humans Rights Act of 2012, Pub. L. No. 112-158, 126 Stat. 1214, 1258 (22 U.S.C.
§ 8772). It provided that “the financial assets that are identified in [the Peterson Case]” are subject to
execution. 22 U.S.C. § 8772. Iran challenged the constitutionality of Section 8772, but, on February 28,
2013, the District Court ordered turnover of the assets. Peterson v. Islamic Republic of Iran, No. 10 Civ.
4518 (KBF), 2013 WL 1155576 (S.D.N.Y. Mar. 13, 2013). The Court of Appeals affirmed in the summer
of 2014, see Peterson v. Islamic Republic of Iran, 758 F.3d 185 (2d Cir. 2014), and the Supreme Court
affirmed the Second Circuit’s ruling on April 20, 2016, 136 S. Ct. 1310 (2016).

5

22.
In addition to these misleading marketing materials, RDLC and Dersovitz
made available (upon request) other due diligence documents that contained similar
misleading statements and omissions about the Funds’ portfolio. For example, RDLC
and Dersovitz provided certain investors with audited financial statements that obfuscated
the proportion of the Funds that were invested in Peterson Receivables. The 2012
audited financial statements for RDLFP describes certain assets by listing “Funds under
control of the US Government” as a “Payor” which comprised both Peterson Receivables
and other receivables. The possible sources of payment in the Peterson Case, however,
were not under the control of the U.S. government. The 2013 and 2014 audited financials
for the Funds similarly spoke of concentrations in an investment for which the ultimate
obligor was “Qualified Settlement Trust,” which combined the Peterson Receivables and
other Fund assets. In another example, to some investors, RDLC and Dersovitz made
available periodic audit documents that at times misleadingly referred to a certain
receivable (the “Law Firm A Receivables,” as defined below) as arising out of a settled
case when, as explained, the monies advanced were to fund ongoing litigation.
ii. Contrasting the Respondents’ Marketing of the Funds with the
Marketing of Another Investment Opportunity with Higher Returns
Further Evidences Their Deception of Investors.
23.
Dersovitz purchased Peterson Receivables for the Funds and for a separate
fund branded a “special purpose vehicle” that Dersovitz had created to invest in Peterson
Receivables (the “Iran SPV”). Respondents offered the Iran SPV as a unique opportunity
to profit from Peterson Receivables and offered the opportunity to invest in the Funds to
those investors who sought to avoid or limit their exposure to the Peterson Case. The
Iran SPV offered greater returns than those offered by the Funds for investors willing to
invest in a concentrated portfolio of Peterson Receivables.
24.
Respondents offered the Funds and the Iran SPV side-by-side without
explaining the extent to which the Funds had invested in the Peterson Receivables and
thus faced many of the risks disclosed in the Iran SPV’s offering documents (and not
disclosed in the Funds’ offering documents).
25.
The IR Director typically introduced the Funds to investors by sending
them the Funds’ marketing materials with the explanation that “our primary strategy is
factoring legal fee receivables associated with settled litigation.” She then misleadingly
added that “in addition to our fund offerings, we are also in the process of raising an SPV
which will invest in one large opportunity: the [Peterson] case.” Elsewhere, the IR
Director described the Iran SPV to existing and potential Fund investors as “an
opportunity separate from our flagship fund.” On one occasion, when asked by an
investor if the Funds invested in Peterson Receivables, the IR Director misleadingly
responded that, due to their nature, the Peterson Receivables required a “distinct”
vehicle.
26.
A document containing “FAQ [Frequently Asked Questions]” that
Respondents drafted and utilized in 2013 and 2014, for example, described two different
categories of investment opportunities: (1) the Funds, which “offer[ed] a diversified
6

approach to the standard legal receivable strategy,” and separately (2) the Iran SPV, a
“special opportunity / concentrated fund that invests in a single opportunity….” The
2014 FAQs, like the 2013 FAQs, continued to portray “the primary strategy employed
[by the Funds as] one in which receivables arising from settled law suits are purchased at
a discount,” and omit any reference to investments in the Peterson Case or that
approximately 64% of the Funds’ positions were already invested in the Peterson Case.
27.
Respondents also employed a marketing presentation in 2014 reiterating,
falsely, that “[t]he primary strategy of the Funds … is to factor Legal Fee receivables
associated with settled litigation.” The marketing presentation explicitly distinguished
the Funds’ portfolio from that of the Iran SPV. But at that time, approximately twothirds of the Funds’ portfolio was tied to the Peterson Case, and the balance of the Funds
were heavily invested in other unsettled claims.
28.
The contrasting risk disclosures in the respective offering documents for
the Funds and the Iran SPV also obscured that more than half of the Funds’ assets were
invested in Peterson Receivables, like the entirety of the Iran SPV. The Iran SPV’s
offering documents disclosed the following risks that were absent from the Funds’
offering materials:
a. the litigation to collect against Iran may be unsuccessful;
b. there existed political risks to collection related to U.S. foreign policy
with Iran;
c. assets recovered may not be sufficient to satisfy the amounts due to the
Iran SPV, in part because of the existence of a large number of other
creditors against Iran;
d. there existed “investment concentration” in Peterson Receivables in
the Iran SPV “without the protections against loss afforded by
diversification”; and
e. there existed a potential constitutional challenge against the statute
that formed the basis for the Peterson litigation and that, if the
constitutional challenge was successful, “the [Iran SPV’s] investments
may become worthless.”
29.
A flier for the Iran SPV that Respondents created in August 2013 similarly
disclosed these extensive risks and contrasted the Funds to the SPV by noting that the
former “typically funds the law firm or the plaintiff after a settlement agreement has been
agreed to and fully executed by both the plaintiff and the defendant.”
30.
By contrast, the disclosures in the Funds’ offering and marketing
documents contained no such explanations of risk. They did not discuss the political risk,
concentration risk, or ongoing litigation risks that Respondents disclosed for the Iran
SPV.
7

31.
The Iran SPV attracted very few investors. Many potential investors told
Respondents that they were not interested in investing in the Peterson Case for reasons
including “political risk” (i.e., the investment might be impacted by United States
relations with Iran), and a more general distaste for profiting from the suffering of
victims of terrorism. Many of those investors were surprised to learn that by investing in
the Funds, they took on an outsized exposure in the same Peterson Receivables they
declined to pursue through the Iran SPV. Many of the same investors were particularly
troubled that they had declined exposure to the Peterson Case through the Iran SPV,
which offered a maximum annual return of 18%, only to be exposed to the same risks
through funds that offered a maximum return of 13.5%.
32.
Some investors who found out about the Funds’ growing concentration in
Peterson Receivables in 2012 withdrew their assets from the Funds and explicitly
expressed to Dersovitz their distaste for the investment in the Peterson Case.
iii. Respondents Made Oral Misrepresentations to Current and
Prospective Investors.
33.
Respondents’ fraudulent scheme also relied heavily on false and
misleading oral and email communications with current and prospective investors. Some
of these communications repeated the same misstatements found in the Funds’ marketing
materials, while others went further in misrepresenting facts about the Funds.
34.
For example, in various oral representations made to prospective investors
starting in June 2011, Dersovitz and his employees emphasized that the focus of the
Funds’ strategy was to invest in settled cases. Dersovitz told one investment manager in
2011 that all potential appeals had been exhausted in the matters underlying the
receivables that the Funds had purchased. Dersovitz went on to assure that potential
investor that the Fund was a “very diversified” portfolio with no concentration in one
particular case. Dersovitz never mentioned in 2011 that the Funds were invested in the
Peterson Receivables to the investment manager (or to certain other prospective investors
in 2011).
35.
Dersovitz emphasized to numerous investors the settled nature of the cases
underlying the Funds’ investments and explained that settled cases presented limited
risks, unlike other litigation-financing claims that faced the risk that a case might not end
favorably. Dersovitz told investors the main risk relating to settlements was “attorney
theft” of monies due to the Funds. In line with his misleading offering documents,
Dersovitz emphasized that attorneys had no incentive to fail to disburse proceeds to the
Funds, because they would be at risk of losing their licenses.
36.
Dersovitz told some investors as late as 2013 that there were no significant
concentrations in a single case in the Funds.
37.
At times, Dersovitz acknowledged to certain investors that the Funds had
some interest in the Peterson Case, but on many such occasions he allayed investor
concerns by stating that he expected the concentration to go down, when, in fact, he
8

continued to purchase Peterson Receivables in the Funds. Dersovitz also misrepresented
the Funds’ exposure to the Peterson Case and the growing nature of the Funds’
investments in that case. For example, Dersovitz told one investor that the Funds had a 5
to 7% interest in the Peterson Receivables in 2012, when those receivables constituted
approximately 30% of the Funds’ portfolio, and further assured the investor that the
Peterson Receivables were to be “offloaded” to the Iran SPV.
38.
Dersovitz represented to an investment adviser in 2011 that the Funds
concentrated on settled cases and provided that adviser with documents stating that the
Funds’ assets consisted of receivables that represent the “contingent share of legal
settlements reached with defendants.” Dersovitz later acknowledged that 40% of the
Funds’ portfolio was tied to the Peterson Case, but assured the adviser that the Funds
were working to decrease that exposure. At the same time, Dersovitz was purchasing
additional Peterson Receivables, rapidly increasing the Funds’ exposure to the Peterson
Case.
39.
To another prospective investor, Dersovitz stated the investments the
Funds “are dealing with primarily, 100%, are settled cases, so there is no litigation risk in
the strategy.” He explained that “the risks are duration and theft,” without mentioning
the key risk presented by the Peterson Receivables: that collection would simply fail if
turnover of Iran’s assets was not granted by the courts (i.e., the very risk Respondents
warned existed for the Iran SPV).
40.
The IR Director told the same investor that the Funds had “to work with
those that are only settled claims.” This investor also received the 2012 Due Diligence
Questionnaire setting forth in unequivocal terms that 95% of the Funds’ portfolio
consisted of law firm receivables in cases where a settlement had been reached.
41.
The IR Director told another investor that the Funds’ investment thesis
was buying attorney receivables in settled cases. She further explained that the Funds
were entirely unrelated to the Iran SPV without mentioning that the Funds’ largest
concentration was in the same Peterson Receivables in which the Iran SPV planned to
invest its entire fund.
42.
Dersovitz told the same investor in a subsequent meeting that the only risk
facing the Funds was collection risk. Dersovitz did not mention litigation risk, even
though, at that time, the Funds were not only invested in the unsettled Peterson Case but
also had more than 20% of the Funds’ assets invested in other unsettled litigation.
43.
As investors came to learn that the Funds had more exposure to the
Peterson Case than Respondents had previously disclosed to them, many investors
contacted Respondents with questions about that exposure, but Respondents continued to
mislead them about the extent to which the Funds’ investments were concentrated in the
Peterson Case and other assets.

9

44.
For example, at a time when the Funds had invested over $50 million in
the Peterson Case, the IR Director told an investor that Dersovitz had “deployed a total of
$18 [million] in the domestic fund.”
45.
To other investors, Respondents conflated the total money deployed by the
Funds to acquire assets with the valuations of these assets, which further obfuscated the
concentration of Fund assets in particular receivables.
46.
When certain investors found out about the Funds’ investment in the
Peterson Receivables, Dersovitz misleadingly stated that the concentration of these
receivables in the Funds would decrease, even though this concentration steadily
increased through the end of 2014.
47.
Even as late as 2015, Dersovitz falsely told one investor that the Funds’
maximum exposure to the Peterson Case, if the Peterson Receivables became worthless,
was $12.5 million, and he told another investor that the total investment was roughly 10
to 20% of the Funds’ portfolio. At that time, of the Funds’ total portfolio valued at nearly
$170 million, over $100 million was tied to Peterson Receivables, and purchases of
Peterson Receivables constituted more than half of the Funds’ deployed assets.
F.

THE TRUE COMPOSITION OF THE FUNDS’ PORTFOLIOS WAS
NOT WHAT RESPONDENTS’ REPRESENTED TO INVESTORS.

48.
In mid-2011 nearly half of the Funds’ assets, based on their valuations in
RDLC’s own records and financial statements, were not invested in receivables
associated with settled cases. In 2014 and 2015, almost every dollar that Dersovitz
invested for the Funds was in something other than a receivable associated with a settled
case.
i. The Funds Invested in Unsettled Litigations with Law Firm A.
49.
The first category of unsettled litigations in which the Funds invested
heavily related to funds advanced to Law Firm A. Starting in January 2008, Dersovitz
and RDLC began advancing the Funds’ monies to Law Firm A in connection with Law
Firm A’s litigation on behalf of individuals injured by a drug commercially known as
Fosamax or Actonel (“Law Firm A Receivables”). These cases were still in their early
stages, far from any settlement. By June 2011, the litigation that Law Firm A was
pursuing had not settled, but Dersovitz and RDLC had advanced nearly $6 million (of the
approximately $58 million invested by the Funds). Based on the valuation of the Funds’
assets (as opposed to the cost to purchase each asset), the Law Firm A Receivables
constituted over 10% of the Funds’ portfolio.
50.
Law Firm A did not settle the cases underlying the Law Firm A
Receivables until 2014, after which Dersovitz commenced a lawsuit to recover what he
claimed was owed to the Funds. That lawsuit did not settle until 2016, at which point the
Funds received several millions of dollars less than the amount they had advanced to Law
Firm A starting eight years earlier.
10

ii. The Funds Invested in Unsettled Litigations with Law Firm B.
51.
Another category of the Funds’ assets, unrelated to any settled litigation,
involved various ongoing cases associated with Law Firm B. Beginning in October
2007, Dersovitz and RDLC began advancing the Funds’ monies to Law Firm B. At first,
Law Firm B was purportedly owed millions in legal fees from a criminal defendant, with
respect to which Dersovitz and RDLC had advanced Law Firm B over $3.5 million. Law
Firm B had also represented a relator in a qui tam action, and Dersovitz advanced Law
Firm B another $3 million in 2009 in exchange for Law Firm B’s portion of whatever
award his client might obtain in that matter (together with the $3.5 million advance, the
“Law Firm B Receivables”). When Dersovitz and RDLC advanced the Funds’ money in
connection with the qui tam case, the matter was still in litigation—a settlement had been
reached between the defendant in the civil case and the United States in a related criminal
matter, but the civil matter was not resolved. By June 2011, the Law Firm B Receivables
were valued by Dersovitz and RDLC at nearly 16% of the Funds’ total valuation.
52.
Dersovitz filed suit against Law Firm B in January 2013 to collect on the
Law Firm B Receivables, but at no time did RDLC or Dersovitz write down these assets
or subtract the collection costs from their stated value. In fact, by September 2015, the
Funds valued the Law Firm B Receivables at over $31 million, or nearly 18% of the
Funds’ total valuation. Law Firm B and Dersovitz settled their lawsuit in early 2016 for
$1.4 million and rights to certain real property, the value of which has still not been
conclusively established, but which Dersovitz had reason to know was worth far less than
the $31 million at which he had valued the Law Firm B Receivables.
iii. The Funds Invested Most Heavily in the Peterson Receivables,
Including Investments Directly with the Peterson Plaintiffs.
53.
The Peterson Receivables reflect the largest category of receivables in
which Dersovitz invested Fund assets.
54.
The assets that the Peterson plaintiffs sought to collect were
approximately $1.75 billion of bond assets owned by Bank Markazi (the Iranian national
bank) held in an account at Citibank, N.A.
55.
In September 2010, Dersovitz and RDLC began advancing the Funds’
monies to two law firms (“Peterson Firms”) involved in the pursuit of Bank Markazi’s
assets for various plaintiffs. By June 2011, Dersovitz had advanced nearly $10 million
for the Peterson Receivables. At that time, these receivables constituted approximately
17% of the Funds’ portfolio.
56.
Because these Receivables arose not from a judgment following a litigated
proceeding among two parties but a default judgment, they carried additional risk. After
obtaining a default judgment, the plaintiff still has to identify funds belonging to the
defendant and convince a court to order the turnover of these funds to satisfy the
plaintiff’s claims. Accordingly, as delineated in the Iran SPV offering documents
discussed above, the Peterson Receivables were subject to risks relating to the ongoing
11

nature of the Peterson Case. As RDLC’s own underwriting documents acknowledged,
“the manner and timing of [collection] cannot be determined.”
57.
Starting in September 2012, Dersovitz and RDLC caused the Funds to
begin advancing monies to certain Peterson plaintiffs themselves. The Funds’ offering
materials at that time made no mention of advancing any money directly to plaintiffs.
Whereas contracts with law firms involved collateral beyond the negotiated receivable
itself, arrangements with plaintiffs did not provide any such additional collateral.
58.
By September 2013, investments in the Peterson Case constituted
approximately 54% of the Funds’ portfolio. By September 2015, nearly 64% of the
Funds’ portfolio was invested in the Peterson Receivables. From a cost perspective, of
the approximately $100 million deployed by the Funds as of that date, over $50 million
alone had been deployed with respect to that case.
iv. Respondents Funded Entities Other than Law Firms Seeking
Recoveries in Unsettled Matters.
59.
By 2014, Dersovitz and RDLC found yet another way to invest the Funds’
assets other than in receivables relating to settled litigation. In 2014, Dersovitz and
RDLC began advancing monies to entities that were not law firms but nevertheless were
involved with claims over the BP Deepwater Horizon oil spill (the “BP Receivables”).
Dersovitz advanced funds to accounting and claim aggregator firms that, in exchange for
a fee, aided claimants in pursuing recoveries against a fund established by BP to resolve
the matter. These entities had not entered into any settlement agreement with BP or
anyone else. In 2014 and 2015, Dersovitz and RDLC purchased over $7 million in BP
Receivables with investor funds.
G.

DERSOVITZ AND RDLC PROFITED BY UNREASONABLY
VALUING THE FUNDS’ ASSETS

60.
In addition to the numerous misstatements about the Funds’ assets,
Respondents employed a scheme that facilitated Dersovitz’s withdrawal of millions of
dollars from the Funds. Pursuant to the Funds’ operating documents, limited partners in
RDLP and shareholders of RDLOF—i.e., investors—were entitled to a priority 13.5%
allocation, after which the general partner—i.e., RDLC and, indirectly, Dersovitz—could,
under certain circumstances, collect excess profits. Dersovitz, therefore, had a clear
incentive to show Fund profits in excess of 13.5%.
61.
The Funds engaged a valuation agent (“VA”) to provide valuation services
in order to calculate the Funds’ returns. The VA’s valuation methodology determined the
value of the Funds’ receivables by discounting to present value the amount Respondents
expected the receivable to pay at a projected future payment date.
62.
The primary inputs affecting this present value calculation (other than the
amount of the receivable purchased) were the expected date of payment and a discount
rate for the position.
12

63.
Respondents directly or indirectly provided these inputs to the VA. The
amount of the receivable purchased was normally reflected in the contract between
RDLC and the selling party, and the expected date of payment of the receivable was
provided to the VA.
64.
The discount rate was primarily based on the implied rate of return RDLC
had achieved on the sale of other receivables. Respondents provided the VA with this
information. But these old receivables (and, therefore, the implied rates of return derived
from their sales) related to settled or otherwise resolved cases, where the primary risk
was timing rather than litigation outcome. The Funds, however, increasingly invested in
a very different type of receivable relating to unsettled cases.
65.
The portfolio used several possible discount rates, which would be applied
based on that receivable’s “rating,” understood to represent the nature or quality of the
investment. Respondents provided the VA with a rating for each of the Funds’
receivables. The determination of a particular receivable’s rating required an
understanding of the nature of the underlying litigation, including its likelihood of
success. The VA employees who provided valuation services to RDLC were not lawyers
and did not understand the legal issues underlying the litigations in which the Funds
invested.
66.
Additionally, the yield rate took into account whether Dersovitz had
obtained “collateral” on any given position. For Peterson Receivables purchased from
plaintiffs—unlike those purchased from law firms—Dersovitz did not obtain any
additional collateral beyond each plaintiff’s judgment. But the assets at issue in the
Peterson Case were subject to the claims of many other plaintiffs, introducing the risk
that there would not be enough of a recovery to satisfy the entire judgment of a particular
plaintiff. RDLC disclosed this risk in the Iran SPV offering documents but not in the
Funds’ documents. Dersovitz nevertheless instructed the VA to include for the plaintiff
Peterson Receivables “collateral” equal to the entire size of the default judgment that
each plaintiff had obtained.
67.
For other receivables associated with unsettled litigation, Dersovitz
provided, and later extended, his expected repayment dates for these assets, resulting in
the continued accrual of interest from those investments. Dersovitz provided extended
repayment dates to the VA both for matters in which he entered into signed agreements to
extend such dates and in other instances where he had no such basis to extend the
repayment dates.
68.
Dersovitz failed to disclose to the VA changes in certain cases that
influenced whether Dersovitz reasonably could expect to collect on those investments,
which in turn led to inflated valuations for assets in the Funds by understating their
riskiness.
69.
Two groups of receivables—Law Firm A and Law Firm B Receivables—
accrued to such high valuations that it was doubtful whether those inflated amounts could
be covered even if the law firm (or attorney) made available the entirety of their
13

receivables to satisfy them. Years after the original contracts with those law firms
expired, RDLC valued the receivables as if the Funds were going to recover every single
dollar on the then-anticipated payment date.
70.
By unreasonably inflating the value of assets in the Funds’ portfolios,
RDLC was able to allocate to investors monthly accruals of largely speculative profits
while withdrawing cash in excess of that owed to investors. In other words, investors got
monthly IOUs based on inflated valuations, while RDLC and Dersovitz pulled cash out
of the Funds and further out of reach of investors.
71.
Despite the increased valuations, Dersovitz was unable to keep money
flowing to himself and RDLC because the assets in the Funds’ portfolios became
increasingly illiquid. To bring needed cash into the Funds, Dersovitz recruited a thirdparty investor to purchase assets directly from the Funds. In doing so, Dersovitz elevated
his own interests over those of the Funds’ investors.
72.
Dersovitz permitted that third party to purchase certain of the Funds’
receivables directly, rather than invest in them through the Funds, but nevertheless
included that third party’s investment as part of RDLC’s total assets under management
figure. The third party, which invested approximately $50 million in receivables through
Dersovitz, was permitted to withdraw assets immediately as those receivables paid off,
unlike Fund investors who were subject to various waiting periods and gating provisions.
Dersovitz did not generally disclose to investors these side deals with the third party.
73.
When the third party sought to invest in the Peterson Receivables,
Dersovitz did not use that opportunity to sell such receivables held by the Funds,
notwithstanding his promise to investors to decrease the Funds’ concentration in Peterson
Receivables. Instead, Dersovitz originated new deals away from the Funds for which he
collected origination fees of at least $2 million.
74.
The third-party funding enabled Dersovitz to monetize the Funds’
investments so that he could withdraw cash after allocating the 1.06% return to investors
on paper. Therefore, money continued to flow to Dersovitz and RDLC from the Funds,
even though Respondents had invested the Funds’ assets in cases that, in part because of
their nature as ongoing litigation, were taking years to collect.
H.

VIOLATIONS

75.
As a result of the conduct described above, Respondents willfully violated
Section 17(a) of the Securities Act, Section 10(b) of the Exchange Act and Rule 10b-5
thereunder, which prohibit fraudulent conduct in the offer and sale of securities and in
connection with the purchase or sale of securities. Dersovitz also willfully aided and
abetted and caused RDLC’s violations of Section 17(a) of the Securities Act and Section
10(b) of the Exchange Act and Rule 10b-5 thereunder.

14

III.
In view of the allegations made by the Division of Enforcement, the Commission
deems it necessary and appropriate in the public interest that public administrative and
cease-and-desist proceedings be instituted to determine:
A.
Whether the allegations set forth in Section II hereof are true and, in
connection therewith, to afford Respondents an opportunity to establish any defenses to such
allegations;
B.
What, if any, remedial action is appropriate in the public interest against
Dersovitz pursuant to Section 203(f) of the Advisers Act including, but not limited to,
disgorgement and civil penalties pursuant to Sections 203(j) and (i) of the Advisers Act,
respectively;
C.
What, if any, remedial action is appropriate in the public interest against
Dersovitz and RDLC pursuant to Section 9(b) of the Investment Company Act including,
but not limited to, disgorgement and civil penalties pursuant to Sections 9(e) and 9(d) of the
Investment Company Act, respectively;
D.
What, if any, remedial action is appropriate in the public interest against
RDLC pursuant to Section 203(e) of the Advisers Act including, but not limited to,
disgorgement and civil penalties pursuant to Sections 203(j) and (i) of the Advisers Act,
respectively; and

E.
Whether, pursuant to Section 8A of the Securities Act and Section 21C of
the Exchange Act, Respondents should be ordered to cease and desist from committing or
causing violations of and any future violations of Section 17(a) of the Securities Act and
Section 10(b) of the Exchange Act and Rule 10b-5 thereunder, whether Respondents should
be ordered to pay a civil penalty pursuant to Section 8A(g) of the Securities Act and Section
21B of the Exchange Act, and whether Respondents should be ordered to pay disgorgement
pursuant to Section 8A(e) of the Securities Act and Sections 21B(e) and 21C(e) of the
Exchange Act.
IV.
IT IS ORDERED that a public hearing for the purpose of taking evidence on the
questions set forth in Section III hereof shall be convened not earlier than 30 days and not
later than 60 days from service of this Order at a time and place to be fixed, and before an
Administrative Law Judge to be designated by further order as provided by Rule 110 of the
Commission's Rules of Practice, 17 C.F.R. § 201.110.
IT IS FURTHER ORDERED that Respondents shall file an Answer to the
allegations contained in this Order within twenty (20) days after service of this Order, as
provided by Rule 220 of the Commission's Rules of Practice, 17 C.F.R. § 201.220.
15

If either Respondent fails to file the directed answer, or fails to appear at a hearing
after being duly notified, that Respondent may be deemed in default and the proceedings
may be determined against that Respondent upon consideration of this Order, the allegations
of which may be deemed to be true as provided by Rules 155(a), 220(f), 221(f) and 310 of
the Commission's Rules of Practice, 17 C.F.R. §§ 201.155(a), 201.220(f), 201.221(f) and
201.310.
This Order shall be served forthwith upon Respondents as provided for in the
Commission’s Rules of Practice.
IT IS FURTHER ORDERED that the Administrative Law Judge shall issue an
initial decision no later than 300 days from the date of service of this Order, pursuant to
Rule 360(a)(2) of the Commission’s Rules of Practice.
In the absence of an appropriate waiver, no officer or employee of the Commission
engaged in the performance of investigative or prosecuting functions in this or any factually
related proceeding will be permitted to participate or advise in the decision of this matter,
except as witness or counsel in proceedings held pursuant to notice. Since this proceeding is
not “rule making” within the meaning of Section 551 of the Administrative Procedure Act, it
is not deemed subject to the provisions of Section 553 delaying the effective date of any
final Commission action.
By the Commission.

Brent J. Fields
Secretary

16

