SECURITIES AND EXCHANGE COMMISSION
17 CFR Ch. II
Release Nos. 33-10203, 34-78769, IA-4521, IC-32251, File No. S7-20-16
Regulatory Flexibility Agenda
AGENCY:

Securities and Exchange Commission.

ACTION:

Notice of semiannual regulatory agenda.

SUMMARY:

The Securities and Exchange Commission approved the publication of an

agenda of its rulemaking actions pursuant to the Regulatory Flexibility Act. The agenda, which
is not a part of or attached to this document, was submitted by the Commission to the Regulatory
Information Service Center for inclusion in the Unified Agenda of Federal Regulatory and
Deregulatory Actions, which is scheduled for publication in its entirety on www.reginfo.gov in
autumn 2016. The version of the Unified Agenda to be published in the Federal Register will
include only those rules for which the agency has indicated that preparation of an analysis under
the Regulatory Flexibility Act is required. Information in the Chair’s agenda was accurate on
September 2, 2016, the date on which the Commission's staff completed compilation of the
data. 1 The items listed in the Regulatory Flexibility Agenda for autumn 2016 reflect only the
priorities of the Chair of the U.S. Securities and Exchange Commission, and do not necessarily
reflect the view and priorities of any individual Commissioner. To the extent possible,
rulemaking actions by the Commission after that date will be reflected in the agenda. The
Commission invites questions and public comment on the agenda and on the individual agenda
entries.

1 The items listed in the Regulatory Flexibility Agenda for autumn 2016 reflect only the priorities
of the Chair of the U.S. Securities and Exchange Commission, and do not necessarily reflect the
view and priorities of any individual Commissioner.

DATES:

Comments should be received on or before [insert date 30 days after

publication in the Federal Register].
ADDRESSES:

Comments may be submitted by any of the following methods:

Electronic comments:
•

Use the Commission's Internet comment form (http://www.sec.gov/rules/other.shtml); or

•

Send an e-mail to rule-comments@sec.gov. Please include File Number S7-20-16 on the
subject line; or

•

Use the Federal eRulemaking Portal (http://www.regulations.gov). Follow the
instructions for submitting comments.

Paper comments:
•

Send paper comments to Brent J. Fields, Secretary, Securities and Exchange
Commission, 100 F Street, NE, Washington, DC 20549-1090.

All submissions should refer to File Number S7-20-16. This file number should be included on
the subject line if e-mail is used. To help us process and review your comments more efficiently,
please use only one method. The Commission will post all comments on the Commission's
Internet website (http://www.sec.gov/rules/other.shtml). Comments are also available for
website viewing and printing in the Commission's Public Reference Room, 100 F Street, NE,
Washington, DC 20549, on official business days between the hours of 10:00 a.m. and 3:00 p.m.
All comments received will be posted without change; we do not edit personal identifying
information from submissions. You should submit only information that you wish to make
available publicly.

2

FOR FURTHER INFORMATION CONTACT: Anne Sullivan, Office of the General
Counsel, 202-551-5019.
SUPPLEMENTARY INFORMATION: The Regulatory Flexibility Act (“RFA”), (Pub. L. No.
96-354, 94 Stat. 1164 (September 19, 1980), requires each federal agency in April and October
of each year to publish in the Federal Register an agenda identifying rules that the agency
expects to consider in the next twelve months that are likely to have a significant economic
impact on a substantial number of small entities (5 U.S.C. 602(a)). The RFA specifically
provides that publication of the agenda does not preclude an agency from considering or acting
on any matter not included in the agenda, and that an agency is not required to consider or act on
any matter that is included in the agenda (5 U.S.C. 602(d)). The Commission may consider or
act on any matter earlier or later than the estimated date provided on the agenda. While the
agenda reflects the current intent to complete a number of rulemakings in the next year, the
precise dates for each rulemaking at this point are uncertain. Actions that do not have an
estimated date are placed in the long term category; the Commission may nevertheless act on
items in that category within the next twelve months. The agenda includes new entries, entries
carried over from previous publications, and rulemaking actions that have been completed (or
withdrawn) since publication of the last agenda. The Commission invites public comment on the
agenda and on the individual agenda entries.
By the Commission.

Brent J. Fields
Secretary
Dated: September 2, 2016
3

4

