UNITED STATES OF AMERICA
Before the
SECURITIES AND EXCHANGE COMMISSION
SECURITIES ACT OF 1933
Release No. 10114 / July 21, 2016
INVESTMENT ADVISERS ACT OF 1940
Release No. 4460 / July 21, 2016
ADMINISTRATIVE PROCEEDING
File No. 3-17355
ORDER INSTITUTING ADMINISTRATIVE
AND CEASE-AND-DESIST PROCEEDINGS,
PURSUANT TO 8A OF THE SECURITIES
ACT OF 1933 AND SECTIONS 203(f) AND
203(k) OF THE INVESTMENT ADVISERS
ACT OF 1940, MAKING FINDINGS, AND
IMPOSING REMEDIAL SANCTIONS AND A
CEASE-AND-DESIST ORDER

In the Matter of
DENNIS NAVARRA,
Respondent.

I.
The Securities and Exchange Commission (“Commission”) deems it appropriate and in the
public interest that public administrative and cease-and-desist proceedings be, and hereby are,
instituted pursuant to Section 8A of the Securities Act of 1933 (“Securities Act”) and Sections
203(f) and 203(k) of the Investment Advisers Act of 1940 (“Advisers Act”) against Respondent
Dennis Navarra (“Navarra”).
II.
In anticipation of the institution of these proceedings, Respondent has submitted an Offer
of Settlement (the “Offer”) which the Commission has determined to accept. Solely for the
purpose of these proceedings and any other proceedings brought by or on behalf of the
Commission, or to which the Commission is a party, and without admitting or denying the findings
herein, except as to the Commission’s jurisdiction over him and the subject matter of these
proceedings, which are admitted, and except as provided herein in Section V, Respondent consents
to the entry of this Order Instituting Administrative and Cease-and-Desist Proceedings Pursuant to
Section 8A of the Securities Act of 1933 and Sections 203(f) and 203(k) of the Investment
Advisers Act of 1940, Making Findings, and Imposing Remedial Sanctions and a Cease-and-Desist
Order (“Order”), as set forth below.

III.
On the basis of this Order and Respondent’s Offer, the Commission finds1 that
Summary
1.
From 2010 through 2013, Navarra raised approximately $2.2 million for Concert
Global Group Limited (“Concert Global”) through unregistered offers and sales of its common
stock to investors, including several of Concert Wealth Management, Inc.’s advisory clients. In
soliciting investments, Navarra provided investors with materially misleading private placement
memoranda (“PPMs”). These PPMs (1) overstated Concert Global’s subsidiaries’ assets under
management, (2) overstated Concert Global’s financial results, and (3) misrepresented or failed to
disclose conflicts of interest arising from the potential use of offering proceeds to pay affiliated
entities. Navarra made similar materially misleading statements and omissions to the Concert
Wealth advisory clients he solicited to participate in the offering.
Respondent
2.
Dennis Navarra (“Navarra”), age 63, is a resident of Aptos, California. During the
relevant timeframe, Navarra served as Concert Global’s CFO, COO, and Chief Strategy Officer
until his termination in August 2013. Navarra also was a registered investment adviser
representative associated with Concert Wealth between August 2010 and August 2013. Navarra
received a salary from Concert Global, which generated revenues from the advisory fees remitted
by Concert Wealth.
Other Relevant Entities
3.
Concert Global Group Limited (“Concert Global”) is a California corporation
with its principal place of business in San Jose, California. Concert Global is the parent company
and 100% owner of Commission-registered investment adviser Concert Wealth Management, Inc.
4.
Concert Wealth Management, Inc. (“Concert Wealth”) is a California
corporation with its principal place of business in San Jose, California. Concert Wealth has been
registered as an investment adviser with the Commission since June 21, 2007. From 2010 to 2013,
Concert Wealth primarily provided investment advice to individual retail investors. During that
period, Concert Wealth grew from approximately $800 million to $1.5 billion in assets under
management.

The findings herein are made pursuant to Respondents’ Offers of Settlement and are not
binding on any other person or entity in this or any other proceeding.
1

2

Facts
A.

Navarra Raised Money for Concert Global from Investors By Making Material
Misrepresentations and Omissions

5.
At all relevant times, Concert Global was the parent holding company for Concert
Wealth, a Commission-registered investment adviser which primarily provided investment advice
to individual retail investors. From 2010 to 2013, Concert Global sought to add new investment
advisers and their books of business to Concert Wealth’s investment advisory platform. To induce
investment advisers to join Concert Wealth, Concert Global helped finance certain of those
adviser’s start-up costs as well as build out their branch offices. In order to pay for these costs, two
entities that Concert Global’s CEO controlled provided loans to Concert Global; these loans were
in addition to a pre-existing loan to Concert Global from the CEO’s family trust, which was later
converted into preferred stock.
6.
In order to sustain Concert Global’s rate of growth and to continue funding Concert
Wealth’s addition of branch offices, Concert Global began soliciting the CEO’s family members
and friends, some of whom were Concert Wealth’s advisory clients, to invest in the offerings
through in-person meetings and by providing them with private placement memoranda (“PPMs”)
describing the offering. Navarra and Concert Global’s CEO individually met with prospective
investors, and Navarra provided PPMs to investors.
7.
Concert Global ultimately raised $2.2 million from approximately 21 investors in
multiple states, including 12 of Concert Wealth’s advisory clients. During the same time period,
Concert Wealth’s assets under management grew from $800 million to $1.5 billion. Concert
Global used the offering proceeds for general corporate purposes, to repay the loans issued by the
CEO-affiliated entities, and to pay quarterly dividends on the CEO’s preferred stock.
8.
As Concert Global’s CFO, Navarra had responsibility for drafting the PPMs,
including the financial statements included in the PPMs, and for meeting with investors to discuss
the PPMs. These PPMs contained materially false and/or misleading information that overstated
Concert Global’s subsidiaries’ total assets under management by approximately $1 billion and
overstated certain of Concert Global’s financial results, including its revenues (in at least one
instance by approximately $1 million – an overstatement of approximately 50%) and earnings (in
at least one instance by approximately $500,000 – presenting a profit as opposed to a loss).
Concert Global’s PPMs also failed to disclose that Concert Global could use, and in fact was using,
the offering proceeds to repay its debt to affiliated entities as well as to pay quarterly dividends to
Concert Global’s CEO on his preferred stock.
9.
Navarra knew, or should have known, that Concert Global’s PPMs were materially
false and misleading. Among other things, as Concert Global’s CFO, Navarra had access to
accurate information concerning Concert Global’s financial condition, including its revenues and
earnings. Further, as the day-to-day manager of Concert Global’s accounting records, Navarra also
knew, or should have known about Concert Global’s indebtedness and payments to affiliated
entities and of the dividends paid on Concert Global’s CEO’s preferred shares. Nevertheless,
3

Navarra prepared PPMs that misstated Concert Global’s size and profitability and failed to disclose
– either in the PPMs or during meetings with investors – that Concert Global could use, and in fact
was using, offering proceeds to repay related party indebtedness. Navarra therefore failed to
exercise reasonable care in describing the investment opportunity in Concert Global to investors,
including several of Concert Wealth’s advisory clients.
B. Navarra Engaged in an Unregistered Offering of Concert Global’s Common Shares
10.
Navarra offered and sold the Concert Global securities without a registration
statement or an applicable exemption from registration. From September 2010 through July 2011,
Concert Global and Navarra raised over $1 million through common stock sales to 12 investors in
a 12 month period. No registration statement was filed or in effect for the offerings, and Concert
Global and Navarra offered the shares through the use of interstate facilities including by sending
emails and received investments through wire transactions. Navarra made no efforts to ensure
Concert Global complied with any registration requirement in connection with the offerings, nor
did Concert Global rely on any exemption from registration.
Violations
11.
As a result of the conduct described above, Navarra violated Sections 17(a)(2) and
17(a)(3) of the Securities Act. Section 17(a)(2) makes it unlawful, in the offer or sale of securities,
to obtain money or property by means of any untrue statement of a material fact or any omission to
state a material fact necessary in order to make the statements made, in light of the circumstances
under which they were made, not misleading, Section 17(a)(3) makes it unlawful, in the offer or
sale of securities, to engage in any transaction, practice or course of business that operates as a
fraud or deceit upon the purchaser. Sections 17(a)(2) and 17(a)(3) of the Securities Act do not
require a showing of scienter, negligence is sufficient. See Aaron v. SEC, 446 U.S. 680, 697, 70102 (1980).
12.
As a result of the conduct described above, Navarra violated Sections 5(a) and 5(c)
of the Securities Act, which prohibit the offers and sales of unregistered securities absent an
applicable exemption from registration.
13.
As a result of the conduct described above, Navarra willfully2 aided and abetted and
caused Concert Wealth’s violation of Section 206(2) of the Advisers Act, which makes it
“unlawful for any investment adviser . . . directly or indirectly to engage in any transaction,
practice, or course of business which operates as a fraud or deceit upon any client or prospective
client.” A violation of Section 206(2) of the Advisers Act may rest on a finding of simple
A willful violation of the securities laws means merely “‘that the person charged with the duty
knows what he is doing.’” Wonsover v. SEC, 205 F.3d 408, 414 (D.C. Cir. 2000) (quoting
Hughes v. SEC, 174 F.2d 969, 977 (D.C. Cir. 1949)). There is no requirement that the actor
“‘also be aware that he is violating one of the Rules or Acts.’” Id. (quoting Gearhart & Otis, Inc.
v. SEC, 348 F.2d 798, 803 (D.C. Cir. 1965)).
2

4

negligence. SEC v. Steadman, 967 F.2d 636, 643 n.5 (D.C. Cir. 1992) (citing SEC v. Capital
Gains Research Bureau, Inc., 375 U.S. 180, 195 (1963)). Proof of scienter is not required to
establish a violation of Section 206(2) of the Advisers Act. See id.
IV.
In view of the foregoing, the Commission deems it appropriate to impose the sanctions
agreed to in Respondent’s Offer.
Accordingly, pursuant to Section 8A of the Securities Act and Sections 203(f) and 203(k)
of the Advisers Act, it is hereby ORDERED that:
A.
Respondent Navarra cease and desist from committing or causing any violations
and any future violations of Sections 5(a), 5(c), and 17(a) of the Securities Act and Section 206(2)
of the Advisers Act.
B.

Respondent Navarra is censured.

C.
Based upon Respondent's sworn representations in his Statement of Financial
Condition dated May 1, 2016 and other documents submitted to the Commission, the Commission
is not imposing a penalty against Respondent.
D.
The Division of Enforcement (“Division”) may, at any time following the entry of
this Order, petition the Commission to: (1) reopen this matter to consider whether Respondent
provided accurate and complete financial information at the time such representations were
made; and (2) seek an order directing payment of the maximum civil penalty allowable under the
law. No other issue shall be considered in connection with this petition other than whether the
financial information provided by Respondent was fraudulent, misleading, inaccurate, or
incomplete in any material respect. Respondent may not, by way of defense to any such petition:
(1) contest the findings in this Order; (2) assert that payment of a penalty should not be ordered;
(3) contest the imposition of the maximum penalty allowable under the law; or (4) assert any
defense to liability or remedy, including, but not limited to, any statute of limitations defense.
V.
It is further Ordered that, solely for purposes of exceptions to discharge set forth in Section
523 of the Bankruptcy Code, 11 U.S.C. §523, the findings in this Order are true and admitted by
Respondent, and further, any debt for disgorgement, prejudgment interest, civil penalty or other
amounts due by Respondent under this Order or any other judgment, order, consent order, decree

5

or settlement agreement entered in connection with this proceeding, is a debt for the violation by
Respondent of the federal securities laws or any regulation or order issued under such laws, as set
forth in Section 523(a)(19) of the Bankruptcy Code, 11 U.S.C. §523(a)(19).

By the Commission.

Brent J. Fields
Secretary

6

