UNITED STATES OF AMERICA
Before the
SECURITIES AND EXCHANGE COMMISSION
SECURITIES ACT OF 1933
Release No. 10093 / June 8, 2016
ADMINISTRATIVE PROCEEDING
File No. 3-17281
In the Matter of
Ethiopian Electric Power,
Respondent.

ORDER INSTITUTING CEASE-ANDDESIST PROCEEDINGS PURSUANT TO
SECTION 8A OF THE SECURITIES ACT
OF 1933, MAKING FINDINGS, AND
IMPOSING A CEASE-AND-DESIST
ORDER

I.
The Securities and Exchange Commission (“Commission”) deems it appropriate that ceaseand-desist proceedings be, and hereby are, instituted pursuant to Section 8A of the Securities Act
of 1933 (“Securities Act”), against Ethiopian Electric Power, formerly known as Ethiopian Electric
Power Corporation (“EEP” or “Respondent”).
II.
In anticipation of the institution of these proceedings, Respondent has submitted an Offer
of Settlement (“Offer”) that the Commission has determined to accept. Respondent admits the
facts set forth in Section III below, acknowledges that Respondent’s conduct violated the federal
securities laws, admits the Commission’s jurisdiction over Respondent and the subject matter of
these proceedings, and consents to the entry of this Order Instituting Cease-and-Desist Proceedings
Pursuant to Section 8A of the Securities Act of 1933, Making Findings, and Imposing a Cease-andDesist Order (“Order”), as set forth below.
III.
On the basis of this Order and Respondent’s Offer, the Commission finds that:
Summary
These proceedings arise out of an unregistered securities offering conducted between 2011
and 2014 by EEP, an Ethiopian power utility. In order to help finance construction of a
hydroelectric dam in Ethiopia, EEP offered and sold bonds to U.S. residents of Ethiopian origin.
EEP offered the bonds in the U.S. through television and radio advertisements targeted at the
Ethiopian diaspora community, and through events sponsored by the Embassy of Ethiopia
(“Embassy”) in Washington, D.C. and in other major U.S. cities. EEP also offered the bonds

through the Embassy’s website. EEP did not register its bond offering with the Commission, and
there was no available exemption from the requirement that the offering be registered. EEP’s
unregistered offer and sale of securities in the U.S. violated Sections 5(a) and 5(c) of the Securities
Act.
Respondent
1.
EEP is a government-owned power utility headquartered in Addis Ababa, Ethiopia.
It is the sole power producer and transmitter of electricity in Ethiopia and is constructing the Grand
Ethiopian Renaissance Dam (“Dam”) on the Abay River in Ethiopia. EEP began construction of
the Dam in April 2011. To help finance the project, EEP issued Grand Ethiopian Renaissance
Dam Bonds, Millenium Corporate Bonds, and other bonds (the “Bonds”).
Background
2.
From 2011 through 2014, EEP conducted an unregistered securities offering in the
U.S. The purpose of the offering was to obtain funds to help finance construction of the Dam by
selling Bonds. EEP solicited U.S. residents of Ethiopian origin to purchase the Bonds.
3.
EEP offered the Bonds in marketing materials on the website of the Embassy in the
U.S., and in a series of public road shows sponsored by the Embassy throughout the U.S. EEP
marketed the Bonds at road shows in major U.S. cities including, for example:
Date of Road Show

Road show Location

August 2011
June 2012
June 2012
April 2013
April 2013
May 2013

Denver, CO
Washington, DC
Chicago, IL
San Diego, CA
Houston, TX
New York, NY

Funds Raised or
Pledged from
Bond Sales
$130,000
$1,500,000
$110,000
$43,000
$50,000
$100,000

It also offered the bonds through radio and television advertisements targeted at the Ethiopian
diaspora community in the U.S.
4.
In order to purchase the Bonds, investors were required to complete an application
and to remit funds to the Commercial Bank of Ethiopia. The application, and a publication called
“The Grand Renaissance Dam Bond Guidelines” (“Guidelines”), appeared on the Embassy’s
website. The Guidelines described the terms of the Bond investments and stated, generally, that
the offering proceeds would be used for Dam construction.
5.
According to the Guidelines, purchasers of the Bonds (hereafter “Bondholders”)
would receive interest payments every six months and the amounts of the interest payments would
depend on the Bonds’ terms of maturity, as follows:
2

Bond Maturity Date
(Years)
5
6-7
8-10

Interest Rate
LIBOR plus 1.25%
LIBOR plus 1.5%
LIBOR plus 2.0%

The Bond application contained blanks where investors could elect which of the Bonds they
wished to purchase (by maturity date and interest rate). The application also directed investors to
elect the method by which they wished to receive interest payments (e.g., “credit my account
number” or “pay me in cash at the bank’s counter”).
6.
More than 3,100 U.S. residents purchased Bonds in denominations of $5 to
$10,000, for total investments per investor ranging from $50 to $1 million. In aggregate, U.S.
purchasers invested approximately $5.8 million in the Bonds. Most of the investors—64%—
reported that they were U.S. citizens. Although the Bonds generally have not yet reached maturity,
to date most of the Bondholders have not received periodic interest payments.
7.
EEP did not register its Bond offering with the Commission. It therefore (a) offered
and sold securities, (b) using the mails or interstate means, where (c) no registration statement was
filed or in effect as to the securities.
8.

No exemption or safe harbor from registration was available to EEP.

9.
Regulation D under the Securities Act contains rules governing limited offers and
sales of securities in the U.S. without registration: Rule 504, Rule 505, Rule 506(b), and Rule
506(c).
10.
The Rule 504 exemption generally applies where the aggregate offering price is $1
million or less. The Rule 504 exemption did not apply to EEP’s offering because its aggregate
price exceeded $1 million.
11.
The Rule 505 exemption requires, among other things, (a) that the aggregate
offering price be no greater than $5 million, (b) that there be no more than 35 non-accredited
investors,1 and (c) that the issuer not conduct a “general solicitation.”2 The Rule 505 exemption
1

Generally speaking, to be considered an accredited investor, a person must have a net worth that
exceeds $1 million or an income greater than $200,000 for the two most recent years (or $300,000
jointly with the person’s spouse) and a reasonable expectation of reaching the same income level
in the current year.
The term “general solicitation” is not defined in Regulation D. Examples of general solicitation
are set forth in Rule 502(c) and include: (i) any advertisement, article, notice or other
communication published in any newspaper, magazine, or similar media or broadcast over radio
or television, and (ii) any seminar or meeting whose attendees have been invited by general
3
2

did not apply because (a) EEP’s offering exceeded $5 million, (b) there were more than 35 nonaccredited investors, and (c) EEP conducted a general solicitation by broadcasting advertisements
on television and radio, at public road shows, and on the Embassy’s website.
12.
The Rule 506(b) safe harbor requires that there be no more than 35 non-accredited
investors and, because there were more than 35 non-accredited investors, the safe harbor did not
apply.
13.
The Rule 506(c) exemption became effective on September 23, 2013. While it
allows for general solicitation, it requires that all investors be accredited and includes the express
requirement that the issuer take “reasonable steps to verify” that purchasers are accredited. See
Eliminating the Prohibition Against General Solicitation and General Advertising in Rule 506 and
Rule 144A Offerings, Securities Act Release No. 33-9415, 78 Fed. Reg. 44771 (July 24, 2013). To
the extent EEP offered and sold Bonds after Rule 506(c) became effective, the exemption did not
apply because EEP did not take reasonable steps to verify whether any of the Bondholders were
accredited.
14.
in the U.S.

No other exemption from registration or safe harbor applied to EEP’s Bond offering

15.
As a result of the conduct described above, EEP violated Sections 5(a) and 5(c) of
the Securities Act, which prohibit, absent an exemption, any person, directly or indirectly, from
making use of any means or instruments of transportation or communication in interstate
commerce or of the mails to sell a security for which a registration statement is not in effect or to
offer to sell a security for which a registration statement has not been filed.
Undertaking
16.

Respondent has undertaken to provide a copy of this Order to each Bondholder.
IV.

In view of the foregoing, the Commission deems it appropriate to impose the sanctions
agreed to in Respondent EEP’s Offer.
Accordingly, pursuant to Section 8A of the Securities Act, it is hereby ORDERED that:
A.
EEP shall cease and desist from committing or causing any violations and any future
violations of Section 5 of the Securities Act.
solicitation. Using the internet generally involves general solicitation. See Use of Electronic
Media for Delivery Purposes (Securities Act Release No. 33-7233), 60 Fed. Reg. 53458 (Oct. 6,
1995); Use of Electronic Media (Securities Act Release No. 33-7856), 65 Fed. Reg. 25843 (May
4, 2000).
4

B.

EEP shall pay disgorgement and prejudgment interest as follows:
1. EEP shall pay a total of $6,448,854.87 consisting of disgorgement of $5,847,804
and prejudgment interest of $601,050.87 (collectively, the “Disgorgement Fund”).
2. Within 30 days of entry of this Order, EEP shall deposit the full amount of the
Disgorgement Fund into an escrow account at a U.S. financial institution that is
acceptable to the Commission staff and shall provide the Commission staff with
evidence of such deposit in a form acceptable to the Commission staff. The name
of the escrow account shall contain the name and tax identification number of the
qualified settlement fund. (See paragraph B.7.) If timely deposit of the
Disgorgement Fund is not made, additional interest shall accrue pursuant to SEC
Rule of Practice 600.
3. EEP shall be responsible for administering the Disgorgement Fund and shall
retain an independent third party administrator (“Administrator”), acceptable to the
Commission staff, to carry out the tasks of administering the distribution. The
Administrator shall, based on the records of the Respondent, calculate payment
amounts of principal investments for each Bondholder who purchased Bonds
anytime from January 2011 through December 2014 plus any Bond interest owed
on the date of entry of this Order (the “Calculation”) and shall make distribution
payments to Bondholders. Bondholders may receive distribution payments from
the Disgorgement Fund to redress investor harm up to a maximum of their principal
loss plus interest owed to them if available funds exist. The costs and expenses of
administering the Disgorgement Fund and compensating the Administrator shall be
borne by EEP and shall not be paid out of the Disgorgement Fund.
4. Within 60 days of the entry of this Order, the Administrator shall submit a
proposed distribution allocation (“Distribution Payment File”) to the Commission
staff for review and approval. The proposed Distribution Payment File will
include, to the extent available and reasonably ascertainable, (a) the name and
contact information for each Bondholder; (b) the exact amount of the payment to be
made to each Bondholder; and (c) a description of how the payment amount to each
Bondholder was calculated. The Administrator also shall provide to Commission
staff the Calculation and such additional information and supporting documentation
as the Commission staff may request for the purpose of its review. In the event of
one or more objections by the Commission staff to the proposed Distribution
Payment File or to the Calculation or any of its information or supporting
documentation, the Administrator shall submit a revised Distribution Payment File
with a revised Calculation or additional information or supporting documentation
for the review and approval of the Commission staff within 20 days of the date of
notification of the objection, which revised Distribution Payment File and revised
Calculation shall be subject to all of the provisions of this Subsection B.
5

5. The distribution of the Disgorgement Fund shall be made no later than within
one year of entry of this Order. To the extent there are insufficient funds to fully
repay Bondholders their principal investments and the Bond interest owed to them,
the Administrator shall distribute the Disgorgement Fund pro rata based on the
total payments of principal investment plus Bond interest. To the extent there are
significant excess funds remaining in the Disgorgement Fund, upon review and
approval of the Commission staff, the distribution of the Disgorgement Fund may
be held open until two years from the entry of this Order.
6. If the Administrator is unable to distribute any portion of the Disgorgement
Fund for any reason, including an inability to locate an affected Bondholder
account or a beneficial owner in an affected Bondholder account or any factors
beyond the Administrator’s or EEP’s control, the Administrator shall transfer any
such undistributed funds to the Commission for transmittal to the United States
Treasury. The Administrator may transmit payment electronically to the
Commission, which will provide detailed ACH transfer/Fedwire instructions upon
request. Payment may also be made directly from a bank account or by credit card
or debit card via Pay.gov through the SEC website at
http://www.sec.gov/about/offices/ofm.htm. The Administrator may also pay by
certified check, bank cashier’s check, or United States postal money order payable
to the Securities and Exchange Commission, which shall be delivered or mailed to:
Enterprise Services Center
Accounts Receivable Branch
HQ Bldg., Room 181, AMZ-341
6500 South MacArthur Boulevard
Oklahoma City, OK 73169
and submitted under cover letter that identifies EEP as a Respondent in these
proceedings, the file number of these proceedings, a copy of which cover letter and
money order or check shall be sent to Nichola Timmons, Division of Enforcement,
Securities and Exchange Commission, 100 F Street, NE, Washington, DC 205495631, or such other address the Commission staff may provide.
7. The Disgorgement Fund constitutes a Qualified Settlement Fund (“QSF”) under
section 468B(g) of the Internal Revenue Code (“IRC”), 26 U.S.C. § 468B(g), and
related regulations, 26 C.F.R. §§ 1.468B-1 through 1.468B-5. EEP agrees to be
responsible for all tax obligations of the QSF, including all the information return
reporting associated with the distribution of the Disgorgement Fund, if any, and
EEP may retain any professional services necessary. The costs and expenses of any
such professional services shall be borne by EEP and shall not be paid out of the
Disgorgement Fund.
8. Within 45 days after completion of the disbursement of all amounts in the
Distribution Payment File, the Administrator shall submit to the Commission staff
6

for its approval a final accounting and certification of the disposition of the
Disgorgement Fund, which shall be in a format to be provided by the Commission
staff. The final accounting and certification shall include, but not be limited to: (a)
the amount paid to each payee; (b) the date of each payment; (c) the check number
or other identifier of money transferred; (d) the date and amount of any returned
payment; (e) a description of any effort to locate a prospective payee whose
payment was returned or to whom payment was not made for any reason; and (f)
any amounts to be forwarded to the Commission for transfer to the United States
Treasury. The Administrator shall submit proof and supporting documentation
evidencing receipt of such payments by the Bondholders (whether in the form of
cancelled checks, or otherwise) in a form acceptable to the Commission staff and
under a cover letter that identifies EEP as a Respondent in these proceedings and
the file number of these proceedings to Nichola Timmons, Division of
Enforcement, Securities and Exchange Commission, 100 F Street, NE, Washington,
DC 20549-5631, or such other address the Commission staff may provide.
9. After the final accounting is submitted to the Commission staff, the staff shall
submit the final accounting to the Commission for approval and shall request
Commission approval to send any undistributed amount to the United States
Treasury.
10. The Commission staff may extend any of the procedural dates set forth in this
Subsection B for good cause shown. Deadlines for dates relating to the
Disgorgement Fund shall be counted in calendar days, except that if the last day
falls on a weekend or federal holiday the next business day shall be considered to
be the last day.

By the Commission.

Brent J. Fields
Secretary

7

