UNITED STATES OF AMERICA 

Before the
SECURITIES AND EXCHANGE COMMISSION 





SECURITIES ACT OF 1933
Release No. 8592 / July 20,2005
SECURITIES EXCHANGE ACT OF 1934
Release No. 52063 / July 20, 2005
INVESTMENT ADVISERS ACT OF 1940
Release No. 2407 / July 20, 2005
INVESTMENT COMPANY ACT OF 1940
Release No. 26994 / July 20, 2005
ADMINISTRATIVE PROCEEDING
File No. 3-11987
ORDER INSTITUTING ADMINISTRATIVE
AND CEASE-AND-DESIST PROCEEDINGS,
MAKING FINDINGS, AND IMPOSING
REMEDIAL SANCTIONS AND A CEASEAND-DESIST ORDER PURSUANT TO
SECTION 8A OF THE SECURITIES ACT OF
1933, SECTIONS 15(b) AND 21C OF THE
SECURITIES EXCHANGE ACT OF 1934,
SECTION 203(e) OF THE INVESTMENT
ADVISERS ACT OF 1940, AND SECTIONS
9(b) AND 9(f) OF THE INVESTMENT
COMPANY ACT OF 1940

In the Matter of
CANADIAN IMPERIAL
HOLDINGS INC. and CIBC
WORLD MARKETS CORP.,
Respondents.

I.
The Securities and Exchange Commission (“Commission”) deems it appropriate and in the
public interest that public administrative and cease-and-desist proceedings be, and hereby are,
instituted pursuant to Section 8A of the Securities Act of 1933 (“Securities Act”) Sections 15(b)(4)
and 21C of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934 (“Exchange Act”), Section 203(e) of the
Investment Advisers Act of 1940 (“Advisers Act”) and Sections 9(b) and 9(f) of the Investment
Company Act of 1940 (“Investment Company Act”) against CIBC World Markets Corp. (“World
Markets”) and Canadian Imperial Holdings Inc. (“CIHI”) (collectively “Respondents”).
II.

In anticipation of the institution of these proceedings, Respondents have submitted an Offer
of Settlement (the “Offer”) which the Commission has determined to accept. Solely for the
purpose of these proceedings and any other proceedings brought by or on behalf of the
Commission, or to which the Commission is a party, and without admitting or denying the findings
herein, except as to the Commission’s jurisdiction over them and the subject matter of these
proceedings, Respondents consent to the entry of this Order Instituting Administrative and Ceaseand-Desist Proceedings, Making Findings, and Imposing Remedial Sanctions and a Cease-andDesist Order Pursuant to Section 8A of the Securities Act, Sections 15(b) and 21C of the Exchange
Act, Section 203(e) of the Advisers Act, and Sections 9(b) and 9(f) of the Investment Company
Act (“Order”), as set forth below.
III.
On the basis of this Order and Respondents’ Offer, the Commission finds1 that:
A.

Summary

1.
CIHI and World Markets, which are subsidiaries of Canadian Imperial Bank of
Commerce, Inc. (“CIBC”), participated in a scheme to defraud numerous mutual funds and their
shareholders through late trading and deceptive market timing.
2.
More specifically, CIHI and World Markets engaged in three types of conduct that
violated the federal securities laws: a) CIHI financed hedge fund customers while knowing the
hedge funds would use the leverage to late trade and deceptively market time mutual funds; b)
CIHI provided, and World Markets arranged, improper financing for market timing hedge fund
customers in violation of the margin and extension of credit requirements; and c) a team of World
Markets registered representatives (“RR”) enabled numerous customers to late trade and
deceptively market time mutual funds.
3.
With respect to the financing, CIHI provided funds to at least two hedge fund
customers knowing those hedge funds would use the leverage to late trade and market time through
Security Trust Corporation (“STC”), a Trust Company in Phoenix, Arizona. A CIHI Managing
Director wrote a due diligence memorandum to CIBC’s Credit Department in which he explicitly
stated that STC’s ability to allow late trades provided “significant benefits to our customers.”
Moreover, in addition to late trading, numerous CIHI officials understood that the hedge funds they
were leveraging, in executing their market timing strategy, had to “hide” their activity, use
“stealth” tactics, and otherwise “stay under the radar” of the mutual funds. By leveraging these
entities while knowing they were engaged in deceptive market timing and late trading, CIHI
participated in a scheme to defraud mutual funds and their long term shareholders, thus violating
the antifraud provisions of the federal securities laws.
1

The findings herein are made pursuant to Respondents’ Offer and are not binding on any other
person or entity in this or any other proceeding.

2


4.
Moreover, CIHI provided leverage to its hedge fund customers that violated the
margin requirements. CIHI financed market timing hedge funds purportedly through the use of
total return swaps (“TRSs”). These TRSs were extensions of credit in excess of 50% of the margin
stock’s value. Thus, CIHI violated Section 7(d) of the Exchange Act and Regulation U
promulgated by the Federal Reserve Board. In addition, because World Markets helped arrange
this financing, World Markets violated Section 7(c) of the Exchange Act and Regulation T
promulgated by the Federal Reserve Board. Moreover, because World Markets effected
transactions in mutual funds for hedge funds in connection with which it arranged this financing,
World Markets violated Section 11(d) of the Exchange Act.
5.
Finally, from at least 1999 until January 2003, World Markets received over 1,000
letters and emails from mutual funds complaining about abusive trading by a team of RRs at World
Markets. This team of RRs, led by an RR (hereinafter described as “Broker Doe”), used, among
other tactics, multiple accounts, multiple RR numbers, and small trade size broken up across
related accounts to deceive mutual funds and “stay under the radar” of the mutual funds’ internal
timing monitors. Senior World Markets officials knew about this team of RRs’ deceptive market
timing activities and took steps to assist them, ensuring that this team of significant business
producers could continue to facilitate market timing. In addition, some of these RRs knowingly
accepted numerous mutual fund orders from at least one of their timing customers after 4:00 p.m.
ET, and processed those orders as though the customer had placed the order prior to 4:00 p.m. ET.
As a result of these acts, World Markets violated the antifraud provisions of the federal securities
laws and Rule 22c-1, as adopted under Section 22(c) of the Investment Company Act.
B.

Respondents

6.
CIHI is a New York-based company, incorporated in Delaware, that is not
registered with the Commission. It is a subsidiary of CIBC, a Canadian financial and bank holding
company. CIHI financed market timing hedge funds through the use of TRSs and loans. It also
supported and provided financing for customers of World Markets, the broker-dealer subsidiary of
CIBC. Both CIHI and World Markets, the broker-dealer, are wholly-owned subsidiaries of CIBC.
As such, CIHI is a "person . . . under common control with a broker-dealer," making it a "person
associated with a broker-dealer" subject to the Commission's jurisdiction under Section 15(b)(6) of
the Exchange Act. See Section 3(a)(18) of the Exchange Act.
7.
World Markets is a New York-based broker-dealer subsidiary of CIBC. World
Markets, through its CIBC Oppenheimer retail division, serviced high-net-worth individuals,
money managers, and small corporations, including market timing hedge funds. In January 2003,
World Markets sold its Oppenheimer retail division to Fahnestock & Co., Inc. (“Fahnestock”).
World Markets is registered with the Commission as both a broker-dealer and investment adviser.
C.

Facts

3


Market Timing and Late Trading
8.
Market timing includes (a) frequent buying and selling of shares of the same mutual
fund or (b) buying or selling mutual fund shares in order to exploit inefficiencies in mutual fund
pricing. Market timing, while not illegal per se, can harm other mutual fund shareholders because
it can dilute the value of their shares. Market timing can also disrupt the management of the
mutual fund’s investment portfolio and cause the targeted mutual fund to incur costs borne by
other shareholders to accommodate frequent buying and selling of shares by the market timer.
9.
Rule 22c-1(a) under the Investment Company Act requires investment companies
issuing redeemable securities, their principal underwriters and dealers, and any person designated
in the fund’s prospectus as authorized to consummate transactions in securities issued by the fund
to sell and redeem fund shares at a price based on the current net asset value (“NAV”) next
computed after receipt of an order to buy or redeem. Mutual funds generally determine the daily
price of mutual fund shares as of 4:00 p.m. ET. In these circumstances, orders received before
4:00 p.m. must be executed at the price determined as of 4:00 p.m. that day. Orders received after
4:00 p.m. must be executed at the price determined as of 4:00 p.m. the next trading day.
10.
“Late trading” refers to the practice of placing orders to buy or sell mutual fund
shares after the time as of which a mutual fund has calculated its NAV (usually as of the close of
trading at 4:00 p.m. ET), but receiving the price based on the prior NAV already determined as of
4:00 p.m. Late trading enables the trader to profit from market events that occur after 4:00 p.m.
but that are not reflected in that day’s price. In particular, the late trader obtains an advantage – at
the expense of the other shareholders of the mutual fund – when he learns of market moving
information and is able to purchase (or sell) mutual fund shares at prices set before the market
moving information was released. Late trading violates Rule 22c-1(a) under the Investment
Company Act and harms other shareholders when late trading dilutes the value of their shares.
CIHI Improperly Provided, and World Markets Improperly Arranged For, Credit to
Their Hedge Fund Customers
11.
From 1998 to 2003, CIHI provided leverage to numerous hedge fund customers
engaged in the late trading and/or market timing of mutual funds. At its height, CIHI had over $2
billion in leveraged transactions on its books. CIHI provided this leverage through two financing
vehicles, loans and TRSs.
12.
Under the TRSs, both CIHI and the hedge fund would contribute money to a
managed account, usually in ratios of 4:1 leverage, although in some instances this ratio was
even higher. CIHI then placed the funds it contributed (i.e., 80% of the funds) (“the floating
notional”) as well as the funds the hedge fund customer contributed (i.e., 20% of the funds), in
an account at a broker-dealer or trust company (“the managed account”). (The total amount of
funds that CIHI and the customer contributed was known as the “total notional.”) Although the
managed accounts were in CIHI’s name, and CIHI retained the power to liquidate the shares at any
time, the hedge fund customer selected an investment manager to make all trading decisions.
4


CIBC’s Credit Department had to approve these transactions. The funds in the managed
accounts were invested in mutual funds with the purpose of timing those funds. World Markets
effected transactions in mutual fund shares in the managed accounts. The hedge fund obtained
all gains made by trading in the managed account, and the hedge fund also was required to pay
for all trading losses in the managed account. In exchange, the hedge fund would pay CIHI
LIBOR (e.g., interest) plus 95-205 basis points on the funds CIHI contributed to the managed
account. CIHI officials acknowledged that the reason for the TRSs was to avoid the margin
limitations set by applicable margin regulations.
13.
Broker Doe introduced a number of his market timing customers to CIHI so that
those market timing customers could obtain financing beyond what was allowed by the relevant
margin regulations. When these customers entered into a purported TRS with CIHI, CIHI paid
Broker Doe a referral/finders fee for this new financing business.
CIHI Provided Financing to Hedge Fund Customers Knowing They Would Use The
Leverage to Late Trade and Deceptively Market Time Mutual Funds
14.
In addition to violating the margin requirements, CIHI financed hedge funds
knowing that those hedge fund customers used the leverage to late trade and deceptively market
time mutual funds.
15.
For example, in 2001, CIHI wanted to open managed accounts at STC on behalf of
two hedge fund financing customers. The STC trading platform was designed primarily for
processing trades by third party administrators for retirement plans. A CIHI Managing Director
prepared a memorandum describing the “benefits” that STC provided for CIHI’s market timing
customers. In this memorandum, the Managing Director expressly indicated that CIHI customers
will be able to submit trades for same day value to midnight [EST] based upon the published Net
Asset Values (“NAVs”). The Managing Director indicated that a pricing list is prepared and
submitted to customers who are then able to run their timing models against actual closing prices
instead of the previous day before they submit trades. Further, the Managing Director pointed out
that standard platforms required trades to be submitted before 4:00 p.m. by specific account
number and broker reference.
16.
The Managing Director also indicated that STC allowed customers to submit trades
in a number of methods to reduce the chance that they would appear to be timing a specific mutual
fund. The different types of investing were: 1) traditional account specific fund investing keeping
account balances small; 2) using a number of multiple legal vehicles (i.e. different tax
identification numbers) that rotate ownership of the mutual fund transferring balances between
related accounts; 3) piggy backing non-12(b)1 accounts (i.e. 401K accounts) to invest in a pool of
funds on a net basis as specific ownership is not known by the fund; and 4) piggy backing 12(b)1
accounts where a specific agreement is made with an RR to include the additional fund
investments.

5


17.
Thereafter, CIHI opened managed accounts at STC for both hedge fund customers,
who then market timed mutual funds and submitted trades after 4:00 p.m. EST. In doing so, the
hedge funds enhanced their returns with the leverage provided by CIHI.
18.
CIHI was well aware that mutual funds disliked the market timing they were
financing, and actively attempted to shut it down. For example, in an undated “confidential”
memo entitled “Market Timing Business,” CIHI officials wrote “[t]his business has a high level of
confidentiality since Mutual Fund Companies discourage the trading of their funds. Investment
Advisors pay significant fees to broker/dealers due to the stealth nature of the business.” Then,
arguing in favor of limited disclosure about its business, CIHI wrote, “[w]e believe our future
success is directly related to keeping this information confidential given the stealth nature of the
underlying investment strategy.”
19.
Initially, CIHI generally opened its managed accounts for its customers at World
Markets. However, “once the business grew to a certain volume” CIHI began opening managed
accounts at other broker-dealers, because World Markets “could no longer ‘hide’ the market timing
transactions in with normal business flow.” By opening managed accounts at other broker-dealers,
CIHI’s financing customers could evade mutual funds’ efforts to block market timing coming
through World Markets.
CIHI Created Subsidiaries Without the “Canadian Imperial” Name to Hide Market
Timing
20.
Over time, even the fact that CIHI had opened managed accounts at other brokerdealers did not prevent the “Canadian Imperial” name from becoming known to mutual funds as
a notorious market timer. This was because the managed accounts at other broker-dealers were
in CIHI’s name. Consequently, CIHI began looking for ways to keep the “Canadian Imperial”
name off the managed accounts. It did so by creating new subsidiaries, without the “Canadian
Imperial” name, to book the purported TRSs (meaning the subsidiary’s name, not CIHI, would
be on the managed accounts). CIHI also created hedge funds that CIHI wholly-owned and
financed but which lacked the “Canadian Imperial” name and which then entered into purported
TRS transactions with CIHI’s market timing finance customers.
21.
More specifically, in September 2002, CIHI officials proposed creating new
subsidiaries in which to book their mutual fund timing TRSs. As a CIHI business manager
explained, the new entities would be used to book the mutual fund swap business and were
needed because, “we’re at a point where we need to book purchases of assets (mutual funds and
annuities) in multiple vehicles in order to reduce CIHI’s ownership perception to the ‘street.’”
22.
A number of senior officials who reviewed this proposal raised questions
“whether we are violating any securities laws or regulations and/or running some reputational or
customer-relation risk.” One even questioned “[w]hy do we want to do this in the first place?
What does it mean to ‘reduce CIHI’s ownership perception to the ‘street’? Are we trying to skirt
some law here?”

6


23.
Notwithstanding these concerns, in December 2002, CIHI created two new
subsidiaries, Hudson River Investments LLC (“Hudson”) and Rudy Capital USA LLC (“Rudy”).
There was no doubt about the reason for their creation. According to Rudy’s “Company
Description,”
The purpose of the entity was to expand the existing mutual fund swap activity
business conducted by the Equity Arbitrage desk in New York. [i.e. CIHI] Due
to the size of the book in CIHI, it was deemed necessary to book the purchase of
mutual funds to reduce CIHI’s perception to the street. There was concern that
with the growth of this business, fund managers may exercise their right to turn us
away because of the size of our positions as well as the number of transactions.
Rudy Capital would help us to reduce perception to the street and potential fund
manager resistance.
24.
Nevertheless, one problem remained: CIHI had formed both Rudy and Hudson as
single member LLC’s, and therefore these entities retained the tax identification number of the
single member, which in this instance was CIHI. Mutual funds could (and did) block excessive
trading based on tax identification number, and more importantly, many mutual funds already
knew CIHI’s tax identification number. Thus, CIHI obtained a new tax identification number for
both Rudy and Hudson. Despite the separate tax identification numbers, neither Rudy nor
Hudson filed separate tax returns during this time. Rather, CIHI’s tax returns reported both
entities’ tax information.
25.
Thereafter, CIHI entered into one TRS with a market timing hedge fund, and then
did a back-to-back TRS with Rudy. This enabled the managed accounts to be in Rudy’s name.
The hedge fund then used this leverage to market time mutual funds.
CIHI Created Hedge Funds Without the “Canadian Imperial” Name
26.
In addition to its subsidiaries Rudy and Hudson, CIHI also created at least two
hedge funds, Emu Capital (“Emu”) and Miura Capital (“Miura”), as a way to avoid having the
“Canadian Imperial” name on the managed accounts. In the Emu deal, CIHI purchased shares of
Emu Capital, set up specifically for the transaction. CIHI funded the purchase of the hedge fund
with 80% of its own funds and 20% of its hedge fund customer’s funds. CIHI and its customer
then entered into a purported TRS on the returns Emu generated. The customer chose Emu’s
portfolio manager and bore the risk and benefits of the market timing strategy, while CIHI
received a fixed funding fee. Then Emu, a wholly-owned subsidiary of CIHI, invested in mutual
funds pursuant to its portfolio manager’s market timing strategy. The mutual funds were
purchased in the name of Emu rather than in the name of CIHI or CIBC.
27.
CIHI structured the Miura deal similarly. Specifically, CIHI entered into a
purported TRS with a hedge fund customer on the total returns of market timing activity done by
Miura, a hedge fund CIHI owned, but whose trading and investment strategies the customer
directed. As in the Emu deal, this allowed the customer to enjoy the risk and benefits of a

7


leveraged market timing strategy without having either its name or the name of CIHI or CIBC
associated with the trading.
World Markets Enabled Its Customers to Deceptively Market Time and Late Trade
Mutual Funds
28.
World Markets, through a team of RRs led by Broker Doe, and their managers
and supervisors, actively assisted market timing customers in deceiving mutual funds. World
Markets received over 1,000 letters and emails from mutual funds notifying World Markets and
Broker Doe’s team of RRs that their customers’ market timing trading activities violated the
terms of the mutual funds’ prospectuses and otherwise harmed the funds’ performance and other
shareholders. The RRs, however, repeatedly ignored these letters and emails, and continued to
work with timers up until the point when mutual funds threatened to terminate their dealer
agreements with World Markets. Even then, Broker Doe’s team of RRs did not always stop,
resulting in mutual funds terminating their dealer agreement with World Markets or refusing to
accept any trades from the branch office to which Broker Doe was assigned.
29.
Broker Doe’s team of RRs used the following deceptive practices on behalf of
their customers: (1) they accepted mutual fund orders after 4:00 pm EST with the understanding
that those trades would be entered to receive that day’s NAV; (2) after mutual funds had
blocked trading by certain customer accounts, the RRs opened new accounts for those customers
so they could continue to market time the mutual funds that had previously blocked them; (3)
because mutual funds sometimes blocked certain RRs because their customers timed the funds,
the RRs created new RR numbers to disguise their identity and the identity of their customers;
(4) they broke up trades into smaller amounts so that mutual funds would not detect the
customers’ trading activity; (5) they used annuities to market time mutual funds; and (6) they
used other broker-dealers that had other trading platforms, such as Charles Schwab & Co., Inc.
(“Schwab”) and FMR Corp. (“Fidelity”), to continue market timing mutual funds that had
blocked their customers’ trading through World Markets.
30.
Specifically, from at least August 2001 to November 2002, RRs in Broker Doe’s
group took trades from one market timing customer after 4:00 pm EST, with the understanding
that those trades would receive that day’s NAV. Typically, the customer would fax its proposed
trades to the RRs before the market closed. Thereafter, the customer would call and instruct the
RRs whether or not to execute the proposed trades. Many of these calls occurred after 4:00 pm,
allowing the customer to observe the after-hours markets. Moreover, the RRs sometimes
cancelled those trades after 4pm at the request of one of their market timing customers.
31.
World Markets could not locate trading spreadsheets that the aforementioned
customer sent in 2002. World Markets treated these spreadsheets as order tickets. These
spreadsheets were books and records that World Markets, as a broker-dealer, was required to
make and keep current.
32.
The RRs’ market timing business was well known to upper level management at
World Markets. Indeed, World Markets’ management made Broker Doe’s team of RRs the only
8


group of RRs permitted to engage in the market timing business. At various times thereafter,
World Markets’ management reprimanded other RRs trying to market time on behalf of their
customers, noting such behavior was the exclusive purview of Broker Doe and his team.
33.
Additionally, after a mutual fund had blocked a particular customer account
because it was engaged in market timing, Broker Doe and his team of RRs opened additional
accounts for the customer to disguise the identity of the account holder so that the customer
could continue to market time that same fund. For example, between November 13, 2001 and
November 27, 2001, Broker Doe and his team of RRs timed one mutual fund through two
brokerage accounts for the same customer. On November 28, 2001, the mutual fund contacted
World Markets to block those accounts due to “a pattern of excessive trading.” To evade those
trading restrictions, between December 4, 2001 and December 6, 2001, Broker Doe and his team
of RRs timed the same mutual fund in eight different accounts for the same customer. On
December 7, 2001, the fund blocked those eight accounts, again due to “excessive trading.”
Finally, to evade the November and December blocks, on December 14, 2001, Broker Doe and
his team of RRs traded the mutual fund in two more accounts for the same customer, which led
the mutual fund to ultimately block these two new accounts from further trading as well.
34.
Broker Doe’s team also used multiple RR numbers to deceive mutual funds about
the source of market timing trades. Mutual funds often identified abusive market timing through
the RRs who facilitated this trading. Using alternative RR numbers allowed the RRs to
“disguise” their identity and fool the mutual funds into believing that the fund had not previously
blocked the RR, and his customers, from abusive trading. This became increasingly important as
Broker Doe’s team’s business grew and mutual funds began to identify their RR numbers as the
source of abusive trading. All told, Broker Doe and his group had over 50 individual or shared
RR numbers at World Markets.
35.
Broker Doe also traded in small dollar amounts to stay “under the radar screen” of
the mutual funds. Broker Doe opened multiple accounts for his timing customers in order to
spread timing money across multiple accounts, instead of trading one large lump sum, which
would surely be a “red flag” to mutual funds.
36.
World Markets Mutual Fund Operations Department was well aware that Broker
Doe’s team used multiple accounts as a deceptive device. For example, one RR wrote to the
Mutual Fund Operations Department concerning identical trades in multiple customer accounts.
Apologizing for the increased work these trades were causing the Mutual Fund Operations
Department, the RR wrote, “We obviously aren’t purposefully trying to create more work for you
guys by splitting these trades up. We are trying to break them up so the fund companies do not
think these are market timing accounts, even though they are.” The Director of Mutual Fund
Operations replied, “I understand your methods.”
37.
Similarly, World Markets’ Head of Private Client Services knew that Broker Doe’s
team used multiple accounts to deceive mutual funds. In June 2002, one RR emailed the Head of
Private Client Services asking for a lower margin rate for a customer, explaining, “[t]here are three
accounts (even though it is the same customer) that add up to approx. $4,300,000. The reason they
9


have three separate accounts is to stay under the radar with the mutual fund companies, otherwise
it is the same entity.” (emphasis added) Satisfied with the explanation, this senior official
approved the lower margin rate.
38.
Broker Doe also used platforms at other broker-dealers as a way to deceive mutual
funds. Specifically, Broker Doe and his team opened accounts at Fidelity and Schwab on behalf of
his market timing customers as another means of evading mutual fund blocks. Specifically, after
mutual funds had repeatedly blocked certain customers’ trading through World Markets, Broker
Doe and his team directed their customers’ trades through accounts they opened at Schwab and
Fidelity so that the mutual funds would not immediately identify the customer as the same abusive
market timer who traded through World Markets. Upper management at World Markets, including
the Head of Financial Services and Head of Private Client Services, knew that Broker Doe had
opened these accounts at Schwab and Fidelity to continue timing funds that had previously blocked
or rejected Broker Doe’s customers’ trades.
39.
For example, after a mutual fund objected to Broker Doe’s timing for a customer
through World Markets, Broker Doe and his team directed the customer’s market timing through
Schwab. The same mutual fund, however, then detected market timing through the Schwab
platform and determined that the trading was done by Broker Doe and his customer. The mutual
fund then contacted World Markets about its discovery. Upon learning that their trading through
Schwab had been detected, the Head of Financial Services emailed the Head of Private Client
Services, telling him that the fund’s discovery “proves that the Schwab account isn’t as concealing
as we think.” (emphasis added) The next day, upon learning of trading in the fund through
Schwab, Broker Doe’s Branch Manager wrote the Head of Private Client Services, “so much for
stealth trading.” (emphasis added) Despite these emails, Broker Doe and his customers continued
to use Schwab and Fidelity to market time mutual funds.
40.
At Broker Doe’s request, World Markets also established numerous selling
agreements with mutual fund families that previously had no relationship with CIBC. World
Markets understood that Broker Doe wanted these agreements so that his team’s customers could
then time these funds – and that is precisely what they did.
41.
Moreover, in some of the selling agreements themselves, World Markets made
representations that its RRs did not provide market timing services to its customers. For example,
in the agreement allowing World Markets to sell one particular fund, when asked “does your firm
employ market timing services or utilize a market timing strategy,” World Markets responded
“No.” That response was false. Moreover, World Markets obtained the dealer agreement with this
fund specifically at Broker Doe’s request.
42.
On at least three other occasions, World Markets also lied to mutual funds that
had complained about Broker Doe’s market timing activity. In each email, World Markets’
management assured the complaining mutual fund that “[e]ngaging in market timing practices is
not a business we condone nor support.” (emphasis added) In response to one such email,
Broker Doe’s Branch Manager called the author a “kiss a**,” [sic] who replied, “whatever it
takes my friend….whatever it takes.” In another example, the Director of Mutual Fund
10


Operations responded, “You really are a salesman…..” The author replied, “i do what i
can.....just another case of promising the firm’s ‘first born’ for the ‘privilege’ of doing business!”
[sic]
43.
World Markets also approved Broker Doe and his team’s use of annuities as
another vehicle in which to market time mutual funds. World Markets’ management was fully
aware that Broker Doe used annuities as an additional platform in which to engage in market
timing for his customers, and that variable annuity companies, like mutual funds, did not like it.
44.
Broker Doe’s customers used annuities to stay under the radar of mutual fund
companies. For example, in an October 2001 email relaying that they had successfully stayed off
the timing reports of one annuity firm, Broker Doe exhorted his team to “stay on top of why and
how to keep under the radar [and] don't get lazy penetrate more.” One way they did so was to have
their customers create separate legal entities, akin to subsidiaries, to create additional avenues for
trading. For example, one customer created numerous affiliated entities so that when an annuity
company stopped trading by one entity, the customer could resume trading using a “new” entity.
This customer did so after an RR in Broker Doe’s group recommended this strategy.
Although the Market Timing and Late Trading was Profitable for CIHI and World
Markets, It Harmed Mutual Funds and Their Shareholders
45.
CIHI and World Markets profited from their market timing businesses. For
example, CIHI grossed approximately $43 million over five years in the form of interest on its
financing (both swaps and loans) of market timing hedge fund customers. World Markets earned
approximately $28 million in the form of wrap fees paid by its market timing hedge fund
customers. World Markets also received millions in 12b-1 fees from the mutual funds that were
timed by its hedge fund customers. Moreover, numerous mutual funds and their shareholders
suffered hundreds of millions of dollars in dilutive harm caused by the late trading and abusive
market timing trading done by customers and CIHI and World Markets.

D. 	

Legal Section: CIHI and World Markets Violated Numerous Provisions of the
Federal Securities Laws
CIHI Violated the Securities Laws

46.
As a result of the conduct described above, CIHI willfully violated Section 17(a) of
the Securities Act. Section 17(a) of the Securities Act makes it unlawful for any person in the offer
or sale of securities to employ any device, scheme or artifice to defraud; to obtain money by means
of any untrue statement or omission of material fact; or to engage in any transaction, practice or
course of business which operates or would operate as a fraud or deceit upon the purchaser. CIHI
actively participated in a fraudulent scheme by financing hedge fund customers knowing those
hedge funds would use CIHI’s financing to deceptively market time and late trade mutual funds.
Moreover, CIHI went to great lengths to hide CIHI’s and its customers’ market timing activities.
For example, CIHI created seemingly unaffiliated subsidiaries and hedge funds in whose name
11


managed accounts were opened, enabling CIHI’s customers to hide their association with CIHI and
continue to market time mutual funds. CIHI also provided financing to customers knowing that
managed accounts CIHI established would (and did) late trade mutual funds.
47.
As a result of the conduct described above, CIHI willfully violated Section 10(b) of
the Exchange Act and Rule 10b-5 thereunder, which prohibit, in connection with the purchase or
sale of securities, the use of any manipulative or deceptive device, including any device, scheme or
artifice to defraud; making any untrue statement of material fact or omitting to state a material fact
when doing so makes the statement made misleading; or engaging in any act, practice or course of
business which operates or would operate as a fraud. CIHI actively participated in a fraudulent
scheme by financing hedge fund customers knowing those hedge funds would use CIHI’s
financing to deceptively market time and late trade mutual funds. Moreover, CIHI went to great
lengths to hide CIHI’s and its customers’ market timing activities. For example, CIHI created
seemingly unaffiliated subsidiaries and hedge funds in whose name managed accounts were
opened, enabling CIHI’s customers to hide their association with CIHI and continue to market time
mutual funds. CIHI also provided financing to customers knowing that managed accounts CIHI
established would (and did) late trade mutual funds.
48.
As a result of the conduct described above, CIHI willfully aided and abetted and
caused violations of Rule 22c-1, as adopted under Section 22(c) of the Investment Company Act,
which requires certain mutual funds, persons designated in such issuers’ prospectuses as authorized
to consummate transactions in any such security, their principal underwriters, or dealers in the
funds’ securities, to sell and redeem fund shares at a price based on the current NAV next
computed after receipt of an order to buy or redeem. Specifically, CIHI financed certain
customers, and opened managed accounts at STC for certain customers, knowing those customers
would (and did) use CIHI’s financing to late trade mutual funds. In doing so, CIHI substantially
assisted violations of Rule 22c-1.
49.
As a result of the conduct described above, CIHI willfully violated Section 7(d) of
the Exchange Act and Regulation U promulgated by the Federal Reserve Board., which prohibits,
inter alia, the unlawful extension of credit. Regulation U prohibits a person other than a brokerdealer (i.e., a lender) from extending credit for the purpose of buying or carrying margin stock if
the credit is secured directly or indirectly by margin stock, in an amount that exceeds the maximum
loan value of the margin stock, which is 50% of its current market value. As noted above, CIHI
extended credit to hedge fund customers in excess of 50% of the margin stock’s value through
what it characterized as TRSs to market time mutual funds.
World Markets Violated the Securities Laws
50.
As a result of the conduct described above, World Markets willfully violated
Section 17(a) of the Securities Act, which prohibits fraudulent conduct in the offer and sale of
securities. Section 17(a) of the Securities Act makes it unlawful for any person in the offer or sale
of securities to employ any device, scheme or artifice to defraud; to obtain money by means of any
untrue statement or omission of material fact; or to engage in any transaction, practice or course of
business which operates or would operate as a fraud or deceit upon the purchaser. World Markets
12


participated in a scheme to defraud mutual funds and their shareholders by using multiple
deceptive devices to facilitate its customers’ market timing and late trading of mutual funds. More
specifically, after mutual funds blocked customers’ market timing trading, World Markets’ RRs
created new accounts for their customers, created new RR numbers, and used platforms at other
broker-dealers to deceive mutual funds about the source of their customers’ market timing trading,
and the activities of its customers. World Markets also took numerous trades from one market
timing customer after 4:00 p.m. EST, and then submitted those orders as though the customer had
placed the order prior to 4:00 p.m. ET., thereby ensuring those trades received that day’s NAV. In
doing so, World Markets harmed the mutual funds and their remaining shareholders by diluting the
mutual funds’ next day NAV.
51.
As a result of the conduct described above, World Markets willfully violated
Section 10(b) of the Exchange Act and Rule 10b-5 thereunder, which prohibit, in connection with
the purchase or sale of securities, the use of any manipulative or deceptive device, including any
device, scheme or artifice to defraud; making any untrue statement of material fact or omitting to
state a material fact when doing so makes the statement made misleading; or engaging in any act,
practice or course of business which operates or would operate as a fraud. World Markets engaged
in a fraudulent scheme by using multiple deceptive devices to facilitate its customers’ market
timing and late trading of mutual funds. More specifically, after mutual funds blocked customers’
market timing trading, World Markets’ RRs created new accounts for their customers, created new
RR numbers, and used platforms at other broker-dealers to deceive mutual funds about the source
of their customers’ market timing trading, and the activities of its customers. World Markets also
took numerous trades from one market timing customer after 4:00 pm EST, and then submitted
those orders as though the customer had placed the order prior to 4:00 p.m. ET., thereby ensuring
those trades received that day’s NAV. In doing so, World Markets harmed the mutual funds and
their remaining shareholders by diluting the mutual funds’ next day NAV.
52.
As a result of the conduct described above, World Markets willfully violated
Section 15(c) of the Exchange Act and Rule 10b-3 thereunder, which prohibit broker-dealers from
effecting transactions in, or inducing or attempting to induce, the purchase or sale of securities
(other than on a national securities exchange of which it was a member) by means of a
manipulative, deceptive, or other fraudulent device or contrivance. World Markets effectuated
transactions in the purchase or sale of securities using fraudulent devices to hide its customers’
market timing and late trading of mutual funds in funds with which it had Dealer Agreements.
More specifically, after mutual funds blocked customers’ market timing trading, World Markets’
RRs created new accounts for their customers, created new RR numbers, and used platforms at
other broker-dealers to deceive mutual funds about the source of their customers’ market timing
trading, and the activities of its customers. World Markets also took numerous trades from one
market timing customer after 4:00 pm EST, and then submitted those orders as though the
customer had placed the order prior to 4:00 p.m. EST., thereby ensuring those trades received that
day’s NAV. In doing so, World Markets harmed the mutual funds and their remaining
shareholders by diluting the mutual funds’ next day NAV.
53.
As a result of the conduct described above, World Markets willfully violated Rule
22c-1, as adopted under Section 22(c) of the Investment Company Act, which requires certain
13


mutual funds, persons designated in such issuers’ prospectuses as authorized to consummate
transactions in any such security, their principal underwriters, or dealers in the funds’ securities, to
sell and redeem fund shares at a price based on the current NAV next computed after receipt of an
order to buy or redeem. World Markets, by virtue of dealer agreements with the mutual funds, was
a dealer within the meaning of Rule 22c-1. World Markets, through RRs in Broker Doe’s team,
accepted and executed trades after the close of the United States equity markets at a price other
than the current NAV which was next computed after receipt of a tender of such security for
redemption or of an order to purchase or sell such security. As a result of the conduct described
above, World Markets willfully violated Rule 22c-1 under the Investment Company Act.
54.
As a result of the conduct described above, World Markets willfully violated
Section 7(c) of the Exchange Act and Regulation T promulgated by the Federal Reserve Board,
which prohibits the unlawful extension of credit to customers. Regulation T governs the extension
of credit by broker-dealers. Regulation T also prohibits broker-dealers from willfully arranging the
extension of credit that violates the limitations set forth in Regulation U. World Markets violated
Regulation T because Broker Doe and his team “arranged” for CIHI to extend credit to World
Markets’ customers that violated Regulation U.
55.
As a result of the conduct described above, World Markets willfully violated
Section 11(d) of the Exchange Act, which prohibits any broker-dealer from effecting a transaction
in which it has, among other things, arranged for the direct or indirect extension of credit on any
security (other than an exempted security) which was a part of a new issue in the distribution of
which it participated as a member of a selling syndicate or group within 30 days prior to the
transaction. Because open-ended mutual fund shares are continuously in distribution, they are
considered a “new issue.” Rule 11d1-2 permits a broker-dealer to extend, maintain, or arrange for
the extension or maintenance of credit on mutual fund shares if the customer has owned the
securities for at least thirty days. Thus, in order for a broker-dealer’s arranging for the extension of
credit in connection with the purchase of mutual fund shares to be proper, the shares must have
been held by the buyer for thirty days prior to the extension of credit. World Markets, while acting
as a broker-dealer, arranged for the extension of credit to customers that had held the subject
mutual fund shares for less than 30 days prior to the credit extension (indeed, the mutual funds
shares were not purchased through World Markets until after the extension of credit). In so doing,
World Markets violated Section 11(d)(1) of the Exchange Act.
56.
As a result of the conduct described above, World Markets willfully violated
Section 17(a) of the Exchange Act and Rule 17a-3 thereunder, which require registered brokers
and dealers to make and keep current specified books and records. World Markets could not locate
trading spreadsheets that a certain customer sent in 2002. World Markets treated these
spreadsheets as order tickets under Rule 17a-3(a)(6). Whether executed or not, these spreadsheets
were books and records that World Markets, as a broker-dealer, was required to maintain. Thus,
World Markets’ failure to make and keep current order tickets violated Rule 17a-3.
E.

Respondents Remedial Efforts

14


57.
In determining to accept the Offer, the Commission considered remedial acts
promptly undertaken by Respondents and cooperation afforded the Commission staff by
Respondents during its investigation. This cooperation included conducting an independent
internal investigation, sharing the results of that investigation with the Commission's staff, and
obtaining the resignations of certain supervisory personnel and others.
F.

Undertakings

Respondents undertake to:
58.
Ongoing Cooperation. Respondents shall cooperate fully with the Commission in
any and all investigations, litigations or other proceedings relating to or arising from the matters
described in this Order. In connection with such cooperation, Respondents have undertaken:
a.	 To produce, without service of a notice or subpoena, any and all documents and
other information requested by the Commission's staff;
b.	 To use its best efforts to cause their employees to be interviewed by the
Commission's staff at such times as the staff reasonably may direct;
c.	 To use its best efforts to cause their employees to appear and testify truthfully and
completely without service of a notice or subpoena in such investigations,
depositions, hearings or trials as may be requested by the Commission's staff; and
d.	 That in connection with any testimony of Respondents to be conducted at
deposition, hearing or trial pursuant to a notice or subpoena, Respondents:
i.	 Agree that any such notice or subpoena for Respondents' appearance and
testimony may be served by regular mail on their attorney, Weil, Gotshal &
Manges, 767 Fifth Avenue, New York, NY 10153, attn: Jonathan Polkes,
Esq.; and
ii.	 Agree that any such notice or subpoena for Respondents' appearance and
testimony in an action pending in a United States District Court may be
served, and may require testimony, beyond the territorial limits imposed by
the Federal Rules of Civil Procedure.
Independent Distribution Consultant
59.
Respondents shall retain, within 60 days of the date of entry of this Order, the
services of an Independent Distribution Consultant not unacceptable to the staff of the
Commission. The Independent Distribution Consultant's compensation and expenses shall be
15


borne exclusively by Respondents. Respondents shall cooperate fully with the Independent
Distribution Consultant and shall provide the Independent Distribution Consultant with access to
their files, books, records, and personnel as reasonably requested for the review.
60.
Respondents shall require that the Independent Distribution Consultant develop a
Distribution Plan for the distribution of the $125 million in disgorgement and penalty, and any
interest or earnings thereon, according to a methodology developed in consultation with
Respondents and acceptable to the staff of the Commission.
61.
Respondents shall require that the Independent Distribution Consultant submit a
Distribution Plan to Respondents and the staff of the Commission no more than 150 days after the
date of entry of this Order.
62.
The Distribution Plan developed by the Independent Distribution Consultant shall
be binding unless, within 180 days after the date of entry of the Order, Respondents or the staff of
the Commission advises, in writing, the Independent Distribution Consultant of any determination
or calculation from the Distribution Plan that it considers to be inappropriate and states in writing
the reasons for considering such determination or calculation inappropriate.
63.
With respect to any determination or calculation with which Respondents or the
staff of the Commission do not agree, such parties shall attempt in good faith to reach an
agreement within 210 days of the date of entry of this Order. In the event that Respondents and the
staff of the Commission are unable to agree on an alternative determination or calculation, the
determinations and calculations of the Independent Distribution Consultant shall be binding.
64.
Within 225 days of the date of entry of this Order, Respondents shall require that
the Independent Distribution Consultant submit the Distribution Plan for the administration and
distribution of disgorgement and penalty funds pursuant to Rule 1101 [17 C.F.R. § 201.1101] of
the Commission's Rules Regarding Disgorgement and Fair Fund Plans. Following a Commission
order approving a final plan of disgorgement, as provided in Rule 1104 [17 C.F.R. § 201.1104] of
the Commission's Rules Regarding Disgorgement and Fair Fund Plans, Respondents shall require
that the Independent Distribution Consultant, with Respondents, take all necessary and appropriate
steps to administer the final plan for distribution of disgorgement and penalty funds.
65.
Respondents shall require that the Independent Distribution Consultant, for the
period of the engagement and for a period of two years from completion of the engagement, not
enter into any employment, consultant, attorney-customer, auditing or other professional
relationship with Respondents, or any of their present or former affiliates, directors, officers,
employees, or agents acting in their capacity as such. Respondents shall require that any firm with
which the Independent Distribution Consultant is affiliated in performance of his or her duties
under this Order not, without prior written consent of the staff of the Commission, enter into any
employment, consultant, attorney-customer, auditing or other professional relationship with
Respondents, or any of their present or former affiliates, directors, officers, employees, or agents
acting in their capacity as such for the period of the engagement and for a period of two years after
the engagement.
16


66.
For good cause shown, and upon receipt of a timely application from the
Independent Distribution Consultant or Respondents, the Commission's staff may extend any of
the procedural dates set forth above.
IV.
In view of the foregoing, the Commission deems it appropriate and in the public interest to
impose the sanctions agreed to in Respondents’ Offer.
Accordingly, pursuant to Section 8A of the Securities Act, Sections 15(b)(6) and 21C of
the Exchange Act and Sections 9(b) and 9(f) of the Investment Company Act against CIHI, and
pursuant to Section 8A of the Securities Act, Sections 15(b)(4) and 21C of the Exchange Act,
Section 203(e) of the Advisers Act, and Sections 9(b) and 9(f) of the Investment Company Act,
against World Markets, it is hereby ORDERED that:
A.
Respondents shall pay, on a joint and several basis, disgorgement and prejudgment
interest in the amount of $100 million, and a civil money penalty in the amount of $25 million, for a
total payment of $125 million;
B.
Respondent CIHI shall cease and desist from committing or causing any violations
and any future violations of Section 17(a) of the Securities Act, Sections 7(d) and 10(b) of the
Exchange Act and Rule 10b-5 thereunder, Rule 22c-1, as adopted under Section 22(c) of the
Investment Company Act of 1940, and Regulation U promulgated by the Federal Reserve Board
regarding the extension of margin credit;
C.
Respondent World Markets shall cease and desist from committing or causing any
violations and any future violations of Section 17(a) of the Securities Act, Sections 7(c), 10(b),
11(d), 15(c) and 17(a) of the Exchange Act and Rules 10b-3, 10b-5, and 17a-3 thereunder, Rule
22c-1, as adopted under Section 22(c) of the Investment Company Act of 1940, and Regulation T
promulgated by the Federal Reserve Board regarding the extension of margin credit;
D.
Respondents shall, within 30 days of the entry of this Order, pay on a joint and
several basis, disgorgement and prejudgment interest in the total amount of $100 million, and civil
money penalties in the amount of $25 million, for a total payment of $125 million, to the United
States Treasury. Such payment shall be: (A) made by wire transfer, United States postal money
order, certified check, bank cashier's check or bank money order; (B) made payable to the
Securities and Exchange Commission; (C) wired, hand-delivered or mailed to the Office of
Financial Management, Securities and Exchange Commission, Operations Center, 6432 General
Green Way, Alexandria, Stop 0-3, VA 22312; and (D) submitted under cover letter that identifies
CIHI and World Markets as Respondents in these proceedings, the file number of these
proceedings, a copy of which cover letter and money order or check shall be sent to Mark K.
Schonfeld, Regional Director, Division of Enforcement, Securities and Exchange Commission,
Northeast Regional Office, 3 World Financial Center, New York, NY, 10281.
17


E.
There shall be, pursuant to Section 308(a) of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002, a
Fair Fund established for the funds described in Section IV.A and D (“Fair Fund distribution”).
Regardless of whether any such Fair Fund distribution is made, amounts ordered to be paid as civil
money penalties pursuant to this Order shall be treated as penalties paid to the government for all
purposes, including all tax purposes. To preserve the deterrent effect of the civil penalty,
Respondents agree that they shall not, after offset or reduction in any Related Investor Action
based on Respondents’ payment of disgorgement in this action, argue that they are entitled to, nor
shall they further benefit by offset or reduction of any part of Respondents’ payment of a civil
penalty in this action ("Penalty Offset"). If the court in any Related Investor Action grants such a
Penalty Offset, Respondents agree that they shall, within 30 days after entry of a final order
granting the Penalty Offset, notify the Commission's counsel in this action and pay the amount of
the Penalty Offset to the United States Treasury or to a Fair Fund, as the Commission directs.
Such a payment shall not be deemed an additional civil penalty and shall not be deemed to change
the amount of the civil penalty imposed in this proceeding. For purposes of this paragraph, a
"Related Investor Action" means a private damages action brought against Respondent by or on
behalf of one or more investors based on substantially the same facts as alleged in this Order
instituted by the Commission in this proceeding.
F.

Respondents shall comply with the undertakings enumerated in paragraphs 59-66

above.
By the Commission.

Jonathan G. Katz
Secretary

18


