UNITED STATES OF AMERICA
Before the
SECURITIES AND EXCHANGE COMMISSION
SECURITIES ACT OF 1933
Release No. 8820 / July 6, 2007
INVESTMENT ADVISERS ACT OF 1940
Release No. 2617 / July 6, 2007
INVESTEMENT COMPANY ACT OF 1940
Release No. 27883 / July 6, 2007
ADMINISTRATIVE PROCEEDING
File No. 3-12678

:
:
:
:
:
:
:
:
:
:
:
:
:
:

In the Matter of

Haidar Capital Management, LLC,
Haidar Capital Advisors, LLC, and
Said N. Haidar,

Respondents.

ORDER INSTITUTING PUBLIC
ADMINISTRATIVE AND CEASE-ANDDESIST PROCEEDINGS, MAKING
FINDINGS, IMPOSING A CEASEAND-DESIST ORDER, AND
IMPOSING REMEDIAL SANCTIONS,
PURSUANT TO SECTION 8A OF THE
SECURITIES ACT OF 1933, SECTIONS
203(e) AND (f) OF THE INVESTMENT
ADVISERS ACT OF 1940, AND
SECTIONS 9(b) AND (d) OF THE
INVESTMENT COMPANY ACT OF
1940

The Securities and Exchange Commission (“Commission”) deems it appropriate
and in the public interest that public administrative and cease-and-desist proceedings be,
and hereby are, instituted pursuant to Section 8A of the Securities Act of 1933
(“Securities Act”), Sections 203(e) and (f) of the Investment Advisers Act of 1940
(“Advisers Act”) and Sections 9(b) and (d) of the Investment Company Act of 1940
(“Investment Company Act”) against Haidar Capital Management, LLC, Haidar Capital
Advisors, LLC (collectively, Haidar Advisors), and Said N. Haidar (“Haidar”).
II.
In anticipation of the institution of these proceedings, Haidar Advisors and Haidar
have submitted an Offer of Settlement (the “Offer”), which the Commission has
determined to accept. Solely for the purpose of these proceedings and any other
proceedings brought by or on behalf of the Commission, or to which the Commission is a

party, and without admitting or denying the findings herein, except as to the
Commission’s jurisdiction over it and the subject matter of these proceedings, Haidar
Advisors and Haidar consent to the entry of this Order Instituting Public Administrative
and Cease-and-Desist Proceedings, Making Findings, Imposing a Cease-and-Desist
Order, and Imposing Remedial Sanctions, Pursuant to Section 8A of the Securities Act of
1933, Sections 203(e) and (f) of the Investment Advisers Act of 1940, and Sections 9(b)
and (d) of the Investment Company Act of 1940 (“Order”), as set forth below.
III.
On the basis of this Order and Respondents’ Offer, the Commission finds 1 that:
Respondents
1.
Haidar Capital Management, LLC, is a single member limited liability
company formed under the laws of the State of New York. Haidar Capital Management,
LLC served as the investment adviser for four private funds and is not registered with the
Commission.
2.
Haidar Capital Advisors, LLC, is a single member limited liability
company formed under the laws of the State of New York. Haidar Capital Advisors,
LLC was the administrative or managing member of three private funds and is not
registered with the Commission.
3.
Said N. Haidar, age 45, is a resident of New York, New York. He is the
managing member and sole shareholder of Haidar Capital Management and Haidar
Capital Advisors.
Facts
4.
From April 2001 to September 2003 (the “relevant period”), Haidar
Advisors traded an average of approximately $143 million in US mutual funds and
annuities through a market timing strategy that Haidar Advisors’ traders executed. 2
During the relevant period, Haidar Advisors and Haidar violated Section 17(a)(3) of the
Securities Act by engaging in deceptive tactics, such as using multiple accounts, utilizing
broker-dealers who used multiple registered representative numbers and purchasing
variable annuities, to hide Haidar Advisors’ identity from mutual funds, and otherwise

1

The findings herein are made pursuant to Respondents’ Offer of Settlement and are not binding on any
other person or entity in this or any other proceeding.

2

Market timing includes: (i) frequent buying and selling of shares of the same mutual fund or (ii) buying or
selling mutual fund shares in order to exploit inefficiencies in mutual fund pricing. Market timing, while
not illegal per se, can harm other mutual fund shareholders because it can dilute the value of their shares, if
the market timer is exploiting pricing inefficiencies, or disrupt the management of the mutual fund’s
investment portfolio and can cause the targeted mutual fund to incur costs borne by other shareholders to
accommodate frequent buying and selling of shares by the market timer.

2

facilitate Haidar Advisors’ market timing strategies. 3 During the relevant period, Haidar
Advisors earned in excess of $3.3 million in management and advisory fees from its
market timing trading.
Haidar Advisors Used Multiple Trading Entities and Accounts to Hide Their
Identities
5.
During the relevant period, Haidar Advisors, at Haidar’s direction, created
eight new wholly owned subsidiaries for two parent hedge funds (collectively, the “Haidar
Advisors Affiliates”) to execute mutual fund trades. These wholly owned subsidiaries had
unique tax identification numbers but included the same investors as the parent hedge fund
and shared a bank account with the parent hedge fund. When a mutual fund family
identified Haidar Advisors or the Haidar Advisors Affiliates as a market timer and blocked
them from trading, Haidar Advisors continued timing the mutual fund family through
another Haidar Advisors Affiliate or account, thereby concealing its identity from the
mutual fund family. By September 2003, Haidar Advisors had opened in excess of 100
accounts at more than 20 broker-dealers. Through these efforts, Haidar Advisors avoided
detection by the mutual funds and continue executing market timing trades in mutual
funds that had imposed “block notices” to restrict their market timing activities. 4
6.
Haidar Advisors’ Confidential Offering Memoranda for its various hedge
funds confirm that Haidar Advisors used multiple accounts and entities and annuity
contracts to execute trades in mutual funds that had previously imposed restrictions on
Haidar Advisors due to market timing. In pertinent part, the Offering Memoranda, in a
section entitled “Limitations on Switching Strategies,” states:
The future success of [Haidar Advisors’] trading strategy depends
on several different factors. Primary among these factors is the
continued availability of the free and unlimited switching option
within a family of funds. [Haidar Advisors] may utilize special
purpose vehicles . . . and purchase annuity contracts to maintain or
increase such availability. Fund families have been slowly
restricting the availability of the exchange privilege, and this trend
is expected to continue. In addition, there is no assurance that
[Haidar Advisors] will be able to continue to utilize special

3

On November 30, 2001, Haidar’s outside counsel provided him with a research memorandum relating to
his mutual fund market timing strategy. Specifically, the memorandum addressed Haidar Advisors’ use of
multiple shareholder accounts under the same shareholder name and accounts for the benefit of one person
but traded under separate d/b/a accounts or traded using subsidiaries. In pertinent part, Haidar Advisors’
counsel concludes that its “research has not uncovered a fact pattern whereby (i) the SEC has sought to
impose a penalty against an adviser or (ii) a mutual fund has sued a shareholder, in each case for markettiming activities where a person that has been precluded from trading mutual fund shares because of
market-timing then sets up an account under a new name but with the same beneficial owners.”

4

Block notices restricted market timing trading by, among other things, prohibiting future trades in specific
accounts, by particular registered representatives or by broker-dealer and typically included a statement
concerning the mutual fund’s aversion to market timing.

3

purpose vehicles or annuity contracts . . . to trade mutual fund
shares.
7.
Haidar managed the overall operations of Haidar Advisors, including the
creation of the Haidar Advisors Affiliates and the opening of brokerage accounts and the
transfer of funds among the Haidar Advisors-affiliated entities. Haidar personally signed
all of the applications for new tax identification numbers, all account opening documents
and all wire transfer letters authorizing Haidar Advisors’ broker-dealers to move Haidar
Advisors’ money to accounts that had not yet been blocked by the mutual funds.
Use of Multiple Registered Representative Numbers to Circumvent Block Notices
8.
Many mutual funds also identified market timers by tracking the number
broker-dealers assigned to their registered representatives (i.e., registered representative
numbers). In an effort to hide their identities and circumvent block notices imposed by
the mutual funds, some registered representatives at broker-dealers used by Haidar
Advisors, at Haidar Advisors direction, used multiple registered representative numbers
to execute Haidar Advisors’ market timing trades. In setting up Haidar Advisors’
accounts at various broker-dealers, Haidar Advisors’ traders discussed the use of
alternative registered representative numbers to evade block notices and considered the
broker-dealers’ ability to execute trades using multiple registered representative numbers
in evaluating prospective broker-dealer relationships.
Haidar Advisors Traded In Amounts That Were More Likely To Avoid Mutual
Fund Scrutiny
9.
Haidar Advisors employed structured trading strategies to further disguise
its timing activities from blocking mutual funds. Specifically, Haidar Advisors divided
large trades, using the Haidar Advisors Affiliates, into several smaller trades in an effort
to “fly under the radar” of mutual funds that detected timers by monitoring trades with
high dollar values. Haidar Advisors monitored the dollar amount that attracted attention
from the mutual fund compliance personnel and traded in dollar amounts under that
threshold in order to avoid mutual fund scrutiny. In each instance, no legitimate purpose
required Haidar Advisors to structure the trades in that manner because the accounts and
Haidar Advisors Affiliates included the same investors and employed the same trading
strategy.
Haidar Advisors Used Variable Annuities to Disguise Their Identities
10.
Haidar Advisors conducted market timing using variable annuity
contracts. 5 Variable annuities were an attractive vehicle for Haidar Advisors to use to
5

Variable annuities are insurance contracts which typically invest the cash premiums in mutual fund shares
and which typically offer access to multiple mutual funds. Variable annuities are securities and insurance
companies offer their variable annuity products through prospectuses filed with the Commission, which
may describe the insurance companies’ policies on market timing. As with market timing of mutual funds,
market timing through variable annuities can result in increased expense to, and cause dilution in, the
underlying mutual fund portfolios. Additionally, market timing through variable annuities may harm not

4

gain market timing capacity because issuers of variable annuities aggregate trades in their
contracted fund complexes and transmit the trades on a net basis. Thus, trading through
variable annuity contracts can hide the identity of timers, facilitating their timing. 6
In addition to using variable annuities to conceal its identity from the
11.
mutual funds, Haidar Advisors also engaged in deceptive conduct to facilitate its variable
annuity trading. Specifically, when variable annuity contracts were restricted for
excessive trading, Haidar Advisors would surrender the contract and continue market
timing in the same variable annuities’ mutual fund sub-accounts, using a different
variable annuity contract purchased in the name of a different Haidar Advisors Affiliate
or using a different account number. 7
Violations of the Federal Securities Laws
12.
As a result of the conduct described above, Haidar Advisors and Haidar
willfully committed violations of Section 17(a)(3) of the Securities Act, which prohibits
engaging in any transaction, practice or course of business, in the offer or sale of
securities, directly or indirectly, which would operate as a fraud or deceit upon the
purchaser. 8
Cooperation by Haidar Advisors and Haidar
13.
In determining to accept the Offer, the Commission considered
cooperation afforded the Commission staff by the Respondents.
Undertakings
Respondents have undertaken to:
14.
Haidar Advisors shall, within 120 days of the date of this Order, retain an
independent compliance consultant (“Independent Compliance Consultant”), not
unacceptable to the staff of the Commission, to conduct a review of Haidar Advisors’
policies and procedures reasonably designed to detect and prevent violations of the
federal securities laws related to trading of open-end investment companies that are
registered under the Investment Company Act of 1940 (“Mutual Funds”); (ii) recommend
any additional policies and procedures which, on the basis of its review, the consultant
only investors holding the same variable annuity, but also other investors in the underlying mutual funds
being timed, such as investors in variable annuities issued by other insurance companies.
6

Haidar Advisors also favored annuity trading because: (i) the annuity structure enabled Haidar Advisors
to switch between fund families in a single day, and (ii) Haidar Advisors believed that the annuity fund
families were contractually obligated to accept the trades.
7

Haidar Advisors purchased multiple annuity contracts, naming its own employees as annuitants, but
Haidar Advisors funded the contracts, and all profits from the trading were for Haidar Advisors’ benefit.
8

“Willfully” as used in this Order means intentionally committing the act which constitutes the violation.
Cf. Wonsover v. SEC, 205 F.3d 408, 414 (D.C. Cir. 2000); Tager v. SEC, 344 F.2d 5, 8 (2d Cir. 1965).

5

believes are reasonably designed to ensure that Haidar Advisors complies with federal
securities laws, relating to the trading of those Mutual Funds; and (iii) submit to the
Commission staff, within 30 days of the completion of the review, a report outlining the
results of the Independent Compliance Consultant’s review, and what recommendations,
if any, the Independent Compliance Consultant made. In conjunction with the
Independent Compliance Consultant’s review:
(a)
Haidar Advisors shall adopt the recommendations of the
Independent Compliance Consultant; provided, however, that within 60
days of the completion of the review, Haidar Advisors shall in writing
advise the Independent Compliance Consultant and the staff of the
Commission of any recommendations that it considers to be unnecessary
or inappropriate. With respect to any recommendations that it considers to
be unnecessary or inappropriate, Haidar Advisors need not adopt that
recommendation at that time but shall propose in writing an alternative
policy, procedure or system designed to achieve the same objective or
purpose. As to any recommendation on which Haidar Advisors and the
Independent Compliance Consultant do not agree, such parties shall
attempt in good faith to reach an agreement within 90 days of the
completion of the review. In the event that Haidar Advisors and the
Independent Compliance Consultant are unable to agree on an alternative
proposal acceptable to the staff of the Commission, Haidar Advisors will
abide by the determinations of the Independent Compliance Consultant.
(b)
Haidar Advisors shall, after 18 months from the date of this Order,
require the Independent Compliance Consultant (i) to conduct an
additional review to determine whether Haidar Advisors adopted the
above recommendations and whether Haidar Advisors’ policies and
procedures are reasonably effective in maintaining Haidar Advisors’
compliance with federal and state securities laws, and (ii) submit to the
Commission’s staff, within 30 days of the review, a report outlining the
results of the review.
(c)
The Independent Compliance Consultant’s compensation and
expenses shall be borne by Haidar Advisors. The Respondents shall
cooperate fully with the Independent Compliance Consultant with access
to their files, books, records, and personnel as reasonably requested for the
reviews.
(d)
Haidar Advisors shall require that the Independent Compliance
Consultant, for the period of the engagement and for a period of two years
from completion of the engagement, not enter into any employment,
consultant, attorney-client, auditing or other professional relationship with
Haidar Advisors, or any of its present or former affiliates, directors,
officers, employees, or agents acting in their capacity as such. Haidar
Advisors shall require that any firm with which the Independent
Compliance Consultant is affiliated in performance of his or her duties

6

under the Order not, without prior written consent of the staff of the
Commission, enter into any employment, consultant, attorney-client,
auditing or other professional relationship with Haidar Advisors, or any of
Haidar Advisors’ present or former affiliates, directors, officers,
employees, or agents acting in the capacity as such for the period of the
engagement and for a period of two years after the engagement.
15.
Respondents shall retain, within 30 days of the entry of the Order, the
services of an independent distribution consultant (“Independent Distribution
Consultant”) not unacceptable to the staff of the Commission. Respondents shall pay up
to $50,000 of the compensation and expenses of the Independent Distribution Consultant.
Such compensation and expenses shall include, without limitation, (i) the compensation
of a tax administrator for the preparation of tax returns and/or for seeking any IRS
rulings; (ii) the payment of taxes; and (iii) the payment of any distribution or consulting
services as may be reasonably required by the Independent Distribution Consultant.
Thereafter, the Independent Distribution Consultant’s compensation or expenses shall be
deducted from any amounts of disgorgement or penalty paid by the Respondents pursuant
to this Order and any investment returns or interest earned thereon. The Respondents
shall cooperate fully with the Independent Distribution Consultant, including providing
access to their files, books, records, and personnel as reasonably requested for the review.
Respondents shall require the Independent Distribution Consultant to develop a
Distribution Plan for the distribution of the total disgorgement and penalty ordered in
Paragraph IV.D. of this Order, and any interest or earnings thereon, according to a
methodology developed in consultation with Respondents and acceptable to the staff of
the Commission.
(a)
Respondents shall require the Independent Distribution Consultant
to submit to Respondents and the staff of the Commission the Distribution
Plan no more than 150 days after the entry of the Order.
(b)
The Distribution Plan developed by the Independent Distribution
Consultant shall be binding unless, within 210 days after the date of the
entry of the Order, Respondents or the staff of the Commission, advises, in
writing, the Independent Distribution Consultant of any determination or
calculation from the Distribution Plan that it considers to be inappropriate
and states in writing the reasons for considering such determination or
calculation inappropriate.
(c)
With respect to any calculation with which Respondents or the
staff of the Commission do not agree, such parties shall attempt in good
faith to reach an agreement within 240 days of the date of the entry of the
Order. In the event that Respondents and the staff of the Commission are
unable to agree on an alternative determination or calculation, the
determinations of the Independent Distribution Consultant shall be
binding.

7

(d)
Within 175 days of the date of entry of this Order, Respondents
shall require that the Independent Distribution Consultant submit the
Distribution Plan for the administration and distribution of disgorgement
and penalty funds pursuant to Rule 1101 [17 C.F. R. § 201.1101] of the
Commission’s Rules of Practice. Following a Commission order
approving a final plan of distribution, as provided in Rule 1104 [17 C.F.R.
§ 201.1104] of the Commission’s Rules of Practice, Respondents shall
require that the Independent Distribution Consultant, with Respondents,
take all necessary and appropriate steps to administer the final plan for
distribution of disgorgement and penalty funds.
(e)
Respondents shall require that the Independent Distribution
Consultant, for the period of the engagement and for a period of two years
from completion of the engagement, not enter into any employment,
consultant, attorney-client, auditing or other professional relationship with
Respondents, or any of its present or former affiliates, directors, officers,
employees, or agents acting in their capacity as such. Respondents shall
require that any firm with which the Independent Distribution Consultant
is affiliated in performance of his or her duties under the Order not,
without prior written consent of the staff of the Commission, enter into
any employment, consultant, attorney-client, auditing or other professional
relationship with Respondents, or any of Respondents’ present or former
affiliates, directors, officers, employees, or agents acting in the capacity as
such for the period of the engagement and for a period of two years after
the engagement.
16.
Respondents undertake to cooperate fully with the Commission in any and
all investigations, litigations or other proceedings relating to or arising from the matters
described in this Order. In connection with such cooperation, Respondents have
undertaken:
(a)
To produce, without service of a notice or subpoena, any and all
documents and other information reasonably requested by the
Commission’s staff;
(b)
To use their best efforts to cause their employees to be interviewed
by the Commission’s staff at such times as the staff reasonably may direct;
(c)
To use their best efforts to cause their employees to appear and
testify truthfully and completely without service of a notice or subpoena in
such investigations, depositions, hearings or trials as may be requested by
the Commission’s staff;
(d)
That in connection with any testimony of Haidar Advisors to be
conducted at deposition, hearing or trial pursuant to a notice or subpoena,
Haidar Advisors and Haidar: (i) agrees that any such notice or subpoena
for Haidar Advisors employees and officers appearance and testimony

8

may be served by regular mail on its counsel, Ropes & Gray, LLP, attn:
Richard Marshall, 1211 Avenue of the Americas, New York, NY 100368704; and (ii) agrees that any such notice or subpoena for Haidar Advisor
appearance and testimony in an action pending in a United States District
Court may be served, and may require testimony, beyond the territorial
limits imposed by the Federal Rules of Civil Procedure; and
(e)
To make best efforts to produce to the Independent Distribution
Consultant documents sufficient to identify all Mutual Funds (as defined
in paragraph 14 above) in which Haidar Advisors executed trades in its
private funds during the relevant period.
17.
For good cause shown, the Commission's staff may extend any of the
procedural dates set forth above.
IV.
In view of the foregoing, the Commission deems it appropriate and in the public
interest to impose the sanctions specified in Respondents’ Offer.
Accordingly, it is hereby ORDERED that:
A. Respondents Haidar Capital Management and Haidar Capital Advisors are hereby
censured;
B. Respondents shall cease and desist from committing or causing any violations and
any future violations of Section 17(a)(3) of the Securities Act;
C. Respondents shall comply with the undertakings specified in Paragraphs 14 and
15 above; and
D. Respondents shall pay disgorgement, prejudgment interest and civil money
penalties as follows:
1. Within 30 days of the entry of this Order, Respondents, jointly and
severally, shall pay disgorgement of $3,300,000, prejudgment
interest of $1,180,000 and a civil penalty in the amount of
$100,000.
a.

Such payments shall be: (i) made by United States postal
money order, certified check, bank cashier's check or
bank money order; (ii) made payable to the Securities
and Exchange Commission; (iii) hand-delivered or
mailed to the Office of Financial Management,
Securities and Exchange Commission, Operations
Center, 6432 General Green Way, Stop 0-3, Alexandria,
VA 22312; and (iv) submitted under cover letter that
identifies Respondents, the file number of these
9

proceedings, a copy of which cover letter and money
order or check shall be sent to Katherine Addleman,
Associate Regional Administrator, Securities and
Exchange Commission, Burnett Plaze, Suite 1900, 801
Cherry Street, Unit 18, Fort Worth, Texas 76107.
b.

Pursuant to Section 308(a) of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of
2002, a Fair Fund shall be established for the funds
described in Section IV.D.1 above. Regardless of
whether any such Fair Fund distribution is made,
amounts ordered to be paid as civil money penalties
pursuant to this Order shall be treated as penalties paid
to the government for all purposes, including all tax
purposes. To preserve the deterrent effect of the civil
penalty, Respondents agree that they shall not, after
offset or reduction in any Related Investor Action based
on Respondent’s payment of disgorgement in this action,
further benefit by offset or reduction of any part of
Respondents’ payment of a civil penalty in this action
(“Penalty Offset”). If the court in any Related Investor
Action grants such a Penalty Offset, Respondents agree
that they shall, within 30 days after entry of a final order
granting the Penalty Offset, notify the Commission’s
counsel in this action and pay the amount of the Penalty
Offset to the United States Treasury or to a Fair Fund, as
the Commission directs. Such a payment shall not be
deemed an additional civil penalty and shall not be
deemed to change the amount of the civil penalty
imposed in this proceeding. For purposes of this
paragraph, a “Related Investor Action” means a private
damages action brought against Respondents by or on
behalf of one or more investors based on substantially
the same facts that are the subject of the Commission’s
Findings in the Order.

By the Commission.

Nancy M. Morris
Secretary

10

