UNITED STATES OF AMERICA
Before the
SECURITIES AND EXCHANGE COMMISSION
SECURITIES ACT OF 1933
Release No. 9371 / December 3, 2012
ADMINISTRATIVE PROCEEDING
File No. 3-15083

In the Matter of
the Registration Statement of
ORDER MAKING FINDINGS AND
SUSPENDING THE EFFECTIVENESS OF
REGISTRATION STATEMENT
PURSUANT TO SECTION 8(d) OF THE
SECURITIES ACT OF 1933

Caribbean Pacific Marketing, Inc.,
2295 Corporate Blvd., NW,
Suite 131,
Boca Raton, FL 33431

I.
The Securities and Exchange Commission (the “Commission”) deems it appropriate and in
the public interest to accept the Offer of Settlement (the “Offer”) submitted by Caribbean Pacific
Marketing, Inc. (“Respondent”), pursuant to Rule 240(a) of the Rules of Practice of the
Commission, 17 C.F.R. § 201.240(a), for the purpose of settlement of these proceedings initiated
against Respondent on October 29, 2012, pursuant to Section 8(d) of the Securities Act of 1933
(the “Securities Act”).
II.
Solely for the purpose of these proceedings and any other proceedings brought by or on
behalf of the Commission, or to which the Commission is a party, and without admitting or
denying the findings herein, except as to the Commission’s jurisdiction over it and the subject
matter of these proceedings, which are admitted, Respondent consents to the entry of this Order
Making Findings and Suspending the Effectiveness of Registration Statement pursuant to Section
8(d) of the Securities Act of 1933 (the “Order”), as set forth below.

III.
On the basis of this Order and Respondent’s Offer, the Commission finds that:

A.
Respondent filed a Form S-1 registration statement with the Commission on
March 9, 2012 to register an offering of securities under the Securities Act, which it amended
several times between March and August 24, 2012. The Registration Statement was declared
effective on August 29, 2012.
B.
The Registration Statement represented that Respondent sought to raise $150,000
through a self-underwritten offer and sale of up to 1 million shares of common stock at $0.15 per
share, to conduct its business operations. Ultimately it appears no shares were sold pursuant to
the Registration Statement. The Registration Statement lists the Respondent’s president and its
principal financial officer and includes background information for both officers.
C.
The Registration Statement is materially misleading and deficient as it fails to
disclose that William J. Reilly (“Reilly”), a disbarred attorney subject to an injunction is a de
facto executive officer and control person of the Respondent. Specifically, in the civil action
Securities and Exchange Commission v. Forest Resources Management Corp., Civil Action
Number 09 Civ. 903 (JSR), in the United States District Court for the Southern District of New
York, on October 15, 2009, the district court entered a final judgment against Reilly barring him
from: (1) violating Section 5 of the Securities Act; (2) violating Section 10(b) and Rule 10b-5 of
the Securities Exchange Act of 1934; (3) acting as an officer or director of a public company;
and (4) participating in an offering of penny stock. The Registration Statement failed to include
any information about Reilly’s position with Respondent and his business experience. A Form
S-1 registration statement must include the identification of all officers and directors of the
registrant, including their names, ages, positions and business experience. See Regulation S-K,
Part I, Item 401.
IV.
In view of the foregoing, the Commission deems it appropriate and in the public interest to
impose the sanction specified in Respondent’s Offer.
Accordingly, it is hereby ORDERED, pursuant to Section 8(d) of the Securities Act, that
the effectiveness of the August 29, 2012 Registration Statement filed by the Respondent is
suspended.
By the Commission.

Elizabeth M. Murphy
Secretary

2

