UNITED STATES OF AMERICA
Before the
SECURITIES AND EXCHANGE COMMISSION
SECURITIES ACT OF 1933
Release No. 9375 / December 17, 2012
INVESTMENT ADVISERS ACT OF 1940
Release No. 3515 / December 17, 2012
ADMINISTRATIVE PROCEEDING
File No. 3-15135

In The Matter Of
JOSEPH A. SCHLIM,
Respondent.

ORDER INSTITUTING CEASEAND-DESIST PROCEEDINGS
PURSUANT TO SECTION 8A OF
THE SECURITIES ACT OF 1933
AND SECTION 203(k) OF THE
INVESTMENT ADVISERS ACT
OF 1940, MAKING FINDINGS,
AND IMPOSING A CEASE-ANDDESIST ORDER
I.

The Securities and Exchange Commission (“Commission”) deems it appropriate that
cease-and-desist proceedings be, and hereby are, instituted pursuant to Section 8A of the
Securities Act of 1933 (“Securities Act”) and Section 203(k) of the Investment Advisers Act of
1940 (“Advisers Act”) against Joseph A. Schlim (“Schlim” or “Respondent”).
II.
In anticipation of the institution of these proceedings, Respondent has submitted an Offer
of Settlement (the “Offer”) which the Commission has determined to accept. Solely for the
purpose of these proceedings and any other proceedings brought by or on behalf of the
Commission, or to which the Commission is a party, and without admitting or denying the
findings herein, except as to the Commission’s jurisdiction over him and the subject matter of
these proceedings, which are admitted, Respondent consents to the entry of this Order Instituting
Cease-and-Desist Proceedings Pursuant to Section 8A of the Securities Act of 1933 and Section
203(k) of the Investment Advisers Act of 1940, Making Findings, and Imposing a Cease-andDesist Order (“Order”), as set forth below.
III.
On the basis of this Order and Respondent’s Offer, the Commission finds that:

A.

SUMMARY

1.
This case involves complex structured financial products known as collateralized
debt obligations (“CDOs”). CDOs are securities backed by debt obligations including, for
example, subprime residential mortgage-backed securities. The underlying mortgage-backed, or
other, securities are packaged and generally held by a special purpose vehicle that issues notes
entitling their holders to payments derived from the underlying assets.
2.
In late 2006, Aladdin Capital Management LLC (“Aladdin Management”)
marketed to its clients two CDOs that it was managing and stated that it would co-invest in the
same CDOs. Aladdin Management did not co-invest as it represented. Aladdin Capital LLC
(“Aladdin Capital”) collected a placement fee from the CDOs’ underwriters. At the pertinent
times, Schlim had responsibility for ensuring that Aladdin Management co-invested alongside its
clients, but ultimately failed to ensure that Aladdin Management did so with respect to these two
CDOs.
B.

RESPONDENT AND RELATED ENTITIES

3.
Schlim, age 47, of New Canaan, Connecticut is a former principal and CFO of
Aladdin Capital and Aladdin Management. Schlim has obtained, and currently possesses, Series
4, 7, 24, 27 and 63 licenses issued by the Financial Industry Regulatory Authority.
4.
Aladdin Management is an SEC-registered investment adviser based in
Stamford, Connecticut. During the relevant time period, Aladdin Management had assets under
management of approximately $20 billion, which consisted predominantly of cash and synthetic
CDOs, collateralized loan obligations (“CLOs”), several credit hedge funds, and separately
managed accounts. Aladdin Management’s typical practice was to act as the collateral manager
for CDOs and CLOs underwritten by major investment banks.
5.
Aladdin Capital, during the relevant time period, was an SEC-registered brokerdealer based in Stamford, Connecticut. Aladdin Capital primarily placed CDO and CLO
securities. On January 30, 2012, Aladdin Capital filed a Form BDW with the Commission, thus
seeking to terminate its registration as a broker-dealer. It became effective on March 30, 2012.
C.

FACTS
Aladdin’s MAST Program and Marketing Statements

6.
In 2005, Aladdin Management began an investment advisory program called the
“Multiple Asset Securitized Tranche” (“MAST”) program. Schlim, along with two Aladdin
Capital registered representatives, created the MAST program. Under the MAST program,
Aladdin Management and its clients signed investment management agreements by which
Aladdin Management agreed to render investment management services, and the client agreed to
commit to invest in the equity tranche of certain upcoming CDO or CLO deals that would be
managed by Aladdin Management. Aladdin Management did not receive a separate advisory fee
from its MAST clients; rather it received a management fee from the CDOs and CLOs in which
the MAST clients invested. Aladdin Capital placed the equity interest with its customer and

2

typically received a negotiated (usually ten-percent) placement fee or commission from the
CDOs’ or CLOs’ underwriters for doing so.
7.
When marketing the MAST program, Aladdin Management and Aladdin Capital
stated that Aladdin Management would co-invest in the same equity tranches of each CDO or
CLO alongside its clients. Schlim was personally involved in creating the co-investment feature
of the MAST program. Schlim knew that Aladdin Management’s co-investment representation
was a key feature of, and selling point for, the MAST program. For example, Aladdin
Management explained in marketing material that, “[w]e align our interests with MAST
investors by co-investing in every transaction with them. And don’t forget, we are not investing
in other firms’ transactions. Instead, we only invest in deals where we can control the
management of the collateral – our own programs.” In the same marketing piece, Aladdin
Management also posed the question, “[w]hy is an investor better off just investing in Aladdin
sponsored CLOs and CDOs?” Aladdin answered by emphasizing that the “most powerful
response I can give to your question is that Aladdin co-invests alongside MAST investors in
every program. Putting meaningful ‘skin in the game’ as we do means our financial interests are
aligned with those of our MAST investors.” Aladdin Capital also emphasized that Aladdin
Management would co-invest in the same products when marketing specific CDOs to potential
MAST participants.
8.
Schlim was significantly involved in the MAST program on a day-to-day basis.
He made sales calls on potential MAST clients, and he negotiated with CDO and CLO
underwriters about the amount of equity in those securities that Aladdin Capital could place with
its customers, or purchase for itself. Schlim also negotiated the placement fees to be received by
Aladdin Capital for securing MAST investments in the equity tranches of each CDO or CLO.
9.
As Aladdin Management explained in its marketing materials, co-investing in the
same CDO deals as its clients was one of the most “powerful” statements it could make because
it showed that Aladdin Management had “skin in the game” and that its financial interests were
aligned with those of its clients. Also, because the equity tranche of the CDOs were typically the
riskiest tranche and in the first loss position, having the CDO manager as an investor in the same
tranche gave investors additional assurances that they could trust the CDO.
Aladdin Management Stated It Would Co-Invest Alongside Each MAST
Participant in the Fortius and Citius CDOs
10.
Despite the centrality of its representations that it would co-invest, and had coinvested, in CDOs alongside its MAST clients, Aladdin Management failed to co-invest in two
CDOs that it offered to MAST clients in late 2006. In particular, Aladdin Management failed to
co-invest in the Fortius II Funding, Ltd. (“Fortius”) CDO and the Citius II Funding Ltd.
(“Citius”) CDO despite the fact that three MAST clients invested in the equity tranches of those
CDOs.

3

Aladdin Management Did Not Co-Invest Alongside a Municipal Retirement
Plan in the Fortius CDO
11.
One potential MAST client that Aladdin Management pursued was a retirement
plan for approximately 10,000 employees of a municipal transportation agency (the “Municipal
Retirement Plan”). Aladdin Management and Aladdin Capital began pitching the MAST
program to the Municipal Retirement Plan in 2005 or 2006.
12.
When pitching the MAST program, Aladdin Management and Aladdin Capital
emphasized that Aladdin Management would co-invest alongside the Municipal Retirement
Plan’s CDO investments. Aladdin made such representations at key points in the Municipal
Retirement Plan’s decision-making process. For example, in early 2006, Aladdin highlighted to
the Municipal Retirement Plan that Aladdin Management invested alongside MAST participants
in the same investments. Subsequently, in April 2006, one of the Municipal Retirement Plan’s
representatives recommended that the Plan invest in MAST in part based on the “key feature”
that MAST had a “significant alignment of interest with [Aladdin Management] co-investing
alongside MAST investors.”
13.
During the process of soliciting the Municipal Retirement Plan’s investment in
the MAST program, Aladdin Management and Aladdin Capital (including Schlim) continued to
emphasize the co-investment benefit of the MAST program. In particular:
a.

On May 11, 2006, Schlim and another Aladdin Capital registered
representative presented an “Aladdin overview” and “MAST summary” to
the Municipal Retirement Plan. Schlim personally stated that Aladdin
Management co-invests in the equity tranche of CDOs in the MAST
program, up to at least ten percent of the client’s MAST investment;

b.

On May 12, 2006, an Aladdin Capital registered representative sent an
email, which was copied to Schlim, to the Municipal Retirement Plan
stating that: “As Joe Schlim mentioned yesterday, Aladdin also co-invests
in the identical equity tranches up to at least 10 % of your MAST
allocation, further aligning our economic interests with those of our clients
in this regard;”

c.

On July 18, 2006, another Aladdin Capital registered representative (who
was also an Aladdin Management employee) emailed to the Municipal
Retirement Plan a MAST “executive summary” and other marketing
material. Both documents highlighted Aladdin Management’s coinvestment representation. In the cover email, the employee noted: “[a]s
outlined in the enclosures, we also co-investment [sic] in the same CDO
equity tranches as our clients, which we believe helps to align our
economic interests;”

d.

On August 3, 2006, Aladdin Management provided the Municipal
Retirement Plan with a sample MAST report, which contained the coinvestment representation.

4

14.
Even after the Municipal Retirement Plan signed an investment agreement to
participate in the MAST program, Aladdin continued to represent that it would invest alongside
the Municipal Retirement Plan in the particular CDO programs its client had chosen.
15.
Aladdin Capital offered the Municipal Retirement Plan an investment in the
Fortius CDO. On November 21, 2006, a former Aladdin Capital registered representative
specifically informed the Municipal Retirement Plan that Aladdin Management would co-invest
in Fortius. On December 6, 2006, the Municipal Retirement Plan purchased $5,000,000 in the
equity tranche of the Fortius CDO directly from the underwriter of the Fortius CDO. Aladdin
Management did not make the required $500,000 investment in the Fortius CDO.
16.
When Aladdin Management made its statements to the Municipal Retirement Plan
that it would co-invest in the Fortius CDO, it had taken no steps to make that co-investment. To
the contrary, by November 3, 2006, which was the pricing date for the Fortius CDO, Schlim
knew that the Fortius CDO’s underwriter had preliminarily allocated $5,000,000 of the equity
tranche of the Fortius CDO to Aladdin and/or its clients. Promptly after being informed that the
Fortius CDO’s underwriter had allocated $5,000,000 of the Fortius CDO’s equity tranche to
Aladdin, Schlim instructed his subordinates to ensure that the Municipal Retirement Plan would
purchase that entire $5 million allocation. Schlim took no steps, either internally or in
communications with the Fortius CDO’s underwriter, to reserve for Aladdin a portion of the
equity tranche of the Fortius CDO. To the contrary, during November 2006, Aladdin Capital
communicated to the underwriter of the Fortius CDO that the Municipal Retirement Plan would
instead purchase Aladdin’s entire allocation of the Fortius CDO’s equity tranche.
17.
Soon after the Municipal Retirement Plan’s $5 million purchase of the Fortius
CDO, upon Schlim’s request, Aladdin Capital communicated with the underwriter for the Fortius
CDO and requested that it be paid the previously agreed-upon 10 percent placement fee (in the
amount of $500,000) for its work in placing Fortius securities with the Municipal Retirement
Plan. The underwriter paid Aladdin that fee in December 2006. Schlim was aware of that
payment.
Aladdin Management Did Not Co-Invest Alongside Two Other MAST
Program Participants in the Citius CDO
18.
In December 2006, Aladdin Capital sold investments in the equity tranche of the
Citius CDO to two MAST participants as part of the MAST program. The two clients were a
pension plan for a chain of retail stores (the “Pension Plan”), and an individual entrepreneur who
invested his personal funds and also the funds of his charitable foundation in the MAST program
(the “Individual Client”).
19.
Both the Pension Plan and the Individual Client decided to participate in the
MAST program, and were informed that Aladdin Management would co-invest alongside them
in each CDO investment they made as part of the MAST program. Schlim was generally aware
of these representations that Aladdin Management would co-invest.
20.
Specifically, in 2005, Aladdin Management sent the Individual Client a “letter of
intent” concerning his plan to participate in the MAST program and thus invest in CDOs

5

managed by Aladdin Management. The letter of intent contained a provision representing that
“Aladdin will co-invest with Client in the identical Preference Share equity tranches in the
MAST program. Aladdin’s investment, in aggregate, will be equal to at least 10 % of Client’s
total Preference Share investment in the MAST program.” After receiving this letter, the
Individual Client agreed to participate in the MAST program, and invested in several CDOs and
CLOs in late 2005 and early 2006. Aladdin Management co-invested in each of these CDOs and
CLOs. Throughout 2006, Aladdin Management sent the Individual Client MAST investment
reports indicating that Aladdin co-invests in each CDO investment made as part of the MAST
program.
21.
Beginning in September 2006, Aladdin Capital offered the Individual Client an
investment in the Citius CDO. On December 1, 2006, Aladdin Capital – on behalf of the
Individual Client – purchased $4,100,000 in the equity tranche of the Citius CDO from the
underwriter of the Citius CDO. Subsequently, in early 2007, Aladdin transferred the entire
investment to the Individual Client. Aladdin Management did not make the required $410,000
co-investment in the Citius CDO.
22.
Despite its statements in MAST materials about its co-investments with clients,
Aladdin Management took no steps to co-invest in the Citius CDO. In mid-2006, when Aladdin
Management was engaged to manage the Citius CDO by its underwriter, Aladdin Management
committed to the underwriter that it or its clients would purchase at least 25% of the $16 million
equity tranche of the Citius CDO.
23.
By September 26, 2006, Aladdin Management had taken no action to reserve for
itself a portion of the equity tranche of the Citius CDO. Another party had agreed to underwrite
$8 million in the equity and Aladdin Capital sought to place the remaining $8 million with its
own customers for a placement fee without investing any of its own money. On September 26,
2006, Schlim informed the underwriter for the Citius CDO that Aladdin Capital wanted to “soft
circle the remaining 4.1 mm in equity and get paid 10 pts [points]” for selling it. In response to
the underwriter’s question about when Aladdin Capital would be firm on selling the remaining
portion of the equity tranche, Schlim responded that he should know by the end of the “week”
and could know by “tomorrow.”
24.
Also on September 26, 2006, an Aladdin Capital registered representative offered
a $4,100,000 investment in the Citius CDO to the Individual Client, and the Individual Client
agreed to make that investment. Schlim was informed about the offer of $4,100,000 in the
equity tranche of the Citius CDO to the Individual Client.
25.
Schlim took no steps, either internally or in communications with the Citius
CDO’s underwriter to reserve for Aladdin Management an investment of $410,000 in the equity
tranche of the Citius CDO.
26.
On or about December 1, 2006, the underwriter for the Citius CDO paid Aladdin
Capital a $410,000 placement fee for its work in placing Citius securities with the Individual
Client.

6

27.
With respect to the Pension Plan, Aladdin pitched the MAST program to this
client in July 2005. The Pension Plan received the standard MAST program letter of intent, and
other standard MAST marketing materials, which included the co-investment representation.
28.

In 2005, the Pension Plan agreed to participate in the MAST program.

29.
In approximately October 2006, Aladdin Capital offered to sell to the Pension
Plan an investment in the equity tranche of the Citius CDO. The Pension Plan agreed to invest in
the equity tranche of the Citius CDO, in the amount of $3,900,000.
30.
On or about December 1, 2006, the underwriter for the Citius CDO paid Aladdin
Capital a $390,000 placement fee for its work in placing Citius securities with the Pension Plan.
Schlim was aware of this payment.
31.
Despite being involved in, and primarily responsible for, communications with
the underwriters for both the Fortius CDO and the Citius CDO about Aladdin Capital’s
commitment to place a portion of the equity tranche of those securities, and the communications
with those underwriters in which Aladdin made sure to reserve the amount to be purchased by
MAST clients, Schlim made no effort to communicate with the underwriters for these two CDOs
to reserve an amount to be purchased by Aladdin Management pursuant to its co-investment
obligations.
32.
Schlim, as the CFO of Aladdin, was responsible for reserving Aladdin
Management funds with which to co-invest alongside its MAST clients. With respect to the
Fortius CDO and the Citius CDO, although he did not supervise Aladdin’s Legal or Compliance
departments, Schlim failed to ensure that Aladdin Management reserved or allocated its funds to
make co-investments alongside Aladdin Management’s clients in either CDO.
33.
Schlim knew that Aladdin used the co-investment representation as a significant
marketing feature of its pitches to MAST clients. Schlim was also aware when the
representation that Aladdin Management co-invested alongside all of its clients in MAST
programs was made to MAST clients and potential MAST clients. Schlim failed to take any
action to ensure that such representations were accurate when they were made.
D.

VIOLATIONS

35.
Section 17(a)(2) of the Securities Act prohibits any person “in the offer or sale of
any securities or securities-based swap agreement . . . [from] obtain[ing] money or property by
means of any untrue statement of material fact or any omission to state a material fact necessary
in order to make the statements made, in light of the circumstances under which they were made,
not misleading.” Scienter is not required to establish violations of Section 17(a)(2). See Aaron v.
SEC, 446 U.S. 680, 697 (1980). Instead, violations of this section may be established by
showing negligent conduct. SEC v. Hughes Capital Corp., 124 F.3d 449, 453-54 (3d Cir. 1997).
36.
Section 206(2) of the Advisers Act prohibits investment advisers from
“engag[ing] in any transaction, practice, or course of business which operates as a fraud or deceit
upon any client or prospective client.” Proof of scienter is not required to establish a violation of
Section 206(2), but rather a violation “may rest on a finding of simple negligence.” SEC v.
7

Steadman, 967 F.2d 636, 643 n.5 (D.C. Cir. 1992) (citing SEC v. Capital Gains Research Bur.,
Inc., 375 U.S. 180, 194-95 (1963)); see also SEC v. Wash. Inv. Network, 475 F.2d 392, 396
(D.C. Cir. 2007).
37.
As a result of the negligent conduct described above, Schlim violated Section
17(a)(2) of the Securities Act.
38.
As a result of the negligent conduct described above, Schlim caused Aladdin
Capital’s violations of Section 17(a)(2) of the Securities Act and caused Aladdin Management’s
violation of Section 206(2) of the Advisers Act.
IV.
In view of the foregoing, the Commission deems it appropriate to impose the sanctions
agreed to in the Respondent’s Offer.
Accordingly, pursuant to Section 8A of the Securities Act and 203(k) of the Advisers
Act, it is hereby ORDERED that:
A.
Schlim shall cease and desist from committing or causing any violations and any
future violation of Section 17(a)(2) of the Securities Act and Section 206(2) of the Advisers Act;
B.
Schlim shall, within 10 days of the entry of this Order, pay a civil money penalty
in the amount of $50,000 to the Securities and Exchange Commission. If timely payment is not
made, additional interest shall accrue pursuant to 31 U.S.C. §3717. Payment must be made in
one of the following ways: (1) Respondent may transmit payment electronically to the
Commission, which will provide detailed ACH transfer/Fedwire instructions upon request; (2)
Respondent may make direct payment from a bank account via Pay.gov through the SEC website
at http://www.sec.gov/about/offices/ofm.htm; or (3) Respondent may pay by certified check,
bank cashier’s check, or United States postal money order, made payable to the Securities and
Exchange Commission and hand-delivered or mailed to Enterprise Services Center, Accounts
Receivable Branch, HQ Bldg., Room 181, AMZ-341,6500 South MacArthur Boulevard,
Oklahoma City, OK 73169. Payments by check or money order must be accompanied by a
cover letter identifying Respondent’s name as a Respondent in these proceedings, and the file
number of these proceedings; a copy of the cover letter and check or money order must be sent to
John T. Dugan, Associate Regional Director, Division of Enforcement, Securities and Exchange
Commission, Boston Regional Office, 33 Arch Street, 23rd Floor, Boston, MA 02110;
C.
Pursuant to Section 308(a) of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002, as amended, a Fair
Fund is created for the disgorgement, prejudgment interest and penalties referenced in paragraph
B above. Regardless of whether any such Fair Fund distribution is made, amounts ordered to be
paid as civil money penalties pursuant to this Order shall be treated as penalties paid to the
government for all purposes, including all tax purposes. To preserve the deterrent effect of the
civil penalty, Respondent agrees that in any Related Investor Action, he shall not argue that he is
entitled to, nor shall he benefit by, offset or reduction of any award of compensatory damages by
the amount of any part of Respondent’s payment of a civil penalty in this action (“Penalty
Offset”). If the court in any Related Investor Action grants such a Penalty Offset, Respondent
agrees that he shall, within 30 days after entry of a final order granting the Penalty Offset, notify
8

the Commission’s counsel in this action and pay the amount of the Penalty Offset to the United
States Treasury or to a Fair Fund, as the Commission directs. Such a payment shall not be
deemed an additional civil penalty and shall not be deemed to change the amount of the civil
penalty imposed in this proceeding. For purposes of this paragraph, a “Related Investor Action”
means a private damages action brought against Respondent by or on behalf of one or more
investors based on substantially the same facts as alleged in the Order instituted by the
Commission in this proceeding.
By the Commission.
Elizabeth M. Murphy
Secretary

9

