Conformed to Federal Register Version
SECURITIES AND EXCHANGE COMMISSION
17 CFR Parts 230, 232, 239, 240 AND 260
[Release Nos. 33-9497; 34-71120; 39-2493; File No. S7-11-13]
RIN 3235-AL39
Proposed Rule Amendments for Small and Additional Issues Exemptions Under
Section 3(b) of the Securities Act
AGENCY: Securities and Exchange Commission.
ACTION: Proposed rules.
SUMMARY: We are proposing rule amendments to Regulation A to implement
Section 401 of the Jumpstart Our Business Startups Act. Section 401 of the JOBS Act
added Section 3(b)(2) to the Securities Act, which directs the Commission to adopt rules
exempting offerings of up to $50 million of securities annually from the registration
requirements of the Securities Act. The proposed rules include issuer eligibility
requirements, content and filing requirements for offering statements and ongoing
reporting requirements for issuers.
DATES: Comments should be received by March 24, 2013.
ADDRESSES: Comments may be submitted by any of the following methods:
Electronic Comments:
•

Use the Commission’s Internet comment forms
(http://www.sec.gov/rules/proposed.shtml);

•

Send an e-mail to rule-comments@sec.gov. Please include File Number
S7-11-13 on the subject line; or

1

•

Use the Federal Rulemaking Portal (http://www.regulations.gov). Follow the
instructions for submitting comments.

Paper Comments:
•

Send paper comments in triplicate to Elizabeth M. Murphy, Secretary,
Securities and Exchange Commission, 100 F Street, NE, Washington, DC
20549-1090.

All submissions should refer to File Number S7-11-13. This file number should be
included on the subject line if e-mail is used. To help us process and review your
comments more efficiently, please use only one method. The Commission will post all
comments on the Commission’s Internet Web site
(http://www.sec.gov/rules/proposed.shtml). Comments also are available for public
inspection and copying in the Commission’s Public Reference Room, 100 F Street, NE,
Room 1580, Washington, DC 20549. All comments received will be posted without
change; we do not edit personal identifying information from submissions. You should
submit only information that you wish to make available publicly.
FOR FURTHER INFORMATION CONTACT: Zachary O. Fallon, Special Counsel;
Shehzad K. Niazi, Attorney-Advisor; or Karen C. Wiedemann, Attorney Fellow; Office
of Small Business Policy, Division of Corporation Finance, at (202) 551-3460, U.S.
Securities and Exchange Commission, 100 F Street, NE, Washington, DC 20549-3628.
SUPPLEMENTARY INFORMATION: We propose to amend Rules 251 through
263 1 under Regulation A. 2

1

17 CFR 230.251 through 230.263.

2

17 CFR 230.251 through 230.263.

2

We also propose to revise Form 1-A, 3 rescind Form 2-A, 4 and create four new
forms, Form 1-K (annual updates), Form 1-SA (semiannual updates), Form 1-U (current
reporting), and Form 1-Z (exit report).
We further propose to revise Rule 4a-1 5 under the Trust Indenture Act 6 to
increase the dollar ceiling of the exemption from the requirement to issue securities
pursuant to an indenture, and to amend Rule 15c2-11 7 of the Securities Exchange Act of
1934 (the “Exchange Act”) 8 to permit an issuer’s ongoing reports filed under Regulation
A to satisfy a broker-dealer’s obligations to review and maintain certain information
about an issuer’s quoted securities. In addition, we propose a technical amendment to
Exchange Act Rule 15c2-11 to amend subsection (d)(2)(i) of the rule to update the
outdated reference to the “Schedule H of the By-Laws of the National Association of
Securities Dealers, Inc.” which is now known as the “Financial Industry Regulatory
Authority, Inc.” and to reflect the correct rule reference.
As a result of the proposed revisions to Regulation A, conforming and technical
amendments would be made to Rule 157(a), 9 in order to reflect amendments to
Section 3(b) of the Securities Act, and Rule 505(b)(2)(iii), 10 in order to reflect the

3

17 CFR 239.90.

4

17 CFR 239.91.

5

17 CFR 260.4a-1.

6

15 U.S.C. 77aaa et seq.

7

17 CFR 240.15c2-11.

8

15 U.S.C. 78a et seq.

9

17 CFR 230.157(a).

10

17 CFR 230.505(b)(2)(iii).

3

proposed changes to Rule 262 of Regulation A. Additionally, Item 101(a) 11 of
Regulation S-T 12 would be revised to reflect the mandatory electronic filing of all issuer
initial filing and ongoing reporting requirements under proposed Regulation A. The
portion of Item 101(c)(6) 13 of Regulation S-T dealing with paper filings related to a
Regulation A offering, and Item 101(b)(8) 14 of Regulation S-T dealing with the optional
electronic filing of Form F-X by Canadian issuers, would therefore be rescinded.

11

17 CFR 232.101(a).

12

17 CFR 232.10 et seq.

13

17 CFR 232.101(c)(6).

14

17 CFR 232.101(b)(8).

4

TABLE OF CONTENTS
I.
INTRODUCTION AND BACKGROUND
A. JOBS Act Section 401
B. Current Regulation A
C. Use of Regulation A
D. The Section 3(b)(2) Exemption
II.
PROPOSED AMENDMENTS TO REGULATION A
A. Overview
B. Scope of Exemption
1.
Eligible Issuers
2.
Eligible Securities
3.
Offering Limitations and Secondary Sales
4.
Investment Limitation
5.
Integration
6.
Treatment under Section 12(g)
7.
Liability under Section 12(a)(2)
C. Offering Statement
1.
Electronic Filing; Delivery Requirements
2.
Non-Public Submission of Draft Offering Statements
3.
Form and Content
4.
Continuous or Delayed Offerings and Offering Circular Supplements
5.
Qualification
D. Solicitation of Interest (“Testing the Waters”)
E. Ongoing Reporting
1.
Continuing Disclosure Obligations
2.
Exchange Act Rule 15c2-11 and other implications of ongoing reporting
under Regulation A
3.
Exchange Act Registration of Regulation A Securities
4.
Exit Report on Form 1-Z
F. Insignificant Deviations from a Term, Condition or Requirement
G. Bad Actor Disqualification
H. Relationship with State Securities Law
I. Regulation A in Comparison to Other Methods of Capital Formation
J. Additional Considerations Related to Smaller Offerings
K. Regulation A Offering Limitation
L. Technical and Conforming Amendments
III.
GENERAL REQUEST FOR COMMENT
IV.
ECONOMIC ANALYSIS
A. Economic Baseline
1.
Current methods of raising up to $50 million of capital
2.
Liquidity considerations
3.
Investors in offerings of up to $50 million
B. Analysis of Proposed Rules
1.
General Considerations
2.
Scope of Exemption
5

Offering Statement
Solicitation of Interest (“Testing the Waters”)
Ongoing Reporting Requirements
Bad Actor Disqualification
Relationship with State Securities Law
Effect of Regulation A on OTC Markets and Dealer Intermediation
C. Request for Comment
V.
PAPERWORK REDUCTION ACT
A. Background
B. Estimate of Issuers
C. Estimate of Issuer Burdens
1.
Regulation A (Form 1-A and Form 2-A)
2.
Form 1-K: Annual Report
3.
Form 1-SA: Semiannual Report
4.
Form 1-U: Current Reporting
5.
Form 1-Z: Exit Report
6.
Form ID Filings
D. Collections of Information are Mandatory
E. Request for Comment
VI.
INITIAL REGULATORY FLEXIBILITY ACT ANALYSIS
A. Reasons for the Proposed Action
B. Objectives
C. Legal Basis
D. Small Entities Subject to the Proposed Rules
E. Reporting, Recordkeeping, and Other Compliance Requirements
F. Duplicative, Overlapping or Conflicting Federal Rules
G. Significant Alternatives
H. Request for Comment
VII. SMALL BUSINESS REGULATORY ENFORCEMENT FAIRNESS ACT
VIII. STATUTORY BASIS AND TEXT OF PROPOSED AMENDMENTS
3.
4.
5.
6.
7.
8.

6

I.

INTRODUCTION AND BACKGROUND

A.

JOBS Act Section 401
This rulemaking would implement a statutory directive under the Jumpstart Our

Business Startups Act (the “JOBS Act”) 15 to create a new exemption from registration
under the Securities Act of 1933 (the “Securities Act”) for small offerings. Section 401
of the JOBS Act amended Section 3(b) of the Securities Act by designating existing
Section 3(b), the Commission’s exemptive authority for offerings of up to $5 million, as
Section 3(b)(1), and creating a new Section 3(b)(2). New Section 3(b)(2) directs the
Commission to adopt rules adding a class of securities exempt from the registration
requirements of the Securities Act for offerings of up to $50 million of securities within a
twelve-month period. Issuers conducting offerings in reliance on Section 3(b)(2) would
be required to follow terms and conditions established by the Commission, and, where
applicable, to make ongoing disclosure.
Congress enacted Section 3(b)(2) against a background of public commentary
suggesting that Regulation A, an exemption for small issues originally adopted by the
Commission in 1936 under the authority of Section 3(b) of the Securities Act, 16 should be
expanded and updated to make it more useful to small companies. 17 Section 3(b)(2)
15

Pub. L. No. 112-106, 126 Stat. 306.

16

SEC Release No. 33-632 (Jan. 21, 1936). Prior to codification as such, Regulation A was a
collection of individual rules issued by the Federal Trade Commission and the Commission during
the period of 1933-1936. Each such rule exempted particular classes of securities from
registration under the Securities Act. Regulation A’s initial annual offering limit was raised from
$100,000 to $300,000 in 1945, $500,000 in 1970, $1.5 million in 1978, and to its current level of
$5 million in 1992.

17

H.R. Rep. No. 112-206 (2011), at 3-4. See also Remarks and prepared statements of William
Hambrecht, CEO of WR Hambrecht + Co., (“A confluence of . . . reasons . . . has made
Regulation A a poor alternative for small growth-oriented companies seeking to raise development
capital and also explains why the offering mechanism has virtually disappeared from the capital
raising landscape.”), and Michael Lempres, Asst. General Counsel, SVB Financial Group,

7

requires us to engage in rulemaking that is meant to increase the use of Regulation A,
thereby helping to make capital available to small companies. 18
To implement Section 401 of the JOBS Act, as mandated by Section 3(b)(2), we
have endeavored to craft a workable revision of Regulation A that would both promote
small company capital formation and provide for meaningful investor protection. We
propose to amend Regulation A to create two tiers of offerings: Tier 1, for offerings of up
to $5 million in a twelve-month period, and Tier 2, for offerings of up to $50 million in a
twelve-month period. Both Tiers would be subject to basic requirements as to issuer
eligibility, disclosure, and other matters, drawn from the current provisions of
Regulation A and updated in some areas to align Regulation A with current practice for

(“Regulation A has not proved to be a useful capital raising vehicle for small issuers. . . . An
average of eight filings a year, with a maximum amount of $5 million each, proves the irrelevance
of Regulation A as it stands today. It simply is not a viable vehicle for raising funds and is
providing benefit to neither companies nor investors.”) before the H. Comm. on Fin. Serv. for the
111th Congress, Serial No. 111-168 (December 8, 2010), available at:
http://archives.financialservices.house.gov/Hearings/hearingDetails.aspx?NewsID=1381;
Remarks and prepared statement of David Weild, Sr. Advisor, Grant Thorton, (“[A]n increase to
the Regulation A [offering] ceiling will provide a less costly and more effective alternative for
smaller, entrepreneurial companies that want to access the public capital markets. It may also
enable smaller, growth-oriented companies to access the public market at an earlier stage in their
growth cycle.”) before the H. Comm. on Fin. Serv., Subcommittee on Capital Markets and Gov’t
Sponsored Entities for the 112th Congress, Serial No. 112-19 (March 16, 2011), available at:
http://financialservices.house.gov/calendar/eventsingle.aspx?EventID=231755; Remarks and
prepared statements of Professor John C. Coffee, Columbia Law School (“[I]n 2010 only seven
offerings went effective under Regulation A (which is based on Section 3(b)). Most issuers saw
Section 3(b) as unattractive (in comparison to a private placement under Regulation D) both
because of Section 3(b)’s low ceiling (i.e., $5 million) and the need to file an offering document
that is reviewed by the SEC.”), before the U.S. Senate Comm. on Banking, Housing and Urban
Affairs (December 1, 2011), available at:
http://www.banking.senate.gov/public/index.cfm?FuseAction=Hearings.Hearing&Hearing_ID=a9
6c1bc1-b064-4b01-a8ad-11e86438c7e5; U.S. Government Accountability Office (GAO), Factors
that May Affect Trends in Regulation A Offerings (July 2012) (available at:
http://www.gao.gov/assets/600/592113.pdf).
18

H.R. Rep. No. 112-206, at 3 (2011) (“The low number of Regulation A filings—each for the
maximum amount of $5 million—demonstrates that a revision to Regulation A is necessary. To
increase the use of Regulation A offerings and help make capital available to small companies,
Representative Schweikert introduced H.R. 1070, which increases the offering threshold to $50
million.”).

8

registered offerings. In addition to these basic requirements, Tier 2 offerings would be
subject to additional requirements, including the provision of audited financial
statements, ongoing reporting obligations, and certain limitations on sales.
B.

Current Regulation A

Currently, Regulation A permits unregistered public offerings of up to $5 million
of securities in any twelve-month period by non-reporting U.S. and Canadian companies,
including no more than $1.5 million of securities offered by securityholders of the
company. 19 The exemption requires that an offering statement on Form 1-A be filed with
the Commission.20 Filings are made on paper, 21 rather than electronically, and are
subject to staff review. The offering statement must be “qualified,” 22 which, in the
absence of a delaying notation, would occur without Commission action on the 20th
calendar day after filing. 23 The core of the offering statement is the offering circular, a
disclosure document much like an abbreviated version of the prospectus in a registered
offering. 24 The offering circular, which must be delivered to prospective purchasers, 25

19

17 CFR 230.251(a), (b). Under Rule 251(b), affiliates resales are prohibited unless the issuer has
had net income from continuing operations in at least one of its last two fiscal years.

20

17 CFR 230.251(d), 17 CFR 230.252.

21

17 CFR 232.101(c)(6).

22

17 CFR 230.251(g). See also 17 CFR 200.30-1(b)(2) (delegated authority to authorize the
qualification of offering statements under Regulation A to the Director of the Division of
Corporation Finance).

23

The qualification process under Regulation A is similar to the process of a registration statement
being declared effective under the Securities Act. As with registration, the staff review process for
an offering circular generally takes more than the 20 calendar days provided by rule, even taking
into account that pre-qualification amendments to an offering statement restart the 20 calendar-day
period. Issuers include a delaying notation on Form 1-A to ensure that both the issuer and staff
reviewing the offering statement have completed the review process before an offering statement
is qualified.

24

17 CFR 230.253.

25

17 CFR 230.251(d).

9

can be in a question-and-answer format or a more traditional narrative disclosure
format. 26
Regulation A permits issuers to communicate with potential investors, or “test the
waters” for potential interest in the offering, before filing the offering statement. 27 Any
solicitation material used to test the waters must be submitted to the Commission not later
than the time of first use and must contain a required legend or disclaimer. 28
Regulation A offering circulars are required to contain issuer financial
statements, 29 but the financial statements are not required to be audited unless the issuer
otherwise has audited financial statements available. 30 Qualification of a Regulation A
offering statement does not trigger reporting obligations under the Exchange Act. A
Regulation A offering is a public offering, with no prohibition on general solicitation and
general advertising. Securities sold under Regulation A are not “restricted securities”
under the Securities Act and, therefore, are not subject to the limitations on resale that
apply to securities sold in private offerings. 31
Because Regulation A offerings are exempt from the registration requirements of
the Securities Act, issuers and other offering participants are not subject to the liability

26

Form 1-A, Part II (Offering Circular), 17 CFR 239.90.

27

17 CFR 230.254.

28

17 CFR 230.254(b)(2). Testing the waters solicitation materials must state: i) that no money is
being solicited or will be accepted, if sent in response; ii) that no sales will be made or
commitment to purchase accepted until delivery of an offering circular that includes complete
information about the issuer and the offering; iii) that an indication of interest by a prospective
purchaser is non-binding; and iv) the identity of the chief executive officer of the issuer and a brief
description of the issuer’s business and products.

29

17 CFR 230.253(a).

30

Form 1-A, Part F/S, 17 CFR 239.90. Market participants have indicated that the laws of some
states may require audited financial statements for offerings conducted under Regulation A.

31

See, e.g., 17 CFR 230.502(d); see also Rule 144 (17 CFR 230.144).

10

provisions of Section 11 of the Securities Act. Instead, other anti-fraud and civil liability
provisions of the securities laws, including Sections 12(a)(2) and 17 of the Securities Act,
Section 10(b) of the Exchange Act and Exchange Act Rule 10b-5, apply to the offer and
sale of securities in reliance upon Regulation A. 32 Securities offerings conducted
pursuant to Regulation A are subject to state securities law registration and qualification
requirements, unless an exemption is available under state law.
C.

Use of Regulation A
In recent years, Regulation A offerings have been rare in comparison to offerings

conducted in reliance on other Securities Act exemptions or on a registered basis. From
2009 through 2012, there were 19 qualified Regulation A offerings for a total offering
amount of approximately $73 million.33 During the same period, there were
approximately 27,500 offerings of up to $5 million (i.e., at or below the cap on
Regulation A offering size), for a total offering amount of approximately $25 billion,
claiming a Regulation D exemption, and 373 offerings of up to $5 million, for a total
offering amount of approximately $840 million, conducted on a registered basis. In 2012
alone, there were eight qualified Regulation A offerings for a total offering amount of
approximately $34.5 million, compared to approximately 7,700 Regulation D offerings of
up to $5 million for a total offering amount of approximately $7 billion, and 52 registered
offerings of up to $5 million for a total offering amount of approximately $132 million. 34
32

See SEC Rel. No. 33-6924 (March 20, 1992) [57 FR 9768], at fn. 57 (discussing the anti-fraud and
civil liability provisions applicable to Regulation A).

33

One qualified offering involved a dividend reinvestment plan by an issuer that did not include an
offering amount.

34

The figures cited above are derived from information contained in the Commission’s EDGAR
database and the S&P Capital IQ database. See also Section IV. below for a discussion on the
usage of current methods of raising capital of up to $50 million.

11

Section 402 of the JOBS Act required the Comptroller General to conduct a study
on the impact of state “Blue Sky” laws on offerings conducted under Regulation A, and
to report its findings to Congress. The resulting U.S. Government Accountability Office
(“GAO”) report to Congress indicates that various factors may have influenced the use of
Regulation A, including the type of investors businesses seek to attract, the process of
filing the offering statement with the Commission, state securities law compliance, and
the cost-effectiveness of Regulation A relative to other exemptions. 35
D.

The Section 3(b)(2) Exemption
Section 401 of the JOBS Act imposes a number of requirements for the rules the

Commission must adopt under Section 3(b)(2), and also provides for the exercise of
Commission discretion in setting additional terms and conditions for the exemption.
The mandatory provisions, in addition to the $50 million annual offering limit,
include:
•

Features based on the current provisions of Regulation A:
•

the securities may be offered and sold publicly;

•

the securities are not “restricted securities” within the meaning of federal
securities laws and regulations;

•

the civil liability provisions of Section 12(a)(2) of the Securities Act
would apply to offers and sales of the securities; and

35

Factors that May Affect Trends in Regulation A Offerings, GAO-12-839 (July 2012) (available at:
http://www.gao.gov/assets/600/592113.pdf). The GAO report concludes that it is unclear whether
increasing the Regulation A offering ceiling from $5 million to $50 million will improve the
utility of the exemption.

12

•

issuers may solicit interest in the offering before filing an offering
statement;

•

A new requirement for issuers to file audited financial statements with the
Commission annually; 36 and

•

A limitation on the types of securities eligible for exemption under Section
3(b)(2) to equity securities, debt securities, and debt securities convertible into or
exchangeable for equity interests, including any guarantees of such securities.
The Commission, in its discretion, may determine to include other terms,

conditions, or requirements, including:
•

electronic filing of offering materials, the form and content of which would be
prescribed by the Commission, including audited financial statements, issuer
business description, issuer financial condition, issuer corporate governance
principles, use of investor funds, and other appropriate matters;

•

“bad actor” disqualification provisions (which, if included, must be substantially
similar to the regulations adopted under Section 926 of the Dodd-Frank Wall
Street Reform and Consumer Protection Act (the “Dodd-Frank Act”)); 37 and

•

periodic disclosures regarding the issuer, its business operations, financial
condition, corporate governance principles, use of investor funds, and other
appropriate matters. 38

36

JOBS Act Section 401(a)(2).

37

Pub. L. No. 111-203, § 926, 124 Stat. 1376, 1851 (July 21, 2010). Among other things,
Section 926 required the issuance of disqualifying rules substantially similar to the “bad actor”
disqualification provisions of Rule 262 of existing Regulation A.

38

JOBS Act Section 401(a)(2).

13

Section 401 of the JOBS Act also requires the Commission to review the
$50 million offering limit not later than two years after enactment of the JOBS Act and
every two years thereafter and, if the Commission decides not to increase the amount,
requires that it report its reasoning to Congress.
II.

PROPOSED AMENDMENTS TO REGULATION A

A.

Overview
Title IV of the JOBS Act amended Section 3(b) of the Securities Act to add

Section 3(b)(2), which, subject to various terms and conditions, directs the Commission
to enact rules that add a class of securities exempt from the registration provisions of the
Securities Act. Prior to the amendment, Section 3(b) contained the statutory authority
relied upon to establish current Regulation A. Although the JOBS Act amended
Section 3(b) to designate this existing authority as Section 3(b)(1) and add new
Section 3(b)(2), it did not amend the existing statutory authority of Regulation A or direct
the Commission to amend specific rules adopted thereunder. 39 We propose to implement
this JOBS Act mandate by expanding Regulation A into two tiers: Tier 1, for offerings of
up to $5 million; and Tier 2, for offerings of up to $50 million.40 The proposals for
offerings under Tier 1 and Tier 2 build on current Regulation A, and preserve, with some
modifications, existing provisions regarding issuer eligibility, offering circular contents,
testing the waters, and “bad actor” disqualification. We also propose to modernize the
Regulation A filing process for all offerings and align practice in certain areas with

39

Cf. Title II of the JOBS Act, Pub. L. No. 112-106, § 201 (directing the Commission to amend
Rule 506 of Regulation D, 17 CFR § 230.506).

40

An issuer of $5 million or less of securities could elect to proceed under either Tier 1 or Tier 2.

14

prevailing practice for registered offerings, to create additional flexibility and streamline
compliance for Regulation A issuers. Issuers in Tier 2 offerings would be required to
include audited financial statements in their offering documents and to file annual,
semiannual and current reports with the Commission, and purchasers in Tier 2 offerings
would be subject to certain limitations on their investment. The differences between
Tier 1 and Tier 2 offerings are described more fully below.
In developing the current proposals, we considered the statutory language of
JOBS Act Section 401, the legislative history, the current Regulation A exemption,
comment letters received to date on Title IV of the JOBS Act 41 and recent
recommendations of the Commission’s Government-Business Forum on Small Business
Capital Formation, 42 the Advisory Committee on Small and Emerging Companies, 43 and
the Equity Capital Formation Task Force. 44
Following are the key provisions of the proposed amendments to Regulation A:
Scope of the exemption:
•

Tier 1: annual offering limit of $5 million, including no more than $1.5 million on

41

To facilitate public input on JOBS Act rulemaking before the issuance of rule proposals, the
Commission has invited members of the public to make their views known on various JOBS Act
initiatives in advance of any rulemaking by submitting comment letters to the Commission’s
website at http://www.sec.gov/spotlight/jobsactcomments.shtml. Comment letters received to date
on Title IV of the JOBS Act are available at: http://www.sec.gov/comments/jobs-title-iv/jobstitle-iv.shtml.

42

Prior recommendations of the Commission’s Government-Business Forum on Small Business
Capital Formation (“Small Business Forum”) are available at:
http://www.sec.gov/info/smallbus/sbforum.shtml.

43

Prior recommendations of the Advisory Committee on Small and Emerging Companies
(“Advisory Committee”) are available at: http://www.sec.gov/info/smallbus/acsec.shtml.

44

Equity Capital Task Force, From the On-Ramp to the Freeway: Refueling Job Creation and
Growth by Reconnecting Investors with Small-Cap Companies, presentation to the U.S. Dep’t. of
Treasury (November 11, 2013), available at: http://www.equitycapitalformationtaskforce.com/
(“ECTF Report”).

15

behalf of selling securityholders.
•

Tier 2: annual offering limit of $50 million, including no more than $15 million
on behalf of selling securityholders.

•

Update the restrictions on issuer eligibility to exclude from Regulation A issuers
that are or have been subject to any order of the Commission pursuant to Section
12(j) of the Exchange Act entered within five years before the filing of the
offering statement.

•

Update the restrictions on issuer eligibility to exclude from Regulation A issuers
that have not filed with the Commission the ongoing reports required by the
proposed rules during the two years immediately preceding the filing of an
offering statement.

•

Limit the amount of securities an investor can purchase in a Tier 2 offering to no
more than 10% of the greater of annual income and net worth.

•

Exclude asset-backed securities, as defined in Regulation AB, from the list of
eligible securities.

•

Update the safe harbor from integration and provide additional guidance on the
potential integration of offerings conducted concurrently with, or close in time
after, a Regulation A offering.

Solicitation materials:
•

Permit issuers to “test the waters” or solicit interest in a potential offering with the
general public either before or after the filing of the offering statement, so long as
any solicitation materials used after publicly filing the offering statement are
preceded or accompanied by a preliminary offering circular or contain a notice

16

informing potential investors where and how the most current preliminary
offering circular can be obtained. This requirement could be satisfied by
providing the uniform resource locator (“URL”) where the preliminary offering
circular or the offering statement may be obtained on EDGAR.
Qualification, communications, and offering process:
•

Require issuers and intermediaries in the prequalification period to deliver a
preliminary offering circular to prospective purchasers at least 48 hours in
advance of sale.

•

Modernize the qualification, communications, and offering process in
Regulation A to reflect analogous provisions of the Securities Act registration
process: 45
•

Permit issuers and intermediaries to satisfy their delivery requirements as to
the final offering circular under an “access equals delivery” model when the
final offering circular is filed and available on EDGAR;

•

Require issuers that sell to prospective purchasers in reliance on the delivery
of a preliminary offering circular to, not later than two business days after
completion of the sale, provide the purchasers with a copy of the final offering
circular or a notice that the sale occurred pursuant to a qualified offering
statement that includes the URL where the final offering circular or to the
offering statement of which such final offering circular is part may be
obtained and contact information sufficient to notify a purchaser where a
request for a final offering circular can be sent and received in response; and

45

See Securities Offering Reform, SEC Rel. No. 33-8591 (July 19, 2005) [70 FR 44722].

17

•

Permit issuers to file offering circular supplements after qualification of the
offering statement in certain circumstances in lieu of post-qualification
amendments, including to provide the types of information that may be
excluded from a prospectus under Rule 430A.

•

Permit continuous or delayed offerings under the proposed rules, but require
issuers in continuous or delayed Tier 2 offerings to be current in their annual and
semiannual reporting obligations.

•

Permit issuers to qualify additional securities in reliance on Regulation A by filing
a post-qualification amendment to a qualified offering statement.

Offering statement:
•

Require issuers to electronically file offering statements with the Commission.

•

Permit the non-public submission of offering statements and amendments for
review by Commission staff before filing such documents with the Commission,
so long as all such documents are publicly filed not later than 21 calendar days
before qualification.

•

Eliminate the Model A (Question-and-Answer) disclosure format under Part II
(Offering Circular) of Form 1-A.

•

Update and clarify the Model B (Narrative) disclosure format under Part II of
Form 1-A (renaming it as Offering Circular), while continuing to permit the use
of Part I of Form S-1 narrative disclosure as an alternative.

•

Allow an offering statement to be qualified only by order of the Commission
rather than, in the absence of a delaying notation on the offering statement,
without Commission action on the 20th calendar day after filing.

18

•

Require issuers in a Tier 2 offering to include audited financial statements in their
offering circulars.

•

Require all issuers to file balance sheets for the two most recently completed
fiscal year ends (or for such shorter time that they have been in existence).

•

Permit issuers to provide financial statements in Form 1-A that are dated not more
than nine months before the date of non-public submission or filing, and require
issuers to include financial statements in Form 1-A that are dated not more than
nine months before qualification, with the most recent annual or interim balance
sheet not older than nine months. If interim financial statements are required,
they must cover a period of at least six months.

Ongoing reporting:
•

Require issuers that conduct a Tier 1 offering to electronically file a Form 1-Z exit
report with the Commission not later than 30 calendar days after termination or
completion of a qualified Regulation A offering to provide information about
sales in such offering and to update certain issuer information.

•

Require issuers that conduct a Tier 2 offering to electronically file with the
Commission annual and semiannual reports, as well as current event updates.

•

Require issuers that conduct a Tier 2 offering to, where applicable, provide
special financial reports to provide information to investors in between the time
the financial statements are included in Form 1-A and the issuer’s first periodic
report due after qualification of the offering statement.

•

Permit the ongoing reports filed by an issuer conducting a Tier 2 offering to be
used to satisfy a broker-dealer’s obligations under Exchange Act Rule 15c2-11.

19

•

Provide that issuers conducting Tier 2 offerings would exit the Regulation A
ongoing reporting regime when they become subject to the ongoing reporting
requirements of Section 13 of the Exchange Act, and may exit the Regulation A
reporting regime at any time by filing a Form 1-Z exit report after completing
reporting for the fiscal year in which the offering statement was qualified, so long
as the securities of each class to which the offering statement relates are held of
record by fewer than 300 persons and offers or sales made in reliance on a
qualified Regulation A offering statement are not ongoing.

•

Require issuers that conduct a Tier 2 offering to include in their first annual report
after termination or completion of a qualified Regulation A offering, or in their
Form 1-Z exit report, information about sales in the terminated or completed
offering and to update certain issuer information.

•

Eliminate the requirement that issuers file a Form 2-A with the Commission to
report sales and the termination of sales made under Regulation A every six
months after qualification and within 30 calendar days after the termination,
completion, or final sale of securities in the offering.

“Bad actor” disqualification provisions:
•

Substantially conform the “bad actor” disqualification provisions of Rule 262 to
new Rule 506(d) and add a new disclosure requirement similar to Rule 506(e).

Application of state securities laws:
•

In light of the total package of investor protections proposed to be included in the
implementing rules for Regulation A, provide for the preemption of state
securities law registration and qualification requirements for securities offered or

20

sold to “qualified purchasers,” defined to be all offerees of securities in a
Regulation A offering and all purchasers in a Tier 2 offering.
B.

Scope of Exemption
1.

Eligible Issuers

Section 401 of the JOBS Act does not include any express issuer eligibility
requirements. 46 Currently, Regulation A is limited to companies organized in and with
their principal place of business inside the United States or Canada. It is unavailable to:
•

companies subject to the ongoing reporting requirements of Section 13 or 15(d) of
the Exchange Act (“reporting companies”);

•

companies registered or required to be registered under the Investment Company
Act of 1940 (“investment companies”); 47

•

development stage companies that have no specific business plan or purpose or
have indicated their business plan is to engage in a merger or acquisition with an
unidentified company or companies (“blank check companies”); 48 and

•

issuers of fractional undivided interests in oil or gas rights, or similar interests in
other mineral rights. 49

46

Section 3(b)(2)(G)(ii) specifies that if the Commission chooses to enact so-called “bad actor”
disqualification provisions, such provisions must be substantially similar to the regulations
adopted in accordance with Section 926 of the Dodd-Frank Act. Proposed “bad actor”
disqualification provisions are discussed below in Section II.F.

47

15 U.S.C. 80a-1 et seq. (“Investment Company Act”). The proposed rules would clarify the
current exclusion of business development companies from Regulation A. See SEC Rel.
No. 33-6924, at fn. 65 (noting that companies registered or required to be registered under the
Investment Company Act of 1940, including business development companies, are prohibited
from using Regulation A).

48

Rule 251(a)(3); see also SEC Rel. No. 33-6949 [57 FR 36442] (July 30, 1992), at fn. 50
(clarifying that blank check companies regardless of whether they are issuing penny stock are
precluded from relying on Regulation A).

21

Several commenters have suggested that the expanded exemption should continue
to be unavailable to blank check companies, 50 two of which also suggested that the
exemption should be unavailable to special purpose acquisition companies (“SPACs”). 51
Two commenters suggested that business development companies (“BDCs”) should be
permitted to rely on the exemption, 52 and also suggested that shell companies should no
longer be permitted to rely on Regulation A. 53 One commenter expressed concern over
allowing BDCs, as well as real estate investment trusts (“REITs”), to rely on the
exemption without additional entity-specific disclosure requirements, 54 while another
49

Regulation B formerly provided exemptive relief for such issuers. Regulation B was rendered
obsolete in light of other exemptions, such as those afforded issuers under Section 4(a)(2) of the
Securities Act and Regulation D, and was rescinded in May 1996. See SEC Release No. 33-7300
[61 FR 30398] (May 31, 1996).

50

Letter from Catherine T. Dixon, Chair, Federal Regulation of Securities Committee, American Bar
Association, Sept. 7, 2012 (“ABA Letter”); Letter from William R. Hambrecht, Chairman and
CEO, WR Hambrecht + Co., Jan. 4, 2013 (“WR Hambrecht + Co. Letter”); Letter from A. Heath
Abshure, President, North American Securities Administrators Association (“NASAA”), April 10,
2013 (“NASAA Letter 2”); see also Letter from Robert R. Kaplan, Jr. and Mark A. Cleaves,
Kaplan Voekler Cunningham & Frank PLC (“Kaplan Voekler”), May 14, 2013 (Kaplan Voekler
Letter 2”).

51

NASAA Letter 2; WR Hambrecht + Co. Letter; see also Kaplan Voekler Letter 2 (noting that
there are important distinctions between SPACs, blank check companies, and shell companies). A
SPAC is a type of blank check company created specifically to pool funds in order to finance a
merger or acquisition opportunity within a set timeframe.

52

ABA Letter (suggesting that permitting BDCs to rely on Regulation A would be consistent with
the policy goals behind enactment of Section 3(b)(2) of the Securities Act, and Commission staff
guidance on the JOBS Act and the treatment of BDCs as emerging growth companies under Title I
of the JOBS Act); WR Hambrecht + Co. Letter (suggesting that permitting BDCs to rely on
Regulation A would be consistent with the policy goals behind enactment of Section 3(b)(2) of the
Securities Act). A BDC is a closed-end company that, among other things, is operated for the
purpose of making investments in certain types of securities, and makes available to issuers of
such securities significant managerial assistance. See Section 2(a)(48) of the Investment Company
Act.

53

ABA Letter; WR Hambrecht + Co. Letter. A shell company is a company that has, or at any time
previously has had, no or nominal operations, and either no or nominal assets, assets consisting
solely of cash or cash equivalents, or assets consisting of any amount of cash and cash equivalents
and nominal other assets. 17 CFR 230.405; see also 17 CFR 144(i)(1)(i).

54

NASAA Letter 2 (citing the unique “nature and timing of [such companies’] capital formation and
investment strategies, fee structures, and liquidity, necessitate disclosure fitting for these specific
entities.”). We solicit comment on potential BDC- and REIT-specific disclosure in
Section II.C.3.b. below.

22

suggested that REITs should be allowed to rely on the exemption without additional
disclosure obligations. 55 One commenter suggested that the Commission permit
reporting companies, and foreign private issuers 56 that expressly consent to Exchange Act
Section 10(b) liability, to rely on the exemption. 57 One commenter proposed limiting the
availability of the exemption to non-reporting companies, and to operating companies,
while continuing to make the exemption unavailable to pooled investment funds. 58
We propose to add two new categories of ineligible issuers to, but to otherwise
maintain, Regulation A’s existing issuer eligibility requirements. As proposed, the
exemption would continue to be available to companies organized in, and with their
principal place of business inside, the United States or Canada. Under the proposal, the
exemption would continue to be unavailable to Exchange Act reporting companies,
investment companies, blank check companies, certain issuers disqualified from
participation in such offerings under the “bad actor” provisions of Rule 262, as proposed

55

Kaplan Voekler Letter 2. A REIT is a company that owns and generally operates incomeproducing real estate or real estate-related assets. See Sections 856 through 859 of Internal
Revenue Code, 26 U.S.C. 856-859; see also general discussion of REIT characteristics in SEC
Rel. No. IC-29778 (Aug. 31, 2011) [76 FR 55300], at 55302. Among other things, a REIT must
have the bulk of its assets and income connected to real estate investment and must distribute at
least 90 percent of its taxable income to shareholders annually in the form of dividends.

56

Under Rule 405 (17 CFR § 230.405), a foreign private issuer is any foreign issuer—other than a
foreign government—except an issuer meeting the following conditions as of the last business day
of its most recently completed second fiscal quarter:
(i) More than 50 percent of the outstanding voting securities of such issuer are directly or
indirectly owned of record by residents of the United States; and
(ii) Any of the following:
(A) The majority of the executive officers or directors are United States citizens or residents;
(B) More than 50 percent of the assets of the issuer are located in the United States; or
(C) The business of the issuer is administered principally in the United States.

57

ABA Letter.

58

WR Hambrecht + Co. Letter.

23

to be amended, 59 and to issuers of fractional undivided interests in oil or gas rights, or
similar interests in other mineral rights. 60
Additionally, we propose to make the exemption unavailable to issuers that have
not filed with the Commission the ongoing reports required by the proposed rules during
the two years immediately preceding the filing of a new offering statement (or for such
shorter period that the issuer was required to file such reports). 61 We recently proposed a
similar eligibility requirement for issuers in our proposed rules for securities-based
crowdfunding transactions pursuant to Section 4(a)(6) of the Securities Act. 62 We
believe that our rules for ongoing reporting in Regulation A, as proposed to be amended,
would benefit investors by enabling them to consider updated information about the
issuer, make informed investment decisions, facilitate the development of an efficient
secondary market in such securities, and would enhance our ability to analyze and
monitor the Regulation A market. We therefore believe fulfilling an obligation to file
ongoing reports pursuant to proposed Regulation A is an important investor protection
that should be a factor in determining issuer eligibility.
We further propose to exclude from the category of eligible issuers under
Regulation A issuers that are or have been subject to an order by the Commission
denying, suspending, or revoking the registration of a class of securities pursuant to
Section 12(j) of the Exchange Act that was entered within five years before the filing of
59

See discussion in Section II.G. below.

60

See proposed Rules 251(b) and 262.

61

See Section II.E.1. below for a discussion on proposed ongoing reporting requirements applicable
to Tier 1 and Tier 2 offerings.

62

See SEC Rel. No. 33-9470 (Oct. 23, 2013), at 36 [78 FR 66427] (proposed rules for Regulation
Crowdfunding under Title III of the JOBS Act) and proposed Rule 100(b)(5) of Regulation
Crowdfunding.

24

the offering statement. Under Section 12(j) of the Exchange Act, an issuer’s securities
registered under the Exchange Act may be subject to a denial, suspension, or revocation
of registration pursuant to an order by the Commission if, after notice and opportunity for
a hearing, the Commission finds that the issuer of such securities has failed to comply
with any of the provisions of, or the rules and regulations enacted under, the Exchange
Act. We do not believe that issuers that, after notice and opportunity for a hearing, are or
have been subject to such orders by the Commission within a five-year period
immediately preceding the filing of the offering statement should benefit from the
provisions of Regulation A, as proposed to be amended. We would therefore exclude
such issuers from the category of eligible issuers.
We solicit comment on the proposed issuer eligibility requirements, the
suggestions made in the advance comments to date, and on the issues discussed below.
Request for Comment
1. As proposed, in addition to the two newly proposed issuer eligibility
requirements, should we otherwise maintain the existing categories of
Regulation A issuer eligibility requirements? Why or why not? If not, which
categories of issuer eligibility requirements should we alter, and why? Please
explain.
2. As proposed, should we add an additional issuer eligibility requirement to
exclude issuers that have not filed with the Commission the ongoing reports
required by the proposed rules during the two years immediately preceding
the filing of a new offering statement (or for such shorter period that the issuer
was required to file such reports)? If so, should we only require issuers to be

25

current in their Regulation A ongoing reporting at the time of the filing of a
new offering statement in order to be eligible? Alternatively, should we
consider a time period other than two years? Why or why not?
3. As proposed, should we add an additional issuer eligibility requirement to
exclude issuers that are or have been subject to an order by the Commission
denying, suspending, or revoking the registration of a class of securities
pursuant to Section 12(j) of the Exchange Act that was entered within five
years before the filing of the offering statement? Why or why not? If not,
please explain. Alternatively, should we alter the proposed five-year period
during which an issuer could not have been subject to an order by the
Commission pursuant to Section 12(j) to cover a longer or shorter period of
time? Why or why not? If so, please explain.
a.

U.S. nexus other than organization and domicile

We are seeking comment on whether we should expand availability of the
Regulation A exemption to issuers that may not satisfy domicile-based requirements,
particularly those that have a substantial United States nexus, such as certain foreign
companies with domestic operations, or domestic subsidiaries of foreign multinational
companies. 63
As its name suggests, one goal of the JOBS Act was the creation of jobs within
the United States. 64 Expansion of issuer eligibility to include foreign issuers with a

63

A domestic subsidiary of a foreign multinational company (i.e., one organized in the United States
or Canada) would be eligible to rely on Regulation A if its principal place of business were located
in the United States or Canada.

64

See, e.g., H.R. Rep. No. 112-206, at 4 (2012) (“Small companies are critical to economic growth
in the United States. Amending Regulation A to make it viable for small companies to access

26

substantial U.S. nexus may serve to better implement the JOBS Act goal of domestic job
creation. According to statistics from the U.S. Department of Commerce’s Bureau of
Economic Analysis (“BEA”), many American jobs are created not only by U.S.
companies, but by the U.S. affiliates of foreign multinational companies. 65 According to
the report, total U.S. employment by majority-owned U.S. affiliates of foreign
multinational companies rose in 2011 at nearly twice the rate of employment in the U.S.
private-industry sector as a whole. 66 As the BEA data suggest, domestic job creation is
not necessarily dependent on company domicile or principal place of business. 67
Currently, Regulation A is limited to companies organized, and with their
principal place of business, in the United States or Canada. 68 The Commission could

capital will permit greater investment in these companies, resulting in economic growth and jobs.
By reducing the regulatory burden and expense of raising capital from the investing public, [Title
IV of the JOBS Act] will boost the flow of capital to small businesses and fuel America’s most
vigorous job-creation machine.”).
65

See Anderson, Thomas, U.S. Dep’t of Commerce, Bureau of Econ. Analysis, Summary Estimates
for Multinational Companies: Employment, Sales, and Capital Expenditures for 2011 (Apr. 18,
2013) (“BEA Release 13-16”), at Table 3, available at:
http://www.bea.gov/newsreleases/international/mnc/2013/_pdf/mnc2011.pdf. The BEA’s advance
summary estimates for 2011 show total employment of approximately 22.9 million workers by
U.S. parents of multinational companies (some of which are themselves foreign-owned),
accounting for approximately one-fifth of total U.S. private sector employment, and total
employment of approximately 5.6 million workers by majority-owned U.S. affiliates of foreign
multinational companies, accounting for approximately five percent of total U.S. private sector
employment. Id. at 1-2. As some U.S. parents of multinational companies are themselves
foreign-owned, there is some overlap between the employment figures of U.S. parents of
multinational companies and U.S. affiliates of foreign multinational companies. For more
information on multinational companies, see http://www.bea.gov/iTable/index_MNC.cfm.

66

BEA Release 13-16, at 2.

67

See id.; see also Matthew J. Slaughter, American Companies and Global Supply Networks:
Driving U.S. Economic Growth and Jobs by Connecting with the World, Business Roundtable et
al. (January 2013), at 9, available at: http://businessroundtable.org/uploads/studiesreports/downloads/BRT-SlaughterPaper-singles-Dec21.pdf (noting that both U.S.-headquartered
multinational companies and foreign-headquartered multinational companies that operate in the
U.S. create tens of millions of well-paying jobs domestically).

68

The Commission originally proposed the elimination of Canadian issuers from the Regulation A
exemptive scheme in 1992 on the grounds that such issuers rarely used the exemption. See SEC
Rel. No. 33-6924, at 19. In response to public comment, however, this proposal was not adopted.

27

make the Regulation A exemption available to all non-U.S. issuers, rather than only
Canadian issuers. Additionally, we could subject issuers to conditions intended to ensure
that the capital raised in the offering is put to work in the United States. For example, we
could add a requirement that a minimum percentage of the offering proceeds be used in
the United States, in connection with the issuer’s domestic operations. 69 Such a
requirement could, however, be difficult to administer because of challenges in
delineating domestic versus foreign operations and in tracing use of proceeds.
Alternatively, issuer eligibility under Regulation A could be extended to
“domestic issuers,” defined as any issuer that is not a foreign government or a “foreign
private issuer.” 70 Domestic issuers would, in general, have a demonstrated presence in
the United States, which could increase the likelihood that proceeds from the offering are
used within the United States. 71 We could limit issuer eligibility further by adding a
condition that most of the offering proceeds be used in connection with the issuer’s U.S.
domestic operations.

SEC Rel. No. 33-6949, at 36443. No Canadian issuers have qualified an offering in reliance on
Regulation A since 2002.
69

Cf. Rule 147. 17 CFR 230.147. Rule 147 is a safe harbor from registration under Section 3(a)(11)
of the Securities Act. Section 3(a)(11) is more commonly known as the intrastate exemption, and
requires, among other things, that issuers conducting an intrastate offering use at least 80% of the
net proceeds of the offering in connection with their business operations in the relevant state.

70

In Regulation S (17 CFR 230.901 et seq.), a “domestic issuer” is defined as any issuer other than a
“foreign government” or “foreign private issuer.” 17 CFR 230.902(e). A “foreign government”
means the government of any foreign country or of any political subdivision of a foreign country.
See 17 CFR 230.405. See fn. 56. above for the definition of a “foreign private issuer.”

71

The Commission previously used the term “domestic issuers” in the proposed amendments to
Regulation A in 1992 to refer to entities organized and with a principal place of business in the
United States. See SEC Rel. No. 33-6924, at 19, 156.

28

Request for Comment
4. Should issuer eligibility to rely on Regulation A continue to require an issuer
to be organized under the laws of the United States or Canada with a principal
place of business in the United States or Canada? Or should Regulation A be
limited to issuers organized and with a principal place of business in the
United States, thereby excluding Canadian issuers? Should Regulation A be
made available to “domestic issuers” as described above, or to all issuers,
including foreign private issuers? Is there a reason to treat Canadian issuers
differently from other foreign issuers? What would the impact be on issuers,
investors, and other market participants if the issuer eligibility criteria were
broadened? Please explain.
5. If we modify or eliminate current requirements regarding domicile and
principal place of business, should we limit availability of the exemption in
some other way that reflects a U.S. nexus? If so, how should we define, or in
what ways should we limit the availability of the exemption to issuers that
demonstrate, a U.S. nexus? Are there criteria we could use that would be easy
to administer? If so, what criteria?
6. If we extend issuer eligibility to include foreign private issuers, should we
require express consent from such issuers to Exchange Act Section 10(b)
liability? 72 Should we consider requiring additional or alternative conditions
for the eligibility of such issuers? Why or why not? Should we make other
72

In 2010, the U.S. Supreme Court held that Section 10(b) of the Exchange Act, 15 U.S.C. 78j(b),
covers only transactions in securities listed on domestic exchanges, and securities purchased or
sold domestically. Morrison v. National Australia Bank Ltd., 130 S. Ct. 2869 (2010). But see,
Section 929P(b) of the Dodd-Frank Act, Pub. L. No. 111-203, § 929P(b).

29

changes in Regulation A to accommodate such issuers? For example, as
proposed with respect to Canadian issuers, 73 should we permit all non-U.S.
issuers to prepare their financial statements using International Financial
Reporting Standards (IFRS) as issued by the International Accounting
Standards Board (IASB), rather than U.S. Generally Accepted Accounting
Principles (U.S. GAAP)?
b.

Additional and alternative types of issuers

As noted above, we propose not to amend Regulation A’s existing prohibitions on
use of the exemption by investment companies registered or required to be registered
under the Investment Company Act, including BDCs; blank check companies and
SPACs; and issuers of fractional undivided interests in oil or gas rights, or similar
interests in other mineral rights. As proposed, shell companies that do not meet the
definition of “blank check company” would continue to be able to rely on the
exemption.74 We seek comment on whether to permit BDCs, blank check companies and
SPACs, and oil, gas and mineral interest rights issuers to rely on Regulation A, as well as
on the potential exclusion of shell companies.
BDCs. BDCs are a type of closed-end company operated for the purpose of
making investments in small, developing, or financially troubled companies. Typically,
BDCs are subject to the registration and reporting requirements of the Securities Act and
Exchange Act. The Investment Company Act requires BDCs to have at least 70% of
their investment portfolio in eligible portfolio companies and certain other assets at the
73

See discussion in Section II.C.3.b(2). below.

74

A shell company that is a development stage company with no specific business plan or purpose
would not be an eligible issuer under the exclusion for blank check companies.

30

time they make any new investment. 75 Rules 2a-46 and 55a-1 of the Investment
Company Act define eligible portfolio companies to include all private companies and
companies whose securities are listed on a national securities exchange but have an
aggregate market value of less than $250 million, or that met such requirements at the
time of the BDC’s initial investment in such company. 76 Currently, BDCs are able to
rely on Regulation E 77 for offerings of up to $5 million in any twelve-month period.
Extension of Regulation A issuer eligibility to BDCs could assist small companies with
capital formation by indirectly providing such companies—otherwise qualifying as
eligible portfolio companies—with greater access to investment capital. As noted above,
however, one commenter expressed concern about the potential extension of
Regulation A to BDCs absent disclosure requirements that are more appropriately
tailored for these issuers. 78
Blank Check Companies and SPACs. By its terms, the definition of blank check
companies under the federal securities laws can include early stage and startup companies
with no specific business plans. 79 Extension of Regulation A issuer eligibility to include
companies with characteristics that are similar to blank check companies could therefore
be consistent with Title IV’s goal of increasing the capital formation options for smaller

75

See Section 2(a)(48) of the Investment Company Act.

76

17 CFR 270.2a-46; 17 CFR 270.55a-1.

77

17 CFR 230.601 et seq.

78

NASAA Letter 2; see also fn. 54 above.

79

A blank check company is a development stage company that has no specific business plan or
purpose or has indicated its business plan is to engage in a merger or acquisition with an
unidentified company or companies or other entity. See 17 CFR 230.419.

31

companies. 80 As noted above, however, some commenters have expressed concern
about, and recommended against, permitting blank check companies and SPACs to use
Regulation A. 81 As currently proposed, blank check companies and SPACs would not be
permitted to rely on the exemption. We seek comment on whether the Commission
should revisit this exclusion, and, if so, on what basis.
Shell Companies. A shell company is a company that has, or at any time
previously has had, no or nominal operations, and either no or nominal assets, assets
consisting solely of cash or cash equivalents, or assets consisting of any amount of cash
and cash equivalents and nominal other assets. 82 Shell companies are not expressly
excluded from Regulation A, although any shell company that met the definition of a
blank check company would be excluded on that basis. As noted above, some
commenters have suggested that the Commission consider an express exclusion for shell
companies. 83 At their earliest stages of development, however, many small early stage
and startup companies have limited operations and few, if any, assets. We anticipate that
some Regulation A issuers would be startups where it may be uncertain as to whether
they fall within the shell company definition. 84 We believe, however, that Regulation A,
80

See fn. 85 below. The Commission recently acknowledged, in proposing rules for securities-based
crowdfunding transactions under Section 4(a)(6) of the Securities Act, the challenges associated
with distinguishing between early stage companies that can provide information sufficient to
support such transactions and those whose business plan is so indeterminate that they may not be
able to provide adequate information. See SEC Rel. No. 33-9470, at 37.

81

See fn. 89 below; see also fn. 51 above for the definition of a SPAC.

82

17 CFR 230.405; see also 17 CFR 144(i)(1)(i).

83

ABA Letter; WR Hambrecht + Co. Letter (suggesting that shell company access to Regulation A
is inconsistent with the JOBS Act because such companies do not promote job creation).

84

But see SEC Rel. No. 33-8869 (December 6, 2007) at fn. 172 (“Rule 144(i)(1)(i) is not intended to
capture a ‘startup company,’ or, in other words, a company with a limited operating history, in the
definition of a reporting or non-reporting shell company, as we believe that such a company does
not meet the condition of having ‘no or nominal operations.’”).

32

as proposed to be amended, is intended to provide smaller companies, including early
stage companies, the opportunity to raise capital from the general public in a manner that
is consistent with the proposed rules. In our view, excluding such companies from
proposed Regulation A would be contrary not only to the provisions of current
Regulation A, but also to Title IV of the JOBS Act. 85 We do not therefore propose to
exclude shell companies from reliance on Regulation A. For the same reasons we are
soliciting comment on potential blank check companies’ access to, or exclusion from, the
exemptive scheme; however, we also seek comment on whether shell companies should
be prohibited from relying on Regulation A.
Operating Companies. We are also seeking comment on whether we should take
a different approach with respect to issuer eligibility requirements and, instead of
prohibiting blank check company access to the exemption (as is currently proposed and
consistent with current Regulation A), to limit availability of the exemption to companies
satisfying a new definition of “operating company.” 86 The Commission previously
proposed to limit Regulation A to operating companies in 1992. 87 Though not adopted at
that time, the Commission proposed to make the exemption available only “to raise funds
to put into the operations of an actual business and not simply for investment.” The
proposal would have specifically excluded “those enterprises with the principal business

85

H.R. Rep. No. 112-206, at 4 (2012) (“Small companies are critical to economic growth in the
United States. Amending Regulation A to make it viable for small companies to access capital
will permit greater investment in these companies, resulting in economic growth and jobs. By
reducing the regulatory burden and expense of raising capital from the investing public, [Title IV
of the JOBS Act] will boost the flow of capital to small businesses and fuel America’s most
vigorous job-creation machine.”).

86

An operating company definition would not alter our current proposal to continue to prohibit
reporting company and investment company reliance on Regulation A.

87

See SEC Rel. No. 33-6924, at 20-21.

33

of investing or reinvesting funds in securities, properties, commodities, business
opportunities or similar media of speculative opportunity.” 88 Along the same lines, we
seek comment on whether we should exclude certain non-operating companies from
Regulation A. We could, for example, limit availability of the exemption to operating
companies, defined to include issuers that have generated total revenue in excess of a
certain amount (e.g., $1,000,000) over a certain period of time (e.g., its prior two fiscal
years) through the provision of goods or services, or based on similar or different criteria
intended to facilitate access to the proposed rules by small companies. Adopting an
operating company definition could more effectively eliminate the types of blank check
companies, SPACs, and shell companies that are not otherwise the intended beneficiaries
of Regulation A from eligibility, an issue we discuss above, request comment on below,
and about which several commenters have expressed concern. 89
Issuers of Interests in Mineral Rights. Issuers of fractional undivided interests in
oil or gas rights, or similar interests in other mineral rights, have historically been
prohibited from relying on Regulation A. Instead, such issuers were permitted to conduct

88

Id. The adopting release noted that partnerships or certain other entities organized primarily for
investment purposes had historically been eligible to use Regulation A, and that after
consideration of public comment it was appropriate to continue to make the exemption available to
such issuers. See SEC Rel. No. 33-6949, at 36443.

89

ABA Letter (“The purpose and goal of Section 3(b)(2) should . . . be to expand the capital raising
opportunities available to operating companies. We are concerned about the possibility of abuse
should non-operating companies be able to rely on the exemption. The Commission’s proposed
rules should . . . provide that Section 3(b)(2) will not be available for use by issuers that are blank
check companies or shell companies and should define “eligible issuer” for purposes of Section
3(b)(2) to exclude specifically these types of issuers.”); WR Hambrecht + Co. Letter (suggesting
limiting Regulation A issuers to operating companies, and prohibiting reliance on the exemption
by blank check companies, SPACs, and shell companies); NASAA Letter 2 (indicating that
offerings by blank check companies and SPACs are generally prohibited as fraudulent offerings
under state securities laws).

34

offerings in reliance on Regulation B. 90 Regulation B was rescinded in 1996, however,
as it was deemed no longer necessary in light of other exemptions available to these types
of issuers, such as Section 4(a)(2) of the Securities Act and Regulation D. 91 In light of
the elimination of Regulation B and the current ability of such issuers to conduct
offerings under, e.g., Rule 506 of Regulation D, we seek comment on whether such
issuers should continue to be ineligible to rely on Regulation A, or should now be
permitted to conduct offerings under Regulation A.
Request for Comment
7. Should we amend Regulation A to make BDCs eligible to rely on it? Why or
why not? Would it raise particular concerns about investor protection? If so,
please explain.
8. Would extension of Regulation A issuer eligibility to BDCs be inconsistent
with the exemption’s current prohibition on use by reporting companies? If
so, should we limit the extension of Regulation A issuer eligibility to only
non-Exchange Act reporting BDCs? If not, should we permit BDC ongoing
reporting under the Exchange Act to satisfy their reporting obligations under
Regulation A? 92 If Regulation A eligibility were extended to BDCs, should
other rules be amended to require additional disclosure about such issuers? If
so, what specific additional disclosure should we require about BDCs?

90

Regulation B was an exemption from registration under the Securities Act relating to fractional
undivided interests in oil or gas. See 17 CFR 230.300 – 230.346 (1995).

91

See SEC Release No. 33-7300 (May 31, 1996) [61 FR 30397].

92

See Section II.E. below for a discussion of an issuer’s ongoing reporting obligations under
proposed Regulation A.

35

9. Should we extend Regulation A issuer eligibility to include blank check
companies? Or would such an extension be inconsistent with the intent of
Title IV of the JOBS Act, or the Commission’s investor protection mandate?
Why or why not?
10. If all or some segment of blank check companies are permitted to rely on
Regulation A, should we specifically exclude SPACs from being able to rely
on the exemption? Why or why not?
11. Should we amend Regulation A to make shell companies ineligible to rely on
it? Or would the exclusion of shell companies from Regulation A be too
broad, such that many small companies or startups would become ineligible to
rely on the exemption?
12. Should we limit access to Regulation A to issuers that qualify as “operating
companies”? If so, should we use the operating company definition described
above, or some modified version? Please include a discussion of the effects
on issuer access to the exemption that would result from using such a
definition as a condition to issuer eligibility.
13. Should we reconsider the continued prohibition on use of the Regulation A
exemptive scheme by issuers of fractional undivided interest in oil or gas
rights, or similar interests in other mineral rights? If so, please explain. Are
there risks associated with this type of issuer that merit maintaining
Regulation A’s current prohibition on use by such issuers?
14. Are there other limitations on issuer eligibility that we should consider?
Alternatively, are there other types of issuers that could benefit from

36

Regulation A, as proposed to be amended? Please provide data, if available,
on the impact of imposing fewer, more, or different limitations on issuer
eligibility than we have proposed.
c.

Potential limits on issuer size

Regulation A currently limits the size of offerings that can be conducted under the
exemption, but not the size of issuers eligible to rely on the exemption. We do not
currently propose any issuer size-based limitations and to date we have not received any
public comment on this issue. While we appreciate that limitations on offering size may,
to some extent, create a practical limitation on the ability of larger issuers to rely on
Regulation A, we are soliciting comment on potentially limiting access to Regulation A
on the basis of issuer size.
We could, for example, look to the standards for “smaller reporting companies”
and limit availability of the exemption to issuers with less than $75 million in public
float, or, if unable to calculate the public float, less than $50 million in annual revenue. 93
Alternatively, consistent with a recent recommendation by the Commission’s Advisory
Committee on Small and Emerging Companies (“Advisory Committee”) as to the
appropriate size limits for “smaller reporting companies,” 94 we could limit access to
Regulation A to companies with a public float of up to $250 million, or, if unable to

93

See 17 CFR 229.10(f).

94

See SEC Rel. No. 33-9258 (Sept. 12, 2011) [76 FR 57769] (the Advisory Committee was formed
to provide the Commission with advice on its rules, regulations, and policies as they relate to,
among other things, capital raising by emerging privately-held small businesses and publicly
traded companies with less than $250 million in public float), available at:
http://www.sec.gov/rules/other/2011/33-9258.pdf.

37

calculate the public float, less than $100 million in annual revenue. 95 Limiting access to
the exemption on the basis of issuer size might more effectively target the segment of the
market that Congress sought to assist by enacting Title IV of the JOBS Act. We solicit
comment below on whether the reference to “public float” would be an appropriate
metric for the non-reporting companies using Regulation A.
Request for Comment
15. Should we limit availability of the Regulation A exemption to smaller issuers?
Or does the $50 million annual offering limit effectively limit availability of
the exemption to smaller issuers such that the Commission need not consider
issuer size-based limitations? Why or why not? Should we use issuer
size-based limitations to determine the imposition of certain requirements of
proposed Regulation A such as the on-going disclosure requirements?
16. If we include size-based issuer eligibility requirements, is a test based on the
smaller reporting company public float and revenue thresholds appropriate for
potential Regulation A issuers? Should we look to the higher thresholds
recommended by the Advisory Committee, or other size thresholds?
Alternatively, are there better metrics on which to determine issuer size-based
eligibility (e.g., an assets test)? Would the concept of public float have any
applicability to non-reporting companies, or to repeat Regulation A issuers,
which could develop a trading market for their securities?

95

Recommendations Regarding Disclosure and Other Requirements for Smaller Public Companies,
Securities and Exchange Commission, Advisory Committee on Small and Emerging Companies
(February 1, 2013), at 2-3 (the Advisory Committee recommendation was made in the context of
potentially revising the definition of a smaller reporting company), available at:
http://www.sec.gov/info/smallbus/acsec/acsec-recommendation-032113-smaller-public-co-ltr.pdf.

38

d.

Reporting companies

We do not propose to make Regulation A available to companies that are subject
to the reporting requirements of Section 13 of the Exchange Act. 96 Before the
amendments to Regulation A adopted in 1992, reporting companies were permitted to
conduct offerings in reliance on Regulation A, provided they were current in their public
reporting. 97 In 1992, however, the Commission determined that it was no longer
necessary to permit reporting companies to rely on the exemption in light of the small
business integrated registration and reporting system adopted at that time. 98 Simplified
registration and reporting forms under Regulation S-B were presumed to meet the capital
raising needs of reporting small business issuers. 99 As a result, reporting companies were
excluded from the Regulation A exemptive scheme. 100 While the forms and form of the
disclosure rules that apply to smaller issuers has changed since that time, their content is
substantially the same as in 1992. 101
The two public comments we have received to date on this issue take opposing
positions on whether Regulation A should be available to reporting companies. One
commenter suggested that reporting companies should be allowed to rely on the

96

As discussed in Section II.E.3. below, however, we solicit comment on whether we should permit
Regulation A issuers to register under the Exchange Act by means of a simplified process under
certain circumstances.

97

17 CFR 230.252(f) (1992).

98

SEC Rel. No. 33-6949, at 36443.

99

“Small business issuers” were defined as companies with annual revenues of less than $25 million
whose voting stock does not have a public float of $25 million or more. Id., at 36446.

100

SEC Rel. No. 33-6924 (March 20, 1992) [57 FR 9768], at 9771.

101

In 2007, the Commission rescinded Regulation S-B (enacted in tandem with the 1992 amendments
to Regulation A, see SEC Rel. No. 33-6949), eliminated the SB forms and the definition of “small
business issuer,” and adopted the current smaller reporting company regime. See SEC Rel. No.
33-8876 (Dec. 19, 2007) [73 FR 934].

39

exemption because it would permit issuers to conduct a public offering of unrestricted
securities that is less burdensome, quicker and less expensive than a public offering
subject to full Securities Act registration (e.g., by permitting issuers to incorporate by
reference Exchange Act reports into an abbreviated offering statement). 102 This
commenter suggested that reporting company access could be limited on the basis of the
issuer’s size. 103 The other commenter suggested that reporting companies should not be
permitted to rely on Regulation A, but companies should be permitted to become a
reporting company by means of a Regulation A offering. 104
Given the availability of scaled disclosure requirements for Securities Act
registration and Exchange Act reporting by smaller reporting companies, we continue to
believe that reporting companies would not necessarily benefit from access to
Regulation A, as proposed to be amended. We therefore do not propose to permit
reporting companies to rely on the proposed rules. We are soliciting comment, however,
on whether reporting companies should be permitted to rely on Regulation A.
Request for Comment
17. Should we amend issuer eligibility requirements to permit reporting
companies to rely on the Regulation A exemption? Why or why not? Would
reporting companies find Regulation A a useful means of raising capital?
How would such a change affect issuers, investors, financial intermediaries,
and other market participants?

102

ABA Letter.

103

Id. (suggesting reporting company access to the exemptive scheme should be limited to issuers
with less than $1 billion in revenue).

104

WR Hambrecht + Co. Letter.

40

18. If reporting companies were permitted to rely on Regulation A, should we
impose limitations on their use of the exemption? For example, should
reporting companies be eligible to use Regulation A only for a limited period
of time, e.g., a three-year period after they begin Exchange Act reporting? Or
should we limit reporting company access to the exemptive scheme on the
basis of issuer size?
19. If reporting companies are permitted to rely on Regulation A, should the
availability of the exemption be conditioned on being current with Exchange
Act reporting requirements, 105 which would be consistent with ongoing use of
Regulation A? 106 Additionally, if reporting companies are permitted to rely
on the exemption, should such companies be permitted to satisfy their
disclosure requirements under Regulation A through incorporation by
reference to their previous or ongoing reports filed under the Exchange Act?
Or, as proposed with respect to issuers of Regulation A securities that register
such securities under the Exchange Act, if reporting companies are permitted
to rely on Regulation A, should the Regulation A reporting obligation for such
issuers be suspended altogether for the duration of any obligation to file
ongoing reports under the Exchange Act? 107

105

As noted above, before the 1992 amendments to Regulation A, reporting companies were
permitted to conduct offerings in reliance on Regulation A, provided they were current in their
Exchange Act reporting obligations. See former Rule 252(f), 17 CFR 230.252(f) (1991).

106

See discussion on proposed issuer eligibility requirements in Section II.B.1. above; see also
proposed Rule 251(b)(7).

107

See discussion in Section II.E. below.

41

2.

Eligible Securities

Section 3(b)(3) of the Securities Act limits the availability of any exemption
enacted under Section 3(b)(2) to “equity securities, debt securities, and debt securities
convertible or exchangeable into equity interests, including any guarantees of such
securities.” 108 On the basis of the statutory language, it is unclear which types of
securities were meant to be excluded, although there is some evidence that suggests the
exemption is meant for ordinary—and not exotic—securities. 109 We solicit comment on
the types of securities that should be excluded, if any, consistent with the statutory
mandate.
We propose to limit the types of securities eligible for sale under both Tier 1 and
Tier 2 of Regulation A to the specifically enumerated list of securities in Section 3(b)(3),
with the exception of asset-backed securities. Asset-backed securities are subject to the
provisions of Regulation AB, an appropriately-tailored regulatory regime enacted to
cover such securities that was not in effect when Regulation A was last updated in
1992. 110 We do not believe that Title IV of the JOBS Act was enacted to facilitate the
issuance of asset-backed securities, nor do we believe that Regulation A’s disclosure
requirements are suitable for offerings of such securities. We therefore propose to
exclude asset-backed securities from the list of eligible securities under Regulation A.

108

15 U.S.C. 77c(b)(3).

109

Small Company Capital Formation Act of 2011: Markup of H.R. 1070 before the H. Comm. on
Fin. Serv. for the 112th Congress, 157 Cong. Rec. 89, (daily ed. June 21, 2011), available at:
http://financialservices.house.gov/calendar/eventsingle.aspx?EventID=247453.

110

Regulation AB, 17 CFR 229.1100 et seq., was enacted in 2005. See SEC Rel. No. 33-8518
(Dec. 22, 2004). Asset-backed securities are defined in Rule 1101(c)(1) to generally mean a
security that is primarily serviced by the cash flows of a discrete pool of receivables or other
financial asset, either fixed or revolving, that by their terms convert into cash within a finite time
period.

42

Request for Comment
20. As proposed, should we exclude asset-backed securities from the list of
eligible securities under Regulation A? Why or why not? If asset-backed
securities were eligible to be sold under Regulation A, what changes would be
required to Form 1-A and the other proposed Regulation A forms to
accommodate these issuers?
21. Should any additional types of securities be specifically excluded from
offerings conducted in reliance on Regulation A? If so, what types of
securities, and why? Should the rules provide more specificity as to the types
of securities that are included or excluded from Regulation A offerings? What
effects could excluding specified types of securities from Regulation A
offerings have on issuers, investors, and other market participants?
3.

Offering Limitations and Secondary Sales

Regulation A currently permits offerings of up to $5 million of securities in any
twelve-month period, including up to $1.5 million of securities offered by selling
securityholders. 111 Section 3(b)(2)(A) provides that the aggregate offering amount of all
securities offered and sold within the prior twelve-months in reliance on Section 3(b)(2)
shall not exceed $50 million. As noted above, we propose to amend Regulation A to
create two tiers of requirements: Tier 1, for offerings of up to $5 million of securities in a
twelve-month period; and Tier 2, for offerings of up to $50 million of securities in a
twelve-month period. 112 Proposed Tier 1 would reflect the same offering size limitations
111

Rule 251(b), 17 CFR 230.251(b).

112

If the offering included securities that were convertible, exercisable or exchangeable for other
securities, the offer and sale of the underlying securities would also be required to be qualified and

43

that currently apply under Regulation A. Proposed Tier 2 would reflect the
Section 3(b)(2) offering size limitation. 113 We believe issuers raising smaller amounts of
capital may benefit from a tiered system that affords two options for capital formation
based on differing disclosure and other requirements.
We believe sales by selling securityholders to be an important part of the
exemptive scheme and therefore propose to preserve in Tier 1 Regulation A’s current
limitation of no more than $1.5 million of securities offered by selling securityholders,
and permit Tier 2 offerings to include up to $15 million of securities offered by selling
securityholders. Sales by selling securityholders have been permissible under
Regulation A in one form or another since 1940. 114 Initially, sales by an issuer and sales
by a “controlling stockholder” were treated as separate categories of exempt transactions;
the offering amount of each respective category was not aggregated for purposes of
determining the maximum offering amount available under the exemption. 115 Later,
Regulation A contained a single offering ceiling for all sales of an issuer’s securities
during a twelve-month period, while each category of seller had a different permissible
maximum selling amount. 116 In 1972, the Commission returned to the concept of
separate categories of seller transactions, each of which contained an independent

the aggregate offering price would include the aggregate conversion, exercise, or exchange price
of such securities, regardless of when they become convertible, exercisable or exchangeable. This
differs from the approach taken in registered offerings that involve similar securities, but we
believe would simplify compliance.
113

Offerings of up to $5 million could be conducted under either Tier 1 or Tier 2.

114

SEC Rel. No. 33-2410 (December 3, 1940) [5 FR 4749].

115

Id.

116

See, e.g., Rule 254(a), 17 CFR 230.254(a) (1956), cited in SEC Rel. No. 33-3663 (July 31, 1956)
[21 FR 5739], at 5741. Additionally, at this time, secondary sales by certain newly organized or
unproven entities were prohibited. Id., at 5739.

44

offering ceiling. 117 For example, at that time, Rule 254(a) required issuer and affiliate
sales in any twelve-month period to be aggregated against the then-current $500,000
offering ceiling with any one affiliate being limited to $100,000 in offers in any
twelve-month period. 118 Sales by non-affiliates were excluded from the $500,000
offering ceiling, and any one such seller was permitted to offer up to $100,000, but, in the
aggregate with other such non-issuer/affiliate sellers in an amount of no more than
$300,000 in any twelve-month period. 119 In 1992, the Commission returned to a single
offering ceiling for all sales of an issuer’s securities in a twelve-month period, and
limited all secondary sales to its current $1.5 million limit (representing 30% of the
maximum offering limit permitted in a primary offering), aggregated with issuer sales
during the same period for a total of up to $5 million. 120
Two commenters recommended permitting secondary sales by selling
securityholders in the expanded exemptive scheme. 121 One such commenter suggested
that removing the limitation on the amount of securities available for resale by selling
securityholders would decrease the cost of capital for smaller issuers and encourage
greater investment in companies by increasing a potential investors liquidity options. 122
The other suggested adopting a limitation similar to the current Regulation A provision in
order to encourage investment in companies and improve the liquidity options of

117

See SEC Rel. No. 33-5225 (Jan 10, 1972) [37 FR 599].

118

Id.

119

Id.

120

See SEC Rel. No. 33-6949, at 36443; see also Rule 251(b).

121

ABA Letter; WR Hambrecht + Co. Letter.

122

ABA Letter.

45

investors. 123 Both commenters suggested removing current restrictions on affiliate
resales in Rule 251(b), 124 which prohibits such sales when the issuer has not had net
income from continuing operations in at least one of its last two fiscal years.
Another commenter, however, urged the Commission to prohibit selling
securityholders, such as venture capital and private equity firms, from relying on the
expanded exemption. 125 In this commenter’s view, superior negotiating power at the
time of such parties’ initial investment and greater access to information about the issuer
should disqualify such parties from the exemption because, while maintaining such
advantages, they may seek to offload their investment on the general public (and,
sometimes against the wishes of the issuer itself). 126 This commenter further argued that
selling securityholder offerings do not provide capital to the issuer or contribute to job
creation. 127 Alternatively, the commenter suggested that if selling securityholders are
permitted to rely on the exemption, the Commission should require approval of a
majority of the issuer’s independent directors as a pre-condition to any sales. 128
Selling securityholder access to Regulation A has been a historically important
feature of the exemptive scheme. We believe it would continue to be an important part of
Regulation A, as proposed to be amended. Allowing selling securityholders access to
avenues for liquidity should encourage investment in companies seeking to raise

123

WR Hambrecht + Co. Letter.

124

17 CFR 230.251(b).

125

NASAA Letter 2.

126

Id.

127

Id.

128

Id.

46

capital. 129 Thus, we believe that allowing selling securityholders to sell securities under
Regulation A would facilitate capital formation and be consistent with Title IV of the
JOBS Act.
We do not propose to amend Regulation A to eliminate the ability of selling
securityholders to conduct secondary offerings. 130 Consistent with the existing
provisions of Regulation A, we propose to permit sales by selling securityholders up to
30% of the maximum amount permitted under the applicable offering limitation
($1.5 million in any twelve-month period for Tier 1 and $15 million in any twelve-month
period for Tier 2). Sales by selling securityholders under either Tier would be aggregated
with sales of Regulation A securities by the issuer and other selling securityholders for
purposes of calculating the maximum permissible amount of securities that may be sold
during any twelve-month period.
In addition, we propose to eliminate the last sentence of Rule 251(b), which
prohibits affiliate resales unless the issuer has had net income from continuing operations
in at least one of its last two fiscal years. This provision was originally adopted in
Regulation A in 1956 to prohibit secondary sales of securities of certain new companies
and companies without net income in at least one of their last two fiscal years 131 in order
“to correct . . . the threat of the ‘bail-out’ by the promoters and insiders of their securities
holdings.” 132 When the Commission amended Regulation A in 1992, it maintained these

129

See discussion in Section IV.B.2.c. below.

130

See proposed Rule 251(a).

131

See SEC Rel. No. 33-3663, at 5739.

132

SEC Ann. Rep. 29 (1956).

47

restrictions in modified form, by limiting them to affiliate resales where the issuer had no
net income from continuing operations in at least one of its last two fiscal years. 133
While one commenter has expressed concern that affiliates of an issuer could use
an informational advantage to sell securities in unsuccessful ventures at the expense of
the investing public, 134 we are not persuaded that the absence of net income is necessarily
a meaningful indicator of enhanced risk that this could occur. Further, the Commission’s
current disclosure review and qualification processes and enforcement programs are
significantly more sophisticated and robust than they were in the 1950s. In addition,
today’s proposed rules for Regulation A include revised “bad actor” disqualification
provisions and additional issuer eligibility requirements aimed at limiting the market
participants that have access to the exemption. 135
We also do not believe that a focus on issuers that have not had net income from
continuing operations in at least one of its last two fiscal years would be appropriately
tailored for startup and early stage companies that may devote large portions of their
resources to startup expenses and research and development. 136 In this market, net
income from continuing operations may not be a material data point in the evaluation of
an investment opportunity. 137 In addition, as mentioned above, some commenters have
argued that limiting the liquidity options of selling securityholders, including sales by

133

See SEC Rel. No. 33-6924, at fn. 59; see also Rule 251(b).

134

NASAA Letter 2.

135

See discussions in Section II.G. (Bad Actor Disqualification) below, and Section II.B.1. (Eligible
Issuers) above.

136

See ABA Letter; WR Hambrecht + Co. Letter.

137

See ECTF Report.

48

affiliates of the issuer, may discourage investment in the issuer in the first instance and
increase the issuer’s cost of capital. 138
On balance, we believe that investor protections provided by Regulation A, as
proposed to be amended, support the elimination of the current restriction on affiliate
resales, particularly in light of the potential benefits of permitting secondary sales. We
therefore do not propose to carry this provision forward in amended Regulation A.
Request for Comment
22. Should we consider different annual offering thresholds for selling
securityholder sales than the proposed $1.5 million limitation for Tier 1
offerings and $15 million limitation for Tier 2 offerings? Why or why not? If
so, should sales in reliance on Regulation A by selling securityholders be
permitted up to the annual offering ceiling for each respective Tier, or limited
at a different threshold? Should we limit sales by selling securityholders to a
percentage of the total amount offered in conjunction with a primary offering
of Regulation A securities over a given period of time, or to Regulation A
offerings where primary securities are offered? Alternatively, should we
prohibit all sales by selling securityholders in Regulation A? Why or why
not?
23. Should the rules treat sales by non-affiliate selling securityholders as a
separate category of exempt transaction, as was once the case under
Regulation A, and not aggregate such sales with issuer sales for purposes of
determining the maximum offering amount available under the exemption? If
138

See ABA Letter; WR Hambrecht + Co. Letter.

49

so, should non-affiliate resales be permitted up to the applicable annual
offering ceiling, or limited at a different threshold?
24. If selling securityholders are permitted to rely on Regulation A, should we
impose eligibility requirements or other limitations on those securityholders?
For example, should we require selling securityholders to have owned the
securities offered for resale under Regulation A for a specified period of time
before resale? If so, why and what should the relevant holding period be (e.g.
six months or twelve months before initial submission or filing of the offering
statement)? If the rules impose a holding period before securities can be
offered for resale under Regulation A, should the holding period only apply to
affiliates? Or to all selling securityholders?
25. Does the existing Rule 251(b) requirement that an issuer have net income
from continuing operations in each of its last two fiscal years, in order for an
affiliate to be able to conduct a secondary sale in reliance on Regulation A,
have continuing validity, and should we therefore retain this provision? Why
or why not? Please explain.
4.

Investment Limitation

Regulation A does not currently limit the amount of securities an investor can
purchase in a qualified Regulation A offering. We recognize, however, that with the
increased annual offering limitation provided in Section 3(b)(2) comes a risk of
commensurately increased investor losses. To address that risk, Title IV of the JOBS Act

50

mandates certain investor protections 139 and suggests that the Commission consider
others as part of its Section 3(b)(2) rulemaking. 140 Additionally, we believe that
Congress recognized in Section 3(b)(2) that certain other investor protections—not
directly contemplated by Title IV of the JOBS Act—may be necessary in the revised
regulation. To that end, Section 3(b)(2)(G) indicates that the Commission may include in
the expanded exemption “such other terms, conditions, or requirements . . . necessary in
the public interest and for the protection of investors . . . .”
Consistent with Section 3(b)(2)(G) and the Commission’s investor protection
mandate, in addition to the disclosure, reporting and other requirements of Regulation A,
we propose to limit the amount of securities investors can purchase in a Tier 2 offering to
no more than 10% of the greater of their annual income and their net worth. 141 For this
purpose, annual income and net worth would be calculated for individual purchasers as
provided in the accredited investor definition under Rule 501 of Regulation D. 142
We believe that this proposed new requirement could usefully augment the other
requirements for Tier 2 offerings. Limiting the amount of securities that a potential
investor could invest in a Tier 2 offering to 10% of the greater of the investor’s annual

139

See Section 3(b)(2)(D) (expressly providing for Section 12(a)(2) liability for any person offering
or selling Section 3(b)(2) securities); Section 3(b)(2)(F) (requiring issuers to file audited financial
statements with the Commission annually).

140

See Section 3(b)(2)(G) (inviting the Commission to consider, among other things, requiring
audited financial statements in the offering statement and implementing bad actor disqualification
provisions); Section 3(b)(4) (inviting the Commission to consider implementing ongoing reporting
requirements).

141

If securities that are convertible, exercisable or exchangeable for other securities are being
purchased by an investor, the proposed investment limitation would include the aggregate
conversion, exercise, or exchange price of such securities, in addition to the purchase price. This
treatment corresponds to the treatment of such securities for purposes of calculating the offering
cap.

142

17 CFR 230.501.

51

income and net worth would help to mitigate any concern that an investor may not be
able to absorb the potential loss of the investment. 143 The additional investor protection
afforded by such a loss limitation is similar to the provisions for our recently proposed
rules for securities-based crowdfunding transactions under Section 4(a)(6) of the
Securities Act. 144 We believe that an investment limitation for Tier 2 offerings, coupled
with the additional investor protection requirements discussed above and more fully
below, could protect investors in Tier 2 offerings in a similar way as the proposed rules
for securities-based crowdfunding transactions.
Under the proposal, issuers would be required to make investors aware of the
investment limitations,145 but would otherwise be able to rely on an investor’s
representation of compliance with the proposed investment limitation unless the issuer
knew, at the time of sale, that any such representation was untrue. We are mindful of the
privacy issues and practical difficulties associated with verifying individual income and
net worth, and do not therefore propose to require investors to disclose personal
information to issuers in order to verify compliance with the investment limitation. 146

143

An underwriter in a firm commitment underwritten Regulation A offering, or participating
broker-dealer that is involved in stabilization activities with respect to an offering of Regulation A
securities would not be considered an investor that is subject to the proposed investment
limitations

144

See Section 4(a)(6)(ii) of the Securities Act, 15 U.S.C. 77d(a)(6)(ii), and SEC Rel. No. 33-9470.
In Section 4(a)(6), Congress outlined a new exemption for securities-based crowdfunding
transactions intended to take advantage of the internet and social media to facilitate capital-raising
by the general public, or crowd. In that provision, Congress established limitations on the amount
of securities an investor could acquire through this type of offering, as well as a variety of other
investor protections, including disclosure requirements and the use of regulated intermediaries.
See, generally, the requirements for issuers and intermediaries set forth in Title III of the JOBS
Act, Pub. L. No. 112-106, 126 Stat. 306, §§ 301-305.

145

See cover page of the offering circular of proposed Form 1-A.

146

Investors may, for example, be reluctant to provide issuers with their Internal Revenue Service
(IRS) Form W-2 (Wage and Tax Statement) in order to verify compliance with the proposed
annual income investment limitation or to disclose documents, such as bank or investment account

52

We are, however, soliciting comment below on whether verification of the income and
net worth limit should be required.
Request for Comment
26. As proposed, should we impose investment limitations on investors in Tier 2
offerings? Or does Regulation A, as proposed to be amended, have sufficient
investor protections for Tier 2 offerings, such that an investment limitation for
investors is not necessary? Why or why not?
27. Are the proposed investment limitations appropriate in the context of a Tier 2
offering? Why or why not? What impact would the proposed investment
limitation restriction have on issuers and investors? Should the proposed
limitations on investment not apply to accredited investors? Are there other
investment limitation criteria we should consider? For example, should we
impose a limitation based on a percentage of total investment assets in
addition to, or instead of, annual income or net worth?
28. Alternatively, should the investment limitation be higher or lower than the
10% proposed? If so, what percentage and why would that percentage be
appropriate? Would the proposed investment limitation be appropriate for
investors that are entities rather than natural persons? Should we establish a
minimum annual investment amount, similar to $2,000 annual investment that
would be permitted under our proposed crowdfunding rules, that all investors

statements, that would verify net worth. Relatedly, issuers may have difficulty ascertaining the
veracity or comprehensiveness of any documentation provided to them by investors. Cf. SEC Rel.
No. 33-9415 (July 10, 2013) [78 FR 4471], at II.B (discussing verification of accredited investor
status for private offerings under Rule 506(c) of Regulation D).

53

could make in Regulation A offerings irrespective of their income and net
worth? Why or why not?
29. Should the proposed investment limitation apply on a per offering basis, as
proposed? Or should the limitation apply on an aggregated basis, across all
investments in Regulation A securities? Why or why not? If the limitation
were to apply on an aggregated basis, how should the limitation apply?
Should we limit the provision so that only Regulation A offerings close in
time (for example, within a twelve-month period), or otherwise related, would
be aggregated in the 10% calculation?
30. Should we permit issuers, as proposed, to rely on an investor’s representation
of compliance with the 10% investment limitation, unless the issuer has
knowledge that any such representation was untrue? Why or why not? If not,
what level of inquiry or verification should issuers have to perform in order to
ensure compliance with the requirement? Should the issuer and its
intermediaries be required to have a reasonable belief that the investor
certification can be relied upon (e.g., should they be required to conduct
further investigation if they have reason to believe that the certification is
untrue)? Why or why not? If we permit issuers to rely on an investor’s
representation regarding compliance with the 10% investment limitation, as
proposed, should we require the representation to be made in a particular
form, such as an investor questionnaire? Should we require the issuer to
provide disclosure or educational materials in connection with the
representation?

54

5.

Integration

Existing Rule 251(c) of Regulation A governs the integration of Regulation A
offerings with other offerings. 147 This provision provides that offerings under
Regulation A are not to be integrated with any of the following:
•

prior offers or sales of securities; or

•

subsequent offers and sales of securities that are:
•

registered under the Securities Act, except as provided in Rule 254(d); 148

•

made in reliance on Rule 701 under the Securities Act;

•

made pursuant to an employee benefit plan;

•

made in reliance on Regulation S; or

•

made more than six months after completion of the Regulation A offering.

We believe Regulation A’s existing integration safe harbors provide issuers,
particularly smaller issuers whose capital needs often change, with valuable certainty as
to the contours of a given offering and its eligibility for an exemption from Securities Act
registration. To date, the public comment we received on integration suggested we
maintain Regulation A’s existing integration provisions. 149 We propose, subject to
certain exceptions discussed below, to generally preserve the existing Regulation A
147

17 CFR 230.251(c). The integration doctrine seeks to prevent an issuer from improperly avoiding
registration by artificially dividing a single offering into multiple offerings such that Securities Act
exemptions would apply to multiple offerings that would not be available for the combined
offering.

148

Rule 254(d) provides a safe harbor for an issuer that has a bona fide change of intention and
decides to register an offering under the Securities Act after soliciting interest in a Regulation A
offering, but without having filed the related offering statement. To take advantage of the safe
harbor, such issuers must wait at least 30 calendar days from the date of the last solicitation of
interest before filing a registration statement for the offering with the Commission. 17 CFR
230.254(d). Under existing Regulation A, issuers are not allowed to solicit interest in an offering
after filing the offering statement with the Commission. See discussion in Section II.D. below.

149

ABA Letter.

55

integration safe harbors. 150 We also propose to provide additional guidance on the
potential integration of offerings conducted concurrently with, or close in time after, a
Regulation A offering.
The safe harbor from integration provided by existing Rule 251(c) expressly
provides that any offer or sale made in reliance on Regulation A will not be subject to
integration with any other offer or sale made either before the commencement of, or more
than six months after, the completion of the Regulation A offering. 151 In other words, for
transactions that fall within the provisions of existing Rule 251(c), issuers do not have to
conduct an independent integration analysis under the provisions of, for example, another
rule-based exemption in order to determine whether, under the terms of that rule, the two
offerings would be treated as one for purposes of qualifying for an exemption. This
bright-line rule assists issuers in analyzing certain transactions, but does not address the
issue of potential offers or sales that occur concurrently with, or close in time after, a
Regulation A offering.
Currently, the note to Rule 251(c) indicates that, if the provisions of the safe
harbor are unavailable, offers and sales may still not be integrated with the Regulation A
offering depending on the particular facts and circumstances, so there is no presumption
that offerings outside the integration safe harbors should be integrated. 152 Additionally,
we believe that an offering made in reliance on Regulation A should not be integrated

150

Existing Rule 254(d) of Regulation A would become proposed Rule 255(e).

151

Contra Rule 502(a) of Regulation D, 17 CFR 230.502(a), which states that offers and sales made
more than six months before the start, or after the completion, of a Regulation D offering will not
be considered part of that Regulation D offering.

152

The note cites to the guidance provided in SEC Rel. No. 33-4552 (Nov. 6, 1962) [27 FR 11316],
which states the Commission’s traditional five-factor test for integration.

56

with another exempt offering made by the issuer, provided that each offering complies
with the requirements of the exemption that is being relied upon for the particular
offering. 153 For example, an issuer conducting a concurrent exempt offering for which
general solicitation is not permitted would need to be satisfied that purchasers in that
offering were not solicited by means of the offering made in reliance on Regulation A,
including without limitation any “testing the waters” communications. 154 Alternatively,
an issuer conducting a concurrent exempt offering for which general solicitation is
permitted could not include in any such general solicitation an advertisement of the terms
of an offering made in reliance on Regulation A that would not be permitted under
Regulation A. An issuer conducting, for example, a concurrent Rule 506(c) offering
could not include in its Rule 506(c) general solicitation materials an advertisement of a
concurrent Regulation A offering, unless that advertisement also included the necessary
legends for, and otherwise complied with, Regulation A. 155
In addition to this approach to integration, we propose to add to the list of safe
harbor provisions subsequent offers or sales of securities made pursuant to the proposed
rules for securities-based crowdfunding transactions under Title III of the JOBS Act.
Given the unique capital formation method available to issuers and investors in the
proposed rules for securities-based crowdfunding transactions and the small dollar

153

We recently proposed a similar approach to integration in the context of offerings under the
proposed provisions for securities-based crowdfunding transactions pursuant to Title III of the
JOBS Act. See SEC Rel. No. 33-9470, text accompanying fn. 33-34.

154

For a concurrent offering under Rule 506(b), an issuer would have to conclude that purchasers in
the Rule 506(b) offering were not solicited by means of a Regulation A general solicitation. For
example, the issuer may have had a preexisting substantive relationship with such purchasers.
Otherwise, the solicitation conducted in connection with the Regulation A offering may preclude
reliance on Rule 506(b). See also SEC Rel. No. 33-8828 (Aug. 3, 2007) [72 FR 45116].

155

See discussion in Section II.D. below.

57

amounts involved, we do not propose to integrate offers or sales of such securities that
occur subsequent to the commencement of any offers or sales of securities made in
reliance on Regulation A. 156
We further propose to amend Rule 254(d) to provide that where an issuer decides
to register an offering after soliciting interest in a contemplated, but abandoned,
Regulation A offering, any offers made pursuant to Regulation A would not be subject to
integration with the registered offering, unless the issuer engaged in solicitations of
interest in reliance on Regulation A to persons other than qualified institutional buyers
(“QIBs”) and institutional accredited investors permitted by Section 5(d) 157 of the
Securities Act. 158 An issuer (and any underwriter, broker, dealer, or agent used by the
issuer in connection with the proposed offering) soliciting interest in a Regulation A
offering to persons other than QIBs and institutional accredited investors must wait at
least 30 calendar days between the last such solicitation of interest in the Regulation A
offering and the filing of the registration statement with the Commission.159 We believe
these updated provisions are necessary, given the broad permissible target audience of
Regulation A solicitations, the proposed expanded use of solicitation materials in
Regulation A discussed more fully in Section II.D. below, and the addition of similar
provisions for registered offerings under Section 5(d).

156

See SEC Rel. No. 33-9470. An issuer contemplating a securities-based crowdfunding transaction
pursuant to Section 4(a)(6) subsequent to any offers or sales conducted in reliance on
Regulation A, as proposed to be amended, should look to the proposed rules for securities-based
crowdfunding transactions to ensure compliance with the advertising provisions of that proposed
exemption.

157

15 U.S.C. 77e(d).

158

See proposed Rule 255(e).

159

Id.

58

Request for Comment
31. As proposed, should we adopt an integration safe harbor in Regulation A that
largely follows the existing provisions of Rule 251(c), while adding the
exemption provided by the proposed JOBS Act crowdfunding rules into the
list of safe harbors for subsequent offers or sales? Why or why not? Should
we alter or add additional provisions to the list of safe harbors for subsequent
offers or sales? If so, please provide supporting analysis for your suggestions.
For example, should we reduce the six-month period in Rule 251(c)(2)(v)?
32. Should we amend the provisions of Rule 254(d), as proposed, 160 to take into
account the expanded use of solicitation materials in Regulation A, the ability
of emerging growth companies to solicit interest from certain types of
investors under Title I of the JOBS Act, and the potential effect that an
abandoned Regulation A offering, in which an issuer solicited interest from
potential investors, may have on that issuer’s ability to immediately thereafter
register the offering under the Securities Act? Why or why not? Are there
any alternative approaches for the interaction of these two provisions in the
context of an abandoned Regulation A offering followed immediately
thereafter by a registered offering? If so, please explain.
6.

Treatment under Section 12(g)

Exchange Act Section 12(g) requires, among other things, that an issuer with total
assets exceeding $10,000,000 and a class of equity securities held of record by either
2,000 persons, or 500 persons who are not accredited investors, register such class of
160

See proposed Rule 255(e).

59

securities with the Commission.161 Unlike Title III of the JOBS Act, which includes a
provision regarding the treatment under Section 12(g) of securities issued in
securities-based crowdfunding transactions pursuant to Section 4(a)(6) of the Securities
Act, Title IV does not include a provision regarding how Regulation A issuers should be
treated under Section 12(g).
Section 12(g) was originally enacted by Congress as a way to ensure that
investors in over-the-counter securities about which there was little or no information, but
which had a significant shareholder base, were provided with ongoing information about
their investment. 162 As discussed more fully below, Regulation A, as proposed to be
amended, would require issuers that conducted Tier 2 offerings to provide ongoing
information to their investors, albeit somewhat less than is required of an Exchange Act
reporting company. If securities issued under Regulation A were to be excluded for
purposes of determining record holders under Section 12(g), a company may never
become subject to mandatory Exchange Act reporting as a result of selling securities
under Regulation A, regardless of how many shareholders it has or whether such
shareholders were accredited investors. Alternatively, if Regulation A issuers that
conducted Tier 2 offerings were current in their ongoing reporting were exempt from
registration under Section 12(g), or their obligations to register were suspended, issuers
would have the ability to remain in the Regulation A reporting regime on a long-term
basis, irrespective of growth in their shareholder base.

161

15 U.S.C. 78l(g).

162

See, generally, Report of the Special Study of Securities Markets of the Securities and Exchange
Commission, House Document No. 95, House Committee on Interstate and Foreign Commerce,
88th Cong., 1st Sess. (1963), at 60-62.

60

One commenter suggested we provide a conditional exemption from mandatory
Exchange Act reporting under Section 12(g) for emerging growth companies that have
conducted a Regulation A offering and comply with its ongoing reporting requirements;
otherwise, emerging growth companies that may cross the Section 12(g) asset and record
holder thresholds following a Regulation A offering would be disincentivized from
relying on the exemption. 163 In the commenter’s view, the exemption from Section 12(g)
could be temporary and lapse once the issuer obtains a non-affiliate market capitalization
of $250 million. 164
We believe, however, that the Section 12(g) record holder threshold continues to
provide an important baseline, above which issuers should be subject to the more
expansive disclosure and compliance obligations of the Exchange Act. We are not
proposing to exempt Regulation A securities from the requirements of Section 12(g) or to
provide that issuers that are current in their Regulation A ongoing reporting under Tier 2
would be exempt from Section 12(g) or have their obligations to register under Section
12(g) suspended. We do, however, solicit comment as to whether a Section 12(g)
exemption or suspension should be provided.
Request for Comment
33. Should Regulation A securities be exempt from Section 12(g), either
conditionally or otherwise? Would an exemption from Section 12(g)
encourage Regulation A issuers to continue ongoing reporting under the

163

Letter from Michael L. Zuppone, Paul Hastings LLP, Nov. 26, 2013 (“Paul Hastings Letter”).

164

The commenter suggested $250 million of non-affiliate market capitalization to accord with the
threshold the Commission set for defining the mandate of its Advisory Committee on Small and
Emerging Companies. See fn. 94 above.

61

proposed rules for Tier 2 offerings, where such issuers might otherwise cease
reporting? 165
34. Does Section 12(g) continue to serve as a valuable proxy for market interest in
the equity securities of an issuer issued pursuant to Regulation A, such that an
issuer that crosses its asset and record holder thresholds should become
subject to mandatory Exchange Act reporting? Why or why not?
7.

Liability under Section 12(a)(2)

The liability provisions of Section 12(a)(2) of the Securities Act apply to any
public offering of securities by use of an oral communication or prospectus that includes
a material misleading statement or material misstatement of fact. 166 Section 3(b)(2)(D)
of the Securities Act provides that “[t]he civil liability provision in section 12(a)(2) [of
the Securities Act] shall apply to any person offering or selling [Regulation A]
securities.” Therefore, consistent with current Regulation A, 167 sellers of Regulation A
securities would have liability under Section 12(a)(2) to investors for any offer or sale by
means of an offering circular or an oral communication that includes a material
misleading statement or material misstatement of fact. 168
C.

Offering Statement
Section 3(b)(2)(G)(i) gives the Commission discretion to require an offering

statement in such form and with such content as it determines necessary in the public

165

See discussion in Section IV.B.2.f. below.

166

15 U.S.C. 77l(a)(2).

167

See SEC Rel. No. 33-6924, at fn. 57.

168

Regulation A prohibits sales until the Form 1-A has been qualified. See Rule 251(d)(2), 17 CFR
230.251(d)(2); cf. Securities Offering Reform, SEC Rel. No. 33-8591, at 173 et seq. (discussing
Section 12(a)(2) liability in the context of information conveyed at the time of sale).

62

interest and for the protection of investors. The provision permits electronic filing of
offering statements, and provides a non-exhaustive list of potential content that may be
required in the offering statement, including audited financial statements, a description of
the issuer’s business operations, financial condition, corporate governance principles, use
of investor funds, and other appropriate matters.
1.

Electronic Filing; Delivery Requirements

Currently, Regulation A offering statements are filed with the Commission in
paper form. 169 The paper filing process does not align with the Commission’s electronic
filing requirements for issuers in registered offerings 170 or notices in connection with
offerings under Regulation D. 171 The Commission has required electronic filing of
registration statements since 1996, 172 and of Form D filings since 2009. 173 Requiring
offering statements to be filed electronically rather than on paper may reduce potential
logistical problems and delays that can occur with the receipt, processing and
dissemination of paper filings by the Commission for issuers seeking to raise capital
under Regulation A. Electronic filing would facilitate a more efficient review process for
such filings by Commission staff by allowing the offering and related materials, once
169

17 CFR 232.101(c)(6). There are no filing fees associated with filing a Form 1-A with the
Commission. See Section 6(b) of the Securities Act, 15 U.S.C. 77f(b) (permitting the recovery of
costs of services to the government only with respect to registered offerings).

170

Offerings registered under the Securities Act are required to be filed electronically on the
Commission’s Electronic Data Gathering, Analysis, and Retrieval System (EDGAR) system. See
Rule 101(a)(1)(i) of Regulation S-T (17 CFR 232.101(a)(1)(i)).

171

Issuers relying on Regulation D are required to electronically file a notice of sales on Form D with
the Commission. See Rule 101(a)(1)(xiii) of Regulation S-T (17 CFR 232.101(a)(1)(xiii)); see
also Rule 503 of Regulation D (17 CFR 230.503). Form D is also required for offerings under
Section 4(a)(5) of the Securities Act.

172

See SEC Rel. No. 33-6977 (Feb. 23, 1993) [58 FR 14628]. Foreign private issuers have been
required to file their registration statements electronically since 2002. SEC Rel. No. 33-8099
(May 16, 2002).

173

See SEC Rel. No. 33-8891 (Feb. 6, 2008) [73 FR 10592].

63

submitted or filed, to be rapidly processed and disseminated internally. In addition, paper
submissions—while publicly available in a technical sense—are not widely or
immediately accessible. Electronic filing of offering statements could facilitate investor
and market access to the information contained in offering statements in a more efficient
way than paper filings do.
In Section 3(b)(2)(G)(i), Congress gave the Commission discretion to require
issuers to file their offering statements electronically. Commenters are generally
supportive of electronic filing. 174 Consistent with these comments and the language of
Section 3(b)(2)(G)(i), we propose to require Regulation A offering statements to be filed
with the Commission electronically on the EDGAR system. 175
As proposed, amended Form 1-A would consist of three parts:
•

an eXtensible Markup Language (XML) based fillable form, which would
capture key information about the issuer and its offering using an easy to fill
out online form, similar to Form D, 176 with drop-down menus, indicator boxes
or buttons, and text boxes, while also assisting issuers in determining their
ability to rely on the exemption. The XML-based fillable form would enable
the convenient provision of information to the Commission, and support the

174

ABA Letter; WR Hambrecht + Co.; Kaplan Voekler Letter 2; see also Letter from George W.
Beard, Managing Member, Beacon Investment Partners LLC (DE), Oct. 5, 2012 (“Beacon
Investment Letter”). See also Final Report of the 30th Annual SEC Government-Business Forum
on Small Business Capital Formation, Recommendation 16, at 31 (Nov. 17, 2011) (available at:
http://www.sec.gov/info/smallbus/gbfor30.pdf).

175

In conjunction with this proposed change, the portion of Item 101(c)(6) of Regulation S-T (17
CFR 232.101(c)(6)) dealing with filings related to Regulation A offerings would be rescinded.

176

17 CFR 239.500.

64

assembly and transmission of such information to EDGAR, without requiring
the issuer to purchase or maintain additional software or technology; 177
•

a text file attachment containing the body of the disclosure document and
financial statements, formatted in HyperText Markup Language (HTML) or
American Standard Code for Information Interchange (ASCII) to be
compatible with the EDGAR filing system; 178 and

•

text file attachments, containing the exhibits index and the exhibits to the
offering statement, formatted in HTML or ASCII to be compatible with the
EDGAR filing system. 179

We further propose to require all other documents required to be submitted or
filed with the Commission in conjunction with a Regulation A offering, such as ongoing
reports, to be submitted or filed electronically on EDGAR. 180
We believe this proposed approach to electronic filing would be both practical
and useful for issuers of Regulation A securities, investors in such securities, other
market participants, and the Commission staff who work with issuers throughout the
qualification process. Issuers would maintain better control over their filing process,
reduce the printing costs associated with filing seven copies of the offering statement and
any amendments with the Commission, obtain immediate confirmation of acceptance of

177

Part I (Notification) of Form 1-A. As discussed more fully in Section II.C.3.a. below, the cover
page and Part I of current Form 1-A would be converted into, and form the basis of, the
XML-based fillable form.

178

Part II (Offering Circular) of Form 1-A. See discussion in Section II.C.3.b. below.

179

Part III (Exhibits) of Form 1-A. See discussion in Section II.C.3.c. below.

180

See discussion regarding proposed ongoing reporting requirements at Section II.E. below.
Consistent with current Regulation A, there would be no filing fees associated with Regulation A,
as proposed to be amended.

65

an offering statement, and ultimately save time in the qualification process. Investors
would gain real-time access to the information contained in Regulation A filings. 181 The
efficiency of the Regulation A market should improve with the increased accessibility of
information about Regulation A issuers and offerings. Additionally, as with registered
offerings, EDGAR would allow the Commission to store, process, and disseminate filings
in a more efficient manner, which may, in turn, improve the efficiency of the staff review
and qualification processes.
As proposed, electronic filing would also facilitate the capture of important
financial and other information about Regulation A issuers and offerings that would
enable the Commission and market participants to monitor and analyze any market that
develops in Regulation A securities, including, for example, issuer size, issuer location,
key financial metrics, summary information about securities offered and offering
amounts, the jurisdictions in which offerings take place, and expenses associated with the
offering. 182
We appreciate, however, that requiring EDGAR filing would impose costs on
issuers that currently are not required to enter the EDGAR filing system or format their
disclosure documents in ways that the EDGAR system can accept. For that reason, we
are soliciting comment on whether electronic filing should be mandated for Regulation A
offerings.

181

Investors would not, however, have immediate access to non-public submissions of draft offering
statements. See discussion in Section II.C.2. below.

182

The specific disclosure requirements included in the XML-based fillable form are discussed more
fully in Section II.C.3.a. below.

66

If electronic filing on EDGAR is required, one commenter suggested that the
Commission propose for Regulation A offering circulars an analog to the “access equals
delivery” model for prospectuses under Securities Act Rule 172. 183 Currently,
Regulation A prohibits sales pursuant to a qualified offering statement unless a
preliminary offering circular or final offering circular is furnished to an investor at least
48 hours before the mailing of the confirmation of sale, and the final offering circular is
delivered to the investor with the confirmation of sales (unless delivered at any earlier
time). 184 By comparison, under Rule 172, a final prospectus in a registered offering is
deemed to precede or accompany a security for sale for purposes of Section 5(b)(2) of the
Securities Act as long as the final prospectus meeting the requirements of Section 10(a)
of the Securities Act is filed with the Commission on EDGAR. 185 Additionally,
Rule 172(a), which provides an exemption from Section 5(b)(1) of the Securities Act,
permits issuers to send written confirmations and notices of allocations after effectiveness
of a registration statement without being accompanied or preceded by a final prospectus,
so long as the registration statement is effective and the final prospectus is filed with the
Commission.186

183

Kaplan Voekler Letter 2.

184

Rule 251(d)(2).

185

17 CFR 230.172(b); see also Securities Offering Reform, SEC Rel. No. 33-8591, at 245
(discussing Rule 172). This provision also applies where the issuer will make a good faith and
reasonable effort to file the final prospectus with the Commission as part of the registration
statement within the required Rule 424 time period. 17 CFR 230.172(c)(3). Currently, there is no
analog in Regulation A to filings permitted in the registered context under Rule 424, although one
commenter has suggested we consider one. See Kaplan Voekler Letter 2; see also discussion in
Section II.C.3. below and text accompanying fn. 235.

186

17 CFR 230.172(a); see also Securities Offering Reform, SEC Rel. No. 33-8591, at 251
(discussing Rule 172(a)).

67

We are proposing an access equals delivery model for Regulation A final offering
circulars. The expanded use of the Internet and continuing technological developments
suggest that we should consider alternative methods of final offering circular delivery for
Regulation A, particularly given that the regulation has not been substantively updated
since 1992. Where, upon qualification of an offering statement, sales of Regulation A
securities occur on the basis of offers made using a preliminary offering circular, issuers
and intermediaries could presume that investors have access to the Internet, and would be
permitted to satisfy their delivery requirements for the final offering circular if it is filed
and available on EDGAR. 187 We further propose to require issuers to include a notice in
any preliminary offering circular they use that would inform potential investors that the
issuer may satisfy its delivery obligations for the final offering circular electronically. As
with registered offerings, we propose to permit dealers, during the aftermarket delivery
period, to be deemed to satisfy their final offering circular delivery requirements if it is
filed and available on EDGAR. 188
Further, consistent with prior Commission releases on the use of electronic media
for delivery purposes, “electronic-only” offerings of Regulation A securities would not be

prohibited under the proposed rules for Regulation A. 189 In such offerings, however, an
issuer and its participating intermediaries would have to obtain the consent of investors to
the electronic delivery of:
187

Cf. Securities Offering Reform, SEC Rel. No. 33-8591, at 244.

188

See proposed Rule 251(d)(2)(ii) for the dealer aftermarket delivery requirements.

189

An electronic-only offering is an offering in which investors are permitted to participate only if
they agree to accept the electronic delivery of all documents and other information in connection
with the offering. See SEC Rel. No. 34-37182 (May 9, 1996) [61 FR 24644] (Use of Electronic
Media by Broker-Dealers, Transfer Agents and Investment Advisers for Delivery of Information)
and SEC Rel. No. 34-42728 (Apr. 28, 2000) [65 FR 25843] (Use of Electronic Media).

68

•

the preliminary offering circular and other information, but not the final
offering circular, in instances where, upon qualification, the issuer plans to
sell Regulation A securities based on offers made using a preliminary offering
circular; and

•

all documents and information, including the final offering circular, when the
issuer sells Regulation A securities based on offers conducted during the
post-qualification period using a final offering circular.

We further propose to maintain the existing requirements of Rule 251(d)(2)(ii),
which requires dealers to deliver a copy of the current offering circular to purchasers for
sales that take place within 90 calendar days after qualification, 190 but to otherwise
update and amend Rule 251(d)(2)(i), which currently requires that a preliminary or final
offering circular be furnished to prospective purchasers at least 48 hours before the
mailing of the confirmation of sale. When originally adopted in 1973, Regulation A’s
offering circular delivery requirements aligned with the prospectus delivery requirements
for registered offerings. 191 In the intervening time, prospectus delivery requirements
have changed, 192 with no corresponding updates to Regulation A. Notably, the

190

See proposed Rule 251(d)(2)(ii). As proposed, this provision clarifies the date on which dealer
delivery obligations commence in the context of continuous or delayed offerings pursuant to
proposed Rule 251(d)(3).

191

See SEC Rel. No. 33-5277 (July 26, 1972) (noting that there should be no distinction in the
delivery requirements of Regulation A offerings and registered offerings, and therefore proposing
(and eventually adopting) rules requiring delivery of the offering circular 48 hours in advance of
mailing of a confirmation of sale.); SEC Rel. No. 33-6075 (June 1, 1979) [44 FR 33362], at
33363-64 (permitting for the first time the use of a preliminary offering circular in Regulation A
offerings, and imposing the same delivery requirements for such preliminary offering circulars as
were then in effect for registered offerings).

192

See SEC Rel. No. 33-6383 (March 3, 1982) [47 FR 11380] (Integrated Disclosure Release, which,
among other things, added Exchange Act Rule 15c2-8, 17 CFR 240.15c2-8, which requires
broker-dealers participating in a registered offering of securities of a non-reporting issuer to

69

Commission formalized its 48-hour preliminary prospectus delivery requirement in 1982
by amending Exchange Act Rule 15c2-8 to require only broker-dealers participating in a
registered offering of securities by a non-reporting issuer to deliver a preliminary (and
not final) prospectus at least 48 hours in advance of the mailing of the confirmation of
sale. 193
We believe the delivery of the preliminary offering circular to potential investors
before they make an investment decision remains an important investor protection that
should be preserved in Regulation A, particularly in light of the proposed expanded use
of “testing the waters” solicitation materials to include the period of time after non-public
submission or filing of the offering statement discussed further in Section II.D. below. 194
We also recognize the need to update and amend Regulation A’s offering circular
delivery requirements to accord with the requirements of broker-dealers in the context of
registered offerings. We therefore propose to amend Rule 251(d)(2)(i) to require issuers
and participating broker-dealers to deliver only a preliminary offering circular to

deliver a copy of the preliminary prospectus to any prospective purchaser at least 48 hours before
the mailing of the confirmation of sale.); see also Securities Offering Reform, SEC Rel.
No. 33-8591, at 173 et seq. and 241 et seq. (discussing information conveyed at time of sale for
purposes of Section 12(a)(2) liability and prospectus delivery requirement reforms).
193

SEC Rel. No. 33-6383, at 11400. The advance delivery requirements do not, however, apply in
the context of registered offerings by issuers subject to a reporting obligation under Section 13 or
15(d) of the Exchange Act. Before the addition of Rule 15c2-8(b), the Commission required
assurances that the managing underwriter had taken reasonable steps to send investors a
preliminary prospectus at least 48 hours in advance of mailing confirmations of sale before
accelerating effectiveness of a registration statement. See SEC Rel. No. 33-4968 (May 1, 1969)
[34 FR 7235]. Cf. 17 CFR 230.460 (Distribution of Preliminary Prospectus in Registered
Offerings).

194

Cf. Securities Offering Reform, SEC Rel. No. 33-8591, at 245 (noting that access equals delivery
is not appropriate for preliminary prospectus delivery obligations in IPOs because it is important
for potential investors to be sent the preliminary prospectus).

70

prospective purchasers 195 at least 48 hours in advance of sale when a preliminary offering
circular is used during the prequalification period to offer such securities to potential
investors. 196 Unlike Exchange Act Rule 15c2-8, this delivery requirement would apply to
both issuers and participating broker-dealers. 197 We believe this is an important investor
protection that should apply to issuers in advance of sale, and is consistent with current
Regulation A. 198 Consistent with current Rule 251(d)(1)(iii), we propose to continue to
require a final offering circular to accompany or precede any written communications
that constitute an offer in the post-qualification period. 199
In addition to the revised delivery requirements discussed above, we propose to
add a provision analogous to Rule 173. 200 Currently, Regulation A requires the delivery
of a final offering circular to the purchaser with the confirmation of sale, unless it has

195

Prospective purchasers would include any person that has indicated an interest in purchasing the
Regulation A securities before qualification, including, but not limited to, those investors that
respond to an issuer’s solicitation materials. See proposed Rule 251(d)(2)(i).

196

In accordance with time of sale provisions discussed in Securities Offering Reform, see SEC
Rel. No. 33-8591, at p. 173 et seq., we propose to base the 48-hour period in advance of “sale”
rather than the “mailing of the confirmation of sale.” See also Section II.D. below for a discussion
of the delivery requirements for solicitation materials used after publicly filing the offering
statement.

197

Cf. Exchange Act Rule 3a4-1, 17 CFR 240.3a4-1 (Associated persons of an issuer deemed not to
be brokers). Issuers would be able to rely on reasonable assurances of delivery from participating
broker-dealers to satisfy their delivery obligations.

198

Cf. 17 CFR 230.460 (Distribution of Preliminary Prospectus in Registered Offerings).
Additionally, with continued improvements in information and communication technologies, we
believe direct public offerings (i.e., offerings conducted by an issuer without the involvement of
an underwriter) may become a more attractive option for certain issuers. For that reason, it is
important that the advance preliminary offering circular delivery requirements for participating
broker-dealers apply equally to issuers.

199

See proposed Rule 251(d)(1)(iii). Consistent with Rule 172(a) in the context of registered
offerings, issuers and intermediaries sending written confirmations and notices of allocation in the
post-qualification period would be allowed to rely on the EDGAR filing of the final offering
circular to satisfy any delivery requirements under Rule 251(d)(1)(iii). For a discussion of
Rule 172(a), see Securities Offering Reform, SEC Rel. No. 33-8591, at 251.

200

17 CFR 230.173.

71

been delivered already. 201 The proposed provision would allow issuers and participating
broker-dealers that satisfy the 48-hour requirement by furnishing a preliminary offering
circular to, not later than two business days after completion of the sale, provide the
purchaser with a copy of the final offering circular or a notice stating that the sale
occurred pursuant to a qualified offering statement. As proposed, the notice must include
the URL202 where the final offering circular, or the offering statement of which such final
offering circular is part, may be obtained on EDGAR and contact information sufficient
to notify a purchaser where a request for a final offering circular can be sent and received
in response.
We propose to allow an issuer to withdraw an offering statement, with the
Commission’s consent, if none of the securities that are the subject of such offering
statement have been sold and such offering statement is not the subject of a Commission
order temporarily suspending a Regulation A exemption. 203 Under the proposed rules,
the Commission also would be able to declare an offering statement abandoned if the
offering statement has been on file with the Commission for nine months without
amendment and has not become qualified. 204 These withdrawal and abandonment
procedures are similar to the ones that apply to reporting companies.
Request for Comment
35. Should the rules require the electronic filing of Regulation A offering and
related documents on EDGAR, as proposed? Why or why not? Please
201

17 CFR 230.251(d)(2)(i)(C).

202

In the case of an electronic-only offering, the notice must include an active hyperlink to the final
offering circular or to the offering statement of which such final offering circular is part.

203

See proposed Rule 259(a).

204

See proposed Rule 259(b).

72

address expected costs of electronic filings and benefits to both issuers and
investors of having these documents available in electronic format.
Alternatively, for Tier 1 offerings, what would be the benefits, if any, of
maintaining Regulation A’s current paper filing system for offering statements
and related documents? Should we maintain paper filing for issuers
conducting Tier 1 Regulation A offerings? Why or why not?
36. As proposed, should we require issuers to file the body of the disclosure
document, financial statements, and text file attachments, containing the
exhibits index and the exhibits to the offering statement, electronically in a
HTML or ASCII format that is compatible with the EDGAR filing system?
Or should we permit the filing of offering and related materials in Portable
Document Format (PDF) or in some other format that is readily accessible to
smaller issuers to constitute an official filing with the Commission under
Regulation S-T? 205
37. Should we adopt, as proposed, an access equals delivery model for final
offering circular delivery requirements, in which case investors would be
presumed to have access to the Internet, and issuers and intermediaries could
satisfy their delivery requirements if the final offering circular were filed with
the Commission on EDGAR? 206 Or should we maintain our existing
requirement that issuers deliver to purchasers a final offering circular with the

205

See 17 CFR 232.104 (Unofficial PDF copies included in an electronic submission).

206

Kaplan Voekler Letter 2.

73

mailing of the confirmation of sale to such purchasers (if not delivered
previously)? Why or why not?
38. Should we update, as proposed, the delivery requirements in Rule 251(d)(2)(i)
to maintain advance delivery requirements of preliminary offering circulars,
while eliminating the requirement that issuers and broker-dealers participating
in the distribution of Regulation A securities pursuant to an offering statement
deliver a final offering circular to investors at least 48 hours before sale? Why
or why not? Would updating this provision, as proposed, be inconsistent with
the rationale behind similar updates to prospectus delivery requirements for
registered offerings? Why or why not?
39. While not currently proposed, should we adopt a provision similar to
Exchange Act Rule 15c2-8(b), which would only require the advance delivery
of a preliminary offering circular in the context of offerings by issuers not
already subject to an ongoing reporting obligation under Regulation A?
Similarly, should we adopt an analog to Rule 174(b), 207 which applies to
registered offerings, so that a dealer would not have an aftermarket delivery
obligation to purchasers of Regulation A securities to the extent the issuer of
such securities is subject to an ongoing reporting obligation under
Regulation A immediately before the time of filing the offering statement?
Or, in such circumstances, should we only require dealer aftermarket delivery
for a 25 calendar-day period? Why or why not?

207

17 CFR 230.174(b)

74

40. In conjunction with the proposed access equals delivery model for final
offering circular delivery requirements, should we adopt, as proposed, a
provision analogous to Rule 173? If so, should compliance with that
requirement be made a condition of Regulation A? Why or why not? Does
the rationale behind Rule 173 apply to Regulation A offerings? 208
2.

Non-Public Submission of Draft Offering Statements

Unlike Title I of the JOBS Act, 209 Title IV does not provide for confidential
submissions of offering statements under Regulation A. Commenters, however,
supported providing issuers with the option of confidential submission of offering
statements under Regulation A. 210 We propose to allow the non-public submission of
draft offering statements by issuers of Regulation A securities. We note, however, that
such submissions would not be subject to the statutorily-mandated confidentiality of draft
IPO registration statements confidentially submitted by “emerging growth companies” 211
under Title I of the JOBS Act. 212

208

See Securities Offering Reform, SEC Rel. No. 33-8591, at p. 173 et seq.

209

Title I of the JOBS Act permits emerging growth companies to confidentially submit draft
registration statements to the Commission for nonpublic review, provided the initial confidential
submission and all amendments thereto are publicly filed not later than 21 calendar days before
the issuer conducts its roadshow. See Section 106(a) of Title I, which added subsections 5(d) and
6(e) to the Securities Act.

210

Letter from Jonathan C. Guest, McCarter & English, LLP, July 10, 2012 (“McCarter & English
Letter”); ABA Letter; WR Hambrecht + Co. Letter.

211

Under Section 2(a)(19) of the Securities Act, an “emerging growth company” is defined as, among
other things, an issuer that had total annual gross revenues of less than $1 billion during its most
recently completed fiscal year. 15 U.S.C. 77b(a)(19).

212

Under Section 6(e)(2) of the Securities Act, confidential submissions of draft registration
statements by emerging growth companies are protected from compelled disclosure under the
Freedom of Information Act (FOIA) (5 U.S.C. 552). There is no similar provision under
Section 3(b) of the Securities Act. Issuers requesting confidential treatment of draft offering
statement submissions under Regulation A could submit such documents under cover of the
Commission’s Rule 83. See 17 CFR 200.83.

75

Under Regulation A’s proposed non-public submission of draft offering statement
provisions, issuers whose securities have not been previously sold pursuant to a qualified
offering statement under Regulation A or an effective registration statement under the
Securities Act would be permitted to submit to the Commission a draft offering statement
for non-public review. As with the confidential submission of draft registration
statements, all non-public submissions of draft offering statements would be submitted
via EDGAR. The initial non-public submission, all non-public amendments thereto, and
correspondence with Commission staff regarding such submissions would be required to
be publicly filed as exhibits to the offering statement not less than 21 calendar days
before qualification of the offering statement. 213 Unlike emerging growth companies,
which must publicly file any confidential submissions not later than 21 calendar days
before a road show, the timing requirements for filing by issuers seeking qualification
under Regulation A would not depend on whether or not the issuer conducts a road
show. 214
Request for Comment
41. As proposed, should the rules permit the non-public submission of draft
offering statements under Regulation A? Would there be any adverse impact

213

The timing is consistent with the guidance provided to emerging growth companies under Title I
of the JOBS Act, where such issuers do not “test the waters” under Section 5(d) or otherwise
conduct a traditional road show. See JOBS Act Frequently Asked Questions on Confidential
Submission Process for Emerging Growth Companies, Question 9 (April 10, 2012), available at:
http://www.sec.gov/divisions/corpfin/guidance/cfjumpstartfaq.htm.

214

Regulation A’s proposed testing the waters provisions would encompass a variety of activities,
including activities that could constitute a traditional road show. See Section II.D. below for a
discussion on the timing and requirements for the use of testing the waters solicitation materials
under Rule 254 as proposed to be amended.

76

on public investors of permitting the non-public submission of offering
statements?
42. Is the proposed requirement of public filing at least 21 calendar days before
qualification appropriate? Should public filing be required sooner or later
than proposed?
43. Should the availability of non-public submission of Regulation A offering
statements be limited, as proposed, to issuers whose securities have not been
previously sold pursuant to a qualified offering statement under Regulation A
or an effective registration statement under the Securities Act, in a manner
similar to the limitation under Title I of the JOBS Act on the use of
confidential submissions to issuers that have not previously sold common
equity securities pursuant to an effective registration statement? Or should
issuers be permitted to use the non-public submission provisions more than
once?
44. As proposed, should issuers that non-publicly submit an offering statement
under Regulation A be required to request confidential treatment under the
cover of the Commission’s Rule 83? Or should we adopt a new rule relating
to confidential treatment of draft offering statements in Regulation A?
3.

Form and Content

Section 3(b)(2)(G)(i) of the Securities Act 215 identifies certain requirements that
the Commission may include, among others, in the requirements for offerings relying on
the exemption. The requirements largely follow the existing offering statement
215

See JOBS Act Section 401(a)(2).

77

requirements of Form 1-A. 216 For example, financial statements, 217 a description of the
issuer’s business operations, 218 financial condition, 219 and use of investor funds 220 are all
currently required disclosures in Form 1-A. Additionally, Form 1-A requires issuers to
disclose, among other things, their contact information, the price or method for
calculating the price of the securities being offered, information about the issuer’s
property, results of operations, directors, officers, significant employees and certain
beneficial owners, material agreements and contracts, past securities sales, material
factors that make an investment in the issuer speculative or risky, dilution, the plan of
distribution for the offering, executive and director compensation, and conflicts of
interest and related party transactions. As with Regulation A generally, however,
Form 1-A has not been substantively revised by the Commission since 1992.
Currently, Form 1-A consists of three parts: Part I (Notification), Part II
(Offering Circular), and Part III (Exhibits). Part I of Form 1-A calls for certain basic
information about the issuer and proposed offering that is necessary to determine the
availability of the exemption. 221 For example, the existence of any “bad actor”
disqualifications under Rule 262 and the presence of proposed affiliate sales in the
absence of issuer net income from operations in at least one of the last two fiscal years, 222

216

The primary exception is the suggestion that issuers be required to submit audited financial
statements. Currently, the financial statements required under Regulation A are required to be
audited only if the issuer has them available.

217

See Form 1-A, Part II, Part F/S.

218

Id., Part II, e.g., Model B, Item 6. (Description of Business).

219

Id., e.g., Part F/S.

220

Id., e.g., Item 5. (Use of Proceeds to Issuer).

221

See SEC Rel. No. 33-6275 (Jan. 9, 1981) [46 FR 2637], at 2638.

222

See Rule 251(b).

78

both of which may affect availability of the exemption, are required to be disclosed in
Part I. Part I is filed with the Commission and publicly available, but is not required to
be provided to investors. 223
Part II of the offering statement consists of an offering circular—similar to the
prospectus in a registration statement—which serves as the primary disclosure document
to investors of the material facts about the issuer, its securities, and the offering. Issuers
organized as corporations are given the option of following any one of three disclosure
formats in Part II:
•

Model A (Question-and-Answer Format); 224

•

Model B, a somewhat scaled version of Form S-1 that largely follows the
Commission’s disclosure standards in effect for registration statements when
Model B was adopted in 1981; 225 and

•

Part I of Form S-1. 226

Issuers organized in non-corporate form, such as limited partnerships and limited liability
companies, have the option of using either Model B or Part I of Form S-1. Part F/S of the
offering circular—containing financial statements and notes—is required disclosure for
all issuers. Part III requires an exhibits index and a description of exhibits required to be
filed as part of the offering statement.
223

See Rule 251(d)(2); see also SEC Rel. No. 33-6275, at 2639.

224

Model A is based on the North American Securities Administrators Association’s (NASAA) Form
U-7, also known as the Small Company Offering Registration (SCOR) form, adopted April 28,
1989. See http://www.nasaa.org/industry-resources/corporation-finance/scor-overview/scorforms/.

225

See SEC Rel. No. 33-6275 [46 FR 2637], at 2639-40; SEC Rel. No. 33-6924 [57 FR 9768], at
9771.

226

17 CFR 239.11. Issuers choosing Part I of Form S-1 must, however, follow the financial
statement requirements of Form 1-A, Part F/S.

79

Commenters generally supported maintaining Regulation A’s existing Form 1-A,
with modifications and updates to implement the provisions of the JOBS Act. 227 While
some commenters supported simplifying the form or paring it down to focus on matters
of greatest significance, 228 one commenter supported a more expansive disclosure
regime. 229 This commenter suggested that the Commission coordinate with the States to
create a single disclosure document that would address disclosure from both a federal and
state securities law perspective. In the opinion of this commenter, a single form with
heightened disclosure is better than a less-comprehensive federal form that would
thereafter require additional disclosure items (and review) by state securities
regulators. 230 According to this commenter, the need for robust disclosure is magnified
by the increase in the annual offering amount and by an issuer’s ability to solicit
indications of interest before filing the offering statement, engage in general solicitation,
and sell to investors regardless of investor qualifications. 231

227

ABA Letter; WR Hambrecht + Co.; NASAA Letter 2.

228

Letter from Thomas D. O’Rourke, President, Alpine Ventures, Sept. 26, 2012 (“Alpine Ventures
Letter”); Letter from Rutheford B. Campbell, Jr., William L. Matthews Professor of Law,
University of Kentucky, Nov. 13, 2012 (“Campbell Letter”); see also Letter from Richard Lacey,
Small Business Owner, April 23, 2012 (“Lacey Letter”) (suggesting the form should be simple);
Letter from William Klehm, Fallbrook Technologies, September 23, 2013 (“Fallbrook Letter”)
(suggesting, among other things, that Regulation A should be simple and user-friendly); Letter
from Og Oggilby, Bank Clerk, Jan. 22, 2013 (“Oggilby Letter”) (suggesting relaxed regulations on
the sale of securities of small companies). But see Letter from David R. Burton, General Counsel,
National Small Business Association (“NSBA”), June 12, 2012 (“NSBA Letter”) (suggesting the
Commission not modify or update Regulation A other than by raising the annual offering
limitation to $50 million).

229

Letter from Jack Herstein, President, NASAA, July 3, 2012 (“NASAA Letter 1”) (suggesting that
heightened disclosure is better than a less-comprehensive federal form that would thereafter
require additional disclosure items (and review) by state securities regulators); NASAA Letter 2.

230

NASAA Letter 1.

231

NASAA Letter 2.

80

Separately, one commenter suggested that the Commission implement an offering
statement scaled on the basis of offering size. 232 Another commenter suggested that the
Commission consider requiring the scaled disclosure requirements available to smaller
reporting companies in Form 1-A, while also: i) focusing disclosure on matters of the
greatest significance, ii) limiting risk factors to those deemed important, iii) requiring
disclosure of valuation assessments (for all offerings made at a fixed price) and internal
projections used to set budgets as well as a discussion of management’s expectations of
future performance, iv) encouraging the use and filing of research reports, and v) if
Section 3(b)(2) securities are permitted to list on a national securities exchange
simultaneously with qualification of the offering statement, incorporating some
Form 10 233 disclosure requirements into Form 1-A. 234
One commenter suggested that the Commission update its rules regarding
revisions to the offering statement during the post-qualification period in light of
anticipated continuous, best efforts offerings. 235 The commenter suggested that the
current rule, which requires any updated or revised offering circular to be filed as an
amendment to the offering statement and requalified in accordance with Rule 252, 236
places an unnecessary burden on issuers. This commenter suggested that the
Commission adopt rules analogous to those for registered offerings where most
232

Campbell Letter (suggesting scaled disclosure in three tiers for offerings of: $0 – up to $1 million;
over $1 million – up to $5 million; over $5 million – up to $50 million).

233

17 CFR 249.210.

234

WR Hambrecht + Co. Letter; see also Letter from Karl M. Sjogern, April 25, 2013 (“Sjogern
Letter”) (suggesting any issuer of equity securities should be required to disclose the valuation it
has given itself given the terms of the offering, and to discuss the factors it considered when
setting its valuation).

235

Kaplan Voekler Letter 2. See related requests for comment in Section II.C.4. below.

236

See Rule 253(e)(3).

81

information meeting the undertaking requirements of Item 512 of Regulation S-K 237
requires a post-effective registration statement, and other updates to the prospectus in
such registration statement may be filed pursuant to Rule 424. 238
We propose to maintain Form 1-A’s existing three-part structure—Part I
(Notification), Part II (Offering Circular), and Part III (Exhibits)—while making various
revisions and updates to the Form.
a.

Part I (Notification)

Part I of Form 1-A serves as a notice of certain basic information about the issuer
and its proposed offering, which also helps to confirm the availability of the
exemption.239 We propose to continue to require the disclosure of this information in
modified and updated form. The current paper version of Part I of Form 1-A would be
converted into an online XML-based fillable form with indicator boxes or buttons and
text boxes and filed online with the Commission.240 The information would be publicly
available on EDGAR, as an online data cover sheet, but not otherwise required to be
distributed to investors. 241 The fillable form would enable issuers to provide information
in a convenient medium—without the requirement for specialty software—that would
capture relevant data about the issuer and its offering in a structured format to facilitate

237

17 CFR 229.512.

238

17 CFR 230.424.

239

SEC Rel. No. 33-6275 [46 FR 2637], at 2638.

240

As proposed, the cover page to current Form 1-A would be eliminated as a standalone
requirement, while portions of the information required on the cover page would be combined
with Item 1 of Part I of Form 1-A in the XML fillable form.

241

The Commission would disseminate the information in a format that provides normal text for
reading and XML-tagged data for analysis. With the exception of the items that focus issuers on
eligibility to use Regulation A, much of the information called for in the XML-based fillable form
is also required to be disclosed to investors in Part II of Form 1-A.

82

analysis of the Regulation A market and Regulation A issuers by the Commission, other
regulators, third-party data providers, and market participants. As noted above, the
XML-based fillable form would enable the convenient provision of information to the
Commission, and support the assembly and transmission of such information to EDGAR.
Facilitating the capture of important financial and other information about Regulation A
issuers and offerings in the proposed XML-based fillable form would enable the
Commission and market participants to monitor any developing market in Regulation A
securities and the types of issuers relying on the exemption.
The information collected in Part I would continue to focus issuers on eligibility
to use Regulation A, and would allow Commission staff reviewing the filings to more
easily make a determination about the conditions to the availability of the exemption. If
adopted, this could conserve issuer time and resources and enhance the efficiency of
review by Commission staff. If, after compiling the information elicited by Part I, an
issuer determined that it was ineligible to rely on Regulation A, it could choose to register
its offering or, if available, conduct an exempt offering in reliance on a different
exemption from registration.
The proposed notification in Part I of Form 1-A would require disclosure in
response to the following items:
•

Item 1. Issuer Information

•

Item 2. Issuer Eligibility

•

Item 3. Application of Rule 262 (“bad actor” disqualification and disclosure)

•

Item 4. Summary Information Regarding the Offering and other Current or
Proposed Offerings

83

•

Item 5. Jurisdictions in Which Securities are to be Offered

•

Item 6. Unregistered Securities Issued or Sold Within One Year
As proposed, Item 1 (Issuer Information), Item 2 (Issuer Eligibility), Item 3

(Application of Rule 262 (“bad actor” disqualification and disclosure)), Item 4 (Summary
Information Regarding the Offering and other Current or Proposed Offerings), and Item 6
(Unregistered Securities Issued or Sold Within One Year) would represent substantive
changes to Part I.
•

Item 1 (Issuer Information) would require information about the issuer’s
identity, industry, number of employees, financial statements and capital
structure, as well as contact information. 242

•

Item 2 (Issuer Eligibility) would require the issuer to certify that it meets
various proposed issuer eligibility criteria.

•

Item 3 (Application of Rule 262 (“bad actor” disqualification and disclosure))
would require the issuer to certify that no disqualifying events have occurred
and to indicate whether related disclosure is included in the offering circular
(i.e., events that would have been disqualifying but occurred before the
effective date of the amendments to Regulation A). 243

•

Item 4 (Summary Information Regarding the Offering and other Current or
Proposed Offerings) would include indicator boxes or buttons and text boxes

242

As proposed, some of the information in Item 1, such as the name of the issuer, jurisdiction of
incorporation, contact information, primary Standard Industrial Classification Code Number, and
I.R.S. Employer Identification Number is currently required to be included on the cover page of
Form 1-A. We propose to eliminate the cover page of Form 1-A and to move the relevant
information from the cover page into Item 1 of Part I.

243

See discussion of proposed Rule 262(a)(3) and (a)(5) in Section II.G. below.

84

eliciting information about the offering (including whether the issuer was
conducting a Tier 1 or Tier 2 offering, amount and type of securities offered,
proposed sales by selling securityholders and affiliates, type of offering,
estimated aggregate offering price of any concurrent offerings pursuant to
Regulation A, anticipated fees in connection with the offering, and the names
of auditors, legal counsel, underwriters, and certain others providing services
in connection with the offering).
•

Item 5 (Jurisdictions in Which Securities are to be Offered) would include
data collection about the jurisdiction in which the securities are to be offered.

•

Item 6 (Unregistered Securities Issued or Sold Within One Year), which
largely restates existing Item 5 to Part I, would eliminate the requirement to
provide the names and identities of the persons to whom unregistered
securities were issued.

We propose to eliminate Item 1 (Significant Parties) of current Part I, which
requires disclosure of the names, business address, and residential address of all the
persons covered by current Rule 262. Instead, we propose to only require narrative
disclosure in Part II of Form 1-A, as proposed, when the issuer has determined that a
relevant party has a disclosable “bad actor” event. 244 We propose to eliminate Item 3 of
current Part I because we propose to eliminate the current restrictions on affiliate resales
under Rule 251(b). 245 Information regarding the amount of proposed secondary sales and

244

See discussion in Section II.G. below.

245

The primary purpose of current Item 3 (Affiliate Sales) in Part I of Form 1-A is to ensure
compliance with certain restrictions on affiliate resales under Rule 251(b). See discussion in
Section II.B.3. above.

85

the existence of affiliate sales in the offering, however, would continue to be disclosed in
Item 4, as proposed. Item 6 (Other Present or Proposed Offerings) and Item 9 (Use of a
Solicitation of Interest Document) of current Part I would be incorporated into proposed
Item 4 (Summary Information Regarding the Offering and Other Current or Proposed
Offerings). We also propose to eliminate Item 7 (Marketing Arrangements) and Item 8
(Relationship with Issuer of Experts Named in Offering Statement) of current Part I, as
disclosure of this information is required in Part II (Offering Circular).
b.

Part II (Offering Circular)
(1)

Narrative Disclosure

As noted above, Part II (Offering Circular) in existing Form 1-A provides issuers
with three options for their narrative disclosure: Model A, Model B, and Part I of
Form S-1. 246 The use of these three options has not been revisited, nor have the Model A
and Model B formats been substantively revised by the Commission, since their
introduction in 1992. 247 In the context of a broader effort to update Regulation A and
make it more useful for market participants, we believe that the form and content of the
Regulation A Offering Circular is in need of reconsideration. In this regard, we propose
to eliminate Model A as a disclosure option, to update and retain Model B as a disclosure
option (renaming it “Offering Circular”), and to continue to permit issuers to rely on Part
I of Form S-1 to satisfy the disclosure obligations of Part II of Form 1-A.

246

Non-corporate issuers are not permitted to use Model A.

247

Before the 1992 amendments to Regulation A, Model B was the only format permissible in
Regulation A. See SEC Rel. No. 33-6275 [46 FR 2637]. Model A and Part I of Form S-1 were
added as additional issuer options at that time. Model B has not been substantively revised or
revisited since it was introduced by the Commission in 1981. See SEC Rel. No. 33-6924 [57 FR
9768], at 9771.

86

Model A. Model A was first introduced as an option for corporate issuers’
Regulation A offering statements in 1992. The basis for the form was the Small
Company Offering Registration, or SCOR, form developed by NASAA, in coordination
with state securities administrators and the securities bar, working through the ABA’s
State Regulation of Securities Committee. 248 Model A was intended to provide corporate
issuers with a “balanced approach to the capital raising process, providing a registration
form that small businesses can easily use at a reduced cost while still maintaining
investor protection.” 249 In practice, however, Model A has been used much less
frequently than Model B, and offerings using Model A have generally taken significantly
longer to qualify than those using Model B or Part I of Form S-1. 250 Commission staff
who review Regulation A filings indicate that Model A’s question-and-answer disclosure
format often results in disclosure that lacks uniformity and is hard to follow. While the
question-and-answer approach taken in Model A may help focus corporate issuers on
crucial disclosure issues, we are not convinced that the disclosure format results in clear
and understandable disclosure being provided to investors. We therefore propose to
eliminate Model A from the narrative disclosure options in Part II of Form 1-A.
248

NASAA’s Form U-7 (Small Company Offering Registration) was first approved for use in
connection with certain securities offerings by NASAA in 1989. See NASAA’s website on SCOR
Forms, available at: http://www.nasaa.org/industry-resources/corporation-finance/scoroverview/scor-forms/. It was later revised by NASAA in 1999. The revised version has not been
approved for use in connection with Regulation A by the Commission. In its comment letter,
NASAA suggested that the Commission consider allowing revised Form U-7 to be used in
connection with the Section 3(b)(2) exemption. See NASAA Letter 2.

249

SEC Rel. No. 33-6924, at 23-24.

250

From 2002 through 2012, approximately 21% of qualified Regulation A offerings have used
Model A, 66% have used Model B and 13% have used Form S-1. During the same period, the
average time required for an offering to qualify was 301 days for offerings using Model A, 220
days for offerings using Model B and 167 days for offerings using Form S-1. One reason that
Model A is used less frequently may be that it was not updated to correspond to the version of the
SCOR form adopted by NASAA in 1999, so an issuer may not be able to use the same disclosure
document in connection with Regulation A that it can use for state securities regulation disclosure.

87

Model B. Model B disclosure was first introduced by the Commission in 1981,
and was the only available disclosure format at that time. 251 It was preserved as a
disclosure option in the 1992 amendments to Regulation A. 252 It has not been
substantively updated or revised since 1981.
Model B was originally the product of a Commission review of the disclosure
practices of Regulation A issuers under Model B’s predecessor, Schedule I. 253 The
Commission found that Regulation A’s then-existing disclosure guidance and rules did
not provide sufficiently detailed directions for the types of offerings that were being
conducted under Regulation A. 254 As a result, issuers and their counsel often looked to
the existing disclosure guides for the preparation of registration statements 255 for
guidance on disclosure under Regulation A. 256 Such disclosure, however, lacked
uniformity, and caused delays in the Commission staff review and comment process. 257
Model B was a codification by the Commission of the disclosure standards that, in
practice, were being applied to Regulation A offerings at that time. 258 As enacted,
Model B was not intended to increase the disclosure obligations of issuers. Rather, in
addition to removing uncertainty as to the content of required disclosures, Model B’s
more comprehensive and uniform set of disclosure standards was intended to reduce an
251

See SEC Rel. No. 33-6275.

252

See SEC Rel. No. 33-6949, at 36444.

253

SEC Rel. No. 33-6275, at 2638.

254

Id.

255

See, e.g., SEC Rel. No. 33-4936 (Dec. 9, 1968) [33 FR 18617] (Guides for Preparation and Filing
of Registration Statements).

256

SEC Rel. No. 33-6275, at 2638.

257

Id.

258

Id.

88

issuer’s total time spent preparing and amending the offering circular, and the
Commission staff’s time spent reviewing and commenting on it. The result was offering
statement disclosure that closely followed the disclosure requirements then in effect for
registration statements, but scaled for smaller issuers. 259
Form S-1. The 1992 amendments to Regulation A also permitted issuers to draft
offering circular disclosure based on the narrative disclosure requirements for registered
offerings found in the then-newly created Form SB-1. 260 When Form SB-1 was
rescinded as part of the simplification and modernization of requirements for small
businesses, including the adoption of the smaller reporting company concept, Form 1-A
was revised to permit issuers to follow the narrative disclosure provisions of Part I of
Form S-1. 261 Thus, issuers are currently able to provide narrative disclosure under Part I
of Form S-1 based on the disclosure requirements for smaller reporting companies (if
applicable) or for larger companies that do not fall within the definition of a smaller
reporting company. 262
Form S-1 and the narrative disclosure requirements of Regulation S-K have been
revised numerous times since the introduction of Model B disclosure in 1981 to reflect
evolving disclosure requirements and standards. Model B disclosure, however, has
259

As an example of the variances between Form 1-A and registered offering disclosure, Item 10 of
Part II of Form 1-A called for disclosure of record ownership of voting securities by management
and certain securityholders, whereas Form S-18, a simplified registration form available to certain
corporate issuers going public for the first time before 1992, called for broader disclosure of
beneficial ownership of such securities. See SEC Rel. No. 33-6275, at 2640. This distinction
between Form 1-A and registered offering disclosure (on Form S-1) remains today.

260

Form SB-1 replaced Form S-18. See SEC Rel. No. 33-6949, at 36442.

261

See SEC Rel. No. 33-8876, at 166.

262

An issuer that qualifies as a smaller reporting company on the basis of public float or revenue (see,
e.g., Exchange Act Rule 12b-2, 17 CFR 240.12b-2) may follow the narrative disclosure
requirements in Part I of Form S-1 that apply to such companies.

89

remained essentially unchanged, as a version of Part I of Form S-1 circa 1981, scaled for
smaller issuers. Thus, while eliciting disclosure of largely the same information,
Model B and Part I of Form S-1 contain different item numbers and language.
Proposed Offering Circular. We propose to retain Model B (which, in light of the
proposed elimination of Model A, will be renamed “Offering Circular”) as a disclosure
option under Part II of Form 1-A, updated as detailed below in accordance with Title IV
of the JOBS Act and to reflect developments in disclosure requirements for registered
offerings since 1981. Updates to the Offering Circular would also incorporate the
disclosure guidelines in the Securities Act Industry Guides and guidance on the
disclosure requirements applicable to limited partnerships and limited liability
companies. 263 Additionally, we propose to continue to permit issuers to comply with Part
II of Form 1-A by providing the narrative disclosure required in Part I of Form S-1.
We solicit comment as to whether it would be more appropriate to eliminate
Model B disclosure altogether, and, in its place, to require issuers to follow the disclosure
and form requirements of Part I of Form S-1, while maintaining Model B-specific
disclosures where noted. As with the proposed updates to Model B, to the extent the
Commission chose to require disclosure that tracks Part I of Form S-1, it would not
increase the disclosure obligations of issuers except where noted below.
We are aware that eliminating Model A and updating Model B may raise
concerns about an increase in the disclosure required for a Regulation A offering. Our
proposal would create new requirements for audited financial statements (consistent with
263

See Item 7(c)-(d) to Part II of proposed Form 1-A; see also SEC Rel. No. 33-6900 (June 17, 1991)
[56 FR 28979] (setting forth the Commission’s view on the disclosure requirements for limited
partnerships).

90

the JOBS Act requirement of the annual filing of audited financial statements) and for a
section containing management’s discussion and analysis (MD&A) of the issuer’s
liquidity, capital resources, and results of operations. 264 Consistent with the requirements
of current Form 1-A, issuers that have not generated revenue from operations during
each of the three fiscal years immediately before the filing of the offering statement
would be required to describe their plan of operations for the twelve months following
qualification of the offering statement. 265 Otherwise, it is not intended to substantially
alter current Model B disclosure requirements.
As proposed, Offering Circular disclosure in Part II of Form 1-A would cover:
•

Basic information about the issuer and the offering, including identification of
any underwriters and disclosure of any underwriting discounts and
commissions (Item 1: Cover Page of Offering Circular);

•

Material risks in connection with the offering (Item 3: Summary and Risk
Factors);

•

Material disparities between the public offering price and the effective cash
costs for shares acquired by insiders during the past year (Item 4: Dilution);

•

Plan of distribution for the offering, including the disclosure required by Item
7 (Marketing Arrangements) of Part I of current Form 1-A and disclosure

264

While not currently an express disclosure requirement in Model B, some disclosure requirements
similar to MD&A are included in Form 1-A. Disclosure similar to the MD&A required in
registered offerings would provide potential investors with meaningful information upon which to
make an investment decision. The proposed MD&A disclosure requirements would provide
issuers with comprehensive guidance as to the specific requirements of such disclosure. The
primary differences between the MD&A we propose to require in Form 1-A and the MD&A
required under Item 303 of Regulation S-K, 17 CFR 229.303, are discussed below.

265

See Item 6(3)(i) of Model B of Part II of Form 1-A.

91

regarding selling securityholders (Item 5: Plan of Distribution and Selling
Securityholders);
•

Use of proceeds (Item 6: Use of Proceeds to Issuer);

•

Business operations of the issuer for the prior three fiscal years (or, if in
existence for less than three years, since inception) (Item 7: Description of
Business);

•

Material physical properties (Item 8: Description of Property);

•

Discussion and analysis of the issuer’s liquidity and capital resources and
results of operations through the eyes of management covering the two most
recently completed fiscal years; and, for issuers that have not received
revenue from operations during each of the three fiscal years immediately
before the filing of the offering statement, the plan of operations for the
twelve months following qualification of the offering statement, including a
statement about whether the issuer anticipates that it will be necessary to raise
additional funds within the next six months (Item 9: Management’s
Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations);

•

Identification of directors, executive officers and significant employees with a
discussion of any family relationships within that group, business experience
during the past five years, and involvement in certain legal proceedings during
the past five years (Item 10: Directors, Executive Officers and Significant
Employees);

92

•

Executive compensation data for the most recent fiscal year for the three
highest paid officers or directors (Item 11: Compensation of Directors and
Officers);

•

Beneficial ownership of voting securities by executive officers, directors, and
10% owners (Item 12: Security Ownership of Management and Certain
Securityholders);

•

Transactions with related persons, promoters and certain control persons (Item
13: Interest of Management and Others in Certain Transactions);

•

The material terms of the securities being offered (Item 14: Securities Being
Offered);

•

Two years of financial statements, which for Tier 2 offerings would be
required to be audited. Tier 1 offerings would be required to provide audited
financial statements to the extent the issuer had prepared them for other
purposes; 266 and

•

Any events that would have triggered disqualification of the offering under
Rule 262 if the issuer could not rely on the provisions in proposed
Rule 262(b)(1). 267

The proposed content of the Offering Circular would update the disclosure
requirements in some respects to more closely align Regulation A disclosure with the
smaller reporting company disclosure requirements for registered offerings, while certain

266

Financial statement requirements are discussed more fully in Section II.C.3.b(2). below.

267

See discussion of disqualification provisions in Section II.G. below. We propose to require this
“bad actor” disclosure even if the issuer elects to follow the Part I of Form S-1 disclosure format.

93

scaled elements exclusive to Model B would be retained. 268 The changes would result in
more detailed instructions on issuer disclosure in the MD&A section of the Offering
Circular, as well as a description of the issuer’s business for a period of three years (as
opposed to current Model B’s five-year requirement), with the added disclosure of any
legal proceedings material to the issuer’s business or financial condition. These changes
would make Offering Circular disclosure more akin to what is required of smaller
reporting companies in a prospectus, but more limited in certain respects. Additionally,
as with registered offerings by smaller reporting companies, issuers would be required to
disclose beneficial ownership of their voting securities, as opposed to record ownership
of voting and non-voting securities. Lastly, as to transactions with related persons,
promoters and certain control persons, issuers would no longer be required to disclose
such transactions in excess of $50,000 in the prior two years (or similar transactions
currently contemplated), but rather to follow the requirements for smaller reporting
company disclosure of transactions during the prior two fiscal years that exceed the lesser
of $120,000 or 1% of the average total assets at year end for the last two completed fiscal
years. 269

268

We are not proposing, however, to include in the Offering Circular all disclosures required of
smaller reporting companies under Regulation S-K. For example, we do not propose to include in
the Offering Circular disclosure required of certain issuers by the Dodd-Frank Act regarding
conflict minerals, payments made by resource extraction issuers, see SEC Rel. No. 34-67717
(Aug. 22, 2012) [77 FR 56365], pay ratio, pay for performance, hedging, or clawbacks. We also
do not propose to require Regulation A issuers to provide disclosure regarding the market price of
and dividends on common equity and related stockholder matters under Item 201 of
Regulation S-K, 17 CFR 229.201, changes in and disagreements with accountants under Item 304
of Regulation S-K, 17 CFR 229.304, corporate governance matters under Item 407 of
Regulation S-K, 17 CFR 229.407, and the determination of offering price under Item 505 of
Regulation S-K, 17 CFR 229.505.

269

See 17 CFR 229.404(d)(1).

94

With the exception of the requirements for disclosure of beneficial ownership,
material legal proceedings, and related party transactions for certain issuers, 270 these
proposed updates should not result in an overall increase in an issuer’s disclosure
obligations. For example, as mentioned above, issuers would be required to provide
fewer years of business description and certain issuers would have a higher threshold for
reporting transactions with related persons than current Model B. 271 Further, issuers
would be permitted to provide more streamlined disclosure of dilutive transactions with
insiders by no longer being required to present a dilution table based on the net tangible
book value per share of the issuer’s securities. 272 Additionally, while issuers would be
provided with more detailed instructions on MD&A disclosure, similar disclosure is
already called for under current requirements. 273 The proposed MD&A disclosure would
clarify existing requirements and save issuers time by providing more express guidance
regarding the type of information and analysis that should be included. We believe the
clearer requirements should also lead to improved MD&A disclosure, which would
provide investors with better visibility into management’s perspective on the issuer’s
financial condition and operations. Investors would also receive the benefit of disclosure

270

As proposed, issuers that have $5 million (or less) in average total assets at year end for the last
two completed fiscal years would be required to disclose related party transactions at a lower
threshold (i.e., 1% or more) than under the requirements of current Model B, which requires the
disclosure of transactions in excess of $50,000 in the prior two years.

271

See id.

272

See Item 4 (Dilution) to the Offering Circular in Part II of Form 1-A.

273

MD&A disclosure is specifically required by Model A. Model B calls for similar information in
Item 6, which requires disclosure of the characteristics of the issuer’s operations or industry that
may have a material impact upon the issuer’s future financial performance. Item 6 also requires
disclosure of the issuer’s plan of operations and short-term liquidity if the issuer has not received
revenue from operations during each of the three fiscal years immediately prior to filing the
offering statement.

95

that is more consistent across issuers in both registered offerings and Regulation A
offerings.
Issuers providing disclosure in the Offering Circular would retain most of the
scaled disclosure provisions currently found in Model B. We propose to continue to
permit Regulation A issuers to:
•

provide simplified executive compensation data for the three highest paid officers
and directors in tabular form for the most recent fiscal year; 274

•

disclose 10% beneficial owners of voting securities; 275 and

•

follow fewer specific disclosure requirements for the description of business
section. 276
Additionally, the Offering Circular would, in comparison to Model B of

Form 1-A, contain more express MD&A disclosure requirements and guidance. 277 These
requirements would not, however, be as extensive as those contained in Item 303 of
Regulation S-K. 278 For example, the Offering Circular would include detailed guidance
and requirements similar to Item 303 with respect to liquidity, capital resources, and
results of operations, including the most significant trend information, 279 but would not

274

Cf. Item 402(l)-(r) of Regulation S-K, 17 CFR 229.402(l)-(r), which requires more extensive
disclosure and tabular information for the two most recent fiscal years.

275

Cf. Item 403 of Regulation S-K, 17 CFR 229.403, which requires disclosure of beneficial owners
of more than 5% of voting securities.

276

Compare the requirements of Item 6 of Model B, Part II of Form 1-A with the more prescriptive
requirements of Item 11 of Form S-1 and Item 101 of Regulation S-K, 17 CFR 229.101.

277

The requirements for financial statements in Part F/S of Part II of Form 1-A are discussed in
Section II.C.3.b(2). below.

278

17 CFR 229.303 (Management’s discussion and analysis of financial condition and results of
operations in the context of registered offerings).

279

17 CFR 303(a)(1)-(3). Cf. Form 20-F, at Item 5.

96

require disclosure (in the normal course) of off-balance sheet arrangements or contractual
obligations. 280 As with the treatment of smaller reporting companies under Item 303(d),
Regulation A issuers would only be required to disclose information about the issuer’s
results of operations for the two most recently completed fiscal years. Further, consistent
with existing Form 1-A, issuers that have not generated revenue from operations during
each of the three fiscal years immediately before the filing of the offering statement
would have to describe their plan of operations for the twelve months following
qualification of the offering statement, including a statement about whether, in the
issuer’s opinion, it will be necessary to raise additional funds within the next six months
to implement the plan of operations. 281
Consistent with the treatment of issuers in registered offerings, we further propose
to permit issuers to incorporate by reference into Part II of the Form 1-A certain items
previously submitted or filed on EDGAR. Incorporation by reference would be limited to
documents publicly submitted or filed under Regulation A, such as Form 1-A and
Form 1-K, and their exhibits. In order to be permitted to incorporate by reference, issuers
would have to be subject to the ongoing reporting obligations for Tier 2 offerings. 282
Issuers would be required to describe the information incorporated by reference, which

280

During the course of the qualification process, Commission staff reviewing the offering statement
may request the disclosure of such information, where the disclosure of such information would be
material to an understanding of the issuer’s financial condition.

281

See Form 1-A, Model B, at Item 6 (Description of Business).

282

Issuers following the Offering Circular disclosure model would be permitted to incorporate by
reference Items 2 through 14, whereas issuers following the narrative disclosure in Part I of
Form S-1 would be permitted to incorporate by reference Items 3 through 11 of Part I of
Form S-1. See General Instruction III to proposed Form 1-A. As with Model B, the item numbers
in the Offering Circular model of proposed Part II of Form 1-A and Part I of Form S-1 do not
align.

97

would be required to be accompanied by a separate hyperlink to the relevant document on
EDGAR, which need not remain active after the filing of the related offering statement.
(2)

Financial Statements

Part F/S of Form 1-A currently requires issuers in Regulation A offerings to
provide the following financial statements prepared in accordance with U.S. GAAP:
•

a balance sheet as of a date within 90 days before filing the offering statement (or as
of an earlier date, not more than six months before filing, if the Commission approves
upon a showing of good cause) but, for filings made more than 90 days after the end
of the issuer’s most recent fiscal year, the balance sheet must be dated as of the end of
the fiscal year;

•

statements of income, cash flows, and stockholders’ equity for each of the two fiscal
years preceding the date of the most recent balance sheet, and for any interim period
between the end of the most recent fiscal year and the date of the most recent balance
sheet;

•

financial statements of significant acquired businesses; and

•

pro forma information relating to significant business combinations.
As noted above, the financial statements are not required to be audited unless the

issuer has already obtained an audit of its financial statements for another purpose. If the
issuer has audited financial statements, the qualifications and reports of the auditor must
meet the requirements of Article 2 of Regulation S-X 283 and the audit must be conducted
in accordance with U.S. Generally Accepted Auditing Standards (GAAS) or the

283

17 CFR 210.1 et seq.

98

standards of the Public Company Oversight Board (PCAOB), but auditors are not
required to be registered with the PCAOB. 284
We have not received extensive comment on the potential financial statement
requirements for issuers under Title IV of the JOBS Act. One commenter suggested
audited financial statements should be required for all offerings. 285 Another commenter
urged the Commission to prohibit the use of financial projections unless they are
reviewed, and filed along with the issuance of an unqualified opinion, by a licensed
certified public accountant. 286 Another commenter suggested—while discussing offering
statements generally—that the Commission should consider scaling financial statement
requirements on the basis of offering size. 287
We propose to generally maintain the existing financial statement requirements of
current Part F/S for Tier 1 offerings, while requiring issuers in Tier 2 offerings to file
audited financial statements in Part F/S. 288 Specifically, we propose to require all issuers
to file balance sheets as of the two most recently completed fiscal year ends (or for such
shorter time that they have been in existence), instead of the current requirement to file a
balance sheet as of only the most recently completed fiscal year end. In light of the
requirement in Part F/S for issuers to provide statements of income, cash flows, and

284

See Form 1-A, Part F/S.

285

WR Hambrecht + Co. Letter.

286

NASAA Letter 2.

287

Campbell Letter.

288

See paragraph (c) of Part F/S of Form 1-A. An issuer offering up to $5 million that elects to
conduct a Tier 2 offering would be required, in addition to filing audited financial statements in
the offering statement, to provide ongoing reports to the Commission on the proposed annual and
semiannual basis, with interim current event updates, see Section II.E.1. below, and only be
permitted to terminate their ongoing reporting obligation by satisfying the requirements for filing a
Form 1-Z described in Section II.E.4. below.

99

stockholders’ equity for each of the two fiscal years preceding the date of the most recent
balance sheet, we believe issuers would already have the additional balance sheet or be in
a position to easily generate the additional balance sheet at minimal additional cost, and
that comparison between the two balance sheets would provide valuable additional
information. Financial statements for U.S.-domiciled issuers would be required to be
prepared in accordance with U.S. GAAP, as is currently the case. We propose, however,
to permit Canadian issuers to prepare financial statements in accordance with either U.S.
GAAP or International Financial Reporting Standards (IFRS) as issued by the
International Accounting Standards Board (IASB). 289
In general, issuers conducting Tier 1 offerings must follow the requirements for
the form and content of their financial statements set out in Part F/S, rather than
following the requirements in Regulation S-X. However, in certain less common
circumstances, such as for an acquired business or subsidiary guarantors, Part F/S directs
issuers conducting Tier 1 offerings to comply with certain portions of Regulation S-X,
which provides guidance on the financial statements required in such transactions. 290
For all Tier 2 offerings, however, issuers would be required to follow the financial
statement requirements of Article 8 of Regulation S-X, as if the issuer conducting a
289

If the financial statements comply with IFRS as issued by the IASB, such compliance must be
unreservedly and explicitly stated in the notes to the financial statements and the auditor’s report
must include an opinion on whether the financial statements comply with IFRS as issued by the
IASB. See General Rule (a)(2) to Part F/S of proposed Form 1-A. Cf. Item 17(c) of Form 20-F.

290

We propose to update the requirements for financial statements of businesses acquired or to be
acquired in Part F/S to refer to the requirements of Rule 8-04 of Regulation S-X. We also propose
to provide specific references to the relevant provisions of Regulation S-X regarding the
requirements for financial statements of guarantors and the issuers of guaranteed securities
(Rule 3-10 of Regulation S-X), financial statements of affiliates whose securities collateralize an
issuance of securities (Rule 3-16 of Regulation S-X), and financial statements provided in
connection with oil and gas producing activities (Rule 4-10 of Regulation S-X). The financial
statements provided in these circumstances would only be required to be audited to the extent the
issuer had already obtained an audit of its financial statements for other purposes.

100

Tier 2 offering were a smaller reporting company, unless otherwise noted in Part F/S.
This requirement would include any financial information with respect to acquired
businesses required by Rule 8-04 and 8-05 of Regulation S-X. 291
As with current Regulation A, financial statements in a Tier 1 offering would not
be required to be audited. However, we also propose to maintain Regulation A’s existing
requirement that, if an issuer conducting a Tier 1 offering has already obtained an audit of
its financial statements for other purposes, and that audit was performed in accordance
with U.S. generally accepted auditing standards or the auditing standards of the PCAOB,
and the auditor was independent pursuant to Rule 2-01 of Regulation S-X, then those
audited financial statements must be filed. The auditor may, but need not be, registered
with the PCAOB.
Issuers conducting Tier 2 offerings would, by contrast, be required to have their
financial statements audited. As with Tier 1 offerings, the auditor of financial statements
being filed as part of a Tier 2 offering must be independent under Rule 2-01 of
Regulation S-X and must comply with the other requirements of Article 2 of
Regulation S-X, but need not be PCAOB-registered. 292 Issuers conducting Tier 2
offerings would, however, be required to provide financial statements that are audited in
accordance with the standards of the PCAOB. In addition to auditing standards, PCAOB
standards include requirements on auditor ethics, independence and quality control that,
in comparison to the auditing standards of U.S. GAAS, could improve the quality of the

291

Issuers would, however, follow paragraph (a)(3) of Part F/S of Form 1-A with respect to the age of
the financial statements and the periods to be presented.

292

See Part F/S of Form 1-A (referencing Article 2 of Regulation S-X, 17 CFR 210.2-01 et seq.).

101

audit and the financial statements provided to investors in potentially larger Tier 2
offerings.
Additionally, we propose to update the Form 1-A financial statement
requirements to be consistent with the proposed timetable for ongoing reporting. 293
Under Regulation A, as currently in effect, issuers are required to prepare a balance sheet
as of a date not more than 90 days before filing the offering statement, or not more than
six months before filing if the Commission approves upon a showing of good cause. 294 If
the financial statements are filed more than 90 days after the end of the issuer’s most
recently completed fiscal year, the financial statements must include that fiscal year. 295
In practice, however, Commission staff reviewing Form 1-A filings routinely affords
issuers the six-month accommodation, subject to the requirement that financial
statements must otherwise be dated as of the end of the most recently completed fiscal
year if filed more than 90 days after the end of such fiscal year.
We propose to extend the permissible age of financial statements in Form 1-A to
nine months, in order to permit the provision of financial statements that are updated on a
timetable consistent with our proposed requirement for semiannual interim reporting. 296
We also propose to add a new limitation on the age of financial statements at
qualification, under which an offering statement could not be qualified if the date of the
balance sheet included under Part F/S were more than nine months before the date of
293

Our proposals for ongoing reporting are discussed in Section II.E. below.

294

See Form 1-A, Part F/S.

295

Id.

296

This age of financial statements requirement is also consistent with the treatment of foreign private
issuers in the context of registered offerings. See Division of Corporation Finance’s Financial
Reporting Manual, at 6620, available at:
http://www.sec.gov/divisions/corpfin/cffinancialreportingmanual.pdf#topic6.

102

qualification. 297 For filings made more than three months after the end of the issuer’s
most recent fiscal year, the balance sheet would be required to be dated as of the end of
the most recent fiscal year. 298 For filings made more than nine months after the end of
the issuer’s most recent fiscal year, the balance sheet would be required to be dated no
earlier than as of six months after the end of the most recent fiscal year. 299 If interim
financial statements are required, they would be required to cover a period of at least six
months. 300 Requiring issuers to file interim financial statements no older than nine
months and covering a minimum of six months would have the beneficial effect of
eliminating what could otherwise be a requirement for certain issuers to provide quarterly
interim financial statements during the qualification process and would be consistent with
the timing of our proposed ongoing reporting requirements. 301 We propose to generally
maintain the timing requirement of existing Form 1-A concerning the date after which an
issuer must provide financial statements dated as of the most recently completed fiscal
year, but to change the interval from 90 calendar days to three months, which we believe
would simplify compliance.
We solicit comment below on whether issuers conducting Tier 2 offerings should
be required to provide their financial statements to the Commission and on their
corporate websites in interactive data format using the eXtensible Business Reporting
297

Currently, Form 1-A does not expressly limit the age of financial statements at qualification. In
practice, however, Commission staff requires issuers to update financial statements before
qualification to the extent such financial statements no longer satisfy Form 1-A’s requirements for
the age of financial statements at the time of filing.

298

See paragraph (a)(3)(i) to Part F/S of proposed Form 1-A.

299

Id.

300

See paragraph (a)(3)(iv) to Part F/S of proposed Form 1-A.

301

See discussion in Section II.E.1.b. below (Semiannual Reports on Form 1-SA).

103

Language (XBRL). 302 We have not received any public comment on this issue to date
and do not propose any such requirement. If the Commission were to adopt any such
requirement, as with registered offerings, the interactive data would have to be provided
as an exhibit to the offering statement filed with the Commission. On the same basis and
subject to the same qualifications, interactive data would be required for all periodic and
current reporting, as well as for the annual audited financial statements. Filers would be
required to prepare their interactive data using the list of tags the Commission specifies
and submit them with any supporting files the EDGAR Filer Manual prescribes. 303
Interactive data would be required for the complete set of their financial statements,
which includes the face financial statements and all footnotes. 304 Filers would be
required to tag every financial statement line item and “detail tag” the footnotes by
tagging each amount.
c.

Part III (Exhibits)

We have not received any comments about the exhibits that should be filed with
the offering statement. 305 We propose to continue to permit issuers to incorporate by
reference certain information in documents filed under Regulation A that is already
302

Data becomes interactive when it is labeled or “tagged” using a computer markup language such
as XBRL that software can process for analysis. For a discussion of current financial statement
interactive data requirements, see SEC Rel. No. 33-9002 (Jan. 30, 2009) [74 FR 6776]. Financial
statements for issuers seeking to qualify Tier 1 offerings may be treated differently because
audited financial statements may not be required in the offering statements of such issuers.

303

The EDGAR Filer Manual is available at: http://www.sec.gov/info/edgar/edmanuals.htm.

304

17 CFR 210.12-01 et seq.

305

Part III (Exhibits) of Form 1-A currently requires issuers to file the following exhibits with the
offering statement: Underwriting agreement; Charter and by-laws; Instrument defining the rights
of securityholders; Subscription agreement; Voting trust agreement; Material contracts; Material
foreign patents; Plan of acquisition, reorganization, arrangement, liquidation, or succession;
Escrow agreements; Consents; Opinion re legality; Sales material; “Test the water” material;
Appointment for agent for service of process; and any additional exhibits the issuer may wish to
file.

104

available on EDGAR, but, in addition to the requirement to describe the information
incorporated by reference, issuers would be required to include a hyperlink to such
exhibit on EDGAR.306 As proposed, such issuers would also have to be subject to the
ongoing reporting obligations for Tier 2 offerings. To the extent post-qualification
amendments to offering statements must include audited financial statements, the consent
of the certifying accountant to the use of such accountant’s certificate in connection with
the amended financial statements must be included. 307 Additionally, and consistent with
the requirements of existing Regulation A, any solicitation materials used by the issuer
would have to be included as an exhibit to the offering statement at the time of
non-public submission or filing.
d.

Signature Requirements

Under current Regulation A, an issuer must file seven copies of the offering
statement with the Commission, at least one of which must be manually signed. 308 In
light of the proposed electronic filing requirements for Regulation A offering materials
discussed above, 309 however, issuers would no longer be required to file a manually
signed copy of the Form 1-A with the Commission. 310 Similar to the requirement for
issuers in the context of registered offerings, issuers would instead be required to
manually sign a copy of the offering statement before or at the time of filing that would
306

See General Instruction III to proposed Form 1-A and discussion in Section II.C.3.b(1). above
regarding incorporation by reference in Part II of Form 1-A. The hyperlink must be active at the
time of filing, but need not remain active after filing.

307

This is consistent with current practice under Regulation A, but would be made an express
requirement under the proposed rules. See proposed Rule 252(h)(1)(ii).

308

See Rule 252(e).

309

See discussion in Section II.C.1. above.

310

This proposed requirement would also apply to any Form 1-A non-publicly submitted to the
Commission.

105

have to be retained by the issuer for a period of five years. 311 Issuers would be required
to produce the manually signed copy to the Commission, upon request. 312
Additionally, if the issuer filing a Form 1-A under current Regulation A is a
Canadian issuer, its authorized representative in the United States is required to sign the
offering statement. 313 This requirement corresponds to a similar requirement under
Section 6 of the Securities Act for filings of registration statements by foreign issuers. 314
We propose to eliminate this requirement under Regulation A. Offerings qualified under
Regulation A are not subject to the liability provisions of Section 11 of the Securities Act,
and having a signatory in the United States does not provide purchasers with significant
additional protections. In addition, we propose to maintain the requirement that Canadian
issuers file a Form F-X 315 to provide an express consent to service of process in
connection with offerings qualified under Form 1-A. This treatment is similar to
requirements for Canadian companies making filings under the multijurisdictional
disclosure system. 316
Request for Comment
45. Should we continue to require a Part I (Notification) to be filed as part of the
offering statement on Form 1-A? If so, should we require additional (or less)

311

See Instruction 2 to Signatures in Form 1-A; cf. Rule 402(e), 17 CFR 230.402(e).

312

Id.

313

See Rule 252(f) and Instruction 1 to Signatures of Form 1-A.

314

15 U.S.C. 77f(a).

315

17 CFR 239.42.

316

See SEC Rel. No. 33-6902 (June 21, 1991) [56 FR 30036] (adopting the multijurisdictional
disclosure system).

106

information in Part I than is currently required or proposed? If so, provide
justifications for such disclosure.
46. As proposed, what would be the costs and benefits associated with requiring
an issuer, as part of the electronic filing process, to enter key information
about itself and its securities on a formatted cover sheet to accompany the
EDGAR-formatted text file attachment?
47. Some market participants have urged us to simplify the disclosure
requirements associated with Regulation A in order to facilitate more
cost-effective capital formation by small companies. 317 Most commenters,
however, have not made specific suggestions. Are there particular disclosure
requirements associated with Regulation A that are most in need of
simplification? Are there currently required disclosures that could be
modified? Alternatively, are there any disclosure standards, not currently
required or proposed in Regulation A, that should be included as disclosure
requirements in the new Form 1-A? If so, which disclosure could be reduced
or eliminated, or should be included?
48. As proposed, should we continue to maintain certain disclosure requirements
in the proposed Offering Circular, while updating others to be more in line
with the disclosure required of smaller reporting companies? If not, why not?
Please provide suggestions as to what disclosure should be preserved in the
Offering Circular or updated to accord with the smaller reporting company
requirements in the context of registered offerings.
317

Alpine Ventures Letter; Campbell Letter; Lacey Letter; Oggilby Letter.

107

49. Should we provide for scaled narrative disclosure in Form 1-A based on the
size of the issuer or size of the offering? Why or why not? If so, on what
size-based attributes of an issuer or the offering should we base any such
scaled disclosure requirements and what types of scaled disclosure would be
applicable to each resulting category?
50. Should we update and provide more specific guidance as to the MD&A
section required to be included in the Offering Circular, as proposed? Is there
any additional guidance we should provide?
51. As proposed, and consistent with the requirements of smaller reporting
companies under Item 303 of Regulation S-K, should we permit Regulation A
issuers to provide only two years of information about their results of
operations? Why or why not? Are there any other specific provisions from
Item 303 of Regulation S-K that would (or would not) be appropriate for the
types of issuers likely to rely on Regulation A? If so, please explain why any
such provision should (or should not) apply.
52. Should we continue to require, as proposed, the disclosure of an issuer’s plan
of operations for the twelve months following qualification of the offering
statement? Why or why not? Alternatively, is this disclosure requirement
appropriate for the types of issuers likely to rely on Regulation A? If not, why
not?
53. Should we consider adding a disclosure requirement in Part II of Form 1-A
that would require issuers to disclose the value of the issuer prior to the
contemplated Regulation A offering (i.e., pre-money value)? If so, are there

108

any practical limitations on the ability of issuers with complicated capital
structures to provide investors with an accurate figure or basis for such a
calculation? Should we also consider requiring disclosure of how the price to
the public of the securities being offered was determined?
54. Would it be an efficiency to issuers if we were to eliminate the proposed
Offering Circular disclosure format, and instead have Form 1-A refer issuers
item-by-item to Form S-1 requirements, while preserving—where noted in
Form 1-A itself—Model B-specific scaling? Alternatively, should we
continue to allow issuers to use Part I of Form S-1 as a separate disclosure
option in Part II of Form 1-A? Why or why not?
55. Should we make changes to the exhibit requirements of Part III of Form 1-A
in addition to those proposed? For example, should we change the standard
for filing material contracts by specifically excluding certain types of
contracts?
56. As proposed, should we permit issuers that are current in their Tier 2 reporting
obligations to incorporate by reference certain information in documents filed
under Regulation A into Part II of the offering statement, while also requiring
issuers to include a hyperlink to such information on EDGAR? Why or why
not? If so, should we also permit successor entities to incorporate by
reference to the extent their predecessors were eligible? Why or why not? If
we permit the incorporation by reference of information already available on
EDGAR, should we exclude shell companies or any other types of entities

109

from being able to rely on any such accommodation? 318 Why or why not?
Should issuers be permitted to incorporate by reference to Exchange Act
reports and documents filed in connection with registered offerings?
57. Should we alter the proposed period of time in which an issuer must have
been current in their ongoing reporting in order to be able to incorporate by
reference certain information into Part II of Form 1-A that is already available
on EDGAR? If so, what period of time should apply to any requirement that
an issuer be current in filing its ongoing reports?
58. Instead of the proposed general requirement that issuers must file audited
financial statements for Tier 2 offerings, should the rules require audited
financial statements at a different threshold (e.g., for all offerings—whether
under Tier 1 or Tier 2—in excess of the $500,000 requirement for audited
financial statements set forth under the Commission’s proposed crowdfunding
exemption pursuant to Section 4(a)(6) of the Securities Act, or for all
Regulation A offerings)? Are there other characteristics of an offering, other
than the aggregate offering amount, that should trigger the audited financial
statement requirement, such as public float or asset size of the issuer? If so,
which other characteristics?
59. For Tier 2 offerings, should the financial statement updating requirement be
changed from the proposed requirements in Part F/S of Form 1-A that would
permit issuers to file financial statements based on a balance sheet dated
318

Shell companies (other than business combination shell companies) are currently unable to
incorporate by reference prior Exchange Act reports in Form S-1. See General Instruction VII.D.
to Form S-1.

110

within nine months of non-public submission or filing, but must otherwise be
dated as of the end of the most recently completed fiscal year, if non-publicly
submitted or filed three months after the end of such fiscal year? Or should
Part F/S of Form 1-A require updating for Tier 2 offerings on a schedule
similar to what would be required in a registered offering by a smaller
reporting company? Why or why not?
60. As proposed, should we require issuers to file balance sheets for the two most
recently completed fiscal years, instead of the current requirement to file a
balance sheet for only the most recently completed fiscal year? Why or why
not?
61. As proposed, should we permit Canadian issuers to prepare their financial
statements using IFRS as issued by the IASB, rather than U.S. GAAP? If so,
as noted above in Section II.B.1.a., to the extent we extend issuer eligibility to
include foreign private issuers, should we permit all foreign private issuers to
prepare their financial statements using IFRS as issued by the IASB, rather
than U.S. GAAP?
62. As proposed, in Tier 1 offerings should we only refer to Regulation S-X when
describing the auditor independence and compliance requirements of Article 2
and the financial statement requirements relating to guarantors and issuers of
guaranteed securities, affiliates whose securities collateralize an issuance, or
issuers engaged in oil and gas producing activities? Should we clarify the
financial statement requirements in other specific situations? Instead of

111

referring to Regulation S-X, should we develop new standards appropriate for
Tier 1 offerings?
63. As proposed, should we permit issuers that do not qualify as a smaller
reporting company to only provide two years of audited financial statements
for Tier 2 offerings? Or should we require such issuers to file three years of
financial statements? Why or why not?
64. As proposed, should we require that, when audited financial statements are
required to be filed in Part F/S for Tier 2 offerings, those audits be conducted
in accordance with PCAOB standards? Alternatively, as with existing
Regulation A, should we require the financial statements audit to be
performed in accordance with U.S. GAAS or the PCAOB standards? Should
we require auditors to be PCAOB-registered? Why or why not?
65. Would there be a cost difference to issuers of requiring audits in Tier 2
offerings to be conducted in accordance PCAOB standards, as proposed,
compared to U.S. GAAS? Would there be a benefit to investors?
66. Would there be a cost difference to issuers if, in addition to requiring auditors
to conduct the audits in Tier 2 offerings in accordance with PCAOB
standards, as proposed, we also required auditors to be PCAOB-registered?
Would there be a benefit to investors?
67. Should we require interactive data tagging of financial statements included in
Regulation A offering statements? If so, should we require interactive data
for all Regulation A offerings, or only Tier 2 offerings? What effect would
the cost of compliance with any interactive data tagging requirements have on

112

the issuers likely to rely on Regulation A? If we require interactive data
tagging, should we implement a phase-in period for such tagging and detailed
footnote and schedule tagging?
68. As noted above in Section II.B.1.b. discussing issuer eligibility, in order to
address concerns regarding the use of Regulation A by REITs (and on the
potential use by BDCs) absent additional REIT- (or BDC-) specific
disclosures, should we require additional disclosure by REITs (and BDCs, if
ultimately permitted to rely on the exemption)? Why or why not? If so,
please make specific recommendations as to the form and content of any such
additional disclosure.
69. As proposed, should we continue to permit issuers to incorporate by reference
certain information into Part III (Exhibits) of the offering statement that was
previously filed on EDGAR, while also requiring issuers to be subject to a
Tier 2 reporting obligation? Or, as with current Regulation A, should we
permit issuers to incorporate by reference in Part III of Form 1-A certain
information irrespective of their obligation to file ongoing reports under Tier 2
of Regulation A? Why or why not?
70. As proposed, should we require issuers to retain manually signed copies of the
offering statement for a period of five years? Or should we consider an
alternative retention period? Alternatively, should we eliminate the
requirement altogether in favor of alternative signature methods (e.g.,
electronic signatures)? Why or why not?

113

71. As proposed, should we eliminate the requirement that Form 1-A be signed by
an authorized representative in the United States when the filer is a Canadian
issuer? Should we, as proposed, require Canadian issuers to file a Form F-X
to provide an express consent to service of process in connection with
offerings qualified under Form 1-A? Why or why not? If so, should
Form F-X be required to be filed by Canadian issuers in connection with other
filings under Regulation A, including proposed new Form 1-K, Form 1-SA,
Form 1-U, or Form 1-Z? 319 Why or why not?
4.

Continuous or Delayed Offerings and Offering Circular Supplements

Rule 251(d)(3) currently allows for continuous or delayed offerings under
Regulation A if permitted by Rule 415. 320 By reference to the undertakings of
Item 512(a) of Regulation S-K, 321 Rule 415 does not necessarily require every change in
the information contained in a prospectus to a registration statement in a continuous
offering to be reflected in a post-effective amendment. 322 On the other hand,
Regulation A requires every revised or updated offering circular in a continuous offering
to be filed as an amendment to the offering statement to which it relates and requalified in
a process analogous to the Commission staff review, comment and qualification process

319

The proposed rules for ongoing reporting, and related forms, are discussed in Section II.E.1.
below.

320

17 CFR 230.415.

321

17 CFR 230.415(a)(3).

322

See 17 CFR 229.512(a)(1) (requiring issuers to file a post-effective amendment for purposes of an
update under Section 10(a)(3) of the Securities Act, to reflect any facts or events arising after
effectiveness that, individually or in the aggregate, represent a fundamental change in the
information set forth in the registration statement, or to include, subject to certain exceptions, any
material information with respect to the plan of distribution not previously disclosed (or material
changes to information previously disclosed) in the registration statement).

114

for initial offering statements. 323 The requalification process can be costly and time
consuming for smaller issuers conducting continuous offerings of securities pursuant to
Regulation A. 324 As discussed more fully below, we propose to clarify in the proposed
rules for Regulation A the scope of permissible continuous or delayed offerings and the
related concept of offering circular supplements.
Rule 415 attempts to promote efficiency and cost savings in the securities markets
by allowing for the registration of certain traditional and other shelf offerings. 325 When
Rule 415 was adopted, the Commission recognized that certain traditional shelf offerings
have been allowed by administrative practice for many years despite the absence of such
a rule. 326 Since Rule 415 only addresses registered offerings, however, the precise scope
of continuous or delayed offerings under Regulation A has been unclear. We believe that
proposed Regulation A should continue to allow for certain traditional shelf offerings to
promote flexibility, efficiency, and to reduce unnecessary offerings costs. 327 However,
we propose to condition the ability to sell securities in a continuous or delayed offering
on being current with ongoing reporting requirements at the time of sale. We believe this

323

See Rule 253(e); Rule 252(h)(1).

324

See Kaplan Voekler Letter 2.

325

See SEC Rel. No. 33-6499 [48 FR 52889] (Nov. 23, 1983) (noting the efficiency and cost savings
issuers experienced during the eighteen month trial period for a previous temporary version of the
rule).

326

Certain “traditional shelf offerings” have been allowed since at least 1968 by the Commission’s
guides for the preparation and filing of registration statements, such as Guide 4, and related
administrative practice. See id.; see also SEC Rel. No. 33-4936 [33 FR 18617] (Dec. 9, 1968)
(adopting Guide 4 and other Commission guides).

327

See SEC Rel. No. 33-6499, at IV.A. (“[T]he procedural flexibility afforded by the Rule enables a
registrant to time its offering to avail itself of the most advantageous market conditions . . .
registrants are able to obtain lower interest rates on debt and lower dividend rates on preferred
stock, thereby benefiting their existing shareholders. The flexibility provided by [Rule 415] also
permits variation in the structure and terms of securities on short notice, enabling registrants to
match securities with the current demands of the marketplace.”).

115

additional condition will not impose incremental costs on issuers, which are in any case
required to update their offering statement and to file such ongoing reports, and will
insure parity of information in secondary markets.
To provide clarity regarding the application of Rule 415 concepts to Regulation A
offerings, we propose to add a provision to Regulation A similar to Rule 415, but with
limitations we believe would be appropriate in the context of Regulation A. The
provision would establish time limits similar to those in Rule 415 and make conforming
changes as necessary. 328
The proposed rule would provide for continuous or delayed offerings for the
following types of offerings:
•

securities offered or sold by or on behalf of a person other than the issuer or
its subsidiary;

•

securities offered and sold pursuant to a dividend or interest reinvestment plan
or an employee benefit plan of the issuer;

•

securities issued upon the exercise of outstanding options, warrants, or rights;

•

securities issued upon conversion of other outstanding securities;

•

securities pledged as collateral; or

•

securities the offering of which commences within two calendar days after the
qualification date, will be made on a continuous basis, may continue for a
period in excess of 30 days from the date of initial qualification, and will be
offered in an amount that, at the time the offering statement is qualified, is

328

Proposed Rule 251(d)(3).

116

reasonably expected to be offered and sold within two years from the initial
qualification date. 329
The Rule 415 offerings we have not proposed to incorporate into Regulation A
are those that would not have been available under existing Regulation A, such as those
requiring securities to be registered on Form S-3 or Form F-3 or those conducted by
issuers ineligible to use Regulation A, 330 as well as certain offerings that we do not
currently believe would be appropriate to include in the Regulation A framework. For
example, transactions typically done on Form S-4, such as acquisition shelf business
combination transactions, would be excluded under the proposed rules. Further, we
propose to prohibit all “at the market” offerings under Regulation A. 331 While it is
possible that a market in Regulation A securities may develop that is capable of
supporting primary and secondary at the market offerings, rather than permit such
offerings at the outset, we believe that any Regulation A market that develops on the
basis of the proposed rules should be monitored in the short term to determine whether
the exemption would be an appropriate method for such offerings going forward.
Further, an offering sold at fluctuating market prices may not be appropriate within the
context of an exemption that is contingent upon not exceeding a maximum offering size.
We do, however, seek comment as to whether the provision should permit primary and/or
secondary offerings conducted in reliance on Regulation A to be sold at market prices.

329

Id.

330

Rule 415(a)(1)(xi) discusses investment companies and BDCs.

331

See proposed Rule 251(d)(3)(ii).

117

Under the proposed rules, changes in the information contained in the offering
statement would no longer necessarily trigger an obligation to amend. 332 Offering
circulars for continuous Regulation A offerings would continue to be required to be
updated, and the offering statements to which they relate requalified, annually to include
updated financial statements, and otherwise as necessary to reflect facts or events arising
after qualification which, in the aggregate, represent a fundamental change in the
information set forth in the offering statement. 333 In addition to post-qualification
amendments to the offering statement that must be qualified, however, we also propose to
allow issuers to use offering circular supplements in certain situations. 334 Further, we
propose to permit issuers in continuous offerings to qualify additional securities in
reliance on Regulation A by a post-qualification amendment. 335
The proposed rules would build on Regulation A to create a regime similar to
what is permissible for registered offerings, and would draw from and adapt the language
in Rule 424, Item 512 of Regulation S-K, and Rule 430A 336 to do so. Although filing a
post-qualification amendment and a review by the Commission staff remains appropriate
in some circumstances, we recognize that additional flexibility could be provided in other
circumstances. Under the proposed rules, we borrow from the experience in registered
offerings under Rule 415 to permit offering circular supplements for continuous or
delayed offerings where the offering statement is not required to be amended by

332

See proposed Rule 252(h)(1).

333

Proposed Rule 252(h)(2). See also discussion in Section II.E.1. below.

334

One commenter suggested that such supplements be permitted. See Kaplan Voekler Letter 2.

335

See note to proposed Rule 253(b).

336

17 CFR 230.430A.

118

Regulation A and there is no fundamental change in the offering statement’s disclosure.
We also propose to allow the use of offering circular supplements for final pricing
information, where the offering statement is qualified on the basis of a bona fide price
range estimate. 337 Additionally, offering circulars would be permitted to omit
information with respect to the underwriting syndicate analogous to the provisions for
registered offerings under Rule 430A. 338 The volume of securities (the number of equity
securities or aggregate principal amount of debt securities) to be offered would not,
however, be allowed to be omitted. 339 As proposed, an offering circular supplement
could also be used to indicate a decrease in the volume of, or to change the price range of,
the securities offered in reliance on a qualified offering statement under Regulation A,
provided that, in the aggregate, such changes represent no more than a 20% change from
the maximum aggregate offering price calculable using the information in the qualified
offering statement. 340 In such circumstances, offering circular supplements would not be
available where the maximum aggregate offering price resulting from any changes in the
price of the securities would exceed the offering amount limitation set forth in proposed
Rule 251(a) or if the increase in aggregate offering price would result in a Tier 1 offering

337

See proposed Rule 252(h). Relatedly, the Commission noted in the 1992 amendments to
Regulation A that pricing information under Rule 430A did not necessarily need to be included in
the final offering circular. See SEC Rel. No. 33-6949, at fn. 58. As proposed, the bona fide price
range estimate could not exceed $2 for offerings where the upper end of the range is $10 or less
and 20% if the upper end of the price range is over $10. See proposed Rule 253(b)(2).

338

See proposed Rule 253(b) (also permitting the omission of underwriting discounts or
commissions, discounts or commissions to dealers, amount of proceeds, conversion rates, call
prices and other items dependent upon the offering price, delivery dates, and terms of the
securities dependent upon the offering date, so long as certain conditions are met); Cf. Rule 430A,
17 CFR 430A.

339

See proposed Rule 253(b)(4).

340

See note to proposed Rule 253(b); Cf. Instruction to paragraph (a) in Rule 430A(a), 17 CFR
230.430A(a).

119

becoming a Tier 2 offering. Allowing for the use of offering circular supplements in the
situations outlined above would not alter the legal determination as to whether such
information must be provided to investors, but would align Regulation A with prevailing
market and Commission staff practices. 341
We further propose provisions similar to Rule 424 that would require issuers
omitting certain information from an offering statement at the time of qualification, in
reliance on proposed Rule 253(b), to file such information as an offering circular
supplement no later than two business days following the earlier of the date of
determination of such pricing information or the date of first use of the offering circular
after qualification. 342 Further, these proposed provisions would require offering circulars
that contain substantive changes (other than information omitted in reliance on proposed
Rule 253(b)) in information previously provided in the last offering circular to be filed
within five business days after the date such offering circular is first used after
qualification. 343 Offering circular supplements that are not filed within the required time
frames provided by the proposed rules would be required to be filed as soon as
practicable after the discovery of the failure to file. 344 We are soliciting comment on the
scope of changes that should require a post-qualification amendment instead of an
offering circular supplement.

341

Cf. SEC Rel. No. 33-6714 [52 FR 21252] (June 5, 1987) (noting that the adoption of Rule 430A
and the related changes to the procedures set forth in Rule 424 were “intended to simplify and
reduce filing obligations without reducing investor protection.”).

342

See proposed Rule 253(g).

343

See proposed Rule 253(g)(2).

344

See proposed Rule 253(g)(4).

120

Request for Comment
72. Should Regulation A continue to permit traditional shelf offerings, as
proposed? Are there types of transactions not currently covered by Rule 415
that should be included in the rules relating to continuous offerings under
Regulation A? If so, provide justification for including those transactions in
Regulation A.
73. Should we use the time limits for continuous offerings found in Rule 415 for
similar Regulation A offerings or should we lengthen or shorten such
requirements? If so, please suggest new time limits and explain why they are
preferable to the proposed time limits.
74. As proposed, should we permit continuous offerings that would be offered in
an amount that, at the time the offering statement is qualified, the issuer
reasonably expects to offer and sell within two years from the initial
qualification date? Or should we limit this time period to one year from the
initial qualification date?
75. We propose to no longer require issuers to amend an offering statement every
time any information contained in the offering statement is changed, as is
currently required in Rule 252(h), and instead require amendments to the
offering statement to be filed and requalified annually to include updated
financial statements, and otherwise as necessary to reflect facts or events
arising after qualification which, in the aggregate, represent a fundamental
change in the information set forth in the offering statement. Are there other
types of changes in information or disclosure that should require a post-

121

qualification amendment that must be qualified, rather than an offering
circular supplement? Should we use a standard different from the
“fundamental change” standard proposed, which is based on Item 512(a) of
Regulation S-K? Please provide justifications for your suggested approach.
76. As proposed, should we permit issuers to qualify additional securities in
reliance on Regulation A by filing a post-qualification amendment to a
qualified offering statement? Why or why not?
77. As proposed, should we adopt provisions similar to Rule 430A that would
permit issuers to omit certain information with respect to, among other things,
the underwriting syndicate and related information analogous to the
provisions for registered offerings under Rule 430A? Why or why not?
Additionally, as proposed, should we permit decreases to the volume of, or
deviations from the price range of, the securities offered in reliance on
Regulation A within the described limits?
78. As proposed, should we include in Regulation A provisions similar to
Rule 424, which would require issuers relying on proposed Rule 253(b) to
omit certain information from an offering statement at the time of
qualification to file such information as an offering circular supplement no
later than two business days following the earlier of the date of determination
of such pricing information or the date of first use of the offering circular after
qualification? Why or why not? Additionally, as proposed, should we require
offering circulars that contain substantive changes (other than information
omitted in reliance on proposed Rule 253(b)) in information previously

122

provided in the last offering circular to be filed within five business days after
the date such offering circular is first used after qualification? Why or why
not?
79. Should we consider additional or alternative amendments to the proposed
provisions for continuous offerings and offering circular supplements? Why
or why not? If so, please explain.
80. As proposed, Regulation A is not specifically designed for business
combination transactions. While such transactions, outside the context of
acquisition shelf business combination transactions, are not prohibited, would
Part II of proposed Form 1-A provide for appropriate disclosure of business
combination transactions? Why or why not? If so, what additional narrative
or financial disclosure provisions, if any, should apply to issuers with respect
to such transactions?
81. As proposed, should the rules preclude primary and secondary at the market
offerings? Or should the rules only preclude primary at the market offerings?
Why or why not? If the rules should not prohibit at the market offerings how
should the offering size be calculated for purpose of determining whether the
offering exceeds the proposed applicable annual offering amount limitations?
Please explain.
5.

Qualification

Under Regulation A, an offering statement is generally only qualified by order of
the Commission in a manner similar to a registration statement being declared

123

effective. 345 In such instances, the issuer includes a delaying notation on the cover of the
Form 1-A that states the offering statements shall only be qualified by order of the
Commission.346 In order to remove a delaying notation, an issuer must file an
amendment to the offering statement indicating that the offering statement will become
qualified on the 20th calendar day after filing. 347 An offering statement that does not
include a delaying notation will be qualified without Commission action on the 20th
calendar day after filing. 348
We propose to alter the qualification process of existing Regulation A. As
proposed, an offering statement could only be qualified by order of the Commission, and
the process associated with the delaying notation would be eliminated. This not only
conforms to the general practice of issuers under both Regulation A and registered
offerings, but eliminates the risk that an issuer may exclude a delaying notation either in
error or in an effort to become qualified automatically without review and comment by
the Commission staff. Given our proposed electronic filing processes, 349 scaled
disclosure requirements for Tier 1 and Tier 2 offerings, 350 and the preemption of state
securities law registration and qualification requirements for Tier 2 offerings, 351 we
believe it is appropriate to ensure that the Commission staff has a chance to review and
comment on the offering statement before it becomes effective. We do, however, solicit
345

See Rule 252(g)(2).

346

Id.

347

See Rule 252(g)(3).

348

See Rule 252(g)(1).

349

See discussion in Section II.C.1. above.

350

See discussion in Section II.C.3. above.

351

See discussion in Section II.H. below.

124

comment on whether we should retain provisions for the automatic effectiveness of an
offering statement in a manner similar to the current rules, in order to provide issuers
with some flexibility and control over the timing of the qualification process.
Request for Comment
82. Should we amend the qualification process, as proposed, so that an offering
statement can only become qualified by order of the Commission? Or should
we preserve the existing qualification provisions of Regulation A, which
permit offering statements to become qualified without an order of the
Commission on the 20th calendar day after filing? Why or why not? What
effect, if any, would this have on issuers and their ability to control the timing
of the qualification process?
D.

Solicitation of Interest (“Testing the Waters”)
Under Securities Act Section 3(b)(2)(E), issuers are to be permitted to test the

waters for interest in an offering before filing an offering statement on such terms and
conditions as the Commission prescribes. Testing the waters is currently permitted under
Rule 254 of Regulation A, which requires, among other things, that issuers submit all
solicitation material to the Commission no later than the time of first use. Issuers are
further required to file all solicitation materials used in reliance on Rule 254 as an exhibit
under Part III of Form 1-A, and are prohibited from making sales under Regulation A
until 20 calendar days after the last publication or delivery of such materials. Under
Rule 254(b)(3), issuers must cease using test the waters solicitation materials after the
initial filing of the offering statement.

125

Testing the waters under Rule 254 of Regulation A is different from testing the
waters for a registered offering by an emerging growth company under Section 5(d) of
the Securities Act. Under Section 5(d), testing the waters is limited to communications
with QIBs and institutional accredited investors. Under current Rule 254, however, there
is no limitation on the type of investors that may be solicited, as the provision is meant to
assist smaller issuers in evaluating potential interest in a public offering before incurring
costs associated with preparing mandated disclosure documents. 352 New Securities Act
Section 3(b)(2)(E) also does not limit the type of investors that may be solicited, but
instead specifies that we can prescribe terms and conditions. We do not believe it is
appropriate to adopt provisions in proposed Regulation A that are more restrictive than
currently exist in Rule 254 and therefore do not propose to alter the permissible target
audience of testing the waters materials.
While one commenter suggested that the Commission permit the use of
solicitation materials before the filing of an offering statement, 353 another commenter
simply suggested that all such solicitation materials be made readily available. 354
Another commenter suggested that, in addition to the existing requirements of
Rule 254(b)(2), the Commission limit the use of testing the waters materials before the

352

SEC Rel. No. 33-6924, at 10-11 (discussing the capital needs of smaller companies, and, in
comparison to “limited [private] offerings to more sophisticated professional investors,” the need
to facilitate greater “access to the public market[s] for startup and developing companies, and . . .
lower[] the costs for small businesses that undertake to have their securities traded in the public
market.”).

353

McCarter & English Letter.

354

Beacon Investment Letter.

126

filing of an offering statement to solicitations conducted by registered broker-dealers or
solicitations in firm commitment underwritings. 355
Testing the waters was first proposed and approved for use in Regulation A in
1992, to address the risk that small companies faced when expending funds to prepare for
an offering of securities without knowing whether there would be any interest in the
offering. 356 We do not believe, however, that the existing provisions of Rule 254 have
proven as useful as originally intended. We are concerned that the amount of time that
typically elapses between initial filing of the Form 1-A and qualification (which, on
average, from 2002 through 2012 was approximately 241 days) may limit the possible
benefits of testing the waters in advance of initial filing. In addition, we understand that
testing the waters activities may not be permissible under many state securities laws.
To address the potential impact of the review period, we propose to permit issuers
to use testing the waters solicitation materials both before and after the offering statement
is filed, subject to issuer compliance with the rules on filing and disclaimers. 357 In our
view, to do otherwise would unnecessarily limit the intended benefits to issuers of testing
the waters. As with existing Regulation A, investor protections with respect to such
solicitation materials would remain in place, as these materials remain subject to the
antifraud and other civil liability provisions of the federal securities laws. 358 In addition,

355

NASAA Letter 2.

356

SEC Rel. No. 33-6924, at 12.

357

This timing is similar to the “testing the waters” permitted for emerging growth companies under
new Section 5(d) of the Securities Act, added by the JOBS Act, which can also be conducted both
before and after filing of a registration statement. Under Section 5(d), no legending or
disclaimers are required, but testing the waters is limited to potential investors that are “qualified
institutional buyers” or institutional “accredited investors.”

358

The Commission’s antifraud liability provisions in Section 17 of the Securities Act, 15 U.S.C.
77q, apply to any person who commits fraud in connection with the offer or sale of securities.

127

under the proposal, testing the waters materials used by an issuer or its intermediaries
after publicly filing an offering statement would be required to include a current
preliminary offering circular or contain a notice informing potential investors where and
how the most current preliminary offering circular can be obtained. This requirement
could be satisfied by providing the URL where the preliminary offering circular or the
offering statement may be obtained on EDGAR.
Since we propose to require issuers to publicly file their offering statements not
later than 21 calendar days before qualification, this timing requirement would ensure
that, at a minimum, any solicitation made in the 21 calendar days before the earliest date
of potential sales of securities would be conducted using the most recent version of
preliminary offering circular. 359 While the proposed expansion on use of solicitation
materials after filing would potentially result in investors receiving more sales literature
in marketed offerings, in such circumstances, potential investors would also be afforded
more time with the preliminary offering circular before making an investment
decision. 360 Issuers and intermediaries that use testing the waters materials after publicly
filing the offering statement would be required to update and redistribute—through any
electronic or print media or television or radio broadcast distribution channels previously
relied upon by the issuer or its intermediaries to market the offering during this period—

Section 3(b)(2)(D) of the Securities Act, 15 U.S.C. 77c(b)(2)(D), states that the civil liability
provisions of Section 12(a)(2) apply to any person offering or selling securities under Regulation
A. See also SEC Rel. No. 33-6924, at fn. 48.
359

See discussion of non-public submissions of offering statements in Section II.C.2. above, which
proposes to require an issuer to file its offering statement with the Commission not later than 21
calendar days before qualification.

360

Cf. The Regulation of Securities Offerings, SEC Rel. No. 33-7606A, at 78 (Nov. 17, 1998) [63 FR
67174] (discussing the importance of providing a preliminary prospectus in conjunction with the
distribution of sales materials).

128

such material to the extent that either the material itself or the preliminary offering
circular attached thereafter becomes inadequate or inaccurate in any material respect. 361
Additionally, whether or not an issuer or its intermediaries tests the waters, as provided
for by proposed Regulation A, such parties would remain obligated in the
pre-qualification period to deliver a copy of the preliminary offering circular to
prospective purchasers at least 48 hours in advance of sale under proposed
Rule 251(d)(2)(i). 362
We further propose to amend the Rule 254 requirements for submission or filing
of solicitation material, so that such material would be submitted or filed as an exhibit
when the offering statement is either submitted for non-public review or filed (and
updated for substantive changes in such material after the initial non-public submission or
filing) but would no longer be required to be submitted at or before the time of first use.
This approach is generally consistent with the Commission staff’s treatment of
solicitation materials used by emerging growth companies under Title I of the JOBS Act,
with two exceptions:
•

solicitation materials used in Regulation A offerings would be required to be
filed; 363 and

361

Issuers would not, however, be required to update and redistribute solicitation materials to the
extent that: i) any such changes occur only with respect to the preliminary offering circular, ii) no
similar changes are required in the solicitation materials previously relied upon, and iii) such
materials included (when originally distributed) a URL where the preliminary offering circular or
the offering statement filed on the issuer’s EDGAR filing page and that URL continues to link to
the most recent version of the preliminary offering circular.

362

Proposed Rule 251(d)(2)(i) is discussed in Section II.C.1. above.

363

In practice, however, Commission staff reviewing filings by emerging growth companies regularly
requests and receives such material as part of the review process to ensure consistency between
the information contained in the solicitation materials and the registration statement. See 17 CFR
230.418 (Supplemental Information).

129

•

solicitation materials used by Regulation A issuers that file an offering statement
with the Commission would be publicly available as a matter of course. 364
We believe this approach would be consistent with the 1992 amendments to

Regulation A that first allowed issuers to test the waters, and would make the use of
solicitation materials more beneficial for issuers and investors, reduce the filing
requirements for issuers, and entirely eliminate the filing requirement for issuers that,
after testing the waters, decide not to proceed with an offering. Additionally, from an
investor protection standpoint, it is important to note that sales under Regulation A may
occur only under a qualified offering statement that reflects staff review and comment,
including, where appropriate, disclosure addressing potentially incomplete or misleading
statements made in test the waters solicitation material. For this reason, in addition to the
statutory language of Section 3(b)(2)(E), which indicates that “issuer[s] may solicit
interest in the offering,” we do not believe it is necessary, as one commenter suggested,
to limit the availability of this provision to solicitations carried out by registered brokerdealers or by underwriters in firm commitment underwritings. 365
Currently, Rule 254(b)(2) requires all soliciting materials to bear a legend or
disclaimer indicating: i) that no money or other consideration is being solicited, and if
sent, will not be accepted; ii) that no sales will be made or commitments to purchase

364

Where an issuer non-publicly submits an offering statement under Regulation A that is later
abandoned before filing, and where that issuer properly submitted the offering statement pursuant
to a confidential treatment request pursuant to Commission Rule 83 (17 CFR 200.83), the offering
statement and solicitation materials may, under certain circumstances, qualify for an exemption
from production pursuant to the FOIA. See http://www.sec.gov/foia/conftreat.htm for more
information. Such materials, however, will be publicly available on EDGAR if, and when, an
offering statement is eventually filed with the Commission.

365

See NASAA Letter 2 (suggests limiting the use of solicitation materials to solicitations made by
broker-dealers, or in the context of firm commitment underwritten offerings).

130

accepted until a complete offering circular is delivered; iii) that a prospective purchaser’s
indication of interest is non-binding; and iv) the identity of the issuer’s chief executive
officer and a brief description of the issuer’s business and products. 366 We propose to
amend Rule 254(b)(2)(ii) to more closely follow similar provisions in the context of
registered offerings. 367 The amended language would recognize that, similar to the
framework for registered offerings, sales made pursuant to Regulation A would be
contingent upon the qualification of the offering statement, not the delivery of a final
offering circular. Additionally, to provide greater flexibility when using solicitation
materials, we propose to eliminate the requirement in Rule 254(b)(2)(iv) to identify the
issuer’s chief executive officer, business, and products.
Further, as noted above, we do not propose to limit testing the waters to QIBs and
institutional accredited investors (as is currently the case with testing the waters under
Title I of the JOBS Act), as we do not believe it is appropriate to adopt provisions in
proposed Regulation A that are more restrictive than currently exist in the regulation.
Request for Comment
83. As proposed, should we differentiate between the requirements for the use of
testing the waters materials before the issuer publicly files an offering
statement and after filing (when it is proposed that a preliminary offering
circular would have to be provided)? Why or why not? Is the proposed time
period during which a preliminary offering circular would be required to be
provided together with testing the waters materials appropriate, or should it be
366

17 CFR 230.254(b)(2).

367

See Rule 134(d), 17 CFR 230.134(d), (required disclaimer for solicitations of interest in registered
offerings).

131

longer or shorter? Is the 48-hour period for the delivery of a preliminary
offering circular under proposed Rule 251(d)(2)(i) sufficient to address any
concerns about the use of solicitation materials at or near the time of
qualification? 368 Should we distinguish between the use of testing the waters
materials after an offering statement is non-publicly submitted versus publicly
filed?
84. Should we amend Rule 254, as proposed, so that solicitation material would
no longer be required to be submitted to the Commission at or before the time
of first use? If not, in the absence of a confidential treatment request under
Commission Rule 83 (17 CFR 200.83), should solicitation material be made
publicly available immediately after submission on EDGAR? Or, as
proposed, should we only require solicitation materials to be publicly
available when included as an exhibit to an offering statement that is filed
with the Commission not later than 21 calendar days before the offering
statement is qualified?
85. Is the legend or disclaimer required to be included in the solicitation materials
under proposed Rule 254 appropriately tailored for the likely recipients of
such materials in Regulation A offerings? Why or why not? Should
solicitation materials used by the issuer and its intermediaries before the initial
public filing of the offering statement be required to include specific
information about the issuer or the offering similar to current rules? If so,
what information should be required?
368

See discussion of delivery requirements in Section II.C.1. above.

132

86. While not currently proposed, should we limit the use of testing the waters
materials to communications with QIBs and institutional accredited investors
in order to be consistent with the treatment of emerging growth companies
under Title I of the JOBS Act? Would QIBs or institutional accredited
investors be the likely target audience for issuers testing the waters in reliance
on Regulation A? Why or why not? As proposed, should issuers and
intermediaries that use testing the waters materials after publicly filing an
offering statement be required to update and redistribute—through any
electronic or print media or television or radio broadcast distribution channels
previously relied upon by the issuer or its intermediaries to market the
offering during this period—such material if either the material itself or the
preliminary offering circular attached thereafter becomes inadequate or
inaccurate in any material respect? 369 Why or why not? Would this
requirement unduly limit the utility, and potentially raise the costs, of testing
the waters after publicly filing an offering statement, or would it help to
ensure that issuers and intermediaries that solicit interest in a potential
offering during this period of time do so in a measured and judicious manner?
Please explain.
87. Should we make the submission or filing of solicitation materials a condition
to the Regulation A exemption, such that an issuer that fails to submit such
materials as part of an offering statement submitted for non-public review, or
to file such materials as part of a filed offering statement, loses its ability to
369

But see fn. 361 above for an exception to the general requirements for updates and redistribution.

133

rely on the exemption? If so, should we provide for a cure period for
inadvertent failures to submit or file solicitation materials as an exhibit to an
offering statement?
E.

Ongoing Reporting
Currently, Regulation A requires issuers to file a Form 2-A with the Commission

every six months after qualification to report sales under Regulation A, with a final filing
due within 30 calendar days after the termination, completion, or final sale of securities in
the offering. 370 Section 3(b)(2) requires issuers to provide annual audited financial
information on an ongoing basis, and expressly provides that the Commission may
consider whether additional ongoing reporting should be required. Specifically,
Section 3(b)(4) grants the Commission authority to require issuers “to make available to
investors and file with the Commission periodic disclosures regarding the issuer, its
business operations, its financial condition, its corporate governance principles, its use of
investor funds, and other appropriate matters, and also provide for the suspension and
termination of such requirement.”
Most commenters agree that the Commission should require some form of
ongoing reporting in revised Regulation A, but differ on the degree and frequency of such
reporting. 371 In general, the comments received acknowledge that the Commission’s task

370

See 17 CFR 230.257; see also 17 CFR 239.91 (Form 2-A).

371

See, e.g., Letter from Mike Liles, Jr., Attorney, Karr Tuttle Campbell, April 12, 2012 (“Karr Tuttle
Letter”); Letter from Kurt N. Schacht, CFA, Managing Director, Standards and Financial Market
Integrity, and Linda L. Rittenhouse, Director, Capital Markets Policy, CFA Institute, Aug. 16,
2012 (“CFA Institute Letter”); Fallbrook Letter. But see Letter from Robert R. Kaplan, Jr., Esq.,
Kaplan Voekler, May 10, 2012 (“Kaplan Voekler Letter 1”) (suggesting that, in light of the
relative costs to issuers in smaller dollar amount offerings, the Commission not require ongoing
reports for Regulation A offerings of up to $5 million in securities annually); NSBA Letter
(suggesting the only change the Commission should make in Regulation A is raising the dollar
limitations from $5 million to $50 million); see also ECTF Report (suggesting ongoing periodic

134

in determining the appropriate level of ongoing reporting requires balancing the risks of
imposing issuer disclosure requirements that are too prescriptive 372 or onerous 373 with the
risks of providing too little information to either support, 374 or adequately protect
investors in, 375 the secondary market. Some commenters suggested that the Commission
require ongoing reporting only to the extent necessary to support an active secondary
market, such as by requiring quarterly and material event reporting, 376 or semiannual
performance updates. 377 Alternatively, one commenter suggested that the Commission
only require annual filings under a two-year pilot program to determine whether such
reports, without more, provide sufficient information to the market. 378 One commenter
suggested that ongoing reporting requirements under Regulation A should be similar to,
but less onerous than, Exchange Act reporting. 379 This commenter suggested that the
rules require periodic reports that follow the disclosure requirements applicable to
smaller reporting companies, or those of Exchange Act Rule 15c2-11. In its view,
though, current reporting in a fashion similar to Form 8-K under the Exchange Act might
be too burdensome for smaller issuers, while the OTC Markets’ proprietary Alternative
Reporting System might be more appropriate. The commenter also suggested that, if
required, current reporting should be limited to material agreements, financial
reporting that is reasonable in scope and balances investor protection concerns with regulatory and
compliance costs).
372

ABA Letter.

373

McCarter & English Letter.

374

Kaplan Voekler Letter 1.

375

NASAA Letter 1; NASAA Letter 2.

376

Kaplan Voekler Letter 1.

377

CFA Institute Letter.

378

Fallbrook Letter.

379

McCarter & English Letter.

135

obligations, unregistered sales of securities, changes in accountants, changes in and the
compensation of directors and officers, and charter amendments. Another commenter
suggested periodic reporting that is less prescriptive than Exchange Act reporting, and
using Form 1-A disclosure requirements as a base. 380 Several commenters suggested
that—to the extent the Commission permits Regulation A offerings to be simultaneously
listed, or approved for listing, on a national securities exchange—it should permit
Exchange Act reporting to satisfy Title IV’s ongoing reporting requirements. 381 Another
commenter suggested that any ongoing reporting requirements eventually adopted should
be meaningful enough to provide investors with current information about issuers and to
permit better informed investment decisions. 382
The sole advance comment received on how and when to permit terminating
ongoing reports suggested that the Commission permit automatic termination (or
suspension) of ongoing reporting obligations in a fashion similar to that permitted under
Section 15(d) of the Exchange Act. 383 That is, the Commission should allow ongoing
reporting to be suspended as to any fiscal year, other than the fiscal year in which the
offering was qualified, if at the beginning of such fiscal year the securities of the class
sold in the offering are held of record by fewer than 300 persons.
We are mindful that an ongoing reporting regime that is suitable for one type of
entity and its investor base may prove too onerous for another entity or provide its
investors with more or more frequent information than they necessarily need or seek,
380

ABA Letter.

381

ABA Letter; WR Hambrecht + Co. Letter.

382

NASAA Letter 1; NASAA Letter 2.

383

ABA Letter.

136

resulting in undue costs to the issuer. In the discussion and proposals that follow, we
have endeavored to address the potential added costs and benefits associated with the
provision of ongoing information about issuers of Regulation A securities to investors in
such securities and any market that develops as a result.
1.

Continuing Disclosure Obligations

As noted above, Regulation A currently requires issuers to file a Form 2-A with
the Commission to report sales and the termination of sales made under Regulation A
every six months after qualification and within 30 calendar days after the termination,
completion, or final sale of securities in the offering. 384 The summary information about
the issuer and its offering required to be disclosed in the Form 2-A is intended to provide
the Commission with valuable data about Regulation A offerings and the effectiveness of
Regulation A as a capital formation tool for smaller issuers. Currently, however, issuers
of securities under Regulation A often neglect to file the form, thereby limiting the
amount and utility of the data received. 385 We propose to rescind Form 2-A, but to
continue to require Regulation A issuers to file the information generally disclosed in
Form 2-A with the Commission electronically on EDGAR. 386 We believe that summary
information and data about an issuer and its Regulation A offering, however, is most
384

See 17 CFR 230.257; see also 17 CFR 239.91 (Form 2-A).

385

Currently, the filing of the Form 2-A is not a condition to an issuer’s ability to rely on
Regulation A. See Rule 257, 17 CFR 230.257. As proposed, the filing of the information required
under current Form 2-A would not be a condition to an issuer’s ability to rely on Regulation A for
the current offering, but would affect the issuer’s ability to conduct a follow-on Regulation A
offering in the future. See the discussion in Section II.B.1. above regarding proposed issuer
eligibility requirements.

386

We do not propose to continue to require issuers to disclose the use of proceeds currently
disclosed in Form 2-A, as issuers must disclose this information in Part II of Form 1-A and any
changes in the use of proceeds after qualification not previously disclosed would require issuers to
determine whether a post-qualification amendment or offering circular supplement is necessary.
See discussion of continuous or delayed offerings and offering circular supplements in
Section II.C.4. above.

137

valuable when obtained after the offering is completed or terminated. We therefore
propose to require issuers to disclose such information only after the termination or
completion of the offering. Issuers conducting Tier 1 offerings would be required to
provide this information on Part I of proposed new Form 1-Z not later 30 calendar days
after termination or completion of the offering, 387 while issuers conducting Tier 2
offerings would be required to provide this information on either Part I of Form 1-Z at the
time of filing an exit report or proposed new Form 1-K as part of their annual report.
As proposed, issuers in Tier 2 offerings would be subject to a Regulation A
ongoing reporting regime that would, in addition to filing summary information on a
recently completed offering and annual reports on proposed new Form 1-K, require
issuers to file semiannual updates on proposed new Form 1-SA, current event reporting
on proposed new Form 1-U, and to provide notice to the Commission of the suspension
of their ongoing reporting obligations on Part II of proposed new Form 1-Z. All of these
reports would be filed electronically on EDGAR.
We are concerned that uniform ongoing reporting requirements for all issuers of
Regulation A securities could disproportionately affect issuers in smaller offerings. 388
For that reason, we do not propose to require any ongoing reporting for issuers
conducting Tier 1 offerings, other than the summary information discussed above, which
is already required under the existing rules. 389 Section 3(b)(2)(F) requires issuers to file
audited financial statements with the Commission annually, which does not apply to
387

Proposed new Form 1-Z (exit report) is discussed in Section II.E.4. below.

388

See also Kaplan Voekler Letter 1 (recommending that, in light of the relative costs to issuers in
smaller dollar amount offerings, the Commission not require ongoing reports for Regulation A
offerings of up to $5 million in securities annually).

389

See proposed Rule 257(a).

138

current Regulation A. 390 While Section 3(b)(2) directs the Commission to “add a class of
securities exempted pursuant to this section,” it does not also direct the Commission to
supplant the provisions associated with the existing class of securities exempted under
Section 3(b)(1) and Regulation A. We therefore propose to preserve this aspect of
current Regulation A for Tier 1 offerings. As proposed, however, issuers in smaller
offerings would have the option to conduct a Tier 2 offering and subject themselves to
the more expansive ongoing reporting regime and otherwise comply with the proposed
Tier 2 requirements. 391
We believe the proposed approach to ongoing reporting should support a regular
flow of information about issuers conducting Tier 2 offerings, which would benefit
investors and foster the development of a market in such securities, without imposing
unnecessary costs on issuers that elect to conduct a Tier 1 offering. We believe our
proposal strikes an appropriate balance between the investor protections associated with
the provision of ongoing information about an existing or contemplated investment to
potential investors and our goal of facilitating capital formation for smaller companies by
not requiring too heavy a reporting obligation.
The following are the proposed ongoing reporting requirements for Tier 2
offerings:

390

As noted in Section I.A. above, current Regulation A was issued under Section 3(b)(1) of the
Securities Act.

391

An issuer offering up to $5 million in a Tier 2 offering would, in addition to providing ongoing
reports to the Commission on the proposed annual and semiannual basis, with interim current
event updates, be required to file audited financial statements in the offering statement, see Section
II.C.3.b(2). above, and may be required to file a Form 1-Z to terminate its ongoing reporting
obligations as described in Section II.E.4. below.

139

a.

Annual Reports on Form 1-K

Proposed new Form 1-K would be comprised of two parts: Part I (Notification)
and Part II (Information to be included in the report).
(1)

Part I (Notification)

As with Part I of Form 1-A, 392 Part I of Form 1-K would be an online XML-based
fillable form that would include certain basic information about the issuer, prepopulated
on the basis of information previously disclosed in Part I of Form 1-A, which can be
updated by the issuer at the time of filing. Additionally, if, at the time of filing the
Form 1-K, an issuer has terminated or completed a qualified Regulation A offering, we
propose to require the issuer to provide certain updated summary information about itself
and the offering in Part I, including, e.g., the date the offering was qualified and
commenced, the number of securities qualified, the number of securities sold in the
offering, the price of the securities, any fees associated with the offering, and the net
proceeds to the issuer. As discussed above, this information is generally already required
to be disclosed under current Regulation A on Form 2-A, which we propose to eliminate.
The portion of the fillable form relating to a completed Regulation A offering
would appear when the issuer indicates in Part I that the offering has terminated or been
completed. Issuers would only be required to fill out the XML-based portion of Part I
that relates to the summary information on a terminated or completed offering once.
Alternatively, an issuer that elects to terminate its ongoing reporting obligation under
Regulation A after terminating or completing an offering, in a fiscal year other than the
fiscal year in which the offering statement was qualified, but before reporting the
392

See discussion in Section II.C.3.a. above.

140

required summary information on Form 1-K, 393 could satisfy its obligation to file the
summary offering information in Part I of Form 1-K by filing a Form 1-Z (exit report)
that includes such information. 394
The summary information disclosed would facilitate analysis of Regulation A
offerings by the Commission, other regulators, third-party data providers, and market
participants, while facilitating the capture of important summary information about an
offering that would enable the Commission to monitor the use and effectiveness of
Regulation A as a capital formation tool. 395 The fillable form would enable issuers to
provide the required information in a convenient medium and only capture relevant data
about the recently terminated or completed Regulation A offering. The required
disclosure would be publicly available on EDGAR. As with proposed requirements for
Part I of Form 1-A, Part I of Form 1-K would not require the issuer to obtain specialty
software.
(2)

Part II (Information to be included in the report)

As with Part II of Form 1-A, Part II of Form 1-K would be submitted
electronically by the issuer as a text file attachment containing the body of the disclosure
document and financial statements, formatted in HTML or ASCII to be compatible with
the EDGAR filing system. Part II would contain information about the issuer and its

393

An issuer that has completed a Regulation A offering under Tier 2 in a fiscal year other than the
fiscal year in which the offering was qualified could, however, continue filing the ongoing reports
required in Tier 2 offerings in order to, for example, continually provide updated information to its
shareholder or to broker-dealers for purposes of proposed Exchange Act Rule 15c2-11. See
discussion in Section II.E.2. below.

394

For a discussion of the requirements for terminating an ongoing reporting obligation under
Regulation A and proposed new Form 1-Z, see Section II.E.4. below.

395

See also discussion in Section II.E.4.a. below.

141

business based on the financial statement and narrative disclosure requirements of
Form 1-A. Form 1-K would further permit issuers to incorporate by reference certain
information previously filed on EDGAR, but require issuers to include a hyperlink to
such material on EDGAR. 396 Form 1-K would cover:
•

Business operations of the issuer for the prior three fiscal years (or, if in existence
for less than three years, since inception);

•

Transactions with related persons, promoters, and certain control persons;

•

Beneficial ownership of voting securities by executive officers, directors, and
10% owners;

•

Identities of directors, executive officers, and significant employees, with a
description of their business experience and involvement in certain legal
proceedings;

•

Executive compensation data for the most recent fiscal year for the three highest
paid officers or directors;

•

MD&A of the issuer’s liquidity, capital resources, and results of operations
covering the two most recently completed fiscal years; 397 and

•

Two years of audited financial statements.

We anticipate that issuers would generally be able to use the offering materials as a basis
to prepare their ongoing disclosure.

396

The hyperlink to EDGAR need only be active at the time of filing of the Form 1-K.

397

As proposed, Form 1-K would not include the additional MD&A disclosure required in Form 1-A
for issuers that have not received revenue from operations during each of the three fiscal years
immediately before the filing of the offering statement. See discussion in Section II.C.3.b(1).
above.

142

We propose that Form 1-K includes financial statements prepared on the same
basis, and subject to the same requirements as to audit standards and auditor
independence, as the financial statements required in the Regulation A offering circular
for Tier 2 offerings. 398 Form 1-K would be required to be filed within 120 calendar days
after the issuer’s fiscal year end. A manually-signed copy of the Form 1-K would have to
be executed by the issuer and related signatories before or at the time of filing and
retained by the issuer for a period of five years. 399 Issuers would be required to produce
the manually signed copy to the Commission, upon request. 400 Any amendments to the
form would have to comply with the requirements of the applicable items and be filed
under cover of Form 1-K/A. 401
b.

Semiannual Reports on Form 1-SA

We are proposing semiannual interim reporting for Regulation A issuers. We
believe this would strike an appropriate balance between the need to provide information
to the market and the cost of compliance for smaller issuers. Issuers would be required to
provide semiannual updates on proposed Form 1-SA that, much like Form 10-Q, would
consist primarily of financial statements and MD&A. 402 Unlike Form 10-Q, however,
Form 1-SA would not, among other things, require disclosure about quantitative and
qualitative market risk, controls and procedures, updates to risk factors, or defaults on
senior securities, as we believe such disclosure is not applicable to, or
398

See Section II.C.3.b(2). above.

399

See General Instruction C. to proposed Form 1-K.

400

Id.

401

See proposed Rule 257(c) (also requiring the signature on behalf of an authorized representative of
the issuer and the inclusion of any specified certifications).

402

See Part I (Financial Information) of Form 10-Q, 17 CFR 249.308a.

143

appropriately-tailored for, issuers in the context of an ongoing report under
Regulation A. 403 In addition, Form 1-SA would require disclosure of updates otherwise
reportable on Form 1-U. Financial statements included in semiannual reports would not
be required to be audited or reviewed by independent auditors. Form 1-SA would permit
issuers to incorporate by reference certain information previously filed on EDGAR, but
require issuers to include a hyperlink to such material on EDGAR. 404
We propose to require that Form 1-SA be filed within 90 calendar days after the
end of the issuer’s second fiscal quarter. A manually-signed copy of the Form 1-SA
would have to be executed by the issuer and related signatories before or at the time of
filing and retained by the issuer for a period of five years. 405 Issuers would be required to
produce the manually signed copy to the Commission, upon request. 406 Any amendments
to the form would have to comply with the requirements of the applicable items and be
filed under cover of Form 1-SA/A. 407
c.

Current Reports on Form 1-U

In addition to the annual report on Form 1-K and semiannual report
on Form 1-SA, we further propose to require issuers to submit current reports on
Form 1-U. Issuers would be required to submit such reports in the following events:
•

Fundamental changes in the nature of business; 408

403

See Item 3 and Item 4 of Part I of Form 10-Q.

404

The hyperlink to EDGAR need only be active at the time of filing of the Form 1-SA.

405

See General Instruction C. to proposed Form 1-SA.

406

Id.

407

See proposed Rule 257(c).

408

A fundamental change in the nature of an issuer’s business would include major and substantial
changes in the issuer’s business or plan of operations or changes reasonably expected to result in
such changes, such as significant acquisitions or dispositions, or the entry into, or termination of, a

144

•

Bankruptcy or receivership;

•

Material modification to the rights of securityholders;

•

Changes in the issuer’s certifying accountant;

•

Non-reliance on previous financial statements or a related audit report or
completed interim review;

•

Changes in control of the issuer;

•

Departure of the principal executive officer, principal financial officer, or
principal accounting officer; and

•

Unregistered sales of 5% or more of outstanding equity securities.

As proposed, the requirement that issuers file a Form 1-U in the event they experience, or
would reasonably expect to experience, a fundamental change in the nature of their
business would incorporate aspects of each of Item 1.01, 1.02 and 2.01 of Form 8-K
under the Exchange Act and change the threshold for reporting from a materiality to a
fundamental change standard. 409 Under the proposal, Form 1-U would be required to be
filed within four business days after the occurrence of any such event, and, where
applicable, permit issuers to incorporate by reference certain information previously filed
on EDGAR, but require issuers to include a hyperlink to such material on EDGAR. 410 A
manually-signed copy of the Form 1-U would have to be executed by the issuer and
related signatories before or at the time of filing and retained by the issuer for a period of

material definitive agreement that has or will result in major and substantial changes to the nature
of an issuer’s business or plan of operations.
409

See Form 8-K, Item 1.01 (Entry into a Material Definitive Agreement), Item 1.02 (Termination of
a Material Definitive Agreement), and Item 2.01 (Completion of Acquisition or Disposition of
Assets), 17 CFR 249.308.

410

The hyperlink to EDGAR need only be active at the time of filing of the Form 1-U.

145

five years. 411 Issuers would be required to produce the manually signed copy to the
Commission, upon request. 412 Any amendments to the Form 1-U would have to comply
with the requirements of the applicable items, and be filed under cover of Form 1-U/A. 413
d.

Special Financial Reports on Form 1-K and Form 1-SA

While not currently a requirement of Regulation A, we propose to require issuers
conducting Tier 2 offerings to provide special financial reports analogous to those
required under Exchange Act Rule 15d-2. 414 The special financial report would require
audited financial statements for the issuer’s last completed fiscal year to be filed not later
than 120 calendar days after qualification of the offering statement if the offering
statement did not include such financial statements. The special financial report would
require semiannual financial statements for the first six months of the issuer’s fiscal year,
which may be unaudited, to be filed 90 calendar days after qualification of the offering
statement if the offering statement did not include such financial statements and the
offering statement was qualified in the second half of the issuer’s current fiscal year. The
special financial report would be filed under cover of Form 1-K if it included audited
year-end financial statements and under cover of Form 1-SA if it included semiannual
financial statements for the first six months of the issuer’s fiscal year. The financial
statement and auditing requirements would follow the requirements of those forms.
Similarly to the special financial report under Exchange Act Rule 15d-2, the issuer would
indicate on the front page of the applicable form that only financial statements are
411

See General Instruction C to proposed Form 1-U.

412

Id.

413

See proposed Rule 257(c).

414

17 CFR 240.15d-2.

146

included. This report would serve to close lengthy gaps in financial reporting between
the financial statements included in Form 1-A and the issuer’s first periodic report due
after qualification of the offering statement.
e.

Reporting by Successor Issuers

Where in connection with a succession by merger, consolidation, exchange of
securities, acquisition of assets or otherwise, securities of an issuer that is not subject to
the reporting requirements of Regulation A, as proposed to be amended, are issued to the
holders of any class of securities of an issuer that is subject to ongoing reporting under
Tier 2, we propose to require the issuer succeeding to that class of securities to continue
filing reports required for Tier 2 offerings on the same basis as would have been required
of the original issuer. The successor issuer may, however, suspend or terminate its
reporting obligations on the same basis as the original issuer under proposed
Rule 257(d). 415
Request for Comment
88. Would the proposed requirement that issuers conducting Tier 2 offerings file
annual, semiannual, and current reports provide a meaningful benefit for
investors by helping to foster a transparent market for securities issued under
Regulation A? Should this requirement apply to all issuers of securities under
Regulation A, regardless of whether the issuer is conducting a Tier 1 or Tier 2
offering? Alternatively, should we not impose ongoing reporting
requirements beyond the statutory mandate of annual audited financial

415

See Section II.E.4. below for a discussion of the suspension or termination of disclosure
obligations.

147

statements? Or should we require only annual reporting of the type of
information required by proposed Form 1-K, without interim periodic
reporting or current updates? Should we require only annual reporting and
current updates? If we require interim periodic reporting, should it be
quarterly instead of the proposed semiannual reporting requirement? Should
quarterly or semiannual financial statements be required to be reviewed by an
independent auditor?
89. While not currently proposed, should we exempt issuers conducting Tier 1
offerings from the requirement to report certain summary information about
the issuer and the offering after termination or completion of the offering?
Alternatively, should issuers conducting Tier 1 offerings be required to report
on a more frequent basis than currently proposed? Why or why not?
90. If we exempt some issuers from ongoing reporting, should we do so on the
basis of criteria other than offering size, such as issuer size or whether the
issuer has taken steps to foster a secondary market for their securities? Why
or why not?
91. Should the rules require issuers that conduct a Tier 2 offering to file their
annual report on new Form 1-K within 120 calendar days of the fiscal year
end, and their semiannual report on new Form 1-SA with 90 calendar days of
the end of the second fiscal quarter, as proposed? Or should we require such
issuers to file reports on a different timetable? For example, should the
timetable be the same as for non-accelerated filers under the Exchange Act,
who are required to file annual reports within 90 calendar days of the fiscal

148

year end and interim periodic reports within 45 calendar days of the end of a
fiscal quarter? What effect, if any, would altering the proposed filing
deadlines for annual and semiannual reporting have on the costs to issuers of
preparing such reports? Please provide supporting data, if possible.
92. As proposed, does the new Form 1-K provide for the disclosure of adequate
information about the issuer on an annual basis? Similarly, does the new
Form 1-SA provide for the disclosure of adequate information about the issuer
on a semiannual basis? Or should the form(s) require more (or less)
disclosure? If so, what additional disclosure should the form(s) require, or
what items of proposed disclosure should not be required? Please explain.
93. Should we require current updates, as proposed on new Form 1-U? If not,
please explain why. If we require current reporting, should we include more,
fewer, or different triggering events for current reporting than are currently
proposed? Should the requirement to provide current reporting apply to all
Regulation A issuers? Is there an appropriate segment of Regulation A
issuers, other than as proposed, for which current reporting would be the most
useful or should otherwise be required?
94. Does the proposed requirement that issuers disclose material transactions that
would result in, or would reasonably be expected to result in, fundamental
changes to the issuer’s business or corporate events on new Form 1-U provide
enough guidance to issuers? If not, should we provide more guidance as to
what constitutes a material transaction or corporate event? If so, please
provide suggestions.

149

95. As proposed, should we permit issuers to incorporate by reference certain
information into the Form 1-K, Form 1-SA and Form 1-U that was previously
filed on EDGAR under Regulation A, while also requiring issuers to include a
hyperlink to such exhibit on EDGAR? Why or why not? Should we permit
issuers to incorporate by reference information from other documents, such as
Exchange Act reports or Securities Act registration statements?
96. As proposed, should we require special financial reporting similar to that
which is required for a registered offering under Exchange Act Rule 15d-2?
As proposed, should the rules require audited financial statements for the
issuer’s last completed fiscal year to be filed 120 calendar days after
qualification of the offering statement if the offering statement did not include
such financial statements or, alternatively, require semiannual financial
statements for the first six months of the issuer’s fiscal year to be filed 90
calendar days after qualification of the offering statement if the offering
statement did not include such financial statements and the issuer’s first
required periodic report would be a Form 1-SA? Why or why not?
97. As proposed, should issuers that succeed to a class of securities, in connection
with a succession by merger, consolidation, exchange of securities, acquisition
of assets or otherwise, that are currently subject to a Tier 2 ongoing reporting
obligation, as proposed to be amended, be required to continue filing reports
on the same basis as would have been required of the original issuer? Why or
why not? Please explain.

150

98. Would the proposed ongoing reporting requirements and termination
provisions of Regulation A induce companies to migrate to the Regulation A
capital raising and reporting regime, such that we may see a decline in smaller
reporting companies subject to full Exchange Act reporting? 416 If so, what
effect would any population shift of issuers in the registered and reporting
regime under the Securities Act and Exchange Act migrating to the
Regulation A exemptive scheme have on investor protection?
2.

Exchange Act Rule 15c2-11 and other implications of ongoing
reporting under Regulation A

Exchange Act Rule 15c2-11 governs broker-dealers’ publication of quotations for
securities in a quotation medium other than a national securities exchange. 417 The
Commission adopted Rule 15c2-11 in 1971 to prevent fraudulent and manipulative
trading schemes that had arisen in connection with the distribution and trading of certain
unregistered securities. 418 The rule prohibits broker-dealers from publishing quotations
(or submitting quotations for publication) in a “quotation medium” for covered
over-the-counter securities without first reviewing basic information about the issuer,
subject to certain exceptions. 419 A broker-dealer also must have a reasonable basis for
believing that the issuer information is accurate in all material respects and that it was
416

See discussion of proposed termination of ongoing reporting requirements under Regulation A in
Section II.E.4. below.

417

17 CFR 240.15c2-11.

418

SEC Rel. No. 34-9310 (Sept. 13, 1971) [36 FR 18641]. See 17 CFR 240.15c2-11(e)(1) (defining
quotation medium as any “interdealer quotation system” or any publication or electronic
communications network or other device which is used by brokers or dealers to make known to
others their interest in transactions in any security, including offers to buy or sell at a stated price
or otherwise, or invitations of offers to buy or sell).

419

See SEC Rel. No. 34-29094 (April 17, 1991) [56 FR 19148].

151

obtained from a reliable source.
A broker-dealer can, however, satisfy its obligations under Rule 15c2-11 if it has
reviewed and maintained in its records certain specified information. The particular
information that is required by the rule varies depending on the nature of the issuer,
including, among other things:
•

for an issuer that has filed a registration statement under the Securities Act, a
copy of the prospectus;

•

for an issuer that has filed an offering statement under the Securities Act
pursuant to Regulation A, a copy of the offering circular; or

•

for an issuer subject to ongoing reporting under Sections 13 or 15(d) of the
Exchange Act, the issuer's most recent annual report and any quarterly or
current reports filed thereafter. 420

We believe that the proposed ongoing reports for Tier 2 offerings under
Regulation A, which would update the narrative and financial statement disclosures
previously provided in Form 1-A on an annual and semi-annual basis, with additional
provisions for current reporting, should also satisfy a broker-dealer’s obligations under
Rule 15c2-11 to review and maintain records of basic information about an issuer and its
securities. We propose to amend Rule 15c2-11 to permit an issuer’s ongoing reports filed
in a Tier 2 offering under Regulation A to satisfy a broker-dealer’s obligations to review
specified information about an issuer and its security before publishing a quotation for a

420

A broker-dealer can also satisfy its review requirements under Rule 15c2-11 by reviewing certain
information published pursuant to a Rule 12g3-2(b) exemption for foreign issuers that claim the
registration exemption or information specified in paragraph (a)(5) of the Rule for non-reporting
issuers.

152

security (or submitting a quotation for publication) in a quotation medium. 421 The single
comment we have received to date on the interaction of Rule 15c2-11 and Regulation A
also advocated this approach. 422
We are also soliciting comment on other potential effects that Tier 2 ongoing
reporting under Regulation A could have under other provisions of the federal securities
laws. For example, it may be appropriate for timely ongoing Regulation A reporting
under Tier 2 to constitute “adequate current public information” for purposes of
paragraph (c) of Rule 144. 423 Currently, most non-reporting issuers can satisfy the
Rule 144 current public information requirement if there is publicly available the
information specified in paragraphs (a)(5)(i) to (a)(5)(xiv) and (a)(5)(xvi) of
Rule 15c2-11. 424 This information consists of:
•

The exact name of the issuer and any predecessor;

•

The address of its principal executive offices;

•

The state of incorporation, if it is a corporation;

•

The exact title and class of the security;

•

The par or stated value of the security;

•

The number of shares or total amount of the securities outstanding as of the
end of the issuer's most recent fiscal year;

421

In addition, we are proposing a technical amendment to Rule 15c2-11 to amend subsection
(d)(2)(i) of the rule to update the outdated reference to the “Schedule H of the By-Laws of the
National Association of Securities Dealers, Inc.” which is now known as the “Financial Industry
Regulatory Authority, Inc.” and to reflect the correct rule reference.

422

McCarter & English Letter.

423

17 CFR 230.144(c).

424

17 CFR 230.144(c)(2). Issuers that are insurance companies are subject to different requirements.

153

•

The name and address of the transfer agent;

•

The nature of the issuer's business;

•

The nature of products or services offered;

•

The nature and extent of the issuer's facilities;

•

The name of the chief executive officer and members of the board of
directors;

•

The issuer’s most recent balance sheet and profit and loss and retained
earnings statements;

•

Similar financial information for such part of the two preceding fiscal years as
the issuer or its predecessor has been in existence;

•

Whether the broker or dealer initiating or resuming quotation or any
associated person is affiliated, directly or indirectly with the issuer; and

•

Whether the quotation is being submitted or published directly or indirectly on
behalf of the issuer, or any director, officer or any person, directly or
indirectly the beneficial owner of more than 10 percent of the outstanding
units or shares of any equity security of the issuer, and, if so, the name of such
person, and the basis for any exemption under the federal securities laws for
any sales of such securities on behalf of such person. 425

With the exception of the last two items, all of this information would be included in our
proposed ongoing Regulation A reporting for Tier 2 offerings.
We are also soliciting comment on whether ongoing Regulation A reporting for
Tier 2 offerings should satisfy the information requirements of paragraph (d)(4) of Rule
425

17 CFR 240.15c2-11(a)(5).

154

144A. 426 Under that provision, holders of Rule 144A securities must have the right to
obtain from the issuer, upon request, a very brief statement of the nature of the issuer’s
business and the products and services it offers, the issuer’s most recent balance sheet
and profit and loss and retained earnings statements, and similar financial statements for
each of the two preceding fiscal years, which information must be “reasonably
current.” 427
Request for Comment
99. In a Tier 2 offering, should the review of an issuer’s most recent annual report
and any semiannual or current reports filed under Regulation A, as
contemplated in this proposal, satisfy a broker-dealer’s obligation to review
company information in order to quote a security in the over-the-counter
market pursuant to Exchange Act Rule 15c2-11? Why or why not? Should
the annual or other forms require additional information in order for a brokerdealer to be able to rely on such information for purposes of quotations under
Rule 15c2-11?
100.

Should ongoing Regulation A reports in Tier 2 offerings be deemed to

provide “adequate current public information” about the issuer for purposes of
paragraph (c) of Rule 144? Why or why not? What impact would broadening
Rule 144 in this way have on affiliate resales of securities of Regulation A
issuers? What impact would broadening Rule 144 in this way have on
investors?

426

17 CFR 230.144A(d)(4).

427

Id.

155

101.

Should ongoing Regulation A reports in Tier 2 offerings satisfy the

informational requirements of paragraph (d)(4) of Rule 144A? Why or why
not? Are investors or Regulation A issuers likely to benefit?
3.

Exchange Act Registration of Regulation A Securities

Under Section 15(d) of the Exchange Act, an issuer that has had a Securities Act
registration statement declared effective must comply with the periodic reporting
requirements of the Exchange Act. 428 Qualification of a Regulation A offering statement
does not have the same effect. An issuer of Regulation A securities would not take on
Exchange Act reporting obligations unless it separately registered a class of securities
under Section 12 of the Exchange Act, or conducted a registered public offering.
An issuer registering a class of securities under Section 12 of the Exchange Act
must file either a Form 10 429 or Form 8-A 430 with the Commission. Form 10 is the
general form an issuer must use for Exchange Act registration, while Form 8-A is a
short-form registration statement. An issuer must use a Form 10 if, at the time it files its
registration statement, it is not already subject to a Section 13 or Section 15(d) reporting
obligation. An issuer may use Form 8-A if it is already subject to the provisions of either
Section 13 or Section 15(d). Additionally, when an issuer that is not already subject to
the provisions of either Section 13 or 15(d) plans to list its securities on a national
securities exchange contemporaneously with the effectiveness of a Securities Act
428

While issuers with a Section 15(d) reporting obligation are required to file the same periodic
reports as issuers that have registered a class of securities under Section 12, Section 15(d)
reporting issuers are not subject to additional Exchange Act obligations (e.g., proxy rules, shortswing profit rules, and beneficial ownership reporting) that apply to Exchange Act registrants.

429

17 CFR 249.210. Foreign private issuers must file a Form 20-F, 17 CFR 249.220f, or, where
available, a Form 8-A.

430

17 CFR 249.208a.

156

registration statement, the Commission staff will not object if that issuer files a Form 8-A
in lieu of a Form 10, in order for the issuer to avoid having to restate the contents of its
Securities Act registration statement in its Exchange Act registration statement. 431
Issuers conducting offerings under Regulation A that seek to list the securities on
a national securities exchange or otherwise enter the Exchange Act registration system
would be required to file Form 10 in order to do so. We solicit comment, however, on
whether we should provide a simplified means for Regulation A issuers to register a class
of securities under the Exchange Act by, for example, permitting such issuers to file a
Form 8-A rather than a Form 10 in conjunction with, or following, the qualification of a
Regulation A offering statement on Form 1-A, as some commenters have suggested. 432
The 2010 Government-Business Forum on Small Business Capital Raising made a
similar recommendation. 433 Proponents of this approach argue that it would facilitate
IPOs and encourage Exchange Act registration and the listing of securities on national
securities exchanges, which would provide benefits to both issuers and investors. 434
We also invite comment on ways to facilitate secondary market trading in the
securities of Regulation A issuers, such as by encouraging the development of “venture
exchanges” or other trading venues that are focused on attracting such issuers. The

431

See SEC Rel. No. 34-38850 (Sept. 2, 1997) [62 FR 39755], at 39757 (“[A]n issuer registering an
initial public offering will be permitted to use Form 8-A even though it will not be subject to
reporting until after the effectiveness of that Securities Act registration statement.”).

432

ABA Letter; WR Hambrecht + Co. Letter.

433

See Final Report of the 29th Annual SEC Government-Business Forum on Small Business Capital
Formation, Recommendation 5, at 18 (Nov. 18, 2010) (suggesting that issuers be permitted to file
reports under Section 13 of the Exchange Act for a one-year period following a Regulation A
offering, and thereafter file a Form 8-A to register the securities under Section 12 of the Exchange
Act) (available at: http://www.sec.gov/info/smallbus/gbfor29.pdf).

434

ABA Letter; WR Hambrecht + Co. Letter.

157

Commission’s Advisory Committee on Small and Emerging Companies, for example,
has recommended the establishment of separate U.S. equity markets for small and
emerging companies, which it believes could encourage initial public offerings of the
securities of these companies. 435 One commenter similarly expressed support for the
creation of an equity market venture exchange populated with small and emerging growth
companies. 436 In recent years, the Commission has approved more flexible listing
standards for an exchange designed for smaller issuers, 437 and some alternative trading
systems today trade small company stocks. 438 We solicit comment on how these or
similar market models might be used by Regulation A issuers, and how they can be made
more viable for facilitating secondary markets for small issuers.
Request for Comment
102.

While not currently proposed, should we permit issuers to register under

the Exchange Act classes of securities that are qualified under Regulation A
by allowing them to file a Form 8-A rather than a Form 10? Why or why not?
Would providing a short form registration encourage more Regulation A
issuers to list their securities on national securities exchanges? Conversely,
would permitting eligible issuers to use their Regulation A offering statement
in conjunction with a Form 8-A reduce the likelihood that such issuers would

435

Recommendation Regarding Separate U.S. Equity Market for Securities of Small and Emerging
Companies, Securities and Exchange Commission, Advisory Committee on Small and Emerging
Companies (February 1, 2013), available at: http://www.sec.gov/info/smallbus/acsec/acsecrecommendation-032113-emerg-co-ltr.pdf.

436

Paul Hastings Letter.

437

See SEC Rel. No. 34-64437 (May 6, 2011) [76 FR 27710].

438

See, e.g., Global OTC (f/k/a ArcaEdge), Shares Post Financial Corporation, Second Market, Inc.,
and OTC Link LLC.

158

use the Securities Act registration process, including the “IPO on-ramp”
provisions of Title I of the JOBS Act? Would it serve the intended purpose of
Regulation A to make such an accommodation?
103.

The disclosure and financial statement requirements of Regulation A,

currently and as proposed to be amended, require fewer items of disclosure or
less detailed information than Securities Act registrants are required to
provide. Would it cause confusion in the market or otherwise create risks for
investors if issuers could transition from Regulation A disclosure in Form 1-A
to Exchange Act registration without filing Form 10 or providing all the
information otherwise called for by Form 10 or Form S-1? Alternatively,
while not currently proposed, should simplified Exchange Act registration be
available only for issuers that prepare an offering circular based on Part I of
Form S-1?
104.

What effect, if any, would the ongoing reporting obligations of Section 13

of the Exchange Act have on an issuer considering the potential use of
Form 8-A in conjunction with a Regulation A offering as the means by which
to become an Exchange Act reporting issuer? Would ongoing reporting under
Section 13 of the Exchange Act be an attractive alternative for Regulation A
issuers? Or some subset of Regulation A issuers? Please explain.
105.

While not currently proposed, should we make Form 8-A available in

connection with issuers that are subject to ongoing reporting requirements
under Regulation A? Why or why not? Do the proposed ongoing reporting
requirements in Regulation A, in addition to the requirement to meet the

159

listing standards of, and be certified by, a national securities exchange provide
an adequate justification for the extension of the Form 8-A accommodation to
issuers subject to such an obligation? 439 Or should we provide a different
means of simplified Exchange Act registration for issuers subject to an
ongoing reporting obligation under Regulation A? Please explain.
106.

Would encouraging the development of “venture exchanges” or other

trading venues that are focused on attracting such issuers facilitate secondary
market trading in the securities of Regulation A issuers? If so, how? How
could the Commission adjust the regulatory regime to provide for a more
viable secondary market for small issuers, with sufficient participation by
liquidity providers, that maintains investor protections and fair and orderly
markets?
4.

Exit Report on Form 1-Z
a.

Summary Information on Terminated or Completed Offerings

As discussed in Section II.E.1. above, we propose to rescind Form 2-A, but to
continue to require Regulation A issuers to file the information generally disclosed in
Form 2-A with the Commission electronically on EDGAR. Consistent with the related
portion of proposed new Form 1-K, 440 the Form 2-A information would be converted into
an online XML-based fillable form with indicator boxes or buttons and text boxes and
filed electronically with the Commission as Part I of proposed new Form 1-Z (exit
report). Issuers conducting Tier 1 offerings would be required to provide this information
439

See discussion of proposed Regulation A ongoing reporting requirements in Section II.E. above.

440

See also discussion in Section II.C.1. (Electronic Filing; Delivery Requirements) and Section
II.C.3.a. (Part I (Notification)) above.

160

on Form 1-Z not later 30 calendar days after termination or completion of the offering,
while issuers conducting Tier 2 offerings would be required to provide this information
on Form 1-Z at the time of filing the exit report, if not previously provided on Form 1-K
as part of their annual report. 441 The summary offering information disclosed on
Form 1-Z would be publicly available on EDGAR, but not otherwise required to be
distributed to investors.
The XML-based fillable form would enable issuers to provide information in a
convenient medium and capture relevant data about the recently terminated or completed
Regulation A offering. As with the related portions of Form 1-K discussed above, the
fillable form would be available online and not require issuers to obtain specialty
software. The summary information disclosed would, however, facilitate analysis of
Regulation A offerings by the Commission, other regulators, third-party data providers,
and market participants. Additionally, facilitating the capture of important summary
information about an offering would enable the Commission to monitor the use and
effectiveness of Regulation A as a capital formation tool.
As noted above in the related proposals for Form 1-K, the summary information
collected in Form 1-Z would include the date the offering was qualified and commenced,
the number of securities qualified, the number of securities sold in the offering, the price
of the securities, any fees associated with the offering, and the net proceeds to the issuer.
b.

Termination or Suspension of Tier 2 Disclosure Obligations

In light of the proposed ongoing reporting obligations for Tier 2 offerings, we are
proposing to permit issuers that conduct a Tier 2 offering to terminate or suspend their
441

See Section II.E.1.a. above for a discussion of the requirements for proposed new Form 1-K.

161

ongoing reporting obligations on a basis similar to the provisions that allow issuers to
suspend their ongoing reporting obligations under Section 13 and Section 15(d) of the
Exchange Act. 442 We acknowledge that, similar to the Exchange Act reporting context,
there may be circumstances when an issuer would like to exit the reporting system. We
received a comment letter that suggested we adopt a provision similar to Section 15(d) of
the Securities Act that would permit an issuer to automatically terminate its Regulation A
reporting obligation as to any fiscal year, other than the year in which the offering was
made, if at the beginning of such fiscal year, the securities of the class sold in reliance on
Regulation A are held of record by fewer than 300 persons. 443 We propose to permit an
issuer in a Tier 2 offering that has filed all ongoing reports required by Regulation A for
the shorter of (i) the period since the issuer became subject to such reporting obligation,
or (ii) its most recent three fiscal years and the portion of the current year preceding the
date of filing Form 1-Z to immediately suspend its ongoing reporting obligation under
Regulation A at any time after completing reporting for the fiscal year in which the
offering statement was qualified, if the securities of each class to which the offering
statement relates are held of record by fewer than 300 persons and offers or sales made in
reliance on a qualified offering statement are not ongoing. 444 In such circumstances, an
issuer’s obligation to continue to file ongoing reports in a Tier 2 offering under
Regulation A would be suspended immediately upon the filing of a notice to the
Commission on Part II of proposed new Form 1-Z. A manually-signed copy of the
Form 1-Z would have to be executed by the issuer and related signatories before or at the
442

See Exchange Act Section 15(d), 15 U.S.C. 78o(d); Exchange Act Rule 12h-3, 17 CFR 240.12h-3.

443

ABA Letter.

444

See proposed Rule 257(d)(2).

162

time of filing and retained by the issuer for a period of five years. 445 Issuers would be
required to produce the manually signed copy to the Commission, upon request. 446
We further propose that issuers’ obligations to file ongoing reports in a Tier 2
offering under Regulation A would be automatically suspended upon registration of a
class of securities under Section 12 of the Exchange Act or registration of an offering of
securities under the Securities Act, such that Exchange Act reporting obligations would
always supersede ongoing reporting obligations under Regulation A. If an issuer
terminates or suspends its reporting obligations under the Exchange Act and the issuer
would be eligible to suspend its Regulation A reporting obligation by filing a Form 1-Z at
that time, the ongoing reporting obligations would terminate automatically and no
Form 1-Z filing would be required to terminate the issuer’s Regulation A reporting
obligation. If the issuer would not be eligible to file a Form 1-Z at that time, it would
need to recommence its Regulation A reporting with the report covering any financial
period not completely covered by a registration statement or Exchange Act report. 447
Request for Comment
107.

As currently proposed, should we modify the current requirement in

Regulation A that issuers file a Form 2-A to report sales and the termination
of sales made under Regulation A to instead require issuers conducting Tier 1
offerings to report such information only after the termination or completion
of the offering on Part I of proposed new Form 1-Z and issuers in Tier 2

445

See Instruction to proposed Form 1-Z.

446

Id.

447

See proposed Rule 257(d)(1)( and (e).

163

offerings to report such information on either Part I of Form 1-Z or proposed
new Form 1-K? Why or why not?
108.

Is there any additional information about an issuer’s recently completed or

terminated Regulation A offering that should be required to be disclosed?
Alternatively, should we not require any disclosure of summary information
about an issuer’s recently completed Regulation A offering? Why or why
not?
109.

Should we permit issuers to suspend their reporting obligations in a Tier 2

offering under Regulation A, as proposed, when they take on Exchange Act
reporting obligations? Should we otherwise alter the proposed provisions
regarding the suspension or termination of an issuer’s ongoing reporting
obligations in Tier 2 offering? Should issuers in Tier 2 offerings be able to
suspend or terminate ongoing reporting under Regulation A on some other
basis? For example, should we permit issuers to terminate their ongoing
reporting obligations immediately upon completion of the offering, provided,
at that time, they have less than 300 holders of record? Why or why not?
Should we require a Form 1-Z filing for issuers that would be eligible to
immediately file that form upon the suspension or termination of their
Exchange Act reporting obligations?
110.

Should we alter the number of record holders below which an issuer in a

Tier 2 offering can suspend or terminate its ongoing reporting obligations from
the proposed 300 record holders? Or should we alter the threshold below which
certain types of issuers that are subject to a Tier 2 ongoing reporting obligation

164

would be able to suspend or terminate reporting (e.g., 2,000 or 500 holders of
record)? For example, similar to the provisions of Title VI of the JOBS Act,
should we allow banks and bank holding companies to terminate their ongoing
Regulation A reporting obligations by falling below a higher threshold of record
holders (e.g., 1,200 holders of record)? 448 Or should we increase or decrease
the number of record holders below which all issuers in Tier 2 offerings,
irrespective of issuer-type, could suspend or terminate their ongoing reporting
obligations? Why or why not? Please explain.
F.

Insignificant Deviations from a Term, Condition or Requirement
Currently, Rule 260 provides that certain insignificant deviations from a term,

condition or requirement of Regulation A will not result in the issuer’s loss of the
exemption from registration under Section 5 of the Securities Act. 449 Under Rule 260,
the provisions of current Rule(s) 251(a) (issuer eligibility), 251(b) (aggregate offering
price), 251(d)(1) (offers) and 251(d)(3) (continuous or delayed offerings) of Regulation A
are, however, deemed to be significant to the offering as a whole, and any deviations
from these provisions would result in the issuer’s loss of the exemption. We have not
received any comment on Rule 260, nor do we propose to amend the rule. We do,
however, solicit comment on whether the provision should be amended to, for example,
alter the list of significant deviations.
Request for Comment

448

See Title VI of the JOBS Act, Pub. L. No. 112-106, —601 (Capital Expansion).

449

17 CFR 230.260.

165

111.

Should we amend Rule 260 to alter the list of deviations that would be

deemed significant to the offering as a whole? Why or why not? If so, which
provision(s) should be amended? Alternatively, are there other provisions
within Rule 260 that should be amended? If so, please state which provisions
and describe why they should be amended.
G.

Bad Actor Disqualification
Under Securities Act Section 3(b)(2)(G)(ii), the Commission has discretion to

issue rules disqualifying certain “felons and other ‘bad actors’” from using the new
exemption. Such rules, if adopted, must be “substantially similar” to those adopted to
implement Section 926 of the Dodd-Frank Act, which requires the Commission to adopt
disqualification rules for securities offerings under Rule 506 of Regulation D. The
Commission adopted the disqualification provisions required by Section 926 in
Rule 506(d), and a related disclosure requirement in Rule 506(e). 450
All commenters on potential “bad actor” disqualification provisions in the context
of Title IV of the JOBS Act suggest that the Commission apply the same standards for
bad actor disqualification under Regulation A as under Rule 506. 451 One commenter
further suggested that the Commission adopt uniform disqualification rules across
Regulation D, Section 4(a)(5), and the expanded Regulation A exemption. 452

450

SEC Rel. No. 33-9414 (July 10, 2013) [78 FR 44729]. The Commission recently proposed rules
substantially similar to those adopted pursuant Section 926 of the Dodd-Frank Act in the
proposing release for securities-based crowdfunding transactions under Title III of the JOBS Act.
See SEC Rel. No. 33-9470, at 284.

451

ABA Letter; WR Hambrecht + Co. Letter; NASAA Letter 2; Kaplan Voekler Letter 2. See also
Final Report of the 31st Annual SEC Government-Business Forum on Small Business Capital
Formation, Recommendation 13B, at 25 (Nov. 15, 2012) (available at:
http://www.sec.gov/info/smallbus/gbfor31.pdf).

452

NASAA Letter 2.

166

Regulation A currently provides for the disqualification of “bad actors” in Rule
262. 453 We propose to amend Rule 262 to include bad actor disqualification provisions
in substantially the same form as recently adopted under Rule 506(d), but without the
categories of covered persons specific to fund issuers, which would not be eligible to use
Regulation A under the proposal. 454 Such “bad actor” disqualification requirements
would disqualify securities offerings from reliance on Regulation A if the issuer or other
relevant persons (such as underwriters, placement agents, and the directors, officers and
significant shareholders of the issuer) have been convicted of, or are subject to court or
administrative sanctions for, securities fraud or other violations of specified laws.
Under the proposed amendment, the disqualification provisions would apply to
the following categories of persons (“covered persons”):
•

the issuer and any predecessor of the issuer or affiliated issuer;

•

any director, executive officer, or other officer participating in the offering,
general partner, or managing member of the issuer;

•

any beneficial owner of 20% or more of the issuer’s outstanding voting equity
securities, calculated on the basis of voting power;

•

any promoter connected with the issuer in any capacity at the time of filing of
the offering statement or any offers or sales after qualification;

•

any underwriter or person that has been or will be paid (directly or indirectly)
remuneration for solicitation of purchasers in connection with sales of
securities in the offering;

453

17 CFR 230.262.

454

See proposed Rule 262.

167

•

any general partner or managing member of any such solicitor; and

•

any director, executive officer or other officer participating in the offering of
any such underwriter or solicitor or of a general partner or managing member
of any such underwriter or compensated solicitor.

An offering would be disqualified from reliance on the Regulation A exemption if
any covered person had been the subject of the following disqualifying events:
•

Criminal convictions (felony or misdemeanor) entered within five years
before the filing of the offering statement in the case of issuers, their
predecessors and affiliated issuers, and ten years in the case of other covered
persons:
•

in connection with the purchase or sale of any security;

•

involving the making of a false filing with the Commission; or

•

arising out of the conduct of the business of an underwriter, broker,
dealer, municipal securities dealer, investment adviser, or paid solicitor
of purchasers of securities; 455

•

Court injunctions and restraining orders, including any order, judgment, or
decree of any court of competent jurisdiction, entered no more than five years
before the filing of the offering statement, that, at the time of such filing,
restrains or enjoins such person from engaging or continuing to engage in any
conduct or practice:

455

•

in connection with the purchase or sale of any security;

•

involving the making of a false filing with the Commission; or

See proposed Rule 262(a)(1).

168

•

arising out of the conduct of the business of an underwriter, broker,
dealer, municipal securities dealer, investment adviser, or paid solicitor
of purchasers of securities; 456

•

Final orders issued by state securities, banking, credit union, and insurance
regulators, federal banking regulators, the U.S. Commodity Futures Trading
Commission, and the National Credit Union Administration that at the time of
filing of the offering statement either:
•

bar the covered person from association with any entity regulated by the
regulator issuing the order, or from engaging in the business of
securities, insurance or banking, or from savings association or credit
union activities; or

•

are based on a violation of any law or regulation that prohibits
fraudulent, manipulative, or deceptive conduct within the last ten
years; 457

•

Commission disciplinary orders entered pursuant to Section 15(b) or 15(B)(c)
of the Exchange Act or Section 203(e) or (f) of the Investment Advisers Act
of 1940 (the “Advisers Act”) that, at the time of filing of the offering
statement:
•

suspend or revoke a person’s registration as a broker, dealer, municipal
securities dealer, or investment adviser;

456

See proposed Rule 262(a)(2).

457

See proposed Rule 262(a)(3).

169

•

place limitations on the activities, functions, or operations of such
person; or

•

bar such person from being associated with any entity or from
participating in the offering of any penny stock; 458

•

Commission cease and desist orders entered no more than five years before
the filing of the offering statement that, at the time of such filing, order the
person to cease and desist from committing or causing a violation or future
violation of any scienter-based anti-fraud provision of the federal securities
laws or Section 5 of the Securities Act; 459

•

Suspension or expulsion from membership in, or suspension or a bar from
association with a member of, an SRO, i.e., a registered national securities
exchange or a registered national or affiliated securities association for any act
or omission to act constituting conduct inconsistent with just and equitable
principles of trade; 460

•

Stop orders applicable to a registration statement and orders suspending the
Regulation A exemption for an offering statement that an issuer filed or in
which the person was named as an underwriter no more than five years before
the filing of the offering statement, and proceedings pending at the time of
such filing as to whether such a stop or suspension order should be issued; 461
and

458

See proposed Rule 262(a)(4).

459

See proposed Rule 262(a)(5).

460

See proposed Rule 262(a)(6).

461

See proposed Rule 262(a)(7).

170

•

U.S. Postal Service false representation orders including temporary or
preliminary orders entered no more than five years before the filing of the
offering statement. 462

The proposed triggering events are substantially the same as the triggering events
included in Rule 506(d). 463 We believe that creating a uniform set of bad actor triggering
events should simplify diligence, particularly for issuers that may engage in different
types of exempt offerings. It could also foster the creation of third-party databases or
other data sources regarding bad actors that could aid issuers in conducting diligence. As
noted above, however, the proposed rules in Regulation A would specify that an order
must bar the covered person at the time of filing 464 of the offering statement, as opposed
to the requirement in Rule 506(d) that the order must bar the covered person at the time
of the relevant sale. This clarification accords with the current provisions of Rule 262
and is appropriate in the context of Regulation A because there is no filing requirement
before the time of first sale in Rule 506. 465
We further propose a reasonable care exception under Regulation A on a basis
consistent with Rule 506. 466 Under proposed Rule 262(b)(4), an issuer would not lose the

462

See proposed Rule 262(a)(8).

463

17 CFR 230.506(d).

464

In order to simplify the application of the rules, we do not propose to require that an order bar the
covered person at the time of non-public submission of the offering statement. As a practical
matter, if a covered person is involved with a proposed Regulation A offering at the time of
non-public submission or filing, the issuer would be ineligible to qualify the offering in reliance
on Regulation A under either circumstance.

465

Under Rule 503 of Regulation D, issuers must file a notice of sales on Form D no later than 15
calendar days after the first sale of securities. 17 CFR 230.503(a).

466

See proposed Rule 262(b)(4).

171

benefit of the Regulation A exemption if it could show that it did not know, and in the
exercise of reasonable care could not have known, of the existence of a disqualification.
Proposed Rule 262 is very similar in substance to existing Rule 262, although the
format is different. In its current form, Rule 262 provides three different categories of
offering participants and related persons, with different disqualification triggers for each
category. The amendments we propose are based on a simplified framework of
potentially disqualified persons and disqualifying events, which aligns with Rule 506(d).
The covered persons are the same as under current Rule 262, except that the proposal
includes references to managing members of limited liability companies and, like
Rule 506(d), would cover compensated solicitors of investors in addition to underwriters;
executive officers and other officers participating in the offering, rather than all officers,
of the issuer and any underwriter or compensated solicitor; and beneficial owners of 20%
or more of the issuer’s outstanding voting equity securities, calculated on the basis of
voting power, rather than beneficial owners of 10% of any class of the issuer’s equity
securities. The proposals would also add two new disqualification triggers: proposed
Rule 262(a)(3), which covers final orders and bars of certain state and other federal
regulators, and proposed Rule 262(a)(5), which covers Commission cease-and-desist
orders relating to violations of scienter-based anti-fraud provisions of the federal
securities laws or Section 5 of the Securities Act. Finally, the proposals include a
“reasonable care” exception modeled on the Rule 506(d) provision. We believe these
changes to Rule 262 are appropriate in light of the Section 3(b)(2)(G)(ii) mandate and the

172

benefits of creating a more uniform set of standards for all exemptions that include bad
actor disqualification. 467
Under the proposal, offerings that would have been disqualified from reliance on
Regulation A under Rule 262 as currently in effect would continue to be disqualified.
Triggering events that are not currently covered by Rule 262—namely, the events
specified in proposed Rule 262(a)(3) and 262(a)(5)—and that pre-date effectiveness of
any rule amendments would not cause disqualification, but would be required to be
disclosed on a basis consistent with new Rule 506(e). Specifically, issuers would be
required to indicate in Part I of Form 1-A that disclosure of triggering events that would
have triggered disqualification, but occurred before the effective date of the Regulation A
amendments, will be provided in Part II of Form 1-A. 468
In addition to soliciting comment on the proposed amendments to Rule 262, we
are also soliciting comment more broadly on the interpretation of the phrase “voting
equity securities,” as it appears in “any beneficial owner of 20% or more of the issuer’s
outstanding voting equity securities, calculated on the basis of voting power,” a category
of covered persons in Rule 506(d) and proposed Rule 201(r)(2) of Regulation
Crowdfunding, as well as in Rule 262, as proposed to be amended. When we adopted
Rule 506(d), we did not define “voting equity securities,” but rather indicated that our
initial intention would be to consider securities as voting equity securities if

467

If adopted, the amendments to Rule 262 would also effectively modify the bad actor
disqualification provisions of Rule 505 of Regulation D, which incorporate Rule 262 by reference.
We are proposing technical amendments to Rule 505 to update the citations to Rule 262.

468

As discussed in Section II.C.3.a. above, Part I of Form 1-A focuses, in part, on issuer eligibility,
and forces issuers to make an eligibility determination at the outset of filling out Form 1-A, while
also facilitating quick eligibility determinations by Commission staff reviewing Regulation A
offering materials.

173

“securityholders have or share the ability, either currently or on a contingent basis, to
control or significantly influence the management and policies of the issuer through the
exercise of a voting right.” 469 In light of numerous questions and concerns raised about
the implications of such an interpretation, however, we are reconsidering our initial
views. In particular, we are concerned that our initial interpretation may be overbroad,
and that a “bright-line” test may be more workable and would facilitate compliance. We
are therefore soliciting comment about alternative interpretations of the phrase “voting
equity securities” as it appears in current and proposed bad actor disqualification rules.
Request for Comment
112.

Should we amend Rule 262, as proposed, to align with Rule 506(d)? Are

there proposed amendments to the covered persons or disqualification
triggering events of Rule 262 that we should not make? Why not? Are there
other amendments consistent with the statutory mandate of Section
3(b)(2)(G)(ii) that we should consider?
113.

How should the phrase “voting equity securities” as it appears in “any

beneficial owner of 20% or more of the issuer’s outstanding voting equity
securities, calculated on the basis of voting power” in Rule 506(d), proposed
Rule 201(r)(2) of Regulation Crowdfunding, and Rule 262 as proposed to be
amended, be interpreted? Should we interpret it consistently with the
definition of “voting securities” in Rule 405, as equity securities “the holders
of which are presently entitled to vote for the election of directors”? Are there

469

SEC Rel. No. 33-9414 (July 10, 2013) [78 FR 44729], text accompanying fn. 62.

174

factors other than the current ability to vote for directors (or their equivalents)
that should be taken into account?
H.

Relationship with State Securities Law
Commenters have suggested that the cost of state securities law compliance,

which they identify as an obstacle to the use of existing Regulation A, would discourage
market participants from using the new exemption. In addition, as discussed previously,
Section 402 of the JOBS Act required the Comptroller General to conduct a study on the
impact of state “blue sky” laws on offerings conducted under Regulation A, and to report
its findings to Congress. The resulting GAO report to Congress indicates that state
securities laws were among several central factors that may have contributed to the lack
of use of Regulation A. 470
NASAA recently proposed a coordinated review process for Regulation A
offerings, which, if implemented, could potentially reduce the state law disclosure and
compliance obligations of Regulation A issuers. 471 As proposed, the coordinated review
program would permit issuers to file Regulation A offering materials with the states using
an electronic filing depository system currently in development by NASAA. The
administrator of the coordinated review program would select a lead disclosure examiner
and, where applicable, a lead merit examiner, which would be responsible for drafting
and circulating a comment letter to the participating jurisdictions, and for seeking
resolution of those comments with the issuer and its counsel. The draft review protocol
470

See Section I.C. above.

471

See NASAA Release, dated October 30, 2013, Notice of Request for Public Comment: Proposed
Coordinated Review Program for Section 3(b)(2) Offerings (the comment period for NASAA’s
proposal was scheduled to close on November 30, 2013), available at:
http://www.nasaa.org/27427/notice-request-public-comment-proposed-coordinated-reviewprogram-section-3b2-offerings/.

175

also contemplates that certain NASAA statements of policy would be modified or would
not apply to offerings undergoing coordinated review. There are a number of open
questions about the proposal: whether NASAA will adopt a coordinated review program
as proposed; if the proposal were to be adopted in the future, how many states would
elect to participate; when such a program, if adopted, could be implemented; and if
adopted as proposed, whether the protocol would address the concerns related to state
securities law compliance identified by the GAO and commenters. 472 NASAA has stated
that its members broadly support the proposed program and would be able to implement
it promptly. 473
In the absence of any such coordinated review, issuers would be required to
analyze and comply with separate registration or qualification requirements, or to identify
and comply with applicable exemptions, in each state in which they intend to offer or sell
securities under revised Regulation A, as is currently the case under Regulation A.
Depending on the nature of any such coordinated review process, state securities laws
could impose additional requirements and limitations on offerings beyond those imposed
by Regulation A, either currently or as proposed to be amended. 474

472

See, e.g., GAO-12-839, at 14 (discussing the varying standards and degrees of stringency applied
during the qualification and review process in merit review states); see also Paul Hastings Letter.

473

Letter from Andrea Seidt, President, NASAA, December 12, 2013 (“NASAA Letter 3”). If the
proposed coordinated review program were not adopted by every state, we could consider
adoption of a “qualified purchaser” definition that would provide preemption as to the
non-participating states.

474

For example, under the proposed coordinated review protocol, Regulation A offerings would be
subject to most aspects of current NASAA policies regarding lock-up of shares held by promoters
and disclosure and procedural requirements for loans and other material transactions involving
issuer affiliates.

176

As a result, most commenters strongly supported some form of state securities
law preemption. 475 Section 18 of the Securities Act generally provides for exemption
from state law registration and qualification requirements for certain categories of
securities, defined as “covered securities.” 476 Although Section 401(b) of the JOBS Act
does not itself exempt offerings made under Section 3(b)(2) and the related rules from
state law registration and qualification requirements, it did add Section 18(b)(4)(D) to the
Securities Act. That provision states that Section 3(b)(2) securities are covered securities
for purposes of Section 18 if they are “offered or sold on a national securities exchange”
or “offered or sold to a qualified purchaser, as defined by the Commission pursuant to
[Section 18(b)(3)] with respect to that purchase or sale.” Section 18(b)(3) provides that
“the Commission may define the term ‘qualified purchaser’ differently with respect to
different categories of securities, consistent with the public interest and the protection of
investors.”
Some commenters suggested that the Commission preempt state securities laws
by permitting Section 3(b)(2) securities to be listed and traded on a national securities

475

Karr Tuttle Letter; Letter from Robert J. Tresslar, Title Company Data Provider, Property Tax
Lien Investor, June 28, 2012 “Tresslar Letter”; McCarter & English Letter; ABA Letter; Letter
from Paul Getty, Managing Director, Satwik Ventures LLC, Nov. 7, 2012 (“Satwik Ventures
Letter”); Campbell Letter; WR Hambrecht + Co. Letter; Kaplan Voekler Letter 2; Fallbrook
Letter; Paul Hastings Letter. See also Final Report of the 29th Annual SEC Government-Business
Forum on Small Business Capital Formation, Recommendation 7B, at 19 (Nov. 18, 2010)
(available at: http://www.sec.gov/info/smallbus/gbfor29.pdf); Final Report of the 30th Annual
SEC Government-Business Forum on Small Business Capital Formation, Recommendation 8, at
30 (Nov. 17, 2011) (available at: http://www.sec.gov/info/smallbus/gbfor30.pdf); Final Report of
the 31st Annual SEC Government-Business Forum on Small Business Capital Formation,
Recommendations 12 and 14, at 25 (Nov. 15, 2012) (available at:
http://www.sec.gov/info/smallbus/gbfor31.pdf); ECTF Report (Recommendations 1.2, 1.3, and
1.4).

476

See Section 18(c), 15 U.S.C. 77r(c). State securities regulators retain authority to impose certain
filing and fee requirements and general antifraud enforcement authority with respect to covered
securities. See Section 18(c), 15 U.S.C. 77r(c).

177

exchange, 477 others suggested preemption by means of a “qualified purchaser”
definition, 478 while others still suggested some combination of both approaches. 479
Commenters advocating listing and trading of Section 3(b)(2) securities on a
national securities exchange have suggested we permit such listing without attendant
registration of the securities under Section 12(b) of the Exchange Act 480 or through
short-form Exchange Act registration on Form 8-A. 481 Commission action would not be
required to effect the preemption of state securities laws for Regulation A securities that
are listed or traded on an exchange. Under Section 18(b)(1) of the Securities Act, any
securities that are listed or authorized for listing on a national securities exchange are
exempt from state securities law registration and qualification requirements. 482
Section 401(b) of the JOBS Act in effect restated this provision specifically for
Regulation A securities, by adding Section 18(b)(4)(D)(i) to the Securities Act. 483 We
expect, however, that this approach to preemption will have limited impact, because
many Regulation A issuers would not meet the standards for listing on a national

477

See, e.g., Karr Tuttle Letter.

478

See, e.g., Tresslar Letter; McCarter & English Letter; Campbell Letter; Kaplan Voekler Letter 2;
see also Final Report of the 31st Annual SEC Government-Business Forum on Small Business
Capital Formation, Recommendations 12 and 14, at 25 (Nov. 15, 2012); ECTF Report
(Recommendation 1.3).

479

See, e.g., ABA Letter; Satwik Ventures Letter; WR Hambrecht + Co. Letter.

480

Karr Tuttle Letter (suggesting a lower tier of exchange-listed security).

481

WR Hambrecht + Co. Letter (suggesting upper tier exchange listing, but on a shorter form
Exchange Act registration statement); see also Final Report of the 29th Annual SEC GovernmentBusiness Forum on Small Business Capital Formation, Recommendation 5, at 18 (Nov. 18, 2010)
(available at: http://www.sec.gov/info/smallbus/gbfor29.pdf).

482

Section 18(b)(1), 15 U.S.C. 77r(b)(1).

483

Section 18(b)(4)(D)(i) uses the language “offered or sold on a national securities exchange,”
whereas Section 18(b)(1) uses the language, “listed, or authorized for listing, on a national
securities exchange.”

178

securities exchange. 484
From those commenters advocating preemption through a qualified purchaser
definition, suggested definitions included:
•

Any purchaser in a Regulation A offering; 485

•

Any purchaser meeting a specified net worth standard, set at or lower than the
current “accredited investor” definition in Rule 501 of Regulation D; 486

•

Any purchaser meeting a net worth or income test based on thresholds below
accredited investor thresholds, combined with an investment cap; 487 or

•

Any purchaser who purchased through a registered broker-dealer. 488

One commenter stated that it did not object to the Commission’s defining
“qualified purchaser” for Section 3(b)(2) securities, but objected to a definition based on
transactions effected through a broker-dealer or on purchaser criteria commensurate with
or less stringent than current “accredited investor” thresholds. 489 In its view, Congress
intended a qualified purchaser definition under Section 18(b)(3) of the Securities Act to
484

See also ECTF Report. As discussed in Section II.E.3. above, we solicit comment on whether we
should facilitate the listing of Regulation A securities on a national securities exchange by
permitting issuers to file a short-form Exchange Act registration statement on Form 8-A
concurrently with the qualification of a Regulation A offering statement.

485

Campbell Letter.

486

Tresslar Letter; McCarter & English Letter; ABA Letter; Satwik Ventures Letter; WR Hambrecht
+ Co. Letter. See also Final Report of the 31st Annual SEC Government-Business Forum on Small
Business Capital Formation, Recommendation 14, at 25 (Nov. 15, 2012) (available at:
http://www.sec.gov/info/smallbus/gbfor31.pdf).

487

Kaplan Voekler Letter 2.

488

ABA Letter; WR Hambrecht + Co. Letter; Paul Hastings Letter (suggesting that, in addition to
primary offerings, the qualified purchaser definition apply in connection with secondary trading in
Regulation A securities, where the issuer is subject to an ongoing reporting obligation under
Regulation A); see also ECTF Report (Recommendation 1.2).

489

NASAA Letter 2; see also NASAA Letter 3 (indicating NASAA’s concerns with the
Commission’s use of either the “qualified purchaser” or “accredited investor” definition in the
context of implementing rules for Section 3(b)(2) of the Securities Act).

179

require investor qualifications greater than those provided in the accredited investor
definition, and sales through broker-dealers do not provide adequate protections. 490 This
commenter suggested that “qualified purchaser” could be defined based on existing
definitions of “qualified purchaser” in the Investment Company Act 491 or “qualified
client” in Rule 205 under the Investment Advisers Act. 492
In light of the issues raised by commenters and in the GAO study, we are
concerned that the costs associated with state securities law compliance may deter issuers
from using Regulation A, even if the increased cap on offering size and other proposals
intended to make Regulation A more workable are implemented. This could significantly
limit the possible impact of an amended Regulation A as a tool for capital formation. We
believe that the addition of Section 18(b)(4)(D)(ii) of the Securities Act, which
specifically refers to a “qualified purchaser” definition that would apply to transactions
under the new 3(b)(2) exemption, suggests that it is appropriate for us to consider
including such a definition in our rulemaking to implement Title IV of the JOBS Act.
We also believe that Regulation A, as we propose to amend it, would provide
substantial protections to purchasers. Under the proposed amendments, a Regulation A
offering statement would continue to provide substantive narrative and financial
disclosures about the issuer, including an MD&A discussion. The proposed electronic

490

NASAA Letter 2; see also NASAA Letter 3. Section 18(b)(3) was enacted under the National
Securities Markets Improvement Act of 1996 (NSMIA), Pub. L. 104-290, 110 Stat. 3416 (Oct. 11,
1996).

491

15 U.S.C. 80a-2(a)(51). For natural persons to be “qualified purchasers” under this definition,
they must own at least $5 million in investment assets.

492

17 CFR 275.205-3. For natural persons to be “qualified clients,” they must have at least $1
million in assets under management with the investment adviser or have a net worth of more than
$2 million, excluding the value of their primary residence.

180

filing requirement, including the structured data in Part I of the offering circular, would
provide ready access to key information about the issuer and the offering, and would
facilitate analysis of the offering in relation to comparable opportunities. We expect that
Regulation A offering statements would continue to receive the same level of
Commission staff review as registration statements. Additional investor protections
would be afforded by Regulation A’s limitations on eligible issuers and “bad actor”
disqualification provisions, which we are proposing to expand.
The requirements for Tier 2 offerings would provide further protection, because
the financial statements contained in the offering circular would be required to be
audited, the issuer would have an obligation to provide ongoing reporting to purchasers,
and such purchasers would be limited in the percentage of income or net worth that could
be invested in a single offering. Ongoing reporting would assure a continuing flow of
information to investors and could support the development of secondary markets for
Regulation A securities, offering the prospect of reduced investor risk through liquidity.
The approach to investor protection for Tier 2 of Regulation A is in some ways
similar to the approach taken under Title III of the JOBS Act and our recently proposed
rules for securities-based crowdfunding transactions under Section 4(a)(6) of the
Securities Act. 493 In Section 4(a)(6), Congress outlined a new exemption for
securities-based crowdfunding transactions intended to take advantage of the internet and
social media to facilitate capital-raising by the general public, or crowd. In that
provision, Congress directly preempted state securities laws relying, in part, on a variety
of investor protections, including disclosure requirements, the use of regulated
493

See Section 4(a)(6)(ii) of the Securities Act, 15 U.S.C. 77d(a)(6)(ii), and SEC Rel. No. 33-9470.

181

intermediaries and limitations on the amount of securities an investor could acquire
through this type of offering required by the JOBS Act. 494
Like the proposed provisions for securities-based crowdfunding, Regulation A—
both as currently in effect and as proposed to be amended—is available to all types of
investors, and therefore we believe it should include certain appropriate investor
protections. We believe that the substantial investor protections embedded in the issuer
eligibility conditions, limitations on investment, disclosure requirements, qualification
process and ongoing reporting requirements of proposed Tier 2 of Regulation A, in
combination, could address potential concerns that may arise as a result of the preemption
of state securities law registration and qualification requirements.
We therefore propose to define the term “qualified purchaser” for certain
purposes under Regulation A. As proposed, “qualified purchasers” in a Regulation A
offering would consist of:
i)

All offerees; and

ii)

All purchasers in a Tier 2 offering. 495

We believe that this approach would protect offerees and investors in Regulation A
securities, while streamlining compliance and reducing transaction costs.
We believe it would be appropriate to preempt blue sky requirements with respect
to all offerees in a Regulation A offering, in order to make Regulation A a workable
approach to capital raising. Issuers relying on Regulation A should be able to
communicate with potential investors about their offerings using the internet, social
494

See, generally, the requirements for issuers and intermediaries and state securities law preemption
set forth in Title III of the JOBS Act, Pub. L. No. 112-106, 126 Stat. 306, §§ 301-305.

495

See Proposed Rule 256.

182

media, and other means of widespread communication, without concern that such
communications might trigger registration requirements under state law. We believe this
is consistent with Section 3(b)(2)(E) of the Securities Act and the “testing the waters”
provisions of Rule 254 of existing Regulation A, which we are proposing to expand, and
that it would result in reduced costs to issuers seeking capital while maintaining investor
protections. 496
Alternatively, we could import existing “qualified purchaser” definitions from
other regulatory regimes. These other regimes may not, however, account for the
regulatory protections and limited offering size of Regulation A, or the likelihood that
issuers that target investors meeting these other standards could choose to rely on other
Securities Act exemptions, such as Regulation D, rather than Regulation A. We could
also consider the involvement of a regulated intermediary or advisor in a transaction as,
or as part of, the basis for such a definition. Such intermediaries may, however, increase
costs to issuers and investors without commensurate investor protection benefits. Finally,
we could consider a broad definition such that any purchaser in any Regulation A
offering would be treated as a “qualified purchaser.” Our preliminary view is that the
investment limitations, enhanced disclosure and ongoing reporting obligations associated
with Tier 2 would meaningfully bolster the protections otherwise embedded in

496

We understand that some state securities regulators do not require the registration of broadly
advertised offerings such as internet offerings, if the advertisement indicates, directly or indirectly,
that the offering is not available to residents of that state. See, e.g., Washington State Dep’t of
Financial Institutions, Securities Act Policy Statement – 16, available at:
http://dfi.wa.gov/sd/securitiespolicy.htm#ps-16; see also NASAA Reports ¶ 7,040 (regarding
NASAA resolution, dated January 7, 1996, which encourages states to take appropriate steps to
exempt from securities registration offers of securities over the Internet).

183

Regulation A, and justify a difference in treatment to offerings conducted pursuant to
Tier 1.
We believe the proposed “qualified purchaser” definition for Tier 2 offerings
would help to make Regulation A a more workable means of capital formation. We are
soliciting comment, however, on whether we should adopt such a definition or an
alternative definition and, if so, what it should require. In particular, we are mindful that,
if NASAA and its members are able to implement a coordinated review program for
Regulation A offerings, the costs to issuers of state law registration and qualification
requirements and the time required for qualification may be substantially lower in the
future. We solicit comment below on whether, rather than adopting a definition of
“qualified purchaser” for Regulation A as proposed, we should wait to determine whether
such a coordinated review program can be finalized, adopted and successfully
implemented and, if so, whether such a program would sufficiently address current
concerns about the costs of blue sky compliance. 497 We solicit comment on the extent to
which state securities law registration and qualification requirements may affect the use
of Regulation A, as proposed to be amended. We will also consult with the states and
consider any changes to the states’ processes and requirements for reviewing offerings
before we adopt final amendments.
Request for Comment
114.

Should we preempt state securities law registration and qualification

requirements for certain Regulation A offerings by adopting a definition of
497

If the proposed coordinated review program were not adopted by every state, we could consider
whether a “qualified purchaser” definition that would provide preemption as to the
non-participating states would be appropriate.

184

“qualified purchaser,” as proposed? Why or why not? Please explain. In
responding to this question and the questions below, please address both the
practical implications of preemption for capital formation and the impact on
investor protection.
115.

Is there any potential alternative approach by which we might address the

concern raised by commenters and the GAO that state securities regulation
poses a significant impediment to the use of Regulation A? 498 In particular,
could NASAA’s proposed coordinated review program be effectively
implemented in the near term? If NASAA implements a coordinated review
program, should we consider changes to the proposed “qualified purchaser”
definition or other provisions of the proposed rules? Are there other methods
to streamline state review, such as a process based on review or qualification
in a single state?
116.

Does proposed Tier 2 of Regulation A include sufficient investor

protections to justify the preemption of state securities law registration and
qualification requirements for offerings sold to “qualified purchasers,” defined
as proposed or otherwise? If not, are there additional investor protections that
would justify such preemption? What are they?
117.

As proposed, should we adopt a “qualified purchaser” definition for

purposes of Regulation A to include all offerees and all purchasers in a Tier 2
offering? Is it appropriate, as proposed, to treat all offerees as qualified
purchasers? Is it appropriate to treat all purchasers in a Tier 2 offering as
498

See related discussion and requests for comment in Section II.I. below.

185

qualified purchasers, or should we impose additional limitations (based on, for
example, an income threshold, a net worth threshold and/or an investment
assets threshold)? Should we base the definition of “qualified purchasers” on
the Investment Company Act definition of that term, or on the definition of
“qualified client” under the Investment Advisers Act? Alternatively, should
we define all accredited investors as qualified purchasers, as has been
previously proposed? 499 Why or why not?
118.

Are there other approaches we should consider to defining “qualified

purchaser” for Regulation A offerings? For example, should we define
“qualified purchaser” as any offeree or purchaser in a Regulation A offering
by an issuer that meets certain criteria—for example, specified financial
criteria or operating or other criteria indicative of reduced risk? Or should we
define it based on attributes of the offering that may reduce risk to investors
(e.g., firm commitment underwritten offerings or offerings through a
registered broker-dealer)? Alternatively, should we consider a “qualified
purchaser” definition that reflects some attributes of the purchaser, issuer and
offering?
119.

Should we consider defining “qualified purchaser” unconditionally, as all

offerees and all purchasers in any Regulation A offering? Would such a
definition better address potential burdens to capital formation under
Regulation A? If so, how? Would such a definition provide sufficient
investor protections to support the preemption of state securities law
499

See SEC Rel. No. 33-8041 (Dec. 19, 2001) [66 FR 66839].

186

registration and qualification requirements? If not, what would support
unconditional preemption of state securities laws? Please explain.
120.

In addition to providing blue sky preemption for Tier 2 offerings, should

we also consider providing preemption for some or all resales of Regulation A
securities? Would the need to comply with blue sky laws prevent the
development of a liquid secondary market for Regulation A securities?
121.

Would the preemption of state securities law registration and qualification

requirements provided by Section 18(b)(1) of the Securities Act for securities
that are listed or authorized for listing on a national securities exchange be a
viable option for many Regulation A issuers? Why or why not?

187

I.

Regulation A in Comparison to Other Methods of Capital Formation
As noted above, in developing the proposals, we have attempted to create a

workable exemption that both promotes small company capital formation and provides
for meaningful investor protections. In that context, we are mindful that issuers have a
range of possible approaches to capital-raising, including Securities Act registration and
other exemptions from registration, such as the statutory exemption under Section 4(a)(2)
of the Securities Act, Rules 504, 505 and 506 under Regulation D 500 and Section 4(a)(6)
of the Securities Act and the proposed rules for a crowdfunding exemption. 501
Request for Comment
122.

How does Regulation A, as proposed to be amended, compare—in terms

of the type of companies that may use the exemption, its requirements, and its
potential effectiveness—to other methods of capital raising that issuers may
choose for small offerings? How would it compare to the proposed
crowdfunding exemption? Either by reference to today’s proposals or more
generally, are there ways in which Regulation A could be amended that would
make it a more usable exemption?

500

The Regulation D market is large, in recent years approaching the size of the registered market.
See Vladimir Ivanov and Scott Bauguess, Capital Raising in the U.S.: An Analysis of Unregistered
Offerings Using the Regulation D Exemption, 2009-2012 (July 2013), available at:
http://www.sec.gov/divisions/riskfin/whitepapers/dera-unregistered-offerings-reg-d.pdf.

501

See SEC Rel. No. 33-9470.

188

J.

Additional Considerations Related to Smaller Offerings
As noted above, in recent years, Regulation A offerings have been rare.

Commenters 502 and the GAO identified a number of factors that have influenced the use
of Regulation A in its current form, including the process of filing the offering statement
with the Commission, state securities law compliance, the types of investors businesses
seek to attract, and the cost-effectiveness of Regulation A relative to other exemptions. 503
In developing the proposals, we have attempted to create a more efficient and effective
method to raise capital that incorporates important investor protections. We also have
been cognizant of how issuers seeking to raise relatively smaller amounts of capital could
consider a range of possible approaches to capital-raising. 504
Under our proposal, offerings for up to $5 million that are conducted under Tier 1
would benefit from the proposed updates to Regulation A’s filing and qualification
processes, but the proposed amendments would not otherwise substantially alter the
existing exemption for such offerings. 505 We are mindful of the possibility that
additional changes to Tier 1 could expand its use by, and thus potentially benefit, issuers
conducting smaller offerings. An intermediate tier between proposed Tier 1 and Tier 2
could also potentially help increase the effectiveness of Regulation A for smaller
502

See, e.g., Karr Tuttle Letter; Lacey Letter; Kaplan Voekler Letters 1 and 2; McCarter & English
Letter; ABA Letter; Alpine Ventures Letter; Campbell Letter; WR Hambrecht + Co. Letter; and
Oggilby Letter.

503

See fn. 35 above.

504

These methods include, for example, Rules 504, 505 and 506 under Regulation D and
Section 4(a)(6) of the Securities Act and the proposed rules for a crowdfunding exemption. See
Section II.I. above.

505

See Kaplan Voekler Letter 1 (suggesting updating the filing and qualification processes of, but
otherwise preserving a separate $5 million tier based on, existing Regulation A in the revised
exemption); see also Beacon Investment Letter (suggesting existing Regulation A be preserved as
a separate exemption from the implementing rules for Title IV of the JOBS Act).

189

offerings by, among other things, permitting additional modifications to requirements in
light of the size of the offering. We are soliciting comment on additional considerations
with respect to Tier 1 and an intermediate tier for offerings incrementally larger than Tier
1 offerings and how they would affect investor protection and capital formation.
Request for Comment
123.

As proposed, and as is currently the case for Regulation A, state law

registration and qualification requirements would not be preempted for Tier 1
offerings. Issuers in offerings of up to $5 million could also elect to proceed
under Tier 2, which would provide for preemption by complying with the
additional requirements for Tier 2 (investment limitations, audited financial
statements in the offering statement and ongoing reporting). Are there
circumstances in which we should provide for preemption for Tier 1
offerings? If so, what are the circumstances? Should we consider including
in Tier 1 certain elements of Tier 2, such as investment limitations, audited
financial statements in the offering statement, or ongoing reporting, or some
combination of these requirements in order to provide for preemption?
Should we consider including requirements that draw on those for other
approaches to capital-raising? If so, which requirements should we include
and why? If we require ongoing reporting for issuers that have conducted
Tier 1 offerings, should the substance or frequency of the requirements be
different from the requirements proposed for Tier 2, such as requiring only an
annual report consisting of annual financial statements and a cover sheet or

190

only an annual report, or an annual report and current updates but no
semiannual report?
124.

Should we consider adding an intermediate tier for offerings exceeding $5

million but significantly less than the $50 million (e.g., $10 million) limitation
for Tier 2? Why or why not? If so, what would be an appropriate annual
offering limitation for any such intermediate tier? What requirements of
Tier 1 and Tier 2 (e.g., audited financial statements, investor limitations)
should or should not apply to any such intermediate tier? Should those
requirements be modified with respect to the intermediate tier? If so, how?
Should we consider other requirements? How would such requirements
compare to requirements for other avenues of capital-raising that an issuer
might choose? Should offerings made using this intermediate tier be
preempted from state law registration and qualification requirements? If so,
under what circumstances should we provide for preemption?
125.

If an issuer undergoes a registration or qualification process that complies

with the coordinated review protocol proposed and being developed by
NASAA, 506 assuming such a program is adopted and fully implemented,
should an offering under Tier 1 or any potential intermediate tier also be
subject to review, in whole or in part, by the Commission’s staff? Why or
why not? Should the Commission’s rules specify the scope or other
requirements of any such coordinated review? What standards would apply to
the review and what would the review entail (e.g., would the state review for
506

See discussion in Section II.H. above.

191

compliance with state law requirements, compliance with requirements of the
federal securities laws and Commission rules and forms, or both)?
126.

Should we provide for preemption in a Tier 1 offering or an offering

conducted pursuant to the requirements for any potential intermediate tier if
an issuer undergoes a registration or qualification process in a single state? If
we develop a process based on registration or qualification in a single state for
Tier 1 offerings or for offerings conducted pursuant to the requirements for an
intermediate tier, how should it be determined which state would review and
qualify the offering? Should we specify how the issuer would determine the
state for review (e.g., the state of the issuer’s principal place of business or the
state in which the issuer is incorporated)? If an offering were subject to a
single state review, should the offering also be subject to review, in whole or
in part, by the Commission’s staff? Why or why not? Would the answer
depend on whether the state had a disclosure or merit review program?
Should the Commission’s rules specify the scope or other requirements of any
such state review? What role, if any, would other states have in any such state
review? What standards would apply to the review and what would the
review entail (e.g., would the state review for compliance with state law
requirements, compliance with requirements of the federal securities laws and
Commission rules and forms, or both)? How would allowing a single state
review or qualification process affect the filing choices made by issuers and
the regulatory choices made by states? Would such a process enhance or
diminish the comparability and consistency of state regulatory frameworks? If

192

so, how? What would be the impact of such a process on investor protection
and capital formation?
K.

Regulation A Offering Limitation
As noted above, Section 401 of the JOBS Act requires the Commission to review

the $50 million offering limit not later than two years after enactment of the JOBS Act
and every two years thereafter and, if the Commission decides not to increase the amount,
requires that it report its reasoning to Congress. 507 The first such review must be
completed by April 5, 2014. We solicit comment on whether the Commission should
adopt an offering amount under Regulation A, as proposed to be amended, that is higher
than the $50 million limitation for offerings in a twelve-month period provided in Section
3(b)(2) of the Securities Act.
Request for Comment
127.

As proposed to be amended, and consistent with Section 3(b)(2), should

we limit offerings conducted in reliance on Regulation A in a twelve-month
period to $50 million? Or should the Commission adopt an offering limit
under Regulation A that is higher than $50 million in a twelve-month
period? 508 Why or why not? If so, what would be an appropriate threshold
for offerings in a twelve-month period conducted in reliance on Regulation A,
as proposed to be amended?

507

See discussion in Section I.D. above.

508

See Section 3(a)(5) of the Securities Act (requiring the review of the Section 3(b)(2) offering limit
every two years after enactment of Title IV of the JOBS Act). 15 U.S.C. 77c(b)(5).

193

L.

Technical and Conforming Amendments
We propose to amend existing Rules 251-263 509 under Regulation A. 510 The

proposed rule amendments take into account changes to Regulation A associated with the
addition of Section 3(b)(2) 511 to the Securities Act, 512 and the proposals detailed in this
release.
In connection with these actions, we propose to revise Form 1-A, 513 to rescind
Form 2-A, 514 and to create four new forms, Form 1-K (annual updates), Form 1-SA
(semiannual updates), Form 1-U (current reporting), and Form 1-Z (exit report).
We also propose to revise Rule 4a-1 515 under the Trust Indenture Act 516 to
increase the dollar ceiling of the exemption from the requirement to issue securities
pursuant to an indenture, and to amend Rule 15c2-11 517 of the Exchange Act 518 to permit
an issuer’s ongoing reports filed under Regulation A to satisfy a broker-dealer’s
obligations to review and maintain certain information about an issuer’s quoted
securities. In addition, we are proposing a technical amendment to Exchange Act
Rule 15c2-11 to amend subsection (d)(2)(i) of the rule to update the outdated reference to
the “Schedule H of the By-Laws of the National Association of Securities Dealers, Inc.”

509

17 CFR 230.251 through 230.263.

510

17 CFR 230.251 through 230.263.

511

15 U.S.C. 77c(b)(2).

512

15 U.S.C. 77a et seq.

513

17 CFR 239.90.

514

17 CFR 239.91.

515

17 CFR 260.4a-1.

516

15 U.S.C. 77aaa et seq.

517

17 CFR 240.15c2-11.

518

15 U.S.C. 78a et seq.

194

which is now known as the “Financial Industry Regulatory Authority, Inc.” and to reflect
the correct rule reference.
As a result of the proposed revisions to Regulation A, conforming and technical
amendments would be made to Rule 157(a), 519 in order to reflect amendments to
Section 3(b) of the Securities Act, and Rule 505(b)(2)(iii), 520 in order to reflect the
proposed changes to Rule 262 of Regulation A. Additionally, Item 101(a) 521 of
Regulation S-T 522 would be revised to reflect the mandatory electronic filing of all issuer
initial filing and ongoing reporting requirements under proposed Regulation A. The
portion of Item 101(c)(6) 523 of Regulation S-T dealing with paper filings related to a
Regulation A offering, and Item 101(b)(8) 524 of Regulation S-T dealing with the optional
electronic filing of Form F-X by Canadian issuers, would therefore be rescinded.
III.

GENERAL REQUEST FOR COMMENT
We solicit comment, both specific and general, on each component of the

proposals. We request and encourage any interested person to submit comments
regarding:
•

the proposals that are the subject of this release;

•

additional or different revisions to Regulation A; and

•

other matters that may have an effect on the proposals contained in this
release.

519

17 CFR 230.157(a).

520

17 CFR 230.505(b)(2)(ii).

521

17 CFR 232.101(a).

522

17 CFR 232.10 et seq.

523

17 CFR 232.101(c)(6).

524

17 CFR 232.101(b)(8).

195

Comment is solicited from the point of view of both issuers and investors, as well
as of capital formation facilitators, such as broker-dealers, and other regulatory bodies,
such as state securities regulators. Any interested person wishing to submit written
comments on any aspect of the proposal is requested to do so. With regard to any
comments, we note that such comments are of particular assistance to us if accompanied
by supporting data and analysis of the issues addressed in those comments. We urge
commenters to be as specific as possible.
IV.

ECONOMIC ANALYSIS
As discussed above, Title IV of the JOBS Act requires the Commission to adopt

rules under Section 3(b)(2) of the Securities Act exempting from Securities Act
registration the offer and sale of securities that, in the aggregate, shall not exceed $50
million in a twelve-month period. Congress enacted Section 3(b)(2) against a
background of public commentary suggesting that Regulation A, an existing exemption
for offerings of up to $5 million in a twelve-month period adopted under Section 3(b)(1)
of the Securities Act, should be expanded and updated to make it more useful to small
companies.
We are mindful of the costs imposed by, and the benefits to be obtained from, our
rules. Securities Act Section 2(b) and Exchange Act Section 3(f) require us, when
engaging in rulemaking that requires us to consider or determine whether an action is
necessary or appropriate in the public interest, to consider, in addition to the protection of
investors, whether the action will promote efficiency, competition and capital formation.
Exchange Act Section 23(a)(2) requires us, when adopting rules under the Exchange Act,
to consider the impact that any new rule would have on competition and not to adopt any

196

rule that would impose a burden on competition that is not necessary or appropriate in
furtherance of the purposes of the Exchange Act.
The discussion below addresses the economic effects of the proposed rules,
including the likely costs and benefits of the proposed rules, as well as the likely effect of
the proposed rules on efficiency, competition and capital formation. The proposed rules
include provisions mandated by the statute as well as provisions that rely on the
Commission’s discretionary authority. As a result, while many of the costs and benefits
of the proposed rules stem from the statutory mandate of Title IV, certain costs and
benefits are affected by the discretion we propose to exercise in connection with
implementing this mandate. For purposes of this economic analysis, we address the costs
and benefits resulting from the mandatory statutory provisions and our exercise of
discretion together, because the two types of benefits and costs are not separable. We
also analyze the potential costs and benefits of significant alternatives to what is
proposed.
We request comment on all aspects of our economic analysis, including the
potential costs and benefits of the proposed rules.
A.

Economic Baseline 525
The baseline for our economic analysis of proposed amendments to Regulation A,

including the baseline for our consideration of the effects of the proposed rules on
525

Several rules mandated by the JOBS Act have been proposed by the Commission and one has
been adopted recently. These rules may affect the economic baseline for proposed Regulation A,
but because of data limitations the analysis below cannot account for potential changes that may
result from other Commission actions. For example, pursuant to Title II the Commission recently
amended Rule 506 of Regulation D to permit issuers relying on the exemption in Rule 506(c) to
use general solicitation or general advertising, subject to certain conditions. See SEC Rel. No. 339415. This recent change could increase the use of Regulation D, but the sample of Regulation D
offerings analyzed below does not include offerings utilizing this amendment.

197

efficiency, competition and capital formation, is a description of market conditions today,
in which companies seeking to raise capital through securities offerings must register the
offer and sale of securities under the Securities Act unless they can rely on an exemption
from registration under the federal securities laws. The baseline also includes a
description of investors in offerings of similar amounts and a discussion of liquidity
considerations that impact issuers’ choice of capital markets.
1.

Current methods of raising up to $50 million of capital

While there are a number of factors that companies consider when determining
how to raise capital, a key consideration is whether to issue securities through a
registered public offering or through an offering that is exempt from Securities Act
registration and ongoing Exchange Act financial reporting requirements. The choice of
offering method may also depend on the size of the issuer and the amount of new capital
sought. Registered offerings entail initial and ongoing fixed costs that can weigh more
heavily on smaller companies, providing incentive to remain private and to pursue capital
outside of public markets. As we describe throughout this economic analysis, the
proposed amendments to Regulation A are intended to provide small issuers access to
sources for capital unavailable through other offering exemptions without imposing the
full registration and ongoing reporting requirements of a registered public offering. This
section describes the various currently available offering methods and prevalence of their
use.

198

a.

Exempt offerings

Currently, small companies can raise capital by relying on an exemption from
registration under the Securities Act, such as Section 3(a)(11), 526 Section 4(a)(2), 527
Regulation D 528 and Regulation A. 529 Each of these exemptions, however, includes
restrictions that may limit its utility for small companies. For example, the exemption
under Securities Act Section 3(a)(11) is limited to intrastate offerings, and Regulation D
offerings may limit or prohibit participation by unaccredited investors. Additionally,
offerings relying on Regulation A require submission of offering materials to, and
qualification of the offering statement by, the Commission, and may require qualification
or registration in multiple states. 530 The table below summarizes the main features of
each exemption.

526

Under Securities Act Section 3(a)(11), except as expressly provided, the provisions of the
Securities Act (including the registration requirement under Securities Act Section 5) do not apply
to a security that is “part of an issue offered and sold only to persons resident within a single State
or Territory, where the issuer of such security is a person resident and doing business within, or, if
a corporation, incorporated by and doing business within, such State or Territory.” 15 U.S.C
77c(a)(3)(a)(11).

527

Securities Act Section 4(a)(2) provides that the provisions of the Securities Act shall not
apply to “transactions by an issuer not involving a public offering.” 15 U.S.C.
77d(4)(a)(2).

528

Regulation D contains three rules providing exemptions from the registration requirements,
allowing some companies to offer and sell their securities without having to register the securities
with the SEC. 17 CFR 230.504, 505, 506.

529

See release text Section I.B. above for a description of the current terms and conditions of
Regulation A.

530

See Rutheford B. Campbell, Regulation A: Small Business’ Search for a Moderate Capital, 31
DEL. J. CORP. L. 77, 106 (2005). See also GAO-12-839, “Factors that May Affect Trends in
Regulation A Offerings”, (July 3, 2012).

199

Type of
Offering

Offering
Limit 531

Solicitation

Issuer and
Filing
Investor
Requirement
Requirements
All issuers and
None
investors must be
resident in state

Resale
Restrictions
Restricted in
some cases 532

Blue Sky
Law
Preemption
No

Section
3(a)(11)

None

No limitations

Section
4(a)(2)

None

No general
solicitation

All investors must
meet sophistication
and access to
information test

None

Restricted
securities

No

Regulation
A

$5 million
with $1.5
million
limit on
secondary
sales

"Testing the
waters"
permitted
before filing;
general
solicitation
permitted after
qualification

U.S. or Canadian
issuers, excluding
investment
companies, blankcheck companies,
and reporting
companies

File
“testing
the
waters”
materials,
Form 1-A,
Form 2-A

No

No

Rule 504
Regulation
D

$1 million

General
solicitation
permitted in
some cases 533

Excludes investment
companies, blankcheck companies,
and reporting
companies

File Form
D 534

Restricted in
some cases 535

No

Rule 505
Regulation
D

$5 million

No general
solicitation

File Form
D 536

Restricted
securities

No

Rule 506
Regulation
D

None

General
solicitation
permitted in
some cases 537

Unlimited
accredited investors
and 35 nonaccredited investors
Unlimited
accredited investors.
Limitations on
unaccredited
investors 538

File Form
D 539

Restricted
securities

Yes

531

Aggregate offering limit on securities sold within a twelve-month period.

532

Resale restrictions are determined by state securities laws, which typically restrict in-state resales
for a one-year period.

533

No general solicitation or advertising are permitted unless registered in a state requiring the use of
a substantive disclosure document or sold under state exemption for sales to accredited investors
with general solicitation.

534

Filing is not a condition of the exemption.

535

Restricted unless registered in a state requiring use of a substantive disclosure document or sold
under state exemption for sale to accredited investors.

536

Filing is not a condition of the exemption.

537

No general solicitation or advertising is permitted under Rule 506(b). General solicitation and
general advertising permitted under Rule 506(c), provided all purchasers are accredited investors
and the issuer takes reasonable steps to verify accredited investor status.

538

Under Rule 506(b), offerings may involve an unlimited number of accredited investors and up to
35 non-accredited investors. Under Rule 506(c), all purchasers must be accredited investors.

200

While we do not have adequate data on offerings relying on an exemption under
Section 3(a)(11) or Section 4(a)(2), certain data available related to Regulation D and
Regulation A filings allow us to gauge how frequently issuers currently use these
exemptions when raising capital.
(1)

Regulation A offerings

Companies rarely rely on existing Regulation A when raising capital. The chart
below, from the GAO study, 540 reports the number of filed and qualified Regulation A
offerings in fiscal years 1992 to 2011. 541 Specifically, the GAO notes that the number of
filed Regulation A offerings decreased from 116 in 1997 to 19 in 2011. The number of
qualified offerings dropped from 57 in 1998 to 1 in fiscal year 2011.
Data from GAO Study: Regulation A offerings filed and qualified, 1992-2011

539

Filing is not a condition of the exemption.

540

See Factors That May Affect Trends in Regulation A Offerings, U.S. Government Accountability
Office (Jul. 3, 2012), available at http://www.gao.gov/products/GAO-12-839 (“GAO Report”).

541

A Regulation A offering is considered “filed” when the Commission receives a potential issuer’s
offering materials through Form 1-A. A Regulation A offering is considered qualified after the
Commission has reviewed the offering materials and certified that all conditions have been met.
Therefore, offerings that are filed and not qualified are either pending, withdrawn, or abandoned.

201

Based on information submitted in 1,001 Form 1-A filings between 1993 and
2012, there were 914 unique Regulation A issuers during this period. Of these, 439
offerings by 393 unique issuers were qualified by SEC staff. Examination of these filings
shows that 80% of the offerings were for equity. Although issuers may include up to
$1.5 million in secondary sales under existing regulations, more than 95% of Regulation
A offerings included only primary shares. Analysis of industry composition indicates
that many of the issuers operate in the financial industry (49%). In the year of the
offering, the median financial industry issuer had assets and annual revenue of
$29.3 million and $2.9 million respectively, while the median non-financial industry
issuer had assets of $188,000 and annual revenue of $34,000.
Section 402 of the JOBS Act required the GAO to study the impact of blue sky
laws on Regulation A offerings. The GAO examined (1) trends in Regulation A filings,
(2) differences in state registration of Regulation A filings, and (3) factors that may have
affected the number of Regulation A filings. In its July 2012 report on Regulation A, the
GAO cited four central factors affecting the use of Regulation A offerings: (1) costs
associated with compliance with state securities regulations, or “blue sky laws”; (2) the
availability of alternative offering methods exempt from registration, such as
Regulation D offerings; (3) costs associated with the filing and qualification process with
the SEC; and (4) the type of investors businesses sought to attract.
As identified by the GAO, compliance with state securities laws may currently
affect the use of existing Regulation A. While state securities law filing fees are likely
not significant in any particular state (filing fees are, on average, approximately $1000 in
every state), such fees can become non-trivial when the offering extends across multiple

202

states. 542 For example, state securities law filing fees averaged $35,000 in initial public
offerings under $50 million. 543 Legal and compliance costs for issuers seeking to offer
securities in multiple states may be significant for issuers due to myriad differences in
securities laws and applicable procedures across states. Inconsistencies in state laws and
exemptions, as well as in the process of registration or qualification of an offering under
state law, can result in an expensive, drawn-out process for issuers that could adversely
affect their efforts to raise capital in a timely and cost-effective manner.
The GAO also identified costs associated with the filing and qualification process
for Regulation A offerings as a potential reason for its current limited use. As described
above, a business that relies on Regulation A must file an offering statement with the
Commission that is subject to review by Commission staff and must be qualified before
the offering can proceed. From 2002 through 2012, Regulation A filings took an average
of 241 days to qualify. 544 While some of this timeframe reflects delays associated with
the paper filing method, most of the delay results from the concurrent review by state
securities regulators and the fact that the review process may encompass several rounds
of discussion between Commission staff and issuers. It may also take longer to qualify
when issuers fail to provide all required information in their filings or to address all

542

See Paul Hastings Letter, at 2 and Exhibit A (citing estimated costs of state securities law filings
under Section 3(b)(2) of $50,000 to $70,000); Cf. Regulation D Rule 506 Blue Sky Filing Chart
available at http://americansaferetirements.com/agents/wp-content/uploads/2012/09/Blue-SkyFiling-Chart-Reg-D-506-.pdf.

543

This calculation is based on data provided by Capital IQ and is obtained from S-1 filings from
1996 – 2012 which reports six categories of IPO-related fees, shown in more detail in the “IPOrelated fees” table below.

544

This estimate is based on the initial Form 1-A filing and the last Form 1-A filing through which
the offering was qualified. The median number of calendar days for an offering to be qualified
was approximately 189. The fastest offering qualified in 4 calendar days and the slowest offering
took 693 calendar days.

203

questions from previous correspondence with the Commission. Issuer size may also be
related to the speed at which offerings are qualified. For example, larger companies (i.e.,
those with total assets greater than the median ($1.4 million) for all qualified Regulation
A offerings) navigate the qualifying process on average 97 days faster than smaller
companies. 545
Unlike other exemptions, existing Regulation A permits offerings to an unlimited
number of unaccredited investors, provided that the total amount sold does not exceed $5
million in a twelve-month period. Further, securities sold under existing Regulation A
have no restrictions on resale. As discussed below, Regulation A issuers currently have
limited involvement in secondary markets.
(2)

Regulation D offerings

Based on information available to us, it appears that the most common way to
issue up to $50 million of securities is in reliance on a Regulation D offering exemption.
Regulation D includes three rules providing exemptions from the registration
requirements of the Securities Act. Specifically, as described in the table above, eligible
issuers can rely on Rule 504 to raise up to $1 million within a twelve-month period,
Rule 505 to raise up to $5 million within a twelve-month period, and Rule 506 to raise an
unlimited amount. As the table notes, the three rules have different requirements that
affect their use. In total, based on analysis of issuer offering details reported on Form D,
Regulation D accounts for approximately $900 billion in annual capital raising. 546
545

Id. It is also possible that because most of the larger Regulation A issuers are financial institutions,
such as banks and trusts, which are regulated and disclose more information than other
Regulation A issuers, they are able to prepare offering materials relatively quickly and easily,
based on information they are required to provide to other regulators.

546

These exclude issuances of pooled investment vehicles.

204

During the 2009 to 2012 period, most issuers chose to raise capital by relying on
Rule 506, even when their offering permitted reliance on Rule 504 or Rule 505. 547
During 2012, there were nearly 22,000 Regulation D offerings reported on
Form D. Of these, approximately 12,000 would meet the conditions of Regulation A, as
proposed to be amended, which excludes offerings by reporting companies, foreign
issuers and investment companies, and offerings of interests in claims on natural
resources. The following table reports the breakdown of Regulation D filings from 2012
for all issuers that would be eligible to use Regulation A, as proposed to be amended. 548
Regulation D offerings during 2012 by issuers eligible to rely on
Regulation A 549
Rule 504

Rule 505

<$1M

<$5M

<$5M

Current Reg A Eligible

Yes

Yes

Proposed Reg A Eligible

Yes

Yes

Number of filings

385

Median offering amount ($ millions)

0.4

Offering size

Rule 506
$5M-$50M

>$50M

Yes

No

No

Yes

Yes

No

142

7,202

2,784

330

1.0

1.0

10.0

88.9

Average offering amount ($ millions)

0.5

1.3

1.4

13.7

481

Average amount raised (% of offering) 550

62.2

67.9

72.1

72.7

76.4

Portion with unaccredited investors (% of deals)

62.1

36.8

7.8

5.0

8.2

Average fees (% of funds raised)

0.1

0.2

0.7

0.7

0.8

Median number of investors
4
4
5
8
12
Excludes offerings by reporting companies, foreign issuers and investment companies, offerings of interests in
natural resources, and issuers who failed to sell any securities.

547

This tendency could, in part, be attributed to two features of Rule 506: Blue sky law preemption
and an unlimited offering amount. See also Factors That May Affect Trends in Regulation A
Offerings, U.S. Government Accountability Office (Jul. 3, 2012), available at
http://www.gao.gov/products/GAO-12-839.

548

These numbers are calculated using data from raw Form D’s filed with the Commission. We have
adjusted for amended filings by dropping old filings if an amended filing exists. This analysis
excludes filings from issuers relying on Regulation D as a pooled investment fund.

549

Id.

550

The total offering amount is not always equivalent to the total amount raised at the time of filing.
Regulation D permits filing a Form D before completion of the fundraising round. Thus for most
companies, the difference between the total offering amount and amount raised results from filing
a Form D before securing all funds promised. In addition, some companies (usually pooled
investment funds) use Form D for open-ended offerings.

205

As shown in the table above, most Regulation D offerings that would be eligible
for Regulation A under the proposed rules are relying on Rule 506 of Regulation D. A
comparison of Rule 506 offerings over $50 million to those below $50 million shows that
larger offerings involve more investors and have generally raised a greater percentage of
the amount of capital sought at the time of the Form D filing. This evidence indicates
potentially higher success rates for larger offerings, although this cannot be confirmed
because there is no requirement for issuers to file an amended Form D at the completion
of an offering.
Most Regulation D issuers elect not to disclose their revenue range in their
Form D filings. The following table shows the breakdown of the issuers potentially
eligible to rely on Regulation A that did not disclose, and those that elected to disclose a
revenue range for offerings made in 2012.
Amount raised through Regulation D offerings in 2012 by issuers eligible to rely on
Regulation A, by issuer revenue range. 551
Revenue Range
Not Applicable 552
Decline to Disclose
No revenues
$1-$1,000,000
$1,000,001-$5,000,000
$5,000,001-$25,000,000
$25,000,001-$100,000,000
Over $100,000,000

Frequency
Offering < $5M
141
4,543
1,353
1,168
315
132
53
24

Frequency
Offering $5M- $50M
92
2091
264
118
64
93
41
21

Avg. Raised ($ millions)
Offering <$50M
4.7
4.3
1.4
1.0
2.1
3.8
7.7
6.9

Excludes offerings by reporting companies, foreign issuers and investment companies, offerings of interests in
natural resources, and issuers who failed to sell any securities.

551

Id.

552

These could be Regulation D issuers (non-registered investment companies) that manage assets
and report net asset value, for example, REITS, or spillover from the “No revenues” category.

206

If issuers that disclose a revenue range are representative of all Form D filers, then nearly
half of the issuers that file Form D have no revenues. The portion of issuers without
revenues is noteworthy because debt is not likely to be a feasible source of capital for
companies without regular cash flows.
b.

Registered Offerings

Companies seeking to raise capital without being subject to the restrictions under
exempt offerings can register the offer and sale of securities under the Securities Act.
The following figure shows the frequency of IPOs each year for companies
issuing above or below $50 million.553 Consistent with many previous observations
about the recent IPO market, the number of IPOs, particularly those under $50 million,
has fallen dramatically since the late 1990s. 554

553

There were approximately 25 registered initial public offerings up to $50 million in 2012
according to data from Capital IQ.

554

See, e.g., D. Weild and E. Kim, A wake-up call for America, 2009. In 2011, the Treasury
Department hosted a conference on access to capital to better understand how to restore access to
capital for emerging companies. The conference featured the findings of an IPO task force
comprised of a number of experienced venture capitalists, investment bankers, and lawyers. Their
findings provide a number of possible explanations for the decline in the number of IPOs,
including that 92% of the surveyed CEOs listed the “Administrative Burden of Public Reporting”
as being one of the most significant challenges of an IPO.

207

Frequency of all initial public offerings and offerings under $50 million by year. 555

One possible reason for the decreasing number of IPOs under $50 million is that
public offerings may be too costly to be a viable alternative for some small companies. 556
In particular, commissions paid to underwriters average 7% for IPOs, 5% for seasoned
public issuances, and 1% for bond issuances. 557 Issuers conducting registered public
offerings must also pay Commission registration fees and FINRA filing fees, legal and
accounting fees and expenses, transfer agent and registrar fees, costs associated with

555

The data is provided by Capital IQ and this sample excludes offerings from blank check
companies and non-Canadian foreign issuers.

556

See also Gao, Xiaohui, Jay R. Ritter, and Zhongyan Zhu. Where have all the IPOs gone?,
Working Paper, University of Florida, 2012 (suggesting, among other things, that acquisitions
have partially supplanted the traditional IPO as an exit path for smaller companies).

557

See, e.g., H. Chen and J. Ritter (2000), The Seven Percent Solution, Journal of Finance 55, pp.
1105−1131; S. Corwin (2000), The Determinants of Underpricing for Seasoned Equity Offers,
Journal of Finance 58 pp. 2249−2279; L. Fang (2005), Investment Bank Reputation and the Price
and Quality of Underwriting Services, Journal of Finance 60, pp. 2729−2761.

208

periodic reporting requirements and other regulatory requirements and various other fees.
Two surveys concluded that regulatory compliance costs of IPOs average $2.5 million
initially, followed by an ongoing $1.5 million per year. 558
Because of the fixed-cost nature of many of the fees associated with public
offerings, size may be one of the most important determinates of whether an offering is
made available to the public. As shown in the scatter plot below, there is a downward
trend in IPO-related fees (excluding underwriter and printing costs and reported as a
percentage of offering proceeds) as offering size increases. 559

558

See IPO Task Force, Rebuilding the IPO On-Ramp, 9 (Oct. 20, 2011), available at
http://www.sec.gov/info/smallbus/acsec/rebuilding_the_ipo_on-ramp.pdf (“IPO Task Force”).

559

Fee information is compiled by Capital IQ and is obtained from S-1 filings from 1996 – 2012
which reports six categories of IPO-related fees. The analysis includes four of the fees: legal,
accounting, blue sky, and registration, which we collectively refer to as “compliance fees”.

209

Portion of IPO-related fees paid relative to net proceeds after excluding fees paid to
underwriters.

For offerings below $50 million, the fixed cost components of legal and
accounting-related fees, as a percentage of offering size, are particularly burdensome. In
the table below, which reports the six fee types reported in Form S-1, offerings less than
$50 million incur compliance related fees that are on average nearly twice those incurred
by larger offerings, measured as a percentage of proceeds.
IPO-related fees as a percentage of offering size for offerings completed from 1996
to 2012.
All Offerings
(N=4868)
9.55%

Offerings
$5- $50 million
(N = 2017)
11.15%

Offering
> $50million
(N = 2851)
8.44%

1.39%

1.91%

1.03%

Registration Fees

0.03%

0.04%

0.02%

Blue Sky Fees

0.03%

0.07%

0.01%

Accounting Fees

0.53%

0.72%

0.40%

Legal Fees

0.80%

1.08%

0.60%

Underwriter Fees

6.45%

6.87%

6.17%

Total Fees
Compliance Fees

210

Printing Fees

0.32%

0.47%

0.22%

Analysis excludes offerings from non-Canadian foreign issuers and blank-check companies.

Additional statistical analysis 560 of these fees using regression methodologies
shows that fees have increased by approximately six basis points per year since 1996, and
that these fees have increased disproportionately more for small offerings than for large
offerings. For example, fees related to offerings over $50 million increased by
approximately 50 basis points from 2000 to 2010, while fees related to offerings below
$50 million increased by 100 basis points over the same period.
In addition to increased compliance costs, there are a number of other possible
explanations for the decline in IPOs. For example, one benefit of a public listing is the
increased liquidity that results from access to retail investors; however, catering to retail
owners can involve investor relations challenges and liability-related costs. 561 A second
explanation for the decline of IPOs could result if current offerings are concentrated in
high-technology sectors that are sensitive to R&D-related disclosure requirements, which
could potentially cause issuers to rely more on private capital sources. 562 Access to
capital may also be especially time-sensitive for the types of companies most likely to
make small offerings, rendering these companies unwilling to go through a potentially

560

We tested for statistical significance in the relationship between fees and issue size using
regression analysis of fees disclosed in S-1 filings. The data is from Capital IQ, which tabulates
S-1 and other filings. Due to the abnormal distribution of IPO-related fees, we use quantile
regressions. Fees were calculated as described in the table above. The sample eliminates all
observations by issuers who would be ineligible for the proposed Regulation A exemption.
Finally, we determine that fees have increased more rapidly for smaller issuers by including an
interaction term of issuance date with offering size.

561

For instance, the 2011 IPO Task-Force survey results indicate that 88% of CEOs that had
completed an IPO listed “Managing Public Communications Restrictions” as one of the most
significant challenges brought on by becoming a reporting company.

562

Campbell, Tim S. (1979), Optimal investment financing decisions and the value of
confidentiality, Journal of Financial and Quantitative Analysis: pp. 913-924.

211

lengthy registration process. It is also possible that directors and officers of companies
looking to raise less than $50 million may not want to subject themselves to the increased
liability and takeover threats that come with dispersed ownership. 563 Finally, the decline
of public offerings could result from macro-economic effects on investment opportunities
in the economy and the cost of capital. 564
Companies that have completed an IPO often continue to raise capital through
follow-on offerings. In 2012, public follow-on offerings accounted for $155 billion, $4
billion of which came from offerings less than $50 million,565 which is significantly more
than the amount raised through IPOs over the same period, suggesting that follow-on
offerings (also known as “seasoned equity offerings”) comprise a prevalent source of
capital for companies. 566
c.

Private debt offerings

Companies with regular cash flows often rely on debt as a source of capital;
however, borrowing may not be a cost effective option for many early-stage companies
as they may face large information asymmetries with investors, irregular cash-flow
projections, insufficient assets to offer as collateral, and high external monitoring
costs. 567 For example, an internet start-up company without steady revenues might have

563

Burkart, Mike, Denis Gromb, and Fausto Panunzi (2000), Agency conflicts in public and
negotiated transfers of corporate control, The Journal of Finance 55.2, pp. 647-677.

564

Lowry, Michelle (2003), Why does IPO volume fluctuate so much?, Journal of Financial
Economics 67.1, pp. 3-40.

565

There were approximately 211 public follow-on offerings in 2012 according to data from
Thompson Reuters SDC.

566

These estimates are based on our analysis of data on seasoned equity offerings from Thompson
Financials SDC Platinum and excludes offerings from non-Canadian foreign issuers.

567

Robb, Alicia M., and David T. Robinson, The capital structure decisions of new firms, No.
w16272, National Bureau of Economic Research, 2010.

212

trouble securing a loan or a line of credit from a bank because it would have difficulty
signaling the quality of its business model and ability to repay. Conversely, an owner of
a restaurant franchise could reasonably rely on regular cash flows and its own credit
history to support a loan application. Additionally, some companies may find loan
requirements imposed by financial institutions difficult to meet. For example, financial
institutions generally require a borrower to provide collateral and/or a guarantee by
owners, 568 which some companies may not be able to or may be reluctant to provide. 569
2.

Liquidity considerations

As described above, various financing options are available to small companies
looking to raise up to $50 million of capital. For many companies, access to liquid
markets is an important consideration as they compare the merits of these options.
There are important differences in liquidity for securities issued in a registered
offering or under Regulation D or Regulation A. Securities in registered offerings that
meet listing requirements benefit from the liquidity of listing on a national securities
exchange. Conversely, securities sold under Regulation D are relatively illiquid due to
restrictions that prohibit resale in the public market for up to a year. Although securities
issued under Regulation A are freely tradable, they typically trade in over-the-counter
markets (if at all), as these issuers may not meet listing standards of a national securities

568

Approximately 92% of all small business debt to financial institutions is secured, and owners of
the firm guarantee about 52% of that debt. See Berger, Allen N., and Gregory F. Udell.
Relationship lending and lines of credit in small firm finance. Journal of Business (1995): 351381.

569

Some of these companies might instead rely on trade credit, which can be an important source of
capital for young firms. See, e.g. Petersen, Mitchell A., and Raghuram G. Rajan, Trade credit:
theories and evidence, Review of Financial Studies 10.3 (1997): 661-691; and Murfin, Justin, and
Ken Njoroge, The Implicit Costs of Trade Credit Borrowing by Large Firms., working paper.

213

exchange or be willing or able to bear the costs of ongoing reporting. 570 In fact, a much
larger proportion of the qualified Regulation A offerings from 2001 to 2012 are quoted in
the OTC market than listed on a national securities exchange; although most of these
offerings are not currently quoted on OTC markets. 571
More generally, OTC-traded securities are significantly less liquid than those
listed on a national securities exchange. 572 Existing studies of bid-ask spreads, trading
volume, and price volatility find statistically lower liquidity in OTC securities and a
comparison group 573 of similar securities listed on a national securities exchange. 574
There is also evidence that illiquidity is especially expensive for companies that
trade on OTC markets. 575 A recent study finds OTC-traded securities differ from listed
securities in that they are primarily held by retail investors and have a larger illiquidity
return premium. 576 One explanation for the higher liquidity premium is the likelihood of
increased asymmetric information, 577 as the cost of illiquidity is largest for securities
whose issuers choose not to disclose financial information and that are primarily held by
570

See, e.g., Sanger and Peterson, 1990; Harris, Panchapagesan, and Werner, 2008; Macey, O’Hara,
and Pompilio, 2008.

571

This conclusion is based on a review of three databases with coverage of OTC markets: CapitalIQ,
iMetrix, and OTC quote.

572

See, e.g., Sanger and Peterson, 1990; Harris, Panchapagesan, and Werner, 2008; Macey, O’Hara,
and Pompilio, 2008.

573

Choosing a comparison set of companies with similar characteristics, such as market
capitalization, helps isolate the effect of trading venue on liquidity.

574

Ang, A., Shtauber, A., & Tetlock, P. Asset pricing in the Dark: The Cross Section of OTC Stocks
(July 1, 2013). Netspar Discussion Paper No. 11/2010-093, available at SSRN:
http://ssrn.com/abstract=1817542 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.1817542. Review of Financial
Studies, forthcoming. The study analyzes 486 OTC stocks and compares them with a
benchmarked (size-based) sample of listed stocks.

575

Id.

576

Id.

577

Lev, Baruch. Toward a theory of equitable and efficient accounting policy. Accounting
Review (1988): 1-22.

214

retail investors. 578 The desire of issuers to alleviate this illiquidity discount may explain
why many OTC quoted companies that are not required to report financial information
under the Exchange Act voluntarily provide limited financial information to investors. 579
3.

Investors in offerings of up to $50 million

The various methods of raising up to $50 million in capital may attract different
types of investors. For example, as discussed above, Regulation A and public offerings
have no limit on the number of unaccredited investors that can participate. In contrast,
offerings under Rule 506(b) of Regulation D are limited to a maximum of 35
unaccredited investors.
Data from Form D filings suggests that unaccredited investors are not
significantly involved in Regulation D offerings of up to $50 million. While
unaccredited investors can and do participate in Regulation D offerings, offerings
involving unaccredited investors are typically smaller than those that do not involve
unaccredited investors. In 2012, we estimate that there were approximately 220,000
investor participations in nearly 11,000 Regulation D offerings of below $50 million by
issuers that would be eligible for exemption under Regulation A, as proposed to be
amended. 580 Of these offerings, approximately 9.4% involved at least one unaccredited

578

Ang, A., Shtauber, A., & Tetlock, P. 2011. Asset pricing in the Dark: The Cross Section of Overthe-Counter Stocks. Review of Financial Studies, forthcoming. The study analyzes 486 OTC
stocks and compares them a benchmark group of listed stocks.

579

Analysis by staff in the Division of Economic and Risk Analysis found that in 2012, there were
more than 700 companies quoted through the OTC Markets Group platform that provided limited
financial information to qualify as OTC Pink Limited Information securities, which are quoted in a
tier above firms that do not provide financial information.

580

These numbers are based on analysis by the Division of Economic and Risk Analysis of initial
Form D filings submitted during calendar year 2012. The estimated total number of investor
participations is likely greater than the actual number of Regulation D investors because investors
could have participated in more than one offering.

215

investor. Offerings to exclusively accredited investors averaged 12 investors per offering
and raised an average of $3.7 million per offering. In contrast, an average of 107
investors participated in offerings that involved at least one unaccredited investor and
raised an average of $1.5 million.581
As of 2010, 8.7 million U.S. households, or 7.4% of all U.S. households, qualified
as accredited investors based on the net worth standard in the definition of “accredited
investor,” 582 which is substantially larger than the total number of investors that reported
as having participated in an unregistered offering, but considerably less than the total
number of retail investors, which we estimate could be as high as 33 million. 583 Thus the
current pool of investors eligible to participate in Regulation A offerings and public
offerings is substantially larger than the estimated total number of accredited investors or
current levels of investor participation in the private offering market.
B.

Analysis of Proposed Rules
1.

General Considerations

The impact of the proposed rules on the level and efficiency of capital formation
will depend on the extent to which companies use the new offering method to raise
capital that would not otherwise have been available to them. It will also depend on the
extent to which companies elect to rely on Regulation A, as proposed to be amended, in
place of existing offering methods. As discussed above, many companies finance their

581

Because some investors participate in multiple offerings, these numbers likely overestimate the
actual number of unique investors in these reported offerings.

582

See analysis presented in SEC Rel. No. 33-9415 (July 10, 2013) [78 FR 44771].

583

Id.

216

operations and investments with credit from banks and other financial entities. 584 Other
companies, particularly early-stage and high growth companies, seek capital through
equity-based financing because they do not have sufficient collateral or the revenue
streams necessary to support the fixed repayment schedule of debt financing. 585 These
companies often seek capital from institutional or accredited investors through offerings
that are exempt from registration because the minimum fixed costs of going public
through a registered offering can be disproportionately large for small issuers. 586 But
private offerings impose restrictions on resale, offering amounts, or participating
investors in ways that can limit the ability to raise capital and may not be attractive to
some small companies or investors.
The proposed amendments to Regulation A are intended to provide small issuers
access to sources for capital unavailable through other offering exemptions without
imposing the full registration and ongoing reporting requirements of a registered public
offering. Hence, it is likely that companies seeking to raise capital through an offering
conducted under Regulation A, as proposed to be amended, would have been able to
access to capital through private offerings or registered public offerings. In this respect,
the impact of the proposed Regulation A amendments on capital formation could be
redistributive in nature, but with potentially significant positive effects on capital
formation and allocative efficiency by providing the issuers less costly access to capital

584

Berger, Allen N., and Gregory F. Udell, 1998, The economics of small business finance: The roles
of private equity and debt markets in the financial growth cycle, Journal of Banking &
Finance 22.6, pp. 613-673.

585

Id.

586

See Section I.A. above.

217

than alternative offering methods and by providing unaccredited (retail) investors with
additional investment opportunities.
The potential future use of an amended Regulation A depends largely on the
perceived trade-off between the costs of qualification and ongoing disclosure
requirements and the potential benefits to issuers from access to a broad investor base and
secondary market liquidity. 587 For example, companies considering a traditional IPO
may alternatively consider issuing securities pursuant to Regulation A, as amended, if
they believe that the benefits of reduced disclosure requirements offset the potential loss
of secondary market liquidity that may result from an issuer’s inability to have its
securities quoted on platforms that are available only for Exchange Act-registered
securities. Alternatively, companies considering seeking capital from institutional or
accredited investors through a private offering might consider an offering under amended
Regulation A if they believe that there is a more dispersed investor base, which could
include retail investors, willing to provide capital at a lower cost.
We preliminarily believe that an approach that generally preserves existing
Regulation A while also introducing an option that allows issuers to raise greater amounts
of capital without state review but with additional disclosure requirements is a prudent
first step to adapting Regulation A for larger offerings. We believe this approach
balances the trade-offs among compliance costs, investor protection, and benefits

587

The Commission also recognizes that other important considerations could affect the use of
Regulation A as proposed to be amended. In particular, as explained above, the GAO study of
Regulation A offerings found that blue sky law compliance was a primary factor in the infrequent
reliance on Regulation A. Because we are proposing to define qualified purchasers in a way that
has the potential to include a large percentage of Regulation A investors, we believe that
compliance costs associated with blue sky laws will be eliminated for most offerings, making
them similar to Regulation D offerings and registered offerings in this respect.

218

associated with liquidity and access to investors. We recognize, however, that this
approach may limit the use of Regulation A for certain issuers, and we accordingly are
requesting comment on additional considerations for smaller offerings. For example, the
ongoing reporting obligations of a Tier 2 offering may be proportionately more
burdensome for smaller issuers that are looking to raise substantially less than
$50 million, and may not provide the same benefit to smaller issuers that are not pursuing
secondary market liquidity. For these issuers, it may also not be reasonable to pursue a
Tier 1 offering because the $5 million maximum issuance threshold may be insufficient
in light of costs associated with the existing offering process. We recognize that
observing market behavior under the proposed approach would provide information that
would allow us to assess the need for modifications to the proposed approach, which also
could be made when the Commission considers the efficacy of the $50 million threshold,
as mandated by Congress every two years.
The disclosure requirements that we are proposing account for the trade-offs
identified above and are guided by current and past market experiences. For example,
prior to 1999, securities traded over-the-counter (OTC) and quoted on the OTC Bulletin
Board (OTCBB) interdealer quotation system were not required to be Exchange Act
reporting companies. In January 1999, the SEC approved an OTCBB eligibility rule that
required companies whose securities are quoted on OTCBB to file periodic financial
reports under the Exchange Act or with their primary regulator if not the SEC. 588 One
study evaluating this change found improved liquidity at companies that were already
588

See Order Granting Approval of Proposed Rule Change and Amendment No. 1 from the National
Association of Securities Dealers, Inc. Relating to Microcap Initiatives-Amendments to NASD
Rules 6530 and 6540, Exchange Act Release No. 34-40878 (Jan. 4, 1999), 64 FR 1255 (Jan. 8,
1999).

219

providing periodic reports, or that chose to comply with Exchange Act reporting
requirements to remain eligible for quotation on OTCBB. 589 Approximately threefourths of the companies that were not already reporting chose not to satisfy the new
eligibility requirement by becoming an Exchange Act reporting company and instead
entered less regulated and less liquid OTC markets, indicating that, for these companies,
the expected costs associated with mandatory public reporting under the Exchange Act
outweighed the expected liquidity benefits. 590
The Tier 2 reporting requirements are substantially less than Exchange Act
reporting requirements, but greater than what is currently required for an exemption from
registration under the existing Regulation A rules and those under Regulation D. The
following table shows a selection of commonly filed reports for Exchange Act registered
companies and the analogous form, if any, that would be required for securities issued
under Regulation A, as proposed to be amended, or Regulation D.
Overview comparison of differences in reporting requirements for offerings exempt
under Regulation D, Regulation A, Regulation A as proposed to be amended and
registered offerings.
Common
disclosure types
Offering
document or
notice

Regulation D

D 592

Current
Regulation A

Proposed
Regulation A
Tier 1

1-A

1-A

Proposed
Regulation A
Tier 2
1-A

Registered 591

S-1

589

Bushee, Brian J., and Christian Leuz, (2005), Economic consequences of SEC disclosure
regulation: evidence from the OTC bulletin board, Journal of Accounting and Economics 39.2 ,
pp. 233-264.

590

Id.

591

This comparison does not cover offerings by foreign private issuers.

592

Form D is a notice of sale under Regulation D, not a disclosure document, although certain
disclosures are required. Regulation D does not require filing of a disclosure document with the
Commission, and does not generally impose disclosure requirements except when sales are made
to purchasers that are not accredited investors. See Rule 502(b), 17 CFR 230.502(b).

220

Auditors

−

−

−

No requirement
for a PCAOBregistered
Auditor

Report of
material events

−

−

−

1-U

8-K

Interim report

−

−

−

1-SA

10-Q

Annual report
Termination of
registration

−

−

−

1-K

10-K

−

2-A

1-Z

1-Z

15

PCAOBregistered
Auditor

Tier 2 reporting requirements are also greater than what is proposed to be required under
Tier 1. We believe that it is appropriate to require some additional disclosure from
issuers of larger offerings up to $50 million in order to better protect investors under the
new Regulation A regime.
We recognize that even if the proposed rules reduce compliance costs and require
sufficient disclosure to enable investors, particularly retail investors, to make informed
capital allocation decisions, some issuers may still prefer other offering exemptions.
Preferences for other offering exemptions could be particularly strong given that general
solicitation is now permissible in certain cases under Rule 506(c). In particular, it is
possible that issuers relying on Rule 506(c) may now be in a better position to identify
institutional and accredited investors, such that seeking capital from a broader retail
investor base is not required or desired. In addition, eliminating the ban on general
solicitation for certain Rule 506 offerings may encourage new trading platforms for
privately placed securities once their resale restrictions are lifted. While secondary
markets for private offerings are unlikely to achieve the same level of liquidity of OTC or
other listing venues, it is nonetheless possible that trading platforms could achieve levels
of liquidity sufficient to allow certain types of securityholders (like founders and other
affiliated owners) to exit once resale restrictions are lifted.

221

2.

Scope of Exemption

a.

Eligible Issuers

Under the proposed rules, and consistent with current Regulation A eligibility
requirements, eligible issuers include any companies organized and with their principal
place of business inside the United States or Canada excluding investment companies,
reporting companies, blank check companies, and issuers of claims on natural resources,
and certain disqualified “bad actors”. We also propose to exclude some issuers that are
currently eligible to rely on Regulation A. Specifically, the Commission is proposing to
exclude from eligibility issuers that are subject to a denial, suspension, or revocation
order by the Commission pursuant to Section 12(j) of the Exchange Act within the five
years immediately preceding the filing of the offering statement and issuers that have not
filed required ongoing reports pursuant to Regulation A, as proposed to be amended, in
the two-year period immediately preceding the filing of a new offering statement.
The proposed changes to the Regulation A eligibility requirements would have
benefits and costs. In particular, we believe that the proposed exclusion from eligibility
of issuers that have not complied with ongoing reporting requirements in the two-year
period immediately preceding the filing of a new offering statement would incentivize
issuers that intend to rely on Regulation A in the future to comply with ongoing reporting
requirements, which would allow investors to make better informed investment
decisions. This exclusion, however, should not impose additional burdens or costs on
issuers that would not have already been incurred with the proposed ongoing reporting
requirements of Regulation A.

222

The Commission is also proposing to exclude from eligibility issuers that are
subject to a denial, suspension, or revocation order by the Commission pursuant to
Section 12(j) of the Exchange Act within the five years immediately preceding the filing
of the offering statement. This exclusion may incentivize Exchange Act registrants to
comply with their obligations, and would prevent companies with a history of reporting
non-compliance from relying on Regulation A. We also recognize that this exclusion
could prevent offerings by issuers that intend to comply with Regulation A requirements
despite a history of Exchange Act non-compliance, which could limit capital formation in
certain situations.
The proposed rules continue to exclude non-Canadian foreign issuers from use of
Regulation A, but, as discussed above, we are soliciting comment about the alternative of
amending Regulation A to expand eligibility to additional foreign issuers. Allowing
participation by non-Canadian foreign issuers could increase competition between
foreign and domestic issuers for U.S.-based investor capital. This increased competition
could raise the cost of capital for Regulation A issuers to the extent that there is not a
commensurate increase in the supply of Regulation A capital. It is also possible,
however, that expanding eligibility to use Regulation A to non-Canadian foreign issuers
could attract additional investor capital to the market such that the change would not have
a material impact on domestic issuers’ cost of capital.
The proposed rules also continue to exclude blank-check companies. We believe
that this exclusion is appropriate given the potential difficulty for retail investors to
evaluate the investment opportunities posed by these issuers, particularly because the
issuers do not explicitly identify investment opportunities at the time of offering. The

223

continued exclusion of blank check companies could prevent some legitimate early-stage
companies that would otherwise be eligible issuers from relying on Regulation A.
We are not proposing to amend the existing exclusion of companies subject to the
ongoing reporting requirements of Section 13 or 15(d) of the Exchange Act (“reporting
companies”). As an alternative, we could amend Regulation A to expand the category of
eligible issuers to include reporting companies. Although reporting companies do
occasionally rely on exemptions for private placements, we believe that many reporting
companies generally would not benefit from eligibility to rely on Regulation A as
proposed to be amended. In particular, reporting companies are subject to Exchange Act
reporting requirements that are more extensive than those proposed for Regulation A, so
would not benefit from the reduced disclosure requirements; although reporting
companies could potentially benefit from the liability standards conferred by reliance on
Regulation A, and such issuers that do not have the class of securities being offered
already listed, or are not simultaneously listing, on a national securities exchange could
potentially benefit from blue sky law preemption. Nonetheless, we believe that the
benefits of amending Regulation A to permit reporting companies to rely on the
exemption are minimal. 593
The proposed rules also continue to exclude investment companies and BDCs. If,
as an alternative, the Commission were to permit investment companies to use
Regulation A, offerings from investment companies could increase investment
593

This exemption does not bar reporting companies from suspending or terminating their reporting
obligations and then relying on Regulation A. This option could appeal even to large reporting
companies if they are not looking to raise more than $50 million of new capital. Many follow-on
offerings, for example, are for less than $50 million, as discussed above. This could have both
benefits (in the form of reduced transaction costs and compliance costs for issuers) and costs (in
the form of reduced accountability and reduced information available to investors).

224

opportunities for retail investors. Additionally, the Commission recognizes that
permitting investment companies to rely on Regulation A could enhance capital
formation indirectly. Specifically, if the use of proposed Regulation A decreased the cost
of capital for investment companies and those savings were passed through to the
company recipients of the investment companies’ capital, expanding the eligibility for
Regulation A to investment companies could potentially enhance capital formation. 594
b.

Eligible Securities and Maximum Offering Size

Consistent with the statute, the proposed rules increase the maximum offering size
from $5 million to $50 million of “equity securities, debt securities, and debt securities
convertible or exchangeable to equity interests, including any guarantees of such
securities.” The proposed rules exclude asset-backed securities (“ABS”) from eligibility.
As discussed above, the Commission does not believe that ABS issuers are the intended
beneficiaries of the mandated expansion of Regulation A. ABS are designed to pool the
risk of already-issued loans and other financial assets, and, in this respect, do not
constitute new capital formation. We recognize, however, that allowing ABS offerings
under Regulation A could, in certain cases, lower the cost of capital for underlying
borrowers whose loans are eventually securitized by ABS issuers and therefore indirectly
facilitate capital formation. 595

594

Brewer, Elijah, et al. (1996), Performance and access to government guarantees: The case of
small business investment companies, Economic Perspectives – Federal Reserve Bank of Chicago
20, pp. 16-30.

595

This indirect effect may result because, due to bank accounting standards and capital
requirements, securitization allows banks sponsoring ABS issuers to move assets off balance
sheet, freeing up capital for additional loans. The resulting increase in capital available for
lending could lead to lower borrowing costs for all borrowers down the capital supply chain. See,
e.g., Pennacchi, George G. (1995), Loan sales and the cost of bank capital, The Journal of
Finance 43, no. 2, pp. 375-396.; Carlstrom, Charles T., and Katherine A. Samolyk (1995), Loan

225

Although there are potential indirect benefits from allowing ABS offerings under
Regulation A, we believe that, in practice, Regulation A would have little appeal to ABS
issuers if available. Most ABS offerings are much larger than the maximum allowable
offer size under the proposed rules. Average ABS offering sizes are generally well over
$50 million. 596 Because of their large size, unregistered ABS offerings—for which
Regulation A might be an alternative offering method—currently target Qualified
Institutional Buyers (QIBs) under Rule 144A. For these reasons, we do not believe
excluding ABS from eligibility for Regulation A will have an adverse effect on capital
formation.
As explained above, we are proposing to increase the maximum offering size of
Regulation A offerings by introducing two tiers of offerings. Tier 1 offerings may be up
to $5 million and Tier 2 offerings may be up to $50 million. As compared to the current
rules, the increase in the offering limit for some Regulation A offerings should
significantly lower issuance costs as a proportion of proceeds to the extent that issuers
face certain fixed costs or costs that do not otherwise scale in proportion to offering size.
This could make Regulation A, as proposed to be amended, more cost effective and
attractive for issuers than existing Regulation A. 597

sales as a response to market-based capital constraints, Journal of Banking & Finance 19, no. 3,
pp. 627-646.
596

Our analysis indicates that from 2011-2013, 2.9% of ABS issuances were below $50 million. This
calculation uses the AB Alert and CM Alert databases and includes only private label (non-GSE)
ABS deals.

597

Section 401 of the JOBS Act also requires the Commission to review the $50 million offering
limit not later than two years after enactment of the JOBS Act and every two years thereafter and,
if the Commission decides not to increase the amount, requires that it report its reasoning to
Congress. This requirement will benefit issuers and investors by establishing a regular schedule
for the Commission to review whether the offering limit remains appropriate or should be
increased.

226

Increasing the maximum offering size could lead to improved liquidity of the
securities sold in offerings under Regulation A as proposed to be amended, to the extent
that larger issuances permit greater breadth of ownership. 598 This would be of particular
benefit to companies that have a greater interest in floating their securities in the public
market for the purpose of creating liquidity than in raising capital. Greater investor
participation, particularly retail investor participation, could increase investors’ demand
for liquidity, resulting in more frequent trading and further increases in liquidity. As a
result of improved liquidity, current and potential investors in larger Regulation A
offerings could more easily unwind their investments and at lower cost, thus making such
investments more attractive.
The increase in maximum offering size could also increase the potential
feasibility and value of intermediation services, such market making and analyst
coverage, with respect to Regulation A securities. These services require sufficient
investor demand for securities and information following the issuance because market
makers and analysts are generally compensated on a per transaction or subscription basis.
The presence of these intermediation services could also have a positive impact on
investor participation and aftermarket liquidity of Regulation A offerings, providing
further demand for such services. It is also possible, however, that even the large

598

Grullon, Gustavo, George Kanatas, and James P. Weston, Advertising, breadth of ownership, and
liquidity, Review of Financial Studies 17.2, pp. 439-461. The study shows that large issuances
permit greater analyst coverage, which leads to higher breadth of ownership.

227

increase in maximum offering size included in the statute and proposed rules would not
be sufficient to make such services economically feasible. 599
Lastly, the increased maximum offering size could make Regulation A more
attractive to larger or more mature companies that are in less need of capital than
business start-ups. For these issuers, secondary market liquidity may be the primary goal
of an offering, and it is possible that their resulting market capitalization could be much
greater than the maximum offering size. 600 It is not clear whether existing OTC markets
would be able to supply the liquidity necessary for large issuers.
c.

Limitations on secondary sales

We propose to permit sales by selling securityholders of up to $1.5 million in
Tier 1 offerings and to $15 million in Tier 2 offerings in any twelve-month period, which
represents 30% of the total maximum offering size. 601 This percentage is consistent with
the current Regulation A rules, which permit secondary sales of up to $1.5 million, or
30% of the $5 million maximum offering size. The proposed rules would also eliminate
current Rule 251(b), which prohibits resales by affiliated parties unless the issuer has had
operating income in at least one of the last two years. 602 As discussed above, selling
securityholder access to Regulation A has historically been an important part of the
599

For instance, one prominent study finds that firm size is an important predictor of analyst
coverage. See Barth, Mary E., Ron Kasznik, and Maureen F. McNichols., Analyst coverage and
intangible assets. Journal of Accounting Research 39.1 (2001): 1-34.

600

For instance, an issuer that floats 20% of its shares at $50 million would be valued at $250 million
following the issuance. For this issuer, secondary market liquidity may facilitate subsequent
offerings by founders, employees, affiliates, and other pre-issuance shareholders who are seeking
a partial or full exit of their holdings.

601

So, for example, an offering under $5 million but involving secondary sales in excess of $1.5
million would require exemption under section 3(b)(2) of the Exchange Act and would therefore
be a Tier 2 offering.

602

Tier 1 offerings may still be subject to state law limitations on secondary sales and sales from
affiliates.

228

exemptive scheme, and for some issuers, secondary market liquidity and the ability for
significant company insiders and affiliates to exit all or a portion of their holdings in the
issuer may be a more important consideration than the ability to raise new capital. 603
Hence, we believe that removing the limitation on affiliate resales would have negligible
costs and could enhance capital formation and allocative efficiency of capital; however, it
is also possible that the limit on resales would not be a constraint on selling
securityholders in most instances. The table below shows that if the proposed $15
million resale cap for Regulation A Tier 2 offerings had been applied to registered
offerings conducted in 2012, only a small fraction of offerings below $50 million would
have been affected.
Overview by offering size of the percent of registered offerings conducted in 2012
that would have been affected by a $15 million limit on secondary sales.
Follow-on Public
Offerings 605
(millions)

Initial Public Offerings 604
(millions)

Average percentage of proceeds to
existing shareholders sales
Percentage offerings with proceeds
to existing shareholders > $15
million

<$5

$5-$50

>$50

<$5

$5-$50

>$50

0.0%

1.4%

13.4%

2.8%

5.1%

21.7%

n/a

0.8%

26.5%

n/a

0.0%

6.2%

Permitting these secondary sales provides exit options for company founders,
employees, and institutional investors, such as private equity or venture capital investors,

603

For example, see Rydqvist, Kristian, and Kenneth Högholm (1995), Going public in the 1980s:
evidence from Sweden, European Financial Management 1.3, pp. 287-315.

604

These estimates use data provided by Capital IQ and are calculated by comparing the total IPO
proceeds to the proceeds from the IPO that went to incumbent shareholders as disclosed on
Form S-1.

605

These estimates use SCD data provided by Thompson Analytics and, as above, these numbers are
calculated by comparing total offering proceeds to the proceeds that went to incumbent
shareholders.

229

which can have a positive effect on capital formation. For instance, because these
investors consider available exit options before participating in a new venture, permitting
secondary sales increases the incentives to make the original investment. 606 Allowing
these exits could also facilitate an optimal re-allocation of human capital. In particular,
entrepreneurs and venture capitalists have valuable talents and allowing them to exit may
free their attention for new projects and business ventures, and allow them to make
investments not otherwise possible. 607 In turn, their exits facilitate new investment
opportunities for investors with different skills and risk preferences, and potentially a
more appropriate investor base for an issuer.
As an alternative, we could increase the cap on secondary sales above the
proposed $1.5 million for Tier 1 offerings and $15 million for Tier 2 offerings.
Increasing the cap on secondary sales could provide additional exit options for incumbent
shareholders, which could indirectly increase capital formation because exiting investors
could more quickly redeploy their capital into new projects and business ventures.
It is also possible that increasing the cap on secondary sales could lead to better
monitoring of the underwriter or placement agent if used, as the selling securityholders
have incentives to ensure that the underwriter values the securities and conducts the
offering so as to maximize the value of their investment. 608 Finally, increasing the cap on
606

Cumming, Douglas J., and Jeffrey G. MacIntosh (2003), Venture-capital exits in Canada and the
United States, The University of Toronto Law Journal 53.2, pp. 101-199.

607

Zhang, Junfu (2011), The advantage of experienced start-up founders in venture capital
acquisition: Evidence from serial entrepreneurs, Small Business Economics 36.2, pp. 187-208.
Also see, Gompers, P., A. Kovner, J. Lerner, D. Scharfstein (2006), Skill vs. luck in
entrepreneurship and venture capital: Evidence from serial entrepreneurs, No. w12592. National
Bureau of Economic Research.

608

Ljungqvist, Alexander, and William J. Wilhelm (2003), IPO pricing in the dot‐com bubble, The
Journal of Finance 58.2, pp. 723-752.

230

secondary share offerings could result in more dispersed ownership, resulting in better
liquidity in the secondary resale market. As described above, an increase in the portion
of securities sold to the public generally increases investor participation and the breadth
of ownership. The exit of a large shareholder that accounts for an increase in public float
has the benefit of changing the composition of shareholders to those that do not have
access to non-public information about the issuer’s operations and that predominantly
trade based on liquidity needs or publicly available information. Studies show that this
can result in lower spreads because it minimizes the inventory risk that dealers face. 609
Increasing the permitted amount of secondary sales could also result in potential
costs. In particular, it is often argued that the incentives of company management are
better aligned with other shareholders when managers hold a significant equity interest in
the company. 610 Specifically, it can be important for insiders to retain some ownership
stake to ensure that the incentives of directors and officers are aligned. 611 Hence, it is
possible that affiliate sales, if too large, could be detrimental to purchasing investors.
However, there is no conclusive evidence that affiliate sales are associated with poor
post-offering performance in the context of IPOs, 612 and there is some evidence that

609

Bharath, S. and Amy Dittmar (2010), Why Do Firms Use Private Equity to Opt Out of Public
Markets?, Review of Financial Studies 23(5), pp. 1771-1818.

610

See, e.g., Jensen, Michael C., and William H. Meckling (1978), Theory of the firm: Managerial
behavior, agency costs and ownership structure, Journal of Financial Economics 3.4, pp. 305-360.

611

Core, John E., Robert W. Holthausen, and David F. Larcker (1999), Corporate governance, chief
executive officer compensation, and firm performance, Journal of Financial Economics 51.3, pp.
371-406.; Mehran, Hamid (1995), Executive compensation structure, ownership, and firm
performance, Journal of Financial Economics 38.2, pp. 163-184.

612

Mikkelson, Wayne H., M. Megan Partch, and Kshitij Shah. Ownership and operating
performance of companies that go public. Journal of Financial Economics 44.3 (1997): 281-307.

231

affiliate sales are associated with positive post-IPO performance, as the selling affiliates
have incentives to monitor and limit rent capture by underwriters. 613
There may also be investor protection benefits in some cases from precluding
affiliate sales by limiting transactions between informed investors (affiliates) and
uninformed investors, such as retail investors. These potential benefits may be limited, as
buyers are aware that they are less informed than affiliates and consequently, security
prices should generally reflect these asymmetries at the time of the offering. 614 Investors
also may prefer to transact with affiliates in an offering because affiliates assume
additional liability for misstatements in the offering documents. Thus affiliates may be
sensitive to the risks of exploiting uninformed investors during an offering in which they
are selling securities. For example, some empirical evidence suggests venture capitalists
avoid reputational consequences of selling over-valued securities to uninformed investors
during IPOs. 615 Furthermore, we believe that state oversight of affiliate sales in Tier 1
offerings and the proposed investment limitation and financial statement and disclosure
requirements for Tier 2 offerings could provide additional investor protection.
Using an operating income criterion for permitting secondary sales could promote
investor confidence with respect to issuer viability by reducing the incidence of insiders
offloading investments in companies that are not financially viable. However, the
Commission believes that doing so may result in an under- or over-inclusion of
613

614

615

Ljungqvist, Alexander, and William J. Wilhelm (2003), IPO pricing in the dot‐com bubble, The
Journal of Finance 58.2, pp. 723-752.
Easley, David, and Maureen O'Hara (2004), Information and the cost of capital, The Journal of
Finance 59.4, 1553-1583.

Lin, Timothy H., and Richard L. Smith (1998), Insider reputation and selling decisions: the
unwinding of venture capital investments during equity IPOs, Journal of Corporate Finance 4.3,
pp. 241-263.

232

companies that are viable investment opportunities because there is no single criterion
that would provide an accurate measure of the financial health of all companies that could
rely on Regulation A. 616
d.

Investment Limitation

Regulation A currently does not place any limitations on the amount of securities
that may be purchased by an investor. As explained above, we are proposing that
purchasers of Tier 2 offerings be limited to investing no more than 10% of the greater of
the investor’s annual income and net worth. 617 By limiting investment size in Tier 2
Regulation A offerings in that way, the proposed rules could limit potential losses to
investors; however, they could also limit potential gains.
The proposed rules would permit issuers to rely on investors’ representation that
they are investing no more than 10% of their net worth and annual income. The ability to
rely on investor representations should help to mitigate potential costs that issuers could
incur in relation to this requirement. At the same time, we realize that investors might
make inaccurate representations, whether intentionally or not, which could expose these
investors to the risk of increased losses.
It is also possible that preventing investors from investing more than 10% of the
greater of their income and net worth in a Tier 2 Regulation A offering could limit capital
formation, particularly if potential purchasers of Tier 2 offerings are not able to meet

616

Indeed, one study suggests that standard accounting measures are often poor indicators of financial
health in small companies. Davila, Antonio, and George Foster (2005), Management accounting
systems adoption decisions: evidence and performance implications from early-stage/startup
companies, The Accounting Review 80.4, pp. 1039-1068.

617

Annual income and net worth would be calculated for individual purchasers as provided in the
accredited investor definition in Rule 501 of Regulation D. See 17 CFR 230.501. For example,
individuals’ net worth calculations would exclude the value of their primary residence.

233

minimum investment sizes that may be required by some issuers. 618 While these issuers
could require smaller minimum investment sizes, doing so may entail searching for, and
involving more, investors that contribute to a smaller portion of the offering, which could
increase transaction costs. If issuers maintain minimum investment sizes, the proposed
rules could limit investor participation in Tier 2 offerings.
Furthermore, in some settings, it may be beneficial for issuers to involve large
investments from some types of investors in Regulation A offerings. For example, it
could be beneficial to allow company officers to invest a substantial portion of their net
worth in an offering as a mechanism to align the officers’ incentives with those of the
other securityholders. While we recognize that limiting investment size could result in
less capital being raised by issuers in Regulation A offerings, we believe that preventing
investors from exposing more than 10% of the greater of their income or net worth in a
Tier 2 offering could enhance investor protection by limiting potential losses.
As an alternative, we could also require that purchasers of Tier 1 offerings, like
purchasers of Tier 2 offerings, be limited to investing no more than 10% of the greater of
their annual income and net worth. We believe, however, that because Tier 1 offerings
would continue to be subject to additional state oversight, any benefit associated with
limiting the investment size in Tier 1 offerings could potentially be eclipsed by state-level
protections. We also recognize that Tier 1 offerings would be subject to fewer reporting
obligations and other investor protections than Tier 2 offerings, which could make
investor losses due to fraud more likely under Tier 1.
618

For example, in 2012 approximately half of the Regulation D offerings that would have been
eligible for reliance on Regulation A included a minimum investment amount; the median
minimum investment amount was $20,000.

234

e.

Integration

We are proposing to allow companies to conduct other exempt offerings that
would not be integrated with an offering made in reliance on Regulation A under the
proposed amendments, as long as the company complies with the requirements of the
exemption relied upon for the particular offering. We could have selected an alternative
that would have aggregated the amounts offered in reliance on Regulation A with the
amounts offered pursuant to other exempt offerings. Under such an alternative, the
amounts raised in other exempt offerings would count toward the maximum offering
amount under Regulation A. Compared to this alternative, the ability of issuers to
conduct other exempt offerings that would not count toward the maximum offering
amount under Regulation A would allow issuers to raise more capital.
f.

Exclusion from Section 12(g)

As amended by the JOBS Act, Section 12(g) of the Exchange Act requires,
among other things, that an issuer with total assets exceeding $10 million and a class of
securities held of record by either 2,000 persons, or 500 persons who are not accredited
investors, register such class of securities with the Commission.619 As explained above,
the JOBS Act includes a provision regarding the treatment under Section 12(g) of
securities issued in securities-based crowdfunding transactions pursuant to Section
4(a)(6) of the Securities Act, but did not provide a similar provision in Section 3(b)(2).
We are not proposing to exempt Regulation A securities from the requirements of
Section 12(g).

619

See Section 501 of the JOBS Act.

235

As discussed above and in more detail below, the intent of the proposed rules is to
provide sufficient financial disclosure to help investors make informed decisions while
limiting the costs imposed on issuers for doing so. We believe that the limited required
initial and ongoing disclosures, as proposed, accomplish this objective. If Regulation A
issuers cross the shareholder of record threshold described above, however, they would
no longer benefit from the limited Regulation A disclosure environment and would be
subject to the more comprehensive periodic reporting requirements under the Exchange
Act. This may not have significant economic consequences for issuers that are prepared
to list on a national securities exchange and would otherwise be required to register with
the Commission under Section 12(b) and become subject to Exchange Act reporting
requirements. For issuers that do not wish to list on a national securities exchange or do
not meet listing requirements, the additional disclosure burden could provide incentive to
take actions that would allow them to deregister and cease reporting. 620 In this case, the
benefits of the Regulation A environment would be lost to the issuer’s securityholders.
Because of the manner in which shareholders of record are tabulated, the
likelihood of a Regulation A issuer triggering the 12(g) threshold is low if not triggered at
the time of offering. In particular, beneficial owners of Regulation A issuers who hold
their shares at a broker are not counted as a record holder. Their shares, held in “street
name,” are counted at the broker level, so that each brokerage at which there is a least
one beneficial owner would constitute one shareholder of record. Because of this

620

Leuz, Christian, Alexander Triantis, and Tracy Yue Wang (2008), Why do firms go dark? Causes
and economic consequences of voluntary SEC deregistrations, Journal of Accounting and
Economics 45.2, pp. 181-208.

236

treatment, the number of shareholders of record is often significantly less than the
number of beneficial owners. 621
g.

Liability under Section 12(a)(2)

Consistent with current Regulation A, sellers of securities under Regulation A as
proposed to be amended would be subject to liability to investors under Section 12(a)(2)
for any offer or sale by means of an offering circular or an oral communication that
includes a material misleading statement or material misstatement of fact. We believe
that this would continue to benefit investors by encouraging issuers and selling
securityholders to truthfully disclose all relevant facts associated with an offering, which
in turn would allow potential investors to better assess the merits of the offering and
make informed decisions. We do not expect this requirement to impose any significant
costs beyond the liability already incurred by current Regulation A issuers.
In the context of registered transactions, Section 11 liability applies not only to
the issuer and underwriter but also, in certain circumstances, to other specified persons,
including the accountants, attorneys and other experts involved in preparing the
registration statement. In contrast, Section 12(a)(2) liability applies by its terms only to
sellers, and does not extend to “those who merely assist in another’s solicitation
efforts.” 622 Therefore, we anticipate that auditors and placement agents may not demand
as much compensation for bearing the legal risks associated with participation in
Regulation A offerings as they would for offerings subject to Section 11 liability. We

621

Langevoort, Donald, and Robert Thompson, 'Publicness' in Contemporary Securities Regulation
after the JOBS Act, Georgetown Law Journal, pp. 12-002.

622

Pinter v. Dahl 486 U.S. 622 (1988), at 651 fn. 21.

237

recognize, however, that Section 12(a)(2) liability may result in lower levels of scrutiny
by such intermediaries and may therefore expose investors to additional risks.
3.

Offering Statement

We are proposing a number of modifications to the offering statement required
under Regulation A. Under current Regulation A, offering materials are submitted to the
Commission in paper form. We are proposing to require electronic submission of
offering materials so that these materials can more easily be made available to the public.
As discussed in detail above, electronic submission has numerous benefits to
issuers and investors. For example, electronic filing allows offering materials to be more
easily accessed and analyzed by regulators, investors, and financial market researchers.
We anticipate the effect of providing electronic access to offering materials to the public
will promote liquidity and pricing efficiency for the issued securities. We also recognize
that electronic filing on EDGAR may impose costs on issuers, as discussed below.
We also are proposing a number of modifications to Form 1-A intended to
streamline the type of information included in the offering circular. In general, we are
proposing to maintain Form 1-A’s three-part structure and to make various revisions and
updates to the form. For Part I, the substantive additions to Regulation A items are:
issuer eligibility, bad actor disqualification and disclosure, and a summary of key issuer
financial information and offering details. Since most of this information is already
contained in other offering materials, the additional reporting burden in Part I of the Form
1-A should not entail significantly higher costs in terms of time or out-of-pocket
expenses.

238

Regulation A issuers currently are required to file their offering statements on
paper. Paper documents are difficult to process both for the Commission and for
investors, analysts, and other researchers. The proposed rules require issuer and offering
details in Part I of Form 1-A to be reported in XML format that once filed with the
Commission will be machine readable. This format will allow for more efficient reviews
and the systematic tracking of offering particulars by investors, regulators, and other
market participants such as financial market data aggregators.
The rule also proposes eliminating one of the three alternate models for providing
narrative disclosure under Part II of the offering statement. Currently, issuers can choose
between Model A (for issuers that are corporations only), Model B, and Part 1 of
Form S-1 as described in the release. Elimination of Model A, wherein issuers provided
disclosure in a question-and-answer format, is unlikely to affect most issuers, as
historically, only about 20% of issuers have elected to use Model A. Eliminating
Model A also addresses regulators’ concerns about possible confusion that could result
from the lack of uniformity of information presented in the question-and-answer in the
format. Issuers continue to have the option of using Form S-1.
The proposed changes to Model B include statutorily required disclosures and a
section containing management discussion and analysis of the issuer’s liquidity, capital
resources, and business operations. As discussed in more detail below, these additional
items may impose costs on the issuer, while providing important information to investors.
Consistent with JOBS Act requirements with regard to ongoing reporting by
Regulation A issuers, we are proposing to require offering materials to include audited
financial statements, but only for issuers conducting a Tier 2 offering. The benefits of

239

audited financial statements should provide investors with greater confidence in the
accuracy and quality of the financial statements of issuers seeking to raise larger amounts
of capital. We understand that audited financial statements could entail significant costs
to issuers, and that the costs of an audit may discourage the use of Regulation A as
proposed to be amended. Based on a compilation of data submitted by reporting
companies, the average cost of an audit for offerings of less than $50 million is
approximately $114,000. 623 Additionally, the proposed rules do not require that the
auditor be PCAOB registered, which could reduce the cost of an audit for some issuers.
The proposed amendments also include a limitation on the age of financial
statements at the time of qualification or filing (on these dates, financial statement data
must not be older than nine months). This provision ensures that qualification is based on
information that closely reflects a company’s current financial condition. The additional
costs from these changes are somewhat mitigated by decreases in disclosure requirements
regarding the issuer’s business and transactions with related persons. The higher level of
disclosure would, however, enable investors to have better information for making their
investment decisions.
The proposed rules would also allow for continuous or delayed offerings of
eligible securities by an eligible issuer under Regulation A, on a basis analogous to shelf
registration under Rule 415 for registered offerings, although acquisition shelves would
not be permitted under Regulation A. Unlike existing Regulation A, the proposed rules
also restrict at-the-market shelf offerings. Issuers would need to update their offering
623

See Audit Analytics, Auditor-Fees, available at http://www.auditanalytics.com/0002/audit-datacompany.php. The auditor fee database contains fee data disclosed by SEC reporting companies
in electronic filings since January 1, 2001.

240

circulars annually and after the second fiscal quarter, the same timetable as is proposed to
apply for ongoing reporting requirements.
The current Regulation A rules allow for continuous or delayed offerings under
Rule 415, but Rule 415 only discusses registered offerings, which may have caused
confusion in its application to Regulation A. The provisions in Regulation A as proposed
explicitly allow for continuous or delayed offerings and would provide greater clarity. It
would now be clear that eligible issuers would have greater flexibility to select the timing
of their offerings based on macroeconomic conditions such as interest rates and market
volatility, or other company specific factors that may contribute to a successful
offering. 624 Issuers would not have to wait for the Commission or a state regulator to
complete what can sometimes be a lengthy review process. These factors should
contribute to more timely financing decisions and higher capital market efficiency. For
example, existing research for Rule 415 offerings in the registered offering market shows
that costs of intermediation in shelf offerings, and consequently the cost of raising equity
through shelf registration, is lower than through traditional registration. 625
Excluding at the market offerings will avoid situations where sales at fluctuating
market prices result in a breach of the offering ceiling or the cap on secondary sales.
Issuers could thus avoid losing their exemption under Regulation A due to unanticipated
market factors. While eligible issuers have to file periodic updates and amendments as
described above, they have the flexibility to file only a supplement to the offering circular

624

Bayless, Mark and Susan Chaplinsky, 1996, “Is there a window of opportunity for seasoned equity
issuance?” Journal of Finance 51, 253–278.

625

Bethel, Jennifer and Laurie Krigman, “Managing the Cost of Issuing Common Equity: The Role of
Registration Choice”, Quarterly Journal of Finance and Accounting, 47 (4) (2008), pp. 57–85.

241

if there were no fundamental changes. Hence, the cost to issuers of having the flexibility
to make a continuous or delayed offering could be minimal.
4.

Solicitation of Interest (“Testing the Waters”)

Consistent with Title IV of the JOBS Act, the proposed rules permit issuers to
“test the waters” by soliciting interest in the offering. Regulation A issuers would be
allowed to use all forms of communications with all potential investors in these
communications. Under current Regulation A, testing the waters is permitted only until
the offering statement is filed with the Commission, and solicitation material is required
to be filed prior to or concurrent with first use. Under the proposal, testing the waters
would be permitted both before and after filing of the offering statement, and testing the
water materials would be required to be filed with the Commission at the time of initial
submission of the offering statement, and would be updated thereafter.
In general, allowing issuers to gauge interest through testing the waters may
reduce uncertainty regarding whether an offering could be completed successfully. If
after testing the waters, the issuer is not confident that it will attract sufficient investment,
the issuer can consider alternate methods of raising capital and thereby avoid the costs of
an unsubscribed or under-subscribed offering. Allowing solicitation prior to filing
enables issuers to determine market interest in their securities before incurring the costs
of preparing and filing an offering statement.
By expanding the permissible scope of testing the waters, the proposed rules
could have several benefits. In particular, allowing issuers to advertise their intention to
raise capital prior to qualification of the offering statement could decrease the time
required to raise the desired amount of capital. This option may be useful for smaller

242

companies, especially early-stage companies, which may find it too costly to solicit
through intermediaries. Thus, at least for some companies, the proposed rules could lead
to lower search costs and therefore lower issuance costs. The expansion of testing the
waters could also increase the type and extent of information available to investors,
which could lead to more efficient prices for the offered securities.
In addition, to the extent that the proposed rules permit testing the waters for an
expanded period of time, investors who previously found it difficult to find investment
opportunities in private offerings may be able to find and potentially invest in a larger
and more diverse pool of investment opportunities, allowing investors to more efficiently
allocate their capital. The net effect would be to enhance both capital formation and
allocative efficiency. Further, requiring issuers to attach the offering statement to their
testing the waters materials (or providing information about where it can be accessed)
would allow investors to be fully aware of the details of the offering material in a timely
manner that would support sound investment decisions.
We recognize that there would also be potential costs associated with expanding
the use of testing the waters. In particular, to the extent that testing the waters increases
under the proposed rules, the proposed rules could result in increased levels of
inappropriate and potentially fraudulent activity, because solicitation of these offerings
can be directed towards all investors, including non-accredited and unsophisticated
investors. To some extent, these costs are mitigated by the application of
Section 12(a)(2) and the general antifraud provisions of the federal securities laws. By
expanding the scope of permissible testing the waters, the proposed amendments could
also lead to investor confusion about how to process the different disclosure materials

243

they receive. For example, investors already aware of an impending offering through
testing the waters materials may neglect to read the offering circular, which could be
substantively different from the material distributed when testing the waters.
The Commission could require submission of testing the waters materials before
or concurrent with first use, allowing regulators to better assess how testing the waters is
used to gauge investor interest prior to filing of the offering statement. Requiring initial
submission of testing the waters materials could increase costs for issuers that decide not
to proceed with the offering after testing the waters. Requiring submission before filing
the offering circular could decrease issuers’ willingness to test the waters and could
potentially limit the overall reliance on Regulation A. Any additional solicitation
materials that could result from requiring early submission would also lead to an increase
in the amount of material available for investors about the offering, which could increase
confusion and the costs incurred by investors evaluating their investment opportunities.
5.

Ongoing Reporting Requirements

Requiring limited ongoing disclosure could improve investor decision-making
and ultimately benefit issuers by improving the price efficiency of securities issued
through an amended Regulation A offering, to the extent that secondary markets for these
securities develop. Ongoing financial disclosures and mandatory disclosures of key
material events would allow existing and potential future investors to periodically update
their expectations of the issuer’s prospects and act accordingly. By standardizing the
content, timing, and form of these disclosures, the proposed amendments would make it
easier for investors to compare information across issuers than if disclosure decisions
were otherwise left to voluntary, bilateral arrangements between issuers and investors, as

244

would be the case without mandatory disclosures. Hence, the proposed amendments to
require ongoing disclosure under Regulation A would eliminate many potential
differences in disclosures between issuers that could otherwise impair the capital
allocation decisions of investors, 626 particularly to the extent that such securities trade in
OTC markets.
More generally, the proposed ongoing disclosure requirements should result in
fewer information asymmetries between issuers and their investors than currently exist
for securities offered under the existing Regulation A or other exempt offering methods.
The enhanced disclosure requirements should help improve the ability of investors with
different risk preferences to identify investment opportunities best suited for their risk
tolerance. They will provide investors with a useful benchmark with which to evaluate
the performance of other companies, both within and outside of the proposed Regulation
A market. This enhanced information environment should improve the allocative
efficiency of capital and facilitate the subsequent transfer of issued securities in
secondary markets, allowing for more efficient pricing and liquidity. 627
In addition to the direct costs of preparing the mandatory disclosures, issuers of
securities in a Regulation A offering under the proposed rules would be subject to
potential indirect disclosure costs by revealing to their competitors and other market

626

627

See, e.g., Luigi Zingales (2009), The Future of Securities Regulation, Journal of Accounting
Review, Vol 47, pp. 391-425.
See Graham, J., C. Harvey and S. Rajgopal (2005), The Economic Implications of Corporate
Financial Reporting. Journal of Accounting and Economics 40, pp. 3-73; Durnev, A., R. Morck
and B. Yeung (2003), Value Enhancing Capital Budgeting and Firm-Specific Stock Returns
Variation, Journal of Finance 59, pp. 65-106.

245

participants information about their business not previously required to be disclosed. 628
For these issuers, ongoing reporting requirements under Regulation A may render
alternative offering methods more appealing, such as Rule 506(c) of Regulation D, which
allows general solicitation but does not impose any ongoing disclosure requirements.
Nonetheless, the indirect costs of increased disclosures are present for any issuer
seeking improved liquidity through access to public capital markets and a broader
investor base that includes unaccredited investors. Enhanced disclosure is likely to
improve the liquidity of the securities of Regulation A issuers in the secondary market,
particularly for securities that are traded in the OTC market. 629 As discussed above, there
is a positive feedback effect from increased liquidity, whereby increased trading
engenders more accurate pricing by incorporating a greater number of investors’ views.
More accurate pricing, in turn, encourages greater investor participation and greater
liquidity, and provides investors with more accurate information. Increased price
efficiency can also facilitate a lower cost of capital by lessening the discount investors
otherwise place on illiquid securities and securities for which there is increased risk of
asymmetric information. Hence, there would be significant indirect effects of improving
capital formation.
a.

Periodic Reporting Requirements

Currently, Regulation A issuers do not have ongoing reporting obligations. Under
the proposed amendments, issuers that conducted Tier 2 offerings would be required to

628

Campbell, Tim S (1979), "Optimal investment financing decisions and the value of
confidentiality." Journal of Financial and Quantitative Analysis, pp. 913-924.

629

Ang, A., Shtauber, A., & Tetlock, P. (2011). Asset pricing in the Dark: The Cross Section of Overthe-Counter Stocks. Review of Financial Studies, forthcoming.

246

provide annual audited financial statements on Form 1-K. The Commission is further
proposing that issuers that conducted Tier 2 offerings provide a semi-annual update on
Form 1-SA and current event reporting on Form 1-U. These proposed requirements are
more extensive, in terms of breadth and frequency, than those for current Regulation A
offerings and those for other exempt offerings. 630 The proposed additional disclosures
are intended to reduce the information asymmetries between companies that conduct
Tier 2 offerings and their potential investors, both at the time of the offering, through the
disclosure document, and on an ongoing basis, via ongoing reporting. While we
considered whether we should require certain additional disclosures to be provided in
structured data format, the proposed rules do not require these disclosures to be machine
readable. Not requiring structured data should help to limit costs to issuers while still
providing meaningful information to investors. While not requiring a structured data
format could limit the ability for investors, academics, regulators and other market
participants to analyze firms relying on Regulation A, as proposed to be amended, we do
not believe it is advisable to impose such a requirement on issuers relying on the
exemption.
b.

Current Event Reporting Requirements

As discussed above, in addition to the proposed annual and semi-annual reporting
requirements, the proposed rules include several event-based disclosure requirements,
similar to the event-based reporting of reporting companies on Form 8-K. These events,
like the ongoing financial performance of a company, can be important determinants in
630

Small private companies, such as those that might consider a Regulation A offering, typically do
not disclose information as frequently or as extensively as public companies, if at all. Moreover,
unlike public companies, small private companies are not required to have their financial
statements audited or to hire an independent third party to certify the information disclosed.

247

an investor’s capital allocation decision. The direct cost of reporting these events is often
minimal, particularly to the extent that the disclosed information is simply the
announcement of a new development, such as the sale of an unregistered security. Of the
26 relevant current reporting items on Form 8-K, listed in the table below, eleven are
proposed to be required to be reported, in whole or in part, by issuers that conducted Tier
2 offerings.

248

8-K item
number
Item 1.01
Item 1.02
Item 1.03
Item 1.04
Item 2.01
Item 2.02
Item 2.03
Item 2.04
Item 2.05
Item 2.06
Item 3.01
Item 3.02
Item 3.03
Item 4.01
Item 4.02
Item 5.01
Item 5.02
Item 5.03
Item 5.04
Item 5.05
Item 5.06
Item 5.07
Item 5.08

Item 7.01
Item 8.01
Item 9.01

Description of event triggering reporting obligation
Section 1 - Registrant’s Business and Operations
Entry into a Material Definitive Agreement.
Termination of a Material Definitive Agreement.
Bankruptcy or Receivership.
Mine Safety – Reporting of Shutdowns and Patterns of Violations.
Section 2 - Financial Information
Completion of Acquisition or Disposition of Assets.
Results of Operations and Financial Condition.
Creation of a Direct Financial Obligation or an Obligation under an Off-Balance
Sheet Arrangement of a Registrant.
Triggering Events That Accelerate or Increase a Direct Financial Obligation or an
Obligation under an Off-Balance Shelf Arrangement
Costs Associated with Exit or Disposal Activities.
Material Impairments.
Section 3 - Securities and Trading Markets
Notice of Delisting or Failure to Satisfy a Continued Listing Rule or Standard;
Transfer of Listing.
Unregistered Sales of Equity Securities.
Material Modification to Rights of Security Holders
Section 4 - Matters Related to Accountants and Financial Statements
Changes in Registrant’s Certifying Accountant.
Non-Reliance on Previously Issued Financial Statements or a Related Audit
Report or Completed Interim Review
Section 5 - Corporate Governance and Management
Changes in Control of Registrant.
Departure of Directors or Certain Officers; Election of Directors; Appointment of
Certain Officers; Compensatory Arrangements of Certain Officers
Amendments to Articles of Incorporation or Bylaws; Change in Fiscal Year.
Temporary Suspension of Trading Under Registrant’s Employee Benefit Plans
Amendments to the Registrant’s Code of Ethics, or Waiver of a Provision of the
Code of Ethics.
Change in Shell Company Status.
Submission of Matters to a Vote of Security Holders.
Shareholder Director Nominations
Section 6 -Asset-Backed Securities (N/A)
Sections 7 – 9 - Other
Regulation FD Disclosure.
Other Events.
Financial Statements and Exhibits.

Proposed
Regulation A
requirement
Sometimes
Sometimes
Yes
No
Sometimes
No
No
No
No
No
N/A
Yes
Yes
Yes
Yes
Yes
Sometimes 631
No
No
No
No
No
No

No
Optional
Sometimes

We have chosen to require the reporting of key current events based on our
assessment of their potential usefulness to investors in these types of offerings and issuers
and based on the suggestions of commenters. For instance, we are proposing to require
the disclosure of certain events that directly affect the rights of securityholders (Items
3.02 and 3.03). Because sales of securities provide important information about an
631

Form 1-U focuses on officers, as discussed in the release.

249

issuer’s capital structure and could dilute existing shareholders, these events can have
direct securities pricing implications. We are also proposing to require issuers to disclose
changes in their certifying accountant or non-reliance on previously issued financial
statements or a related audit report (Items 4.01 and 4.02). We believe that these items are
relevant information for investors who rely on the information made available to them
through the issuer’s periodic reporting, and it is important for investors to know if
financial statements could be incorrect or compromised in some way.
We also propose requiring disclosure of certain meaningful corporate events.
Bankruptcy (Item 1.03) can have direct effects on valuation as it changes a number of
obligations of the issuer, 632 the fiduciary duties of executive officers and directors, 633 and
can potentially call into question the claims of existing securities to issuer assets and cash
flows. 634 Similarly, reorganizations, such as takeovers (Item 5.01), debt restructuring and
mergers (Items 1.01, 1.02, and 2.01), change companies’ obligations and organizational
structure in ways that can have a material impact on security prices.
Finally, we propose requiring the disclosure of changes in issuer management,
which can have direct implications on the issuer’s future prospects and security prices. 635
Therefore we believe disclosure of management changes would benefit investors.

632

For example, the automatic stay provision suspends contractual obligations.

633

Firms nearing the “zone of insolvency” have a responsibility to maximize “enterprise value”,
which is generally not the same as firm value, as it can include the value of providing
employment, among other things.

634

Renegotiation plans are subject to approval from a majority of owners of the “fulcrum” security
which can be difficult to determine.

635

Murphy, Kevin J., and Jerold L. Zimmerman (1993), Financial performance surrounding CEO
turnover. Journal of Accounting and Economics 16.1 pp. 273-315.

250

c.

Termination or Suspension of Reporting Requirements

The proposed rules allow for a termination or suspension of an issuer’s ongoing
reporting obligations if the number of record holders of the class of securities to which
the Regulation A offering statement relates falls below 300 persons or suspension upon
registration of a class of securities under Section 12 of the Exchange Act or registration
of an offering of securities under the Securities Act.
For Tier 2 issuers, which are subject to substantial ongoing reporting
requirements, the option for suspending or terminating the Regulation A reporting
obligations could be beneficial, especially for issuers that are not seeking secondary
market liquidity, and smaller issuers for which the fixed costs of complying with the
ongoing disclosure requirements would weigh more heavily. 636 The option to suspend or
terminate periodic reporting might be costly for investors because it would decrease the
amount of information available about the issuer, making it more difficult to monitor the
issuer and accurately price its securities or to find a trading venue that would allow
liquidation of the investment. Suspension or termination of reporting might particularly
adversely affect minority investors if the lack of current financial or other material
information, and/or the presence of large inside or affiliate shareholders could make it
easier for controlling shareholders to expropriate capital from minority investors. In most
cases we propose to require Tier 2 issuers to notify the Commission upon suspension or
termination of reporting requirements through Form 1-Z, which for Tier 2 issuers, will
request information regarding the reason for the suspension or termination. To the extent
636

See Request for Comment 90 above (seeking comment on, among other things, whether we should
exempt some issuers from ongoing reporting on the basis of whether such issuer has taken steps to
foster a secondary market for their securities).

251

that ongoing reporting is suspended due to registration of a class of securities under the
Exchange Act, investors may benefit from enhanced reporting under the Exchange Act
requirements.
Although Tier 1 issuers are not subject to periodic and current event reporting
requirements, we propose to require issuers of Tier 1 offerings to notify the Commission
of their terminated reporting obligation using Form 1-Z upon completion of the offering.
Under the proposed rules, Form 1-Z would take the place of Form 2-A, which is currently
required upon completion of a Regulation A offering. For Tier 1 issuers, Form 1-Z will
require issuers to provide updated information regarding some features of the completed
offering, such as the final proceeds raised net of fees. 637 This information will allow the
Commission to monitor whether issuers can reliably raise the projected amount of capital
in Regulation A offerings. Form 1-Z would elicit limited summary information about the
completed offering and the issuer, would not require any additional information from
issuers that would not have been forecasted and provided in the offering materials of
Tier 1 issuers and, therefore, should not impose substantial additional costs on the issuer.
6.

Bad Actor Disqualification

We propose to amend Rule 262 to include bad actor disqualification provisions in
substantially the same form recently adopted under Rule 506(d), but without the
categories of covered persons specific to fund issuers, which are not proposed to be
eligible to use Regulation A. 638 We believe that the proposed disqualification provisions
are not likely to impose significant incremental costs on issuers and other covered
637

We do not propose to require notification of the completion of a Tier 2 offering as the information
will be included in other ongoing reporting materials required from issuers of Tier 2 offerings.

638

See proposed Rule 262.

252

persons because the proposed rules are substantially similar to the disqualification
provisions under existing Regulation A and other exemptions.
The proposed rules likely would induce issuers to implement measures to restrict
bad actor participation in offerings made in reliance on Regulation A, which could help
reduce the potential for fraud in these types of offerings. If disqualification standards
lower the risk premium associated with the presence of bad actors in securities offerings,
any resulting reduction in fraud could also reduce the cost of raising capital to issuers that
rely on Regulation A as proposed to be amended. In addition, the requirement that
issuers determine whether any covered persons are subject to disqualification might
reduce the need for investors to do their own investigations and could therefore increase
efficiency.
The proposed disqualification provisions likely would also impose costs on
issuers, other covered persons and investors. If issuers are disqualified from participating
in offerings made in reliance on proposed Regulation A, they may experience increased
costs in raising capital through alternative methods. These costs could hinder potential
investment opportunities for such issuers, which could have negative effects on capital
formation. In addition, issuers may incur personnel costs to avoid the participation of
covered persons who are subject to disqualifying events. Issuers also might incur costs
by restructuring share ownership to avoid beneficial ownership of more than 20% from
individuals subject to disqualifying events. Finally, issuers might incur costs by devoting
resources to seeking disqualification waivers.

253

As discussed above, we are also proposing a reasonable care exception under
Regulation A on a basis consistent with Rule 506. 639 We anticipate that the reasonable
care exception also would impose benefits and costs. For example, a reasonable care
exception could encourage capital formation by enabling Regulation A offerings to go
forward, where issuers might have been deterred from relying on Regulation A if they
risked potential liability under Section 5 of the Securities Act for unknown disqualifying
events. This exception could increase the potential for fraud by limiting issuers’
incentive to determine whether bad actors are involved with their offerings. We also
recognize that some issuers might incur costs associated with conducting and
documenting their factual inquiry into possible disqualifications. The rule’s flexibility
about the nature and extent of the factual inquiry required could increase these costs
because uncertainty could drive issuers to misunderstand requirements for compliance;
however, the flexibility would allow an issuer to tailor its factual inquiry as appropriate to
its particular circumstance, thereby potentially reducing costs associated with conducting
the inquiry.
The proposed requirement that issuers disclose matters that would have triggered
disqualification, had such matters occurred after the effective date of proposed
Regulation A, also would impose costs and benefits. The proposed disclosure
requirement would likely reduce issuer costs, relative to the cost of disqualification. This
approach would not preclude the participation of past bad actors, whose disqualifying
events occurred prior to the effective date of the proposed rules, which could expose

639

See proposed Rule 262(b)(4).

254

investors to the risks that arise when bad actors are associated with an offering.
Nevertheless, investors would benefit by having access to such information that could
inform their investment decisions. Disclosure of triggering events may also make it more
difficult for issuers to attract investors, and issuers may experience some or all of the
impact of disqualification as a result. Some issuers may, accordingly, choose to exclude
involvement from prior bad actors to avoid such disclosures.
We believe the inclusion of Commission cease-and-desist orders in the list of
disqualifying events would not impose a significant, incremental cost on issuers and other
covered persons because many might already be subject to Commission cease-and-desist
orders or may already be disqualified on the basis of orders issued by state regulators,
federal banking regulators and the National Credit Union Administration. 640 The
inclusion of Commission cease-and-desist orders in the list of disqualifying events might
change how settlement negotiations are conducted between respondents and the
Commission, and the Commission could grant an appropriate waiver from
disqualification.
Under the proposed rules, orders issued by the CFTC would trigger
disqualification to the same extent as orders of the regulators enumerated in Section
302(d)(2)(B)(i) of the JOBS Act (e.g., state securities, insurance and banking regulators,
federal banking agencies and the National Credit Union Administration). We believe that
including orders of the CFTC would result in the similar treatment, for disqualification
purposes, of comparable sanctions. In this regard, we note that the conduct that would
typically give rise to CFTC sanctions is similar to the type of conduct that would result in
640

See SEC Rel. No. 33-9414 (July 10, 2013) [78 FR 44729] (“Bad Actor” adopting release).

255

disqualification if it were the subject of sanctions by another financial services industry
regulator. This provision should enable the disqualification rules to more effectively
screen out bad actors.
7.

Relationship with State Securities Law

As explained above, Regulation A offerings are subject to registration or
qualification under state “blue sky laws,” unless the offering is made to “qualified
purchasers” (as the Commission may define that term) or is offered or sold on a national
securities exchange. Compliance with blue sky law requirements can impose significant
costs, predominantly as a result of having to coordinate independent reviews across
multiple regulatory regimes when issuers are offering securities to investors in multiple
states. 641
The GAO study of Regulation A offerings found that blue sky law compliance
was one of four central factors in the infrequent reliance on Regulation A. 642
Commenters have also raised the importance of state securities law preemption to the
utilization of Regulation A. 643 As discussed above, we are concerned that the costs
associated with state securities law compliance may deter issuers from using
Regulation A, even if the increased cap on offering size and other proposals intended to
make Regulation A more workable are implemented. This would limit the possible
impact of an amended Regulation A as a tool for capital formation. We believe that

641

See discussion in Section IV.A.1.a. above regarding the determinates of trends in Regulation A
issuances.

642

See GAO-12-839, “Factors that May Affect Trends in Regulation A Offerings”, (July 3, 2012).

643

See Fallbrook Letter ( “It cannot be understated as to how critical state securities law preemption
is to ensuring the Regulation A+ Rules are user-friendly and attractive for utilization by growing
companies.”).

256

Regulation A, as we propose to amend it for Tier 2 offerings, would provide substantial
protections to purchasers. Under the proposed amendments, a Regulation A offering
statement would continue to provide substantive narrative and financial disclosures about
the issuer, including an MD&A discussion. We expect that Regulation A offering
statements would continue to receive the same level of Commission staff review as
registration statements. Additional investor protections would be afforded by
Regulation A’s limitations on eligible issuers and “bad actor” disqualification provisions,
which we are proposing to expand. In addition, the requirements for Tier 2 offerings
would provide further protection by requiring the audited financial statements in the
offering circular, an obligation for issuers to provide ongoing reporting to purchasers, and
a limitation on the percentage of annual income or net worth that an investor could invest
in a single offering. Ongoing reporting would assure a continuing flow of information to
investors and could support the development of secondary markets for Regulation A
securities, offering the prospect of reduced investor risk through liquidity.
Based on these requirements, we are proposing to define the term “qualified
purchasers” for purposes of Regulation A to include all offerees in a Regulation A
offering and all purchasers in a Tier 2 Regulation A offering. Therefore, as proposed,
Tier 1 offerings would be subject to state registration and qualification requirements to
the same extent as offerings under current Regulation A, whereas such requirements
would be preempted for Tier 2 offerings.
Because state registration requirements were cited as a central factor in the
infrequent reliance on Regulation A, 644 we believe that by eliminating these costs of state
644

See GAO-12-839, “Factors that May Affect Trends in Regulation A Offerings”, (July 3, 2012).

257

law compliance for Tier 2 offerings issuers may be more likely to rely on amended
Regulation A relative to the current rules under Regulation A, which do not preempt state
securities laws. 645 We believe that this definition could facilitate capital formation, as
suggested in several comment letters. 646 It is also possible that the preemption of state
securities laws for Tier 2 offerings could attract issuers away from offerings conducted
under Rule 506, which also provides preemption of state laws, but restricts resales.
Given that in 2012 the majority of Rule 506 offerings by eligible issuers were less than
$50 million, some shift from Rule 506 to Regulation A is possible; however, we are
unable to quantify its magnitude. The infrequent and issuer-specific use of existing
Regulation A makes it difficult to identify general findings about the effect of preemption
on Regulation A, as proposed to be amended, and to quantify the potential effects of
defining qualified purchasers to include all offerees in a Regulation A offering and all
purchasers in Tier 2 offerings made under the proposed amendments.
We recognize that the proposal could impose some costs. For example, because
the types of issuers and investors that would participate in Regulation A offerings could
vary by state, state-specific securities requirements may potentially be tailored to the
specific investors and issuers involved in these transactions. It is possible that state
securities regulators could provide a meaningful level of investor protection for certain
offerings because of greater familiarity with local issuers and investors.
As a policy alternative, we could permit one or a subset of states to qualify certain
Regulation A offerings either in place of, or in addition to, federal qualification. This
645

See discussion in Section IV.A.1.a. above.

646

See, e.g,. Campbell Letter, Kaplan Voekler Letter, WR Hambrecht + Co. Letter, and Tresslar
Letter,

258

alternative could allow state securities regulators to provide a comparable level of
oversight, while still limiting the costs associated with requiring issuers to undergo
multiple review processes. Depending on how this alternative is implemented, it may not
result in comparable review. For example, if state review is conducted by a single state,
issuers could seek review from the state with the least stringent standards and could
therefore increase the level of fraud in Regulation A offerings. A potentially greater risk
of fraud could negatively affect both investors and issuers, which may find it more
expensive to raise capital using Regulation A, as proposed to be amended, if investors
demand higher returns because of any perceived increase in the risk associated with this
type of offering. The Commission also recognizes that there are a number of alternative
definitions of qualified purchaser that we could propose. One alternative that we could
have selected is to define as a “qualified purchaser” any purchaser in any Regulation A
offering. Compared to the definition in the proposed rulemaking, such a broad definition
would allow Tier 1 Regulation A offerings to qualify for the state law preemption, which
in turn would decrease the cost of such offerings and potentially enhance capital
formation. However, the resulting loss of state review for Tier 1 offerings, combined
with the absence of the additional investor protections included in Tier 2, could increase
the likelihood of fraud in these offerings.
Other alternatives can be broadly categorized as relying on attributes of the
investor, the issuer, and/or the offering. We discuss these alternatives in greater detail
below.
We could have selected a policy alternative that defines as a “qualified purchaser”
any purchaser who meets a specified income or net worth standard that is set either lower

259

or higher than the current “accredited investor” definition in Rule 501 of Regulation D.
Compared to the definition in the proposed rulemaking, such an alternative could limit
the number of offerings that would qualify for state preemption because some investors
that purchased securities in Tier 2 offerings would not satisfy these alternative
definitions. However, such alternatives might allow the preemption of blue sky law for
Tier 1 offerings, which are not subject to the same reporting and other obligations
proposed for Tier 2. Limiting eligible investors could result in higher offering costs for
potential Regulation A issuers but could also lower the likelihood of fraud in Regulation
A offerings compared to the proposed rules.
Another policy alternative that we could have adopted is to define a “qualified
purchaser” as any purchaser who purchases securities in a Regulation A offering through
a registered broker-dealer. Such an alternative could have limited the number of
offerings that would qualify for state preemption because some investors might not use
broker-dealers when participating in Tier 2 offerings. Such a limitation could result in
higher offering costs for issuers. Additionally, such an alternative could have increased
the cost to investors participating in Tier 2 offerings because they would have to pay
broker-dealer fees. On the other hand, the presence of registered broker-dealers, who
presumably perform due diligence on potential investments, could result in lower
likelihood of fraud in this market compared to the proposed rules, and could support blue
sky preemption for Tier 1 offerings as well as Tier 2 offerings.
In addition, we could have defined qualified purchasers as investors in a
Regulation A offering in which the issuer meets specified conditions. For example, the
definition could require that the issuer meet some financial criteria, or that the issuer meet

260

some governance requirements. The potential advantage of defining qualified purchaser
according to attributes of the issuer is that indicators of fraud or risky investments are
often characteristics of the issuer (e.g. shell companies, financially distressed companies,
etc.). Therefore, a definition based on issuer attributes might effectively identify the
investments most in need of additional regulatory oversight. However, it may be difficult
to identify criteria that effectively distinguish between fraudulent or excessively risky
investments and safer investments, given the wide variety of potential issuers. For
example, a high degree of leverage would be indicative of financial distress in some
companies, but could be optimal in others.
Lastly, we could have used attributes of the offering, other than or in addition to
the proposed requirements for Tier 2, to define qualified purchasers. For example,
qualified purchasers could be defined in relation to offerings in which issuers and agents
of the issuer assume increased liability for material misstatements and omissions,
offerings over a certain size, or offerings with a firm commitment underwriting. While
some of these factors are correlated with the riskiness of the offering, using a definition
based on these factors could prompt issuers to sub-optimally modify features of the
offering in order to avoid state regulation.
We considered the policy alternative suggested by one commenter to preempt
blue sky laws with respect to secondary sales of Regulation A securities in addition to
preempting blue sky laws governing primary offerings. 647 If blue sky laws pertaining to
resales affect the ability to conduct or the cost of transactions involving Regulation A
securities, preemption of sales in addition to offers could help facilitate liquid secondary
647

See Paul Hastings Letter.

261

markets, and could therefore enhance capital formation. We are currently unaware of any
evidence suggesting that blue sky laws inhibit trading in OTC markets; therefore, we are
not proposing to preempt blue sky laws with respect to secondary sales of Regulation A
securities at this time.
8.

Effect of Regulation A on OTC Markets and Dealer Intermediation

For securities issued in Regulation A offerings that end up trading on the OTC
market, the proposed new Tier 2 disclosure requirements would provide timely and
relevant issuer information to broker-dealers that initiate quotations and make markets in
these securities and to investors in these securities. This information would be much
more detailed than what is currently required for non-reporting issuers under
Rule 15c2-11 and reported on Form 211. Similarly, for issuers with existing securities
trading on the OTC market, the disclosure proposed to be required under Tier 2 would
supplement the issuer information otherwise used by broker-dealers when relying on the
existing piggyback exception of Rule 15c2-11. 648 For Tier 2 issuers, the proposed new
periodic reporting requirements, including audited financials, would allow broker-dealers
to obtain more current information about these issuers more frequently and at lower cost.
Thus, broker-dealers quoting securities for such issuers under Rule 15c2-11 would have a
more robust basis for believing that the issuer information is accurate. The availability of
more current information about Tier 2 issuers would likely improve the pricing efficiency
and reduce the likelihood of fraud in the OTC market for their securities. We expect this

648

Rule 15c2-11(a)(5) currently provides that issuer information must be made available upon request
to any person expressing an interest in a transaction in that issuer’s security with the broker-dealer.
This requirement may have little practical effect because only the first broker-dealer to publish
quotations must have the information, and an investor might find it difficult to identify that
broker-dealer. In fact, that broker-dealer may no longer be publishing quotations.

262

effect to be much stronger for issuers that do not currently provide voluntary disclosure to
the OTC market. The overall effect of the required disclosure would also depend on what
fraction of Regulation A securities eventually trade on the OTC market and on how many
current OTC participants decide to make offerings under Regulation A.
A particular set of OTC-listed companies – those that cease reporting and, if
necessary, delist from national securities exchanges – might find the proposed rules
attractive for raising capital. As mentioned above, the proposed Tier 2 disclosure
requirements are less stringent than those applicable to reporting companies. Companies
that delist from national exchanges might be able to use Regulation A offerings to raise
capital as well as maintain liquid securities in the OTC market. The potential effect of
the proposed rules on companies that delist from national securities exchanges is difficult
to predict. Companies that would like to maintain liquidity for their securities trading in
the OTC market and face a less burdensome disclosure regime than entailed by Exchange
Act registration might find Regulation A useful. On the other hand, companies that delist
from national securities exchanges because they want to minimize disclosure and cease
reporting might find the proposed disclosure requirements under Regulation A too
burdensome, and might prefer other offering methods to raise capital (e.g., Regulation
D).
The potential future use of Regulation A could also depend on the willingness of
financial intermediaries such as placement agents or underwriters to participate in
offerings. For example, in registered offerings, underwriters are frequently used to
identify potential investors and are primarily responsible for facilitating a successful
distribution of the offered securities. Some commenters claim that underwriters are

263

generally unwilling to participate in small offerings because the commissions are not
sufficient to warrant their involvement. 649 If the services of financial intermediaries
continue to be limited for small offerings under Regulation A as proposed to be amended,
it could be difficult for Regulation A issuers to place all offered securities. As noted in
the GAO report, 650 increasing the allowed maximum Regulation A offering amount may
make placement agents more inclined to participate in offerings because they would be
able to collect more compensation from larger offerings. Furthermore, underwriter costs
for offerings under Regulation A as proposed to be amended may be lower than for
registered public offerings because underwriters would not take on liability under Section
11 of the Securities Act (although they could be liable as sellers under Section 12(a)(2)).
Finally, if the requirements for qualification of Regulation A offerings are substantially
lighter than the requirements for registered offerings, an underwriting market could
develop to provide expedient Regulation A underwriting services.
C.

Request for Comment
Throughout this release, we have discussed the anticipated costs and benefits of

the proposed rules and their potential impact on efficiency, competition and capital
formation. We request and encourage any interested person to submit comments
regarding the proposed rules, our analysis of the potential effects of the rules and other
matters that may have an effect on the proposed rules. We request comment from the
point of view of issuers, investors and other market participants. With regard to any
comments, we note that such comments are of particular assistance to us if accompanied

649

See, e.g., Karr Tuttle Letter.

650

See GAO-12-839, “Factors that May Affect Trends in Regulation A Offerings”, (July 3, 2012).

264

by supporting data and analysis of the issues addressed in those comments. We also are
interested in comments on the qualitative benefits and costs we have identified and any
benefits and costs we may have overlooked. We urge commenters to be as specific as
possible.
Request for Comment
128.

What types of companies (e.g., in terms of size, industry, age, etc.) would

most likely rely on the amended Regulation A exemption? Would Exchange
Act reporting companies, which are ineligible to rely on proposed
Regulation A, consider raising additional capital through Regulation A by first
terminating or suspending their reporting requirements?
129.

Are investors in private companies likely to use the amended

Regulation A exemption to exit their investments? Would eliminating current
Rule 251(b), which prohibits resales by affiliated parties unless the issuer has
had operating income in at least one of the last two years, affect fraud in this
market?
130.

How likely is the amended Regulation A exemption to attract companies

that are considering a traditional IPO? What types of companies (e.g., in
terms of size, industry, age, etc.) would prefer a Regulation A offering to a
traditional IPO? How would the cost of a traditional IPO compare to the cost
of a Regulation A offering? Could a Regulation A offering serve as a
stepping stone for a future traditional IPO or a national securities exchange
listing?

265

131.

How likely is the amended Regulation A exemption to attract companies

that are considering offerings relying on Rule 506(b) or Rule 506(c) of
Regulation D? What would be the costs and benefits from relying on the
amended Regulation A exemption versus Rule 506(b) or Rule 506(c) of
Regulation D? Please provide estimates, where possible.
132.

What is the economic effect of the proposed investment limitation in

Tier 2 Regulation A offerings? What types of issuers and investors are most
likely to be affected by this restriction? Will this restriction enhance investor
protection? What would be the economic effect of imposing a similar
restriction on Tier 1 Regulation A offerings?
133.

Would the amended Regulation A exemption attract intermediaries (e.g.,

broker-dealers or underwriters) to the market for Regulation A offerings?
How would the presence of intermediaries change the cost structure for
Regulation A issuers? Would the amended Regulation A exemption make it
economically feasible for intermediaries to serve as market makers and
provide research and analyst coverage? Would the presence of intermediaries
likely increase the chances that a wider variety of investors will participate in
Regulation A offerings?
134.

Do the proposed disclosure requirements help ensure that investors have a

reasonable understanding of the risks and costs of investing in Regulation A
securities? If not, what additional requirements would further mitigate the
associated risks? How would the costs and benefits of the requirements
compare to the costs and benefits of the disclosure that currently exists for

266

securities offered under the current Regulation A requirements? How would
the costs and benefits compare to other exempt offering methods? Please
provide estimates, where possible.
135.

How would the proposed preemption of state blue sky laws for offerings

made to qualified purchasers, as we propose to define that term, affect the
costs and benefits of Tier 1 and Tier 2 Regulation A offerings? Please provide
estimates, where possible. Would the proposed blue sky law preemption
affect fraud and investor protection and capital formation in this market?
136.

The Commission is interested in receiving comments, views, estimates

and data on all aspects of the proposal and the following:
• Expected size of the Regulation A market (e.g., number of offerings,
number of issuers, size of offerings, number of investors, etc., as well as
information comparing these estimates to the current baseline);

137.

•

Overall economic impact of the proposed rules; and

•

Any other aspect of the economic analysis.
What would be the economic impact of the policy alternatives discussed in

the proposed rules?
V.

PAPERWORK REDUCTION ACT

A.

Background
Certain provisions of the proposed rules contain “collection of information”

requirements within the meaning of the Paperwork Reduction Act of 1995 (“PRA”). 651

651

44 U.S.C. 3501 et seq.

267

We are submitting the proposal to the Office of Management and Budget (“OMB”) for
review in accordance with the PRA. 652 The titles for the collections of information are:
(1) “Regulation A (Form 1-A and Form 2-A)” (OMB Control Number 3235-0286);
(2) “Form 1-K” (a proposed new collection of information);
(3) “Form 1-SA” (a proposed new collection of information);
(4) “Form 1-U” (a proposed new collection of information);
(5) “Form 1-Z” (a proposed new collection of information);
(6) “Form ID” (OMB Control Number 3235-0328).
An agency may not conduct or sponsor, and a person is not required to respond to,
a collection of information unless it displays a currently valid OMB control number. We
are applying for OMB control numbers for the proposed new collections of information
in accordance with 44 U.S.C. 3507(j) and 5 CFR 1320.13, and OMB has not yet assigned
a control number to each new collection. Responses to these new collections of
information would be mandatory for issuers raising capital under Regulation A.
B.

Estimate of Issuers
The number, type and size of the issuers that would participate in offerings of

securities under Regulation A, as proposed to be amended, is uncertain, but data
regarding current market practices may help identify the number and characteristics of
potential issuers that may offer and sell securities in reliance on the proposed rules. 653
We estimate that there are currently approximately 22 Regulation A filings by issuers per

652

44 U.S.C. 3507(d) and 5 CFR 1320.11.

653

See Section I.C. above for a discussion of the data regarding current market practices.

268

year. 654 While it is not possible to predict the number of filings by issuers relating to
offerings made in reliance on the proposed amendments to Regulation A, for purposes of
this analysis, we estimate that the number would be 250 offerings per year. We base this
estimate on (i) the current approximate number of issuers that, on average in recent years,
filed a Form 1-A to qualify a Regulation A offering of securities under the existing rules,
plus (ii) 95 percent of the estimated number of registered offering of securities of up to
$50 million,655 plus (iii) an additional four offerings that either would not otherwise
occur or would have been conducted in reliance on another exemption from Securities
Act registration, such as Regulation D. 656 We believe issuers that have either previously
relied on Regulation A or have offered securities in amounts up to the revised offering
ceiling of $50 million in a twelve-month period would be similar to the potential issuers
that may participate in offerings of securities under Regulation A as proposed to be
amended.
C.

Estimate of Issuer Burdens
1.

Regulation A (Form 1-A and Form 2-A)

Currently, Regulation A requires issuers to file a Form 1-A: Offering Statement
and a Form 2-A: Report of Sales and Uses of Proceeds with the Commission.
Regulation A has 1.00 administrative burden hour associated with it, while current

654

From 2009 through 2012, there were 87 Form 1-As filed with the Commission, and 19 qualified
offering statements during this same period. See also figures for current use of Regulation A in
Section I.C. above.

655

See figures and graphs for registered offerings cited in Section IV. above (citing approximately
236 registered initial public offerings or follow-on offerings of up to $50 million in calendar year
2012).

656

See figures and graphs for registered and exempt offerings under Regulation D cited in
Section IV.A.1.a(2). above (citing approximately 12,000 issuances of up to $50 million in reliance
on Regulation D in calendar year 2012).

269

Form 1-A takes approximately 608.00 hours to prepare and Form 2-A takes
approximately 12.00 hours to prepare. 657 We do not anticipate that the 1.00
administrative burden hour associated with Regulation A would change as a result of the
proposal. As discussed more fully below, we believe the burden hours associated with
Form 1-A would change, while Form 2-A and the associated burden hours would be
eliminated as a result of today’s proposal. 658
Under the proposed rules, an issuer conducting a transaction in reliance on
Regulation A would be able to conduct either a Tier 1 offering or a Tier 2 offering. 659 In
either case, a Regulation A issuer would continue to be required to file with the
Commission specified disclosures on a Form 1-A: Offering Statement. 660 An issuer also
would file amendments to Form 1-A to reflect comments from Commission staff and to
disclose material changes in the disclosure previously provided to the Commission or
investors. 661 In light of the proposed electronic filing requirements for Regulation A
offering materials discussed above, 662 issuers would no longer be required to file a
manually signed copy of the Form 1-A with the Commission.663 Issuers would, however,
be required to manually sign a copy of the offering statement before or at the time of
non-public submission or filing that would have to be retained by the issuer for a period

657

See Form 1-A at 1; Form 2-A at 1.

658

See discussion in Section II.E.1. above.

659

See discussion in Section II.B.3. above.

660

See 17 CFR 239.91 (Form 1-A) (OMB Control Number 3235-0286) and proposed Rule 252.

661

See proposed Rule 252(h).

662

See discussion in Section II.C.1. above.

663

See discussion in Section II.C.3.d. above.

270

of five years and produced to the Commission, upon request. 664 As issuers are currently
required to manually sign the Form 1-A and file it with the Commission, we do not
anticipate the proposed Form 1-A retention requirement would alter an issuer’s
compliance burden. As proposed, Form 1-A is similar to existing Form 1-A. In some
instances, Form 1-A, as proposed, would contain fewer disclosure items than existing
Form 1-A (e.g., Part I (Notification) of Form 1-A would not require disclosure of
“Affiliate Sales”; Part II (Offering Circular) of Form 1-A would require a description of
the issuer’s business for a period of three years, rather than five years). Part II of
Form 1-A would no longer permit disclosure in reliance on the Model A disclosure
format, but direct issuers to follow the provisions of Model B (renamed “Offering
Circular”) or Part I of Form S-1. 665 In other instances, Form 1-A would contain more
disclosure items than existing Form 1-A (e.g., Part I of Form 1-A would require
additional disclosure of certain summary information regarding the issuer and the
offering; Part II of Form 1-A would require a more detailed management discussion and
analysis of the issuer’s liquidity and capital resources and results of operations).
Form 1-A would require disclosure similar to that required in a Form S-1 registration
statement for registered offerings under the Securities Act, but it would require fewer
disclosure items (e.g., it would require less disclosure about the compensation of officers
and directors, and less detailed management discussion and analysis of the issuer’s

664

See Instruction 2. to Signatures in Form 1-A.

665

See discussion at Section II.C.3.b. above.

271

liquidity and capital resources and results of operations) and, under certain
circumstances, not require issuers to file audited financial statements. 666
We expect that issuers relying on proposed Regulation A for Tier 1 offerings of
up to $5 million in a twelve-month period would largely be at a similar stage of
development to issuers relying on existing Regulation A and would therefore not
experience an increased compliance burden with proposed Form 1-A. Given the
increased annual offering threshold of $50 million, however, we expect that issuers
conducting Tier 2 offerings pursuant to proposed Regulation A may be at a more
advanced stage of development than issuers offering securities at a lower threshold. In
such cases, the complexity of the required disclosure and, in turn, the burden of
compliance with the requirements of proposed Form 1-A may be greater for some issuers
than for issuers relying on existing Form 1-A. 667 We estimate that the total burden to
prepare and file proposed Form 1-A, including any amendments to the form, would
increase on average across all issuers in comparison to existing Form 1-A to
approximately 750.00 hours. 668 We believe that the burden hour response of proposed
Form 1-A would be greater than the current estimated 608.00 burden hours per response,
but would not be as great as the current estimated 972.32 burden hours per response for
Form S-1. We estimate that the issuer would internally carry 75 percent of the burden of

666

See discussion in Section II.C.3.b. above.

667

As noted above, we estimate the burden per response for preparing existing Form 1-A to be
608.00 hours. See Form 1-A at 1.

668

By comparison, we estimate the burden per response for preparing Form S-1 to be 972.32 hours.
See Form S-1, at 1.

272

preparation and that outside professionals 669 retained by the issuer at an average cost of
$400 per hour would carry 25 percent. 670
We estimate that compliance with the requirements of a Form 1-A provided in
connection with transactions made in reliance on proposed Regulation A would require
187,500 burden hours (250 offering statements x 750.00 hours/offering statement) in
aggregate each year, which corresponds to 140,625 aggregated hours carried by the issuer
internally (250 offering statements x 750.00 hours/offering statement x 0.75) and
aggregated costs of $18,750,000 (250 offering statements x 750.00 hours/offering
statement x 0.25 x $400) for the services of outside professionals. These estimates
include the time and cost of collecting the information, preparing and reviewing
disclosure, filing documents and retaining records. In deriving our estimates, we
recognize that the burdens likely would vary among individual issuers based on a number
of factors, including the stage of development of the business, the amount of capital an
issuer seeks to raise and the number of years since inception of the business. We believe
that some issuers would experience costs in excess of the average and some issuers may
experience less than the average costs.
2.

Form 1-K: Annual Report

Under the proposed rules, any issuer that conducts a Tier 2 offering in reliance on
proposed Regulation A would be required to file an annual report with the Commission

669

For example, an issuer may address certain disclosure requirements internally, but retain an
outside professional to assist in the preparation of the financial statements.

670

The costs of retaining outside professionals may vary depending on the nature of the professional
services. For purposes of this PRA analysis, however, we estimate that such costs would be an
average of $400/hour, which is consistent with the rate we typically estimate for outside legal
services used in connection with public company reporting.

273

on Form 1-K: Annual Report. 671 A manually-signed copy of the Form 1-K would have
to be executed by the issuer and related signatories before or at the time of electronic
filing, retained by the issuer for a period of five years and, if requested, produced to
Commission. 672 We do not anticipate that the proposed requirement to retain a
manually-signed copy of the Form 1-K would affect an issuer’s compliance burden. We
believe the compliance burden on disclosure provided in Form 1-K would be less than the
compliance burden associated with reporting required under Exchange Act Section 13 or
15(d). We also believe the burden would be more analogous to the compliance burden
attendant to proposed Form 1-A. Unlike the disclosure required in Form 1-A, however,
offering-specific disclosure in Form 1-K would not be required. Additionally, under
certain circumstances, an issuer would also be required to disclose information similar to
the information previously required of issuers on Form 2-A. 673 Unlike the disclosure
previously required on Form 2-A, however, an issuer would not be required to provide
disclosure about the use of proceeds. We estimate that the burden to prepare and file a
Form 1-K would be less than that required to prepare and file a Form 1-A. We estimate
that compliance with proposed Form 1-K would result in a burden of 600.00 hours per
response. 674 We further estimate that 75 percent of the burden of preparation would be
carried by the issuer internally and that 25 percent would be carried by outside

671

See proposed Rule 257(b)(1).

672

See General Instruction C. to proposed Form 1-K and related discussion in Section II.E.1.a. above.

673

See discussion in Section II.E.1.a. above.

674

We estimate that the burden of preparing the information required by Form 1-K would be
approximately 3/4 of the burden for the Form 1-A due to the lack of offering-specific disclosure
and an issuer’s ability to update previously-provided disclosure.

274

professionals 675 retained by the issuer at an average cost of $400 per hour. 676 While we
do not know the exact number of issuers that will seek to qualify offerings in excess of $5
million in a twelve-month period in reliance on proposed Regulation A, we estimate 75
percent of all issuers filing a Form 1-A (or 188 issuers, 250 issuers x .75) will enter the
proposed ongoing reporting regime and therefore be required to file proposed Form 1-K.
We estimate that compliance with the requirements of Form 1-K for issuers with
an ongoing reporting obligation under proposed Regulation A would require 112,800
burden hours (188 issuers x 600.00 hours/issuer) in the aggregate each year, which
corresponds to 84,600 hours carried by the issuer internally (188 issuers x 600.00
hours/issuer x 0.75) and costs of $11,280,000 (188 issuers x 600.00 hours/issuer x 0.25 x
$400) for the services of outside professionals.
3.

Form 1-SA: Semiannual Report

Under the proposed rules, any issuer that conducts a Tier 2 offering in reliance on
proposed Regulation A would be required to file a semiannual report with the
Commission on Form 1-SA: Semiannual Report. 677 A manually-signed copy of the
Form 1-SA would have to be executed by the issuer and related signatories before or at
the time of electronic filing, retained by the issuer for a period of five years and, if
requested, produced to Commission.678 We do not anticipate that the proposed
requirement to retain a manually-signed copy of the Form 1-SA would affect an issuer’s
compliance burden. Issuers would be required to provide semiannual updates on
675

See fn. 669 above.

676

See fn. 670 above.

677

See proposed Rule 257(b)(3).

678

See General Instruction C. to proposed Form 1-SA and related discussion in Section II.E.1.b.
above.

275

proposed Form 1-SA, which, much like a Form 10-Q, 679 would consist primarily of
financial statements and MD&A. Unlike Form 10-Q, Form 1-SA would not require
disclosure regarding quantitative and qualitative market risk or controls and
procedures. 680 We estimate, however, that on balance the reduction in burden
attributable to eliminating these two items in Form 1-SA would be offset by the increased
burden associated with requiring financial statement disclosure covering six months,
rather than three months. We therefore believe the per response compliance burden of
Form 1-SA would be similar to the compliance burden for issuers filing a Form 10-Q
under the Exchange Act. 681 Therefore, for purposes of this PRA, we estimate that the
burden to prepare and file a Form 1-SA would equal the burden to prepare and file
Form 10-Q, which we have previously estimated as 187.43 hours per response. 682 Unlike
proposed Form 1-K, Form 1-SA does not require the provision of audited financial
statements. We therefore believe, in comparison to Form 1-K, issuers filing a Form 1-SA
will be able to handle more of the required disclosures internally. Accordingly, we
estimate that 85 percent of the burden of preparation would be carried by the issuer
internally and that 15 percent would be carried by outside professionals retained by the
issuer at an average cost of $400 per hour. 683
We estimate that compliance with the requirements of Form 1-SA for issuers with
an ongoing reporting obligation under proposed Regulation A would require 23,428.75
679

17 CFR 249.308a.

680

See discussion in Section II.E.1.b. above.

681

Issuers would, however, have to file Form 1-SA, a semiannual report, less frequently than
Form 10-Q, a quarterly report.

682

See Form 10-Q, at 1.

683

See fn. 670 above.

276

burden hours (188 issuers x 187.43 hours/issuer) in the aggregate each year, which
corresponds to 19,914.44 hours carried by the issuer internally (188 issuers x 187.43
hours/issuer x 0.85) and costs of $1,405,725 (188 issuers x 187.43 hours/issuer x 0.15 x
$400) for the services of outside professionals.
4.

Form 1-U: Current Reporting

Under the proposed rules, any issuer that conducts a Tier 2 offering in reliance on
proposed Regulation A would be required to promptly file current reports on proposed
Form 1-U with the Commission.684 A manually-signed copy of the Form 1-U would
have to be executed by the issuer and related signatories before or at the time of
electronic filing, retained by the issuer for a period of five years and, if requested,
produced to Commission. 685 We do not anticipate that the proposed requirement to retain
a manually-signed copy of the Form 1-U would affect an issuer’s compliance burden.
Issuers would be required to file such reports in the event they experience certain
corporate events, much the same way as issuers subject to an ongoing reporting
obligation under the Exchange Act file current reports on Form 8-K. 686 The requirement
to file a Form 1-U, however, would be triggered by significantly fewer corporate events
than those that trigger a reporting requirement on a Form 8-K, and, as proposed, the form
itself would be slightly less burdensome for issuers to fill out. 687 Thus, the frequency of
filing the required disclosure and the burden to prepare and file a Form 1-U would be
considerably less than for Form 8-K. We estimate that the burden to prepare and file
684

See proposed Rule 257(b)(4).

685

See General Instruction C. to proposed Form 1-U and related discussion in Section II.E.1.c. above.

686

We estimate the burden per response for preparing a Form 8-K to be 5.71 hours. See Form 8-K, at
1.

687

See discussion at Section II.E.1.c. above.

277

each current report would be 5.00 hours. While we do not know for certain how often an
issuer would experience a corporate event that would trigger a current report filing on
Form 1-U, we estimate that many issuers may not experience a corporate event that
triggers reporting, while others may experience multiple events that trigger reporting. On
average, we estimate that an issuer would be required to file one current report
annually. 688 Therefore, we estimate that an issuer’s compliance with proposed Form 1-U
would result in an annual aggregate burden of 5.00 hours (1.00 current report annually x
5.00 hours per current report) per issuer.
As with Form 1-SA, we estimate that 85 percent of the burden of preparation
would be carried by the issuer internally and that 15 percent would be carried by outside
professionals retained by the issuer at an average cost of $400 per hour. 689 We estimate
that compliance with the requirements of Form 1-U would require 940 burden hours (188
issuers x 1 current report annually x 5.00 hours per current report) in aggregate each year,
which corresponds to 799 hours carried by the issuer internally (188 issuers x 5.00
hours/issuer/year x 0.85) and costs of $56,400 (188 issuers x 5.00 hours/issuer/year x
0.15 x $400) for the services of outside professionals.
5.

Form 1-Z: Exit Report

Under the proposed rules, all Regulation A issuers would be required to file a
notice under cover of Form 1-Z: Exit Report. Issuers conducting Tier 1 offerings would
be required to file Part I of Form 1-Z that would disclose information similar to the
688

We have previously estimated that on average issuers file one current report on Form 8-K
annually. Although we believe that the frequency of filing a Form 1-U would be considerably less
than a Form 8-K, to be conservative, we are estimating that each issuer would be required to file
one Form 1-U per year.

689

See fn. 670 above.

278

information previously required of issuers on Form 2-A. 690 Issuers conducting Tier 2
offerings would also be required to disclose the same information as issuers conducting
Tier 1 offerings in Part I of Form 1-Z, unless previously reported by the issuer on
Form 1-K. Issuers conducting Tier 2 offerings would also be required to fill out Part II of
Form 1-Z in order to notify investors and the Commission that it will no longer file and
provide annual reports pursuant to the requirements of Regulation A. 691 In Tier 2
offerings, an issuers’ obligations to file ongoing reports could be terminated at any time
after completion of reporting for the fiscal year in which the offering statement was
qualified, 692 if the securities of each class to which the offering statement relates are held
of record by fewer than 300 persons and offers and sales made in reliance on a qualified
offering statement are not ongoing. A manually-signed copy of the Form 1-Z would have
to be executed by the issuer and related signatories before or at the time of electronic
filing, retained by the issuer for a period of five years and, if requested, produced to
Commission.693 We do not anticipate that the proposed requirement to retain a
manually-signed copy of the Form 1-Z would affect an issuer’s compliance burden. We
estimate that 50 percent of issuers with an ongoing reporting obligation under proposed
Regulation A (or 94 issuers, 188 issuers with an ongoing reporting obligation x .50 of
issuers filing a Form 1-Z) would file a Form 1-Z in the second fiscal year after
qualification of the offering statement. Although we believe that the vast majority of
issuers subject to ongoing reporting under Regulation A would qualify for termination in
690

See discussion in Section II.E.1.a. above.

691

See proposed Rule 257(d).

692

See proposed Rule 252(h)(2).

693

See Instruction to proposed Form 1-Z and related discussion in Section II.E.4. above.

279

the second fiscal year after qualification, we believe that only half or 50 percent of such
issuers would actually choose to terminate their reporting obligations. An issuer may
have many reasons, such as a desire to facilitate continued quotations in the over-thecounter (“OTC”) markets pursuant to proposed revisions to Exchange Act Rule 15c211, 694 to continue reporting even though entitled to terminate reporting.
The Form 1-Z would be similar to the Form 15 that issuers file to provide notice
of termination of the registration of a class of securities under Exchange Act
Section 12(g) or to provide notice of the suspension of the duty to file reports required by
Exchange Act Sections 13(a) or 15(d). 695 Therefore, we estimate that compliance with
the proposed Form 1-Z would result in a similar burden as compliance with Form 15, a
burden of 1.50 hours per response. We estimate that compliance with proposed Form 1-Z
would result in a burden of 141 hours (94 issuers filing Form 1-Z x 1.50 hours/issuer) in
the aggregate during the second fiscal year after qualification of the offering statement
for issuers terminating their reporting obligations.
6.

Form ID Filings

Under the proposed rules, an issuer would be required to file specified disclosures
with the Commission on EDGAR. 696 We anticipate that many issuers relying on
proposed Regulation A for the first time would not have previously filed an electronic
submission with the Commission and so would need to file a Form ID. Form ID is the
application form for access codes to permit filing on EDGAR. The proposed rules would

694

See discussion in Section II.E.2. above.

695

We currently estimate the burden per response for preparing a Form 15 to be 1.50 hours. See
Form 15 at 1.

696

See proposed Rules 252 and 257.

280

not change the form itself, but we anticipate that the number of Form ID filings would
increase due to an increase in issuers relying on proposed Regulation A. For purposes of
this PRA discussion, we estimate that 75 percent of the issuers who would seek to offer
and sell securities in reliance on proposed Regulation A would not have previously filed
an electronic submission with the Commission and would, therefore, be required to file a
Form ID. As noted above, we estimate that approximately 250 issuers per year would
seek to offer and sell securities in reliance on proposed Regulation A, which would
correspond to approximately 188 additional Form ID filings. As a result, we estimate the
additional annual burden would be approximately 28.20 hours (188 filings x 0.15
hours/filing). 697
D.

Collections of Information are Mandatory
The collections of information required under proposed Rules 251 through 263

would be mandatory for all issuers seeking to rely on the Regulation A exemption.
Responses on Form 1-A, Form 1-K, Form 1-SA, Form 1-U and Form 1-Z would not be
confidential, although issuers may request confidential treatment for certain materials
submitted in conjunction with the filings. 698 It is anticipated that most of this material
would be made public when the offering is qualified. A Form 1-A that is submitted by
an issuer with a confidential treatment request and later abandoned before being publicly
filed with the Commission and responses on Form ID would, however, remain
non-public, absent a request for such information under the Freedom of Information

697

We currently estimate the burden associated with Form ID is 0.15 hours per response. See
Form ID at 1.

698

See Commission Rule 83, 17 CFR 200.83.

281

Act. 699 The hours and costs associated with preparing and filing forms and retaining
records constitute reporting and cost burdens imposed by the collection of information
requirements.
E.

Request for Comment
The Commission invites comment on all of the above estimates. Pursuant to 44

U.S.C. 3506(c)(2)(A), the Commission requests comment in order to: (1) evaluate
whether the proposed collections of information are necessary for the proper performance
of our functions, including whether the information would have practical utility; (2)
evaluate the accuracy of our estimate of the burden of the proposed collections of
information; (3) determine whether there are ways to enhance the quality, utility and
clarity of the information to be collected; and (4) evaluate whether there are ways to
minimize the burden of the proposed collections of information on those who respond,
including through the use of automated collection techniques or other forms of
information technology.
Persons submitting comments on the proposed collection of information
requirements should direct their comments to the Office of Management and Budget,
Attention: Desk Officer for the Securities and Exchange Commission, Office of
Information and Regulatory Affairs, Washington, DC 20503, and should also send a copy
of their comments to Elizabeth M. Murphy, Secretary, Securities and Exchange
Commission, 100 F Street, NE, Washington, DC 20549-1090, with reference to File No.
S7-11-13. Requests for materials submitted to OMB by the Commission, with regard to

699

5 U.S.C. 552. The Commission’s regulations that implement the Freedom of Information Act are
at 17 CFR 200.80 et seq.

282

these collections of information, should be in writing, with reference to File No.
S7-11-13, and they should be submitted to the Securities and Exchange Commission,
Office of FOIA Services, 100 F Street, NE, Washington, DC 20549-2736. As OMB is
required to make a decision concerning the collections of information between 30 and 60
days after publication, a comment to OMB is best assured of having its full effect if OMB
receives it within 30 days of publication.
VI.

INITIAL REGULATORY FLEXIBILITY ACT ANALYSIS
This Initial Regulatory Flexibility Analysis has been prepared in accordance with

5 U.S.C. 603. It relates to the following:
•

proposed amendments to Rules 251 through 263 of Regulation A, Form 1A, Rule 4a-1 under the Trust Indenture Act, Rule 15c2-11 under the
Exchange Act, and Item 101 of Regulation S-T;

A.

•

proposed new Forms 1-K, 1-SA, 1-U, and 1-Z; and

•

the proposed rescission of Form 2-A.

Reasons for the Proposed Action
The proposed rule amendments, new forms, and rescission of Form 2-A are

designed to implement the requirements of Section 3(b)(2) of the Securities Act and to
make certain conforming changes based on our proposed amendments to Regulation A.
Section 3(b)(2) directs the Commission to adopt rules adding a class of securities exempt
from the registration requirements of the Securities Act for offerings of up to $50 million
of securities within a twelve-month period, subject to various additional terms and
conditions set forth in Section 3(b)(2) or as provided for by the Commission as part of the
rulemaking process.

283

B.

Objectives
Our primary objective is to implement Section 401 of the JOBS Act, as mandated

by Section 3(b)(2), by expanding and updating Regulation A in a manner that makes
public offerings of up to $50 million less costly and more flexible while providing a
framework for regulatory oversight to protect investors. In so doing, we have endeavored
to craft a workable revision of Regulation A that would both promote small company
capital formation and provide for meaningful investor protection. We believe that
issuers, particularly small businesses, benefit from having a wide range of capital-raising
strategies available to them, and that an expanded and updated Regulation A could serve
as a valuable option that augments the exemptions more frequently relied upon, thereby
facilitating capital formation for small businesses.
C.

Legal Basis
The amendments are being proposed under the authority set forth in Sections 3(b),

19 and 28 of the Securities Act of 1933, as amended, and Section 401 of the JOBS Act. 700
D.

Small Entities Subject to the Proposed Rules
For purposes of the Regulatory Flexibility Act, under our rules, an issuer (other

than an investment company) is a “small business” or “small organization” if it has total
assets of $5 million or less as of the end of its most recent fiscal year and is engaged or
proposing to engage in an offering of securities which does not exceed $5 million. 701

700

Pub. L. No. 112-106, -401, 126 Stat. 307 (April 5, 2012).

701

17 CFR 230.157. We note that currently this rule refers to “the dollar limitation prescribed by
Section 3(b) of the Securities Act.” As noted earlier in this release, the JOBS Act amended
Section 3(b) of the Securities Act. The former Section 3(b) is now Section 3(b)(1), and a new
Section 3(b)(2) was added. To retain the meaning of 17 CFR 230.157, we are proposing a
technical correction to replace the reference to “Section 3(b)” with a reference to “Section
3(b)(1).”

284

While proposed Regulation A would be available for offerings of up to
$50 million in securities in a twelve-month period, only offerings up to $5 million in
securities in a twelve-month period would be offerings by small entities. It is difficult to
predict the number of small businesses that would use proposed Regulation A due to the
many variables created by our proposed amendments. Nevertheless, we believe that
proposed Regulation A will increase the overall number of Regulation A offerings of
$5 million or less due to the ability to non-publicly submit draft offering statements for
review by the Commission’s staff, the expanded use of solicitation of interest materials,
the ability to electronically file and transmit offering statements and offering circulars,
the potential for preemption of state regulatory review if the issuer elects to conduct a
Tier 2 offering, and other significant changes summarized in Section II.A. above.
Regulation A is currently limited to offerings with an aggregate offering price of
$5 million or less. 702 From 2009 through 2012, 87 issuers filed offering statements and
19 offering statements were qualified by the Commission, or an average of approximately
5 qualified offering statements per year. Of the 19 offering statements that were
qualified, 12 included financial statements indicating that the issuer had total assets of $5
million or less (as of the most recent balance sheet included in such issuer’s offering
statement at the time of qualification), or an average of approximately 3 qualified
offering statements per year in which the issuer indicated it had total assets of $5 million
or less. Based on these data, and for the reasons discussed above, we believe that at least
3 small businesses will conduct offerings under proposed Regulation A per year.
702

As explained in Section II.B.3. above, the aggregate offering price under existing and proposed
Regulation A includes prior sales generated from Regulation A offerings that occurred in the
twelve months preceding the current offering.

285

E.

Reporting, Recordkeeping, and Other Compliance Requirements
As discussed above in Section II.C., the proposed regulation includes reporting,

recordkeeping and other compliance requirements. In particular, the proposed regulation
would impose certain reporting requirements on issuers offering and selling securities in
a transaction relying on the exemptions provided by Section 3(b) and Regulation A. The
proposed rules would require that issuers relying on the exemption file with the
Commission certain information specified in Form 1-A about the issuer and the offering,
including the issuer’s contact information; use of proceeds from the offering; price or
method for calculating the price of the securities being offered; business and business
plan; property; financial condition and results of operations; directors, officers,
significant employees and certain beneficial owners; material agreements and contracts;
and past securities sales. 703 Such issuers would also be required to provide information
on the material factors that make an investment in the issuer speculative or risky;
dilution; the plan of distribution for the offering; executive and director compensation;
conflicts of interest and related party transactions; and financial statements. Similar to
existing Regulation A, for Tier 1 offerings, Form 1-A would not require the financial
statements to be audited unless the issuer has already had them audited for another
purpose. 704
As discussed above in Section II.E., issuers conducting Tier 2 offerings would
also be required to file annual reports on proposed new Form 1-K, semiannual updates on
proposed new Form 1-SA, current event reporting on proposed new Form 1-U, and to
703

See discussion in Section II.C.3. above.

704

The distinction between a Tier 1 offering and Tier 2 offering are discussed in Section II.B.3.
above.

286

provide notice to the Commission of the termination of their ongoing reporting
obligations on proposed new Form 1-Z. A Tier 1 offering would be limited to $5 million
in a twelve-month period. Issuers in a Regulation A offering that would result in
exceeding $5 million in a twelve-month period would be required to comply with the
requirements for Tier 2 offerings, including being subject to ongoing reporting.
An issuer subject to the Tier 2 periodic and current event reporting described
above would be required to provide information annually on Form 1-K, including the
issuer’s business and business plan; conflicts of interest and related party transactions;
executive and director compensation; financial condition and results of operations; and
audited financial statements. The semiannual update on Form 1-SA would consist
primarily of unaudited, interim financial statements for the issuer’s first two fiscal
quarters and information regarding the issuer’s financial condition and results of
operations. The current event reporting on Form 1-U would require issuers to disclose
certain major developments, including changes of control; changes in the principal
executive officer and principal financial officer; fundamental changes in the nature of
business; material transactions or corporate events; unregistered sales of five percent or
more of outstanding equity securities; changes in the issuer’s certifying accountant; and
non-reliance on previous financial statements.
Unlike the other ongoing reporting requirements, Form 1-Z would only be
required for issuers in both Tier 1 and Tier 2 offerings to report summary information
about a completed or terminated Regulation A offering. Issuers conducting Tier 2
offerings would, however, be subject to the additional provision in Form 1-Z that relates
to the voluntary termination of an issuer’s continuous reporting obligations under Tier 2

287

and thus its use by small entities would be limited. Also, the information that is required
in Form 1-Z is minimal.
Although we estimated that approximately 188 issuers under proposed
Regulation A would enter the proposed ongoing reporting regime every year, we believe
that very few small businesses would do so. A small business under our rules would only
be required to file ongoing reports under Regulation A if a Regulation A offering would
result in exceeding the Tier 1 annual offering limitation of $5 million in a twelve-month
period.
F.

Duplicative, Overlapping or Conflicting Federal Rules
We believe that there are no federal rules that conflict with or duplicate the

proposed rules.
G.

Significant Alternatives
The Regulatory Flexibility Act directs us to consider significant alternatives that

would accomplish the stated objective of our proposals, while minimizing any significant
adverse impact on small entities. In connection with the proposed amendments and rules,
we considered the following alternatives: (1) the establishment of differing compliance or
reporting requirements or timetables that take into account the resources available to
small entities; (2) the clarification, consolidation or simplification of compliance and
reporting requirements under the rule for small entities; (3) the use of performance rather
than design standards; and (4) an exemption from coverage of the rules, or any parts of
the rules, for small entities.
We considered whether it is necessary or appropriate to establish different
compliance or reporting requirements, timetables, or to clarify, consolidate, or simplify

288

compliance and reporting requirements under the proposed rules for small entities. With
respect to using performance rather than design standards, we used performance
standards to the extent appropriate under the statute. For example, issuers have the
flexibility to customize the presentation of certain disclosures in their offering
statements. 705 We also considered whether there should be an exemption from coverage
of the rules, or any parts of the rule for small entities. As discussed above, we do propose
different compliance reporting requirements for issuers of less than $5 million that
conduct an offering under Tier 1. For example, we are not proposing to subject entities
likely to be small entities to ongoing reporting requirements and the requirement to
provide audited financial statements. We also considered providing additional reductions
in the disclosures required by Form 1-A for issuers of less than $5 million, but we believe
that different compliance requirements for Form 1-A users may lead to investor
confusion or reduced investor confidence in Regulation A offerings, especially
considering that the disclosure requirements are already less than what is required by
Form S-1 for registered offerings. Further, we anticipate that the burden for filling out a
Form 1-A should be less for companies at an earlier stage of development and with less
extensive operations that are likely to be small entities. 706 For these reasons, we believe
that small entities should be covered by the proposed rules to the extent specified above.
We believe that the proposed rules should have limited impact on small entities and we
are not proposing to establish different compliance requirements for small entities other

705

See Section II.C. above.

706

See discussion in Section V.C.1. above.

289

than what we have proposed. We do, however, seek comment on alternatives that may
reduce any potential adverse impact on small entities but accomplish similar objectives.
H.

Request for Comment
We encourage comments with respect to any aspect of this initial regulatory

flexibility analysis. In particular, we request comments regarding:
•

The number of small entities that may be affected by the proposals;

•

The existence or nature of the potential impact of the proposals on small
entities discussed in the analysis; and

•

How to quantify the impact of the proposed rules.

We request members of the public to submit comments and ask them to describe
the nature of any impact on small entities they identify and provide empirical data
supporting the extent of the impact. Such comments will be considered in the preparation
of the final regulatory flexibility analysis, if the proposals are adopted, and will be placed
in the same public file as comments on the proposed amendments themselves.
VII.

SMALL BUSINESS REGULATORY ENFORCEMENT FAIRNESS ACT
For purposes of the Small Business Regulatory Enforcement Fairness Act of

1996, 707 a rule is “major” if it has resulted, or is likely to result in:
•

An annual effect on the economy of $100 million or more;

•

A major increase in costs or prices for consumers or individual industries; or

•

Significant adverse effects on competition, investment or innovation.

We request comment on whether our proposals would be a “major rule” for
purposes of SBREFA. We solicit comment and empirical data on:
707

Pub. L. No. 104-121, Title II, 110 Stat. 857 (1996).

290

•

The potential effect on the U.S. economy on an annual basis;

•

Any potential increase in costs or prices for consumers or individual
industries; and

•

Any potential effect on competition, investment or innovation.

We request those submitting comments to provide empirical data and other
factual support for their views if possible.
VIII. STATUTORY BASIS AND TEXT OF PROPOSED AMENDMENTS
The amendments and forms contained in this document are being
proposed under the authority set forth in Sections 3(b), 19 and 28 of the Securities Act of
1933, as amended, and Section 401 of the JOBS Act. 708
TEXT OF PROPOSED AMENDMENTS
List of Subjects
17 CFR Part 230, 232, 239, 240 and 260
Reporting and recordkeeping requirements, Securities.
In accordance with the foregoing, Title 17, Chapter II of the Code of Federal
Regulations is proposed to be amended as follows:
PART 230 – GENERAL RULES AND REGULATIONS, SECURITIES ACT OF
1933
1.

The authority citation for part 230 is revised to read in part as follows:
Authority: 15 U.S.C. 77b, 77b note, 77c, 77d, 77f, 77g, 77h, 77j, 77r, 77s, 77z–3,

77sss, 78c, 78d, 78j, 78l, 78m, 78n, 78o, 78o–7 note, 78t, 78w, 78ll(d), 78mm, 80a–8,

708

Pub. L. No. 112-106, -401, 126 Stat. 307 (April 5, 2012).

291

80a–24, 80a–28, 80a–29, 80a–30, and 80a–37, and Pub. L. No. 112-106, § 201(a), § 401,
126 Stat. 313 (2012), unless otherwise noted.
*****
2.

§ 230.157 paragraph (a) is revised to read as follows:

§ 230.157 Small entities under the Securities Act for purposes of the Regulatory
Flexibility Act.
*****
(a) When used with reference to an issuer, other than an investment company, for
purposes of the Securities Act of 1933, means an issuer whose total assets on the last day
of its most recent fiscal year were $5 million or less and that is engaged or proposing to
engage in small business financing. An issuer is considered to be engaged or proposing to
engage in small business financing under this section if it is conducting or proposes to
conduct an offering of securities which does not exceed the dollar limitation prescribed
by section 3(b)(1) of the Securities Act.
*****
3.

Revise the undesignated center heading and §§ 230.251 through 230.263 to read

as follows:
*****
Regulation A
Sec.
230.251
230.252
230.253
230.254
230.255
230.256
230.257

Scope of exemption.
Offering statement.
Offering circular.
Preliminary offering circular.
Solicitation of interest communications.
Definition of “qualified purchaser.”
Periodic and current reporting; exit report.
292

230.258
230.259
230.260
230.261
230.262
230.263

Suspension of the exemption.
Withdrawal or abandonment of offering statements.
Insignificant deviations from a term, condition or requirement of
Regulation A.
Definitions.
Disqualification provisions.
Consent to service of process.
*****

4.

§§ 230.251 through 230.263 are revised to read as follows:

§ 230.251 Scope of exemption.
(a) Tier 1 and Tier 2. A public offer or sale of eligible securities, as defined in Rule
261 (§ 230.261), that meets the following terms and conditions shall be exempt under
section 3(b) from the registration requirements of the Securities Act of 1933 (the
“Securities Act”) (15 U.S.C. 77a et seq.):
(1) Offerings pursuant to Regulation A in which the sum of all cash and other
consideration to be received for the securities being offered (“aggregate offering price”)
plus the aggregate offering price for all securities sold pursuant to other Regulation A
offering statements within the twelve months before the start of and during the current
offering of securities does not exceed $5,000,000, including not more than $1,500,000
offered by all selling securityholders (“Tier 1 offerings”); and
(2) Offerings pursuant to Regulation A in which such sum does not exceed
$50,000,000, including not more than $15,000,000 offered by all selling securityholders
(“Tier 2 offerings”).
NOTE: Where a mixture of cash and non-cash consideration is to be received, the
aggregate offering price must be based on the price at which the securities are
offered for cash. Any portion of the aggregate offering price attributable to cash

293

received in a foreign currency must be translated into United States currency at a
currency exchange rate in effect on or at a reasonable time before the date of the sale
of the securities. If securities are not offered for cash, the aggregate offering price
must be based on the value of the consideration as established by bona fide sales of
that consideration made within a reasonable time, or, in the absence of sales, on the
fair value as determined by an accepted standard. Valuations of non-cash
consideration must be reasonable at the time made. If convertible securities or
warrants are being offered, the underlying securities must also be qualified and the
aggregate offering price must include the conversion, exercise, or exchange price of
such securities.
(b) Issuer. The issuer of the securities:
(1) Is an entity organized under the laws of the United States or Canada, or any
State, Province, Territory or possession thereof, or the District of Columbia, with its
principal place of business in the United States or Canada;
(2) Is not subject to section 13 or 15(d) of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934
(the “Exchange Act”) (15 U.S.C. 78a et seq.) immediately before the offering;
(3) Is not a development stage company that either has no specific business plan
or purpose, or has indicated that its business plan is to merge with an unidentified
company or companies;
(4) Is not an investment company registered or required to be registered under the
Investment Company Act of 1940 (15 U.S.C. 80a-1 et seq.) or a business development
company as defined in section 2(a)(48) of the Investment Company Act of 1940 (15
U.S.C. 80a-2(a)(48));

294

(5) Is not issuing fractional undivided interests in oil or gas rights, or a similar
interest in other mineral rights;
(6) Is not, and has not been, subject to any order of the Commission entered
pursuant to Section 12(j) of the Exchange Act (15 U.S.C. 78l(j)) within five years before
the filing of the offering statement;
(7) Has filed with the Commission all the reports it was required to file, if any,
pursuant to Rule 257 (§ 230.257) during the two years before the filing of the offering
statement (or for such shorter period that the issuer was required to file such reports); and
(8) Is not disqualified under Rule 262 (§ 230.262).
(c) Integration with other offerings. Offers and sales made in reliance on this
Regulation A will not be integrated with:
(1) Prior offers or sales of securities; or
(2) Subsequent offers or sales of securities that are:
(i) Registered under the Securities Act, except as provided in Rule 255(e)
(§ 230.255(e));
(ii) Made pursuant to Rule 701 (§ 230.701);
(iii) Made pursuant to an employee benefit plan;
(iv) Made pursuant to Regulation S (§ 230.901-905);
(v) Made more than six months after the completion of the Regulation A
offering; or
(vi) Made in reliance on Regulation Crowdfunding (§ 230.XX-XX).
NOTE: If these safe harbors do not apply, whether subsequent offers and sales of
securities will be integrated with the Regulation A offering will depend on the

295

particular facts and circumstances. See Securities Act Release No. 4552 (November
6, 1962) [27 FR 11316].
(d) Offering conditions—(1) Offers.
(i) Except as allowed by Rule 255 (§ 230.255), no offer of securities may be
made unless a Form 1-A offering statement has been filed with the Commission.
(ii) After the Form 1-A offering statement has been filed, but before it is
qualified:
(A) Oral offers may be made;
(B) Written offers pursuant to Rule 254 (§ 230.254) may be made; and
(C) Communications pursuant to Rule 255 (§ 230.255) may be made.
(iii) After the Form 1-A offering statement has been qualified, any written
offers must be accompanied with or preceded by the most recent offering circular filed
with the Commission for such offering.
(2) Sales.
(i) No sale of securities may be made until:
(A) The Form 1-A offering statement has been qualified;
(B) A Preliminary Offering Circular is delivered at least 48 hours before
the sale to any person that before qualification of the offering statement had indicated an
interest in purchasing securities in the offering, including those persons that responded to
an issuer’s solicitation of interest materials; and
(C) For Tier 2 offerings, no sale may be made to a purchaser if the
aggregate purchase price paid by such purchaser for securities in the offering (including
any conversion, exercise, or exchange price for securities that are convertible, exercisable

296

or exchangeable for other securities) is more than ten percent (10%) of the greater of such
purchaser’s annual income and net worth, based on the representations of the purchaser
(with annual income and net worth for natural person purchasers determined as provided
in Rule 501 (§ 230.501), provided that the issuer does not know, at the time of sale, that
any such representation is untrue.
(ii) In a transaction that represents a sale by the issuer or an underwriter, or a
sale where there is not an exclusion or exemption from the requirement to deliver a Final
Offering Circular pursuant to paragraph 251(d)(2)(iii) of this rule, each underwriter or
dealer selling in such transaction must deliver to each purchaser from it, not later than
two business days following the completion of such sale, a copy of the Final Offering
Circular or, in lieu of such Final Offering Circular, a notice to the effect that the sale was
made pursuant to a qualified offering statement that includes the uniform resource locator
(“URL”) where the Final Offering Circular, or the offering statement of which such Final
Offering Circular is part, may be obtained on EDGAR and contact information sufficient
to notify a purchaser where a request for a Final Offering Circular can be sent and
received in response. If the sale was by the issuer and was not effected by or through an
underwriter or dealer, the issuer is responsible for sending the Final Offering Circular or
notice.
(iii) Sales by a dealer (including an underwriter no longer acting in that
capacity for the security involved in such transaction) that take place within 90 calendar
days after the qualification of the Regulation A offering statement may be made only if
the dealer delivers a copy of the current offering circular to the purchaser before or with
the confirmation of sale, provided that where an offering statement relates to offerings to

297

be made from time to time pursuant to paragraph (d)(3) of this rule, such 90 calendar day
period shall commence on the day of the first bona fide offering of securities under such
offering statement; and
(3) Continuous or delayed offerings. (i) Continuous or delayed offerings
may be made under this Regulation A, so long as the offering statement pertains only to:
(A) Securities that are to be offered or sold solely by or on behalf of a
person or persons other than the issuer, a subsidiary of the issuer, or a person of which
the issuer is a subsidiary;
(B) Securities that are to be offered and sold pursuant to a dividend or
interest reinvestment plan or an employee benefit plan of the issuer;
(C) Securities that are to be issued upon the exercise of outstanding
options, warrants, or rights;
(D) Securities that are to be issued upon conversion of other outstanding
securities;
(E) Securities that are pledged as collateral; or
(F) Securities the offering of which will be commenced within two
calendar days after the qualification date, will be made on a continuous basis, may
continue for a period in excess of 30 days from the date of initial qualification, and will
be offered in an amount that, at the time the offering statement is qualified, is reasonably
expected to be offered and sold within two years from the initial qualification date.
These securities may be offered and sold only if not more than three years have elapsed
since the initial qualification date of the offering statement under which they are being
offered and sold; provided, however, that if a new offering statement has been filed

298

pursuant to this paragraph (d)(3)(i)(F), securities covered by the prior offering statement
may continue to be offered and sold until the earlier of the qualification date of the new
offering statement or 180 days after the third anniversary of the initial qualification date
of the prior offering statement. Before the end of such three-year period, an issuer may
file a new offering statement covering the securities. The new offering statement must
include all the information that would be required at that time in an offering statement
relating to all offerings that it covers. Before the qualification date of the new offering
statement, the issuer may include as part of such new offering statement any unsold
securities covered by the earlier offering statement by identifying on the cover page of
the new offering circular or the latest amendment the amount of such unsold securities
being included. The offering of securities on the earlier offering statement will be
deemed terminated as of the date of qualification of the new offering statement.
Securities may be sold pursuant this paragraph (d)(3)(i)(F) only if the issuer is current in
its annual and semiannual filings pursuant to Rule 257(b) (§230.257(b)), at the time of
such sale.
(ii) At the market offerings, by or on behalf of the issuer or otherwise, are not
permitted under this Regulation A. As used in this paragraph (d)(3)(ii), the term at the
market offering means an offering of equity securities into an existing trading market for
outstanding shares of the same class at other than a fixed price.
§ 230.252 Offering statement.
(a) Documents to be included. The offering statement consists of the contents
required by Form 1-A (§ 239.90 of this chapter) and any other material information
necessary to make the required statements, in light of the circumstances under which they

299

are made, not misleading.
(b) Paper, printing, language and pagination. Except as otherwise specified in this
rule, the requirements for offering statements are the same as those specified in Rule 403
(§ 230.403) for registration statements under the Act. No fee is payable to the
Commission upon either the submission or filing of an offering statement on Form 1-A,
or any amendment to an offering statement.
(c) Confidential treatment. A request for confidential treatment may be made under
Rule 406 (§ 230.406) for information required to be filed, and Rule 83 (§ 200.83) for
information not required to be filed.
(d) Signatures. The issuer, its principal executive officer, principal financial officer,
principal accounting officer, and a majority of the members of its board of directors or
other governing body, must sign the offering statement. If a signature is by a person on
behalf of any other person, evidence of authority to sign must be filed, except where an
executive officer signs for the issuer.
(e) How to file. The offering statement must be filed with the Commission in
electronic format by means of the Commission’s Electronic Data Gathering, Analysis and
Retrieval System (“EDGAR”) in accordance with the EDGAR rules set forth in
Regulation S-T (17 CFR Part 232). The offering statement must be signed in the manner
prescribed by Form 1-A.
(f) Non-public submission. An issuer whose securities have not been previously sold
pursuant to a qualified offering statement under this Regulation A or an effective
registration statement under the Securities Act may submit under Rule 83 (§ 200.83) a
draft offering statement to the Commission for non-public review by the staff of the

300

Commission before public filing, provided that the offering statement shall not be
qualified less than 21 calendar days after the public filing of (1) the initial non-public
submission, (2) all non-public amendments with the Commission, and (3) all non-public
correspondence submitted by or on behalf of the issuer to the Commission staff regarding
such submissions (subject to any separately approved confidential treatment request
under paragraph (c) of this rule). Draft offering statements must be submitted to the
Commission in electronic format by means of EDGAR in accordance with the EDGAR
rules set forth in Regulation S-T (17 CFR Part 232).
(g) Qualification. An offering statement and any amendment thereto can be qualified
only by order of the Commission.
(h) Amendments. (1) (i) Amendments to an offering statement must be signed and
filed in the same manner as the initial filing. The amendment must be filed with the
Commission in the manner set forth in paragraph (e) of this rule. Amendments to an
offering statement must be filed under cover of Form 1-A and must be numbered
consecutively in the order in which filed.
(ii) Every amendment that includes audited financial statements must include
the consent of the certifying accountant to the use of such accountant’s certificate in
connection with the amended financial statements in the offering statement or offering
circular and to being named as having audited such financial statements.
(iii) Amendments solely relating to Part III of Form 1-A must comply with the
requirements of paragraph (h)(1)(i) of this rule, except that such amendments may be
limited to the Part I of Form 1-A, an explanatory note, and all of the information required
by Part III of Form 1-A.

301

(2) Post-qualification amendments must be filed in the following circumstances
for ongoing offerings:
(i) At least every 12 months after the qualification date to include the financial
statements that would be required by Form 1-A as of such date; or
(ii) To reflect any facts or events arising after the qualification date of the
offering statement (or the most recent post-qualification amendment thereof) which,
individually or in the aggregate, represent a fundamental change in the information set
forth in the offering statement.
§ 230.253 Offering circular.
(a) Contents. An offering circular must include the information required by
Form 1-A for offering circulars.
(b) Notwithstanding paragraph (a) of this section, the offering circular may omit
information with respect to the public offering price, underwriting syndicate (including
any material relationships between the issuer or selling securityholders and the unnamed
underwriters, brokers or dealers), underwriting discounts or commissions, discounts or
commissions to dealers, amount of proceeds, conversion rates, call prices and other items
dependent upon the offering price, delivery dates, and terms of the securities dependent
upon the offering date; provided, that the following conditions are met:
(1) The securities to be qualified are offered for cash.
(2) The outside front cover page of the offering circular includes a bona fide
estimate of the range of the maximum offering price and the maximum number of shares
or other units of securities to be offered or a bona fide estimate of the principal amount of
debt securities offered, subject to the following conditions:

302

(i) The range must not exceed $2 for offerings where the upper end of the
range is $10 or less and 20% if the upper end of the price range is over $10; and
(ii) The upper end of the range must be used in determining the aggregate
offering price under Rule 251(a) (§ 230.251(a)).
(3) The offering statement does not relate to securities to be offered by
competitive bidding.
(4) The volume of securities (the number of equity securities or aggregate
principal amount of debt securities) to be offered may not be omitted in reliance on this
paragraph (b).
NOTE: A decrease in the volume of securities offered or a change in the bona fide
estimate of the offering price range from that indicated in the offering circular
filed as part of a qualified offering statement may be disclosed in the offering
circular filed with the Commission pursuant to Rule 253(g) (§ 230.253(g)), so
long as the decrease in the volume of securities offered or change in the price
range would not materially change the disclosure contained in the offering
statement at qualification. Notwithstanding the foregoing, any decrease in the
volume of securities offered and any deviation from the low or high end of the
price range may be reflected in the offering circular supplement filed with the
Commission pursuant to Rule 253(g)(1) (§ 230.253(g)(1)) if, in the aggregate, the
decrease in volume and/or change in price represent no more than a 20% change
from the maximum aggregate offering price calculable using the information in
the qualified offering statement. In no circumstances may this paragraph be used
to offer securities where the maximum aggregate offering price would result in

303

the offering exceeding the limit set forth in Rule 251(a) (§ 230.251(a)) for
offerings under Regulation A or if the change would result in a Tier 1 offering
becoming a Tier 2 offering. An offering circular supplement may not be used to
increase the volume of securities being offered. Additional securities may only be
offered pursuant to a new offering statement or post-qualification amendment
qualified by the Commission.
(c) The information omitted from the offering circular in reliance upon paragraph (b)
of this rule must be contained in an offering circular filed with the Commission pursuant
to Rule 252(e) (§ 230.252(e)) and paragraph (g) of this rule; except that if such offering
circular is not so filed by the later of 15 business days after the qualification date of the
offering statement or 15 business days after the qualification of a post-qualification
amendment thereto that contains an offering circular, the information omitted in reliance
upon paragraph (b) of this rule must be contained in a qualified post-qualification
amendment to the offering statement.
(d) Presentation of information.
(1) Information in the offering circular must be presented in a clear, concise and
understandable manner and in a type size that is easily readable. Repetition of
information should be avoided; cross-referencing of information within the document is
permitted.
(2) Where an offering circular is distributed through an electronic medium, issuers
may satisfy legibility requirements applicable to printed documents by presenting all
required information in a format readily communicated to investors.
(e) Date. An offering circular must be dated approximately as of the date it was filed

304

with the Commission.
(f) Cover page legend. The cover page of every offering circular must display the
following statement highlighted by prominent type or in another manner:
The United States Securities and Exchange Commission does not pass upon the
merits of or give its approval to any securities offered or the terms of the offering,
nor does it pass upon the accuracy or completeness of any offering circular or
other solicitation materials. These securities are offered pursuant to an exemption
from registration with the Commission; however, the Commission has not made
an independent determination that the securities offered are exempt from
registration.
(g) Offering circular supplements.
(1) An offering circular that discloses information previously omitted from the
offering circular in reliance upon Rule 253(b) (§ 230.253(b)) must be filed with the
Commission no later than two business days following the earlier of the date of
determination of the offering price or the date such offering circular is first used after
qualification in connection with a public offering or sale.
(2) An offering circular that reflects information other than that covered in
paragraph (g)(1) of this rule that constitutes a substantive change from or addition to the
information set forth in the last offering circular filed with the Commission must be filed
with the Commission no later than five business days after the date it is first used after
qualification in connection with a public offering or sales. If an offering circular filed
pursuant to this paragraph (g)(2) consists of an offering circular supplement attached to
an offering circular that (i) previously had been filed or (ii) was not required to be filed

305

pursuant to paragraph (g) of this rule because it did not contain substantive changes from
an offering circular that previously was filed, only the offering circular supplement need
be filed under paragraph (g) of this rule, provided that the cover page of the offering
circular supplement includes a cross reference to the date(s) of the related offering
circular and any offering circular supplements thereto that together constitute the offering
circular with respect to the securities currently being offered or sold.
(3) An offering circular that discloses information, facts or events covered in
both paragraphs (g)(1) and (2) must be filed with the Commission no later than two
business days following the earlier of the date of the determination of the offering price
or the date it is first used after qualification in connection with a public offering or sales.
(4) An offering circular required to be filed pursuant to paragraph (g) of this rule
that is not filed within the time frames specified in paragraph (g) must be filed pursuant
to this paragraph (4) as soon as practicable after the discovery of such failure to file.
(5) Each offering circular must be filed with the Commission in electronic format
by means of EDGAR in accordance with the EDGAR rules set forth in Regulation S-T
(17 CFR Part 232).
(6) Each offering circular filed under this rule must contain in the upper right
corner of the cover page the paragraph and subparagraph of this rule under which the
filing is made, and the file number of the offering statement to which the offering circular
relates.
§ 230.254 Preliminary offering circulars.
Before qualification of the required offering statement, but after its filing, a written
offer of securities may be made if it meets the following requirements:

306

(a) The outside front cover page of the material bears the caption Preliminary
Offering Circular, the date of issuance, and the following legend, which must be
highlighted by prominent type or in another manner:
An offering statement pursuant to Regulation A relating to these securities has
been filed with the Securities and Exchange Commission. Information contained
in this Preliminary Offering Circular is subject to completion or amendment.
These securities may not be sold nor may offers to buy be accepted before the
offering statement filed with the Commission is qualified. This Preliminary
Offering Circular shall not constitute an offer to sell or the solicitation of an offer
to buy nor may there be any sales of these securities in any state in which such
offer, solicitation or sale would be unlawful before registration or qualification
under the laws of any such state. We may elect to satisfy our obligation to deliver
a Final Offering Circular by sending you a notice within two business days after
the completion of our sale to you that contains the URL where the Final Offering
Circular or the offering statement in which such Final Offering Circular was filed
may be obtained.
(b) The Preliminary Offering Circular contains substantially the information required
in an offering circular by Form 1-A (§ 239.90 of this chapter), except that information
that may be omitted under Rule 253(b) (§ 230.253(b)) may be omitted if the conditions
set forth in Rule 253(b) are met.
(c) The Preliminary Offering Circular is filed as a part of the offering statement.
§ 230.255 Solicitation of interest communications.
(a) At any time before the qualification of an offering statement, including before the

307

non-public submission or public filing of such offering statement, an issuer or any person
authorized to act on behalf of an issuer may communicate orally or in writing to
determine whether there is any interest in a contemplated securities offering. Such
communications are deemed to be an offer of a security for sale for purposes of the
antifraud provisions of the federal securities laws. No solicitation or acceptance of
money or other consideration, nor of any commitment, binding or otherwise, from any
person is permitted until qualification of the offering statement.
(b) The communications must:
(1) State that no money or other consideration is being solicited, and if sent in
response, will not be accepted;
(2) State that no offer to buy the securities can be accepted and no part of the
purchase price can be received until the offering statement is qualified, and any such
offer may be withdrawn or revoked, without obligation or commitment of any kind, at
any time before notice of its acceptance given after the qualification date;
(3) State that a person’s indication of interest involves no obligation or
commitment of any kind; and
(4) After the public filing of the offering statement:
(i) State from whom a copy of the most recent version of the Preliminary
Offering Circular may be obtained, including a phone number and address of such
person;
(ii) Provide the URL where such Preliminary Offering Circular or to the
offering statement in which such Preliminary Offering Circular was filed may be
obtained; or

308

(iii) Include a complete copy of the Preliminary Offering Circular.
(c) Any written communication under this rule may include a means by which a
person may indicate to the issuer that such person is interested in a potential offering.
This issuer may require the name, address, telephone number, and/or e-mail address in
any response form included pursuant to this paragraph (c).
(d) If solicitation of interest materials are used after the public filing of the offering
statement and such solicitation of interest materials contain information that is inaccurate
or inadequate in any material respect, revised solicitation of interest materials must be
redistributed in a manner substantially similar to the manner in which such materials
were originally distributed. Notwithstanding the foregoing in this paragraph (d), if the
only information that is inaccurate or inadequate is contained in a Preliminary Offering
Circular provided with the solicitation of interest materials pursuant to paragraphs
(b)(4)(i) or (b)(4)(ii) of this rule, no such redistribution is required in the following
circumstances:
(1) in the case of paragraph (b)(4)(i) of this rule, the revised Preliminary
Offering Circular will be provided to any persons making new inquiries and will be
recirculated to any persons making any previous inquiries; or
(2) in the case of paragraph (b)(4)(ii) of this rule, the URL continues to link
directly to the most recent Preliminary Offering Circular or to the offering statement in
which such revised Preliminary Offering Circular was filed.
(e) Where an issuer decides to register an offering under the Securities Act after
soliciting interest in a contemplated, but abandoned, Regulation A offering, the
Regulation A exemption for offers would not be subject to integration with the registered

309

offering, unless the issuer engaged in solicitations of interest pursuant to this rule to
persons other than qualified institutional buyers and institutional accredited investors
permitted by Section 5(d) of the Securities Act. In such circumstances, the issuer (and
any underwriter, broker, dealer, or agent used by the issuer in connection with the
proposed offering) must wait at least 30 calendar days between the last such solicitation
of interest in the Regulation A offering and the filing of the registration statement with
the Commission.
§ 230.256 Definition of “qualified purchaser.”
For purposes of Section 18(b)(3) of the Securities Act [15 USC 77r(b)(3)], a
“qualified purchaser” of a security offered or sold pursuant to Regulation A means any
offeree of such security and, in a Tier 2 offering, any purchaser of such security.
§ 230.257 Periodic and current reporting; exit report.
(a) Tier 1: Exit report. Each issuer that has filed an offering statement for a Tier
1 offering that has been qualified pursuant to this Regulation A must file an exit report on
Form 1-Z (§ 239.94) not later than 30 calendar days after the termination or completion
of the offering.
(b) Tier 2: Periodic and current reporting. Each issuer that has filed an offering
statement for a Tier 2 offering that has been qualified pursuant to this Regulation A must
file with the Commission the following periodic and current reports in electronic format
by means of EDGAR in accordance with the EDGAR rules set forth in Regulation S-T
(17 CFR Part 232):
(1) Annual reports. An annual report on Form 1-K (§ 239.91) for the fiscal year
in which the offering statement became qualified and for any fiscal year thereafter, unless

310

the issuer’s obligation to file such annual report is suspended under paragraph (d) of this
rule. Annual reports must be filed within the period specified in Form 1-K.
(2) Special financial report. (i) A special financial report if the offering
statement did not contain the following:
(A) audited financial statements for the issuer’s last full fiscal year (or for
the life of the issuer if less than a full fiscal year) preceding the fiscal year in which the
issuer’s offering statement became qualified; or
(B) financial statements covering the first half of the issuer’s current fiscal
year if the offering statement was qualified during the second half of that fiscal year.
(ii) The special financial report described in paragraph (a)(2)(i)(A) of this rule
must be filed under cover of Form 1-K within 120 calendar days after the qualification
date of the offering statement and must include audited financial statements for such last
full fiscal year or other period, as the case may be. The special financial report described
in paragraph (a)(2)(i)(B) of this rule must be filed under cover of Form 1-SA within 90
calendar days after the qualification date of the offering statement and must include the
semiannual financial statements for the first half of the issuer’s fiscal year, which may be
unaudited.
(iii) A special financial report must be signed in accordance with the
requirements of the form on which it is filed.
(3) Semiannual report. A semiannual report on Form 1-SA (§ 239.92) within the
period specified in Form 1-SA. Semiannual reports must cover the first half of each
fiscal year of the issuer, commencing with the first half of the fiscal year following the
most recent fiscal year for which full financial statements were included in the offering

311

statement, or, if the offering statement included financial statements for the first half of
the fiscal year following the most recent full fiscal year, for the first half of the following
fiscal year.
(4) Current reports. Current reports on Form 1-U (§ 239.93) with respect to the
matters and within the period specified in that form, unless substantially the same
information has been previously reported to the Commission by the issuer under cover of
Form 1-K or 1-SA.
(5) Reporting by successor issuers. Where in connection with a succession by
merger, consolidation, exchange of securities, acquisition of assets or otherwise,
securities of any issuer that is not required to file reports pursuant to paragraph (b) of this
rule are issued to the holders of any class of securities of another issuer that is required to
file such reports, the duty to file reports pursuant to paragraph (b) of this rule shall be
deemed to have been assumed by the issuer of the class of securities so issued. The
successor issuer must, after the consummation of the succession, file reports in
accordance with paragraph (b) of this rule, unless that issuer is exempt from filing such
reports or the duty to file such reports is suspended under paragraph (d).
(c) Amendments. All amendments to the reports described in paragraphs (a) and (b)
of this rule must be filed under cover of the form amended, marked with the letter “A” to
designate the document as an amendment, e.g., “1-K/A,” and in compliance with
pertinent requirements applicable to such reports. Amendments filed pursuant to this
paragraph (c) must set forth the complete text of each item as amended, but need not
include any items that were not amended. Amendments must be numbered sequentially
and be filed separately for each report amended. Amendments must be signed on behalf

312

of the issuer by a duly authorized representative of the issuer. An amendment to any
report required to include certifications as specified in the applicable form must include
new certifications by the appropriate persons.
(d) Termination or suspension of duty to file reports. (1) The duty to file reports
under this rule shall be automatically suspended if and so long as the issuer is subject to
the duty to file reports required by section 13 or 15(d) of the Exchange Act (15 U.S.C.
78m or 15 U.S.C. 78o).
(2) The duty to file reports under paragraph (b) of this rule with respect to a class
of securities held of record (as defined in Rule 12g5-1 (§ 240.12g5-1)) by less than 300
persons shall be suspended for such class of securities immediately upon filing with the
Commission an exit report on Form 1-Z (§ 239.94) if the issuer of such class has filed all
reports due pursuant to this rule before the date of such Form 1-Z filing for the shorter of
(i) the period since the issuer became subject to such reporting obligation, or (ii) its most
recent three fiscal years and the portion of the current year preceding the date of filing
Form 1-Z. For the purposes of this subsection, the term ‘‘class’’ shall be construed to
include all securities of an issuer that are of substantially similar character and the holders
of which enjoy substantially similar rights and privileges. If the Form 1-Z is
subsequently withdrawn or denied, the issuer must, within 60 days, file with the
Commission all reports which would have been required if such exit report had not been
filed. If the suspension resulted from the issuer’s merger into, or consolidation with,
another issuer or issuers, the notice must be filed by the successor issuer.
(3) The ability to suspend reporting, as described in paragraph (d)(2) of this rule,
is not available for any class of securities if (i) during that fiscal year an offering

313

statement was qualified or (ii) at the time of filing of Form 1-Z, offers or sales of
securities of that class are being made pursuant to Regulation A.
(e) Termination of suspension of duty to file reports. If the duty to file reports is
suspended pursuant to paragraph (d)(1) of this rule and such suspension ends because the
issuer is no longer subject to the duty to file reports under the Exchange Act, the issuer’s
obligation to file reports under paragraph (b) of this rule shall:
(1) automatically terminate if the issuer is eligible to suspend its duty to file
reports under paragraph (d)(2)-(3); or
(2) recommence with the report covering any financial period after that included
in any registration statement or Exchange Act report.
§ 230.258 Suspension of the exemption.
(a) The Commission may at any time enter an order temporarily suspending a
Regulation A exemption if it has reason to believe that:
(1) No exemption is available or any of the terms, conditions or requirements of
Regulation A have not been complied with;
(2) The offering statement, any sales or solicitation of interest material, or any
report filed pursuant to Rule 257 (§ 230.257) contains any untrue statement of a material
fact or omits to state a material fact necessary in order to make the statements made, in
light of the circumstances under which they are made, not misleading;
(3) The offering is being made or would be made in violation of section 17 of the
Securities Act;
(4) An event has occurred after the filing of the offering statement that would
have rendered the exemption hereunder unavailable if it had occurred before such filing;

314

(5) Any person specified in Rule 262(a) (§ 230.262(a)) has been indicted for any
crime or offense of the character specified in Rule 262(a)(1) (§ 230.262(a)(1)), or any
proceeding has been initiated for the purpose of enjoining any such person from engaging
in or continuing any conduct or practice of the character specified in Rule 262(a)(2)
(§ 230.262(a)(2)), or any proceeding has been initiated for the purposes of Rule
262(a)(3)-(8) (§ 230.262(a)(3)-(8)); or
(6) The issuer or any promoter, officer, director or underwriter has failed to
cooperate, or has obstructed or refused to permit the making of an investigation by the
Commission in connection with any offering made or proposed to be made in reliance on
Regulation A.
(b) Upon the entry of an order under paragraph (a) of this rule, the Commission will
promptly give notice to the issuer, any underwriter and any selling securityholder:
(1) That such order has been entered, together with a brief statement of the
reasons for the entry of the order; and
(2) That the Commission, upon receipt of a written request within 30 calendar
days after the entry of the order, will within 20 calendar days after receiving the request,
order a hearing at a place to be designated by the Commission.
(c) If no hearing is requested and none is ordered by the Commission, an order
entered under paragraph (a) of this rule shall become permanent on the 30th calendar day
after its entry and shall remain in effect unless or until it is modified or vacated by the
Commission. Where a hearing is requested or is ordered by the Commission, the
Commission will, after notice of and opportunity for such hearing, either vacate the order
or enter an order permanently suspending the exemption.

315

(d) The Commission may, at any time after notice of and opportunity for hearing,
enter an order permanently suspending the exemption for any reason upon which it could
have entered a temporary suspension order under paragraph (a) of this rule. Any such
order shall remain in effect until vacated by the Commission.
(e) All notices required by this rule must be given by personal service, registered or
certified mail to the addresses given by the issuer, any underwriter and any selling
securityholder in the offering statement.
§ 230.259 Withdrawal or abandonment of offering statements.
(a) If none of the securities that are the subject of an offering statement have been
sold and such offering statement is not the subject of a proceeding under Rule 258
(§ 230.258), the offering statement may be withdrawn with the Commission's consent.
The application for withdrawal must state the reason the offering statement is to be
withdrawn, must be signed by an authorized representative of the issuer and must be filed
with the Commission in electronic format by means of EDGAR in accordance with the
EDGAR rules set forth in Regulation S-T (17 CFR Part 232). Any withdrawn document
will remain in the Commission’s files, as well as the related request for withdrawal.
(b) When an offering statement has been on file with the Commission for nine
months without amendment and has not become qualified, the Commission may, in its
discretion, declare the offering statement abandoned. If the offering statement has been
amended, the nine-month period shall be computed from the date of the latest
amendment.
§ 230.260 Insignificant deviations from a term, condition or requirement of
Regulation A.

316

(a) A failure to comply with a term, condition or requirement of Regulation A will
not result in the loss of the exemption from the requirements of section 5 of the Securities
Act for any offer or sale to a particular individual or entity, if the person relying on the
exemption establishes that:
(1) The failure to comply did not pertain to a term, condition or requirement
directly intended to protect that particular individual or entity;
(2) The failure to comply was insignificant with respect to the offering as a whole,
provided that any failure to comply with paragraphs (a), (b), (d)(1) and (3) of Rule 251
(§ 230.251) shall be deemed to be significant to the offering as a whole; and
(3) A good faith and reasonable attempt was made to comply with all applicable
terms, conditions and requirements of Regulation A.
(b) A transaction made in reliance upon Regulation A must comply with all
applicable terms, conditions and requirements of the regulation. Where an exemption is
established only through reliance upon paragraph (a) of this rule, the failure to comply
shall nonetheless be actionable by the Commission under section 20 of the Securities Act.
(c) This provision provides no relief or protection from a proceeding under Rule 258
(§ 230.258).
§ 230.261 Definitions.
As used in this Regulation A, all terms have the same meanings as in Rule 405
(§ 230.405), except that all references to registrant in those definitions shall refer to the
issuer of the securities to be offered and sold under Regulation A. In addition, these
terms have the following meanings:
(a) Business day. Any day except Saturdays, Sundays or United States federal

317

holidays.
(b) Eligible securities. Equity securities, debt securities, and debt securities
convertible or exchangeable to equity interests, including any guarantees of such
securities, but not including asset-backed securities as such term is defined in Item
1101(c) of Regulation AB.
(c) Final offering circular. The more recent of (1) the current offering circular
contained in a qualified offering statement and (2) the offering circular filed pursuant to
Rule 253(g) (§ 230.253(g)), or if the issuer is relying on Rule 253(b), the Final Offering
Circular is the offering circular filed pursuant to Rule 253(g)(1) or (3) (§ 230.253(g)(1) or
(3)).
(d) Preliminary offering circular. The offering circular described in Rule 254
(§ 230.254).
§ 230.262 Disqualification provisions.
(a) No exemption under this Regulation A shall be available for a sale of securities if
the issuer; any predecessor of the issuer; any affiliated issuer; any director, executive
officer, other officer participating in the offering, general partner or managing member of
the issuer; any beneficial owner of 20% or more of the issuer's outstanding voting equity
securities, calculated on the basis of voting power; any promoter connected with the
issuer in any capacity at the time of filing, any offer after qualification, or such sale; any
person that has been or will be paid (directly or indirectly) remuneration for solicitation
of purchasers in connection with such sale of securities; any general partner or managing
member of any such solicitor; or any director, executive officer or other officer
participating in the offering of any such solicitor or general partner or managing member

318

of such solicitor:
(1) Has been convicted, within ten years before the filing of the offering statement
(or five years, in the case of issuers, their predecessors and affiliated issuers), of any
felony or misdemeanor:
(i) In connection with the purchase or sale of any security;
(ii) Involving the making of any false filing with the Commission; or
(iii) Arising out of the conduct of the business of an underwriter, broker,
dealer, municipal securities dealer, investment adviser or paid solicitor of purchasers of
securities;
(2) Is subject to any order, judgment or decree of any court of competent
jurisdiction, entered within five years before the filing of the offering statement, that, at
the time of such filing, restrains or enjoins such person from engaging or continuing to
engage in any conduct or practice:
(i) In connection with the purchase or sale of any security;
(ii) Involving the making of any false filing with the Commission; or
(iii) Arising out of the conduct of the business of an underwriter, broker,
dealer, municipal securities dealer, investment adviser or paid solicitor of purchasers of
securities;
(3) Is subject to a final order of a state securities commission (or an agency or
officer of a state performing like functions); a state authority that supervises or examines
banks, savings associations, or credit unions; a state insurance commission (or an agency
or officer of a state performing like functions); an appropriate federal banking agency;
the U.S. Commodity Futures Trading Commission; or the National Credit Union

319

Administration that:
(i) At the time of the filing of the offering statement, bars the person from:
(A) Association with an entity regulated by such commission, authority,
agency, or officer;
(B) Engaging in the business of securities, insurance or banking; or
(C) Engaging in savings association or credit union activities; or
(ii) Constitutes a final order based on a violation of any law or regulation that
prohibits fraudulent, manipulative, or deceptive conduct entered within ten years before
such sale;
(4) Is subject to an order of the Commission entered pursuant to section 15(b) or
15B(c) of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934 (15 U.S.C. 78 o (b) or 78 o -4(c)) or
section 203(e) or (f) of the Investment Advisers Act of 1940 (15 U.S.C. 80b-3(e) or (f))
that, at the time of the filing of the offering statement:
(i) Suspends or revokes such person's registration as a broker, dealer,
municipal securities dealer or investment adviser;
(ii) Places limitations on the activities, functions or operations of such
person; or
(iii) Bars such person from being associated with any entity or from
participating in the offering of any penny stock;
(5) Is subject to any order of the Commission entered within five years before the
filing of the offering statement that, at the time of such filing, orders the person to cease
and desist from committing or causing a violation or future violation of:
(i) Any scienter-based anti-fraud provision of the federal securities laws,

320

including without limitation section 17(a)(1) of the Securities Act of 1933 (15 U.S.C.
77q(a)(1)), section 10(b) of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934 (15 U.S.C. 78j(b)) and
17 CFR 240.10b-5, section 15(c)(1) of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934 (15 U.S.C.
78 o (c)(1)) and section 206(1) of the Investment Advisers Act of 1940 (15 U.S.C. 80b6(1)), or any other rule or regulation thereunder; or
(ii) Section 5 of the Securities Act of 1933 (15 U.S.C. 77e).
(6) Is suspended or expelled from membership in, or suspended or barred from
association with a member of, a registered national securities exchange or a registered
national or affiliated securities association for any act or omission to act constituting
conduct inconsistent with just and equitable principles of trade;
(7) Has filed (as a registrant or issuer), or was or was named as an underwriter in,
any registration statement or Regulation A offering statement filed with the Commission
that, within five years before the filing of the offering statement, was the subject of a
refusal order, stop order, or order suspending the Regulation A exemption, or is, at the
time of such filing, the subject of an investigation or proceeding to determine whether a
stop order or suspension order should be issued; or
(8) Is subject to a United States Postal Service false representation order entered
within five years before the filing of the offering statement, or is, at the time of such
filing, subject to a temporary restraining order or preliminary injunction with respect to
conduct alleged by the United States Postal Service to constitute a scheme or device for
obtaining money or property through the mail by means of false representations.
(b) Paragraph (a) of this rule shall not apply:
(1) With respect to any order under § 230.262(a)(3) or (a)(5) that occurred or was

321

issued before [effective date of rule];
(2) Upon a showing of good cause and without prejudice to any other action by
the Commission, if the Commission determines that it is not necessary under the
circumstances that an exemption be denied;
(3) If, before the filing of the offering statement, the court or regulatory authority
that entered the relevant order, judgment or decree advises in writing (whether contained
in the relevant judgment, order or decree or separately to the Commission or its staff) that
disqualification under paragraph (a) of this rule should not arise as a consequence of such
order, judgment or decree; or
(4) If the issuer establishes that it did not know and, in the exercise of reasonable
care, could not have known that a disqualification existed under paragraph (a) of this rule.
Instruction to paragraph (b)(4). An issuer will not be able to establish that it has
exercised reasonable care unless it has made, in light of the circumstances, factual inquiry
into whether any disqualifications exist. The nature and scope of the factual inquiry will
vary based on the facts and circumstances concerning, among other things, the issuer and
the other offering participants.
(c) For purposes of paragraph (a) of this rule, events relating to any affiliated issuer
that occurred before the affiliation arose will be not considered disqualifying if the
affiliated entity is not:
(1) In control of the issuer; or
(2) Under common control with the issuer by a third party that was in control of
the affiliated entity at the time of such events.
(d) Disclosure of prior “bad actor” events. The issuer must include in the offering

322

circular a description of any matters that would have triggered disqualification under
paragraph (a) of this rule but occurred before [effective date]. The failure to provide
such information shall not prevent an issuer from relying on Regulation A if the issuer
establishes that it did not know and, in the exercise of reasonable care, could not have
known of the existence of the undisclosed matter or matters.
NOTE: An issuer will not be able to establish that it has exercised reasonable care
unless it has made, in light of the circumstances, factual inquiry into whether any
disqualifications exist. The nature and scope of the factual inquiry will vary based
on the facts and circumstances concerning, among other things, the issuer and the
other offering participants.
§ 230.263 Consent to service of process.
(a) If the issuer is not organized under the laws of any of the states of or the United
States of America, it shall at the time of filing the offering statement required by
Rule 252 (§ 230.252), furnish to the Commission a written irrevocable consent and power
of attorney on Form F-X (§ 239.42 of this chapter).
(b) Any change to the name or address of the agent for service of the issuer shall be
communicated promptly to the Commission through amendment of the requisite form
and referencing the file number of the relevant offering statement.
*****
5.

§ 230.505(b)(2)(iii)(A) and (B) are revised, in part, to read as follows:

§ 230.505 Exemption for limited offers and sales of securities not exceeding
$5,000,000.
*****

323

(b) * * *
(2) * * *
(iii) * * *
(A) The term “filing of the offering statement” as used in § 230.262 shall mean
the first sale of securities under this section;
(B) The term “underwriter” as used in § 230.262(a) shall mean a person that has
been or will be paid directly or indirectly remuneration for solicitation of purchasers in
connection with sales of securities under this section; and
*****
PART 232 – REGULATION S-T—GENERAL RULES AND REGULATIONS
FOR ELECTRONIC FILINGS
6.

The authority citation for part 232 is revised to read in part as follows:
Authority: 15 U.S.C. 77c, 77f, 77g, 77h, 77j, 77s(a), 77z-3, 77sss(a), 78c(b), 78l,

78m, 78n, 78o(d), 78w(a), 78ll, 80a-6(c), 80a-8, 80a-29, 80a-30, 80a-37, 7201 et seq.; 18
U.S.C. 1350; and Pub. L. No. 112-106, § 401, 126 Stat. 313 (2012), unless otherwise
noted.
*****
7.

§ 232.101 is amended by:
a.

Revising paragraph (a)(1)(vii) and (c)(6);

b.

Adding paragraph (a)(1)(xvii); and

c.

Reserving paragraph (b)(8).

The revisions, additions and reservations read as follows:
§ 232.101 Mandated electronic submissions and exceptions.

324

(a) * * *
(1) * * *
(vii) Form F-X (§ 239.42 of this chapter) when filed in connection with a Form
CB (§§ 239.800 and 249.480 of this chapter) or a Form 1-A (§ 239.90);
*****
(xvii) Filings made pursuant to Regulation A (§§ 230.251-230.263 of this
chapter).
*****
(b) * * *
(8) [Reserved]
*****
(c) * * *
(6) Filings on Form 144 (§ 239.144 of this chapter) where the issuer of the
securities is not subject to the reporting requirements of section 13 or 15(d) of the
Exchange Act (15 U.S.C. 78m or 78o(d), respectively).
*****
PART 239 – FORMS PRESCRIBED UNDER THE SECURITIES ACT OF 1933
8.

The authority citation for Part 239 is revised to read, in part, as follows:
Authority: 15 U.S.C. 77c, 77f, 77g, 77h, 77j, 77s, 77z–2, 77z–3, 77sss, 78c, 78 l,

78m,78n, 78 o (d), 78o–7 note, 78u–5, 78w(a), 78 ll, 78mm, 80a–2(a), 80a–3, 80a–8,
80a–9, 80a–10, 80a–13, 80a–24, 80a–26, 80a–29, 80a–30, and 80a–37, and Pub. L. No.
112-106, § 401, 126 Stat. 313 (2012), unless otherwise noted.
*****

325

9.

Amend Form 1-A (referenced in § 239.90) by revising it to read as follows:
UNITED STATES
SECURITIES AND EXCHANGE COMMISSION
Washington, D.C. 20549

FORM 1-A
REGULATION A OFFERING STATEMENT
UNDER THE SECURITIES ACT OF 1933
GENERAL INSTRUCTIONS
I.

Eligibility Requirements for Use of Form 1-A.

This Form is to be used for securities offerings made pursuant to Regulation A
(17 CFR 230.251 et seq.). Careful attention should be directed to the terms, conditions
and requirements of Regulation A, especially Rule 251, because the exemption is not
available to all issuers or to every type of securities transaction. Further, the aggregate
offering price of securities in any 12 month period is strictly limited to $5 million for
Tier 1 offerings and $50 million for Tier 2 offerings, including no more than $1.5 million
offered by all selling securityholders for Tier 1 offerings and $15 million for Tier 2
offerings. Please refer to Rule 251 of Regulation A for more details.
II.

Preparation, Submission and Filing of the Offering Statement.

An offering statement must be prepared by all persons seeking exemption under
the provisions of Regulation A. Parts I, II and III must be addressed by all issuers.
Part II, which relates to the content of the required offering circular, provides two
alternative formats, of which the issuer must choose one. General information regarding
the preparation, format, content, and submission or filing of the offering statement is
contained in Rule 252. Information regarding non-public submission of the offering
statement is contained in Rule 252(f). Requirements relating to the offering circular are
contained in Rules 253 and 254. The offering statement must be submitted or filed with
the Securities and Exchange Commission in electronic format by means of the
Commission’s Electronic Data Gathering, Analysis and Retrieval System (EDGAR) in
accordance with the EDGAR rules set forth in Regulation S-T (17 CFR Part 232) for
such submission or filing.
III.

Incorporation by Reference.

An issuer may incorporate by reference to other documents previously submitted
or filed on EDGAR pursuant to Regulation A, subject to the following additional
conditions:
(a) The use of incorporation by reference in Part II of this Form is limited to the
following items:

326

(1) Items 2-14 of Part II if following the Offering Circular format; or
(2) Items 3-11 of Form S-1 if following the Part I of Form S-1 format.
(b) Descriptions of where the information incorporated by reference can be found must
be specific and must clearly identify the relevant document and portion thereof where
such information can be found. For exhibits, this description must be noted in the
exhibits index for each relevant exhibit. All such descriptions must be accompanied by a
separate hyperlink to the incorporated document on EDGAR, which hyperlink need not
remain active after the filing of the offering statement. Inactive hyperlinks must be
updated in any amendment to the offering statement otherwise required. Reference may
not be made to any document that incorporates another document by reference if the
pertinent portion of the document containing the information to be incorporated by
reference includes an incorporation by reference to another document. Incorporation by
reference to documents not available on EDGAR is not permitted. Matter shall not be
incorporated by reference in any case where such incorporation would render the
statement or report incomplete, unclear, or confusing.
(c) If any substantive modification has occurred in the text of any document incorporated
by reference since such document was filed, the issuer must file with the reference a
statement containing the text and date of such modification.
IV.

Supplemental Information.

The following information must be furnished to the Commission as supplemental
information, if applicable:
(a) A statement as to whether or not the amount of compensation to be allowed or paid to
the underwriter has been cleared with the Financial Industry Regulatory Authority
(FINRA);
(b) Any engineering, management, market, or similar report referenced in the offering
circular; and
(c) Such other information as requested by the staff in support of statements,
representations and other assertions contained in the offering statement or any
correspondence to the staff.
Correspondence appropriately responding to any staff comments made on the
offering statement must also be furnished. When applicable, such correspondence must
clearly indicate where changes responsive to the staff’s comments may be found in the
offering statement.
PART I—NOTIFICATION

327

The following information must be provided in the XML-based portion of
Form 1-A available through the EDGAR portal and must be completed or updated before
uploading each offering statement or amendment thereto. The format of Part I shown
below may differ from the electronic version available on EDGAR. The electronic
version of Part I will allow issuers to attach Part II and Part III for filing by means of
EDGAR. All items must be addressed, unless otherwise indicated.
* * * * * *
No changes to the information required by Part I have occurred since the last filing of
this offering statement.
ITEM 1.

Issuer Information

Exact name of issuer as specified in the issuer’s charter:
State or other jurisdiction of incorporation:
Year of incorporation:
CIK:
Primary Standard Industrial Classification Code:
I.R.S. Employer Identification Number:
Total number of full time employees:
Total number of part time employees:
Contact Information
Address of Principal Executive Offices:

Telephone: ( )
Provide the following information for the person the Securities and Exchange
Commission’s staff should call in connection with any pre-qualification review of the
offering statement:
Name:
Address:
Telephone: ( )
Optional: Provide up to two e-mail addresses to which the Securities and Exchange
Commission’s staff may send any comment letters relating to the offering statement.
328

After qualification of the offering statement, such e-mail addresses are not required to
remain active. Regardless of whether you provide this information here, you may be
asked to provide such e-mail addresses by the staff member reviewing your filing:

Financial Statements
Use the financial statements for the most recent fiscal period contained in this offering
statement to provide the following information about the issuer:
Balance Sheet Information
Total Assets:
Cash and Cash Equivalents:
Accounts Receivable:
Investment Assets:
Property, Plant and Equipment:
Total Liabilities:
Accounts Payable:
Short Term Liabilities:
Long Term Liabilities:
Income Statement Information
Total Revenues:
Total Expenses:
Research and Development Expenses:
Interest Expense:
Investment Income:
Name of Auditor (if any):
Outstanding Securities
Units
Outstanding

CUSIP
(if any)

Common Equity
Preferred Equity
Debt Securities

329

Units Publicly Traded

ITEM 2.

Issuer Eligibility

Check this box to certify that all of the following statements are true for the issuer:
•

Organized under the laws of the United States or Canada, or any State,
Province, Territory or possession thereof, or the District of Columbia.

•

Principal place of business is in the United States or Canada.

•

Not subject to section 13 or 15(d) of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934.

•

Not a development stage company that either (a) has no specific business plan
or purpose, or (b) has indicated that its business plan is to merge with an
unidentified company or companies.

•

Not an investment company registered or required to be registered under the
Investment Company Act of 1940.

•

Not issuing fractional undivided interests in oil or gas rights, or a similar
interest in other mineral rights.

•

Not issuing asset-backed securities as defined in Item 1101(c) of Regulation
AB.

•

Not, and has not been, subject to any order of the Commission entered pursuant
to Section 12(j) of the Exchange Act (15 U.S.C. 78l(j)) within five years before
the filing of this offering statement.

•

Has filed with the Commission all the reports it was required to file, if any,
pursuant to Rule 257 during the two years immediately before the filing of the
offering statement (or for such shorter period that the issuer was required to file
such reports).

ITEM 3.

Application of Rule 262

Check this box to certify that, as of the time of this filing, none of the persons
described in Rule 262 of Regulation A are disqualified under that rule.
Check this box if “bad actor” disclosure under Rule 262(d) is provided in Part II of the
offering statement.

330

ITEM 4.

Summary Information Regarding the Offering and Other Current or
Proposed Offerings

Check the appropriate box to indicate whether you are conducting a Tier 1 or Tier 2
offering:
Tier 1

Tier 2

Types of Securities Offered in this Offering Statement (select all that apply):
Equity (common or preferred stock)
Debt
Option, warrant or other right to acquire another security
Security to be acquired upon exercise of option, warrant or other right to
acquire security
Tenant-in-common securities
Other (describe)
Does the issuer intend to offer the securities on a delayed or continuous basis pursuant to
Rule 251(d)(3)?
Yes

No

Does the issuer intend this offering to last more than one year?
Yes
No
Does the issuer intend to price this offering after qualification pursuant to Rule 253(b)?
Yes No
Will the issuer be conducting a best efforts offering?
Yes
No
Has the issuer used solicitation of interest communications in connection with the
proposed offering?
Yes

No

Does the proposed offering involve the resale of securities by affiliates of the issuer?
Yes
No
Number of securities offered:
Number of securities of that class already outstanding:

331

The information called for by this item below may be omitted if undetermined at the time
of filing or submission, except that if a price range has been included in the offering
statement, the midpoint of that range must be used to respond. Please refer to
Rule 251(a) for the definition of “aggregate offering price” as used in this item.
Price per security: $
The aggregate offering price for the securities being offered on behalf of the issuer:
$
N/A
The aggregate offering price for the securities being offered on behalf of selling
securityholders:
$
N/A
The aggregate offering price for all securities of the issuer sold pursuant to a qualified
offering statement within the 12 months before the qualification of this offering
statement:
$
N/A
The estimated aggregate offering price of any securities that may be sold pursuant to any
other qualified offering statement concurrently with securities being sold under this
offering statement:
$
N/A
Total: $
preceding paragraphs).

(the sum of the aggregate offering prices in the four

Anticipated fees in connection with this offering and names of service providers:
Name of Service Provider
Underwriters:
Sales Commissions:
Finders’ Fees:
Auditor:
Legal:
Promoters:
Blue Sky Compliance:
CRD Number of any broker or dealer listed:
Estimated net proceeds to the issuer: $
Clarification of responses (if necessary):

332

Fees
$
$
$
$
$
$
$

ITEM 5.

Jurisdictions in Which Securities are to be Offered

Check the appropriate box for each jurisdiction in which the issuer intends to offer the
securities:
All States
AL

AK

AZ

AR

CA

CO

CT

DE

DC

FL

GA

HI

ID

IL

IN

IA

KS

KY

LA

ME

MD

MA

MI

MN

MS

MO

MT

NE

NV

NH

NJ

NM

NY

NC

ND

OH

OK

OR

PA

RI

SC

SD

TN

TX

UT

VT

VA

WA

WV

WI

WY

PR

Check the appropriate box for each jurisdiction in which the securities are to be offered
by underwriters, dealers or sales persons:
None
Same as the jurisdictions in which the issuer intends to offer the securities.
AL

AK

AZ

AR

CA

CO

CT

DE

DC

FL

GA

HI

ID

IL

IN

IA

KS

KY

LA

ME

MD

MA

MI

MN

MS

MO

MT

NE

NV

NH

NJ

NM

NY

NC

ND

OH

OK

OR

PA

RI

SC

SD

TN

TX

UT

VT

VA

WA

WV

WI

WY

PR

ITEM 6.

Unregistered Securities Issued or Sold Within One Year

None
As to any unregistered securities issued by the issuer or any of its predecessors or
affiliated issuers within one year before the filing of this Form 1-A, state:
(a) Name of such issuer;
(b) Title and amount of securities issued; and
(c) Aggregate consideration for which they were issued and basis for computing the
amount thereof.
333

As to any unregistered securities of the issuer or any of its predecessors or affiliated
issuers that were sold within one year before the filing of this Form 1-A by or for the
account of any person who at the time was a director, officer, promoter or principal
securityholder of the issuer of such securities, or was an underwriter of any securities of
such issuer, furnish the information specified in subsections (a) through (c) of the
preceding paragraph:

Indicate the section of the Securities Act or Commission rule or regulation relied upon
for exemption from the registration requirements of such Act and state briefly the facts
relied upon for such exemption:

PART II — INFORMATION REQUIRED IN OFFERING CIRCULAR
(a) The narrative disclosure contents of offering circulars are specified as follows:
(1) The information required by:
(i) the Offering Circular format described below; or
(ii) The information required by Part I of Form S-1 (17 CFR 239.11)
except for the financial statements, selected financial data, and
supplementary financial information called for by that form. An issuer
choosing to follow this format may follow the requirements for smaller
reporting companies if it meets the definition of that term in Rule 405
(17 CFR 230.405);
(2) The offering circular must describe any matters that would have triggered
disqualification under Rule 262(a) but for the provisions set forth in
Rule 262(b)(1);
(3) The legend required by Rule 253(f) of Regulation A must be included on the
offering circular cover page (for issuers following the S-1 disclosure model this
legend must be included instead of the legend required by Item 501(b)(7) of
Regulation S-K);
(4) For preliminary offering circulars, the legend required by Rule 254(a) must be
included on the offering circular cover page (for issuers following the S-1
disclosure model, this legend must be included instead of the legend required by
Item 501(b)(10) of Regulation S-K); and

334

(5) For Tier 2 offerings, the offering circular cover page must include the
following legend highlighted by prominent type or in another manner:
No sale may be made to you in this offering if the aggregate purchase
price you pay is more than 10% of the greater of your annual income and
net worth. Before making any representation that your investment does
not exceed this threshold, we encourage you to refer to
Rule 251(d)(2)(i)(C) of Regulation A, which provides additional
details. For general information on investing, we encourage you to refer
to www.investor.gov.
(b) The Commission encourages the use of management’s projections of future economic
performance that have a reasonable basis and are presented in an appropriate format. See
Rule 175, 17 CFR 230.175.
(c) Offering circulars need not follow the order of the items or the order of other
requirements of the disclosure form except to the extent otherwise specifically
provided. Such information may not, however, be set forth in such a fashion as to
obscure any of the required information or any information necessary to keep the
required information from being incomplete or misleading. Information requested to be
presented in a specified tabular format must be given in substantially the tabular format
specified. For incorporation by reference, please refer to General Instruction III of this
Form.
OFFERING CIRCULAR
Item 1.

Cover Page of Offering Circular

The cover page of the offering circular must be limited to one page and must include the
information specified in this item.
(a) Name of the issuer.
Instruction to Item 1(a):
If your name is the same as, or confusingly similar to, that of a company that is
well known, include information to eliminate any possible confusion with the
other company. If your name indicates a line of business in which you are not
engaged or you are engaged only to a limited extent, include information to
eliminate any misleading inference as to your business. In some circumstances,
disclosure may not be sufficient and you may be required to change your name.
You will not be required to change your name if you are an established company,
the character of your business has changed, and the investing public is generally
aware of the change and the character of your current business.

335

(b) Full mailing address of the issuer’s principal executive offices and the issuer’s
telephone number (including the area code) and, if applicable, website address.
(c) Date of the offering circular.
(d) Title and amount of securities offered. Separately state the amount of securities
offered by selling securityholders, if any. Include a cross-reference to the section where
the disclosure required by Item 14 of this Form 1-A has been provided;
(e) The information called for by the applicable table below as to all the securities being
offered, in substantially the tabular format indicated. If necessary, you may estimate any
underwriting discounts and commissions and the proceeds to the issuer or other persons.
Price to public

Underwriting
discount and
commissions

Proceeds to
issuer

Proceeds to
other persons

Per
_____________ _____________ _________
share/unit:

_________

_____________ _____________ _________

_________

Total:

If the securities are to be offered on a best efforts basis, the cover page must set forth the
termination date, if any, of the offering, any minimum required sale and any
arrangements to place the funds received in an escrow, trust, or similar arrangement. The
following table must be used instead of the preceding table.
Price to public

Underwriting
discount and
commissions

Proceeds to
issuer

Proceeds to
other persons

Per share/unit:

_____________

_____________

_____________

_____________

Total
Minimum:
Total
Maximum:

_____________

_____________

_____________

_____________

_____________

_____________

_____________

_____________

Instructions to Item 1(e):
1. The term “commissions” includes all cash, securities, contracts, or anything
else of value, paid, to be set aside, disposed of, or understandings with or for the
benefit of any other persons in which any underwriter is interested, made in
connection with the sale of such security.

336

2. Only commissions paid by the issuer in cash are to be indicated in the table.
Commissions paid by other persons or any form of non-cash compensation must
be briefly identified in a footnote to the table with a cross-reference to a more
complete description elsewhere in the offering circular.
3. Before the commencement of sales pursuant to Regulation A, the issuer must
inform the Commission whether or not the amount of compensation to be allowed
or paid to the underwriters, as described in the offering statement, has been
cleared with FINRA.
4. If the securities are not to be offered for cash, state the basis upon which the
offering is to be made.
5. Any finder’s fees or similar payments must be disclosed on the cover page with
a reference to a more complete discussion in the offering circular. Such
disclosure must identify the finder, the nature of the services rendered and the
nature of any relationship between the finder and the issuer, its officers, directors,
promoters, principal stockholders and underwriters (including any affiliates of
such persons).
6. The amount of the expenses of the offering borne by the issuer, including
underwriting expenses to be borne by the issuer, must be disclosed in a footnote
to the table.
(f) The name of the underwriter or underwriters.
(g) Any legend or information required by the law of any state in which the securities are
to be offered.
(h) A cross-reference to the risk factors section, including the page number where it
appears in the offering circular. Highlight this cross-reference by prominent type or in
another manner.
(i) Approximate date of commencement of proposed sale to the public.
(j) If the issuer intends to rely on Rule 253(b) and a preliminary offering circular is
circulated, provide (1) a bona fide estimate of the range of the maximum offering price
and the maximum number of securities offered or (2) a bona fide estimate of the principal
amount of the debt securities offered. The range must not exceed $2 for offerings where
the upper end of the range is $10 or less and 20% if the upper end of the price range is
over $10.
Instruction to Item 1(j):
The upper limit of the price range must be used in determining the aggregate
offering price for purposes of Rule 251(a).
337

Item 2.

Table of Contents

On the page immediately following the cover page of the offering circular, provide a
reasonably detailed table of contents. It must show the page number of the various
sections or subdivisions of the offering circular. Include a specific listing of the risk
factors section required by Item 3 of this Form 1-A.
Item 3.

Summary and Risk Factors

(a) An issuer may provide a summary of the information in the offering circular where
the length or complexity of the offering circular makes a summary useful. The summary
should be brief and must not contain all of the detailed information in the offering
circular.
(b) Immediately following the Table of Contents required by Item 2 or the Summary,
there must be set forth under an appropriate caption, a carefully organized series of short,
concise paragraphs, summarizing the most significant factors that make the offering
speculative or substantially risky. Issuers should avoid generalized statements and
include only factors that are specific to the issuer.
Item 4.

Dilution

Where there is a material disparity between the public offering price and the effective
cash cost to officers, directors, promoters and affiliated persons for shares acquired by
them in a transaction during the past year, or that they have a right to acquire, there must
be included a comparison of the public contribution under the proposed public offering
and the average effective cash contribution of such persons.
Item 5.

Plan of Distribution and Selling Securityholders

(a) If the securities are to be offered through underwriters, give the names of the principal
underwriters, and state the respective amounts underwritten. Identify each such
underwriter having a material relationship to the issuer and state the nature of the
relationship. State briefly the nature of the underwriters’ obligation to take the securities.
Instructions to Item 5(a):
1. All that is required as to the nature of the underwriters' obligation is whether
the underwriters are or will be committed to take and to pay for all of the
securities if any are taken, or whether it is merely an agency or the type of best
efforts arrangement under which the underwriters are required to take and to pay
for only such securities as they may sell to the public. Conditions precedent to the
underwriters' taking the securities, including market-outs, need not be described
except in the case of an agency or best efforts arrangement.

338

2. It is not necessary to disclose each member of a selling group. Disclosure may
be limited to those underwriters who are in privity of contract with the issuer with
respect to the offering.
(b) State briefly the discounts and commissions to be allowed or paid to dealers,
including all cash, securities, contracts or other consideration to be received by any dealer
in connection with the sale of the securities.
(c) Outline briefly the plan of distribution of any securities being issued that are to be
offered through the selling efforts of brokers or dealers or otherwise than through
underwriters.
(d) If any of the securities are to be offered for the account of securityholders, identify
each selling securityholder, state the amount owned by the securityholder, the amount
offered for his or her account and the amount to be owned after the offering. Provide
such disclosure in a tabular format. At the bottom of the table, provide the total number
of securities being offered for the account of all securityholders and describe what
percent of the outstanding securities of such class the offering represents.
Instruction to Item 5(d):
The term “securityholder” in this paragraph refers to beneficial holders, not
nominee holders or other such holders of record. If the selling securityholder is
an entity, disclosure of the persons who have sole or shared voting or investment
power must be included.
(e) Describe any arrangements for the return of funds to subscribers if all of the securities
to be offered are not sold. If there are no such arrangements, so state.
(f) If there will be a material delay in the payment of the proceeds of the offering by the
underwriter to the issuer, the salient provisions in this regard and the effects on the issuer
must be stated.
(g) Describe any arrangement to (1) limit or restrict the sale of other securities of the
same class as those to be offered for the period of distribution, (2) stabilize the market for
any of the securities to be offered, or (3) withhold commissions, or otherwise to hold
each underwriter or dealer responsible for the distribution of its participation.
(h) Identify any underwriter that intends to confirm sales to any accounts over which it
exercises discretionary authority and include an estimate of the amount of securities so
intended to be confirmed:
Instruction to Item 5:
Attention is directed to the provisions of Rules 10b-9 [17 CFR 240.10b-9] and
15c2-4 [17 CFR 240.15c2-4] under the Securities Exchange Act of 1934. These
339

rules outline, among other things, antifraud provisions concerning the return of
funds to subscribers and the transmission of proceeds of an offering to a seller.
Item 6.

Use of Proceeds to Issuer

State the principal purposes for which the net proceeds to the issuer from the securities to
be offered are intended to be used and the approximate amount intended to be used for
each such purpose. If the issuer will not receive any of proceeds from the offering, so
state.
Instructions to Item 6:
1. If any substantial portion of the proceeds has not been allocated for particular
purposes, a statement to that effect must be made together with a statement of the
amount of proceeds not so allocated.
2. State whether or not the proceeds will be used to compensate or otherwise
make payments to officers or directors of the issuer or any of its subsidiaries.
3. For best efforts offerings, describe any anticipated material changes in the use
of proceeds if all of the securities being qualified on the offering statement are not
sold.
4. If an issuer must provide the disclosure described in Item 9(c) the use of
proceeds and plan of operations should be consistent.
5. If any material amounts of other funds are to be used in conjunction with the
proceeds, state the amounts and sources of such other funds.
6. If any material part of the proceeds is to be used to discharge indebtedness,
describe the material terms of such indebtedness. If the indebtedness to be
discharged was incurred within one year, describe the use of the proceeds arising
from such indebtedness.
7. If any material amount of the proceeds is to be used to acquire assets,
otherwise than in the ordinary course of business, briefly describe and state the
cost of the assets. If the assets are to be acquired from affiliates of the issuer or
their associates, give the names of the persons from whom they are to be acquired
and set forth the basis used in determining the purchase price to the issuer.
8. The issuer may reserve the right to change the use of proceeds, so long as the
reservation is prominently disclosed in the section where the use of proceeds is
discussed. It is not necessary to describe the possible alternative uses of proceeds
unless the issuer believes that a change in circumstances leading to an alternative
use of proceeds is likely to occur.

340

Item 7.

Description of Business

(a) Narrative description of business.
(1) Describe the business done and intended to be done by the issuer and its
subsidiaries and the general development of the business during the past three
years or such shorter period as the issuer may have been in business. Such
description must include, but not be limited to, a discussion of the following
factors if such factors are material to an understanding of the issuer’s business:
(i) The principal products and services of the issuer and the principal
market for and method of distribution of such products and services.
(ii) The status of a product or service if the issuer has made public
information about a new product or service that would require the
investment of a material amount of the assets of the issuer or is otherwise
material.
(iii) The estimated amount spent during each of the last two fiscal years on
company- sponsored research and development activities determined in
accordance with generally accepted accounting principles. In addition,
state the estimated dollar amount spent during each of such years on
material customer-sponsored research activities relating to the
development of new products, services or techniques or the improvement
of existing products, services or techniques.
(iv) The total number of persons employed by the issuer, indicating the
number employed full time.
(v) Any bankruptcy, receivership or similar proceeding.
(vi) Any legal proceedings material to the business or financial condition
of the issuer.
(vii) Any material reclassification, merger, consolidation, or purchase or
sale of a significant amount of assets not in the ordinary course of
business.
(2) The issuer must also describe those distinctive or special characteristics of the
issuer’s operation or industry that may have a material impact upon the issuer’s
future financial performance. Examples of factors that might be discussed include
dependence on one or a few major customers or suppliers (including suppliers of
raw materials or financing), existing or probable governmental regulation
(including environmental regulation), material terms of and/or expiration of
material labor contracts or patents, trademarks, licenses, franchises, concessions
or royalty agreements, unusual competitive conditions in the industry, cyclicality
341

of the industry and anticipated raw material or energy shortages to the extent
management may not be able to secure a continuing source of supply.
(3) Any engineering, management or similar reports that have been prepared or
provided for external use by the issuer or by a principal underwriter in connection
with the proposed offering must be furnished to the Commission at the time of
filing the offering statement or as soon as practicable thereafter. There must also
be furnished at the same time a statement as to the actual or proposed use and
distribution of such report or memorandum. Such statement must identify each
class of persons who have received or will receive the report or memorandum,
and state the number of copies distributed to each such class. If no such report or
memorandum has been prepared, the Commission must be so informed in writing
at the time the report or memorandum would otherwise have been submitted.
(b) Segment Data. If the issuer is required to include segment information in its financial
statements, an appropriate cross-reference must be included in the description of
business.
(c) Industry Guides. The disclosure guidelines in all Securities Act Industry Guides must
be followed. To the extent that the industry guides are codified into Regulation S-K, the
Regulation S-K industry disclosure items must be followed.
(d) For offerings of limited partnership or limited liability company interests, an issuer
must comply with the Commission’s interpretive views on substantive disclosure
requirements set forth in Securities Act Release No. 6900 (June 17, 1991).
Item 8.

Description of Property

State briefly the location and general character of any principal plants or other material
physical properties of the issuer and its subsidiaries. If any such property is not held in
fee or is held subject to any major encumbrance, so state and briefly describe how held.
Include information regarding the suitability, adequacy, productive capacity and extent of
utilization of the properties and facilities used in the issuer’s business.
Instruction to Item 8:
Detailed descriptions of the physical characteristics of individual properties or
legal descriptions by metes and bounds are not required and should not be given.
Item 9.

Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and
Results of Operations

Discuss the issuer’s financial condition, changes in financial condition and results of
operations for each year and interim period for which financial statements are required,
including the causes of material changes from year to year or period to period in financial
statement line items, to the extent necessary for an understanding of the issuer’s business
342

as a whole. Information provided also must relate to all separate segments of the issuer.
Provide the information specified below as well as such other information that is
necessary for an investor’s understanding of the issuer’s financial condition, changes in
financial condition and results of operations.
(a) Operating results. Provide information regarding significant factors, including
unusual or infrequent events or new developments, materially affecting the issuer’s
income from operations, indicating the extent to which income was so affected. Describe
any other significant component of revenue or expenses necessary to understand the
issuer’s results of operations. To the extent that the financial statements disclose material
changes in net sales or revenues, provide a narrative discussion of the extent to which
such changes are attributable to changes in prices or to changes in the volume or amount
of products or services being sold or to the introduction of new products or services.
(b) Liquidity and capital resources. Provide information regarding the following:
(1) the issuer’s liquidity (both short and long term), including a description and
evaluation of the internal and external sources of liquidity and a brief discussion
of any material unused sources of liquidity. Include a statement by the issuer that,
in its opinion, the working capital is sufficient for the issuer’s present
requirements, or, if not, how it proposes to provide the additional working capital
needed.
(2) the level of borrowings at the end of the period under review, the seasonality
of borrowing requirements and the maturity profile of borrowings and committed
borrowing facilities, with a description of any restrictions on their use.
(3) the type of financial instruments used, the maturity profile of debt, currency
and interest rate structure, the extent to which borrowings are at fixed rates, and
the use of financial instruments for hedging purposes.
(4) the issuer’s material commitments for capital expenditures as of the end of the
latest financial year and any subsequent interim period and an indication of the
general purpose of such commitments and the anticipated sources of funds needed
to fulfill such commitments.
(c) Plan of Operations. Issuers (including predecessors) that have not received revenue
from operations during each of the three fiscal years immediately before the filing of the
offering statement must describe, if formulated, their plan of operation for the twelve
months following the commencement of the proposed offering. If such information is
not available, the reasons for its unavailability must be stated. Disclosure relating to any
plan must include, among other things, a statement indicating whether, in the issuer’s
opinion, the proceeds from the offering will satisfy its cash requirements or whether it
anticipates it will be necessary to raise additional funds in the next six months to
implement the plan of operations.

343

(d) Trend information. The issuer must identify the most significant recent trends in
production, sales and inventory, the state of the order book and costs and selling prices
since the latest financial year. The issuer also must discuss, for at least the current
financial year, any known trends, uncertainties, demands, commitments or events that are
reasonably likely to have a material effect on the issuer’s net sales or revenues, income
from continuing operations, profitability, liquidity or capital resources, or that would
cause reported financial information not necessarily to be indicative of future operating
results or financial condition.
Item 10.

Directors, Executive Officers and Significant Employees

(a) For each of the directors, persons nominated or chosen to become directors, executive
officers, persons chosen to become executive officers, and significant employees, provide
the information specified below in substantially the following tabular format:
Name

Position

Age

Term of Office(1)

Approximate hours per
week(2)

Executive Officers:

Directors:

Significant Employees:

(1) Provide the month and year of the start date and, if applicable, the end date.
To the extent you are unable to provide specific dates, provide such other
description in the table or in an appropriate footnote clarifying the term of office.
If the person is a nominee or chosen to become a director or executive officer, it
must be indicated in this column or by footnote.
(2) For executive officers and significant employees that are working part-time,
indicate approximately the average number of hours per week or month such
person works or is anticipated to work. This column may be left blank for
directors. The entire column may be omitted if all those listed in the table work
full time for the issuer.
In a footnote to the table, briefly describe any arrangement or understanding between the
persons described above and any other persons (naming such persons) pursuant to which
the person was or is to be selected to his or her office or position.
Instructions to Item 10(a):

344

1. No nominee or person chosen to become a director or person chosen to be an
executive officer who has not consented to act as such may be named in response
to this item.
2. The term “executive officer” means the president, secretary, treasurer, any
vice-president in charge of a principal business function (such as sales,
administration, or finance) and any other person who performs similar policy
making functions for the issuer.
3. The term “significant employee” means persons such as production managers,
sales managers, or research scientists, who are not executive officers, but who
make or are expected to make significant contributions to the business of the
issuer.
(b) Family relationships. State the nature of any family relationship between any
director, executive officer, person nominated or chosen by the issuer to become a director
or executive officer or any significant employee.
Instruction to Item 10(b):
The term “family relationship” means any relationship by blood, marriage, or
adoption, not more remote than first cousin.
(c) Business experience. Give a brief account of the business experience during the past
five years of each director, executive officer, person nominated or chosen to become a
director or executive officer, and each significant employee, including his or her principal
occupations and employment during that period and the name and principal business of
any corporation or other organization in which such occupations and employment were
carried on. When an executive officer or significant employee has been employed by the
issuer for less than five years, a brief explanation must be included as to the nature of the
responsibilities undertaken by the individual in prior positions to provide adequate
disclosure of this prior business experience. What is required is information relating to
the level of the employee’s professional competence, which may include, depending
upon the circumstances, such specific information as the size of the operation supervised.
(d) Involvement in certain legal proceedings. Describe any of the following events which
occurred during the past five years and which are material to an evaluation of the ability
or integrity of any director, person nominated to become a director or executive officer of
the issuer:
(1) A petition under the federal bankruptcy laws or any state insolvency law was
filed by or against, or a receiver, fiscal agent or similar officer was appointed by a
court for the business or property of such person, or any partnership in which he
was general partner at or within two years before the time of such filing, or any
corporation or business association of which he was an executive officer at or
within two years before the time of such filing; or
345

(2) Such person was convicted in a criminal proceeding (excluding traffic
violations and other minor offenses).
Item 11.

Compensation of Directors and Officers

(a) Provide, in substantially the tabular format indicated, the annual compensation of each
of the three highest paid persons who were officers or directors during the issuer’s last
completed fiscal year.
Name

Capacities in which
compensation was received
(e.g., Chief Executive Officer,
director, etc.)

Cash
compensation
($)

Other
Total
compensation compensation
($)
($)

(b) Provide the aggregate annual compensation of the issuer’s directors as a group for the
issuer’s last completed fiscal year.
(c) Briefly describe all proposed compensation to be made in the future pursuant to any
ongoing plan or arrangement to the individuals specified in paragraphs (a) and (b) of this
item. The description must include a summary of how each plan operates, any
performance formula or measure in effect (or the criteria used to determine payment
amounts), the time periods over which the measurements of benefits will be determined,
payment schedules, and any recent material amendments to the plan. Information need
not be furnished with respect to any group life, health, hospitalization, or medical
reimbursement plans that do not discriminate in scope, terms or operation in favor of
officers or directors of the issuer and that are available generally to all salaried
employees.
Instructions to Item 11:
1. In case of compensation paid or to be paid otherwise than in cash, if it is
impracticable to determine the cash value thereof, state in a note to the table the
nature and amount thereof.
2. This item is to be answered on an accrual basis if practicable; if not so
answered, state the basis used.

346

Item 12.

Security Ownership of Management and Certain Securityholders

(a) Include the information specified in paragraph (b) of this item as of the most recent
practicable date (stating the date used), in substantially the tabular format indicated, with
respect to voting securities beneficially owned by:
(1) all officers and directors as a group, individually naming each director or
officer who beneficially owns more than 10% of any class of the issuer’s voting
securities;
(2) any other shareholder who beneficially owns more than 10% of any class of
the issuer’s voting securities as such beneficial ownership would be calculated if
the issuer were subject to Rule 13d-3(d)(1) of the Securities Exchange Act of
1934.
(b) Beneficial Ownership Table:

Title of
Class

Name and address
of beneficial owner(1)

Amount and nature of Amount and nature of Percent of
beneficial ownership beneficial ownership Class(3)
acquirable(2)

(1) The address given in this column may be a business, mailing, or residential
address. The address may be included in an appropriate footnote to the table
rather than in this column.
(2) This column must include the amount of equity securities each beneficial
owner has the right to acquire using the manner specified in Rule 13d-3(d)(1) of
the Securities Exchange Act of 1934. An appropriate footnote must be included if
the column heading does not sufficiently describe the circumstances upon which
such securities could be acquired.
(3) This column must use the amounts contained in the two preceding columns to
calculate the percent of class owned by such beneficial owner.
Item 13.

Interest of Management and Others in Certain Transactions

(a) Describe briefly any transactions or any currently proposed transactions during the
issuer’s last two completed fiscal years and the current fiscal year, to which the issuer or
any of its subsidiaries was or is to be a participant and the amount involved exceeds the
lesser of $120,000 or one percent of the average of the issuer’s total assets at year end for
the last two completed fiscal years, and in which any of the following persons had or is to
have a direct or indirect material interest, naming the person and stating his or her

347

relationship to the issuer, the nature of the person’s interest in the transaction and, where
practicable, the amount of such interest:
(1) Any director or officer of the issuer;
(2) Any nominee for election as a director;
(3) Any securityholder named in answer to Item 12(a)(2);
(4) If the issuer was incorporated or organized within the past three years, any
promoter of the issuer; or
(5) Any immediate family member of the above persons. An “immediate family
member” of a person means such person’s child, stepchild, parent, stepparent,
spouse, sibling, mother-in-law, father-in-law, son-in-law, daughter-in-law,
brother-in-law, sister-in-law, or any person (other than a tenant or employee)
sharing such person’s household.
Instructions to Item 13(a):
1. For purposes of calculating the amount of the transaction described above, all
periodic installments in the case of any lease or other agreement providing for
periodic payments must be aggregated to the extent they occurred within the time
period described in this item.
2. No information need be given in answer to this item as to any transaction
where:
(a) The rates of charges involved in the transaction are determined by
competitive bids, or the transaction involves the rendering of services as a
common or contract carrier fixed in conformity with law or governmental
authority;
(b) The transaction involves services as a bank depositary of funds,
transfer agent, registrar, trustee under a trust indenture, or similar
services;
(c) The interest of the specified person arises solely from the ownership of
securities of the issuer and the specified person receives no extra or
special benefit not shared on a pro-rata basis by all of the holders of
securities of the class.
3. This item calls for disclosure of indirect as well as direct material interests in
transactions. A person who has a position or relationship with a firm,
corporation, or other entity which engages in a transaction with the issuer or its
subsidiaries may have an indirect interest in such transaction by reason of the
348

position or relationship. However, a person is deemed not to have a material
indirect interest in a transaction within the meaning of this item where:
(a) the interest arises only (i) from the person’s position as a director of
another corporation or organization (other than a partnership) that is a
party to the transaction, or (ii) from the direct or indirect ownership by
the person and all other persons specified in paragraphs (1) through (5) of
this item, in the aggregate, of less than a 10 percent equity interest in
another person (other than a partnership) that is a party to the
transaction, or (iii) from both such position and ownership;
(b) the interest arises only from the person’s position as a limited partner
in a partnership in which the person and all other persons specified in
paragraphs (1) through (5) of this item had an interest of less than 10
percent; or
(c) the interest of the person arises solely from the holding of an equity
interest (unless the equity interest confers management rights similar to a
general partner interest) or a creditor interest in another person that is a
party to the transaction with the issuer or any of its subsidiaries and the
transaction is not material to the other person.
4. Include the name of each person whose interest in any transaction is described
and the nature of the relationships by reason of which such interest is required to
be described. The amount of the interest of any specified person must be
computed without regard to the amount of the profit or loss involved in the
transaction. Where it is not practicable to state the approximate amount of the
interest, the approximate amount involved in the transaction must be disclosed.
5. Information must be included as to any material underwriting discounts and
commissions upon the sale of securities by the issuer where any of the specified
persons was or is to be a principal underwriter or is a controlling person, or
member, of a firm which was or is to be a principal underwriter. Information
need not be given concerning ordinary management fees paid by underwriters to
a managing underwriter pursuant to an agreement among underwriters, the
parties to which do not include the issuer or its subsidiaries.
6. As to any transaction involving the purchase or sale of assets by or to any
issuer or any subsidiary, otherwise than in the ordinary course of business, state
the cost of the assets to the purchaser and, if acquired by the seller within two
years before the transaction, the cost to the seller.
7. Information must be furnished in answer to this item with respect to
transactions not excluded above which involve compensation from the issuer or
its subsidiaries, directly or indirectly, to any of the specified persons for services
in any capacity unless the interest of such persons arises solely from the
349

ownership individually and in the aggregate of less than 10 percent of any class
of equity securities of another corporation furnishing the services to the issuer or
its subsidiaries.
(b) If any expert named in the offering statement as having prepared or certified any part
of the offering statement was employed for such purpose on a contingent basis or, at the
time of such preparation or certification or at any time thereafter, had a material interest
in the issuer or any of its parents or subsidiaries or was connected with the issuer or any
of its subsidiaries as a promoter, underwriter, voting trustee, director, officer or
employee, describe the nature of such contingent basis, interest or connection.
Item 14.

Securities Being Offered

(a) If capital stock is being offered, state the title of the class and furnish the following
information regarding all classes of capital stock outstanding:
(1) Outline briefly: (i) dividend rights; (ii) voting rights; (iii) liquidation rights;
(iv) preemptive rights; (v) conversion rights; (vi) redemption provisions; (vii)
sinking fund provisions; (viii) liability to further calls or to assessment by the
issuer; (ix) any classification of the Board of Directors, and the impact of
classification where cumulative voting is permitted or required; (x) restrictions on
alienability of the securities being offered; (xi) any provision discriminating
against any existing or prospective holder of such securities as a result of such
securityholder owning a substantial amount of securities; and (xii) any rights of
holders that may be modified otherwise than by a vote of a majority or more of
the shares outstanding, voting as a class.
(2) Briefly describe potential liabilities imposed on shareholders under state
statutes or foreign law, for example, to employees of the issuer, unless such
disclosure would be immaterial because the financial resources of the issuer are
such as to make it unlikely that the liability will ever be imposed.
(3) If preferred stock is to be offered or is outstanding, describe briefly any
restriction on the repurchase or redemption of shares by the issuer while there is
any arrearage in the payment of dividends or sinking fund installments. If there is
no such restriction, so state.
(b) If debt securities are being offered, outline briefly the following:
(1) Provisions with respect to interest, conversion, maturity, redemption,
amortization, sinking fund or retirement.
(2) Provisions with respect to the kind and priority of any lien securing the issue,
together with a brief identification of the principal properties subject to such lien.
(3) Material affirmative and negative covenants.
350

Instruction to Item 14(b):
In the case of secured debt there must be stated: (i) the approximate amount of
unbonded property available for use against the issuance of bonds, as of the most
recent practicable date, and (ii) whether the securities being issued are to be
issued against such property, against the deposit of cash, or otherwise.
(c) If securities described are to be offered pursuant to warrants, rights, or convertible
securities, state briefly:
(1) the amount of securities issuable upon the exercise or conversion of such
warrants, convertible securities or rights;
(2) the period during which and the price at which the warrants, convertible
securities or rights are exercisable;
(3) the amounts of warrants, convertible securities or rights outstanding; and
(4) any other material terms of such securities.
(d) In the case of any other kind of securities, appropriate information of a comparable
character.
Part F/S
(a) General Rules
(1) The appropriate financial statements set forth below of the issuer, or the issuer
and its predecessors or any businesses to which the issuer is a successor must be
filed as part of the offering statement and included in the offering circular that is
distributed to investors.
(2) Unless the issuer is a Canadian company, financial statements must be
prepared in accordance with generally accepted accounting principles in the
United States (US GAAP). If the issuer is a Canadian company, such financial
statements must be prepared in accordance with either US GAAP or International
Financial Reporting Standards as issued by the International Accounting
Standards Board. If the financial statements comply with International Financial
Reporting Standards as issued by the International Accounting Standards Board,
such compliance must be unreservedly and explicitly stated in the notes to the
financial statements and the auditor’s report must include an opinion on whether
the financial statements comply with International Financial Reporting Standards
as issued by the International Accounting Standards Board.

351

(3) The following requirements apply to all financial statements filed on this Form
1-A:
(i) The most recent balance sheet must be as of a date within nine months
before filing the offering statement. For filings made more than three
months after the end of the issuer’s most recent fiscal year, the balance
sheet must be dated as of the end of the most recent fiscal year. For filings
made more than nine months after the end of the issuer’s most recent
fiscal year, the balance sheet must be dated no earlier than as of six
months after the end of the most recent fiscal year.
(ii) The date of the most recent balance sheet included pursuant to this
Part F/S must be used to determine which fiscal years must be covered by
the statements of income and cash flows and any other financial statement
disclosure dependent on such date.
(iii) Financial statements for the two most recently completed fiscal years
are required for the issuer. Financial statements for no more than the two
most recently completed fiscal years are required for any businesses
acquired or to be acquired.
(iv) Interim financial statements, which may be unaudited (in which case
that fact must be stated), must cover at least the first six months of the
issuer’s fiscal year and the corresponding period of the preceding fiscal
year.
(v) If the day that the financial statements included in the offering
statement become stale falls on a Saturday, Sunday, or holiday, such
offering statement may be filed on the first business day following the last
day of the specified period.
(vi) Financial Statements of Guarantors and Issuers of Guaranteed
Securities. Financial statements of a subsidiary of an issuer that issues
securities guaranteed by the issuer or guarantees securities issued by the
issuer must be presented as required by Rule 3-10 of Regulation S-X,
except that the periods presented are those required by this
paragraph (a)(3) of this Part F/S and that no audit is required for Tier 1
offerings unless paragraph (b)(7) applies.
(vii) Financial Statements of Affiliates Whose Securities Collateralize an
Issuance. Financial statements for an issuer’s affiliates whose securities
constitute a substantial portion of the collateral for any class of securities
being offered must be presented as required by Rule 3-16 of Regulation SX, except that the periods presented are those required by this paragraph
(a)(3) of this Part F/S and that no audit is required for Tier 1 offerings
unless paragraph (b)(7) applies.
352

(viii) Oil and Gas Producing Activities. Issuers engaged in oil and gas
producing activities must follow the financial accounting and reporting
standards specified in Rule 4-10 of Regulation S-X.
(ix) Additional financial statement requirements depend on whether the
offering is a Tier 1 or Tier 2 offering and those requirements are set forth
in paragraphs (b) and (c) below.
(4) Issuers should refer to Rule 257(b)(2) to determine whether a special financial
report will be required after qualification of the offering statement.
(b) Financial Statements for Tier 1 Offerings
(1) In addition to the general rules in paragraph (a), the rules in (2) through (8) of
this paragraph should be followed in the preparation of the issuer’s financial
statements. Regulation S-X does not apply to the financial statements, except as
otherwise specifically provided below.
(2) Balance Sheet. There must be filed consolidated balance sheets for the issuer
and its subsidiaries as of the end of each of the two most recent fiscal years. If the
issuer has been in existence for less than one fiscal year, the issuer must file a
balance sheet as of a date within nine months of the date of the filing of the
offering statement.
(3) Statements of income, cash flows, and other stockholders equity. File
consolidated statements of income, cash flows, and other stockholders equity for
each of the two fiscal years preceding the date of the most recent balance sheet
being filed, and for any interim period between the end of the most recent of such
fiscal years and the date of the most recent balance sheet being filed, and the
corresponding period of the preceding fiscal year, or for the period of the issuer’s
existence if less than the period above.
(4) Income statements must be accompanied by a statement that in the opinion of
management all adjustments necessary for a fair statement of results for the
interim period have been included. If all such adjustments are of a normal
recurring nature, a statement to that effect must be made.
(5) Financial Statements of Businesses Acquired or to be Acquired. File the
financial statements described in Rule 8-04 of Regulation S-X. The requirements
of such rules apply as if the issuer were conducting a registered offering, except
as otherwise provided in paragraph (a)(3) of this Part F/S and except that no audit
is required unless paragraph (b)(7) applies.
(6) Pro Forma Financial Information.

353

(i) Pro forma information must be furnished if any of the following
conditions exist:
(A) During the most recent fiscal year or subsequent interim period
for which a balance sheet of the issuer is required, a significant
business combination has occurred; or
(B) After the date of the issuer’s most recent balance sheet,
consummation of a significant business combination has
occurred or is probable.
(ii) Pro forma statements must ordinarily be in columnar form showing
condensed historical statements, pro forma adjustments, and the pro forma
results and must include the following:
(A) If the transaction was consummated during the most recent
fiscal year or in the subsequent interim period, pro forma
statements of income reflecting the combined operations of the
entities for the latest fiscal year and interim period, if any, or
(B) If consummation of the transaction has occurred or is probable
after the date of the most recent balance sheet, a pro forma balance
sheet giving effect to the combination as of the date of the most
recent balance sheet required and pro forma statements of income
reflecting the combined operations of the entities for the latest
fiscal year and interim period, if any.
(7) The financial statements prepared pursuant to this paragraph (b) need not be
audited. However, if an audit of these financial statements is obtained for other
purposes and that audit was performed in accordance with either U.S. generally
accepted auditing standards or the Standards of the Public Company Accounting
Oversight Board by an auditor that is independent pursuant to Rule 2-01 of
Regulation S-X, those audited financial statements must be filed, and an audit
opinion complying with Article 2 of Regulation S-X must be filed along with
such financial statements. The auditor may, but need not, be registered with the
Public Company Accounting Oversight Board.
(8) As an alternative, an issuer may—but need not—elect to comply with the
provisions of paragraph (c).
(c) Financial Statement Requirements for Tier 2 Offerings
(1) In addition to the general rules in paragraph (a), the rules in (2) through (4) of
this paragraph should be followed in the preparation of the issuer’s financial
statements.

354

(2) Audited financial statements are required for Tier 2 offerings.
(3) An issuer must comply with Article 8 of Regulation S-X as if it was
conducting a registered offering on Form S-1, except as otherwise provided in
paragraph (a)(3) of this Part F/S.
(4) The audit must be conducted in accordance with standards of the Public
Company Accounting Oversight Board (United States). Accounting firms
conducting audits for the financial statements included in the offering circular
may, but need not, be registered with the Public Company Accounting Oversight
Board.
PART III—EXHIBITS
Item 16.

Index to Exhibits

(a) An exhibits index must be presented at the beginning of Part III.
(b) Each exhibit must be listed in the exhibit index according to the number assigned to it
under Item 17 below.
(c) For incorporation by reference, please refer to General Instruction III of this Form.
Item 17.

Description of Exhibits

As appropriate, the following documents must be filed as exhibits to the offering
statement.
1. Underwriting agreement—Each underwriting contract or agreement with a principal
underwriter or letter pursuant to which the securities are to be distributed; where the
terms have yet to be finalized, proposed formats may be provided.
2. Charter and bylaws—The charter and bylaws of the issuer or instruments
corresponding thereto as currently in effect and any amendments thereto.
3. Instruments defining the rights of securityholders—
(a) All instruments defining the rights of any holder of the issuer’s securities,
including but not limited to (i) holders of equity or debt securities being issued;
(ii) holders of long-term debt of the issuer, and of all subsidiaries for which
consolidated or unconsolidated financial statements are required to be filed.
(b) The following instruments need not be filed if the issuer agrees to file them
with the Commission upon request: (i) instruments defining the rights of holders
of long-term debt of the issuer and all of its subsidiaries for which consolidated
financial statements are required to be filed if such debt is not being issued
355

pursuant to this Regulation A offering and the total amount of such authorized
issuance does not exceed 5% of the total assets of the issuer and its subsidiaries
on a consolidated basis; (ii) any instrument with respect to a class of securities
that is to be retired or redeemed before the issuance or upon delivery of the
securities being issued pursuant to this Regulation A offering and appropriate
steps have been taken to assure such retirement or redemption; and (iii) copies of
instruments evidencing scrip certificates or fractions of shares.
4. Subscription agreement—The form of any subscription agreement to be used in
connection with the purchase of securities in this offering.
5. Voting trust agreement—Any voting trust agreements and amendments.
6. Material contracts
(a) Every contract not made in the ordinary course of business that is material to
the issuer and is to be performed in whole or in part at or after the filing of the
offering statement or was entered into not more than two years before such filing.
Only contracts need be filed as to which the issuer or subsidiary of the issuer is a
party or has succeeded to a party by assumption or assignment or in which the
issuer or such subsidiary has a beneficial interest.
(b) If the contract is such as ordinarily accompanies the kind of business
conducted by the issuer and its subsidiaries, it is made in the ordinary course of
business and need not be filed unless it falls within one or more of the following
categories, in which case it must be filed except where immaterial in amount or
significance: (i) any contract to which directors, officers, promoters, voting
trustees, securityholders named in the offering statement, or underwriters are
parties, except where the contract merely involves the purchase or sale of current
assets having a determinable market price, at such market price; (ii) any contract
upon which the issuer’s business is substantially dependent, as in the case of
continuing contracts to sell the major part of the issuer’s products or services or to
purchase the major part of the issuer’s requirements of goods, services or raw
materials or any franchise or license or other agreement to use a patent, formula,
trade secret, process or trade name upon which the issuer’s business depends to a
material extent; (iii) any contract calling for the acquisition or sale of any
property, plant or equipment for a consideration exceeding 15% of such fixed
assets of the issuer on a consolidated basis; or (iv) any material lease under which
a part of the property described in the offering statement is held by the issuer.
(c) Any management contract or any compensatory plan, contract or arrangement
including, but not limited to, plans relating to options, warrants or rights, pension,
retirement or deferred compensation or bonus, incentive or profit sharing (or if
not set forth in any formal document, a written description) is deemed material
and must be filed except for the following: (i) ordinary purchase and sales agency
agreements; (ii) agreements with managers of stores in a chain organization or
356

similar organization; (iii) contracts providing for labor or salesperson’s bonuses or
payments to a class of securityholders, as such; (iv) any compensatory plan,
contract or arrangement that pursuant to its terms is available to employees
generally and that in operation provides for the same method of allocation of
benefits between management and non-management participants.
7. Plan of acquisition, reorganization, arrangement, liquidation, or succession—Any
material plan of acquisition, disposition, reorganization, readjustment, succession,
liquidation or arrangement and any amendments thereto described in the offering
statement. Schedules (or similar attachments) to these exhibits must not be filed unless
such schedules contain information that is material to an investment decision and that is
not otherwise disclosed in the agreement or the offering statement. The plan filed must
contain a list briefly identifying the contents of all omitted schedules, together with an
agreement to furnish supplementally a copy of any omitted schedule to the Commission
upon request.
8. Escrow agreements—Any escrow agreement or similar arrangement which has been
executed in connection with the Regulation A offering.
9. Letter re change in certifying accountant—A letter from the issuer’s former
independent accountant regarding its concurrence or disagreement with the statements
made by the issuer in the current report concerning the resignation or dismissal as the
issuer’s principal accountant.
10. Power of attorney—If any name is signed to the offering statement pursuant to a
power of attorney, signed copies of the power of attorney must be filed. Where the
power of attorney is contained elsewhere in the offering statement or documents filed
therewith, a reference must be made in the index to the part of the offering statement or
document containing such power of attorney. In addition, if the name of any officer
signing on behalf of the issuer is signed pursuant to a power of attorney, certified copies
of a resolution of the issuer’s board of directors authorizing such signature must also be
filed. A power of attorney that is filed with the Commission must relate to a specific
filing or an amendment thereto. A power of attorney that confers general authority may
not be filed with the Commission.
11. Consents—
(a) Experts: The written consent of (i) any accountant, counsel, engineer,
geologist, appraiser or any persons whose profession gives authority to a
statement made by them and who is named in the offering statement as having
prepared or certified any part of the document or is named as having prepared or
certified a report or evaluation whether or not for use in connection with the
offering statement; (ii) the expert that authored any portion of a report quoted or
summarized as such in the offering statement, expressly stating their consent to
the use of such quotation or summary; (iii) any persons who are referenced as
having reviewed or passed upon any information in the offering statement, and
357

that such information is being included on the basis of their authority or in
reliance upon their status as experts.
(b) All written consents must be dated and signed.
12. Opinion re legality—An opinion of counsel as to the legality of the securities
covered by the Offering Statement, indicating whether they will when sold, be legally
issued, fully paid and non-assessable, and if debt securities, whether they will be binding
obligations of the issuer.
13. “Test the waters” materials—Any written communication or broadcast script used
under the authorization of Rule 255. Such materials need not be filed if they are
substantively the same as materials previously filed with the offering statement.
14. Appointment of agent for service of process—A Canadian issuer must file Form F-X.
15. Additional exhibits—
(a) Any non-public, draft offering statement previously submitted pursuant to
Rule 252(f) and any related, non-public correspondence submitted by or on behalf
of the issuer.
(b) Any additional exhibits which the issuer may wish to file, which must be so
marked as to indicate clearly the subject matters to which they refer.
SIGNATURES
Pursuant to the requirements of Regulation A, the issuer certifies that it has
reasonable grounds to believe that it meets all of the requirements for filing on Form 1-A
and has duly caused this offering statement to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned,
thereunto duly authorized, in the City of
, State of
, on
(date).
(Exact name of issuer as specified in its charter)
By (Signature and Title)
This offering statement has been signed by the following persons in the capacities
and on the dates indicated.
(Signature)
(Title)
(Date)

358

Instructions to Signatures:
1. The offering statement must be signed by the issuer, its principal executive
officer, principal financial officer, principal accounting officer, and a majority of
the members of its board of directors or other governing body. If a signature is
by a person on behalf of any other person, evidence of authority to sign must be
filed with the offering statement, except where an executive officer signs on behalf
of the issuer.
2. The offering statement must be signed using a typed signature. Each signatory
to the filing must also manually sign a signature page or other document
authenticating, acknowledging or otherwise adopting his or her signature that
appears in the filing. Such document must be executed before or at the time the
filing is made and must be retained by the issuer for a period of five years. Upon
request, the issuer must furnish to the Commission or its staff a copy of any or all
documents retained pursuant to this section.
3. The name and title of each person signing the offering statement must be typed
or printed beneath the signature.
Note: The text of Form 1-A will not appear in the Code of Federal Regulations.
*****
10.

Revise § 239.91 to read as follows:

§ 239.91

Form 1-K

This form shall be used for filing annual reports under Regulation A (§§ 230.251230.263 of this chapter).
UNITED STATES
SECURITIES AND EXCHANGE COMMISSION
Washington, D.C. 20549

FORM 1-K
GENERAL INSTRUCTIONS
A. Rules as to Use of Form 1-K.
(1) This Form shall be used for annual reports pursuant to Rule 257(b)(1) of Regulation A
(§§ 230.251-230.263).
(2) Annual reports on this Form shall be filed within 120 days after the end of the fiscal
year covered by the report.
359

(3) This Form also shall be used for special financial reports filed pursuant to
Rule 257(b)(2)(i)(A) of Regulation A. Such special financial reports shall be filed and
signed in the manner set forth in this Form, but otherwise need only provide Part I and the
financial statements required by Rule 257(b)(2)(i)(A). Special financial reports filed
using this Form shall be filed within 120 calendar days after the qualification date of the
offering statement.
B. Preparation of Report.
(1) Regulation A contains certain general requirements that are applicable to reports on
any form, including amendments to reports. These general requirements should be
carefully read and observed in the preparation and filing of reports on this Form.
(2) This Form is not to be used as a blank form to be filled in, but only as a guide in the
preparation of the report.
(3) Except where information is required to be given for the fiscal year or as of a
specified date, it shall be given as of the latest date reasonably practicable.
(4) References in this Form to the items in Form 1-A are to the items set forth in Part II
and Part III of Form 1-A, not Part I.
(5) In addition to the information expressly required to be included in this Form, there
shall be added such further material information, if any, as may be necessary to make the
required statements, in light of the circumstances under which they are made, not
misleading.
C. Signature and Filing of Report.
(1) The report must be filed with the Commission in electronic format by means of the
Commission’s Electronic Data Gathering, Analysis and Retrieval System (“EDGAR”) in
accordance with the EDGAR rules set forth in Regulation S-T (17 CFR Part 232).
(2) The report must be signed by the issuer, its principal executive officer, principal
financial officer, principal accounting officer, and at least a majority of the members of
its board of directors or other governing body. If a signature is by a person on behalf of
any other person, evidence of authority to sign must be filed with the report, except where
an executive officer signs on behalf of the issuer.
(3) The report must be signed using a typed signature. Each signatory to the filing must
also manually sign a signature page or other document authenticating, acknowledging or
otherwise adopting his or her signature that appears in the filing. Such document must be
executed before or at the time the filing is made and must be retained by the issuer for a
period of five years. Upon request, the issuer must furnish to the Commission or its staff
a copy of any or all documents retained pursuant to this paragraph.
360

D. Incorporation by Reference.
(1) An issuer may incorporate by reference to other documents previously submitted or
filed on EDGAR pursuant to Regulation A. Descriptions of where the information
incorporated by reference can be found must be specific and must clearly identify the
relevant document and portion thereof where such information can be found. For
exhibits, this description must be noted in the exhibits index for each relevant exhibit.
All such descriptions must be accompanied by a separate hyperlink to the incorporated
document on EDGAR. A hyperlink need not remain active after the filing of the report,
except that amendments to the report must update any hyperlinks referred to in the
amendment that are inactive. If any substantive modification has occurred in the text of
any document incorporated by reference since such document was filed, the issuer must
file with the reference a statement containing the text and date of such modification.
(2) Reference may not be made to any document which incorporates another document
by reference if the pertinent portion of the document containing the information to be
incorporated by reference includes an incorporation by reference to another document.
Incorporation by reference to documents not available on EDGAR is not permitted.
Matter shall not be incorporated by reference in any case where such incorporation would
render the statement or report incomplete, unclear, or confusing.
PART I
NOTIFICATION
The following information must be provided in the XML-based portion of
Form 1-K available through the EDGAR portal and must be completed or updated before
uploading each offering statement or amendment thereto. The format of Part I shown
below may differ from the electronic version available on EDGAR. The electronic
version of Part I will allow issuers to attach Part II for filing by means of EDGAR. All
items must be addressed, unless otherwise indicated.
* * * * * *
This Form 1-K is to provide an
fiscal year ended

Annual Report OR

Exact name of issuer as specified in the issuer’s charter:
State or other jurisdiction of incorporation:
I.R.S. Employer Identification Number:
Address of Principal Executive Offices:

361

Special Financial Report for the

Telephone: ( )
Title of each class of securities issued pursuant to Regulation A:
Summary Information Regarding Prior Offerings and Proceeds
The following information must be provided for any Regulation A offering that has
terminated or completed prior to the filing of this Form 1-K, unless such information has
been previously reported in a manner permissible under Rule 257. If such information
has been previously reported, check this box and leave the rest of Part I blank.
Date of qualification of the offering statement:
Date of commencement of the offering:
Number of securities qualified to be sold in the offering:
Number of securities sold in the offering:
Price per security: $
The aggregate offering price for securities sold on behalf of the issuer:
$
N/A
The aggregate offering price for the securities sold on behalf of selling securityholders:
$
N/A
Fees in connection with this offering and names of service providers:
Name of Service Provider
Underwriters:
Sales Commissions:
Finders’ Fees:
Auditor:
Legal:
Promoters:
Blue Sky Compliance:
CRD Number of any broker or dealer listed:
Net proceeds to the issuer: $
Clarification of responses (if necessary):
PART II
362

Fees
$
$
$
$
$
$
$

INFORMATION TO BE INCLUDED IN REPORT
Item 1.

Business

Set forth the information required by Item 7 of Form 1-A.
Item 2.

Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and
Results of Operations

Set forth the information required by Item 9 of Form 1-A for the previous two completed
fiscal years.
Item 3.

Directors and Officers

Set forth the information required by Items 10 and 11 of Form 1-A.
Item 4.

Security Ownership of Management and Certain Securityholders

Set forth the information required by Item 12 of Form 1-A.
Item 5.

Interest of Management and Others in Certain Transactions

Set forth the information required by Item 13 of Form 1-A.
Item 6.

Other Information

Set forth any information required to be disclosed in a report on Form 1-U during the
second half of the fiscal year covered by this Form 1-K, but not reported, whether or not
otherwise required by this Form 1-K. If disclosure of such information is made under
this item, it need not be repeated in a report on Form 1-U that would otherwise be
required to be filed with respect to such information or in a subsequent report on
Form 1-U.
Item 7.

Financial Statements

(a) At the beginning of the section where you provide the financial statements required by
this Form, provide a list of the financial statements included.
(b) Include annual financial statements of the issuer that would meet the requirements of
Part F/S of Form 1-A if included in an offering statement being qualified on the due date
of the report.
Item 8.

Exhibits

(a) An exhibits index must be presented immediately preceding the first signature page of
the report.
363

(b) File, as exhibits to this Form, the exhibits required by Form 1-A, except for the
exhibits required by paragraphs 1, 12, and 13 of Item 17.
SIGNATURES
Pursuant to the requirements of Regulation A, the issuer has duly caused this
report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned, thereunto duly authorized.
(Exact name of issuer as specified in its charter)

By (Signature and Title)
Date
Pursuant to the requirements of Regulation A, this report has been signed below
by the following persons on behalf of the issuer and in the capacities and on the dates
indicated.
By (Signature and Title)
Date
By (Signature and Title)
Date

Note: The text of Form 1-K will not appear in the Code of Federal Regulations.
*****
12.

Revise § 239.92 to read as follows:

§ 230.92

Form 1-SA

This form shall be used for filing semiannual reports under Regulation A
(§§ 230.251-230.263 of this chapter).
UNITED STATES
SECURITIES AND EXCHANGE COMMISSION
Washington, D.C. 20549

FORM 1-SA
364

[ ] SEMIANNUAL REPORT PURSUANT TO REGULATION A
or
[ ] SPECIAL FINANCIAL REPORT PURSUANT TO REGULATION A
For the fiscal semiannual period ended

(Exact name of issuer as specified in its charter)

State or other jurisdiction of
incorporation or organization

(I.R.S. Employer
Identification No.)

(Full mailing address of principal executive offices)

(Issuer’s telephone number, including area code)
GENERAL INSTRUCTIONS
A. Rules as to Use of Form 1-SA.
(1) This Form shall be used for semiannual reports pursuant to Rule 257(b)(3) of
Regulation A (§§ 230.251-230.263).
(2) Semiannual reports on this Form shall be filed within 90 days after the end of the
semiannual period covered by the report.
(3) This Form also shall be used for special financial reports filed pursuant to Rule
257(b)(2)(i)(B) of Regulation A. Such special financial reports shall be filed and signed
in the manner set forth in this Form, but otherwise need only provide the cover page and
financial statements required by Rule 257(b)(2)(i)(B). Special financial reports filed
using this Form shall be filed within 90 calendar days after the qualification date of the
offering statement.
B. Preparation of Report.
(1) Regulation A contains certain general requirements that are applicable to reports on
any form, including amendments to reports. These general requirements should be
carefully read and observed in the preparation and filing of reports on this Form.
(2) This Form is not to be used as a blank form to be filled in, but only as a guide in the
preparation of the report.
(3) In addition to the information expressly required to be included in this Form, there
shall be added such further material information, if any, as may be necessary to make the
365

required statements, in light of the circumstances under which they are made, not
misleading.
C. Signature and Filing of Report.
(1) The report must be filed with the Commission in electronic format by means of the
Commission’s Electronic Data Gathering, Analysis and Retrieval System (“EDGAR”) in
accordance with the EDGAR rules set forth in Regulation S-T (17 CFR Part 232).
(2) The report must be signed by the issuer, its principal executive officer, principal
financial officer and principal accounting officer. If a signature is by a person on behalf
of any other person, evidence of authority to sign must be filed with the report, except
where an executive officer signs on behalf of the issuer.
(3) The report must be signed using a typed signature. Each signatory to the filing must
also manually sign a signature page or other document authenticating, acknowledging or
otherwise adopting his or her signature that appears in the filing. Such document must be
executed before or at the time the filing is made and must be retained by the issuer for a
period of five years. Upon request, the issuer must furnish to the Commission or its staff
a copy of any or all documents retained pursuant to this paragraph.
D. Incorporation by Reference.
(1) An issuer may incorporate by reference to other documents previously submitted or
filed on EDGAR pursuant to Regulation A. Descriptions of where the information
incorporated by reference can be found must be specific and must clearly identify the
relevant document and portion thereof where such information can be found. For
exhibits, this description must be noted in the exhibits index for each relevant exhibit. All
such descriptions must be accompanied by a separate hyperlink to the incorporated
document on EDGAR. A hyperlink need not remain active after the filing of the report,
except that amendments to the report must update any hyperlinks referred to in the
amendment that are inactive. If any substantive modification has occurred in the text of
any document incorporated by reference since such document was filed, the issuer must
file with the reference a statement containing the text and date of such modification.
(2) Reference may not be made to any document which incorporates another document
by reference if the pertinent portion of the document containing the information to be
incorporated by reference includes an incorporation by reference to another document.
Incorporation by reference to documents not available on EDGAR is not permitted.
Matter shall not be incorporated by reference in any case where such incorporation would
render the statement or report incomplete, unclear, or confusing.
INFORMATION TO BE INCLUDED IN REPORT
Item 1.

Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and
Results of Operations
366

Set forth the information required by Item 9 of Form 1-A.
Item 2.

Other Information

Set forth any information required to be disclosed in a report on Form 1-U during the
semiannual period covered by this Form 1-SA, but not reported, whether or not otherwise
required by this Form 1-SA. If disclosure of such information is made under this item, it
need not be repeated in a report on Form 1-U that would otherwise be required to be filed
with respect to such information or in a subsequent report on Form 1-U.
Item 3.

Financial Statements

The appropriate financial statements set forth below of the issuer, or the issuer and its
predecessors or any businesses to which the issuer is a successor must be filed as part of
the Form 1-SA.
Unless the issuer is a Canadian company, financial statements must be prepared on a
consolidated basis in accordance with generally accepted accounting principles in the
United States (US GAAP). If the issuer is a Canadian company, such financial
statements must be prepared in accordance with either US GAAP or International
Financial Reporting Standards as issued by the International Accounting Standards
Board. If the financial statements comply with International Financial Reporting
Standards as issued by the International Accounting Standards Board, such compliance
must be unreservedly and explicitly stated in the notes to the financial statements.
The financial statements included pursuant to this item may be unaudited and are not
required to be reviewed. The financial statements must include the following:
(a) An interim balance sheet as of the end of the six month period covered by this report
and a balance sheet as of the end of the preceding fiscal year. An interim balance sheet
as of the end of the corresponding six month interim period of the preceding fiscal year
need not be provided unless necessary for an understanding of the impact of seasonal
fluctuations on the issuer’s financial condition.
(b) Interim statements of income must be provided for the six month interim period
covered by this report and for the corresponding period of the preceding fiscal year.
Income statements must be accompanied by a statement that in the opinion of
management all adjustments necessary for a fair statement of results for the interim
period have been included. If all such adjustments are of a normal recurring nature, a
statement to that effect must be made.
(c) Interim statements of cash flows must be provided for the six month interim period
covered by this report and for the corresponding period of the preceding fiscal year.

367

(d) Interim statements of changes in financial position shall be provided for the period
between the end of the preceding fiscal year and the end of the interim period covered by
this report, and for the corresponding period of the preceding fiscal year.
(e) Financial Statements of Guarantors and Issuers of Guaranteed Securities. Financial
statements of a subsidiary of an issuer that issues securities guaranteed by the issuer or
guarantees securities issued by the issuer must be presented as required by Rule 3-10 of
Regulation S-X, except that the periods presented are those required by this item and the
financial statements need not be audited.
(f) Financial Statements of Affiliates Whose Securities Collateralize an Issuance.
Financial statements for an issuer’s affiliates whose securities constitute a substantial
portion of the collateral for any class of securities being offered must be presented as
required by Rule 3-16 of Regulation S-X, except that the periods presented are those
required by this item and the financial statements need not be audited.
(g) Oil and Gas Producing Activities. Issuers engaged in oil and gas producing activities
must follow the financial accounting and reporting standards specified in Rule 4-10 of
Regulation S-X.

Item 4.

Exhibits

(a) An exhibits index must be presented immediately preceding the first signature page of
the report.
(b) File, as exhibits to this Form, the exhibits required by Form 1-A, except for the
exhibits required by paragraphs 1, 12, and 13 of Item 17.
SIGNATURES
Pursuant to the requirements of Regulation A, the issuer has duly caused this
report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned, thereunto duly authorized.
(Exact name of issuer as specified in its charter)
By (Signature and Title)
Date
Pursuant to the requirements of Regulation A, this report has been signed below
by the following persons on behalf of the issuer and in the capacities and on the dates
indicated.
By (Signature and Title)

368

Date
By (Signature and Title)
Date

Note: The text of Form 1-SA will not appear in the Code of Federal Regulations.
*****
13.

Revise § 239.93 to read as follows:

§ 230.93

Form 1-U

This form shall be used for filing current reports under Regulation A (§§ 230.251230.263 of this chapter).
UNITED STATES
SECURITIES AND EXCHANGE COMMISSION
Washington, D.C. 20549

FORM 1-U
CURRENT REPORT PURSUANT TO REGULATION A
Date of Report (Date of earliest event reported)

(Exact name of issuer as specified in its charter)

State or other jurisdiction of
incorporation or organization

(I.R.S. Employer
Identification No.)

(Full mailing address of principal executive offices)

(Issuer’s telephone number, including area code)

Title of each class of securities issued pursuant to Regulation A:

369

GENERAL INSTRUCTIONS
A. Rules as to Use of Form 1-U.
(1) This Form shall be used for current reports pursuant to Rule 257(b)(4) of Regulation
A (§§ 230.251-230.263).
(2) A report on this Form is required to be filed, as applicable, upon the occurrence of any
one or more of the events specified in Items 1 – 9 of this Form. Unless otherwise
specified, a report is to be filed within four business days after occurrence of the event. If
the event occurs on a Saturday, Sunday, or holiday on which the Commission is not open
for business, then the four business day period shall begin to run on, and include, the first
business day thereafter.
(3) If the issuer previously has provided substantially the same information as required by
this Form in a report required by Rule 257(b) of Regulation A, the issuer need not make
an additional report of the information on this Form. To the extent that an item calls for
disclosure of developments concerning a previously reported event or transaction, any
information required in the new report or amendment about the previously reported event
or transaction may be provided by incorporation by reference to the previously filed
report, if a hyperlink to such report as filed with the Commission is included.
(4) Copies of agreements, amendments or other documents or instruments required to be
filed pursuant to Form 1-U are not required to be filed or furnished as exhibits to the
Form 1-U unless specifically required to be filed or furnished by the applicable item.
This instruction does not affect the requirement to otherwise file such agreements,
amendments or other documents or instruments, including as exhibits to offering
statements and periodic reports pursuant to the requirements of Regulation A.
B. Preparation of Report.
(1) Regulation A contains certain general requirements which are applicable to reports on
any form, including amendments to reports. These general requirements should be
carefully read and observed in the preparation and filing of reports on this Form.
(2) This Form is not to be used as a blank form to be filled in, but only as a guide in the
preparation of the report. Nevertheless, the report shall contain the number and caption
of the applicable item, but the text of such item may be omitted. All items that are not
required to be answered in a particular report may be omitted and no reference thereto
need be made in the report. All instructions should also be omitted.
(3) In addition to the information expressly required to be included in this Form, there
shall be added such further material information, if any, as may be necessary to make the
required statements, in light of the circumstances under which they are made, not
misleading.
C. Signature and Filing of Report.
370

(1) The report must be filed with the Commission in electronic format by means of the
Commission’s Electronic Data Gathering, Analysis and Retrieval System (“EDGAR”) in
accordance with the EDGAR rules set forth in Regulation S-T (17 CFR Part 232).
(2) The report must be signed by an officer duly authorized to sign on behalf of the issuer.
The report must be signed using a typed signature. The signatory to the filing must also
manually sign a signature page or other document authenticating, acknowledging or
otherwise adopting his or her signature that appears in the filing. Such document must be
executed before or at the time the filing is made and must be retained by the issuer for a
period of five years. Upon request, the issuer must furnish to the Commission or its staff
a copy of any or all documents retained pursuant to this paragraph.
D. Incorporation by Reference.
(1) An issuer may incorporate by reference to other documents previously submitted or
filed on EDGAR pursuant to Regulation A. Descriptions of where the information
incorporated by reference can be found must be specific and must clearly identify the
relevant document and portion thereof where such information can be found. For
exhibits, this description must be noted in the exhibits index for each relevant exhibit.
All such descriptions must be accompanied by a separate hyperlink to the incorporated
document on EDGAR. A hyperlink need not remain active after the filing of the report,
except that amendments to the report must update any hyperlinks referred to in the
amendment that are inactive. If any substantive modification has occurred in the text of
any document incorporated by reference since such document was filed, the issuer must
file with the reference a statement containing the text and date of such modification.
(2) Reference may not be made to any document which incorporates another document
by reference if the pertinent portion of the document containing the information to be
incorporated by reference includes an incorporation by reference to another document.
Incorporation by reference to documents not available on EDGAR is not permitted.
Matter shall not be incorporated by reference in any case where such incorporation would
render the statement or report incomplete, unclear, or confusing.
INFORMATION TO BE INCLUDED IN THE REPORT
Item 1.

Fundamental Changes

(a) If the issuer has entered into or terminated a material definitive agreement that has
resulted in or would reasonably be expected to result in a fundamental change to the
nature of its business or plan of operations, disclose the following information to the
extent applicable:
(1) the date on which the agreement was entered into, amended, or terminated, the
identity of the parties to the agreement or amendment, and a brief description of
any material relationship between the issuer or its affiliates and any of the parties
371

(other than the relationship created by the material definitive agreement or
amendment);
(2) a brief description of the material terms and conditions of the agreement;
(3) a brief description of the material circumstances surrounding the termination;
and
(4) any material early termination penalties incurred by the issuer due to a
termination.
(b) For purposes of this item, a material definitive agreement means an agreement that
provides for obligations that are material to and enforceable against the issuer, or rights
that are material to the issuer and enforceable by the issuer against one or more other
parties to the agreement, in each case whether or not subject to conditions.
(c) File any material definitive agreement disclosed pursuant to this item as an exhibit to
the report on this Form.
Instructions to Item 1:
1. A material definitive agreement that is not made in the ordinary course of
business is not necessarily required to be disclosed under this item if it does not
result in, and would not reasonably be expected to result in, a fundamental
change to the nature of the issuer’s business or plan of operations.
2. Without limiting the generality of the foregoing, a material definitive
agreement is deemed to result in a fundamental change if it involves any of the
following:
a. A transaction that would exceed the significance thresholds in Rule 804 of Regulation S-X (17 CFR 210.8-04) if such rule applied;
b. A merger, consolidation, acquisition or similar transaction that
requires approval by the issuer’s securityholders;
c. Any contract upon which the issuer’s business is substantially
dependent, as in the case of continuing contracts to sell the major part of
the issuer’s products or services or to purchase the major part of the
issuer’s requirements of goods, services or raw materials or any franchise
or license or other agreement to use a patent, formula, trade secret,
process or trade name upon which the issuer’s business is substantially
dependent; or
3. An issuer must provide disclosure under this item if the issuer succeeds as a
party to the agreement or amendment to the agreement by assumption or
372

assignment (other than in connection with a merger or acquisition or similar
transaction that is otherwise reported pursuant to this item).
4. No disclosure under this item is required regarding the termination of a
material definitive agreement if:
a. The agreement terminated on its stated termination date, or as a result
of all parties completing their obligations under such agreement.
b. Only negotiations or discussions regarding termination of a material
definitive agreement are being conducted and the agreement has not been
terminated.
c. The issuer believes in good faith that the material definitive agreement
has not been terminated, unless the issuer has received a notice of
termination pursuant to the terms of agreement.
Item 2.

Bankruptcy or Receivership

(a) If a receiver, fiscal agent or similar officer has been appointed for an issuer or its
parent, in a proceeding under the U.S. Bankruptcy Code or in any other proceeding under
state, federal, or Canadian laws, in which a court or governmental authority has assumed
jurisdiction over substantially all of the assets or business of the issuer or its parent, or if
such jurisdiction has been assumed by leaving the existing directors and officers in
possession but subject to the supervision and orders of a court or governmental authority,
disclose the following information:
(1) the name or other identification of the proceeding;
(2) the identity of the court or governmental authority;
(3) the date that jurisdiction was assumed; and
(4) the identity of the receiver, fiscal agent or similar officer and the date of his or
her appointment.
(b) If an order confirming a plan of reorganization, arrangement or liquidation has been
entered by a court or governmental authority having supervision or jurisdiction over
substantially all of the assets or business of the issuer or its parent, disclose the following:
(1) the identity of the court or governmental authority;
(2) the date that the order confirming the plan was entered by the court or
governmental authority;
(3) a summary of the material features of the plan;
373

(4) the number of shares or other units of the issuer or its parent issued and
outstanding, the number reserved for future issuance in respect of claims and
interests filed and allowed under the plan, and the aggregate total of such
numbers; and
(5) information as to the assets and liabilities of the issuer or its parent as of the
date that the order confirming the plan was entered, or a date as close thereto as
practicable.
Instruction to Item 2:
The information called for in paragraph (b)(5) of this item may be presented in
the form in which it was furnished to the court or governmental authority.
Item 3.

Material Modification to Rights of Securityholders

(a) If the constituent instruments defining the rights of the holders of any class of
securities of the issuer that were issued pursuant to Regulation A have been materially
modified, disclose the date of the modification, the title of the class of securities involved
and briefly describe the general effect of such modification upon the rights of holders of
such securities.
(b) If the rights or benefits evidenced by any class of securities issued pursuant to
Regulation A have been materially limited or qualified by the issuance or modification of
any other class of securities by the issuer, briefly disclose the date of the issuance or
modification, the general effect of the issuance or modification of such other class of
securities upon the rights or benefits of the holders of the securities issued pursuant to
Regulation A.
Instruction to Item 3:
Working capital restrictions and other limitations upon the payment of dividends
must be reported pursuant to this item.
Item 4.

Changes in Issuer’s Certifying Accountant

(a) If an independent accountant who was previously engaged as the principal accountant
to audit the issuer’s financial statements, or an independent accountant upon whom the
principal accountant expressed reliance in its report regarding a significant subsidiary,
resigns (or indicates that it declines to stand for re-appointment after completion of the
current audit) or is dismissed, disclose the information that would be required under Item
304(a)(1) of Regulation S-K (17 CFR 229.304(a)(1)), including compliance with Item
304(a)(3) of Regulation S-K (17 CFR 229.304(a)(3)) if the issuer were a “registrant.”

374

(b) If a new independent accountant has been engaged as either the principal accountant
to audit the issuer’s financial statements or as an independent accountant on whom the
principal accountant is expected to express reliance in its report regarding a significant
subsidiary, the issuer must disclose the information that would be required by Item
304(a)(2) of Regulation S-K (17 CFR 229.304(a)(2)) if the issuer were a “registrant.”
Instructions to Item 4:
1. Information under this Item 4 is only required if the issuer’s most recent
qualified offering statement on Form 1-A or report on Form 1-K, whichever is
most recent, contains audited financial statements.
2. The resignation or dismissal of an independent accountant, or its refusal to
stand for re-appointment, is a reportable event separate from the engagement of a
new independent accountant. On some occasions, two reports on Form 1-U are
required for a single change in accountants, the first on the resignation (or
refusal to stand for re-appointment) or dismissal of the former accountant and the
second when the new accountant is engaged. Information required in the second
Form 1-U in such situations need not be provided to the extent that it has been
reported previously in the first Form 1-U.
Item 5.

Non-reliance on Previously Issued Financial Statements or a Related
Audit Report or Completed Interim Review

(a) If the issuer’s board of directors, a committee of the board of directors or the officer
or officers of the issuer authorized to take such action if board action is not required,
concludes that any previously issued financial statements, covering one or more years or
interim periods for which the issuer is required to provide financial statements under
Regulation A, including Form 1-A, should no longer be relied upon because of an error in
such financial statements as addressed in FASB Accounting Standards Codification
Topic 250, as may be modified, supplemented or succeeded, disclose the following
information:
(1) the date of the conclusion regarding the non-reliance and an identification of
the financial statements and years or periods covered that should no longer be
relied upon;
(2) a brief description of the facts underlying the conclusion to the extent known
to the issuer at the time of filing;
and
(3) a statement of whether the audit committee, or the board of directors in the
absence of an audit committee, or authorized officer or officers, discussed with
the issuer’s independent accountant the matters disclosed in the filing pursuant to
this paragraph (a).

375

(b) If the issuer is advised by, or receives notice from, its independent accountant that
disclosure should be made or action should be taken to prevent future reliance on a
previously issued audit report or completed interim review related to previously issued
financial statements, disclose the following information:
(1) the date on which the issuer was so advised or notified;
(2) identification of the financial statements that should no longer be relied upon;
(3) a brief description of the information provided by the accountant; and
(4) a statement of whether the audit committee, or the board of directors in the
absence of an audit committee, or authorized officer or officers, discussed with
the independent accountant the matters disclosed in the filing pursuant to
paragraph (b) of this item.
(c) If the issuer receives advisement or notice from its independent accountant requiring
disclosure under paragraph (b) of this item, the issuer must:
(1) provide the independent accountant with a copy of the disclosures it is making
in response to this item that the independent accountant shall receive no later than
the day that the disclosures are filed with the Commission;
(2) request the independent accountant to furnish to the issuer as promptly as
possible a letter addressed to the Commission stating whether the independent
accountant agrees with the statements made by the issuer in response to this item
and, if not, stating the respects in which it does not agree; and
(3) amend the issuer’s previously filed Form 1-U by filing the independent
accountant’s letter as an exhibit to the filed Form 1-U no later than two business
days after the issuer’s receipt of the letter.
Item 6.

Changes in Control of Issuer

(a) If, to the knowledge of the issuer’s board of directors, a committee of the board of
directors, governing body similar to a board of directors, or authorized officer or officers
of the issuer, a change in control of the issuer has occurred, furnish the following
information:
(1) the identity of the persons who acquired such control;
(2) the date and a description of the transactions which resulted in the change in
control;

376

(3) the basis of the control, including the percentage of voting securities of the
issuer now beneficially owned directly or indirectly by the persons who acquired
control;
(4) the amount of the consideration used by such persons;
(5) the sources of funds used by the persons, unless all or any part of the
consideration used is a loan made in the ordinary course of business by a bank as
defined by Section 3(a)(6) of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934.
(6) the identity of the persons from whom control was assumed; and
(7) any arrangements or understandings among members of both the former and
new control groups and their associates with respect to election of directors or
other matters.
(b) Describe any arrangements, known to the issuer, including any pledge by any person
of securities of the issuer or any of its parents, the operation of which may at a
subsequent date result in a change in control of the issuer. It is not necessary to describe
ordinary default provisions contained in the charter, trust indentures, or other governing
instruments relating to securities of the issuer in response to this paragraph.
Item 7.

Departure of Certain Officers

If the issuer’s principal executive officer, principal financial officer, principal accounting
officer, or any person performing similar functions, retires, resigns or is terminated from
that position, disclose the fact that the event has occurred and the date of the event.
Instruction to Item 7:
The disclosure requirements of this item do not apply to an issuer that is a whollyowned subsidiary of an issuer with a class of securities registered under Section
12 of the Exchange Act (15 U.S.C. 78l), or that is required to file reports under
Section 15(d) of the Exchange Act (15 U.S.C. 78o(d)) or under Regulation A.

377

Item 8.

Unregistered Sales of Equity Securities

(a) If the issuer sells equity securities in a transaction that is not registered under the
Securities Act or qualified under Regulation A, furnish the information set forth in Item 6
of Part I of Form 1-A. For purposes of determining the required filing date for the Form
1-U under this item, the issuer has no obligation to disclose information under this item
until the issuer enters into an agreement enforceable against the issuer, whether or not
subject to conditions, under which the equity securities are to be sold. If there is no such
agreement, the issuer must provide the disclosure within four business days after the
occurrence of the closing or settlement of the transaction or arrangement under which the
equity securities are to be sold.
(b) No report need be filed if the equity securities sold, in the aggregate since its last
report filed under this item or its last periodic report, whichever is more recent, constitute
less than 5% of the number of shares outstanding of the class of equity securities sold.
Instructions to Item 8:
1. For purposes of this item, “the number of shares outstanding” refers to the
actual number of shares of equity securities of the class outstanding and does not
include outstanding securities convertible into or exchangeable for such equity
securities.
2. It is not necessary to follow the format of Item 6 of Part I of Form 1-A when
providing the information required by this item.
Item 9.

Other Events

The issuer may, at its option, disclose under this item any events, with respect to which
information is not otherwise called for by this Form, that the issuer deems of importance
to securityholders.
SIGNATURES
Pursuant to the requirements of Regulation A, the issuer has duly caused this
report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned, thereunto duly authorized.
(Exact name of issuer as specified in its charter)
By (Signature and Title)
Date
Note: The text of Form 1-U will not appear in the Code of Federal Regulations.
*****
378

13.

Revise § 239.94 to read as follows:

§ 230.94

Form 1-Z

This form shall be used to file an exit report under Regulation A (§§ 230.251230.263 of this chapter).
UNITED STATES
SECURITIES AND EXCHANGE COMMISSION
Washington, D.C. 20549

FORM 1-Z
EXIT REPORT UNDER REGULATION A
GENERAL INSTRUCTIONS
(1) The following information must be provided in the XML-based Form 1-Z available
through the EDGAR portal. The format shown below may differ from the electronic
version available on EDGAR.
(2) An issuer filing this Form pursuant to Rule 257(a) must only complete the
Preliminary Information and Part I.
(3) An issuer filing this Form to suspend its duty to file reports under Rule 257(d) must
complete the Preliminary Information and Part II. Such issuer must also provide Part I if
it has not previously provided the Part I information in a Form 1-K filing.
* * * * * *
PRELIMINARY INFORMATION
Exact name of issuer as specified in the issuer’s charter:
Address of Principal Executive Offices:

Telephone: ( )
Commission File Number(s):
PART I
Summary Information Regarding the Offering and Proceeds
Date of qualification of the offering statement:

379

Date of commencement of the offering:
Number of securities qualified to be sold in the offering:
Number of securities sold in the offering:
Price per security: $
The aggregate offering price for securities sold on behalf of the issuer:
$
N/A
The aggregate offering price for the securities sold on behalf of selling securityholders:
$
N/A
Fees in connection with this offering and names of service providers:
Name of Service Provider
Underwriters:
Sales Commissions:
Finders’ Fees:
Auditor:
Legal:
Promoters:
Blue Sky Compliance:

Fees
$
$
$
$
$
$
$

CRD Number of any broker or dealer listed:
Net proceeds to the issuer: $
Clarification of responses (if necessary):
PART II
Certification of Suspension of Duty to File Reports
Title of each class of securities covered by this Form
Commission File Number(s)
Approximate number of holders of record as of the certification date:
Pursuant to the requirements of Regulation A,
(Name of
issuer as specified in charter) certifies that it meets all of the conditions for termination
of Regulation A reporting specified in Rule 257(d) and that there are no classes of
securities other than those that are the subject of this Form 1-Z regarding which the issuer
has Regulation A reporting obligations.
(Name of issuer as

380

specified in charter) has caused this certification to be signed on its behalf by the
undersigned duly authorized person.
By:
Title:

Date: ______________________________

Instruction: This Part II of Form 1-Z is required by Rule 257(d) of Regulation A. An
officer of the issuer or any other duly authorized person may sign, and must do so by
typed signature. The name and title of the person signing the form must be typed or
printed under the signature. The signatory to the filing must also manually sign a
signature page or other document authenticating, acknowledging or otherwise adopting
his or her signature that appears in the filing. Such document must be executed before or
at the time the filing is made and must be retained by the issuer for a period of five years.
Upon request, the issuer must furnish to the Commission or its staff a copy of any or all
documents retained pursuant to this instruction.
Note: The text of Form 1-Z will not appear in the Code of Federal Regulations.
*****
PART 240 – GENERAL RULES AND REGULATIONS, SECURITIES
EXCHANGE ACT OF 1934
14.

The authority citation for Part 240 is amended by revising the sectional authority

for § 240.15c2-11 to read as follows:
Authority: 15 U.S.C. 77c, 77d, 77g, 77j, 77s, 77z-2, 77z-3, 77eee, 77ggg, 77nnn,
77sss, 77ttt, 78c, 78c-3, 78c-5, 78d, 78e, 78f, 78g, 78i, 78j, 78j-1, 78k, 78k-1, 78l, 78m,
78n, 78n-1, 78o, 78o-4, 78o-10, 78p, 78q, 78q-1, 78s, 78u-5, 78w, 78x, 78ll, 78mm, 80a20, 80a-23, 80a-29, 80a-37, 80b-3, 80b-4, 80b-11, 7201 et. seq., and 8302; 7 U.S.C.
2(c)(2)(E); 12 U.S.C. 5221(e)(3); 18 U.S.C. 1350; and Pub. L. 111-203, 939A, 124 Stat.
1376, (2010), unless otherwise noted.
*****

381

Section 240.15c2-11 also issued under 15 U.S.C. 78j(b), 78 o (c), 78q(a), 78w(a), and
Pub. L. No. 112-106, § 401, 126 Stat. 313 (2012).
*****
15.

§ 240.15c2-11 is amended by revising paragraphs (a)(3) and (d)(2)(i) to read as

follows:
§ 240.15c2-11 Initiation or resumption of quotations without specific information.
*****
(a) * * *
(3) A copy of the issuer's most recent annual report filed pursuant to section 13 or
15(d) of the Act or pursuant to Regulation A ((§§ 230.251-230.263 of this chapter), or a
copy of the annual statement referred to in section 12(g)(2)(G)(i) of the Act in the case of
an issuer required to file reports pursuant to section 13 or 15(d) of the Act or an issuer of
a security covered by section 12(g)(2)(B) or (G) of the Act, together with any
semiannual, quarterly and current reports that have been filed under the provisions of the
Act or Regulation A by the issuer after such annual report or annual statement; provided,
however, that until such issuer has filed its first annual report pursuant to section 13 or
15(d) of the Act or pursuant to Regulation A, or annual statement referred to in section
12(g)(2)(G)(i) of the Act, the broker or dealer has in its records a copy of the prospectus
specified by section 10(a) of the Securities Act of 1933 included in a registration
statement filed by the issuer under the Securities Act of 1933, other than a registration
statement on Form F-6, or a copy of the offering circular specified by Regulation A
included in an offering statement filed by the issuer under Regulation A, that became
effective or was qualified within the prior 16 months, or a copy of any registration

382

statement filed by the issuer under section 12 of the Act that became effective within the
prior 16 months, together with any semiannual, quarterly and current reports filed
thereafter under section 13 or 15(d) of the Act or Regulation A; and provided further, that
the broker or dealer has a reasonable basis under the circumstances for believing that the
issuer is current in filing annual, semiannual, quarterly, and current reports filed pursuant
to section 13 or 15(d) of the Act or Regulation A, or, in the case of an insurance company
exempted from section 12(g) of the Act by reason of section 12(g)(2)(G) thereof, the
annual statement referred to in section 12(g)(2)(G)(i) of the Act; or
*****
(d) * * *
(2) * * *
(i) A broker-dealer shall be in compliance with the requirement to obtain current
reports filed by the issuer if the broker-dealer obtains all current reports filed with the
Commission by the issuer as of a date up to five business days in advance of the earlier of
the date of submission of the quotation to the quotation medium and the date of
submission of the paragraph (a) information pursuant to the applicable rule of the
Financial Industry Regulatory Authority, Inc. or its successor organization; and
*****
PART 260 - GENERAL RULES AND REGULATIONS, TRUST INDENTURE
ACT OF 1939
16.

The authority citation for Part 260 is revised to read, in part, as follows:

Authority: 15 U.S.C. 77c, 77eee, 77ggg, 77nnn, 77sss, 78 ll (d), 80b-3, 80b-4, 80b-11 and
Pub. L. No. 112-106, § 401, 126 Stat. 313 (2012), unless otherwise noted.

383

*****
17.

§ 260.4a-1 is revised to read as follows:

§ 260.4a-1 Exempted securities under section 304(a)(8).
The provisions of the Trust Indenture Act of 1939 shall not apply to any security that has
been or will be issued otherwise than under an indenture. The same issuer may not claim
this exemption within a period of twelve consecutive months for more than $50,000,000
aggregate principal amount of any securities.

By the Commission.
Dated: December 18, 2013

Elizabeth M. Murphy
Secretary

384

