UNITED STATES OF AMERICA
Before the
SECURITIES AND EXCHANGE COMMISSION
SECURITIES ACT OF 1933
Release No. 9467 / October 18, 2013
INVESTMENT ADVISERS ACT OF 1940
Release No. 3696 / October 18, 2013
INVESTMENT COMPANY ACT OF 1940
Release No. 30746 / October 18, 2013
ADMINISTRATIVE PROCEEDING
File No. 3-15574

In the Matter of
HARDING ADVISORY LLC and
WING F. CHAU,
Respondents.

ORDER INSTITUTING
ADMINISTRATIVE AND CEASE-ANDDESIST PROCEEDINGS PURSUANT
TO SECTION 8A OF THE SECURITIES
ACT OF 1933, SECTIONS 203(e), 203(f),
AND 203(k) OF THE INVESTMENT
ADVISERS ACT OF 1940, AND
SECTION 9(b) OF THE INVESTMENT
COMPANY ACT OF 1940
I.

The Securities and Exchange Commission (“Commission”) deems it appropriate that
public administrative and cease-and-desist proceedings be, and hereby are, instituted pursuant to
Section 8A of the Securities Act of 1933 (“Securities Act”), Sections 203(e), 203(f), and 203(k)
of the Investment Advisers Act of 1940 (“Advisers Act”), and Section 9(b) of the Investment
Company Act of 1940 (“Investment Company Act”) against Harding Advisory LLC (“Harding
Advisory” and together with its predecessor, “Harding”) and Wing F. Chau (“Chau” and together
with Harding Advisory, “Respondents”).
II.
After an investigation, the Division of Enforcement alleges that:

1

A. Summary
1.
This matter involves violations of the federal securities laws by Harding and its
principal Wing F. Chau in their role as investment managers for certain collateralized debt
obligation transactions (“CDOs”). As the Collateral Manager of these CDOs, Harding was
responsible for the selection, acquisition, and monitoring of portfolios of assets – the collateral –
backing tranches of securities issued to investors by special-purpose vehicles (the “Issuers”),
including one named Octans I CDO Ltd. (“Octans I”).
2.
Unbeknownst to investors and in conflict with the marketing materials and
offering circular for Octans I, a third party named Magnetar Capital LLC (together with
affiliates, “Magnetar”) – a hedge fund firm whose interests were not aligned with those of the
debt investors in Octans I – had undisclosed rights over the selection of collateral for Octans I.
Magnetar’s influence led Harding to select assets for Octans I that Harding’s own personnel
disfavored.
3.
The Octans I transaction was a $1.5 billion CDO that closed on September 26,
2006. The collateral for the transaction consisted mostly of credit default swaps (“CDS”)
referencing subprime residential mortgage-backed securities (“RMBS”), 1 as well as securities of
other CDOs backed by RMBS. Octans I was structured and marketed by subsidiaries of Merrill
Lynch & Co., Inc. (collectively “Merrill”), which also lent their balance sheet to store, or
“warehouse,” collateral acquired for Octans I in the months leading up to the closing of the
transaction. By April 3, 2008, Octans I had failed, costing the transaction’s outside investors
approximately $1.1 billion. Harding received approximately $4.5 million in fees for its role in
the transaction.
4.
The warehouse agreement governing the process of accumulating collateral prior
to the closing of the Octans I transaction was actually a three-way agreement among Harding,
Merrill, and Magnetar. The agreement gave Magnetar important rights, chief of which was the
right to veto Harding’s selection of collateral for the Octans I portfolio. Consistent with the
agreement, Magnetar exercised significant control over the composition of the portfolio, but this
right, among the others granted to Magnetar, was not disclosed to the debt investors in Octans I.
5.
The so-called “pitchbook” and offering circular used to market Octans I, the
relevant portions of which were drafted or reviewed by Harding, described Harding’s creditselection processes and represented that the collateral would be selected by Harding and housed
at Merrill in accordance with a warehouse agreement between Merrill and Harding. These
representations were materially misleading because they did not disclose Magnetar’s rights in
and influence over the collateral selection process.
6.
The offering circular and a Collateral Management Agreement with the Octans I
Issuer executed by Chau also represented that Harding, in selecting collateral for the CDO,
would perform its obligations as collateral manager:
1

RMBS are bonds backed by pools of residential mortgage loans, in this case subprime loans. CDS are
explained below.

2

with reasonable care (i) using a degree of skill and attention no less than that which
[Harding] would exercise with respect to comparable assets that it manages for itself and
(ii) without limiting the foregoing, in a manner consistent with the customary standards,
policies and procedures followed by institutional managers of national standing relating
to assets of the nature and character of the [Octans I collateral].
This was a material misrepresentation in that Harding and Chau, as they knew or at least
recklessly disregarded, compromised their standards to accommodate trades requested by
Magnetar.
7.
Harding and Chau also later breached their obligations by purchasing, for
inclusion in several other CDOs managed by Harding, tens of millions of dollars’ worth of notes
from a troubled Magnetar-related CDO underwritten by Merrill known as Norma. Harding and
Chau bought the Norma securities despite their basically unfavorable view of them, adding
lower-rated notes to their prior Norma commitment only after receiving pressure from Merrill
and a direct request from Magnetar. Chau was apparently trying to return a favor and show that
he was a “team player” who “never forget[s] my true friends.” For each of the CDOs into which
Harding placed the Norma notes, the collateral management agreement contained standard of
care representations similar to that in the collateral management agreement for Octans I.
8.
Harding and Chau committed the breaches described in this Order because they
wanted fees that could be earned only if Magnetar agreed to close the Octans I transaction, and
because they were seeking to please Merrill and Magnetar. Merrill had arranged the Octans I
transaction at the impetus and behest of Magnetar, which, together with Merrill, had selected
Harding as the collateral manager. Merrill and Magnetar had sent, and were in a position to
continue sending, significant CDO business to Harding. As such, Harding’s interests were in
keeping Merrill and Magnetar happy, and Harding put those interests ahead of its obligations to
the Issuers and their investors.
B. Respondents
9.
Harding Advisory LLC is a registered investment adviser located in
Morristown, New Jersey. Harding’s principal and near-100% owner is Wing Chau. Harding was
founded in or around July 2006 as the successor to an affiliate of Maxim Group LLC. Harding
has been the adviser or sub-adviser to 21 CDOs, including Octans I. At its peak in 2007, Harding
had approximately $20 billion in assets under management. Harding remains collateral manager
for nine CDOs with total assets of approximately $1 billion.
10.
Wing F. Chau, age 46 and a resident of Basking Ridge, New Jersey, has served
since 2006 as Harding’s CEO, Managing Member, and Chief Compliance Officer.
C. Other Relevant Entities
11.
Merrill Lynch, Pierce, Fenner & Smith Incorporated (“MLPFS”), a registered
broker-dealer and investment adviser based in New York, at all relevant times was the principal
3

U.S. broker-dealer subsidiary of Merrill Lynch & Co., Inc. MLPFS structured and marketed the
Octans I transaction, and was one of the leading arrangers of CDOs between 2005 and 2008.
Merrill was formerly one of the world’s leading investment banks. Merrill was acquired by Bank
of America Corporation on January 1, 2009.
12.
Merrill Lynch International, a Merrill affiliate incorporated under the laws of
England, was the warehouse provider for Octans I.
13.
Magnetar Capital LLC is a hedge fund manager headquartered in Evanston,
Illinois. During 2006-07 Magnetar was involved in creating a series of CDOs with Merrill and
other arranging banks. These CDOs were typically named after astronomical constellations, and
so are sometimes known as “Constellation CDOs.”
14.
Islands.

Octans I CDO Ltd. was a special-purpose vehicle incorporated in the Cayman

D. Facts
Background on CDOs and CDS
15.
A CDO is a special-purpose vehicle that issues debt to investors and uses the
proceeds to invest in fixed income securities or loans. The CDO’s debt is issued in different
tranches that feature varying levels of risks and returns. The senior tranche is the highest rated, is
first in the priority of repayment through what is called the CDO’s waterfall and has the lowest
risk of default. Because of the lower risk of default and the priority of repayment in the CDO’s
waterfall, the holders of the senior tranche have lower rates of return. The inverse is true for the
lowest-rated tranche in the CDO. Typically, that tranche (usually referred to as “equity”) is
unrated, has the highest rate of return, is last in terms of the priority of repayment through the
CDO’s waterfall and has the highest risk of default.
16.
A CDS is a type of derivative through which two parties transfer the risk of
ownership of a particular reference obligation. The protection buyer (“short”) of a CDS pays to
purchase protection upon the occurrence of certain events, such as an event of default, failure to
pay interest, writedowns or substantial credit ratings downgrade of the reference obligation
(collectively, “Credit Events”). The protection seller (“long”) sells that protection and assumes
the risk of a Credit Event on the reference obligation. In 2006, the protection buyer normally
paid the protection seller a premium or spread as part of the CDS. 2 Reference obligations can
take many forms but in this case took the form of RMBS or CDOs comprised of them. In
essence, a CDS mimics the performance of the referenced asset. Thus, an investor can gain
exposure to an asset by entering into a CDS that references the asset, instead of by purchasing
the asset itself.

2

For example, a protection buyer may agree to pay a protection seller 150 basis points to purchase
protection against default on a $10 million of a designated reference obligation, or $150,000 per annum,
paid periodically.

4

17.
A CDO can be backed by bonds (a “cash CDO”) or by CDS (a “synthetic CDO”).
A CDO backed by both bonds and CDS is called a “hybrid CDO.” Octans I was a hybrid CDO
with approximately 90 percent synthetic assets. Typically, a collateral manager would acquire
synthetic collateral by, among other things, sending out BWICs (bids wanted in competition) or
responding to OWICs (offers wanted in competition). Generally speaking, BWICs were sent out
by a “long” party seeking quotes from potential “short” counterparties on the assets referenced in
the BWIC. The winner of a BWIC would be the party that offered to pay the highest premium
amount. OWICs were sent out by a “short” party seeking quotes from a potential “long”
counterparties on the assets referenced in the OWIC. The winner of an OWIC would be the party
willing to accept the lowest premium amount.
Roles of Harding and Merrill
18.
As Collateral Manager, Harding’s role was to act as investment adviser for Octans
I, selecting and managing a portfolio pursuant to a Warehouse Agreement and a Collateral
Management Agreement.
19.
In general, the collateral manager for a CDO must determine whether a potential
asset is appropriate for inclusion in the CDO’s portfolio. A CDO transaction may or may not
have a collateral manager. However, when a CDO was managed, the manager’s independent
selection of assets was an important selling point to potential investors, and information on the
collateral manager’s selection process was included in the marketing materials and offering
circular by which the CDO’s debt was sold.
20.
Octans I was structured and marketed by Merrill, which also acted as the
warehouse provider and as the initial counterparty on the CDS collateral that went into the
transaction. A warehouse is essentially a segregated account through which the arranging bank
finances the acquisition of collateral before the transaction closes. During the warehouse phase,
Harding’s role was to select collateral that would be held in the warehouse until closing, at which
point the collateral would be placed into the Issuer’s portfolio.
Origin of Octans I CDO
21.
Octans I was a “reverse-inquiry” transaction, meaning that Magnetar approached
Merrill to create the deal, as opposed to Merrill having been engaged by an asset manager to
create the deal and then seeking out investors to purchase the securities issued in the transaction.
22.
In the spring of 2006, Magnetar approached Merrill to arrange a series of CDO
transactions. At a meeting in May 2006, a Magnetar representative (“Magnetar Representative”)
discussed with officials at Merrill, as the Merrill salesperson covering Magnetar (“Merrill
Salesperson”) later put it in an email, an arrangement whereby Merrill and Magnetar would
“pick mutually agreeable [collateral] managers to work with, Magnetar plays a significant role in
the structure and composition of the portfolio . . . and in return [Magnetar] retain[s] the equity
class and [Merrill] distribute[s] the debt.”

5

23.
The equity piece of a CDO transaction was typically the hardest to sell and
therefore the greatest impediment to closing a CDO. Magnetar’s willingness to buy the equity in
a series of CDOs, including Octans I, therefore gave it substantial leverage in the assembly of
these transactions.
24.
Magnetar and Merrill jointly agreed on Harding as the collateral manager for
Octans I. On or about May 26, 2006, Merrill, Harding, and Magnetar entered into an
Engagement Letter that assigned the parties roles in the transaction. The agreement contemplated
that Magnetar would purchase the equity piece of the transaction. Chau executed the
Engagement Letter on behalf of Harding.
25.
Chau understood that Magnetar was interested in investing as the equity buyer in
a series of potential CDO transactions. Chau also understood that Magnetar’s strategy included
“hedging” its equity positions in CDOs, potentially by taking short positions on RMBS or certain
tranches of CDOs, including the CDOs it was investing in. Chau therefore understood that,
because Magnetar stood to profit if the CDOs failed to perform, Magnetar’s interests were not
aligned with those of potential investors in the debt tranches of Octans I, whose investment
depended solely on the CDO performing well.
26.
Octans I was the seventh CDO arranged by Merrill for which Harding became
collateral manager. Over the course of the year following this Engagement Letter, Harding was
selected as collateral manager for four more CDOs arranged by Merrill, as well as three other
Constellation CDOs.
The Three-Way Warehouse Agreement
27.
On or about May 26, 2006, Merrill, Harding, and Magnetar also entered into a
Warehouse Agreement to govern the acquisition of collateral for the Octans I portfolio. Chau
executed the Warehouse Agreement on behalf of Harding. The agreement gave Magnetar the
right to receive 85% of the “carry” (essentially, the returns on the assets during the time they
were warehoused) in exchange for taking 85% of the risk on the warehouse. Harding had never
managed, nor had Merrill ever arranged, a CDO with a tri-party warehouse agreement prior to
Octans I.
28.
The Warehouse Agreement also gave Magnetar a series of rights over the
collateral selection process, including:
•

the right to veto collateral selected by Harding prior to purchase for the warehouse;

•

the right to mutually agree with Merrill and Harding on the price to be paid for
collateral selected for the warehouse; and

•

the right to veto a designation by Merrill of any warehoused collateral as “Ineligible”
for the Issuer’s portfolio because Harding or Merrill has determined that the collateral
no longer satisfies certain criteria.
6

29.
Chau understood that granting a veto right relating to collateral selection to a third
party like Magnetar would cede some of the collateral manager’s authority and impair its
independence.
30.
Harding, Merrill, and Magnetar were in close contact as Harding accumulated
collateral for the Octans I portfolio. On the morning of May 30, 2006, a Harding vice president
(“Harding VP”) emailed the Magnetar Representative, copying Chau and a senior manager at
Harding (“Senior Manager”):
Now that we have the documents signed up, we just wanted to touch base with you
regarding process. It sounds like you want us to send you a copy of our bid lists for your
review prior to sending it to the street. If so, should we send the lists to you or to
someone else at Magnetar?
Please let me know how you would like this to work.
The Magnetar Representative responded, copying Chau and the Senior Manager: “Yes . . . .
Please send the lists to me. Also, would like to talk frequently so I’m up to date on your plan of
action, how things are going, etc.”
31.
Harding complied, typically sending bid lists to Magnetar before circulating them
to the market, and, at times with Merrill, seeking Magnetar’s approval before collateral was
added to the Octans I warehouse.
The ABX Trade
Harding Agrees to Magnetar’s Request
32.
Magnetar was seeking, for reasons related to its own CDO investment strategy, to
have the Constellation CDOs, including Octans I, acquire exposure to the RMBS bonds
referenced in an investment product known as the ABX Index.
33.
Launched in January 2006, the ABX Index was a standardized CDS referencing a
benchmark basket of 20 RMBS. The ABX Index was available at various levels of credit rating.
The relevant levels in this case were BBB and BBB-. New ABX Indices became available twice
per year, and in each case referenced RMBS issued in the preceding six months. Thus, for
example, ABX 2006-1 referenced a basket of 20 RMBS issued in the second half of 2005.
34.
In late May 2006, Magnetar had discussions, first with Merrill and then with Chau
and others at Harding, about acquiring exposure to the ABX Index at the BBB (Baa2) or BBB(Baa3) levels for the Octans I warehouse. However, the Collateral Manager might not regard all
of the bonds in the ABX index as acceptable. The parties therefore discussed having the Octans I
warehouse first buy the index in a block and then exclude (via offsetting “short” positions on
individual RMBS bonds) those bonds that Harding disfavored.
35.
Harding agreed to the concepts of acquiring exposure to the ABX Index and of
excluding from that exposure selected bonds. In a three-way telephone conversation on the
7

afternoon of May 30, 2006, Magnetar and Merrill asked the Harding Senior Manager which
RMBS bonds Harding wanted to exclude from the index. The Senior Manager said Harding
would report back. After the call, the Merrill Salesperson promised the Magnetar Representative
in an email: “We’ll push to get names [i.e. RMBS bonds] they [i.e. Harding] have issue with [i.e.
want excluded from the index exposure] tomorrow am.”
36.
Shortly after the telephone call, the Harding VP, apparently unaware of the
agreement on the ABX trade, sent the Magnetar Representative, with a copy to a distribution list
of Harding’s CDO professionals, including Chau (“Group List”), “a list of names we’d like to
circulate [i.e. to collect bids on in the marketplace for ultimate inclusion in the CDO] first thing
tomorrow morning. We have not shown these to Merrill yet. Please let us know what you think.”
The Magnetar Representative replied to the Harding VP: “Great, these look fine,” and then later
that evening sent the Harding VP another email, copying Chau and the Harding Senior Manager:
“Noticed some index bonds in the list . . . . We’re going to do a big block trade of the index
names, so please leave them off of any other lists you do.”
37.
In other words, the Magnetar Representative asked Harding not to acquire
exposure to any constituent bonds of the index via the usual BWIC process because a separate
block index trade was planned. The Harding VP agreed to comply in an email to the Magnetar
Representative copied to the Harding Senior Manager and Chau. And Harding in fact complied
with Magnetar’s directions as to how to acquire collateral for the CDO, stripping the index bonds
from a bid list that Harding sent to Merrill on May 31.
Harding’s Selections
38.
Shortly after the three-way telephone call on the afternoon of May 30, the Senior
Manager sent a list of the ABX Index bonds to a credit analyst at Harding (“Analyst 1”),
apparently so Harding’s credit team could identify constituents of the ABX Index to which
Octans I should not be exposed. The Harding Senior Manager was aware that Magnetar would
have preferred that Harding exclude as few bonds as possible.
39.
On the morning of May 31, 2006, even as the credit team was beginning its
analysis of the ABX Index bonds, the Magnetar Representative continued to press Harding for
the list of ABX Index bonds that Harding would exclude from the block index exposure. At or
about 9:40 a.m., he emailed the Senior Manager, copying Chau: “you have abx names that you
want out [i.e. excluded from the index], ready to trade?” In emails later that morning to the
Harding Senior Manager, VP, and Chau, the Magnetar Representative followed up: “For our
block index trade, u guys were going to let us know if there were any of the 20 index names you
wanted to exclude, we had a call w [the Senior Manager] and [a Merrill trader] last nite.” The
Senior Manager replied, copying Chau and the Harding VP: “Yes, we should have these names
to you and [the Merrill trader] soon. Wing and I just got back from a meeting away from the
office this morning.”
40.
At or about 4:22 p.m. on May 31, Analyst 1 sent the Senior Manager an email
titled “ABX Index Rejections.” Attached to the email was a list of 12 bonds in the ABX Index.
Four were at the BBB (Baa2) level; eight were at the BBB- (Baa3) level. This was the list for
8

which Magnetar had been pressing Harding. Over the next week, Merrill, Magnetar, and Harding
worked together to acquire, for the Octans I portfolio, $300 million worth of block exposure to
the ABX Index at the combined BBB (Baa2) and BBB- (Baa3) levels. The twelve bonds
identified as “Index Rejections” were then excluded from the index exposure (which included 40
bonds – 20 at each of the two rating levels), such that the Octans I portfolio was left with
approximately $220 million worth of long exposure to 28 bonds. In selecting twelve bonds to
exclude from the index, therefore, Harding also effectively selected 28 index bonds for inclusion
in Octans I (the “Accepted Index Bonds”).
Harding’s Negative Analysis of the Selected Credits
41.
Harding’s internal communications indicate that many of the 28 Accepted Index
Bonds were disfavored within Harding and would likely not have been included in the Octans I
portfolio but for Magnetar’s desire to have the portfolio exposed to the ABX Index, and
Harding’s desire to please Magnetar.
42.
At approximately 2 p.m. on May 31, a Harding trader sent an email to Harding’s
Group List: “Here is an OWIC due at 4PM today. Maybe we can see if there are any names
we’ve done the work on already to see if there is a fit for us.” The list of bonds attached to this
email happened to be the same 40 bonds in the ABX Index at the BBB (Baa2) and BBB- (Baa3)
levels. At or about 2:17 p.m., a Harding credit analyst (“Analyst 2”) asked a junior colleague to
update Harding’s credit files on some of the 40 bonds. The junior colleague sent his results at
2:28 p.m. to Analysts 1 and 2.
43.
At or about 2:49 p.m., Analyst 1 wrote to the trader and the Group List (emphasis
added): “Out of the 40 bonds in this list, we have already looked at 29 bonds. Out of those, 10
have been approved, and 19 have been rejected. These are the approved deals: [listing bonds].”
44.
At or about 3:04 p.m., Analyst 2 wrote to the trader and the Group List: “here’s
the results for the 4 pm owic. Attached are the 40 bonds. [T]here is a correction. We are not okay
on the MABS deal [i.e. an RMBS named MABS]. Some we have already seen as [Analyst 1]
mentioned below.” The attached spreadsheet had a “Y” (signifying that Harding’s credit team
approved the bond) next to 15 of the bonds, and a “N” (signifying that Harding’s credit team
rejected the bond) next to the other 25 bonds, including the “MABS” RMBS at both rating
levels.
45.
As noted above, however, the email from Analyst 1 at 4:22 p.m. reflected the
selection of the 28 Accepted Index Bonds to which the Octans I portfolio ultimately became
exposed. Those 28 accepted bonds included all of the 15 bonds marked “Y” at 3:04 p.m., and
another 13 bonds that had been marked “N” in that email (including the “MABS” bonds). The 28
acceptances and 12 exclusions, moreover, changed from the 2:49 p.m. email in which Analyst 1
noted that previously “10 have been approved, and 19 have been rejected.”
46.
There is no contemporaneous record of Harding’s reasons for accepting many of
these bonds. The only relevant credit work on May 31 of which there is any record (apart from
9

what is reviewed above) was circulated to Analyst 1 at or about 1:12 p.m., and it was largely
negative. For most of the bonds analyzed (which included ten of the 13 bonds that Analyst 2 had
marked “N”), the credit analysis indicated substantial write-downs.
47.
Subsequent communications confirm that Harding compromised, allowing into
the Octans I portfolio bonds that it would have been unlikely to select but for Magnetar’s desire
for ABX Index bonds.
48.
On the morning of June 1, 2006, the Harding VP wrote to Chau and the Senior
Manager: “I don’t think we can do [$]15[ million] of each name even if we do a 1.5B deal since
we are buying 2 classes of each issue” – i.e. each index bond at the Baa2 and Baa3 levels – “and
the 1% limit applies to the issue. Most we can do is probably 7.5M.” The Senior Manager replied
to the Harding VP and Chau (emphasis added): “That’s correct and we should push them to short
[i.e. cause the Octans I portfolio to go long] the Baa2’s since we are less comfortable with some
of these index names at the Baa3 level.”
49.
Later that morning the Harding Senior Manager sent the Magnetar Representative
an email titled “Index names” in which he wrote: “Sent [Merrill] the list yesterday. Don’t know
if you’ve got it, so here it is again” – listing the Accepted Index Bonds. The Senior Manager
continued (emphasis added): “We can do $15mm each issuer (Baa2 and Baa3 together) and
prefer the Baa2’s.”
50.
In other words, Harding disfavored some of the Baa3 assets within the set of
Accepted Index Bonds but either was not fully in control of, or was willing to leave to others,
how much exposure the portfolio gained to the Approved Index Bonds at the two different rating
levels.
“Lesser of Evils”
51.
Octans I was not the only Constellation CDO for which Harding accepted index
bonds seemingly disfavored by its credit team. Harding later executed ABX Index trades for
different Constellation CDOs for which it served as collateral manager. In late August 2006
Analysts 1 and 2 debated whether certain index bonds should be internally marked as a “N” or a
“Y” on Harding’s central bid lists. The analysts did not approve of the bonds but apparently had
been pressured by Harding’s portfolio managers to accept them in connection with ABX Index
trades for a Constellation CDO. Analyst 2 wrote of one bond (emphasis added): “due to the fact
we had to pick the lesser of evils when we were looking at the index we said ‘Y.’ . . . . I would
stick to the ‘N’ and note that we are a ‘Y’ if it were an index trade. Can we do this? Too
complicated?”
52.
Analyst 1 agreed with Analyst 2’s suggestion, and several days later, Analyst 2
suggested doing the same with a different index bond (emphases added): “We had it on the index
for a ‘Maybe’ because we knew we had to pick the less worse. So let’s . . . [s]witch it back to a
‘N’ and make a comment noting that we did not short it for the index trade.”

10

53.
In September 2006, after receiving information about ABX Index trades done for
a third Constellation CDO, Analyst 1 wrote to a Harding trader, copying Analyst 2: “Not as bad
as I thought. 2 rejected bonds traded with [the Magnetar Representative] from the index. . . . [T]o
the extent that you can control it, please refrain from letting any index trades happen for [the
third Constellation CDO and another CDO underwritten by Merrill].”
Misrepresentations and Omissions Regarding Collateral Selection for Octans I
54.
Magnetar’s rights regarding, and role in, the selection of collateral for Octans I
were not disclosed.
55.
The pitchbook used to solicit investors in the transaction, the relevant portions of
which were drafted by Harding and had been reviewed by Chau, described Harding’s investment
approach and credit processes, but said nothing about Magnetar’s control rights and actual
influence over the Octans I portfolio.
56.
Similarly, the offering circular, which Harding had reviewed, represented that the
collateral acquired by the Issuer from the warehouse on closing was “selected by [Harding] and
held by [Merrill] pursuant to warehousing agreements between [Merrill] and [Harding].” This
disclosure omitted any mention of Magnetar’s involvement in the warehouse phase. Harding and
Chau knew or were reckless in not knowing of this representation and the reasons why it was
false or misleading. Harding and Chau failed to ensure the accurate disclosure of Magnetar’s
warehouse rights.
57.
In the Collateral Management Agreement (CMA), which Chau executed at
closing on behalf of Harding, Harding represented to the Issuer that Harding in relevant part
would “perform its obligations hereunder (including with respect to any exercise of discretion)
with reasonable care (i) using a degree of skill and attention no less than that which [Harding]
would exercise with respect to comparable assets that it manages for itself and (ii) without
limiting the foregoing, in a manner consistent with customary standards, policies and procedures
followed by institutional managers of national standing relating to assets of the nature and
character of the Collateral.” In the CMA, Harding further represented as relevant here that all
collateral acquired on closing – that is, the warehoused collateral – would satisfy the applicable
terms and conditions of the CMA.
58.
The offering circular described the CMA, and repeated the standard of care
representation quoted above. These representations to the Issuer and investors were materially
false or misleading in that Chau and Harding, in order to accommodate Magnetar’s preferences,
caused Octans I to acquire collateral that Harding’s personnel disfavored. Harding and Chau
knew the standard of care representation in the CMA and knew or were reckless in not knowing
that it was repeated in the offering circular and was false or misleading.
59.
These misrepresentations and omissions were material. Investors in the securities
of Octans I would have considered it important that an undisclosed party with interests not
aligned with those of the other investors had influence over or rights regarding collateral
selection.
11

The Norma Purchases
60.
In January 2007, Merrill was in the process of marketing a Constellation CDO
known as Norma. On January 9, Chau, after reviewing information about Norma, wrote to a
Merrill salesperson: “Turbo structure is very weak.” 3 On January 16, 2007, Merrill’s head of
CDO syndication (“Syndicate Head”) asked Chau in an electronic conversation: “ready to talk
about your participation [in the Norma offering]?” Harding then requested from Merrill certain
information about the loan pools backing the RMBS referenced in the Norma portfolio.
61.
On January 19, 2007, after further conversation with Merrill’s sales staff, Chau
and Harding agreed to purchase $40 million worth of Norma’s A-rated tranche for several CDOs
managed by Harding.
62.
Chau at first did not agree to buy Norma’s lower-rated tranches. But on January
23, the Magnetar Representative emailed Chau with the subject heading “Pls buy some norma
bbb.” The email continued: “Stop complaining about turbo. :) Remember who was there for u
when u were a little guy.” Shortly afterwards, Chau wrote: “Did ML tell u I am in for 40mm
single-As in Norma – team player!!!”
63.
Also on January 23, the Syndicate Head wrote to Chau: “what’s your level” – i.e.
what coupon rate would make the bond acceptable – “on BBB or BBB- if we can’t change the
turbo?” Chau responded: “ah-so . . . let me sharpen the pencil,” to which the Syndicate Head
replied: “sweet.”
64.
The next day, the Syndicate Head asked Chau if he had “‘sharpened your pencil’
on norma BBBs yet?” Chau replied: “I never forget my true friends,” and subsequently agreed to
acquire, at an improved coupon rate, $20 million worth of the Norma BBB notes.
65.
When a Merrill sales representative later asked Chau if he had heard the news that
Merrill had decreased Harding’s allocation of the Norma BBBs from $20 million to $15 million,
Chau replied: “Now that’s what I’m talking about, the love is in the air” – further suggesting that
he had not wanted to purchase those notes in the first place.
66.
Although Harding’s orders for Norma were placed in January 2007, Norma itself
did not close, and its securities were not available for purchase, until March 1. Shortly before
Norma’s close, an analyst circulated within Harding, including to Chau, a highly critical credit
report. The commentary noted that “[t]here’s quite a large percentage of deals [i.e. RMBS to
which the Norma portfolio was exposed] failing surveillance tests, on the watchlist and on the do
not buy list. Also, there is almost 15% exposure to [two RMBS sponsors generally disfavored
within Harding.]”

3

“Turbo” is a feature in a CDO structure that, when triggered, diverts excess cash flow to pay down
principal on the notes of certain debt tranches.

12

67.
Harding nevertheless proceeded with the Norma purchases, placing the notes into
the portfolios of several CDOs it managed.
68.
For each of those CDOs, Chau, on behalf of Harding, executed Collateral
Management Agreements containing standard of care provisions similar to the one in the Octans
I CMA. In each case, the offering circular for the transaction described the CMA and the
standard of care set forth within it.
69.
Harding and Chau breached their advisory obligations to those Issuers. Without
disclosure, they put their desire to please Merrill and Magnetar – which by January 2007 were
together responsible for tens of millions of dollars of revenue for Harding – ahead of the best
interests of the portfolio, which they knew were not served by the Norma bonds.
E.

Violations

70.
As a result of the conduct described above, Respondents willfully violated Section
17(a) of the Securities Act, which prohibits fraudulent conduct in the offer and sale of securities.
71.
As a result of the conduct described above, Chau willfully aided and abetted and
caused Harding Advisory’s violations of Section 17(a) of the Securities Act.
72.
As a result of the conduct described above, Respondents willfully violated
Sections 206(1) and 206(2) of the Advisers Act, which prohibit fraudulent conduct by an
investment adviser.
73.
As a result of the conduct described above, Chau willfully aided and abetted and
caused Harding Advisory’s violations of Sections 206(1) and 206(2) of the Advisers Act.
III.
In view of the allegations made by the Division of Enforcement, the Commission deems
it necessary and appropriate in the public interest that public administrative and cease-and-desist
proceedings be instituted to determine:
A.
Whether the allegations set forth in Section II hereof are true and, in connection
therewith, to afford Respondents an opportunity to establish any defenses to such allegations;
B.
What, if any, remedial action is appropriate in the public interest against
Respondents pursuant to Sections 203(e) and 203(f) of the Advisers Act including, but not limited
to, disgorgement and civil penalties pursuant to Sections 203(i) and 203(j) of the Advisers Act;
C.
What, if any, remedial action is appropriate in the public interest against Respondent
pursuant to Section 9(b) of the Investment Company Act including, but not limited to,
disgorgement and civil penalties pursuant to Sections 9(d) and 9(e) of the Investment Company
Act; and
13

D.
Whether, pursuant to Section 8A of the Securities Act and Section 203(k) of the
Advisers Act, Respondents should be ordered to cease and desist from committing or causing
violations of and any future violations of Sections 206(1) and (2) of the Advisers Act and Section
17(a) of the Securities Act; and whether Respondents should be ordered to pay disgorgement
pursuant to Section 8A(e) of the Securities Act and Section 203(k)(5) of the Advisers Act.
IV.
IT IS ORDERED that a public hearing for the purpose of taking evidence on the questions
set forth in Section III hereof shall be convened not earlier than 30 days and not later than 60 days
from service of this Order at a time and place to be fixed, and before an Administrative Law Judge
to be designated by further order as provided by Rule 110 of the Commission's Rules of Practice, 17
C.F.R. § 201.110.
IT IS FURTHER ORDERED that Respondent shall file an Answer to the allegations
contained in this Order within twenty (20) days after service of this Order, as provided by Rule 220
of the Commission’s Rules of Practice, 17 C.F.R. § 201.220.
If Respondent fails to file the directed answer, or fails to appear at a hearing after being duly
notified, the Respondent may be deemed in default and the proceedings may be determined against
him upon consideration of this Order, the allegations of which may be deemed to be true as
provided by Rules 155(a), 220(f), 221(f) and 310 of the Commission’s Rules of Practice, 17 C.F.R.
§§ 201.155(a), 201.220(f), 201.221(f) and 201.310.
This Order shall be served forthwith upon Respondent personally or by certified mail.
IT IS FURTHER ORDERED that the Administrative Law Judge shall issue an initial
decision no later than 300 days from the date of service of this Order, pursuant to Rule 360(a)(2) of
the Commission’s Rules of Practice.
In the absence of an appropriate waiver, no officer or employee of the Commission engaged
in the performance of investigative or prosecuting functions in this or any factually related
proceeding will be permitted to participate or advise in the decision of this matter, except as witness
or counsel in proceedings held pursuant to notice. Since this proceeding is not “rule making” within
the meaning of Section 551 of the Administrative Procedure Act, it is not deemed subject to the
provisions of Section 553 delaying the effective date of any final Commission action.
By the Commission.

Elizabeth M. Murphy
Secretary

14

