UNITED STATES OF AMERICA
Before the
SECURITIES AND EXCHANGE COMMISSION
SECURITIES ACT OF 1933
Release No. 9759 / April 23, 2015
ADMINISTRATIVE PROCEEDING
File No. 3-16511

In the Matter of

ORDER FIXING TIME AND PLACE
OF PUBLIC HEARING AND
INSTITUTING PROCEEDINGS
PURSUANT TO SECTION 8(d) OF THE
SECURITIES ACT OF 1933

the Registration Statement of
International Precious Metals,
Inc.
64040 Harvest Moon Road
Desert Hot Springs, CA 92240
Respondent.

I.
The Commission’s public official files disclose that:
On November 7, 2013, International Precious Metals, Inc. (“Respondent”) filed a
Form S-1 registration statement seeking to register the offer and sale of 2,000,000 common
shares. The registration statement was amended on January 15, 2014 (together, the
“Registration Statement”). The Registration Statement has not been declared effective.

II.
After an investigation, the Division of Enforcement alleges that:
A.

RESPONDENT

1.
Springs, California.

Respondent is a Nevada corporation headquartered in Desert Hot

B.

MATERIAL MISSTATEMENTS AND OMISSIONS

2.
The Registration Statement includes untrue statements of material
facts and omits to state material facts necessary to make the statements contained therein
not misleading concerning the funding of Respondent, and disclosures that Respondent has
a sole officer and director contrasted with the collective actions taken by undisclosed
control persons and/or promoters.
a.
The Registration Statement states that the Respondent’s sole
officer and director “has advanced $25,100 to the company for expenses.” This
disclosure is false and misleading because Respondent’s sole officer and director did not
advance any money to Respondent.
b.
The Registration Statement states that Respondent “issued
5,000,000 founder’s shares to its Director [] for $5,000 in cash.” This disclosure is false
and misleading because Respondent’s sole officer and director did not pay for his shares.

d.
The Registration Statement states that Respondent has a sole
officer and director. This disclosure is false and misleading because Respondent has
undisclosed control persons and/or promoters, who are different than the sole officer and
director listed in the Registration Statement. One of the undisclosed control persons
and/or promoters:
i. drafted Respondent’s business plan;
ii. selected Respondent’s auditor;
iii. signed Respondent’s bank documents listing his title as
Respondent’s president;
iv. authorized payments from Respondent’s bank account to pay
professionals that facilitated the filing of Respondent’s
Registration Statement, including professional fees to its
accountant, auditor and attorney;
v. withdrew thousands of dollars of so-called consulting fees from
Respondent’s bank account;
vi. funded Respondent; and
vii. communicated with the law firm that facilitated Respondent’s
the filing of Respondent’s Registration Statement providing it with
draft responses to staff’s comments to Respondent’s Registration
Statement.

e.
The Registration Statement is false and misleading because it
omits that in 2003, two of the undisclosed control persons and/or promoters were banned
by the British Columbia Securities Commission for engaging in an unregistered
distribution, unresolved conflicts of interest, and misrepresentations, among other things.

2

f.
The Registration Statement states that Respondent’s sole officer
and director “will be devoting approximately 15 hours per week of his time to our
operations.” This disclosure is false and misleading because Respondent’s sole officer
and director has minimal involvement in – and spent little to no time on – Respondent’s
operations.
g.
The Registration Statement states that “[t]here are no persons other
than our sole officer [sic] and directors above that are expected by us to make a
significant contribution to our business.” This disclosure is false and misleading because
Respondent is controlled and/or promoted by undisclosed control persons and/or
promoters.

III.
The Commission, having considered the aforesaid, deems it appropriate and in the
public interest that public proceedings pursuant to Section 8(d) of the Securities Act be
instituted with respect to the Registration Statement to determine whether the allegations of
the Division of Enforcement are true; to afford the Respondent with an opportunity to
establish any defenses to these allegations; and to determine whether a stop order should
issue suspending the effectiveness of the Registration Statement referred to herein.
Accordingly, IT IS ORDERED that public proceedings be and hereby are
instituted under Section 8(d) of the Securities Act, such hearing to be commenced at 9:30
a.m. on May 13, 2015, in Hearing Room 2 at the Commission's offices at 100 F Street
N.E., Washington, DC 20549, and to continue thereafter at such time and place as the
hearing officer may determine.
IT IS FURTHER ORDERED that these proceedings shall be presided over by an
Administrative Law Judge to be designated by further order, who is authorized to
perform all the duties of an Administrative Law Judge as set forth in the Commission's
Rules of Practice or as otherwise provided by law.
IT IS FURTHER ORDERED that the Respondent shall file an Answer to the
allegations contained in this Order within ten (10) days after service of this Order,
pursuant to Rule 220 of the Commission's Rules of Practice, 17 C.F.R. § 201.220. If the
Respondent fails to file the directed answer, or fails to appear at a hearing after being
duly notified, the Respondent may be deemed in default and the proceedings may be
determined against the Respondent upon consideration of this Order, the allegations of
which may be deemed to be true as provided by Rules 155(a), 220(f), 221(f) and 310 of
the Commission’s Rules of Practice, 17 C.F.R. §§201.155(a), 201.220(f), 201.221(f) and
201.310. This Order shall be served forthwith upon the Respondent in accordance with
Rule 141 of the Commission’s Rules of Practice, 17 C.F.R. §201.141.
IT IS FURTHER ORDERED that the Administrative Law Judge shall issue an
initial decision no later than 120 days from the date of service of this Order, pursuant to

3

Rule 360(a)(2) of the Commission’s Rules of Practice. In the absence of an appropriate
waiver, no officer or employee of the Commission engaged in the performance of
investigative or prosecuting functions in this or any factually related proceeding will be
permitted to participate or advise in the decision of this matter, except as witness or counsel
in proceedings held pursuant to notice. Since this proceeding is not “rule making” within
the meaning of Section 551 of the Administrative Procedure Act, it is not deemed subject
to the provisions of Section 553 delaying the effective date of any final Commission
action.
By the Commission.

Brent J. Fields
Secretary

4

