UNITED STATES OF AMERICA
Before the
SECURITIES AND EXCHANGE COMMISSION
SECURITIES ACT OF 1933
Release No. 9318 / May 1, 2012
SECURITIES EXCHANGE ACT OF 1934
Release No. 66893 / May 1, 2012
ADMINISTRATIVE PROCEEDING
File No. 3-14863
ORDER INSTITUTING
ADMINISTRATIVE AND CEASE-ANDDESIST PROCEEDINGS PURSUANT
TO SECTION 8A OF THE SECURITIES
ACT OF 1933 AND SECTIONS 15(b)
AND 21C OF THE SECURITIES
EXCHANGE ACT OF 1934, MAKING
FINDINGS, AND IMPOSING
REMEDIAL SANCTIONS AND A
CEASE-AND-DESIST ORDER

In the Matter of
UBS FINANCIAL SERVICES INC.
OF PUERTO RICO
Respondent.

I.
The Securities and Exchange Commission (“Commission”) deems it appropriate and in the
public interest that public administrative and cease-and-desist proceedings be, and hereby are,
instituted pursuant to Section 8A of the Securities Act of 1933 (“Securities Act”) and Sections
15(b) and 21C of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934 (“Exchange Act”), against UBS Financial
Services Inc. of Puerto Rico (“UBS PR” or “Respondent”).
II.
In anticipation of the institution of these proceedings, UBS PR has submitted an Offer of
Settlement (the “Offer”) which the Commission has determined to accept. Solely for the purpose
of these proceedings and any other proceedings brought by or on behalf of the Commission, or to
which the Commission is a party, and without admitting or denying the findings herein, except as
to the Commission’s jurisdiction over it and the subject matter of these proceedings, which are
admitted, UBS PR consents to the entry of this Order Instituting Administrative and Cease-andDesist Proceedings Pursuant to Section 8A of the Securities Act of 1933 and Sections 15(b) and
21C of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, Making Findings, and Imposing Remedial Sanctions
and a Cease-and-Desist Order (“Order”), as set forth below.

III.
On the basis of the Order and UBS PR’s Offer, the Commission finds 1 that:
A.

SUMMARY

1.
During 2008 and 2009, UBS PR, its former CEO (“CEO”) and its Head of Capital
Markets (“HCM”) made misrepresentations and omissions of material facts to numerous retail
customers in Puerto Rico regarding the secondary market liquidity and pricing of UBS PRaffiliated, non-exchange-traded closed-end funds (“CEFs” or “Funds”). For example, UBS PR
claimed CEF prices were based on market forces such as supply and demand. However, UBS PR
did not disclose that CEF prices were set solely at the discretion of the trading desk. Moreover,
although UBS had certain disclosures about liquidity in prospectuses (not supplied to secondary
market customers) and on its website, it did not adequately disclose, among other things, that as the
dominant CEF broker-dealer, UBS PR controlled the secondary market. In reality, any secondary
market sales investors wanted to make depended largely on UBS PR’s ability to solicit additional
customers or willingness to purchase shares into its inventory.
2.
As UBS PR, the CEO and the HCM promoted CEF sales throughout 2008, they
knew investor demand was significantly declining relative to supply. For much of 2008, UBS PR
purchased millions of dollars of CEF shares into its own inventory while promoting the appearance
of a liquid market with stable prices, without disclosing UBS PR’s actions were propping up prices
and liquidity.
3.
But in the spring of 2009, UBS PR’s parent firm determined UBS PR’s growing
CEF inventory represented a financial risk to the firm. The parent company directed UBS PR to
substantially reduce its inventory of CEF shares. To accomplish the reduction, UBS PR and the
HCM executed a plan, dubbed “Objective: Soft Landing” in one document, in which UBS PR
routinely offered and sold its CEF shares at prices that undercut pending customer sell orders.
4.
During this period, numerous UBS PR customers were also attempting to sell their
holdings but UBS PR’s actions effectively prevented certain customers from selling their CEF
shares. Between March and September 2009, UBS PR sold about $35 million, or 75%, of its
inventory to investors. At the same time, UBS PR increased its efforts to solicit sales of CEFs
while continuing to misrepresent how it was setting secondary market prices and the liquidity of
the market. UBS PR also did not disclose its withdrawal of market support. By September 2009,
when UBS PR completed its CEF inventory reduction, the market price of certain funds had
declined by 10-15%.

1

The findings herein are made pursuant to UBS PR’s Offer and are not binding on any other person or entity
in this or any other proceeding.

2

B.

RESPONDENT

5.
UBS PR, a Puerto Rico corporation with its principal place of business in Hato Rey,
Puerto Rico, is a broker-dealer registered with the Commission since 1982. UBS PR is a subsidiary
of UBS Financial Services, Inc. (“UBSFS”). UBS PR is the largest broker-dealer in Puerto Rico,
with about 49% of total retail brokerage assets. The firm employs about 230 registered
representatives (“financial advisors”) and has nineteen branch offices throughout Puerto Rico.
C

OTHER INDIVIDUALS AND ENTITIES

6.
UBSFS is a Delaware corporation with its principal places of business in New
York, New York and Weehawken, New Jersey. UBSFS is a wholly-owned subsidiary of UBS
AG, a foreign private issuer based in Switzerland.
7.
UBS Trust Company of Puerto Rico (“UBS Trust Company”) is not registered with
the Commission. It shares offices and certain personnel with UBS PR, and serves as the
administrator, transfer agent and custodian to fourteen of the twenty-three CEFs, while a division
of UBS Trust Company serves as an investment adviser to all twenty-three CEFs. The CEFs are
organized as corporations in Puerto Rico, and are exempt from Commission registration under the
U.S. Territories exemption of § 6(a)(1) of the Investment Company Act of 1940. UBS PR
personnel also served as members of the board of directors of all 23 CEF companies. The CEF
company boards have a majority of independent directors.
D.

UBS PR’s MARKETING AND SALES OF CEFS

8.
Since 1995, UBS PR has been the primary underwriter of fourteen separately
organized closed-end fund companies’ CEFs with a total market capitalization of approximately $4
billion, and nine co-managed closed-end fund companies’ CEFs with more than $1 billion in total
market capitalization. The CEFs are not traded on an exchange or quoted on any quotation service,
and are available only to Puerto Rico residents. The majority of the CEFs’ holdings of Puerto Rico
securities are Puerto Rico municipal bonds. UBS PR has been the only secondary market dealer or
liquidity provider for the sole-managed Funds and the dominant dealer for several co-managed
CEFs. 2
9.
The CEFs represent the largest single source of revenue for UBS PR. For example,
between 2004 and 2008, the CEF business generated 50% of annual total revenues for UBS PR
and UBS Trust Company combined, which included Fund advisory and administration fees, and
primary and secondary market sales commissions. During 2008, UBS PR’s CEF business
produced $94.5 million in revenue for the firm.

2

UBS Trust Company serves as the sole manager for: Puerto Rico Fixed Income Funds I – VI; Puerto Rico
Mortgage Backed & US Govt. Fund; Tax-Free Puerto Rico Funds I and II; Tax-Free Puerto Rico Target Maturity
Fund; Puerto Rico AAA Portfolio Target Maturity Fund; Puerto Rico AAA Portfolio Bond Funds I and II; and
Puerto Rico GNMA & U.S. Gov. Target Maturity Fund. UBS Trust Company serves as co-manager for Puerto Rico
Investor’s Tax-Free Funds I – VI, Puerto Rico Tax-Free Target Maturity Fund I and II, and Puerto Rico Investors
Bond Fund I.

3

10.
UBS PR marketed its CEFs mainly to its Puerto Rico retail customer base. That
customer base included some seniors and retirees, and a number of them who invested in CEFs
depended on monthly dividend income from the CEFs to supplement their payments from Social
Security.
11.
Financial advisors also promoted UBS PR’s dividend reinvestment program which
was an important selling point of the CEFs. Under this word-of-mouth monthly program, investors
could elect to receive dividend reinvestment shares – issued by the CEFs at the Net Asset Value of
the Funds (“NAV”) – and immediately sell them back to UBS PR at the then-existing market price,
earning premiums of up to 45%. This program was highly attractive to many of UBS PR’s senior
customers, who depended on the income from their CEF shares.
E.

UBS PR, THE CEO AND THE HCM MISREPRESENTED AND OMITTED
DISCLOSING MATERIAL FACTS ABOUT THE CEFS
Misrepresentations About CEF Prices

12.
UBS PR knew investors were seeking stable, consistently-priced securities to
protect their investment or retirement income. UBS PR was also aware that consistently high share
prices were important to promoting the dividend reinvestment program which relied on high
market price premiums relative to the Funds’ NAVs.
13.
Throughout 2008 and early 2009, UBS PR priced the CEFs to reduce volatility
and maintain high premiums to NAV. UBS PR’s pricing of the CEFs was left to the discretion
of the HCM and the CEF head trader, who reported to the HCM. At the direction of the HCM,
UBS PR used its CEF inventory account to purchase any excess supply of shares for which UBS
PR could not find customers.
14.
During the same time period, however, UBS PR misrepresented that market forces
such as supply and demand determined CEF prices. For example, a January 2008 UBS PR
brochure entitled “UBS Family of Funds” posted on the company’s website stated that: “[m]arket
forces such as supply and demand and the yield of similar type products determine the price of
closed end fund shares.”
15.
In addition, UBS PR provided CEF prices to the Puerto Rico daily newspaper El
Vocero to publish those prices in the paper’s business section. The newspaper simply listed CEF
share “prices.” UBS PR omitted disclosing in the listings the prices represented only what UBS
PR termed “indicative” prices. Indicative prices were simply what UBS PR thought the prices
should be, but did not represent any commitment by UBS PR to buy or sell at that price. UBS
PR’s also failed to disclose that the prices included a 3% sales commission.
16.
The CEF share prices in UBS PR customers’ monthly account statements were
similarly misleading in that they described “market values.” As with the newspaper prices, these
prices were simply what UBS PR thought they should be, not true market prices.

4

The 2008-09 CEF Market Imbalance
17.
As early as May 2008, the HCM noted a significant supply and demand imbalance
in the CEF secondary market, because customers were placing sell orders in increasing numbers.
By May 16, UBS PR executives knew the firm had $37 million of CEF shares in its inventory,
approaching the temporarily increased $40 million limit that had been put in place in late April. In
addition, there were $16 million in unexecuted customer orders to sell shares at prices lower than
UBS PR’s bid. The HCM acknowledged in an email to senior executives that the trading desk
should either execute these customer orders or lower the bid price of the Funds.
18.
Rather than reduce CEF prices, for the next several months, the HCM continued to
make repeated requests on behalf of UBS PR that UBSFS temporarily increase inventory limits,
which increased to $45 million at the end of July, and to $50 million in December 2008.
19.
Furthermore, on behalf of UBS PR, the HCM made only small changes to CEF
share prices once or twice a month during this period. As UBS PR’s CEF inventory grew from
May through August 2008, the HCM did not change prices for 9 CEFs on any trading day. For
example, from May through December, the HCM changed the price of one fund only one time. In
the case of another fund, the trading desk quoted the same price every day from May through
August 2008, and changed the price on just three trading days through December.
20.
These unchanging and consistently high prices in the face of declining NAVs,
increased customer selling relative to customer demand, and other unfavorable market conditions
were in contrast to the representations of UBS PR that market forces determined CEF share prices.
21.
UBS PR attempted to generate customer demand by promoting the CEFs at a UBS
PR Investor Conference in June 2008. At that conference, a UBS PR managing director promoted
the CEFs’ extraordinary “market returns” and low risk and volatility, but failed to disclose that
share prices and liquidity were increasingly dependent on UBS PR’s support of the CEF secondary
market.
22.
After the Investor Conference, the HCM directed the CEF head trader to develop
sales stories for brokers, regarding particular CEFs for which UBS PR had significant inventory
positions. The HCM told the head trader to inform the sales force that the CEF desk was willing to
offer the Funds with the highest inventory levels at reduced prices by reducing the typical fivecent-per-share markup the desk got on sales. The head trader met with financial advisors to
provide information about those CEFs while omitting to disclose that the funds were those with the
highest inventory levels.
23.
By August 2008, customer demand for CEF shares was further ebbing. UBS PR’s
Group Management Board, including the CEO and the HCM, met on August 12. Among other
things, the board minutes from that meeting show the attendees discussed the “market drag,”
“product fatigue,” and “weak secondary market” for CEF shares. The CEO expressed uneasiness
that financial advisors were concerned about the concentration of customers’ investments in CEFs
and about the continued CEF offerings.

5

24.
After the board meeting, the CEO directed his subordinates to boost investor
demand for CEF shares. On August 29, 2008, he told UBS PR executives “[i]t is clear to me that
we have to ‘fix’ this.” He told them to “generate a story for each Fund” that the financial advisors
could use to increase sales and facilitate large cross trades between customers, and work with the
traders to coordinate bids and offers.
25.
Notwithstanding his knowledge of the weak demand for CEF shares in the
secondary market, the CEO repeatedly misled UBS PR’s financial advisors throughout the fall of
2008 into continuing to promote CEF sales. In numerous e-mails, he repeatedly misstated the
strength, stability and liquidity of the CEF market. The CEO did not disclose to the sales force the
liquidity issues in the secondary market, or that UBS PR was keeping the CEF prices high by
increasing its CEF inventory.
26.
The sales force solicited sales of the CEFs during this period, including two new
primary CEF offerings totaling $66 million. The CEO sent several emails to the UBS PR sales
force strongly promoting the anticipated returns of the new offerings while assuring that the
offerings would have little if any effect on the CEF secondary market. Yet privately, the CEO told
the HCM and other executives he was directing that UBS PR move forward with the primary
offerings regardless of UBS PR’s high CEF inventory holdings.
27.
UBS PR prepared a presentation to the sales force in connection with the new CEF
offerings. This presentation, provided as reasons that customers should invest in the new funds
that, among other things, “[f]und inventory levels are low, trading volumes are at all-time high
(annualized), and prices/yields are aligned with current market conditions.” These statements were
false or misleading given the record high inventory levels and UBS PR’s support of market prices.
28.
Although the prospectuses for the two new CEF offerings, which were provided to
primary market customers, stated that UBS PR was not obligated to maintain a market in the CEF
shares, may discontinue maintaining a market at any time and that in the event it discontinued there
may be no other market for the shares, UBS PR failed to disclose material facts to investors: (1)
concerning the significant secondary market supply and demand imbalance; (2) that UBS PR was
using its inventory account to support CEF market prices and liquidity to prevent price declines
and maintain yields; and (3) that CEF prices and liquidity were highly dependent on the efforts of
UBS PR’s sales force to maintain customer demand for the shares.
29.
The HCM misrepresented material information to the financial advisors during this
same time. Prior to the fall of 2008, UBS PR had routinely displayed inventory levels for each
CEF in the firm’s inventory sheets that were circulated to its financial advisors. For the entire
month leading up to the new offerings, the HCM concealed UBS PR’s increasing inventory from
the company’s sales force. He directed the head trader to change the daily CEF inventory sheets
sent to financial advisors to reflect a maximum of 50,000 shares per Fund, rather than the actual
number of shares the firm owned.
30.
Ultimately more than 600 investors purchased shares in the primary offerings. The
secondary market continued to experience supply and demand imbalances. UBS PR continued to

6

purchase shares into inventory throughout the fall of 2008 and early 2009, often from investors
who wanted to sell shares they had obtained through the dividend reinvestment program.
F.

UBS PR REDUCES ITS INVENTORY BY UNDERCUTTING
CUSTOMER SELL ORDERS
UBSFS Orders UBS PR To Reduce Inventory

31.
In February and March 2009, UBS PR’s persistently high CEF inventory levels and
the CEF shares’ significant price premiums over NAV raised concerns of UBSFS’ then-Chief Risk
Officer (“Chief Risk Officer”) and other executives.
32.
In March, the HCM emailed a number of UBSFS executives seeking a temporary
increase of inventory levels from $50 to $55 million to buy shares from customers selling their
reinvestment shares. The reason given for the request was because of the supply and demand
imbalance in the CEF market.
33.
On March 19, UBSFS’ Chief Risk Officer rejected the request and directed UBS
PR to begin reducing inventory levels to the historical limit of $30 million. UBS PR executives
told a UBSFS senior executive that they expected the imbalance in the Funds market to improve
because of economic conditions and because UBS PR would increase demand using its sales force.
A senior UBS PR executive added if that strategy failed, UBS PR would use “the ultimate weapon
[of] aggressive use of pricing to bring balance back to the market. . . .”
34.
Two weeks later, UBSFS’ Chief Risk Officer expressed his concern to UBSFS
senior executives, that, although a supply and demand imbalance existed in the CEF secondary
market, CEF prices remained high with a significant “difference between NAV and the price
quoted by the trading desk . . . in some cases over 40%.” He further alerted the executives that due
to the fact that UBS PR’s internal CEF trading limits were already exceeded because UBS PR had
not yet reduced its inventory to its permanent limit, “there is a significant likelihood that clients
wishing to sell the shares received through the dividend reinvestment program will be unable to do
so.”
35.
As a result, the senior executives directed a review of UBS PR’s pricing method for
the market values of the CEFs. After conducting their review, on May 19, 2009, the then-Head of
Wealth Management Advisor Group (“Head of WMAG”) and the Chief Risk Officer reported:
•
•
•

UBS PR was the sole CEF liquidity provider;
UBS PR should reduce its CEF inventory to limit its risk exposure and “promote
more rational pricing and more clarity to clients . . .[so] prices transparently develop
based on supply and demand;” and,
UBS PR ran a significant concentration risk that was inherent to the CEF business,
which could not “effectively be reduced.”

7

36.
UBSFS’ Risk Control Committee mandated further reductions to inventory limits
as a result of this review. On May 29, 2009, UBSFS’ Chief Risk Officer directed UBS PR to
further reduce its CEF inventory to $12 million.
UBS PR Reduced The Firm’s Inventory By Undercutting
Pending Customer Sell Orders
37.
In response, in June 2009, the HCM made a presentation to members of UBSFS’
Risk Committee in which he described UBS PR’s strategy to reduce its inventory and bring prices
in-line with NAVs as “Objective: Soft Landing.” In a subsequent email to members of UBSFS’
Risk Committee and the CEO, the HCM described the firm’s strategy as: “1. [p]urchasing from
clients the minimum amount of shares possible,” and “2. [l]owering our price to keep ahead of any
client open orders in terms of lowest offer price in the market.”
38.
Over the course of the next few months, the HCM and UBS PR pursued this
strategy to execute UBSFS’ directive and reduce its inventory by:
•
•
•
•

Lowering CEF prices to undercut the pending customer sell orders in the firm’s
Good-Til-Cancelled (“GTC”) order book;
Soliciting new and existing customers to buy CEF shares without disclosing UBS
PR’s decision to reduce its inventory by lowering CEF share prices below customer
orders;
Limiting UBS PR’s inventory purchases to dividend reinvestment share sellers;
and,
Arranging transactions in conjunction with offers by the affiliated CEF companies
to repurchase newly issued shares from customers, so UBS PR could sell to those
customers shares from the firm’s aged inventory.

39.
The HCM and the head trader discouraged financial advisors from placing market
orders, which UBS PR had to execute before reducing its own position, by telling financial
advisors that customers might not receive the best execution price. Numerous CEF customers
(many of whom were unsophisticated retail clients) did not know the difference between market
and limit orders. Thus, to comply with the trading desk’s directives, the financial advisors placed
the vast majority of sell orders as limit orders.
40.
UBS PR’s trading policy directed the firm to treat “marketable” limit orders, i.e.,
orders at or better than UBS PR’s bid prices, like market orders. However, commencing in March
2009, the HCM directed the head trader to regularly eliminate pending marketable limit orders by
reducing CEF prices to just below the customers’ pending sell orders, to sell UBS PR’s CEF
inventory first.
41.
For example, on March 3, 2009, UBS PR sent its GTC book to the sales force
showing $16 million in marketable, unexecuted customer sell orders. That day, the HCM
instructed the head trader to “prepare a pricing where we eliminate the marketable GTC [customer]
orders . . . This is top priority.”

8

42.
A few hours later, the head trader lowered market prices of 15 of the 23 funds to
one penny below the best customer orders, rendering $14 million of customer orders “nonmarketable.” The GTC book the HCM and the head trader sent to financial advisors on March 4
reflected only $2 million in marketable, unexecuted customer orders.
UBS PR Misrepresented Its Support of the CEF Market and Failed To Disclose Its
Conflicts Of Interest to CEF Investors
43.
UBS PR did not disclose to its customers it was substantially reducing the use of its
inventory to support the CEF market. UBS PR also continued to accept customer limit orders
without disclosing that it was undercutting those limit orders to sell UBS PR’s shares first. UBS
PR also failed to disclose the conflict of interest created by recommending CEFs to investors while
selling its own shares.
44.
UBS PR’s conflicts of interest with its customers were exacerbated because the
firm controlled the market for the CEFs, and investors could not go to another broker-dealer to sell
their CEF shares. Customers had to compete with UBS PR to sell shares in a market UBS PR
dominated and controlled. In addition, some UBS PR customers attempting to sell CEF shares
during this time were senior retail investors who had substantial amounts of their net worth
invested and concentrated in the CEFs.
While UBS PR Was Selling Its Inventory, UBS PR, the CEO and the HCM Pushed
Financial Advisors To Boost Demand For CEF Shares
45.
On March 31, 2009, UBS PR and the HCM made misrepresentations and omissions
to hundreds of customers at a UBS PR Puerto Rico Investor Conference about the CEF’s superior
returns and consistent liquidity levels.
46.
Before the conference, the CEO urged UBS PR’s sales force to “call your clients,
[because] the information presented will offer comfort to holders of Puerto Rico bonds and Funds”
(emphasis in original). UBS PR also purchased full-page newspaper advertisements in El Vocero
as well as television spots promoting the conference. In an e-mail sent on the morning of the
conference, the HCM told the CEO and other executives his view that UBS PR should present the
message to investors that the secondary market had “shown resiliency (high liquidity, stable price)
during these times.” This directly contradicted the HCM’s statements two weeks earlier to UBS
PR executives that the market was imbalanced because sellers significantly outnumbered buyers.
47.
At the conference, the HCM made a presentation about the CEFs’ secondary
trading market. The HCM misrepresented that CEF liquidity was increasing and CEF prices were
stable and the result of supply and demand in an open market. In fact, the CEFs were experiencing
a significant supply and demand imbalance and UBS PR had been using its own inventory to
support CEF prices and disguise the lack of liquidity in the market. Furthermore, the HCM
omitted disclosing UBSFS had recently ordered UBS PR to reduce inventory, and that to comply
with this directive UBS PR had begun lowering share prices and buying fewer customer shares.

9

48.
During the ensuing months, the CEO and UBS PR tried to create CEF demand
while concealing the liquidity problems and inventory reduction. The CEO directed UBS PR’s
sales force to solicit customers to buy CEFs notwithstanding UBS PR customers’ and financial
advisors’ concerns about CEF prices and liquidity.
49.
The CEO further misled investors about the state of the CEF market. In a
newspaper interview published in El Vocero on April 24, 2009, the CEO specifically addressed the
CEF market, stating that in the face of other, poor-performing markets, CEF share prices had been
stable and performed well. That same day, the CEO sent an email entitled “Creation of Value” in
which he directed financial advisors to tell their customers that the CEFs would continue to trade at
significant premiums to NAV and provide the “reinvestment kickers” of the dividend reinvestment
program. These statements were made without disclosing the existing secondary market
illiquidity, or that UBS PR was significantly reducing CEF market prices in order sell its inventory.
50.
From April to August 2009, UBS PR’s executives, including the HCM, conducted
multiple sales meetings with financial advisors encouraging them to solicit their customers to
invest in the CEFs without disclosing UBS PR’s significant inventory reduction and misleadingly
blamed falling CEF prices on global economic conditions. During this period, the percentage of
investors’ CEF purchases that financial advisors solicited increased to approximately 70% to 90%.
51.
In August 2009, despite expressing concerns in an email to UBSFS executives that
UBS PR’s inventory reduction had caused “huge losses” to investors, the CEO sent an e-mail to
UBS PR’s sales force urging them to “consider the present prices of our Funds” and increasing
dividends as a buying opportunity for UBS PR customers. The CEO omitted any mention of UBS
PR’s inventory or share price reductions, or his belief the inventory reduction had drastically
reduced market prices.
52.
To assist the firm in selling its inventory, UBS PR also took advantage of a CEF
share repurchase program the CEO and other CEF board members authorized. At a UBSFS
Executive Committee meeting, UBSFS’ Head of WMAG and Chief Risk Officer proposed
petitioning the independent board of directors for UBS PR’s 14 sole-managed proprietary CEF
funds to approve a share repurchase program, which could be used to reduce UBS PR’s CEF
inventory. On May 27, 2009, the CEO and the other members of the Funds’ board of directors
approved the repurchase of a higher percentage of the Funds’ outstanding shares than the board
had previously approved.
53.
After the board approved the repurchase, UBS PR and the HCM arranged for UBS
PR customers, who had only seven months earlier purchased shares of the two new CEFs, to sell
$7 million of tendered shares back to the Fund companies. That same day, UBS PR solicited those
customers to immediately purchase $7 million of shares from Funds where UBS PR had the
highest inventory. UBS PR did not disclose to those customers that a material basis for
recommending those specific funds was to reduce UBS PR’s largest aged inventory positions.
54.
In June 2009, to discourage customer sales of CEF shares, UBS PR instituted a
requirement that any customer order to sell over 10,000 CEF shares required approval of a branch
office manager.

10

55.
By September 30, UBS PR had reduced its CEF inventory to about $12 million, the
level UBSFS mandated. However, UBS PR’s GTC order book on the same day detailed
approximately $72 million in unexecuted customer sell orders that had accumulated over the prior
6 months.
56.
When UBS PR sold 75% of its inventory and ceased using its inventory to support
the CEF secondary market, prices dropped. From March 3 to September 30, 2009, 21 of 23 CEFs
experienced significant price declines. The prices of the seven CEFs with the largest UBS PR
inventory positions declined 10% to 15%.
G.

VIOLATIONS

57.
As a result of the conduct described above, UBS PR willfully violated Section 17(a)
of the Securities Act, which prohibits fraudulent conduct in the offer and sale of securities, and
Sections 10(b) and 15(c) of the Exchange Act and Exchange Act Rule 10b-5, which prohibit
fraudulent conduct in connection with the purchase or sale of securities.
H.

UNDERTAKINGS

58.
UBS PR agrees to retain, at UBS PR’s expense and within sixty days of the
issuance of this Order, an independent third-party consultant, not unacceptable to the staff, to
review UBS PR’s closed-end fund disclosures and trading and pricing policies, procedures, and
practices for adequacy. After such review, which UBS PR shall require to be completed within
ninety days of the issuance of this Order, UBS PR will submit to the Commission, the findings of
the independent consultant making recommendations for any changes in or improvements to
UBS PR’s policies, procedures, and practices, and a procedure for implementing such
recommended changes. Within ninety days of receipt of the report, UBS PR shall adopt the
recommendations contained in the report; provided, however, that as to any recommendation that
UBS PR considers to be, in whole or in part, unduly burdensome or impractical, UBS PR may
submit in writing to the consultant and Commission staff, within thirty days of receiving the
report, an alternative policy, practice, or procedure designed to achieve the same objective or
purpose. Within forty-five days of receiving the report, UBS PR shall attempt in good faith to
reach an agreement relating to each recommendation that UBS PR considers to be unduly
burdensome or impractical. Within fifteen days after the discussion and evaluation by UBS PR
and the consultant, UBS PR shall require that the consultant inform UBS PR and Commission
staff of the consultant’s final determination concerning any recommendation that UBS PR
considers unduly burdensome or impractical, and UBS PR shall abide by the determinations of
the consultant and adopt and implement all recommendations within the ninety-day time period
set forth in this paragraph.
59.
Within fourteen days of UBS PR’s adoption of all of the recommendations that the
consultant deems appropriate, UBS PR agrees to certify in writing to the consultant and
Commission staff that UBS PR has adopted and implemented all of the consultant’s
recommendations. Thereafter, UBS PR agrees to require the independent third-party consultant to
conduct an annual review for each of the following three years from the date of the issuance of the
consultant’s initial report, to assess whether UBS PR is complying with the consultant’s

11

recommended policies, procedures, and/or practices that UBS PR adopted and whether the adopted
policies, procedures, and/or practices are effective in achieving their stated purposes.
60.
In connection with this action and any related judicial or administrative proceeding
or investigation commenced by the Commission or to which the Commission is a party,
Respondent (i) agrees to use all best efforts to make its principals, partners, officers, and
employees available to appear and be interviewed by Commission staff at such times and places as
the staff requests upon reasonable notice; (ii) will accept service by mail or facsimile transmission
of notices or subpoenas issued by the Commission for documents or testimony at depositions,
hearings, or trials, or in connection with any related investigation by Commission staff; (iii)
appoints Respondent’s counsel as agent to receive service of such notices and subpoenas; (iv) with
respect to such notices and subpoenas, waives the territorial limits on service contained in Rule 45
of the Federal Rules of Civil Procedure and any applicable local rules, provided that the party
requesting the testimony reimburses Respondent’s travel, lodging, and subsistence expenses at the
then-prevailing U.S. Government per diem rates; and (v) consents to personal jurisdiction over
Respondent in any United States District Court for purposes of enforcing any such subpoena.
In determining whether to accept the Offer, the Commission has considered these
undertakings.
IV.
In view of the foregoing, the Commission deems it appropriate and in the public interest to
impose the sanctions agreed to in UBS PR’s Offer.
Accordingly, pursuant to Section 8A of the Securities Act, and Sections 15(b) and 21C of
the Exchange Act, it is hereby ORDERED that:
A.
UBS PR cease and desist from committing or causing any violations and any future
violations of Sections 17(a) of the Securities Act, Sections 10(b) and 15(c) of the Exchange Act, and
Rule 10b-5 of the Exchange Act.
B.

UBS PR is censured.

C.
UBS PR shall, within 14 days of the entry of this Order, pay disgorgement of
$11,500,000.00, prejudgment interest of $1,109,739.94, and a civil money penalty of
$14,000,000.00 to the Securities and Exchange Commission. If timely payment is not made,
additional interest shall accrue pursuant to SEC Rule of Practice 600 or 31 U.S.C. 3717. Such
payment shall be: (A) made by United States postal money order, certified check, bank cashier’s
check or bank money order; (B) made payable to the Securities and Exchange Commission; (C)
hand delivered or mailed to Enterprise Services Center, Accounts Receivable, 6500 S. MacArthur
Blvd., Oklahoma City, Oklahoma, 73169; and (D) submitted under cover letter that identifies UBS
PR as a Respondent in these proceedings, the file number of these proceedings, a copy of which
shall be sent to Jason R. Berkowitz, Division of Enforcement, Securities and Exchange
Commission, Miami Regional Office, 801 Brickell Avenue, Suite 1800, Miami, FL 33131.

12

D.
Pursuant to Section 308(a) of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002, as amended, a Fair
Fund is created for the disgorgement, interest and/or penalties referenced in Paragraph C above.
Regardless of whether any such Fair Fund distribution is made, amounts ordered to be paid as civil
money penalties pursuant to this Order shall be treated as penalties paid to the government for all
purposes, including all tax purposes. To preserve the deterrent effect of the civil penalty,
Respondent agrees that in any Related Investor Action, it, shall not argue that it is entitled to, nor
shall it benefit by, offset or reduction of any award of compensatory damages by the amount of any
part of Respondent’s payment of a civil penalty in this action ("Penalty Offset"). If the court in any
Related Investor Action grants such a Penalty Offset, Respondent agrees that it shall, within 30
days after entry of a final order granting the Penalty Offset, notify the Commission’s counsel in
this action and pay the amount of the Penalty Offset to the United States Treasury or to a Fair
Fund, as the Commission directs. Such a payment shall not be deemed an additional civil penalty
and shall not be deemed to change the amount of the civil penalty imposed in this proceeding. For
purposes of this paragraph, a “Related Investor Action” means a private damages action brought
against Respondent by or on behalf of one or more investors based on substantially the same facts
as alleged in the Order instituted by the Commission in this proceeding.
E.
Respondent shall comply with the undertakings enumerated in paragraphs 58 and
59 of Section III above.

By the Commission.

Elizabeth M. Murphy
Secretary

13

