SECURITIES AND EXCHANGE COMMISSION
17 CFR Parts 239, 270, and 274
Release Nos. 33-9506; IC-30847; File No. S7-7-11
RIN 3235-AL02
Removal of Certain References to Credit Ratings Under the Investment Company Act
AGENCY: Securities and Exchange Commission.
ACTION: Final rule.
SUMMARY: The Securities and Exchange Commission (“Commission”) is adopting
amendments to a rule and three forms under the Investment Company Act of 1940 (“Investment
Company Act”) and the Securities Act of 1933 (“Securities Act”) in order to implement a
provision of the Dodd-Frank Wall Street Reform and Consumer Protection Act (“Dodd-Frank
Act”). Specifically, rule 5b-3 under the Investment Company Act contains a reference to credit
ratings in determining when an investment company (“fund”) may treat a repurchase agreement
as an acquisition of securities collateralizing the repurchase agreement for certain purposes under
the Investment Company Act. The amendments we are adopting today replace this reference to
credit ratings with an alternative standard designed to retain a similar degree of credit quality to
that in current rule 5b-3. The Commission is also adopting amendments to Forms N-1A, N-2,
and N-3 under the Investment Company Act and Securities Act to eliminate the required use of
NRSRO credit ratings when a fund chooses to depict its portfolio holdings by credit quality.
DATES: Effective Date: )HEUXDU\
Compliance Date: -XO\.
FOR FURTHER INFORMATION CONTACT: Adam Bolter, Senior Counsel, Thoreau
Bartmann, Branch Chief, or C. Hunter Jones, Assistant Director (202) 551-6792, Office of

Investment Company Rulemaking, Division of Investment Management, Securities and
Exchange Commission, 100 F Street, NE, Washington, DC 20549-8549.
SUPPLEMENTARY INFORMATION: The Commission is adopting amendments to rule
5b-3 [17 CFR 270.5b-3] under the Investment Company Act. 1 The Commission is also adopting
amendments to Forms N-1A [17 CFR 239.15A and 17 CFR 274.11A], N-2 [17 CFR 239.14 and
17 CFR 274.11a-1], and N-3 [17 CFR 239.17a and 17 CFR 274.11b] under the Investment
Company Act and the Securities Act. 2
Table of Contents
I.
II.
III.

BACKGROUND
PRIOR ACTIONS OF THE COMMISSION AND OTHER REGULATORS
DISCUSSION
A.
Rule 5b-3
B.
Forms N-1A, N-2, and N-3
IV.
PAPERWORK REDUCTION ACT
V.
ECONOMIC ANALYSIS
VI.
FINAL REGULATORY FLEXIBILITY ANALYSIS
STATUTORY AUTHORITY
TEXT OF RULE AND RULE AND FORM AMENDMENTS
I.

BACKGROUND

The first use of a reference to ratings or rating agencies in Commission rules was in 1975,
when the Commission adopted the term “nationally recognized statistical rating organization”
(“NRSRO”) as part of amendments to the net capital rule for broker-dealers, rule 15c3-1 under
the Securities Exchange Act of 1934 (“Exchange Act”) (the “Net Capital Rule”). 3 The

1

15 U.S.C. 80a. Unless otherwise noted, all references to statutory sections are to the Investment
Company Act, and all references to rules under the Investment Company Act are to Title 17, Part
270 of the Code of Federal Regulations [17 CFR 270].

2

15 U.S.C. 77a.

3

See Adoption of Uniform Net Capital Rule and an Alternative Net Capital Requirement for
Certain Brokers and Dealers, Exchange Act Release No. 11497 (June 26, 1975) [40 FR 29795

2

Commission eventually included references to credit ratings issued by NRSROs in other rules
under the securities laws, including the Investment Company Act. 4 In addition, credit ratings by
NRSROs have been used as benchmarks in federal and state legislation, rules administered by
other federal agencies, and foreign regulatory schemes. 5 Even prior to the enactment of the
Dodd-Frank Act, 6 concerns about the wide-spread use of NRSRO credit ratings in statutes and
regulations prompted the Commission to explore whether to eliminate references to credit ratings
in Commission rules because of the potential overreliance by investors and, investment advisers
and other financial professionals on these ratings, and whether there are practical alternatives to
NRSRO credit ratings that could be used as benchmarks in regulations. 7
Section 939A of the Dodd-Frank Act requires each Federal agency, including the
Commission, to “review any regulation issued by such agency that requires the use of an
assessment of the credit-worthiness of a security or money market instrument and any references
to or requirements in such regulations regarding credit ratings.” 8 That section further provides

(July 16, 1975)]; 17 CFR 240.15c3-1. The Net Capital Rule prescribes minimum net capital
requirements for broker-dealers and it uses NRSRO credit ratings to determine the amount of the
charge to capital a broker-dealer must apply to certain types of debt instruments. See 17 CFR
240.15c3-1. The regulatory purpose was to provide a method for determining net capital charges
on different grades of debt securities under the Net Capital Rule. See 17 CFR 240.15c3-1.
4

See, e.g., Acquisition and Valuation of Certain Portfolio Instruments by Registered Investment
Companies, Investment Company Act Release No. 14983 (Mar. 12, 1986) [51 FR 9773 (Mar. 21,
1986)] (incorporating the concept of NRSROs into the definition of “eligible security” in rule 2a7 (governing money market funds)).

5

See, e.g., Report to Congress on Credit Ratings, Board of Governors of the Federal Reserve
System (July 2011); References to Credit Ratings in FDIC Regulations, Federal Deposit
Insurance Corporation (July 2011); and Basel Committee on Banking Supervision, Stocktaking
on the use of credit ratings, Joint Forum (June 2009).

6

See Pub. L. No. 111-203, 124 Stat. 1376 (2010).

7

See infra section II.A (discussing other Commission actions to remove references to credit ratings
from its rules). See also infra section II.B (discussing actions of other regulators to remove
references to credit ratings from their rules).

8

Pub. L. No. 111-203 § 939A(a)(1)-(2). Section 939A of the Dodd-Frank Act applies to all federal

3

that each such agency shall “modify any such regulations identified by the review . . . to remove
any reference to or requirement of reliance on credit ratings and to substitute in such regulations
such standard of credit-worthiness as each respective agency shall determine as appropriate for
such regulations.” 9
As a step toward implementing these mandates, in March 2011 the Commission proposed
to replace references to ratings issued by NRSROs in two Commission rules and four
Commission forms under the Investment Company Act, including rule 5b-3 and Forms N-1A, N2, and N-3. 10 We received 26 comment letters on the proposed rule and form amendments. 11

agencies.
9

Pub. L. No. 111-203 § 939A(b).

10

See References to Credit Ratings in Certain Investment Company Act Rules and Forms,
Investment Company Act Release No. 29592 (Mar. 3, 2011) [76 FR 12896 (Mar. 9, 2011)]
(“2011 Proposing Release”). Specifically, we proposed to: (i) remove references to credit ratings
in rules 2a-7 and 5b-3 under the Investment Company Act and replace them with alternative
standards of creditworthiness; (ii) adopt new rule 6a-5 under the Investment Company Act that
would establish a creditworthiness standard to replace the credit rating reference in section
6(a)(5) removed by the Dodd-Frank Act; (iii) eliminate required disclosures of credit ratings in
Form N-MFP; and (iv) remove the requirement that credit ratings be used when portraying credit
quality in shareholder reports from Forms N-1A, N-2, and N-3. The Commission adopted new
rule 6a-5 on November 19, 2012 and noted in its 2013 proposing release for money market
reform that the Commission would address references to credit ratings in rule 2a-7 and Form NMFP in a separate rulemaking. See Purchase of Certain Debt Securities by Business and
Industrial Development Companies Relying on an Investment Company Act Exemption,
Investment Company Act Release No. 30268 (Nov. 19, 2012) [77 FR 70117 (Nov. 23, 2012)];
Money Market Fund Reform; Amendments to Form PF, Investment Company Act Release No.
30551 (June 5, 2013) [78 FR 36834 (June 19, 2013)]. Rule 3a-7 under the Investment Company
Act also contains a reference to ratings. In August 2011, in a concept release soliciting comment
on the treatment of asset-backed issuers under the Investment Company Act, we sought comment
on the role, if any, that credit ratings should continue to play in the context of rule 3a-7. See
Treatment of Asset-Backed Issuers under the Investment Company Act, Investment Company
Act Release No. 29779 (Aug. 31, 2011) [76 FR 55308 (Sept. 7, 2011)] at section III.A.1.

11

Most of these commenters criticized removing credit ratings from rule 2a-7, but acknowledged
that the Commission’s proposal was in response to the mandate in the Dodd-Frank Act. The
Commission plans to address these comments in a future rulemaking. See supra note 10. The
comment letters on the 2011 Proposing Release (File No. S7-07-11) are available at
http://www.sec.gov/comments/s7-07-11/s70711.shtml. In addition, to facilitate public input on
the Dodd-Frank Act, we provided a series of e-mail links, organized by topic on our website at
http://www.sec.gov/spotlight/regreformcomments.shtml. The public comments we received on

4

Several commenters addressed specific provisions of the proposal to amend rule 5b-3 and Forms
N-1A, N-2, and N-3, which we discuss in more detail below.
We are adopting, largely as proposed, amendments to rule 5b-3 and Forms N-1A, N-2,
and N-3 to implement section 939A of the Dodd-Frank Act and effectuate Congressional intent
to reduce reliance on NRSRO credit ratings. 12 As discussed below, the amendments replace a
reference to required NRSRO credit ratings in rule 5b-3 for certain securities held by funds as
collateral for repurchase agreements with an alternative standard that is designed to retain a
similar degree of credit quality. We are also amending Forms N-1A, N-2, and N-3 to eliminate
the required use of NRSRO credit ratings by funds that choose to use credit quality
categorizations in the required table, chart, or graph of portfolio holdings. Under the
amendments, funds that choose to use credit quality to depict portfolio holdings must include a
description of how the credit quality of the holding was determined. If a fund chooses to use
credit ratings issued by a credit rating agency to depict the credit quality of portfolio holdings,
the fund must include a description of how the credit ratings were identified and selected.
In a separate release, the Commission is adopting final amendments to remove references
to credit ratings from rules on broker-dealer financial responsibility and confirmations of
transactions. These amendments follow the Commission’s April 2011 proposed rules in which
we proposed to amend rules and one form under the Exchange Act applicable to broker-dealer
financial responsibility, distributions of securities, and confirmations of transactions in order to

section 939A of the Dodd-Frank Act are available on our website at
http://www.sec.gov/comments/df-title-ix/credit-rating-agencies/credit-rating-agencies.shtml.
12

See Section 939A of the Dodd-Frank Act. Section 939A was intended, at least in part, to address
potential over-reliance on NRSRO credit ratings resulting from perceived governmentendorsement of NRSROs. See Report of the House of Representatives Financial Services
Committee to Accompany H.R. 4173, H. Rep. No. 111-517 at 871 (2010).

5

remove references to credit ratings pursuant to section 939A of the Dodd-Frank Act. 13
II.

PRIOR ACTIONS OF THE COMMISSION AND OTHER REGULATORS
As part of our implementation of section 939A, we have reviewed our prior actions and

those of other regulators. As discussed below, both the Commission and other regulators have
proposed and issued several final rules towards implementation of the mandate under section
939A of the Dodd-Frank Act. In some cases, the references to credit ratings were replaced with
an alternative standard of credit quality designed to retain the same degree of credit quality and
liquidity as reflected by the use of credit ratings.
A.

Prior Commission Actions

The Commission has long been concerned with the use of credit ratings and has taken a
variety of actions even before the enactment of the Dodd-Frank Act regarding the use of NRSRO
credit ratings in its rules. For example, in 1994, the Commission published a concept release
soliciting comment on, among other things, whether the Commission should eliminate references
to NRSRO credit ratings from certain rules. 14 The Commission continued to consider the use of
credit ratings in its rules, when in 2003, we sought comment on alternative benchmarks that

13

See Removal of Certain References to Credit Ratings under the Securities Exchange Act of 1934,
Exchange Act Release No. 64352 (Apr. 27, 2011) [76 FR 26550 (May 6, 2011)] (requesting
public comment on proposed amendments to rule 15c3-1 (17 CFR 240.15c3-1), rule 15c3-3 (17
CFR 240.15c3-3), rule 17a-4 (17 CFR 240.17a-4), rules 101 and 102 of Regulation M (17 CFR
242.101 and 242.102), and rule 10b-10 (17 CFR 240.10b-10), and one form – the General
Instructions to Form X-17A-5, Part IIB (17 CFR 249.617) – to remove references to credit ratings
and, in certain cases, substitute alternative standards of creditworthiness). For purposes of
implementing section 939(e) of the Dodd-Frank Act, which eliminated provisions in sections
3(a)(41) and 3(a)(53)(A) of the Exchange Act that referenced NRSRO credit ratings, the
Commission also requested comment in the proposing release on potential standards of
creditworthiness to replace the credit rating references.

14

See Nationally Recognized Statistical Rating Organizations, Exchange Act Release No. 34616
(Aug. 31, 1994) [59 FR 46314 (Sep. 7, 1994)]; see also Capital Requirements for Brokers or
Dealers Under the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, Exchange Act Release No. 39457 (Dec. 17,
1997) [62 FR 68018 (Dec. 30, 1997)].

6

could be used to meet the Commission’s regulatory objectives. 15 Finally, in 2008, the
Commission proposed amendments to remove references to NRSRO credit ratings from certain
of its rules under the Securities Act, Exchange Act, and Investment Company Act. 16 As
previously noted, after the enactment of the Dodd-Frank Act, in 2011, the Commission proposed
to remove credit ratings references from certain rules and forms under the Investment Company
Act. 17 Also in 2011, the Commission separately proposed and adopted amendments removing
references to credit ratings in rules and forms under the Securities Act and the Exchange Act
related to offerings of securities or issuer disclosure. 18 Generally, in these prior actions, the
15

See Rating Agencies and the Use of Credit Ratings under the Federal Securities Laws, Exchange
Act Release No. 47972 (June 4, 2003) [68 FR 35258 (June 12, 2003)]; see also Report on the
Role and Function of Credit Rating Agencies in the Operation of the Securities Markets: As
Required by Section 702(b) of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002, Commission (Jan. 2003).

16

See, e.g., References to Ratings of Nationally Recognized Statistical Rating Organizations,
Exchange Act Release No. 58070 (July 1, 2008) [73 FR 40088 (July 11, 2008)]. In October
2009, the Commission adopted several of the 2008 proposed amendments and re-opened for
comment the remaining amendments. See References to Ratings of Nationally Recognized
Statistical Rating Organizations, Exchange Act Release No. 60789 (Oct. 5, 2009) [74 FR 52358
(Oct. 9, 2009)] (adopting release).

17

See 2011 Proposing Release supra note 10. One aspect of that rule proposal has already been
adopted. New rule 6a-5, adopted by the Commission, replaced a credit rating requirement
(removed by Congress as part of the Dodd-Frank Act) applicable to debt securities that certain
business and industrial development companies (“BIDCOs”) relying on the Investment Company
Act exemption in section 6(a)(5) may invest in. Under new rule 6a-5, a BIDCO that relies on the
exemption in section 6(a)(5) may invest in certain debt securities, provided that the BIDCO board
determines, at the time of purchase, that the debt security is (1) of no greater than moderate credit
risk and (2) is sufficiently liquid. The standard for liquidity is whether the security can be sold at
or near its carrying value within a reasonably short period of time. See Purchase of Certain Debt
Securities by Business and Industrial Development Companies Relying on an Investment
Company Act Exemption, Investment Company Act Release No. 30268 (Nov. 19, 2012) [77 FR
70117 (Nov. 23, 2012)].

18

See Security Ratings, Securities Act Release No. 9186 (Feb. 9, 2011) [76 FR 8946 (Feb. 16,
2011)]; see also Security Ratings, Securities Act Release No. 9245 (July 27, 2011) [76 FR 46603
(Aug. 3, 2011)] (adopting amendments to rule 134 (17 CFR 230.134), rule 138 (17 CFR
230.138), rule 139 (17 CFR 230.139), rule 168 (17 CFR 230.168), Form S-3 (17 CFR 239.13),
Form S-4 (17 CFR 239.25), Form F-3 (17 CFR 239.33), and Form F-4 (17 CFR 230. 34) under
the Securities Act; rescinding Form F-9 (17 CFR 239.39); adopting amendments to the Securities
Act and Exchange Act forms and rules that referred to Form F-9 to eliminate those references;
and amending Schedule 14A (17 CFR 240.14a-101) under the Exchange Act).

7

Commission has proposed or adopted amendments to its rules that seek to retain a similar degree
of credit quality to that in the rule being amended by replacing credit ratings references with a
two-part standard that includes an assessment of the credit quality and the liquidity of the
security, the details of which vary according to the requirements of the particular rule or form.
B.

Actions of Other Regulators

A number of other federal agencies have also taken action to implement section 939A of
the Dodd-Frank Act, including regulations proposed or adopted by the Commodity Futures
Trading Commission (“CFTC”), 19 the Office of the Comptroller of the Currency (“OCC”), 20 the
National Credit Union Administration (“NCUA”), 21 the Federal Housing Finance Agency
(“FHFA”), 22 the Department of Labor (“DOL”), 23 and jointly by the OCC and Federal Reserve
Board (“FRB”). 24 The actions taken by these other regulators were considered in adopting
today’s amendments.

19

CFTC, Removing Any Reference to or Reliance on Credit Ratings in Commission Regulations;
Proposing Alternatives to the Use of Credit Ratings, 76 FR 44262 (July 25, 2011).

20

OCC, Alternatives to the Use of External Credit Ratings in the Regulations of the OCC, 77 FR
35253 (June 13, 2012).

21

NCUA, Alternatives to the Use of Credit Ratings, 77 FR 74103 (Dec. 13, 2012).

22

FHFA, Removal of References to Credit Ratings in Certain Regulations Governing the Federal
Home Loan Banks, 78 FR 30784 (May 23, 2013).

23

DOL, Proposed Amendments to Class Prohibited Transaction Exemptions to Remove Credit
Ratings Pursuant to the Dodd-Frank Wall Street Reform and Consumer Protection Act, 78 FR
37572 (June 21, 2013).

24

OCC & FRB, Regulatory Capital Rules: Regulatory Capital, Implementation of Basel III, Capital
Adequacy, Transition Provisions, Prompt Corrective Action, Standardized Approach for Riskweighted Assets, Market Discipline and Disclosure Requirements, Advanced Approaches RiskBased Capital Rule, and Market Risk Capital Rule, 78 FR 62018 (Oct. 11, 2013).

8

III.

DISCUSSION
A.

Rule 5b-3

Rule 5b-3 allows funds to treat the acquisition of a repurchase agreement as an
acquisition of securities collateralizing the repurchase agreement for certain diversification and
broker-dealer counterparty limit purposes under the Investment Company Act 25 if the obligation
of the seller to repurchase the securities from the fund is “collateralized fully.” 26 In a typical
investment company repurchase agreement, a fund enters into a contract with a broker, dealer, or
bank (the “counterparty” to the transaction) to purchase securities. The counterparty agrees to
repurchase the securities at a specified future date, or on demand, for a price that is sufficient to
return to the fund its original purchase price, plus an additional amount representing a return to
the fund on its investment. Economically, a repurchase agreement functions as a loan from the

25

Section 5(b)(1) of the Investment Company Act limits the amount that a fund that holds itself out
as being a diversified investment company may invest in the securities of any one issuer (other
than the U.S. Government). This provision may limit the number and principal amounts of
repurchase agreements that a diversified fund may enter into with any one counterparty. Section
12(d)(3) of the Investment Company Act generally prohibits a fund from acquiring an interest in
a broker, dealer, or underwriter. Because a repurchase agreement may be considered to be the
acquisition of an interest in the counterparty, section 12(d)(3) may limit a fund's ability to enter
into repurchase agreements with many of the firms that act as repurchase agreement
counterparties. Rule 12d3-1 provides an exemption from the prohibitions of section 12(d)(3)
under certain conditions, which exemption a fund may be able to rely on in the event the
repurchase agreement fails to meet the look-through requirements of rule 5b-3. See Rule 5b-3
Adopting Release, infra note 27, at section II.C. The ability of funds to rely on rule 5b-3 of the
Investment Company Act may affect the degree to which a fund invests in repurchase
agreements.

26

Rule 5b-3(a). The term “collateralized fully” is defined in rule 5b-3(c)(1). In general, under rule
5b-3, a fund investing in a repurchase agreement looks to the value and liquidity of the securities
collateralizing the repurchase agreement rather than the creditworthiness of the counterparty for
satisfaction of the repurchase agreement. See Rule 5b-3 Adopting Release, infra note 27, at
section II.A.3. But see rule 2a-7(c)(4)(ii)(A) (requiring money market fund boards to evaluate the
counterparty's creditworthiness).

9

fund to the counterparty, in which the securities purchased by the fund serve as collateral for the
loan. 27
Under current requirements, a repurchase agreement is collateralized fully if, among
other things, the collateral for the repurchase agreement consists entirely of (i) cash items, (ii)
government securities, 28 (iii) securities that at the time the repurchase agreement is entered into
are rated in the highest rating category by the “requisite NRSROs” 29 or (iv) unrated securities
that are of a comparable quality to securities that are rated in the highest rating category by the
requisite NRSROs, as determined by the fund's board of directors or its delegate. 30 When the
Commission proposed rule 5b-3, we explained that the highest rating category requirement in the
definition of fully collateralized was designed to help ensure that the market value of the
collateral would remain stable and that the fund could liquidate the collateral quickly in the event
of a default by the counterparty. The high quality requirement was also designed to limit a

27

See Treatment of Repurchase Agreements and Refunded Securities as an Acquisition of the
Underlying Securities, Investment Company Act Release No. 25058 (July 5, 2001) [66 FR 36156
(July 11, 2001)] (“Rule 5b-3 Adopting Release”). Repurchase agreements provide funds with a
convenient means to invest excess cash on a secured basis, generally for short periods of time.

28

Government Security means “any security issued or guaranteed as to principal or interest by the
United States, or by a person controlled or supervised by and acting as an instrumentality of the
Government of the United States pursuant to authority granted by the Congress of the United
States; or any certificate of deposit for any of the foregoing.” Section 2(a)(16) of the Investment
Company Act. Government securities include, for example, U.S. Treasury notes and bonds, and
securities issued by the Federal Home Loan Mortgage Company (“Freddie Mac”), Federal
National Mortgage Association (“Fannie Mae”), and Government National Mortgage Association
(“Ginnie Mae”).

29

The term “requisite NRSROs” means any two NRSROs that have issued a rating with respect to a
security or class of debt obligations of an issuer or, if only one NRSRO has issued a rating with
respect to such security or class of debt obligations of an issuer at the time the investment
company acquires the security, that NRSRO. Rule 5b-3(c)(6). This definition is deleted under
the amended rule.

30

Rule 5b-3(c)(1)(iv). The term “unrated securities” means securities that have not received a
rating from the requisite NRSROs. Rule 5b-3(c)(8). This definition is deleted under the amended
rule.

10

fund’s exposure to the ability of the counterparty to maintain sufficient collateral, and reflected
the understanding that securities of lower quality may be subject to greater price fluctuation. 31
Today we are amending rule 5b-3 to eliminate the requirement that collateral other than
cash or government securities be rated in the highest category by the requisite NRSROs or be of
comparable quality. In place of this requirement, the amended rule requires that collateral other
than cash or government securities consist of securities that the fund's board of directors (or its
delegate) determines at the time the repurchase agreement is entered into are: (i) issued by an
issuer that has an exceptionally strong capacity to meet its financial obligations on the securities
collateralizing the repurchase agreement; and (ii) sufficiently liquid that they can be sold at
approximately their carrying value in the ordinary course of business within seven calendar
days. 32
The new credit quality standard we are adopting is designed to retain a degree of credit
quality that is similar to the existing standard under rule 5b-3 and consistent with the two-part
approach we have taken in establishing credit quality standards to replace credit rating references
in other rules under the federal securities laws. 33 We note that our amendment to rule 5b-3 does
not affect a money market fund that seeks special treatment of its repurchase agreement holdings
under the diversification provisions of rule 2a-7 because in order to obtain such treatment, a
money market fund is limited to investing in repurchase agreements collateralized by cash items
or government securities (which remain unaffected by our amendments today). 34 We are
31

See Treatment of Repurchase Agreements and Refunded Securities as an Acquisition of the
Underlying Securities, Investment Company Act Release No. 24050 (Sept. 23, 1999) [64 FR
52476 (Sept. 29, 1999)] (“Rule 5b-3 Proposing Release”) at n.43 and accompanying text.

32

Amended rule 5b-3(c)(1)(iv)(C).

33

See supra section II.A.

34

See rule 2a-7(a)(5).

11

adopting the liquidity component of the new standard as proposed, but we have revised the credit
quality component from what was proposed to address certain commenters’ concerns.
We proposed that collateral issuers be required to have the “highest capacity” to meet
their financial obligations on the collateral securities. 35 Three of the five commenters who
addressed the proposed amendments to rule 5b-3 argued that this standard is not consistent with
the standard established by the ratings reference in the current rule because the proposed
standard does not contemplate any variation in creditworthiness among issuers that meet the
highest rating standard. 36 Commenters suggested that short-term collateral securities rated “A1+” or “A-1” by Standard & Poor’s both would satisfy the rating condition under the current
rule, but that only those rated “A-1+” would likely have satisfied the credit standard under our
proposal. 37 Accordingly, as these commenters recommended, the amended rule requires an
issuer to have an “exceptionally strong” capacity to meet its financial obligations on the
collateral securities. 38 We are adopting this standard, as revised from our proposal, because we
believe that, like the current rule, it permits some variation in creditworthiness among issuers
while being designed to retain a degree of risk limitation similar to the current rule. 39 In the case

35

See proposed rule 5b-3(c)(1)(iv)(C)(1).

36

Federated Investors, Inc. Comment Letter (Apr. 25, 2011) (“Federated Comment Letter”);
Investment Company Institute Comment Letter (Apr. 25, 2011) (“ICI Comment Letter”);
T. Rowe Price Associates, Inc. Comment Letter (Apr. 25, 2011) (“T. Rowe Price Comment
Letter”). But see 2011 Proposing Release (discussing the proposed “highest capacity” standard
and noting that “[a]n issuer of collateral securities that the board (or its delegate) determined
has an exceptionally strong capacity to repay its short or long-term debt obligations . . .
would satisfy the proposed [highest capacity] standard”).

37

See Standard & Poor’s Ratings Definitions, infra note 39 at 5 (which may designate an “A-1”
rating with a plus sign to designate the obligor’s capacity to meet its financial obligations is
extremely strong).

38

See ICI Comment Letter; Federated Comment Letter (supporting the ICI Comment Letter); and T.
Rowe Price Comment Letter (generally agreeing with the ICI Comment Letter).

39

See Fitch Ratings, International Issuer and Credit Rating Scales,

12

of asset-backed securities that serve as collateral, an evaluation of the capacity of the issuer to
meet its financial commitment on the security should include an assessment of the quality of the
underlying assets and the structure of the asset-backed security. 40
As discussed above, we are adopting the liquidity component of the new standard as
proposed. The liquidity standard in the amended rule is similar to the standard used in rule 2a-7
governing money market funds, and is also used in other rules under the Investment Company
Act. 41 No commenters addressed the proposed liquidity standard.

http://www.fitchratings.com/web_content/ratings/fitch_ratings_definitions_and_scales.pdf
(stating that a rating of AAA is used in cases of “exceptionally strong capacity for payment of
financial commitments”); Moody’s Investor Service Rating Symbols and Definitions,
https://www.moodys.com/researchdocumentcontentpage.aspx?docid=PBC_79004 (stating that
ratings of Aaa are of the “highest quality, subject to the lowest level of credit risk”); and Standard
& Poor’s Ratings Definitions,
http://img.en25.com/Web/StandardandPoors/Ratings_Definitions.pdf (stating that for a rating of
AAA, “[t]he obligor’s capacity to meet its financial commitment on the obligation is extremely
strong”).
40

See Revisions to Rules Regulating Money Market Funds, Investment Company Act Release No.
19959 (Dec. 17, 1993) [58 FR 68585 (Dec. 28, 1993)] at text accompanying nn.108-109 (“[t]he
credit quality of a typical asset backed security depends both upon the structure of the security
and the quality of the underlying assets.”); Money Market Fund Reform, Investment Company
Act Release No. 29132 (Feb. 23, 2010) [75 FR 10060 (Mar. 4, 2010)] at text accompanying n.131
(noting that the minimal credit risk analysis that a money market fund board (or its delegate) must
conduct before investing in an asset-backed security should include, among other things, (i) an
analysis of the underlying assets to ensure they are properly valued and provide sufficient asset
coverage for the cash flow required to fund the asset-backed security under various market
conditions and (ii) an analysis of the terms of any liquidity or other support provided by the
sponsor of the asset-backed security). See also Alternatives to the Use of External Credit Ratings
in the Regulations of the Office of the Comptroller of the Currency (June 4, 2012) [77 FR 35253
(June 13, 2012)] at text following n.2 (in adopting an issuer-based credit quality standard to
replace credit ratings, the OCC indicates that, in the case of a structured finance transaction,
principal and interest repayment is not necessarily solely reliant on the direct debt repaying
capacity of the issuer or obligor).

41

See rule 2a-7(a)(19) (defining illiquid security to mean a security that cannot be sold or disposed
of in the ordinary course of business within seven calendar days at approximately the value
ascribed to it by the fund). See also rule 10f-3(a)(3) (requiring, among other things, that “eligible
municipal securities” be sufficiently liquid that they can be sold at or near their carrying value
within a reasonably short period of time).

13

We expect that securities that actively trade in a secondary market at the time of the
acquisition of the repurchase agreement will satisfy the liquidity component of the standard. We
also understand that most securities used to collateralize repurchase agreements generally
actively trade in a secondary market. 42 Securities that do not actively trade in a secondary
market would likely require a more in-depth evaluation by the board or its delegate to determine
whether they meet the liquidity standard.
The final amendments do not, as one commenter suggested, include specific factors or
tests that the board or its delegate must apply in performing its credit analysis. 43 This commenter
acknowledged that a reliable and objective shorthand measure of credit risk that could be
incorporated into Commission regulations is currently unavailable. 44 The Commission
considered including specific factors for funds to consider in performing credit analysis under
rule 5b-3. On balance, we believe that, in the context of rule 5b-3, the new credit quality
standards provide sufficiently clear criteria under which a fund board or its delegate can make
determinations regarding credit quality and liquidity for this particular purpose. Fund boards
42

Repurchase agreements are often collateralized by securities that include, but are not limited to,
agency collateralized mortgage-backed obligations (“CMOs”), agency debentures and strips,
agency mortgage-backed securities, private label CMOs, corporate debt, equity securities, money
market instruments and U.S. Treasury securities. See, e.g., Tri-Party Repo Statistical Data (as of
August 2013), http://www.newyorkfed.org/banking/tpr_infr_reform_data.html. The securities
that often collateralize repurchase agreements trade frequently. For example, data from the
Securities Industry and Financial Markets Association for January through August 2013 shows
average daily trading volume, in billions of dollars, as follows: agency debentures and strips
($7.1); agency mortgage-backed securities ($242.9); corporate debt ($145.4); U.S. Treasury
securities ($551.4) (available at http://www.sifma.org/research/statistics.aspx).

43

See Better Markets Comment Letter (Apr. 25, 2011) (“Better Markets Comment Letter”). This
commenter suggested certain factors that they believed funds should be required to consider when
evaluating the creditworthiness of an issuer or a debt security.

44

Id. We note that another commenter that recommended that we establish an objective standard
for credit quality determinations did not provide any examples of such criteria. See New York
City Bar Committee on Investment Management Regulation Comment Letter (Apr. 29, 2011)
(“NY City Bar Comment Letter”).

14

should also be familiar with applying similar credit quality standards used in other Commission
rules. 45 Fund boards may also consult external resources and Commission staff guidance (if
applicable) for additional guidance on making credit quality determinations in certain
circumstances. 46
The new credit quality standard is intended to achieve the same objectives that the credit
rating requirement was designed to achieve, i.e., to limit collateral securities to those that are
likely to retain a sufficiently stable market value and that, under ordinary circumstances, the fund
would be able to liquidate quickly, at or near their carrying value in the event of a counterparty
default. 47 Amended rule 5b-3 would not, however, prohibit a fund board from establishing its
own additional criteria for what the fund may accept as collateral for repurchase agreements
under the amended rule.
Under the final rule, as was proposed, the fund’s board will be required to make credit
quality determinations for all collateral securities that are not cash items or government
securities, rather than just for unrated securities. In addition, as in the current rule, the amended
rule continues to permit the board to delegate these credit quality and liquidity determinations. 48
We do not agree with the concerns of one commenter that this determination will impose undue
45

See adopting release, supra note 16 (the Commission adopted amendments to rule 10f-3, revising
the definition of “eligible municipal security” by replacing references to credit ratings with a
similar two-part credit quality standard). See also text accompanying note 49.

46

See, e.g., Tri-Party Repo Infrastructure, Reform Task Force,
http://www.newyorkfed.org/tripartyrepo/. See cf. Securities and Exchange Commission, Division
of Investment Management, IM Guidance Update, Counterparty Risk Management Practices with
Respect to Tri-Party Repurchase Agreements (July 2013) (providing guidance to funds on the
legal and operational steps that funds should consider if a counterparty fails and defaults on its
obligations under a tri-party repurchase agreement), available at
http://www.sec.gov/divisions/investment/guidance/im-guidance-2013-03.pdf.

47

See supra note 31.

48

This is similar to rule 2a-7, which permits the board to delegate decisions regarding credit quality.
See rule 2a-7(e).

15

burdens on the board because the determination is similar to what rule 5b-3 currently requires a
fund board (or its delegate) to make with respect to unrated collateral securities. 49 In addition,
the amended rule will continue to permit the board of directors to delegate credit quality and
liquidity determinations that the board believes are within the delegate’s expertise if the board
retains sufficient oversight. 50
Under the amended rule, when determining credit quality and liquidity, the board (or its
delegate) may incorporate into its analysis ratings, reports, opinions and other assessments issued
by third parties, including NRSROs. A board should evaluate the basis for using any third-party
assessment, including an NRSRO rating, in determining whether collateral meets the new
standard and would not rely on the use of an NRSRO rating as a standard by itself without
evaluating the quality of each NRSRO’s assessment. In this way, the board could determine
which third-party providers are credible and reliable and provide assessments that would be most
appropriate to incorporate in making determinations under the amended rule. Delegation of
these functions, as well as the use of third-party providers, may help to limit the potential
increase in burdens on the board. One commenter suggested that we not allow a fund board to
49

See NY City Bar Comment Letter (asserting that fund boards would be assigned responsibility for
making determinations that are not within their expertise and arguing that the ability to delegate
the determination does not relieve them of ultimate responsibility). See also infra section V.b.2.
See rule 5b-3(c)(1)(iv)(D) (requiring that unrated securities other than government securities be
“of comparable quality” to securities rated in the highest category by requisite NRSROs).

50

See Amended rule 5b-3(c)(1)(iv)(C); see also 2011 Proposing Release, supra note 10, at n.51
(“As in the current rule, the proposed rule would permit the board to delegate this credit quality
and liquidity determination.”). We expect that a fund’s written policies and procedures would
include guidelines for the fund’s delegate (typically, the investment adviser) in making required
determinations under rule 5b-3 and oversight of the fund adviser’s compliance in making such
determinations. See rule 38a-1. These policies and procedures typically would identify the
process to be followed by the board (or its delegate) in making these credit and liquidity
evaluations, including, as appropriate, the types of data to be used or factors to be considered and
the person(s) or position(s) responsible. They also typically would provide for regular reporting
to the board, as appropriate, about these evaluations, to allow the board to provide effective
oversight of the process.

16

consider credit ratings in determining if a repurchase agreement is fully collateralized, stating
that this would conflict with section 939A of the Dodd-Frank Act. 51 We believe, however, that
credit ratings can serve as a useful data point for evaluating credit quality, and as noted above, a
fund’s board (or its delegate) may not rely solely on the credit ratings of an NRSRO without
performing additional due diligence.
A fund that enters into repurchase agreements and relies on rule 5b-3 must maintain
written policies and procedures that are reasonably designed to comply with the conditions of the
rule, including the credit quality and liquidity requirements we are adopting today, and funds
may therefore have to amend their policies and procedures. 52 We also understand that credit
quality standards for securities collateralizing repurchase agreements are typically negotiated in
the agreements between funds and counterparties. 53 We understand that those standards
currently include a rating (for rated collateral securities) and any additional criteria that a fund
manager considers necessary to ensure that the credit quality of collateral securities meets the
fund’s requirements, or, for unrated securities, a comparable credit quality standard. The
amended rule does not prohibit fund boards (or their delegates) from considering the credit
quality standards in current repurchase agreements and policies and procedures adopted to

51

See Better Markets Comment Letter.

52

Registered funds are required to adopt and implement written policies and procedures reasonably
designed to prevent the fund’s violation of federal securities laws. See rule 38a-1(a); see also
infra sections IV.A and V.B.

53

Many repurchase market participants will only accept AAA-rated paper such as government
bonds as collateral. See Moorad Choudhry, The Repo Handbook (2d ed. 2010) at 298.
Counterparties to repurchase agreements generally assess counterparty credit risk exposure based
on the “haircut”–For example, $100 of securities collateralizing a loan of $97 produces a 3%
haircut. The haircut may be greater depending on the counterparties’ assessment of the collateral
provider’s creditworthiness. See Repo and Securities Lending, Staff Report No. 529, Federal
Reserve Bank of New York (Dec. 2011, Rev. Feb. 2013). Assessments of credit quality are not
standardized but are participant specific and negotiated at the time of the transaction. Id.

17

comply with the current rule as part of their analysis, provided that fund boards (or their
delegates) determine that the ratings specified in the repurchase agreements and policies and
procedures meet the standards we are adopting today, and that the agencies providing the ratings
used in the policies and procedures are credible and reliable for that use. A fund could also
revise its repurchase agreements and policies and procedures to change or eliminate the
consideration of specific credit ratings or to incorporate other third-party evaluations of credit
quality. 54
As discussed above, amended rule 5b-3 replaces the requirement that collateral for
repurchase agreements consist of securities rated in the highest category by the requisite
NRSROs (other than cash and government securities) with a requirement that the collateral other
than cash and government securities consist of securities issued by an issuer that has an
exceptionally strong capacity to meet its financial obligations and that are sufficiently liquid.
Consistent with the protection of investors and as necessary and appropriate in the public
interest, we are also amending rule 5b-3 to define an issuer to include an issuer of an
unconditional guarantee of the security. 55 We proposed this amendment to preserve a fund’s
ability to use the same types of collateral securities as it currently uses to satisfy the conditions of
rule 5b-3. We received no comments on this aspect of the proposal and are adopting it as
proposed. Thus, under amended rule 5b-3, a collateral security with an unconditional guarantee,
the issuer of which meets the new credit quality test, satisfies that element of the standard.

54

See 2011 Proposing Release, supra note 10, at n.58. An estimate of the potential costs is
discussed infra at section IV.A.

55

Amended rule 5b-3(c)(4) (defining “issuer” to mean “the issuer of a collateral security or the
issuer of an unconditional obligation of a person other than the issuer of the collateral security to
undertake to pay, upon presentment by the holder of the obligation (if required), the principal
amount of the underlying collateral security plus accrued interest when due or upon default.”).

18

B.

Forms N-1A, N-2, and N-3

We are also adopting amendments to Forms N-1A, N-2, and N-3 to remove the required
use of credit ratings assigned by an NRSRO. Forms N-1A, N-2, and N-3, among other things,
contain the requirements for shareholder reports of mutual funds, closed-end funds, and certain
insurance company separate accounts that offer variable annuities. 56
Currently, Forms N-1A, N-2, and N-3 require shareholder reports to include a table,
chart, or graph depicting portfolio holdings by reasonably identifiable categories (e.g., type of
security, industry sector, geographic region, credit quality, or maturity). 57 The forms require the
categories to be selected in a manner reasonably designed to depict clearly the types of
investments made by the fund, given its investment objectives. If credit quality is used to present
portfolio holdings, the forms currently require that credit quality be depicted using the credit
ratings assigned by a single NRSRO. We are amending Forms N-1A, N-2, and N-3, as
proposed, to no longer require the use of NRSRO credit ratings by funds that choose to use
credit quality categorizations in the required table, chart, or graph of portfolio holdings.
Accordingly, funds that choose to show credit quality categorizations in the required table, chart,
or graph may use alternative categorizations that are not based on NRSRO credit ratings.
In a change from the 2011 Proposing Release, however, under the amended forms, funds
that choose to continue to use credit ratings will no longer be restricted to using the credit ratings
assigned by a single NRSRO. Accordingly, funds that choose to depict credit quality using
credit ratings assigned by a credit rating agency may use different credit rating agencies for split56

Open-end management investment companies, commonly known as mutual funds, use Form N1A. Closed-end management investment companies use Form N-2. Separate accounts organized
as management investment companies that offer variable annuity contracts use Form N-3.

57

Item 27(d)(2) of Form N-1A; Instruction 6(a) to Item 24 of Form N-2; Instruction 6(i) to Item
28(a) of Form N-3.

19

rated securities (i.e., securities that have received different ratings from multiple credit rating
agencies) and they may use ratings provided by credit rating agencies that are not NRSROs. 58
Funds will also be required to describe how the credit quality of the holdings was determined,
and if credit ratings are used, a description of how they were identified and selected. 59
Four of the five substantive comments we received on the proposed amendments to
Forms N-1A, N-2, and N-3, supported eliminating the required use of NRSRO credit ratings to
depict credit quality. 60 Two of these commenters noted that shareholders would benefit from
information about the credit quality of a fund’s portfolio securities, whether determined by an
NRSRO or internally. 61
Although most commenters supported eliminating the required use of credit ratings to
depict credit quality, four commenters opposed the proposed requirement that a fund that
chooses to use NRSRO credit ratings must use the credit ratings of a single NRSRO. Instead,
these commenters recommended that when a security is split-rated, the fund be permitted to
choose which NRSRO rating to use, provided the choice is made consistently pursuant to a

58

We are replacing the term “ratings” with “credit ratings” and “nationally recognized statistical
rating organization ‘NRSRO’” with “credit rating agency” as defined under the Exchange Act.
See sections 3(a)(60) [15 U.S.C. 78c(a)(60)] and 3(a)(61) [15 U.S.C. 78c(a)(61)] of the Exchange
Act, which define “credit rating” and “credit rating agency”, respectively.

59

See Amended Item 27(d)(2) of Form N-1A; Amended Instruction 6(a) to Item 24 of Form N-2;
Amended Instruction 6(i) to Item 28(a) of Form N-3.

60

ICI Comment Letter; Vanguard Comment Letter; T. Rowe Price Comment Letter; Federated
Comment Letter (supporting the ICI’s comments). The fifth commenter argued that the
Commission is not required to remove references to credit ratings from the forms pursuant to
section 939A of the Dodd-Frank Act. See BlackRock Comment Letter. Regardless of whether
the Commission is required to remove from the forms references to credit ratings, the
Commission believes that the removal of such references is consistent with the purpose of section
939A of the Dodd-Frank Act.

61

ICI Comment Letter; Federated Comment Letter (supporting the ICI’s comments).

20

disclosed policy. 62 These commenters argued that this approach would benefit funds and
investors by allowing funds to disclose credit quality information in shareholder reports in a
manner consistent with marketing materials and internal investment policies. 63
We agree with commenters and have revised the final form amendments to provide this
additional degree of flexibility. Accordingly, the amended forms permit funds to consider
alternative approaches to presenting credit quality that accurately and effectively describe the
credit quality of the fund’s portfolio. For example, under the amended forms, a fund could have
a policy of disclosing the median credit quality rating for split-rated securities instead of only
using the ratings of a single credit rating agency (when more than two rating agencies rate the
security). 64 In the 2011 Proposing Release, we proposed to maintain the general requirement
that ratings be selected from a single NRSRO because we were concerned about the possibility
that a fund may select the most favorable credit ratings among credit ratings assigned by multiple
NRSROs. On balance, we are persuaded by commenters that the benefits of this additional
flexibility outweigh the potential “cherry picking” concern. We believe that the risks associated
with cherry picking ratings are mitigated by the disclosure requirements discussed below. 65 For
example, if a fund discloses that, with respect to split-rated securities, it is the fund’s policy to
62

ICI Comment Letter; Vanguard Comment Letter; T. Rowe Price Comment Letter; Federated
Comment Letter (supporting the ICI’s comments). Two commenters noted that the Financial
Industry Regulatory Authority (“FINRA”) permits funds to use different approaches to portray
the credit quality of split-rated bonds in marketing materials (noting further that funds receive
credit rating information through data feeds and that it would be more cost efficient for funds to
rely on a single data feed to comply with one consistent SEC/FINRA requirement). See ICI
Comment Letter; Vanguard Comment Letter.

63

See ICI Comment Letter; Federated Comment Letter (supporting the ICI’s comments); Vanguard
Comment Letter.

64

See infra note 70 and accompanying and following text (discussing the difference between using
median and average credit ratings).

65

See Amended Item 27(d)(2) of Form N-1A; Amended Instruction 6(a) to Item 24 of Form N-2;
Amended Instruction 6(i) to Item 28(a) of Form N-3.

21

select the highest credit rating provided by a credit rating agency, investors will be on notice that
the fund has made a decision not to include potentially lower and more conservative measures of
credit quality. In addition, we believe that in some circumstances selecting credit ratings from
more than one credit rating agency may reflect a more comprehensive approach to credit quality
analysis that results in information about credit quality that may be more accurate or complete.
For example, a fund that reviews credit ratings from three rating agencies, discards the outliers
(i.e., the highest and lowest ratings), and selects the middle rating, 66 has evaluated credit quality
from a broader set of market participants that may lead to a more complete evaluation of credit
quality.
Under the amended forms, funds that choose to depict portfolio holdings according to
credit quality must include a description of how the credit quality of the holdings was
determined. 67 This description should include a discussion of the credit quality evaluation
process, the rationale for its selection, and an overview of the factors considered, such as the
terms of the security (e.g., interest rate, and time to maturity), the obligor’s capacity to repay the
debt, and the quality of any collateral. If the fund uses credit ratings issued by a credit rating
agency to depict credit quality, the fund should explain how the credit ratings were identified and
selected, and include this description near, or as part of, the graphical representation. 68 This
66

See, e.g., Fact Sheet, BlackRock Bond Index Fund (portraying credit quality using the median
credit rating from among S&P, Moody’s, and Fitch, when all three agencies rate a security),
available at
https://www2.blackrock.com/webcore/litService/search/getDocument.seam?venue=PUB_IND&s
ource=CONTENT&serviceName=publicServiceView&ContentID=1111147239&venue=FP_ML
; Fact Sheet, Vanguard High-Yield Tax-Exempt Fund Investor Shares (same), available at
https://personal.vanguard.com/us/funds/snapshot?FundId=0044&FundIntExt=INT.

67

See supra note 65; see also ICI Comment Letter (recommending that funds be permitted to
choose which NRSRO rating to use for split-rated securities, provided that the choice is made
pursuant to a disclosed policy).

68

If a fund does not use credit ratings, its description of how the credit quality of the holdings was

22

description should include, if applicable, a discussion of: (i) the criteria considered or process
used in selecting the credit ratings (e.g., the fund might use the median credit rating from among
three rating agencies 69); (ii) how the fund evaluated those criteria (i.e., the due diligence
performed); (iii) how the fund reports credit ratings for any security that is not rated by the credit
rating agency selected if the fund has a policy of using the ratings of a single rating agency (e.g.,
has the fund selected a designated alternate rating agency); (iv) how the fund reports credit
ratings for any security that is not rated by any credit rating agency (i.e., the process for selfrating); or (v) other fund policies on selecting credit ratings for purposes of disclosure. We
expect that this discussion, modified and expanded upon by funds as appropriate, will provide
investors with insight into how the fund identified and selected the credit ratings used in
depicting the fund’s portfolio by credit quality.
We recognize that under the final form amendments, a fund has a variety of options when
depicting its portfolio holdings using credit quality. For example, a fund might choose not to use
credit ratings and could rely instead on internal credit assessments. If a fund does not use credit
ratings, we note that it might be misleading for a fund to describe its portfolio holdings quality
with similar descriptions as the ratings nomenclature used by rating agencies (e.g., AAA, Aa), or
to characterize the securities as “rated.” If a fund chooses to depict its portfolio using credit

determined would also need to be near, or as part of, the graphical representation. See Amended
Item 27(d)(2) of Form N-1A; Amended Instruction 6(a) to Item 24 of Form N-2; Amended
Instruction 6(i) to Item 28(a) of Form N-3.
69

For example, Morningstar prefers that bonds be classified using the Barclays Capital Family of
Indices ratings rules (i.e., use the middle rating of Moody’s, S&P and Fitch after dropping the
highest and lowest available ratings; if only two rating agencies rate a security then the lowest
rating should be used; and if only one agency rates a security then that rating should be used).
See Morningstar Fixed-Income Style Box Methodology (Apr. 30, 2012) at
http://corporate.morningstar.com/us/documents/MethodologyDocuments/MethodologyPapers/Fix
edIncomeStyleBoxMeth.pdf.

23

ratings issued by a credit rating agency, a fund could choose to use the median credit rating from
among multiple credit rating agencies (discarding the highest and lowest ratings) when a security
is split-rated. 70 We note, however, that it might be misleading for a fund to disclose an average
credit quality rating that is based on ratings from multiple credit rating agencies because credit
rating agencies may use different criteria to evaluate the credit quality of an issuer. A fund might
also choose other methods for evaluating credit quality of portfolio securities, such as a policy of
selecting the highest or lowest credit rating for split-rated securities among the ratings issued by
certain specified rating agencies. 71 As discussed above, a fund must include in its disclosure a
description of how the credit quality of the holdings was determined, no matter the method used.
The amended forms are intended to provide funds with the flexibility to present credit
ratings in a manner that more clearly explains the credit quality of the fund’s portfolio and the
method by which the fund determined that quality.
IV.

PAPERWORK REDUCTION ACT
Certain provisions of the amendments we are adopting contain “collections of

information” within the meaning of the Paperwork Reduction Act of 1995 (“PRA”). 72 The titles
for the existing collections of information we are amending are: (i) “Rule 30e-1 under the
Investment Company Act of 1940, Reports to Stockholders of Management Companies”; 73 and

70

Id.; see also supra note 66.

71

See, e.g., Fact Sheet, Fidelity Institutional Money Market Prime Money Market Portfolio –
Institutional CL (categorizing portfolio credit quality for investment grade taxable and municipal
bond funds and multi-asset class funds with a fixed income component using the highest credit
rating among Moody’s, S&P, or Fitch), available at https://fundresearch.fidelity.com/mutualfunds/composition/31607A208.

72

44 U.S.C. 3501-3520.

73

The amendments to Forms N-1A, N-2, and N-3 relate solely to the contents of fund shareholder
reports. The PRA burden associated with fund shareholder reports is included in the burden
associated with the collection of information for rule 30e-1 under the Investment Company Act

24

(ii) “Rule 38a-1 under the Investment Company Act of 1940, Compliance procedures and
practices of registered investment companies.” We adopted those rules pursuant to the
Investment Company Act. There is currently no approved collection of information for rule
5b-3, and the amendments do not create any new collections under that rule. The amendments to
rule 5b-3 do, however, affect the collection of information burden for rule 38a-1.
An agency may not conduct or sponsor, and a person is not required to respond to, a
collection of information unless it displays a currently valid control number. We published
notice soliciting comments on the collection of information requirements in the 2011 Proposing
Release and submitted the proposed collections of information to the Office of Management and
Budget (“OMB”) for review in accordance with 44 U.S.C. 3507(d) and 5 CFR 1320.11 under the
control numbers 3235-0025 (rule 30e-1) and 3235-0586 (rule 38a-1). We received no comments
on the PRA estimates contained in the 2011 Proposing Release.
A.

Rule 38a-1

Rule 5b-3 under the Investment Company Act allows funds to treat the acquisition of a
repurchase agreement as an acquisition of securities collateralizing the repurchase agreement for
purposes of sections 5(b)(1) and 12(d)(3) of the Investment Company Act under certain
conditions. Rule 5b-3, as amended, requires that the securities collateralizing a repurchase
agreement consist of securities that the fund's board of directors, or its delegate, determines are
issued (or have unconditional guarantees that are issued) by an issuer that has an exceptionally
strong capacity to meet its financial obligations and are highly liquid. 74 To that end, the fund's
board of directors, pursuant to rule 38a-1 under the Investment Company Act, must have

rather than Forms N-1A, N-2 and N-3.
74

Amended rule 5b-3(c)(1)(iv)(C). See supra section III.A.

25

procedures that are reasonably designed to ensure that the fund is able to comply with the
conditions of amended rule 5b-3, including the credit quality and liquidity requirements outlined
in the amended rule. 75 As discussed above, these procedures should be designed to limit
collateral securities to those that are likely to retain a stable market value and that, in ordinary
circumstances, the fund would be able to liquidate quickly in the event of a default. This rule
38a-1 collection of information will be mandatory for funds that rely on rule 5b-3. Records of
information made in connection with this requirement will be required to be maintained for
inspection by Commission staff, but the collection will not otherwise be submitted to the
Commission. To the extent that the Commission receives confidential information pursuant to
this collection of information, such information would be kept confidential, subject to the
provisions of applicable law. 76
We do not anticipate that the amendments to rule 5b-3 will significantly change
collection of information burdens under rule 38a-1 because we believe funds would likely rely
significantly on their current policies and procedures to determine the credit quality of collateral
securities and comply with amended rule 5b-3. As we indicated above, we understand that credit
quality standards for securities collateralizing repurchase agreements typically are contained in
the repurchase agreements between funds and counterparties. 77 We understand that those
75

Under rule 38a-1, funds must have written policies and procedures reasonably designed to
prevent violation of the federal securities laws. Rule 38a-1(a)(1). Funds thus would have
policies and procedures for complying with rule 5b-3, which would include policies and
procedures relating to credit quality determinations of unrated collateral securities, if appropriate.

76

See, e.g., 5 U.S.C. 552. Exemption 4 of the Freedom of Information Act provides an exemption
for “trade secrets and commercial or financial information obtained from a person and privileged
or confidential.” 5 U.S.C. 552(b)(4). Exemption 8 of the Freedom of Information Act provides
an exemption for matters that are “contained in or related to examination, operating, or condition
reports prepared by, on behalf of, or for the use of an agency responsible for the regulation or
supervision of financial institutions.” 5 U.S.C. 552(b)(8).

77

See supra note 53 and accompanying text.

26

standards currently include a rating (for rated collateral securities) and any additional criteria a
fund manager considers necessary to ensure that the credit quality of the collateral securities
meets the fund’s requirements, or, for unrated securities, a comparable credit quality standard.
Counterparties provide collateral securities to conform to these standards and funds confirm that
the securities are conforming. As we have noted above, funds can continue to consider
evaluations of outside sources, including credit ratings that the board determines are credible and
reliable in making their credit quality determinations under the amended rule. We expect that
funds will likely continue to rely on their current policies and procedures (i.e., using credit
quality standards that include ratings currently set forth in their repurchase agreements with
counterparties). Thus, we do not expect that the amendments to rule 5b-3 will significantly
change the current collection of information burden estimates for rule 38a-1. 78 Nevertheless,
funds may review their repurchase agreements and policies and procedures that address rule 5b-3
compliance and make technical changes to those documents in response to the amendments.
Staff estimated in the proposal and continues to believe that it will take, on average, 1.5 hours of
a senior business analyst’s time to perform this review and make any technical changes for an
individual fund portfolio, for an estimated one-time additional burden of 15,176 hours for all
fund portfolios (other than money market fund portfolios). 79 Amortized over three years, the

78

The current approved annual burden for rule 38a-1 under the PRA is 248,455 hours. As
discussed below, as amended, the collection of information requirement will be 263,631 hours
(248,455 + 15,176).

79

For purposes of this PRA analysis, we assume that all funds enter into repurchase agreements and
rely on rule 5b-3. We have not included money market funds in our estimates, however, because
they are subject to different requirements for the collateralization of repurchase agreements under
rule 2a-7. See text accompanying note 34. The staff’s estimate is based on staff examination of
industry data as of August 31, 2013 and includes 10,117 fund portfolios. We therefore estimate
that there will be 10,117 respondents to this collection of information. The amount is calculated
as follows: 10,117 fund portfolios x 1.5 hours = 15,176 one-time additional burden hours for all
fund portfolios. We estimate that the one-time additional annual burden is 1.5 hours per

27

staff estimates that the estimated annual aggregate burden will be 5,059 burden hours. 80
We anticipate that the fund’s board will review the fund manager’s recommendation, but
that the cost of this review will be incorporated in the fund’s overall annual board costs and
would not result in any particular additional cost. We received no comments on these estimates
and therefore have not modified them. 81
B.

Rule 30e-1

The amendments to Forms N-1A, N-2, and N-3 eliminate the required use of NRSRO
credit ratings by funds that choose to use credit quality categorizations in the table, chart, or
graph of portfolio holdings provided in shareholder reports. The collection of information is
mandatory for those funds that choose to use credit quality categorizations in these forms. If a
fund chooses to depict portfolio holdings according to credit quality, the fund must include a
description of how the credit quality of the holdings was determined. If credit ratings assigned
by a credit rating agency are used, the fund must disclose how it identified and selected the credit
ratings. Responses to the disclosure requirements will not be kept confidential.
Although funds would remain obligated to provide a table, chart, or graph of portfolio
holdings by reasonably identifiable categories, the amendments require that certain funds must
respondent.
The monetized burden hours are calculated as follows: 15,176 hours x $245 per hour =
$3,718,120 one-time additional costs. The staff estimates that the internal cost for time spent by a
senior business analyst is $245 per hour. This estimate, as well as other internal time cost
estimates made in this analysis, is derived from SIFMA’s Management and Professional Earnings
in the Securities Industry 2012, modified by Commission staff to account for an 1800-hour work
week and multiplied by 5.35 to account for bonuses, firm size, employee benefits and overhead.
80

The amount is calculated as follows: 15,176 burden hours / 3 = 5,059 burden hours. Amortized
over three years, staff estimates that the annual aggregate burden cost will be: $3,718,820 /3 =
$1,239,373.

81

The PRA costs have been modified slightly since the 2011 Proposing Release to reflect a more
current estimate of the number of fund portfolios affected, as well as updated hourly wages based
on the 2012 SIFMA table.

28

make new disclosures. Under our proposed amendment, we estimated that there would be no
additional collection of information burden as a result of proposing to remove the required use of
credit ratings from the forms. 82 Under our amended rule, however, funds that choose to use
credit quality categorizations must disclose how the fund made the credit quality determinations,
and if the fund uses credit ratings issued by a credit rating agency, the fund must disclose how it
identified and selected the credit ratings. 83
Accordingly, based on staff experience, the staff estimates that it will take, on average, 3
hours of an attorney’s time to perform this review and make any technical changes to an
individual fund’s disclosures, for an estimated burden of 32,049 hours for all funds. 84 Amortized
over three years, the staff estimates that the estimated annual aggregate burden will be 10,683
burden hours and that there will be approximately 10,683 respondents. 85

82

See 2011 Proposing Release, section IV.C.

83

The current approved annual burden for rule 30e-1 under the PRA is 903,000 hours. As
discussed below, as amended, the collection of information requirement will be 935,049 hours
(903,000 + 32,049).

84

The staff’s estimate of the number of funds is based on staff examination of industry data as of
August 31, 2013 and includes 10,683 funds that collectively file reports on Forms N-1A, N-2, and
N-3 each year. We note that this estimate is conservative because it is likely that some fund
complexes will achieve economies of scale when revising their disclosures, do not use credit
quality when describing portfolio holdings, or whose current disclosures already satisfy the
requirements of the amended rule and thus would not need to make any changes. The amount is
calculated as follows: 10,683 funds x 3 hours = 32,049 one-time additional burden hours for all
funds. We estimate that the one-time additional annual burden is 3 hours per respondent.
The monetized burden hours are calculated as follows: 32,049 hours x $379 per hour =
$12,146,571 one-time additional costs. The staff estimates that the internal cost for time spent by
an in-house attorney is $379 per hour. This estimate, as well as other internal time cost estimates
made in this analysis, is derived from SIFMA’s Management and Professional Earnings in the
Securities Industry 2012, modified by Commission staff to account for an 1800-hour work week
and multiplied by 5.35 to account for bonuses, firm size, employee benefits and overhead.

85

The amount is calculated as follows: 32,049 burden hours / 3 = 10,683 burden hours. Amortized
over three years, staff estimates that the annual aggregate burden cost will be: $12,146,571 / 3 =
$4,048,857.

29

V.

ECONOMIC ANALYSIS
A.

Overview

As discussed above, we are adopting rule and form amendments to implement section
939A of the Dodd-Frank Act. The amendments to rule 5b-3 replace a NRSRO credit rating
standard with alternative credit quality and liquidity criteria that are designed to achieve the same
purposes as the NRSRO credit rating standard without imposing unnecessarily burdensome
costs. The amendments to Forms N-1A, N-2, and N-3 remove the required use of credit ratings
when portraying credit quality in shareholder reports, but require that those funds include a
description of how the credit quality of the holdings were determined, and if credit ratings
assigned by a credit rating agency are used, how the credit ratings were identified and selected.
The regulatory changes adopted today will directly affect investment companies registered under
the Investment Company Act and could affect the demand for rating agencies’ services by
eliminating the required use of NRSRO credit ratings in rule 5b-3 and Forms N-1A, N-2, and N3. The amendments to rule 5b-3 may also affect other parties such as repurchase agreement
counterparties (e.g., broker-dealers and banks), investors, and issuers of collateral securities.
Finally, we recognize that the elimination of the required use of NRSRO credit ratings in rule
5b-3 and Forms N-1A, N-2, and N-3 may reduce the incentive for credit rating agencies to
register as NRSROs and thereby be subject to the Commission’s oversight and statutory and
regulatory requirements applicable to NRSROs. We received no comments on the cost-benefit
analysis contained the 2011 Proposing Release.
At the outset, the Commission notes that, where possible, we have attempted to quantify
the costs and benefits expected to result from adopting the amendments to rule 5b-3 and Forms
N-1A, N-2, and N-3. However, wherever the discussion of costs or benefits is not quantified in
this section it is because the Commission is unable to quantify the economic effects because it
30

lacks the information necessary to provide a reasonable estimate. For example, as discussed
below, the Commission does not have available to it comprehensive information on the exposure
of funds to different repurchase agreement market segments, the nature and type of collateral
used in repurchase agreements, or the extent to which funds rely on rule 5b-3. Because of this
lack of data, including the extent to which funds may rely on rule 5b-3, we are unable to quantify
the costs to comply with the amended rule and note that the costs could vary from our estimates.
We discuss below the economic baseline, costs and benefits of our final rule and form
amendments, alternatives considered, as well as the impact on efficiency, competition, and
capital formation.
B.

Rule 5b-3

Rule 5b-3, as amended, permits a fund to treat the acquisition of a repurchase agreement
as an acquisition of securities collateralizing the repurchase agreement for purposes of sections
5(b)(1) and 12(d)(3) of the Investment Company Act if the collateral other than cash or
government securities consists of securities that the fund's board of directors, or its delegate,
determines at the time the repurchase agreement is entered into are: (i) issued by an issuer that
has an exceptionally strong capacity to meet its financial obligations; and (ii) sufficiently liquid
that they can be sold at approximately their carrying value in the ordinary course of business
within seven calendar days.
1.

Economic Baseline

The economic baseline against which we measure the economic effects of these
amendments is the regulatory framework as it exists immediately before the adoption of today’s
amendments. Currently, rule 5b-3 allows funds to treat the acquisition of a repurchase
agreement as an acquisition of securities collateralizing the repurchase agreement for certain

31

diversification and broker-dealer counterparty limit purposes under the Investment Company Act
if the obligation of the seller to repurchase the securities from the fund is “collateralized fully.”
In general, under rule 5b-3, a fund investing in a repurchase agreement looks to the value and
liquidity of the securities collateralizing the repurchase agreement rather than the
creditworthiness of the counterparty for satisfaction of the repurchase agreement. Under current
requirements, a repurchase agreement is collateralized fully if, among other things, the collateral
for the repurchase agreement consists entirely of (i) cash items, (ii) government securities,
(iii) securities that at the time the repurchase agreement is entered into are rated in the highest
rating category by the “Requisite NRSROs” or (iv) unrated securities that are of a comparable
quality to securities that are rated in the highest rating category by the Requisite NRSROs, as
determined by the fund's board of directors or its delegate.
As of the end of 2012, the total repurchase agreement market approximated $3 trillion. 86
The repurchase agreement market has two primary segments, bilateral and tri-party. 87 The
bilateral segment comprises cash-driven transactions against specific collateral while the tri-party
segment comprises cash-driven transactions against general collateral. We believe that
investment companies’ primary exposure to repurchase agreements is through the tri-party
market, but the Commission does not have available to it comprehensive information on the
exposure in either market segment. The collateral used in the approximately $2 trillion tri-party
market is dominated by government securities: approximately 35% consists of Treasury

86

See Financial Stability Oversight Council, 2013 Annual Report at 65-66, available at
http://www.treasury.gov/initiatives/fsoc/Documents/FSOC%202013%20Annual%20Report.pdf

87

See id. (noting a third repo market segment—the general collateral finance market—which
primarily settles inter-dealer transactions on the tri-party repo platform).

32

securities and approximately 50% consists of agency mortgage-backed securities, agency
debentures, and agency collateralized mortgage obligations. 88
While we believe that many funds invest in tri-party repurchase agreements,
comprehensive information about the extent to which funds invest in these agreements is not
available to us. Nor are we able to estimate how often funds rely on rule 5b-3 when entering into
repurchase agreements, or the extent to which fund repurchase agreements are collateralized with
securities other than cash or government securities. However, we are able to estimate the extent
of money market fund participation in the tri-party repurchase market using Form N-MFP data,
which shows that money market funds held approximately $591 billion in tri-party repurchase
agreements as of the end of 2012. While we understand almost all funds rely on rule 5b-3 on
occasion (for example when approaching diversification limits or avoiding restrictions on
investments in certain entities), we do not have the information necessary to determine how
frequently those funds rely on rule 5b-3 in their daily transactions in repurchase agreements.
Accordingly, we are largely unable to quantify the benefits and costs discussed below.
2.

Economic Analysis

Amended rule 5b-3 is intended to establish a similar credit quality standard to the
NRSRO credit rating standard we are replacing in order to achieve the same objectives that the
NRSRO credit rating reference requirement was designed to achieve in the existing rule, i.e.,
limit collateral securities to those that are likely to retain a stable market value and that, under
ordinary circumstances, the fund would be able to liquidate quickly at or near its carrying value
in the event of a counterparty default. Although amended rule 5b-3 seeks to maintain a similar
degree of credit quality as the standard it replaces, the Dodd-Frank Act mandate is designed to
88

Id.

33

reduce reliance on NRSRO credit ratings. 89
Some fund boards or their delegates, after independent analysis, might make a
determination of credit quality that comports with the analysis of the NRSRO credit ratings and,
accordingly, make no substantive changes to the funds’ investments in repurchase agreements.
Other fund boards might turn to non-NRSRO sources (“third-party providers”) to satisfy the new
requirements, which may result in a different pool of assets from which the funds may select for
collateralizing repurchase agreements. We believe that this flexibility of allowing for a broader
range of credit quality models will increase competition for such models, whether from internal
assessments made by the fund or from external assessments made by third-party providers such
as credit rating agencies. As a result, credit assessments, and the repurchase agreement market in
general, may become more efficient and may promote capital formation through a more accurate
assessment of credit risk that may increase investment in repurchase agreements.
We recognize, as discussed above, that funds typically establish standards for the credit
quality of collateral securities (that include credit ratings and additional credit quality criteria
required by the fund) in repurchase agreements with counterparties. 90 Funds could change their
policies and procedures to reflect changes made to the rule by the amendments, but the rule
would not prohibit funds from considering the standards in current repurchase agreements and
policies and procedures provided that the fund’s board or its delegate made the determination
that those standards satisfy the standards in amended rule 5b-3. As a result, amended rule 5b-3
may not significantly change the types of collateral securities held by funds relying on rule 5b-3.

89

See supra note 12.

90

See supra text preceding note 53.

34

Amended rule 5b-3 requires the fund’s board or its delegate to make a determination
about the collateral of each repurchase agreement. This will increase the regulatory burden on
the fund’s board, 91 but we believe that the burden is significantly reduced by the fund board’s
ability to incorporate ratings, reports, analyses, and other assessments issued by third parties,
including NRSRO ratings that the fund’s board concludes are credible and reliable for purposes
of making the evaluation. Moreover, fund boards that find these increased regulatory burdens to
be excessive can mitigate them by restricting the fund to repurchase agreement collateral that
consists of cash and government securities.
If the fund’s board decides to rely primarily on NRSRO ratings as part of the process of
evaluating credit quality, the fund may incur some additional costs from today’s amendments. 92
However, some fund boards may decide not to rely primarily on NRSRO ratings, perhaps
because of a more cost efficient way of making the required determinations or because they
believe NRSRO ratings are not helpful or sufficient in evaluating credit quality. Reducing the
emphasis on NRSRO ratings could also adversely affect the quality of NRSRO ratings.
Currently, the importance attached to NRSRO ratings may impart franchise value to the
NRSRO’s ratings business. By eliminating references to NRSRO ratings in Federal regulations,
section 939A of the Dodd-Frank Act could reduce these franchise values and mitigate NRSROs’
incentives to produce credible and reliable ratings. Moreover, the Commission recognizes that
the elimination of the required use of credit ratings in Commission rules and forms may reduce
the incentive for credit rating agencies to register as NRSROs with the Commission and thereby
be subject to the Commission’s oversight and the statutory and regulatory requirements

91

See NY City Bar Comment Letter, supra note 44.

92

See supra text following note 53.

35

applicable to NRSROs. To the extent that the quality and accuracy of NRSRO ratings is
adversely affected, negative impacts on the capital allocation process and economic efficiency
would result.
The new methodologies that the fund’s board employs may result in a pool of assets from
which the fund may select for collateralizing repurchase agreements that is different from a pool
based on NRSRO ratings. This may affect the fund relative to the baseline of NRSRO ratings by
including or excluding as collateral assets that are different from the collateral permitted under
the current rule. In turn, this could increase the credit risk in the pool of collateral assets or
decrease the return earned by investing in repurchase agreements. Both of these effects may lead
to a less efficient market for repurchase agreement collateral. Issuers’ ability to raise capital may
also be adversely affected to the extent that issuers of collateral securities lose the regulatory
preference that currently exists because of the required use of NRSRO ratings within rule 5b-3.
We do not, however, believe that the amended rule is likely to lead to the acceptance of riskier
collateral in practice because the standard we are adopting is very similar to the standard
articulated by the NRSROs for securities that have received the highest ratings. In addition, we
anticipate that fund boards and advisers will retain the credit quality standards in their current
repurchase agreements and their existing policies and procedures that address compliance with
current rule 5b-3 and include ratings that they believe are credible and reliable.
Although we believe that boards of funds relying on rule 5b-3 have established policies
and procedures for complying with the rule, 93 funds may incur costs to revise existing policies
and procedures for investing in repurchase agreements to comply with amended rule 5b-3. We
recognize that increased compliance costs are a necessary result of our amendments to rule 5b-3
93

See rule 38a-1(a).

36

and may disproportionately impact smaller funds to the extent these funds do not today have
policies and procedures for assessing creditworthiness. As noted above, we are not able to
quantify many of the costs (and benefits) discussed above. However, we estimate that each fund
will incur, at a minimum, the collection of information costs discussed in the Paperwork
Reduction Act section for a total average one-time cost of approximately $368 per fund. 94 Funds
may also incur additional costs in complying with the amendments which we are unable to
quantify, for the reasons discussed above.
3.

Alternatives

In adopting today’s amendments to rule 5b-3, the Commission considered, as noted by
one commenter, including specific factors or tests that a fund board must apply in performing its
credit analysis under the rule. 95 As noted above, the number and scope of factors that may be
appropriate to making a credit quality determination with respect to a security may vary
significantly depending on the particular security and through time. Accordingly, we are not
adopting specific factors or tests that a fund board must apply in performing credit analysis, but
may provide guidance in the future. 96
We also considered different standards to replace credit ratings that would help ensure
that funds can liquidate collateral quickly in the event of a default. These alternatives included,
for example, omitting an explicit liquidity requirement because securities in the “highest rating
category” generally are more liquid than lower quality securities. Other liquidity alternatives we
considered included limiting collateral securities only to cash and government securities because
94

See supra note 79 and accompanying text. Staff estimates that all funds will incur a one-time
aggregate cost of approximately $3.7 million to make any necessary changes related to
collections of information under the Paperwork Reduction Act. Id.

95

See supra note 43.

96

See supra notes 43-46 and accompanying text.

37

liquidity may decline between the time of acquisition and the time of default, or prohibiting a
fund from relying on rule 5b-3 if, at any point after the time a fund enters into a repurchase
agreement, the collateral could no longer be liquidated within seven calendar days. After
considering the alternatives, we believe that amended rule 5b-3 strikes a better balance than the
alternatives by imposing a liquidity requirement that is similar to the liquidity standard inherent
to the credit quality rating required under the current rule, while not unduly restricting funds’
flexibility to utilize a larger pool of assets for collateralizing repurchase agreements.
C.

Forms N-1A, N-2, and N-3

Forms N-1A, N-2, and N-3, as amended, eliminate the required use of NRSRO credit
ratings by funds that choose to use credit quality categorizations in the required table, chart, or
graph of portfolio holdings. If a fund chooses to depict portfolio holdings according to credit
quality, the fund must include a description of how the credit quality of the holdings was
determined. If a fund uses credit ratings assigned by a credit rating agency to depict credit
quality, the fund must disclose how it identified and selected the credit ratings.
1.

Economic Baseline

As noted above, the economic baseline against which we measure the economic effects is
the regulatory framework as it exists immediately before the adoption of today’s amendments.
Currently, Forms N-1A, N-2, and N-3 require shareholder reports to include a table, chart, or
graph depicting portfolio holdings by reasonably identifiable categories (e.g., type of security,
industry sector, geographic region, credit quality, or maturity). The forms require the categories
to be selected in a manner reasonably designed to depict clearly the types of investments made
by the fund, given its investment objectives. If credit quality is used to present portfolio
holdings, the forms currently require that credit quality be depicted using the credit ratings

38

assigned by a single NRSRO.
We believe, based on staff experience, that the majority of funds choose to depict their
portfolios using credit quality, and accordingly, report credit ratings from a single NRSRO. As
discussed above, we conservatively estimate that 10,683 funds collectively file reports on Forms
N-1A, N-2, and N-3 each year and will be affected by the amendments. 97
2.

Economic Analysis

The Dodd-Frank Act mandate is designed to reduce potential reliance on NRSRO credit
ratings. Under the amendments, funds have greater flexibility to assess and depict credit quality,
which may lead to better-informed investors who can, in turn, make better capital allocation
decisions. Accordingly, better-informed investors may make more effective investment
decisions based on their risk tolerance and may promote increased competition among funds.
We note, however, that funds might choose to report credit quality in a more positive light than
is possible under the prior requirement to use the credit ratings from a single NRSRO. However,
as discussed above, the disclosure requirements we are adopting today should mitigate many of
the potential adverse consequences. As a result, today’s amendments may have a varied effect
on investors’ ability to make effective capital allocation choices.
Because we do not anticipate that these amendments will result in large changes in the
portfolios held by funds or their investors, we do not believe the amendments would have more
than a marginal effect on efficiency or capital formation. A potential benefit may arise by
allowing funds to use different credit rating agencies for split-rated securities because that may
promote competition between credit rating agencies to provide ratings that are more accurate if
funds use the most accurate ratings for each part of their portfolios even if those ratings come
97

See supra note 84.

39

from different credit rating agencies. This may foster innovation in the industry, and it may
foster the growth of niche credit rating agencies. Although some funds may eliminate the
specific use of credit ratings in their depiction of portfolio credit quality, we anticipate that many
of those funds are likely to consider some outside analyses in evaluating the credit quality of
portfolio securities. 98 A fund’s consideration of external analyses by third-party sources
determined to be credible and reliable may contribute to the accuracy of funds’ determinations
and thus help funds arrive at consistent and more accurate depictions of credit quality.
Under the amended forms, funds may continue to depict portfolio holdings as they do
today: funds can continue to depict portfolio holdings without making reference to credit
quality, and funds can continue to depict portfolio holdings using credit ratings from one
NRSRO. Today’s amendments impose no new costs on funds that depict portfolio holdings
based on criteria other than credit quality, but they do impose small additional costs on funds that
choose to portray portfolio holdings using credit ratings from one NRSRO because they must
make new disclosures about how the ratings were identified and selected. We believe that the
majority of costs related to today’s amendments to Forms N-1A, N-2, and N-3 are the costs
described above related to the collections of information under the Paperwork Reduction Act.
Accordingly, we estimate that funds on average will incur costs of approximately $1,137 per
fund in complying with the amendments. 99 In addition, funds may voluntarily incur additional
costs if they choose to develop and apply new methodologies to depict credit quality. Funds that

98

Funds may elect to use a combination of factors, including NRSRO credit ratings, in depicting
credit quality; or funds may use or establish entirely new methods of depicting credit quality. See
ICI Comment Letter; Federated Comment Letter (supporting the ICI Comment Letter).

99

See supra note 84 and accompanying text. Staff estimates that all funds will incur a one-time
aggregate cost of approximately $12.1 million to make any necessary changes to the registration
statement related to collections of information under the Paperwork Reduction Act. Id.

40

choose to do so will incur a cost not only to determine the credit quality of portfolio holdings but
also a cost to include in the registration statement a description of how the credit quality of
portfolio holdings was determined, and if credit ratings are used, how the ratings were identified
and selected.
3.

Alternatives

In adopting the amendments to the forms, the Commission considered replacing the
required use of credit ratings with an option to depict a fund’s portfolio by credit quality using
the credit ratings of only a single credit rating agency. This approach, proposed in 2011, was
intended to eliminate the possibility that a fund could choose to use NRSRO credit ratings and
then select the most favorable ratings among the credit ratings assigned by multiple NRSROs.
As discussed above, a number of commenters suggested that funds be permitted to use the credit
ratings assigned by more than one NRSRO for split-rated securities, provided the choice is made
consistently, pursuant to a disclosed policy. On balance, we believe that the benefits of this
additional flexibility outweigh the potential costs associated with the possibility that funds cherry
pick the highest credit rating available. We note that the risks associated with cherry picking
ratings are mitigated by the fact that the forms, as amended, require that funds disclose how they
identified and selected the credit ratings, which would include, for example, a fund policy that
selects the highest credit rating available.
VI.

FINAL REGULATORY FLEXIBILITY ANALYSIS
The Commission has prepared the following Final Regulatory Flexibility Analysis

(“FRFA”) in accordance with section 4(a) of the Regulatory Flexibility Act regarding the rule
and form amendments we are adopting today to give effect to provisions of the Dodd-Frank

41

Act. 100 The FRFA relates to amendments to rule 5b-3 under the Investment Company Act and
Forms N-1A, N-2, and N-3 under the Investment Company Act and Securities Act. We prepared
an Initial Regulatory Flexibility Analysis (“IRFA”) in conjunction with the 2011 Proposing
Release in March 2011. 101
A.

Need for and Objectives of the Rule and Form Amendments

As described more fully in sections I and III of this Release, to implement section 939A
of the Dodd-Frank Act, the Commission is adopting amendments to (i) rule 5b-3 to eliminate
references to the credit rating and replace it with an alternative standard of creditworthiness that
is intended to achieve the same objectives that the credit rating requirement was designed to
achieve and (ii) Forms N-1A, N-2, and N-3 to eliminate the required use of NRSRO credit
ratings by funds that choose to use credit quality categorizations in the required table, chart, or
graph of portfolio holdings in their shareholder reports, and to permit funds that choose to depict
credit quality using credit ratings assigned by a credit rating agency to use different credit rating
agencies for split-rated securities.
B.

Significant Issues Raised by Public Comment

In the 2011 Proposing Release, we requested comment on the IRFA. In particular, we
sought comment on how many small entities would be subject to the proposed rule and form
amendments and whether the effect of the proposed rule and form amendments on small entities
subject to them would be economically significant. None of the comment letters we received
addressed the IRFA. None of the comment letters made comments about the effect of the rule
and form amendments on small investment companies.

100

5 U.S.C. 604(a).

101

See 2011 Proposing Release, supra note 10, at section VIII.

42

C.

Small Entities Subject to the Rule and Form Amendments

The amendments to rule 5b-3 and Forms N-1A, N-2, and N-3 under the Investment
Company Act would affect funds, including entities that are considered to be a small business or
small organization (collectively, “small entity”) for purposes of the Regulatory Flexibility Act.
Investment Companies. Under Commission rules, for purposes of the Investment
Company Act and the Regulatory Flexibility Act, an investment company is a small entity if it,
together with other investment companies in the same group of related investment companies,
has net assets of $50 million or less as of the end of its most recent fiscal year. 102 Based on a
current review of filings submitted to the Commission, we estimate that 171 investment
companies may be considered small entities and that all of these investment companies may
potentially rely on rule 5b-3. 103 As discussed above, we recognize that increased compliance
costs are a necessary result of the amendments to rule 5b-3 and may disproportionately impact
smaller funds to the extent these funds do not have policies and procedures for assessing
creditworthiness. Based on a current review of filings submitted to the Commission, we estimate
that approximately 131 investment companies that meet the definition of small entity would be
subject to the amendments to Forms N-1A, N-2, and N-3.
D.

Projected Reporting, Recordkeeping, and Other Compliance Requirements

Rule 5b-3. The amendments to rule 5b-3 allow a fund to treat the acquisition of a
repurchase agreement as an acquisition of securities collateralizing the repurchase agreement for
purposes of sections 5(b)(1) and 12(d)(3) of the Investment Company Act if the collateral other

102

17 CFR 270.0-10(a).

103

The 183 investment companies that meet the definition of small entity include 12 business
development companies, which are subject to sections 5 and 12 of the Investment Company Act.
15 U.S.C. 80a-58; 15 U.S.C. 80a-59.

43

than cash or government securities consists of securities that the fund's board of directors (or its
delegate) determines at the time the repurchase agreement is entered into are: (i) issued by an
issuer that has an exceptionally strong capacity to meet its financial obligations; and (ii)
sufficiently liquid that they can be sold at approximately their carrying value in the ordinary
course of business within seven calendar days. A fund that acquires repurchase agreements and
intends the acquisition to be treated as an acquisition of the collateral securities must determine
whether it must change its policies for evaluating collateral securities under the amended rule
and must adopt and implement written policies and procedures reasonably designed to comply
with the conditions of amended rule 5b-3, including these credit quality and liquidity
requirements that we are adopting. 104 The costs associated with the amendments to rule 5b-3 are
those discussed in section IV.A and V.B above.
Forms N-1A, N-2, and N-3. The amendments to Forms N-1A, N-2, and N-3 apply to
open-end management investment companies, closed-end management investment companies,
and separate accounts organized as management investment companies that offer variable
annuity contracts, including those that are small entities. The amendments to Forms N-1A, N-2,
and N-3 eliminate the required use of NRSRO credit ratings by funds that choose to use credit
quality categorizations in the required table, chart, or graph of portfolio holdings in their
shareholder reports. If a fund chooses to depict portfolio holdings according to credit quality, it
must include a description of how the credit quality of the holdings was determined, and if credit
ratings assigned by a credit rating agency are used to depict credit quality, the fund must disclose
how it identified and selected the credit ratings. The amended forms also permit funds that
choose to depict credit quality using credit ratings assigned by a credit rating agency to use
104

17 CFR 270.38a-1(a).

44

different credit rating agencies for split-rated securities. The costs associated with the
amendments to the forms are those discussed in section IV.B and V.C above.
E.

Agency Action to Minimize Effect on Small Entities

The Regulatory Flexibility Act directs us to consider significant alternatives that would
accomplish our stated objectives, while minimizing any significant adverse effect on small
entities. In connection with the rule and form amendments, the Commission considered the
following alternatives: (i) establishing different compliance standards or timetables that take into
account the resources available to small entities; (ii) clarifying, consolidating, or simplifying
compliance and reporting requirements under the rule for small entities; (iii) use of performance
rather than design standards; and (iv) exempting small entities from all or part of the
requirements.
We believe that special compliance or reporting requirements for small entities, or an
exemption from coverage for small entities, is not appropriate or consistent with investor
protection or the Dodd-Frank Act. We believe that, with respect to rule 5b-3, different credit
quality standards, special compliance requirements or timetables for small entities, or an
exemption from coverage for small entities, may create a risk that those entities could acquire
repurchase agreements with collateral that is less likely to retain its market value or liquidity in
the event of a counterparty default. Further consolidation or simplification of the rule and form
amendments for funds that are small entities is inconsistent with the Commission’s goals of
fostering investor protection.
The form amendments apply to all investment companies that use Forms N-1A, N-2, and
N-3 to register under the Investment Company Act and to offer their securities under the
Securities Act. If the Commission had excluded small entities from the form amendments, small

45

entities would have been required to use NRSRO credit ratings if they chose to depict credit
quality, while other entities would not have been subject to that requirement. We believe that
special compliance or reporting requirements, or an exemption, for small entities would not be
appropriate because the amended requirement—eliminating the required use of credit ratings
where a fund chooses to depict the fund’s portfolio based on credit quality—is intended to
eliminate potential reliance on NRSRO credit ratings resulting from the perception that the
Commission endorses the ratings because of their required use in Commission forms.
We have endeavored through the form amendments to minimize regulatory burdens on
investment companies, including small entities, while meeting our regulatory objectives. We
have endeavored to clarify, consolidate, and simplify the requirements applicable to investment
companies, including those that are small entities. Finally, the amendments will use performance
rather than design standards for determining the credit quality of specific securities. For these
reasons, we have not adopted alternatives to rule 5b-3 and Forms N-1A, N-2, and N-3.
STATUTORY AUTHORITY
The Commission is adopting amendments to rule 5b-3 under the authority set forth in
sections 6(c) and 38(a) of the Investment Company Act [15 U.S.C. 80a-6(c), 80a-37(a)] and
section 939A of the Dodd-Frank Act. The Commission is adopting amendments to Form N-1A,
Form N-2, and Form N-3 under the authority set forth in sections 5, 6, 7, 10 and 19(a) of the
Securities Act [15 U.S.C. 77e, 77f, 77g, 77j, and 77s(a)]; sections 8, 24(a), 30 and 38 of the
Investment Company Act [15 U.S.C. 80a-8, 80a-24(a), 80a-29, and 80a-37]; and section 939A of
the Dodd-Frank Act.
List of Subjects
17 CFR Part 239
Reporting and recordkeeping requirements, Securities.
46

17 CFR Parts 270 and 274
Investment companies, Reporting and recordkeeping requirements, Securities.
TEXT OF RULE AND RULE AND FORM AMENDMENTS
For reasons set out in the preamble, Title 17, Chapter II of the Code of Federal
Regulations is amended as follows:
PART 239—FORMS PRESCRIBED UNDER THE SECURITIES ACT OF 1933
1.

The authority citation for Part 239 is revised to read in part as follow:

Authority: 15 U.S.C. 77f, 77g, 77h, 77j, 77s, 77z-2, 77z-3, 77sss, 78c, 78l, 78m, 78n,
78o(d), 78o-7, 78o-7 note, 78u-5, 78w(a), 78ll, 78mm, 80a-2(a), 80a-3, 80a-8, 80a-9, 80a-10,
80a-13, 80a-24, 80a-26, 80a-29, 80a-30, 80a-37, and Pub. L. No. 111-203, § 939A, 124 Stat.
1376 (2010), unless otherwise noted.
*

*

*

*

*

PART 270--RULES AND REGULATIONS, INVESTMENT COMPANY ACT OF 1940
2.

The authority citation for Part 270 is revised to read in part as follows:

Authority: 15 U.S.C. 80a-1 et seq., 80a-34(d), 80a-37, 80a-39, and Pub. L. No. 111203, § 939A, 124 Stat. 1376 (2010), unless otherwise noted.
*

*

*

*

*

3.

Section 270.5b-3 is amended by:

a.

Adding "or" at the end of paragraph (c)(1)(iv)(B);

b.

Revising paragraph (c)(1)(iv)(C);

c.

Removing paragraph (c)(1)(iv)(D);

d.

Removing paragraphs (c)(5), (c)(6), and (c)(8);

e.

Redesignating paragraph (c)(4) as (c)(5);

f.

Adding new paragraph (c)(4); and
47

g.

Redesignating paragraph (c)(7) as paragraph (c)(6).

The revisions read as follows:
§ 270.5b-3

Acquisition of repurchase agreement or refunded security treated as

acquisition of underlying securities.
*

*

*

*

*

(c)

*

*

*

(1)

*

*

*

(iv)

*

*

*

(C)

Securities that the investment company's board of directors, or its delegate,

determines at the time the repurchase agreement is entered into:
(1)

Each issuer of which has an exceptionally strong capacity to meet its financial

obligations; and
NOTE to paragraph (c)(1)(iv)(C)(1): For a discussion of the phrase “exceptionally strong
capacity to meet its financial obligations” see Investment Company Act Release No. 30847,
(December 27, 2013).
(2)

Are sufficiently liquid that they can be sold at approximately their carrying value

in the ordinary course of business within seven calendar days; and
*

*

*

*

*

(4)

Issuer, as used in paragraph (c)(1)(iv)(C)(1) of this section, means the issuer of a

collateral security or the issuer of an unconditional obligation of a person other than the issuer of
the collateral security to undertake to pay, upon presentment by the holder of the obligation (if
required), the principal amount of the underlying collateral security plus accrued interest when
due or upon default.

48

PART 239—FORMS PRESCRIBED UNDER THE SECURITIES ACT OF 1933
PART 274—FORMS PRESCRIBED UNDER THE INVESTMENT COMPANY ACT OF
1940
4.

The authority citation for Part 274 is revised to read in part as follows:

Authority: 15 U.S.C. 77f, 77g, 77h, 77j, 77s, 78c(b), 78l, 78m, 78n, 78o(d), 80a-8, 80a24, 80a-26, 80a-29, and Pub. L. No. 111-203, § 939A, 124 Stat. 1376 (2010), unless otherwise
noted.
*

*

*

*

*

5.

Form N-1A (referenced in §§ 239.15A and 274.11A) is amended by revising Item

27(d)(2) to read as follows:
Note: The text of Form N-1A does not, and these amendments will not, appear in the
Code of Federal Regulations.
FORM N-1A
*

*

*

*

*

Item 27. Financial Statements
*

*

*

*

*

(d)

Annual and Semi-Annual Reports. *

(2)

Graphical Representation of Holdings. One or more tables, charts, or graphs

*

*

depicting the portfolio holdings of the Fund by reasonably identifiable categories (e.g., type of
security, industry sector, geographic region, credit quality, or maturity) showing the percentage
of net asset value or total investments attributable to each. The categories and the basis of
presentation (e.g., net asset value or total investments) should be selected, and the presentation
should be formatted, in a manner reasonably designed to depict clearly the types of investments

49

made by the Fund, given its investment objectives. If the Fund depicts portfolio holdings
according to credit quality, it should include a description of how the credit quality of the
holdings were determined, and if credit ratings, as defined in section 3(a)(60) of the Securities
Exchange Act [15 U.S.C. 78(c)(a)(60)], assigned by a credit rating agency, as defined in section
3(a)(61) of the Securities Exchange Act [15 U.S.C. 78(c)(a)(61)], are used, explain how they
were identified and selected. This description should be included near, or as part of, the
graphical representation.
*

*

*

*

*

6.

Form N-2 (referenced in §§ 239.14 and 274.11a-1) is amended by revising

Instruction 6.a. to Item 24 to read as follows:
Note: The text of Form N-2 does not, and these amendments will not, appear in the Code
of Federal Regulations.
FORM N-2
*

*

*

*

*

Item 24. Financial Statements
*

*

*

*

*

*

*

*

*

6.

*

*

*

a.

one or more tables, charts, or graphs depicting the portfolio holdings of the Fund

Instructions:
*

by reasonably identifiable categories (e.g., type of security, industry sector, geographic region,
credit quality, or maturity) showing the percentage of net asset value or total investments
attributable to each. The categories and the basis of presentation (e.g., net asset value or total

50

investments) should be selected, and the presentation should be formatted, in a manner
reasonably designed to depict clearly the types of investments made by the Fund, given its
investment objectives. If the Fund depicts portfolio holdings according to credit quality, it
should include a description of how the credit quality of the holdings were determined, and if
credit ratings, as defined in section 3(a)(60) of the Securities Exchange Act [15 U.S.C.
78(c)(a)(60)], assigned by a credit rating agency, as defined in section 3(a)(61) of the Securities
Exchange Act [15 U.S.C. 78(c)(a)(61)], are used, explain how they were identified and selected.
This description should be included near, or as part of, the graphical representation.
*

*

*

*

*

7.

Form N-3 (referenced in §§ 239.17a and 274.11b) is amended by revising

Instruction 6.(i) to Item 28(a) to read as follows:
Note: The text of Form N-3 does not, and these amendments will not, appear in the Code
of Federal Regulations.
FORM N-3
*

*

*

*

*

Item 28. Financial Statements
*

*

*

*

*

*

*

6.

*

*

*

(i)

One or more tables, charts, or graphs depicting the portfolio holdings of the Fund

(a)
Instructions:
*

by reasonably identifiable categories (e.g., type of security, industry sector, geographic region,
credit quality, or maturity) showing the percentage of net asset value or total investments

51

attributable to each. The categories and the basis of presentation (e.g., net asset value or total
investments) should be selected, and the presentation should be formatted, in a manner
reasonably designed to depict clearly the types of investments made by the Fund, given its
investment objectives. If the Fund depicts portfolio holdings according to credit quality, it
should include a description of how the credit quality of the holdings were determined, and if
credit ratings, as defined in section 3(a)(60) of the Securities Exchange Act [15 U.S.C.
78(c)(a)(60)], assigned by a credit rating agency, as defined in section 3(a)(61) of the Securities
Exchange Act [15 U.S.C. 78(c)(a)(61)], are used, explain how they were identified and selected.
This description should be included near, or as part of, the graphical representation.
*

*

*

*

*

By the Commission

Lynn M. Powalski
Deputy Secretary

Dated: December 27, 2013

52

