UNITED STATES OF AMERICA
Before the
SECURITIES AND EXCHANGE COMMISSION
SECURITIES ACT OF 1933
Release No. 9444 / August 22, 2013
ADMINISTRATIVE PROCEEDING
File No. 3-15437
ORDER INSTITUTING
PROCEEDINGS PURSUANT TO
SECTION 8(d) OF THE SECURITIES
ACT OF 1933, MAKING FINDINGS, AND
ISSUING STOP ORDER

In the Matter of
THE REGISTRATION
STATEMENT OF
COUNSELING
INTERNATIONAL, INC.

I.
A.
On August 8, 2012, Counseling International, Inc. (“Counseling International”)
filed a registration statement in connection with an initial public offering of 764,000 shares of
common stock. The registration statement was amended three times, most recently on January 9,
2013. The registration statement has not become effective.
B.
The Commission now deems it appropriate and in the public interest that
proceedings pursuant to Section 8(d) of the Securities Act be, and they hereby are, instituted to
determine whether a stop order should issue suspending the effectiveness of Counseling
International’s registration statement.
II.
In anticipation of the institution of these proceedings, Counseling International has
submitted an Offer of Settlement (the “Offer”) which the Commission has determined to accept.
Solely for the purpose of these proceedings and any other proceedings brought by or on behalf of
the Commission, or to which the Commission is a party, and without admitting or denying the

findings, except as to the Commission’s jurisdiction over him and the subject matter of these
proceedings, which are admitted, Respondent consents to the entry of this Order Instituting
Proceedings Pursuant to Section 8(d) of the Securities Act of 1933, Making Findings, and Issuing
Stop Order (“Order”), as set forth below.
III.
On the basis of this Order and Respondent’s Offer, the Commission finds that
Background
1.
On August 8, 2012, Counseling International filed a Form S-1 registration
statement in connection with an initial public offering of 764,000 shares of common stock (the
“Registration Statement”). The Registration Statement was amended on September 25, 2012,
November 19, 2012, December 19, 2012, and January 9, 2013.
2.
The Counseling International registration statement includes untrue
statements of material facts and omits to state material facts necessary to make the statements
therein not misleading. Among other things, the registration statement fails to disclose the identity
of control persons and promoters of Counseling International and the amendments to the
Registration Statement, dated December 19, 2012 and January 9, 2013, falsely describe the
circumstances of the departure of Counseling International’s former chief executive officer.
Undertaking
3.

Respondent has undertaken to:

For a period of five years from the date of this Order, Respondent shall not
engage in or participate in any unregistered offering of securities conducted in reliance on Rule
506 of Regulation D (17 C.F.R. § 230.506), including by occupying any position with, ownership
of, or relationship to the issuer enumerated in 17 C.F.R. § 230.506(d)(1) (adopted by the
Commission in Release No. 33-9414).
In determining whether to accept the Offer, the Commission has considered this
undertaking.
IV.
In view of the foregoing, the Commission deems it appropriate and in the public interest to
issue a stop order suspending the effectiveness of the registration statement agreed to in
Counseling International’s Offer.

2

Accordingly, it is hereby ORDERED pursuant to Section 8(d) of the Securities Act that the
effectiveness of the registration statement filed by Counseling International be, and hereby is,
suspended.
This Order shall be served on Counseling International by certified mail forthwith.
By the Commission.

Elizabeth M. Murphy
Secretary

3

