Corrected to Conform to Federal Register Version
SECURITIES AND EXCHANGE COMMISSION
17 CFR Parts 200, 227, 232, 239, 240 and 249
[Release Nos. 33-9470; 34-70741; File No. S7-09-13]
RIN 3235-AL37
CROWDFUNDING
AGENCY:

Securities and Exchange Commission.

ACTION:

Proposed rules.

SUMMARY: The Securities and Exchange Commission is proposing for comment new
Regulation Crowdfunding under the Securities Act of 1933 and the Securities Exchange Act of
1934 to implement the requirements of Title III of the Jumpstart Our Business Startups Act.
Regulation Crowdfunding would prescribe rules governing the offer and sale of securities under
new Section 4(a)(6) of the Securities Act of 1933. The proposal also would provide a framework
for the regulation of registered funding portals and brokers that issuers are required to use as
intermediaries in the offer and sale of securities in reliance on Section 4(a)(6). In addition, the
proposal would exempt securities sold pursuant to Section 4(a)(6) from the registration
requirements of Section 12(g) of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934.
DATES: Comments should be received on or before February 3, 2014.

ADDRESSES: Comments may be submitted by any of the following methods:
Electronic Comments:
•

Use the Commission’s Internet comment form

(http://www.sec.gov/rules/proposed.shtml);
•

Send an e-mail to rule-comments@sec.gov. Please include File Number S7-09-13 on the
subject line; or

•

Use the Federal eRulemaking Portal (http://www.regulations.gov). Follow the
instructions for submitting comments.

Paper Comments:
•

Send paper comments in triplicate to Elizabeth M. Murphy, Secretary, Securities and
Exchange Commission, 100 F Street, NE, Washington, DC 20549-1090.

All submissions should refer to File Number S7-09-13. This file number should be included on
the subject line if e-mail is used. To help us process and review your comments more efficiently,
please use only one method. The Commission will post all comments on the Commission’s
Internet website (http://sec.gov/rules/proposed.shtml). Comments also are available for website
viewing and printing in the Commission’s Public Reference Room, 100 F Street, NE,
Washington, DC 20549, on official business days between the hours of 10:00 a.m. and 3:00 p.m.
All comments received will be posted without change; we do not edit personal identifying
information from submissions. You should submit only information that you would like to make
publicly available.
FOR FURTHER INFORMATION CONTACT: With regard to requirements for issuers,
Sebastian Gomez Abero or Jessica Dickerson, Division of Corporation Finance, at (202) 5513500, and with regard to requirements for intermediaries, Joseph Furey, Joanne Rutkowski, Leila
Bham, Timothy White or Carla Carriveau, Division of Trading and Markets, at (202) 551-5550,
Securities and Exchange Commission, 100 F Street, NE, Washington, DC 20549.

2

SUPPLEMENTARY INFORMATION:
Table of Contents
I.

Introduction and Background

A.

Overview of Crowdfunding

B.

Title III of the JOBS Act

C.

Approach to Proposed Rules

II.

Discussion of Proposed Regulation Crowdfunding

A.

Crowdfunding Exemption

1.

Limitation on Capital Raised

2.

Investment Limitation

3.

Transaction Conducted Through an Intermediary

4.

Exclusion of Certain Issuers from Eligibility under Section 4(a)(6)

B.

Requirements on Issuers

1.

Disclosure Requirements

2.

Ongoing Reporting Requirements

3.

Form C and Filing Requirements

4.

Prohibition on Advertising Terms of the Offering

5.

Compensation of Persons Promoting the Offering

6.

Other Issuer Requirements

C.

Requirements on Intermediaries

1.

Brokers and Funding Portals

2.

Requirements and Prohibitions

3.

Measures to Reduce Risk of Fraud

4.

Account Opening

5.

Requirements with Respect to Transactions

6.

Completion of Offerings, Cancellations and Reconfirmations

7.

Payments to Third Parties

D.

Additional Requirements on Funding Portals

1.

Registration Requirement

2.

Exemption from Broker-Dealer Registration

3.

Safe Harbor for Certain Activities

4.

Compliance

5.

Records To Be Created and Maintained by Funding Portals

E.

Miscellaneous Provisions
3

1.

Insignificant Deviations from Regulation Crowdfunding

2.

Restrictions on Resales

3.

Information Available to States

4.

Exemption from Section 12(g)

5.

Scope of Statutory Liability

6.

Disqualification

F.

General Request for Comment

III.

Economic Analysis

A.

Economic Baseline

1.

Existing Funding Sources Available to Startups and Small Businesses

2.
Current Sources of Funding for Startups and Small Businesses that Could Be Substitutes or Complements
to Crowdfunding
3.

Survival Rates for Startups and Small Businesses

4.

Market Participants

B.

Analysis of Proposed Rules

1.

Broad Economic Considerations

2.

Crowdfunding Exemption

3.

Issuer Requirements

4.

Intermediary Requirements

5.

Additional Funding Portal Requirements

6.

Insignificant Deviations

7.

Relationship with State Law

8.

Exemption from Section 12(g)

9.

Disqualification

C.

Request for Comment

IV.

Paperwork Reduction Act

A.

Background

B.

Estimate of Issuers and Intermediaries

C.

Estimate of Burdens

D.

Collections of Information are Mandatory

E.

Confidentiality

F.

Retention Period of Recordkeeping Requirements

G.

Request for Comment

V.

Small Business Regulatory Enforcement Fairness Act

VI.

Initial Regulatory Flexibility Act Analysis

A.

Reasons for the Proposed Actions

B.

Objectives
4

C.

Small Entities Subject to the Proposed Rules

D.

Projected Reporting, Recordkeeping and other Compliance Requirements

E.

Duplicative, Overlapping or Conflicting Federal Rules

F.

Significant Alternatives

1.

Issuers

2.

Intermediaries

G.

Request for Comment

VII.

STATUTORY AUTHORITY AND TEXT OF PROPOSED REGULATION

Exhibit A

5

I.

Introduction and Background
A.

Overview of Crowdfunding

Crowdfunding is a new and evolving method to raise money using the Internet.
Crowdfunding serves as an alternative source of capital to support a wide range of ideas and
ventures. An entity or individual raising funds through crowdfunding typically seeks small
individual contributions from a large number of people. 1 A crowdfunding campaign generally
has a specified target amount for funds to be raised, or goal, and an identified use of those funds.
Individuals interested in the crowdfunding campaign – members of the “crowd” – may share
information about the project, cause, idea or business with each other and use the information to
decide whether or not to fund the campaign based on the collective “wisdom of the crowd.” 2
Crowdfunding has been used to fund, for example, artistic endeavors, such as films and music
recordings, where contributions or donations are rewarded with a token of value related to the
project (e.g., a person contributing to a film’s production budget is rewarded with tickets to view
the film and is identified in the film’s credits) or where contributions reflect the pre-purchase of a
finished product (e.g., a music album). A number of entities operate websites that facilitate

1

See, e.g., C. Steven Bradford, Crowdfunding and the Federal Securities Laws, 2012 COLUM. BUS. L. REV.
1, 10 (2012) (“Bradford”). Crowdfunding has some similarities to “crowdsourcing,” which is the concept
that “the power of the many can be leveraged to accomplish feats that were once the province of the
specialized few.” See Jeff Howe, The Rise of Crowdsourcing, Wired (Jun. 2006) (“Howe”).
Crowdsourcing is an approach for problem solving that employs the “wisdom of crowds,” where “the very
success of a solution is dependent on its emergence from a large body of solvers.” Daren C. Brabham,
Crowdsourcing as a Model for Problem Solving, 14 Convergence 75, 79-80 (2008) (“Brabham”).

2

See Stephenson Letter; Richard Waters, Startups seek the ‘wisdom of crowds,’ FINANCIAL TIMES, Apr. 3,
2012, available at http://www.ft.com/intl/cms/s/0/c1f1695c-7da8-11e1-9adc-00144feab49a.html#axzz2b7
QxIH5L (“[T]he backers of [crowdfunding] argue that the hard work of making investment decisions –
filtering out the best investments and limiting fraud – can be solved by tapping the ‘wisdom of crowds’
over the internet.”).
6

crowdfunding in its current form, 3 with some websites specializing in certain industries, such as
computer-based gaming, music and the arts, and other websites focusing on particular types of
entrepreneurs. 4
The Jumpstart Our Business Startups Act (the “JOBS Act”), 5 enacted on April 5, 2012,
establishes the foundation for a regulatory structure for startups and small businesses to raise
capital through securities offerings using the Internet through crowdfunding. 6 The crowdfunding
provisions of the JOBS Act were designed to help provide startups and small businesses with
capital by making relatively low dollar offerings of securities less costly. 7 They also permit
Internet-based platforms to facilitate the offer and sale of securities without having to register
with the Commission as brokers.

3

Examples of current crowdfunding websites include: www.indiegogo.com, www.kickstarter.com,
www.kiva.com and www.rockethub.com.

4

See Bradford, note 1at 12-13 (citing “Unbound: Books Are Now in Your Hands” (http://unbound.co.uk/),
specializing in book publishing, “My Major Company” (http://www.mymajorcompany.com/), specializing
in music, “Spot.us: Community-funded Reporting” (http://spot.us/), specializing in journalism, and “Heifer
International” (http://www.heifer.org/) specializing in agriculture and ranching). See also Liz Gannes,
Crowdfunding for a Cause: Nonprofits Can Now Hold Fundraisers on Crowdtilt, AllThingsD (Nov. 21,
2012), available at http://allthingsd.com/20121121/crowdfunding-for-a-cause-non-profits-can-now-holdfundraisers-on-crowdtilt/ (describing the use of crowdfunding for charitable purposes).

5

Pub. L. No. 112-106, 126 Stat. 306 (2012).

6

To facilitate public input on JOBS Act initiatives, the Commission solicited comment on each title of the
JOBS Act through its website at http://www.sec.gov/spotlight/jobsactcomments.shtml. The public
comments we received on Title III are available on our website at http://www.sec.gov/comments/jobs-titleiii/jobs-title-iii.shtml. Exhibit A of the release includes a citation key to the comment letters the
Commission received on Title III.

7

See, e.g., 158 CONG. REC. S1781 (daily ed. Mar. 19, 2012) (statement of Sen. Carl Levin) (“Right now, the
rules generally prohibit a company from raising very small amounts from ordinary investors without
significant costs.”); 157 CONG. REC. S8458-02 (daily ed. Dec. 8, 2011) (statement of Sen. Jeff Merkley)
(“Low-dollar investments from ordinary Americans may help fill the void, providing a new avenue of
funding to the small businesses that are the engine of job creation. The CROWDFUND Act would provide
startup companies and other small businesses with a new way to raise capital from ordinary investors in a
more transparent and regulated marketplace.”); 157 CONG. REC. H7295-01 (daily ed. Nov. 3, 2011)
(statement of Rep. Patrick McHenry) (“[H]igh net worth individuals can invest in businesses before the
average family can. And that small business is limited on the amount of equity stakes they can provide
investors and limited in the number of investors they can get. So, clearly, something has to be done to open
these capital markets to the average investor[.]”).
7

In the United States, crowdfunding in its current form generally has not involved the
offer of a share in any financial returns or profits that the fundraiser may expect to generate from
business activities financed through crowdfunding. 8 Such a profit or revenue-sharing model –
sometimes referred to as the “equity model” of crowdfunding 9 – could trigger the application of
the federal securities laws because it likely would involve the offer and sale of a security. 10
Under the Securities Act of 1933 (“Securities Act”), the offer and sale of securities is required to
be registered unless an exemption is available. At least one commenter has stated that registered
offerings are not feasible for raising smaller amounts of capital, as is done in a typical
crowdfunding transaction, because of the costs of conducting a registered offering and the
resulting ongoing reporting obligations under the Securities Exchange Act of 1934 (“Exchange
Act”) that may arise as a result of the offering. 11 Limitations under existing regulations,
including restrictions on general solicitation and general advertising and purchaser qualification
requirements, have made private placement exemptions generally unavailable for crowdfunding

8

See Bradford, note 1; Jenna Wortham, Start-Ups Look to the Crowd, N.Y. TIMES at B1 (Apr. 30, 2012);
Joan MacLeod Heminway and Shelden Ryan Hoffman, Proceed At Your Peril: Crowdfunding and the
Securities Act of 1933, 78 TENN. L. REV. 879 (2011); Thomas Lee Hazen, Crowdfunding or Fraudfunding?
Social Networks and the Securities Laws – Why the Specially Tailored Exemption Must be Conditioned on
Meaningful Disclosure, 90 N.C.L. REV. 1735 (2012) (“Hazen”); C. Steven Bradford, The New Federal
Crowdfunding Exemption: Promise Unfulfilled, 40 SEC. REG. L.J. 1 (2012).

9

See Bradford, note 1 at 33.

10

See Securities Act Section 2(a)(1) and Exchange Act Section 3(a)(10) (setting forth the definition of a
“security” under the Securities Act and the Exchange Act, respectively). See, e.g., Reves v. Ernst & Young,
494 U.S. 56 (1990) (outlining the requirements for a note to be considered a security); SEC v. W.J. Howey
Co., 328 U.S. 293 (1946) (setting forth the definition of an investment contract).

11

See Bradford, note 1 at 42.
8

transactions, which are intended to be made to a large number of potential investors and not
limited to investors that meet specific qualifications. 12
Moreover, a third party that operates a website to effect the purchase and sale of
securities for the account of others generally would, under existing regulations, be required to
register with the Commission as a broker-dealer and comply with the laws and regulations
applicable to broker-dealers. 13 A person that operates such a website only for the purchase of
securities of startups and small businesses, however, may find it impractical in view of the
limited nature of that person’s activities and business to register as a broker-dealer and operate
under the full set of regulatory obligations that apply to broker-dealers.
B.

Title III of the JOBS Act

Title III of the JOBS Act (“Title III”) added new Securities Act Section 4(a)(6), 14 which
provides an exemption from the registration requirements of Securities Act Section 5 for certain
crowdfunding transactions. To qualify for the exemption under Section 4(a)(6), crowdfunding

12

But see Eliminating the Prohibition Against General Solicitation and General Advertising in Rule 506 and
Rule 144A Offerings, Release No. 33-9415 (July 10, 2013) [78 FR 44771 (July 24, 2013)] (“General
Solicitation Adopting Release”) (adopting rules to implement Title II of the JOBS Act). Title II of the
JOBS Act directed the Commission to amend Rule 506 of Regulation D to permit general solicitation or
general advertising in offerings made under Rule 506, provided that all purchasers of the securities are
accredited investors. Accredited investors include natural persons who meet certain income or net worth
thresholds. Although this rule facilitates the type of broad solicitation emblematic of crowdfunding,
crowdfunding is premised on permitting sales of securities to any interested person, not just to investors
who meet specific qualifications, such as accredited investors.

13

Exchange Act Section 15(a)(1) generally makes it unlawful for a broker or dealer to effect any transactions
in, or induce the purchase or sale of, any security unless that broker or dealer is registered with the
Commission pursuant to Exchange Act Section 15(b). 15 U.S.C. 78o(a). See discussion in Section II.D.2
below. Because brokers and dealers both register as broker-dealers (i.e., there is no separate “broker” or
“dealer” registration under Exchange Act Section 15(b)), we also use the term “broker-dealer” in this
release.

14

Title III amended Securities Act Section 4 to add Section 4(6); however, Title II of the JOBS Act also
amended Securities Act Section 4 and inserted subsections (a) and (b). The U.S. Code implemented the
amendment by adding paragraph (6) at the end of subsection (a).
9

transactions by an issuer (including all entities controlled by or under common control with the
issuer) must meet specified requirements, including the following:
•

the amount raised must not exceed $1 million in a 12-month period (this amount is to
be adjusted for inflation at least every five years);

•

individual investments in a 12-month period are limited to:
o the greater of $2,000 or 5 percent of annual income or net worth, if annual income
or net worth of the investor is less than $100,000; and
o 10 percent of annual income or net worth (not to exceed an amount sold of
$100,000), if annual income or net worth of the investor is $100,000 or more
(these amounts are to be adjusted for inflation at least every five years); and

•

transactions must be conducted through an intermediary that either is registered as a
broker or is registered as a new type of entity called a “funding portal.”

In addition, Title III:
•

adds Securities Act Section 4A, which requires, among other things, that issuers and
intermediaries that facilitate transactions between issuers and investors in reliance on
Section 4(a)(6) provide certain information to investors and potential investors, take
certain other actions and provide notices and other information to the Commission;

•

adds Exchange Act Section 3(h), which requires the Commission to adopt rules to
exempt, either conditionally or unconditionally, “funding portals” from having to
register as brokers or dealers pursuant to Exchange Act Section 15(a)(1);

•

includes disqualification provisions under which an issuer would not be able to avail
itself of the Section 4(a)(6) exemption if the issuer or other related parties, including
an intermediary, was subject to a disqualifying event; and
10

•

adds Exchange Act Section 12(g)(6), which requires the Commission to adopt rules to
exempt from the registration requirements of Section 12(g), either conditionally or
unconditionally, securities acquired pursuant to an offering made in reliance on
Section 4(a)(6).

In this release, we are proposing new rules and forms to implement Securities Act
Sections 4(a)(6) and 4A and Exchange Act Sections 3(h) and 12(g)(6). The proposed rules are
described in detail below. Until we adopt rules relating to crowdfunding transactions and such
rules become effective, issuers and intermediaries may not rely on the exemption provided under
Section 4(a)(6).
C.

Approach to Proposed Rules

We understand that Title III was designed to help alleviate the funding gap and
accompanying regulatory concerns faced by startups and small businesses in connection with
raising capital in relatively low dollar amounts. 15 The proposed rules are intended to align
crowdfunding transactions under Section 4(a)(6) with the central tenets of the original concept of
crowdfunding, in which the public – or the crowd – is presented with an opportunity to invest in
an idea or business and individuals decide whether or not to invest after sharing information
about the idea or business with, and learning from, other members of the crowd. 16 In this role,

15

See note 7.

16

See notes 1 and 2. As discussed in Section II.C.5.c below, the proposed rules would require a person to
open an account with an intermediary before posting comments on the intermediary’s platform. However,
as discussed in Section II.C.5.a below, a person would not need to open an account with the intermediary in
order to view the issuer’s disclosure materials.
11

members of the crowd are not only sharing information about the idea or business, but also are
expected to help evaluate the idea or business before deciding whether or not to invest. 17
At the same time, Congress provided important investor protections for crowdfunding
transactions under Section 4(a)(6), including individual investment limits, required disclosures
by issuers and the use of intermediaries. The proposed rules would require that all crowdfunding
transactions under Section 4(a)(6) be conducted through a registered intermediary on an Internet
website or other similar electronic medium to help ensure that the offering is accessible to the
public and that members of the crowd can share information and opinions. Registered
intermediaries are necessary to bring the issuer and potential investors together and to provide
safeguards to potential investors. 18 The proposed rules also would require that intermediaries
provide communication channels to facilitate the sharing of information that will allow the
crowd to decide whether or not to fund the idea or business. 19 The proposed rules further
provide intermediaries a means by which to facilitate the offer and sale of securities without
registering as brokers. We are mindful of the timing and presentation of information required to
be disclosed to investors pursuant to the terms of the statute. The proposed rules would require
that this information be provided to investors at various points in time in connection with an
offering and through various electronic means, such as through filings with the Commission and
disclosures provided on the intermediary’s platform. We believe this approach would be most
practical and useful to investors in the crowdfunding context.

17

See Hazen, note 8.

18

See 158 CONG. REC. S1829 (daily ed. Mar. 20, 2012) (statement of Sen. Jeff Merkley) (“The websites are
subject to oversight by the SEC and security regulators of their principal States . . . This is a key predatory
protection to prevent pump-and-dump schemes.”).

19

See Mollick Letter (stating that allowing ongoing discussions between potential investors, community
members and issuers is a vital aspect of avoiding fraud and improving proposed projects).
12

We understand that these proposed rules, if adopted, could significantly affect the
viability of crowdfunding as a capital-raising method for startups and small businesses. Rules
that are unduly burdensome could discourage participation in crowdfunding. Rules that are too
permissive, however, may increase the risks for individual investors, thereby undermining the
facilitation of capital raising for startups and small businesses. 20 We have directed the
Commission staff, accordingly, to develop a comprehensive work plan to review and monitor the
use of the crowdfunding exemption under Section 4(a)(6) and the rules the Commission adopts
to implement crowdfunding. Upon adoption of final rules, the Commission staff will monitor the
market for offerings made in reliance on Section 4(a)(6), focusing in particular on the types of
issuers using the exemption, the level of compliance with Regulation Crowdfunding by issuers
and intermediaries and whether the exemption is promoting new capital formation while at the
same time providing key protections for investors. These efforts will assist the Commission in
evaluating the development of market practices in offerings made in reliance on Section 4(a)(6).
These efforts also will facilitate future Commission consideration of any potential amendments
to the rules implementing crowdfunding that would be consistent with the Commission’s mission

20

One press article, for example, described non-securities-based crowdfunding campaigns that successfully
raised funds but have had problems manufacturing and delivering the “perks” or products that were
promised in exchange for contributions. See Matt Krantz, Crowd-funding dark side: Sometimes
investments go down drain, USA TODAY at B1 (Aug. 15, 2012). Investor confidence in crowdfunding
could be eroded if such delays occur with regularity in securities-based crowdfunding and compounded by
any prevalence of fraud. See, e.g., Laws Provide Con Artists with Personal Economic Growth Plan, North
American Securities Administrators Association (Aug. 21, 2012) (identifying crowdfunding and Internetbased offers of securities as a threat to investors), available at http://www.nasaa.org/14679/laws-providecon-artists-with-personal-economic-growth-plan/. See also Adrianne Jeffries, This is What a Kickstarter
Scam Looks Like, BetaBeat (Apr. 30, 2012), available at http://betabeat.com/2012/04/this-is-what-akickstarter-scam-looks-like/. But see Olga Khazan, Kickstarter spies a sunglass start-up, WASHINGTON
POST at A14 (May 28, 2012) (discussing a successful sunglasses company that used crowdfunding for
startup funds); Crowdfunding: Invested Central raises $120,000, WASHINGTON POST at A10 (Jul. 23,
2012) (mentioning a company that was able to raise capital through crowdfunding when it could not
otherwise secure traditional financing for an expansion of its business).
13

of protecting investors, maintaining fair, orderly and efficient markets and facilitating capital
formation. We urge commenters, as they review the proposed rules, to consider and address the
role that our oversight, enforcement and regulation should play once a crowdfunding market
under Section 4(a)(6) begins to develop.
II.

Discussion of Proposed Regulation Crowdfunding
A.

Crowdfunding Exemption

New Securities Act Section 4(a)(6) provides an exemption from the registration
requirements of Securities Act Section 5 for certain crowdfunding transactions. To qualify for
the exemption under Section 4(a)(6), crowdfunding transactions by an issuer must meet specified
requirements, including requirements with regard to the dollar amount of the securities that may
be sold by an issuer and the dollar amount that may be invested by an individual in a 12-month
period. The crowdfunding transaction also must be conducted through a registered intermediary
that complies with specified requirements. 21 Title III also provides limitations on who may rely
on the exemption and establishes a liability scheme for improper use of the exemption. As
discussed below, the rules we are proposing are designed to aid issuers and investors in
determining the applicable limitations on capital raised and individual investments.
1.

Limitation on Capital Raised

The exemption from registration provided by Section 4(a)(6) is available to a U.S. issuer
provided that “the aggregate amount sold to all investors by the issuer, including any amount
sold in reliance on the exemption provided under [Section 4(a)(6)] during the 12-month period

21

See Section II.C below for a discussion of the requirements on intermediaries. See also Section II.D below
for a discussion of the additional requirements on funding portals.
14

preceding the date of such transaction, is not more than $1,000,000.” 22 Under Section 4A(h), the
Commission is required to adjust the dollar amounts in Section 4(a)(6) “not less frequently than
once every five years, by notice published in the Federal Register, to reflect any change in the
Consumer Price Index for All Urban Consumers published by the Bureau of Labor Statistics.”
Several commenters indicated that the $1 million maximum aggregate amount is too
low. 23 Several commenters requested that the Commission state that the $1 million aggregate
limit pertains only to offerings under Section 4(a)(6) and does not include all exempt offerings. 24
Two commenters suggested, however, that the calculation of the $1 million aggregate limit
should include all issuer transactions that were exempt under Securities Act Section 4(a) during
the preceding 12-month period. 25 Another commenter requested clarification that the limitations
and requirements of the offering exemption under Section 4(a)(6) would not affect other methods
of raising capital that do not involve the sale of securities, such as contributions from friends and
family, donation crowdfunding, gifts, grants or loans. 26 Several commenters had concerns about
the possible integration 27 of an offering under Section 4(a)(6) with other exempt offerings and

22

Securities Act Section 4(a)(6)(A).

23

See High Tide Letter; TechnologyCrowdfund Letter 3 (stating that a minimum of $5 million to $10 million
is necessary to start any business other than a software business); EnVironmental Letter (stating that the
upper limit should be increased to $5 million or higher); VTNGLOBAL Letter (stating that Rule 506 of
Regulation D permits an unlimited capital raise from accredited investors and that the same should apply to
crowdfunding).

24

See NSBA Letter (stating that the $1 million limitation should pertain only to offerings made in reliance on
Section 4(a)(6)); ABA Letter 1; NCA Letter.

25

See CommunityLeader Letter; Ohio Division of Securities Letter.

26

See Crowdfunding Offerings Ltd. Letter 6.

27

The integration doctrine seeks to prevent an issuer from improperly avoiding registration by artificially
dividing a single offering into multiple offerings such that Securities Act exemptions would apply to
multiple offerings that would not be available for the combined offering.
15

suggested that the Commission should allow for simultaneous or sequential offerings under
Regulation D 28 and Section 4(a)(6) without integration. 29
Section 4(a)(6) specifically provides for a maximum aggregate amount of $1 million sold
in reliance on the exemption in any 12-month period. The only reference in the statute to
changing that amount is the requirement that the Commission update the amount not less
frequently than every five years based on the Consumer Price Index. Additionally, statements in
the Congressional Record indicate that Congress believed that $1 million was a substantial
amount for a small business. 30 We do not believe that Congress intended for us to modify the
maximum aggregate amount permitted to be sold under the exemption when promulgating rules
to implement the statute. 31 Therefore, we are not proposing to increase the limitation on the
aggregate amount sold.
Title III provides that the $1 million limitation applies to the “aggregate amount sold to
all investors by the issuer, including any amount sold in reliance on the exemption provided
under [Section 4(a)(6)].” Section 4A(g), however, provides that “[n]othing in the exemption

28

17 CFR 230.501 through 230.508.

29

See ABA Letter 1; Lingam Letter 2 (stating that offerings under Regulation D and Section 4(a)(6) should
not be integrated if: (1) no general solicitation takes place; (2) the Section 4(a)(6) offering closes prior to
any general solicitation related to a Regulation D offering; or (3) the Regulation D and the Section 4(a)(6)
offerings occur simultaneously and the offerings have the same economic terms, but the size of the
Regulation D offering is greater than the size of the Section 4(a)(6) offering); CFIRA Letter 8 (stating that
CFIRA’s members have opposing views on whether the integration doctrine should be applied to
crowdfunded offerings); Liles Letter 1; CFIRA Letter 2; CommunityLeader Letter. See also Final Report
of the 2012 SEC Government-Business Forum on Small Business Capital Formation (April 2013) (“2012
SEC Government-Business Forum”), available at http://www.sec.gov/info/smallbus/sbforumreps.htm
(recommending that we consider permitting concurrent offerings to be made to accredited investors in
excess of the $1 million limit).

30

158 CONG. REC. S1829 (daily ed. Mar. 20, 2012) (statement of Sen. Jeff Merkley) (“[T]he amendment
allows existing small businesses and startup companies to raise up to $1 million per year. That is a
substantial amount for a small business.”).

31

Cf. Securities Act Section 4A(b)(1)(D)(iii) (giving the Commission discretion to increase the aggregate
target offering amount that requires audited financial statements).
16

shall be construed as preventing an issuer from raising capital through means other than
[S]ection 4[(a)](6).” These two provisions create statutory ambiguity because the first provision
could be read to provide for the aggregation of amounts raised in all exempt transactions, even
those that do not involve crowdfunding, while the second provision could be read to provide that
nothing in the Section 4(a)(6) exemption should limit an issuer’s capital raising through other
methods. We believe that the overall intent of providing the exemption under Section 4(a)(6)
was to provide an additional mechanism for capital raising for startup and small businesses and
not to affect the amount an issuer could raise outside of that exemption. Thus, we believe the
capital raised in reliance on the exemption provided by Section 4(a)(6) should be counted toward
the limitation. Capital raised through other means should not be counted in determining the
aggregate amount sold in reliance on Section 4(a)(6). The opposite approach – requiring
aggregation of amounts raised in any exempt transaction – would be inconsistent with the goal of
alleviating the funding gap faced by startups and small businesses because it would place a cap
on the amount of capital startups and small business could raise. An issuer that already sold $1
million in reliance on the exemption provided under Section 4(a)(6), for example, would be
prevented from raising capital through other exempt methods and, conversely, an issuer that sold
$1 million through other exempt methods would be prevented from raising capital under Section
4(a)(6).
In determining the amount that may be available to be offered and sold in reliance on
Section 4(a)(6) in light of the $1 million aggregate amount limitation, an issuer would include
amounts sold by the issuer (including amounts sold by entities controlled by the issuer or under
common control with the issuer, as well as any amounts sold by any predecessor of the issuer) in
reliance on Section 4(a)(6) during the preceding 12-month period. The issuer would aggregate
17

any amounts previously sold with the amount the issuer intends to raise in reliance on the
exemption, and under the proposed rules, the combined amount could not exceed $1 million. An
issuer would not include amounts sold in other exempt offerings during the preceding 12-month
period. For example, if an issuer sold $800,000 pursuant to the exemption provided in
Regulation D during the preceding 12 months, this amount would not be aggregated in an
issuer’s calculation to determine whether it had reached the maximum amount for purposes of
Section 4(a)(6). 32 In addition, in determining the amount sold in reliance on Section 4(a)(6)
during the preceding 12-month period, an issuer would not need to consider amounts received
through methods that do not involve the offer or sale of securities (such as donations it received
from a separate non-securities-based crowdfunding effort, contributions from friends and family,
gifts, grants or loans).
Further, in light of Section 4A(g) and the reasons discussed above, we believe that an
offering made in reliance on Section 4(a)(6) should not be integrated with another exempt
offering made by the issuer, provided that each offering complies with the requirements of the
applicable exemption that is being relied upon for the particular offering. An issuer could
complete an offering made in reliance on Section 4(a)(6) that occurs simultaneously with, or is
preceded or followed by, another exempt offering. An issuer conducting a concurrent exempt
offering for which general solicitation is not permitted, however, would need to be satisfied that
purchasers in that offering were not solicited by means of the offering made in reliance on

32

In contrast, if an issuer sold $800,000 in a crowdfunding transaction pursuant to Section 4(a)(6) during the
preceding 12 months, the issuer would be required to count that amount toward the $1 million aggregate
amount and, thus, could only offer and sell $200,000 more in reliance on Section 4(a)(6).
18

Section 4(a)(6). 33 Similarly, any concurrent exempt offering for which general solicitation is
permitted could not include an advertisement of the terms of an offering made in reliance on
Section 4(a)(6) that would not be permitted under Section 4(a)(6) and the proposed rules. 34
Under Section 4(a)(6), the amount of securities sold in reliance on Section 4(a)(6) by
entities controlled by or under common control with the issuer must be aggregated with the
amount to be sold by the issuer in the current offering to determine the aggregate amount sold in
reliance on Section 4(a)(6) during the preceding 12-month period. The statute does not define
the term “controlled by or under common control with” the issuer; however, the term “control” is
defined in Securities Act Rule 405. 35 For purposes of determining whether an entity is
“controlled by or under common control with” the issuer, an issuer would be required to consider
whether it has “control” based on this definition. 36
Under the proposed rules, the amount of securities sold in reliance on Section 4(a)(6) also
would include securities sold by any predecessor of the issuer in reliance on Section 4(a)(6)

33

For example, if the prospective investor in a concurrent private placement for which general solicitation is
not permitted became interested in that private placement through some means other than the offering made
in reliance on Section 4(a)(6), such as through a substantive, pre-existing relationship with the issuer or
direct contact by the issuer or its agents outside of the offering made in reliance on Section 4(a)(6), then the
fact that the offering made in reliance on Section 4(a)(6) was posted publicly on the intermediary’s
platform would not affect the availability of the other private placement exemption. On the other hand, if
an investor first discovers the issuer through a solicitation in a Section 4(a)(6) offering, that investor would
likely not be eligible to participate in a concurrent private placement in which general solicitation is not
permitted.

34

See proposed Rule 204 of Regulation Crowdfunding. See also discussion in Section II.B.4 below.

35

See 17 CFR 230.405 (“The term control (including the terms controlling, controlled by and under common
control with) means the possession, direct or indirect, of the power to direct or cause the direction of the
management and policies of a person, whether through the ownership of voting securities, by contract, or
otherwise.”). Exchange Act Rule 12b-2 similarly defines the term “control.” See 17 CFR 240.12b-2.

36

See proposed Instruction to paragraph (c) of proposed Rule 100 of Regulation Crowdfunding.
19

during the preceding 12-month period. 37 We believe this approach is necessary to prevent an
issuer from exceeding the $1 million limit by reorganizing the issuer into a new entity that would
otherwise not be limited by previous sales made by its predecessor. For example, if an issuer
reaches the $1 million limit under Section 4(a)(6), we do not believe the reorganization of the
issuer into a new entity should permit the successor to make additional offers and sales in
reliance on Section 4(a)(6) during the relevant 12-month period.
Request for Comment
1. Should we propose that the $1 million limit be net of fees charged by the
intermediary to host the offering on the intermediary’s platform? Why or why
not? If so, are there other fees that we should allow issuers to exclude when
determining the amount to be raised and whether the issuer has reached the $1
million limit?
2. As described above, we believe that issuers should not have to consider the
amounts raised in offerings made pursuant to other exemptions when
determining the amount sold during the preceding 12-month period for purposes
of the $1 million limit in Section 4(a)(6). Should we require that certain exempt
offerings be included in the calculation of the $1 million limit? If so, which
types of offerings and why? If not, why not? As noted above, at this time the
Commission is not proposing to consider the amounts raised in non-securitiesbased crowdfunding efforts in calculating the $1 million limit in Section
4(a)(6). Should the Commission propose to require that amounts raised in non-

37

See proposed Rule 100(c) of Regulation Crowdfunding (proposing to define issuer to include all entities
controlled by or under common control with the issuer and any predecessor of the issuer).
20

securities-based crowdfunding efforts be included in the calculation of the $1
million limit? Why or why not?
3. As described above, we believe that offerings made in reliance on Section 4(a)(6)
should not necessarily be integrated with other exempt offerings if the
conditions to the applicable exemptions are met. How would an alternative
interpretation affect the utility of crowdfunding as a capital raising mechanism?
Are there circumstances under which other exempt offers should be integrated
with an offer made in reliance on Section 4(a)(6)? If so, what are those
circumstances? Should we prohibit an issuer from concurrently offering
securities in reliance on Section 4(a)(6) and another exemption? Why or why
not? Should we prohibit an issuer from offering securities in reliance on
Section 4(a)(6) within a specified period of time after or concurrently with a
Rule 506(c) offering under Regulation D involving general solicitation? Why
or why not? Should we prohibit an issuer from using general solicitation or
general advertising under Rule 506(c) in a manner that is intended, or could
reasonably be expected, to condition the market for a Section 4(a)(6) offering or
generate referrals to a crowdfunding intermediary? Why or why not? Should
issuers that began an offering under Section 4(a)(6) be permitted to convert the
offering to a Rule 506(c) offering? Why or why not?
4. Under the proposed rules, whether an entity is controlled by or under common
control with the issuer would be determined based on whether the issuer
possesses, directly or indirectly, the power to direct or cause the direction of the
management and policies of the entity, whether through the ownership of voting
21

securities, by contract or otherwise. This standard is based on the definition of
“control” in Securities Act Rule 405. Is this approach appropriate? Why or
why not? Should we define control differently? If so, how?
5. Under the proposed rules, the definition of issuer would include any predecessor
of the issuer. Is this approach appropriate? Why or why not? Should an issuer
aggregate amounts sold by an affiliate of the issuer when determining the
aggregate amount sold in reliance on Section 4(a)(6) during the preceding 12month period? Why or why not? If so, how should we define affiliate?
2.

Investment Limitation

Under Section 4(a)(6)(B), the aggregate amount sold to any investor by an issuer,
including any amount sold in reliance on the exemption during the 12-month period preceding
the date of such transaction, cannot exceed: “(i) the greater of $2,000 or 5 percent of the annual
income or net worth of such investor, as applicable, if either the annual income or the net worth
of the investor is less than $100,000; and (ii) 10 percent of the annual income or net worth of
such investor, as applicable, not to exceed a maximum aggregate amount sold of $100,000, if
either the annual income or net worth of the investor is equal to or more than $100,000.”
Section 4A(h) further provides that these dollar amounts shall be adjusted by the Commission
not less frequently than once every five years based on the Consumer Price Index. As discussed
in more detail below, Section 4A(h) also provides that the income and net worth of a natural
person who is investing in a crowdfunding transaction pursuant to Section 4(a)(6) shall be

22

calculated in accordance with the Commission’s rules regarding the calculation of income and
net worth of an accredited investor. 38
Several commenters noted that Sections 4(a)(6)(B)(i) and (ii) technically subject some
investors to two potential investment limits. 39 The language of the statute may be read to create
potential conflicts or ambiguity between the two investment limits because paragraph (i) applies
if “either” annual income or net worth is less than $100,000 and paragraph (ii) applies if “either”
annual income or net worth is equal to or more than $100,000. Accordingly, in any situation in
which annual income is less than $100,000 and net worth is equal to or more than $100,000 (or
vice versa), the language of the statute may be read to cause both paragraphs to apply. Paragraph
(i) also fixes the maximum annual investment by an investor at 5 percent of “the annual income
or net worth of such investor, as applicable” and paragraph (ii) fixes the maximum annual

38

The definition of the term “accredited investor” is set forth in Rule 501(a) of Regulation D [17 CFR
230.501(a)] and includes any person who comes within one of the definition’s enumerated categories of
persons, or whom the issuer “reasonably believes” comes within any of the enumerated categories, at the
time of the sale of the securities to that person. For natural persons, Rule 501(a) defines an accredited
investor as a person: (1) whose individual net worth, or joint net worth with that person’s spouse, exceeds
$1 million, excluding the value of the person’s primary residence (the “net worth test”); or (2) who had an
individual income in excess of $200,000 in each of the two most recent years, or joint income with that
person’s spouse in excess of $300,000 in each of those years, and has a reasonable expectation of reaching
the same income level in the current year (the “income test”). Although the Dodd-Frank Wall Street
Reform and Consumer Protection Act, Pub. L. No. 111-203, 124 Stat. 1376, 1577 (July 21, 2010), (the
“Dodd-Frank Act”) did not change the amount of the $1 million net worth test, it did change how that
amount is calculated – by excluding the value of a person’s primary residence. This change took effect
upon the enactment of the Dodd-Frank Act. In December 2011, we amended Rule 501 to incorporate this
change into the definition of accredited investor. See Net Worth Standard for Accredited Investors, Release
No. 33-9287 (Dec. 21, 2011) [76 FR 81793 (Dec. 29, 2011)]. In addition, Section 413(b) of the DoddFrank Act specifically authorizes us to undertake a review of the definition of the term “accredited
investor” as it applies to natural persons, it and requires us to undertake a review of the definition in its
entirety every four years, beginning four years after enactment of the Dodd-Frank Act. Release No. 339416 (July 10, 2013) requests public comments on the definition of “accredited investor.”

39

See RocketHub Letter 1 (stating that the Commission should clarify that the greater of income or net worth
will be used to determine the investment limit); NASAA Letter (stating that the Commission should resolve
the ambiguity by requiring the lesser of the two investment limits); Ohio Division of Securities Letter
(stating that the Commission should apply the stricter investment limitation); ABA Letter 1; Friedman
Letter.
23

investment by an investor at 10 percent of “the annual income or net worth of such investor, as
applicable”, but neither paragraph (i) nor paragraph (ii) explicitly states when that percentage
should be applied against the investor’s annual income and when the percentage should be
applied against the investor’s net worth. Finally, paragraph (i) sets a floor for the investment
limit of $2,000 per year and paragraph (ii) sets a ceiling for the investment limit of $100,000 per
year, but the statutory language does not explicitly state whether the floor applies if the
maximum is calculated under paragraph (ii) or whether the ceiling applies if the maximum is
calculated under paragraph (i). Accordingly, discretion is required in interpreting and applying
this provision of the statute.
We believe that the appropriate approach to the investment limit provision is to provide
for an overall investment limit of $100,000, but within that overall limit, to provide for a “greater
of” limitation based on annual income and net worth. Under the proposed rules, therefore, if
both annual income and net worth are less than $100,000, then a limit of $2,000 or 5 percent of
annual income or net worth, whichever is greater, would apply. If either annual income or net
worth exceeds $100,000, then a limit of 10 percent of annual income or net worth, whichever is
greater, but not to exceed $100,000, would apply. We believe that this clarification would give
effect to the provision and would be consistent with Congressional intent in providing
investment limitations; however, we request comment below on whether to calculate the
investment limit based on the lesser of annual income or net worth.
As required by Section 4A(h), the proposed rules would require a natural person’s annual
income and net worth to be calculated in accordance with the Commission’s rules for

24

determining accredited investor status. 40 Securities Act Rule 501 specifies the manner in which
annual income and net worth are calculated for purposes of determining accredited investor
status. 41 One commenter stated that Section 4(a)(6)(B) is unclear in regard to how to address the
joint net worth of spouses. 42 The proposed rules would clarify that an investor’s annual income
and net worth may be calculated jointly with the income and net worth of the investor’s spouse. 43
We believe that this approach is consistent with the rules for determining accredited investor
status because the accredited investor definition contemplates both individual and joint income
and net worth with a spouse as methods of calculating annual income and net worth.
We also are proposing to allow an issuer to rely on efforts that an intermediary takes in
order to determine that the aggregate amount of securities purchased by an investor will not
cause the investor to exceed the investor limits, 44 provided that the issuer does not have
knowledge that the investor had exceeded, or would exceed, the investor limits as a result of
purchasing securities in the issuer’s offering. 45
In discussing the investment limitations, one commenter requested that the Commission
distinguish between retail investors and institutional or accredited investors and allow
institutional and accredited investors to invest in excess of the investment limitations included in
40

See proposed Instruction 1 to paragraph (a)(2) of proposed Rule 100 of Regulation Crowdfunding. See also
note 9.

41

See Securities Act Rule 501(a)(5) [17 CFR 230.501(a)(5)] (net worth) and Securities Act Rule 501(a)(6)
[17 CFR 230.501(a)(6)] (income). Consistent with these rules, the calculation of a natural person’s net
worth for purposes of the investment limit would exclude the value of the primary residence of such
person. A natural person’s income for purposes of the investment limit calculation would be the lower of
such person’s income for each of the two most recent years as long as such person has a reasonable
expectation of the same income level in the current year.

42

See Friedman Letter.

43

See proposed Instruction 2 to paragraph (a)(2) of proposed Rule 100 of Regulation Crowdfunding.

44

See discussion in Section II.C.5.b.i below.

45

See proposed Instruction 3 to paragraph (a)(2) of proposed Rule 100 of Regulation Crowdfunding.
25

the statute. 46 Another commenter asked that the Commission clarify whether non-U.S. citizens
or non-U.S. residents are bound by the same investment limits.47 Three commenters proposed
that the Commission create a two-tier regulatory system based on different investment limits to
reduce the regulatory burden for small, local offerings. 48 One of the commenters suggested that
one of the tiers could consist of a “small local offering” in which investment limits would be up
to $250 per investor. 49 The commenter asserted that smaller investments could be subject to
significantly reduced regulation because a $250 investment is unlikely to pose significant risk to
an investor. The second commenter suggested reducing the anticipated personal disclosure
requirements for investors who invest less than $500 through an intermediary that is a
community development financial institution. 50
The limitations in Section 4(a)(6)(B) apply to any investor seeking to participate in a
crowdfunding transaction. We believe that Congress intended for investment opportunities
through crowdfunding transactions relying on Section 4(a)(6) to be available to all types of
investors and established the investment limitations accordingly. 51 The statute provides specific
investment limits, and the only reference in the statute regarding changing those investment
limits is the requirement that the Commission update the investment limits not less frequently

46

See CFIRA Letter 2.

47

See TechnologyCrowdFund Letter 5.

48

See ASBC Letter; City First Letter. See also Spinrad Letter 1 (supporting the two-tier approach described
in the ASBC Letter).

49

See ASBC Letter.

50

See City First Letter.

51

See 158 CONG. REC. S1689 (daily ed. Mar. 15, 2012) (statement of Sen. Mark Warner) (“There is now the
ability to use the Internet as a way for small investors to get the same kind of deals that up to this point only
select investors have gotten that have been customers of some of the best known investment banking firms,
where we can now use the power of the Internet, through a term called crowdfunding.”).
26

than every five years based on the Consumer Price Index. Therefore, we do not believe it would
be appropriate to alter those limits for any particular type of investor or, at this time, to create a
different exemption based on different investment limits. Issuers can rely on other exemptions to
offer and sell securities to accredited investors and institutional investors (and, in some cases,
investors that do not meet the definition of accredited investor). As discussed above, concurrent
offerings to these types of investors are possible if the conditions of the applicable exemption are
met. Therefore, as proposed, the limitations would apply to all investors, including retail,
institutional or accredited investors and both U.S. and non-U.S. citizens or residents.
Request for Comment
6. While we acknowledge that there is ambiguity in the statutory language and there
is some comment regarding a contrary reading, we believe that the appropriate
approach to the investment limitations in Section 4(a)(6)(B) is to provide for an
overall investment limit of $100,000 and, within that limit, to provide for a
“greater of” limitation based on an investor’s annual income or net worth. In
light of ambiguity in the statutory language, we are specifically asking for
comment as to the question of whether we should instead require investors to
calculate the investment limitation based on the investor’s annual income or net
worth at the five percent threshold of Section 4(a)(6)(B)(i) if either annual
income or net worth is less than $100,000? Similarly, for those investors falling
within the Section 4(a)(6)(B)(i) framework, should we require them to calculate
the five percent investment limit based on the lower of annual income or net
worth? Should we require the same for the calculation of the 10 percent
investment limit within the Section 4(a)(6)(B)(ii) framework? If we were to
27

pursue any of these calculations, would we unnecessarily impede capital
formation?
7. The statute does not address how joint annual income or joint net worth should be
treated for purposes of the investment limit calculation. The proposed rules
clarify that annual income and net worth may be calculated jointly with the
annual income and net worth of the investor’s spouse. Is this approach
appropriate? Should we distinguish between annual income and net worth and
allow only one or the other to be calculated jointly for purposes of calculating
the investment limit? Why or why not? Should the investment limit be
calculated differently if it is based on the spouses’ joint income, rather than each
spouse’s annual income? Why or why not?
8. We are proposing to permit an issuer to rely on the efforts that an intermediary
takes in order to determine that the aggregate amount of securities purchased by
an investor will not cause the investor to exceed the investor limits, provided
that the issuer does not have knowledge that the investor had exceeded, or
would exceed, the investor limits as a result of purchasing securities in the
issuer’s offering. Is this approach appropriate? Why or why not? Should an
issuer be required to obtain a written representation from the investor that the
investor has not and will not exceed the limit by purchasing from the issuer?
Why or why not?
9. Should institutional and accredited investors be subject to the investment limits,
as proposed? Why or why not? Should we adopt rules providing for another
crowdfunding exemption with a higher investment limit for institutional and
28

accredited investors? If so, how high should the limit be? Are there categories
of persons that should not be subject to the investment limits? If yes, please
identify those categories of persons. If the offering amount for an offering
made in reliance on Section 4(a)(6) is not aggregated with the offering amount
for a concurrent offering made pursuant to another exemption, as proposed, is it
necessary to exclude institutional and accredited investors from the investment
limits since they would be able to invest pursuant to another exemption in
excess of the investment limits in Section 4(a)(6)?
10. Should we adopt rules providing for another crowdfunding exemption with
different investment limits (e.g., an exemption with a $250 investment limit and
fewer issuer requirements), as one commenter suggested, 52 or apply different
requirements with respect to individual investments under a certain amount,
such as $500, as another commenter suggested? 53 Why or why not? If so,
should the requirements for issuers and intermediaries also change? What
investment limits and requirements would be appropriate? Would adopting
such an exemption be consistent with the purposes of Section 4(a)(6)?
11. Should we consider additional investment limits on transactions made in reliance
on Section 4(a)(6) where the purchaser’s annual income and net worth are both
below a particular threshold? If so, what should such threshold be and why?

52

See ASBC Letter.

53

See City First Letter.
29

3.

Transaction Conducted Through an Intermediary

Under Section 4(a)(6)(C), a transaction in reliance on Section 4(a)(6) must be “conducted
through a broker or funding portal that complies with the requirements of [S]ection 4A(a).” We
believe that requiring an issuer to use only one intermediary, rather than allowing the issuer to
use multiple intermediaries, to conduct an offering or concurrent offerings in reliance on Section
4(a)(6) would help foster the creation of a crowd and better accomplish the purpose of the
statute. As discussed above, a central tenet of the concept of crowdfunding is presenting
members of the crowd with an idea or business so members of the crowd can share information
and evaluate the idea or business. Allowing an issuer to conduct a single offering or
simultaneous offerings in reliance on Section 4(a)(6) through more than one intermediary would
diminish the ability of the members of the crowd to effectively share information, because
essentially, there would be multiple “crowds.” Also, because practices among intermediaries
may differ, were multiple intermediaries to conduct a single offering or simultaneous offerings,
this could result in significant differences among such offerings. Finally, allowing an issuer to
conduct an offering using more than one intermediary would make it more difficult for
intermediaries to determine whether an issuer is exceeding the $1 million aggregate offering
limit. Therefore, in addition to requiring the use of an intermediary in connection with an
offering made in reliance on Section 4(a)(6), the proposed rules would prohibit an issuer from
using more than one intermediary to conduct an offering or concurrent offerings made in reliance
on Section 4(a)(6). 54

54

See proposed Instruction 1 to paragraph (a)(3) of proposed Rule 100 of Regulation Crowdfunding.
30

Although the statute does not expressly require it, we also believe that in enacting Section
4(a)(6)(C), Congress contemplated that crowdfunding transactions made in reliance on Section
4(a)(6) and activities associated with these transactions would occur over the Internet or other
similar electronic medium that is accessible to the public. 55 We believe that an “online-only”
requirement enables the public to access offering information and share information publicly in a
way that will allow members of the crowd to decide whether or not to participate in the offering
and fund the business or idea. 56 We believe that other mechanisms would not offer this
opportunity. The proposed rules would require that an intermediary, in a transaction involving
the offer or sale of securities in reliance on Section 4(a)(6), effect such transactions exclusively
through an intermediary’s platform. 57 We propose to define the term “platform” to mean an
Internet website or other similar electronic medium through which a registered broker or a
registered funding portal acts as an intermediary in a transaction involving the offer or sale of
securities in reliance on Section 4(a)(6). 58 The requirement that a transaction be conducted
exclusively through a platform does not preclude an intermediary from performing back office
and other administrative functions offline. Therefore, we propose to state that intermediaries

55

In this regard, we note that Section 301 of the JOBS Act states that “[Title III] may be cited as the ‘Capital
Raising Online While Deterring Fraud and Unethical Non-Disclosure Act of 2012’”. See Section 301 of
the JOBS Act. See also 158 CONG. REC. S1689 (daily ed. March 15, 2012) (statement of Sen. Mark
Warner) (“There is now the ability to use the Internet as a way for small investors to get the same kind of
deals that up to this point only select investors have gotten . . . , where we can now use the power of the
Internet, through a term called crowdfunding.”); id. at S1717 (Statement of Sen. Mary Landrieu) (“this
crowdfunding bill – which is, in essence, a way for the Internet to be used to raise capital . . . .”).

56

See note 2 and accompanying text. The Internet is considered to be a “perfect technology capable of
aggregating millions of disparate, independent ideas in the way markets and intelligent voting systems do,
without the dangers of ‘too much communication’ and compromise.” Brabham, note 1 (citing James
Surowiecki, The Wisdom of Crowds xix (2004)).

57

See proposed Rule 100(a)(3) of Regulation Crowdfunding.

58

See proposed Rule 100(d) of Regulation Crowdfunding.
31

may engage in back office and other administrative functions other than on their platforms. 59
Examples of such functions include document maintenance, preparation of notices and
confirmations, preparing internal policies and procedures, defining and approving business
security requirements and policies for information technology, and preparing information
required to be filed or otherwise provided to regulators.
The proposed rules would accommodate other electronic media that currently exist or
may develop in the future. For instance, applications for mobile communication devices, such as
cell phones or smart phones, could be used to display offerings and to permit investors to make
investment commitments. In our releases concerning the use of electronic media for delivery
purposes, we discussed so-called “electronic-only” offerings as those in which investors are
permitted to participate only if they agree to accept electronic delivery of all documents and
other information in connection with the offering. 60 As discussed below, the proposed rules
would require that an intermediary, in its standard account opening materials, obtain from
investors consent for such electronic delivery. 61
Some commenters appear to assume that all offers and sales made in reliance on Section
4(a)(6) would be conducted online. 62 One commenter recommended that the Commission

59
60

See proposed Instruction 2 to paragraph (a)(3) of proposed Rule 100 of Regulation Crowdfunding.
See, e.g., Use of Electronic Media by Broker-Dealers, Transfer Agents and Investment Advisers for
Delivery of Information, Release No. 34-37182 (May 9, 1996) [61 FR 24644 (May 15, 1996)]; Use of
Electronic Media, Release No. 34-42728 (Apr. 28, 2000) [65 FR 25843 (May 4, 2000)] (“Use of Electronic
Media”).

61

See proposed Rule 302(a) of Regulation Crowdfunding. The proposed rules would require consent to
electronic delivery because we believe Congress contemplated that crowdfunding would, by its very nature,
occur exclusively through electronic media.

62

See, e.g., MacDonald Letter (stating that readily-available information on the Internet already provides a
safeguard for crowdfunding investors); NAASA Letter (stating that NASAA is considering whether open
Internet access to funding portals would provide sufficient and updated information to state regulators).
32

expressly require that all disclosure and affirmations required for crowdfunding transactions take
place online. 63 In contrast, another commenter requested that we permit some crowdfunding
elements to take place offline to encourage local community investments through entities such as
community banks, community development companies and business development companies. 64
This commenter stated that permitting crowdfunding to take place offline also will help persons
without Internet access to invest. The proposed rules would, subject to certain conditions,
separately permit outreach by third parties and a third party’s promotion of an issuer’s offering
through communication channels provided by an intermediary. 65 In addition, an issuer may
provide a notice, subject to the conditions in the proposed rules, that directs potential investors to
the intermediary’s platform through which the issuer will conduct its offering. 66 Finally, we are
not proposing to permit offerings to be conducted through means other than the Internet or
similar electronic medium because we believe that allowing other non-electronic means would
be inconsistent with the underlying principles of crowdfunding and the statute. Offerings made
by other means would not be widely accessible by the public, which would defeat the benefit of
the collective wisdom of the members of the crowd. We also believe that Internet access may be
available to the public, such as through local public libraries, alleviating one commenter’s
concern about some persons not being able to invest unless the offerings also take place offline.
Request for Comment

63

See Cera Technology Letter.

64

See Tally Letter.

65

See proposed Rule 205 of Regulation Crowdfunding (promoter compensation), proposed Rule 305 of
Regulation Crowdfunding (payments to third parties) and proposed Rule 402(b)(6) of Regulation
Crowdfunding (conditional safe harbor), discussed below in Sections II.B.5, II.C.7 and II.D.3, respectively.

66

See proposed Rule 204 of Regulation Crowdfunding (advertising) discussed below in Section II.B.4.
33

12. The proposed rules would prohibit an issuer from conducting an offering or
concurrent offerings in reliance on Section 4(a)(6) using more than one
intermediary. Is this proposed approach appropriate? Why or why not? If
issuers were permitted to use more than one intermediary, what requirements
and other safeguards should or could be employed?
13. Should we define the term “platform” in a way that limits crowdfunding in
reliance on Section 4(a)(6) to transactions conducted through an Internet
website or other similar electronic medium? Why or why not?
14. Should we permit crowdfunding transactions made in reliance on Section 4(a)(6)
to be conducted through means other than an intermediary’s electronic
platform? If so, what other means should we permit? For example, should we
permit community-based funding in reliance on Section 4(a)(6) to occur other
than on an electronic platform? 67 To foster the creation and development of a
crowd, to what extent would such other means need to provide members of the
crowd with the ability to observe and comment (e.g., through discussion boards
or similar functionalities) on the issuer, its business or statements made in the
offering materials?
15. Should we allow intermediaries to restrict who can access their platforms? For
example, should we permit intermediaries to provide access by invitation only
or only to certain categories of investors? Why or why not? Would restrictions
such as these negatively impact the ability of investors to get the benefit of the

67

See City First Letter and note 355.
34

crowd and its assessment of an issuer, business or potential investment? Would
these kinds of restrictions affect the ability of small investors to access the
capital markets? If so, how?
16. As noted above, the proposed rules would not require intermediaries’ back office
or other administrative functions to be conducted exclusively on their platforms.
Do the proposed rules require any clarification? Are there other activities in
which an intermediary may engage that would not be considered back office or
administrative functions and that should be permitted to occur other than on a
platform? If so, what activities are they, and why should they be permitted to
occur other than on a platform?
4.

Exclusion of Certain Issuers from Eligibility under Section 4(a)(6)

Section 4A(f) excludes certain categories of issuers from eligibility to rely on
Section 4(a)(6) to engage in crowdfunding transactions. These issuers are: (1) issuers that are
not organized under the laws of a state or territory of the United States or the District of
Columbia; (2) issuers that are subject to Exchange Act reporting requirements; 68 (3) investment
companies as defined in the Investment Company Act of 1940 (the “Investment Company
Act”) 69 or companies that are excluded from the definition of investment company under Section
3(b) or 3(c) of the Investment Company Act; 70 and (4) any other issuer that the Commission, by
rule or regulation, determines appropriate.

68

These are issuers who are required to file reports with the Commission pursuant to Exchange Act Sections
13(a) (15 U.S.C. 78m(a)) or 15(d) (15 U.S.C. 78o(d)).

69

15 U.S.C 80a-1 et seq.

70

15 U.S.C. 80a-3(b) or (c).
35

One commenter suggested that the Commission’s rules should specify that the
crowdfunding exemption under Section 4(a)(6) is not available for blank check companies or
hedge funds and noted that “permitting these kinds of high-risk and often complex entities to use
the exemption is not consistent with the statutory goal of deterring fraud and unethical nondisclosure in crowdfunding offerings.” 71
The proposed rules would exclude the categories of issuers identified in the statute, 72 as
well as issuers that are disqualified from relying on Section 4(a)(6) pursuant to the
disqualification provisions of Section 302(d) of the JOBS Act. 73 The proposed rules also would
exclude an issuer that has sold securities in reliance on Section 4(a)(6) if the issuer has not filed
with the Commission and provided to investors, to the extent required, the ongoing annual
reports required by Regulation Crowdfunding 74 during the two years immediately preceding the
filing of the required new offering statement. 75 We believe that the ongoing reporting
requirement should benefit investors by enabling them to consider updated information about the
issuer, thereby allowing them to make more informed investment decisions. If issuers fail to
comply with this requirement, we do not believe that they should have the benefit of relying on
the exemption under Section 4(a)(6) again until they file, to the extent required, the two most
recent annual reports.

71

Commonwealth of Massachusetts Letter.

72

See proposed Rules 100(b)(1)-(3) of Regulation Crowdfunding.

73

See proposed Rule 100(b)(4) of Regulation Crowdfunding. See also proposed Rule 503 of Regulation
Crowdfunding and Section II.E.6 below for a discussion of the disqualification provisions.

74

See proposed Rules 202 and 203(b) of Regulation Crowdfunding and Section II.B.2 below for a discussion
of the ongoing reporting requirements.

75

See proposed Rule 100(b)(5) of Regulation Crowdfunding.
36

The proposed rules also would exclude an issuer that has no specific business plan or has
indicated that its business plan is to engage in a merger or acquisition with an unidentified
company or companies. As described above, crowdfunding is a new and evolving method to
raise money that serves as an alternative source of capital to support a wide range of ideas and
ventures. We believe that the exemption under Section 4(a)(6) is intended to provide an issuer
with an early stage project, idea or business an opportunity to share it publicly with a wider range
of potential investors. Those potential investors may then share information with each other
about the early stage proposal and use that information to decide whether or not to provide
funding based on the “wisdom of the crowd.” Under such circumstances, this mechanism
requires the public to have sufficient information about the issuer’s proposal to discuss its merit
and flaws. 76
At the same time, an early stage proposal may not allow the crowdfunding mechanism to
work appropriately if the issuer does not describe a specific project, idea, or business, or is
seeking funding for unspecified corporate transactions. In such cases, individuals reviewing the
proposal may not have sufficient information to formulate a considered view of the proposal, or
the proposal may be less likely to attract enough perspectives to inform a crowd decision.
Investors who nonetheless choose to participate may therefore be more likely to be participating
in an issuance that has not been reviewed by the crowd in the manner contemplated by the
exemption under Section 4(a)(6).
We are cognizant of the challenges associated with distinguishing between early stage
proposals that should provide information sufficient to support the crowdfunding mechanism and

76

See, e.g., Section 4A(b)(1)(C) (requiring a description of the business of the issuer and the anticipated
business plan of the issuer).
37

those that cannot by their terms do so. We preliminarily believe that an appropriate balance can
be struck by excluding an issuer that has no specific business plan or that has indicated that its
business plan is to engage in a merger or acquisition with an unidentified company or companies.
As described below, we do not expect that a specific “business plan” requires a formal document
prepared by management or used for marketing to investors. 77 We understand that issuers
engaging in crowdfunding transactions may have businesses at various stages of development in
differing industries, and therefore, we believe that a specific “business plan” could encompass a
wide range of project descriptions, articulated ideas, and business models. In particular, we
recognize that the business plan for startups or small businesses seeking to rely on Section
4(a)(6) may not be fully developed or highly specific and that for many it may be less defined or
detailed than the plan associated with larger issuers.
With respect to hedge funds, we believe that under Section 4A(f)(3), hedge funds would
be excluded from eligibility to rely on Section 4(a)(6) because hedge funds and other private
funds typically rely on one of the exclusions from the definition of investment company under
Section 3(c) of the Investment Company Act. 78
Request for Comment

77

See discussion below in Section II.B.1.a.i.(b) below.

78

Investment Advisers Act (“Advisers Act”) Form PF defines a “hedge fund” generally as any “private fund”
(other than a securitized asset fund) that: (1) pays a performance fee or allocation calculated by taking into
account unrealized gains (other than a fee or allocation the calculation of which may take into account
unrealized gains solely for the purpose of reducing such fee or allocation to reflect net unrealized losses);
(2) may borrow an amount in excess of one-half of its net asset value (including any committed capital) or
may have gross notional exposure in excess of twice its net asset value (including any committed capital);
or (3) may sell securities or other assets short or enter into similar transactions (other than for the purpose
of hedging currency exposure or managing duration). See Form PF: Glossary of Terms at 4, available at
http://www.sec.gov/rules/final/2011/ia-3308-formpf.pdf. A “private fund” is defined as any issuer that
would be an investment company as defined in Section 3 of the Investment Company Act but for Section
3(c)(1) or 3(c)(7) of that Act. Id. at 7.
38

17. Section 4A(b)(4) requires that, “not less than annually, [the issuer] file with the
Commission and provide to investors reports of the results of operations and
financial statements of the issuer . . . .” Should an issuer be excluded from
engaging in a crowdfunding transaction in reliance on Section 4(a)(6), as
proposed, if it has not filed with the Commission and provided to investors, to
the extent required, the ongoing annual reports required by proposed Regulation
Crowdfunding during the two years immediately preceding the filing of the
required offering statement? Why or why not? Should an issuer be eligible to
engage in a crowdfunding transaction in reliance on Section 4(a)(6) if it is
delinquent in other reporting requirements (e.g., updates regarding the progress
of the issuer in meeting the target offering amount)? 79 Why or why not?
Should the exclusion be limited to a different timeframe (e.g., filings required
during the five years or one year immediately preceding the filing of the
required offering statement)?
18. Is the proposed exclusion of issuers who fail to comply with certain ongoing
annual reporting requirements too broad? If so, how should it be narrowed and
why? Should the exclusion cover issuers whose affiliates have sold securities in
reliance on Section 4(a)(6) if the affiliates have not complied with the ongoing
annual reporting requirements? If so, should this encompass all affiliates? If
not, which affiliates should it cover? Should we exclude any issuer with an

79

See Section II.B.1.b below for a discussion of progress updates.
39

officer, director or controlling shareholder who served in a similar capacity with
another issuer that failed to file its annual reports? Why or why not?
19. What specific risks do investors face with “idea-only” companies and ventures?
Please explain. Do the proposed rules provide sufficient protection against the
inherent risks of such ventures? Why or why not?
20. Does the exclusion of issuers that do not have a specific idea or business plan
from eligibility to rely on Section 4(a)(6) strike the appropriate balance between
the funding needs of small issuers and the information requirements of the
crowd? Why or why not? Are there other approaches that would strike a better
balance among those considerations? If the proposed approach is appropriate,
should we define “specific business plan” or what criteria could be used to
identify them? How would any such criteria comport with the disclosure
obligations described in Section II.B.1.a.i.(b) (description of the business)
below?
21. Are there other categories of issuers that should be precluded from relying on
Section 4(a)(6)? If so, what categories of issuers and why?
B.

Requirements on Issuers
1.

Disclosure Requirements

Section 4A(b)(1) provides that an issuer offering or selling securities in reliance on
Section 4(a)(6) must file specified disclosures, including financial disclosures, with the
Commission, provide these disclosures to investors and the relevant broker or funding portal and
make these disclosures available to potential investors. These disclosures include:

40

•

the name, legal status, physical address and website address of the
issuer; 80

•

the names of the directors and officers (and any persons occupying a
similar status or performing a similar function), and each person holding
more than 20 percent of the shares of the issuer; 81

•

a description of the business of the issuer and the anticipated business plan
of the issuer; 82

•

a description of the financial condition of the issuer; 83

•

a description of the stated purpose and intended use of the proceeds of the
offering sought by the issuer with respect to the target offering amount; 84

•

the target offering amount, the deadline to reach the target offering amount
and regular updates regarding the progress of the issuer in meeting the
target offering amount; 85

•

the price to the public of the securities or the method for determining the
price; 86 and

80

Section 4A(b)(1)(A).

81

Section 4A(b)(1)(B).

82

Section 4A(b)(1)(C).

83

Section 4A(b)(1)(D). This provision also establishes a framework of tiered financial disclosure
requirements based on aggregate offering amounts for offerings under Section 4(a)(6) within the preceding
12-month period.

84

Section 4A(b)(1)(E).

85

Section 4A(b)(1)(F).

86

Section 4A(b)(1)(G). This provision also requires that “prior to sale, each investor shall be provided in
writing the final price and all required disclosures, with a reasonable opportunity to rescind the
commitment to purchase the securities.” This provision is addressed in Sections II.C.5 and II.C.6 below.
41

•

a description of the ownership and capital structure of the issuer. 87

In addition, Section 4A(b)(1)(I) specifies that the Commission may require additional disclosures
for the protection of investors and in the public interest.
Commenters expressed concerns about the extent of the disclosure requirements and
stated that overly burdensome rules would make offers and sales in reliance on Section 4(a)(6)
prohibitively expensive. 88 We recognize these concerns and have considered them in
determining the disclosure requirements that we should propose in this release.
The proposed rules generally describe the type of information that issuers would be
required to disclose. We expect, however, that an issuer, along with the intermediary, would
determine the format that best conveys the required disclosures and any other information the
issuer determines is material to investors. 89 We recognize that there are numerous ways to
achieve that goal and, as such, we are not proposing to mandate a specific disclosure format. 90

87

Section 4A(b)(1)(H). Specifically, Section 4A(b)(1)(H) requires a description of: “(i) terms of the
securities of the issuer being offered and each other class of security of the issuer…; (ii) a description of
how the exercise of the rights held by the principal shareholders of the issuer could negatively impact the
purchasers of the securities being offered; (iii) the name and ownership level of each existing shareholder
who owns more than 20 percent of any class of the securities of the issuer; (iv) how the securities being
offered are being valued…; and (v) the risks to purchasers of the securities relating to minority ownership
in the issuer, the risks associated with corporate actions, including additional issuances of shares, a sale of
the issuer or of assets of the issuer, or transactions with related parties.”

88

See Vim Funding Letter; ExpertBeacon Letter; CrowdFund Connect Letter.

89

Section II.B.3 below further discusses the proposed format of Form C and requests comments on the format
and presentation of the information.

90

While the proposed rules do not mandate a specific disclosure format, Rule 306 of Regulation S-T (17 CFR
232.306) requires that all electronic filings made with the Commission, including the filings that would be
required under the proposed rules, be in English. The proposed rules would not, however, prevent an issuer
from providing to the relevant intermediary both an English and a foreign language version of the
information for the intermediary to make publicly available through its platform. The anti-fraud and civil
liability provisions of the Securities Act would apply equally to both the English and the foreign language
version of the information.
42

Similarly, to the extent some of the required disclosures overlap, issuers would not be required to
duplicate disclosures.
As discussed further in Section II.B.3, we are proposing to require issuers to file the
disclosures with the Commission on Form C. 91 As proposed, Form C would be filed in the
standard format of eXtensible Markup Language (XML). An XML-based fillable form would
enable issuers to provide information in a convenient medium without requiring the issuer to
purchase or maintain additional software or technology. This would provide the Commission
with data about offerings made in reliance on Section 4(a)(6). Information not required to be
provided in text boxes would be filed as attachments to Form C.
Request for Comment
22. Rule 306 of Regulation S-T requires that all electronic filings made with the
Commission, including the filings that would be required under the proposed
rules, be in English. Some startups and small businesses, and their potential
investors, may principally communicate in a language other than English.
Should we amend Rule 306 to permit filings by issuers under the proposed rules
to be filed in the other language? Why or why not? If we retain the requirement
to make filings only in English, will this impose a disproportionate burden on
issuers and potential investors who principally communicate in a language other
than English? What will be the impact on capital formation for such issuers?
a.

Offering Statement Disclosure Requirements
i.

91

Information about the Issuer and the Offering

Issuers would use Form C to provide the required disclosures about the crowdfunding transaction and the
information required to be filed annually. See Section II.B.3 below.
43

(a)

General Information about the Issuer, Officers
and Directors

Consistent with Sections 4A(b)(1)(A) and (B), we are proposing to require an issuer to
disclose information about its legal status, directors, officers and certain shareholders and how
interested parties may contact the issuer. Specifically, an issuer would be required to disclose:
•

its name and legal status, including its form of organization, jurisdiction in which
it is organized and date of organization; 92

•

its physical address and its website address; 93 and

•

the names of the directors and officers, including any persons occupying a similar
status or performing a similar function, all positions and offices with the issuer
held by such persons, the period of time in which such person served in the
position or office and their business experience during the past three years, 94
including:
o each person’s principal occupation and employment, including whether
any officer is employed by another employer; and
o the name and principal business of any corporation or other organization
in which such occupation and employment took place.

Although the statute does not define “officer,” the term is defined in Securities Act Rule
405 95 and in Exchange Act Rule 3b-2. 96 We are proposing to define “officer” consistent with

92
93

See proposed Rule 201(a) of Regulation Crowdfunding.
Id.

94

See proposed Rule 201(b) of Regulation Crowdfunding.

95

17 CFR 230.405.

96

17 CFR 240.3b-2.
44

these existing rules. Thus, an issuer would be required to disclose information regarding its
president, vice president, secretary, treasurer or principal financial officer, comptroller or
principal accounting officer and any person routinely performing corresponding functions with
respect to any organization, whether incorporated or unincorporated, to the extent it has
individuals serving in these capacities.
We are proposing to require disclosure of the business experience of directors and
officers of the issuer during the past three years. A three-year period is less than the five-year
period that applies to issuers conducting registered offerings 97 or exempt offerings pursuant to
Regulation A. 98 We believe that startups and small businesses that may seek to raise capital in
reliance on Section 4(a)(6) generally would be smaller than the issuers conducting registered
offerings or exempt offerings pursuant to Regulation A; 99 thus, we believe that the less
burdensome three-year period would reduce the compliance cost for issuers while still providing
potential investors with sufficient information about the business experience of directors and
officers of the issuer to make an informed investment decision.
Section 4A(b)(1)(B) requires disclosure of “the names of . . . each person holding more
than 20 percent of the shares of the issuer.” In contrast, Section 4A(b)(1)(H)(iii) requires
disclosure of the “name and ownership level of each existing shareholder who owns more than
20 percent of any class of the securities of the issuer” (emphasis added). The proposed rules
would require disclosure of the names of persons, as of the most recent practicable date, who are
the beneficial owners of 20 percent or more of the issuer’s outstanding voting equity securities,
97

See Item 401(e) of Regulation S-K [17 CFR 229.401(e)].

98

See Item 8(c) of Form 1-A [17 CFR 239.90].

99

There is no cap on the amount of proceeds that may be raised in a registered offering, and Regulation A
limits offerings to $5 million.
45

calculated on the basis of voting power. 100 We refer to this group of persons as “20 Percent
Beneficial Owners.” We believe that the universe of 20 Percent Beneficial Owners should be the
same for the disclosure requirements and the disqualification provisions 101 because this would
ease the burden on issuers by requiring issuers to only identify one set of persons who would be
the subject of these rules. We believe that assessing beneficial ownership based on total
outstanding voting securities is consistent with Section 4A(b)(1)(B). Section 4A(b)(1)(B) is not
limited to voting equity securities, but we believe the limitation would be necessary to clarify
how beneficial ownership would be required to be calculated since issuers could potentially have
multiple classes of securities with different voting powers. Assessing beneficial ownership
based on ownership of total outstanding voting securities, rather than based on ownership of any
class of securities as potentially contemplated by Section 4A(b)(1)(H)(iii), also should ease the
burden of compliance because there would be fewer 20 Percent Beneficial Owners to track.
Neither Section 4A(b)(1)(B) nor Section 4A(b)(1)(H)(iii) states as of what date the
beneficial ownership should be calculated. The proposed rules would require issuers to calculate
beneficial ownership as of the most recent practicable date. 102 This is the same requirement that
applies to issuers conducting registered offerings or Exchange Act reporting companies. 103 We
believe that it is appropriate to provide issuers relying on Section 4(a)(6) the flexibility to
calculate beneficial ownership as of the most recent practicable date, otherwise such issuers

100

See proposed Rule 201(c) of Regulation Crowdfunding.

101

See proposed Rule 503 of Regulation Crowdfunding and Section II.E.6 below for a discussion of the
proposed disqualification provisions. This approach also would be consistent with how beneficial
ownership is calculated for the Rule 506 disqualification rules. See Disqualification of Felons and Other
“Bad Actors” from Rule 506 Offerings, Release No. 33-9414 (July 10, 2013) [78 FR 44729 (July 24,
2013)] (“Disqualification Adopting Release”).

102

See proposed Rule 201(c) of Regulation Crowdfunding.

103

See Item 403 of Regulation S-K [17 CFR 229.403].
46

would be subject to a more burdensome standard than the one that applies to issuers conducting
registered offerings or Exchange Act reporting companies.
Request for Comment
23. Under the proposed rules the definition of the term “officer” is consistent with
how that term is defined in Securities Act Rule 405 104 and in Exchange Act Rule
3b-2. 105 Should we instead define “officer” consistent with the definition of
“executive officer” in Securities Act Rule 405 106 and in Exchange Act Rule 3b7 107? Why or why not? Which definition would be more appropriate for the
types of issuers that would be relying on the exemption?
24. Are these proposed disclosure requirements relating to the issuer and its officers
and directors appropriate? Why or why not? Should we only require the
disclosures specifically called for by statute or otherwise modify or eliminate
any of the proposed requirements? Should we require any additional disclosures
(e.g., disclosure about significant employees)? Is there other general
information about the issuer or its officers and directors that we should require
to be disclosed? If so, what information and why? For example, should we
require disclosure of any court orders, judgments or civil litigation involving any
directors and officers, including any persons occupying a similar status or

104

17 CFR 230.405.

105

17 CFR 240.3b-2.

106

17 CFR 230.405.

107

17 CFR 240.3b-7.
47

performing a similar function? Why or why not? If so, what time period should
this disclosure cover and why?
25. The proposed rules would require disclosure of the business experience of
directors and officers of the issuer during the past three years. Is the three-year
period an appropriate amount of time? Why or why not? If not, please discuss
what would be an appropriate amount of time and why. Should the requirement
to disclose the business experience of officers and directors include a specific
requirement to disclose whether the issuer’s directors and officers have any prior
work or business experience in the same type of business as the issuer? Why or
why not?
26. The proposed rules would require disclosure of the names of persons who are
beneficial owners of 20 percent or more of the issuer’s outstanding voting equity
securities, calculated on the basis of voting power. Is this approach appropriate?
Why or why not? Should the proposed rules require disclosure of the names of
beneficial owners of 20 percent or more of any class of the issuer’s voting
securities, even if such beneficial ownership does not exceed 20 percent of all of
the issuer’s outstanding voting equity securities? Why or why not? Should the
proposed disclosure requirement apply to the names of beneficial owners of 20
percent or more, as proposed, or to more than 20 percent of the issuer’s
outstanding voting equity securities? Why or why not?
27. The proposed rules would require that beneficial ownership be calculated as of the
most recent practicable date. Is this approach appropriate? Why or why not?
Should beneficial ownership be calculated as of a different date? For example,
48

should the reported beneficial ownership only reflect information as of the end
of a well-known historical period, such as the end of a fiscal year? Please
explain. Should there be a maximum amount of time from this calculation date
to the filing to ensure that the information is current? If so, what maximum
amount of time would be appropriate?
28. Should we provide additional guidance on how to calculate beneficial ownership
on the basis of voting power? If so, what should that guidance include? Should
the proposed rules require disclosure of the name of a person who has
investment power over, an economic exposure to or a direct pecuniary interest in
the issuer’s securities even if that person is not a 20 Percent Beneficial Owner?
Why or why not?
(b)

Description of the Business

Consistent with Section 4A(b)(1)(C), we are proposing to require an issuer to disclose
information about its business and business plan. 108 One commenter noted that the term
“business plan” traditionally referred to a document prepared by management for internal use
only and more recently has been used to refer to a marketing document used to solicit
investors. 109 We do not expect issuers to provide those types of documents in response to this
requirement. 110 Although two commenters suggested that the Commission clarify the term

108

See proposed Rule 201(d) of Regulation Crowdfunding.

109

See Ohio Division of Securities Letter.

110

Companies filing a registration statement or other filings that require a description of the business include a
description of the business without providing a formal business plan. See Item 101 of Regulation S-K [17
CFR 229.101]. Our approach under proposed Rule 201(d) of Regulation Crowdfunding is consistent with
that practice.
49

“business plan,” 111 the proposed rules would not specify the disclosures that an issuer must
include in the description of the business and the business plan. We understand that issuers
engaging in crowdfunding transactions may have businesses at various stages of development in
differing industries, and therefore, we believe that the proposed rules should provide flexibility
for issuers to disclose the information about their businesses.
Request for Comment
29. Are these proposed disclosure requirements appropriate? Why or why not?
Should we require any additional disclosures? Should we prescribe specific
disclosure requirements about the business of the issuer and the anticipated
business plan of the issuer or provide a non-exclusive list of the types of
information an issuer should consider disclosing? Why or why not? If so, what
specific disclosures about the issuer’s business or business plans should we
require or include in a non-exclusive list? For example, should we explicitly
require issuers to describe any material contracts of the issuer, any material
litigation or any outstanding court order or judgment affecting the issuer or its
property? Why or why not?
30. Would more specific line item disclosures be more workable for issuers relying
on Section 4A or provide more useful guidance for such issuers? Would such
disclosures be more useful to investors? Why or why not? For example, should
we require issuers to provide a business description incorporating the
information that a smaller reporting company would be required to provide in a

111

See Cones Letter; Ohio Division of Securities Letter.
50

registered offering pursuant to Item 101(h) of Regulation S-K? 112 Why or why
not? Should we require issuers to provide information regarding their plan of
operations, similar to that required by Item 101(a)(2) of Regulation S-K 113 in
registered offerings by companies with limited operating histories? Why or why
not?
(c)

Use of Proceeds

The proposed rules, consistent with Section 4A(b)(1)(E), would require an issuer to
provide a description of the purpose and intended use of the offering proceeds. 114 One
commenter suggested that we require issuers to be specific and detailed when making this
disclosure. 115 We expect that such disclosure would provide a sufficiently detailed description of
the intended use of proceeds to permit potential investors to evaluate the investment. For
example, an issuer may, among other uses, intend to use the proceeds of an offering to acquire
assets or businesses, compensate the intermediary or its own employees or repurchase
outstanding securities of the issuer. In its description, an issuer should use its judgment
regarding the level of detail in its disclosures regarding the assets or businesses that the issuer
anticipates acquiring, if applicable. If the proceeds will be used to compensate the intermediary,
the issuer should disclose the amount to be used for such compensation. If the proceeds will be
used to compensate existing employees and/or to hire new employees, the issuer should consider

112

17 CFR 229.101(h).

113

17 CFR 229.101(a)(2).

114

See proposed Rule 201(i) of Regulation Crowdfunding.

115

See Williams Letter (stating that an issuer should disclose how the issuer arrived at the offering target, an
itemization of expected expenses within the intended use of the proceeds, a contingency plan for the use of
the proceeds should circumstances change and what will be done with any leftover proceeds upon
completing the intended use).
51

disclosing whether the proceeds will be used for salaries or bonuses and how many employees it
plans to hire, as applicable. If the issuer will repurchase outstanding issuer securities, it should
consider disclosing its plans, terms and purpose for repurchasing the securities. An issuer also
should consider disclosing how long the proceeds will satisfy the operational needs of the
business. If an issuer does not have definitive plans for the proceeds, but instead has identified a
range of possible uses, then the issuer should identify and describe each probable use and factors
impacting the selection of each particular use. 116 If an issuer indicates that it will accept
proceeds in excess of the target offering amount, 117 the issuer would be required to provide a
separate, reasonably detailed description of the purpose and intended use of any excess proceeds
with similar specificity. 118
Request for Comment
31. Are these proposed disclosure requirements appropriate? Why or why not?
Should we require any additional disclosures, including specifying items
required to be disclosed? Is the proposed standard sufficiently clear such that it
would result in investors being provided with an adequate amount of
information? If not, how should we change the disclosure requirement? Should
the rules include a non-exclusive list of examples that issuers should consider
when providing disclosure, similar to the examples discussed above?
32. Under what circumstances, if any, should an issuer be required to update the use
of proceeds disclosures?

116

See proposed Instruction to paragraph (i) of proposed Rule 201 of Regulation Crowdfunding.

117

See Section II.B.1.a.i(d) below.

118

See proposed Instruction to paragraph (i) of proposed Rule 201 of Regulation Crowdfunding.
52

33. Is there other information regarding the purpose of the offering and use of
proceeds that we should require to be disclosed? If so, what information?
Should any of the examples above be included as requirements in the rules?
Why or why not?
(d)

Target Offering Amount and Deadline

Consistent with Section 4A(b)(1)(F), the proposed rules would require issuers to disclose
the target offering amount and the deadline to reach the target offering amount. 119 In addition,
an issuer would be required to disclose whether it will accept investments in excess of the target
offering amount and, if it will, the issuer would be required to disclose, at the commencement of
the offering, the maximum amount it will accept. 120 For example, if the issuer sets a target
offering amount of $200,000 but is willing to accept up to $750,000, the issuer would be
required to disclose both the $200,000 target offering amount and the $750,000 maximum
offering amount that it will accept. 121 In addition, the issuer would be required to disclose, at the
commencement of the offering, how shares in oversubscribed offerings would be allocated. 122 If
this disclosure is made, we do not believe it would be necessary for us to prescribe how
oversubscribed offerings would be allocated because this approach would allow issuers the

119

See proposed Rule 201(g) of Regulation Crowdfunding.

120

See proposed Rule 201(h) of Regulation Crowdfunding.

121

The issuer in this case also would need to disclose the intended use of the additional proceeds. See
proposed Instruction to paragraph (i) of proposed Rule 201 of Regulation Crowdfunding. See also Section
II.B.1.a.i(c) above. In addition, the issuer in this case would need to provide audited financial statements at
the commencement of the offering, rather than financial statements reviewed by an independent public
accountant as would be required for the lower target amount. See Section II.B.1.a.ii below for a discussion
of the financial statements requirements. As another example, an issuer that sets a target offering amount
of $80,000 and a maximum offering amount of $105,000 would be required to provide financial statements
reviewed by an independent public accountant (rather than tax returns for the most recently completed
fiscal year and financial statements certified by the principal executive officer).

122

See proposed Rule 201(h) of Regulation Crowdfunding.
53

flexibility to structure the offering as they believe appropriate. At the same time, this approach
would provide investors with the disclosure they need to make an informed investment decision.
We believe that investors in a crowdfunding transaction would benefit from clear
disclosure about their right to cancel, the circumstances under which an issuer may close an
offering early and the need to reconfirm the investment commitment under certain
circumstances, so investors are more aware of their rights to rescind an investment
commitment. 123 As such, we propose to require issuers to describe the process to cancel an
investment commitment or to complete the transaction once the target amount is met, 124
including a statement that:
•

investors may cancel an investment commitment until 48 hours prior to the
deadline identified in the issuer’s offering materials; 125

•

the intermediary will notify investors when the target offering amount has been
met;

•

if an issuer reaches the target offering amount prior to the deadline identified in its
offering materials, it may close the offering early if it provides notice about the
new offering deadline at least five business days prior to that new deadline
(absent another material change that would require an extension of the offering
and reconfirmation of the investment commitment); 126 and

123

Although not specifically required by Title III, Securities Act Section 4A(b)(1)(I) provides us with
discretion to require issuers engaged in transactions in reliance on Section 4(a)(6) to provide additional
information for the protection of investors and in the public interest.

124

See proposed Rule 201(j) of Regulation Crowdfunding.

125

Section II.C.6 below further discusses the proposed cancelation provisions and requests comments on the
proposed approach.

126

Id.
54

•

if an investor does not cancel an investment commitment before the 48-hour
period prior to the offering deadline, the funds will be released to the issuer upon
closing of the offering and the investor will receive securities in exchange for his
or her investment.

We also propose to require issuers to disclose that if an investor does not reconfirm his or
her investment commitment after a material change is made to the offering, the investor’s
investment commitment will be cancelled and committed funds will be returned. 127 The
proposed rules also would require issuers to disclose that if the sum of the investment
commitments does not equal or exceed the target offering amount at the time of the offering
deadline, no securities will be sold in the offering, investment commitments will be cancelled
and committed funds will be returned. 128
Request for Comment
34. Are these proposed disclosure requirements appropriate? Why or why not?
Should we modify or eliminate any of the proposed requirements? Should we
require any additional disclosures?
35. The proposed rules would require an issuer willing to accept investments in
excess of the target offering amount to provide, at the commencement of the
offering, the disclosure that would be required in the event the offer is
oversubscribed. Is this approach appropriate? Why or why not?

127

See proposed Rule 201(k) of Regulation Crowdfunding.

128

See proposed Rule 201(g) of Regulation Crowdfunding. See also Section 4A(a)(7) (requiring
intermediaries to “ensure that all offering proceeds are only provided to the issuer when the aggregate
capital raised from all investors is equal to or greater than a target offering amount . . . .”) and discussion in
Section II.C.6 below.
55

(e)

Offering Price

Consistent with Section 4A(b)(1)(G), the proposed rules would require an issuer to
disclose the offering price of the securities or the method for determining the price, provided that
prior to the sale, each investor is provided in writing the final price and all required
disclosures. 129
Request for Comment
36. Are these proposed disclosure requirements appropriate? Why or why not?
Should we modify or eliminate any of the proposed requirements? Should we
require any additional disclosures? Please explain.
(f)

Ownership and Capital Structure

Consistent with Section 4A(b)(1)(H), the proposed rules would require an issuer to
provide a description of its ownership and capital structure. 130 This disclosure would include:
•

the terms of the securities being offered and each other class of security of the issuer,
including the number of securities being offered and/or outstanding, whether or not
such securities have voting rights, any limitations on such voting rights, how the
terms of the securities being offered may be modified and a summary of the
differences between such securities and each other class of security of the issuer, and
how the rights of the securities being offered may be materially limited, diluted or
qualified by the rights of any other class of security of the issuer;

129

See proposed Rule 201(l) of Regulation Crowdfunding. See also Sections II.C.5 and II.C.6 below for a
discussion of information that issuers would be required to provide to investors.

130

See proposed Rule 201(m) of Regulation Crowdfunding.
56

•

a description of how the exercise of the rights held by the principal shareholders of
the issuer could affect the purchasers of the securities;

•

the name and ownership level of persons who are 20 Percent Beneficial Owners;

•

how the securities being offered are being valued, and examples of methods for how
such securities may be valued by the issuer in the future, including during subsequent
corporate actions;

•

the risks to purchasers of the securities relating to minority ownership in the issuer
and the risks associated with corporate actions including additional issuances of
securities, issuer repurchases of securities, a sale of the issuer or of assets of the issuer
or transactions with related parties; and

•

a description of the restrictions on the transfer of the securities.

We believe that investors in crowdfunding transactions would benefit from clear
disclosure about the terms of the securities being offered and each other class of security of the
issuer. The proposed rules would require disclosure of the number of securities being offered
and/or outstanding, whether or not such securities have voting rights, any limitations on such
voting rights and a description of the restrictions on the transfer of the securities. 131 Although
Section 4A(b)(1)(H) does not specifically call for this disclosure, we believe that such disclosure
would be necessary to provide investors with a more complete picture of the issuer’s capital
structure than would be obtained solely pursuant to the statutory requirements. We believe this
would help investors better evaluate the terms of the offer before making an investment decision.

131

See proposed Rule 501 of Regulation Crowdfunding and Section II.E.2 below for a discussion of
restrictions on resales.
57

Request for Comment
37. Are these proposed disclosure requirements appropriate? Why or why not?
Should we modify or eliminate any of the proposed requirements? Should we
require any additional disclosures? Please explain.
(g)

Additional Disclosure Requirements

In addition to the statutory disclosure requirements, 132 we propose to require:
•

disclosure of the name, Commission file number and Central Registration
Depository number (“CRD number”) 133 (as applicable) of the intermediary
through which the offering is being conducted; 134

•

disclosure of the amount of compensation paid to the intermediary for conducting
the offering, including the amount of any referral or other fees associated with the
offering; 135

•

disclosure of certain legends to be included in the offering statement; 136

•

disclosure of the current number of employees of the issuer; 137

•

a discussion of the material factors that make an investment in the issuer
speculative or risky; 138

132

Section 4A(b)(1)(I) provides us with discretion to require crowdfunding issuers to provide additional
information for the protection of investors and in the public interest.

133

The Financial Industry Regulatory Authority, Inc. (“FINRA”) will issue the CRD number.

134

See proposed Rule 201(n) of Regulation Crowdfunding.

135

See proposed Rule 201(o) of Regulation Crowdfunding.

136

See Item 2 of General Instruction III to proposed Form C.

137

See proposed Rule 201(e) of Regulation Crowdfunding.

138

See proposed Rule 201(f) of Regulation Crowdfunding.
58

•

a description of the material terms of any indebtedness of the issuer, including the
amount, interest rate, maturity date and any other material terms; 139

•

disclosure of exempt offerings conducted within the past three years; 140 and

•

disclosure of certain related-party transactions. 141

Requiring an issuer to identify the name, Commission file number and CRD number (as
applicable) of the intermediary through which the offering is being conducted should assist
investors and regulators in obtaining information about the offering and facilitate monitoring the
use of the exemption. It also could help investors obtain background information on the
intermediary, for instance through filings made by the intermediary with the Commission as well
as through the Financial Industry Regulatory Authority’s (“FINRA”) BrokerCheck system for
brokers 142 or a similar system, if created, for funding portals.
In addition, requiring an issuer to disclose the amount of compensation paid to the
intermediary for conducting the offering, including the amount of referral or other fees
associated with the offering, would permit investors and regulators to determine how much of
the proceeds of the offering are used to compensate the intermediary and to facilitate the
monitoring of compensation paid to intermediaries.
The requirement for an issuer to include in the offering statement certain specified
legends about the risks of investing in a crowdfunding transaction is intended to help investors
understand the general risks of investing in a crowdfunding transaction. In addition, the

139

See proposed Rule 201(p) of Regulation Crowdfunding.

140

See proposed Rule 201(q) of Regulation Crowdfunding.

141

See proposed Rule 201(r) of Regulation Crowdfunding.

142

See FINRA, FINRA BrokerCheck, available at http://www.finra.org/Investors/ToolsCalculators/
BrokerCheck/P015175.
59

requirement that an issuer include in the offering statement certain legends about the required
ongoing reports, including how those reports would be made available to investors and how an
issuer may terminate its ongoing reporting obligations, is intended to help investors understand
an issuer’s ongoing reporting obligations and inform investors of how they will be able to access
those reports.
The proposed rules also would require disclosure of the material factors that make an
investment in the issuer speculative or risky. 143 We believe that this risk factor information
should help investors to better understand the risks of investing in a specific issuer’s offering.
The proposed rules also would require disclosure of certain related-party transactions
between the issuer and any director or officer of the issuer, any person who is a 20 Percent
Beneficial Owner, any promoter of the issuer (if the issuer was incorporated or organized within
the past three years), or immediate family members of the foregoing persons. 144 For purposes of
this related-party transactions disclosure, “immediate family member” would have the same
meaning that it has in Item 404 of Regulation S-K, 145 which relates to the disclosure of relatedparty transactions for Exchange Act reporting companies. This related-party transactions
disclosure should assist investors in obtaining a more complete picture of the financial
relationships between certain related parties and the issuer.
Several commenters suggested that we should model the disclosure form after Securities
Act Form 1-A 146 or the North American Securities Administrators Association’s (“NASAA”)

143

See proposed Rule 201(f) of Regulation Crowdfunding.

144

See proposed Rule 201(r) of Regulation Crowdfunding.

145

17 CFR 229.404. See proposed Rule 201(r)(4) of Regulation Crowdfunding.

146

17 CFR 239.90. Form 1-A is the form used for securities offerings made pursuant to Regulation A.
60

uniform Small Company Offering Registration Form (U-7). 147 The proposed disclosure
requirements regarding risk factors and related-party transactions are similar to those in Form 1A except that, with respect to the disclosure about related-party transactions, the proposed rules
would require disclosure about transactions since the beginning of the issuer’s last full fiscal
year, rather than the two fiscal years required in Form 1-A. Given the early stage of
development of the small businesses and startups that we expect would seek to raise capital
pursuant to Section 4(a)(6), as well as the investment limitations prescribed by the proposed
rules, we believe that limiting the disclosure to related-party transactions since the beginning of
the issuer’s last full fiscal year will reduce the burden on issuers while still providing investors
with sufficient information to evaluate the relationship between related parties and the issuer.
Also, the proposed rules only would require disclosure of related-party transactions in excess of
five percent of the aggregate amount of capital raised by the issuer in reliance on Section 4(a)(6)
during the preceding 12-month period, inclusive of the amount the issuer seeks to raise in the
current offering under Section 4(a)(6). For example, an issuer seeking to raise $1 million would
be required to disclose related-party transactions in excess of $50,000, which is the same
threshold required in Form 1-A. We believe that, in light of the sizes and varieties of issuers that
may make offerings in reliance on Section 4(a)(6), this scaled approach is more appropriate than
the fixed amount approach used in Form 1-A, which might be disproportionate to the size of
certain offerings and issuers.

147

See Commonwealth of Massachusetts Letter; Coan Letter; Liles Letter 1; Vim Funding Letter; NASAA
Letter.
61

Two commenters suggested that the Commission require the issuer to disclose the total
number of employees. 148 The proposed rules would require disclosure of the issuer’s current
number of employees. 149 This information should assist investors and regulators in obtaining
information about the size of the businesses using the exemption. This information would make
data available that could be used to evaluate whether the businesses using the exemption are
creating additional jobs. 150
The proposed rules also would require disclosure of the material terms of any
indebtedness of the issuer, including, among other items, the amount, interest rate and maturity
date. 151 We believe this information would be important to investors because servicing debt
could place additional pressures on an issuer in the early stages of development.
In addition, the proposed rules would require disclosure of exempt offerings conducted
within the past three years. 152 For each exempt offering within the past three years, the proposed
rules would require a description of the date of the offering, the offering exemption relied upon,
the type of securities offered and the amount of securities sold and the use of proceeds. 153 We
believe that it would be important to investors to know of prior offerings of securities. This
information would better inform investors about the capital structure of the issuer and would
provide information about how prior offerings were valued.
Request for Comment

148

See NASAA Letter; Ohio Division of Securities Letter.

149

See proposed Rule 201(e) of Regulation Crowdfunding.

150

Issuers would be required to disclose the current number of employees in the offering document and the
ongoing reports, which should permit comparison of the number of employees over different time periods.

151

See proposed Rule 201(p) of Regulation Crowdfunding.

152

See proposed Rule 201(q) Regulation Crowdfunding.

153

See proposed Instruction to paragraph (q) of proposed Rule 201 of Regulation Crowdfunding.
62

38. Are these proposed disclosure requirements appropriate? Why or why not?
Should we modify or eliminate any of the proposed requirements? If so, how
and why?
39. To assist investors and regulators in obtaining information about the offering and
to facilitate monitoring the use of the exemption, the proposed rules would
require an issuer to identify the name, Commission file number and CRD
number (as applicable) of the intermediary through which the offering is being
conducted. Is there a better approach? What other information should be
provided? If so, please describe it.
40. Should we require disclosure of the amount of compensation paid to the
intermediary, as proposed? Why or why not? Should we require issuers to
separately disclose the amounts paid for conducting the offering and the
amounts paid for other services? Why or why not?
41. Should we require the issuer to include certain specified legends about the risks of
investing in a crowdfunding transaction and disclosure of the material factors
that make an investment in the issuer speculative or risky, as proposed? Why or
why not? Should we provide examples in our rules of the types of material risk
factors an issuer should consider disclosing? Why or why not? If so, what
should those examples be?
42. Should we require disclosure of certain related-party transactions, as proposed?
Why or why not? The proposed rules would require disclosures of certain
transactions between the issuer and directors or officers of the issuer, 20 Percent
Beneficial Owners, any promoter of the issuer, or relatives of the foregoing
63

persons. Is this the appropriate group of persons? Should we limit or expand
the list of persons? If so, how and why?
43. As proposed, immediate family member, for purposes of related-party
transactions disclosure, would have the same meaning that it has in Item 404 of
Regulation S-K. 154 Is this the appropriate approach? Why or why not? If not,
what would be a more appropriate definition and why? For purposes of
restrictions on resales of securities issued in transactions made in reliance on
Section 4(a)(6), “member of the family of the purchaser or the equivalent”
would, as proposed, expressly include spousal equivalents. 155 Should the
definition of immediate family member for purposes of related-party
transactions disclosure also expressly include spousal equivalents, or would
including spousal equivalents create confusion in light of the fact that the
definition for purposes of related-party transactions already includes any persons
(other than a tenant or employee) sharing the same household? Please explain.
44. Is it appropriate to limit the disclosure about related-party transactions to
transactions since the beginning of the issuer’s last full fiscal year? Why or why
not? Is it appropriate to limit disclosure to those related-party transactions that
exceed five percent of the aggregate amount of capital raised by the issuer in
reliance on Section 4(a)(6)? Should we instead require disclosure of all relatedparty transactions or all transactions in excess of an absolute threshold amount?

154

17 CFR 229.404. See proposed Rule 201(r)(4) of Regulation Crowdfunding.

155

See proposed Rule 501(c) of Regulation Crowdfunding and the related instruction thereto. See also Section
II.E.2 below for a discussion of spousal equivalent.
64

45. Is it appropriate to require a description of any prior exempt offerings conducted
within the past three years, as proposed? Why or why not? Would another time
period (e.g., one year, five years, etc.) or no time limit be more appropriate?
46. Should we require any additional disclosures (e.g., should we require disclosure
about executive compensation and, if so, what level of detail should be required
in such disclosure)? If so, what disclosures and why?
ii.

Financial Disclosure

Section 4A(b)(1)(D) requires “a description of the financial condition of the issuer.” It
also establishes a framework of tiered financial disclosure requirements based on aggregate
target offering amounts of the offering and all other offerings made in reliance on Section 4(a)(6)
within the preceding 12-month period:
•

issuers offering $100,000 or less are required to file with the Commission, provide to
investors and the relevant intermediary and make available to potential investors income
tax returns filed by the issuer for the most recently completed year (if any) and financial
statements that are certified by the principal executive officer to be true and complete in
all material respects;

•

issuers offering more than $100,000, but not more than $500,000, are required to file with
the Commission, provide to investors and the relevant intermediary and make available to
potential investors financial statements reviewed by a public accountant that is
independent of the issuer; and

•

issuers offering more than $500,000 (or such other amount as the Commission may
establish) are required to file with the Commission, provide to investors and the relevant
intermediary and make available to potential investors audited financial statements.
65

Section 4A(h) further provides that these dollar amounts shall be adjusted by the
Commission not less frequently than once every five years, by notice published in the Federal
Register, to reflect any change in the Consumer Price Index for All Urban Consumers published
by the Bureau of Labor Statistics.
(a)

Financial Condition Discussion

Consistent with Section 4A(b)(1)(D), the proposed rules would require an issuer to
provide a narrative discussion of its financial condition. 156 This discussion should address, to the
extent material, the issuer’s historical results of operations in addition to its liquidity and capital
resources. If an issuer does not have a prior operating history, the discussion should focus on
financial milestones and operational, liquidity and other challenges. If an issuer has a prior
operating history, the discussion should focus on whether historical earnings and cash flows are
representative of what investors should expect in the future. An issuer’s discussion of its
financial condition should take into account the proceeds of the offering and any other known or
pending sources of capital. Issuers also should discuss how the proceeds from the offering will
affect their liquidity and whether these funds and any other additional funds are necessary to the
viability of the business. In addition, issuers should describe the other available sources of
capital to the business, such as lines of credit or required contributions by principal shareholders.
We expect that the discussion required by the proposed rule and instruction would inform
investors about the financial condition of the issuer in a manner similar to the management’s
discussion and analysis of financial condition and results of operations (“MD&A”) required by

156

See proposed Rule 201(s) of Regulation Crowdfunding.
66

Item 303 of Regulation S-K 157 for registered offerings. Because issuers seeking to engage in
crowdfunding transactions would likely be smaller, less complex and at an early stage of
development compared to issuers conducting registered offerings or Exchange Act reporting
companies, we expect that the discussion would not generally need to be as lengthy or detailed as
the MD&A of Exchange Act reporting companies. We are not proposing to prescribe content or
format for this information, but rather to set forth principles of disclosure. To the extent these
items of disclosure overlap with the issuer’s discussion of its business or business plan, issuers
are not required to make duplicate disclosures. While we are not proposing to mandate a specific
presentation, we expect issuers to present the required disclosures, including any other
information that would be material to an investor, in a clear and understandable manner.
Request for Comment
47. Are these proposed requirements for the discussion of the financial condition of
the issuer appropriate? Why or why not? Should we modify or eliminate any of
the requirements in the proposed rule or instruction? If so, which ones and
why? Should we require any additional disclosures? If so, what disclosures and
why? Should we prescribe a specific format or presentation for the disclosure?
Please explain.

157

17 CFR 229.303.
67

48. Should we exempt issuers with no operating history from the requirement to
provide a discussion of their financial condition? If so, why? Should we require
such issuers to specifically state that they do not have an operating history, as
proposed? Why or why not?
49. In the discussion of the issuer’s financial condition, should we require issuers to
provide specific disclosure about prior capital raising transactions? Why or why
not? Should we require specific disclosure relating to prior transactions made
pursuant to Section 4(a)(6), including crowdfunding transactions in which the
target amount was not reached? Why or why not?
(b)

Financial Disclosures

As noted above, Section 4A(b)(1)(D) establishes tiered financial statement disclosure
requirements that are based on aggregate target offering amounts within the preceding 12-month
period. We received a range of comments on this requirement.
In response to the requirement for issuers offering $100,000 or less to file with the
Commission, provide to investors and the relevant intermediary and make available to potential
investors their income tax returns for the most recently completed year, one commenter
suggested that, even if redacted, income tax returns should not be made public. 158 One
commenter suggested that financial statements should cover the most recently completed fiscal
year. 159 Other commenters suggested that issuers offering $100,000 or less should provide
financial statements prepared in accordance with generally accepted accounting principles

158

See RocketHub Letter 1 (stating that information can be taken from the issuer’s tax return and entered
digitally, by the issuer, for inclusion in the offering materials).

159

See CompTIA Letter.
68

(“GAAP”), including explanatory notes, even though those financial statements would not be
subject to an independent accountant’s review or audit. 160
For issuers offering more than $100,000, but not more than $500,000, one commenter
suggested that the Commission require the financial statement review to be done by accountants
in good standing for at least five years. 161 Another commenter stated that issuers in existence for
less than 12 months should not be required to provide independently reviewed financial
statements. 162
Several commenters objected to the requirement for issuers to provide audited financial
statements when offering more than $500,000 and suggested alternatives. 163 One commenter
suggested that an issuer should not be required to provide audited financial statements if: (1) the
target offering amount is not greater than $100,000 (notwithstanding any other transactions made
in reliance on Section 4(a)(6) within the preceding 12-month period); and (2) the issuer has not

160

See Commonwealth of Massachusetts Letter; NASAA Letter.

161

See Philipose Letter 1.

162

See CFIRA Letter 2.

163

See CFIRA Letter 2 (stating that the requirement to provide audited financial statements should apply
solely to issuers that have been engaged in their current business for more than 12 months and which are
seeking to raise at least $1,000,000); Vim Funding Letter (stating that the statute gives the Commission the
discretion to raise the threshold at which audits are required, “in theory all the way up to the $1,000,000
level” and asking that the Commission exercise its discretion); RocketHub Letter 1 (stating that the
threshold for the audit requirement should be raised to an amount in excess of $1,000,000 and audited
financial statements should only be required for issuers that have been in operation for more than two
years); Parker Letter (stating that the audit requirement is an unnecessary expense); Cera Technology Letter
(stating that the audit requirement should be raised to $1,000,000); ABA Letter 1 (stating that the
Commission should consider a higher threshold, such as $750,000, or identify additional criteria, such as
revenue levels, that would require audited financial statements); Loofbourrow Letter (stating that the
Commission should not impose an audit requirement); InitialCrowdOffering Letter (stating that the
requirement for audited financial statements should be eliminated); Genedyne Letter 1 (stating that the
Commission should not impose an audit requirement for offerings under $1,000,000); BrainThrob
Laboratories Letter (stating that the Commission should defer imposing an audit requirement until further
study can determine whether it is economically beneficial to the investment community); Vogele Letter
(stating that obtaining audited financial statements takes time and new businesses do not have a lot of
time). See also 2012 SEC Government-Business Forum, note 29 (recommending that the Commission
consider raising the offering amount at which audited financial statements are required).
69

conducted a transaction in reliance on Section 4(a)(6) within the preceding six months. 164
Another commenter suggested that issuers should be required to identify the accountant used to
certify or audit the financial statements. 165
Under the proposed rules, in determining the financial statements that would be required,
an issuer would need to aggregate the amounts offered and sold in reliance on Section 4(a)(6)
within the preceding 12-month period with the target offering amount (or the maximum offering
amount, including the aggregate amount of any possible oversubscriptions if the issuer will
accept oversubscriptions) of the offering for which disclosure is being provided. 166 The statute
refers to aggregate “offering amounts” within the preceding 12-month period. We are proposing
to require issuers to aggregate only amounts offered and sold (rather than all offered amounts,
including those not sold) within the preceding 12-month period with the amount the issuer is
seeking to raise in the transaction. 167 We do not believe that this provision should require an
issuer to aggregate amounts offered in prior offerings but not sold (for example, because the
target offering amount was not met). Otherwise, an issuer that initially sought to raise $400,000,
did not complete the crowdfunding transaction because the target offering amount was not met,
and would like to raise $200,000 in a second attempt would be required to provide audited
financial statements rather than financial statements reviewed by a public accountant in

164

See ABA Letter 1.

165

See RocketHub Letter 1 (stating that disclosure of the identity of the accountant used to review or audit the
financial statements would allow investors to conduct diligence on the accountant and permit the
intermediary to track accountant activities and block issuers on their platform from using accountants who
produce poor quality or fraudulent work).

166

See proposed Instruction 1 to paragraph (t) of proposed Rule 201 of Regulation Crowdfunding.

167

See also Hutchens Letter (suggesting that the Commission “devise a rule that creates a relationship between
the amount of capital actually raised by an issuer in a crowdfunding offering and the degree of financial
disclosure the issuer must provide”).
70

connection with that $200,000 offering. We believe that this result would increase costs to
issuers when those issuers were unsuccessful in prior offerings within the preceding 12-month
period. Requiring issuers to aggregate amounts offered and sold should still prevent issuers from
circumventing the framework of tiered financial disclosure requirements by structuring a larger
offering as a series of smaller offerings. 168 We do not propose to prohibit issuers from providing
financial statements that meet the requirements for a higher aggregate target offering amount
than the proposed rules would require. 169
The proposed rules would require all issuers to file with the Commission, provide to
investors and the relevant intermediary and make available to potential investors a complete set
of their financial statements (a balance sheet, income statement, statement of cash flows and
statement of changes in owners’ equity), prepared in accordance with U.S. generally accepted
accounting principles (“U.S. GAAP”), covering the shorter of the two most recently completed
fiscal years or the period since inception of the business. 170 In proposing this requirement we
considered commenters’ suggestions that we require financial statements prepared in accordance
with U.S. GAAP, 171 as well as the fact that the same requirement applies to offerings under
Regulation A. 172

168

For example, we believe aggregating completed offerings within the preceding 12-month period is
necessary to avoid having an issuer who seeks to raise more than $500,000, which requires audited
financial statements, structure the offering as a series of smaller offerings to circumvent this requirement.

169

See proposed Instruction 10 to paragraph (t) of proposed Rule 201 of Regulation Crowdfunding.

170

See proposed Instruction 2 to paragraph (t) of proposed Rule 201 of Regulation Crowdfunding. Financial
statements prepared in accordance with U.S. GAAP are generally self-scaling to the size and complexity of
the issuer, which should reduce the burden of preparing financial statements for many issuers.

171

See Commonwealth of Massachusetts Letter; NASAA Letter.

172

See Part F/S of Form 1-A. [17 CFR 239.90].
71

We considered proposing to require financial statements covering only the most recently
completed fiscal year, as one commenter suggested, 173 rather than the two most recently
completed fiscal years; however, we believe that requiring a second year will provide investors
with a basis for comparison against the most recently completed period, without substantially
increasing the burden for the issuer. 174 We also considered proposing to require a third year of
financial statements, but we are concerned that this could be overly burdensome for the types of
issuers that likely would engage in crowdfunding transactions. 175
During the first 120 days of the issuer’s fiscal year, an issuer would be able to conduct an
offering in reliance on Section 4(a)(6) and the related rules using financial statements for the
fiscal year prior to the most recently completed fiscal year if the financial statements for the most
recently completed fiscal year are not otherwise available or required to be filed. 176 We believe
this accommodation is needed because otherwise issuers would not be able to conduct offerings
in reliance on Section 4(a)(6) for a period of time between the end of their fiscal year and the
date when the financial statements for that period are available. 177 The issuer could not do this,

173

See CompTIA Letter.

174

See Smaller Reporting Company Regulatory Relief and Simplification, Release No. 33-8876 (Dec. 19,
2007) [73 FR 934 (Jan. 4, 2008)] (in the context of requiring two years, rather than just one year, of audited
balance sheet data for smaller reporting companies, the Commission noted that comparative balance sheets
will provide a much more meaningful presentation for investors without a significant additional burden on
smaller reporting companies, since the earlier year data should be readily available for the purposes of
preparing the other financial statements). See also SEC Advisory Committee on Smaller Public Companies,
Final Report (Apr. 23, 2006), available at http://www.sec.gov/info/smallbus/acspc.shtml.

175

Requiring a third year of financial statements also would place a greater burden on issuers relying on
Section 4(a)(6) than on emerging growth companies conducting registered offerings. See Section 102(b) of
the JOBS Act.

176

See proposed Instruction 8 to paragraph (t) of proposed Rule 201 of Regulation Crowdfunding.

177

Issuers conducting a registered offering after the end of their fiscal year also are permitted to use financial
statements for their prior period until the 90th day after their fiscal-year end for non-accelerated filers (or
75th day for accelerated filers and 60th day for large accelerated filers) if certain conditions are satisfied.
See Rule 3-01(c) of Regulation S-X [17 CFR 210.3-01(c)].
72

however, if it was otherwise required to provide updated financial statements by the ongoing
reporting requirements 178 or financial statements are otherwise available. 179 For example, if an
issuer that has a calendar fiscal year end conducts an offering in April 2014, it would be
permitted to include financial statements for the fiscal year ended December 31, 2012 if the
financial statements for the fiscal year ended December 31, 2013 are not yet available. Once
more than 120 days have passed since the end of the issuer’s most recent fiscal year, the issuer
would be required to include financial statements for its most recent fiscal year. 180 Regardless of
the age of the financial statements, an issuer would be required to include a discussion of any
material changes in the financial condition of the issuer during any time period subsequent to the
period for which financial statements are provided, including changes in reported revenue or net
income, to inform investors of changes to the financial condition of the issuer. 181
Section 4A(b)(1)(D)(i) requires issuers to file with the Commission, provide to investors
and the relevant intermediary and make available to potential investors income tax returns and
financial statements. As specified in the statute, we are proposing to require an issuer that is
conducting an offering of $100,000 or less in reliance on Section 4(a)(6) to provide its filed
income tax returns for the most recently completed fiscal year, if any, and its financial statements
certified by its principal executive officer. 182 Although one commenter suggested the

178

See Section II.B.2 below for a discussion of ongoing reporting requirements.

179

Additionally, if the offering period remains open beyond 120 days after the end of the issuer’s fiscal year
(resulting in financial statements older than 485 days at the time the offering closes), then the issuer would
be required to update the disclosure in the offering statement to include financial statements for the most
recently completed fiscal year. See proposed Instruction 8 to paragraph (t) of proposed Rule 201 of
Regulation Crowdfunding.

180

Id.

181

See proposed Instruction 9 to paragraph (t) of proposed Rule 201 of Regulation Crowdfunding.

182

See proposed Rule 201(t)(1) of Regulation Crowdfunding.
73

Commission should provide otherwise, 183 the statute specifically calls for the Commission to
require the filing of income tax returns. To address the privacy concerns raised by commenters
with regard to the requirement to provide tax returns, we are proposing to require issuers to
redact personally identifiable information, such as social security numbers, from their tax returns
before filing. Issuers that offer securities in reliance on Section 4(a)(6) before filing their tax
returns for the most recently completed fiscal year would be allowed to use the tax return filed
for the prior year, provided that the issuer discloses any material changes since that prior year.
In addition, the issuer would be required to provide the tax return for the most recent fiscal year
when filed with the U.S. Internal Revenue Service (if filed during the offering period). With
regard to the requirement to provide financial statements that are certified to be true and
complete in all material respects, we are proposing a form of the certification that would be
provided by the issuer’s principal executive officer. 184
For offerings of more than $100,000, but not more than $500,000,
Section 4A(b)(1)(D)(ii) requires issuers to file with the Commission, provide to investors and the
relevant intermediary and make available to potential investors financial statements reviewed by
a public accountant who is “independent” of the issuer, using professional standards and
procedures or standards and procedures established by the Commission for this purpose. The
statute does not define the term “independent.” We propose that to qualify as an independent
public accountant for purposes of this requirement, the accountant would need to comply with

183

See RocketHub Letter 1.

184

See proposed Instruction 4 to paragraph (t) of proposed Rule 201 of Regulation Crowdfunding.
74

the Commission’s independence rules, which are set forth in Rule 2-01 of Regulation S-X. 185
We believe that accounting professionals could benefit from the guidance the Commission and
staff have provided about these independence rules. We also believe that financial statement
reviews under these standards could provide investors with more confidence regarding the
reliability of the financial statements. 186 An issuer subject to this requirement that seeks to
eventually become an Exchange Act reporting company may have an easier transition because
the issuer would already be complying with our independence rules. 187
The statute also gives the Commission discretion to determine the professional standards
and procedures used for the review of the financial statements. To implement this requirement,
the proposed rules would require issuers to provide financial statements reviewed in accordance
with the Statements on Standards for Accounting and Review Services (“SSARS”) issued by the
Accounting and Review Services Committee of the American Institute of Certified Public
Accountants (“AICPA”). 188 We are not proposing new review standards for purposes of these

185

17 CFR 210.2-01. Rule 2-01 of Regulation S-X is designed to ensure that auditors are qualified and
independent both in fact and in appearance. The rule sets forth restrictions on, including but not limited to,
financial, employment, and business relationships between an accountant and a client and restrictions on an
accountant providing certain non-audit services to a client. The general standard of independence is set
forth in Rule 2-01(b). The rule does not purport to, and the Commission could not, consider all the
circumstances that raise independence concerns, and these are subject to the general standard in paragraph
(b) of Rule 2-01. In considering this standard, the Commission looks in the first instance to whether a
relationship or the provision of a service: (a) creates a mutual or conflicting interest between the
accountant and the client; (b) places the accountant in the position of auditing his or her own work; (c)
results in the accountant acting as management or an employee of the client; or (d) places the accountant in
a position of being an advocate for the client.

186

For example, under the Commission’s independence rules, an auditor cannot provide bookkeeping services
to an audit client, so investors would be able to rely on the benefits that accompany the prohibition against
an auditor auditing its own work. See Rule 2-01(c)(4) of Regulation S-X [17 CFR 210.2-01(c)(4)].

187

Using an accountant that is not independent in accordance with our independence rules could result in
increased expense and delay to the extent that an issuer seeking to become an Exchange Act reporting
company would need to obtain an audit of the financial statements by an accountant complying with the
Commission’s independence standards.

188

See proposed Rule 201(t)(2) of Regulation Crowdfunding.
75

rules at this time because we do not believe it is necessary. The AICPA’s review standard is
widely utilized, and we are not aware of any other widely utilized standards for reviews. Many
accountants reviewing financial statements of crowdfunding issuers should be familiar with the
AICPA’s standards and procedures for review, which could make it less burdensome for issuers.
The issuer would be required to file with the Commission, provide to investors and the
relevant intermediary and make available to potential investors a copy of the public accountant’s
review report. 189 This should benefit investors by giving them the ability to consider any
modification that may have been made to the review report. It also would serve as a way to
identify the accounting firm used to review the financial statements. As one commenter
suggested, 190 investors then could conduct due diligence on the accounting firm by, for example,
researching the other offerings made in reliance on Section 4(a)(6) in which the accounting firm
was involved or reviewing the accounting firm’s licensure status and any publicly-available
disciplinary proceedings.
For offerings of more than $500,000, consistent with the threshold identified in
Section 4A(b)(1)(D)(iii), the proposed rules would require issuers to file with the Commission,
provide to investors and the relevant intermediary and make available to potential investors
audited financial statements. While Congress authorized the Commission to establish a different
threshold, we are not proposing at this time to raise the threshold at which an issuer would be
required to provide audited financial statements, as some commenters suggested. 191 We note
that Congress specifically selected $500,000 as the threshold at which to require audited
189

See proposed Instruction 5 to paragraph (t) of proposed Rule 201 of Regulation Crowdfunding.

190

See RocketHub Letter 1.

191

See CFIRA Letter 2; Vim Funding Letter; RocketHub Letter 1; Cera Technology Letter; Genedyne Letter
1; Schwartz Letter.
76

financial statements. If we were to raise the threshold to $1 million, as suggested by some
commenters, 192 it would eliminate the requirement for issuers ever to provide audited financial
statements because the maximum offering amount under Section 4(a)(6) is $1 million. Leaving
the $500,000 threshold unchanged also would provide the Commission, investors and issuers an
opportunity to become familiar with the new offering exemption before considering possible
changes to the threshold.
Under the proposed rules, the auditor conducting the audit of the financial statements
would be required to be independent of the issuer and the audit would have to be conducted in
accordance with the auditing standards issued by either the AICPA or the Public Company
Accounting Oversight Board (“PCAOB”). 193 The proposed instructions to the rules would
provide that the auditor would be required to be independent of the issuer based on the
Commission’s independence standard in Rule 2-01 of Regulation S-X. 194 Providing issuers with
a choice of auditing standards could provide a benefit in a number of ways. If an issuer currently
has audited financial statements using one of the specified standards, the issuer would not need
to obtain a new audit or engage a different auditor to conduct an audit in order to engage in a
crowdfunding transaction in reliance on Section 4(a)(6). If an issuer chooses to have an audit
conducted in accordance with PCAOB auditing standards, it generally would not need to obtain a
new audit in order to file a registration statement with the Commission for a registered offering
or to register a class of securities under the Exchange Act and become an Exchange Act
reporting company. The proposed rules would not require the audit to be conducted by a

192

See CFIRA Letter 2; Vim Funding Letter; Cera Technology Letter; Genedyne Letter 1.

193

See proposed Rule 201(t)(3) of Regulation Crowdfunding.

194

17 CFR 210.2-01.
77

PCAOB-registered firm. This should mean that a greater number of accountants would be
eligible to audit the issuers’ financial statements, which may reduce issuers’ costs.
An issuer would be required to file with the Commission, provide to investors and the
relevant intermediary and make available to potential investors a copy of the audit report. 195
This should benefit investors by serving as a way to identify the accounting firm used to audit
the financial statements. Investors then could conduct due diligence by, for example, researching
other offerings made in reliance on Section 4(a)(6) in which the accounting firm was involved or
reviewing the accounting firm’s licensure status and any publicly-available disciplinary
proceedings.
An issuer that received an unqualified or a qualified audit opinion would be in
compliance with the audited financial statement requirements. 196 An issuer that received an
adverse opinion or a disclaimer of opinion, however, would not be in compliance with the
audited financial statement requirements, 197 because the auditor determined that the financial
statements of the issuer do not present fairly its financial position, results of operations or cash
flows in conformity with U.S. GAAP, or that the auditor does not express an opinion on the
financial statements.
Under Rule 2-01 of Regulation S-X, the Commission does not recognize as a public
accountant any person who: (1) is not duly registered and in good standing as a certified public
accountant under the laws of the place of his residence or principal office; or (2) is not in good
standing and entitled to practice as a public accountant under the laws of the place of his

195
196
197

See proposed Instruction 6 to paragraph (t) of proposed Rule 201 of Regulation Crowdfunding.
Id.
Id.
78

residence or principal office. 198 We believe that this rule promotes the use of qualified
accountants that are in compliance with the requirements for their profession for the review or
audit of the financial statements with respect to all offerings, including offerings in reliance on
Section 4(a)(6). 199 We are not proposing to require that the public accountant be in good
standing for at least five years, as one commenter suggested, 200 because that could unnecessarily
restrict the pool of available public accountants by, for example, excluding accountants who are
in good standing but who have been in business for fewer than five years.
We believe that many issuers engaging in crowdfunding transactions in reliance on
Section 4(a)(6) are likely to be at a very early stage of their business development and may not
have an operating history. In many instances, these issuers will have no more than a business
plan for which they are seeking investors to help fund. We are not proposing to exempt these
issuers (or issuers that have been in existence for less than 12 months, as one commenter
suggested) 201 from the requirement to provide financial statements based on the tiered offering
amounts. Financial statements prepared in accordance with U.S. GAAP are generally selfscaling to the size and complexity of the issuer, which reduces the burden of preparing financial
statements for many early stage issuers. We would not expect that the required financial
statements would be long or complicated for issuers that are recently formed and have limited

198

See 17 CFR 210.2-01(a).

199

Accountants also would be subject to Rule 102(e) of the Rules of Practice and Investigations. See 17 CFR
201.102(e). Under Rule 102(e), the Commission can censure, suspend or bar professionals who appear or
practice before it if it finds such professionals, after notice and an opportunity for hearing: (1) not to
possess the requisite qualifications to represent others; or (2) to be lacking in character or integrity or to
have engaged in unethical or improper professional conduct; or (3) to have willfully violated, or willfully
aided and abetted the violation of, any provision of the Federal securities laws or the rules and regulations
thereunder. See 17 CFR 201.102(e)(1)(i), (ii) and (iii).

200

See Philipose Letter 1.

201

See CFIRA Letter 2.
79

operating histories. We preliminarily believe, nevertheless, that financial statements for such
issuers would be useful for investors, particularly when presented along with a description of the
issuer’s financial condition. This would give investors a more complete picture of the issuer and
would highlight its early stage of development.
Request for Comment
50. Under the statute and the proposed rules, issuers are required to file with the
Commission, provide to investors and the relevant intermediary and make
available to potential investors financial statements. The proposed rules would
require all issuers to provide a complete set of financial statements (a balance
sheet, income statement, statement of cash flows and statement of changes in
owner’s equity) prepared in accordance with U.S. GAAP. Should we define
financial statements differently than under U.S. GAAP? If so, what changes
would be appropriate and why? What costs or challenges would be associated
with the use of a model other than U.S. GAAP (e.g., lack of comparability)?
What would be the benefits? Please explain.
51. Should we exempt issuers with no operating history or issuers that have been in
existence for fewer than 12 months from the requirement to provide financial
statements, as one commenter suggested? 202 Why or why not? Specifically,
what difficulties would issuers with no operating history or issuers that have
been in existence for fewer than 12 months have in providing financial
statements? Please explain.

202

Id.
80

52. If we were to exempt issuers with little or no operating history from the
requirement to provide financial statements, should we require additional
discussion of the fact that the issuer does not have an operating history? If so,
what additional discussion should we require?
53. Section 4A(b)(1)(D) establishes tiered financial statement requirements based on
aggregate target offering amounts within the preceding 12-month period. Under
the proposed rules, issuers would not be prohibited from voluntarily providing
financial statements that meet the requirements for a higher aggregate target
offering amount (e.g., an issuer seeking to raise $80,000 provides financial
statements reviewed by a public accountant who is independent of the issuer,
rather than the required income tax returns and a certification by the principal
executive officer). Is this approach appropriate? Why or why not?
54. Should we allow issuers to prepare financial statements using a comprehensive
basis of accounting other than U.S. GAAP? For example, should issuers be
allowed to provide financial statements prepared on an income tax basis, a cash
basis or a modified cash basis of accounting? Why or why not? If so, should
we allow all issuers to use a comprehensive basis of accounting other than U.S.
GAAP, or only issuers seeking to raise $100,000 or less, or $500,000 or less?
Why or why not?

81

55. Should we require issuers to provide two years of financial statements, as
proposed? Should this time period be one year, as one commenter suggested, 203
or three years? Please explain.
56. Should we require some or all issuers also to provide financial statements for
interim periods, such as quarterly or semi-annually? Why or why not? If so,
which issuers and why? Should we require these financial statements to be
subject to public accountant or auditor involvement? If so, what level of
involvement is appropriate?
57. As proposed, subject to certain conditions, issuers would be able to conduct an
offering during the first 120 days of the issuer’s fiscal year if the financial
statements for the most recently completed fiscal year are not yet available. For
example, an issuer could raise capital in April 2014 by providing financial
statements from December 2012, instead of a more recent period. Is this an
appropriate approach? If the issuer is a high growth company subject to
significant change, would this approach result in financial statements that are too
stale? Should the period be shorter or longer (e.g., 90 days, 150 days, etc.)?
What quantitative and qualitative factors should we consider in setting the
period? Should issuers be required to describe any material changes in their
financial condition for any period subsequent to the period for which financial
statements are provided, as proposed? Please explain if you do not believe this
description should be required.

203

See CompTIA Letter.
82

58. The proposed rules would require issuers offering $100,000 or less to provide
financial statements that are certified by the principal executive officer to be true
and complete in all material respects. Should we require issuers offering more
than $100,000, but not more than $500,000, and/or issuers offering more than
$500,000 to provide financial statements that are certified by the principal
executive officer to be true and complete in all material respects? Why or why
not?
59. Have we adequately addressed the privacy concerns raised by the requirement to
provide income tax returns? Should we require issuers to redact personally
identifiable information from any tax returns, as proposed? Is there additional
information that issuers should be required or allowed to redact? In responding,
please specify each item of information that issuers should be required or
allowed to redact and why. Under the statute and proposed rules, an issuer must
be a business organization, rather than an individual. Does this requirement
alleviate some of the potential privacy concerns? Please explain.
60. If an issuer has not yet filed its tax return for the most recently completed fiscal
year, should we allow the issuer to use the tax return filed for the prior year and
require the issuer to update the information after filing the tax return for the
most recently completed fiscal year, as proposed? Should the same apply to an
issuer that has not yet filed its tax return for the most recently completed fiscal
year and has requested an extension of the time to file? Should issuers be
required, as proposed, to describe any material changes that are expected in the
tax returns for the most recently completed fiscal year? Please explain.
83

61. As proposed, the accountant reviewing or auditing the financial statements would
have to be independent, as set forth in Rule 2-01 of Regulation S-X. Should we
require compliance with the independence standards of the AICPA instead?
Why or why not? If so, similar to the requirement in Rule 2-01 of Regulation SX, should we also require an accountant to be: (1) duly registered and in good
standing as a certified public accountant under the laws of the place of his or her
residence or principal office; or (2) in good standing and entitled to practice as a
public accountant under the laws of his or her place of residence or principal
office? Is there another independence standard that would be appropriate? If so,
please identify the standard and explain why. Alternatively, should we create a
new independence standard for purposes of Section 4(a)(6)? If so, what would
be an appropriate standard? Please explain.
62. As proposed, the accountant reviewing or auditing the financial statements must
be independent based on the independence standard in Rule 2-01 of Regulation
S-X. Are there any requirements under Rule 2-01 that should not apply to the
accountant reviewing or auditing the financial statements that are filed pursuant
to the proposed rules? Why or why not? Are there any that would not apply,
but should? For example, should the accountant reviewing or auditing the
financial statements of issuers in transactions made in reliance on Section
4(a)(6) be subject to the partner rotation requirements of Rule 2-01(c)(6)? Why
or why not?
63. As proposed, an issuer with a target offering amount greater than $100,000, but
not more than $500,000, would be required to file with the Commission, provide
84

to investors and the relevant intermediary and make available to potential
investors financial statements reviewed by an independent public accountant in
accordance with the review standards issued by the AICPA. Is this standard
appropriate, or should we use a different standard? Why or why not? If so,
what standard and why? Alternatively, should we create a new review standard
for purposes of Section 4(a)(6)? If so, what would be an appropriate standard
and why would it be more appropriate than the one proposed? What costs
would be involved for companies and accountants in complying with a new
review standard? How should the Commission administer and enforce a
different standard?
64. Section 4A(b)(1)(D)(iii) requires audited financial statements for offerings of
more than $500,000 “or such other amount as the Commission may establish, by
rule.” Should we increase the offering amount for which audited financial
statements would be required? If so, to what amount (e.g., $600,000, $750,000,
etc.)? Please provide a basis for any amount suggested. Should we identify
additional criteria other than the offering amount, as one commenter
suggested, 204 that could be used to determine when to require an issuer to
provide audited financial statements? If so, what should those criteria be?
65. Should financial statements be required to be dated within 120 days of the start of
the offering? If so, what standard should apply? Should those financial
statements be reviewed or audited? Why or why not?

204

See ABA Letter 1 (stating that revenue could be a criteria for determining when audited financial
statements would be required).
85

66. Under Rule 502(b)(2)(B)(1)-(2) of Regulation D, if an issuer, other than a limited
partnership, cannot obtain audited financial statements without unreasonable
effort or expense, then only the issuer’s balance sheet must be audited. Should
we include a similar provision in the proposed rules? Why or why not? Should
we provide any guidance as to what would constitute unreasonable effort or
expense in this context? If so, please describe what should be considered to be
an unreasonable effort or expense. If we were to require an issuer’s balance
sheet to be dated within 120 days of the start of the offering, should we allow
the balance sheet to be unaudited? Why or why not?
67. As proposed, an issuer with a target offering amount greater than $500,000 could
select between the auditing standards issued by the AICPA or the PCAOB.
Should we instead mandate one of the two standards? If so, which standard and
why? Alternatively, should we create a new audit standard for purposes of
Section 4(a)(6)? If so, what would be an appropriate standard? What costs
would be involved for companies and auditors in complying with a new audit
standard?
68. Should we require that all audits be conducted by PCAOB-registered firms? Why
or why not?
69. Should we consider the requirement to file with the Commission, provide to
investors and the relevant intermediary and make available to potential investors
financial statements subject to a review to be satisfied if the review report
includes modifications? Why or why not? Would your response differ
depending on the nature of the modification? Please explain.
86

70. As proposed, an issuer receiving an adverse audit opinion or disclaimer of opinion
would not satisfy its requirement to file with the Commission, provide to
investors and the relevant intermediary and make available to potential investors
audited financial statements. Should an issuer receiving a qualified audit
opinion be deemed to have satisfied this requirement? Should certain
qualifications (e.g., non-compliance with U.S. GAAP) result in the financial
statements not satisfying the requirement to provide audited financial statements
while other types of qualifications would be acceptable? If so, which
qualifications would be acceptable and why?
71. Should we require that the certified public accountant reviewing or auditing the
financial statements be in good standing for at least five years, as one
commenter suggested? 205 Why or why not? Should we require that the public
accountant be in good standing for a lesser period of time? If so, for how long?
Would such a requirement restrict the pool of available public accountants? If
so, by how much? Would such a requirement reduce investor protections? If
so, how?
b.

Progress Updates

Consistent with Section 4A(b)(1)(F), the proposed rules would require an issuer to
prepare regular updates on its progress in meeting the target offering amount. 206 These updates
would be filed with the Commission on EDGAR, under cover of Form C, provided to investors
and the relevant intermediary and made available to potential investors. The issuer would check
205

See Philipose Letter 1.

206

See proposed Rules 201(v) and 203(a)(3) of Regulation Crowdfunding.
87

the box for “Form C-U: Progress Update” on the cover of the Form C and provide the required
update in the space provided. One commenter suggested that issuers should be exempted from
issuing status updates and/or reports so long as the funding portal publicly displays the progress
of the issuer in meeting the target offering amount. 207
As proposed, the rules would require an issuer to file with the Commission and provide
investors and the relevant intermediary regular updates regarding the issuer’s progress in meeting
the target offering amount no later than five business days after the issuer reaches particular
intervals – i.e., one-half and 100 percent – of the target offering amount. 208 If the issuer will
accept proceeds in excess of the target offering amount, the issuer also would be required to file
with the Commission and provide investors and the relevant intermediary a final progress update,
no later than five business days after the offering deadline, disclosing the total amount of
securities sold in the offering. 209 If, however, multiple progress updates are triggered within the
same five-business-day period (e.g., the issuer reaches one-half of the target offering amount on
November 5 and 100 percent of the target offering amount on November 8), the issuer could
consolidate such progress updates into one Form C-U, so long as the Form C-U discloses the
most recent threshold that was met and the Form C-U is filed with the Commission and provided
to investors and the relevant intermediary by the day on which the first progress update would be

207

See RocketHub Letter 1 (also stating that if the Commission mandates the filing of status updates, it should
not mandate a particular form of update).

208

See proposed Rule 203(a)(3) of Regulation Crowdfunding.

209

Id.
88

due. 210 The proposed rules also would require the intermediary to make these updates available
to investors and potential investors through the intermediary’s platform. 211
We believe that this information would be important to investors by allowing them to
gauge whether interest in the offer has increased gradually or whether it was concentrated at the
beginning or at the end of the offering period. In addition, we believe that the final progress
update would be necessary to inform investors of the total amount of securities sold by the
issuer, especially in cases where an issuer may have sold more than the target offering amount.
The proposed rules do not include an exemption from this requirement when progress updates
are provided solely on the intermediary’s platform. We believe that proposing to require that the
progress updates be filed with the Commission would create a central repository for this
information – information that otherwise might no longer be available on the intermediary’s
platform after the offering terminated. The progress updates filed with the Commission also
would make data available that could be used to evaluate the effects of the Section 4(a)(6)
exemption on capital formation.
Request for Comment
72. Views about what constitutes a “regular update” may vary, particularly when
considering the length of the offering. Is the requirement to file an update when
the issuer reaches one-half and 100 percent of the target offering amount
appropriate? Is the proposed requirement to file a final update in offerings in
which the issuer will accept proceeds in excess of the target offering amount
appropriate? Why or why not? Should we require the progress updates to be
210

See proposed Instruction 2 to paragraph (a)(3) of proposed Rule 203 of Regulation Crowdfunding.

211

See proposed Rule 303(a) of Regulation Crowdfunding and Section II.C.5.a below.
89

filed at different intervals (e.g., one-third, two-thirds or some other intervals)?
Why or why not? Alternatively, should the progress updates be filed after a
certain amount of the offering time has elapsed (e.g., weekly or monthly until
the target or maximum is reached or until the offering closes)? Should the
progress updates be based on reaching other milestones or on some other basis?
If so, what milestones or other basis and why?
73. As proposed, issuers would have five business days from the time they reach the
relevant threshold to file a progress update. Is this time period appropriate?
Why or why not? If not, what would be an appropriate time period? Please
explain. Should issuers be allowed to consolidate multiple progress updates into
one Form C-U if multiple progress updates are triggered within a five-businessday period, as proposed? Why or why not?
74. Should issuers be required to certify that they have filed all the required progress
updates prior to the close of the offering? Why or why not?
75. Should we exempt issuers from the requirement to file progress updates with the
Commission as long as the intermediary publicly displays the progress of the
issuer in meeting the target offering amount? Why or why not? If so, should
the Commission establish standards about how prominent the display would
need to be?
c.

Amendments to the Offering Statement

We are proposing to require that an issuer amend its disclosure for any material change in
the offer terms or disclosure previously provided to investors. The amended disclosure would be
filed with the Commission on Form C, provided to investors and the relevant intermediary and
90

made available to potential investors. 212 The issuer would check the box for “Form C-A:
Amendment” on the cover of the Form C and explain, in summary manner, the nature of the
changes, additions or updates in the space provided. An issuer would determine whether
changes in the offer terms or disclosure are material based on the facts and circumstances.
Information is material if there is a substantial likelihood that a reasonable investor would
consider it important in deciding whether or not to purchase the securities. 213 For example, we
believe that a material change to financial condition or to the intended use of proceeds would
require an amendment to an issuer’s disclosure. Also, in those instances in which an issuer has
previously disclosed only the method for determining the price, and not the final price, of the
securities offered, we believe that determination of the final price would be considered a material
change to the terms of the offer and would have to be disclosed. These are not, however, the
only possible material changes that would require amended disclosure. In addition, as discussed
further in Section II.C.6 below, if any change, addition or update constitutes a material change to
information previously disclosed, the issuer shall check the box indicating that investors must
reconfirm their investment commitments. Investors would have five business days to reconfirm
their investment commitments, or the investment commitments would be cancelled. 214
Issuers would be permitted, but not required, to amend the Form C to provide information
with respect to other changes that are made to the information presented on the intermediary’s
platform and provided to investors and potential investors. 215 Issuers amending the Form C to

212

See proposed Rule 203(a)(2) of Regulation Crowdfunding.

213

See Basic Inc. v. Levinson, 485 U.S. 224 (1988) (quoting TSC Indus., Inc. v. Northway, Inc., 426 U.S. 438
(1976)).

214

See proposed Rule 203(a)(2) of Regulation Crowdfunding.

215

See proposed Instruction to paragraph (a)(2) of proposed Rule 203 of Regulation Crowdfunding.
91

provide information that it considers not material would not check the box indicating that
investors must reconfirm their investment commitments.
Request for Comment
76. Should we specify that an amendment to an offering statement must be filed
within a certain time period after a material change occurs? Why or why not?
What would be an appropriate time period for filing an amendment to an
offering statement to reflect a material change? Why?
77. If an issuer amends its Form C, should the intermediary be required to notify
investors? If so, should we specify the method of notification, such as via email or other electronic means?
78. Should establishment of the final price be considered a material change that
would always require an amendment to Form C and reconfirmation, as
proposed? Would it be appropriate to require disclosure of the final price but
not require reconfirmation? Should we consider any change to the information
required by Section 4A(b)(1) to be a material change? Why or why not?
79. Should we require issuers to amend Form C to reflect all changes, additions or
updates regardless of materiality so that the Form C filed with us would reflect
all information provided to investors through the intermediary’s platform? Why
or why not?
2.

Ongoing Reporting Requirements

Section 4A(b)(4) requires, “not less than annually, [the issuer to] file with the
Commission and provide to investors reports of the results of operations and financial statements

92

of the issuer, as the Commission shall, by rule, determine appropriate, subject to such exceptions
and termination dates as the Commission may establish, by rule.”
One commenter suggested that the Commission should create a standardized form or
template for this ongoing disclosure. 216 The same commenter suggested that this ongoing
disclosure should be publicly available and shared with other regulators. Another commenter
noted that the requirement to file reports not less than annually could be difficult to enforce and
that it is unclear who would be responsible for enforcing the requirement. 217 The same
commenter noted that this provision seems to presume the success of every business that raises
capital through crowdfunding and questioned what would happen when an issuer goes out of
business. One commenter suggested that financial statements included in an annual report
should be required to be reviewed or audited only if the issuer’s total assets exceeded a specified
amount at the last day of the issuer’s fiscal year. 218 One commenter suggested that annual
reports should be required to be reviewed by a qualified accountant in good standing for at least
five years. 219 Two commenters noted that compliance with the exemption would not be known
at the time of the transaction if the annual reports are a condition to the exemption under Section
4(a)(6). 220 One commenter suggested that the Commission should require a failed business that

216

See Commonwealth of Massachusetts Letter.

217

See Crowdfunding Offerings Ltd. Letter 5.

218

See ABA Letter 1 (suggesting that financial statements reviewed by an independent accountant be required
only if the issuer’s total assets as of the end of its fiscal year exceeded $300,000 and that audited financial
statements be required only if the issuer’s total assets exceeded $750,000 because (i) public reporting
pursuant to Exchange Act Section 12(g) is based, in part, on an asset test and (ii) this would offer a
reasonable predicate for balancing the relative costs to very small, early-stage issuers and the informational
benefits to investors).

219

See Philipose Letter 2.

220

See Ohio Division of Securities Letter; Whitaker Letter (suggesting that the filing of the annual report
should not be a condition to satisfying the exemption under Section 4(a)(6)).
93

issued securities pursuant to Section 4(a)(6) to file a final annual report, in the year of the failure,
that provides final financial statements and discloses to investors the material reasons for the
liquidation, dissolution, wind-down or bankruptcy. 221
To implement the ongoing reporting requirement in Section 4A(b)(4), the proposed rules
would require an issuer that sold securities in reliance on Section 4(a)(6) to file a report on
EDGAR annually, no later than 120 days after the end of the most recent fiscal year covered by
the report. 222 Although the statute provides that an “issuer who offers or sells securities” in
reliance on Section 4(a)(6) shall provide ongoing reports, we do not believe the intent was to
require ongoing reports from a company that has not completed a crowdfunding transaction and
thus did not issue any securities.
To implement the statutory requirement that issuers provide the report to investors, we
propose to require issuers to post the annual report on their websites. 223 We believe that
investors in this type of Internet-based offering would be familiar with obtaining information on
the Internet and that providing the information in this manner would be cost-effective for issuers.
As discussed above, we believe Congress contemplated that crowdfunding would, by its very
nature, occur over the Internet or other similar electronic media accessible to the public, 224 so we
are not proposing to require issuers to provide physical copies of the report to investors. We also
are not proposing to require issuers to provide a copy of the annual report, or refer investors to

221

See Ohio Division of Securities Letter.

222

See proposed Rule 202(a) of Regulation Crowdfunding. See also proposed Rule 203(b) of Regulation
Crowdfunding and proposed Instruction to paragraph (b)(1) thereof.

223

We are not proposing to require issuers to post the annual report on the intermediary’s platform because
issuers may not necessarily have an ongoing relationship with the intermediary following an offering. See
discussion in Section II.C.4.b below.

224

See note 55.
94

the posting of the annual report, via e-mail because we believe that many issuers may not have email addresses for the investors, especially after the shares issued pursuant to Section 4(a)(6) are
traded by the original purchasers. 225 To the extent e-mail addresses for investors are available to
issuers, an issuer could refer investors to the posting of the annual report via e-mail.
When filing the annual report with the Commission, an issuer would check the box for
“Form C-AR: Annual Report” on the cover of the Form C. The issuer would be required to
disclose information similar to the information required in the offering statement, including
disclosure about its financial condition that meets the financial statement requirements that were
applicable to its offering statement. The issuer also would be able to voluntarily provide
financial statements that meet the requirements for a higher aggregate target offering amount
than it was required to provide in its offering statement. If an issuer undertakes multiple
offerings, which individually require different levels of financial statements, the issuer would be
required to provide financial statements that meet the highest standard previously provided. We
believe that investors who purchased on the basis of the higher level of financial statements
should continue to receive that level of disclosure, and investors in other offerings of the issuer
should receive the same information. 226 Although an issuer would not be required to provide the
offering-specific information that it filed at the time of the offering (because the issuer will not

225

We believe that in order for the issuer to have e-mail addresses for the investors, it would need to obtain
those e-mail addresses from the intermediary, since it would be the intermediary that would collect that
information when a potential investor opens an account. In order for the issuer to have e-mail addresses
after the shares issued pursuant to Section 4(a)(6) are traded, an issuer would need to collect that
information from each new investor in connection with any sale of the issuer’s securities in a secondary
market.

226

For example, if an issuer had previously completed an offering with a $200,000 target and an offering with
a $700,000 target, the issuer would be required to provide audited financial statements rather than reviewed
financial statements. This would be the case even if the $200,000 offering was conducted more recently
than the $700,000 offering.
95

be offering or selling securities), 227 it would be required to disclose information about the
company and its financial condition, as was required in connection with the offer and sale of the
securities. 228 This should minimize the disclosure burden for issuers to the extent they would be
able to use the offering materials as a basis to prepare the ongoing disclosure. Investors should
benefit from receiving annual updates to the information they received when making the decision
to invest in the issuer’s securities, which should allow them to continue to be informed about
issuer developments. Under the statute and the proposed rules, the securities will be freely
tradable after one year and, therefore, this information also would benefit potential future holders
of the issuer’s securities and help them to make more informed investment decisions.
We are proposing to require issuers to file the annual report until one of the following
events occurs: (1) the issuer becomes a reporting company required to file reports under
Exchange Act Sections 13(a) or 15(d); (2) the issuer or another party purchases or repurchases
all of the securities issued pursuant to Securities Act Section 4(a)(6), including any payment in
full of debt securities or any complete redemption of redeemable securities; or (3) the issuer
liquidates or dissolves its business in accordance with state law. 229 In these situations, we

227

An issuer would not be required to provide information about: (1) the stated purpose and intended use of
the proceeds of the offering; (2) the target offering amount and the deadline to reach the target offering
amount; (3) whether the issuer will accept investments in excess of the target offering amount; (4) whether,
in the event that the offer is oversubscribed, shares will be allocated on a pro-rata basis, first come-first
served basis, or other basis; (5) the process to complete the transaction or cancel an investment
commitment once the target amount is met; (6) the price to the public of the securities being offered; (7) the
terms of the securities being offered; (8) the name, Commission file number and CRD number (as
applicable) of the intermediary through which the offering is being conducted; and (9) the amount of
compensation paid to the intermediary.

228

Issuers would be required to provide disclosure about its directors and officers, business, current number of
employees, financial condition (including financial statements), capital structure, significant factors that
make an investment in the issuer speculative or risky, material indebtedness and certain related-party
transactions.

229

See proposed Rule 202(b) of Regulation Crowdfunding.
96

believe it is appropriate to terminate an issuer’s reporting obligations because it will either be
required by other provisions of the securities laws to provide investors with necessary
information or it will no longer have investors. Any issuer terminating its annual reporting
obligations would be required to file on EDGAR, within five business days from the date of the
terminating event, a notice to investors and the Commission that it will no longer file and
provide annual reports pursuant to the requirements of Regulation Crowdfunding. 230 The issuer
would check the box for “Form C-TR: Termination of Reporting” on the cover of Form C.
Request for Comment
80. Should we require ongoing annual reports, as proposed? Why or why not?
Should we require ongoing reporting more frequently than annually? Why or
why not? If so, how often (e.g., semi-annually or quarterly)?
81. Two commenters noted that compliance with the exemption would not be known
at the time of the transaction if the annual reports are a condition to the
exemption under Section 4(a)(6). 231 Should the requirement to provide ongoing
annual reports be a condition to the exemption under Section 4(a)(6)? If so, for
how long (e.g., until the first annual report is filed, until the termination of an
issuer’s reporting obligations or some other period)? Please explain.
82. Should we require that the annual reports be provided to investors by posting the
reports on the issuer’s website and filing them on EDGAR, as proposed?
Should we require issuers also to directly notify investors of the availability of
the annual report, such as by e-mail or other electronic means? Should we
230

See proposed Rule 203(b)(2) of Regulation Crowdfunding.

231

See Ohio Division of Securities Letter; Whitaker Letter.
97

instead require issuers to deliver the annual reports directly to investors? If so,
should we specify the method of delivery (e.g., e-mail or other electronic means,
U.S. mail or some other method)? Would investors have an electronic
relationship with the issuer after the offering terminates? If not, how would an
issuer notify or deliver a copy of the annual report to the investor? Would
issuers continue to have an ongoing relationship with intermediaries once the
offering is completed? If so, should we also require that the issuer post its
annual report on the intermediary’s platform? Why or why not?
83. After completion of the offering, should we require that investors be represented
by a nominee or other party who could help to facilitate physical delivery of the
annual report to investors? Why or why not? Should the nominee or other party
have other responsibilities, such as speaking on behalf of and representing the
interests of investors (e.g., when the issuer wishes to take certain corporate
actions that could impact or dilute the rights of investors, distribution of
dividend payments, etc.)? If a nominee or other party should be required, what
structure should this arrangement take and why?
84. Are the proposed ongoing disclosure requirements appropriate? Why or why not?
Should we modify or eliminate any of the proposed requirements?
85. Should the discussion of the issuer’s financial condition address changes from
prior periods? Why or why not? Should the number of years covered by the
financial statements be the same as in the offering statement? Why or why not?
If not, what should they be?

98

86. Should we require that reviewed or audited financial statements be provided only
if the total assets of the issuer at the last day of its fiscal year exceeded a
specified amount, as one commenter suggested? 232 Why or why not? If so,
what level of total assets would be appropriate (e.g., $1 million, $10 million, or
some other amount)? Are there other criteria (other than total assets) that we
should consider? Please explain.
87. The proposed rules would require any issuer terminating its annual reporting
obligations to file on EDGAR, within five business days from the date of the
terminating event, a notice to investors and the Commission that it will no
longer file and provide annual reports. Is this approach appropriate? Why or
why not? Should we require issuers to file the notice earlier (e.g., within two
business days of the event) or later (e.g., within 10 business days of the event)?
If so, what would be an appropriate amount of time after the event and why?
88. Should an issuer be able to terminate its annual reporting obligation in
circumstances other than those provided in the proposed rules? For example,
should an issuer be allowed to terminate its reporting obligation after filing a
certain number of annual reports, as one commenter suggested, 233 so long as the
issuer does not engage in additional transactions in reliance on Section 4(a)(6)
(e.g., after filing one annual report, two annual reports or some other number of
annual reports)? Why or why not? If so, what would be an appropriate number
of annual reports? Should all issuers be allowed to terminate their reporting
232

See ABA Letter 1.

233

See Schwartz Letter.
99

obligations or only issuers that have not sold more than a certain amount of
securities in reliance on Section 4(a)(6)? If so, what would be an appropriate
amount of securities (e.g., $100,000, $500,000, or some other amount)? Should
an issuer be allowed to terminate its reporting obligation following the issuer’s
or another party’s purchase or repurchase of a significant percentage of the
securities issued in reliance on Section 4(a)(6) (including any payment of a
significant percentage of debt securities or redemption of a significant
percentage of redeemable securities), or receipt of consent to cease reporting
from a specified percentage of the unaffiliated security holders? Why or why
not? If so, what would be an appropriate percentage (greater than 50 percent, 75
percent or some other percentage)? Should an issuer be allowed to terminate its
reporting obligation if the securities issued in reliance on Section 4(a)(6) are
held by less than a specified number of holders of record, as suggested by a
commenter? 234 Why or why not? If so, what would be an appropriate number
of holders of record (less than 500, 300 or some other number)?
89. If an issuer files a petition for bankruptcy, what effect should that filing have on
the issuer’s reporting obligations? Please explain.
90. Should issuers be required to file reports to disclose the occurrence of material
events on an ongoing basis? What events would be material and therefore
require disclosure? Should we identify a list of material events that would

234

See ABA Letter 1.
100

trigger a report, similar to the list in Form 8-K 235 (such as changes in control,
bankruptcy or receivership, material acquisitions or dispositions of assets,
issuances of securities and changes to the rights of security holders)? Or should
we require that all material events be reported without specifying any particular
events? How many days after the occurrence of the material event should the
issuer be required to file the report? Please explain.
91. We have the authority to include exceptions to the ongoing reporting
requirements in Section 4A(b)(4). Should we consider excepting certain issuers
from ongoing reporting obligations (e.g., those raising a certain amount, such as
$100,000 or less)? Should any exception always apply or only after a certain
number of reports have been filed? Please explain.
3.

Form C and Filing Requirements

Section 4A(b)(1) does not specify a format that issuers must use to present the required
disclosures and file these disclosures with the Commission. Several commenters stated that the
Commission should require the disclosure on a form modeled after, or require the use of
NASAA’s Small Company Offering Registration Form (U-7). 236 One commenter suggested
using Form 1-A, which is used for securities offerings made pursuant to Regulation A, 237 as a

235

17 CFR 249.308. Form 8-K is a report that public companies must file to announce major events that
shareholders should know about on a more current basis. Form 8-K includes a specific list of the types of
events that trigger a public company’s obligation to file a current report, including matters relating to the
company’s business and operations, financial information, securities and trading markets, accountants and
financial statements, corporate governance and management, asset-backed securities, exhibits and other
matters that are not specifically called for by Form 8-K that the company considers to be of importance to
security holders. Generally, a Form 8-K must be filed within four business days from the date of the event
that triggered the report.

236

See Coan Letter; Liles Letter 1; Vim Funding Letter; NASAA Letter.

237

17 CFR 230.251 et seq.
101

model. 238 One commenter requested that we create a form for issuers that “simplifies the process
and provides legal certainty for investors, intermediaries and issuers,” 239 while another
commenter suggested that we adopt a “simple, uniform, easy-to-understand yet comprehensive
template prospectus that is similar in principle to the mutual fund industry’s summary
prospectus.” 240 Another commenter recommended that disclosure be simple, allow for
standardization and take into account the size and stage of development of the issuer. 241 One
commenter suggested we create a disclosure template that would allow issuers to complete
certain fields by inserting the required disclosure. 242 Another commenter suggested we require a
single offering document incorporating disclosures that intermediaries and issuers are required to
make. 243
We are proposing to require issuers to file the mandated disclosure on EDGAR using new
Form C. 244 As proposed, Form C would require certain disclosures to be presented in a specified
format, while allowing the issuer to customize the presentation of other disclosures required by
Section 4A(b)(1) and the related rules. This approach should provide key offering information in

238

See Commonwealth of Massachusetts Letter.

239

CFIRA Letter 2.

240

The Motley Fool Letter.

241

See 2012 SEC Government-Business Forum, note 29.

242

See ABA Letter 1.

243

See Ohio Division of Securities Letter.

244

An issuer that does not already have EDGAR filing codes, and to which the Commission has not previously
assigned a user identification number, which we call a “Central Index Key (CIK)” code, would need to
obtain the codes by filing electronically a Form ID [17 CFR 239.63; 249.446; 269.7 and 274.402] at
https://www.filermanagement.edgarfiling.sec.gov. The applicant also would be required to submit a
notarized authenticating document as a Portable Document Format (PDF) attachment to the electronic
filing. The authenticating document would need to be manually signed by the applicant over the
applicant’s typed signature, include the information contained in the Form ID and confirm the authenticity
of the Form ID. See 17 CFR 232.10(b)(2).
102

a standardized format and give issuers flexibility in the presentation of other required
disclosures. We believe this flexibility is important given that we expect that issuers engaged in
crowdfunding transactions in reliance on Section 4(a)(6) would encompass a wide variety of
industries at different stages of business development.
We propose to require issuers to use an XML-based fillable form to input certain
information. 245 This XML-based fillable form would support the assembly and transmission of
those required disclosures to EDGAR on Form C. 246 It also would help the Commission to
collect certain key information about each offering to monitor the implementation of the
crowdfunding exemption under Section 4(a)(6). For example, the Commission could monitor
the types of issuers using the exemption, including the issuers’ size, location, securities offered
and offering amounts and the intermediaries through which the offerings are taking place.
Monitoring the implementation of the crowdfunding exemption also would give the Commission
more information to evaluate whether the rules include appropriate investor protections and
facilitate capital formation. Issuers could customize the presentation of the rest of their
disclosures and file those disclosures as exhibits to the Form C. For example, an issuer could
provide the required disclosures by uploading to EDGAR, as an exhibit to Form C, a text version

245

See proposed Instruction to paragraph (a)(1) of proposed Rule 203 of Regulation Crowdfunding. Issuers
would input in the proposed XML-based filing the following information: name, legal status and contact
information of the issuer; name, Commission file number and CRD number (as applicable) of the
intermediary through which the offering will be conducted; the amount of compensation paid to the
intermediary to conduct the offering, including the amount of referral and other fees associated with the
offering; type of security offered; number of securities offered; offering price; target offering amount and
maximum offering amount (if different from the target offering amount); whether oversubscriptions will be
accepted and, if so, how they will be allocated; deadline to reach the target offering amount; current
number of employees of the issuer; and selected financial data for the prior two fiscal years.

246

The Commission would disseminate the information in a format that provides normal text for reading and
XML-tagged data for analysis. Currently the Commission’s OnlineForms website (https://www.online
forms.edgarfiling.sec.gov) supports the assembly and transmission of XML filings required by Exchange
Act Section 16 (15 U.S.C. 78p).
103

of the relevant information presented on the intermediary’s platform, including a transcript of
any video presentation and a description of any charts or graphs.
Under the proposed rules, Form C would be used for all of an issuer’s filings with the
Commission.247 The issuer would check one of the following boxes on the cover of the Form C
to indicate the purpose of the Form C filing:
•

“Form C: Offering Statement” for issuers filing the initial disclosures required for
an offering made in reliance on Section 4(a)(6);

•

“Form C-A: Amendment” for issuers seeking to amend a previously-filed Form
C for an offering;

•

“Form C-U: Progress Update” for issuers filing a progress update required by
Section 4A(b)(1)(H) and the related rules;

•

“Form C-AR: Annual Report” for issuers filing the annual report required by
Section 4A(b)(4) and the related rules; and

•

“Form C-TR: Termination of Reporting” for issuers terminating their reporting
obligations pursuant to Section 4A(b)(4) and the related rules.

We believe that the use of one form would be more efficient than requiring multiple forms and
would simplify the filing process for issuers and their preparers. EDGAR would automatically
provide each filing with an appropriate tag depending on which box the issuer checks so that
investors could distinguish between the different filings. 248

247

See proposed Rule 203 of Regulation Crowdfunding.

248

EDGAR would tag the offering statement as “Form C,” any amendments to the offering statement as
“Form C-A,” progress updates as “Form C-U,” annual reports as “Form C-AR” and termination reports as
“Form C-TR.”
104

Section 4A(b)(1) requires issuers to file the offering information with the Commission,
provide it to investors and the relevant intermediary and make it available to potential
investors. 249 Under the proposed rules, issuers would satisfy the requirement to file the
information with the Commission by filing the Form C: Offering Statement, including any
amendments and progress updates, on EDGAR. To satisfy the requirement to provide the
disclosures to the relevant intermediary, we propose that issuers provide to the relevant
intermediary a copy of the disclosures filed with the Commission on EDGAR. 250 To satisfy the
requirement to provide the disclosures to investors and make them available to potential
investors, we propose that issuers provide the information to investors electronically by referring
investors to the information on the intermediary’s platform. 251 Issuers could refer investors
through a posting on the issuer’s website or by e-mail. 252 We believe that investors in this type
of Internet-based offering would be familiar with obtaining information on the Internet and that
providing the information in this manner would be cost-effective for issuers. As discussed
above, we believe Congress contemplated that crowdfunding would, by its very nature, occur
over the Internet or other similar electronic medium that is accessible to the public, 253 so we are
not proposing to require issuers to provide physical copies of the information to investors. We

249

Section 4A(b)(4) requires issuers to file with the Commission and provide to investors, not less than
annually, reports of the results of operations and financial statements of the issuer. As discussed above in
Section II.B.2, to satisfy this requirement, the proposed rules would require an issuer to post the annual
report on its website and file it on EDGAR. See proposed Rule 202(a) of Regulation Crowdfunding.

250

See proposed Instruction 1 to paragraph (a) of proposed Rule 203 of Regulation Crowdfunding. We
anticipate that issuers seeking to engage in an offering in reliance on Section 4(a)(6) may likely work with
an intermediary to prepare the disclosure that would be provided on the intermediary’s platform and filed
on EDGAR. In some cases, intermediaries may offer, as part of their service, to file the disclosure on
EDGAR on behalf of the issuer.

251

See proposed Instruction 2 to paragraph (a) of proposed Rule 203 of Regulation Crowdfunding.

252
253

Id.
See note 55.
105

propose to allow issuers to refer investors to the information on the intermediary’s platform
through a posting on the issuer website or by e-mail, rather than requiring e-mail, because we
believe that many issuers may not have e-mail addresses for investors. 254
Request for Comment
92. Should we require a specific format that issuers must use to disclose the
information required by Section 4A(b)(1) and the related rules?
93. Should issuers be required to file the Form C with the Commission in electronic
format only, as proposed? Alternatively, should we permit issuers to file the
Form C in paper format? What are the relative costs and benefits of permitting
the filing of the Form C in paper format? Should issuers be precluded from
relying on the hardship exemptions in Rules 201 and 202 of Regulation S-T? 255
Why or why not?
94. In what format would the information about an issuer be presented on an
intermediary’s platform? Will there be written text, graphics, charts or graphs,
or video testimonials by the founder or other key stakeholders? Will the
information be presented in a way that would allow for the filing of the
information as an exhibit to Form C on EDGAR? If not, how should the rules
address these types of materials?

254

See note 225. To the extent that intermediaries have the e-mail addresses of investors and potential
investors (e.g., as a result of investors and potential investors opening an account with the intermediary),
intermediaries could provide an issuer’s disclosures to investors and potential investors through e-mail.

255

17 CFR 232.201 and 232.202. These hardship exemptions allow filers, under certain conditions, to submit
their filings and exhibits in paper form instead of electronically.
106

95. Should we require different forms for each type of required filing? Would the use
of one form with different EDGAR tags for each type of filing create confusion
among investors who review the issuer’s filings? Would it create confusion for
issuers that are filing the forms? Please explain.
96. Should we allow issuers to refer investors and potential investors to the
information on the intermediary’s platform? Are the proposed methods (website
posting or e-mail) to refer investors effective and appropriate? Would issuers
have access to the investors’ e-mail addresses? Are there other methods we
should consider? If so, what methods and why?
4.

Prohibition on Advertising Terms of the Offering

Section 4A(b)(2) provides that an issuer shall “not advertise the terms of the offering,
except for notices which direct investors to the funding portal or broker.” We received a number
of comments regarding this provision. One commenter stated that the inability to market an
offering will prevent startups from reaching their desired goal. 256 One commenter suggested that
we should allow issuers unrestricted use of advertising, both on the Internet and through
conventional forms of advertising. 257 Another commenter suggested that communications
between the issuer and investors should be limited to communication channels controlled by the
intermediary and that direct communications between an issuer and investors should be
discouraged. 258 Another commenter stated that it is unclear what constitutes a notice for these
purposes and that issuers should be able to promote their offerings as long as investors register

256

See VTNGLOBAL Letter.

257

See Loofbourrow Letter.

258

See CommunityLeader Letter.
107

with the intermediary and participate in the offering through that intermediary. 259 Another
commenter suggested that issuers should be able to promote their offerings through “their own
platforms” as long as all such notices include a link directly to the registered intermediary. 260
One commenter suggested that an issuer should be permitted to place a notice consisting of the
basic terms of the offering on the issuer’s website or at its place of business. 261 Alternatively,
the commenter suggested an issuer should be permitted to include such notice in correspondence
to its customers or mailing list subscribers. 262
Another commenter stated that the advertising prohibition should not be read to restrict
notices that: (1) alert the public to the issuer’s project or company; (2) state that the public may
participate in the fundraising; or (3) direct the public to the funding platform. 263 Another
commenter suggested notices should be allowed to include: (1) the type of security being
offered; (2) the offering amount; (3) the opening and closing date of the offering; and (4) the
issuer’s line of business or whether the offering will fund a new line of business. 264 One
commenter suggested that, given the limitations on the number of characters allowed by some
social media sites, we should allow notices that do not require lengthy legends or disclosure. 265
Another commenter suggested that we define the term “advertising” and provide a model form

259

See Crowdfunding Offerings Ltd. Letter 5.

260

See CFIRA Letter 2.

261

See NCA Letter (stating that the Commission should clarify whether the rules will permit notices to state
the offering period, whether investors may contact the issuer’s management to discuss the offering or
whether the notices may include names of accredited investors participating in the offering).

262

Id.

263

See RocketHub Letter 1.

264

See NSBA Letter.

265

See CFIRA Letter 1 (providing examples of notices varying in length from zero to 1,500 characters).
108

that can be used by issuers to direct investors to the intermediary. 266 Another commenter
suggested that we require issuers to file all advertising and other materials that the issuers create
relating to offerings made in reliance on Section 4(a)(6). 267 One commenter suggested that we
allow advertising of non-financial elements of a transaction in the case of offerings conducted
through an intermediary that is a community development financial institution. 268
Under the proposed rules, an issuer could publish a notice advertising the terms of an
offering in reliance on Section 4(a)(6), provided that the notice includes the address of the
intermediary’s platform on which additional information about the issuer and the offering may
be found. 269 Consistent with Section 4A(b)(2), an issuer would not otherwise be permitted to
advertise, directly or indirectly, the terms of an offering made in reliance on Section 4(a)(6).
While we understand the importance that potential issuers likely will place on the ability to
advertise, the statute specifically restricts the ability of issuers to advertise the terms of offerings
made in reliance on Section 4(a)(6). Limiting the advertising of the terms of the offering to the
information permitted in the notice is intended to direct investors to the intermediary’s platform
and to make investment decisions with access to the disclosures necessary for them to make
informed investment decisions.
The proposed rules would allow notices advertising the terms of the offering to include
no more than the following: (1) a statement that the issuer is conducting an offering, the name of
the intermediary through which the offering is being conducted and a link directing the potential

266

See CompTIA Letter.

267

See Commonwealth of Massachusetts Letter.

268

See City First Letter.

269

See proposed Rule 204 of Regulation Crowdfunding.
109

investor to the intermediary’s platform; (2) the terms of the offering; and (3) factual information
about the legal identity and business location of the issuer, limited to the name of the issuer of
the security, the address, phone number and website of the issuer, the e-mail address of a
representative of the issuer and a brief description of the business of the issuer. 270 Under the
proposed rules, “terms of the offering” would include: (1) the amount of securities offered; (2)
the nature of the securities; (3) the price of the securities; and (4) the closing date of the offering
period. 271
The permitted notices would be similar to the “tombstone ads” permitted under Securities
Act Rule 134, 272 except that the notices would be required to direct investors to the
intermediary’s platform through which the offering is being conducted, 273 such as by including a
link directing the potential investor to the platform. 274 We are not proposing to impose
limitations on how the issuer distributes the notices. For example, issuers could place notices in
newspapers or could post notices on social media sites. We believe this approach would allow
issuers to leverage social media to attract potential investors, while at the same time protecting
potential investors by limiting the ability of issuers to advertise the terms of the offering without
providing the required disclosures.

270

See proposed Rule 204(b) of Regulation Crowdfunding. While notices would not be required to include all
of this information, they would be required to, at a minimum, direct investors and potential investors to the
intermediary’s platform on which additional information about the issuer and the offering may be found.
See proposed Rule 204(a) of Regulation Crowdfunding.

271

See proposed Instruction to proposed Rule 204 of Regulation Crowdfunding.

272

17 CFR 230.134.

273

See proposed Rule 204(a) of Regulation Crowdfunding.

274

See proposed Rule 204(b)(1) of Regulation Crowdfunding.
110

The proposed rules also would allow an issuer to communicate with investors and
potential investors about the terms of the offering through communication channels provided by
the intermediary on the intermediary’s platform, so long as the issuer identifies itself as the issuer
in all communications. We believe that one of the central tenets of the concept of crowdfunding
is that the members of the crowd decide whether or not to fund an idea or business after sharing
information with each other. As part of those communications, we believe it is important for the
issuer to be able to respond to questions about the terms of the offering or even challenge or
refute statements made through the communication channels provided by the intermediary.
Therefore, we have not proposed to restrict issuers from participating in those communications.
The proposed rules would not restrict an issuer’s ability to communicate other
information that does not refer to the terms of the offering. We believe that this is consistent
with the statute because Section 4A(b)(2) only appears to impose a restriction on the advertising
of the terms of the offer. To prohibit communications that do not refer to the terms of the
offering would place a greater burden on issuers relying on Section 4(a)(6) than on issuers in
registered offerings. For example, Securities Act Rule 169 275 permits non-Exchange Act
reporting issuers engaged in an initial public offering to continue to publish, subject to certain
exclusions and conditions, regularly released factual business information that is intended for use
by persons other than in their capacity as investors or potential investors. 276 We believe that
permitting issuers to continue to engage in communications that do not refer to the terms of the
offering during the pendency of offering made in reliance on Section 4(a)(6) would increase the

275

17 CFR 230.169.

276

Id. See also Securities Offering Reform, Release No. 33-8591 (July 19, 2005) [70 FR 44722 (Aug. 3,
2005)].
111

likelihood of the success of an issuer’s business because the issuer could continue to advertise its
products or services, so long as it does so without discussing the terms of the offering.
Request for Comment
97. Should we require issuers to file with the Commission or provide to the
intermediary a copy of any notice directing investors to the intermediary’s
platform? Why or why not?
98. The proposed rules would define “terms of the offering” to include: (1) the
amount of securities offered; (2) the nature of the securities; (3) the price of the
securities; and (4) the closing date of the offering period. Is this definition
appropriate? Why or why not? Should the definition be modified to eliminate
or include other items? If so, which ones and why? Should we provide further
guidance as to the meaning of “terms of the offering?” Please explain.
99. Should we restrict the media that may be used for the advertising of notices (e.g.,
prohibit advertising via television, radio or phone calls)? If so, why and what
media should we restrict? What media should we permit? Please explain.
100. Should we require a specific format for issuer notices? Should we provide
examples of notices that would comply with the requirements?
101. Should we further restrict or specify the information that could be included in a
notice of the offering? If so, how and why? Is the information that we have
proposed to permit in notices sufficient to inform potential investors of an
offering? Should we permit the issuer to include any additional information in
the notice if, for example, the offering aims to promote a particular social cause,
such as driving economic growth in underinvested communities, as one
112

commenter suggested? 277 If so, what information and why? Should we allow
any additional information to be included in the notices for all offerings made in
reliance on Section 4(a)(6)? Please explain. Should we impose restrictions on
the timing or frequency of notices? Why or why not? If so, what restrictions
would be appropriate?
102. Should we limit the issuer’s participation in communication channels provided
by the intermediary on the intermediary’s platform? Why or why not? If so,
what limitations would be appropriate?
103. The proposed rules would allow an issuer to communicate with investors and
potential investors about the terms of an offering through communication
channels provided by the intermediary on the intermediary’s platform, so long as
the issuer identifies itself as the issuer in all communications. Is this approach
appropriate? Why or why not? If not, why not?
104. The proposed rules would not restrict an issuer’s ability to communicate
information that does not refer to the terms of the offering. Is this approach
appropriate? Why or why not? If not, what limitations should we include on an
issuer’s communications that do not refer to the terms of the offering and why?
5.

Compensation of Persons Promoting the Offering

Section 4A(b)(3) provides that an issuer shall “not compensate or commit to compensate,
directly or indirectly, any person to promote its offerings through communication channels
provided by a broker or funding portal, without taking such steps as the Commission shall, by

277

See City First Letter.
113

rule, require to ensure that such person clearly discloses the receipt, past or prospective, of such
compensation, upon each instance of such promotional communication.”
We received comments offering varying views on this provision. One commenter noted
that it is unclear precisely what this provision attempts to prohibit or protect against. 278 Another
commenter suggested the rules should distinguish between an issuer hiring an individual or
entity for promotion, where investors may not be aware of the commercial relationship between
the parties, and more standard web-based advertising, including through search engines or
trending topics. 279 This commenter suggested that we should not adopt rules that may interfere
with promotional compensation, but rather, we should require simple disclosure of a commercial
relationship when it would not otherwise be apparent. One commenter suggested that the rules
should provide that a clear statement of the compensation amount paid to promoters (or a
formula for determining the same) in the disclosure document would satisfy this disclosure
obligation. 280 Another commenter suggested that if the issuer will use any promoters in
connection with the offering, the issuer should identify the promoters and disclose the amount
and structure of promoter compensation. 281

278

See Crowdfunding Offerings Ltd. Letter 5 (asking a number of questions about what constitutes direct or
indirect compensation, whether it is acceptable to promote offerings if no compensation is paid and
whether the provision covers third parties who may have an interest in the offering and who pay for the
promotion).

279

See RocketHub Letter 1.

280

See Schwartz Letter.

281

See Commonwealth of Massachusetts Letter.
114

Consistent with the statute, the proposed rules 282 would prohibit an issuer from
compensating, or committing to compensate, directly or indirectly, any person to promote the
issuer’s offering through communication channels provided by the intermediary unless the issuer
takes reasonable steps to ensure that the person clearly discloses the receipt (both past and
prospective) of compensation each time the person makes a promotional communication. 283 In
this regard, we anticipate that an issuer could, for example, contractually require any promoter to
include the required statement about receipt of compensation, confirm that the promoter is
adhering to the intermediary’s terms of use that require promoters to affirm whether or not they
are compensated by the issuer, monitor communications made by such persons and take the
necessary steps to have any communications that do not have the required statement removed
promptly from the communication channels, or retain a person specifically identified by the
intermediary to promote all issuers on its platform. We anticipate that communication channels
provided by the intermediary would provide a forum through which potential investors could
share information to help the members of the crowd decide whether or not to fund the issuer.
We believe that it would be important for potential investors to know whether persons
using these communication channels are the issuer, persons acting on behalf of the issuer or

282

See proposed Rule 205 of Regulation Crowdfunding. See also proposed Rule 303(c)(4) and the discussion
in Section II.C.5.c below for requirements on intermediaries as they relate to disclosure in intermediaryprovided communication channels of certain compensation and promotional activities.

283

The receipt of transaction-based compensation in connection with the offer and sale of a security could
cause a person to be a broker required to register with us under Exchange Act Section 15(a)(1) [15 U.S.C.
78o(a)(1)]. Issuers also would need to consider the application of Securities Act Section 17(b) [15 U.S.C.
77q] to these activities. Section 17(b) provides that “[i]t shall be unlawful for any person, by the use of any
means or instruments of transportation or communication in interstate commerce or by the use of the mails,
to publish, give publicity to, or circulate any notice, circular, advertisement, newspaper, article, letter,
investment service, or communication which, though not purporting to offer a security for sale, describes
such security for a consideration received or to be received, directly or indirectly, from an issuer,
underwriter, or dealer, without fully disclosing the receipt, whether past or prospective, of such
consideration and the amount thereof.”
115

persons receiving compensation from the issuer to promote the issuer’s offering because of the
potential for self-interest or bias in communications by these persons. As such, the proposed
rules would apply broadly to persons acting on behalf of the issuer, regardless of whether or not
they are compensated or they receive compensation specifically for the promotional activities.
For example, the proposed rules would apply to persons hired specifically to promote the
offering, as well as to individuals who are otherwise employed by the issuer or who undertake
promotional activities on behalf of the issuer. A founder or an employee of the issuer who
engages in promotional activities on behalf of the issuer through the communication channels
provided by the intermediary would be required to disclose, with each posting, that he or she is
engaging in those activities on behalf of the issuer.
The proposed rules also would specify that the issuer shall not compensate or commit to
compensate, directly or indirectly, any person to promote its offerings outside of the
communication channels provided by the intermediary, unless the promotion is limited to notices
that comply with the advertising rules discussed above in Section II.B.4. 284 This prohibition
should prevent issuers from circumventing the restrictions on advertising by compensating a
third party to do what the issuer cannot do directly.
Request for Comment
105. The proposed rules would prohibit an issuer from compensating or committing
to compensate, directly or indirectly, any person to promote its offering outside
of the communication channels provided by the intermediary, unless the

284

See proposed Rule 205(b) of Regulation Crowdfunding.
116

promotion is limited to notices that direct investors to the intermediary's
platform. Is this approach appropriate? Why or why not?
106. The proposed rules would require issuers to take reasonable steps to ensure that
persons promoting the issuer’s offering through communication channels
provided by the intermediary disclose the receipt (both past and prospective) of
direct or indirect compensation each time they make a promotional
communication. Is this an appropriate approach to the statutory requirement for
issuers to ensure that promoters make the required disclosures? If not, what
standard should we apply and why?
107. Should we require that any person who receives compensation from the issuer to
promote an issuer’s offering through communication channels provided by the
intermediary register with, or otherwise provide notice to, the intermediary? If
so, should we require that person to disclose the amount of the compensation
and the structure of the compensation arrangement to the intermediary? Why or
why not? If so, what would be the purpose of such a requirement?
108. Should the issuer provide disclosure of any person who receives compensation
from the issuer to promote an issuer’s offering? Why or why not?
6.

Other Issuer Requirements

Some commenters addressed issues relating to oversubscriptions, the offering price, the
type of securities that may be offered and how those securities should be valued. 285
a.

285

Oversubscriptions

Securities Act Section 4A(b)(5) states that issuers shall “comply with such other requirements as the
Commission may, by rule, prescribe, for the protection of investors and in the public interest.”
117

Two commenters suggested that we should permit an issuer to raise capital in excess of
the target offering amount, subject to certain conditions. 286 The proposed rules would not limit
an issuer’s ability to accept investments in excess of the target offering amount, subject to the $1
million annual limitation.287 Issuers, however, would be required to provide disclosure to
investors concerning this possibility. 288 Some commenters suggested that the rules require a
defined range for permissible oversubscriptions. 289 We believe, however, that limits on
oversubscriptions are not necessary if an issuer discloses how much it would be willing to accept
in oversubscriptions, how the oversubscriptions would be allocated and the intended purpose of
those additional funds. 290 We believe that this approach would provide investors, prior to the
sale, with useful information to make an informed investment decision about an issuer that is
seeking investments in excess of the target offering amount.
Request for Comment
109. Should we require that oversubscribed investments be allocated using a pro-rata,
first-come, first-served or other method, rather than leaving that decision up to
the issuer? Please explain.

286

See ABA Letter 1 (stating that if the maximum amount exceeds the target offering amount, the issuer
should be required to disclose: (1) the maximum amount that it could raise; (2) the total amount of
securities that would be issued should the maximum amount be raised; (3) the anticipated use of proceeds
should the maximum amount be raised; and (4) financial statements that would have been required had the
target offering amount been equal to the maximum amount); Hutchens Letter (stating that issuers should be
allowed to raise capital in excess of the target offering amount so long as the amount raised does not fall
within a higher tier of financial statement requirements).

287

See proposed Rule 201(h) of Regulation Crowdfunding.

288

Id. Issuers also would need to allow investors to cancel the commitment to purchase the securities in the
same way as it would have done had it not accepted oversubscriptions. See Section II.C.6 below for a
discussion of the right to cancel the purchase commitment.

289

See RocketHub Letter 1; CFIRA Letter 5; Hutchens Letter.

290

See Section II.B.1.a.i(d) above for a discussion of the disclosure requirements if the issuer will accept
investments in excess of the target offering amount.
118

110. Should we limit the maximum oversubscription amount to a certain percentage
of the target offering amount? If so, what should the limit be and why?
111. Should we allow issuers to accept commitments in excess of the $1 million
limitation so that if an investor withdraws his or her investment commitment
prior to the closing of the offering, the issuer would still be able to raise $1
million? If so, should we require that investments in excess of $1 million be
allocated using a pro-rata, first-come, first-served or other method, or should we
leave that decision up to the issuer? Please explain.
b.

Offering Price

One commenter suggested that the Commission should require issuers to set a fixed price
for the offering and prohibit any dynamic pricing (e.g., pricing per share that increases with the
passage of time) because dynamic pricing schemes may apply time pressure on the investment
decision. 291 We are not proposing to require issuers to set a fixed price or prohibit dynamic
pricing because we believe that the statute contemplated flexible pricing by providing that
issuers may disclose the method for determining the price provided that the final price and
required disclosures are provided to each investor prior to the sale. We also believe that the
proposed cancellation rights would address the concerns about time pressure on the investment
decision because investors would have a reasonable opportunity to cancel the investment
commitment after the price is fixed. 292
Request for Comment

291

See Spinrad Letter 1.

292

See Section II.C.6 below for a discussion of cancellation rights.
119

112. Should we require issuers to set a fixed price at the commencement of an
offering or prohibit dynamic pricing? Why or why not?
c.

Types of Securities Offered and Valuation

We received comments about the types of securities that could be offered and the
valuation of securities offered. One commenter suggested that the Commission should not
prescribe eligible types of securities because markets and securities may evolve. 293 Instead, the
commenter urged the Commission to set forth minimum disclosure requirements for issuers and
intermediaries to use when communicating the price and structure of offered securities. Another
commenter suggested that the Commission require issuers to disclose their valuation and the
factors they considered when determining such valuation. 294 Another commenter suggested that
the Commission should prescribe a maximum valuation and ban certain dilution practices. 295
Another commenter suggested that if an offering exceeds certain valuation limitations (based, for
instance, on company financial ratios), then the Commission should require that the shares held
by company insiders be subject to a lock-up that would terminate after a period of time or after
the company meets certain financial benchmarks. 296 Another commenter indicated that there are

293

See RocketHub Letter 1.

294

See Sjogren Letter.

295

See The Motley Fool Letter (stating that the Commission should specify a maximum valuation for issuers,
perhaps at two, five, or 10 times the aggregate issue limit and should implement a rule to protect investors
from issuers that might sell a special class of shares to the crowdfunding public that they eventually dilute
in future offerings).

296

See Commonwealth of Massachusetts Letter (stating that the Commission should require disclosure about
the risks of buying securities of an early-stage company at a high valuation).
120

significant costs to properly ascertaining future valuations and that such a requirement could
only be applied to corporations. 297
The proposed rules would neither limit the type of securities that may be offered in
reliance on Section 4(a)(6) nor prescribe a method for valuing the securities. In this regard, we
note that the statute refers to “securities” and does not limit the types of securities that could be
offered pursuant to the exemption. In addition, the statute does not require the use of a specific
valuation method or ban any dilution practices. Issuers would be required to describe the terms
of the securities and the valuation method in their offering materials. 298 We believe this
approach is consistent with the statute and will provide flexibility to issuers to determine the
types of securities that they offer to investors and how those securities are valued, while
providing investors with the information they need to make an informed investment decision.
The proposed rules do not limit the types of securities that may be offered in reliance on
Section 4(a)(6), and thus, debt securities may be offered and sold in crowdfunding transactions.
In general, the issuance of a debt security raises questions about the applicability of the Trust
Indenture Act of 1939 (“Trust Indenture Act”). 299 The Trust Indenture Act applies to any debt
security sold through the use of the mails or interstate commerce, including debt securities sold
in transactions that are exempt from Securities Act registration. A debt security sold in reliance
on Section 4(a)(6) would need to be issued under a qualified indenture 300 or under an indenture

297

See CrowdFund Connect Letter (stating that the Commission should clarify that an issuer would satisfy the
requirement to describe how the securities being offered are being valued by providing an operating and
management statement that clearly defines capital distributions).

298

See proposed Rule 201(m) of Regulation Crowdfunding.

299

15 U.S.C. 77aaa et seq.

300

See Trust Indenture Act Section 309 [15 U.S.C. 77iii].
121

that is exempt from qualification. 301 The Trust Indenture Act and related rules provide
exemptions in some circumstances. For example, Trust Indenture Act Section 304(b) provides
an exemption for any transaction that is exempted from the provisions of Securities Act Section
5 by Section 4 thereof. 302 We believe an issuer offering debt securities in reliance on
Section 4(a)(6) would be able to rely on this exemption. 303 Based on the availability of this
exemption from the requirements of the Trust Indenture Act, we are not proposing a specific
exemption from the requirements of the Trust Indenture Act for offerings of debt securities made
in reliance on Section 4(a)(6).
Request for Comment
113. Should we limit the types of securities that may be offered and sold in reliance
on Section 4(a)(6) (e.g., should the exemption be limited to offers and sales of
equity securities)? If so, to what securities should crowdfunding be limited and
why? Should we create a separate exemption for certain types of offerings of
limited types of securities, as one commenter proposed? 304
114. Is it anticipated that issuers may want to conduct crowdfunding offerings of
securities under Section 4(a)(6) alongside non-securities-based crowdfunding,
such as a crowdfunding campaign for donations or rewards? If so, please
describe how these offerings may be structured. Are there any issues in

301

See Trust Indenture Act Section 304 [15 U.S.C. 77ddd].

302

15 U.S.C. 77ddd(b).

303

Trust Indenture Act Section 304(a)(8) [15 U.S.C. 77ddd(a)(8)] and Rule 4a-1 [17 CFR 260.4a-1] also
provide an exemption to issue up to $5 million of debt securities without an indenture in any 12-month
period.

304

See City First Letter.
122

particular that our rules should address in the context of such simultaneous
crowdfunding offerings? Please explain.
115. Should we require or prohibit a specific valuation methodology? If so, what
method and why? Should we specify a maximum valuation allowed as
suggested by one commenter? 305 Why or why not?
C.

Requirements on Intermediaries
1.

Brokers and Funding Portals

Securities Act Section 4(a)(6)(C) requires a crowdfunding transaction to be conducted
through a broker or funding portal that complies with the requirements of Securities Act Section
4A(a). The term “broker” is generally defined in Exchange Act Section 3(a)(4) as any person
that effects transactions in securities for the account of others. Exchange Act Section 3(a)(80), 306
as added by Section 304 of the JOBS Act, defines the term “funding portal” as any person acting
as an intermediary in a transaction involving the offer or sale of securities for the account of
others, solely pursuant to Securities Act Section 4(a)(6), that does not: (1) offer investment
advice or recommendations; (2) solicit purchases, sales or offers to buy the securities offered or
displayed on its platform or portal; (3) compensate employees, agents or other person for such
solicitation or based on the sale of securities displayed or referenced on its platform or portal; (4)
hold, manage, possess or otherwise handle investor funds or securities; or (5) engage in such
other activities as the Commission, by rule, determines appropriate.

305

See The Motley Fool Letter.

306

The JOBS Act inadvertently created two Sections 3(a)(80) in the Exchange Act, the other being the
definition of “emerging growth company” (added by Section 101(b) of Title I of the JOBS Act).
123

Because a funding portal would be engaged in the business of effecting securities
transactions for the accounts of others through crowdfunding, it would meet the Exchange Act
definition of broker. 307 The proposed rules would define “funding portal” consistent with the
statutory definition of “funding portal,” substituting the word “broker” for the word “person,” 308
to state explicitly and make clear that funding portals are brokers under the federal securities
laws. We are not proposing at this time to exercise our discretion under Section 3(a)(80)(E) to
prohibit any activities in which a funding portal may engage, other than those identified in the
statute. 309
The proposed rules would not only apply to funding portals, but also to their associated
persons in many instances. The proposed rules would define the term “person associated with a
funding portal or associated person of a funding portal” to mean any partner, officer, director or
manager of a funding portal (or any person occupying a similar status or performing similar
functions), any person directly or indirectly controlling or controlled by a funding portal, or any
employee of a funding portal, but would exclude any persons whose functions are solely clerical
or ministerial. 310 The rules would provide, however, that excluded persons nevertheless would
be subject to our authority under Exchange Act Sections 15(b)(4) and 15(b)(6) because they are

307

See discussion in Section II.D.2 below.

308

See proposed Rule 300(c)(2) of Regulation Crowdfunding.

309

In proposing Regulation Crowdfunding, we propose requirements that are tailored to the limited brokerage
activities in which funding portals may engage. Even where requirements proposed for funding portals are
the same as those imposed on brokers, such as the AML requirements discussed in Section II.D.4 below,
due to the limited nature of funding portals’ activities, the compliance burden on funding portals should be
less extensive than those applicable to full service brokers under the existing regulatory regime for brokerdealers.

310

See proposed Rule 300(c)(1) of Regulation Crowdfunding.
124

associated with a broker. 311 This definition is consistent with, and modeled on, the definition of
“person associated with a broker or dealer or associated person of a broker or dealer” under
Exchange Act Section 3(a)(18). 312
Request for Comment
116. Are there other funding portal activities, other than those in Exchange Act
Section 3(a)(80), that we should prohibit? If so, which activities and why? Are
there any prohibitions that should be modified or removed? If so, which ones
and why?
117. Do we need to provide further guidance concerning which provisions of the
Exchange Act and the rules and regulations thereunder would apply to funding
portals? If so, what further guidance is necessary and why?
2.

Requirements and Prohibitions
a.

Registration and SRO Membership

Securities Act Section 4A(a)(1) requires that a person acting as an intermediary in a
crowdfunding transaction register with the Commission as a broker or as a funding portal. The
proposed rules would implement this requirement by providing that a person acting as an
intermediary in a transaction involving the offer or sale of securities made in reliance on Section
4(a)(6) must be registered with the Commission as a broker under Exchange Act Section 15(b) or

311

Exchange Act Section 15(b)(4) (15 U.S.C. 78o(b)(4)) authorizes the Commission to bring administrative
proceedings against a broker when the broker violates the federal securities laws (and for other misconduct)
and provides for the imposition of sanctions, up to and including the revocation of a broker’s registration.
Exchange Act Section 15(b)(6) (15 U.S.C. 78o(b)(6)) provides similar enforcement authority against the
persons associated with a broker, including barring persons from associating with any Commission
registrant. See note 559.

312

15 U.S.C. 78c(a)(18).
125

as a funding portal pursuant to Securities Act Section 4A(a)(1) and proposed Rule 400 of
Regulation Crowdfunding. 313
One commenter requested transparency in the registration process, stating that
intermediaries’ completed registration materials should be accessible to the public. 314 Brokers
currently register with the Commission using Form BD. Information on that form regarding the
broker’s credentials, including current registrations or licenses and employment and disciplinary
history, is publicly available on FINRA’s BrokerCheck. 315 As discussed below, we are
proposing to make the information that a funding portal provides on proposed Form Funding
Portal, other than personally identifiable information or other information with a significant
potential for misuse, accessible to the public. 316 One commenter urged the Commission to grant
funding portals a one-year moratorium from having to register. 317 We are not proposing such a
moratorium because the statute clearly states that a person acting as an intermediary in a
crowdfunding transaction made in reliance on Section 4(a)(6) must be registered with the
Commission either as a broker or as a funding portal.
Another commenter requested clarification on whether a person acting as an intermediary
in a transaction under Section 4(a)(6) would be required to register with us as an exchange, as
defined in Exchange Act Section 3(a)(1), or as an alternative trading system. 318 As discussed

313

See proposed Rule 300(a)(1) of Regulation Crowdfunding.

314

See Commonwealth of Massachusetts Letter. See also Schwartz Letter (stating that the registration
document should be made public because it would likely include many relevant disclosures, which would
make it possible for the intermediary to file a single document to satisfy both the registration and disclosure
requirements).

315

See FINRA, note 142.

316

See discussion in Section II.D.1 below.

317

See Loofbourrow Letter.

318

See ABA Letter 1.
126

above, Section 4A(a)(1) requires an intermediary that facilitates crowdfunded issuances of
securities to register with us either as a broker or as a funding portal. Facilitating crowdfunded
transactions alone would not require an intermediary to register as an exchange or as an
alternative trading system (i.e., registration as a broker-dealer subject to Regulation ATS). To
the extent that an intermediary facilitates secondary market activity in securities issued in
reliance on Section 4(a)(6), the intermediary would be required to register as an exchange or as
an alternative trading system if it met the criteria in Exchange Act Rule 3b-16. 319 We note,
however, that a funding portal, by definition, is limited to acting as an intermediary in
transactions involving the offer or sale of securities for the account of others solely pursuant to
Section 4(a)(6), 320 which are primary issuances of securities. Thus, a funding portal could not
effect secondary market transactions in securities.
Exchange Act Section 4A(a)(2) requires an intermediary to register with any applicable
self-regulatory organization (“SRO”), as defined in Exchange Act Section 3(a)(26). 321 Exchange
Act Section 3(h)(1)(B) separately requires, as a condition of the exemption from broker
registration, a funding portal to be a member of a national securities association that is registered
with the Commission under Exchange Act Section 15A. The proposed rules would implement

319

See 17 CFR 240.3b-16 (subject to the exceptions provided in part (b) of the rule, an organization,
association or group of persons would generally be considered a market place or facility for bringing
together purchasers and sellers of securities or for otherwise performing, with respect to securities, the
functions commonly performed by a stock exchange, “if such organization, association, or group of persons
(1) Brings together the orders for securities of multiple buyers and sellers; and (2) Uses established, nondiscretionary methods (whether by providing a trading facility or by setting rules) under which such orders
interact with each other, and the buyers and sellers entering such orders agree to the terms of a trade.”).

320

See Section II.C.1 above.

321

15 U.S.C. 78c(a)(26). Exchange Act Section 3(a)(26) defines an “SRO” to mean “any national securities
exchange, registered securities association, or registered clearing agency, or (solely for the purposes of
[S]ections [19(b), 19(c), and 23 of the Exchange Act]) the Municipal Securities Rulemaking Board
established by [S]ection [15B of the Exchange Act.]” Id.
127

these provisions by requiring an intermediary in a transaction involving the offer or sale of
securities made in reliance on Section 4(a)(6) to be a member of FINRA or any other national
securities association registered under Exchange Act Section 15A. 322 Today, FINRA is the only
registered national securities association.
One commenter generally objected to the requirement for an intermediary to be a
member of a registered national securities association. 323 As we noted above, the statute clearly
requires a funding portal to be a member of a registered national securities association.
Likewise, under Section 15(b)(8) of the Exchange Act, a broker-dealer that is engaged in
crowdfunding activities must be a member of a national securities association. 324

We believe

that requiring intermediary membership in a registered national securities association should help
to ensure consistent regulation of intermediaries with fewer opportunities for regulatory gaps. In
regulating broker-dealers that effect securities transactions with members of the public, FINRA
has the most members and is responsible for conducting broker-dealer examinations of its
members, mandating disclosures by its members, writing rules governing the conduct of its
members and associated persons 325 and informing and educating the investing public. 326 FINRA
investigates and brings enforcement actions against FINRA members and their associated
322

See proposed Rule 300(a)(2) of Regulation Crowdfunding. We have proposed definitions for the terms
“intermediary” and “SRO” in proposed Rule 300(c)(3) and 300(c)(5) of Regulation Crowdfunding,
respectively. Intermediary would mean a broker registered under Section 15(b) of the Exchange Act or a
funding portal registered under proposed Rule 400 and would include, where relevant, an associated person
of the registered broker or registered funding portal. SRO is proposed to have the same meaning as in
Section 36(a)(26) of the Exchange Act. See also Section II.D.1 below for a discussion regarding proposed
Rule 400 of Regulation Crowdfunding, which addresses registration requirements for funding portals.

323

See Priore Letter.

324

The statute also permits brokers-dealers to be members of a national securities exchange if the brokerdealer effects transactions in securities solely on that exchange.

325

15 U.S.C. 78o-3.

326

FINRA, Inc., http://www.finra.org/AboutFINRA/P125239 (last visited Oct. 15, 2012).
128

persons who are suspected of violating its rules and the federal securities laws. 327 While FINRA
has primary responsibility for examining its members, 328 the Commission staff generally
examines broker-dealers if specific firm or industry risks have been identified or when fraud and
rule violations may have occurred. Because the statute requires a national securities association
to write rules expressly for funding portals, 329 we anticipate that funding portals would be
subjected to requirements targeted to their limited business model and not the more
comprehensive requirements applicable to brokers. We anticipate that the regulatory framework
FINRA creates for funding portals would play an important role in the oversight of these entities
and, through the information that FINRA shares with the Commission, the Commission’s ability
to effectively regulate registered funding portals’ activities. 330
In response to commenters’ requests that we clarify the applicable SRO for crowdfunding
intermediaries, and to address any confusion about which entity or entities may serve as an SRO
for crowdfunding brokers and funding portals, we are expressly identifying FINRA as a
registered national securities association within the meaning of the statute. 331 While FINRA
currently is the only registered national securities association, we are not foreclosing the
possibility that another national securities association could register with us in the future. In that

327

See, e.g., 15 U.S.C. 78o-3(b)(2); Testimony Before the Senate Subcommittee on Securities, Insurance, and
Investment Committee on Banking, Housing, and Urban Affairs, 111th Cong. 8 (2010) (testimony of
Stephen Luparello, Vice Chairman, FINRA).

328

15 U.S.C. 78o-3.

329

See Exchange Act Section 3(h)(2) [15 U.S.C. 78c(h)(2)].

330
331

Id.
See NCA Letter; NSBA Letter.
129

event, the proposed rule would permit funding portals to become members of the new
association (should one become established in the future) instead of, or in addition to, FINRA. 332
FINRA currently provides licensing and qualification requirements for associated persons
of brokers. While we are not proposing any such requirement for persons associated with a
funding portal, FINRA (or any other registered national securities association) could propose
such requirements, as well as requirements dealing with supervision of funding portal personnel
and appropriate compliance structures. 333 FINRA, like all SROs, is required to file all proposed
rules with us under Exchange Act Section 19(b) 334 and Rule 19b-4. 335 In general, the
Commission reviews proposed SRO rules and rule changes, publishes them for comment,
approves or disapproves them, or the rules become effective immediately or by operation of law.
Request for Comment
118. We have named FINRA expressly in the proposed rules as an applicable
registered national securities association for crowdfunding intermediaries. Is
this helpful? Is this appropriate? Why or why not? Are there other entities
considering applying to become registered national securities associations?

332

For requirements to register as a national securities association, see Exchange Act Section 15A [15 U.S.C.
78o-3].

333

Exchange Act Section 15(b)(7) (15 U.S.C. 78o(b)(7)) requires that natural persons associated with brokers
and dealers that are registered under Exchange Act Section 15(a)(1) (15 U.S.C. 78o(a)(1)) meet such
standards of training, experience, competence and such other qualifications as the Commission finds
necessary or appropriate in the public interest. The Commission historically has not exercised this
authority but instead has relied on and deferred to the “substantive content of the SROs’ entry requirements
imposed on securities personnel in the various qualification categories.” See Requirement of BrokerDealers to Comply with SRO Qualification Standards, Release No. 34-32261 (May 4, 1993). See also
Sections II.D.1 and II.D.2 below for a discussion regarding proposed Rules 400 and 401 of Regulation
Crowdfunding.

334

15 U.S.C. 78s(b).

335

17 CFR 240.19b-4.
130

119. The proposed rules would require that an intermediary be a member of FINRA
or of any other applicable national securities association. Is this an appropriate
approach? At present, FINRA is the only registered national securities
association. If we were in the future to approve the registration of another
national securities association under Exchange Act Section 15A, would it be
appropriate for us to require membership in both the existing and new
association? Why or why not?
120. No intermediary can engage in crowdfunding activities without being registered
with the Commission and becoming a member of FINRA or another registered
national securities association. We recognize that while there is an established
framework for brokers to register with the Commission and become members of
FINRA, no such framework is yet in place for funding portals. We do not
intend to create a regulatory imbalance that would unduly favor either brokers or
funding portals. 336 Are there steps we should take to ensure that we do not
create a regulatory imbalance? 337 Please explain.
121. The proposed rules do not independently establish licensing or other
qualification requirements for intermediaries and their associated persons. The

336

We note, however, that a registered broker could nonetheless have a competitive advantage to the extent it
would be able to provide a wider range of services than a registered funding portal could provide in
connection with crowdfunding transactions made in reliance on Section 4(a)(6). Unlike a funding portal, a
registered broker-dealer could make recommendations, engage in solicitations and handle investor funds
and securities. In addition, a registered broker-dealer, but not a funding portal, could potentially facilitate a
secondary market for securities sold pursuant to Section 4(a)(6). See Exchange Act Section 3(a)(80) [15
U.S.C. 78c(a)(80)] (providing that a funding portal may act as an intermediary solely in securities
transactions effected pursuant to Securities Act Section 4(a)(6), which are offerings by issuers and not
resales).

337

See NCA Letter (stating that registered brokers should not be permitted to engage in crowdfunding
activities until funding portals also become registered with, and members of, SROs).
131

applicable registered national securities associations may or may not seek to
impose such requirements. Should the Commission consider establishing these
requirements? Should the Commission consider establishing requirements only
if the associations do not? Would licensing or other qualifications for
intermediaries and their associated persons be necessary, for example, to provide
assurances that those persons are sufficiently knowledgeable and qualified to
operate a funding portal? Why or why not? If so, what types of licensing or
other qualifications should we consider?
b.

Financial Interests

Exchange Act Section 4A(a)(11) requires an intermediary to prohibit its directors,
officers or partners (or any person occupying a similar status or performing a similar function)
from having any financial interest in an issuer using its services. The proposed rules would
implement this prohibition by importing the language of the statute, and also by extending this
prohibition to the intermediary itself. The proposed rules would add that these persons are not
only prohibited from having any financial interest in an issuer using its services, but also would
specifically be prohibited from receiving a financial interest in the issuer as compensation for
services provided to, or for the benefit of, the issuer, in connection with the offer and sale of its
securities. 338 The proposed rules would interpret “any financial interest in an issuer,” for
purposes of Securities Act Section 4A(a)(11), to mean a direct or indirect ownership of, or
economic interest in, any class of the issuer’s securities.

338

See proposed Rule 300(b) of Regulation Crowdfunding.
132

One commenter sought clarification of whether Section 4A(a)(11) prohibits an
intermediary – as an entity – from accepting equity from an issuer as compensation for its
services. 339 In the commenter’s view, Section 4A(a)(11) should be interpreted as prohibiting an
intermediary from having a financial interest in an issuer only at the time of the offering and not
thereafter. Another commenter stated that permitting a funding portal to have a financial interest
in an issuer would align the funding portal’s interests with those of potential investors and that
full disclosure of any financial interest should quell any potential concerns. 340 Another
commenter stated that Section 4A(a)(11) does not expressly prohibit an intermediary, as an
entity, from having a financial interest in an issuer and that this should be permitted under certain
circumstances. 341
We believe the prohibition in Section 4A(a)(11) is designed to protect investors from the
conflicts of interest that may arise when the persons facilitating a crowdfunding transaction have
a financial stake in the outcome. The proposed rules would extend the prohibition on holding a

339

See NCA Letter.

340

See Dex Offshore Letter 1. See also Dex Offshore Letter 2 (stating that allowing funding portals to have an
equity interest in an issuer would align the funding portals with investors, much like venture capital or
private equity models, and that transparent disclosure would quell any concerns related to portals
maintaining equity interests in issuers).

341

See EarlyShares Letter 2 (stating that the following principles should govern a funding portal’s financial
interest in an issuer: first, to prevent any potential unfair advantage, an intermediary should only be able to
invest on the same terms under which the crowd invests; second, any material nonpublic information that
the intermediary (or any person acting on behalf of the intermediary) possessed prior to and/or after taking
a financial interest in an issuer must be disclosed on the platform in a secure manner, consistent with the
disclosure of other material nonpublic information that investors will receive through the issuer’s profile
page on an intermediary’s platform; third, because under Securities Act Section 4A(e), an intermediary will
be bound by the same one-year restriction on sales period as any other investor, there would be no risk that
investors would be misled by a “false start” or “pump-and-dump” scheme; and finally, an intermediary’s
interest should remain anonymous throughout the investment campaign, to avoid having the intermediary’s
interest be considered “investment advice or recommendations,” in violation of the prohibitions in the
definition of funding portal).
133

financial interest to the intermediary itself, 342 because we believe that the same concerns apply to
the intermediary as to its directors, officers or partners (or any person occupying a similar status
or performing a similar function). The existence of a financial interest in an issuer may create an
incentive to advance that issuer’s fundraising efforts over those of other issuers, which could
potentially adversely affect investors. For similar reasons, the proposed rules also would
prohibit receipt of a financial interest in an issuer as compensation for services provided to or on
behalf of an issuer. 343 The proposed rules would define “financial interest in an issuer” to mean
a direct or indirect ownership of, or economic interest in, any class of the securities of an
issuer. 344
As discussed above, one commenter suggested that an investor’s and intermediary’s
interests may be aligned if an intermediary were allowed to take a financial interest in an issuer.
We are concerned that the promise of a financial stake in the outcome could give an intermediary
an incentive to ensure the success of its own investment in the issuer, to the disadvantage of
investors and other issuers using the intermediary’s platform, particularly if the financial interest
is provided to the intermediary on different terms than to other investors.
Request for Comment
122. Should we permit an intermediary to receive a financial interest in an issuer as
compensation for the services that it provides to the issuer? Why or why not? If

342

343
344

See proposed Rule 300(b) of Regulation Crowdfunding. See also Securities Act Section 4A(a)(12)
(granting us discretionary authority to include other requirements on intermediaries for the protection of
investors and the public interest).
See id.
See proposed Rule 300(b) of Regulation Crowdfunding.

134

we were to permit this arrangement, the proposed rules on disclosure
requirements for issuers would require the arrangement to be disclosed to
investors in the offering material. Are there other conditions that we should
require? If so, please identify those conditions and explain.
123. If an intermediary receives a financial interest in an issuer, should it be
permitted to provide future services as long as it retains the interest? Why or
why not?
124. One commenter suggested that an intermediary should be able to receive a
financial interest under the same terms as other investors participating in an
offering made in reliance on Section 4(a)(6). 345 We request comment on this
suggestion. How could an intermediary address potential conflicts of interest
that may arise from this practice? Would disclosure of the arrangement be
sufficient? Please explain.
125. The proposed rules define “financial interest in an issuer,” for purposes of
Securities Act Section 4A(a)(11), to mean a direct or indirect ownership of, or
economic interest in, any class of the issuer’s securities. Should we define the
term more broadly to include other potential forms of a financial interest? For
example, should the term include a contract between an intermediary and an
issuer or the issuer’s directors, officers or partners (or any person occupying a
similar status or performing a similar function), for the intermediary to provide
ancillary or consulting services to the issuer after the offering? Should it include

345

See EarlyShares Letter 2.
135

an arrangement under which the intermediary is a creditor of an issuer? Should
it include any carried interest or other arrangement that provides the
intermediary or its associated persons with an interest in the financial or
operating success of the issuer, other than fixed or flat-rate fees for services
performed? Should any other interests or arrangements be specified in the term
“financial interest in an issuer?” If so, what are they and what concerns do they
raise?
126. In light of the reasons for the prohibition, should there be a de minimis
exception? Why or why not? If so, what would be an appropriate de minimis
amount? For example, would a one percent holding be an appropriate amount?
Would another amount be more appropriate? Please explain. Should there be
disclosure requirements for any de minimis exception? Why or why not?
127. Should we impose any other requirements or prohibitions on intermediaries? If
so, what requirements or prohibitions and why?
3.

Measures to Reduce Risk of Fraud

Securities Act Section 4A(a)(5) requires an intermediary to “take such measures to
reduce the risk of fraud with respect to [transactions made in reliance on Section 4(a)(6)], as
established by the Commission, by rule, including obtaining a background and securities
enforcement regulatory history check on each officer, director, and person holding more than 20
percent of the outstanding equity of every issuer whose securities are offered by such person.”
The proposed rules would implement this provision by requiring an intermediary to have a
reasonable basis for believing that the issuer is in compliance with relevant regulations and has
established means to keep accurate records of holders of the securities it offers, and by requiring
136

that the intermediary deny access if it believes the issuer or its offering would present a potential
for fraud. 346
Specifically, the proposed rules would require an intermediary to have a reasonable basis
for believing that an issuer seeking to offer and sell securities in reliance on Section 4(a)(6),
through the intermediary’s platform, complies with the requirements in Securities Act Section
4A(b) and the related requirements in Regulation Crowdfunding. 347 While an issuer has an
independent obligation to comply with these requirements, we believe it would help to reduce
the risk of fraud if an intermediary were to also have an obligation to have a reasonable basis to
believe that the issuer is in compliance. 348 The proposed rules would permit intermediaries to
reasonably rely on representations of the issuer, absent knowledge or other information or
indications that the representations are not true. While we do not propose to specify particular
actions an intermediary must take in satisfying this requirement, we anticipate that in the course
of its interactions with potential issuers, an intermediary may determine whether it could in fact
reasonably rely on an issuer’s representations and have a reasonable basis to believe the issuer is
in compliance.
The proposed rules also would require an intermediary to have a reasonable basis for
believing that an issuer has established means to keep accurate records of the holders of the

346

See proposed Rule 301 of Regulation Crowdfunding.

347

See proposed Rule 301(a) of Regulation Crowdfunding.

348

See Section II.E.5 below for a discussion relating to intermediaries’ potential statutory liability for
statements made by issuers and intermediaries’ policies and procedures. Proposed Rule 403(a) of
Regulation Crowdfunding would require funding portals to have policies and procedures designed to
achieve compliance with federal securities laws, while intermediaries that are brokers would be subject to
FINRA rules requiring similar policies and procedures. See discussion in Section II.D.4 below.
137

securities it would offer and sell through the intermediary’s platform. 349 The ability to keep
track of the ownership of an issuer’s securities is necessary to protect investors and critical for
maintaining the integrity of securities transactions made in reliance on Section 4(a)(6), both with
respect to the initial offering and any subsequent transfers of the securities. The statute does not
assign responsibility in this regard but intermediaries would be well-positioned to make this
determination, given that they would be interacting with the issuer, and particularly if they are
advising the issuer to some extent about the offering. 350 One commenter stated that a direct
registration system provides the best solution to policing transfers at a low cost and that, to the
extent physical certificates are issued, they should include legends similar to those required for
restricted securities. 351
Another commenter suggested that the Commission should require the use of registered
transfer agents, which are already subject to SEC regulations and examinations, to maintain
records of share ownership and transfers in connection with crowdfunding transactions. 352 This
commenter stated that small issuers may not have the resources to properly execute the routine
services that registered transfer agents provide, including procedures to: record and balance
registered shareowner positions; follow shareholder instructions (and retain records of the
instruction) to change an address or transfer their interests as a result of death, divorce or sale
(including signature guarantees where necessary); escheat unclaimed assets under state laws; or
address lost or stolen certificates.

349

See proposed Rule 301(b) of Regulation Crowdfunding.

350

See discussion in Section II.D.3 below relating to proposed Rule 402(b)(5) of Regulation Crowdfunding.

351

See RocketHub Letter 1. See also STA Letter.

352

See STA Letter.
138

We are not proposing to require a particular form or method of recordkeeping of
securities, nor are we proposing to require that an issuer use a transfer agent or any other third
party. We recognize the importance of accurate recordkeeping for investors and issuers, and that
the failure to accurately record or maintain shareholder records of an issuer, or to prevent
fraudulent transfers, can have significant negative impacts for both investors and issuers. 353
Among other things, investors without accurate records of their ownership of shares can find it
difficult to prove such ownership in connection with a sale of their shares or execution of a
corporate transaction. We believe that accurate recordkeeping can be accomplished by diligent
issuers or through a variety of third parties. Accordingly, under the proposed rules, the
recordkeeping function may be provided by the issuer, a broker, a transfer agent or some other
(registered or unregistered) person. 354 In certain business models, for example, it may be
possible for other regulated entities, such as banks, to provide this function. 355
Requiring a direct registration system to monitor transfers could create additional costs to
implement that we have not required in connection with any types of securities offerings, and
thus we are not proposing to require it here. Similarly, we are not proposing to require the use of
a registered transfer agent. While requiring a registered transfer agent to be involved after the
offering could introduce a regulated entity with experience in maintaining accurate shareholder
records, a transfer agent is not necessary for accurate recordkeeping. Issuers and other third

353

See, e.g., STA Letter.

354

An intermediary that is a funding portal could not provide these services, however, because by statute, it
cannot “hold, manage, possess, or otherwise handle investor funds or securities.” See Exchange Act
Section 3(a)(80)(D) [15 U.S.C. 78c(a)(80)].

355

See City First Letter (indicating that there was interest in leveraging resources of Community Development
Financial Institutions, which are certified by the U.S. Department of Treasury and include community
development banks, credit unions, loan funds, and venture capital funds, with crowdfunded capital).
139

parties can also be well-positioned to keep accurate records of the holders of the securities an
issuer would offer and sell through an intermediary’s platform. 356
In satisfying this requirement that an intermediary have a reasonable basis to believe that
an issuer has established means to keep accurate records of the securities it would offer and sell
through the intermediary’s platform, the intermediary may rely on an issuer’s representations
concerning the means it has established, unless the intermediary has reason to question the
reliability of the representations. 357 To keep accurate records, an issuer may need to have
established means to perform a range of functions with respect to shareholder records. The
precise scope of the needed functions will depend on the nature of the issuer and its securities.
Such functions could include, for example, the ability to (1) monitor the issuance of the
securities the issuer would offer and sell through the intermediary’s platform, (2) maintain a
master security holder list reflecting the owners of those securities, (3) maintain a transfer
journal or other such log recording any transfer of ownership, (4) effect the exchange or
conversion of any applicable securities, (5) maintain a control book demonstrating the historical
registration of those securities, and (6) countersign or legend physical certificates of those
securities. For some issuers, not all of these functions may be needed.
There are a number of ways by which an issuer could demonstrate or represent that it has
established the necessary recordkeeping means. The issuer itself may have capabilities to

356

Transfer agent registration is required with respect to securities registered under Exchange Act Section 12
(15 U.S.C. 78l). Because securities issued pursuant to a transaction relying on Section 4(a)(6) will not be
registered under Exchange Act Section 12, as explained above, we are not proposing to require the use of
transfer agents on the transfers of these securities. Nevertheless, issuers relying on Section 4(a)(6) could
choose to engage a registered transfer agent to provide these services. See Exchange Act Section 17A(c)(1)
[15 U.S.C. 78q-1]. See also id.

357

See proposed Rule 301(b) of Regulation Crowdfunding.
140

maintain accurate records of its securities and, as noted above, may represent such capabilities to
the intermediary. The intermediary also may be able to establish a reasonable belief, for
example, if the issuer has engaged a broker, transfer agent, or other third party that can provide
the requisite recordkeeping services, including a third party providing such services tailored to
crowdfunding issuers.
The proposed rules would require an intermediary to deny access to its platform, if the
intermediary has a reasonable basis for believing that an issuer, or any of its officers, directors
(or any person occupying a similar status or performing a similar function) or 20 Percent
Beneficial Owners, is subject to a disqualification under the proposed rules or if the intermediary
believes that the issuer or the offering presents the potential for fraud or otherwise raises
concerns regarding investor protection. 358 The rules would require an intermediary to conduct a
background and securities enforcement regulatory history check on each issuer whose securities
are to be offered by the intermediary, as well as on each of its officers, directors (or any person
occupying a similar status or performing a similar function) and 20 Percent Beneficial Owners.
While the statute requires that these checks be conducted on persons holding more than 20
percent of the outstanding equity of the issuer, the proposed rules would extend this requirement
to apply to the 20 Percent Beneficial Owners. This proposed requirement is consistent with the
issuer disclosure requirements and with the issuer disqualification provisions. 359 Using the same
standard here would be consistent with and reinforce the disclosure requirements and
disqualification provisions applicable to issuers and would provide investors with protections

358

See proposed Rule 301(c) of Regulation Crowdfunding.

359

See proposed Rules 201 and 503 of Regulation Crowdfunding, as well as the discussion in Section II.B.1
above and Section II.E.6 below.
141

and additional comfort when making investment decisions. At this time, we believe that
requiring these background checks would be sufficient to meet the aims of Section 4A(a)(5)
without imposing an undue burden, which could in turn discourage the use of the exemption
provided in Section 4(a)(6).
A number of commenters requested guidance on the acceptable scope of background and
securities enforcement regulatory history checks that an intermediary would be required to
conduct. 360 One commenter suggested that the background check should consist of: a review of
credit reports, verification of necessary business or professional licenses, evidence of corporate
good standing, uniform commercial code checks and a CRD 361 snapshot report. 362 Another
stated that the scope of the background and securities enforcement regulatory history check
should be commensurate with the size of the transaction and that we should establish a minimum
level of diligence that an intermediary must undertake to promulgate an effective mechanism
against fraud. 363 The commenter further stated that such minimum level should be below that

360

See CompTIA Letter; NASAA Letter; CrowdFund Connect Letter.

361

CRD is a central licensing and registration system for the U.S. securities industry and its regulators. It
includes a computerized database of registration records, as well as qualification, employment and
complaint histories.

362

See NASAA Letter (stating that these types of checks and reviews are necessary to ensure bad actors are
not permitted to raise money in lightly regulated public offerings). Compare RocketHub Letter 1 (stating
that intermediaries should query commonly-used databases for criminal background checks, bankruptcy
filings and tax liens, as well as cross reference against the Department of Treasury’s (“Treasury”) Office of
Foreign Asset Control sanctions lists and Specially Designated Nationals and Blocked Persons lists).

363

See CFIRA Letter 2 (stating that because there is no mandated infrastructure that intermediaries are
required to use, each intermediary should utilize an infrastructure that incorporates some type of fraud
deterrence and fraud detection system, whether proprietary or licensed through a third party; that, in order
to deter fraud, funding portals should have a video interface “whereby each issuer is required to give a short
presentation on their business which is capable of being viewed live and saved for later viewing at any time
by a potential investor;” and that in terms of detecting fraud, we should require intermediaries to build
certain fraud detection systems into the functionality of their platforms).
142

required of registered broker-dealers. 364 Other commenters requested guidance on the actions
that an intermediary should take with respect to information uncovered during a background
check. 365
We are not proposing to establish specific procedures for intermediaries to follow to
reduce the risk of fraud beyond conducting the prescribed background and securities
enforcement regulatory history checks. We believe that this proposed approach would allow an
intermediary to use its experience and judgment, as well as its concern for the reputational
integrity of its platform and crowdfunding pursuant to Section 4(a)(6) in general, to design
systems and processes to help reduce the risk of fraud in securities-based crowdfunding. In this
regard, the proposed rules would require an intermediary to deny access to an issuer if it has
information that is not necessarily the basis for a disqualification under proposed rules, but that
the intermediary nevertheless believes presents the potential for fraud or otherwise raises
concerns regarding investor protection. 366 For this particular proposed requirement to deny
access, the intermediary would not be required to have a reasonable basis for its belief. This is
because we believe it is important to provide intermediaries discretion in taking steps to reduce
the risk of fraud as Congress intended, which would strengthen investor protection. The
proposed rules also require that if this information becomes known to the intermediary after it
has granted the issuer access to its platform, the intermediary must promptly remove the offering

364

See id.

365

See NSBA Letter; Arctic Island Letter.

366

For example, in conducting the background checks on the officers and directors of an issuer, an
intermediary may learn that an officer or director misrepresented his or her experience or background. In
this situation, an intermediary may determine that the misrepresentation was intentional or material (e.g., it
was not the result of an inadvertent clerical error) and is an indication that an offering by the issuer would
present potential for fraud or otherwise raises concerns regarding investor protection. The intermediary
would then be required to deny access to its platform to the issuer.
143

from its platform, cancel the offering and return to investors any funds they may have
committed. Under the proposed rules, an intermediary would also be required to deny access to
an issuer if it believes that it is unable to adequately or effectively assess the risk of fraud of the
issuer or its potential offering. For example, if certain officers of the issuer reside in a
jurisdiction where background checks and securities enforcement regulatory history checks are
not readily available to the intermediary, the intermediary may determine that it is unable to
assess the risk of fraud of the issuer, and thus must deny the issuer access to its platform.
Some commenters stated that background checks could help reduce fraud if
intermediaries were required to prominently display the results of the background checks on their
platforms. 367 We believe that requiring intermediaries to conduct the checks and deny access to
persons subject to disqualification satisfies the statutory requirement and achieves the underlying
goal of the provision, which is to restrict the ability of certain parties to use the exemption. We
do not believe it would be necessary to make publicly available the results of the background
checks, especially as such a requirement could add to the cost of administration and could expose
the individuals in question to harm, for example, if there were errors in the information made
publicly available. Therefore, we are not proposing to require intermediaries to make publicly
available the results of background checks. Other commenters suggested creating an online
database of securities law violators, 368 or otherwise making certain information available so that
investors could conduct their own background checks on officers and directors of an issuer, 369
which could help lower costs on intermediaries and, indirectly, on issuers, associated with
367

See Arctic Island Letter; The Motley Fool Letter (stating the information should be displayed insofar as it
bears on the honesty of the individual checked).

368

See CrowdFund Connect Letter.

369

See Cera Technology Letter.
144

conducting an offering pursuant to Section 4(a)(6). We are not persuaded at this time that the
administrative costs of posting the information, which the intermediary might not be able to
verify, would be justified.
Some commenters expressed concern over the costs and burdens associated with
conducting background and securities enforcement regulatory history checks. 370 One commenter
stated that it is important to control the expense of background checks to avoid making the cost
of raising capital prohibitive to the issuer. 371 While we are mindful of the costs associated with
conducting these checks, the statutory requirement is clear. To help mitigate the costs, however,
the proposed rules provide intermediaries with flexibility in how they would meet this
requirement, while still helping to reduce the risk of fraud.
We anticipate that an intermediary may use the services of a third party to gather the
information to conduct the required background and regulatory checks on issuers and their
control persons. 372 The intermediary, of course, would remain responsible for compliance with
the requirements of Section 4A(a)(5) and proposed Rule 301(c). 373
Request for Comment

370

See CrowdFund Connect Letter; Cera Technology Letter; Schwartz Letter (stating that the Commission
should not add to the costs of background and securities enforcement regulatory history checks by tacking
on additional antifraud measures).

371

See CrowdFund Connect Letter (further stating that the requirement should be worded in a way “as to be
compatible with the numerous online sites that currently provide criminal background checks and that only
felonies be reported”).

372

See discussion in Sections III.B.4 and IV.C below.

373

An intermediary should investigate and understand the procedures used by the third party to determine the
reasonableness of the reliance on a third party. Furthermore, depending on how an arrangement is
structured or the services provided, a third-party service provider could come within the meaning of the
term associated person of a broker or dealer in Exchange Act Section 3(a)(18) (15 U.S.C. 78c(a)(18)). See
also National Association of Securities Dealers (“NASD” n/k/a FINRA), Outsourcing, Notice to Members
05-48 (July 2005), available at http://www.finra.org/Industry/Regulation/Notices/2005/p014736.
145

128. We are not proposing to require that an issuer relying on Section 4(a)(6) engage
a transfer agent due, in part, to the potential costs we believe such a requirement
would impose on issuers. What would be the potential benefits and costs
associated with having a regulated transfer agent for small issuers? Are there
other less costly means by which an issuer could rely on a qualified third party
to assist with the recordkeeping related to its securities?
129. The proposed rules incorporate a “reasonable basis” standard for intermediaries
to determine whether issuers comply with the requirements in Securities Act
Section 4A(b) and the related requirements of Regulation Crowdfunding, as well
as for satisfying the requirement that the issuer has established means to keep
accurate records of the holders of the securities it would offer and sell through
the its platform. 374 Is a “reasonable basis” the appropriate standard for
intermediaries making such determinations? Why or why not? Is it appropriate
for one determination but not the other? If so, please explain which one and
why. What other standard would be more appropriate, and why? What
circumstances in the crowdfunding context should not be considered to
constitute a reasonable basis? Should we permit an intermediary to reasonably
rely on the representation of an issuer with respect to one or both
determinations?
130. The proposed rules incorporate a “reasonable basis” standard for intermediaries
to determine whether an issuer would be subject to a disqualification. In

374

See proposed Rule 301(a) of Regulation Crowdfunding.
146

contrast, there is no reasonableness standard for intermediaries’ requirement
under the proposed rules to deny access to an issuer if it believes the issuer or
the offering presents potential for fraud or otherwise raises concerns regarding
investor protection. Is it appropriate to have these two different standards under
the proposed rules? Why or why not? If one of these standards is not
appropriate, please explain what would be a more appropriate standard and why.
131. The proposed rules would implement Section 4A(a)(5) by requiring the
intermediary to conduct a background and securities enforcement regulatory
history check aimed at determining whether an issuer or any of its officers,
directors (or any person occupying a similar status or performing a similar
function) or 20 Percent Beneficial Owners is subject to a disqualification,
presents potential for fraud or otherwise raises concerns regarding investor
protection. Is this approach appropriate? Why or why not? If not, why not?
Would another approach be more appropriate? Why or why not?
132. Should we require intermediaries to make the results of the proposed
background checks publicly available? Why or why not? Would doing so raise
privacy concerns?
133. Should we specify the steps that an intermediary must take in obtaining
background and securities enforcement regulatory history checks on the issuer
and its officers, directors (or any person occupying a similar status or
performing a similar function) and 20 Percent Beneficial Owners? Should we
require, for example, an intermediary to check publicly-available databases,
such as FINRA’s BrokerCheck and the Commission’s Investment Adviser
147

Public Disclosure program? Why or why not? Are there third parties who
would be in a position to provide these types of services? Please discuss.
134. Should we require intermediaries to conduct specific checks or other steps (such
as a review of credit reports, verification of necessary business or professional
licenses, evidence of corporate good standing, Uniform Commercial Code
checks or a CRD snapshot report)? Why or why not? Separately, should we
specify a minimum or baseline level of due diligence to help establish a
reasonable basis? Why or why not? If so, what should that level include? For
instance, should it include a review or a verification of certain publicly available
information about an issuer and its officers, directors (or any person occupying a
similar status or performing a similar function) and 20 Percent Beneficial
Owners? Should it include searches related or tailored to their location or place
of incorporation, assets including real property and liens on those assets? Are
there items it should or should not include? Please explain.
135. Are there resources available to an intermediary that enable it to collect the
information necessary for making a determination regarding disqualification or
the potential for fraud or potential concerns as to investor protection? If so,
which resources? Are there aspects of the proposed issuer disqualification rule
that would make it difficult for an intermediary to assess whether the issuer is
subject to a disqualification? If so, please explain. Are there additional events
or factors relevant to reducing the risk of fraud that intermediaries should be
required to check? Please explain.

148

136. Section 4A(a)(5) authorizes the Commission to specify measures to reduce the
risk of fraud, in addition to background checks. Are there other risks of fraud
which are not contemplated by the proposed rules? Are there any additional
measures that we should specifically require? Please discuss any suggested
measures, and explain. For example, should we require intermediaries to
monitor investment commitments and cancellations or take any other actions to
detect potential attempts to promote an issuer’s securities? If so, which actions
and why?
137. Should the intermediary be required to report to the Commission (or another
agency) issuers that are denied access? Why or why not?
4.

Account Opening

Under the proposed rules, an investor seeking to invest in an offering conducted in
reliance on Section 4(a)(6) would need to open an account with an intermediary and provide
consent to electronic delivery of materials. The intermediary also would be required to deliver to
the investor educational materials, as discussed below.
a.

Accounts and Electronic Delivery

The proposed rules would prohibit an intermediary or its associated persons from
accepting an investment commitment unless the investor has opened an account with the
intermediary and the intermediary has obtained from the investor consent to electronic delivery
of materials. 375 We are not proposing to specify any particular type or form of information that
an intermediary must obtain from an investor in order to open an account; however, we

375

See proposed Rule 302(a)(1) of Regulation Crowdfunding.
149

anticipate that at a minimum the intermediary would obtain basic identifying and contact
information, such as full name, physical address and e-mail address. 376 Because we believe that
Congress contemplated that crowdfunding would, by its very nature, occur exclusively through
electronic media, the proposed rules require that investors consent to electronic delivery. 377
The proposed rules also would require an intermediary to provide all information it is
required to provide under Subpart C, such as educational materials, notices and confirmations,
through electronic means. 378 We also propose to require that, unless otherwise permitted, an
intermediary must provide the information through an electronic message that contains the
information, through an electronic message that includes a specific link to the information as
posted on the intermediary's platform, or through an electronic message that provides notice of
what the information is and that it is located on the intermediary’s platform or on the issuer’s
website. The proposed rules would state that electronic messages include, but are not limited to,
e-mail messages. According to the proposed rule, for example, in complying with requirements
to provide notices to investors under proposed Rule 304(b), the intermediary must provide those
notices electronically to investors, such as through an e-mail message containing or attaching the
notice. With respect to the provision of issuer materials as required under proposed Rule 303(a),
however, the proposed rule specifies that the intermediary must make the information publicly
available on its platform. Therefore, the intermediary would only need to post the information

376

Intermediaries also are subject to anti-money laundering obligations, including those relating to customer
identification. See discussion in Section II.D.4 below regarding proposed Rule 403(b) of Regulation
Crowdfunding.

377

See Use of Electronic Media, note 60 (citing Use of Electronic Media for Delivery Purposes, Release No.
34-36345 (Oct. 6, 1995) [60 FR 53548, 53454 (Oct. 13, 1995)]).

378

See proposed Rule 302(a)(2) of Regulation Crowdfunding.
150

on its platform in a manner complying with proposed Rule 303(a) and would not be required to
send any electronic messages with regard to its posting.
We believe that requiring consent to electronic delivery of documents relating to the
offering, and requiring that intermediaries provide information electronically, would facilitate the
ability of the investor, intermediary and issuer to comply with, and act in a timely manner, with
respect to certain proposed requirements of Regulation Crowdfunding (such as the requirement
for investors to reconfirm investment commitments within five business days of receiving notice
of material changes). 379 As such, under the proposed rules, offerings made in reliance on Section
4(a)(6) would be “electronic-only,” such that all information to be provided by intermediaries
must be provided electronically, and investors would be permitted to participate only if they
agree to accept electronic delivery of all documents in connection with the offering. 380
Request for Comment
138. Should we specify the types of information that an intermediary must obtain
from an investor as part of the account-opening process? If so, what information

379

See discussion in Section II.C.6 below and proposed Rule 304(c) of Regulation Crowdfunding. We also
note that, to the extent intermediaries are required to provide notices or other material to investors, it would
not be sufficient for the intermediary simply to make the notice or material available for investors to access,
such as by posting it on its platform or through social media sites; rather, the intermediary would need to
deliver the notice or material to the investor, such as by e-mail or other electronic delivery methods. See
Use of Electronic Media, note 60 at 25853 (discussing the “access equals delivery” concept).

380

See proposed Rule 100(a)(3) of Regulation Crowdfunding. See also discussion in Section II.A.4 above,
particularly the text accompanying note 55, regarding the requirement that crowdfunding transactions made
in reliance on Section 4(a)(6) be conducted exclusively through an intermediary’s platform. See also Use
of Electronic Media, note 60 (citing Use of Electronic Media for Delivery Purposes, Release No. 34-36345
[60 FR 53548, 53454 (Oct. 13, 1995)]).
151

and why? How would this information differ from what intermediaries would
be required to obtain to fulfill their anti-money laundering obligations? 381
139. Should we permit any exceptions to the proposed requirements to obtain consent
to electronic delivery? If so, why and under what circumstances? If an investor
does not receive materials electronically, how would he or she be able to
participate fully in an offering made in reliance on Section 4(a)(6)?
140. Are there any other means of providing information electronically by an
intermediary that are not covered in the proposed rules but that should be
covered? Are there any means proposed to be included that should be
eliminated or modified? If so, what means are they? For example, should
intermediaries be permitted to post information in an investor’s account on its
platform, without sending a notification that it is posted there? Why or why
not? Should different types of information be required to be provided through
different means? Please explain.
b.

Educational Materials

Section 4A(a)(3) states that an intermediary must “provide such disclosures, including
disclosures related to risks and other investor education materials, as the Commission shall, by
rule, determine appropriate,” but it does not elaborate on the scope of this requirement. As
described in further detail below, the proposed rules would require the intermediary to deliver to
investors, at account opening, educational materials that are in plain language and otherwise
designed to communicate effectively specified information. Intermediaries also would be

381

See Section II.D.4.b below for a discussion of the anti-money laundering provisions applicable to
intermediaries.
152

required to make the current version of the educational materials available on their platforms and
to make revised materials available to all investors before accepting any additional investment
commitments or effecting any further transactions in securities offered and sold in reliance on
Section 4(a)(6). 382
The proposed rules would require the materials to include:
•

the process for the offer, purchase and issuance of securities through the
intermediary;

•

the risks associated with investing in securities offered and sold in reliance on Section
4(a)(6);

•

the types of securities that may be offered on the intermediary’s platform and the
risks associated with each type of security, including the risk of having limited voting
power as a result of dilution;

•

the restrictions on the resale of securities offered and sold in reliance on
Section 4(a)(6);

•

the types of information that an issuer is required to provide in annual reports, the
frequency of the delivery of that information, and the possibility that the issuer’s
obligation to file annual reports may terminate in the future;

382

•

the limitations on the amounts investors may invest, as set forth in Section 4(a)(6)(B);

•

the circumstances in which the issuer may cancel an investment commitment;

•

the limitations on an investor’s right to cancel an investment commitment;

See proposed Rule 302(b) of Regulation Crowdfunding.
153

•

the need for the investor to consider whether investing in a security offered and sold
in reliance on Section 4(a)(6) is appropriate for him or her; and

•

that following completion of an offering, there may or may not be any ongoing
relationship between the issuer and intermediary.

The proposed disclosures relating to the risks of investing in securities offered and sold in
reliance on Section 4(a)(6), investors’ cancellation rights, resale restrictions and issuer reporting
are generally drawn from the statutory requirements. 383 These items of information are basic
terms, relevant to transactions conducted in reliance on Section 4(a)(6), of which all investors
should be aware before making an investment commitment. The circumstances in which an
investor can cancel an investment commitment and obtain a return of his or her funds are
particularly important to an investor’s understanding of the investment process. Information on
resale restrictions could affect an investor’s decision to consider any offerings made pursuant to
Section 4(a)(6).
We are proposing to require intermediaries to provide educational material about the
types of securities available for purchase on their platforms and the risks associated with each
type of security, including the risk of having limited voting power as a result of dilution. 384 As
one commenter noted, some forms of securities may have limited rights with respect to voting,
input into management decisions or redemption, among others, and also may be subject to

383

See Securities Act Sections 4A(a)(4), 4A(a)(7), 4A(e), and 4A(b)(4).

384

See proposed Rule 302(b)(1)(ii) of Regulation Crowdfunding.
154

dilution.385 Because we are not restricting the types of securities that an issuer may offer through
Section 4(a)(6) transactions, this requirement would help investors understand the various types
of securities that could be available on the platform and their associated risks.
We also are proposing to require intermediaries to provide educational material regarding
the limitation on the amounts investors may invest pursuant to Section 4(a)(6)(B) and the
proposed rules. 386 We believe it is important that investors are made aware of and understand
the limits to which they would be subject, prior to making any investment commitments. As
noted above, we are proposing to permit intermediaries to reasonably rely on investors’
representations concerning compliance with the investment limitation requirements. 387 We
believe providing these educational materials should enhance the accuracy of investor
representations, because an investor may be less likely to inadvertently make an inaccurate
representation that he or she complies with the investment limits after being presented with an
explanation of what those limits are, how they apply and how they are calculated.
In addition, we are proposing to require that intermediaries provide, in the educational
materials, a notice that the intermediary may or may not continue to have a relationship with the
issuer following completion of the offering. 388 We believe that persons opening an account with
an intermediary, for instance because they are interested in the offering of a particular issuer,

385

See Commonwealth of Massachusetts Letter (stating that the investor education materials and other
disclosures should make clear to investors the risks of their crowdfunding investments, including that
investors may not have any meaningful voting power as minority shareholders and that their investment
may not be readily liquid). See also 2012 SEC Government-Business Forum, note 29 (recommending that
certain investor education materials, such as those relating to dilution, may need to be mandated by the
Commission).

386

See proposed Rule 100(a)(2) of Regulation Crowdfunding.

387

See proposed Rule 303(b)(1) of Regulation Crowdfunding.

388

See proposed Rule 302(b)(1)(viii) of Regulation Crowdfunding.
155

could mistakenly assume that the intermediary will have an ongoing relationship with the issuer.
Such persons also could assume that, following an offering conducted through the intermediary’s
platform through which they purchased securities, the intermediary would be the primary contact
for investors wishing to obtain information about, or wishing to communicate with, the issuer or
wishing to participate in secondary trading of the issuer’s securities. Because intermediaries may
not necessarily have an ongoing relationship with the issuer following an offering, and funding
portals would not be permitted to be involved in secondary trading, we believe it would be
helpful to require intermediaries to alert investors about this limitation the time they open
accounts.
One commenter suggested that the user experience for investors engaging in
crowdfunding transactions should be a “painless process” and that investors should be subject to
mandatory investor education prior to investing. 389 Another commenter suggested that, in order
to protect investors, intermediaries should be required to provide a glossary explaining each type
of security available for purchase in each of the offerings on its portal. 390 We are proposing to
require intermediaries to provide educational material about the types of securities available for
purchase on their platforms and the risks associated with each type of security; however, in order
to provide intermediaries with flexibility in how they present or format this information, we are
not proposing to require that it be presented as a glossary. One commenter suggested that a
warning on the front page of an issuer’s offering materials should suffice for the purposes of

389

See Vim Funding Letter.

390

See CFIRA Letter 2.
156

Section 4A(a)(3). 391 We do not believe that a disclaimer in isolation would be sufficient
information to satisfy the statutory educational requirement. 392
Other commenters requested that the Commission prepare and make available investor
educational material or model text for use by intermediaries. 393 Other commenters requested that
the Commission clarify whether educational materials may be provided to investors through
electronic means, such as through the Internet or e-mail. 394 One commenter requested that
intermediaries be given “wide latitude” to experiment with different methods of investor
education. 395 We are not proposing to require a particular format or manner of presentation,
other than the requirement that the materials be provided electronically. 396 Rather than requiring
specific text or a particular format or presentation, we believe that the better approach is to
provide each intermediary with sufficient flexibility to prepare educational materials in a manner
reasonably designed to provide the required information, based on the types of offerings on the
intermediary’s platform and the types of investors drawn to its platform. 397 Under the proposed
rules, the educational materials may be in any electronic format, including electronic and video

391

See InitialCrowdOffering Letter (stating that the following type of language should be used: “you should
purchase these shares only if you can afford a complete loss of your investment”).

392

See also discussion in Section II.C.5.b below and proposed Rule 303(b)(2)(i) of Regulation Crowdfunding.

393

See, e.g., NASAA Letter (providing model language for use in investor education material and
recommending that the material state that: (1) investments in small businesses and start-up companies are
often risky; (2) according to the U.S. Small Business Administration, half of all new businesses fail within
five years; (3) because of these risks, investors should only invest if they can afford to lose the entire
investment; and (4) an investor should not invest if the investor has an immediate need for the return of the
funds). See also Tri Valley Law Letter; NSBA Letter. But see 2012 SEC Government-Business Forum,
note 29 (recommending that while some investor education materials may need to be mandated by the
Commission, the industry should work together to standardize educational materials).

394

See RocketHub Letter 1; Spinrad Letter 1.

395

See Schwartz Letter.

396

See proposed Rule 302(a)(2) of Regulation Crowdfunding and discussion in Section II.C.4.a above.

397

See 2012 SEC Government-Business Forum, note 29 (recommending that the market for transactions in
reliance on Section 4(a)(6) should be permitted to develop best practices wherever possible).
157

format, that the intermediary determines is effective in communicating the contents of the
educational material. 398
Because the proposed rules require that the educational materials convey the specified
pieces of information accurately, an intermediary would be required to update these materials
over time as, for instance, the types of offerings on its platform change. For example, if an
intermediary decides to expand the types of securities it offers through its platform, the
intermediary would be required to update its educational materials. Similarly, an intermediary
would be required to periodically review and update other aspects of its educational materials,
such as the discussion of risk factors, as necessary. The proposed rules would require an
intermediary to keep its educational materials accurate and thus current, which would require it
to make the most current version of its educational materials available on its platform. In
addition, to the extent an intermediary makes a material revision to its educational materials, it
would be required to make the revised educational materials available to all investors before
accepting any investment commitments. 399 We believe that this requirement is consistent with
the Internet-based nature of crowdfunding. We also believe that this requirement would benefit
investors, by helping to ensure that they have information about key aspects of investing through
the intermediary’s platform that may have changed since the last time they received the
materials, prior to making investment commitments, as those key aspects could influence their
investment decisions. Because these materials must be accurate, and thereby current, a change in

398

As discussed in Section II.C.3 above, proposed Rule 302(a) of Regulation Crowdfunding would require
that an intermediary obtain an investor’s consent to such electronic delivery.

399

Pursuant to proposed Rule 303(b)(2)(i) of Regulation Crowdfunding, the intermediary would be required to
obtain, from each investor, a representation that the investor has reviewed these educational materials
before accepting an investment commitment from the investor.
158

the types of offerings conducted on an intermediary’s platform would trigger an update. We
believe requiring intermediaries to provide updated material on this basis, rather than at any
regular intervals, should help to minimize the ongoing burden on intermediaries.
Request for Comment
141. Is the scope of information proposed to be required in an intermediary’s
educational materials appropriate? Why or why not? Is there other information
that we should require an intermediary to provide as part of the educational
materials? If so, what information and why?
142. Should any of the proposed requirements be modified or deleted, and if so,
which requirements and why?
143. Should we prescribe the text or content of educational materials for
intermediaries to use? Why or why not? Should we provide models that
intermediaries could use? Why or why not?
144. Should we specifically prohibit certain types of electronic media from being
used to communicate educational material? If so, which ones and why?
145. Should we require intermediaries to submit the educational materials to us or
FINRA (or other applicable national securities association) for review? Why or
why not? If we should require submission of materials, should we require
submission before or after use, when they are first used, when the intermediary
changes them or at some other point(s) in time? Please explain.
146. Should we require intermediaries to provide educational material at additional or
different specified points in time, rather than only when the investor begins to
open an account or make an investment commitment? Why or why not? If so,
159

why would that be preferable to requiring updates on an as-needed basis? For
example, should educational material be provided on a quarterly, semi-annual,
or annual basis? Should this material be provided again to investors who have
not logged onto or accessed an intermediary’s platform for a specified period of
time? Why or why not? If so, what should that period of time be?
c.

Promoters

Section 4A(b)(3) provides that an issuer shall “not compensate or commit to compensate,
directly or indirectly, any person to promote its offerings through communication channels
provided by a broker or funding portal, without taking such steps as the Commission shall, by
rule, require to ensure that such person clearly discloses the receipt, past or prospective, of such
compensation, upon each instance of such promotional communication.” As discussed above,
the proposed rules would include this prohibition. 400
We also propose to require the intermediary to inform investors, at the account opening
stage, that any person who promotes an issuer’s offering for compensation, whether past or
prospective, or who is a founder or an employee of an issuer that engages in promotional
activities on behalf of the issuer on the intermediary’s platform, must clearly disclose in all
communications on the platform the receipt of the compensation and the fact that he or she is
engaging in promotional activities on behalf of the issuer. 401 We believe that requiring
intermediaries to inform investors about these disclosure obligations at the outset of their
relationship should help to ensure and monitor issuers’ compliance with Section 4A(b)(3) and
the proposed rules, as it would alert investors that information about the participation of issuers
400

See proposed Rule 205 of Regulation Crowdfunding and the discussion in Section II.B.5 above.

401

See proposed Rule 302(c) of Regulation Crowdfunding.
160

or representatives of issuers would have to be disclosed at a later time. Promoters also would
need to disclose this information 402 each time they post a comment in the communication
channels on the platform. 403
Request for Comment
147. Should the proposed rules require intermediaries to take any different or
additional steps to help achieve compliance with the requirement for promoters
to disclose the receipt of compensation? If so, what other steps would be
appropriate and why?
148. Should the proposed disclosures to investors be required to be made at some
time other than at account opening? For instance, should the reminder about
disclosure obligations be made each time an investor accesses the intermediary’s
platform or the communication channels provided by the intermediary? Why or
why not?
149. The proposed rules would require disclosure be made to investors, in relation to
obligations of any person who receives compensation, whether in the past or
prospectively, to promote an issuer’s offering, or who is a founder or an

402

In addition to the information proposed Rule 302(c) requires, promoters would also be required to disclose
the amount of compensation pursuant to Section 17(b) of the Securities Act (15 U.S.C. 77q(b)).

403

See proposed Rule 303(c)(4) of Regulation Crowdfunding. We recognize that after opening an account, an
investor may come to be compensated by, or become an employee of, an issuer or potential issuer. For this
reason, proposed Rule 303(c)(4) would require an intermediary to require that any person, when posting a
comment in the communication channels, clearly disclose with each posting whether he or she is a founder
or an employee of an issuer engaging in promotional activities on behalf of the issuer, or receives
compensation, whether in the past or prospectively, to promote an issuer’s offering. We anticipate that an
intermediary could comply with this requirement in part by, for example, establishing a “pop-up” window
which reminds the investor of the requirement each time the investor accesses, or attempts to post a
comment on, the communication channels on the intermediary’s platform. See discussion in Section II.C.5
below. See also proposed Rule 205 of Regulation Crowdfunding.
161

employee of an issuer that engages in promotional activities on behalf of the
issuer on the intermediary’s platform. Should the obligations apply to other
classes of persons as well, such as affiliates of the issuer, regardless of whether
they are engaged in promotional activities? Why or why not?
d.

Compensation Disclosure

The proposed rules would require the intermediary, when establishing an account for an
investor, to clearly disclose the manner in which it will be compensated in connection with
offerings and sales of securities made in reliance on Section 4(a)(6). 404 This requirement would
help to ensure investors are aware of any potential conflicts of interest of an intermediary that
arise from the manner in which the intermediary is compensated. While the JOBS Act does not
require this disclosure, we believe that providing this information to investors before they invest
would help to ensure that they are making informed investment decisions. 405
Request for Comment
150. Is the requirement for an intermediary to disclose how it is compensated an
appropriate requirement? Why or why not? Would a time other than at account
opening be more appropriate for this disclosure? Please explain.

404

See proposed Rule 302(d) of Regulation Crowdfunding. See also proposed Rule 303(f) of Regulation
Crowdfunding.

405

See Staff of the U.S. Securities and Exchange Commission, Study on Investment Advisers and BrokerDealers: As Required by Section 913 of the Dodd-Frank Wall Street Reform and Consumer Protection Act
(Jan. 2011) (“Study on Investment Advisers and Broker-Dealers”), available at http://www.sec.gov/news/
studies/2011/913studyfinal.pdf, for more information about how compensation disclosure impacts
investment decisions.
162

151. Should the proposed rules include any additional requirements with regard to
disclosure of compensation? If so, what other requirements would be
appropriate and why?
152. While the proposed rules do not specify the types of information that an
intermediary must obtain from an investor at the account opening stage, we
recognize that this stage provides an opportunity for intermediaries to collect
certain demographic information about investors. Although some information
intermediaries would collect from investors might already be required under
their anti-money laundering obligations or pursuant to registered national
securities association rules, there is some information about investors which
might not be required to be collected but which, without involving disclosure of
any personally identifiable information of investors, could help us and the
applicable national securities association to better understand the level of
investor sophistication in this market and investor protection needs, among other
things. For instance, connecting certain demographic information to offering
characteristics and outcomes could help in the evaluation of the effectiveness of
crowdfunding in raising capital for startups and small businesses. The
information that could be collected includes, for example, demographic
information about investors that excludes any personally identifiable
information and is aggregated on a per offering basis, indicating characteristics
such as education level, income, wealth, geographic distance from the issuer and
professional affiliations. At the same time, we recognize that requiring the
collection of this data could likely increase the burden on investors and
163

intermediaries participating in transactions conducted pursuant to Section
4(a)(6). Should we require intermediaries to collect and provide some or all of
this information to us and the applicable national securities association? Should
some or all of this information be made more widely available? Why or why
not? If so, which metrics should we require, and in what format, if any, should
we require it be provided? To what extent do brokers already collect this
information for offerings in which they are involved? Is there a particular point
in time or method that would be more appropriate or convenient for
intermediaries to collect this information? Would a requirement for
intermediaries to collect this information at the account opening stage
discourage investors from opening accounts with intermediaries, and ultimately
limit the ability of issuers to raise capital in reliance on the exemption in Section
4(a)(6)? Please explain.
5.

Requirements with Respect to Transactions
a.

Issuer Information

Section 4A(a)(6) requires each intermediary to make available to the Commission and
potential investors, not later than 21 days prior to the first day on which securities are sold to any
investor (or such other period as the Commission may establish), any information provided by
the issuer pursuant to Section 4A(b). The proposed rules would implement this provision by
requiring each intermediary in a transaction involving the offer or sale of securities in reliance on
Section 4(a)(6) to make available to the Commission and to potential investors any information
required to be provided by the issuer under Rules 201 and 203(a) of proposed Regulation

164

Crowdfunding. 406 The proposed rules would further require that: (1) an intermediary make this
information publicly available on the intermediary’s platform, in a manner that reasonably
permits a person accessing the platform to save, download or otherwise store the information; 407
(2) this information be made publicly available on the intermediary’s platform for a minimum of
21 days before any securities are sold in the offering, during which time the intermediary may
accept investment commitments; 408 and (3) this information, including any additional
information provided by the issuer, 409 remain publicly available on the intermediary’s platform
until the offer and sale of securities is completed or cancelled. An intermediary would be
prohibited from requiring any person to establish an account with the intermediary in order to
access this information.
We believe that this approach also would satisfy the requirement under Section 4A(d) for
the Commission to “make [available to the states], or . . . cause to be made [available] by the
relevant broker or funding portal, the information” issuers are required to provide under Section
4A(b) and the rules thereunder. This approach should help investors, the Commission, FINRA
(and any other applicable registered national securities association) and other interested parties,
such as state regulators, to access information without impediment. The proposed rules should
help to ensure that an investor has an adequate opportunity to evaluate the investment

406

See proposed Rule 303(a) of Regulation Crowdfunding.

407

While we are not requiring that intermediaries make the relevant information available in any particular
format, we note that issuers would be required to file the information on EDGAR. See proposed Rule 203
of Regulation Crowdfunding. See also Section II.B.3 above for a discussion of the filing requirements
applicable to issuers.

408

Accordingly, the offering could not close at any time before the end of the 21st day after the issuer
disclosure materials are made available on the intermediary’s platform.

409

Additional information could include, for example, information required to be filed with the Commission in
a specific format (e.g., on EDGAR) under proposed Rules 201 and 203(a) of Regulation Crowdfunding, but
prepared in a different presentation format, for example on slides, on the intermediary’s platform.
165

opportunity and determine whether it is suitable for him or her. 410 Finally, we do not believe that
any person should be required to open an account with, or otherwise provide personal
information to, an intermediary before reviewing the materials related to an offering or the
educational materials provided by the intermediary.
One commenter expressed the view that an intermediary should not be required to send
information to the Commission before listing an offering on its platform. 411 The proposed rules
would permit an intermediary to make issuer information available to both the Commission and
potential investors simultaneously through its platform. Another commenter recommended that
the private placement memorandum provided by the issuer should be reviewed by a properly
qualified securities representative prior to the intermediary providing the information to potential
investors. 412 We are not proposing at this time to impose such a requirement. Although review
by a securities professional could provide some degree of additional investor protection, we are
mindful of Congress’ intent that these offerings present a cost-effective method of raising capital.
Further, the proposed rules would provide a safeguard for investors by requiring an intermediary
to have a reasonable basis for believing that an issuer complies with the requirements of Section
4A(b) and Regulation Crowdfunding, and to deny access to an issuer or cancel its offering, if the

410

See proposed Rule 303(a)(1) of Regulation Crowdfunding. See also proposed Rules 303(a)(2) and
303(a)(3) of Regulation Crowdfunding. Intermediaries have broad recordkeeping obligations that would
include any written materials that are used as part of an intermediary’s business, which include issuer
materials made available on its platform. Registered brokers would have to maintain records pursuant to
Exchange Act Section 17 and the rules thereunder. 15 U.S.C. 78q; 17 CFR 240.17a et seq. Funding portals
would be subject to the recordkeeping requirements of proposed Rule 406 of Regulation Crowdfunding.
See discussion in Section II.D.5 below.

411

See Crowdfunding Offerings Ltd. Letter 2.

412

See Arctic Island Letter.
166

intermediary believes that the issuer or the offering presents the potential for fraud or otherwise
raises concerns regarding investor protection. 413
Request for Comment
153. Should we require intermediaries to continue to display issuer materials for
some period of time after completion of the offering? Why or why not? If such
a requirement were used, which time period would be appropriate? Why? What
would be the potential costs and benefits associated with any such requirement?
154. Section 4A(a)(6) requires an intermediary to make available the information that
an issuer is required to provide under Section 4A(b). Should we require an
intermediary to make efforts to ensure that an investor who has made an
investment commitment has actually reviewed the relevant issuer information?
Why or why not? If so, how could we implement this?
155. Instead of, or in addition to, requiring that intermediaries make issuer
information available on their platforms, should we require that intermediaries
deliver this information to investors? Why or why not? If so, should we specify
a particular medium, such as e-mail or a screen the investor must click through?
156. Should we consider timeframes other than the minimum 21 days from the time
an issuer offers securities on an intermediary’s platform, during which the
offering information should be made available?

413

See proposed Rule 302 of Regulation Crowdfunding and discussion in Section II.C.3 above.
167

157. Should some or all of the issuer’s offering materials be required to remain on an
intermediary’s platform after the close of an offering? Why or why not? If so,
for how long?
b.

Investor Qualification
i.

Compliance with Investment Limitations

Section 4(a)(6)(B) imposes certain limitations on the aggregate amount of securities that
can be sold to an investor in reliance on Section 4(a)(6) during a 12-month period. Section
4A(a)(8) further imposes an obligation on intermediaries to ensure that no investor exceeds those
limits. The proposed rules would implement this latter requirement by providing that, before
permitting an investor to make an investment commitment on its platform, an intermediary must
have a reasonable basis to believe that the investor satisfies the investment limitations under
Section 4(a)(6)(B) and Regulation Crowdfunding. 414
Three commenters stated that it would be difficult for an intermediary to determine
whether an investor has exceeded the investment limitations because an investor may not always
use the same intermediary. 415 Another commenter stated that it is unclear how an intermediary
will be able to verify the investment limits, unless the intermediary is permitted to rely upon an
investor’s representations regarding his or her prior crowdfunding investments. 416 Another
commenter raised concerns that an investor may be able to establish multiple user accounts with
a single intermediary and thereby exceed the maximum investment limit, despite the best efforts

414

See proposed Rule 303(b)(1) of Regulation Crowdfunding. See also Section II.A.2 above for a further
discussion of the limitations on investments.

415

See Cera Technology Letter; Crowdfunding Offerings Letter 3; Schwartz Letter.

416

See NSBA Letter. See also 2012 SEC Government-Business Forum, note 30 (recommending that investors
should be permitted to self-certify as to their statutory investment limits and that funding portals should be
permitted to rely on certifications made by third parties as to investment limits).
168

of the intermediary. 417 Another commenter suggested that each intermediary should be required
to monitor investor activity only on its own platform. 418 The commenter further stated that
before completing an investment through an intermediary, investors should be required to make
representations to an intermediary regarding any investments made through another intermediary
within the last year. Another commenter suggested that the Commission should permit
intermediaries to create and use a centralized database for aggregate checks. 419
We recognize that it would be difficult for intermediaries to monitor or independently
verify whether each investor remains within his or her investment limits for each particular
offering in which he or she intends to participate. While the proposed rules would permit
reliance on a centralized database providing information about particular investors, if it could
help provide an intermediary with a reasonable basis for a conclusion, we understand that none
currently exists. For these reasons, the proposed rules provide that an intermediary may rely on
an investor’s representations concerning compliance with investment limitation requirements
based on the investor’s annual income and net worth and the amount of the investor’s other
investments in securities sold in reliance on Section 4(a)(6) through other intermediaries. For
example, an intermediary may choose to satisfy this requirement by providing a function on its
platform that prompts investors to enter amounts of their annual income, net worth, and the
amount of total investments made over the past 12 months on all intermediaries’ platforms, that

417

See Grow VC Letter (stating that the Commission should require the following measures: “closely
monitoring investment activity in any user account; requiring each user account to provide unique bank
account details which are not used by any other user account; and requiring the investor to represent and
warrant that such investor understands the maximum investment limit and will not exceed such limits”).

418

See RocketHub Letter 1.

419

See Spinrad Letter 1 (stating that the underlying database would consist of information representing users,
offerings, transactions and other elements of the market, and it would be used to ensure that investors do
not purchase beyond the annual limits, even from multiple issuers across multiple intermediaries).
169

would then generate the amount of investment the investor would be permitted to make at that
time pursuant to the investment limitations. The intermediary could not rely on an investor’s
representations if the intermediary had reason to question the reliability of the representation. In
this regard, it would not be reasonable for an intermediary to ignore other investments made by
an investor in securities sold in reliance on Section 4(a)(6) through an account with that
intermediary or other information or facts about an investor within its possession.
Request for Comment
158. Is the proposed approach for establishing compliance with investment limits
appropriate? Why or why not? Is there another approach that we should
consider? Please explain.
159. As mentioned above, we are proposing that an intermediary may rely on the
representations of a potential investor. Is this an appropriate approach? Why or
why not? Is there another approach we should consider? Please explain.
160. Should we require an intermediary to avail itself of readily available information
concerning investor limits, such as a centralized database containing information
relating to whether particular investors were in compliance with the investment
limits, should one become established? Why or why not?
161. Should we require intermediaries to request other intermediary accounts that an
investor may have before accepting an investment commitment? Why or why
not?
ii.

Acknowledgement of Risk

Section 4A(a)(4) requires an intermediary to ensure that each investor: (1) reviews the
educational materials discussed above; (2) positively affirms that the investor understands that he
170

or she is risking the loss of the entire investment and that the investor could bear such a loss; and
(3) answer questions demonstrating an understanding of the level of risk generally applicable to
investments in startups, emerging businesses and small issuers, the risk of illiquidity and such
other matters as the Commission determines appropriate. As discussed above, the proposed rules
would require an intermediary to provide to investors certain educational materials in connection
with the opening of an account. 420 The proposed rules would further require an intermediary,
each time before accepting an investment commitment, to obtain from the investor a
representation that the investor has reviewed the intermediary’s educational materials,
understands that the entire amount of his or her investment may be lost and is in a financial
condition to bear the loss of the investment. 421 The intermediary also must ensure each time
before accepting an investment commitment that each investor answers questions demonstrating
the investor’s understanding that there are restrictions on the investor’s ability to cancel an
investment commitment 422 and obtain a return of his or her investment, that it may be difficult
for the investor to resell the securities, and that the investor should not invest any funds in a
crowdfunding offering unless he or she can afford to lose the entire amount of his or her
investment.
A commenter requested guidance on the steps intermediaries must take to ensure that an
investor understands the educational materials intermediaries are required to provide. 423 One

420

See proposed Rule 302(b) of Regulation Crowdfunding and discussion in Section II.C.4.b above.

421

See proposed Rule 303(b)(2) of Regulation Crowdfunding.

422

We proposed this requirement under discretionary authority granted in Section 4A(a)(4)(C)(iii). As
discussed in Section II.C.4.b above, in relation to the educational materials, we believe that it is important
for investors to receive this information before making any investment commitments.

423

See CFIRA Letter 2.
171

commenter expressed concern that the requirements in Section 4A(a)(4) could be intimidating to
potential investors and recommended that we require very short affirmations that could easily be
understood. 424 Another commenter stated that the level of understanding that an investor can
prove is too subjective to be useful and that an intermediary could not design a system to
guarantee that an investor understands a disclosure. 425 We agree that it would not be possible for
an intermediary to ensure that all investors understand the risk disclosure. The requirements of
the proposed rules are intended to require intermediaries to provide investors with meaningful
disclosures concerning the risks of any potential investment and obtain answers demonstrating an
understanding of the required statutory elements. 426 The questionnaire required under the
proposed rules should help to address concerns of commenters that Section 4A(a)(4) requires
more than a mere self-certification. 427

424

See Cera Technology Letter (stating that a check-the-box type approach could be used, as well as the
following draft text: “I understand that I could easily lose all of the money I invest in this company,” or “I
understand that X% of start-ups in this category fail”). See also Liles Letter 2 (stating that asking potential
investors to take a test to demonstrate understanding of risks would be unorthodox and awkward at best and
that a signed acknowledgement by investors that they understand each enumerated warning about the
specific risks in the investment would suffice for compliance with the risk disclosure requirement); Verdant
Ventures Letter (stating that a check-the-box type of approach could be used on funding portal websites to
acknowledge the understanding of risk specifically for investors who are making low investments of $100
to $500 and that the regulation levels should be adjusted proportionally to larger individual dollar
investments, and therefore, low contribution amounts should be subject to less regulation).

425

See Crowdfunding Offerings Ltd. Letter 2.

426

See proposed Rule 303(b)(2) of Regulation Crowdfunding.

427

See proposed Rule 303(b)(2)(ii) of Regulation Crowdfunding. See, e.g., Spinrad Letter 1; NASAA Letter
(stating that intermediaries “should [at a minimum] be required to design their web portals to require
investors to click through a page that indicates they have read the investor-education information and to
require investors to correctly answer a series of specific questions that are controlled by the Commission,”
and further stating that such requirements should be a precondition for membership or registration of an
investor with a funding portal); The Motley Fool Letter (stating that a more involved process than a simple
check-the-box type approach should be used to verify that investors acknowledge and understand the risks
and that multiple choice questions should be used and tailored to testing whether potential investors
understand the nature of crowdfunding risk, the potential for fraud, their legal rights and responsibilities
and the probability of losing their entire investment). See also TechnologyCrowdFund Letter 1 (stating that
the Commission should require each individual seeking to invest more than $2,000 to take an on-line
course with a quiz on the possible pitfalls of crowdfunding).
172

One commenter requested that the Commission develop a model form of
acknowledgment that intermediaries can use and retain to satisfy the requirements of Section
4A(a)(4). 428 Another commenter suggested that intermediaries should have flexibility to try
different methods of obtaining this acknowledgement. 429 We are not proposing a model form of
acknowledgement or questionnaire. Rather, the proposed rules would permit an intermediary to
develop the representation and questionnaire in any format that is reasonably designed to
demonstrate the investor’s receipt of the information and compliance with the other requirements
under the proposed rules. As with the educational material requirements, we believe that an
intermediary’s familiarity with its business and likely investor base would make it best able to
determine the format in which to present the material required under the proposed rules. 430 As
one commenter suggested, an intermediary could design a multiple choice quiz that would not
permit an investor to successfully make an investment commitment until the investor has
correctly answered a specific number of questions. 431 Other formats that could be used are
questions that must be answered “Yes” or “No,” or “True” or “False.” Any format used must be
reasonably designed to demonstrate receipt and understanding of the information. Thus, the
requirements of proposed Rule 303(b) would not be satisfied if, for example, an intermediary
were to pre-select answers for an investor. We propose to give intermediaries flexibility in how
they fulfill this requirement because we do not want to foreclose viable alternatives. There are

428

See CompTIA Letter.

429

See Schwartz Letter.

430

See proposed Rule 303(b)(2)(i) of Regulation Crowdfunding.

431

See Spinrad Letter 1 (stating that if an investor were to answer a question incorrectly, an issuer could, for
example, push the investor education material to investors for further review, or alternatively could,
through a pop-up feature, explain the correct answer and then permit the investor to choose the right
answer). See also note 427.
173

many ways, especially on a web-based system, to convey information to, and obtain effective
acknowledgement from, investors.
The proposed rules would require an intermediary to obtain an investor representation
and completed questionnaire before accepting any investment commitment. Accordingly, the
intermediary would be required to obtain these items each time an investor seeks to make an
investment commitment. 432 This proposed requirement is intended to help ensure that investors
engaging in transactions made in reliance on Section 4(a)(6) are fully informed and reminded of
the risks associated with their particular investment before making any investment commitment.
Another commenter suggested that intermediaries should be required to designate a key
person who will bear the responsibility to ensure that all investors demonstrate an understanding
of the level of risks applicable to investments. 433 We are not proposing this requirement at this
time. Although Section 4A(a)(4) requires an intermediary to ensure that each investor positively
affirms that he or she understands the risks of investing in securities sold in reliance on Section
4(a)(6), at this time, we believe that each intermediary should have flexibility to design its own
compliance program in a manner that is effective for it in light of its business model, types of
offerings and any other relevant considerations. 434
Request for Comment

432

See proposed Rule 303(b)(2) of Regulation Crowdfunding.

433

See Commonwealth of Massachusetts Letter.

434

FINRA (or any other applicable registered national securities association) could seek to impose a
compliance structure that may require such designation. Any proposed requirement by FINRA (or any
other applicable registered national securities association) would be filed with us pursuant to the Exchange
Act and the rules thereunder. 17 CFR 240.19b-4.
174

162. Should we require intermediaries to have investors acknowledge issuer-specific
or security-specific risks as part of the transaction process? Why or why not? If
so, to what extent?
163. Are there considerations relating to investor acknowledgments we should take
into account, other than those discussed above? Is the proposed requirement to
obtain an acknowledgement as to investors’ understanding of their ability to
cancel investment commitments appropriate? Why or why not? Should we
require acknowledgement of investors’ understanding of any other matters?
Why or why not? If so, which ones and why?
164. Are there any matters apart from the risks identified above that we should
require to be addressed in the investor acknowledgements? If so, which ones,
and why? How should they be addressed?
165. Should we provide a recommended form of questions and representations? Why
or why not? If so, should the Commission provide the form as a starting point,
and not a safe harbor, so that intermediaries can adapt the questions and
representations to particular offerings? Why or why not?
c.

Communication Channels

The proposed rules would require an intermediary to provide, on its platform, channels
through which investors can communicate with one another and with representatives of the
issuer about offerings made available on the intermediary’s platform, subject to certain
conditions. 435 While the JOBS Act does not impose this requirement, we believe that Congress

435

See proposed Rule 303(c) of Regulation Crowdfunding.
175

contemplated that there would be such a mechanism in place for offerings made in reliance on
Section 4(a)(6). 436 Some commenters refer to communication channels as an integral part of
crowdfunding. For example, one commenter suggested that intermediaries should provide a
mechanism for communication between issuers and investors, without necessarily requiring the
communication itself to take place. 437 Others have urged us to encourage dialogue among
potential investors and issuers as a key component of the crowdfunding model, suggesting that it
would contribute to low levels of fraud. 438 One commenter also maintained that there is value in
allowing interested parties generally, such as experts and journalists, to participate in these
discussions, as well as maintaining transparency regarding the identity of those participating in
the discussions. 439
The communication channels we are proposing would provide a centralized and
transparent means for members of the public that have opened an account with an intermediary
to share their views about investment opportunities and to communicate with representatives of
the issuer to better assess the issuer and investment opportunity. Also, though communications
among investors could occur outside the intermediary’s platform, communications by an investor
with a crowdfunding issuer or its representatives about the terms of the offering would be

436

See 158 CONG. REC. S2231 (daily ed. Mar. 29, 2012) (statement of Sen. Scott Brown) (“In addition to
facilitating communication between issuers and investors, intermediaries should allow fellow investors to
endorse or provide feedback about issuers and offerings, provided that these investors are not employees of
the intermediary. Investors’ credentials should be included with their comments to aid the collective
wisdom of the crowd.”).

437

See RocketHub Letter 1.

438

See Mollick Letter, Lucas Letter. One commenter raised a concern about communications being construed
as investment advice by funding portals. See Grow VC Letter. See also Section II.D.3 below for a
discussion of the proposed safe harbor for funding portals.

439

See Mollick Letter.
176

required to occur through these channels, 440 on the single platform through which the offering is
conducted. 441 This requirement should provide transparency and accountability, and thereby
further the protection of investors.
Under the proposed rules, an intermediary that is a funding portal would be prohibited
from participating in any communications in these channels, apart from establishing guidelines
for communication and removing abusive or potentially fraudulent communications. 442 For
example, a funding portal could establish guidelines pertaining to the length or size of individual
postings in the communication channels and could remove postings that include offensive or
incendiary language. Intermediaries that are funding portals are prohibited from providing
investment advice or recommendations. In contrast, intermediaries that are brokers may provide
investment advice and recommendations, subject to certain conditions. 443
The proposed rules would require the intermediary to make the communications on the
channels publicly available for viewing. For instance, an intermediary could not restrict viewing
of the communications to only those investors who have opened accounts with it. We believe
that this requirement is consistent with the concept of crowdfunding, as it provides transparent
crowd discussions about a potential investment opportunity. The proposed rule would, however,

440

See proposed Rule 204 of Regulation Crowdfunding and discussion in Section II.B.4 above.

441

See proposed Rule 100(a)(3) of Regulation Crowdfunding and discussion in Section II.A.3 above.

442

See proposed Rule 303(c) of Regulation Crowdfunding.

443

The Investment Advisers Act of 1940 excludes from the definition of investment adviser any broker or
dealer whose performance of investment advisory services is “solely incidental” to the conduct of its
business as a broker or dealer and who receives no “special compensation” for those advisory services. See
Advisers Act Section 202(a)(11)(C) [15 U.S.C. 80b-2(a)(11)(C)]. See also Study on Investment Advisers
and Broker-Dealers, note 405 at 15-16 (discussing the terms used in this exclusion). As such, brokers that
are not registered as investment advisers are able to provide investment advice, provided they meet these
two requirements. Subject to applicable rules, brokers also can make recommendations concerning
securities, if they have a reasonable basis to believe that the recommendations are suitable. See, e.g.,
FINRA Rule 2111 (“Suitability”).
177

require the intermediary to permit only those persons who have opened accounts with it to post
comments. While we recognize that this requirement could narrow the range of views
represented by excluding posts by anyone who has not opened an account with the intermediary,
we believe that this proposed requirement would help to establish accountability for comments
made in the communication channels. Among other things, the records required to be kept by
intermediaries should help to track the origins of any abusive or potentially fraudulent comments
made through the communication channels. Without this measure, we believe there could be
greater risk of the communications including unfounded, potentially abusive, biased statements
aimed unjustifiably to promote or discredit the issuer and improperly influence the investment
decisions of members of the crowd.
The proposed rules also would require any person posting a comment in the
communication channels to clearly and prominently disclose with each posting whether he or she
is a founder or an employee of an issuer engaging in promotional activities on behalf of the
issuer, or is otherwise compensated, whether in the past or prospectively, to promote the issuer’s
offering. This disclosure would apply to officers, directors and other representatives of the
issuer, and also would be required of an intermediary that is a broker or its associated persons.
Although the statute requires issuers, but not intermediaries, to disclose compensation to
promoters of an offering, we believe that intermediaries, as the hosts of the communication
channels, would be well placed to take measures to ensure that promoters are clearly identified in
their communication channels, in accordance with Section 4A(b)(3). 444 This requirement would
be consistent with Section 4A(b)(3), which requires issuers to take steps required by the

444

See discussion in Section II.B.5 above.
178

Commission and established by rule, to ensure disclosure of compensation or promotional
activity “upon each instance of such promotional communication.”
Request for Comment
166. Should we require intermediaries to provide communication channels, as
proposed, on their platforms? Why or why not? If not, what other methods of
communication could, or should, be used and why?
167. Are the proposed conditions imposed on the requirement to provide
communication channels appropriate? Why or why not? For example, should
the communications on the channels be available for public viewing or
participation? Why or why not? What other restrictions, if any, should
communication channels be subject to, and why? For example, should we
require more specific actions for intermediaries to take in order to ensure
adequate disclosure of issuers’ and promoters’ communications? If so, what
actions and why?
168. Under the proposed rules, we limit the ability to post in the communication
channels to only those persons who have opened accounts with the
intermediaries and thereby identified themselves to the intermediaries. Is this
restriction adequate? Why or why not? Would it be appropriate to permit
anyone, including persons who have not identified themselves in any way, to
post comments in intermediaries’ communication channels? Why or why not?
169. The proposed rules would require any person posting a comment in the
communication channels to disclose with each posting whether he or she is a
founder or an employee of an issuer engaging in promotional activities on behalf
179

of the issuer, or is otherwise compensated, whether in the past or prospectively,
to promote the issuer’s offering. Should we impose this requirement on other
types of persons as well, such as affiliates of the issuer, regardless of whether
they are engaging in promotional activities? Why or why not?
170. Should we require the intermediary to maintain the communication channels of
its platform during the post-offering period, in order to permit communication
between investors and the issuer after the offering has completed? Why or why
not? If so, for how long after the offering is completed (e.g., for one month, for
six months, for one year, or longer) should the intermediary be required to
maintain the channels?
d.

Notice of Investment Commitment

The proposed rules would require an intermediary, upon receipt of an investment
commitment from an investor, to promptly give or send to the investor a notification disclosing:
(1) the dollar amount of the investment commitment; (2) the price of the securities, if known; (3)
the name of the issuer; and (4) the date and time by which the investor may cancel the
investment commitment. 445 This notification would be required to be provided by e-mail or
other electronic media, and to be documented in accordance with applicable recordkeeping
rules. 446 The proposed notification is intended, among other things, to provide the investor with

445

See proposed Rule 303(d) of Regulation Crowdfunding. The statutory requirements for intermediaries do
not expressly address an intermediary’s obligation to notify an investor of receipt of the investor’s
commitment, although the statutory provision provides us with authority to do so in our rules. See Section
4A(a)(12).

446

Intermediaries that are brokers would be subject to the recordkeeping requirements of Exchange Act Rules
17a-3 and 17a-4, and intermediaries that are funding portals would be subject to recordkeeping
requirements under proposed Rule 404 of Regulation Crowdfunding.
180

a written record of the basic terms of the transaction, as well as a reminder regarding his or her
ability to cancel the investment commitment.
Request for Comment:
171. Would the notifications we are proposing to require be useful to investors? Why
or why not? Should we provide further specificity as to when notice must be
provided?
172. Are there any other circumstances under which an investor should receive a
notice? If so, under what other circumstances?
e.

Maintenance and Transmission of Funds

Securities Act Section 4A(a)(7) requires that an intermediary “ensure that all offering
proceeds are only provided to the issuer when the aggregate capital raised from all investors is
equal to or greater than a target offering amount, . . . as the Commission shall, by rule, determine
appropriate.” The proposed rules would implement this provision and address the maintenance
and protection of investor funds, pending completion of a transaction made in reliance on
Section 4(a)(6). 447
The proposed rules would require an intermediary that is a registered broker to comply
with established requirements in Exchange Act Rule 15c2-4 448 for the maintenance and
transmission of investor funds. 449 Application of Exchange Act Rule 15c2-4(b) to an
intermediary that is a broker in the crowdfunding context, would require, in relevant part, that
money or other consideration received is promptly deposited in a separate bank account, as agent

447

See proposed Rule 303(e) of Regulation Crowdfunding.

448

17 CFR 240.15c2-4.

449

See proposed Rule 303(e)(1) of Regulation Crowdfunding.
181

or trustee for the persons who have the beneficial interest therein, until the appropriate event or
contingency has occurred, and then the funds would be promptly transmitted or returned to the
persons entitled thereto; or all such funds would be promptly transmitted to a bank, which has
agreed in writing to hold such funds in escrow for the persons who have the beneficial interests
therein and to transmit or return such funds directly to the persons entitled thereto when the
appropriate event or contingency has occurred. Under Section 4A(a)(7), proceeds are to be
transmitted to the issuer only if the target offering amount is met or exceeded. As explained in
the adopting release to Rule 15c2-4, this rule was designed to prevent fraud “either upon the
person on whose behalf the distribution is being made or upon the customer to whom the
payment is to be returned if the distribution is not completed.” 450
The proposed rules would establish separate requirements for an intermediary that is a
funding portal. 451 Because a funding portal cannot receive any funds, it would be required to
direct investors to transmit money or other consideration directly to a qualified third party that
has agreed in writing 452 to hold the funds for the benefit of the investors and the issuer and to
promptly transmit or return the funds to the persons entitled to such funds. 453 The proposed rules
would define “qualified third party” to mean a bank 454 that has agreed in writing either (i) to hold
the funds in escrow for the persons who have the beneficial interests in the funds and to transmit

450

Adoption of Rule 15c2-4 under the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, Release No. 34-6737 (Feb. 21, 1962)
[27 F.R. 2089 (Mar. 3, 1962)].

451

See proposed Rule 303(e)(2) of Regulation Crowdfunding.

452

This written agreement would be required to be maintained by the funding portal pursuant to proposed Rule
404 of Regulation Crowdfunding. See discussion in Section II.D.5 below.

453

In the crowdfunding context, it is expected that the intermediary would be making the determination as to
whether the contingency, i.e., the target offering amount, has been met.

454

See Exchange Act Section 3(a)(6) [15 U.S.C. 78c(a)(6)] (defining “bank”).
182

or return the funds directly to the persons entitled to them when the appropriate event or
contingency has occurred; or (ii) to establish a bank account (or accounts) for the exclusive
benefit of investors and the issuer. We have chosen to specify that the qualified third party
would be a bank because investors, as well as intermediaries and issuers, would then be afforded
the protections of existing regulations that apply to banks, in particular those pertaining to the
safeguarding of customer funds. 455
The proposed rules also would require an intermediary that is a funding portal to
promptly direct transmission of funds from the qualified third party to the issuer when the
aggregate amount of investment commitments from all investors is equal to or greater than the
target amount of the offering and the cancellation period for each investor has expired, 456 but no
earlier than 21 days after the date on which the intermediary makes publicly available on its
platform the information required to be provided by the issuer such as information about the
issuer and the offering pursuant to Rules 201 and 203(a) of proposed Regulation
Crowdfunding. 457 We believe that this approach is consistent with the requirements in (1)
Section 4A(a)(7) providing for the transfer of funds to an issuer when the issuer’s target offering
amount has been met, (2) Section 4A(a)(6) providing that issuer information be made available
to investors for at least 21 days prior to the first day on which securities are sold in the offering,
and (3) Section 4A(b)(1)(G) providing that investors must be allowed a reasonable opportunity
to rescind their investment commitment. Under our proposed rules, an intermediary could

455

For example, protections afforded to bank accounts include FDIC deposit insurance. See Federal Deposit
Insurance Corp., FDIC Deposit Insurance Coverage, http://www.fdic.gov/deposit/deposits/dis/.

456

See Section II.C.6 below for a discussion of the cancellation period.

457

See proposed Rule 303(e)(3)(i) of Regulation Crowdfunding. See also Exchange Act Rule 10b-9 [17 CFR
240.10b-9].
183

permit a minimum-maximum offering, for example, in which the minimum would serve as the
target offering amount. 458
The proposed rules also would require an intermediary that is a funding portal to
promptly direct the return of funds to an investor when an investment commitment has been
cancelled (including when there has been a failure to obtain effective reconfirmation when there
has been a material change). 459 The proposed rules also would require an intermediary that is a
funding portal promptly to direct the return of funds to investors when an issuer does not
complete an offering. 460 This could occur if an issuer does not receive investment commitments
that meet its minimum target amount during the offering period. There also may be other
circumstances in which an issuer chooses to cancel its offering. 461
Some commenters suggested that investors should be able to transmit funds for an
investment commitment through a mechanism such as those provided by Automated Clearing
House (“ACH”), PayPal, Inc. or a linked bank account. 462 We are not proposing to limit or
require a particular payment mechanism, so as to provide both intermediaries and investors with

458

In a minimum-maximum offering, a minimum amount of securities must be sold within the offering period
in order for a contingency to be satisfied, and the amount of securities sold may not exceed a predetermined maximum. See Vim Funding Letter (suggesting that minimum and maximum offerings will
allow issuers to focus on achieving “funding milestones” and the amount of funding they believe they need,
while an “all or nothing” offering will likely incentivize issuers to seek smaller raises because of the
possibility of failing at raising a larger amount). Compare AppleSeedz Letter (stating that an “all or
nothing” offering would best protect investors). See also Section II.B.1.a.i(c) above for a discussion of the
issuer’s disclosure requirements about the use of proceeds in a minimum-maximum offering.

459

See proposed Rule 303(e)(3)(ii) of Regulation Crowdfunding.

460

See proposed Rule 303(e)(3)(iii) of Regulation Crowdfunding.

461

See proposed Rule 304(d) and discussion in Section II.C.6 below regarding offerings that are not
completed.

462

See Vim Funding Letter (stating that investors should be able to authorize an intermediary to save investor
banking information, in much the same way that consumers today can link a bank account to their online
brokerage account); Arctic Island Letter (stating that funds should be transferred only to a bank in the
United States).
184

flexibility in the means of payment, but we note that under the statute and the proposed rules, an
intermediary that is a funding portal may not hold, manage, possess or otherwise handle investor
funds or securities. 463 One commenter urged us not to permit the use of credit cards to fund an
investment because investors could claim charge-backs 464 after a security is sold. 465 Two
commenters 466 advocated permitting the use of credit cards for certain types of crowdfunding
offerings, with one noting that this payment method involves customary Internet disclosures on
the part of the investor. 467 Again, we are not proposing to limit payment mechanisms, but we
note that an intermediary could, in its discretion, decline to accept certain payment methods,
such as credit cards, or accept them only in certain circumstances. 468
One commenter recommended that we prohibit purchases by an issuer or its officers,
directors, control persons and other affiliates from counting toward meeting the target offering
amount and obtaining a release of the funds held in escrow. 469 The commenter expressed
concern that, without this prohibition, issuers that are unable to attract sufficient interest from
unaffiliated investors could “game” the system by accepting affiliated investor funds in an

463

See Exchange Act Section 3(a)(80)(D) [15 U.S.C. 78c(a)(80)(D)] and discussion in Section II.D.3 below.

464

In the United States, credit card customers have charge reversal rights under Regulation Z (12 CFR 226.13)
of the Truth in Lending Act (15 U.S.C. 1666) and debit card holders are afforded such rights under
Regulation E (12 CFR 205.6) of the Electronic Fund Transfer Act (15 U.S.C. 1693(b)).

465

See RocketHub Letter 1.

466

See City First Letter; RFPIA Letter 5.

467

See City First Letter.

468

We note that an investor’s use of his or her right to dispute credit card charges could inhibit the ability of an
issuer to meet its target or to provide accurate disclosures to investors and the Commission regarding the
progress it has made toward, and whether it has, reached the target offering amount. This potential impact
would affect offerings conducted through brokers and funding portals alike. We also note that pursuant to
Exchange Act Section 3(a)(80)(D) (15 U.S.C. 78c(a)(80)(D)), a funding portal would be statutorily
prohibited from extending credit or margin to customers.

469

See NASAA Letter.
185

offering that otherwise would have failed. We believe that this commenter’s concern is reflected
in the purpose and intent of the JOBS Act’s crowdfunding provisions. In particular, we believe it
would be contrary to the intent and purpose of the statute and the proposed rules to declare an
offering “sold” on the basis of “non-bona fide sales designed to create the appearance of a
successful completion of the offering.” 470 As we have said in other contexts, non-bona fide
purchases would include “purchases by the issuer through nominee accounts or purchases by
persons whom the issuer has agreed to guarantee against loss.” 471 Although we are not
restricting directors and officers of an issuer from purchasing securities in an offering, we expect
intermediaries to scrutinize any purchases by these individuals for “red flags,” such as repeated
investment commitments and cancellations, that would indicate that the purchase was designed
to create an impression that the offering has reached, or will reach, its target amount. 472
Several commenters urged us to adopt net capital standards for funding portals. 473 We
are not proposing net capital standards for funding portals primarily because they are prohibited
from handling, managing or possessing investor funds or securities. We believe that the
requirements relating, in particular, to transmission of proceeds under the proposed rules would
help ensure that investor funds are protected, without requiring funding portals to maintain net

470

471

See Requirements of Rules 10b-9 and 15c2-4 under the Securities Exchange Act of 1934 Relating to
Issuers, Underwriters and Broker-Dealers Engaged in an “All or None” Offering, Release No. 34-11532, 7
S.E.C. Docket 403, 1975 WL 163128, at 1 (July 11, 1975).
Id.

472

Intermediaries are required to cancel an offering if they believe the issuer or offering presents the potential
for fraud or otherwise raises concerns regarding investor protection. See proposed Rule 301(c)(2) of
Regulation Crowdfunding and discussion in Section II.C.3 above.

473

See, e.g., Risingtidefunding.com Letter (stating that capital standards should be limited); Arctic Island
Letter (stating that funding portals should be required to maintain net capital that is at least equivalent to
that of broker-dealers that handle customer funds).
186

capital. We are, however, proposing to require funding portals to obtain fidelity bonds, as
discussed below. 474
Request for Comment
173. Are the proposed requirements for fund maintenance and transmission
appropriate? Are there other types of custody arrangements that we should
specifically permit? Why or why not? If so, what types of arrangements should
we permit and how would they protect investor funds?
174. Should we prohibit any variations of a contingency offering, like minimummaximum offerings? Why or why not? Should we require that offerings made
in reliance on Section 4(a)(6) be conducted on an “all-or-none” basis? Why or
why not?
175. Instead of a requirement to transmit funds “promptly,” as proposed, should we
establish fixed deadlines for transmission, such as three business days? Why or
why not?
176. Should we expressly incorporate into the rules prior Commission, SRO and staff
guidance regarding Exchange Act Rule 15c2-4 on, among other things: (1) the
meaning of the phrase “distribution”; 475 (2) the meaning of “prompt

474

See discussion in Section II.D.1.c below.

475

See, e.g., Baikie & Alcantara, Inc., Release No. 34-19410 (Jan. 6, 1983). See also Letter from Larry E.
Bergmann, Assistant Director, Division of Market Regulation, Securities and Exchange Commission to
Linda A. Wertheimer, Chairman, Subcommittee on Partnerships, Trusts and Unincorporated Associations,
Federal Regulation of Securities Committee, American Bar Association (Oct. 16, 1984) (explaining that a
“distribution” is any offering of securities, whether or not registered, that “is distinguished from ordinary
trading transactions by the magnitude of the offering and the presence of special selling efforts and selling
methods.”).
187

transmittal”; 476 (3) the payment mechanics for escrow arrangements; 477 (4)
“receipt of offering proceeds” in the context of payment by check; 478 (5)
“prompt deposit,” as it applies to the use of segregated deposit accounts; and (6)
specifics as to who could act as the “agent or trustee” maintaining the segregated
deposit account? 479 Why or why not? Should any other specific guidance
regarding Rule 15c2-4 be explicitly incorporated into the rules? Please explain.
177. Should we expand the definition of “qualified third party” to include entities
other than a bank? Why or why not? If so, which ones? Please explain how
other entities could adequately safeguard customers’ funds and securities?
178. Should we require funding portals to maintain a certain amount of net capital?
Why or why not? If so, what would be an appropriate amount, and how should
that amount be determined?
179. Should we require or prohibit certain methods of payments for the purchase of
securities under Section 4(a)(6)? Why or why not? Are there any particular
concerns raised by different methods? Would it depend upon whether a brokerdealer or funding portal is facilitating the transaction? Why or why not?
f.

Confirmation of Transaction

The proposed rules would require that an intermediary, at or before the completion of a
transaction made pursuant to Section 4(a)(6), give or send to each investor a notification

476

477
478
479

See NASD (n/k/a FINRA), Notice to Members 84-64 (Nov. 26, 1984). See also NASD, Notice to
Members 84-7 (Jan. 30, 1984).
Id.
See NASD (n/k/a FINRA), Notice to Members 94-7 (Jan. 24, 1994).
Id.
188

disclosing: (1) the date of the transaction; (2) the type of security that the investor is purchasing;
(3) the identity, price and number of securities purchased by the investor, as well as the number
of securities sold by the issuer in the transaction and the price(s) at which the securities were
sold; (4) certain specified terms of the security, if it is a debt or callable security; and (5) the
source and amount of any remuneration received or to be received by the intermediary in
connection with the transaction, whether from the issuer or from other persons. 480 This
notification would be required to be provided by e-mail or other electronic media, and to be
documented in accordance with applicable recordkeeping rules. 481 As the Commission has long
stated, transaction confirmations serve an important and basic investor protection function by,
among other things, conveying information and providing a reference document that allows
investors to verify the terms of their transactions, acting as a safeguard against fraud and
providing investors a means by which to evaluate the costs of their transactions. 482 Each of the
transaction items of information proposed to be required is intended to assist investors in
memorializing and assessing their transactions. The requirement for an intermediary to disclose
to an investor the source and amount of any remuneration received or to be received should help
to highlight potential conflicts of interest the intermediary may have.
An intermediary that gives or sends to each investor the notification described above
would be exempt from the requirements of Exchange Act Rule 10b-10 for the subject

480

See Proposed Rule 303(f)(1) of Regulation Crowdfunding. The statutory requirements for intermediaries
do not expressly address an intermediary’s obligation to provide investors confirmation of a transaction, but
the statute provides us with authority to do so in our rules. See Section 4A(a)(12).

481

Intermediaries that are brokers would be subject to the recordkeeping requirements of Exchange Act Rules
17a-3 and 17a-4, and intermediaries that are funding portals would be subject to recordkeeping
requirements under proposed Rule 404 of Regulation Crowdfunding.

482

See Confirmation of Transactions, Release No. 34-34962 (Nov. 10, 1994) [59 FR 59612, 59613 (Nov. 17,
1994)].
189

transaction. 483 The confirmation terms are similar to, but not as extensive as, those under Rule
10b-10. We believe that this difference is appropriate given the more limited scope of an
intermediary’s role in crowdfunding transactions. For example, Rule 10b-10 requires disclosure
regarding such matters as payment for order flow, 484 riskless principal transactions, 485 payment
of odd-lot differentials 486 and asset-backed securities. 487 These items generally would not be
relevant to crowdfunding securities transactions or an intermediary’s participation in such
transactions, and their inclusion in a crowdfunding securities confirmation may be confusing to
investors. We believe, therefore, that if an intermediary satisfies the notification requirements of
the proposed rules, the intermediary would have provided investors with sufficient relevant
information regarding the crowdfunding security, and so would not be required to meet the
additional requirements of Rule 10b-10.
Request for Comment
483

See proposed Rule 303(f)(2) of Regulation Crowdfunding. Exchange Act Rule 10b-10 (17 CFR 240.10b10) generally requires a broker-dealer effecting a customer transaction in securities (other than U.S. savings
bonds or municipal securities) to provide a notification to its customer, at or before completion of a
securities transaction, that discloses certain information specific to the transaction. Specifically, Rule 10b10 requires the disclosure of the date, time, identity, prices and number of securities bought or sold; the
capacity in which the broker-dealer acted (e.g., as agent or principal); yields on debt securities; and under
specified circumstances, the amount of remuneration the broker-dealer will receive from the customer and
any other parties. With regard to the specified circumstances mentioned above, the remuneration
disclosures of Rule 10b-10 generally are required, but certain exclusions apply. For example, the
remuneration disclosures are generally required where a broker or dealer is acting as agent for a customer
or some other person. In the case where remuneration is received or to be received by the broker from such
customer in connection with the transaction, the disclosures are not required where the remuneration paid
by such customer is determined pursuant to written agreement with such customer, otherwise than on a
transaction basis. 17 CFR 240.10b-10(a)(2)(i)(B). In contrast, the remuneration disclosures of proposed
Rule 303(f)(2)(vi) would be required across all crowdfunding transactions where remunerations are
received or are to be received. Given the limitations on the dollar amount of securities that could be
offered, as well as the limits on individual investment amounts, in transactions relying on Section 4(a)(6),
we would not expect investors or potential investors to negotiate individualized compensation agreements.

484

17 CFR 240.10b-10(a)(2)(i)(C).

485

17 CFR 240.10b-10(a)(2)(ii).

486

17 CFR 240.10b-10(a)(3).

487

17 CFR 240.10b-10(a)(7).
190

180. Are the proposed items of disclosure appropriate? Should we require more or
less disclosure? Please explain. Should the disclosure items differ from those in
Rule 10b-10? Are there any proposed disclosures that should be modified or
deleted? Why or why not? If so, what different items should be included and
why? Should the proposed notification requirements be deemed to be satisfied
if an intermediary complies with Rule 10b-10? Why or why not? If we take this
approach, would this confuse investors?
181. As mentioned above, we do not expect that investors would negotiate
individualized compensation agreements with intermediaries in the
crowdfunding context. Is this expectation appropriate? Why or why not?
Should the proposed rules require disclosure of these arrangements, and if so, in
a way that would be similar to or different from what is required under Rule
10b-10? Please explain.
6.

Completion of Offerings, Cancellations and Reconfirmations

Section 4A(a)(7) requires an intermediary to allow investors to cancel their commitments
to invest as the Commission shall, by rule, determine appropriate. As discussed above, Section
4A(b)(1)(G) requires issuers to provide investors, “prior to sale, . . . a reasonable opportunity to
rescind the commitment to purchase the securities.”
Commenters suggested a range of approaches to these statutory requirements. Some
commenters favored a “rolling” rescission right, similar to the three business day rescission right
provided in the Truth in Lending Act, 488 under which an investor could cancel an investment

488

15 U.S.C. 1601 et seq.; 12 CFR 226.
191

commitment within 24 489 or 48 hours 490 of making the initial commitment. Other commenters
suggested permitting investors to cancel their investment commitments at any time prior to a
specified date. For example, one commenter recommended permitting investors to cancel a
commitment for up to three days before the target date. 491 Another commenter suggested that an
investor should be permitted to cancel a commitment until the moment that the target offering
amount is reached, but not thereafter. 492 Another commenter recommended a ten-day window,
after a target offering amount is met, during which investors could cancel a commitment to
invest. 493 Another commenter recommended that an investor be permitted to cancel a
commitment until the date the offering closes. 494 In contrast, one commenter recommended that

489

See RocketHub Letter 1 (stating that: (1) a system could be used whereby commitments to invest would be
considered “pending” for 24 hours, during which an investor would be able to cancel his or her investment
commitment; after the 24-hour period expires, an investor’s commitment status would be changed from
“pending” to “committed,” and the investor’s funds would be held in escrow until transferred to the issuer;
(2) if an offering did not reach its target offering amount before a specific deadline, an investor’s funds
should be returned; (3) a short rescission period will protect investors from “pump & dump” schemes and
minimize an issuer’s exposure to the risk of a funding “short fall”; (4) a longer rescission period is
unnecessary because Title III requires a minimum offering period of 21 days, giving potential investors
enough time to review an offering before making an investment commitment; and (5) because Title III
contemplates that issuers could raise capital “greater than a target offering amount,” the issuer also must
establish an offering cap that would limit oversubscriptions).

490

See NCA Letter (stating that this will prevent commitments from being made solely for the purpose of
attracting new investors (i.e., “pumping” the offering) and that cancellation should be permitted when there
is a change in investment terms or materially adverse information is subsequently disclosed).

491

See RFPIA Letter 3 (further stating that the Commission should impose penalties on issuers if they abuse
this provision).

492

See Cera Technology Letter (stating that permitting investors to cancel a commitment to invest after the
funding goal is reached could cause an entire fundraising round to collapse).

493

See Crowdfunding Offerings Ltd. Letter 2 (stating that funding portals should be permitted to have an open
and closed period for rescinding a commitment to invest; that this option is necessary in the event that an
investor cancels his or her commitment to invest during the window; and that a competitor could commit to
invest and then cancel that commitment at a critical moment during the fundraising effort, causing the
offering to fall short of the target offering amount).

494

See CFIRA Letter 9.
192

an investor be permitted to cancel a commitment only if the offering fails to meet the target
amount or for other limited purposes. 495
We believe that the principles underlying crowdfunding indicate that investors should
have the full benefit of the views of other potential investors regarding offerings made in reliance
on Section 4(a)(6), even after they have made investment commitments. 496 The proposed rules,
therefore, would give investors an unconditional right to cancel an investment commitment for
any reason until 48 hours prior to the deadline identified in the issuer’s offering materials. 497
Under this approach, an investor could reconsider his or her investment decision with the benefit
of the views of the crowd and other information, until the final 48 hours of the offering.
Thereafter, an investor would not be able to cancel any investment commitments made within
the final 48 hours (except in the event of a material change to the offering, as discussed below).
We believe that the other approaches suggested by commenters, described above, could either
terminate the cancellation right too early, so that investors would not be able to benefit from the
views of the crowd and other information they obtain, or too late, so that the issuer would be
subject to uncertainty as to whether it had met the target offering amount. We believe that the
proposed rules strike an appropriate balance between giving investors the continuing benefit of
the collective views of the crowd and then, if desired, to cancel their investment commitments,
while providing issuers with certainty about their ability to close an offering at the end of the
offering period.

495

See Schwartz Letter.

496

See, e.g., 158 CONG. REC. S5474-03 (daily ed. July 26, 2012) (statement of Sen. Jeff Merkley) (“Two
important investor protections in the Crowdfund Act are the public review period and withdrawal rights.
They are designed to allow investors the chance to carefully consider offerings, permitting the ‘wisdom of
the crowd’ to develop, rather than perhaps just the ‘excitement of the crowd.’”).

497

See proposed Rule 304(a) of Regulation Crowdfunding.
193

Pursuant to the proposed rules, if an issuer reaches the target offering amount prior to the
deadline identified in its offering materials, it may close the offering once the target offering
amount is reached, provided that: (1) the offering will have remained open for a minimum of 21
days; (2) the intermediary provides notice about the new offering deadline at least five business
days prior to the new offering deadline; (3) investors are given the opportunity to reconsider their
investment decision and to cancel their investment commitment until 48 hours prior to the new
offering deadline; and (4) at the time of the new offering deadline, the issuer continues to meet or
exceed the target offering amount. 498 We believe these conditions are appropriate, as they
would result in adequate notice being provided to investors and are consistent with the statutory
provisions that offering materials are made available for at least 21 days before any securities
can be sold to an investor, 499 that proceeds be provided to the issuer only once the target offering
amount has been met 500 and that investors are provided an opportunity to cancel their
commitments. 501
If there is a material change to the terms of an offering 502 or to the information provided
by the issuer regarding the offering, the proposed rules would require the intermediary to give or

498

See proposed Rule 304(b) of Regulation Crowdfunding. Consistent with the cancellation provision for an
offering that does not close prior to the deadline identified in its offering materials, an investor would not
be able to cancel any investment commitments made within the final 48 hours prior to the new offering
deadline (except in the event of a material change to the offering).

499

See Section 4A(a)(6).

500

See Section 4A(a)(7).

501
502

See id.
We note that in those instances where an issuer has previously disclosed in its offering materials only the
method for determining the price of the securities offered and not the final price of those securities, setting
of the final price would be considered a material change. See Section II.B.2 above. We also note if the
material change is to close the offering once the target offering amount is reached, which would be prior to
the deadline identified in the offering materials, then the procedures required under proposed Rule 304(b),
and not 304(c), would apply. See discussion in this Section II.C.6 above.
194

send to any potential investors who have made investment commitments notice of the material
change, stating that the investor’s investment commitment will be cancelled unless the investor
reconfirms his or her commitment within five business days of receipt of the notice. 503 We
recognize that complying with this requirement could result in certain offerings being extended
beyond the offering period specified in the offering statement. If the investor fails to reconfirm
his or her investment within those five business days, the proposed rules would require an
intermediary, within five business days thereafter, to: (1) provide or send the investor a
notification disclosing that the investment commitment was cancelled, the reason for the
cancellation and the refund amount that the investor should expect to receive; and (2) direct the
refund of investor funds. We believe that when material changes arise during the course of an
offering, an investor who had made a prior investment commitment should have a reasonable
period during which to review the new information and to decide whether to invest. This
notification would be required to be provided by e-mail or other electronic media, and to be
documented in accordance with applicable recordkeeping rules. 504
Finally, if an issuer does not complete an offering because the target is not reached or the
issuer decides to terminate the offering, the proposed rules would require an intermediary, within
five business days, to: (1) give or send to each investor who had made an investment
commitment a notification disclosing the cancellation of the offering, the reason for the
cancelation, and the refund amount that the investor should expect to receive; (2) direct the
refund of investor funds; and (3) prevent investors from making investment commitments with

503

See proposed Rule 304(c)(1) of Regulation Crowdfunding.

504

Intermediaries that are brokers would be subject to the recordkeeping requirements of Exchange Act Rules
17a-3 and 17a-4, and intermediaries that are funding portals would be subject to recordkeeping
requirements under proposed Rule 404 of Regulation Crowdfunding.
195

respect to that offering on its platform. 505 This notification would be required to be provided by
e-mail or other electronic media, and to be documented in accordance with applicable
recordkeeping rules. 506
Request for Comment
182. Are the proposed requirements for cancellations and notifications appropriate?
Why or why not? Should investors be permitted to withdraw commitments at
any time until the offering closes? Should investors be provided with additional
time to cancel their commitments after the closing of the offering if the
commitment was made within 48 hours of the offering deadline? Would some
time period other than 48 hours be more appropriate? Do the proposed rules,
whereby an investor cannot cancel commitments made within 48 hours of the
offering deadline, strike the appropriate balance between (1) giving investors the
ability to cancel commitments in light of new views expressed in the crowd and
(2) providing issuers with certainty about their ability to close an offering by
meeting the target offering amount? Please explain. What are the advantages
and disadvantages of any alternative time period? Should no new investment
commitments be permitted after a date that is two full business days prior to the
beginning of the 48-hour period when investments are no longer cancellable?
Why or why not?

505

See proposed Rule 304(d) of Regulation Crowdfunding.

506

Intermediaries that are brokers would be subject to the recordkeeping requirements of Exchange Act Rules
17a-3 and 17a-4, and intermediaries that are funding portals would be subject to recordkeeping
requirements under proposed Rule 404 of Regulation Crowdfunding.
196

183. Should an investor be required to reconfirm his or her commitment to invest
when a material change has occurred? Why or why not? Is the five business
day period for reconfirmation after material changes appropriate? Would
another time period be more appropriate? If so, what time period and why?
184. The proposed rules provide a mechanism by which existing disclosure materials
can be modified in the event of a material change, with the original offering
remaining open. Should the proposed rules require that an offering be cancelled
in the event of a material change, and then, if the issuer desires, reopened in a
new offering that includes the revised disclosure? Why or why not?
185. Are there any other circumstances under which an investor should receive a
notification? If so, under what other circumstances? Should we provide further
specificity on when notifications must be provided?
186. Under the proposed rules, in the event of a cancellation an intermediary would
be required to provide a notice to prospective investors within five business
days. Is this requirement appropriate? Should the time period be longer or
shorter, such as 3 business days or 10 business days? Why or why not? Should
we include any other notification requirements in the event an offering is
canceled? If so, what requirement should we include and why?
7.

Payments to Third Parties

Section 4A(a)(10) provides that an intermediary in a transaction made in reliance on
Section 4(a)(6) shall not compensate “promoters, finders, or lead generators for providing the
broker or funding portal with the personal identifying information of any potential investor.”

197

One commenter noted that the terms “promoters,” “finders” and “lead generators” are not
defined in the statute. 507 The commenter also expressed concern that promoters, finders and lead
generators could provide a broker or funding portal with potential investors’ personally
identifiable information as long as the broker or funding portal did not directly compensate
them. 508
Another commenter stated that “personal identifying information” should be clearly
defined. 509 While agreeing that funding portals should not be permitted to compensate third
parties for personally identifiable information of potential investors, the commenter asserted that
funding portals, but not registered brokers, should be allowed to compensate promoters, finders
or lead generators for directing potential issuers or investors to view either the portal itself or
specific offerings. 510 The commenter further stated that revenue sharing arrangements should
not be restricted when these relationships are not promoter-, finder- or lead generator-based. 511
The proposed rules would broadly prohibit an intermediary from compensating any
person for providing it with the personally identifiable information of any investor or potential
investor. 512 The term “personally identifiable information” would be defined to mean any
information that can be used to distinguish or trace an individual’s identity, either alone or when
combined with other personal or identifying information that is linked or linkable to a specific

507

See Crowdfunding Offerings Letter 2.

508

See id. (stating that there could be circumstances in which a third party stands to gain in some way by a
successful crowdfunding effort).

509

See RocketHub Letter 1.

510
511
512

See id.
See id.
See proposed Rule 305(a) of Regulation Crowdfunding.
198

individual. 513 Personally identifiable information could include, for example, any information,
such as name, social security number, date or place of birth, mother’s maiden name or biometric
records, that can be used to identify an individual, as well as any other information that is linked
directly to an individual, such as financial, employment, educational or medical information. We
believe that any person compensated for providing the personally identifiable information of
potential investors would be acting as a promoter, finder or lead generator within the meaning of
Section 4A(a)(10). Thus, the proposed rules would prohibit compensation broadly to “any
person.”
The proposed rules would, however, permit an intermediary to compensate a person for
directing issuers or potential investors to the intermediary’s platform if (1) the person does not
provide the intermediary with the personally identifiable information of any potential investor,
and (2) the compensation, unless it is paid to a registered broker or dealer, is not based, directly
or indirectly, on the purchase or sale of a security offered in reliance on Section 4(a)(6) on or
through the intermediary’s platform. 514 The proposed rules would not permit a funding portal to
compensate third parties by commission or other transaction-based compensation unless that
third party is a registered broker or dealer and thereby subject to an established regulatory and

513

See proposed Rule 305(c) of Regulation Crowdfunding. The proposed definition is consistent with those
used in other government agency reports that discuss strategies for protecting personally identifiable
information. See, e.g., Government Accountability Office (“GAO”), Privacy: Alternatives Exist for
Enhancing Protection of Personally Identifiable Information, GAO-08-536, at 1 n.1 (May 2008); GAO,
Information Security: Protecting Personally Identifiable Information, GAO-08-343, at 5 n.9 (Jan. 2008).
See also Erika McCallister, Tim Grance and Karen Scarfone, Guide to Protecting the Confidentiality of
Personally Identifiable Information (PII): Recommendations of the National Institute of Standards and
Technology, U.S. Department of Commerce, National Institute of Standards and Technology, Special
Publication 800-122, at ES-1 (Apr. 2010).

514

See proposed Rule 305(b) of Regulation Crowdfunding. We note that the receipt of direct or indirect
transaction-based compensation would strongly indicate that the recipient is acting as a broker. As such,
the party receiving the compensation in the scenario described needs to consider whether it would be
required to register as a broker
199

oversight regime that provides important safeguards to investors. We believe that the prohibition
on transaction-based compensation in the proposed rules would help to remove the incentive for
high-pressure sales tactics and other abusive practices. 515 Under the proposed rules, an
intermediary could pay a person a flat fixed fee 516 to direct other persons to the intermediary’s
platform through, for example, hyperlinks or search term results, if the intermediary received no
personally identifiable information. Although the statute is clear that an intermediary cannot pay
for the personally identifiable information of potential investors, we do not believe Congress
intended to disrupt current practices, such as paying for advertising based on Internet search
rankings. It would be acceptable under the proposed rules, therefore, for an intermediary to
make payments to advertise its existence, provided that in doing so, it does not pay for the
personally identifiable information of investors or potential investors. 517
Request for Comment
187. Should we permit an intermediary to compensate a third party for directing
potential investors to the intermediary’s platform under the limited
circumstances described above? Why or why not? Should any disclosures be

515

See Persons Deemed Not to Be Brokers, Release No. 34-22172 (June 27, 1985) [50 FR 27,940, 27942 (July
9, 1985)] (“Compensation based on transactions in securities can induce high pressure sales tactics and
other problems of investor protection that require application of broker-dealer regulation.”). See also 158
CONG. REC. S5474-03 (daily ed. July 26, 2012) (statement of Sen. Jeff Merkley) (“[T]he limitation on offplatform advertising is intended to prohibit issuers—including officers, directors, and 20 percent
shareholders—from promoting or paying promoters to express opinions outside the platform that would go
beyond pointing the public to the funding portal. Such paid testimonials and manufactured excitement
would represent a prohibited form of off-site advertising if those disclosures were not present. Whether on
or off the platform, paid advertising must clearly be disclosed as such. In short, the investor deserves a
transparent medium for making healthy decisions.”).

516

A flat fixed fee is one that is not based on the success of the offering, and so would not be transactionbased compensation. As noted above, receipt of transaction-based compensation would strongly indicate
that the recipient is acting as a broker, and the party receiving this kind of compensation needs to consider
whether it would be required to register as a broker.

517

See also proposed Rule 402 of Regulation Crowdfunding and discussion in Section II.D.3 below.
200

required? Why or why not? Please identify reasonable alternatives to this
approach, if any.
188. What other concerns may be relevant in the context of third parties referring
others to intermediaries, and how could they be addressed? For example, should
compensation be limited in some additional way? Please explain.
D.

Additional Requirements on Funding Portals
1.

Registration Requirement
a.

Generally

Securities Act Section 4A(a)(1) requires that an intermediary facilitating a transaction
made in reliance on Section 4(a)(6) register with the Commission as a broker or a funding portal.
The statute does not, however, prescribe the manner in which a funding portal would register
with the Commission.518 Securities Act Section 4A(a)(12) requires intermediaries to comply
with requirements as the Commission may, by rule, prescribe for the protection of investors and
in the public interest. Exchange Act Section 3(h)(1)(C) also permits us to impose, as part of our
authority to exempt funding portals from broker registration, “such other requirements under [the
Exchange Act] as the Commission determines appropriate.”
Some commenters asked specifically for clarification on the nature of a funding portal’s
registration requirements. 519 One commenter suggested that we permit a funding portal to have

518

Compare Exchange Act Section 15(b) [15 U.S.C. 78o(b)] (prescribing the manner of registration of brokerdealers).

519

See NSBA Letter; RocketHub Letter 1. See also Applied Dynamite Letter (stating that the requirements for
those who wish to be intermediaries in offerings pursuant to Rule 506 of Regulation D should be
harmonized with those for funding portals, and that we should provide for a common registration process
for the two). We note, however, that Securities Act Section 4(b)(1) provides an exemption from brokerdealer registration for certain portals facilitating transactions pursuant to Rule 506 of Regulation D, as
revised by Section 201 of the JOBS Act.
201

multiple intermediary websites under a single registration application. 520 The commenter argued
that this will permit a registered funding portal to offer issuers the opportunity to offer their
securities on a funding portal website that is specific as to parameters such as industry,
geography, community and affinity group, which would result in a better organized market for
both issuers and investors.
One commenter asked us to consider the creation of a “Registered Portal-Check,” similar
to the BrokerCheck system maintained by FINRA, to provide greater transparency to participants
in Section 4(a)(6) transactions. 521 Another commenter asked us to require that funding portals,
like issuers engaged in crowdfunding transactions in reliance on Section 4(a)(6), be organized
under and subject to the laws of a State or territory of the United States or the District of
Columbia. 522
We are proposing to establish a streamlined registration process under which a funding
portal would register with the Commission by filing a form with information consistent with, but
less extensive than, the information required for broker-dealers on Form BD. 523 Under the
proposed rules, a funding portal would register by completing a Form Funding Portal, which
includes information concerning the funding portal’s principal place of business, its legal
520

See NCA Letter.

521

See CFIRA Letter 2 (further stating that the system should “clearly identify the registration status of a
funding portal and its management, display any regulatory actions against such portal and provide a
hyperlink to its website”).

522

See Liles Letter 2 (stating that this requirement would strengthen the ability of the Commission and other
U.S. authorities to make surprise audits or investigations of, or bring enforcement action against, a funding
portal).

523

See 158 CONG. REC. S2230-31 (daily ed. Mar. 29, 2012) (statement of Sen. Scott Brown) (“As the
Securities and Exchange Commission works to implement this new law, it is my hope that it will recognize
that the funding portal registration process is meant to be more streamlined and less burdensome than
traditional broker-dealer registration”); 158 CONG. REC. S1817-29 (daily ed. Mar. 20, 2012) (statement of
Sen. Jeff Merkley) (“Our amendment provides two pathways: The first pathway is for a portal to register
as a broker-dealer. The second is streamlined funding portal registration.”).
202

organization and its disciplinary history, if any; business activities, including the types of
compensation the funding portal would receive; control affiliates of the funding portal and
disclosure of their disciplinary history, if any; FINRA membership or membership with any
other registered national securities association; and the funding portal’s website address(es) or
other means of access. 524 We also are proposing, as discussed in greater detail below, not to
permit nonresident entities to register as funding portals unless they comply with certain
conditions designed to provide the Commission and FINRA (or any other registered national
securities association) with appropriate tools for supervising such entities.
The funding portal’s registration would become effective the later of: (1) 30 calendar
days after the date that the registration is received by the Commission; or (2) the date the funding
portal is approved for membership in FINRA or any other registered national securities
association. This approach is intended to help ensure that a funding portal is subject to
regulation by the Commission and FINRA or any other national securities association before it
can engage in business with the public.
We also are proposing to require a funding portal to file an amendment to Form Funding
Portal within 30 days of any of the information previously submitted on Form Funding Portal
becoming inaccurate for any reason. 525
The proposed rules would permit a funding portal that succeeds to and continues the
business of a registered funding portal to also succeed to the registration of the predecessor on

524

See proposed Rule 400(a) of Regulation Crowdfunding. We discuss below the information required to be
included in the form.

525

See proposed Rule 400(b) of Regulation Crowdfunding. A similar process exists for registered brokerdealers under Exchange Act Rule 15b3-1 (17 CFR 240.15b3-1).
203

Form Funding Portal. 526 The registration would be deemed to remain effective as the
registration of the successor, if the successor, within 30 days after such succession, files a
registration on Form Funding Portal and the predecessor files a withdrawal on Form Funding
Portal. 527 The rule would further provide that, if succession is based solely on a change of the
predecessor’s date or state of incorporation, form of organization or composition of a
partnership, the successor may, within 30 days after the succession, amend the notice registration
of the predecessor on Form Funding Portal to reflect these changes. Form Funding Portal would
require the successor to provide certain information, such as the name and Commission file
number of the predecessor. The successor also would be required to briefly describe details of
the succession, including any assets or liabilities not assumed by the successor.
The proposed rules are intended to provide an efficient registration mechanism for a
person that becomes a successor to a funding portal. 528 The provisions on succession are
intended to be used only when there is a direct and substantial business nexus between the
predecessor and the successor. 529 The proposed rules would not be designed for use by a
funding portal in order to sell its registration, eliminate substantial liabilities, spin off personnel
or facilitate the transfer of a “shell” organization that does not conduct a funding portal business.
To require that there be a legitimate connection between the predecessor and the successor, the

526

See proposed Rule 400(c) of Regulation Crowdfunding.

527

Under the proposed rules, the registration of the predecessor funding portal would be deemed withdrawn 45
days after the notice registration on Form Funding Portal is filed by the successor. A similar process exists
for registered broker-dealers under Exchange Act Rule 15b1-3 (17 CFR 240.15b1-3).

528

We are proposing to treat funding portal successions in a manner consistent with broker-dealer successions.
See Registration of Successors to Broker-Dealers and Investment Advisers, Release No. 34-31661 (Dec. 28,
1992) [58 FR 7 (Jan. 4, 1993)].

529

We are proposing that a direct and substantial nexus exist between a predecessor and successor funding
portal to be consistent with the applicable rules for broker-dealer successions.
204

instructions to the proposed Form Funding Portal would limit the term “successor” to an entity
that assumes or acquires substantially all of the assets and liabilities of the predecessor funding
portal’s business. In addition, the proposed rule would not apply where the predecessor funding
portal intends to continue to engage in funding portal activities. 530
In certain circumstances, the proposed rule would allow the successor to file an
amendment to the predecessor’s Form Funding Portal. Successions by amendment would be
limited to those successions that result from a formal change in the structure or legal status of the
funding portal but do not result in a change in control. 531 Assuming that there is no change in
control, succession by amendment would be available for changes in the form of organization, in
legal status and in composition of a partnership.
In all other successions, the successor would be able to operate under the registration of
the predecessor for a limited period of time only if it files its own completed application for
registration on Form Funding Portal within 30 days after such succession. Examples of the types
of successions that would require this type of application filing would include, but not be limited
to, acquisitions and consolidations.
The proposed rules would require a funding portal to promptly file a withdrawal of
registration on Form Funding Portal upon ceasing to operate as a funding portal. 532 The
withdrawal would be effective on the later of 30 days after receipt by the Commission, after the
funding portal is no longer operational, within such longer period of time as to which the funding
portal consents or within such period of time as to which the Commission, by order, may
530

See proposed Rule 400(c)(1) of Regulation Crowdfunding, which requires the predecessor funding portal to
file a withdrawal on Form Funding Portal as a condition of the successor registration.

531

See proposed Rule 400(c)(2) of Regulation Crowdfunding.

532

See proposed Rule 400(d) of Regulation Crowdfunding.
205

determine as necessary or appropriate in the public interest or for the protection of investors. 533
This delaying provision would provide time to evaluate whether a withdrawal is the result of a
legitimate winding down of a funding portal’s business or whether there are additional factors to
consider in connection with the funding portal’s withdrawal that are relevant to the protection of
investors. Based on such information, we would determine whether any actions, including
enforcement proceedings, should be taken against the withdrawing funding portal.
The proposed rules 534 provide that each application for registration, amendment thereto,
successor registration or withdrawal would be considered filed when a complete Form Funding
Portal is submitted with the Commission or its designee. The proposed rules also require
duplicate originals of the application to be filed with surveillance personnel designated by the
registered national securities association of which the funding portal is a member.
Under the approach to registration that we are proposing, and as described by the
requirements of proposed Form Funding Portal (discussed below), a funding portal would be
able to operate multiple website addresses under a single funding portal registration, provided the
funding portal discloses on Form Funding Portal all the websites and names under which it does
business. Allowing for multiple website addresses might allow a funding portal to customize
each address to fit its specific needs, such as appealing to certain industries or investors while
reducing regulatory costs. We recognize that permitting multiple website addresses by a single
registrant could result in investors being confused about the identity of the registrant. We

533

A similar process exists for registered broker-dealers under Exchange Act Section 15(b)(5) (15 U.S.C.
78o(b)(5)) and Rule 15b6-1 (17 CFR 240.15b6-1) thereunder.

534

See proposed Rule 400(e) of Regulation Crowdfunding.
206

believe, however, that the potential for confusion is justified by the value of the additional
flexibility afforded to intermediaries. 535
One commenter requested that we implement a system similar to the BrokerCheck
system operated by FINRA for registered funding portals. 536 We are not proposing that the
Commission create such a system at this time because, as discussed below, the information in a
funding portal’s completed Form Funding Portal would be available for public viewing through
the Commission’s website or other such electronic system, as determined by the Commission in
the future, subject to the redaction of certain personally identifiable information, or other
information with a significant potential for misuse, of the contact person(s) or other identified
individuals of the funding portal.
Request for Comment
189. Is the proposed method for registration appropriate? Why or why not? Are
there methods that would be less burdensome to potential funding portals while
not impairing investor protection? If so, what are those methods?
190. Should we impose other restrictions or prohibitions on affiliations of the funding
portal, such as affiliation with a registered broker-dealer or registered transfer
agent? If so, what are they and why?
191. Should the Commission, as proposed, permit a funding portal to have multiple
intermediary websites under a single registration application? Why or why not?
b.

Form Funding Portal

535

We note that brokers are currently required to prominently disclose in any retail communications their
name, or the name under which their broker-dealer business is primarily conducted as disclosed on their
registration form. See FINRA Rule 2210(d)(3).

536

See CFIRA Letter 2.
207

A funding portal seeking to register with the Commission would need to file a completed
Form Funding Portal with the Commission.537 We propose to make a blank Form Funding
Portal available through the Commission’s website or such other electronic database, as
determined by the Commission in the future.
To access the registration system and enter information on Form Funding Portal, a
funding portal would have to first establish an account and obtain credentials (i.e., username and
password). We propose that an applicant would need to fill out general user information fields,
including name, address, phone number, e-mail address, organization name and employer
identification number, and user account information (i.e., username and password), and select
and answer a security question. Once accepted by the registration system, the applicant would
receive an e-mail notification that the account has been established, and the applicant would be
able to access and complete Form Funding Portal. We anticipate that applicants ordinarily
would obtain access credentials the same day that they are requested.
In order to complete Form Funding Portal, a funding portal would be required to check a
box indicating the purpose for which the funding portal is filing the form:
•

to register as a funding portal with the Commission, through an initial application;

•

to amend any part of the funding portal’s most recent Form Funding Portal,
including a successor registration; or

•

to withdraw from registration as a funding portal with the Commission.

If the funding portal is submitting an amendment or withdrawing from registration, it also
would be necessary to provide the Commission file number assigned to the funding portal at the

537

See proposed Rule 400(a) of Regulation Crowdfunding.
208

time of its initial application to register. This information would be used to cross-reference
amendments and withdrawals to the original registration, thus allowing Form Funding Portal to
be used for the initial application to register, amendments to registration and withdrawal from
registration.
We intend proposed Form Funding Portal to be a streamlined version of Form BD. We
believe Form BD is an appropriate model for Form Funding Portal, because funding portals are
limited purpose brokers that are conditionally exempt from registration as broker-dealers. There
are certain questions on Form BD that we believe are not applicable to funding portals. For
example, a funding portal is prohibited from holding or maintaining customer funds or securities;
therefore, proposed Form Funding Portal, unlike Form BD, does not include any questions about
holding customer funds and securities. Funding portals also are restricted in their activities in
ways that broker-dealers are not; thus, proposed Form Funding Portal includes particular
questions that address these differences. For example, because a funding portal is prohibited
from holding and maintaining customer funds, proposed Form Funding Portal would request
information about a funding portal’s escrow arrangements. As funding portals also are subject to
certain compensation restrictions, Form Funding Portal would require a description of the
funding portal’s compensation arrangements.
Form Funding Portal seeks to strike a balance between efficiency in completing the form
and requesting sufficient information from funding portals. The proposed form consists of eight
sections, including items related to: identifying information, form of organization, successions,
control persons, disclosure information, non-securities related business, escrow, and
compensation arrangements, and withdrawal. These items would require an applicant to provide
certain basic identifying and contact information concerning its business; list its direct owners
209

and executives; identify persons that directly or indirectly control the funding portal, control the
management or policies of the funding portal and persons the funding portal controls; and supply
information about its litigation and disciplinary history and the litigation and disciplinary history
of its associated persons. 538 In addition, an applicant would be required to describe any nonsecurities related business activities and supply information about its escrow arrangements,
compensation arrangements with issuers and fidelity bond. 539 Upon a filing to withdraw from
registration, a funding portal would be required to provide certain books and records
information. In addition, as discussed in detail below, 540 applicants that are incorporated in or
organized under the laws of a jurisdiction outside of the United States or its territories, or whose
principal place of business is not in the United States or its territories, would be required to
complete Schedule C to Form Funding Portal, which requires information about the applicant’s
arrangements to have an agent for service of process in the United States, as well as an opinion
of counsel addressing the ability of the applicant to provide the Commission and the national
securities association of which it is a member with prompt access to its books and records and to
submit to onsite inspection and examination by the Commission and the national securities
association.

538

This information would be used to determine whether to approve an application for registration, to decide
whether to revoke registration, to place limitations on the applicant’s activities as a funding portal and to
identify potential problem areas on which to focus during examinations. If an applicant or its associated
person has a disciplinary history, then the applicant could be required to complete the appropriate
Disclosure Reporting Page (“DRP”), either Criminal, Regulatory, Civil Judicial, Bankruptcy, Bond or
Judgment.

539

See Section II.D.1.c. below.

540

See Section II.D.1.d. below.
210

We propose that a person duly authorized to bind the funding portal be required to sign
Form Funding Portal in order to execute the documents. 541 A person executing Form Funding
Portal and Schedule C (if applicable) would be required to represent that the person has executed
the form on behalf of, and is duly authorized to bind, the funding portal; the information and
statements contained in the form and other information filed are current, true and complete; and
if the person is filing an amendment, to the extent that any information previously submitted is
not amended, such information is currently accurate and complete. 542 The funding portal also
would be required to consent that service of any civil action brought by, or notice of any
proceeding before, the Commission or any national securities association of which it is a
member, in connection with the funding portal’s investment-related business, may be given by
registered or certified mail to the funding portal’s contact person at the main address, or mailing
address, on the form. 543
We believe that this information is important for our oversight of funding portals,
including, among other things, assessing a funding portal’s application and performing
examinations of funding portals, and that it is pertinent to investors and issuers. We propose to
make all current Forms Funding Portal, including amendments and registration withdrawal
requests, immediately accessible and searchable by the public, with the exception of certain
personally identifiable information or other information with significant potential for misuse
(including the contact employee’s direct phone number and e-mail address and any IRS
Employer Identification Number, social security number, date of birth, or any other similar

541
542
543

See execution statement of proposed Form Funding Portal.
See id.
See id.
211

information). 544 Making these documents publicly available and searchable would enhance
transparency of the registration process and the funding portal industry as it develops, while the
limited redactions would appropriately protect the privacy of the individuals involved.
Request for Comment
192. What type of web-based registration should the Commission use for accessing
Form Funding Portal? Would a system like EDGAR be appropriate, or would a
different type of system be preferable? Why?
193. Should we consider alternatives to creating a new form for funding portal
registration? Should we amend the existing Form BD to provide for funding
portal registration? Why or why not? Which questions on Form BD would be
relevant to funding portals and why? Are there other questions we should
include for funding portals that are not on the proposed Form Funding Portal or
in existing Form BD? If so, which questions and why?
194. Are there types of information (other than personally identifiable information)
required by proposed Form Funding Portal that should not be made readily
accessible to the public? If so, what types of information and why?
195. Should we require the identifying and contact information requested on Form
Funding Portal, or should it be modified in any way? Should additional
information be required? If so, which information and why?
196. Are the proposed disclosures in Form Funding Portal unduly burdensome? Are
there certain requirements that should be eliminated or modified? Which

544

See the proposed Instructions to Form Funding Portal.
212

requirements and why? Would such changes be consistent with investor
protection?
197. Should proposed Form Funding Portal be modified to request from funding
portals a narrative description of their compliance programs and due diligence
procedures with respect to issues? Would some other form of reporting be more
useful? Why or why not?
198. Are the proposed representations required of a person who executes Form
Funding Portal appropriate? Should the Commission require attestations? If so,
from whom?
199. Should we require any other information from a funding portal that is
withdrawing from registration?
c.

Fidelity Bond

The proposed rules would require, as a condition of registration, that a funding portal
have in place, and thereafter maintain for the duration of such registration, a fidelity bond 545 that:
(1) has a minimum coverage of $100,000; (2) covers any associated person of the funding portal
unless otherwise excepted in the rules set forth by FINRA or any other registered national
securities association of which it is a member; and (3) meets any other applicable requirements,
as set forth by FINRA or any other registered national securities association of which it is a
member. 546

545

A fidelity bond is a type of insurance that aims to protect its holder against certain types of losses,
including but not limited to those caused by the malfeasance of the holder’s officers and employees, and
the effect of such losses on the holder’s capital. See Release No. 34-63961 (Feb. 24, 2011) [76 FR 11542
(Mar. 2, 2011)].

546

See proposed Rule 400(f) of Regulation Crowdfunding.
213

Although not mandated by the statute, we believe that a fidelity bond requirement would
help insure against the loss of investor funds that might occur if, for example, a funding portal
were to violate the prohibition set forth in Section 304(b) of the JOBS Act on holding, managing,
possessing or otherwise handling investor funds or securities. This is a meaningful protection
because funding portals would not be members of the Securities Investor Protection Corporation
(“SIPC”). If a firm is a SIPC member and goes out of business, then the cash and securities held
for each customer by that firm are generally protected up to $500,000, including a $250,000 limit
for cash. 547 Because funding portals are non-SIPC members, 548 funding portal customers would
not receive this SIPC protection. Furthermore, given that we are not proposing to require,
pursuant to our discretionary authority, that funding portals be subject to minimum net capital
requirements, a fidelity bond would provide a single layer of protection, in the event of such
losses. While the proposed rule imposes this requirement as a condition to registration, we
anticipate that, like the fidelity bond requirement registered broker-dealers are currently subject
to pursuant to SRO rules, specific requirements of the fidelity bond for funding portals would be
set forth in rules of FINRA or any other registered national securities association. In recognition
of the limits on the amounts investors may invest, and the amounts issuers may raise, through
crowdfunding, as provided in Section 4(a)(6), we propose to require that funding portals’ fidelity
bonds have an amount of coverage that is equivalent to the minimum amount of coverage

547

See the Securities Investor Protection Act of 1970, Pub. L. No. 91-598 (1970).

548

Membership in SIPC applies only to persons registered as brokers or dealers under Section 15(b) of the
Exchange Act. See 15 U.S.C. 78ccc(a)(2).
214

registered broker-dealers are required to have under FINRA Rule 4360, which is $100,000. 549
Furthermore, we believe that fidelity bond coverage would be most effective if it covers actions
by not only the funding portal entity, but also all of its associated persons.
Request for Comment
200. Is it appropriate for us to require a funding portal to have a fidelity bond? Why
or why not?
201. With respect to the fidelity bond requirement, is the proposed coverage of
$100,000 appropriate for funding portals? If not, what other amount or formula
for calculating the required amount would be more appropriate and why?
202. Is it appropriate to require the fidelity bond to cover associated persons of the
funding portal? Why or why not?
203. Are there other specific terms of a fidelity bond that we should consider
requiring? If so, what terms and why?
204. Apart from requiring a funding portal to have a fidelity bond, is there some other
requirement that could be imposed on funding portals, like insurance or
something similar to SIPC, which would further protect investors? If so, what
type of requirement and why?
d. Requirements for Nonresident Funding Portals
Although there is no statutory requirement that funding portals be domestic entities, we
are mindful of our ability to effectively oversee this new category of registrants – as well as more

549

See FINRA Rule 4360. Introducing brokers, like funding portals, do not hold customer funds and
securities. Introducing brokers are required to maintain a minimum bond of $100,000 under current SRO
rules, and we are proposing the same minimum amount for funding portals.
215

generally the development of the new crowdfunding market and role of intermediaries in that
market – given the greater challenges entailed in supervising, examining, and enforcing the
requirements that would be applicable to activities of intermediaries based outside the United
States. 550 At the same time, we recognize that the use of funding portals located outside the
United States could provide more choices for U.S. issuers seeking to engage an intermediary to
facilitate a crowdfunding offering, and potentially expand those issuers’ access to investors
located abroad. In seeking to strike an appropriate balance among these considerations, we
propose not to permit nonresident entities to register as funding portals unless they comply with
certain conditions designed to provide the Commission and FINRA (or any other registered
national securities association) with appropriate tools for supervising such entities.
Under the proposed rules, registration pursuant to Rule 400 of Regulation Crowdfunding
by a nonresident funding portal (a funding portal incorporated in or organized under the laws of
any jurisdiction outside of the United States or its territories, or having its principal place of
business outside the United States or its territories) 551 would be first conditioned upon there
being an information sharing arrangement in place between the Commission and the competent
regulator in the jurisdiction under the laws of which the nonresident funding portal is organized
or where it has its principal place of business that is applicable to the nonresident funding portal.
The proposed rules would further require a nonresident funding portal to (1) obtain a written
consent and power of attorney appointing an agent for service of process in the United States
(other than the Commission or a Commission member, official or employee), upon whom may

550

The exemption under Section 4(a)(6) is not available for a transaction involving the offer or sale of
securities by an issuer that is not organized under and subject to the laws of a State or territory of the
United States or the District of Columbia. See Section 4A(f), discussed in Section II.A.3 above.

551

See proposed Rule 400(g)(1) of Regulation Crowdfunding.
216

be served any process, pleadings, or other papers in any action; (2) furnish the Commission with
the name and address of its agent for services of process on Schedule C of Form Funding Portal;
(3) certify that it can, as a matter of law, provide the Commission and any national securities
association of which it is a member with prompt access to its books and records and can, as a
matter of law, submit to onsite inspection and examination by the Commission; and (4) provide
the Commission with an opinion of counsel and certify on Schedule C on Form Funding Portal
that the firm can, as a matter of law, provide the Commission and such national securities
association with prompt access to its books and records and can, as a matter of law, submit to
onsite inspection and examination by the Commission and the national securities association. 552
In general, the requirements for nonresident funding portals that we are proposing are
consistent with those we have proposed for other nonresident entities subject to our regulation. 553
These requirements aim to ensure that funding portals that are not based in the United States, or
that are subject to laws other than those of the United States, would nevertheless be accessible to
us and other relevant regulators for purposes of accessing the books and records of, conducting
examinations and inspections of, and enforcing U.S. laws and regulations with respect to, these
entities.
Requirements for a nonresident funding portal to obtain an agent for service of process in
the United States, and to furnish the Commission with the name and address of this agent, are

552

553

See proposed Rule 400(g) of Regulation Crowdfunding. Exchange Act Section 3(h)(1)(C) permits us to
impose, as part of our authority to exempt funding portals from broker registration, “such other
requirements under [the Exchange Act] as the Commission determines appropriate.”
See, e.g., Registration of Security-Based Swap Dealers and Major Security-Based Swap Participants,
Release No. 34-65543 (Oct. 12, 2011) [76 FR 65784 (Oct. 24, 2011)], at 65799 – 65801. See also CrossBorder Security-Based Swap Activities; Re-Proposal of Regulation SBSR and Certain Rules and Forms
Relating to the Registration of Security-Based Swap Dealers and Major Security-Based Swap Participants,
Release No. 34-69490 (May 1, 2013) [78 FR 30968 (May 23, 2013)].
217

important to facilitate enforcement of the federal securities laws and the rules thereunder by the
Commission and others (e.g., the U.S. Department of Justice and any other agency or entity with
law enforcement authority). The proposed rules also would require a registered nonresident
funding portal to promptly appoint a successor agent if it discharges its identified agent for
service of process or if its agent for service of process is unwilling or unable to accept service on
its behalf. A registered funding portal must promptly amend Schedule C to its Form Funding
Portal if its agent, or the agent’s name or address, changes. Finally, the proposed rules would
require the registered nonresident funding portal to maintain, as part of its books and records, the
agreement with the agent for service of process for at least three years after termination of the
agreement.
The proposed rules would require that each nonresident funding portal provide an opinion
of counsel and certify, as a matter of law, that it can provide the Commission, and the national
securities association of which it is a member, with prompt access to its books and records and
submit to onsite inspections and examinations. We believe that this proposed certification and
supporting opinion of counsel are important to confirm that each nonresident funding portal is in
the position to provide the Commission and the national securities association with information
that is necessary for us and the national securities association to effectively fulfill our regulatory
oversight responsibilities. 554 Commenters have previously brought to our attention that it may
conflict with the laws of certain jurisdictions to provide such an opinion. 555 Failure to make this

554

See Exchange Act Section 3(h)(1)(A).

555

See comment letter from Sarah A. Miller, Chief Executive Officer, Institute of International Bankers, dated
August 21, 2013, available at https://www.sec.gov.edgekey.net/comments/s7-34-10/s73410.shtml. See
also comment letters from Patrick Pearson, European Commission, dated August 21, 2013, and Kenneth E
Bentsen, Jr., Executive Vice President, Public Policy and Advocacy, Securities Industry and Financial
Markets Association, dated December 16, 2011, available at https://www.sec.gov.edgekey.net/comments/
218

certification or provide an opinion of counsel would provide a basis to deny an application for
registration.
The requirement for an information sharing agreement is designed to provide the
Commission greater assurance that it will be able to obtain the information about a nonresident
funding portal necessary for the Commission’s oversight of the nonresident funding portal. The
home country regulator may possess information concerning, for example, the funding portal’s
affiliations, contractual relationships with issuers, and the nature and extent of measures taken to
protect investors. In this context, particularly in the event that evidence arises of potential
fraudulent or other unlawful activity by a nonresident funding portal, the ability to obtain
information and secure the cooperation of the home country regulator according to established
practices and protocols should help to address the increased challenges that may arise from
oversight of entities located outside the United States.
A registered nonresident funding portal also would be required to re-certify, on Schedule
C to Form Funding Portal, within 90 days after any relevant changes in its legal or regulatory
framework, and provide a revised opinion of counsel confirming that, as a matter of law, the
entity will continue to meet its obligations to provide the Commission and the national securities
association with prompt access to its books and records and to be subject to inspection and
examination. Failure to make this certification or provide an opinion of counsel may be a basis
for the Commission to revoke the nonresident funding portal’s registration.
Request for Comment

s7-34-10/s73410.shtml; comment letter from Carlos Tavares, Vice-Chairman, European Securities and
Markets Authority, dated January 17, 2011, available at http://www.sec.gov/comments/s7-35-10/s7351019.pdf.
219

205. Is the term nonresident funding portal defined appropriately? If not, how should
it be modified? Please explain.
206. Should the Commission impose additional or different conditions for
nonresident funding portals than those proposed? If so, what conditions, and
why? Should any be eliminated? Why or why not? What effect might such
conditions have on the development of the industry and the market, and on
issuers and investors? Please explain.
207. If, as a matter of law, it would be impossible or impractical for a nonresident
funding portal to obtain the required opinion of counsel, what other actions or
requirements could address our concern that we and the national securities
association would be able to have direct access to books and records and
adequately examine and inspect the funding portal?
208. Should any of the proposed requirements be more specific? For example,
should only certain types of entities (such as law firms) be allowed to act as U.S.
agents for service of process? Please explain.
209. Should a nonresident funding portal be required to appoint a U.S. agent
for purposes of all potential legal proceedings, including those from
nongovernmental entities? Why or why not?
210. Should we require the opinion of counsel if it might contradict the laws
of a jurisdiction where an intermediary is incorporated? Why or why
not? If not, should we impose an alternative requirement?
211. Should

we specify that the opinion of counsel contain any additional information?

For instance, should we require the opinion to reference the applicable local law
220

or, in the case of an amendment, the manner in which the local law was
amended? Please explain.
2.

Exemption from Broker-Dealer Registration

Exchange Act Section 3(h)(1) directs the Commission to exempt, conditionally or
unconditionally, a registered funding portal from the requirement to register as a broker or dealer
under Exchange Act Section 15(a), provided that the funding portal: (1) remains subject to the
examination, enforcement and other rulemaking authority of the Commission; (2) is a member of
a registered national securities association; and (3) is subject to other requirements that the
Commission determines appropriate. The proposed rules would exempt a registered funding
portal from the broker registration requirements of Exchange Act Section 15(a)(1), in connection
with its activities as a funding portal. 556
But for the exemption from registration Congress directed, a funding portal would be
required to register as a broker under the Exchange Act. 557 The obligations imposed under the
JOBS Act on an entity acting as an intermediary in a crowdfunding transaction would bring that
entity within the definition of “broker” under Exchange Act Section 3(a)(4). A funding portal
would be “effecting transactions in securities for the account of others” by, among other things,
ensuring that investors comply with the conditions of Securities Act Section 4A(a)(4) and (8),
making the securities available for purchase through the funding portal, and ensuring the proper

556

See proposed Rule 401(a) of Regulation Crowdfunding.

557

See Exchange Act Section 3(a)(4)(A) [15 U.S.C. 78c(a)(4)(A)] (defining “broker” as “any person engaged
in the business of effecting transactions in securities for the account of others”). An entity acting as an
intermediary in the offer and sale of securities pursuant to Section 4(a)(6), as contemplated in Title III of
the JOBS Act, would not come within the meaning of “dealer,” which is defined in Exchange Act Section
3(a)(5)(A) (15 U.S.C. 78c(a)(4)(A)), because it would not be engaging in the business of buying and selling
securities for its own account. See also Exchange Act Section 15(a) [15 U.S.C. 15o(a)] and proposed Rule
300(b) of Regulation Crowdfunding.
221

transfer of funds and securities as required by Securities Act Section 4A(a)(7). 558 In addition, a
funding portal’s receipt of compensation linked to the successful completion of the offering also
would be indicative of acting as a broker in connection with these transactions.
Pursuant to Exchange Act Section 3(h)(1), as stated above, we are proposing rules that
would exempt an intermediary that is registered as a funding portal from the requirement to
register as a broker-dealer under Exchange Act 15(a)(1). Consistent with the JOBS Act, the
funding portal would remain subject to the full range of our examination and enforcement
authority. 559 In this regard, the proposed rules would require that a funding portal permit the
examination and inspection of all of its business and business operations that relate to its
activities as a funding portal, such as its premises, systems, platforms and records, by
representatives of the Commission, and of the national securities association of which it is a
member. 560 The proposed rules also would impose certain recordkeeping requirements. 561

558

At the same time, there are statutory restrictions on the scope of services that a funding portal could
provide. Among other things, a funding portal could act as an intermediary only in transactions involving
the offer or sale of securities pursuant to Securities Act Section 4(a)(6). Further, a funding portal, by
definition, could not offer investment advice or recommendations; solicit purchases, sales, or offers to buy
the securities offered or displayed on its website or portal; compensate persons for such solicitation or
based on the sale of securities displayed or referenced on its website or portal; or hold manage, possess or
otherwise handle investor funds or securities. See generally Exchange Act Section 3(a)(80).

559

See Exchange Act Section 3(h)(1)(C). See also Securities Act Section 20 [15 U.S.C. 77t] and Exchange
Act Sections 21 and 21C [15 U.S.C. 78u and 78u-3]. In addition, we highlight that Exchange Act Sections
15(b)(4) and 15(b)(6) (15 U.S.C. 78o(b)(4) and 78o(b)(6)) apply to brokers (including funding portals)
regardless of whether or not they are registered with the Commission as brokers. Exchange Act Section
15(b)(4) authorizes the Commission to bring administrative proceedings against a broker when the broker
violates the federal securities laws (and for other misconduct) and provides for the imposition of sanctions,
up to and including the revocation of a broker’s registration. Exchange Act Section 15(b)(6) provides
similar enforcement authority against the persons associated with a broker, including barring persons from
associating with any Commission registrant. See Section II.D.3 below for further discussion, in response to
commenters’ concerns, about the scope of permissible activities in which funding portals may engage under
the safe harbor of proposed Rule 402.

560

See proposed Rule 403 of Regulation Crowdfunding. See also discussion in Section II.D.4 below.

561

See proposed Rule 404 of Regulation Crowdfunding. See also discussion in Section II.D.5 below.
222

The proposed rules would provide that, notwithstanding this exemption from broker
registration, for purposes of Chapter X of Title 31 of the Code of Federal Regulations, a funding
portal would be deemed to be “required to be registered” as a broker with the Commission under
the Exchange Act, thereby requiring funding portals to comply with Chapter X, including certain
anti-money laundering (“AML”) provisions thereunder. 562
Request for Comment
212. Is the proposed exemption for funding portals from broker registration
appropriate? Why or why not?
213. Should the exemption be conditioned on the funding portal remaining in
compliance with Subpart D of the proposed rules? Why or why not?
214. Is it appropriate to propose to require funding portals to comply with the same
requirements for purposes of Chapter X of Title 31 of the Code of Federal
Regulations as imposed on a person required to be registered as a broker or a
dealer? Why or why not?
215. Should the proposed exemption from broker registration be conditioned upon a
funding portal’s compliance with applicable Subpart C and D rules of proposed
Regulation Crowdfunding? Why or why not? Should the failure to comply with
562

See 31 CFR 1010.100(h) and 1023.100(b) (defining broker or dealer for purposes of the applicability of
AML requirements). See Currency and Foreign Transactions Reporting Act of 1970 (commonly referred to
as the Bank Secrecy Act (“BSA”)) [12. U.S.C. 1829b, 12 U.S.C. 1951-1959, 31 U.S.C. 5311-5330]. See
also proposed Rule 403(b) of Regulation Crowdfunding and discussion in Section II.D.4 below. Securities
Act Section 4A(a)(12) requires intermediaries to comply with requirements as the Commission may, by
rule, prescribe for the protection of investors and in the public interest. As discussed in Sections II.C.1 and
II.D.2 above, a funding portal is a broker that, in the absence of the exemption from the requirement to
register as a broker or dealer provided for under the JOBS Act in Exchange Act Section 3(h)(1), would
otherwise be required to register as a broker under Section 15(a) (15 U.S.C. 78o) of the Exchange Act, and
by being so registered, would be subject to the full range of BSA obligations applicable to registered
broker-dealers. As discussed further in Section II.D.4.b below, we believe such obligations also should be
imposed on funding portals.
223

certain requirements cause a funding portal to lose its exemption? If so, which
requirements and why? Under what circumstances should the Commission
consider revoking the exemption of a funding portal that fails to comply with
these requirements?
3.

Safe Harbor for Certain Activities

Exchange Act Section 3(a)(80) provides that a funding portal may not offer investment
advice or make recommendations; solicit purchases, sales or offers to buy the securities offered
or displayed on its platform or portal; compensate employees, agents or other persons for such
solicitation or based on the sale of securities displayed or referenced on its platform or portal;
hold, manage, possess or otherwise handle investor funds or securities; or engage in such other
activities as the Commission, by rule, determines appropriate.
We received a number of comments concerning the scope and definition of permissible
activities for a funding portal. A number of commenters sought guidance on services they might
be permitted to provide consistent with the prohibition on offering investment advice or
recommendations. 563 We also received comments seeking clarification about the prohibitions on
funding portals soliciting investors and handling funds and securities. 564
One commenter asked us to clarify what activities would constitute prohibited investment
advice and suggested that the Commission should establish “bright lines” that would make it
clear how a funding portal can avoid being viewed as giving prohibited investment advice. 565

563

See, e.g., NCA Letter; NSBA Letter; CFIRA Letter 2.

564

See, e.g., CFIRA Letter 2; NCA Letter; Wright Letter 1; RocketHub Letter 1; Grow VC Letter.

565

See CFIRA Letter 2.
224

This commenter and others provided numerous examples of potential funding portal activities,
including:
•

advising issuers on the structure and contents of their offerings; 566

•

providing access to the portal’s platform to certain issuers and rejecting or removing
others, based on criteria such as the “type” or “market characteristics” of the offerings
(e.g., film production securities, women- or minority-owned businesses or businesses
in specific geographical areas); 567

•

removing an offering before the end of the offering period for lack of investor
interest; 568

•

removing an issuer for failing to provide documents responsive to the funding portal’s
due diligence or qualification standards, including standards other than those
established by our rules, 569 or the portal’s belief that an offering or the issuer may be
fraudulent or abusive; 570

•

highlighting, or otherwise making more prominent, the offering(s) of one or more
issuers; 571

•

organizing issuers listed on the funding portal’s platform into groups based on the
funding portal’s view of the riskiness of the investment; 572

566
567
568
569

See id.
See NCA Letter; NSBA Letter.
See id.
See id.

570

See CFIRA Letter 3.

571

See RocketHub Letter 1; Wright Letter 1.

572

See id.
225

•

providing information management tools (i.e., search functions and automatic
notification mechanisms) on the funding portal’s platform; 573

•

providing a “valuation framework” that could guide investors in determining a fair
valuation for securities listed on the funding portal’s platform, while also creating a
“negotiation space” for an issuer and its potential investors; 574 and

•

hosting on the funding portal’s platform:
o third-party market and news updates; 575
o third-party opinions (including those of investors) on message boards and
other information exchanges moderated by the funding portal; 576 or
o judgments about issuers made by a funding portal or its vendors or
partners. 577

With regard to the prohibition on solicitation, one commenter noted that the mere act of
having a web platform available to the public on which issuers can list their offerings could be
viewed as impermissible solicitation. 578 Another commenter asked whether funding portals
would be permitted to compensate employees and agents to solicit issuers by commission,

573

See CFIRA Letter 3.

574

A “negotiation space” would provide some ability for investors to set or influence the price of the
securities, which would not necessarily depend on a specific valuation of the securities. See Pearfunds
Letter.

575

See RocketHub Letter 1; Wright Letter 2.

576

See CFIRA Letter 3; Applied Dynamite Letter; Grow VC Letter.

577

See Applied Dynamite Letter.

578

See Crowdfunding Offerings Ltd. Letter 2.
226

referral fee or otherwise. 579 Another commenter asked that we preserve the ability of funding
portals to pay for search listings or advertisements in online social networks. 580
Commenters requested that we identify the kinds of third parties that could hold,
manage, possess or otherwise handle investor funds and securities in connection with an offering
made in reliance on Section 4(a)(6). 581 One commenter stated that a fiduciary would likely hold
the funds for disposition as instructed by the funding portal and asked whether this instruction
would constitute an impermissible handling of the funds. 582 Another commenter stated that an
intermediary should be authorized by the issuer and investors to operate as an escrow agent to
facilitate transactions. 583 One commenter asserted that funding portals need the ability to
temporarily hold customer funds to properly clear and settle a securities transaction. 584 The
commenter further contended that, to ensure issuers are not overwhelmed with thousands of new
shareholders, intermediaries, including funding portals, should be able to act as nominees of the
investors who are the beneficial owners of the securities.
In light of these questions and comments, we are proposing to provide a non-exclusive,
conditional safe harbor for funding portals that engage in certain limited activities. 585 Failure of

579

See NCA Letter.

580

See Cera Technology Letter.

581

See Crowdfunding Offerings Ltd. Letter 2; NSBA Letter.

582

See Crowdfunding Offerings Ltd. Letter 4.

583

See RocketHub Letter 1 (further stating that the intermediary should be permitted to hold investor funds in
an escrow account that is segregated from the operating funds of the intermediary and that withdrawals
from the account only be permitted for: “payments to offerings that have successfully closed (having
reached or exceeded their funding goals); payments to investors requesting refunds of uncommitted funds;
or payment of established intermediary fees”).

584

See Grow VC Letter.

585

See proposed Rule 402 of Regulation Crowdfunding. The term “investment advice” is not defined in the
crowdfunding provisions of the JOBS Act or otherwise in the federal securities laws, and we do not include
a definition of that term in our proposal. In the context of interpreting the term “investment adviser,” the
227

a funding portal to meet the conditions of this non-exclusive safe harbor would not create a
presumption that the funding portal is in violation of the statutory prohibitions of Exchange Act
Section 3(a)(80) or the rules in proposed Regulation Crowdfunding. 586
In proposing the safe harbor, we are mindful that, while Section 304 of the JOBS Act
directs us to exempt a registered funding portal, conditionally or unconditionally, from brokerdealer registration and associated regulatory requirements, the statutory provisions also make
clear that the activities in which a funding portal may engage are far more limited than those of a
registered broker-dealer. 587 At the same time, we recognize that the statutory prohibitions could
be read so broadly as to limit the utility of funding portals. The proposed rule seeks to strike an
appropriate balance by identifying certain limited activities in which a funding portal may
engage, consistent with the statutory prohibitions. 588 These activities relate to:
•

limiting offerings made on or through the funding portal’s platform based on
eligibility requirements;

determination of whether a particular communication rises to the level of investment advice depends on the
facts and circumstances and is construed broadly. To the extent a funding portal limits its securities
activities to those permitted by the proposed rules, including the safe harbor, we preliminarily believe that
it would not come within the meaning of the term investment adviser under the Advisers Act. If it conducts
other activities, such as advising an issuer concerning the investment of proceeds in securities, however, it
would need to consider whether it comes within the meaning of that term under the Advisers Act. See
Advisers Act Section 202(a)(11) [15 U.S.C. 80b-2(a)(11)]. See also 2012 SEC Government-Business
Forum, note 29 (stating that there is a need for safe harbors that explicitly permit certain activities that may
otherwise be seen as indicia of broker-dealer status or activities that are prohibited or otherwise subject to
separate regulation).
586

See proposed Rule 402(a) of Regulation Crowdfunding.

587

See Exchange Act Section 3(a)(80). See also 158 CONG. REC. S5474-03 (daily ed. July 26, 2012)
(statement of Sen. Jeff Merkley) (“The Crowdfund Act is designed so that funding portals will be subject to
fewer regulatory requirements than broker-dealers because they will do fewer things than broker-dealers.
Among other limits, the law prohibits funding portals from engaging in solicitation, making
recommendations, and providing investment advice. Relative passivity and neutrality, especially with
respect to the investing public, are touchstones of the funding portal streamlined treatment.”).

588

See proposed Rule 402 of Regulation Crowdfunding.
228

•

highlighting and displaying offerings on the platform;

•

providing communication channels for potential investors and issuers;

•

providing search functions on the platform;

•

advising issuers on the structure or content of offerings;

•

compensating others for referring persons to the funding portal and for other services;
and

•

advertising the funding portal’s existence.

In addition, the proposed rules would clarify that, consistent with other provisions of
Regulation Crowdfunding, 589 funding portals may deny access to issuers in certain
circumstances, accept investment commitments and direct the transmission of funds, in
connection with offerings conducted on their platforms.


Limiting Offerings

We anticipate that some funding portals may wish to limit, to some extent, the scope of
their businesses by, for example, specializing in offerings by issuers in certain industries or
geographic locations. In some circumstances, these limitations could be viewed as providing
investment advice. To accommodate reasonable limitations, the proposed safe harbor would
permit a funding portal to apply objective criteria to limit the offerings on its platform, without
being deemed to be providing investment advice. 590 Those criteria would be required to be
reasonably designed to result in a broad selection of issuers offering securities through the
funding portal’s platform and be applied consistently to all potential issuers and offerings, so as

589

See, e.g., proposed Rules 303(d) and 303(e) of Regulation Crowdfunding.

590

See proposed Rule 402(b)(1) of Regulation Crowdfunding.
229

not to recommend or implicitly endorse one issuer or offering over others. The criteria also
would be required to be clearly displayed on the funding portal’s platform.
The requirements that the objective criteria be reasonably designed to result in a broad
selection of issuers, and be applied consistently, are intended to ensure that the funding portal
does not provide impermissible investment advice by, for example, applying criteria that would
so limit the number of issuers that the funding portal could be viewed as providing an implicit
endorsement or recommendation of those issuers’ offerings. An issuer that meets these criteria,
and is not otherwise disqualified, would, subject to the funding portal’s measures to reduce the
risk of fraud under proposed Rule 301, 591 be eligible to list its offering on the funding portal’s
platform.
One criterion could include the type of security being offered (such as common stock,
preferred stock or debt securities). We believe that this criterion would be appropriate because
potential investors may be interested in certain types of securities as a consideration separate
from the identity of issuers. Other criteria also could include the geographic location of the
issuer or the industry or business segment of the issuer. We believe that these criteria would be
appropriate because a funding portal may wish to specialize and focus its efforts on facilitating
offerings in particular areas or industries. 592 The proposed rule would require funding portals to
disclose to investors the criteria they use to limit the offerings available on their platforms. This
should help investors better appreciate any niche focus of a funding portal and the scope of the
offerings available on the funding portal’s platform. In addition, we recognize that a funding

591

See discussion in Section II.C.3 above.

592

See, e.g., CrowdFund Connect Letter (stating that rural communities could build new local based cooperatives similar to the electric and telephone cooperatives for new technologies).
230

portal may seek to limit the number of issuers or offerings on its platform at any given time,
including for resource reasons. The application of the objective criteria could, in practice, result
in the number of issuers or offerings displayed on the platform being very small, such as, for
example, in the period soon after a funding portal begins operations. Nevertheless, we would not
consider the funding portal to be providing investment advice if the objective criteria are
designed to result in a broad selection of issuers.
To qualify for the safe harbor, a funding portal may not use criteria based on an
assessment of the merits or the shortcomings of a particular issuer or offering. In particular, a
funding portal may not deny access to an issuer based on the advisability of investing in the
issuer or its offering. 593 As noted above, one commenter stated that the prohibition on
investment advice could potentially preclude a funding portal from denying access to a
fraudulent offering or issuer. 594 This would place investors at unnecessary risk and would be
contrary to the funding portal’s obligation under the proposed rules to deny access to its platform
if it believes that the issuer or its offering presents potential for fraud or otherwise raises
concerns regarding investor protection. 595 Thus, as described above, a funding portal must deny
access if it believes that the issuer or its offering has potential for fraud or otherwise raises
concerns regarding investor protection. 596

593

Of course, a funding portal would be required to deny access to the issuer if the funding portal has a
reasonable basis for believing that issuer is subject to a disqualification or if the funding portal believes that
the issuer or the offering presents the potential for fraud or otherwise raises concerns regarding investor
protection. See proposed Rule 301(c) of Regulation Crowdfunding.

594

See CFIRA Letter 3.

595

See proposed Rule 301 of Regulation Crowdfunding.

596

Consistent with proposed Rule 301, proposed Rule 402(b)(10) of Regulation Crowdfunding would clarify
that a funding portal may deny access to an issuer if the funding portal believes that the issuer or its
offering has potential for fraud or otherwise raises concerns regarding investor protection.
231



Highlighting Issuers and Offerings

Under the proposed rules, a funding portal may highlight particular offerings of securities
made in reliance on Section 4(a)(6) on its platform based on objective criteria that may include:
the type of securities being offered (e.g., common stock, preferred stock or debt securities); the
geographic location of the issuer; the industry or business segment of the issuer; the number or
amount of investment commitments made; and the progress in meeting the target offering
amount or, if applicable, the maximum offering amount, and minimum or maximum investment
amount. 597 A potential investor, for example, may have a strong interest in supporting a small
issuer that is within the potential investor’s geographic vicinity. Other potential investors may
be interested in offerings that are about to close soon, that have particular maximum investment
amounts or that have generated significant interest from users of the funding portal’s platform.
Some investors may only be interested in offerings in which a significant percentage of the target
amount has been committed. 598 We believe that the listed criteria are sufficiently objective, so as
to reduce the risk of a funding portal applying them to advance a particular bias or subjective
assessment of the issuers or offerings.
Consistent with the prohibition on investment advice and recommendations, the criteria
must be reasonably designed to highlight a broad selection of issuers, so as not to recommend or
implicitly endorse one issuer or offering over another, and must be applied consistently to all
potential issuers and offerings. The selection criteria may not be based on an assessment of the
merits of a particular issuer or offering and must be clearly displayed on the funding portal’s
platform, to permit investors to comprehend on what basis certain issuers are being highlighted,
597

See proposed Rule 402(b)(2) of Regulation Crowdfunding.

598

See Howe, note 2.
232

and, thereby, to help prevent them from misconstruing the highlighting as a recommendation or
implicit endorsement of any issuer or offering. The funding portal may not highlight an issuer or
offering based on the advisability of investing in the issuer or offering. To help prevent conflicts
of interest and incentives for funding portals to favor certain issuers over others, the proposed
rules would prohibit a funding portal from receiving any special or additional compensation for
highlighting (or offering to highlight) one or more issuers or offerings on its platform. 599
Some commenters sought clarification whether funding portals could distinguish
offerings based on riskiness. 600 We are not proposing a safe harbor for this type of distinction at
this time, because we preliminarily believe that an assessment of risk necessarily involves the
exercise of judgment indicative of the giving of investment advice.


Providing Search Functions

The proposed rules would permit a funding portal to provide, on its platform, search
functions or other tools that users could use to search, sort or categorize the offerings available
on the funding portal’s platform according to objective criteria. 601 Search functions could help
potential investors to more efficiently search for offerings that focus on a specific industry,
funding goal or other criteria. Under the proposed rules, a funding portal also would be able to
categorize offerings into general subject areas, so that a potential investor could readily find
those offerings on the funding portal’s platform. The proposed rules would also permit more

599

See proposed Rule 402(b)(2)(iii) of Regulation Crowdfunding.

600

See RocketHub Letter 1; Wright Letter 1.

601

See proposed Rule 402(b)(3) Regulation Crowdfunding. See also 158 CONG. REC. 2231 (daily ed. Mar. 29,
2012) (statement of Sen. Scott Brown) (“Funding portals should be allowed to organize and sort
information based on certain criteria. This will make it easier for individuals to find the types of companies
in which they can potentially invest. This type of capability – commonly referred to as curation – should
not constitute investment advice.”).
233

granular tools that, for example, could provide a potential investor the ability to sort offerings
based on a combination of different criteria, such as by the percentage of the target offering
amount that has been met, geographic proximity to the investor and number of days remaining
before an offering is to close. 602 The objective criteria specified in the proposed rules are
consistent with those in the proposed safe harbor for highlighting issuers and offerings. 603
Consistent with the activities specifically prohibited by statute, funding portals would not be
permitted to use criteria that search, sort or categorize offerings based on the advisability of
investing in the issuer or its offering or an assessment of any characteristic of the issuer, its
business plan, its management, or risks associated with an investment. One commenter
questioned whether a funding portal could give potential investors the ability to create automated
e-mail notifications, based on criteria they have provided to identify particular offerings on the
funding portal’s platform. 604 The proposed rules would permit funding portals to do so.
We recognize that there are many potential ways that a tool or mechanism can be used to
search, sort or categorize offerings. The proposed rules are intended to be sufficiently broad to
cover any number of combinations of implementing tools or mechanisms for a search, while
limiting the search parameters to objective criteria.


Providing Communication Channels

The proposed rules would permit a funding portal to provide, on its platform,
communication channels by which investors could communicate with one another and with
representatives of the issuer about offerings of securities displayed on the funding portal’s

602

See proposed Rule 402(b)(3) of Regulation Crowdfunding.

603

See proposed Rule 402(b)(2)(ii) of Regulation Crowdfunding.

604

See CFIRA Letter 3.
234

platform, in accordance with the conditions set out in proposed Rule 303(c). 605 The safe harbor
would specify that a funding portal (including its associated persons, such as its employees) may
not participate in these communications, other than to establish guidelines about communication
and to remove abusive or potentially fraudulent communications. For the reasons discussed
above, a funding portal would be required to make communication channels available to the
general public and to restrict the posting of comments on those channels to those who have
accounts. 606 In addition, the funding portal would need to require persons posting comments to
disclose, in the channel, whether they receive or would receive any compensation for promoting
an issuer.
Communication channels should facilitate the access to information among members of
the public and provide potential investors with the crowd’s insight as to the merits of an issuer or
business plan. 607 Restricting funding portal participation should help to ensure that funding
portals do not provide impermissible recommendations or investment advice. Moreover,
requiring potential investors to have accounts with the funding portal before posting a comment
should provide a control that could aid in promoting accountability for comments made and help
ensure that interested persons, such as those associated with the issuer or receiving compensation
to promote the issuer, are properly identified. 608

605

See proposed Rule 402(b)(4) of Regulation Crowdfunding.

606

See discussion in Section II.C.5.c above and proposed Rule 303(c)(2) of Regulation Crowdfunding.

607

See, e.g., Bradford, note 1. See also Howe, note 2.

608

See 158 CONG. REC. S2231 (daily ed. Mar. 29, 2012) (statement of Sen. Scott Brown) (“In addition to
facilitating communication between issuers and investors, intermediaries should allow fellow investors to
endorse or provide feedback about issuers and offerings, provided that these investors are not employees of
the intermediary. Investors’ credentials should be included with their comments to aid the collective
wisdom of the crowd.”) See also discussion in Section II.C.5.c above.
235

As suggested by commenters, the proposed rule would permit a funding portal to create a
“negotiation space” in which those who have opened accounts with the funding portal and
issuers could discuss and potentially negotiate certain aspects of the issuer’s offering, including
the price of the issuer’s securities. 609


Advising Issuers

The proposed rules would permit a funding portal to advise an issuer about the structure
or content of the issuer’s offering, including preparing offering documentation. 610 This advice is
not the type of advice that we believe should be impermissible. 611 We also believe that funding
portals and brokers could provide certain services to issuers in order to facilitate the offer and
sale of securities in reliance on Section 4(a)(6), and without this kind of advice to issuers,
crowdfunding as a method to raise capital would not be viable. In particular, to the extent that
the issuers that may choose to conduct offerings in reliance on Section 4(a)(6) would include
startups and small businesses, we expect that these issuers would seek in many cases to obtain
advice on the structure of the offering from intermediaries. Funding portals would be in a
position to provide this type of assistance relatively efficiently, together with the other services
under the proposed rules that they would be permitted to provide to issuers.
The proposed safe harbor would permit funding portals to advise an issuer about the
structure and content of the issuer’s offering in a number of ways. A funding portal could, for
example, provide pre-drafted templates or forms for an issuer to use in its offering that would

609

See Pearfunds Letter; CFIRA Letter 3.

610

See proposed Rule 402(b)(5) of Regulation Crowdfunding.

611

Compare Registration of Municipal Advisors, Release No. 34-63576 (Dec. 10, 2010) [76 FR 824 (Jan. 6,
2011)] (noting that Commission staff has taken the position that financial advisors that limit their advisory
activities to advising municipal issuers as to the structuring of their financings, rather than providing advice
for compensation regarding the investment of assets, may not need to register as investment advisers).
236

help it comply with its proposed disclosure obligations. 612 Other examples of permissible
assistance could include, as commenters have suggested, advice about the types of securities the
issuer can offer, the terms of those securities and the procedures and regulations associated with
crowdfunding. 613


Paying for Referrals

The proposed rules would clarify that, consistent with proposed Rule 305, a funding
portal could compensate a third party for referring a person to the funding portal if the third party
does not provide the funding portal with personally identifiable information of any potential
investor. For example, a third party could provide hyperlinks to a funding portal in order to
inform potential investors learn about securities offerings made in reliance on Section 4(a)(6).
Any compensation, unless paid to third party that is a registered broker or dealer, could not be
based, directly or indirectly, on the purchase or sale of a security offered in reliance on Section
4(a)(6) on or through the funding portal’s platform. 614 Otherwise, such transaction-based
compensation could trigger broker-dealer registration requirements. We also believe that this

612

See, e.g., 158 CONG. REC. S2231 (daily ed. Mar. 29, 2012) (statement of Sen. Scott Brown) (“Similarly,
funding portals should be allowed to engage in due diligence services. This would include providing
templates and forms, which will enable issuers to comply with the underlying statute. In crafting this law,
it was our intent to allow funding portals to provide such services.”); 158 CONG. REC. S5474-03 (daily ed.
July 26, 2012) (statement of Sen. Jeff Merkley) (“Subject to such limits as the SEC determines necessary
for the protection of investors and the crowdfunding issuers, funding portals should be able to provide (or
make available through service providers) services to assist entrepreneurs utilizing crowdfunding,
including, for example, providing basic standardized templates, models, and checklists. Enabling them to
help small businesses construct simple, standard deal structures will facilitate quality, low-cost offerings.”).

613

See CFIRA Letter 2.

614

See proposed Rule 402(b)(6) of Regulation Crowdfunding. See also discussion in Section II.C.7 above.
Proposed Rule 305 of Regulation Crowdfunding would implement the prohibition in Section 4A(a)(10).
237

prohibition on transaction-based compensation would help to remove the incentive for highpressure sales tactics and other abusive practices. 615


Compensation Arrangements with Registered Broker-Dealers

The proposed rules would specify that a funding portal could enter into certain
arrangements with a registered broker-dealer, through which they could compensate each other
for services. 616 In speaking with industry participants, we understand that because the statute
narrowly defines the permissible activities in which funding portals may engage, funding portals
may wish to contract or affiliate with registered broker-dealers, which are not subject to similar
constraints. 617

For example, a registered broker-dealer could, among other things, recommend

securities offered on the funding portal’s platform or provide services involving the handling of
investor funds and securities. Conversely, funding portals may wish to offer certain services,
including information technology services, to a broker-dealer, for a fee. Each party to this type
of arrangement would, because it is a regulated entity, need to comply with all applicable
regulations, including the rules of the registered national securities association of which it is a
member.
Proposed Rule 402(b)(7) would permit a funding portal to pay or offer to pay
compensation to a registered broker or dealer for services in connection with the funding portal’s
offer or sale of securities in reliance on Section 4(a)(6). Proposed Rule 402(b)(8) would permit a
funding portal to provide services to and receive compensation from a registered broker-dealer in

615

See note 515.

616

See proposed Rules 402(b)(7) and 402(b)(8) of Regulation Crowdfunding.

617

Exchange Act Section 3(a)(80) limits the permissible securities activities of a funding portal to those in
connection with the offer and sale of securities in reliance on Securities Act Section 4(a)(6).
238

connection with the funding portal’s offer or sale of securities in reliance on Section 4(a)(6). 618
Compensation could include any monetary form of payment, such as fees, discounts,
commissions, concessions, reimbursement of expenses and other allowances. The proposed safe
harbor would not, however, permit a funding portal to receive transaction-based compensation
for referrals of potential investors in other types of offerings being effected by a registered
broker-dealer, such as a Rule 506 offering. 619 The proposed rules would require the funding
portal to provide any services pursuant to a written agreement with the registered broker-dealer,
and they also would require the payments to be compliant with, and not prohibited by, the rules
of the registered national securities association of which the funding portal is a member. 620 The
proposed rules would require that a funding portal’s offers to pay, and payments made to, a
registered broker-dealer, as well as a funding portal’s receipt of compensation from a registered
broker-dealer, under these arrangements, be compliant with Regulation Crowdfunding. In
particular, these arrangements would have to be compliant with proposed Rule 305 which
prohibits, with certain exceptions, an intermediary from compensating any person for providing
the intermediary with the personally identifiable information of any investor or potential
investor. 621 These proposed provisions, taken as a whole, are intended to facilitate
intermediaries’ cooperation with each other and promote the use of the Section 4(a)(6)
exemption to raise capital, while maintaining a clear audit trail.

618

See also FINRA, Payments to Unregistered Persons: FINRA Request Comment on Proposed Consolidated
FINRA Rule Governing Payments to Unregistered Persons, Regulatory Notice 09-69 (Dec. 2009),
available at http://www.finra.org/web/groups/industry/@ip/@reg/@notice/documents/notices/
p120480.pdf.

619

Receipt of transaction-based compensation in connection with such referrals could cause a funding portal to
be a broker required to register with us under Exchange Act Section 15(a)(1) (15 U.S.C. 78o(a)(1)).

620

See, e.g., FINRA Rule 4311 (“Carrying Agreements”).

621

See proposed Rule 305 of Regulation Crowdfunding and discussion in Section II.C.7 above.
239

 Advertising
The proposed rules would permit a funding portal to advertise its existence and engage in
certain other limited advertising activities. 622 The proposed rule does not limit the manner in
which a funding portal could advertise its existence. A funding portal may, for example, choose
to advertise through social media, internet advertisements or traditional sources of advertising
like print media.
In addition, funding portals could identify issuers and offerings in the advertisements on
the basis of criteria that are reasonably designed to identify a broad selection of issuers (so as not
to recommend or implicitly endorse one issuer or offering over others) and are applied
consistently to all potential issuers and offerings. The criteria, consistent with those described
above with regard to highlighting issuers and offerings on the platform and the ability to provide
investors with search functions, could include the type of securities being offered, the geographic
location of the issuer, the industry or business segment of the issuer, the number or amount of
investment commitments made, the progress in meeting the issuer’s target offering amount and,
if applicable, the maximum offering amount and the minimum or maximum investment
amount. 623 Of course, a funding portal is subject to the statutory prohibition on providing
investment advice and recommendations, and soliciting, and so the safe harbor would not permit
a funding portal to advertise in such a way that expresses that any of the offerings offered on its
platform are of a higher quality, are safer, or are more worthy investments compared to any
others, whether offered on its platform or those of other intermediaries.

622

See proposed Rule 402(b)(9) of Regulation Crowdfunding.

623

As a funding portal could be subject to liability for fraud, it would need to consider whether its
advertisements are not misleading or otherwise fraudulent, such as by implying that past performance of
offerings on its platform is indicative of future results. See Exchange Act Rule 10b-5 [17 CFR 240.10b-5].
240

The proposed rule would also specify that the funding portal could not receive special or
additional compensation for identifying an issuer or offering in its advertisement, because this
could create an incentive for the funding portal to promote one issuer over another. This
prohibition should help to limit the dissemination of information that may be misleading or
easily misconstrued. 624


Denying Access Based on Potential Fraud or Investor
Protection Concerns

In light of the comments received, the proposed rules would require a funding portal to
deny access to its platform to, or cancel an offering of, an issuer that the funding portal believes
may present the potential for fraud or otherwise raises concerns regarding investor protection, as
is required under proposed Rule 301(c). 625


Accepting Investor Commitments

The proposed rules would permit a funding portal, on behalf of an issuer, to accept
investment commitments from potential investors for securities offered in reliance on Section
4(a)(6) by that issuer on the funding portal’s platform. 626 Given the breadth of the statutory
prohibition on holding, managing, possessing or otherwise handling investor funds or securities,
we believe that it is important to clarify the activities, in this area, in which a funding portal may
permissibly engage, including with regard to accepting investment commitments. 627

624

In response to one commenter, we note that this would preserve the ability of funding portals to pay for
search listings or advertisements in online social networks. See Cera Technology Letter.

625

See proposed Rule 402(b)(10) of Regulation Crowdfunding. See also discussion in Section II.C.3 above.

626

See proposed Rule 402(b)(11) of Regulation Crowdfunding.

627

As described above, we are proposing other measures that would prescribe the requirements for funding
portals with respect to the maintenance and transmission of funds, including the use of a qualified third
party to hold and transmit investor funds. See discussion in Section II.C.5.d above.
241

Although some commenters expressed the view that funding portals should be permitted
to handle investor funds and securities in a limited capacity as the issuer’s transfer agent or to be
the holder of record, 628 we do not believe that these activities would be consistent with the
statutory directive in Exchange Act Section 3(a)(80). In our view, a funding portal acting as
custodian for securities through a book entry system likely would be engaged in handling or
managing securities in violation of the statutory prohibition in Section 3(a)(80). 629


Directing Transmission of Funds

The proposed rules would provide that a funding portal could fulfill its obligations with
respect to the maintenance and transmission of funds and securities, as set forth in proposed Rule
303, without violating the prohibition in Exchange Act Section 3(a)(80)(D). 630 Thus, subject to
other applicable rules, a funding portal could direct investors where to transmit funds or remit
payment in connection with the purchase of securities offered and sold in reliance on Section
4(a)(6). 631 It also could direct a qualified third party to release the proceeds of an offering to the
issuer upon completion of the offering or to return investor proceeds when an investment
commitment or offering is cancelled. 632 We believe that these discrete activities would facilitate

628

See Crowdfunding Offerings Ltd. Letter 4; RocketHub Letter 1.

629

Cf. Exchange Act Section 3(a)(23) [15 U.S.C. 78c(a)(23)] (defining “clearing agency” as an intermediary
who “acts as a custodian of securities in connection with a system for the central handling of securities”
where the securities may be administered “by bookkeeping entry without physical delivery of securities
certificates”).

630

We believe the statutory requirements, and the rules we are proposing to implement such requirements,
provide clear requirements for the protection of investor funds. In addition, the requirement for the funding
portals to maintain a fidelity bond under proposed Rule 400(f) provides an additional protection with
respect to investor funds. See discussion in Section II.D.1 above. See also proposed Rule 400(f) of
Regulation Crowdfunding.

631

See proposed Rule 402(b)(12) of Regulation Crowdfunding.

632

See proposed Rule 402(b)(13) of Regulation Crowdfunding.
242

crowdfunding transactions without exceeding the scope of permissible activities, and without
unduly raising investor protection concerns.
Request for Comment
216. Does the proposed safe harbor appropriately define the actions in which a
funding portal may engage? Are there other activities that should be addressed
in the safe harbor? Are there activities included in the proposed safe harbor that
should be modified or eliminated? If so, which activities and why?
217. Are there any additional conditions that should apply to the activities covered
under the proposed safe harbor? If so, which conditions, and why?
218. Exchange Act Section 3(a)(80) provides that a funding portal may not offer
investment advice, and the proposed rules would provide a conditional safe
harbor for certain activities that funding portals may engage in without violating
the statutory prohibition on providing investment advice. Is the safe harbor
sufficient, or should we provide additional guidance regarding the status of
funding portals under the Investment Advisers Act of 1940? Why or why not?
Please discuss.
219. Should the proposed safe harbor permit a funding portal to limit the offerings on
its platform? If so, are the criteria set forth in the proposed rules appropriate?
Why or why not? If not, what other criteria or conditions would be appropriate?
220. Are there any additional criteria that a funding portal should be permitted to use
when highlighting issuers and offerings on its platform? If so, which ones and
why? Should a funding portal be permitted to highlight issuers and offerings
based on criteria that specifically relate to the activities of users on its site, such
243

as offerings that have been viewed by the largest number of visitors to the
platform over a particular time period? Why or why not?
221. As a condition of the proposed safe harbor, should we require funding portals to
clearly display, on their platforms, the objective criteria they use in limiting or
highlighting offerings? Why or why not?
222. Under the proposed safe harbor, should we permit a funding portal to post news,
such as market news and news about a particular issuer or industry, on its
platform? Why or why not? If so, what restrictions, conditions or other
safeguards should apply, in particular so that a funding portal would not be
providing impermissible investment advice? For example, are there certain
types of news or news feeds that should or should not be permitted, or should we
restrict a funding portal from posting only positive news coverage? Should a
funding portal be able to freely select the news stories it posts, or should there be
some objective criteria? Please explain.
223. Are the proposed limitations on a funding portal advertising its past offerings
appropriate? Should we consider other advertising limitations? Should the
proposed advertising rules be modified in any other way?
224. Should we permit a funding portal to receive transaction-based compensation for
referring potential investors to a registered broker-dealer? Why or why not? If
so, should we impose disclosure requirements or other measures to mitigate
potential conflicts? What should those requirements be and why? Should we
permit a funding portal to receive transaction-based compensation from an
affiliate? Why or why not?
244

225. In addition to transaction-based compensation, are there other types of
compensation that we should prohibit funding portals from paying to persons
who are not registered broker-dealers? Should we permit, as proposed, funding
portals to enter into compensation arrangements with registered broker-dealers
or with any other regulated entities? Why or why not? If so, what types of
regulated entities should be included? Please explain.
226. Are there circumstances in which a funding portal could provide transfer agent
services without handling investor funds or securities? If so, please describe.
227. Should the proposed safe harbor permit a funding portal to engage in any other
activities in connection with the required communication channels? Why or
why not? If so, which activities and why?
228. Should the proposed safe harbor include other types of activities that potentially
could be construed as investment advice? If so, which ones and why? Would
an exemption from the Investment Advisers Act of 1940 or other regulatory
relief be appropriate in connection with such activities? Are there types of
advice an issuer may seek from a funding portal, that would not be considered
advice about the structure or content of the issuer’s offering? Please explain.
229. Should the agreed-upon terms of an arrangement with a funding portal be
required to be documented in a written agreement with the issuer? Are there
certain terms that should be included?
230. Should the proposed safe harbor permit funding portals to provide a mechanism
by which investors can rate an issuer or an offering? If so, what safeguards, if

245

any, should be required? 633 Should the Commission, as a condition of the safe
harbor, limit the ability to rate to persons who have opened an account with the
funding portal? 634
4.

Compliance
a.

Policies and Procedures

The proposed rules would require a funding portal to implement written policies and
procedures reasonably designed to achieve compliance with the federal securities laws and
regulations thereunder, relating to its business as a funding portal. 635 Under the proposed rules, a
funding portal would have discretion to establish, implement, maintain and enforce those policies
and procedures based on its relevant facts and circumstances. We believe that it is important to
provide this flexibility in order to accommodate the various business models funding portals may
have while at the same time accomplishing the Commission’s investor protection goals. We also
recognize that FINRA or any other registered national securities association may have separate
requirements in this regard. Inherent in the notion of reasonably designed compliance policies
and procedures is that a funding portal would promptly update its policies and procedures to

633

An intermediary that is a registered broker could provide a mechanism for investors to rate an issuer or
offering. But see Social Media Websites and the Use of Personal Devices for Business Communications,
FINRA Regulatory Notice 11-39 (Aug. 2011), available at
http://www.finra.org/web/groups/industry/@ip/@reg/@notice/documents/notices/p124186.pdf (noting that
a firm is responsible under NASD Rule 2210 for third-party site content if the firm has adopted or has
become entangled with the site’s content).

634

Any person who promotes an issuer’s offering for compensation, whether past or prospective, or who is a
founder or an employee of an issuer that engages in promotional activities on behalf of the issuer on the
intermediary’s platform, must clearly disclose in all communications on the intermediary’s platform,
respectively, the receipt of compensation and that he or she is engaging in promotional activities on behalf
of the issuer. See proposed Rule 302(c) of Regulation Crowdfunding.

635

See proposed Rule 403(a) of Regulation Crowdfunding. As a condition to exempting funding portals from
the requirement to register as a broker or a dealer under Exchange Act Section 15(a)(1) (15 U.S.C.
78o(a)(1)), Exchange Act Section 3(h)(1)(C) provides that registered funding portals must comply with
such other requirements as the Commission determines appropriate.
246

reflect changes in applicable rules and regulations, as well as its business practices and the
changing marketplace.
Request for Comment
231. Should we specify requirements for funding portals’ compliance policies and
procedures? Why or why not? If so, what requirements and why?
232. Should we require funding portals to update their policies and procedures to
reflect changes in applicable rules and regulations within a specified time period
after the change occurs? If so, what time period would be appropriate (e.g., 30
days, 60 days, six months)?
b.

Anti-Money Laundering

The proposed rules require that funding portals comply with certain AML provisions, 636
as set forth in Chapter X of Title 31 of the Code of Federal Regulations. 637 We preliminarily
believe that funding portals could play a critical role in detecting, preventing, and reporting
money laundering and other illicit financing, such as market manipulation and fraud. As
discussed in more detail below, we believe it is important for funding portals to comply with
BSA requirements, because they would be engaged in a similar business as a category of
registered broker-dealers – introducing brokers – which have BSA obligations. 638 Specifically,
while a funding portal is prohibited by statute from handling, managing or possessing customer
funds or securities, which means it cannot accept cash from customers or maintain custody of

636

See proposed Rule 403(b) of Regulation Crowdfunding. See also proposed Rule 401(b) and discussion in
Section II.D.2 above, which discusses how funding portals fall within the scope of Chapter X of Title 31 of
the Code of Federal Regulations.

637

See note 562.

638

See 31 C.F.R 1023.100 et seq.
247

customer securities – and an introducing broker typically does not accept cash or maintain
custody of customer securities – we believe that a funding portal, like an introducing broker, is in
the best position to “know its customers,” and to identify and monitor for suspicious and
potentially illicit activity at the individual customer level, as compared to the qualified third
party, which may not see such activity given its less direct contact with individual customers. 639
We also believe it is important for funding portals to comply with BSA requirements because
they would be in engaged in the same business of effecting securities transactions for the
accounts of others as registered broker-dealers, which have BSA obligations. To require
otherwise could inadvertently steer potential money launders to funding portals.
Moreover, we expect that funding portals would often facilitate offerings of microcap or
low-priced securities, which may be more susceptible to fraud and market manipulation. 640 We
believe that imposing the monitoring and reporting requirements of the BSA on funding portals
would establish a valuable oversight, prevention and detection mechanism. The Financial Action
Task Force (“FATF”), an inter-governmental body whose objective is to set standards and
promote effective implementation of legal, regulatory and operational measures for combating
money laundering, terrorist financing and other related threats to the integrity of the international
financial system, has also identified low-priced and privately-placed securities as potential

639

See, e.g., NASD (n/k/a FINRA), NASD Provides Guidance To Member Firms Concerning Anti-Money
Laundering Compliance Programs Required by Federal Law, Special Notice to Members 02-21 (Apr.
2002), available at https://www.finra.org/Industry/Regulation/Notices/2002/p003703 (stating that
“introducing brokers generally are in the best position to ‘know the customer,’ and thus to identify potential
money laundering concerns at the account opening stage, including verification of the identity of the
customer and deciding whether to open an account for a customer.”).

640

A number of the Commission’s enforcement actions in the BSA area have involved broker-dealers failing
to report suspicious activity involving microcap securities fraud. See, e.g., In the Matter of Gilford
Securities, Incorporated, Ralph Worthington, IV, David S. Kaplan, and Richard W. Granahan, Release No.
34-65450 (Sept. 30, 2011); In the Matter of Elizabeth Pagliarini, Release No. 34-63964 (Feb. 24, 2011).
248

vehicles for laundering money. 641 As explained by FATF, these securities pose a money
laundering risk because they are often used to generate illicit assets through market
manipulation, insider trading and fraud. 642 In addition, unlawfully acquired assets can be used to
purchase these securities in order to resell them and create the appearance of legitimately sourced
funds. 643 We believe that securities offered and sold in reliance on Section 4(a)(6) could be
susceptible to money laundering because they are low priced, are placed in an offering that is
exempt from registration and not subject to the filing review process of a registered offering. In
addition, we expect that many of the issuers relying on the exemption in Section 4(a)(6) may be
shell companies, which have been associated with a high risk of money laundering. 644 We
believe that Congress was aware of these risks, which is why, in part, it chose to require that

641

See FINANCIAL ACTION TASK FORCE (“FATF”), Money Laundering and Terrorist Financing in the
Securities Sector 20-21 (Oct. 2009) (“FATF Typology”) (discussing the money laundering risks associated
with low priced securities, private issuers and shell companies).

642

Id. As explained in the FATF Typology, illicit actors “can either use existing shares that are already
publicly traded or start a shell company for the express purpose of engaging in those illicit activities. In
addition, criminal organizations also have been known to use illicit assets generated outside the securities
industry to engage in market manipulation and fraud.” Id.

643

Id. “Moreover, criminal organizations can also initially invest in a private company that they can then use
as a front company for commingling illicit and legitimate assets. They can then take this company public
through an offering in the public securities markets, thus creating what appear to be legitimate offering
revenues. Alternatively, criminal organizations can acquire a publicly traded company and use it to launder
illicit assets.” Id. The FATF Typology further highlighted the risk of shell companies that, for example,
“can be established to accept payments from criminal organizations for non-existent services. These
payments, which appear legitimate, can be deposited into depository or brokerage accounts and either wire
transferred out of a jurisdiction or used to purchase securities products that are easily transferable or
redeemable.” Id. at 39.

644

See, e.g., Joint Release, Guidance on Obtaining and Retaining Beneficial Ownership Information, FIN2010-G001 (Mar. 5, 2010) (noting that criminals, money launderers, tax evaders and terrorists may exploit
the privacy and confidentiality surrounding some business entities, including shell companies and other
vehicles designed to conceal the nature and purpose of illicit transactions and the identities of the persons
associated with them); Financial Crimes Enforcement Network, The Role of Domestic Shell Companies in
Financial Crime and Money Laundering: Limited Liability Companies (Nov. 2006), available at
http://www.fincen.gov/news_room/rp/files/LLCAssessment_FINAL.pdf.
249

securities offered and sold in reliance on Section 4(a)(6) be sold through a regulated
intermediary. 645
The BSA 646 and its implementing regulations establish the basic framework for AML
obligations imposed on financial institutions. 647 The BSA is intended to facilitate the prevention,
detection and prosecution of money laundering, terrorist financing and other financial crimes.
Below, we clarify which aspects of these regulations we anticipate would be relevant to funding
portals, given the limited scope of their activities. 648
Among other things, the BSA and its implementing regulations require a “broker or
dealer in securities” (sometimes referred to in the regulations as a “broker-dealer”) to: (1)
establish and maintain an effective AML program (“AML Program Requirement”); 649 (2)
establish and maintain a Customer Identification Program (“CIP Requirement”); 650 (3) monitor
for and file reports of suspicious activity (“the SAR Requirement”); 651 and (4) comply with
requests for information from the Financial Crimes Enforcement Network (“FinCEN”) (the
“Section 314(a) Requirements”). 652 For purposes of the BSA obligations, a “broker or dealer in

645

158 CONG. REC. S1781 (daily ed. Mar. 19, 2012) (statement of Sen. Carl Levin) (“Senior citizens, state
securities regulators, and others worry that this will give rise to money laundering and fraud risks.”)

646

See BSA, note 562.

647

See 31 CFR Chapter X.

648

We also propose to impose on funding portals obligations that are analogous to those imposed on brokerdealers pursuant to Exchange Act Rule 17a-8 (17 CFR 240.17a-8), which requires broker-dealers to comply
with the reporting, recordkeeping and record retention requirements of the BSA’s implementing
regulations, as found in Chapter X of Title 31 of the CFR. These proposed obligations are discussed in
Section II.D.5 below, which also addresses other recordkeeping requirements we are proposing for funding
portals. See proposed Rule 404(f) of Regulation Crowdfunding.

649

See 31 U.S.C. 5318(h). See also 31 CFR 1023.210; FINRA Rule 3310.

650

31 CFR 1023.220.

651

31 CFR 1023.320. See also FINRA Rule 3310.

652

31 CFR 1010.520.
250

securities” is defined as a “broker or dealer in securities, registered or required to be registered
with the Securities and Exchange Commission under the Securities Exchange Act of 1934,
except persons who register pursuant to [S]ection 15(b)(11) of the Securities Exchange Act of
1934.” 653 As discussed above in Section II.D.2.a, for purposes of Chapter X of Title 31 of the
Code of Federal Regulations, a funding portal is “required to be registered” as a broker or dealer
with the Commission under the Exchange Act.
Finally, we note that while other parties involved in transactions conducted pursuant to
Section 4(a)(6) through a funding portal (such as a bank acting as a qualified third party to hold
investor funds) have their own BSA obligations, again, as noted above, we believe that the
funding portal, like an introducing broker, is in the best position to “know its customers,” and to
identify and monitor for suspicious and potentially illicit activity at the individual customer level.
While a funding portal would be required to comply with all of the provisions in the BSA
and its implementing regulations that are applicable to broker-dealers, the Commission
anticipates that, as a practical matter, a funding portal’s BSA obligations would typically be
limited, based on the relatively limited securities activities in which funding portals would be
permitted to engage. For a typical transaction involving an individual U.S. investor, funding
portal activities, for example, would not involve the maintenance of “correspondent accounts”
with foreign financial institutions or the offer of “private banking accounts” that would trigger
the corresponding due diligence obligations under the BSA. 654 While it is possible that a funding

653

31 CFR 1010.100(h). As noted above, certain FinCEN regulations apply to a “broker-dealer,” which is
defined as a “person registered or required to be registered as a broker or dealer with the Commission under
the Securities Exchange Act of 1934 (15 U.S.C. 77a et seq.), except persons who register pursuant to 15
U.S.C. 78o(b)(11).” 31 CFR 1023.100(b). Such broker-dealers also would meet the definition of “broker
or dealers in securities” above.

654

See 31 CFR 1010.610 and 1010.620.
251

portal’s activities could trigger other BSA obligations, we expect that the nature of a funding
portal’s business would typically implicate the AML Program Requirement, the CIP
Requirement, the SAR Requirement and the information sharing provisions of the Section 314(a)
Requirements. We, therefore, highlight these obligations below.
Brokers and funding portals, which as noted above meet the definition of “broker,” 655 can
satisfy the AML Program Requirement by implementing and maintaining an AML program that
complies with SRO rules. 656 Generally, under existing rules applicable to brokers, an AML
program must be in writing and include, at a minimum: (1) policies, procedures and internal
controls reasonably designed to achieve compliance with the BSA and its implementing rules;
(2) policies and procedures that can be reasonably expected to detect and cause the reporting of
transactions under 31 U.S.C. 5318(g) and the implementing regulations thereunder; (3) the
designation of an AML compliance officer, including notification to the SROs; (4) ongoing
AML employee training; and (5) an independent test of the firm’s AML program, annually for
most firms. 657
FinCEN’s BSA regulations also require brokers, and thus would require funding portals,
to establish a written CIP that, at a minimum, includes procedures for: (1) obtaining customer
identifying information from each customer prior to account opening; (2) verifying the identity
655

See discussion in this section above and in Section II.D.2.a above.

656

31 CFR 1023.210 (providing that a broker-dealer is deemed to have satisfied the requirement to establish
an AML program if it (1) implements and maintains an anti-money laundering program that complies with
the rules, regulations or requirements of its SRO governing such programs; and (2) the rules, regulations or
requirements of the SRO have been approved, if required, by the SEC).

657

See, e.g., FINRA Rule 3310. FINRA’s existing AML program rule applies to member broker-dealers.
FINRA or any other national registered securities association may adopt an AML Program Requirement
specific to funding portals. Consistent with the BSA, any such rule must require that the AML program
include, at a minimum: the development of internal policies, procedures and controls; designation of a
compliance officer, an ongoing employee training program and an independent audit function to test the
program. See 31 U.S.C. 5318(h).
252

of each customer, 658 to the extent reasonable and practicable, within a reasonable time before or
after account opening; (3) making and maintaining a record of obtained information relating to
identity verification; (4) determining, within a reasonable time after account opening or earlier,
whether a customer appears on any list of known or suspected terrorist organizations designated
by Treasury; 659 and (5) providing each customer with adequate notice, prior to opening an
account, that information is being requested to verify the customer’s identity. 660
The CIP rule provides that, under certain defined circumstances, brokers, which would
include funding portals, may rely on the performance of another financial institution to fulfill
some or all of the requirements of the broker’s CIP. 661 In order for brokers (which would
include funding portals) to rely on the other financial institution, for example, the reliance must
be reasonable. 662 The other financial institution also must be subject to an AML compliance
program rule and be regulated by a federal functional regulator. 663 Additionally, the broker and
the other financial institution must enter into a contract, and the other financial institution must
certify annually to the broker that it has implemented an AML program and that it will perform
the specified requirements of the broker’s CIP. 664

658

For purposes of the CIP requirements, a customer is generally defined as “a person that opens a new
account.” 31 CFR 1023.100(d).

659

To date, there are no designated government lists to verify specifically for CIP purposes.

660

31 CFR 1023.220.

661

31 CFR 1023.220(a)(6).

662

31 CFR 1023.220(a)(6)(i).

663

31 CFR 1023.220(a)(6)(ii).

664

31 CFR 1023.220(a)(6)(iii).
253

Under the SAR Requirement, brokers and funding portals, which as noted above meet the
definition of “broker,” 665 must file a suspicious activity report if: (1) a transaction is conducted
or attempted to be conducted by, at, or through a broker; (2) the transaction involves or
aggregates funds or other assets of at least $5,000; and (3) the broker knows, suspects or has
reason to suspect that the transaction: (i) involves funds or is intended to disguise funds derived
from illegal activity, (ii) is designed to evade requirements of the BSA, (iii) has no business or
apparent lawful purpose, and the broker knows of no reasonable explanation for the transaction
after examining the available facts, or (iv) involves the use of the broker-dealer to facilitate
criminal activity. 666 The suspicious activity must be reported on a form prescribed by FinCEN,
which includes instructions. 667 Brokers, which would include funding portals, must maintain a
copy of any suspicious activity report filed, as well as supporting documentation for a period of
five years from the date of filing the report. 668 The report (and any information that would reveal
its existence) must be kept confidential. 669
Under the Section 314(a) Requirements, brokers, which would include funding portals,
also must respond to mandatory requests for information made by FinCEN on behalf of federal
law enforcement agencies. 670 Law enforcement agencies with criminal investigative authority
are permitted to request that FinCEN solicit, on the agency’s behalf, certain information from a
financial institution, including brokers; FinCEN also may make similar requests on its own

665

See discussion in this section above and in Section II.D.2.a above.

666

31 CFR 1023.320(a).

667

31 CFR 1023.320(b).

668

31 CFR 1023.320(d).

669

31 CFR 1023.320(e).

670

31 CFR 1010.520.
254

behalf or on behalf of certain components of Treasury. 671 Upon receiving such a request, a
broker (which would include a funding portal) is required to search its records to determine
whether it has accounts for, or has engaged in transactions with, any specified individual, entity
or organization. 672 If the broker identifies an account or transaction identified with any
individual, entity or organization named in the request, it must report certain relevant
information to FinCEN. 673 Brokers also must designate a contact person (typically the firm’s
AML compliance officer) to receive the requests and must maintain the confidentiality of any
request and any responsive reports to FinCEN. 674
Request for Comment
233. We identified the AML Program, CIP, SAR and 314(a) Requirements as the
most significant requirements that would most typically apply to funding
portals, in light of the nature of their business. Under the proposed rules,
however, funding portals would be subject to all BSA requirements applicable to
registered brokers. Are there any other requirements under the BSA and its
implementing regulations that should be clarified, with regard to application in
the crowdfunding context, or excluded from application to funding portals? If
so, which ones?
234. Is express compliance with the BSA by funding portals, as proposed, necessary
to protect against the risk of money laundering, given that other regulated

671

31 CFR 1010.520(b).

672

31 CFR 1010.520(b)(3).

673

31 CFR 1010.520(b)(3)(ii).

674

31 CFR 1010.520(b)(3)(iii) and (iv).

255

entities involved in transactions conducted pursuant to Section 4(a)(6), such as
the qualified third party we propose to require be involved in the transmission of
proceeds, are subject to the BSA? Please explain.
235. Is there another approach, other than the one we have proposed, to help protect
against the risk of money laundering, that does not rely on BSA compliance? If
so, please explain.
c.

Privacy

Section 4A(a)(9) requires intermediaries to take such steps to protect the privacy of
information collected from investors as the Commission shall, by rule, determine appropriate.
One commenter suggested that the responsibility for storing confidential information should rest
with the intermediary and that data should not be shared with, or stored by, any other
organization. 675 The commenter recommended requiring intermediaries to store information in a
secure fashion on a dedicated, secure server. The commenter also urged the Commission to
identify, by rule or otherwise, an appropriate industry standard for protection of this data,
perhaps looking to standards adopted in the legal and banking industries as examples. Another
commenter suggested that a procedure should be established to allow the public to control the
delivery and the amount of e-mails soliciting funds for crowdfunding projects. 676
The proposed rules would implement the requirements of Section 4A(a)(9) by subjecting
funding portals, as brokers, to the same privacy rules applicable to brokers. 677 Proposed Rule
403(c), therefore, would require funding portals to comply with Regulation S-P (Privacy of

675

See RocketHub Letter 1.

676

See Bach Letter.

677

See proposed Rule 403(c) of Regulation Crowdfunding.
256

Consumer Financial Information and Safeguarding Personal Information), 678 Regulation S-AM
(Limitations on Affiliate Marketing) 679 and Regulation S-ID (Identity Theft Red Flags) 680
(collectively, the “Privacy Rules”). 681
Regulation S-P governs the treatment of nonpublic personal information by brokers,
among others. 682 It generally requires a broker to provide notice to investors about its privacy
policies and practices; describes the conditions under which a broker may disclose nonpublic
personal information about investors to nonaffiliated third parties; and provides a method for
investors to prevent a broker from disclosing that information to most nonaffiliated third parties
by “opting out” of that disclosure, subject to certain exceptions. Regulation S-AM allows a
consumer, in certain limited situations, to block affiliates of covered persons (i.e., brokers,
dealers, investment companies and both investment advisers and transfer agents registered with
the Commission) from soliciting the consumer based on eligibility information (i.e., certain
financial information, such as information regarding the consumer’s transactions or experiences
with the covered person) received from the covered person. 683 Regulation S-ID generally
requires brokers to develop and implement a written identity theft prevention program that is

678

See Privacy of Consumer Financial Information (Regulation S–P), Release No. 34-42974 (June 22, 2000)
[65 FR 40334 (June 29, 2000)].

679

See Regulation S–AM: Limitations on Affiliate Marketing, Release No. 34-60423 (Aug. 4, 2011) [74 FR
40398 (Aug. 11, 2009)].

680

See Identity Theft Red Flags Rules, Release No. 34-69359 (Apr. 10, 2013) [78 FR 23637 (Apr. 19, 2013)]
(“Identity Theft Red Flags Rules”) (adopted jointly with the Commodity Futures Trading Commission).

681

See 17 CFR 248.

682

See 17 CFR 248 Subpart A.

683

17 CFR 248 Subpart B.
257

designed to detect, prevent and mitigate identity theft in connection with certain existing
accounts or the opening of new accounts. 684
While we recognize that crowdfunding activities, like any Internet-based
communications, could raise novel issues not already addressed in existing regulations and
guidance, we believe that it is unnecessary to repeat identical, existing requirements, in a
separate rule proposal only for funding portals, or to propose rules that would apply not only to
crowdfunding, but to a broader set of technology-based activity. We believe that the
requirements of the Privacy Rules would impose relatively minimal costs on funding portals, 685
but provide key investor protections, and that persons who deal with funding portals, as opposed
to brokers, should not have to lose the benefit of those protections.
Although one commenter suggested the development of a procedure to allow the public
to control the delivery and the amount of e-mails that solicit funds for crowdfunding projects, 686
we note that the definition of funding portal in Exchange Act Section 3(a)(80) and the proposed
rules 687 prohibit a funding portal from soliciting investors for specific crowdfunding projects.
Moreover, Section 4A(b)(2) and the proposed rules 688 prohibit issuers from advertising the terms
of an offering, except for directing potential investors to the intermediary. 689 The proposed
rules 690 also incorporate prohibitions on the transmission of personally identifiable information

684

See Identity Theft Red Flags Rules, note 680.

685

See discussion in Section IV.C.2.l below.

686

See Bach Letter.

687

See proposed Rule 300(c) of Regulation Crowdfunding.

688

See proposed Rule 204 of Regulation Crowdfunding.

689

See discussion in Section II.B.4 above.

690

See proposed Rules 305 and 402(b)(6) of Regulation Crowdfunding.
258

in connection with intermediaries’ advertisements, referrals and payments to third parties. 691 We
believe that these provisions, in combination with the Privacy Rules, address the commenter’s
concern. Although one commenter urged us not to permit intermediaries to store information
with third parties, 692 we note that our recordkeeping rules applicable to brokers permit the use of
third-party service providers for storing records. 693 We are proposing a similar requirement for
funding portals, as discussed in Section II.D.5 below. A different requirement for funding
portals would not be consistent with the requirements for brokers and may not be economically
feasible for some intermediaries.
Request for Comment
236. Is it appropriate to implement the requirements of Section 4A(a)(9) by applying
the requirements of the Privacy Rules to funding portals? Why or why not? Is
the nature of a funding portal’s activities such that a different requirement to
protect privacy would be more appropriate? Please explain.
237. Are there specific considerations with respect to privacy and crowdfunding that
are not already adequately addressed in the Privacy Rules? If so, what are they
and how should we address them?
238. Should we provide additional guidance concerning the application of the Privacy
Rules to funding portals? If so, which parts and why?
239. Under the proposed rules, funding portals would be required to collect
information about their customers in order to comply with anti-money

691

See discussion in Sections II.C.7 and II.D.3 above.

692

See RocketHub Letter 1.

693

See 17 CFR 240.17a-4(i).
259

laundering provisions, as brokers are required to do, as discussed above in
relation to proposed Rule 402(b). At the same time, intermediaries would be
required to take steps to protect the privacy of information collected from
customers, as set forth in Section 4A(a)(9). Do our proposed rules achieve the
appropriate balance between these two objectives? What other approaches
would achieve an appropriate balance? Please explain.
d.

Inspections and Examinations

Congress specified that funding portals must remain subject to our examination
authority. 694 Under the proposed rules, a funding portal would be required to permit the
examination and inspection of all of its business and business operations that relate to its
activities as a funding portal, such as its premises, systems, platforms and records, by our
representatives and by representatives of the registered national securities association of which it
is a member.
Request for Comment
240. Are there any additional provisions that should be incorporated in the proposed
rules regarding inspection and examination of funding portals? Please explain.

694

As a condition to exempting funding portals from the requirement to register as broker-dealers under
Exchange Act Section 15(a)(1) (15 U.S.C. 78c(a)(1)), Exchange Act Section 3(h)(1)(A) requires that
registered funding portals remain subject to, among other things, our examination authority. See proposed
Rule 403(d) of Regulation Crowdfunding.
260

5.

Records To Be Created and Maintained by Funding Portals

The proposed rules would require a funding portal to create and maintain certain
records. 695 We believe that it is important for funding portals to be subject to a recordkeeping
requirement in order to create a meaningful audit trail of the crowdfunding transactions and
communications. Without these records, the Commission and any registered national securities
association would have difficulty examining a funding portal for compliance with the
requirements of Regulation Crowdfunding, the BSA 696 and the federal securities laws.
The proposed rules would require a funding portal to make and preserve certain records
for five years, with the records retained in a readily accessible place for at least the first two
years. 697 The records would include those regarding investors who purchase or attempt to
purchase securities through the funding portal, such as information relating to educational
materials provided to investors, account opening and transactions (including notices of
investment commitments and reconfirmations), as required under Subpart C. They also would
include records relating to issuers that offer and sell, or attempt to offer and sell, securities
through the funding portal and to persons having control with respect to those issuers. This
proposed requirement would better enable regulators to gather information about the activities in

695

See proposed Rule 404 of Regulation Crowdfunding. Exchange Act Section 3(h)(1)(C) permits us to
impose, as part of our authority to exempt funding portals from broker registration, “such other
requirements under [the Exchange Act] as the Commission determines appropriate.”

696

In the release adopting Exchange Act Rule 17a-8 (17 CFR 240.17a-8), which requires broker-dealers to
comply with the reporting, recordkeeping and record retention rules adopted under the BSA, the
Commission noted that the “most effective means of enforcing compliance with the reporting and
recordkeeping requirements is through on-site examinations of broker-dealer firms conducted by the
Commission and the self-regulatory organizations . . . .” See Recordkeeping by Brokers and Dealers,
Release No. 34-18321 (Dec. 10, 1981) [46 FR 61454 (Dec. 17, 1981)].

697

See proposed Rules 404(a)(1) through (9) of Regulation Crowdfunding.
261

which the funding portal has been engaged, as well as about the issuers and investors that use the
funding portal for their crowdfunding transactions.
The proposed rules also would require a funding portal to maintain records of all
communications that occur on or through its platform. 698 Some commenters expressed concerns
about the ability of funding portals to track and store communications that take place outside of
their platforms. 699 We believe that funding portals should be responsible to keep records of only
the communications that occur on or through their platforms, including in the communication
channels they are required to provide. We do not believe they should be responsible for keeping
records of communications that take place exclusively outside of their platforms, such as on
third-party social media sites or elsewhere on the Internet. The proposed rules also would
require a funding portal to keep all records related to persons that use communication services
provided by a funding portal to promote an issuer’s securities or to communicate with potential
investors. 700 These proposed requirements would help regulators to examine the funding portal
for any potential connection with promoters, including associated persons that act as promoters,
whose promotion or communication activities could cause the funding portal to lose its
exemption from broker-dealer registration.
The proposed rules would require a funding portal to maintain records demonstrating its
compliance with requirements of Subparts C (intermediary obligations) and D (funding portal
requirements). 701 This proposed requirement would require a funding portal to keep all the

698

See id.

699

See CFIRA Letter 13.

700

See proposed Rule 404(a)(3) of Regulation Crowdfunding.

701

See proposed Rule 404(a)(5) of Regulation Crowdfunding.
262

records it has created in the course of its business in order to comply with Regulation
Crowdfunding. This requirement alone would not, however, require the creation of any records
or proscribe the format or manner of any records. This proposed requirement would not only
assist in regulators’ compliance examinations, but also should assist funding portals in
complying with the rules pertaining to their crowdfunding activities.
The proposed rules would require a funding portal to maintain all notices provided by the
funding portal to issuers and investors generally through the funding portal’s platform or
otherwise. 702 This proposed requirement would assist regulatory examination of the funding
portal for any communications to issuers or investors that could indicate violations of particular
provisions of proposed Regulation Crowdfunding.
The proposed rules would require a funding portal to maintain records of all written
agreements (or copies thereof) entered into by a funding portal, relating to its business as such. 703
This proposed requirement is intended to capture details of any funding portal arrangements and
the funding portal’s compliance with applicable requirements.
The proposed rules would require a funding portal to create and maintain daily, monthly
and quarterly summaries of transactions effected through it. 704 The purpose of this proposed
requirement is to help ensure that an historical and ongoing record exists of the transactions that

702

These would include, but not be limited to: (1) notices addressing hours of funding portal operations (if
any); (2) funding portal malfunctions; (3) changes to funding portal procedures; (4) maintenance of
hardware and software; (5) instructions pertaining to access to the funding portal; and (6) denials of, or
limitations on, access to the funding portal. See proposed Rule 404(a)(6) of Regulation Crowdfunding.

703

See proposed Rule 404(a)(7) of Regulation Crowdfunding.

704

These would include: (1) issuers for which the target offering amount has been reached and funds
distributed; and (2) transaction volume, expressed in number of transactions, number of securities involved
in a transaction and total amounts raised by and distributed to issuers, as well as total dollar amounts raised
across all issuers, expressed in U.S. dollars. See proposed Rule 404(a)(8) of Regulation Crowdfunding.
263

have been conducted through the funding portal, especially given the high volume of transactions
we expect to occur on funding portals’ platforms.
The proposed rules would require a funding portal to make and keep a log of each
offering, reflecting the progress of each issuer in meeting the target offering amount. 705 This
proposed requirement is intended to support, or otherwise be compared against, information
included on an issuer’s filing of Form C-U. 706
The proposed rules also would require that a funding portal make and preserve its
organizational documents, during its operation as a funding portal and of any successor funding
portal. 707 This proposed requirement is intended to ensure that these key documents are
maintained for identification and verification purposes.
These recordkeeping requirements are similar to, but in many ways less extensive than,
those for registered broker-dealers under Exchange Act Rule 17a-4(a). 708 Because funding
portals would be engaged in a more limited range of activities than brokers and a relatively high
proportion of funding portals would be new market entrants that may not have formal
recordkeeping practices in place, the proposed requirements are relatively streamlined, compared
to those for brokers. The proposed funding portal recordkeeping requirements would require
only those documents that relate to the funding portal’s business and would require the portal to

705

See proposed Rule 404(a)(9) of Regulation Crowdfunding.

706

See discussion in Section II.B.1 above. See also Section II.C.5 above for a discussion of proposed Rule
303(a) of Regulation Crowdfunding.

707

These would include, but not be limited to: (1) partnership agreements; (2) articles of incorporation or
charter; (3) minute books; and (4) stock certificate books (or other similar type documents). See proposed
Rule 404(b) of Regulation Crowdfunding.

708

Exchange Act Rule 17a-4 provides more extensive details of the types of records required, and it also
specifies different time periods for retention, namely three to six years, depending on the type of record. 17
CFR 240.17a-4(a).
264

retain them for five years, but in an easily accessible place for the first two years, for purposes of
facilitating and ensuring timeliness of inspections. A funding portal would be required to
produce, reproduce and maintain the required records in the original, non-alterable format in
which they were created or as permitted under Exchange Act Rule 17a-4(f). 709 This flexibility
should be appropriate for funding portals, because we believe that many of their documents
would already be in electronic form. Thus, funding portals should not incur a significant
additional burden for maintenance of those records. This flexibility also is consistent with the
broker recordkeeping requirements under Exchange Act Rule 17a-4(f).
We recognize that a funding portal may find it cost-effective or otherwise appropriate to
use the recordkeeping services of a third party. The proposed rules would allow third parties to
prepare or maintain the required records on behalf of the funding portal, provided that there is a
written agreement in place between the funding portal and the third party in which the third party
states that the required records are the property of the funding portal and would be surrendered
promptly on request by the Commission or the national securities association of which the

709

See proposed Rule 404(c) of Regulation Crowdfunding. Permitted formats would include the use of
electronic storage media that otherwise permits the funding portal to comply with its obligations under the
proposed rules. 17 CFR 240.17a-4(f).
265

funding portal is a member. 710 The funding portal also would be required to file, with the
registered national securities association of which it is a member, this written undertaking,
signed by a duly authorized representative of the third party. We believe that this provision
would help to ensure that records maintained or preserved by a third party would be readily
available for examination.
Under the proposed rules, all records of a funding portal would be subject at any time, or
from time to time, to such reasonable periodic, special or other examination by our
representatives and representatives of the registered national securities association of which the
funding portal is a member. 711 We believe that this requirement would facilitate our oversight of
funding portals and crowdfunding activities, as Congress intended. 712
Finally, the proposed rules would require that a funding portal comply with the reporting,
recordkeeping and record retention requirements of Chapter X of Title 31 of the Code of Federal
Regulations, a requirement analogous to that imposed on broker-dealers under Exchange Act

710

See proposed Rule 404(d) of Regulation Crowdfunding. An agreement between a funding portal and a
third party would not relieve the funding portal from its responsibility to prepare and maintain records, as
required under proposed Rule 404 of Regulation Crowdfunding. The written undertaking would be required
to include the following provision: “With respect to any books and records maintained or preserved on
behalf of [name of funding portal], the undersigned hereby acknowledges that the books and records are the
property of [name of funding portal], and hereby undertakes to permit examination of such books and
records at any time, or from time to time, during business hours by representatives of the Securities and
Exchange Commission, the national securities association of which the funding portal is a member, and to
promptly furnish to the Commission and national securities association of which the funding portal is a
member, a true, correct, complete and current hard copy of any, all, or any part of, such books and
records.” See proposed Rule 404(d) of Regulation Crowdfunding. This provision is consistent with the
recordkeeping provisions applicable to brokers under Exchange Act Rules 17a-4(f) (17 CFR 17a-4(f)) and
17a-4(j) (17 CFR 240.17a-4(j)), but it is somewhat simplified to be more appropriate for funding portals.

711

See proposed Rule 404(e) of Regulation Crowdfunding.

712

See Exchange Act Section 3(h)(1)(A). See also 158 CONG. REC. S5474-03 (daily ed. July 26, 2012)
(statement of Sen. Jeff Merkley) (“I would encourage the SEC and the relevant national securities
association to engage in regular reviews and reports regarding developments in the crowdfunding
marketplace. . . . Should problems arise, these authorities should act quickly, including use of their full
rulemaking and enforcement authorities. . . . For [crowdfunding] to succeed long-term, it will require
careful oversight, especially during the early stages.”).
266

Rule 17a-8. 713 This requirement is intended to ensure that funding portals create and maintain an
accurate record of their compliance with BSA obligations, including the requirement to maintain
records of suspicious activity reports. 714 As noted above, we believe that it is important for
funding portals to be subject to a recordkeeping requirement, along the same lines of the
requirement applicable to brokers, to create a meaningful audit trail of the crowdfunding
transactions and communications that occur on and through their platforms. Without these
records, we, FINRA or any other registered national securities association, would have difficulty
examining a funding portal for compliance with the requirements of Regulation Crowdfunding,
the BSA 715 and the federal securities laws. Although under the proposed rules funding portals
would be required to create and maintain certain records, we believe this particular rule is
necessary to achieve consistent application of, and ability to examine and enforce, BSA
requirements across all intermediaries, whether brokers or funding portals.
Request for Comment
241. We have proposed a variety of documents and data to be retained by a funding
portal. Are these documents and data appropriate? Should other types of
documents and data be required to be retained, and if so, which documents and
data and why? Are any of the documents and data we propose to require be
retained unnecessary, unclear or not sufficiently detailed? If so, which ones?

713

17 CFR 240.17a-8.

714

We note that a funding portal’s proposed obligation, under the BSA, to report suspicious activity includes
an obligation to maintain the confidentiality of suspicious activity reports and any information that would
reveal the existence of a suspicious activity report. See generally 31 CFR 1023.320.

715

See note 696.
267

Please explain. Should any of the proposed books and records requirements be
modified? If so, please explain why.
242. What burdens or costs would the retention of such information entail? Is it
appropriate to base the books and records requirements of funding portals on the
books and records requirements for broker-dealers generally? Have we
appropriately tailored the broker-dealer requirements for funding portals? If not,
how should they be further modified? Would these tailored requirements create
any competitive advantages for funding portals as compared to broker-dealers
engaged solely in the same limited activities in which a funding portal may
engage? Are there books and records requirements currently applicable to
broker-dealers, but not included in the proposed rules, that should be included?
Please provide examples of any such requirements or any suggested alternatives.
E.

Miscellaneous Provisions
1.

Insignificant Deviations from Regulation Crowdfunding

We are proposing to provide issuers a safe harbor for certain insignificant deviations
from a term, condition or requirement of Regulation Crowdfunding. 716 To qualify for the safe
harbor, the issuer relying on the exemption would have to show that: (1) the failure to comply
with a term, condition or requirement was insignificant with respect to the offering as a whole;
(2) the issuer made a good faith and reasonable attempt to comply with all applicable terms,
conditions and requirements of Regulation Crowdfunding; and (3) the issuer did not know of the
failure to comply, where the failure to comply with a term, condition or requirement was the

716

See proposed Rule 502 of Regulation Crowdfunding.
268

result of the failure of the intermediary to comply with the requirements of Section 4A(a) and the
related rules, or such failure by the intermediary occurred solely in offerings other than the
issuer’s offering.
The first two prongs of the safe harbor provision are modeled after a similar provision in
Rule 508 of Regulation D, 717 and we believe a similar safe harbor is appropriate for offerings
made in reliance on Section 4(a)(6). The offering exemption in Section 4(a)(6) was designed to
help alleviate the funding gap and the accompanying regulatory concerns faced by startups and
small businesses, many of which may not be familiar with the federal securities laws. We
believe that issuers should not lose the Section 4(a)(6) exemption because of a failure to comply
that is not significant with respect to the offering as a whole, so long as the issuer, in good faith,
attempted to comply with the rules. We also propose to include the third prong of the safe
harbor because, under the statute, an issuer could lose the exemption because of the failure of the
intermediary to comply with the requirements of Section 4A(a). We believe that an issuer should
not lose the offering exemption due to such failure by the intermediary, which likely would be
out of the issuer’s control, if the issuer did not know of such failure or such failure related to
offerings other than the issuer’s offering. Absent this safe harbor, we believe issuers may be
hesitant to participate in offerings in reliance on Section 4(a)(6) due to uncertainty regarding
their ability to rely on the exemption, which could undermine the facilitation of capital raising
for startups and small businesses.
We believe that the potential harm to investors that might result from the applicability of
this safe harbor would be minimal because the deviations must be insignificant to the offering as

717

17 CFR 230.508.
269

a whole for the safe harbor to apply. In addition, the proposed rules would provide that
notwithstanding this safe harbor, any failure to comply with Regulation Crowdfunding would
nonetheless be actionable by the Commission. 718 We believe that this safe harbor would address
concerns raised by one commenter and a member of Congress. 719 We also believe it
appropriately would protect an issuer who made a diligent attempt to comply with the proposed
rules from losing the exemption as a result of insignificant deviations from Regulation
Crowdfunding.
Request for Comment
243.

Is a safe harbor for certain insignificant deviations from a term, condition or
requirement of Regulation Crowdfunding appropriate? If so, is the proposed
safe harbor sufficiently broad or too broad? Are there additional conditions that
should apply for an issuer to rely on the safe harbor? If so, what conditions and
why?

244.

Should we define the term “insignificant” or use a different term? Please
explain. Should we use a standard requiring something other than “good faith
and reasonable attempt” to comply with the requirements? If so, what standard
and why? Is it appropriate for the safe harbor to cover the failure of the
intermediary to comply with the requirements of Section 4A(a) if the issuer did
not know of such failure or such failure occurred solely in offerings other than

718

See proposed Rule 502(b) of Regulation Crowdfunding.

719

See 2012 SEC Government-Business Forum, note 29 (recommending that we provide a safe harbor for
“innocent violations of procedural or disclosure requirements” in transactions relying on Section 4(a)(6)).
See also 158 CONG. REC. S2230 (daily ed. Mar. 29, 2012) (statement of Sen. Scott Brown) (“[I]ssuers
should not be held liable for misstatements or omissions that were made by mistake”).
270

the issuer’s offering? Why or why not?
245. Are there certain deviations that should never be considered insignificant for
purposes of this safe harbor? Why or why not? Should we provide examples of
deviations that we would consider significant? If so, what should those be (e.g.,
failure to file the Form C: Offering Statement on EDGAR)?
2.

Restrictions on Resales

Section 4A(e) provides that securities issued in reliance on Section 4(a)(6) may not be
transferred by the purchaser for one year after the date of purchase, except when transferred:
(1) to the issuer of the securities; (2) to an accredited investor; (3) as part of an offering
registered with the Commission; or (4) to a family member of the purchaser or the equivalent, or
in connection with certain events, including death or divorce of the purchaser, or other similar
circumstances, in the discretion of the Commission. Section 4A(e) further provides that the
Commission may establish additional limitations on securities issued in reliance on
Section 4(a)(6).
The proposed rules track the provisions of Section 4A(e). 720 We also are proposing to
include instructions in the rules to define “accredited investor” and a “member of the family of
the purchaser or the equivalent.” Under the proposed rules, the term “accredited investor” would
have the same definition as in Rule 501(a) of Regulation D. 721
The statute does not define “member of the family of the purchaser or the equivalent.”
We propose to define the phrase to mean a “child, stepchild, grandchild, parent, stepparent,
grandparent, spouse or spousal equivalent, sibling, mother-in-law, father-in-law, son-in-law,
720

See proposed Rule 501 of Regulation Crowdfunding.

721

17 CFR 230.501(a). See also note 38.
271

daughter-in-law, brother-in-law, or sister-in-law of the purchaser, and shall include adoptive
relationships.” This definition tracks the definition of “immediate family” in Exchange Act Rule
16a-1(e), 722 but with the addition of “spousal equivalent.” We propose to include the term
spousal equivalent to address the concept in Section 4A(e)(1)(D) of the “equivalent” of a
member of the family of the purchaser. The proposed rules would define spousal equivalent to
mean a cohabitant occupying a relationship generally equivalent to that of a spouse. 723 This is
the same definition as in Rule 202(a)(11)(G)-1(d)(9) under the Investment Advisers Act of
1940. 724 We believe issuers and investors would benefit from definitions that are consistent with
those already used in our rules, rather than creating a new definition, because issuers may be
familiar with those terms and should benefit from existing Commission and staff guidance. The
proposed rules also would provide that securities offered and sold in reliance on Section 4(a)(6)
may be transferred during the initial one-year period to a trust controlled by the initial purchaser
or to a trust created for the benefit of a member of the family of the purchaser or the equivalent.
We believe allowing transfers in such cases would be consistent with the intent of the provision
because the person that controls or benefits from the trust would otherwise be covered by the
rules.
Request for Comment
246. Are the proposed limitations on resale appropriate? Why or why not? If not,
what approach would be more appropriate and why? Should there be additional

722

17 CFR 240.16a-1(e).

723

See proposed Instruction to paragraph (c) of proposed Rule 501 of Regulation Crowdfunding.

724

17 CFR 275.202(a)(11)(G)-1(d)(9). See also Family Offices, Release No. IA-3220 (Jun. 22, 2011) [76 FR
37983 (June 29, 2011)] (adopting release); Family Offices, Release No. IA-3098 (Oct. 12, 2010) [75 FR
63753 (Oct. 18, 2010)] (proposing release).
272

limitations on resale, especially after the first year? Why or why not? If so,
what should they be and why? If an issuer no longer was in compliance with the
ongoing reporting requirements 725 or was no longer in business, should we place
restrictions on the resale of the issuer’s securities or otherwise limit the ability of
those shares to trade? If so, please describe the appropriate restrictions and
explain how we could implement such restrictions.
247. To transfer securities to an accredited investor during the one-year period
beginning when the securities are sold in reliance on Section 4(a)(6), the seller
would need to have a reasonable belief that the purchaser is an accredited
investor. 726 Is this approach appropriate? Why or why not?
248. Is the proposed use of the definition of “accredited investor” in Rule 501(a) of
Regulation D appropriate? Why or why not? Should a different definition be
used for purposes of Regulation Crowdfunding? Please explain.
249. Is the proposed definition of “member of the family of the purchaser or the
equivalent” appropriate? Is it appropriate to track the definition of “immediate
family” under Exchange Act Section 16 (with the addition of “spousal
equivalent”), or would another definition be more appropriate? Should any
persons be included or not included in the definition? Why or why not?
Should we use a consistent definition throughout Regulation Crowdfunding
even if it differs from similar rules in other Commission regulations? Why or
why not?
725

See Section II.B.2 above for a discussion of the ongoing reporting requirements.

726

See proposed Rule 501(b) of Regulation Crowdfunding.
273

3.

Information Available to States

Under Section 4A(d), the Commission shall make available, or shall cause to be made
available by the relevant intermediary, the information required under Section 4A(b) and such
other information as the Commission, by rule, determines appropriate to the securities
commission (or any agency or office performing like functions) of each State and territory of the
United States and the District of Columbia.
One commenter suggested that all information filed with the Commission should be made
available to state regulators. 727 Another commenter questioned whether open Internet access to
the crowdfunding platforms would be sufficient, questioning a platform’s ability to maintain or
archive records from websites that are routinely updated. 728 Another commenter suggested that
the requirement in Section 4A(d) should create an affirmative obligation for an intermediary only
if a state regulator requests information in excess of what is provided to the Commission.729
We are proposing to require issuers to file on EDGAR the information required by
Section 4A(b) and the related rules. Information filed on EDGAR is publicly available and
would, therefore, be available to each state, territory and the District of Columbia. We believe
this approach would satisfy the requirement to make the information available. Accordingly, we
do not believe that it is necessary to propose to impose any additional obligations on
intermediaries with respect to this requirement.
Request for Comment

727

See Commonwealth of Massachusetts Letter.

728

See NASAA Letter.

729

See RocketHub Letter 1.
274

250. Would the availability of information on EDGAR satisfy the requirement to
make the information available to each state, territory and the District of
Columbia? Are there other means of making the information available? Should
we impose any additional obligations on intermediaries with respect to this
requirement? If so, what are they? For example, should we require issuers or
intermediaries to provide this information directly to state regulators? Please
explain.
4.

Exemption from Section 12(g)

Section 303 of the JOBS Act amended Exchange Act Section 12(g) to provide that “the
Commission shall, by rule, exempt, conditionally or unconditionally, securities acquired pursuant
to an offering made under [S]ection 4[(a)](6) of the Securities Act of 1933 from the provisions of
this subsection.”
As amended by the JOBS Act, Section 12(g) requires, among other things, that an issuer
with total assets exceeding $10,000,000 and a class of securities held of record by either 2,000
persons, or 500 persons who are not accredited investors, register such class of securities with
the Commission.730 Crowdfunding contemplates the issuance of securities to a large number of
holders, which could increase the likelihood that Section 4(a)(6) issuers would exceed the
thresholds for reporting in Section 12(g). Section 303 could be read to mean that securities
acquired in a crowdfunding transaction would be excluded from the record holder count
permanently, regardless of whether the securities continue to be held by a person who purchased

730

See Section 501 of the JOBS Act. In the case of an issuer that is a bank or a bank holding company,
Exchange Act Section 12(g)(1)(B) (15 U.S.C. 78l(g)(1)(B)) requires, among other things, that the issuer, if
it has total assets exceeding $10,000,000 and a class of securities held of record by 2,000 persons, register
such class of securities with the Commission. See Section 601 of the JOBS Act.
275

in the crowdfunding transaction. An alternative reading could provide that securities acquired in
a crowdfunding transaction would be excluded from the record holder count only while held by
the original purchaser in the Section 4(a)(6) transaction, as a subsequent purchaser of the
securities would not be considered to have “acquired [the securities] pursuant to an offering
made under [S]ection 4[(a)](6).”
Commenters expressed concern that once the securities issued pursuant to Section 4(a)(6)
are transferred, the exemption from Section 12(g) registration could cease to apply and any new
holders of those securities would be included in the calculation of holders of record for purposes
of Section 12(g), which could potentially require an issuer to register its securities with the
Commission.731 Another commenter noted that the prospect that resales could trigger
registration requirements under the Exchange Act might provide an incentive for issuers to
attempt in some way to restrict resale and transfer of the securities issued in the offering made in
reliance on Section 4(a)(6), even after the lapse of the one year transfer limitation, which would
be to the detriment of small crowdfunding investors seeking liquidity. 732 One commenter
suggested that the exemption from Section 12(g) registration should attach to different securities
issued in a subsequent restructuring, recapitalization or similar transaction that is exempt from,
or otherwise not subject to, the registration requirements of Section 5, so long as the parties to

731

See Liles Letter 1; NCA Letter (stating that the time and expense associated with registration of a class of
securities could affect an issuer’s working capital and business operations); CFIRA Letter 2 (stating that the
need for additional capital to meet registration requirements would result in an issuer either having to
borrow money, thus leveraging its business, or raising additional capital through a subsequent equity
offering that would dilute existing stockholders); ABA Letter 2 (stating that a Section 12(g) exemption
limited to the initial purchaser of securities would undermine the utility of such an exemption and that an
initial purchaser should not be able to force an issuer to register under Section 12(g) simply by reselling his
or her securities).

732

See Liles Letter 1.
276

the transaction are affiliates of the original issuer. 733 The same commenter suggested that the
availability of the exemption be conditioned on the issuer complying with the ongoing reporting
requirements and not having total assets at the last day of the fiscal year in excess of $25
million.734
Proposed Rule 12g-6 provides that securities issued pursuant to an offering made under
Section 4(a)(6) would be permanently exempted from the record holder count under
Section 12(g). An issuer seeking to exclude a person from the record holder count would have
the responsibility for demonstrating that the securities held by the person were initially issued in
an offering made under Section 4(a)(6). We believe that allowing issuers to sell securities
pursuant to Section 4(a)(6) without becoming Exchange Act reporting issuers is consistent with
the intent of Title III. 735 In this regard, we note that Title III provides for an alternative reporting
system under which issuers would be required to file annual reports with the Commission. 736
We believe this is consistent with the proposal to permanently exempt securities issued in
reliance on Section 4(a)(6) from the record holder count under Section 12(g). Section 303 of the
JOBS Act does not extend the exemption from Section 12(g) to different securities issued in a
subsequent restructuring, recapitalization or similar transaction, so we are not proposing to
exempt such securities at this time, as one commenter suggested. 737 We also are not proposing

733
734

See ABA Letter 2.
Id.

735

See 158 CONG. REC. S1829 (daily ed. Mar. 20, 2012) (statement of Sen. Jeff Merkley) (“It also provides a
very important provision so the small investors do not count against the shareholder number that drives
companies to have to become a fully public company. That is critical and interrelates with other parts of
the [crowdfunding] bill before us.”).

736

See Section II.B.2 above for a discussion of the requirement to file annual reports.

737

See ABA Letter 2.
277

to condition the exemption on the issuer’s compliance with the ongoing reporting requirements
or on the issuer not having total assets in excess of a certain amount, as the same commenter
suggested. 738 We believe that the size of the issuer should not affect the availability of the
exemption because conditioning the exemption on the issuer not exceeding a certain amount of
total assets would impose an additional burden on successful issuers that unsuccessful issuers
would not face, which in turn would discourage growth. We also believe that failure to comply
with the ongoing reporting requirements could be better addressed as proposed by making the
issuer ineligible to use the exemption under Section 4(a)(6), 739 rather than by requiring such
issuer to register a class of securities under Section 12(g). 740
Request for Comment
251. Should the Commission permanently exempt securities issued pursuant to an
offering under Section 4(a)(6) from the record holder count under Section 12(g),
as proposed? Why or why not? Should the Commission exempt securities
issued under Section 4(a)(6) only when held of record by the original purchaser
in the Section 4(a)(6) transaction, an affiliate of the original purchaser, a
member of the original purchaser’s family or a trust for the benefit of the
original purchaser or the original purchaser’s family? Why or why not? Are

738

See id.

739

See proposed Rule 100(b)(6) of Regulation Crowdfunding.

740

We note, however, that making the issuer ineligible to use the exemption under Section 4(a)(6) if the issuer
failed to comply with the ongoing reporting requirements could have a limited impact since it only would
impact an issuer that intended to rely on the Section 4(a)(6) exemption for future offers and sales. But see
Bradford note 1 (“The need to go back to investors for future funding should constrain self-dealing,
opportunistic behavior by the entrepreneur.”).
278

there other ways to implement Section 303 that may be more appropriate?
Please explain.
252. One commenter suggested 741 that the Section 4(a)(6) exemption should survive
and attach to different securities issued in a subsequent restructuring,
recapitalization or similar transaction that is exempt from, or otherwise not
subject to, the registration requirements of Section 5, if the parties to the
transaction are affiliates of the original issuer. While we are not proposing to
implement this suggestion at this time, we invite commenters to discuss the
advantages and disadvantages of this approach.
253. The same commenter suggested 742 that the availability of the exemption under
Section 12(g)(6) should be conditioned on the issuer not having total assets, at
the last day of the fiscal year with respect to which the Section 12(g) compliance
determination is made (or a reasonable time before or after such date), in excess
of $25 million. Should we condition the availability of the exemption under
Section 12(g)(6) on the issuer not having total assets in excess of $25 million?
If not $25 million, should the availability of the exemption be conditioned on
total assets not exceeding some other amount (e.g., $10 million, $50 million,
etc.)? Should this determination be made as of the last day of the fiscal year or a
different date? Please explain.

741
742

See ABA Letter 2.
See id.
279

254. Should issuers that fail to comply with the ongoing reporting requirements 743 of
Regulation Crowdfunding be disqualified from relying on the exemption under
Section 12(g)(6), as suggested by one commenter? 744 Why or why not?
255. How would issuers be able to distinguish securities issued in a transaction
exempt under Section 4(a)(6) from securities issued in other offerings? What
would be the costs associated with making such a determination?
5.

Scope of Statutory Liability

As noted above, Securities Act Section 4A(c) sets forth a liability provision for
crowdfunding transactions under Section 4(a)(6). 745 Section 4A(c) provides that an issuer will
be liable to a purchaser of its securities in a transaction exempted by Section 4(a)(6) if the issuer,
in the offer or sale of the securities, makes an untrue statement of a material fact or omits to state
a material fact required to be stated or necessary in order to make the statements, in light of the
circumstances under which they were made, not misleading, provided that the purchaser did not
know of the untruth or omission, and the issuer does not sustain the burden of proof that such
issuer did not know, and in the exercise of reasonable care could not have known, of the untruth
or omission. Section 4A(c)(3) defines, for purposes of the liability provisions of Section 4A, an
issuer as including “any person who offers or sells the security in such offering.” On the basis of
this definition, it appears likely that intermediaries, including funding portals, would be
considered issuers for purposes of this liability provision. We believe that steps intermediaries

743

See proposed Rules 202 and 203(b) of Regulation Crowdfunding and Section II.B.2 above for a discussion
of the ongoing reporting requirements.

744

See ABA Letter 2.

745

The anti-fraud and civil liability provisions of the Securities Act, such as Sections 12(a)(2) and 17, apply to
exempted transactions, including those transactions that will be conducted in reliance on Section 4(a)(6).
280

could take in exercising reasonable care in light of this liability provision would include
establishing policies and procedures 746 that are reasonably designed to achieve compliance with
the requirements of Regulation Crowdfunding, and that include the intermediary conducting a
review of the issuer’s offering documents, before posting them to the platform, to evaluate
whether they contain materially false or misleading information.
Under this liability provision, an investor who purchases securities in a crowdfunding
transaction may bring an action against the issuer to recover the consideration paid for the
security, with interest, or damages if the person no longer holds the security. The statute further
provides that actions brought under Section 4A(c) will be subject to the provisions of Securities
Act Sections 12(b) and 13, as though the liability were created under Securities Act Section
12(a)(2).
6.

Disqualification

Section 302(d) of the JOBS Act requires the Commission to establish disqualification
provisions under which an issuer would not be eligible to offer securities pursuant to
Section 4(a)(6) and an intermediary would not be eligible to effect or participate in transactions
pursuant to Section 4(a)(6). Section 302(d)(2) specifies that the disqualification provisions must
be “substantially similar” to the disqualification provisions contained in Rule 262 of
Regulation A, 747 and they also must cover certain actions by state regulators enumerated in
Section 302(d)(2). The disqualifying events listed in Rule 262 apply to the issuer and certain
other persons associated with the issuer or the offering, including the issuer’s predecessors and

746

With respect to intermediaries that are funding portals, see proposed Rule 403(a) of Regulation
Crowdfunding and the discussion in Section II.D.4 above.

747

17 CFR 230.262.
281

affiliated issuers; directors, officers and general partners of the issuer; beneficial owners of 10
percent or more of any class of the issuer’s equity securities; promoters connected with the
issuer; and underwriters and their directors, officers and partners. Rule 262 disqualifying events
include:
•

felony and misdemeanor convictions in connection with the purchase or sale of a
security or involving the making of a false filing with the Commission (the same
criminal conviction standard as in Section 302(d) of the JOBS Act) within the last
five years in the case of issuers and 10 years in the case of other covered persons;

•

injunctions and court orders within the last five years against engaging in or
continuing conduct or practices in connection with the purchase or sale of
securities, or involving the making of any false filing with the Commission;

•

United States Postal Service false representation orders within the last five years;

•

filing, or being named as an underwriter in, a registration statement or
Regulation A offering statement that is the subject of a proceeding to determine
whether a stop order should be issued, or as to which a stop order was issued
within the last five years; and

•

for covered persons other than the issuer:
o being subject to a Commission order:


revoking or suspending their registration as a broker, dealer,
municipal securities dealer or investment adviser;



placing limitations on their activities as such;



barring them from association with any entity; or



barring them from participating in an offering of penny stock; or
282

o being suspended or expelled from membership in, or suspended or barred
from association with a member of, a registered national securities
exchange or national securities association for conduct inconsistent with
just and equitable principles of trade.
The disqualifying events specifically required by Section 302(d)(2) are:
•

final orders issued by state securities, banking, savings association, credit union
and insurance regulators, federal banking regulators and the National Credit
Union Administration that either:
o bar a person from association with an entity regulated by the regulator
issuing the order; engaging in the business of securities, insurance or
banking; or engaging in savings association or credit union activities; or
o are based on a violation of any law or regulation that prohibits fraudulent,
manipulative or deceptive conduct within a 10-year period ending on the
date of the filing of the offer or sale; and

•

felony and misdemeanor convictions in connection with the purchase or sale of a
security or involving the making of a false filing with the Commission.

One commenter urged us to apply the same standards adopted by the Commission for
Rule 506 of Regulation D 748 to this exemption.749 Another commenter stated that searching for
most disqualifying events could be achieved with automated or semi-automated inquiries to
databases or data services, but other disqualifying events would be difficult to identify with those

748

See Securities Act Rule 506(d) [17 CFR 230.506(d)]. See also Disqualification Adopting Release, note
101.

749

See NASAA Letter (stating that an offering made pursuant to Section 4(a)(6) also should be subject to
disqualification based on the prior bad acts of the funding portal and its management).
283

types of inquiries and should be the responsibility of the issuer to address with representations
and warranties. 750 One commenter stated that if a bankruptcy proceeding would be a
disqualifying event, it should be limited to a bankruptcy proceeding of the issuer or the
intermediary and not include a personal bankruptcy proceeding. 751 Another commenter
recommended that the disqualification rules: (1) not be so broad as to affect “persons who may
not be true bad actors – such as persons who consent to the entry of judgments which do not also
include meaningful monetary or other penalties;” (2) not apply retroactively to cover
disqualifying events prior to the adoption of the final rules; and (3) apply to other types of
exempt offerings (including offerings made in reliance on Regulation A). 752
a.

Issuers and Certain Other Associated Persons

The disqualification provisions included in Section 302(d) of the JOBS Act are modeled
on the disqualification provisions included in Section 926 of the Dodd-Frank Act, which required
the Commission to adopt rules, “substantially similar” to Rule 262, that disqualify securities
offerings involving certain “felons and other ‘bad actors’” from reliance on Rule 506 of
Regulation D. 753 On July 10, 2013, we adopted rules to implement Section 926 of the DoddFrank Act to disqualify certain securities offerings from reliance on Rule 506 of Regulation D. 754

750

See Applied Dynamite Letter (stating that certain disqualifying events have open-ended definitions that
would make it difficult to satisfy with confidence: “any court of competent jurisdiction” having entered an
order because there is no limit to the number of courts which may have, at some time, been competent to
enter an order regarding an issuer; being “subject to” certain unpublished orders or injunctions such as a
United States Postal Service false representation order; and the extension of disqualification events to
predecessors and affiliated issuers because of the innumerable ways in which two companies might be
deemed to be affiliated).

751

See Landon Letter 1.

752

See SEC Government-Business Forum, note 29.

753

See Dodd-Frank Act, note 38.

754

See Disqualification Adopting Release, note 101.
284

The proposed disqualification rules, 755 as they relate to issuers and certain other associated
persons, are modeled on the Rule 506 disqualification rules, which, in turn, are substantially
similar to the disqualification provisions in Rule 262.
i.

Covered Persons

The proposed rules would apply the disqualification provisions to:
•

the issuer and any predecessor of the issuer or affiliated issuer;

•

any director, officer, general partner or managing member of the issuer;

•

any 20 percent Beneficial Owner;

•

any promoter connected with the issuer in any capacity at the time of the sale;

•

any person that has been or will be paid (directly or indirectly) remuneration for
solicitation of purchasers in connection with sales of securities in the offering
(which we refer to as a “compensated solicitor”); and

•

any director, officer, general partner or managing member of any such
compensated solicitor.

These covered persons are substantially similar to those currently covered by the
disqualification rules for Rules 262 and 506. The proposed rules would cover any “officer” 756 of
the issuer, mirroring the coverage in Rule 262, rather than any “executive officer [and] other
officer participating in the offering” 757 as it is currently covered in Rule 506. In adopting the

755

See proposed Rules 503(a)-(c) of Regulation Crowdfunding.

756

Under Securities Act Rule 405, the term “officer” is defined as “a president, vice president, secretary,
treasurer or principal financial officer, comptroller or principal accounting officer, and any person routinely
performing corresponding functions with respect to any organization.” 17 CFR 230.405.

757

Under Securities Act Rule 405, the term “executive officer” is defined as a “president [of the registrant],
any vice president of the registrant in charge of a principal business unit, division or function (such as sales,
285

Rule 506 disqualification rules, we noted that an “officer” test would be unduly burdensome and
overly restrictive due to the larger and more complex organizations that are involved in many
Rule 506 transactions as compared to the smaller entities that use Regulation A. We also noted
that limiting the coverage of the Rule 506 disqualification rules to executive officers and officers
who participate in the offering would lessen the potential compliance burden by limiting the
number of covered persons. In contrast, we believe that the startups and small businesses that
may seek to raise capital in reliance on Section 4(a)(6) generally will be smaller than the entities
involved in Rule 506 transactions and, likely, smaller than the issuers of securities relying on
Regulation A. 758 We also believe that the “officers” of many issuers relying on Section 4(a)(6)
may be only a few individuals, with or without formal titles. As a result, we do not believe that
an “officer” test would be more burdensome than the test used for Regulation A purposes, so we
do not see a need to deviate from Rule 262 in this context.
The proposed rules also would cover persons who are 20 Percent Beneficial Owners.
This threshold differs from the 10 percent threshold specified in Rule 262, but it is the same as
the threshold in the Rule 506 disqualification rules. We believe that a 10 percent ownership
threshold could impose an undue burden on participants in the Section 4(a)(6) marketplace. In
this regard, the potential administrative complexity of monitoring the fluctuating ownership
levels and the issuer’s inability to control the actions of a shareholder who does not disclose
disqualification would be greater under a 10 percent threshold scheme than under a 20 percent
threshold scheme. This is the same concern that led us to change the 10 percent threshold in the

administration or finance), any other officer who performs a policy making function or any other person
who performs similar policy making functions for the registrant.” 17 CFR 230.405.
758

There is no cap on the amount of proceeds that may be raised in an offering relying on Rule 506, and
Regulation A limits offerings to $5 million.
286

Rule 506 disqualification rules. A 20 percent threshold would provide greater certainty and ease
of compliance than a 10 percent threshold, and it also would be consistent with both the
threshold specified in the Rule 506 disqualification rules and the disclosure requirements of
Sections 4A(b)(1)(B) and 4A(b)(1)(H)(iii), which require certain disclosures about shareholders
based on a 20 percent threshold. 759
The proposed rules would include the category of compensated solicitor and any director,
officer, general partner or managing member of any such compensated solicitor, currently in the
Rule 506 disqualification rules. 760 Regulation A offerings may involve traditional underwritten
offerings, but offers and sales made in reliance on Section 4(a)(6), similar to transactions under
Rule 506, would not involve underwriters. Thus, the proposed disqualification rules would not
apply to underwriters, but would substitute underwriters with the concept of compensated
solicitor. The statute and the proposed rules would permit issuers offering and selling securities
in reliance on Section 4(a)(6) to compensate persons to promote the issuer’s offering through
communication channels provided by the intermediary, subject to certain conditions. 761 We
believe those individuals receiving compensation to promote the issuer’s offering should be
covered by the disqualification provisions because they would be subject to conflicts of interest
in transactions pursuant to Section 4(a)(6), which would be substantially similar to those of
underwriters in Regulation A transactions. 762

759

See discussion in Section II.B.1.a.i(a) above.

760

See proposed Rule 503(a) of Regulation Crowdfunding.

761

See Section 4A(b)(3) and proposed Rule 205 of Regulation Crowdfunding. See also Section II.B.5 above.

762

We note that the receipt of transaction-based compensation in connection with the offer and sale of a
security could cause a person to be a broker required to register with us under Exchange Act Section
15(a)(1) (15 U.S.C. 78c(a)(1)).
287

Moreover, the proposed rules would provide that events relating to certain affiliated
issuers are not disqualifying if they pre-date the affiliate relationship. 763 Rule 262(a)(5) currently
provides that orders, judgments and decrees entered against affiliated issuers before the
affiliation arose do not disqualify an issuer from reliance on Regulation A if the affiliated issuer
is not: (1) in control of the issuer; or (2) under the common control of a third party that
controlled the affiliated issuer at the time such order, judgment or decree was entered. The
proposed rules would include a substantially similar provision but would clarify that it applies to
all potentially disqualifying events that pre-date affiliation. We believe this is appropriate
because the current placement of this language within paragraph (5) of Rule 262(a) may
incorrectly suggest that it applies only to Postal Service false representation orders. This is the
same approach we took in the Rule 506 disqualification rules. As in Rule 506(d), the proposed
rules would not treat entities differently if they have undergone a change of control or other
remedial measures. 764 This should avoid undue complexity in applying the proposed rules, while
also avoiding potential abuse by bad actors that may falsely claim to have undergone a change of
control. 765
Request for Comment

763

See proposed Rule 503(c) of Regulation Crowdfunding.

764

See Disqualification Adopting Release, note 101 (declining to provide different treatment for entities that
have undergone a change of control or other remedial measures, such as a change of policy whereby an
issuer would have implemented policies and procedures, designed to prevent the occurrence of the kinds of
activities that gave rise to disqualification, and such policies and procedures would have been approved by
a regulator or a court).

765

Entities that have undergone a change of control or a change of policy could, however, seek a waiver of the
disqualification upon a proper showing that there has been a change of control and the persons responsible
for the activities resulting in a disqualification are no longer employed by the entity or exercise influence
over such entity. See Section II.E.6.a.iv below for a discussion of waivers.
288

256. Should we eliminate or modify any of the proposed categories of covered
persons? If so, which ones and why? Would doing so still result in a rule
substantially similar to Rule 262? Should we disqualify additional categories of
covered persons? If so, which ones and why?
257. The proposed rules would apply to officers of the issuer, mirroring Rule 262,
rather than executive officers and other officers participating in the offering, as
in Securities Act Rule 506(d). Is this approach appropriate? Why or why not?
258. Should persons compensated to promote the issuer’s offering through
communication channels provided by the intermediary be covered persons, as is
the case for the Rule 506 disqualification rules? Why or why not? Would doing
so result in a rule substantially similar to Rule 262?
259. The proposed disqualification rules would cover persons who are 20 Percent
Beneficial Owners. Is the 20 percent beneficial ownership threshold
appropriate? Why or why not? Should the proposed disqualification rules cover
persons based on a 10 percent ownership threshold, as in Rule 262? Why or
why not?
260. Should orders, judgments and decrees entered against affiliated issuers not be
disqualifying if they pre-date the affiliate relationship, as proposed? Should we,
as proposed, expand this treatment to entities that have undergone a change of
control or a change of policy? Why or why not?
ii.

Disqualifying Events
(a)

Criminal Convictions

289

Section 302(d)(2)(B)(ii) provides for disqualification if any covered person “has been
convicted of any felony or misdemeanor in connection with the purchase or sale of any security
or involving the making of any false filing with the Commission.” This essentially mirrors Rule
262(a)(3), which covers criminal convictions of issuers, and Rule 262(b)(1), which covers
criminal convictions of other covered persons. There are, however, two differences between the
felony and misdemeanor conviction provisions of Section 302(d)(2)(B)(ii) and Rule 262. First,
Section 302(d)(2)(B)(ii) does not include a specific time limit (or “look-back period”) on
convictions that trigger disqualification, while Rule 262 provides a five-year look-back period
for criminal convictions of issuers and a 10-year look-back period for criminal convictions of
other covered persons. In light of the time limits on criminal convictions under Rule 262, we are
proposing the same five-year and 10-year look-back periods so the proposed rules would be
substantially similar to the existing rules. Second, unlike Rule 262(b)(1), Section 302(d) does
not include a reference to criminal convictions “arising out of the conduct of the business of an
underwriter, broker, dealer, municipal securities dealer or investment adviser.” We are not
aware of any legislative history that explains why this type of conviction was not mentioned in
Section 302(d). However, because such convictions are covered in Rule 262, we believe that
rules substantially similar to the existing rules should cover them.
The proposed rules are based on Rule 262 and differ from the Rule 506 disqualification
rules in that the look-back period would be measured from the date of the requisite filing with
the Commission, rather than the date of the relevant sale. 766 We noted in the proposing release

766

See proposed Rule 503(a)(1) of Regulation Crowdfunding.
290

for the Rule 506 disqualification rules 767 that measuring from the date of the requisite filing, as
in Rule 262, would not be appropriate in the context of Rule 506 because no filing is required to
be made with the Commission before an offer or sale is made in reliance on Regulation D. 768
Because the proposed rules would require issuers offering securities in reliance on Section
4(a)(6) to file with the Commission the information required by Section 4A(b), 769 the proposed
rules would measure the look-back period based on the filing date, similar to Rule 262, rather
than the date of sale.
(b)

Court Injunctions and Restraining Orders

Under Rule 262(a)(4), an issuer is disqualified from reliance on Regulation A if it, or any
predecessor or affiliated issuer, is subject to a court injunction or restraining order against
“engaging in or continuing any conduct or practice in connection with the purchase or sale of any
security or involving the making of any false filing with the Commission.” Similarly, under
Rule 262(b)(2), an issuer is disqualified from reliance on Regulation A if any other covered
person is subject to such a court injunction or restraining order or to one “arising out of the
conduct of the business of an underwriter, broker, dealer, municipal securities dealer or
investment adviser.” Disqualification is triggered by temporary or preliminary injunctions and
restraining orders that are currently in effect, as well as by permanent injunctions and restraining
orders entered within the last five years. 770

767

See Disqualification of Felons and Other “Bad Actors” from Rule 506 Offerings, Release No. 33-9211
(proposed May 25, 2011) at 18 [76 FR 31518, 31523 (June 1, 2011)].

768

See also Disqualification Adopting Release, note 101.

769

See Sections II.B.1 and II.B.3 above for a discussion of the disclosure and filing requirements.

770

The look-back period means that disqualification no longer arises from a permanent injunction or
restraining order after the requisite amount of time has passed, even though the injunction or order may still
be in effect. In addition, because disqualification is triggered only when a person “is subject to” a relevant
291

The proposed rules are substantially similar to these two provisions, but in a simplified,
combined format. 771 The proposed rules would include the same coverage and look-back
periods that apply under the disqualification provisions for Rules 262 and 506, except that the
look-back period would be measured from the date of the requisite filing with the Commission,
consistent with the approach in Rule 262. The proposed rules also would not impose due process
requirements (such as notice and an opportunity to appear) or require that all appeals be
exhausted or the time for appeal be expired, as a condition to disqualification. This is the same
approach as under the disqualification provisions for Rules 262 and 506. We believe that the
risk that disqualification may arise from ex parte proceedings could be better addressed through
the waiver process, 772 rather than through additional requirements for factual inquiry that would
affect all offerings. As for appealable orders, we believe that suspending disqualification during
the pendency of a potentially lengthy appeals process could significantly undermine the intended
protections in the rules, and therefore, the proposed rules would disqualify covered persons
during the pendency of the appeals.
With regard to who would be viewed as subject to an order, we believe the proposed
rules should be applied consistently with the way the staff has applied Rule 262. For
disqualification purposes, the staff has interpreted Rule 262 to limit those considered “subject to”
an order to only the persons specifically named in the order. Others who are not specifically
named but who come within the scope of an order (such as, for example, agents, attorneys and

injunction or order, injunctions and orders that have expired or are otherwise no longer in effect are not
disqualifying, even if they were issued within the relevant look-back period.
771

See proposed Rule 503(a)(2) of Regulation Crowdfunding.

772

See Section II.E.6.a.iv below for a discussion of the waiver process.
292

persons acting in concert with the named person) would not be treated as “subject to” the order
for purposes of disqualification.
(c)

Final Orders of Certain Regulators

Section 302(d)(2)(B) provides that the disqualification rules for transactions made in
reliance on Section 4(a)(6) must disqualify any covered person that:
(i) is subject to a final order of a State securities commission (or an agency or
officer of a State performing like functions), a State authority that supervises or examines
banks, savings associations, or credit unions, a State insurance commission (or an agency
or officer of a State performing like functions), an appropriate Federal banking agency, or
the National Credit Union Administration, that—
(I) bars the person from—
(aa) association with an entity regulated by such commission, authority, agency,
or officer;
(bb) engaging in the business of securities, insurance, or banking; or
(cc) engaging in savings association or credit union activities; or
(II) constitutes a final order based on a violation of any law or regulation that
prohibits fraudulent, manipulative, or deceptive conduct within the 10-year period ending
on the date of filing of the offer or sale.
Section 302(d)(2)(B) is substantively identical to Exchange Act Section 15(b)(4)(H) and
Section 203(e)(9) of the Investment Advisers Act of 1940 (“Advisers Act”). Section
302(d)(2)(B) contains a 10-year look-back period for final orders based on violations of laws and
regulations that prohibit fraudulent, manipulative and deceptive conduct, while the Exchange Act
and Advisers Act provisions have no time limit for such orders.
293

The proposed rules would reflect the text of Section 302(d)(2)(B) with two
clarifications. 773 First, the proposed rules would specify that an order must bar the covered
person “at the time of the filing of the information required by Section 4A(b) of the Securities
Act of 1933,” to clarify that a bar would be disqualifying only for as long as it has continuing
effect. Second, the proposed rules would require that orders must have been “entered” within the
look-back period, to clarify that the date of the order, and not the date of the underlying conduct,
was relevant for that determination. We believe these clarifications would eliminate potential
ambiguities and allow for more appropriate application of the rules. These clarifications also are
consistent with the approach in the Rule 506 disqualification rules, except that under Securities
Act Rule 506(d), the order must bar the covered person at the time of the relevant sale, rather
than at the time of the filing, because no filing is required to be made with the Commission prior
to the time of a sale made pursuant to Rule 506.
The proposed rules also would include the U.S. Commodity Futures Trading Commission
(“CFTC”) in the list of regulators whose regulatory bars and other final orders will trigger
disqualification. This is consistent with the approach in the Rule 506 disqualification rules. As
we noted in the adopting release for Securities Act Rule 506(d), 774 the conduct that would
typically give rise to CFTC sanctions is similar to the type of conduct that would result in
disqualification if it were the subject of sanctions by another financial regulator. For that reason,
CFTC orders trigger consequences under other Commission statutes 775 (for example, both
registered broker-dealers and investment advisers may be subject to Commission disciplinary
773

See proposed Rule 503(a)(3) of Regulation Crowdfunding.

774

Disqualification Adopting Release, note 101.

775

See, e.g., Exchange Act Section 15(b)(4)(D) [15 U.S.C. 78o(b)(4)(D)] and Advisers Act Section 203(e)(5)
[15 U.S.C. 80b-3(e)(5)].
294

action based on violations of the Commodity Exchange Act 776). We believe that including
CFTC orders would make the disqualification rules for transactions made in reliance on Section
4(a)(6) more internally consistent, treating relevant sanctions similarly for disqualification
purposes, which should enhance the effectiveness of the disqualification rules to screen out
felons and bad actors.
In our view, bars are orders issued by one of the specified regulators that have the effect
of barring a person from: (1) associating with certain regulated entities; (2) engaging in the
business of securities, insurance or banking; or (3) engaging in savings association or credit
union activities. We believe that any such order that has one of those effects would be a bar,
regardless of whether it uses the term “bar.” 777 Under the proposed rules, a disqualifying order is
one that bars the person “at the time of the filing of the information required by Section 4A(b) of
the Securities Act of 1933” from one or more of the specified activities. Thus, for example, a
person who was barred permanently, with the right to apply to reassociate after three years,
would be disqualified until such time as he or she successfully applied to reassociate, assuming
that the bar had no continuing effect after reassociation. Bars would be disqualifying for as long
as they are in effect but no longer, matching the period of disqualification to the duration of the
regulatory sanction. The treatment of regulatory bars and orders 778 is different in one relevant
respect from court injunctions and restraining orders. 779 Court injunctions and restraining orders
would be subject to a five-year look-back period, which would function as a cut-off (i.e.,

776

7 U.S.C. 1 et seq.

777

Orders that do not have any of those effects are not bars, although they may be disqualifying “final orders.”

778

See proposed Rule 503(a)(3) of Regulation Crowdfunding.

779

See proposed Rule 503(a)(2) of Regulation Crowdfunding.
295

injunctions and restraining orders issued more than five years before the filing required by
Section 4A(b) would no longer be disqualifying, even if they are still in effect or permanent).
This is the same approach as under the Rules 262 and 506 disqualification rules, and we do not
believe that the shift from Regulation A and Rule 506 offerings to offerings pursuant to Section
4(a)(6) justifies extending the time period for disqualifications associated with court injunctions
and restraining orders.
The proposed rules would define a “final order” as “a written directive or declaratory
statement issued by a federal or state agency, described in proposed Rule 503(a)(3) of Regulation
Crowdfunding, under applicable statutory authority that provides for notice and an opportunity
for hearing, which constitutes a final disposition or action by that federal or state agency.” 780
This definition is based on the definition that FINRA uses in forms related to Exchange Act
Section 15(b)(4)(H), which is identical to provisions of Section 302(d). Section 302(d) provides
that disqualification must result from final orders of the relevant regulators that are “based on a
violation of any law or regulation that prohibits fraudulent, manipulative, or deceptive conduct.”
The proposed rules would not, similar to the Rule 506 disqualification rules, limit “fraudulent,
manipulative or deceptive conduct” to matters involving scienter. Scienter is not a requirement
under Exchange Act Section 15(b)(4)(H) or Advisers Act Section 203(e)(9). Commission orders
are issued under these sections based only on the existence of a relevant state or federal
regulatory order. The Commission has stated that, while the degree of scienter involved is a
factor in determining what sanction is appropriate, 781 the Commission can order sanctions even

780

The federal or state agencies described in proposed Rule 503(a)(3) of Regulation Crowdfunding are the
ones identified in Section 302(d)(2)(B)(i), with the addition of the CFTC.

781

Steadman v. SEC, 603 F.2d 1126, 1140 (5th Cir. 1979), aff’d on other grounds, 450 U.S. 91 (1981).
296

where scienter is not an element of the underlying state antifraud law violation. 782 We do not
believe it would be appropriate to limit the provision to matters involving scienter absent a clear
statutory directive to do so, particularly when the relevant language has been construed in other
contexts not to be so limited. Moreover, imposing such a limitation may result in excluding
regulatory orders that are explicitly mandated to be covered by the new rules.
(d)

Commission Disciplinary Orders

Rule 262(b)(3) of Regulation A disqualifies an issuer if any covered person is subject to a
Commission order “entered pursuant to [S]ection 15(b), 15B(a), or 15B(c) of the Exchange Act,
or [S]ection 203(e) or (f) of the Investment Advisers Act.” Under these provisions (other than
Section 15B(a), discussed below), the Commission has authority to order a variety of sanctions
against registered brokers, dealers, municipal securities dealers and investment advisers and their
associated persons, including suspension or revocation of registration, censure, limiting their
activities, imposing civil money penalties and barring individuals from being associated with
specified entities and from participating in the offering of any penny stock.
The proposed rules are based on Rule 262(b)(3) but would not include the reference to
Section 15B(a) (the basic registration requirements for municipal securities dealers). 783 Section
15B(a) is not generally a source of sanctioning authority, and we do not believe it is appropriate
to refer to it in the context of the proposed disqualification rules. This is consistent with the
approach in the Rule 506 disqualification rules. Under the proposed rules, the disqualification
would continue only for as long as some act is prohibited or required to be performed pursuant to
the order (with the consequence that censures and orders to pay civil money penalties, assuming
782

See In the Matter of Mitchell M. Maynard and Dorice A. Maynard, Release No. IA-2875 (May 15, 2009).

783

See proposed Rule 503(a)(4) of Regulation Crowdfunding.
297

the penalties are paid in accordance with the order, would not be disqualifying, and a
disqualification based on a suspension or limitation of activities would expire when the
suspension or limitation expires).
(e)

Certain Commission Cease-and-Desist Orders

Section 302(d) mandates that disqualification result from final orders issued within a 10year period by the state and federal regulators identified in Section 302(d)(2)(B)(i). These
regulators include state authorities that supervise banks, savings associations or credit unions;
state insurance regulators; appropriate federal banking agencies; and the National Credit Union
Administration. The Commission is not included in the list of regulators, and orders issued in
stand-alone Commission cease-and-desist proceedings 784 are not disqualifying under Rule
262. 785 The reason for this omission appears to be largely historical: the Commission did not
have authority to bring cease-and-desist proceedings when Rule 262 was originally adopted, and
the rule has not been amended to take that authority into account. We believe that adding certain
Commission cease-and-desist orders to the disqualification provisions would further enhance the
investor protection intent of the disqualification provisions. This approach also would be
consistent with the disqualification provisions for Rule 506. We believe an injunctive or

784

In cease-and-desist proceedings, the Commission can issue orders against “any person,” including entities
and individuals outside the securities industry, imposing sanctions such as penalties, accounting and
disgorgement or officer and director bars. In contrast, administrative proceedings generally are limited to
regulated entities and their associated persons.

785

The disqualification provisions under Rule 262 also do not cover other types of Commission actions. For
example, the Commission has authority under Section 9(b) of the Investment Company Act to bring
proceedings against “any person” and may impose investment company bars, civil penalties and
disgorgement under Sections 9(d) and (e) of the Investment Company Act. 15 U.S.C. 80a-9(b), (d) and (e).
The Commission also has authority under Rule 102(e) of its Rules of Practice to censure persons (such as
accountants and attorneys) who appear or practice before it, or to deny them the privilege of appearing
before the Commission temporarily or permanently. 17 CFR 201.102(e). Orders under these sections are
not disqualifying under Rule 262.
298

restraining order issued by a federal court and a Commission cease-and-desist order arising out
of the same legal violation demonstrate equally disqualifying conduct and should have the same
consequences under our proposed disqualification rules. We believe that the determination of
disqualification should not depend on whether a particular enforcement action is brought in court
or through a Commission cease-and-desist proceeding. Commission cease-and-desist orders
would be an additional disqualification trigger not provided for in Section 302(d). In our view,
Section 302(d) does not limit the existing authority we previously used to create other bad actor
provisions, and based on the foregoing reasons, we believe it would be appropriate to add
Commission cease-and-desist orders to the disqualification triggers.
The proposed rules, consistent with the approach for the Rule 506 disqualification rules,
would not include administrative cease-and-desist orders that do not require any showing or
finding of scienter, with one exception. 786 The proposed disqualification trigger only would
cover Commission orders to cease and desist from violations and future violations of the
scienter-based anti-fraud provisions of the federal securities laws (including, without limitation,
Securities Act Section 17(a)(1), 787 Exchange Act Section 10(b) 788 and Rule 10b-5 thereunder, 789
Exchange Act Section 15(c)(1) 790 and Advisers Act Section 206(1) 791). The only additional
disqualification trigger not requiring scienter would be Section 5 violations. 792 Section 5

786

See proposed Rule 503(a)(5) of Regulation Crowdfunding.

787

15 U.S.C. 77q(a)(1).

788

15 U.S.C. 78j(b).

789

17 CFR 240.10b-5.

790

15 U.S.C. 78o(c)(1).

791

15 U.S.C. 80b-6(1).

792

15 U.S.C. 77e.
299

imposes a strict liability standard, which does not require a finding of scienter. 793 As a matter of
policy, we do not believe that the exemption from registration under Section 4(a)(6) should be
made available to persons whose prior conduct has resulted in an order to cease and desist from
violations of the registration requirements of Section 5.
A disqualification based on a Commission cease-and-desist order would be subject to the
same five-year look-back period that applies to court restraining orders and injunctions, rather
than the 10-year look-back that is mandated to apply to other final regulatory orders under
Section 302(d), which would provide consistent Commission treatment of cease-and-desist
orders with court orders that we seek. This approach is also consistent with the Rule 506
disqualification rules.
(f)

Suspension or Expulsion from SRO Membership
or Association with an SRO Member

Rule 262(b)(4) disqualifies an offering if any covered person is suspended or expelled
from membership in, or suspended or barred from association with a member of, a selfregulatory organization or “SRO” (e.g., a registered national securities exchange or national
securities association) for any act or omission to act constituting conduct inconsistent with just
and equitable principles of trade. 794
The proposed rules would include a reference to a registered affiliated securities
association 795 and would apply the standard to all covered persons, 796 but they would not

793

See SEC v. Ross, 504 F.3d 1130, 1137 (9th Cir.2007); Swenson v. Engelstad, 626 F.2d 421, 424 (5th Cir.
1980); SEC v. N. Am. Research and Dev. Corp., 424 F.2d 63, 81-82 (2d Cir.1970); SEC v. Pearson, 426
F.2d 1339, 1343 (10th Cir.1970).

794

See 17 CFR 230.262(b)(4).

795

An association of brokers and dealers may be registered as an affiliated securities association under
Exchange Act Section 15A. 15 U.S.C. 78o-3.
300

otherwise change the substance of Rule 262(b)(4). 797 Including these changes is the same
approach as in the Rule 506 disqualification rules.
(g)

Stop Orders and Orders Suspending the
Regulation A Exemption

Paragraphs (a)(1) and (2) of Rule 262 disqualify an offering if the issuer, or any
predecessor or affiliated issuer, has filed a registration statement or Regulation A offering
statement that was the subject of a Commission refusal order, stop order or order suspending the
Regulation A exemption within the last five years, or is the subject of a pending proceeding to
determine whether such an order should be issued. 798 Similarly, paragraphs (c)(1) and (2) of
Rule 262 disqualify an offering if any underwriter of the securities proposed to be issued was, or
was named as, an underwriter of securities under a registration statement or Regulation A
offering statement that was the subject of a Commission refusal order, stop order or order
suspending the Regulation A exemption within the last five years, or is the subject of a pending
proceeding to determine whether such an order should be issued. 799
The proposed rules would incorporate the substance of paragraphs (a)(1), (a)(2), (c)(1)
and (c)(2) of Rule 262 in a single paragraph that applies to all covered persons, 800 resulting in
rules that are substantially similar to Rule 262. This is the same as the approach in the Rule 506
disqualification rules.
(h)

United States Postal Service False
Representation Orders

796

Rule 262(b)(4) does not apply to issuers, their predecessors or affiliated issuers. 17 CFR 230.262(b)(4).

797

See proposed Rule 503(a)(6) of Regulation Crowdfunding.

798

17 CFR 230.262(a)(1) and (2).

799

17 CFR 230.262(c)(1) and (2).

800

See proposed Rule 503(a)(7) of Regulation Crowdfunding.
301

Paragraphs (a)(5) and (b)(5) of Rule 262 disqualify an offering if the issuer or another
covered person is subject to a United States Postal Service false representation order, entered
within the preceding five years, or to a temporary restraining order or preliminary injunction
with respect to conduct alleged to have violated the false representation statute that applies to
U.S. mail. 801
The proposed rules would incorporate the substance of paragraphs (a)(5) and (b)(5) of
Rule 262 in a single paragraph, 802 resulting in rules that are substantially similar to Rule 262.
This is the same as the approach in the Rule 506 disqualification rules.
Request for Comment
261. Should we eliminate or modify any of the proposed disqualification events? If
so, which ones and why? Should additional events be disqualifying events? If
so, what should constitute a disqualifying event and why?
262. The proposed disqualification for certain criminal convictions contemplates a
look-back period of five years for criminal convictions of issuers (including
predecessors and affiliated issuers) and 10 years for other covered persons.
Should we modify the proposed five- and 10-year look-back periods? If so,
what should the look-back periods be? Should the look-back periods be

801

Paragraph (a)(5) of Rule 262 relates to issuers and their predecessors and affiliated issuers, and paragraph
(b)(5) of Rule 262 relates to other covered persons. Disqualification results if any covered person “is
subject to a United States Postal Service false representation order entered under 39 U.S.C. 3005, within 5
years prior to the filing of the offering statement, or is subject to a temporary restraining order or
preliminary injunction entered under 39 U.S.C. 3007 with respect to conduct alleged to have violated 39
U.S.C. 3005.” [17 CFR 230.262(a)(5) and (b)(5)].

802

See proposed Rule 503(a)(8) of Regulation Crowdfunding.
302

measured from the date of the requisite filing with the Commission, as proposed,
or the date of the relevant sale? Why?
263. Should we expand or narrow the scope of the coverage of criminal convictions?
Why or why not?
264. Is the proposed coverage and look-back period for disqualification events
relating to court injunctions and restraining orders appropriate? Why or why
not? Should we impose any due process requirements as a condition to
disqualification? If so, what should those requirements be and why? Should we
expand or narrow our proposed approach of who would be viewed as subject to
an order? Why or why not?
265. Are the proposed disqualification provisions relating to final orders of certain
regulators appropriate? Why or why not? The proposed rules would add the
CFTC to the list of regulators whose regulatory bars and other final orders will
trigger disqualification. Is this addition appropriate? Why or why not? Should
we define or provide additional guidance about what constitutes a “bar”? Why
or why not? Is our proposed definition of “final order” appropriate? If not, why
not and what should it be? Should we limit “fraudulent, manipulative or
deceptive conduct” to matters involving scienter? Why or why not?
266. Are the proposed disqualification provisions relating to Commission disciplinary
orders appropriate? Why or why not? Should the disqualification continue only
for as long as some act is prohibited or required to be performed pursuant to the
order, as proposed, or should we impose a look-back period for Commission

303

disciplinary orders? If we should impose a look-back period, how long should
that look-back period be (e.g. five years, 10 years)?
267. The proposed disqualification provisions would make certain Commission
cease-and-desist orders a disqualifying event. Is this approach appropriate?
Why or why not? Should we create a new disqualification trigger for orders of
any other regulator not identified in Section 302(d)? If so, which regulator and
why?
268. Are the proposed disqualification provisions relating to suspension or expulsion
from SRO membership or association with an SRO member appropriate? Why
or why not?
269. Are the proposed disqualification provisions relating to stop orders and orders
suspending the Regulation A exemption appropriate? Why or why not?
270. Are the proposed disqualification provisions relating to United States Postal
Service false representation orders appropriate? Why or why not?
iii.

Reasonable Care Exception

The proposed rules would include an exception from disqualification for offerings in
which the issuer establishes that it did not know and, in the exercise of reasonable care, could not
have known that a disqualification existed because of the presence or participation of another
covered person. 803 This is the same as the approach in the Rule 506 disqualification rules. The
proposed reasonable care exception should help address the potential difficulty for issuers in

803

See proposed Rule 503(b)(4) of Regulation Crowdfunding.
304

establishing whether any covered persons are the subject of disqualifying events, 804 particularly
given that there is no central repository that aggregates information from all the federal and state
courts and regulatory authorities that would be relevant in determining whether covered persons
have a disqualifying event in their past. We are proposing a reasonable care exception out of
concern that the benefits of the new exemption under Section 4(a)(6) – which, among other
things, is intended to alleviate the funding gap and accompanying regulatory concerns faced by
startups and small businesses in connection with raising capital in relatively low dollar amounts
– may otherwise be substantially reduced. Issuers may be reluctant to offer or sell securities in
reliance on an exemptive rule if the exemption could later be found, despite the issuer’s exercise
of reasonable care, not to have been available. On the other hand, issuers must have a
responsibility to screen bad actors out of their offerings made in reliance on Section 4(a)(6). We
believe that providing a reasonable care exception would help to preserve the intended benefits
of the Section 4(a)(6) exemption and avoid creating an undue burden on capital-raising activities,
while giving effect to the disqualification provisions. Although Rule 262 does not contain a
reasonable care exception, we believe that even with its inclusion, the proposed rules would be
substantially similar to Rule 262.
We are proposing that in order for an issuer to establish that it had exercised reasonable
care, it would need to make a factual inquiry into whether any disqualifications existed. The
nature and scope of the factual inquiry would vary based on the circumstances of the issuer and
the other offering participants. For example, we believe that issuers should have an in-depth
knowledge of their own officers and directors, which could be gained through the recruiting

804

See also Applied Dynamite Letter (discussing difficulties associated with satisfying certain disqualification
criteria with confidence).
305

process and in the course of performing their duties. When relevant inquiry has already been
made, further steps may not be required in connection with a particular offering. In the absence
of other factors, factual inquiry by means of questionnaires or certifications, perhaps
accompanied by contractual representations, covenants and undertakings, may be sufficient. If
the circumstances give an issuer reason to question the veracity or accuracy of the responses to
its inquiries, we believe reasonable care would require the issuer to take further steps or
undertake additional inquiry to provide a reasonable level of assurance that no disqualifications
apply.
The timeframe for inquiry also should be reasonable in relation to the circumstances of
the offering and the participants. The objective would be for the issuer to gather information that
is complete and accurate as of the time of the relevant transactions without imposing an
unreasonable burden on the issuer or the other offering participants. With that in mind, we
would expect issuers to determine the appropriate cut-off dates to apply when they make a
factual inquiry, based upon the particular facts and circumstances of the offering and the
participants involved, to determine whether any covered persons are subject to disqualification
before seeking to rely on the exemption.
Request for Comment
271. Is it appropriate to have a reasonable care exception from disqualification? Why
or why not?
272. In order for an issuer to establish that it had exercised reasonable care, the
proposed rules would require the issuer to make a factual inquiry into whether
any disqualifications existed. Is this approach appropriate? Why or why not?
Should we include in the proposed rules additional guidance on what types of
306

factual inquiries should be undertaken under the reasonable care standard? If so,
what should that guidance include? Should we create a cut-off date to apply
when issuers make a factual inquiry? If so, what should that cut-off date be?
iv.

Waivers

The proposed rules would include a waiver provision based on Rule 262 under which the
Commission could grant a waiver of disqualification if it determined that the issuer had shown
good cause “that it is not necessary under the circumstances that the [registration] exemption . . .
be denied.” Depending on the specific facts, we believe a number of circumstances (such as a
change of control, change of supervisory personnel, absence of notice and opportunity for
hearing and relief from a permanent bar for a person who does not intend to apply to reassociate
with a regulated entity) could be relevant to the evaluation of a waiver request. The Commission
has delegated authority to the Director of the Division of Corporation Finance to grant
disqualification waivers under Regulation A. 805 Given the expectation of a short timeframe for
crowdfunding offerings conducted pursuant to Section 4(a)(6), we are sensitive to the timeliness
of the waiver application process and the risk that a lengthy review process may disadvantage
issuers seeking speedy access to capital. We believe the staff has managed the process of
granting waivers from Regulation A and Rule 505 disqualification appropriately in the past.
Accordingly, we are proposing to clarify the existing delegation of authority to the Director of
the Division of Corporation Finance by amending it to cover disqualification waivers under

805

See Rule 30-1(b) of our Rules of Organization and Program Management [17 CFR 200.30-1(b)].
307

Section 4(a)(6). 806 This also is the same approach we took in the context of waivers for the Rule
506 disqualification rules.
The proposed rules would provide that disqualification would not arise if, before the
filing of the information required by Section 4A(b), the court or regulatory authority that entered
the relevant order, judgment or decree advises in writing, whether contained in the relevant
judgment, order or decree or separately to the Commission or its staff, that disqualification under
Section 4(a)(6) should not arise as a consequence of such order, judgment or decree. Because
disqualification would not arise in those circumstances, no waiver would be needed. This
automatic exception from disqualification is similar to that in NASAA’s approved Model
Accredited Investor Exemption (“MAIE”), adopted in 1997, and Uniform Limited Offering
Exemption (“ULOE”), adopted in 1983 and again in 1989. Under both the MAIE and ULOE,
disqualification is waived if, among other things, the regulator issuing the relevant order
determines that disqualification is not necessary under the circumstances. 807 We believe that
including this automatic exception from disqualification is appropriate because it allows the
relevant authorities to determine the impact of their roles, and it conserves Commission
resources (which might otherwise be devoted to consideration of waiver applications) in cases
where the relevant authority determines that disqualification from offerings made in reliance on
Section 4(a)(6) is not warranted. This is the same as the approach in the Rule 506
disqualification rules.

806

See proposed paragraph (d) to Rule 30-1 of our Rules of Organization and Program Management.

807

See MAIE paragraph (D)(2)(b), available at http://www.nasaa.org/wp-content/uploads/2011/07/24Model_Accredited_Investor_Exemption.pdf; Peter M. Fass and Derek A. Wittner, Blue Sky Practice for
Public and Private Direct Participation Offerings, Appendix 9A, paragraph B.6 (Thompson Reuters/West
2008).
308

Request for Comment
273. The proposed rules contemplate that the Commission could grant a waiver of
disqualification under certain circumstances. Is this approach appropriate?
Why or why not? What should constitute “good cause” for purposes of seeking
a waiver? Are there specific circumstances under which a waiver is appropriate
(e.g. change of control, change of supervisory personnel, absence of notice and
opportunity for a hearing)? If so, what are they?
274. Should we delegate authority to the Director of the Division of Corporation
Finance to grant disqualification waivers under Section 4(a)(6), as proposed?
Why or why not?
275. Is it appropriate to include an automatic exception from disqualification where
the relevant authority concludes that disqualification under Section 4(a)(6)
should not arise as a consequence of such order, judgment or decree, as
proposed? If not, why not? Should we expand or limit this automatic
exception? Please explain.
v.

Transition Issues

The proposed rules would specify that disqualification under Section 4(a)(6) would not
arise as a result of events occurring before the effective date of Regulation Crowdfunding, when
adopted. 808 This is consistent with the approach we took with respect to the Rule 506
disqualification rules. We believe this approach would address concerns about the potential
unfairness of a retroactive application of the disqualification provisions, such as to persons who

808

See proposed Rule 503(b)(1) of Regulation Crowdfunding.
309

settled actions prior to the enactment of the JOBS Act and the adoption of rules to implement the
JOBS Act.
In lieu of imposing disqualification for pre-existing events, the proposed rules would
require disclosure in the offering materials of matters that would have triggered disqualification
had they occurred after the effective date of proposed Regulation Crowdfunding. 809 We believe
this disclosure would put investors on notice of events that would, but for the timing of such
events, disqualify offerings under Section 4(a)(6) that they are evaluating as potential
investments. We also believe that this disclosure is particularly important because, as a result of
the implementation of Section 302(d), investors may have the impression that all bad actors
would now be disqualified from participating in offerings under Section 4(a)(6). We expect that
issuers would give reasonable prominence to the disclosure to ensure that information about preexisting bad actor events would be appropriately presented in the total mix of information
available to investors. If disclosure of a pre-existing, otherwise disqualifying event is required
and not adequately provided to an investor, we do not believe relief would be available under the
proposed rules, 810 which provide that insignificant deviations from Regulation Crowdfunding
requirements would not necessarily result in loss of the exemption.
Request for Comment
276. Should we impose disqualification for all pre-existing events, regardless of
whether they occurred before the effectiveness of the final rules, or only for
events after effectiveness? Why or why not? Should we treat different types of
pre-existing events differently? Why or why not? If so, in either case, how
809

See proposed Rule 201(u) of Regulation Crowdfunding.

810

See proposed Rule 502 of Regulation Crowdfunding.
310

should we address concerns about the fairness of retroactive application of the
disqualification provisions to actions that took place prior to the enactment of
the JOBS Act and the adoption of rules implementing the JOBS Act?
277. The proposed rules would specify that disqualification under Section 4(a)(6)
would not arise as a result of events occurring before the effective date of
proposed Regulation Crowdfunding. Should we limit disqualification to events
occurring after the enactment of the JOBS Act instead? Why or why not?
278. Is it appropriate to require disclosure of matters that would have triggered
disqualification had they occurred after the effective date of proposed
Regulation Crowdfunding? Is there a better method of putting investors on
notice of bad actor involvement? If so, what method? If disclosure of a preexisting triggering event is required and not adequately provided to an investor,
should relief for insignificant deviations from Regulation Crowdfunding
requirements be available? Why or why not?
b.

Intermediaries and Certain Other Associated Persons

As noted above, Section 302(d)(1)(B) requires the Commission to establish
disqualification provisions under which an intermediary would not be eligible to effect or
participate in transactions conducted pursuant to Securities Act Section 4(a)(6). Section
302(d)(2) requires that the disqualification provisions we propose be substantially similar to the
provisions of Securities Act Rule 262, which applies to issuers. Exchange Act Section
3(a)(39) 811 currently defines the circumstances in which a broker would be subject to a “statutory

811

15 U.S.C. 78c(39).
311

disqualification” with respect to membership or participation in a self-regulatory organization
such as FINRA or any other registered national securities association. We believe that the
definition of “statutory disqualification” under Section 3(a)(39) is substantially similar to, while
somewhat broader than, the provisions of Rule 262. 812
The proposed rules would prohibit any person subject to a statutory disqualification as
defined in Exchange Act Section 3(a)(39) from acting as, or being an associated person of, an
intermediary unless permitted to do so by Commission rule or order. 813 The term “subject to a
statutory disqualification” has an established meaning under Exchange Act Section 3(a)(39) and
defines circumstances that would subject a person to a statutory disqualification with respect to
membership or participation in, or association with a member of, a self-regulatory
organization. 814 Because funding portals, like broker-dealers, would be members of FINRA or

812

There are certain differences between Exchange Act Section 3(a)(39) and Rule 262. For example, while
Rule 262 refers to orders that had been entered into within five years prior to a filing, there is no similar
time restriction in Section 3(a)(39). Unlike Rule 262, Section 3(a)(39) extends disqualification to persons
who, by their conduct while associated with brokers or dealers (among other types of regulated entities),
have been found to be a cause of any effective, relevant suspension, expulsion or order. Section 3(a)(39)
also subjects persons to disqualification if they had been convicted of, in addition to certain specified
offenses related to securities and funds, any felony within ten years of filing to apply for membership or
participation in, or to become associated with a member of, an SRO; the comparable provisions of Rule 262
are, in contrast, limited to felonies or misdemeanors relating to the purchase or sale of securities. Section
3(a)(39) covers suspensions, expulsions and orders by both U.S. and non-U.S. regulators and SROs (or
their equivalents), whereas Rule 262 covers suspensions, expulsions and orders by only U.S.-registered
SROs, as well as orders, judgments and decrees of any court of competent jurisdiction. Finally, Rule 262
disqualifies a person, while Section 3(a)(39) does not, for being subject to a U.S. Postal Service false
representation order, or subject to a temporary restraining order or preliminary injunction, entered under 39
U.S.C. 3005 or 39 U.S.C. 3007, respectively, within 5 years prior to a filing. Despite these differences, we
believe that Section 3(a)(39) and Rule 262 are substantially similar in particular with regard to the persons
and events they cover, their scope and their purpose.

813

See proposed Rule 503(d) of Regulation Crowdfunding.

814

Events that could result in a statutory disqualification for an associated person under Section 3(a)(39)
include, but are not limited to: certain misdemeanor and all felony criminal convictions; temporary and
permanent injunctions issued by a court of competent jurisdiction involving a broad range of unlawful
investment activities; expulsions (and current suspensions) from membership or participation in an SRO;
bars (and current suspensions) ordered by the Commission or an SRO; denials or revocations of registration
by the CFTC; and findings by the Commission, CFTC or an SRO that a person: (1) “willfully” violated the
312

any other registered national securities association, we anticipate that they would take
appropriate steps to check the background of any person seeking to become associated with
them, including whether such person is subject to a statutory disqualification. In addition, we
propose to clarify that associated persons of intermediaries engaging in transactions in reliance
on Section 4(a)(6) must comply with Exchange Act Rule 17f-2, relating to the fingerprinting of
securities industry personnel. Exchange Act Rule 17f-2 would apply to all brokers, including
registered funding portals. The proposed instructions to Rule 503(d) would clarify that Rule 17f2 requires that, unless subject to an exemption, every broker shall require that each of its
partners, directors, officers and employees be fingerprinted and shall submit, or cause to be
submitted, the fingerprints of such persons to the Attorney General of the United States or its
designee for identification and appropriate processing. We believe that consistent standards for
all intermediaries would assist FINRA or any other registered national securities association in
monitoring compliance and enforcing its rules across its members.
We are proposing to apply to intermediaries the standard of Section 3(a)(39) rather than
Rule 262 or the disqualification rules we are proposing for issuers, in part because the Section
3(a)(39) standard is already an established one among financial intermediaries and their
regulators. We believe that the practices that have evolved around the Section 3(a)(39) standards
have evolved in a manner appropriate to intermediaries, and that to impose a new or different
standard only for those intermediaries that engage in transactions in reliance on Section 4(a)(6),
could create confusion and unnecessary burdens on market participants. Unnecessary burdens

federal securities or commodities laws, or the Municipal Securities Rulemaking Board (MSRB) rules; (2)
“willfully” aided, abetted, counseled, commanded, induced or procured such violations; or (3) failed to
supervise another who commits violations of such laws or rules. 15 U.S.C. 78c(a)(39).
313

would arise in particular for brokers that act as intermediaries in transactions in reliance on
Section 4(a)(6), as they and their associated persons would become subject to two distinct
standards for disqualification. Consistent standards for all brokers and funding portals would
also assist FINRA or any other registered national securities association in monitoring
compliance and enforcing its rules across its members.
Request for Comment
279. Is the standard for “subject to a statutory disqualification” as defined in
Exchange Act Section 3(a)(39) appropriate for purposes of establishing
disqualification provisions for intermediaries in crowdfunding transactions made
in reliance on Section 4(a)(6)? Why or why not? If another standard would be
appropriate, why should that standard be used instead of Section 3(a)(39)? If we
were to use another standard for funding portals, should we also use that
standard for brokers’ crowdfunding activities? Or, should brokers adhere to the
Section 3(a)(39) standard for all their activities, including crowdfunding?
280. Should we instead propose rules that mirror the disqualification rules we are
proposing for issuers? If we were to take this approach, would any particular
disqualification provision need to be tailored for intermediaries engaging in
crowdfunding transactions? Are there unintended consequences of having
different disqualification standards for issuers and for intermediaries? Please
explain.
281. Should any of the differences between Rule 262 and Section 3(a)(39) be
addressed? Why or why not? If so, how should we address them?

314

282. Should we permit intermediaries to determine how best to screen associated
persons to ensure they are not subject to a statutory disqualification? Why or
why not? If so, should we propose particular standards, or a level of care,
applicable to this screening?
283. Should we prescribe specific steps that an intermediary must take to ascertain
whether an associated person should be prohibited from participating in or
effecting crowdfunding transactions in reliance on Section 4(a)(6)? If so, what
should those steps be?
284. Should we permit intermediaries to reasonably rely on the representations of
associated persons regarding statutory disqualification if the intermediary
otherwise has conducted a background check on the associated person?
F.

General Request for Comment

We request and encourage any interested person to submit comments regarding the
proposed rules and form amendments, specific issues discussed in this release and other matters
that may have an effect on the proposed rules. We particularly welcome comments from issuers,
investors, state regulators and other market participants. With regard to any comments, we note
that such comments are of particular assistance to us if accompanied by supporting data and
analysis of the issues addressed in those comments. We urge commenters to be as specific as
possible.
III.

Economic Analysis
Title III sets forth a comprehensive regulatory structure for startups and small businesses

to raise capital through securities offerings using the Internet through crowdfunding. In

315

particular, Title III provides an exemption from registration for certain offerings of securities by
adding Securities Act Section 4(a)(6). In addition, Title III:
•

adds Securities Act Section 4A, which requires, among other things, that issuers and
intermediaries that facilitate transactions between issuers and investors provide
certain information to investors and potential investors, take certain actions and
provide notices and other information to the Commission;

•

adds Exchange Act Section 3(h), which requires the Commission to adopt rules to
exempt, either conditionally or unconditionally, funding portals from having to
register as brokers or dealers pursuant to Exchange Act Section 15(a)(1);

•

includes disqualification provisions under which an issuer would not be able to avail
itself of the exemption for crowdfunding if the issuer or other related parties,
including an intermediary, were subject to a disqualifying event; and

•

adds Exchange Act Section 12(g)(6), which requires the Commission to adopt rules to
exempt from Section 12(g), either conditionally or unconditionally, securities
acquired pursuant to an offering made in reliance on Section 4(a)(6).

As discussed in detail above, we are proposing Regulation Crowdfunding to implement
the requirements of Title III. The proposed rules would implement the new exemption for the
offer and sale of securities pursuant to the requirements of Section 4(a)(6) and provide a
framework for the regulation of issuers and intermediaries, which includes brokers and funding
portals engaging in such transactions. The proposed rules also would exempt securities offered
and sold in reliance on Section 4(a)(6) from the registration requirements of Exchange Act
Section 12(g).

316

We are mindful of the costs imposed by, and the benefits to be obtained from, our rules.
Securities Act Section 2(a) and Exchange Act Section 3(f) require us, when engaging in
rulemaking that requires us to consider or determine whether an action is necessary or
appropriate in the public interest, to consider, in addition to the protection of investors, whether
the action will promote efficiency, competition and capital formation. Exchange Act Section
23(a)(2) requires us, when adopting rules under the Exchange Act, to consider the impact that
any new rule would have on competition and to not adopt any rule that would impose a burden
on competition that is not necessary or appropriate in furtherance of the purposes of the
Exchange Act. The discussion below addresses the economic effects of the proposed rules,
including the likely costs and benefits of proposed Regulation Crowdfunding, as well as the
likely effect of the proposed rules on efficiency, competition and capital formation. Given the
specific language of the statute and our understanding of Congress’s objectives, we believe that
it is appropriate for the proposed rules to follow the statutory provisions closely. We nonetheless
also rely on our discretionary authority to propose certain additional provisions. While the costs
and benefits of the proposed rules in large part stem from the statutory mandate of Title III,
certain costs and benefits are affected by the discretion we propose to exercise in connection
with implementing this mandate. For purposes of this economic analysis, we address the costs
and benefits resulting from the mandatory statutory provisions and our exercise of discretion
together, because the two types of benefits and costs are not separable.
We request comment on all aspects of our economic analysis, including the potential
costs and benefits of the proposed rules.

317

A.

Economic Baseline

The baseline for our economic analysis of proposed Regulation Crowdfunding, including
the baseline for our consideration of the effects of the proposed rules on efficiency, competition
and capital formation, is the situation in existence today, in which startups and small businesses
seeking to raise capital through securities offerings must register the offer and sale of securities
under the Securities Act unless they can rely on an existing exemption from registration under
the federal securities laws. Moreover, under existing requirements, intermediaries intending to
facilitate such transactions generally are required to register with the Commission as brokerdealers under Exchange Act Section 15(a). Finally, under existing exemptions from the
registration requirements of the Securities Act, small investors may be limited in their ability to
participate in offerings of securities of nonpublic companies. 815
1.

Existing Funding Sources Available to Startups and Small Businesses

The potential economic impact of the proposed rules, including their effect on efficiency,
competition and capital formation, will depend on how the crowdfunding method of raising
capital compares to existing methods that startups and small businesses currently use for raising
capital. Startups and small businesses can potentially tap a variety of financing sources in the
capital markets: debt, equity or hybrid security offerings; registered or unregistered offerings;
and bank loans. The figure below plots the capital raising by various sources for the period
2009-2012. 816 As evident from the data, significant fundraising in the capital markets takes

815

For example, only up to 35 non-accredited investors are allowed to participate in the most frequently used
Regulation D exemption, Securities Act Rule 506(b) (17 CFR 230.506(b)), and these investors must meet
certain sophistication requirements.

816

These statistics are based on a review of Form D electronic filings with the Commission – specifically, the
“total amount sold” as reported in the filings – and data regarding other types of offerings (e.g., public debt
offerings and Rule 144A offerings) from Securities Data Corporation’s New Issues database (Thomson
318

place via public debt, Regulation D offerings (which include equity, debt and hybrid security
offerings) and Rule 144A offerings (which include predominantly debt securities).

Startups and small businesses seeking to raise capital can register the offer and sale of
securities under the Securities Act. Registered offerings, however, are generally too costly to be
viable alternatives for startups and small businesses. In particular, issuers conducting registered
offerings must usually pay underwriter commissions, which are, on average, 7% for initial public
offerings, 5.4% for follow-on equity offerings and between 0.9% and 1.5% for issuers raising
capital through public bond issuances. 817 Issuers conducting registered offerings also must pay
Commission registration fees and FINRA or any other registered national securities association
Financial). See Vladimir Ivanov and Scott Bauguess, Capital Raising in the U.S.: An Analysis of
Unregistered Offerings Using the Regulation D Exemption, 2009-2012 (July 2013) (“Ivanov/Bauguess
Study”), available at http://www.sec.gov/divisions/riskfin/whitepapers/dera-unregistered-offerings-regd.pdf. Data on new bank loans per year is not available.
817

See, e.g., Hsuan-Chi Chen and Jay R. Ritter, The Seven Percent Solution, 55 J. FIN. 1105−1131 (2000);
Shane A. Corwin, The Determinants of Underpricing for Seasoned Equity Offers, 58 J. FIN. 2249−2279
(2003); Lily Hua Fang, Investment Bank Reputation and the Price and Quality of Underwriting Services,
60 J. FIN. 2729−2761 (2005); Stephen J. Brown, Bruce D. Grundy, Craig M. Lewis and Patrick
Verwijmeren, Convertibles and Hedge Funds as Distributors of Equity Exposure, 25 REV. FIN. STUD.
3077-3112 (2012).
319

filing fees, legal and accounting fees and expenses, transfer agent and registrar fees, costs
associated with periodic reporting requirements and other regulatory requirements and various
other fees. Two surveys concluded that the average cost of achieving initial regulatory
compliance for an initial public offering is $2.5 million, followed by an ongoing compliance
cost, once public, of $1.5 million per year. 818 Hence, for an issuer seeking to raise less than $1
million, a registered offering is not economically feasible if it would cost an estimated $2.5
million, on average, to achieve initial regulatory compliance for an initial public offering. 819
The alternative to raising capital via registered offerings is for startups and small
businesses to offer and sell securities by relying on an existing exemption from registration under
the federal securities laws. For example, they could rely on current exemptions from registration
under the Securities Act, such as Section 3(a)(11), Section 4(a)(2), 820 Regulation D 821 and
Regulation A. 822 While we do not have complete data on offerings relying on an exemption
under Section 3(a)(11) or Section 4(a)(2), certain data available from Regulation D and
Regulation A filings allow us to gauge how frequently issuers use these exemptions when raising
capital. Based on Regulation D filings by non-fund issuers 823 from 2009 to 2012, there are a
substantial number of issuers who choose to raise capital by relying on Rule 506 even though

818

819

See IPO Task Force, Rebuilding the IPO On-Ramp, at 9 (Oct. 20, 2011), available at http://www.sec.gov/
info/smallbus/acsec/rebuilding_the_ipo_on-ramp.pdf (“IPO Task Force”).
See id.

820

Securities Act Section 4(a)(2) provides that the provisions of the Securities Act shall not apply to
“transactions by an issuer not involving a public offering.”

821

Regulation D provides a nonexclusive safe harbor from registration for certain types of securities offerings.

822

Regulation A provides a conditional exemption from registration for certain small issuances.

823

These are issuers that are not pooled investment vehicles.
320

their offering size would qualify for an exemption under Rule 504 or Rule 505. 824 With the
recent amendment to Rule 506 of Regulation D that permits an issuer to engage in general
solicitation or general advertising in offering and selling securities pursuant to Rule 506, subject
to certain conditions, 825 we expect to see an even higher percentage of issuers relying on that
rule. As shown in the table below reporting the number of Regulation D and Regulation A
offerings by non-fund issuers, from 2009 to 2012, relatively few issuers rely on Regulation A.

Rule 504
Rule 505
Rule 506
Regulation A

< $1
Million

Offering size
$1-5
$5-50
million
million

1,997
705
19,424
2

-229
11,957
14

--8,103
--

>$50
million
--1,268
--

Note: Data comes from Form D and Form 1-A filings from 2009 to 2012. We consider only new offerings
and exclude offerings with amount sold reported as $0 on Form D. We also use the maximum amount indicated in
Form 1-A to determine offering size for Regulation A offerings.

Each of these exemptions, however, includes restrictions that may limit its suitability for
startups and small businesses. The table below lists the main requirements of these exemptions.
For example, the exemption under Securities Act Section 3(a)(11) is limited to intrastate
offerings, 826 and an issuer seeking to offer and sell securities pursuant to Regulation A may be
required to register in all 50 states if it intends to offer and sell the securities in all 50 states using

824

This tendency could, in part, be attributed to two features of Rule 506: Blue Sky law preemption and an
unlimited offering amount. See also U.S. Government Accountability Office, Factors That May Affect
Trends in Regulation A Offerings, GAO-12-839 (Jul. 3, 2012), available at
http://www.gao.gov/products/GAO-12-839 (“GAO Report”).

825

See General Solicitation Adopting Release, note 12.

826

Under Securities Act Section 3(a)(11), except as expressly provided, the provisions of the Securities Act
(including the registration requirement under Securities Act Section 5) do not apply to a security that is
“part of an issue offered and sold only to persons resident within a single State or Territory, where the
issuer of such security is a person resident and doing business within, or, if a corporation, incorporated by
and doing business within, such State or Territory.”
321

the Internet. An issuer relying on Regulation A also would need to file with the Commission an
offering document, which, coupled with the potential review of such document by the staff, has
been cited as a reason why Regulation A is not widely used. 827 Issuers of securities pursuant to
Securities Act Section 4(a)(2) and Rules 504, 505 and 506(b) under Regulation D generally may
not engage in general solicitation and general advertising to reach potential investors, which also
could place a significant limitation on offerings by startups and small businesses. Although an
issuer may avoid the restriction on general solicitation and general advertising by using the
services of a financial intermediary, those services may be costly. 828 While Rule 506 under
Regulation D preempts the applicability of state laws regarding the offer and sale of securities
and new Rule 506(c) permits general solicitation and general advertising, an issuer seeking to
rely on Rule 506(c) would be limited to selling securities only to accredited investors. 829
Type of
Offering
Section
3(a)(11)

Section
4(a)(2)

Dollar Limit
None.

None.

Manner of
Offering
No limitation
other than to
maintain
intrastate
character of
offering.
No general
solicitation or
advertising.

Issuer and
Investor
Requirements
All issuers and
investors must
be resident in
state. No
limitation on
number.
All issuers and
investors must
meet
sophistication
and access to
information test
so as not to

Filing
Requirement
None.

None.

Restriction
on Resale
Rests within
the state
(generally a
one-year
period for
resales
within state).
Restricted
securities.

Blue Sky
Exemption
Need to
comply with
state blue
sky law by
registration
or state
exemption.
Need to
comply with
state blue
sky law.

827

See Rutheford B. Campbell, Jr., Regulation A: Small Businesses’ Search for “A Moderate Capital”, 31
DEL. J. CORP. L. 77, 106 (2006). See also GAO Report, note 824.

828

An internal study by our Division of Economic and Risk Analysis covering 2009 to 2012 found that the
average sales commission for Regulation D offerings for up to $1 million was 6.5%, almost three times
larger than that for offerings of more than $50 million (1.9%). See Ivanov/Bauguess Study, note 816.

829

See General Solicitation Adopting Release, note 12.
322

need protection
of registration.

Regulation A

$5,000,000
within prior
12 months,
but no
more than
$1,500,000
by selling
security
holders.

"Testing the
waters"
permitted
before filing
Form 1-A.
Sales
permitted
after Form 1-A
qualified.

No
requirements.

Rule 504
Regulation D

$1,000,000
within prior
12 months.

No
requirements.

Rule 505
Regulation D

$5,000,000
within prior
12 months.

No general
solicitation or
advertising
unless
registered in a
state requiring
use of a
substantive
disclosure
document or
sold under
state
exemption for
sales to
accredited
investors with
general
solicitation.
No general
solicitation or
advertising.

Rule 506
Regulation D

None.

No general
solicitation or
advertising
under Rule
506(b).
General
solicitation and
general

Under Rule
506(b),
unlimited
accredited
investors and 35
non-accredited
investors. Under
Rule 506(c), all

Unlimited
accredited
investors and 35
non-accredited
investors.

323

File test the
waters
documents,
Form 1-A, any
sales material
and Form 2-A
report of sales
and use of
proceeds with
the
Commission.
File Form D
with the
Commission
not later than
15 days after
first sale.
Filing not a
condition of
the
exemption.

None; freely
resalable.

Need to
comply with
state blue
sky law.

Restricted
unless
registered in
a state
requiring use
of a
substantive
disclosure
document or
sold under
state
exemption
for sale to
accredited
investors
with general
solicitation.

Need to
comply with
state blue
sky law by
registration
or state
exemption.

File Form D
with the
Commission
not later than
15 days after
first sale.
Filing not a
condition of
the
exemption.
File Form D
with SEC not
later than 15
days after first
sale. Filing
not a
condition of
the

Restricted
securities.

Need to
comply with
state blue
sky law.

Restricted
securities.

Exempt as
"covered
security"
pursuant to
Securities
Act Section
18 [15
U.S.C. 77r].

advertising
permitted
under Rule
506(c),
provided all
purchasers are
accredited
investors.

2.

purchasers must
be accredited
investors.

exemption.

Current Sources of Funding for Startups and Small Businesses that
Could Be Substitutes or Complements to Crowdfunding

At present, startups and small businesses can raise capital through several sources that
could be close substitutes or complements to crowdfunding transactions that rely on Section
4(a)(6). These sources are either based on unregistered securities offerings or involve lending by
financial institutions.
a.

Family and Friends

Family and friends are sources through which startups and small businesses can raise
capital. This source of capital is usually available early in the lifecycle of a small business,
before the business approaches arm’s-length formal financial channels. 830 Among other things,
family and friends may donate funds, loan funds or acquire an equity stake in the business. A
recent study of the financing choices of startups finds that most of the capital supplied by friends
and family is in the form of loans. 831 In contrast to a commercial lender that, for example, would
need to assess factors such as the willingness and ability of a borrower to repay the loan and the
viability of its business, family and friends may be willing to assist based primarily or solely

830

See Paul Gompers and Josh Lerner, THE VENTURE CAPITAL CYCLE (MIT Press 2006) (“Gompers”); Alicia
M. Robb and David T. Robinson, The Capital Structure Decisions of New Firms, REV. FIN. STUD.
(forthcoming), available at http://rfs.oxfordjournals.org/content/early/2012/07/07/rfs.hhs072.full.pdf+html
(“Robb”).

831

See Robb, note 830.
324

upon personal relationships. Family and friends, however, may be able to provide only a limited
amount of capital compared to other sources. In addition, financial arrangements with family
and friends may not be an optimal source of funding if any of the parties is untrained in the
structuring of loan agreements, equity investments or in related areas of accounting.
Unfortunately, there is no available data on these financing sources that could allow us to
quantify their magnitude and compare them to other current sources of capital.
b.

Commercial Loans, Peer-to-Peer Loans and Microfinance

Startups and small businesses also may seek loans from financial institutions. 832 A recent
study of the financing choices of startups suggests that they resort to bank financing early in their
lifecycle. 833 The study finds that businesses rely heavily on external debt sources such as bank
financing in the first year after being formed, which comes mostly in the form of personal and
commercial bank loans, business credit cards and credit lines. Another recent report, however,
suggests that bank lending to small businesses fell by $100 billion from 2008 to 2011 and that by
2012, less than one-third of small businesses reported having a business bank loan. 834 Our
analysis of lending data from FDIC-insured depository institutions from June 30, 2006 until June

832

Using data from the 1993 Survey of Small Business Finance, one seminal study indicates that financial
institutions account for approximately 27% of small firms’ borrowings. See Allen N. Berger and Gregory
F. Udell, The Economics of Small Business Finance: The Roles of Private Equity and Debt Markets in the
Financial Growth Cycle, 22 J. BANKING & FIN. 613 (1998). See also 1987, 1993, 1998 and 2003 Surveys
of Small Business Finances, available at http://www.federalreserve.gov/pubs/oss/oss3/nssbftoc.htm. The
Survey of Small Business Finances was discontinued after 2003. Using data from the Kauffman
Foundation Firm Surveys, one study finds that 44% of startups use loans from financial institutions. See
Rebel A. Cole and Tatyana Sokolyk, How Do Start-Up Firms Finance Their Assets? Evidence from the
Kauffman Firm Surveys (2012), available at http://papers.ssrn.com/sol3/papers.cfm?abstract_id=2028176.

833

See Robb, note 830.

834

See The Kauffman Foundation, 2013 State of Entrepreneurship Address (Feb. 5, 2013), available at
http://www.kauffman.org/uploadedFiles/DownLoadableResources/SOE%20Report_2013pdf.pdf. The
report cautions against prematurely concluding that banks are not lending enough to small businesses as the
sample period of the study includes the most recent recession.
325

30, 2013 also shows that both small business loans (those for up to a $1 million) and large
business loans (those greater than $1 million) experienced a decline from the peak in 2008. 835
Small business loans, however, declined continuously over the period by approximately 18%
from 2008 until 2013. Large business loans, on the other hand, range from a high of $2,440
billion in 2008 to a low of $1,924 billion in 2010. The figure shows that this segment of the loan
market has shown steady increases since 2010.

Additionally, although covering the pre-recessionary period, a Federal Reserve Board
staff study analyzing data from the 2003 Survey of Small Business Finance suggests that 60
percent of small businesses have outstanding credit in the form of a credit line, a loan or a capital
lease. 836 These loans were borrowed from two types of financial institutions – depositary and

835

We define business loans to include commercial and industrial loans and commercial real estate loans. See
Federal Deposit Insurance Corporation, Statistics on Banking, available at http://www2.fdic.gov/SDI/
SOB/.

836

See Federal Reserve Board, Financial Services Used by Small Businesses: Evidence from the 2003 Survey
of Small Business Finances (October 2006), available at http://www.federalreserve.gov/pubs/bulletin/2006/
smallbusiness/smallbusiness.pdf (“2003 Survey”).
326

non-depositary institutions (e.g., finance companies, factors or leasing companies). 837 Lines of
credit were the most widely used type of credit. 838 Other types of loans included mortgage loans,
equipment loans and motor vehicle loans. 839
Various loan guarantee programs of the Small Business Administration (“SBA”) make
credit more accessible to small businesses by either lowering the interest rate of the loan or
enabling a market-based loan that a lender would not otherwise be willing to provide, absent a
guarantee. 840 Although the SBA does not itself act as a lender, the agency guarantees a portion
of loans made and administered by commercial lending institutions. SBA loan programs include
7(a) loans, 841 CDC/504 loans 842 and Microloans. 843 For example, in fiscal year 2011, the SBA
approved approximately $30.5 billion in 7(a) and CDC/504 loans, which were distributed to
approximately 54,500 small businesses. 844 The SBA, however, currently accounts for a small

837

See Rebel Cole, What Do We Know About the Capital Structure of Privately Held Firms? Evidence from
the Surveys of Small Business Finance (Working Paper) (Feb. 2013), available at http://onlinelibrary.
wiley.com/doi/10.1111/fima.12015/pdf.

838

See 2003 Survey, note 836 (estimating that 34% of small businesses use lines of credit).

839

Id.

840

Numerous states also offer a variety of small business financing programs, such as Capital Access
Programs, collateral support programs and loan guarantee programs. These programs are eligible for
support under the State Small Business Credit Initiative, available at http://www.treasury.gov/resourcecenter/sb-programs/Pages/ssbci.aspx.

841

15 U.S.C. 631 et seq. The 7(a) loans provide small businesses with financing guarantees for a variety of
general business purposes through participating lending institutions.

842

15 U.S.C. 695 et seq. The CDC/504 loans are made available through “certified development companies”
or “CDCs”, typically structured with the SBA providing 40% of the total project costs, a participating
lender covering up to 50% of the total project costs and the borrower contributing 10% of the project costs.

843

15 U.S.C. 631 et seq. The Microloan program provides small, short-term loans to small businesses and
certain types of not-for-profit childcare centers. The maximum loan amount is $50,000, but the average
microloan is about $13,000. See Microloan Program, U.S. Small Business Administration, available at
http://www.sba.gov/content/microloan-program.

844

See U.S. Small Business Administration, FY 2013 Congressional Budget Justification And FY 2011 Annual
Performance Report (“2011 Annual Performance Report”), available at http://www.sba.gov/sites/default/
files/files/1-508%20Compliant%20FY%202013%20CBJ%20FY%202011%20APR%281%29.pdf.
327

part of the overall small business lending in the United States, administering less than 2 percent
of all small business loans. 845
Many startups and small businesses may find loan requirements imposed by financial
institutions difficult to meet and may not be able to rely on these institutions to secure funding.
For example, financial institutions generally require a borrower to provide collateral and/or a
guarantee, 846 which startups, small businesses and their owners may not be able to provide.
Collateral may be required even for loans guaranteed by the SBA.
Another source of debt financing for startups and small businesses is peer-to-peer
lending, which, according to one study, began developing in 2005. 847 Peer-to-peer lending
websites facilitate debt transactions by directly connecting borrowers and lenders over the
Internet. While data on the size of the overall industry is sparse, peer-to-peer lending was
estimated to have reached approximately $647 million in 2009 and was expected to grow to $5.8
billion by 2010. 848 Although this source of funding is small relative to the role of financial
institutions, peer-to-peer lending sites may offer small businesses more flexibility with regard to
pricing, terms of credit, repayment schedules and other conditions. Moreover, peer-to-peer
lending sites may not require borrowers to post collateral or a guarantee, and some market
845

One article notes that as of September 2012, the SBA managed 318,396 ($79 billion) loans, while there
were 17,249,884 ($646 billion) small-business loans on the books of banks insured by the FDIC. By this
measure, the SBA managed 1.85% (12.23% in dollar volume) of all small-business loans. See Ami Kassar,
Putting the S.B.A. Into Perspective, N.Y. TIMES, Sept. 14, 2012, available at http://boss.blogs.nytimes.com/
2012/09/14/putting-the-s-b-a-into-perspective/. The SBA recently proposed rule amendments to increase
eligibility for loans under the SBA’s business loan programs. See SBA 504 and 7(a) Regulatory
Enhancements, 13 CFR 120 (proposed Feb. 25, 2013).

846

Approximately 92% of all small business debt to financial institutions is secured, and about 52% of that
debt is guaranteed, primarily by the owners of the firm. See Berger, note 832.

847

See Ian Galloway, Peer-to-Peer Lending and Community Development Finance, Federal Reserve Bank of
San Francisco (Working Paper) (2009), available at http://www.frbsf.org/publications/community/
wpapers/2009/wp2009-06.pdf.

848

Id.
328

participants offer a secondary market for loans originated on their own sites. 849 At least one of
the existing peer-to-peer platforms sells third-party issued securities to multiple individual
investors, thus improving the liquidity of these securities. 850 Like any traditional lending
arrangement, however, borrowers on peer-to-peer lending sites are required to make fixed
regular payments to their lenders, which might make it a less attractive option for small
businesses with negative cash flows and short operating histories, both of which may make it
more difficult for such businesses to demonstrate their ability to repay loans.
Microfinance also is another source of debt financing for startups and small businesses.
Microfinance consists of small, working capital loans provided by microfinance institutions
(“MFIs”) that are invested in microenterprises or income-generating activities. 851 The typical
users of microfinance services and, in particular, of microcredits are family-owned enterprises or
self-employed, low-income entrepreneurs, such as street vendors, farmers, service providers,
artisans and small producers, who live close to the poverty line in both urban and rural areas. 852
The microfinance market has evolved and grown considerably in the past decades. While
data on the size of the overall industry is sparse, in 2008, it was estimated that there were
between 7,000 and 10,000 MFIs globally that supplied an estimated $15 to $25 billion in
loans. 853 In the U.S., there were about 362 MFIs who disbursed 9,100 loans for a total value of

849

Id.

850

Id. We note that under current law, this activity would require broker-dealer registration.

851

See Craig Churchill and Cheryl Frankiewicz, Making Microfinance Work: Managing for Improved
Performance, Geneva International Labor Organization (2006).

852

See Joanna Ledgerwood, Microfinance Handbook: An Institutional and Financial Perspective,
Washington DC, World Bank Publications (1999).

853

See Sam Daley-Harris, State of Microcredit Summit Campaign Report 2009, Washington DC, Microcredit
Summit Campaign (2009).
329

$100 million.854 On average, U.S. microloans are relatively larger with lower interest rates than
those of microloans in developing countries. One distinctive characteristic of the U.S. model of
microfinance is that MFIs provide borrowers not only with funds, but also with educational
services to build entrepreneurial and leadership skills. 855
c.

Venture Capitalists and Angel Investors

Startups and small businesses also may seek funding from venture capitalists (“VCs”)
and angel investors. Entrepreneurs seek VC and angel financing usually after they have
exhausted other sources of capital that generally do not require the entrepreneurs to relinquish
control rights (for example, personal funds and funds from family and friends, if available).
As the chart below shows, according to data from the National Venture Capital
Association, in 2012, VCs invested approximately $27 billion in approximately 3,800 deals that
included seed, early-stage, expansion, and late-stage companies. 856

854

See FIELD at the Aspen Institute, Key Data on the Scale of Microlending in the U.S. (February 2011).

855

Id. at 4 and 13.

856

See National Venture Capital Association, Recent Stats & Studies, available at http://www.nvca.org/
index.php?option=com_content&view=article&id=344&Itemid=103.
330

Some startups, however, may struggle to attract funding from VCs because VCs tend to
invest in startups with certain characteristics. A defining feature of VCs is that they tend to focus
exclusively on startup companies with high-growth potential and a high likelihood of going
public after a few years of financing. VCs also tend to invest in companies that have already
used some other sources of financing, tend to be concentrated in certain geographic regions (e.g.,
California and Massachusetts) and often require their investments to have an attractive business
plan, meet certain growth benchmarks or fill a specific portfolio or industry niche. 857 In
addition, when investing in companies, VCs tend to acquire significant control rights (e.g., board
seats, rights of first refusal, etc.), which they gradually relinquish as the company approaches an
initial public offering. 858
According to a trade association, the Angel Capital Association, in 2006, the 5,632
accredited angel investors in its member groups made 947 investments in 512 companies,

857

See Gompers, note 830.

858

See Steven N. Kaplan and Per Stromberg, Financial Contracting Meets the Real World: An Empirical
Analysis of Venture Capital Contracts, 70 REV. ECON. STUD. 281-316 (2003).
331

providing startups with a total of $228.8 million.859 A study suggests that angel investors tend to
invest in younger companies than VCs. 860 We do not have more detailed data on the amount of
angel investments in more recent years.
d.

Current Crowdfunding Practices

Currently in the United States, crowdfunding activity generally is lending-based,
“reward-based” or “donation-based,” as defined by a recent crowdfunding industry report. 861
The report defines reward-based crowdfunding as a model where funders receive a “reward,”
such as a token or a manufactured product sample, and it defines donation-based crowdfunding
as a model where funders donate to causes that they want to support, with no expected
compensation or return on their investment. Many of the current domestic crowdfunding
offerings relate to individual projects and may not have a defined or sustained business model
commensurate with typical issuers of securities. The industry report finds that more than half of
all projects on one of the largest domestic crowdfunding sites during the period 2009 through
2011 involved film and musical endeavors. 862
According to the industry report, approximately $1.5 billion in financing was raised
through crowdfunding platforms during 2011, with over half of that amount raised in the United
States, although only approximately $174 million was attributable to “equity-based” (or the

859

See Scott Shane, The Importance of Angel Investing in Financing the Growth of Entrepreneurial Ventures,
2 Q. J. OF FIN. (2012).

860

See Gompers, note 830.

861

See Massolution, Crowdfunding Industry Report: Market Trends, Composition and Crowdfunding
Platforms (Abridged) (May 2012), available at http://www.crowdsourcing.org/document/crowdfundingindustry-report-abridged-version-market-trends-composition-and-crowdfunding-platforms/14277
(“Massolution”). Lending-based crowdfunding includes peer-to-peer lending, a funding source that is
discussed above. Id.

862

Id.
332

equity model of crowdfunding) and “reward-based” crowdfunding. 863 The industry report
further states that equity-based crowdfunding is the fastest-growing of all the crowdfunding
categories, at a 114% compound annual growth rate (“CAGR”) in 2011. 864 According to the
report, the rapid growth in equity-based crowdfunding has been driven largely by European
platforms. 865
According to the industry report, most current crowdfunding projects solicit low levels of
funding, with the average successful project receiving less than $10,000. 866 The industry report
also states that, in 2011, equity-based offerings were, on average, much larger than donationbased offerings, with 68% of total funds raised on equity-based crowdfunding platforms drawing
$50,000 or more in financing, suggesting that the types of ventures financed through equitybased crowdfunding could be different than those financed through other crowdfunding
methods. 867 Because the prohibition on general solicitation and general advertising (which was
recently lifted for offerings made in reliance on Rule 506(c) of Regulation D 868) would have

863

One observer stated that most of the $1.5 billion in financing cited in the Massolution industry report was
attributable to “donation-based” and “lending-based” crowdfunding. See Felix Salmon, Annals of Dubious
Statistics, Crowdfunding Edition, REUTERS (July 27, 2012), available at http://blogs.reuters.com/felixsalmon/2012/07/27/annals-of-dubious-statistics-crowdfunding-edition. Another observer reported that
Massolution CEO Carl Esposti clarified that the amount directly attributed to reward-based and equitybased crowdfunding is $174 million. See Liz Gannes, Widely Cited Crowdfunding Market Estimates Are
Probably Too Optimistic, ALLTHINGSD (July 28, 2012), available at http://allthingsd.com/20120728/
crowdfunding-market-nearly-10-times-smaller-than-widely-cited-estimate.

864

See Massolution, note 861 at 17. By comparison, “reward-based” crowdfunding had a 79% CAGR in
2011, while “lending-based” crowdfunding and “donation-based” crowdfunding had CAGRs of 50% and
41%, respectively.

865

Id.

866

Id. at 20-21.

867

Id. at 20-21.

868

See General Solicitation Adopting Release, note 12.
333

made equity-based crowdfunding difficult in the United States, we assume that the data for
equity-based crowdfunding comes from offerings outside the United States.
We are unaware of any domestic issuers and investors that are currently participating in
securities-based crowdfunding offerings on Internet-based crowdfunding platforms that are
operating outside of the United States (other than offerings made in reliance on Rule 506(c) of
Regulation D), although we recognize that these platforms may represent an additional source of
funding for startups and small businesses.
3.

Survival Rates for Startups and Small Businesses

Startups and small businesses that lack tangible assets or business experience needed to
obtain conventional financing might turn to securities-based crowdfunding in reliance on Section
4(a)(6) as an attractive potential source of financing. There is broad evidence that many of these
potential issuers are likely to fail after receiving funding. For example, a 2010 study reports that
of a random sample of 4,022 new high-technology businesses started in 2004, only 68% survived
by the end of 2008. 869 Other studies also have documented high failure rates for small newly
listed companies. For example, the ten-year delist rate for newly listed firms during the period
1981-1991 is 44.1%, compared to 16.9% for newly listed firms in the 1970s. 870
Similarly, other studies suggest that startups and small businesses financed by venture
capitalists also tend to have high failure rates. One study finds that for 16,315 VC-backed
companies that received their first institutional funding round between 1980 and 1999,

869

See Alicia Robb, E.J. Reedy, Janice Ballou, David DesRoches, Frank Potter and Zhanyun Zhao, An
Overview of the Kauffman Firm Survey: Results from the 2004-2008 Data, Kauffman Foundation
(“Kauffman Firm Survey”), available at http://www.kauffman.org/uploadedFiles/kfs_2010_report.pdf.

870

See Eugene F. Fama and Kenneth R. French, New Lists: Fundamentals and Survival Rates, 73 J. OF FIN.
ECON. 229-269 (2004).
334

approximately one-third failed after the first funding round. 871 Additionally a recent study of
more than 2,000 companies that received at least $1 million in venture funding, from 2004
through 2010, finds that almost three-quarters of these companies failed. 872 These failure rates
are high, despite the involvement of sophisticated investors like VCs that are likely better
equipped than the average retail investor to deal with uncertainty and risk associated with
investments in startups and that generally specialize in selecting firms with good prospects, have
direct access to management, have board representation and have at least some degree of control
over operating decisions.
Because we expect that issuers that would engage in offerings made in reliance on
Section 4(a)(6) would potentially be in an earlier stage of business development than the
businesses included in the above studies, we believe that issuers that engage in securities-based
crowdfunding may have higher failure rates than those in the studies cited above. 873
4.

Market Participants

The proposed rules will have their most significant impact on the market for the financing
of startups and small businesses. The number of participants in this market and the amounts
raised through alternative sources indicate that this is a large market. In 2011, there were almost
5 million small businesses, defined by the U.S. Census Bureau as having fewer than 500 paid
employees. 874 In the same year, FDIC-insured depositary institutions held approximately $626

871

See Yael V. Hochberg, Alexander Ljungqvist and Yang Lu, Whom You Know Matters: Venture Capital
Networks and Investment Performance, 62 J. OF FIN. 251-301 (2007).

872

See Deborah Gage, The Venture Capital Secret: 3 Out of 4 Start-Ups Fail, WALL ST. J., Sept. 19, 2012.

873

See Rajshree Agarwal and Michael Gort, Firm and Product Life Cycles and Firm Survival, 92 AM. ECON.
REV. 184−190 (2002) (“Agarwal”).

874

See U.S. Department of Commerce, United States Census Bureau, Business Dynamics Statistics, Data:
Firm Characteristics (2011), available at http://www.census.gov/ces/dataproducts/bds/data_firm.html.
335

billion in small business loans, 875 and VCs contributed an additional $30 billion of capital to
startups and small businesses. 876
We analyze the economic effect of the proposed rules on the following parties: (1)
issuers, typically startups and small businesses seeking to raise capital by issuing securities; (2)
intermediaries, through which issuers seeking to engage in transactions in reliance on
Section 4(a)(6) will offer and sell their securities; (3) investors who purchase or may consider
purchasing securities in such offerings; and (4) other capital providers, broker-dealers and
finders who currently participate in private offerings. The potential economic impact of the
proposed rules will depend on how these market participants respond to the proposed rules.
Each party is discussed in further detail below.
a.

Issuers

The proposed rules would permit certain entities to raise capital by issuing securities for
the first time. The number, type and size of the potential issuers that would seek to use
crowdfunding to offer and sell securities in reliance on Section 4(a)(6) is uncertain, but data
regarding current market practices may help identify the number and characteristics of potential
issuers.
Although it is not possible to predict the number of future securities offerings that might
rely on Section 4(a)(6), particularly because rules governing the process are not yet in place, we
estimate that the number could be in the thousands per year. We base this estimate on the
current number of businesses pursuing similar levels of financing through alternate capital

875

Small business loans are defined as loans secured by nonfarm nonresidential properties and commercial
and business loans of $1,000,000 or less. See Federal Deposit Insurance Corporation, note 835.

876

See National Venture Capital Association, Recent Stats & Studies, available at http://www.nvca.org/
index.php?option=com_content&view=article&id=344&Itemid=103.
336

raising methods: small business loans, reward-based and donation-based crowdfunding and
Regulation D offerings. According to the SBA’s fiscal year 2011 annual performance report,
54,500 small businesses received funding in 2011 through SBA’s main lending programs, 7(a)
and 504 loans. 877 A crowdfunding industry report estimates that there were 430,920 donationbased or reward-based campaigns in the U.S., which we estimate were conducted by 181,440
unique issuers. 878 Finally, a large number of Regulation D offerings are within the offer limits
established for crowdfunding under Section 4(a)(6). According to filings made with the
Commission, from 2009 to 2012, there were 25,274 new Regulation D offerings with offer sizes
of $1 million or less. These offerings involved 19,652 unique issuers. When excluding hedge
funds and investment companies, entities that generally would not be eligible to raise capital in
reliance on the exemption in Section 4(a)(6), 879 the number of unique issuers was 15,616.
Among these issuers, 24% reported no revenue, while approximately 20% had revenues of less
than $1 million.880 Approximately 92% of these issuers were organized as either a corporation
or a limited liability company.
It is expected that many future issuers of securities in crowdfunding offerings would have
otherwise raised capital from one of these alternative sources of financing, while others would

877

See 2011 Annual Performance Report, note 844.

878

The estimated number of campaigns is based on 532,000 successful fundraising campaigns in North
America, 90% of which were in the U.S. and most of which (90%) were either rewards-based or donationbased. According to the industry report, 69% of issuers engaged in one to two campaigns, 26% in three to
five campaigns and 5% in more than five campaigns. To estimate the number of unique issuers, we used
the midpoint from the first two groupings and assumed that issuers in the third grouping engage in six
campaigns. The number of unique issuers is thus estimated as follows: (90%
(

90%

532,000) /

= 181,440. See Massolution, note 861.

879

See discussion in Section II.A.3 above.

880

These percentages could be higher because almost 45% of the Regulation D issuers declined to disclose
their size.
337

have been financed by friends and family or not financed at all. Hence, while the total number of
businesses using these alternative funding sources provides a basis for the potential number of
issuers offering and selling securities in reliance on Section 4(a)(6) in the future, we cannot know
how many of these businesses would elect securities-based crowdfunding in reliance on Section
4(a)(6) once it becomes available, nor can we know how many future businesses may not be
financed at all. Further, SBA loan programs and other government contracting programs classify
“small businesses” as those with fewer than 500 employees, 881 and we expect that some of these
businesses might be too large for crowdfunding in reliance on Section 4(a)(6) to be an effective
capital-raising option. Separately, many of the current rewards-based or donations-based
crowdfunding projects likely entail applications that may not be suitable to a long-lived security
issuance (e.g., certain artistic endeavors or artistic projects). Nevertheless, these data show that
the potential number of businesses that might seek to offer and sell securities in reliance on
Section 4(a)(6) is large, particularly when compared to the current number of Exchange Act
reporting issuers, which is less than 10,000. 882
We believe that many potential issuers of securities through crowdfunding would be
startups and small businesses that are close to the “idea” stage of the business venture and that
have business plans that are not sufficiently well-developed or do not offer the profit potential or
business model to attract VCs or angel investors that otherwise specialize in investing in high

881

See, e.g., 13 CFR 121.406(b) (a non-manufacturing business may qualify as a small business concern under
Small Business Administration regulations, in part, if it does not exceed 500 employees); 7 CFR 3403.2
(defining small business concern under U.S. Department of Agriculture regulations, in part, as a concern
that has not more than 500 employees).

882

In fiscal year 2012, there were approximately 9,140 reporting companies. U.S. Securities and Exchange
Commission, FY 2014 Congressional Budget Justification, 2014 Annual Performance Plan, FY 2012
Annual Performance Report, at 80, available at http://www.sec.gov/about/reports/secfy14congbudgjust.
pdf.
338

risk ventures. In this regard, a study of one large platform revealed that relatively few companies
on that platform operate in technology sectors that typically attract VC investment activity. 883
b.

Crowdfunding Intermediaries

Section 4(a)(6)(C) requires that an offer and sale of securities in reliance on Section
4(a)(6) be conducted through a registered funding portal or a broker. Registered brokers, both
those that are already registered with the Commission and those that would register, might wish
to facilitate securities-based crowdfunding transactions. New entrants that do not wish to
register as brokers might decide to register as funding portals to facilitate securities-based
crowdfunding transactions in reliance on Section 4(a)(6). Donation-based or reward-based
crowdfunding platforms with established customer relations might seek to leverage these
relations and register as funding portals, or register as or associate with registered broker-dealers.
Although the number of potential intermediaries that would fill these roles is uncertain, practices
of existing brokers and crowdfunding platforms provide insight into how the market might
develop.
As of December 2012, there were 4,450 broker-dealers registered with the Commission,
with average total assets of approximately $1.1 billion per broker-dealer. The aggregate total
assets of these registered broker-dealers are approximately $4.9 trillion. Of these registered
broker-dealers, 410 also are dually registered as investment advisers.
Existing crowdfunding platforms are diverse and actively involved in financing, allowing
thousands of projects to search for capital. A recent industry survey of crowdfunding platforms

883

See Ethan R. Mollick, The Dynamics of Crowdfunding: An Exploratory Study (Working Paper) (June 26,
2013), available at http://papers.ssrn.com/sol3/papers.cfm?abstract_id=2088298.
339

reports that 191 platforms were estimated to be operating in the U.S. as of 2012. 884 Additionally,
based on 135 participants in the survey worldwide (including the U.S.), 15% of platforms were
engaged in equity-based crowdfunding, 11% in lending-based crowdfunding, 27% in donationbased crowdfunding and 47% in reward-based crowdfunding. 885 Moreover, the industry survey
stated that current crowdfunding portals typically charge entrepreneurs a listing fee that is based
on how large the target amount is and/or upon reaching the target. According to the survey, fees
from survey participants worldwide ranged from 2% to 25%, with an average of 7% in North
America and Europe. 886
We do not know at present which market participants would become intermediaries under
Section 4(a)(6) after final rules are adopted, but we believe that existing crowdfunding platforms
might seek to leverage their already-existing Internet-based platforms, brand recognition and
user bases to facilitate offerings in reliance on Section 4(a)(6). 887 Industry participants have
suggested that they expect three to four of the crowdfunding platforms that currently have the
majority of market share in rewards-based and donation-based crowdfunding to obtain the
majority of market share in the newly-developed securities-based crowdfunding market that
relies on Section 4(a)(6). 888
Under the statute and the proposed rules, funding portals are constrained in the services
they could provide, and persons (or entities) seeking the ability to participate in activities

884

See Massolution, note 861 at 16.

885

Id. at 17.

886

Id. at 23.

887

For example, a recent crowdfunding industry report suggests that funding portal reputation is important in
the crowdfunding market, especially for equity-based crowdfunding. See id.

888

For information on Commission staff discussions with industry participants, see Meetings with SEC
Officials, available at http://www.sec.gov/comments/jobs-title-iii/jobs-title-iii.shtml#meetings.
340

unavailable to funding portals, such as offering investment advice or holding, managing,
possessing or otherwise handling investor funds, would instead need to register as brokers or
investment advisers, depending on their activities. Although we believe, based on conversation
with industry participants, that initially, upon adoption of the final rules, more new registrants
would register as funding portals than as broker-dealers, our conversations with industry
participants 889 indicate that market competition to offer broker-dealer services as part of
intermediaries’ service capabilities might either drive more broker-dealer growth in the longer
term or provide registered funding portals with the incentive to form long-term partnerships with
registered broker-dealers. For example, crowdfunding platforms could have incentives to partner
with broker-dealers because of broker-dealers’ experience in providing recommendations or
investment advice, as well as broker-dealers’ access to investors. 890 There is anecdotal evidence
that these partnerships are already forming under existing regulations, and one report predicted
that in the first quarter of 2013, two to three dozen crowdfunding portals would partner with
broker-dealers to start conducting private offerings under Regulation D in anticipation of
securities-based crowdfunding. 891
c.

Investors

It is unclear what types of investors would participate in offerings made in reliance on
Section 4(a)(6), but based on the profile of investors in the current domestic reward-based and
donation-based crowdfunding market, we believe that many investors affected by the proposed

889

Id.

890

See Mohana Ravindranath, Crowdfunding platform ships product samples to potential investors, WASH.
POST, Nov. 29, 2012.

891

See David Drake, Rich Man’s Crowd Funding, FORBES, Jan. 15, 2013. See also Mohana Ravindranath,
Quickly adapting to crowdfunding laws, WASH. POST, Sept. 7, 2012; J.J. Colao, In the Crowdfunding Gold
Rush, This Company Has a Rare Edge, FORBES, June 5, 2013.
341

rules would likely be individual retail investors who currently do not have broad access to
investment opportunities in early-stage ventures, either because they do not have the necessary
accreditation or sophistication to invest in most private offerings or because they do not have
sufficient funds to participate as angel investors. Offerings made in reliance on Section 4(a)(6)
might provide retail investors with additional investment opportunities, although the extent to
which they invest in such offerings would likely depend on their view of the potential return on
investment as well as the risk for fraud.
In contrast, larger, more sophisticated or well-funded investors may be less likely to
invest in offerings made in reliance on Section 4(a)(6). The relatively low investment limits set
by the statute for crowdfunding investors might make these offerings less attractive for
professional investors, including VCs and angel investors. 892 While an offering made in reliance
on Section 4(a)(6) could bring an issuer to the attention of these investors, it is possible that
professional investors would prefer, instead, to invest in a Rule 506 offering, which is not subject
to the investment limitations applicable to offerings made in reliance on Section 4(a)(6).
d.

Other Capital Providers, Broker-Dealers and Finders in
Private Offerings

The proposed rules might affect the capital providers that currently finance small private
businesses: small business lenders, VCs, family and friends and angel investors. The current
scope of fundraising done by these capital providers is discussed above. As discussed below, the

892

An observer suggests that, unlike angels, VCs may be less interested in crowdfunding because, if VCs rely
on crowdfunding sites for their deal flow, it would be difficult to justify charging a 2% management fee
and 20% carried interest to their limited partners. See Ryan Caldbeck, Crowdfunding – Why Angels,
Venture Capitalists And Private Equity Investors All May Benefit, FORBES, Aug. 7, 2013.
342

magnitude of the impact would depend on whether crowdfunding in reliance on Section 4(a)(6)
emerges as a substitute or a complement to these financing sources.
In addition, issuers conducting private offerings might currently use broker-dealers to
help them with various aspects of the offering and to help ensure compliance with the ban on
general solicitation and advertising that exists for most private offerings. Private offerings also
could involve finders who connect issuers with potential investors for a fee. 893 These private
offering intermediaries also may be affected by the proposed rules because once these rules come
into effect, issuers might no longer need the services of those broker-dealers and finders.
Although we are unable to predict the exact size of the market for broker-dealers and finders in
private offerings that are comparable to those that the proposed rules would permit, 894 data on
the use of broker-dealers and finders in the Regulation D markets suggest that they may not
currently play a large role in private offerings. Only 13% of all new Regulation D offerings from
2009 to 2012 used an intermediary such as a broker-dealer or a finder. 895 Approximately 11% of
new offerings reported sales commissions greater than zero, while approximately 3% reported
finder fees greater than zero. The use of a broker-dealer or a finder increased with offering size;
they participated in 13% of offerings for up to $1 million and 18% of offerings for more than $50
million. Moreover, broker-dealer commissions and finder fees tend to decrease with offering
size. Unlike the gross spreads in registered offerings, the differences in commissions for
Regulation D offerings of different sizes are large: the average commission paid by issuers

893

Depending on their activities, these persons may need to be registered as broker-dealers.

894

See The Task Force on Private Placement Broker-Dealers, ABA Section of Business Law, Report and
Recommendations of the Task Force on Private Placement Broker-Dealers, 60 BUS. LAW. 959, 969-70
(2005) (“Task Force on Private Placement Broker-Dealers”).

895

See Ivanov/Bauguess Study, note 816.
343

conducting offerings of up to $1 million (6.5%) is almost three times larger than the average
commission paid by issuers conducting offerings of more than $50 million (1.9%). Similarly,
the average finder’s fee for offerings of up to $1 million is approximately 6.1%, compared to
1.4% for offerings of more than $50 million. We base these estimates, however, only on the
Regulation D market. It is possible that issuers engaging in other types of private offerings (e.g.,
those relying on Section 4(a)(2)), for which we do not have data, might use broker-dealers and
finders more frequently and have different fee structures.
B.

Analysis of Proposed Rules

As noted above, we are sensitive to the costs and benefits of the proposed rules, as well
as the impact that the proposed rules would have on efficiency, competition and capital
formation. In enacting Title III, Congress established a framework for a new type of exempt
offering and required us to adopt rules to implement that framework. To the extent that
crowdfunding rules are successfully utilized, the crowdfunding provisions of the JOBS Act
should provide startups and small businesses with the means to raise relatively modest amounts
of capital, from a broad cross section of potential investors, through securities offerings that are
exempt from registration under the Securities Act. They also should permit small investors to
participate in a wider range of securities offerings than may be available currently. 896
Specifically, the statutory provisions and the proposed rules address several challenges specific
to financing startups and small businesses, including, for example, accessing a large number of

896

See, e.g., 158 CONG. REC. S1781 (daily ed. Mar. 19, 2012) (statement of Sen. Carl Levin) (“Right now, the
rules generally prohibit a company from raising very small amounts from ordinary investors without
significant costs.”).
344

potential investors, the regulatory requirements associated with issuing a security, protecting
investors and making such securities offerings cost-effective for the issuer.
In the sections below, we analyze the costs and benefits associated with the proposed
crowdfunding regulatory regime, as well as the potential impacts of such a regulatory regime on
efficiency, competition and capital formation, in light of the background discussed above.
1.

Broad Economic Considerations

In this release, we discuss costs and benefits that are related to the proposed rules. Many
of these costs and benefits are difficult to quantify or estimate with any degree of certainty,
especially considering that Section 4(a)(6) provides a new method for raising capital in the
United States. Some costs are difficult to quantify or estimate because they represent transfers
between various market participants. For instance, costs to issuers could be passed on to
investors and costs to intermediaries could be passed on to issuers and investors. These
difficulties in estimating and quantifying are exacerbated by the limited public data that indicates
how issuers, intermediaries and investors would respond to these new investment opportunities.
The discussion below highlights several general areas where uncertainties regarding the
new crowdfunding market might affect the potential costs and benefits of the proposed rules. It
also highlights the potential effects on efficiency, competition and capital formation, as well as
our ability to quantify relevant benefits and costs. In light of these uncertainties, we encourage
commenters to provide data and analysis to help further quantify or estimate the potential
benefits and costs of these proposed rules.
The extent to which the statute and the proposed rules would affect capital formation and
the cost of capital to issuers depends in part on the issuers that choose to participate. In
particular, if the offering exemption under Section 4(a)(6) only attracts issuers that are otherwise
345

able to raise capital through alternative venues (e.g., offerings relying on an exception from
registration under Securities Act Section 3(a)(11), Securities Act Section 4(a)(2), Regulation A
or Regulation D), the statute and the proposed rules could result in a redistribution of capital
flow, which would enhance allocative efficiency but have a limited impact on the aggregate level
of capital formation. 897 In addition, the degree to which the proposed rules would affect capital
formation depends on the implementation of other provisions of the JOBS Act that may alter
existing options for small companies to raise capital. For example, Title II allows issuers relying
on the exemption in Securities Act Rule 506(c) to use general solicitation and general
advertising, while Title IV envisions a modified Regulation A offering exemption with a higher
dollar limit.
Notwithstanding these alternatives, we believe that the Section 4(a)(6) offering
exemption would likely represent a new source of capital for many issuers that currently have
difficulty raising capital and that would continue to have difficulty raising capital when other
JOBS Act provisions are implemented. Startups and small businesses usually have smaller and
more variable cash flows than larger more established companies, and internal financing from
their own business operations tends to be limited and unstable. Moreover, these businesses tend
to have smaller asset bases 898 and, thus, less collateral for traditional bank loans. Startups and
small businesses, which are widely viewed to have more financial constraints than publicly-

897

For example, a recent GAO report on Regulation A offerings suggests that a significant decline in the use
of this funding alternative after 1997 could be partially attributed to a shift in offerings to Rule 506
offerings under Regulation D, as a result of the preemption of state securities laws for Rule 506 offerings
that occurred in 1996. See GAO Report, note 824.

898

See, e.g., John Asker, Joan Farre-Mensa and Alexander Ljungqvist, Corporate Investment and Stock
Market Listing: A Puzzle? (European Corporate Governance Institute Finance Working Paper, June 2012),
available at http://papers.ssrn.com/sol3/papers.cfm?abstract_id=1603484.
346

traded companies and large private companies, could therefore benefit significantly from a
securities-based crowdfunding market. We believe that the statute, as it would be implemented
by the proposed rules, could increase both capital formation and the efficiency of capital
allocation. The extent to which such issuers would use the Section 4(a)(6) offering exemption ,
however, is difficult to assess.
If startups and small businesses find alternative capital raising options more attractive
than securities-based crowdfunding, the impact of Section 4(a)(6) on capital formation could be
limited. Even so, the availability of securities-based crowdfunding as a financing option could
increase competition among suppliers of capital, resulting in a potentially lower cost of capital
for all issuers, including those that choose not to use securities-based crowdfunding.
For issuers that pursue offerings in reliance on Section 4(a)(6), establishing an initial
price might be challenging. Although the statute requires certain issuer disclosures and the
proposed rules are intended to help investors evaluate the viability of the issuer and the initial
offering, these disclosures may be insufficient for investors to determine an appropriate price
since there would be no underwriter of the offering and the issuer may not otherwise be skilled in
valuation. It is not clear, therefore, how an initial offering price would be reached for many of
the securities offered, nor how investors would be protected against poor initial valuations. 899
These potential difficulties might limit investor participation in offerings made in reliance on
Section 4(a)(6) and mitigate some of the associated benefits of capital formation.

899

There also is a chance that valuations that emerge are inaccurate. For example, there is vast literature
documenting that, on average, IPOs are significantly underpriced relative to their initial prices on the
secondary market. For a review of the theory and evidence of IPO underpricing, see Jay Ritter and Ivo
Welch, A Review of IPO Activity, Pricing, and Allocations, 57 J. FIN. 1795-1828 (2002). See also Ivo
Welch, Sequential Sales, Learning, and Cascades, 47 J. FIN. 695-732 (1992) (analyzing the risk of herding
among investors when shares are sold sequentially).
347

Uncertainty surrounding exit strategies for investors in crowdfunding offerings also
might limit the benefits. In particular, it is unlikely that purchasers in crowdfunding transactions
would be able to follow the typical path to liquidity that investors in other exempt offerings
follow. For instance, investors in a VC-backed startup might eventually sell their securities in an
initial public offering on a national securities exchange or to another company in an
acquisition. 900 We anticipate that most businesses engaging in offerings in reliance on Section
4(a)(6) are unlikely to progress directly to an initial public offering on a national securities
exchange given their small size,901 and investors might lack adequate strategies or opportunities
to eventually divest their holdings. 902 A sale of the business would require the issuer to have a
track record in order to attract investors with the capital willing to buy the business. Moreover,
the likely broad geographical dispersion of crowdfunding investors might make shareholder
coordination difficult, although the electronic means may mitigate any difficulties. Even if an
issuer could execute a sale or otherwise offer to buy back or retire the securities, it might be
difficult for investors to determine whether the issuer was offering a fair market price. These
uncertainties might limit the use of the Section 4(a)(6) exemption.
The potential benefits of the proposed rules also might depend on how investors respond
to potential liquidity issues unique to the securities-based crowdfunding market. It is currently

900

See Gompers, note 830.

901

As noted, under the statute and the proposed rules, businesses relying on Section 4(a)(6) would be limited
to raising an aggregate of $1 million during a 12-month period. By contrast, as noted in the IPO Task
Force report, the size of an initial public offering generally exceeds $50 million. See IPO Task Force, note
818.

902

In contrast, given the required qualifications and capital amount limits, Regulation D offerings may
generally attract issuers that are more knowledgeable and better capitalized. Moreover, such offerings are
likely to have a larger proportion of accredited investors because, in contrast to securities-based
crowdfunding, there are no limitations on individual investment amounts. As a result, we believe that
Regulation D issuers and investors are more likely to have potential exit strategies in place.
348

unclear how securities offered and sold in reliance on Section 4(a)(6) would be transferred in the
secondary market after the one-year restricted period ends, and investors who purchased
securities in reliance on Section 4(a)(6) and who seek to divest their securities would be unlikely
to find a liquid market. 903 Shares might migrate to the over-the-counter market or to trading
platforms that trade shares of private companies. 904 It is possible that secondary trading costs for
investors might be substantial, effective and quoted spreads might be wide, and price volatility
might be high compared to those of listed securities. 905 Illiquidity is a concern for other exempt
offerings and small registered offerings. However, because investors purchasing securities in
reliance on Section 4(a)(6) might be less sophisticated than investors in other private offerings
due to the fact that there would be no investor qualification requirements, we expect that they
would face additional challenges in addressing the impact of illiquidity, either in finding a
suitable trading venue or negotiating with the issuer for an alternative retirement provision. The
potentially high degree of illiquidity associated with securities purchased in reliance on Section

903

Academic studies have shown that the over-the-counter market is less liquid than the national exchanges.
See Christie, Market Microstructure of the Pink Sheets, 33 J. BANKING & FIN. 1,326-1,339 (2009); Andrew
Ang, Assaf Shtauber and Paul Tetlock, Asset Pricing in the Dark: The Cross Section of OTC Stocks, REV.
FIN. STUD. (forthcoming).

904

Given the services that funding portals are permitted to provide under the statute and the proposed rules,
investors would not be able to use funding portals to trade in securities offered and sold in reliance on
Section 4(a)(6) in a secondary market.

905

Academic studies show that reducing the information transparency about an issuer increases the effective
and quoted spreads of its shares, reduces share price and increases price volatility. Specifically, percentage
spreads triple and volatility doubles when NYSE issuers are delisted to the Pink Sheets. See Jonathan
Macey, Maureen O’Hara and David Pompilio, Down and Out in the Stock Market: The Law and Finance
of the Delisting Process, 51 J.L. & ECON 683-713 (2008). When NASDAQ issuers delist and subsequently
trade on the OTC Bulletin Board and/or the Pink Sheets, share volume declines by two-thirds, quoted
spreads more than double, effective spreads triple and volatility triples. See Jeffrey H. Harris, Venkatesh
Panchapagesan and Ingrid M. Werner, Off But Not Gone: A Study of NASDAQ Delistings, Fisher College
of Business Working Paper No. 2008-03-005 and Dice Center Working Paper No. 2008-6 (Mar. 4, 2008),
available at http://papers.ssrn.com/sol3/papers.cfm?abstract_id=628203. One factor that may alleviate
transparency concerns is the fact that issuers that sold securities in an offering made in reliance on Section
4(a)(6) would have an ongoing reporting obligation, so disclosure of information about the issuer would
continue to be required.
349

4(a)(6) might prevent investors from investing in businesses through such offerings, thus limiting
potential capital formation.
Even with the mandated disclosures, unsophisticated investors purchasing securities
issued in reliance on Section 4(a)(6) also may face certain expropriation risks, potentially
limiting the upside of their investment, even when they select investments in successful ventures.
This could occur if issuers issue securities with certain features (e.g., callable securities or
securities with differential control rights) or have insider-only financing rounds or financing
rounds at reduced prices (the so-called “down rounds”) that could have the effect of diluting an
investor’s interest or otherwise diminishing the value of the securities offered and sold in
reliance on Section 4(a)(6). Investors purchasing securities issued in reliance on Section 4(a)(6)
might not have the experience or the market power to negotiate various anti-dilution provisions,
right of first refusal, tag-along rights, superior liquidation preferences and rights upon a change
in control that have been developed by institutional and angel investors as protections against
fundamental changes in a business. 906 If these or similar types of protections are absent, the
expropriation risk could discourage some potential investors from participating in offerings made
in reliance on Section 4(a)(6), potentially hindering efficiency, competition and capital
formation.
The proposed rules also might have an effect on broker-dealers and finders participating
in private offerings. Some issuers that previously relied on broker-dealers and finders to assist
with raising capital through private offerings may, instead, begin to rely on the Section 4(a)(6)
exemption to find potential investors. The precise impact of the proposed rules on these

906

See Kaplan, note 858.
350

intermediaries would depend on whether (and, if so, to what extent) issuers switch from using
existing exemptions to using the exemption provided by Section 4(a)(6) or whether the proposed
rules primarily attract new issuers. If a significant number of issuers switch from raising capital
under existing private offering exemptions to relying on the exemption provided by Section
4(a)(6), this likely would negatively affect the revenue of finders in the market for private
offerings, while intermediaries under Section 4(a)(6) likely would gain from the potential losses
in revenue that finders may face. This may disadvantage finders, but competition may ultimately
lead to more efficient allocation of capital.
Using information from the Regulation D market allows us to quantify at least some of
these potential losses. For example, from 2009 to 2012, the estimated cumulative dollar amount
of finder fees charged for Regulation D offerings of up to $1 million was approximately $18
million, covering 437 offerings. 907 In a similar vein, from 2009 to 2012, the estimated
cumulative dollar amount of commissions charged by broker-dealers for Regulation D offerings
of up to $1 million was approximately $76.6 million, covering 1,480 offerings. 908 Thus, to the
extent that issuers rely on Section 4(a)(6) to offer and sell securities in lieu of relying on
Regulation D, the dollar amount of commissions and finder fees generated would be reduced,
unless broker-dealers and finders provide new services that such issuers are willing to pay. For
example, under the statute, broker-dealers would be able to operate portals. If securities-based
crowdfunding primarily attracts new issuers to the market, the impact on broker-dealers and

907

We use data from new Form D filings and include in the analysis only filings with an offer amount greater
than zero. We also exclude indefinite offerings because, for those, we cannot determine the offer size.

908

Since we do not have data on broker-dealer and finder participation in other types of private offerings (e.g.,
Section 4(a)(2) offerings), it is possible that the impact of crowdfunding in those offerings could be
different than the impact on broker-dealers and finders in Regulation D offerings.
351

finder revenue could be negligible and the proposed rules may even have a positive effect on
their revenues by revealing more potential clients for them. Additionally, greater investor
interest in private company investment might increase capital formation, creating new
opportunities for broker-dealers and finders that otherwise would have been unavailable.
Rules implementing Section 4(a)(6) also could encourage current participants in the
securities-based crowdfunding market to diversify their funding models to attract a broader
group of issuers and to provide additional investment opportunities for investors. For example,
donation-based crowdfunding platforms that currently offer investment opportunities in microloans generally do not permit donors to collect interest on their investments because of concerns
that this activity would implicate the federal securities laws unless an exemption from
registration is available. 909 Under the proposed rules, these platforms might choose to permit
businesses to offer securities that would provide investors with the opportunity to obtain a return
on investment. This could broaden their user base and attract a group of investors different from
those already participating in reward-based or donation-based crowdfunding. It is likely that
some registered broker-dealers will find it profitable to enter the securities-based crowdfunding
market and operate funding portals as well. Such an entry will increase the competition among
intermediaries and likely lead to lower costs for issuers.
However, many projects that are well suited for reward-based or donation-based
crowdfunding (e.g., because they have finite lives, their payoffs to investors could come before
the project is completed, they could be contingent on the project’s success, etc.) may have little
in common with startups and small businesses that are well suited for an offering in reliance on

909

See, e.g., Deutsche Bank Microcredit Development Fund, Inc., SEC No-Action Letter (Apr. 8, 2012).
352

Section 4(a)(6). As a result, diversification among existing platforms might not always be
optimal or preferred, particularly if complying with the proposed rules proves disproportionately
costly compared to the amount of potential capital to be raised.
2.

Crowdfunding Exemption
a.

Limitation on Capital Raised

The statute imposes certain limitations on the total amount of securities that may be sold
by an issuer during the 12-month period preceding the date of the transaction made in reliance on
Section 4(a)(6). Specifically, Section 4(a)(6)(A) provides for a maximum aggregate amount of
$1 million sold in reliance on the exemption during the 12-month period. 910
The limitation on the amount that may be raised could benefit investors by reducing the
potential for dilution or fraud. However, we recognize that the cap on the maximum amount that
may be sold in reliance on Section 4(a)(6) also could prevent certain issuers from raising all the
capital they need to make their businesses viable, which in turn could result in lost opportunities.
It also is likely to reduce efficiency to the extent that resources cannot be channeled to
productive use. Due to the lack of data, however, we are not able to quantify the size of the
efficiency loss. We are proposing, however, to allow issuers to conduct other exempt offerings
that would not necessarily be integrated with the offering made in reliance on Section 4(a)(6), as
long as the issuer satisfies the requirements of the exemption relied upon for the particular
offering. We could have selected an alternative that would have aggregated the amounts offered
in reliance on Section 4(a)(6) with the amounts offered pursuant to other exempt offerings.
Under such an alternative, the amounts raised in other exempt offerings would count toward the

910

See also proposed Rule 100(a)(1) of Regulation Crowdfunding.
353

maximum offering amount under Section 4(a)(6). Compared to this alternative, the ability of
issuers to conduct other exempt offerings that would not count toward the maximum offering
amount under Section 4(a)(6) might alleviate some of the concerns that certain issuers would not
be able to raise sufficient capital.
b.

Investment Limitations

The statute and the proposed rules also impose certain limitations on the aggregate dollar
amount of securities that may be sold to any investor in reliance on Section 4(a)(6) during the
preceding 12 months. 911 These provisions would cap the potential investment and, consequently,
the potential losses for any single investor. Offerings made in reliance on Section 4(a)(6) would
not be subject to review by Commission staff prior to the sale of securities, but the aggregate
investment limits would provide some measure of protection for investors.
We recognize that the investment caps would limit the potential upside for investors.
This might particularly affect the decisions of those with large portfolios who might be able to
absorb losses and understand the risks associated with risky investments. For these investors, the
$100,000 aggregate cap might limit their incentive to participate in the securities-based
crowdfunding market, compared to other types of investments, potentially depriving the
securities-based crowdfunding market of more experienced and knowledgeable investors and
possibly impeding capital formation. Limiting the participation of such investors would be likely
to negatively affect the informational efficiency of the securities-based crowdfunding market
because sophisticated investors are better able to accurately price such offerings. These investors

911

See Section 4(a)(6)(B). See also proposed Rule 100(a)(2) of Regulation Crowdfunding.
354

also could add value to the discussions taking place through an intermediary’s communication
channels about a potential offering by providing their views on financial viability.
The aggregate cap on investments also could limit the ability of investors to diversify
within the securities-based crowdfunding market. As securities-based crowdfunding investments
might have inherently high failure rates, 912 investors who do not diversify their investments
across a number of offerings could face an increased risk of incurring large losses, relative to
their investments, even when they investigate offerings thoroughly. By comparison, VC firms
typically construct highly diversified portfolios with the understanding that many ventures fail,
resulting in a complete loss of some investments, but with the expectation that those losses will
be offset by the large upside of the relatively fewer investments that succeed. 913 The securitiesbased crowdfunding market is expected to involve earlier-stage financing compared to venture
capital financing, and therefore, the chances of investment success may be lower. 914 The
statutory thresholds for overall securities-based crowdfunding investments under Section 4(a)(6)
might limit an investor’s ability to choose a sufficiently large number of investments to offset
this risk and to recover the due diligence costs of sufficiently investigating individual
investments. One potential solution to this diversification problem would be to invest smaller
amounts in more ventures. The drawback is that the costs associated with identifying and
reviewing investment opportunities are, to a large extent, fixed.
c.

Issuer Eligibility

912

See discussion in Section III.A.3 above.

913

See John Cochrane, The Risk and Return of Venture Capital, 75 J. OF FIN. ECON. 3 (2005).

914

See Agarwal, note 873.
355

The statute and the proposed rules exclude certain categories of issuers from eligibility to
rely on Section 4(a)(6) to engage in crowdfunding transactions. 915 We are proposing to exclude
three additional categories of issuers, beyond those identified in the statute, from being eligible
to rely on Section 4(a)(6) to engage in crowdfunding transactions. First, we propose to exclude
issuers that would be disqualified from relying on Section 4(a)(6) pursuant to the disqualification
provisions of Section 302(d) of the JOBS Act. 916 Second, we propose to exclude issuers that
sold securities in reliance on Section 4(a)(6) and have not filed with the Commission and
provided to investors the ongoing annual reports required by Regulation Crowdfunding during
the two years immediately preceding the filing of the required offering statement. 917 This
additional exclusion would not impose any additional burdens and costs on an issuer that the
issuer would not have already incurred had it complied with the ongoing reporting requirements
as they came due. Further, the requirement that a delinquent issuer prepare two annual reports at
one time should provide updated and current information to investors without requiring an issuer
to become current in its reporting obligations. As a result, we believe that this exclusion would
incentivize issuers to comply with its ongoing reporting requirements, if they intend to rely again
on Section 4(a)(6) to raise additional capital, which would allow investors to make more
informed investment decisions. We also recognize that conditioning an issuer’s Section 4(a)(6)
eligibility on the requirement that issuers provide ongoing reports for only the previous twoyears may deprive investors of information in some periods that might otherwise have negative
effects on the price formation and liquidity of the securities in the secondary market. The

915

See Section 4A(f). See also proposed Rule 100(b) of Regulation Crowdfunding.

916

See proposed Rule 100(b)(4) of Regulation Crowdfunding.

917

See discussion in Section II.A.4 above.
356

potential damage to an issuer’s reputation resulting from being delinquent, however, may
provide the issuer with sufficient incentive to consistently comply with the ongoing reporting
requirements.
Third, we propose to exclude a company that has no specific business plan or has
indicated that its business plan is to engage in a merger or acquisition with an unidentified
company or companies. This proposed ineligibility requirement will have only a marginal effect
on issuer participation and capital formation because the startups and small businesses seeking
the exemption would generally have, even in the early stage of their development, a business
plan specific enough to distinctly differentiate them from companies with no specific business
plan.
3.

Issuer Requirements

We recognize that there are benefits and costs associated with the statutory requirements
and the proposed rules, including the disclosure requirements, pertaining to issuers. While the
estimated costs to issuers are discussed in further detail elsewhere in this section, the following
table summarizes these costs:

357

Compensation to the
intermediary 918
Costs per issuer for
obtaining EDGAR
access codes on Form
ID 919
Costs per issuer for
preparation and filing
of Form C for each
offering 920
Costs per issuer for
preparation and filing
of the progress
updates on Form CU 921
Costs per issuer for

Offerings of $100,000
or less

Offerings of more
than $100,000, but not
more than $500,000

Offerings of more
than $500,000

$2,500 - $7,500

$15,000 - $45,000

$37,500 - $112,500

$60

$60

$60

$6,000

$6,000

$6,000

$400

$400

$400

$4,000

$4,000

$4,000

918

See discussion in Section III.B.4 below. For purposes of the table, we estimate the range of compensation
that an issuer would pay the intermediary assuming the following: (1) the compensation would be
calculated as a percentage of the offering amount ranging from 5% to 15% of the total offering amount; and
(2) the issuer is offering $50,000, $300,000 and $750,000, which are the mid-points of the offering amounts
under each of the respective columns. The compensation paid to the intermediary may, or may not, cover
services to an issuer in connection with the preparation and filing of the proposed filings identified in this
table.

919

See Section IV.C.1.d below for a discussion of the hourly burdens for obtaining EDGAR access codes on
Form ID. We estimate, for purposes of the Paperwork Reduction Act, the cost of outside counsel at a rate
of $400 an hour. We recognize that the costs of retaining outside professionals may vary depending on the
nature of the professional service and that many small issuers are likely to face substantially lower costs.
Small issuers also may choose to prepare the proposed forms without seeking the assistance of outside
counsel. The table shows only those costs we attribute to outside professionals, for purposes of this
analysis, as we believe internal costs would vary greatly among issuers.

920

See proposed Rule 203(a)(1) of Regulation Crowdfunding. See also Section IV.C.1.a below for a
discussion of the hourly burdens for preparing and filing Form C for each offering. For purposes of the
table, we estimate that 25 percent of the hourly burden would be carried by outside professionals retained
by the issuer at an average cost of $400 per hour.

921

See proposed Rule 203(a)(3) of Regulation Crowdfunding. See also Section IV.C.1.a below for a
discussion of the hourly burdens for preparing and filing the progress updates on Form C-U. For purposes
of the table, we estimate that the hourly burden would be carried by outside professionals retained by the
issuer at an average cost of $400 per hour.
358

preparation and filing
of annual report on
Form C-AR 922
Costs for annual
review or audit of
financial statements
per issuer 923
Costs per issuer for
preparation and filing
of Form C-TR to
terminate reporting 924
a.

Not required

$14,350

$28,700

$600

$600

$600

General Disclosure Requirements

The statute and the proposed rules related to issuer disclosures are intended to reduce the
information asymmetries that currently exist between small businesses and potential investors.
Small private businesses typically do not disclose information as frequently or as extensively as
public companies, if at all. Moreover, unlike public companies, small private businesses are not
required to hire an independent third party to validate the information disclosed. When
information about a company is difficult to obtain or the quality of the information is uncertain,
investors are at risk of making poorly-informed investment decisions regarding that company.
Such information asymmetries might be especially acute in the securities-based
crowdfunding market because the market includes startups and small businesses that have
significant risk factors and that might have characteristics that have led them to be rejected by

922

See proposed Rule 203(b)(1) of Regulation Crowdfunding. See also Section IV.C.1.b below for a
discussion of the hourly burdens for preparing and filing each annual report on Form C-AR. For purposes
of the table, we estimate that 25 percent of the hourly burden would be carried by outside professionals
retained by the issuer at an average cost of $400 per hour.

923

See proposed Rule 201(t) of Regulation Crowdfunding. See also Section II.B.1.a.ii above.

924

See proposed Rule 203(b)(2) of Regulation Crowdfunding. See also Section IV.C.1.c below for a
discussion of the hourly burdens for preparing and filing Form C-TR. For purposes of the table, we
estimate that the hourly burden would be carried by outside professionals retained by the issuer at an
average cost of $400 per hour.
359

other potential funding sources, including banks, VCs and angel investors. In addition, the
securities-based crowdfunding market may attract unsophisticated retail investors who may not
have the resources necessary to effectively monitor issuers. For instance, some issuers might use
capital to fund riskier projects than what was disclosed to investors, or they might not make best
efforts to achieve their stated business objectives. If investors in securities-based crowdfunding
are unable to monitor such issuers because of limited information or credible third-party
validation of this information, they might eventually seek higher yields or choose to withdraw
from the securities-based crowdfunding market altogether, thus increasing the cost of capital to
issuers and impeding capital formation. In addition, investors in offerings made in reliance on
Section 4(a)(6) might make relatively small investments. The potential dispersed investor base
may make it difficult for investors to solve collective action problems.
The statute and the proposed rules seek to reduce information asymmetries by requiring
issuers to file specified disclosures with the Commission for offerings made in reliance on
Section 4(a)(6) on the offer date and on an annual basis thereafter. 925 Issuers also would be
required to provide these disclosures to investors, and in the case of offering documents, to
potential investors and the relevant broker or funding portal. The proposed disclosure
requirements described above 926 are more extensive than those required under existing offering
exemptions. For example, although the current requirements under Regulation A require similar
initial financial disclosures, they do not require periodic reporting. 927 Issuers using the Rule 504

925

See Section 4A(b). See also proposed Rules 201, 202 and 203 of Regulation Crowdfunding.

926

See Section II.B.1 above.

927

Securities Act Rule 257 (17 CFR 230.257), however, requires issuers conducting offerings pursuant to
Regulation A to file Form 2-A (17 CFR 239.91) with the Commission at certain intervals to report sales
360

exemption under Regulation D to raise up to $1 million do not need to provide audited financial
statements and there are no periodic disclosure requirements. Regulation D offerings under
Rules 505 and 506 for up to $2 million require issuers to provide audited current balance sheets
to non-accredited investors (and unaudited statements of income, cash flows and changes in
stockholders’ equity), but there are no periodic reporting requirements. The disclosure
requirements in the proposed rules should benefit investors by enabling them to better evaluate
the issuer and the offering, monitor how the issuer is doing over time and be aware of when the
issuer may terminate its ongoing reporting obligations. This would allow investors with various
risk preferences to invest in the offerings best suited for their risk tolerance, thus improving
allocative efficiency.
The disclosure requirements also could improve informational efficiency in the market.
Specifically, the required disclosure would provide investors with a useful benchmark to
evaluate other private issuers both within and outside of the securities-based crowdfunding
market. 928 Additionally, disclosure by issuers engaging in crowdfunding transactions in reliance
on Section 4(a)(6) could inform financial markets more generally by providing information about
new consumer trends and new products, thus creating externalities that benefit other types of
investors and issuers.
We recognize, however, that the proposed disclosure requirements also would have
associated limitations and costs, including the direct costs of preparation, certification (when

and the use of proceeds until termination, completion or final sale of securities in the offering or until the
proceeds have been applied, whichever is later.
928

See Christian Leuz and Peter Wysocki, Economic Consequences of Financial Reporting and Disclosure
Regulation: A Review and Suggestions for Future Research, (Working Paper, University of Chicago)
(2008), available at http://papers.ssrn.com/sol3/papers.cfm?abstract_id=1105398.
361

necessary) and dissemination of the disclosure documents. We note that, under the statute, the
disclosure requirements for offerings made in reliance on Section 4(a)(6) are more extensive, in
terms of breadth and frequency, than those for other private offerings. The statute also provides
us with the discretion to impose additional requirements on issuers engaging in crowdfunding
transactions, and in some cases, the proposed rules would require issuers to disclose information
in addition to the information specifically listed in the statute. 929 For example, we are proposing
to require disclosure of any indebtedness of the issuer 930 because we believe that servicing debt
could place additional pressures on a company in the early stages of development and this
information would be important to investors. The proposed rules also would require disclosure
of any prior securities-based crowdfunding or other exempt offerings conducted within the past
three years. 931 In some cases, an issuer might have previously engaged in crowdfunding in
reliance on Section 4(a)(6) and may be returning for additional funding. We believe that it
would be important to investors to know whether the prior securities-based crowdfunding or
other offerings of securities were successful, and if so, the amount raised in these prior offerings.
Compared to the disclosure requirements under existing private offering exemptions, this
information would better inform investors about the capital structure of an issuer, might provide
insight into how prior offerings were valued and could enable investors to more fully assess the
issuer and the potential risks associated with the current offering.
We recognize that the additional information required by the discretionary requirements
would increase the disclosure costs to issuers, but we believe that this would improve investor
929

See Section 4A(b)(5). See also Section II.B.1.a.i(g) for a description of the additional disclosure
requirements.

930

See proposed Rule 201(p) of Regulation Crowdfunding.

931

See proposed Rule 201(q) of Regulation Crowdfunding.
362

decision-making and ultimately benefit issuers with viable investment opportunities by
improving price efficiency in the securities-based crowdfunding market. Although we recognize
that requiring less disclosure would impose lower compliance costs, we believe that the
additional disclosure requirements we are proposing strike the appropriate balance between
enhancing the ability of issuers relying on Section 4(a)(6) to raise capital and enabling investors
to make informed investment decisions. Additionally, disclosure might have indirect costs to the
extent that information disclosed by issuers relying on Section 4(a)(6) could be used by their
competitors. Requiring significant levels of disclosure at an early stage of an issuer’s lifecycle
might affect an issuer’s competitive position and might limit the use of the exemption in Section
4(a)(6) by issuers who are especially concerned with confidentiality. It also is possible that these
disclosure costs would make other types of private offerings more attractive to potential
securities-based crowdfunding issuers. For example, the recent changes to Rule 506 of
Regulation D, 932 which allow for general solicitation, subject to certain conditions, are likely to
increase its attractiveness and, thus, may divert potential issuers from crowdfunding.
In addition, under the statute and the proposed rules, issuers that complete a
crowdfunding transaction in reliance on Section 4(a)(6) would be subject to ongoing reporting
requirements, 933 which are not required under other private offering exemptions and which might
increase compliance costs. The ongoing reporting, however, might provide a liquidity benefit for
secondary sales of the issuers’ securities.
b.

Financial Condition and Financial Statement Disclosure
Requirements

932

See General Solicitation Adopting Release, note 12.

933

See Section 4A(b)(4). See also proposed Rule 202 of Regulation Crowdfunding.
363

With respect to the statutory requirement to provide disclosure about the issuer’s
financial condition, the proposed rules would require narrative disclosure addressing the issuer’s
historical results of operations, in addition to information about its liquidity and capital
resources. 934 We expect that this discussion would inform investors about the financial condition
of the issuer, without imposing significant costs, because the issuer should already have such
information readily available. In addition, the proposed rules would not prescribe the content or
format for this information.
With respect to the requirement to provide financial statements, the proposed rules would
implement the tiered financial disclosure requirements specified by the statute, which are based
on the aggregate amount of securities offered and sold during the preceding 12-month period,
inclusive of the offering amount in the offering for which disclosure is being provided. 935
Although the disclosure requirements would provide investors with more information than might
otherwise be obtained in private offerings, the disclosures might create additional costs for those
issuers who have limited financial and accounting expertise necessary to produce the financial
disclosures envisioned by the statute and the proposed rules. In this respect, the statute
anticipates a level of development among issuers that might not be present in the relevant
securities-based crowdfunding market. For instance, a startup with a promising business idea
might have little capital prior to the offering, leaving limited amounts to be audited or certified.
The issuer disclosures required for offerings made in reliance on Section 4(a)(6), therefore,
might not always help investors with their investment decisions or may weigh against an issuer
when a potential investor is deciding whether to make an investment.
934

See proposed Rule 201(s) of Regulation Crowdfunding. See also Section II.B.1.a.ii(a) above.

935

See proposed Rule 201(t) of Regulation Crowdfunding. See also Section II.B.1.a.ii(b) above.
364

The proposed rules would require all issuers to provide a complete set of their financial
statements (a balance sheet, income statement, statement of cash flows and statement of changes
in owners’ equity) that are prepared in accordance with U.S. GAAP and cover the shorter of the
two most recently completed fiscal years or the period since inception. 936 This proposed
requirement may impose a cost on potential issuers, especially those smaller issuers that may
have historically prepared their financial statements in accordance with other comprehensive
bases of accounting, such as a cash basis of accounting or a tax basis of accounting, rather than
U.S. GAAP. Investors, however, would benefit from the requirement that financial statements
be prepared in accordance with U.S. GAAP, as U.S. GAAP is widely used and would allow for
more comparability among issuers.
The proposed rules also specify that an issuer could conduct an offering in reliance on
Section 4(a)(6) using financial statements for the fiscal year prior to the most recently completed
fiscal year, provided that not more than 120 days have passed since the end of the issuer’s most
recently completed fiscal year, the issuer was not otherwise required to update the financial
statements and updated financial statements are not otherwise available. 937 This might impose a
cost on potential investors to the extent that the investors would not have the most recent
information about the issuer’s financial condition. However, this concern is somewhat mitigated
by the proposed requirement that issuers include a discussion of changes in their financial
condition since the period covered by the financial statements, including changes in revenue or
net income and other relevant financial measures. 938

936

See proposed Instruction 2 to paragraph (t) of proposed Rule 201 of Regulation Crowdfunding.

937

See proposed Instruction 8 to paragraph (t) of proposed Rule 201 of Regulation Crowdfunding.

938

See proposed Instruction 9 to paragraph (t) of proposed Rule 201 of Regulation Crowdfunding.
365

Requiring financial statements covering the two most recently completed fiscal years, as
proposed, would benefit investors by providing a basis for comparison against the most recently
completed fiscal year and by allowing investors to identify changes in the development of the
business. Compared to an alternative that we could have selected, that of requiring financial
statements covering only the most recently completed fiscal year as one commenter suggested, 939
requiring a second year of financial statements might increase the cost for the issuer. 940 Also, to
the extent that the issuer had no or little operations in the prior year, the benefit of comparability
might not apply. In this regard, we recognize that many issuers might not have any financial
history, and potential investors might make investment decisions without a track record of issuer
performance, relying largely on the belief that an issuer can succeed based on the concept and
other factors.
For offerings of $100,000 or less, the statute and the proposed rules would require the
issuer to provide its filed income tax returns for the most recently completed year (if any) and
financial statements that are certified by the principal executive officer to be true and complete in
all material respects. 941 While providing an income tax return is not expected to impose a
significant cost on issuers, it is not clear to what extent the information presented in a tax return
would be useful for an investor evaluating whether or not to purchase securities from the issuer.
Although the information might be limited, it would not be uninformative. Under the proposed
rules, issuers would be required to redact personal information from the required tax returns. 942

939

See CompTIA Letter.

940

But see note 174.

941

See Section 4A(b)(1)(D)(i). See also proposed Rule 201(t)(1) of Regulation Crowdfunding.

942

See proposed Instruction 3 to paragraph (t) of proposed Rule 201 of Regulation Crowdfunding.
366

We believe that this would alleviate privacy concerns, while still satisfying the statutory
requirement to provide tax return information.
Moreover, the proposed rules would specify that if an issuer is offering securities in
reliance on Section 4(a)(6) before filing a tax return for the most recently completed fiscal year,
the issuer could use the tax return filed for the prior year, on the condition that the issuer
provides the tax return for the most recent fiscal year when it is filed, if it is filed during the
offering period. 943 This accommodation should benefit issuers by enabling them to engage in
transactions during the time period between the end of their fiscal year and when they file their
tax return for that year. This might impose a cost on potential investors because they might not
receive the most up-to-date information about the issuer’s financial condition. However, this
concern is somewhat mitigated by the proposed requirement that issuers provide disclosure about
material changes in their financial condition since the prior year. 944 In addition, we are
proposing a form of certification for the principal executive officer to provide in the issuer’s
offering statement, which we believe would help issuers comply with the certification required
by the statute and the proposed rules. 945
For offerings of more than $100,000, but not more than $500,000, the proposed rules
specify that the required financial statements must be reviewed in accordance with SSARS
issued by the AICPA. 946 Although one alternative we could have selected is to develop a new
review standard for purposes of these rules, we believe that issuers would benefit from a rule that

943

Id.

944

See proposed Instruction 9 to paragraph (t) of proposed Rule 201 of Regulation Crowdfunding.

945

See proposed Instruction 4 to paragraph (t) of proposed Rule 201 of Regulation Crowdfunding.

946

See proposed Rule 201(t)(2) of Regulation Crowdfunding.
367

requires the use of the AICPA’s widely-utilized review standard, particularly in light of the fact
that there are no other widely-utilized review standards from which to choose. We believe that
many accountants reviewing financial statements of issuers raising capital in reliance on Section
4(a)(6) would be familiar with the AICPA’s standards and procedures for review, which should
help to lessen review costs.
For offerings of more than $500,000, the statute and the proposed rules would require
that financial statements be audited. 947 The statute gives us discretion to change the threshold
that would require audited financial statements, but we are not proposing to change it at this
time. We believe that audited financial statements would benefit investors in offerings by issuers
with substantive prior business activity by providing them with greater confidence in the quality
of the financial statements of issuers seeking to raise larger amounts of capital. We also
understand that requiring audited financial statements would increase the cost to issuers, and for
issuers that are newly formed, with no or very limited operations, the benefit of the audit may not
justify the cost of the audit. Compared to an alternative that we could have taken, that of a
higher threshold (e.g., offerings of more than $700,000) for providing audited financial
statements, our approach in the proposed rules would likely result in more issuers having to
provide audited financial statements, as well as higher compliance costs for those issuers. Based
on a compilation of data submitted to us by reporting companies, the average cost of an audit for
an issuer with less than $1 million in market capitalization and less than $1 million in revenues is
approximately $28,700. 948 We expect that the cost of an audit for many issuers engaging in a

947

See Section 4A(b)(1)(D)(iii). See also proposed Rule 201(t)(3) of Regulation Crowdfunding.

948

See Audit Analytics, Auditor-Fees, available at http://www.auditanalytics.com/0002/audit-datacompany.php. The auditor fee database contains fee data disclosed by Exchange Act reporting companies
368

crowdfunding transaction in reliance on Section 4(a)(6) might be less, because they likely would
be at an earlier stage of development than issuers that file Exchange Act reports with us and,
thus, would be less complex to audit.
For offerings of more than $500,000, the proposed rules also would require financial
statements to be audited in accordance with the auditing standards issued by either the AICPA or
the PCAOB. 949 We believe that letting issuers choose the auditing standards could provide a
number of benefits. If an issuer currently has financial statements audited under one of the
specified standards, the issuer would not need to obtain a new audit or engage a different auditor
to conduct an audit to engage in a crowdfunding transaction in reliance on Section 4(a)(6) and
the proposed rules. If an issuer chooses to have an audit conducted in accordance with PCAOB
auditing standards, it would not need to obtain a new audit to file a registration statement with
the Commission for a registered offering. By not taking an alternative approach, that of
requiring the audits to be conducted by PCAOB-registered firms, the proposed rules should
allow for the eligibility of a greater number of accountants to audit the issuers’ financial
statements, and thereby, could reduce costs for crowdfunding issuers.
As described above, the statute and the proposed rules require some financial statements
to be reviewed or audited by a public accountant. The proposed rules would specify that a public
accountant must be independent of the issuer, in accordance with the independence standards set
forth in Rule 2-01 of Regulation S-X. 950 The proposed requirement to comply with our

in electronic filings since January 1, 2001. For purposes of our calculation, we averaged the auditor fee
data for companies with both market capitalization and revenues of less than $1 million (the smallest
subgroup of companies for which data is compiled).
949

See proposed Rule 201(t)(3) of Regulation Crowdfunding.

950

See proposed Instruction 7 to paragraph (t) of proposed Rule 201 of Regulation Crowdfunding.
369

independence standards may impose costs to the extent that there are higher costs associated with
engaging an accountant that satisfies the independence standards. Also, the independence
standards set forth in Rule 2-01 of Regulation S-X may impose higher costs than other
independence standards, such as the AICPA independence standards. 951
In addition, the proposed rules would require an issuer to file a review report or audit
report, whichever is applicable. 952 This could impose an additional cost on issuers to the extent
that the accountant or auditor increases the fee associated with the review or audit to compensate
for any additional liability that may result.
c.

Issuer Filing Requirements

The statute does not specify a format that issuers must use to present the required
disclosures and file the disclosures with the Commission. As noted above, we are proposing to
require issuers to file the mandated disclosure on EDGAR using new Form C. 953 Issuers would
incur the cost to comply with the disclosure requirements and file the information in the new
proposed Form C: Offering Statement and Form C-U: Progress Update before the offering was
funded, thus imposing a cost on issuers regardless of whether their offerings were successful. In
addition, issuers would incur the cost to comply with the ongoing reporting requirements and file
information in the new proposed Form C-AR: Annual Report. 954

951

For example, under the independence standards set forth in Rule 2-01 of Regulation S-X, an auditor cannot
provide bookkeeping services to an audit client, so an issuer would need to retain a different accountant to
provide those services. See Rule 2-01(c)(4) of Regulation S-X [17 CFR 210.2-01(c)(4)].

952

See proposed Instructions 5 and 6 to paragraph (t) of proposed Rule 201 of Regulation Crowdfunding.

953

See proposed Rule 203(a) of Regulation Crowdfunding. See also Section II.B.3 above.

954

See proposed Rule 203(b) of Regulation Crowdfunding. See also Section II.B.3 above.
370

Form C would require certain disclosures to be submitted using an XML-based filing, 955
while allowing the issuer to customize the presentation of other required disclosures. This
proposed approach would provide issuers with the flexibility to present required disclosures in a
cost-effective manner, while also requiring the disclosure of certain key offering information that
would be collected in a standardized format, which we believe would benefit investors and help
facilitate capital formation.
We expect that requiring certain disclosures to be submitted using XML-based filings
would produce numerous benefits for issuers, investors and the Commission. For instance, using
information filed pursuant to these proposed requirements, users of the information could readily
track capital generated through crowdfunding offerings without requiring the manual inspection
of each filing. The ability to efficiently collect information on all issuers also could provide an
incentive for data aggregators or other market participants to offer services or analysis that
investors could use to compare and choose among different offerings. For example, reporting
key financial information using XML-based filings would allow investors, analysts and data
aggregators to more easily compile, analyze and compare information regarding the capital
structure and financial position of various issuers. XML-based filings also would provide the
Commission with data about the use of the new exemption that would allow the Commission to
evaluate whether the rules implementing the exemption include appropriate investor protections
and whether the rules unduly restrict capital formation. In addition, requiring disclosure of the
compensation paid to intermediaries would help inform the Commission, issuers and investors
about the costs of raising capital in this market.

955

See proposed Instruction to paragraph (a)(1) of proposed Rule 203 of Regulation Crowdfunding. See also
Section II.B.3 above.
371

We expect that the cost of preparing and filing Form C could vary significantly among
issuers. For example, issuers with little operating activity might have lower costs because they
likely would have less to disclose than a more complex operation. Further, small issuers might
choose to prepare and file Form C without seeking the assistance of outside counsel. 956 Thus,
the Commission also expects that reporting costs for many small issuers may be insignificant. 957
The proposed rules also would require that issuers file a Form C-U: Progress Update to
describe the progress of the issuer in meeting the target offering amount. 958 The proposed rules
would require the issuer to file two progress updates within five business days from the day
when the issuer reaches one-half and 100 percent of the target offering amount, as well as a final
progress update within five business days after the end of the offering period if the issuer will
accept proceeds in excess of the target offering amount. The Commission expects the costs of
preparing these updates to vary but to be relatively small, given how little information is
required. 959 However, if the size of the security-based crowdfunding market developed to a level
commensurate with the current non-security-based crowdfunding market, this could result in tens
of thousands of filings with the Commission each year. To the extent that this same progress
information also would be available on the registered intermediary’s website, as is already
occurring with existing non-security-based offering platforms, then there might be little marginal

956

See Section IV.C.1. below.

957

We estimate, for purposes of the Paperwork Reduction Act, that 25 percent of the 60 hours anticipated to
prepare and file Form C could be performed by outside counsel at a rate of $400 an hour. See Section
IV.C.1.a below. We recognize that the costs of retaining outside professionals may vary depending on the
nature of the professional service and that many small issuers are likely to face substantially lower costs.

958

See proposed Rule 203(a)(3) of Regulation Crowdfunding. See also Sections II.B.1.b and II.B.3 above.

959

See Section IV.C.1.a below.
372

benefit to these filings. For these reasons, we are seeking comment on alternative frequencies
and manner of progress updates.
As noted above, the statute also requires an issuer to file and provide to investors
information about the issuer’s financial condition on at least an annual basis, as determined by
the Commission.960 To implement this statutory requirement, the proposed rules would require
any issuer that sold securities in a crowdfunding transaction in reliance on Section 4(a)(6) to file
annually with the Commission a new Form C-AR: Annual Report, no later than 120 days after
the end of each fiscal year covered by the report. 961 We believe that annual reports would inform
investors in their portfolio decisions and could enhance price efficiency. Moreover, as discussed
above, under the statute and the proposed rules, the securities would be freely tradable after one
year, 962 and therefore, this information also would benefit potential future holders of the issuer’s
securities by enabling them to update their assessments as new information was made available
through the annual updates, potentially allowing for more efficient pricing. More generally,
these proposed continued disclosures also might help facilitate the transfer of securities in
secondary markets after the one-year restricted period ends, which could mitigate some of the
potential liquidity issues that are unique to the securities-based crowdfunding market, discussed
above.
Annual reporting requirements, however, would impose ongoing costs on issuers. The
proposed rules would require that issuers continue to file Form C-AR: Annual Report until the
earlier of the following: (1) the issuer becomes a reporting company required to file reports
960

See Section 4A(b)(4).

961

See proposed Rule 202 of Regulation Crowdfunding. See also Section II.B.2 above for a discussion of the
disclosure requirements for Form C-AR.

962

See Section 4A(e). See also proposed Rule 501 of Regulation Crowdfunding.
373

under Exchange Act Sections 13(a) or 15(d); (2) the issuer or another party repurchases all of the
securities issued pursuant to Securities Act Section 4(a)(6), including any payment in full of debt
securities or any complete redemption of redeemable securities; or (3) the issuer liquidates or
dissolves its business in accordance with state law. 963 We estimate that the cost to prepare and
file Form C-AR would be approximately two-thirds of the cost to prepare and file Form C:
Offering Statement. Form C-AR requires similar disclosure as Form C. If an issuer undertakes
multiple offerings, which individually require different levels of financial statements, the issuer
would be required to provide financial statements that meet the highest standard previously
provided. An issuer would not be required to provide the offering-specific information that was
filed at the time of the offering, but the disclosure requirements would otherwise be the same as
those required in connection with the offer and sale of the securities, 964 which should minimize
the disclosure burden for issuers. Any issuer terminating its annual reporting obligations would
be required to file a notice under cover of “Form C-TR: Termination of Reporting” to notify
investors and the Commission that it would no longer file and provide annual reports pursuant to
the requirements of Regulation Crowdfunding. 965 The Commission expects the costs of
preparing these updates to vary significantly among issuers. 966
d.

Advertising – Notice of Offering

963

See proposed Rule 202(b) of Regulation Crowdfunding.

964

See proposed Rule 202(a) of Regulation Crowdfunding.

965

See proposed Rule 203(b)(2) of Regulation Crowdfunding.

966

Issuers would spend, on average, approximately 1.5 hours to complete this task. Again, we do not have the
information necessary to provide a reasonable estimate of the costs associated with this time burden
because these costs would vary significantly among small issuers and would depend, in part, on the stage of
the issuer’s development. See Section IV.C.1.c below.
374

The statute and the proposed rules would prohibit an issuer from advertising the terms of
the offering, except for notices that direct investors to an intermediary’s platform. 967 The terms
of the offering would include the amount offered, the nature of the securities, price of the
securities and length of the offering period. 968 The proposed rules would allow an issuer to
publish a notice about the terms of the offering made in reliance on Section 4(a)(6), subject to
certain limitations on the content of the notice. 969 The notices would be similar to the
“tombstone ads” permitted under Securities Act Rule 134, 970 except that the proposed rules
would require the notices to direct potential investors to the intermediary’s platform, through
which the offering made in reliance on Section 4(a)(6) would be conducted.
We believe this approach would allow issuers to generate interest in offerings and to
leverage the power of social media to attract potential investors. At the same time, we believe it
also would protect potential investors by limiting the ability of issuers to provide certain
advertising materials without also providing the disclosures, available on the intermediary’s
platform, that are required for an offering made in reliance on Section 4(a)(6). Moreover, this
proposed requirement that limits the issuer’s ability to advertise the terms of the offering, while
directing investors to the intermediary’s platform for more offering-specific information, would
not impose costs to market participants.
e.

Compensation of Persons Promoting the Offering

967

See Section 4A(b)(2). See also proposed Rule 204 of Regulation Crowdfunding.

968

See proposed Instruction to proposed Rule 204 of Regulation Crowdfunding.

969

See proposed Rule 204(b) of Regulation Crowdfunding. See also Section II.B.4 above.

970

17 CFR 230.134.
375

The statute and the proposed rules would prohibit an issuer from compensating, or
committing to compensate, directly or indirectly, any person to promote the issuer’s offering
through communication channels provided by the intermediary unless the issuer takes reasonable
steps to ensure that such person clearly discloses the receipt of such compensation (both past and
prospective) each time a promotional communication is made. 971
We believe that such requirement would benefit the securities-based crowdfunding
market because it would allow investors to make better informed investment decisions. A
premise of crowdfunding is that investors would rely, at least in part, on the collective wisdom of
the crowd to make better informed investment decisions. Accordingly, we propose to require
intermediaries to provide communication channels for issuers and investors to exchange
information about the issuer and its offering. 972 Although the requirement to take steps to ensure
disclosure of compensation paid to persons promoting the offering would impose compliance
costs for issuers, we believe that investors would benefit from knowing if the investment they are
considering and discussing with other potential investors is being touted by a promoter who is
compensated by the issuer.
f.

Oversubscription and Offering Price

The proposed rules would permit an issuer to accept investments in excess of the target
offering amount, subject to the $1 million limitation and certain conditions. 973 We believe that
permitting oversubscriptions would provide flexibility to issuers so that they can raise the
amount of capital they deem necessary to finance their businesses. For example, permitting

971

See Section 4A(b)(3). See also proposed Rule 205 of Regulation Crowdfunding.

972

See proposed Rule 303(c) of Regulation Crowdfunding.

973

See proposed Rule 201(h) of Regulation Crowdfunding. See also Section II.B.6.i above.
376

oversubscriptions would allow an issuer to raise more funds, while lowering compliance costs, if
the issuer discovers during the offering process that there is greater investor interest in the
offering than initially anticipated or if the cost of capital is lower than initially anticipated.
The proposed rules also would not require issuers to set a fixed price or prohibit dynamic
pricing. We believe that allowing issuers flexibility in setting the offering price would allow
them to extract investors’ reservation price for a given offering or to incentivize investors to
subscribe to an offering early, thus increasing the likelihood that the offering would be
successful. Further, the proposed required disclosure of the pricing method used and the final
prices for the securities before an offering closes, 974 coupled with the investor’s ability to cancel
his or her investment commitment,975 could mitigate potential concerns that dynamic pricing
could be used to provide preferential treatment to certain investors (e.g., when an issuer offers
better prices to relatives or insiders). We also believe that the proposed cancellation rights would
address the concerns about time pressure on the investment decision because investors would
have the opportunity to cancel their investment commitments if they decide to do so.
h.

Restrictions on Resales

The statute and the proposed rules also include restrictions on transfers of securities for
one year, subject to limited exceptions (e.g., for transfers to the issuer of the securities, in a
registered offering, to an accredited investor or to certain family members). 976 The proposed
rules also would permit transfers to trusts controlled by, or held for the benefit of, covered family

974

See proposed Rule 201(l) of Regulation Crowdfunding.

975

See proposed Rule 201(j) of Regulation Crowdfunding.

976

See Section 4A(e). See also proposed Rule 501 of Regulation Crowdfunding.
377

members. 977 We believe that including such proposed restrictions is important for investor
protection. By restricting the transfer of securities for a one-year period, the proposed rules
would give investors in a business a defined period to observe the performance of the business
and to potentially obtain more information about the potential success or failure of the business
before trading occurs. The restrictions on resales, however, may impede price discovery.
The proposed one-year restriction on transfers of securities purchased in a transaction
conducted in reliance on Section 4(a)(6) might reduce trading liquidity, raise capital costs to
issuers and limit investor participation, particularly for investors who cannot risk locking up their
investments for this period. The illiquidity cost would be mitigated, in part, by provisions that
allow investors to transfer the securities within one year of issuance by reselling the securities to
accredited investors, back to the issuer or in a registered offering or transferring them to certain
family members or trusts of those family members. These provisions likely would improve the
liquidity of these securities and, thus, could increase investor participation in securities-based
crowdfunding offerings.
4.

Intermediary Requirements

The statute and the proposed rules require that transactions be conducted through a
registered broker or registered funding portal. The use of a registered intermediary to match
issuers and investors would require that they incur certain transactions costs necessary to support
the intermediation activity, but also would provide centralized venues for crowdfunding
activities that should lower investor and issuer search costs. As discussed earlier, existing
rewards-based and donations-based crowdfunding platforms already engage in a large number of

977

See proposed Rule 501(a)(4) of Regulation Crowdfunding.
378

transactions, estimated at over 500,000 successful campaigns in the aggregate, 978 demonstrating
that the use of platforms for crowdfunding may be familiar to investors and issuers.
We believe that existing crowdfunding platforms would initially be the primary, nonbroker-dealer intermediaries in the securities-based crowdfunding market. Registered brokers, or
broker-dealers that are currently unregistered, but are planning to register in the future, also
might wish to enter the securities-based crowdfunding market, which would increase the
competition among crowdfunding intermediaries and potentially lower the cost of intermediation
to issuers. Both existing non-securities-based crowdfunding platforms and registered brokers
might need to invest resources (including costs to comply with the proposed regime) to create the
infrastructure for securities-based crowdfunding, with brokers likely investing to develop an
Internet-based platform and non-securities-based crowdfunding platforms investing to register as
funding portals and revise their existing sites to comply with the requirements of the statute and
the proposed rules. Although the eventual extent of broker involvement in the securities-based
crowdfunding market is difficult to anticipate, we believe that some brokers might acquire or
form partnerships with funding portals to obtain access to a new and diverse investor base. In
addition, some existing non-securities-based crowdfunding platforms might eventually either
register as brokers or form partnerships with registered brokers to offer brokerage services as
part of their service offerings. As discussed above, we believe that there could be incentives for
funding portals to pursue such partnerships, because of brokers’ expertise and access to
investors, as well as because of the statutory and proposed rule restrictions on funding portal
activities.

978

See note 863.
379

Although it is not possible to predict precisely the future number of persons (or entities)
who would register as either brokers or funding portals to act as intermediaries in securitiesbased crowdfunding transactions, 979 we estimate that intermediaries would number
approximately 110, including approximately 10 intermediaries that would register as brokers in
order to engage in crowdfunding, approximately 50 intermediaries that would already be
registered as brokers and approximately 50 intermediaries that would register as funding
portals. 980 It is possible that the actual number of participants could deviate significantly from
these estimates, and it is likely that there would be significant competition between existing
crowdfunding venues and new entrants that could result in further changes in the number and
types of intermediaries as the market develops and matures. It also is likely that there will be
significant developments in the types and ranges of crowdfunding products and services offered
to potential issuers and investors, particularly as competitors learn from their experiences.
Moreover, the business models of the successful crowdfunding intermediaries are likely to

979

There are significant challenges to establishing a statistically reliable estimate of the number of
intermediaries that would participate in the securities-based crowdfunding market. For example, in a
similar context, a 2005 report on private placement broker-dealers determined that there is no effective
measuring device to estimate the number of intermediaries for small businesses currently in the
marketplace. See Task Force on Private Placement Broker-Dealers, note 894. We also recognize that there
are limitations on predicting the number of intermediaries that would participate in securities-based
crowdfunding, based on existing practices in the donation-based and rewards-based crowdfunding markets
or foreign securities-based crowdfunding. In particular, platforms currently involved in donation-based and
rewards-based crowdfunding may be motivated by philanthropic interests and may not intend to expand
their platforms to offer securities-based crowdfunding opportunities. In addition, foreign securities-based
crowdfunding takes place in a different regulatory setting, and thus, the market may not develop the same
way in the United States.

980

These estimates are based, in part, on current indications of interest, which may change as the market
develops. According to FINRA, as of October 3, 2013, approximately 36 entities have submitted the
voluntary Interim Form for Funding Portals to FINRA to indicate their intention to act as funding portals
under the JOBS Act. See Press Release, Financial Industry Regulatory Authority, FINRA Issues Voluntary
Interim Form for Crowdfunding Portals (Jan. 10, 2013), available at http://www.finra.org/Newsroom/
NewsReleases/2013/P197636; Financial Industry Regulatory Authority, Crowdfunding Portals, available
at http://www.finra.org/industry/issues/crowdfunding. Based on the current indication of interest, we
expect that the number of funding portals that would ultimately register with the Commission will be
approximately 50. This estimate may change as the market develops.
380

change over time as they grow in size or market share or if they are forced to differentiate from
other market participants in order to maintain a place in the market.
As a result of the uncertainty over how the market may develop, any estimates of the
potential number of market participants, their services or fees charged are subject to significant
estimation error. While we recognize that there are benefits as well as costs associated with the
statutory requirements and the proposed rules pertaining to intermediaries, there are significant
limitations to our ability to estimate the potential benefits and costs.
The statute requires that the offer or sale of securities in reliance on Securities Act
Section 4(a)(6) be conducted through a broker or a funding portal that complies with the
requirements of Securities Act Section 4A(a). 981 Among other things, the intermediary must
register with the Commission as a broker or a funding portal, and it also must register with a
registered national securities association. 982 The proposed rules would implement these statutory
requirements, including by requiring an intermediary to be a member of FINRA or any other
applicable registered national securities association.
We recognize that there are benefits and costs associated with the statutory requirements
and the proposed rules pertaining to intermediaries. While the benefits and costs are described in
further detail below, the following tables summarize the estimated direct costs to intermediaries,
including brokers and funding portals. Some of the direct costs of the rules would be incurred by
all intermediaries, while others are specific to whether the intermediary is a new entrant (either
broker or funding portal) or is already registered as a broker.

981

Section 4(a)(6)(C).

982

Section 4A(a)(2).
381

Although we have attempted to estimate the direct costs on intermediaries, we recognize
that some costs could vary significantly across intermediaries, and within categories of
intermediaries. For example, some intermediaries may choose to leverage existing platforms or
systems and so may not need to incur significant additional expenses to develop a platform or
comply with specific proposed requirements of Regulation Crowdfunding. In light of these
uncertainties, we encourage commenters to provide data and analysis to help analyze and
quantify further the potential benefits and costs of these rules.
We estimate that the cost for an entity to register as a broker and become a member of a
national securities association in order to engage in crowdfunding pursuant to Section 4(a)(6)
would be approximately $275,000, with an ongoing annual cost of approximately $50,000 to
maintain that registration and membership. 983 In addition, we estimate that the cost to comply
with the various requirements that apply to registered brokers engaging in transactions pursuant
to Section 4(a)(6) would be approximately $245,000 initially, and $180,000 each year thereafter.
In making this estimate, we assume that brokers acting as intermediaries in transactions pursuant
to Section 4(a)(6) would provide a full range of brokerage services in connection with these
transactions, including certain services such as providing investment advice and

983

We recognize that the cost of registering and becoming a member of a national securities association varies
significantly among brokers, depending on facts and circumstances. Among other things, the cost can vary
depending on the number of associated persons of the broker entity and their licensing requirements, the
scope of the proposed brokerage activities, and the means by which the broker administers the registration
process (e.g., it may choose to hire outside counsel to assist with the process). We also recognize that the
time required for a broker to become a member of a national securities association varies and could take six
months to one year. We estimate the range of this cost to be between $50,000 and $500,000, and so we
have chosen the average amount of $275,000 for purposes of this discussion.
382

recommendations, soliciting investors, and managing and handling customer funds and
securities, that funding portals cannot provide. 984
If instead an entity were to register as a funding portal and become a funding portal
member of a national securities association, we estimate the initial cost would be approximately
$100,000, with an ongoing cost of approximately $10,000 in each year thereafter to maintain this
registration and membership. 985
These estimated costs are exclusive of the cost of establishing and maintaining a platform and
related functionality. We anticipate that a significant percentage of intermediaries (whether
brokers or funding portals) will already have in place platforms and related systems that would
only need to be tailored to comply with the requirements of Title III of the JOBS Act and
Regulation Crowdfunding. We estimate that a cost of approximately $100,000 in the first year,
and approximately $40,000 annually thereafter for an intermediary that already has in place a
platform and related systems. However, for an intermediary (whether broker or funding portal)
that would need to develop a platform from scratch, we estimate the cost to do so would be
approximately $400,000 in the initial year, and approximately $40,000 annually to maintain
thereafter.

984

Among other things, a broker providing recommendations and investment advice would be required to
comply with FINRA rules on suitability. See FINRA Rule 2111. A broker soliciting through
advertisements would be required to comply with FINRA rules relating to communications with the public.
See FINRA Rule 2210. Brokers handling customer funds and securities also would be required to maintain
net capital, segregate customer funds and comply with Exchange Act Rule 15c2-4. See Exchange Act
Rules 15c3-1, 15c3-3 and 15c2-4 [17 CFR 240.15c3-1, 15c3-3 and 15c2-4].

985

In making these estimates, we assume that the membership process would take approximately one month
and that there would be no related licensing requirement for associated persons of the funding portal. We
also only include domestic entities in these estimates, which would not need to comply with the proposed
requirements in Regulation Crowdfunding that would apply to nonresident funding portals. Nonresident
funding portals would be subject to an additional cost of approximately $25,870 to comply with the costs of
completing Schedule C to Form Funding Portal, hiring and maintaining an agent for service of process and
providing the required opinion of counsel.
383

384

Estimated Costs of Intermediaries That Register As Brokers

Form BD Registration and National
Securities Association Membership
Complying with Requirements to Act as
an Intermediary in, and to Engage in
Broker Activities Related to, Transactions
pursuant to Section 4(a)(6) 986
Platform Development
Subtotal

Estimated Costs
Initial Cost (Year 1)
Ongoing Cost per Year
$275,000
$50,000
$245,000

$180,000

$250,000 987
$770,000

$40,000
$270,000

Estimated Costs of Intermediaries That Register As Funding Portals

Form Funding Portal Registration and
National Securities Association
Membership 988
Complying with Requirements to Act
as an Intermediary989
Platform Development 990
Subtotal

Estimated Costs
Initial Cost (Year 1)
Ongoing Cost per Year
$100,000
$10,000
$67,000

$40,000

$250,000
$417,000

$40,000
$90,000

986

As discussed above, these costs include, among others, the costs to the broker of having associated persons,
who have licensing requirements, suitability requirements, requirements relating to advertisements, net
capital and fidelity bond requirements, and compliance with Exchange Act Rule 15c2-4 (17 CFR 240.15c24), as well as the costs of complying with proposed Subpart C of Regulation Crowdfunding. See Section
IV.C. 2 below for further detail on the costs associated with the requirements under proposed Subpart C.

987

As described above, the cost to develop a platform is expected to vary depending on the extent to which the
entity already has a platform and related systems in place. For purposes of this chart, we use the average of
the range provided above ($100,000 to $400,000 in the initial year).

988

As described above, this estimate reflects a streamlined process of becoming a member of a national
securities association, which we assume would take approximately one month and not involve application
or licensing of associated persons.

989

This includes the costs of complying with the requirements of proposed Subparts C and D of Regulation
Crowdfunding. See Section IV.C.2 below for further detail on these costs.

990

As described above, the cost to develop a platform is expected to vary depending on the extent to which the
entity already has a platform and related systems in place. For purposes of this chart, we use the average of
the range provided above. See Section IV.C.2 below for further detail on costs associated with developing
a platform.
385

Estimated Incremental Costs of Intermediaries Already Registered as Brokers

Complying with
Requirements to Act as an
Intermediary in Transactions
pursuant to Section 4(a)(6) 991
Platform Development 992
Subtotal

Estimated Costs
Initial Cost (Year 1)
Ongoing Cost per Year
$45,000
$30,000

$250,000
$295,000

$40,000
$70,000

We believe that, while the registration requirements would necessarily impose costs on
intermediaries, they also would provide significant protections for the crowdfunding investor
marketplace. Among other things, in addition to the Commission’s oversight and rule-writing
functions with regard to broker-dealers, FINRA currently is responsible for conducting most
broker-dealer examinations, mandating certain disclosures by its members, writing rules
governing the conduct of its members and associated persons, and informing and educating the
investing public. Similarly, the regulatory framework that a registered national securities
association – likely initially FINRA – would be required to create for funding portals would play
an important role in the oversight of these entities.
The estimated costs in the table above reflect the direct, quantifiable costs that
intermediaries would incur in connection with registering as a broker on Form BD or as a
funding portal on Form Funding Portal, submitting amendments to registrations and withdrawing
registrations. We estimate that approximately 50 intermediaries that would already be brokers

991

This includes the incremental costs of complying with the requirements of proposed Subpart C of
Regulation Crowdfunding, but it excludes any registration or membership requirements. See Section
IV.C.2 below for further detail on these costs.

992

As described above, the cost to develop a platform is expected to vary depending on the extent to which the
entity already has a platform and related systems in place. For purposes of this chart, we use the average of
the range provided above. See Section IV.C.2 below for further detail on costs associated with developing
a platform.
386

that have already registered with the Commission993 and, as such, these brokers would not incur
additional SEC registration costs associated with the proposed rules. Additionally,
intermediaries that are not otherwise registered with FINRA or any other registered national
securities association would need to register, and the estimated cost for such registration is
included in the table above. We anticipate that the cost for a funding portal to become a member
of a registered national securities association would be proportionately less than the cost for a
broker to do so because of the more limited nature of a funding portal’s permissible activities,
and the streamlined set of rules that the association would impose on funding portals. 994
However, the exact cost of registration for funding portals would not be known until a registered
national securities association adopts rules applicable to funding portals, and for purposes of this
economic analysis, we have used a conservative estimate for this cost based on the current fee
and costs applicable to brokers applying to become members of a national securities association.
The proposed rules would also require that an intermediary execute transactions
exclusively through its online platform. This requirement should help to minimize the potential
for “boiler room” and other similar abusive sales practices. Based on comments received and
our discussions with industry participants, 995 we believe that the use of an online platform would
enhance the ability of issuers and investors to transparently communicate as compared to the

993

See Section IV.C.2 below.

994

See FINRA, Jumpstart Our Business Startups Act: FINRA Requests Comment on Proposed Regulation of
Crowdfunding Activities, FINRA Regulatory Notice 12-34 (July 2012), available at http://www.finra.org/
web/groups/industry/@ip/@reg/@notice/documents/notices/p131268.pdf (“In writing rules specifically for
registered funding portals, FINRA would seek to ensure that the capital-raising objectives of the JOBS Act
are advanced in a manner consistent with investor protection. Commenters are urged to identify the types
of requirements that should apply to registered funding portals, taking into account the relatively limited
scope of activities by a registered funding portal permitted under the JOBS Act.”)

995

See note 888.
387

alternative of allowing transactions to occur offline. This requirement should help issuers gain
exposure to a wide range of potential investors, who also may benefit from having numerous
investment opportunities aggregated in one place, resulting in lower search costs or burdens
related to identifying suitable investment opportunities.
We preliminarily estimate that the requirement to use an intermediary could result in
transaction costs for issuers of 5% to 15% of the amount of the offering made in reliance on
Section 4(a)(6), 996 depending on the intermediary used and the fees charged for services,
including payment processing. Although crowdfunding intermediaries are not expected to
provide issuers with underwriting services commensurate with registered offerings (and, in fact,
funding portals would be prohibited from doing so), the fees charged in a crowdfunding offering
could be significantly larger on a percentage basis relative to the underwriting fees for registered
offerings, which range from as high as 7% for initial public offerings to less than 1% for certain
bond issuances. 997 In general, to the extent that a significant component of the fees is fixed, the
transaction costs for issuers would make smaller issues more expensive. Although crowdfunding
offerings would likely vary in size, based on an offering size of $100,000, an issuer would incur
an average of $5,000 to $15,000 in fees. As previously discussed, we believe that competition
among potential crowdfunding venues and the potential development of new products and
services could have a significant impact on these estimates over time.
a.

Disclosure and Dissemination Requirements

The statute and proposed rules include disclosure and dissemination provisions designed
to provide information to security-based crowdfunding investors. These provisions, together
996

See note 918.

997

See note 817 and accompanying text.
388

with the issuer disclosure provisions discussed above, are expected to limit information
asymmetries and promote the efficient allocation of capital amongst crowdfunding issues.
Additionally, these disclosure and dissemination provisions would provide information intended
to ensure that investors are aware of the risks associated with their investment, which would help
protect investors in this new market. As discussed above, many of these costs and benefits are
difficult to quantify or estimate with any degree of certainty, especially considering securitiesbased crowdfunding provides a new method for raising capital in the United States. To the
extent possible, however, we have quantified the direct costs to intermediaries associated with
these provisions in the table above. The proposed rules would prohibit any intermediary or its
associated persons from accepting an investment commitment until the investor has opened an
account with the intermediary and the intermediary has obtained the investor’s consent to
electronic delivery of materials. This requirement would help ensure that certain basic
information about the investor is on file with the intermediary and that all investors are on notice
of the primary method of delivery for communications from the intermediary. We estimate the
direct cost of this requirement in the table above.
The statute requires intermediaries to provide disclosures related to risks and other
investor education materials. The proposed rules would implement this statutory mandate by
requiring intermediaries to deliver educational materials that explain how the offering process
works and the risks associated with investing in crowdfunding securities. 998
The proposed educational requirements would help make investors aware of the limits
and risks associated with purchasing crowdfunding securities. Such knowledge would help

998

See proposed Rule 302(b) of Regulation Crowdfunding.
389

investors understand the payoff structures that are specified by the offering contractual features
and the circumstances under which they could expect to be compensated. It also would help
ensure that offerings proceed more efficiently as investors would be more informed by the time
they decide to make their investment commitments and receive required notices. We recognize
that the effectiveness of the educational materials to enhance investor protection would vary
depending upon the education and experience of retail investors. 999 In addition, a presentation
that highlights the risks of securities-based crowdfunding could discourage investor
participation.
Under the proposed rules, the educational materials could be in any electronic format,
including video format, and the intermediary would have the flexibility to determine how best to
communicate the contents of the educational material, thus the cost for intermediaries to develop
educational materials is expected to vary widely. The table above includes our current estimates
of the direct, quantifiable costs that would be incurred to comply with the proposed requirement,
as well as additional costs to update or revise the materials from time to time.
The proposed rules also require that intermediaries obtain representations from investors
regarding their review of the investor education materials and their understanding of the risks. 1000
The Commission believes these proposed rules would improve investors’ understanding of
crowdfunding generally, as well as aspects of certain types of securities and the implications for
their investments in issuers that are raising capital through securities-based crowdfunding in
reliance on Section 4(a)(6). We estimate that the direct costs of this requirement to an

999

See Jennifer E. Bethel and Allen Ferrell, Policy Issues Raised by Structured Products, HARV. L. & ECON.
Discussion Paper No. 560, 2007, available at http://papers.ssrn.com/sol3/papers.cfm?abstract_id=941720.

1000

See proposed Rule 303(b)(2) of Regulation Crowdfunding.
390

intermediary would be incorporated into the costs of developing a platform and that the ongoing
burden to comply would be minimal. This proposed requirement also might impose a further
cost to the extent that the requirement deters investors from making investment commitments or
otherwise participating in offerings made in reliance on Section 4(a)(6).
The proposed rules would also require an intermediary to clearly disclose the manner in
which the intermediary is compensated in connection with offers and sales of securities in
reliance on Section 4(a)(6). 1001 As explained above, we believe that investors would benefit by
having information about how intermediaries are compensated, such as through compensation
arrangements with affiliates. We believe that the costs of complying with this requirement also
generally would be included in the overall cost for intermediaries to develop their platforms, as it
would entail adding an item of disclosure that would be built into the functionality of their
platforms. The costs are reflected in the table above, and we believe that this requirement would
impose only nominal incremental costs on intermediaries on an ongoing basis. We also do not
expect significant competitive costs from the disclosure of such compensation arrangements.
The statute and the proposed rules further would require that intermediaries make
available certain issuer-provided information. As described above, intermediaries would have to
implement and maintain systems to comply with the information disclosure requirements so that
the information was publicly available and easily accessible on the intermediary’s platform by
interested persons.
The issuer disclosure requirements should benefit investors by enabling them to better
evaluate the issuer and the offering. Requiring intermediaries to make the issuer information

1001

See proposed Rule 302(d) of Regulation Crowdfunding.
391

publicly available and easily accessible on their platforms would reduce information
asymmetries between issuers and investors and would enhance both transparency and efficiency
of the market. We expect that intermediaries would incur costs to develop the functionality that
would allow the uploading and downloading of issuer information. We believe that the direct
costs of complying with this requirement would be included in the overall cost to intermediaries
to develop their platforms and that this requirement would impose only nominal incremental
costs on intermediaries on an ongoing basis, primarily because the functionality necessary to
upload the required issuer disclosure information is a standard feature offered on many websites
and would not require frequent updates.
The proposed rules would also require an intermediary to provide communication
channels on its platform, meeting certain conditions, which would allow investors who have
opened accounts with intermediaries and representatives of the issuer to interact and exchange
comments about the issuer’s offering on that intermediary’s platform, and which would be
publicly available for viewing (i.e., by those who may not have opened accounts with the
intermediary). 1002 While Congress contemplated the use of such communication channels, the
statute does not explicitly require intermediaries to provide them. 1003 Compared with the
alternative of not requiring intermediaries to provide communication channels, we believe that
requiring the communications channel to be on the intermediary’s platform would allow
investors, particularly those who might be less familiar with online social media, to participate in
online discussions regarding ongoing offerings without having to actively search for such
discussions on external websites. We do recognize, however, that this requirement would not
1002

See proposed Rule 303(c) of Regulation Crowdfunding.

1003

See Section 4A(b)(3).
392

preclude investors from initiating additional discussions on external websites. Furthermore, the
requirements that the communication channels be viewable by the public and that promoters be
clearly identified on these channels would enhance transparency about the issuer and its offering
with appropriate disclosures, ultimately allowing investors to make more informed investment
decisions. We estimate that the costs of this proposed requirement are incorporated into the costs
of developing a platform and that once the platform has been set up the ongoing burden to
comply would be minimal.
We are also proposing to require intermediaries to, upon receipt of an investment
commitment from an investor, promptly provide or send to the investor a notification of that
investment commitment. 1004 While this notice is not statutorily required, we believe that this
requirement is appropriate as it would provide investors with key information about their
investment commitments, including notice of the opportunity, as relevant, to cancel their
investment commitments. Investors would benefit from these requirements because they would
be provided with the necessary information to evaluate their investment commitments, their
securities transactions and the intermediaries that are effecting those transactions. We estimate
that the costs of these requirements are incorporated into the costs of developing a platform and
that the ongoing burden to comply would be minimal.
We also propose to implement the statutory requirement for intermediaries to allow
investors to cancel their commitments to invest, by requiring investors to have until 48 hours
prior to the deadline identified in the issuer’s offering materials to cancel their investment

1004

See proposed Rule 303(d) of Regulation Crowdfunding.
393

commitments. 1005 If an issuer reaches its target offering amount prior to the target offering
deadline, the proposed rules would permit early closing of the offering, provided that the
intermediary sends notices to investors informing them of the closing and the deadline for the
opportunity to cancel. 1006 The proposed rules also would set forth notice requirements and
requirements related to the intermediary directing payments in the event of cancellations and
material changes to offerings. 1007 The proposed rules would impose specific obligations on
intermediaries related to informing investors about their right to cancel, depending on particular
circumstances relating to timing of the offering, such as in the event of early closings,
cancellations and material changes that trigger reconfirmations of investment commitments.
We believe that investors would benefit from receiving these notices because the
notifications and accompanying information would keep investors informed about the status of
the offering and help them make informed investment decisions. We further believe that
investors would reasonably expect to be informed of changes impacting the timing of offerings
and other material changes. This approach also would benefit investors by providing investors
with sufficient time to review and assess information and communications about the issuer.
We recognize that allowing investors to cancel their investment commitments up to 48
hours prior to the deadline identified in the issuer’s offering materials may impose a cost on
issuers who, because of investors cancelling commitments late in the offering period, may fall
below the target offering amount and so decide to cancel the offering or to extend the offering
period. Accordingly, we recognize that this requirement may have an effect on capital

1005

See proposed Rule 304(a) of Regulation Crowdfunding.

1006

See proposed Rule 304(b) of Regulation Crowdfunding.

1007

See proposed Rules 304(c) and (d) of Regulation Crowdfunding.
394

formation. Intermediaries also may incur direct costs in developing and maintaining such
systems, for instance to send the relevant notices to investors, as part of the cost of developing a
platform reflected in the table above.
b.

Measures to Reduce the Risk of Fraud and Limitations

The statute and proposed rules require intermediaries to take certain steps to reduce the
risk of fraud, including steps related to checking whether issuers are eligible to rely on Section
4(a)(6) and whether investors comply with investment limits in order to participate in an offering
pursuant to Section 4(a)(6). We believe that intermediaries will be in the best position to take
these steps and that these requirements will increase investor protections. Additionally, the
statute and proposed rules place certain limitations on intermediaries. These limitations are
further meant to increase investor protection in the securities-based crowdfunding market. As
noted above, the costs and benefits of these provisions are difficult to quantify or estimate with
any degree of certainty. To the extent possible, however, we have quantified estimates of the
direct costs associated with these provisions and the proposed rules in the table above.
The proposed rules would require that an intermediary have a reasonable basis for
believing that an issuer seeking to offer and sell securities in reliance on Section 4(a)(6) through
the intermediary’s platform complies with the requirements in Section 4A(b) of the Securities
Act and the related requirements in Regulation Crowdfunding. In satisfying this requirement, an
intermediary may rely on the representations of the issuer concerning compliance with these
requirements unless the intermediary has reason to question the reliability of those
representations. The proposed rules would also require that an intermediary have a reasonable
basis for believing that an issuer seeking to offer and sell securities on the intermediary’s
platform complies with all issuer requirements and has established means to keep accurate
395

records of holders of the securities. The proposed rules would permit an intermediary to rely on
an issuer’s representations concerning compliance with these requirements unless the
intermediary has reason to question the reliability of the representations. The proposed rules also
would require an intermediary to deny access to an issuer if it has a reasonable basis for
believing that the issuer or any of its officers, directors (or any person occupying a similar status
or performing a similar function) or 20 Percent Beneficial Owners was subject to a
disqualification under the proposed rules. As required by the statute, the proposed rules would
require the intermediary to conduct a background and securities enforcement check on each of
these persons. Furthermore, the proposed rules would require an intermediary to deny access to
its platform if the intermediary believes that the issuer or the offering presents the potential for
fraud or otherwise raises concerns regarding investor protection. 1008 Each of these proposed
requirements is intended to help reduce the risk of fraud in securities-based crowdfunding.
We believe that if intermediaries take the measures we propose to require, investors
would be more willing to participate in securities-based crowdfunding offerings. Investors
would rely on the efforts of the intermediary that conducted a background and securities
enforcement regulatory history check, solving a collective action problem that would be
prohibitively costly if left to individual investors. To the extent these checks lessened the
likelihood of inappropriate or nefarious activity, they could increase investor willingness to
purchase crowdfunding securities, thereby potentially resulting in issuers having greater access
to capital. We anticipate that most intermediaries would employ third parties to perform
background checks.

1008

See proposed Rule 301 of Regulation Crowdfunding.
396

We also recognize that permitting an intermediary to rely on an issuer’s representations
unless the intermediary has reason to question the reliability of the representations could
potentially lessen the incentive for an intermediary to thoroughly investigate the issuers and
securities to be offered on its platform. Such an outcome could result in a higher levels of fraud
compared to a requirement that intermediaries perform a thorough investigation to ensure that
the issuer complied with all the requirements. A higher level of fraud would negatively affect
both investors in crowdfunding offerings and non-fraudulent issuers. Based on comments and
conversations with industry participants, 1009 however, we believe it is likely that investors and
interested participants would provide relevant adverse information about an issuer or an offering
through postings on chat sites, message boards, and other communication channels, including,
but not limited to, the communication channels to be provided by the intermediary. These media
would provide a potential source of information for intermediaries who may be subject to
liability as “issuers.”
The proposed rules also would require an intermediary to have a reasonable basis for
believing that an investor has not exceeded the investment limits discussed above before
accepting an investment commitment from that investor. 1010 Under the proposed rules, an
intermediary may rely on an investor’s representations concerning compliance with the
investment limits unless the intermediary has reason to question the reliability of the
representations. We believe that this requirement would help to ensure that the investor
protection benefits associated with the investment limits are realized. This ability to rely on
investor representations should help mitigate the potential cost that intermediaries could incur in
1009

See note 888.

1010

See proposed Rule 303(b)(1) of Regulation Crowdfunding.
397

relation to this requirement. At the same time, we realize that investors might make inaccurate
representations, whether intentionally or not. Although some of these concerns could be
addressed by the use of a central data repository, for example, the statute does not mandate the
use of such a central data repository and we are not proposing to require one because, as we
consider this alternative to the proposed standard, we believe that the benefits of establishing
such a repository would not at this time justify the potentially significant costs. Accordingly, we
believe that the standard proposed represents a reasonable approach to implement the statutory
requirement, achieving an appropriate balance between competing concerns.
We expect that because system functionality to obtain user acknowledgments is standard
on many online trading and electronic commerce websites, the market to build such system
functionality is highly commoditized and the average cost to both develop and maintain systems
that allow an investor to represent that he or she has not exceeded allowable investment limits
would not be unduly high. As noted in the table above, we estimate that the cost to comply with
this requirement would be incorporated into the costs to develop a platform and that the ongoing
burden to comply would be minimal.
As noted above, the statute and the proposed rules would also prohibit an issuer from
compensating, or committing to compensate, directly or indirectly, any person to promote the
issuer’s offering through communication channels provided by the intermediary unless the issuer
takes reasonable steps to ensure that such person clearly discloses the receipt (both past and
prospective) of such compensation each time a promotional communication is made. We also
are proposing to require that an intermediary take certain steps to ensure that investors are made
aware of such compensation, and that such compensation is disclosed in the communication

398

channels, so that investors can gauge the promoter’s communications appropriately. 1011 We
believe that intermediaries would be in an appropriate position to take such steps. As part of the
account opening, the intermediary would be required disclose to persons opening accounts that
any person who receives compensation to promote an issuer’s offering, or who is a founder or an
employee of an issuer that engages in promotional activities on behalf of the issuer on the
intermediary’s platform, must clearly disclose on the platform the receipt of the compensation
and that he or she is engaging in promotional activities on behalf of the issuer. In addition, under
the proposed rules, the intermediary must require that any person posting a comment in the
communication channels clearly disclose with each posting whether he or she is a founder or an
employee of an issuer engaging in promotional activities on behalf of the issuer, or is otherwise
compensated, whether in the past or prospectively, to promote the issuer’s offering.
Under the proposed rules, intermediaries might incur direct costs in complying with the
requirements to disclose compensation to promoters, and certain additional costs from time to
time to ensure continued compliance, as outlined in the table above. In addition, if this proposed
requirement discourages the use of promoters by issuers, it could limit the investor pool for a
securities-based offering made in reliance on Section 4(a)(6), thus limiting the ability of an issuer
to raise capital.
Additionally, the statute prohibits the directors, officers or partners of an intermediary, or
any person occupying a similar status or performing a similar function, from having any
financial interest in an issuer that uses the services of the intermediary. The proposed rules
would implement this statutory requirement but extend the prohibition to the intermediary as

1011

See proposed Rules 302(c) and 303(c)(4) of Regulation Crowdfunding.
399

well. 1012 Such a prohibition would be beneficial to investors and issuers because if an
intermediary were to have a financial interest in one or more issuers that plan to use its services,
the intermediary could have an incentive not based solely on merit to promote that issuer’s
offering, potentially to the detriment of investors and other issuers. The prohibition would,
however, impose a cost on an issuer who might otherwise seek to compensate an intermediary
with an interest in the issuer, rather than cash, for its services. It is thus possible that the
prohibition could make securities-based crowdfunding unavailable to an issuer that does not have
the ability to otherwise compensate an intermediary.
The statute requires that intermediaries ensure that all offering proceeds are provided to
the issuer only when the aggregate capital raised from all investors is equal to or greater than a
target offering amount. The proposed rules would implement this requirement by requiring
intermediaries that are registered as brokers to comply with the existing requirements of
Exchange Act Rule 15c2-4. 1013 Intermediaries registered as funding portals would be required to
direct investors to transmit the funds or other consideration directly to a qualified third party,
which is a bank, that has agreed in writing to hold the funds or maintain a bank account (or
accounts) for the exclusive benefit of, and to promptly transmit the funds to, the issuer or the
investors, depending on circumstances such as whether the offering was completed or was
cancelled, and whether the investment commitment was cancelled. The proposed rules also
would require a funding portal to direct the qualified third party to transmit funds to the issuer
once the target offering amount is reached and the cancellation period has elapsed; to return

1012

See proposed Rule 300(b) of Regulation Crowdfunding.

1013

See proposed Rule 303(e) of Regulation Crowdfunding.
400

funds to an investor when an investment commitment has been cancelled; and to return funds to
investors when the offering has not been completed.
These requirements would benefit investors and issuers by helping to ensure that funds
are appropriately refunded or transmitted in accordance with the terms of the offering. In
particular, the requirement that the account in which funds are deposited be exclusively for the
benefit of investors and the issuer would help prevent the intermediary or other parties from
claiming or otherwise unlawfully taking funds from that account.
Under the statute, intermediaries also may not compensate promoters, finders or lead
generators for providing brokers or funding portals with the personally identifiable information
of any potential investor. We propose to implement this statutory requirement by prohibiting an
intermediary from compensating any person for providing the personally identifiable information
of any crowdfunding investor or potential investor to intermediaries. 1014 We anticipate that
intermediaries would have some need for referrals to the intermediary’s platform and, therefore,
we are proposing to permit an intermediary to compensate a person for directing issuers or
potential investors to the intermediary’s platform in certain situations. 1015 These requirements
would benefit intermediaries by providing them with a means to attract more investors to their
crowdfunding portals, without allowing the sharing of personally identifiable information.
Investors would meanwhile benefit from the additional privacy protection. Intermediaries might
incur a cost because the proposed requirement would not allow them to use personally
identifiable information to target and seek out specific investors, thus reducing the potential
investor pool for certain offerings.
1014

See proposed Rule 305(a) of Regulation Crowdfunding.

1015

See proposed Rule 305(b) of Regulation Crowdfunding.
401

5.

Additional Funding Portal Requirements

Under the proposed rules, a funding portal would register with the Commission by filing
a complete Form Funding Portal with information concerning the funding portal’s operation. 1016
In the table above, we estimate the costs that intermediaries would incur related to registering as
a funding portal on Form Funding Portal.
The proposed rules would include the statutory requirement that a funding portal be a
member of a registered national securities association. As explained above, we believe that the
statute effectively mandates that an intermediary be a FINRA member or any other registered
national securities association (as applicable). The proposed requirement that funding portals
register with the Commission and a registered national securities association benefits investors
by providing oversight to reduce the risk for fraud. Although we estimate that there are costs
associated with this requirement, we believe that the reduction in fraud risk deriving from this
requirement might benefit portals by helping to create a marketplace in which investors are more
willing to participate and issuers are more comfortable using this method of capital formation.
The proposed rules also would require that funding portals use proposed Form Funding
Portal to provide updates whenever information on file becomes inaccurate for any reason, to
register successor funding portals and to withdraw from funding portal registration. Although
funding portals would incur time and compliance costs to update Form Funding Portal, we
expect funding portals would have navigated the filing process for Form Funding Portal when
they register and would be familiar with the process by the time they update the form.

1016

See proposed Rule 400(a) of Regulation Crowdfunding.
402

We propose to allow nonresident funding portals to register with us, provided that certain
conditions are met. One condition is that an information sharing agreement is in place between
the Commission and a competent regulatory authority in the relevant jurisdiction. The proposed
rules would also require a nonresident funding portal to appoint an agent for service of process in
the United States, and to certify and provide opinion of counsel that as a matter of law, the funding
portal can provide the Commission and any national securities association of which it is a member
with prompt access to its books and records and can, as a matter of law, submit to onsite inspection
and examination by the Commission and the national securities association.
Compared to an alternative that we could have selected, i.e., that of not allowing nonresident
entities to operate as funding portals in the U.S. crowdfunding market, the proposed rules would
increase competition among crowdfunding intermediaries, which in turn is likely to reduce the fees
that intermediaries charge issuers. The lack of data does not allow us to estimate the magnitude of
this potential fee reduction. Lower costs of raising capital could also attract more potential issuers to
use the crowdfunding exemption, thus enhancing capital formation. Conditioning the nonresident
funding portal registration on the presence of an information sharing agreement as mentioned above
would provide regulators and market participants with more information about the nonresident
funding portals, thus reducing the likelihood of fraud.
Although the requirements we propose with respect to appointment of an agent for service of
process, and a certification and legal opinion would impose costs on nonresident funding portals,
these requirements are consistent with regulations we have proposed to impose on other nonresident
entities subject to our regulation. The proposed regulations would enhance investor protection by
requiring steps to ensure that funding portals that were not based in the United States, or that were
subject to laws other than those of the United States, would nevertheless be accessible to the
Commission and other relevant regulators for purposes of conducting examinations of, and enforcing
403

U.S. laws and regulations against these entities. While the JOBS Act does not distinguish between
resident and nonresident funding portals, it clearly contemplates Commission oversight of registered
funding portals and the tailoring of such requirements to varied circumstances.

The statute also provides an exemption from broker-dealer registration for funding
portals. The proposed rules would implement the statutory requirement by stating that a
registered funding portal is exempt from the broker registration requirements of Exchange Act
Section 15(a)(1) in connection with its activities as a funding portal. 1017 This proposed rule
would benefit funding portals because it would specify the scope of the limited exemption in the
statute, thus providing clarity to the funding portals regarding their activities. We believe this
approach of exempting funding portals from broker registration and its accompanying
regulations would benefit the market and its participants. The activities of funding portals would
be more limited than those of brokers. Thus, the proposed rules would require funding portals to
comply with a registration requirement and set of regulations more appropriate for their
activities, rather than the more extensive and higher cost requirements that accompany brokerdealer registration. Lower registration costs of funding portals could translate into lower fees
they charge issuers that use these portals, thus benefiting issuers of crowdfunding securities and
potentially increasing capital formation. We are unable to quantify these potential benefits. We
do not expect any significant benefits to registered broker-dealers from this limited exemption
for funding portals. Registered broker-dealers could be put at a competitive disadvantage
because of the higher registration cost. They, however, will be allowed a wider variety of

1017

See proposed Rule 401(a) of Regulation Crowdfunding. See also Section IV.C.2.j below.
404

activities compared to funding portals, the benefits of which could more than compensate for the
higher registration costs.
The proposed rules would also require a funding portal to obtain a fidelity bond, and
maintain fidelity bond coverage for the duration of its registration as a funding portal. 1018 This
requirement would benefit investors by protecting them to some extent from potential losses
caused by fraud. Investors and issuers that used funding portals for their offerings would
likewise benefit from the added stability that the fidelity bond protection would provide.
We estimated the costs of maintaining fidelity bond coverage based on conversations
with insurance service companies for FINRA-registered firms and note that the actual cost of
coverage for funding portals would vary depending on particular circumstances, such as the size
of the firm. For instance, according to these sources, funding portals with fewer employees (e.g.,
up to 30 employees) might incur lower fidelity bond costs than funding portals with more
employees.
a.

Safe Harbor for Certain Activities

Exchange Act Section 3(a)(80) prohibits funding portals from (1) offering investment
advice or recommendations, (2) soliciting purchases, sales or offers to buy securities offered or
displayed on the funding portal’s platform, (3) compensating employees, agents or other such
persons for solicitation or based on the sale of securities displayed or referenced on the funding
portal’s platform, or (4) holding, managing, possessing or otherwise handling investor funds or
securities. The proposed rules would give funding portals, their associated persons, affiliates and
business associates, a measure of clarity regarding activities that would be permissible without

1018

See proposed Rule 400(f) of Regulation Crowdfunding.
405

violating these statutory prohibitions, while also helping to protect investors from activities that
would create potential conflicts of interest. 1019 Thus, compared with the alternative that we
could have chosen, that of not providing the safe harbor, the proposed rules will likely reduce
funding portals’ regulatory burden (e.g., it will be easier for funding portals to advertise their
activities and attract issuers and investors, thus potentially increasing their revenue). The legal
certainty provided by the safe harbors, for example proposed Rule 402(b)(4) which permits a
funding portal to provide on its platform communication channels, would help ensure that the
benefits of the substantive rule provisions are realized. Such measures have the potential to
attract greater numbers of investors to crowdfunding through funding portals than would
otherwise participate, thereby encouraging capital formation.
The proposed rules would permit a funding portal to apply objective criteria to limit the
crowdfunding securities offered on its platform. 1020 Investors would benefit by being able to
search, sort or categorize offerings on a funding portal’s platform in an organized manner, which
would allow them to find investment opportunities meeting specific criteria. This functionality
would more efficiently match investors with investment opportunities. These proposed rules
would benefit funding portals by providing them with the flexibility to limit the use of their
platform to certain types of issuers and to highlight certain offerings on their platforms which
investors may find of interest.
Under the proposed rules, funding portals would be permitted to provide advice to an
issuer on the structure and content of its offerings, including assistance to the issuer in preparing

1019

See proposed Rule 402 of Regulation Crowdfunding.

1020

See proposed Rule 402(b)(1) of Regulation Crowdfunding.
406

documentation. 1021 This proposed rule would allow issuers to obtain guidance that may not
typically be available to them and lower funding costs. Many potential issuers seeking to offer
and sell crowdfunding securities are unlikely to be familiar with how to best structure offerings
so as to raise capital in the most cost effective manner, and they might not have the capital,
knowledge or resources to hire outside advisors. Given that an issuer would be required to effect
offerings through an intermediary, we believe that permitting funding portals to provide these
services to issuers would lower overall transaction costs for issuers, as they would not need to
engage another party to provide these services. This effect would in turn help to enhance market
efficiency.
The proposed rules would also permit a funding portal to compensate a third party for
referring a person to the funding portal in certain circumstances. 1022 As discussed above, this
proposed safe harbor would benefit funding portals by providing them with a means to attract
more investors to their crowdfunding platforms, while protecting investors’ personally
identifiable information. Investors also would benefit from the prohibition on transaction-based
compensation (other than to registered broker-dealers), which would help to reduce the incentive
for abusive practices.
The proposed rules would permit a funding portal to pay or offer to pay compensation to
a registered broker or dealer for services provided in connection with the offer or sale of
securities in reliance on Section 4(a)(6), subject to certain conditions set forth in the rule. 1023
Similarly, a funding portal could, subject to certain conditions, receive compensation from a

1021

See proposed Rule 402(b)(5) of Regulation Crowdfunding.

1022

See proposed Rule 402(b)(6) of Regulation Crowdfunding.

1023

See proposed Rule 402(b)(7) of Regulation Crowdfunding.
407

registered broker or dealer for services provided by the funding portal. 1024 Under these proposed
rules, funding portals would benefit from being able to enter into these types of arrangements
with registered broker-dealers who could provide services that the funding portals otherwise
would be prohibited from providing. Brokers also would benefit from the additional business
that funding portals might be able to attract through their platforms and online presence
generally, as well as from services, such as those related to technology, which funding portals
could provide. Issuers and investors might benefit from such arrangements by having more
readily-available services provided to them by entities subject to the applicable regulatory
oversight.
The proposed rules would permit a funding portal to advertise its existence, subject to
certain conditions. 1025 These requirements would benefit funding portals by allowing them to
advertise publicly to attract more investors to their crowdfunding platforms; however, they might
bear costs associated with ensuring compliance with the rule’s conditions. The proposed rule
also would enhance market efficiency as investors become more aware of available offerings
through advertisements by funding portals and are thus able to better match their investments
with projects that are most suitable for their risk preferences.
The statute requires intermediaries to take measures to reduce the risk of fraud, and we
propose to implement this requirement by requiring a funding portal to deny access to its
platform to an issuer that the funding portal believes presents the potential for fraud or otherwise
raises concerns regarding investor protection. 1026 The requirement would further enhance

1024

See proposed Rule 402(b)(8) of Regulation Crowdfunding.

1025

See proposed Rule 402(b)(9) of Regulation Crowdfunding.

1026

See proposed Rules 301(c) and 402(b)(10) of Regulation Crowdfunding.
408

investor protection by giving funding portals the flexibility to deny access to potential bad actors.
Funding portals also would benefit from the ability to deny access to certain issuers to protect the
integrity of the offering process and the market reputation of the crowdfunding platforms without
fear of violating the prohibition on providing investment advice.
The proposed rules would clarify that a funding portal would not be in violation of the
statutory prohibitions on holding, managing, possessing or otherwise handling investor funds or
securities by accepting investment commitments from potential investors. 1027 Under the
proposed rules funding portals could direct investors where to transmit funds or remit payment in
connection with the purchase of securities offered and sold in reliance on Section 4(a)(6). 1028
Similarly, a funding portal could direct a qualified third party to release proceeds of a successful
offering to the issuer upon completion of the offering or to return investor proceeds when an
investment commitment or offering is cancelled. 1029 These proposed rules would give both
funding portals and entities with which they do business a measure of legal certainty that funding
portals providing direction for funds to and from qualified third parties in compliance with the
proposed rules would not constitute activity in violation of the statutory prohibitions on holding,
managing, possessing or otherwise handling investor funds or securities.
b.

Compliance Requirements

We are proposing to require that a funding portal implement written policies and
procedures, reasonably designed to achieve compliance with proposed Regulation Crowdfunding

1027

See proposed Rule 402(b)(11) of Regulation Crowdfunding.

1028

See proposed Rule 402(b)(12) of Regulation Crowdfunding.

1029

See proposed Rule 402(b)(13) of Regulation Crowdfunding.
409

and the rules and regulations thereunder, relating to its business as a funding portal. 1030 This
requirement would provide a benefit to investors and funding portals alike, as written policies
and procedures would aid, enhance and help to ensure consistent compliance with the proposed
rules. Funding portals would incur costs associated with the requirement to develop their own
procedures and implement written policies and procedures, as well as to update and enforce
them, as set forth in the table above.
We are also proposing to require registered funding portals to comply with the
requirements of the Bank Secrecy Act (BSA), including the reporting, recordkeeping and record
retention requirements that apply to brokers. 1031 We recognize that the proposed rules would
impose costs on funding portals to implement anti-money laundering (AML) procedures, as set
forth in the table above; however, we believe that the proposed requirements provide important
benefits. As discussed above, 1032 low-priced and privately-placed securities pose a money
laundering risk because they are susceptible to market manipulation and fraud. 1033 Requiring
funding portals to follow these AML procedures, in particular the requirement to file SARs,
would help identify to law enforcement and regulators potentially fraudulent activity. These
AML requirements would help therefore to protect market participants from illegal activity that
could potentially infiltrate new online investment opportunities. Requiring the implementation
of AML procedures would, in turn, provide potential investors with some degree of confidence

1030

See proposed Rule 403(a) of Regulation Crowdfunding.

1031

See proposed Rules 401(b), 403(b) and 404(f) of Regulation Crowdfunding. See also Section II.D.4 above.

1032

See Section II.D.4.b above.

1033

See FATF Typology, note 641.
410

that adequate protections against illegal activity exist for this new fundraising approach and
would encourage more investors to participate, thus facilitating capital formation.
Additionally, the statute requires that intermediaries take such steps to protect the privacy
of information collected from investors as we determine appropriate. We are proposing to
implement this statutory provision by requiring a funding portal to comply with Regulation S-P,
S-ID and Regulation S-AM, which are applicable to brokers. 1034 We believe that requiring a
funding portal to comply with privacy obligations would help protect the personally identifiable
information of investors and potential investors, consistent with how it is protected by other
financial intermediaries. Compared with an alternative that we could have selected, that of
developing a new privacy regime applicable only to funding portals, the proposed rules would
introduce consistency between funding portals and broker-dealers with respect to privacy
obligations. That will benefit investors by lowering their information search costs and reducing
investor confusion. We recognize that the requirement would impose costs on funding portals to
comply with the privacy requirements, as set forth in the table above; however, these additional
privacy protections could give potential investors the confidence to participate in offerings made
in reliance on Section 4(a)(6), which would facilitate capital formation and benefit the markets
generally.
As a condition to exempting funding portals from the requirement to register as brokerdealers under Exchange Act Section 15(a)(1), Exchange Act Section 3(h)(1)(A) requires that
registered funding portals remain subject to, among other things, the Commission’s examination
authority. Under the proposed rules, a funding portal would be required to permit the

1034

See proposed Rule 403(c) of Regulation Crowdfunding.
411

examination and inspection of all its business and business operations relating to its activities as
a funding portal, including its premises, systems, platforms and records by Commission
representatives and by representatives of the registered national securities association of which it
is a member. 1035 Although funding portals would face time and compliance costs in submitting
to Commission and registered national securities association examinations, inspections or
investigations, and potentially responding to any issues identified, funding portals, investors and
issuers would benefit from the enhanced compliance with regulations due to the oversight, as
well as the sanctions or other disciplinary actions that may follow upon findings of violations
through such inspections, examinations or investigations.
We are proposing to require a registered funding portal to maintain and preserve certain
records relating to its business. 1036 The proposed rules would require, among other things, that
the funding portal maintain and preserve certain books and records for a period of not less than
five years and in an easily-accessible place for the first two years. Recordkeeping requirements
help registrants with their compliance. They are a familiar and important element of the approach
to broker-dealer regulation, as well as the regulation of investment advisers and others, and are
designed to maintain the effectiveness of our inspection program for regulated entities,
facilitating our review of their compliance with statutory mandates and with our rules. The
proposed rule would assist us in evaluating a funding portal’s compliance with the Securities Act
Sections 4(a)(6) and 4A and the rules issued thereunder. Regulators would benefit from

1035

See proposed Rule 403(d) of Regulation Crowdfunding.

1036

See proposed Rule 404 of Regulation Crowdfunding. We note that registered brokers already are expected
to comply with the books and records requirements in Exchange Act Rules 17a-3, 17a-4 and 17a-5 (17
CFR 240.17a-3, 17a-4 and 17a-5). Thus, all intermediaries, whether registered as brokers or as funding
portals, would be required to make and preserve books and records.
412

standardized recordkeeping practices for intermediaries because they would be able to perform
more efficient, targeted inspections and examinations, and have an increased likelihood of
identifying improper conduct at earlier stages of the inspection or examination.
Funding portals may incur one-time costs in establishing the systems necessary to comply
with the proposed books and records requirements. We note, however, that the records required
to be made and preserved under the proposed rules are those that would ordinarily be made and
preserved in the ordinary course of business by a regulated broker engaging in these activities.
We recognize that there may be a slight competitive advantage for funding portals over brokers
to the extent that the proposed recordkeeping rule for funding portals is less burdensome for than
the requirements applicable to brokers. At the same time, we believe that the proposed
recordkeeping rule for funding portals is consistent with the narrow range of their activities. Our
estimates of the costs associated with this requirement are set forth in the table above.
6.

Insignificant Deviations

We are proposing to provide a safe harbor for issuers for certain insignificant deviations
from a term, condition or requirement of Regulation Crowdfunding. 1037 The proposed safe
harbor would provide that insignificant deviations from a term, condition or requirement of
Regulation Crowdfunding would not result in a loss of the exemption, so long as the issuer
relying on the exemption can show that: (1) the failure to comply was insignificant with respect
to the offering as a whole; (2) the issuer made a good faith and reasonable attempt to comply
with all applicable terms, conditions and requirements of Regulation Crowdfunding; and (3) the
issuer did not know of the failure to comply, where the failure to comply with a term, condition

1037

See proposed Rule 502(a) of Regulation Crowdfunding.
413

or requirement was the result of the failure of the intermediary to comply with the requirements
of Section 4A(a) and the related rules, or such failure by the intermediary occurred solely in
offerings other than the issuer’s offering.
Providing a safe harbor could impose costs on investors, issuers, funding portals and
regulators, compared with the alternative of not providing a safe harbor, to the extent that issuers
lessen the vigor with which they develop and implement systems and controls to achieve
compliance with the requirements of Regulation Crowdfunding. We believe that limiting the
proposed safe harbor to insignificant instances of non-compliance and requiring a good faith and
reasonable attempt to comply with the requirements would mitigate these potential costs and
would benefit issuers and funding portals by providing greater certainty regarding their reliance
on the exemption. In the absence of a safe harbor, issuers may extend significantly more effort
and more resources to satisfy the requirements of Regulation Crowdfunding or they may face
greater uncertainty regarding their reliance on the exemption, which could discourage
participation in this market, impacting efficiency and capital formation.
7.

Relationship with State Law

Section 305 of the JOBS Act amended Securities Act Section 18(b)(4) 1038 to preempt the
ability of states to regulate certain aspects of crowdfunding conducted pursuant to Section
4(a)(6). This statutory amendment would benefit issuers by making transactions made in
reliance on Section 4(a)(6) less costly, because an issuer would not be required to register
transactions with each state where it offers and sells securities in reliance on Section 4(a)(6). It
also could benefit investors because these cost savings ultimately may be passed on to investors.

1038

15 U.S.C. 77r(b)(4).
414

Absent preemption of the states’ registration requirements, an offering made through the Internet
in reliance on Section 4(a)(6) and the proposed rules could result in an issuer potentially
violating state securities laws. Recent evidence in donation-based and reward-based
crowdfunding campaigns suggests that contributions are not exclusively local. 1039 The statutory
preemption of state registration laws would reduce issuer uncertainty regarding the necessity of
state registration, and it would eliminate the costs that would be associated with state
registration. On the other hand, state registration laws may provide an additional layer of
investor protection, and their preemption will remove a potential layer of review and may lead to
increased levels of fraud. This potential negative effect of state law preemption, however, could
be offset by some of the statutory requirements and the proposed rules that are designed to deter
fraud, such as public disclosure, investment limits and the use of a registered intermediary.
8.

Exemption from Section 12(g)

Proposed Rule 12g-6 provides that securities issued pursuant to an offering made under
Section 4(a)(6) would be permanently exempted from the record holder count under Section
12(g). This proposal delays the more extensive Exchange Act reporting requirements until the
issuer either sells securities in a registered transaction or registers a class of securities under the
Exchange Act to reach a trading market. This allows an issuer to time the decision to become a
reporting company without forcing it to become a reporting company through actions outside of
its control (e.g., secondary market trading). By conditioning the more burdensome reporting
requirements on the decision to raise new capital or to actively seek a liquid trading market, the

1039

For example, in crowdfunding campaigns for early stage musical projects, the average distance between
artist-entrepreneurs and contributors was 3,000 miles. See Ajay Agrawal, Christian Catalini and Avi
Goldfarb, The Geography of Crowdfunding, NET Institute Working Paper No. 10-08 (Oct. 29, 2010),
available at http://ssrn.com/abstract=1692661.
415

benefits of increased disclosure would scale with the scope of investment in the issuer, thus
improving efficiency.
This proposal could, however, result in an unintended and potentially costly outcome. It
is possible that an issuer that sells securities in reliance on Section 4(a)(6) could become an
Exchange Act reporting company, but then deregister and go dark with potentially thousands of
investors. For example, in an attempt to provide additional liquidity to its shareholders, an issuer
could voluntarily register a class of securities under Exchange Act Section 12(g) so that the
securities could be quoted in the over-the-counter market. The issuer would become subject to
Exchange Act reporting requirements and would no longer be subject to the ongoing reporting
requirements of Regulation Crowdfunding. If the issuer does not sell securities in a registered
offering or trigger the asset and holder of record thresholds for mandatory Exchange Act
registration in Section 12(g), the issuer could deregister its securities and stop all ongoing
reporting obligations even if all the securities sold in reliance on Section 4(a)(6) remain
outstanding. 1040 Given that securities-based crowdfunding could attract thousands of potential
issuers, this is a possible outcome for some of these issuers. Under such an outcome, a
significant number of investors in an issuer might be unable to obtain important information
about that issuer, which could affect the liquidity and pricing of the securities these investors
hold.

1040

Although less likely, the same could happen if an issuer sells securities in reliance on Section 4(a)(6) and
subsequently registers a class of securities under Exchange Act Section 12(b) in order to list its securities
on a national securities exchange.
416

9.

Disqualification

The statute and the proposed rules impose disqualification provisions under which an
issuer would not be eligible to offer securities pursuant to Section 4(a)(6) and an intermediary
would not be eligible to effect or participate in transactions pursuant to Section 4(a)(6). 1041 The
proposed disqualification provisions for issuers are substantially similar to those imposed under
Rules 262 of Regulation A and 506 of Regulation D, 1042 while the proposed disqualification
provisions for intermediaries under Section 3(a)(39) are substantially similar to, while somewhat
broader than, the provisions of Rule 262.
a.

Issuers

The proposed rules should induce issuers to implement measures to restrict bad actor
participation in offerings made in reliance on Section 4(a)(6). This should help reduce the
potential for fraud in the market for such offerings, which should help reduce the cost of raising
capital to issuers that rely on Section 4(a)(6), to the extent that disqualification standards lower
the risk premium associated with the presence of bad actors in securities offerings. In addition,
the requirement that issuers determine whether any covered persons are subject to
disqualification might obviate the need for investors to do their own investigations and eliminate
redundancies that might exist in otherwise separate investigations. This should help reduce
information-gathering costs to investors, to the extent that issuers are at an advantage in
accessing much of the relevant information and to the extent that issuers could do so at a lower
cost than investors.

1041

See Section 302(d) of the JOBS Act; proposed Rule 503 of Regulation Crowdfunding. See also discussion
in Section II.E.6 above.

1042

See Disqualification Adopting Release, note 101.
417

The proposed rules still would, however, impose costs on issuers, other covered persons
and investors. If issuers are disqualified from relying on Section 4(a)(6) to make their offerings,
they might experience increased costs in raising capital through alternative methods that do not
require bad actor disqualification, if available, or alternative methods might be altogether
unavailable. This could hinder potential investment opportunities for such issuers, with possible
negative effects on capital formation. In addition, issuers and other covered persons may incur
costs in connection with internal personnel changes that issuers may make to avoid the
participation of those covered persons who are subject to disqualifying events. Issuers also
might incur costs associated with restructuring share ownership positions to avoid having 20
Percent Beneficial Owners who are subject to disqualifying events. Finally, issuers might incur
costs in connection with seeking waivers of disqualification from the Commission or
determinations by other authorities that existing orders should not give rise to disqualification.
We anticipate that the reasonable care exception 1043 also would impose costs and
benefits. In this regard, a reasonable care exception might encourage capital formation by
eliminating any hesitation issuers might otherwise experience under a strict liability standard.
However, such an exception also might encourage issuers to take fewer steps to inquire about
offering participants than they would if a strict liability standard applied, increasing the potential
for fraud in the market for offerings made in reliance on Section 4(a)(6). Nevertheless, some
issuers, with regard to the exercise of reasonable care, might incur costs associated with
conducting and documenting their factual inquiry into possible disqualifications. The lack of
specificity in the rule, while providing flexibility to the issuer to tailor its factual inquiry as

1043

See proposed Rule 503(b)(4) of Regulation Crowdfunding. See also Section II.E.6.a.iii above.
418

appropriate to a particular offering, might increase these costs because uncertainty could drive
issuers to do more than necessary under the rule. Alternatively, it might reduce these costs
because uncertainty might drive issuers to exert minimum effort in conducting and documenting
a factual inquiry.
The requirement that issuers disclose matters that would have triggered disqualification,
had they occurred after the effective date of proposed Regulation Crowdfunding, 1044 also would
impose costs and benefits. The disclosure requirement would reduce costs associated with
covered persons who would be disqualified under the proposed rules but for the fact that the
disqualifying event occurred prior to the effective date of the rules. However, this approach
would allow the participation of past bad actors, whose disqualifying events occurred prior to the
effective date of the proposed rules, which could expose investors to the risks that arise when
bad actors are associated with an offering. Nevertheless, investors would benefit by having
access to such information that could inform their investment decisions. Issuers also may incur
costs associated with the factual inquiry, preparing the required disclosure and making any
internal or share ownership changes they may decide to make to avoid the participation of
covered persons that trigger the disclosure requirement. Disclosure of triggering events also may
make it more difficult for issuers to attract investors, and issuers may experience some or all of
the impact of disqualification as a result.
We believe the inclusion of Commission cease-and-desist orders in the list of
disqualifying events would not impose a significant, incremental cost on issuers and other
covered persons because many of these groups might already be subject to disqualifying orders

1044

See proposed Rule 201(u) of Regulation Crowdfunding. See also Section II.E.6.a.v above.
419

issued by the states, federal banking regulators and the National Credit Union Administration. 1045
The inclusion of such orders in the list of disqualifying events might change how settlement
negotiations are conducted between respondents and the Commission, and the Commission could
grant an appropriate waiver from disqualification.
Under the proposed rules, orders issued by the CFTC would trigger disqualification to the
same extent as orders of the regulators enumerated in Section 302(d)(2)(B)(i) of the JOBS Act
(e.g., state securities, insurance and banking regulators, federal banking agencies and the
National Credit Union Administration). We believe that including orders of the CFTC would
result in the similar treatment, for disqualification purposes, of comparable sanctions. In this
regard, we note that the conduct that would typically give rise to CFTC sanctions is similar to the
type of conduct that would result in disqualification if it were the subject of sanctions by another
financial services industry regulator. This should enable the disqualification rules to more
effectively screen out bad actors.
As discussed above, the baseline for our economic analysis of proposed Regulation
Crowdfunding, including the baseline for our consideration of the effects of the proposed rules
on efficiency, competition and capital formation, is the situation in existence today, in which
startups and small businesses seeking to raise capital through securities offerings must register
the offer and sale of securities under the Securities Act unless they can comply with an existing
exemption from registration under the federal securities laws. Relative to the current baseline,
we believe that the disqualification provisions may not impose significant incremental costs on

1045

See Disqualification Adopting Release, note 101.
420

issuers and other covered persons because the proposed rules are substantially similar to the
disqualification provisions under existing exemptions.
b.

Intermediaries

In implementing the statute, we are proposing to apply to intermediaries the
disqualification provisions under Section 3(a)(39), rather than Rule 262 or the disqualification
rules we are proposing for issuers. We believe that the standard of Section 3(a)(39) is already an
established one among broker-dealers and their regulators and that, despite the differences,
Section 3(a)(39) and Rule 262 are substantially similar in particular with regard to the persons
and events they cover, their scope and their purpose. 1046 We believe that imposing any new or
different standard, including Rule 262, only for those intermediaries that engage in crowdfunding
transactions would likely create confusion and unnecessary burdens, as currently-registered
broker-dealers and their associated persons would become subject to two distinct standards for
disqualification. Consistent standards for all brokers and funding portals also would assist a
registered national securities association in monitoring compliance and enforcing its rules.
The proposed rules would implement the statutory requirement for intermediaries by
providing that a person subject to a statutory disqualification, as defined in Exchange Act
Section 3(a)(39), may not act as, or be an associated person of, an intermediary in a transaction
involving the offer or sale of securities in reliance on Section 4(a)(6) unless so permitted by
Commission rule or order. While this requirement would potentially reduce the number of
intermediaries, we expect that it would strengthen investor protection by preventing bad actors

1046

See discussion in Section II.E.6.b above.
421

from entering the securities-based crowdfunding market and by reducing the potential for fraud
and other abuse.
As discussed above, the baseline for our economic analysis of proposed Regulation
Crowdfunding, including the baseline for our consideration of the effects of the proposed rules
on efficiency, competition and capital formation, is the situation in existence today, in which
intermediaries intending to facilitate securities transactions are required to register with the
Commission as broker-dealers under Exchange Act Section 15(a). Relative to the current
baseline, we believe that the disqualification provisions might not impose significant incremental
costs to brokers because the proposed rules are the same as the disqualification provisions that
are already imposed on broker-dealers.
C.

Request for Comment

Throughout this release, we have discussed the anticipated costs and benefits of the
proposed rules and their potential impact on efficiency, competition and capital formation. We
request and encourage any interested person to submit comments regarding the proposed rules,
our analysis of the potential effects of the rules and other matters that may have an effect on the
proposed rules. We request comment from the point of view of issuers, investors and other
market participants. With regard to any comments, we note that such comments are of particular
assistance to us if accompanied by supporting data and analysis of the issues addressed in those
comments. We also are interested in comments on the qualitative benefits and costs we have
identified and any benefits and costs we may have overlooked. We urge commenters to be as
specific as possible.
Comments on the following questions are of particular interest.

422

285. How similar or different is a securities-based crowdfunding offering from a nonsecurities-based crowdfunding offering? To what extent should we base the
anticipated effects of the proposed rules on the experience of current
crowdfunding platforms and their participants, including those based on rewards
and donations? Should we expect the same incidence of success, failure, fraud
and other outcomes when crowdfunding involves participants providing
financing with an expectation of a monetary return on their investments? Would
securities-based crowdfunding attract similar projects, ventures and capital
seekers as other forms of crowdfunding? If not, why not, and what differences
in the types of ventures, participants and outcomes might be expected?
286. How would securities issued in reliance on Section 4(a)(6) be valued? Would
issuers and/or investors have sufficient financial sophistication or methods
available to accurately assess the intrinsic risks associated with the issuance? If
so, what mechanisms would help assure accurate pricing? If not, what specific
challenges or issues would prevent issuers and/or investors from arriving at a
price that reflects the intrinsic value of the offering?
287. How would investors who purchase securities in an offering in reliance on
Section 4(a)(6) exit their investment? Once the securities are issued, investors
would have to wait, except in certain circumstances, for one year before selling
a security sold in a Section 4(a)(6) offering. At that time, how would existing
security holders liquidate their positions? What is the likelihood that there
would be a ready market for mature securities issued in reliance on Section
4(a)(6)? What entities or investors are likely to supply the liquidity, and what
423

discounts, if any, are investors likely to face when exiting their investments? To
what extent would, or should, liquidity provisions be built into the design of the
security issues (e.g., call provisions or self-liquidation features)?
288. How, and to what extent, would the collective knowledge of crowdfunding
investors (i.e., the “wisdom of the crowd”) provide investor protections and
mitigate potential fraud or unspecified offering risks at the time of issuance?
Would “the wisdom of the crowd” provide ongoing investor protections to the
community of securities-based crowdfunding investors? If so, how and to what
extent?
289. Do the proposed rules require sufficient disclosure and educational requirements
to help ensure that investors have a reasonable understanding of the risks and
costs of investing in crowdfunding securities? Are the proposed disclosure and
educational requirements sufficient for investors to understand: (1) the methods
used for valuing securities issued in reliance on Section 4(a)(6), (2) potential
complexity in the security design, or (3) risks of subsequent dilution of their
investment? If not, what additional requirements would further mitigate the
associated risks?
290. Should intermediaries be required to systematically collect and report
information – to the Commission and/or publicly – about the progress, success
and failures of issuers that relied on Section 4(a)(6) to offer and sell securities
subsequent to initial financing? Would collecting and reporting such statistics
help investors better understand the risks associated with securities-based
crowdfunding investments with the passage of time? If so, what information
424

should be reported, and to whom and in what manner should it be reported?
Would a requirement to collect and maintain information about issuers that
relied on Section 4(a)(6) after the completion of the offering be too burdensome
for intermediaries?
291. Other than averting potential losses, what are the potential economic effects of
limiting the investment size for any single investor to a maximum aggregate
amount of $100,000? Would this reduce the incentive for some investors to
participate in offerings in reliance on Section 4(a)(6), and if so, would this
impede potential capital formation or the efficiency with which offerings can be
made? Would this limit the ability of investors to appropriately diversify their
securities-based crowdfunding investments? Please explain.
292. Would the permanent exemption of securities-based crowdfunding securities
from the record holder count under Section 12(g) of the Exchange Act pose any
significant risks to investors of successful ventures? For example, is it likely or
possible that an issuers that offers and sells securities in reliance on Section
4(a)(6) could became subject to Exchange Act reporting, but then subsequently
delist and go dark without regard to the number of record holders?
293. We estimated the costs for a broker to act as an intermediary in transactions
conducted pursuant to Section 4(a)(6), and to engage in related broker activities,
to be approximately $770,000 in the first year and approximately $270,000 each
year thereafter. In making these estimates, we assumed that brokers would
engage in particular activities in connection with these transactions, namely
providing investment advice and recommendations, soliciting investors, and
425

managing and handling customer funds and securities. Are our assumptions
correct? If not, please explain. Are our estimates of the cost of doing business
as a broker, in general, accurate? If not, please explain and provide relevant
data.
294. We estimated the costs for a funding portal to act as an intermediary in
transactions pursuant to Section 4(a)(6) to be approximately $417,000 in the first
year, and approximately $90,000 each year thereafter. Are our estimates of the
costs of doing business as a funding portal, and the assumptions behind these
estimates, in general, accurate? If not, please explain and provide relevant data.
295. The Commission is interested in receiving comments, views, estimates and data
concerning the following:
o Expected size of the securities-based crowdfunding market (e.g., number
of offerings, number of issuers, number for funding portals, size of
offerings, number of investors, etc., as well as information comparing
these estimates to the current baseline);
o Overall economic impact of the proposed rules;
o Competitive effects on brokers of the development of funding portals; and
o Any other aspect of the economic analysis.

426

IV.

Paperwork Reduction Act
A.

Background

Certain provisions of the proposed rules contain “collection of information” requirements
within the meaning of the Paperwork Reduction Act of 1995 (“PRA”). 1047 We are submitting the
proposal to the Office of Management and Budget (“OMB”) for review in accordance with the
PRA. 1048 The titles for the collections of information are:
(1) “Form ID” (OMB Control Number 3235-0328);
(2) “Form C” (a proposed new collection of information);
(3) “Form BD” (OMB Control Number 3235-0012); and
(4) “Regulation Crowdfunding – Intermediaries and Funding Portals” (a proposed new
collection of information).
In addition, the collections of information included under OMB Control Numbers 15060034 and 1506-0019, regarding the CIP and SAR requirements of the Department of Treasury,
would be amended to reflect related burdens under proposed Rule 403(b) of Regulation
Crowdfunding. An agency may not conduct or sponsor, and a person is not required to respond
to, a collection of information unless it displays a currently valid OMB control number. We are
applying for OMB control numbers for the proposed new collections of information in
accordance with 44 U.S.C. 3507(j) and 5 CFR 1320.13, and OMB has not yet assigned a control
number to each new collection. Responses to these new collections of information would be
mandatory.

1047

44 U.S.C. 3501 et seq.

1048

44 U.S.C. 3507(d); 5 CFR 1320.11.
427

B.

Estimate of Issuers and Intermediaries
1. Issuers

The number, type and size of the issuers that would participate in securities-based
crowdfunding transactions are uncertain, but data regarding current market practices may help
identify the number and characteristics of potential issuers that may offer and sell securities in
reliance on Section 4(a)(6). 1049 While it is not possible to predict the number of future offerings
made in reliance on Section 4(a)(6), particularly because rules governing the process are not yet
in place, for purposes of this analysis, we estimate that the number would be 2,300 offerings per
year. We base this estimate on the number of issuers that conducted a Regulation D offering that
had no revenues or less than $1 million in revenues. 1050 We believe those issuers would be
similar in size to the potential issuers that may participate in securities-based crowdfunding, and
we assume that each issuer would conduct one offering per year, raising an average of $100,000
per offering.
2. Intermediaries that are Registered Brokers
We estimate that the proposed collections of information would apply to approximately
10 intermediaries per year that are not currently registered with the Commission and would
choose to register as brokers to act as intermediaries for transactions made in reliance on Section
4(a)(6). However, we believe that, given the high cost that an unregistered entity would incur to
register as a broker with us, compared with the lower cost of becoming a funding portal,
unregistered entities generally would have less incentive to register as brokers than as funding
portals.
1049
1050

See Section III.A.4.a above for a discussion of the data regarding current market practices.
See id.
428

We further estimate that approximately 50 intermediaries per year that are already
registered as brokers with the Commission would choose to add to their current service offerings
by also becoming crowdfunding intermediaries. These entities would not have to register anew
with us, and if doing business with the public, would already be members of FINRA (the
applicable national securities association registered under Exchange Act Section 15A). Because
we do not have any data indicating the number of currently-registered brokers that would be
interested in becoming crowdfunding intermediaries, we cannot estimate how many would
choose to enter the crowdfunding market. 1051
3. Funding Portals
We estimate that approximately 50 intermediaries per year would choose to register as
funding portals during the first three years following effectiveness of the proposed rules. This
estimate assumes that, upon effectiveness of the proposed rules, about 15% of the approximately
200 U.S.-based crowdfunding portals 1052 currently in existence would participate in securitiesbased crowdfunding and that the number of crowdfunding portals would grow at 60% per year
over the next three years. 1053 Therefore, we estimate that an average of approximately 50

1051

Similarly, we cannot estimate with any degree of certainty how many unregistered “finders” would
potentially choose to enter the securities-based crowdfunding market. See, e.g., Task Force on Private
Placement Broker-Dealers, note 894 (stating that quantifying the number of “finders” that help small
businesses to obtain sources of capital “is an impossibility, since there is no effective measuring device.”).

1052

This estimate is based in part on an industry estimate that, as of April 2012, there were approximately 200
non-securities-based crowdfunding portals operating in the United States. See Massolution, note 861 at 16.

1053

A worldwide survey of crowdfunding portals indicated that, in 2011, approximately 14.8% of the surveyed
crowdfunding portals (mostly based in Europe) participated in “equity-based” crowdfunding. Id. Also, the
total number of crowdfunding portals worldwide grew by an estimated 60% from 2011 to 2012. Id. at 13.
429

respondents would register as funding portals annually. 1054 Of those 50 funding portals, we
estimate that two would be nonresident funding portals. These estimates are based in part on
current indications of interest expressed in responses to FINRA’s voluntary interim form for
funding portals. 1055
C.

Estimate of Burdens
1.

Issuers
a.

Form C: Offering Statement and Progress Update

Under the proposed rules, an issuer conducting a transaction in reliance on
Section 4(a)(6) would file with us specified disclosures on a Form C: Offering Statement. 1056
An issuer also would file with us amendments to Form C to disclose any material change in the
offer terms or disclosure previously provided to investors. 1057 Form C is similar to the Form 1-A
offering statement under Regulation A, but it would require fewer disclosure items (e.g., it would
not require disclosure about the plan of distribution, the compensation of officers and directors,
litigation or a discussion of federal tax aspects). We note that offerings made in reliance on
Regulation A allow issuers to offer up to $5 million, involve review by the staff and require
filings at the state level. In light of these factors, we expect that issuers seeking to raise capital
pursuant to a Regulation A offering generally would be at a more advanced stage of development

1054

200 U.S.-based crowdfunding portals x 15% (estimated percentage of crowdfunding portals that would
participate in securities-based crowdfunding) = 30 funding portals that would participate in securities-based
crowdfunding. Assuming 60% growth over three years, the number of registered funding portals would be
30 during the first year, 48 during the second year and 77 during the third year. The average number of
registered funding portals over three years is (30 + 48 + 77) / 3 = 52 funding portals (or approximately 50
funding portals per year).

1055

See note 980.

1056

See proposed Rule 203(a)(1) of Regulation Crowdfunding.

1057

See proposed Rule 203(a)(2) of Regulation Crowdfunding.
430

than issuers likely to raise capital pursuant to Section 4(a)(6), so the complexity of the required
disclosure and, in turn, the burden of compliance with the requirements of proposed Form C
would be significantly less than for Form 1-A. 1058 We estimate that the total burden to prepare
and file the Form C, including any amendment to disclose any material change, would be
approximately 60.00 hours, which is approximately 10 percent of the burden to prepare a Form
1-A for a Regulation A offering. We estimate that 75 percent of the burden of preparation would
be carried by the issuer internally and that 25 percent would be carried by outside
professionals 1059 retained by the issuer at an average cost of $400 per hour. 1060
Under the proposed rules, the issuer also would be required to file with us regular updates
regarding the progress of the issuer in meeting the target offering amount. 1061 The issuer would
make the filing under cover of a Form C-U: Progress Update. The issuer would be required to
disclose its progress in meeting the target offering amount. Form C-U is similar to a Form D
Notice of Exempt Offering of Securities under Regulation D 1062 and a Form 2-A Report of Sales
and Uses of Proceeds Pursuant to Rule 257 of Regulation A. 1063 Form C-U would require
significantly less disclosure than the Form D and the Form 2-A, however, as it would only
require disclosure of the issuer’s progress in meeting the target offering amount, rather than

1058

We estimate the burden per response for preparing a Form 1-A to be 608.00 hours. See Form 1-A at 1.

1059

For example, an issuer could retain an outside professional to assist in the preparation of the financial
statements, but could decide to address the remaining disclosure requirements internally.

1060

We recognize that the costs of retaining outside professionals may vary depending on the nature of the
professional services, but for purposes of this PRA analysis, we estimate that such costs would be an
average of $400 per hour. This is the rate we typically estimate for outside legal services used in
connection with public company reporting.

1061

See proposed Rule 203(a)(3) of Regulation Crowdfunding.

1062

We estimate the burden per response for preparing a Form D to be 4.00 hours. See Form D at 1.

1063

We estimate the burden per response for preparing a Form 2-A to be 12.00 hours. See Form 2-A at 1.
431

compensation and use of proceeds disclosures or other information about the issuer and the
offering. Thus, the complexity of the required disclosure and the burden to prepare and file
Form C-U would be significantly less than for either Form D or Form 2-A. We estimate that the
burden to prepare and file each progress update, which only has one disclosure requirement,
would be 0.50 hours. We further estimate that an issuer would be required to file an average of
two progress updates during each offering. 1064 Therefore, we estimate that an issuer’s
compliance with proposed Form C-U would result in an aggregate burden of 1.00 hours per
issuer. 1065
We estimate that compliance with the requirements of a Form C submitted in connection
with transactions made in reliance on Section 4(a)(6) would require 138,000 burden hours (2,300
offering statements x 60.00 hours/offering statement) in aggregate each year, which corresponds
to 103,500 hours carried by the issuer internally (2,300 offering statements x 60.00
hours/offering statement x 0.75) and costs of $13,800,000 (2,300 offering statements x 60.00
hours/offering statement x 0.25 x $400) for the services of outside professionals. We also
estimate that compliance with the requirements of Form C-U submitted during an offering would
require 2,300 burden hours (2,300 offering statements x 2 progress updates per offering x 0.50
hours per progress update) in aggregate each year. These estimates include the time and cost of
collecting the information, preparing and reviewing disclosure, filing documents and retaining
records. We derived the above estimates by estimating the average number of hours it would
take an issuer to prepare and review the proposed disclosure requirements. In deriving our

1064

See proposed Rule 203(a)(3) of Regulation Crowdfunding. The proposed rules would require an issuer to
file a progress update after reaching one-half and 100 percent of the target offering amount.

1065

We estimate that the burden of preparing Form C-U would be approximately 1/8 of the burden for Form D.
Therefore, the aggregate burden per issuer would be 100 hour (2 progress updates x 0.50 hours/update).
432

estimates, we recognize that the burdens likely would vary among individual issuers based on a
number of factors, including the stage of development of the business and the number of years
since inception of the business. We believe that some issuers would experience costs in excess
of this average and some issuers may experience less than these average costs.
b.

Form C-AR: Annual Report

Under the proposed rules, any issuer that sells securities in a transaction made pursuant to
Section 4(a)(6) would be required to file annually with us an annual report on Form C-AR:
Annual Report. 1066 Form C-AR would require disclosure substantially similar to the disclosure
provided in the Form C: Offering Statement, except that offering-specific disclosure would not
be required. Therefore, we estimate that the burden to prepare and file Form C-AR would be
less than that required to prepare and file Form C. We estimate that compliance with proposed
Form C-AR would result in a burden of 40.00 hours per response. 1067 We further estimate that
75 percent of the burden of preparation would be carried by the issuer internally and that 25
percent would be carried by outside professionals 1068 retained by the issuer at an average cost of
$400 per hour. 1069
We estimate that compliance with the requirements of Form C-AR after issuers sell
securities pursuant to Section 4(a)(6) would require 92,000 burden hours (2,300 issuers x 40.00
hours/issuer) in the aggregate each year, which corresponds to 69,000 hours carried by the issuer

1066

See proposed Rule 202 of Regulation Crowdfunding.

1067

We estimate that the burden of preparing the information required by Form C-AR would be approximately
2/3 of the burden for the Form C: Offering Statement in light of the fact that offering-specific disclosure
would not be required and that the issuer may be able to update disclosure previously provided in the Form
C: Offering Statement.

1068

See note 1059.

1069

See note 1060.
433

internally (2,300 issuers x 40.00 hours/issuer x 0.75) and costs of $9,200,000 (2,300 issuers x
40.00 hours/issuer x 0.25 x $400) for the services of outside professionals.
c.

Form C-TR: Termination of Reporting

Under the proposed rules, any issuer terminating its annual reporting obligations would
be required to file a notice under cover of Form C-TR: Termination of Reporting to notify
investors and the Commission that it no longer will file and provide annual reports pursuant to
the requirements of Regulation Crowdfunding. 1070 We estimate that eight percent of the issuers
that sell securities pursuant to Section 4(a)(6) would file a notice under cover of Form C-TR
during the first year. 1071 The Form C-TR would be similar to the Form 15 that issuers file to
provide notice of termination of the registration of a class of securities under Exchange Act
Section 12(g) or to provide notice of the suspension of the duty to file reports required by
Exchange Act Sections 13(a) or 15(d). 1072 Therefore, we estimate that compliance with the
proposed Form C-TR would result in a similar burden as compliance with Form 15, a burden of
1.50 hours per response. We estimate that compliance with proposed Form C-TR would result in
a burden of 276 hours (2,300 issuers x 0.08 issuers filing Form C-TR x 1.50 hours/issuer) in the
aggregate during the first year for issuers terminating their reporting obligations.
d.

Form ID Filings

1070

See proposed Rule 203(b)(2) of Regulation Crowdfunding.

1071

For purposes of the PRA, we estimate that eight percent of issuers will not survive past their first year,
based on a recent study that found that of a random sample of 4,022 new high-technology businesses
started in 2004, 92.3% survived past their first year. See Kauffman Firm Survey, note 869 at 13.

1072

We currently estimate the burden per response for preparing a Form 15 to be 1.50 hours. See Form 15 at 1.
434

Under the proposed rules, an issuer would be required to file specified disclosures with us
on EDGAR. 1073 We anticipate that the majority of first-time issuers seeking to offer and sell
securities in reliance on Section 4(a)(6) would not previously have filed an electronic submission
with us and so would need to file a Form ID. Form ID is the application form for access codes to
permit filing on EDGAR. The proposed rules would not change the form itself, but we anticipate
that the number of Form ID filings would increase due to new issuers seeking to offer and sell
securities in reliance on Section 4(a)(6). For purposes of this PRA discussion, we estimate that
all of the issuers who would seek to offer and sell securities in reliance on Section 4(a)(6) would
not have filed an electronic submission with us previously and would, therefore, be required to
file a Form ID. As noted above, we estimate that approximately 2,300 issuers per year would
seek to offer and sell securities in reliance on Section 4(a)(6), which would correspond to 2,300
additional Form ID filings. As a result, we estimate the additional annual burden would be
approximately 345 hours (2,300 filings x 0.15 hours/filing). 1074
2.

Brokers and Funding Portals
a.

Registration Requirements
i.

Time Burden

The proposed rules would require intermediaries to register with us as either a broker or
funding portal. We believe that some entities that may engage in crowdfunding pursuant to
Section 4(a)(6) and the proposed regulation would already be registered as brokers. Therefore,
this registration requirement would impose no new requirement on these entities and no
additional burden for purposes of this PRA discussion. Entities that are not already registered as
1073

See proposed Rules 201-203 of Regulation Crowdfunding.

1074

We currently estimate the burden associated with Form ID is 0.15 hours per response. See Form ID at 1.
435

brokers may decide to register as brokers or as funding portals and to become members of a
registered national securities association, pursuant to the proposed rules. We estimate that each
year, approximately 10 entities may decide to register as brokers, and on average, approximately
50 entities may decide to register as funding portals by filing Form Funding Portal. In addition,
we estimate that of those 50 entities that register as funding portals, two would be nonresident
funding portals and subject to the additional requirements of completing Schedule C, hiring an
agent for service of process in the United States and providing an opinion of counsel.
We estimate the burden for registering as a broker with us based upon the existing
burdens for completing and filing Form BD. 1075 Consequently, we estimate that total annual
burden hours required for all intermediaries, including brokers and funding portals, to register
with us under the proposed rules would be approximately 165 hours (2.75 hours/respondent x
(10 brokers + 50 funding portals)). In addition, those entities that register as nonresident funding
portals would face an additional burden of half an hour to complete Schedule C, half an hour to
hire an agent for the service of process, and one hour to provide an opinion of counsel.
Consequently, we estimate that of the 50 registered funding portals, two would face the burden
of an additional two hours to register.
We take into consideration that brokers that register to engage in crowdfunding
transactions conducted in reliance on Section 4(a)(6) may eventually decide to withdraw their

1075

While it is likely that the time necessary to complete Form BD varies depending on the nature and
complexity of the entity’s business, we previously estimated that the average time necessary for a brokerdealer to complete and file an application for broker-dealer registration on Form BD would be
approximately 2.75 hours. We also estimate that the time burden to register as a funding portal on Form
Funding Portal would be, for purposes of this PRA discussion, the same, based upon the time required to
complete and file Form BD because the information required for that form is similar.
436

registration. Withdrawal requires the entity to complete and file with us a Form BDW. 1076 We
further estimate that approximately 500 broker-dealers withdraw from Commission registration
annually 1077 and, therefore, file a Form BDW. Of them, we estimate that approximately one
broker who had registered in order to facilitate crowdfunding transactions made in reliance on
Section 4(a)(6) may decide to withdraw in each year following adoption of the rules. 1078
Therefore, the one broker-dealer that withdraws from registration by filing Form BDW would
incur an aggregate annual reporting burden of approximately one hour (one hour/respondent x
one broker). Similarly, we estimate that approximately six funding portals may choose to
withdraw from registration each year 1079 and that each withdrawal, as with Form BDW, would
take one hour. This would result in an aggregate annual reporting burden of approximately six
hours (one hour/respondent x 6 funding portals).

1076

The time necessary to complete Form BDW varies depending on the nature and complexity of the
applicant’s securities business. We previously estimated that it would take a broker-dealer approximately
one hour to complete and file a Form BDW to withdraw from Commission registration, as required by
Exchange Act Rule 15b6-1 (17 CFR 240.15b6-1).

1077

This estimate is based on Form BDW data collected over the past five years and may be skewed as a result
of the impact of the financial crisis on broker-dealers. For the past five fiscal years (from 10/1 through
9/30), the number of broker-dealers that withdrew from registration were as follows: 503 in 2008, 533 in
2009, 510 in 2010, 524 in 2011 and 428 in 2012. (503 + 533 + 510 + 524 + 428) / 5 = 500.

1078

As of September 30, 2012, there were 4,653 broker-dealers registered with the Commission. An average of
500 broker-dealers per year withdraw from registration, or 11% of the number of registered broker-dealers
(500 withdrawing broker-dealers / 4,653 registered broker-dealers). We are assuming that the same
percentage of broker-dealers that withdraw from registration would apply to the population of registered
broker-dealers participating in offerings in reliance on Section 4(a)(6). Of our estimate of 10 registered
broker-dealers per year registering to participate in crowdfunding transactions in reliance on Section
4(a)(6), we estimate that approximately one broker-dealer per year (10 registered broker-dealers x 11%)
would withdraw from registration.

1079

We estimate that the percentage of registered funding portals participating in crowdfunding transactions in
reliance on Section 4(a)(6) that would withdraw from registration annually would be the same as the
percentage of broker dealers that withdraw from registration annually because of the similarity of the
businesses. Of our estimate of 50 registered funding portals participating in crowdfunding transactions in
reliance on Section 4(a)(6), we estimate that approximately six funding portals per year (50 registered
funding portals x 11%) would withdraw from registration. For funding portals, a decision to withdraw
registration would be required to be reported to us in the same way an amendment would; however, for
brokers, withdrawal requires the fling of Form BDW.
437

Newly-registered intermediaries would be required to also become members of FINRA
or any other registered national securities association. Based on discussions with industry
participants, we estimate that the burden associated with this requirement would be
approximately 220 hours per intermediary that registers as a broker-dealer. We also assume that
approximately one-half of that amount or 110 hours would be required of an intermediary
registering as a funding portal. Consequently, we estimate that total annual burden hours
required for all intermediaries, including brokers and funding portals, to register with FINRA or
any other registered national securities association would be approximately 6,600 hours (220
hours/broker-dealer respondent x 10 brokers + 110 hours/funding portal respondent x 50 funding
portals). For intermediaries who choose to hire a third party to assist in the membership process,
we assume that the hours would be further reduced by at least one-half for a total of 3,300 hours.
Once registered, a broker must promptly file an amended Form BD when information it
originally reported on Form BD changes or becomes inaccurate. Similarly, a registered funding
portal must report to us amendments relating to its Form Funding Portal filing. 1080 Based on the
number of amended Forms BD that we received from October 1, 2007 through September 30,
2012, we estimate that the total number of amendments that we would receive on Form BD from
the 10 brokers that register under this proposed system would be approximately 34. 1081

1080

We previously estimated that the average time necessary to complete an amended Form BD would be
approximately 20 minutes. We estimate that an amendment to Form Funding Portal would take the same
amount of time as an amendment to Form BD because the forms are similar.

1081

We received 16,365, 17,247, 15,638, 15,491 and 13,271 amended Forms BD during the fiscal years ending
2008, 2009, 2010, 2011 and 2012, respectively, reflecting an average of 15,602 amendment filings per year
(16,365 + 17,247 + 15,638 + 15,491 + 13,271) / 5 years). As of September 30, 2012, there were 4,653
broker-dealers registered with the Commission. Therefore, we estimate that there are approximately 3.4
amendments (15,602 amended Forms BD / 4,653 broker-dealers) per registered broker-dealer per year. We
estimate that the 10 broker-dealers who register under this proposed regulation would submit, on aggregate,
approximately 34 amendments per year.
438

Therefore, we estimate that the total additional annual burden hours necessary for broker-dealers
to complete and file amended Forms BD would be approximately 11.2 hours (34 amended Forms
BD per year x 0.33 hours, i.e., 20 minutes, per amendment). Similarly, we estimate that the total
annual burden hours for funding portals to complete and file amended Forms Funding Portal
would be approximately 56.1 hours (50 funding portals x 3.4 amendments per year x 0.33 hours
per amendment).
ii.

Cost

We estimate that the initial registration cost for an intermediary to register with a national
securities association would be approximately $10,000. This estimate is based on FINRA’s
current member application fee structure, which assesses fees depending on the size of the new
member applicant. The current member application fee for broker-dealers with 1 to 10
associated registered persons is $7,500, and the fee for broker-dealers with 11 to 100 associated
registered persons is $12,500. 1082 We expect that the size of funding portals that would register
with FINRA would be similar, and therefore, our preliminary estimate of FINRA’s application
fee for funding portals is based on the above fees. The average of the two fees is ($7,500 +
$12,500)/2 = $10,000. The total cost across all intermediaries would be approximately
($10,000/intermediary x (10 brokers + 50 funding portals) = $600,000. In addition, two
intermediaries would face an additional cost of $25,130 to complete Schedule C, retain an agent
for the service of process and provide an opinion of counsel to register as a nonresident funding
portal.

1082

See FINRA, Revised Fees: Changes to Advertising, Corporate Financing, New Membership and
Continuing Membership Application, Central Registration Depository and Branch Office Annual
Registration Fees, FINRA Regulatory Notice 12-32 (June 2012), available at http://www.finra.org/
web/groups/industry/@ip/@reg/@notice/documents/notices/p127238.pdf.
439

In addition to the initial registration cost, we estimate that costs associated with
completing a membership process with FINRA or any other registered national securities
association would be approximately $3,450,000 across all intermediaries. Discussions with
industry participants have indicated that most broker-dealers currently hire a third party
consultant or attorney to assist in the membership process. Assuming that 90% of intermediaries
(9 brokers and 45 funding portals) would employ an outside party, we estimate total costs
charged by the outside party to be $1,575,000 ($50,000/third party assisting broker-dealers x 9
brokers + $25,0000/third party assisting funding portals x 45 funding portals). 1083 As indicated
above, we assume that the intermediary’s Chief Compliance Officer or person in a similar
position would spend approximately 110 hours assisting in broker-dealer registration and 55
hours assisting in funding portal registration for a total approximate cost of $1,530,000 (110
hours/broker-dealer respondent x 9 brokers + 55 hours/funding portal respondent x 45 funding
portals) x $441/hour. 1084 For the remaining 10% of intermediaries (1 broker and 5 funding
portals) that would not employ an outside party to assist in the process, we estimate the total cost
to be $340,000 ((220 hours/broker-dealer respondent x 1 broker + 110 hours/funding portal
respondent x 45 funding portals) x $441/hour).
Intermediaries would face an ongoing cost to remain registered with a national securities
association. We expect these costs would vary based on the size and profitability of the
intermediary. The current FINRA annual assessment fee for members that are brokers having

1083

Discussions with industry participants indicated that third parties charge between $25,000 and $75,000, for
an average of $50,000, to assist applicants seeking to register as broker-dealers. We assume that charges
for intermediaries registering as funding portals would be approximately one-half of these costs, for an
average of $25,000.

1084

The hourly rate estimate for a Chief Compliance Officer is taken from SIFMA Management Data.
440

annual revenue of up to $1,000,000 is $1,200. In addition, FINRA members currently pay
$150.00 for each principal and each representative of the member entity, up to five principals
and representatives, and also pay $175 for the first 250 branch offices registered by the member.
For purposes of the PRA, we assume that brokers acting as intermediaries as well as funding
portals would have on average a total of five principals or representatives (or their equivalent),
would maintain fewer than 250 branch offices, and would have annual revenues less than
$1,000,000. Also for purpose of these estimates, we assume that the fees the national securities
association would set for funding portals would be the same as those FINRA currently has set for
members that are brokers. We do recognize, however, that the national securities association
fees for funding portals may be lower than those currently in place for brokers, proportionate to
funding portals’ more limited scope of activity compared to brokers. 1085 Thus, we estimate that
on average intermediaries would pay ongoing annual fees to a national securities association of
$2,130, after the year they become members ((5x$150.00) + $175 + $1,200 = $2,125).
Nonresident funding portals, would also be subject to an annual cost of $130 to maintain an
agent for service of process in the United States
b.

Development of Intermediary Platform
i.

Time Burden

The proposed rules are based on an intermediary developing an electronic platform to
offer securities in reliance on Section 4(a)(6) to the public. A broker or funding portal that
creates its initial platform in-house would incur an initial time burden associated with setting up
systems functionality to comply with our proposed rules, and developing other platform

1085

See note 994.
441

capabilities and operations. Based on our discussions with potential intermediaries, we initially
estimate that intermediaries would typically hire a team of approximately 4 to 6 developers that
would work on all aspects of platform development, including, but not limited to, front-end
programming, data management, systems analysis, communication channels, document delivery,
and Internet security. To develop a platform, we estimate, based on our discussions with
potential intermediaries, that intermediaries would spend an average of 1,500 hours for planning,
programming and implementation.
As discussed above, we anticipate that 10 intermediaries would newly register as brokers,
50 intermediaries would be brokers that are already registered and 50 intermediaries would
register as funding portals. It is difficult to estimate the number of intermediaries that would
develop their platforms in-house, but if we assume that half of the 110 newly-registered
intermediaries were to do so, then the total initial time burden would be 82,500 hours (55
intermediaries x 1,500 hours = 82,500 hours).
We estimate that annually updating the features and functionality of an intermediary’s
platform would require approximately 20% of the hours required to initially develop the
platform, for an average burden of 300 hours per year. If we assume that half of the 110 newlyregistered intermediaries updated their systems accordingly, the total ongoing time burden would
be 16,500 hours per year (55 intermediaries x 300 hours = 16,500 hours).
ii.

Cost

There would be a cost to developing a platform. Based on our discussions with potential
intermediaries, we initially estimate that it would cost an intermediary approximately $250,000
to $600,000 to build an Internet-based crowdfunding portal and all of its basic functionality.
Assuming that half of the 110 newly-registered intermediaries were to hire outside developers to
442

build their platforms, the total initial cost would be $13,750,000 to $33,000,000 (55
intermediaries x $250,000 = $13,750,000; 55 intermediaries x $600,000 = $33,000,000). For
purposes of the PRA, we are estimating the cost at $23,375,000.
We estimate that it would typically cost an intermediary approximately one-fifth of the
initial development cost per year to use a third-party developer to update an Internet-based
crowdfunding portal and all of its basic functionality, or $85,000 per year on average. 1086 If we
assume that half of the 110 newly-registered intermediaries updated their systems accordingly,
the total ongoing cost would be $4,675,000 per year (55 intermediaries x $85,000 = $4,675,000).
c.

Measures to Reduce the Risk of Fraud
i.

Time Burden

The proposed rules would require intermediaries to have a reasonable basis for believing
that an issuer seeking to offer and sell securities in reliance on Section 4(a)(6) through the
intermediary’s platform complies with the requirements in Section 4A(b) and the related
requirements in Regulation Crowdfunding. 1087 The proposed rules would require intermediaries
to have a reasonable basis for believing that an issuer has established means to keep accurate
records of the holders of the securities it would offer and sell through the intermediary’s
platform. For both requirements, an intermediary may reasonably rely on the representations of
the issuer. For the purposes of the PRA, we expect that 100% of intermediaries would rely on
the representations of issuers. This would impose an estimated time burden in the first year of
five hours per intermediary to establish standard representations it would request from issuers,

1086

Our estimate of the average initial external cost per intermediary to develop a crowdfunding platform is the
average of the cited range of $250,000 to $600,000, or (($250,000 + $600,000)/)/) / 2) = $425,000. Onefifth of the cost of $425,000 is ($425,000/ / 5) = $85,000.

1087

See proposed Rule 301(a) of Regulation Crowdfunding.
443

and 6 minutes per intermediary per issuer to obtain the issuer representation, which is consistent
with estimates we have used for other regulated entities to obtain similar documentation, such as
consents, from customers. Based on our estimate that there would be approximately 2,300
offerings per year, that each issuer would conduct one offering per year, and that there would be
110 intermediaries, we calculate that each intermediary would facilitate approximately 20
offerings per year (2,300 offerings /(10 newly registered broker-dealers + 50 previously
registered broker-dealers + 50 funding portals) = 20.9). Therefore, we estimate that the total
initial burden hours would be approximately 770 hours ((5 hours/intermediary x (10 newlyregistered broker-dealers + 50 previously-registered broker-dealers + 50 funding portals) + (6
minutes/issuer x 20 issuers/intermediary x (10 newly-registered broker-dealers + 50 previouslyregistered broker-dealers + 50 funding portals)).
We believe that the ongoing time burdens for this requirement would be approximately
one hour per intermediary per year to review and check that the standard representations it
requests from issuers remain appropriate, and 6 minutes per intermediary per issuer to obtain the
representation. Therefore, we estimate that the ongoing total burden hours necessary for
intermediaries to rely on the representations of the issuers would be approximately 330 hours per
year ((1 hour/intermediary x (10 newly-registered broker-dealers + 50 previously-registered
broker-dealers + 50 funding portals)) + (6 minutes/issuer x 20 issuers/intermediary x (10 newlyregistered broker-dealers + 50 previously-registered broker-dealers + 50 funding portals))).
ii.

Cost

The proposed rules would require intermediaries to conduct a background and securities
enforcement regulatory history check on each issuer and each officer, director or 20 Percent
Beneficial Owner to determine whether the issuer or such person is subject to a disqualification.
444

We anticipate that most intermediaries would employ third-parties that perform background
checks, and for the purposes of this PRA discussion, we assume that 100% of intermediaries
would use these third-party services rather than develop the capability to conduct background
and securities enforcement regulatory history checks in-house. The cost to perform a
background check is estimated to be between $200 and $500, depending on the nature and extent
of the information provided. 1088 We recognize that some issuers would require more than one
background check (e.g., for officers or directors of the issuer), and we estimate that
intermediaries would perform four background checks per issuer, on average. We base this
number on that assumption that most crowdfunding issuers will be startups and small businesses
with small management teams and few owners. Assuming that there is an average of
approximately 2,300 offerings made in reliance on Section 4(a)(6) per year, 1089 the total
estimated initial cost for all intermediaries to fulfill the required background and securities
enforcement regulatory history checks would range from approximately $1,840,000 to
$4,600,000 per year, 1090or approximately $16,700 to $41,800 per intermediary per year. 1091 For
purposes of the PRA, we will average the cost to $29,250 per intermediary per year.

1088

See, e.g., A Matter of Fact, Background Check FAQ: Frequently Asked Questions, available at
http://www.amof.info/faq.htm (Matter of Fact is a background check provider accredited by the National
Association of Professional Background Screeners and the Background Screening Credentialing Council
and states that the cost for a comprehensive background check is $200 to $500).

1089

Because crowdfunding transactions in reliance on Section 4(a)(6) are a new approach to capital formation,
it is difficult for us to accurately estimate an average number of offerings per year. As stated above, we
assume that there would be approximately 2,300 offerings made in reliance on Section 4(a)(6) per year.

1090

2,300 securities-based offerings made in reliance on Section 4(a)(6) per year x ($200 to $500 per
background and securities enforcement regulatory history check) x 4 checks per offering = $1,840,000 to
$4,600,000 per year.

1091

$1,840,000/110 intermediaries = approx. $16,700 per intermediary; $4,600,000/110 intermediaries =
approx. $41,800 per intermediary.
445

We believe that, on an ongoing basis, intermediaries would continue to use third-party
services to conduct background and securities enforcement regulatory history checks. We also
believe that the total estimated ongoing cost for all intermediaries to fulfill the required
background and securities enforcement regulatory history checks would be the same as the
estimated initial cost, ranging from approximately $1,840,000 to $4,600,000 per year, or
approximately $16,700 to $41,800 per intermediary per year. For purposes of the PRA, we will
average the cost to $29,250 per intermediary per year.
d.

Account Opening: Accounts and Electronic Delivery
i.

Time Burden

The proposed rules would provide that no intermediary or associated person of an
intermediary could accept an investment commitment in a transaction involving the offer or sale
of securities made in reliance on Section 4(a)(6) until the investor has opened an account with
the intermediary and consented to electronic delivery of materials. 1092 For the purposes of the
PRA, we expect that the functionality required to require an investor to open an account with an
intermediary and obtain consents would result in an initial time burden of approximately 10
hours per intermediary in the first year. Therefore, we estimate that the total initial burden hours
necessary for this functionality would be approximately 1,100 hours (10 hours/intermediary x
(10 newly-registered broker-dealers + 50 previously-registered broker-dealers + 50 funding
portals)).
We believe that the ongoing time burdens for this requirement would be significantly less
than the initial time burden, and thus we are estimating approximately two hours per

1092

See proposed Rule 302(a) of Regulation Crowdfunding.
446

intermediary per year, to review and check the related processes. Therefore, we estimate that the
ongoing total burden hours necessary for this functionality would be approximately 220 hours
per year (2 hours/intermediary x (10 newly-registered broker-dealers + 50 previously-registered
broker-dealers + 50 funding portals)).
ii.

Cost

To the extent an intermediary uses a third party to establish account opening
functionality, the initial costs relevant to this requirement would be incorporated into the cost of
hiring a third party to develop the platform, discussed below in Section IV.C.2.f.
We do not believe that there are any ongoing costs relevant to this requirement.
e.

Account Opening: Educational Materials
i.

Time Burden

The proposed rules would require intermediaries to provide educational materials to
investors, 1093 to help ensure that investors have a baseline understanding of the risks and costs of
investing in securities offered and sold in reliance on Section 4(a)(6). Given that the
intermediary would determine what electronic format is effective in communicating the requisite
contents of the educational material, the expected cost for intermediaries to develop the
educational material is expected to vary widely and are difficult to estimate. For the purposes of
the PRA, we are assuming that half of the intermediaries would develop their educational
materials in-house, which would include online presentations and written documents, and that
the other half would employ third-parties to produce professional-quality online video
presentations. We estimate that, to develop their non-video educational materials in-house, each

1093

See proposed Rule 302(b) of Regulation Crowdfunding.
447

intermediary would incur an initial time burden of approximately 20 hours. Therefore, the total
initial burden would be approximately 2,200 hours (110 intermediaries x 20 hours/intermediary).
Assuming that half of the intermediaries would develop their educational materials inhouse, we expect that these intermediaries also would update their educational materials inhouse, as needed. We estimate that to update their educational materials in-house, each
intermediary would incur an ongoing time burden of approximately 10 hours per year.
Therefore, the total ongoing burden would be approximately 1,100 hours per year (110
intermediaries x 10 hours/intermediary).
ii.

Cost

As stated above, for the purposes of this PRA discussion, we assume that half of the
intermediaries would employ third-party companies to produce professional-quality video
materials instead of developing materials in-house. Public sources indicate that the typical cost
to produce a professional corporate training video ranges from approximately $1,000 to $3,000
per production minute. 1094 Based on discussions with industry participants, we assume that, on
average, each intermediary would produce a series of short educational videos that would cover
all of the requirements of the proposed rules, and the video material would be 10 minutes long in
total. Based on this assumption, we estimate that the average initial cost for an intermediary to
develop and produce educational materials would range from approximately $10,000 to $30,000.
The total initial cost across all 110 intermediaries per year would be $1,100,000 to $3,300,000.
For purposes of the PRA, we will average the cost to $20,000 per intermediary per year. We

1094

See, e.g., Lee W. Frederiksen, What Is the Cost of Video Production for the Web?, Hinge Marketing,
available at http://www.hingemarketing.com/library/article/what-is-the-cost-of-video-production-for-theweb.
448

note that the estimated initial cost may be significantly lower, because not all intermediaries that
outsource the development of educational materials may choose to produce educational videos,
while others may produce videos of shorter length.
We estimate that, on an ongoing basis, when using a third-party company to update their
video educational materials, each intermediary would spend approximately half of the initial
average cost. We estimate, therefore, that the average ongoing annual cost for an issuer to update
its video educational materials would range from approximately $5,000 to $15,000 and that the
total ongoing annual cost across all intermediaries would range from approximately $550,000 to
$1,650,000 per year. For purposes of the PRA, we will average the cost to $10,000 per
intermediary per year.
f.

Account Opening: Promoters
i.

Time Burden

The proposed rules would require an intermediary, at the account opening stage, to
disclose to investors that any person who receives compensation to promote an issuer’s offering,
or who is a founder or employee of an issuer engaging in promotional activities on behalf of the
issuer, must clearly disclose the receipt of compensation and his or her engagement in
promotional activities on the platform. 1095 For purposes of the PRA, we expect that this
requirement would result in an estimated time burden of five hours per intermediary in the first
year, to prepare this particular disclosure and incorporate it into the account opening process.
Therefore, we estimate that the total initial burden hours necessary for intermediaries to comply

1095

See proposed Rule 302(c) of Regulation Crowdfunding.
449

with this requirement would be approximately 550 hours (5 hours/intermediary x (10 newlyregistered broker-dealers + 50 previously-registered broker-dealers + 50 funding portals)).
We believe that the ongoing time burdens for this requirement would be approximately
one hour per intermediary per year to review and check that the disclosures remain appropriate.
Therefore, we estimate that the ongoing total burden hours necessary for intermediaries to
comply with this requirement would be approximately 110 hours per year (1 hour/intermediary x
(10 newly-registered broker-dealers + 50 previously-registered broker-dealers + 50 funding
portals)).
ii.

Cost

To the extent an intermediary uses a third party to develop the functionality for this
requirement, the initial costs relevant to this requirement would be incorporated into the cost of
hiring a third party to develop the platform, discussed below in subsection IV.C.2.f.
We do not believe that there are any ongoing costs relevant to this requirement.
g.

Issuer Disclosures to be Made Available
i.

Time Burden

The proposed rules would require an intermediary to make publicly available on its
platform the information that an issuer of crowdfunding securities is required to provide to
potential investors, in a manner that reasonably permits a person accessing the platform to save,
download or otherwise store the information, until the offer and sale of securities is completed or
cancelled. 1096

1096

See proposed Rule 303(a) of Regulation Crowdfunding.
450

For purposes of the PRA, our estimate of the hourly burdens related to the public
availability of the issuer information is included as part of our estimate of the hourly burdens
associated with overall platform development, as discussed above in Section IV.C.2.b. The
platform functionality would include not only the ability to display, upload and download issuer
information as required under the proposed rules, but also the ability to provide users with
required online disclosures, as discussed below.
We recognize that, over time, intermediaries may need to update their systems that allow
issuer information to be uploaded to their platforms. We do not expect a significant ongoing
burden for providing issuer disclosures, primarily because the functionality required for required
issuer disclosure information to be uploaded is a standard feature offered on many websites and
would not require frequent or significant updates.
ii.

Cost

We do not expect a significant ongoing cost for providing issuer disclosures, primarily
because the functionality required to upload required issuer disclosure information is a standard
feature offered on many websites and would not require frequent updates. Because we are
including the burdens that are associated with providing issuer disclosures as part of our
estimates for overall platform development, we discuss our cost estimates for ongoing platform
development and updates there.
h.

Other Disclosures to Investors and Potential Investors
i.

Time Burden

Intermediaries would be required to implement and maintain systems to comply with the
information disclosure, communication channels, and investor notification requirements,
including providing disclosure about compensation at account opening, obtaining investor
451

acknowledgements to confirm investor qualifications and review of educational materials,
providing investor questionnaires, providing communication channels with third parties and
among investors, notifying investors of investment commitments, confirming completed
transactions and confirming or reconfirming offering cancellations. Based on our discussions
with industry participants, these functionalities would generally be part of the overall platform
development process and costs. We discuss platform development costs above, which would
include developing the functionality that would allow intermediaries to comply with disclosure
and notification requirements. 1097
We do not expect a significant ongoing burden for providing disclosures, as required by
the proposed rules, because the functionality required to provide information and communication
channels would likely not require frequent updates. We incorporate the total burden to update
the required functionality for processing issuer disclosure and investor acknowledgment
information in the total burden estimates discussed above relating to platform development. 1098
ii.

Cost

We recognize that some intermediaries may add the required functionality for processing
issuer disclosure and investor acknowledgments by using a third-party developer. We also do
not expect there to be a significant ongoing cost for developing the functionality to process these
disclosures and acknowledgments, primarily because this functionality would likely not require
frequent updates by third-party developers. The total cost to add the required functionality for
processing issuer disclosure and investor acknowledgments, as well as to update the required

1097

See Section IV.C.2.b.i above.

1098

See Section IV.C.2.b.i above.
452

functionality for processing issuer disclosure and investor acknowledgments, is incorporated into
the total cost estimates discussed above relating to platform development. 1099
i.

Maintenance and Transmission of Funds
i.

Time Burden

Intermediaries would be required to comply with the requirements related to the
maintenance and transmission of funds. A registered broker would be required to comply with
the requirements of Rule 15c2-4 of the Exchange Act (Transmission or Maintenance of
Payments Received in Connection with Underwritings). 1100 A registered funding portal would
be required to enter into a written agreement with a qualified third party to hold its client funds,
or to open a bank account for the exclusive benefit of the investors and issuer, and it also would
be required to send directions to the qualified third party depending on whether an investing
target is met or an investment commitment or offering is cancelled. For purposes of the PRA,
we are providing an estimate for the time that a funding portal would need to enter into on an
initial basis, and review and update on an ongoing basis, a written agreement with the qualified
third party. We expect that the burden associated with the website functionality required to send
directions to third parties would be included as part of the platform development discussed
above. Based on discussion with industry participants, we estimate that funding portals would
incur an initial burden of approximately 20 hours each to comply with these requirements, or
1,000 hours total (20 hours per funding portal x 50 funding portals = 1,000 hours).

1099

See Section IV.C.2.b above.

1100

17 CFR 240.15c2-4. For purposes of this PRA discussion, the burdens associated with this rule, as well as
for any other rule to which brokers are subject regardless of whether they engage in transactions pursuant to
Section 4(a)(6), are not addressed here; rather, they are included in any OMB approvals for the relevant
rule. Rule 15c2-4, however, does not include any information collection requests for purposes of the PRA,
and so there is no relevant approval or control number from OMB for this rule.
453

We expect that, on an ongoing basis, a registered funding portal would have to
periodically review and update its written agreement with a bank or other third party to hold its
client funds. A registered funding portal also would be required to send directions on an ongoing
basis to a third party depending on whether an investing target is met or an investment
commitment or offering is cancelled. Based on discussion with industry participants, we
estimate that funding portals would incur an ongoing annual burden of approximately 5 hours
each to comply with these requirements, or 250 hours total (5 hours per funding portal x 50
funding portals = 2,500 hours).
ii.

Cost

For purposes of the PRA, we are not providing any cost estimate for this requirement,
because we expect that the cost associated with developing the functionality required to send
instructions to third parties would be included as part of the platform development discussed
above. 1101
j.

Fidelity Bond
i.

Time Burden

Funding portals would be required to comply with the requirements in proposed Rule
400(f) related to obtaining and maintaining fidelity bond coverage. A registered funding portal
would be required to enter into a written agreement with a fidelity bond provider to obtain the
required coverage. Based on discussion with industry participants, we estimate that funding
portals would incur an initial burden of approximately 15 hours each to comply with these
requirements, or 750 hours total (15 hours per funding portal x 50 funding portals = 750 hours).

1101

See Section IV.C.2.f above.
454

We expect that, on an ongoing basis, a registered funding portal would have to
periodically review and update its fidelity bond coverage. We estimate that funding portals
would incur an ongoing burden of approximately 5 hours each to comply with these
requirements, or 250 hours total (5 hours per funding portal x 50 funding portals = 2,500 hours).
ii.

Cost

We estimate the initial costs for the fidelity bond to be $825. We estimate that on an
ongoing basis, the costs would be $825.
k.

Compliance: Policies and Procedures
i.

Time Burden

Based on discussion with industry participants, we estimate that a funding portal would
spend approximately 40 hours to establish written policies and procedures to achieve compliance
with the JOBS Act and the rules and regulations thereunder, as required under the proposed
rules. This would result in an aggregate initial recordkeeping burden of 2,000 hours (40 hours x
50 funding portals).
We estimate that, on an ongoing basis, funding portals would spend approximately 5
hours per year updating, as necessary, the policies and procedures required by the proposed
rules. This would result in an aggregate ongoing recordkeeping burden of 250 hours (5 hours x
50 funding portals).
ii.

Cost

As we anticipate that funding portals would comply with this requirement by using
internal personnel and internal information technology resources integrated into their platforms,
we estimate that there would be no costs related to this requirement. To the extent a funding

455

portal employs a consultant or attorney to establish written policies and procedures, these costs
would be incorporated into the cost of hiring a third party to assist in the membership process.
l.

Compliance: Anti-Money Laundering

While the proposed CIP and the SAR Requirements, and other BSA requirements,
impose burdens on relevant entities, the proposed rules do not impose any burden on funding
portals in addition to that already imposed on broker-dealers by those requirements. The burden on
funding portals, would be the same as broker-dealers, and would be included within those estimates
provided by Treasury, 1102 so we do not discuss those burdens here, and we would not be requesting
any separate approval from OMB to impose the burdens associated with the information collection
requirements to comply with the CIP and SAR Requirements.
m.

Compliance: Privacy
i.

Time Burden

We estimate that the initial time burden of the requirement related to the proposed
Privacy Rules, including Regulation S-P, S-AM and S-ID, would be negligible in light of the
limited activities of funding portals, so we discuss it below only in relation to ongoing time
burdens.
Regulation S-P would require a funding portal to provide notice to investors about its
privacy policies and practices; describes the conditions under which a broker may disclose
nonpublic personal information about investors to nonaffiliated third parties; and provides a
method for investors to prevent a funding portal from disclosing that information to most
nonaffiliated third parties by “opting out” of that disclosure, subject to certain exceptions. For

1102

See OMB File No. 1506-0034 for the CIP requirement and OMB File No. 1506-0019 for the SAR
requirement.
456

funding portals, we expect that the privacy and opt-out notices would be delivered electronically,
which reduces the delivery burden compared to paper delivery.
Based on the proposed requirements, we estimate that all 50 funding portals would be
subject to the requirements of Regulation S-P under the proposed regulation. In developing an
estimate we have considered: (1) the minimal recordkeeping burden imposed by Regulation S-P
(Regulation S-P has no recordkeeping requirement, and records relating to customer
communications already must be made and retained pursuant to other Commission rules); (2) the
summary fashion in which information must be provided to investors in the privacy and opt-out
notices required by Regulation S-P (the model privacy form adopted by the Commission and the
other agencies in 2009, designed to serve as both a privacy notice and an opt-out notice, is only
two pages); and (3) the availability of the model privacy form and online model privacy form
builder. Given these consideration and with the aid of our institutional knowledge, we estimate
that each funding portal would spend, on an ongoing basis, an average of approximately 12 hours
per year complying with the information collection requirement of Regulation S-P, for a total of
approximately 600 annual burden-hours (12 hours/respondent x 50 funding portals).
Regulation S-AM would require funding portals to provide a notice to each affected
individual informing the individual of his or her right to prohibit such marketing before a
receiving affiliate may make marketing solicitations based on the communication of certain
consumer financial information from the broker. Based on the discussion with industry
participants, we estimate that approximately 20 funding portals would have affiliations that would
subject them to the requirements of Regulation S-AM under the proposed regulation, and that they
would require an average one-time burden of 1 hour to review affiliate marketing practices, for a
total of 20 hours (1 hour/respondent x 20 funding portals). We also estimate that these 20 funding
457

portals would be required to provide notice and opt-out opportunities to consumers pursuant to the
requirements of Regulation S-AM and that they would incur an average first-year burden of 18
hours in doing so, for a total estimated first-year burden of 360 hours (18 hours/respondent x 20
funding portals). We estimate that funding portals would incur a continuing ongoing burden
related to the requirements of Regulation S-AM to provide notice and opt-out opportunities of
approximately 4 hours per respondent per year to create and deliver notices to new investors and
record any opt-outs that are received on an ongoing basis, for a total of approximately 80 annual
burden-hours (4 hours/respondent x 20 funding portals). 1103
Under our proposed rules, Regulation S-ID generally would require funding portals to
develop and implement a written identity theft prevention program that is designed to detect,
prevent and mitigate identity theft in connection with certain existing accounts or the opening of
new accounts. Based on our institutional knowledge, we estimate that the initial burden for
funding portals to comply with the applicable portions of proposed Regulation S-ID would be (1) 25
hours to develop and obtain board approval of a program; (2) 4 hours to train staff; and (3) 2 hours
to conduct an initial assessment of relevant accounts, for a total of 31 hours. We estimate that all 50
funding portals would incur these initial time burdens, resulting in an aggregate time burden of
1,550 hours ((25 + 4 + 2 hours / respondent) x 50 funding portals).
With respect to the requirements of Regulation S-ID, we estimate that the ongoing burden
per year would include: (1) 2 hours to periodically review and update the program, review and
preserve contracts with service providers and review and preserve any documentation received
from service providers; (2) 4 hours to prepare and present an annual report to a compliance

1103

The average (blended) annual time burden per respondent for Regulation S-AM requirements would be 10
hours ((18 hours in the first year / 3 years) + 4 hours/year continuing burden = 10 hours per year).
458

director; and (3) 2 hours to conduct periodic assessments to determine if the entity offers or
maintains covered accounts, for a total of 8 hours, of which we estimate 7 hours would be spent
by internal counsel and 1 hour would be spent by a compliance director. We estimate that 50
funding portals would incur these ongoing time burdens, making the total ongoing burden 400
hours (8 hours/respondent x 50 funding portals).
ii.

Cost

We estimate that, for PRA purposes, there is no cost associated with the requirements of
Regulation S-P, Regulation S-AM or Regulation S-ID.
n.

Records to be Made and Kept by Funding Portals
i.

Time Burden

All funding portals would be required to make and keep records related to their activities
to facilitate transactions in reliance on Section 4(a)(6) and the related rules. These proposed
books and records requirements are based generally on Exchange Act Rules 17a-3 and 17a-4,
which apply to broker-dealers. To estimate the initial burden for funding portals, we examined
the current annual burdens of Rules 17a-3 and 17a-4. 1104
The most recently approved annual recordkeeping burden for broker-dealer compliance
with Rule 17a-3 is currently estimated at 394.16 hours per respondent, and the most recently
approved annual recordkeeping burden for broker-dealer compliance with Rule 17a-4 is
currently estimated at 254 hours per respondent.

1104

See Collections of Information for Exchange Act Rules 17a-3 and 17a-4 (OMB Control Nos. 3235-0033
and 3235-0279), Office of Information and Regulatory Affairs, Office of Management and Budget,
available at http://www.reginfo.gov/public/do/PRAMain.
459

Given the more limited scope of a funding portal’s business as compared to that of a
broker, the more limited scope of the proposed books and records rules, and the fact that funding
portals would make, deliver and store records electronically (as required), we expect the burden
of the proposed rules may be less than that of Rules 17a-3 and 17a-4. For the purposes of the
PRA, we assume that the recordkeeping burden, on average, for a funding portal to comply with
the proposed rules would be 50% of the burdens of a broker-dealer to comply with Rules 17a-3
and 17a-4 (although 50% may turn out to be a high estimate). We expect the ongoing
recordkeeping burden for funding portals would be the same as the initial burden because
maintaining such records would be consistent each year. Therefore, we estimate the initial
burden to be approximately 325 hours per respondent, 1105 or 16,250 hours total (325
hours/respondent x 50 respondents = 16,250 hours). We estimate that the ongoing recordkeeping
burden for funding portals would be approximately 325 hours per respondent, or 16,250 hours
total (325 hours/ respondent x 50 funding portals).
ii.

Cost

For purposes of the PRA, we assume that a funding portal’s initial recordkeeping cost
associated with making and keeping records by a funding portal would not be significantly
different from the ongoing recordkeeping cost because maintaining such records would be
consistent each year. The most recently approved annual recordkeeping cost for broker-dealer
compliance with Rule 17a-3 is currently estimated at $5,706.67 per respondent. These ongoing
recordkeeping costs reflect the costs of systems and equipment development. The most recently

1105

394.16 hours (recordkeeping burden for Rule 17a-3) + 254 hours (recordkeeping burden for Rule 17a-4) =
648.16 hours. 648.16 hours/2 = 324.08 hours.
460

approved annual recordkeeping cost for broker-dealer compliance with Rule 17a-4 is currently
estimated at $5,000 per respondent.
Given the more limited scope of a funding portal’s business as compared to that of a
broker, the more limited scope of the proposed books and records rules, and the fact that funding
portals would make, deliver (as required) and store records electronically, we expect the annual
recordkeeping cost of the proposed rule requirements may be less than that of Rules 17a-3 and
17a-4. For purposes of the PRA, we assume that the annual recordkeeping cost on average for a
funding portal to comply with the proposed requirements that records be made and kept would
be about 50% less than burdens of a broker-dealer to comply with Rules 17a-3 and 17a-4. We
expect the initial recordkeeping cost for funding portals, therefore, to be approximately $5,350
per respondent, 1106 or $267,500 total ($5,350 per respondent x 50 respondents = $267,500).
We also estimate that the ongoing recordkeeping cost for funding portals would be
approximately $5,350 per respondent, or $267,500 total ($5,350 per respondent x 50 respondents
= $267,500).
D.

Collections of Information are Mandatory

The collections of information required under proposed Rules 201 through 203 would be
mandatory for all issuers. The collections of information required under proposed Rules 300
through 304 would be mandatory for all intermediaries. The collections of information required
under proposed Rules 400 through 404 would be mandatory for all funding portals.

1106

$5,706.673 (recordkeeping cost for Rule 17a-3) + $5,000 (recordkeeping cost for Rule 17a-4) =
$10,706.673 multiplied by 50%.
461

E.

Confidentiality

Responses on Form C, Form C-A, Form C-U, Form C-AR and Form C-TR would not be
confidential. Responses on Form ID would be kept confidential by the Commission, subject to
a request under the Freedom of Information Act. 1107 Responses on Form Funding Portal would
not be confidential.
F.

Retention Period of Recordkeeping Requirements

Issuers are not subject to recordkeeping requirements under proposed Regulation
Crowdfunding. Intermediaries that are brokers would be required to retain records and
information relating to proposed Regulation Crowdfunding for the required retention periods
specified in Exchange Act Rule 17a-4. 1108 Intermediaries that are funding portals would be
required to retain records and information under proposed Regulation Crowdfunding for the
required retention periods specified in proposed Rule 404. 1109
G.

Request for Comment

The Commission invites comment on all of the above estimates. In particular, the
Commission requests comment on the assumptions and estimates described above with respect to
how issuers and intermediaries, especially funding portals, would comply with the proposed
information collection requests. Pursuant to 44 U.S.C. 3506(c)(2)(A), the Commission requests
comment in order to: (1) evaluate whether the proposed collections of information are necessary
for the proper performance of our functions, including whether the information would have
practical utility; (2) evaluate the accuracy of our estimate of the burden of the proposed
1107

5 U.S.C. 552. The Commission’s regulations that implement the Freedom of Information Act are at 17
CFR 200.80 et seq.

1108

17 CFR 240.17a-4.

1109

See proposed Rule 404 of Regulation Crowdfunding.
462

collections of information; (3) determine whether there are ways to enhance the quality, utility
and clarity of the information to be collected; and (4) evaluate whether there are ways to
minimize the burden of the proposed collections of information on those who respond, including
through the use of automated collection techniques or other forms of information technology.
Persons submitting comments on the proposed collection of information requirements
should direct their comments to the Office of Management and Budget, Attention: Desk Officer
for the Securities and Exchange Commission, Office of Information and Regulatory Affairs,
Washington, DC 20503, and should also send a copy of their comments to Elizabeth M. Murphy,
Secretary, Securities and Exchange Commission, 100 F Street, NE, Washington, DC 205491090, with reference to File No. S7-09-13. Requests for materials submitted to OMB by the
Commission, with regard to these collections of information, should be in writing, with reference
to File No. S7-09-13, and they should be submitted to the Securities and Exchange Commission,
Office of FOIA Services, 100 F Street, NE, Washington, DC 20549-2736. As OMB is required
to make a decision concerning the collections of information between 30 and 60 days after
publication, a comment to OMB is best assured of having its full effect if OMB receives it within
30 days of publication.
V.

Small Business Regulatory Enforcement Fairness Act
For purposes of the Small Business Regulatory Enforcement Fairness Act of 1996

(“SBREFA”), 1110 the Commission must advise the OMB as to whether the proposed rules
constitute a “major” rule. Under SBREFA, a rule is considered “major” when, if adopted, it

1110

Pub. L. No. 104-121, Title II, 110 Stat. 857 (1996) (codified in various Sections of 5 U.S.C., 15 U.S.C. and
as a note to 5 U.S.C. 601).
463

results or is likely to result in: (1) an annual effect on the economy of $100 million or more
(either in the form of an increase or a decrease); (2) a major increase in costs or prices for
consumers or individual industries; or (3) significant adverse effect on competition, investment
or innovation. If a rule is “major,” its effectiveness will generally be delayed for 60 days
pending Congressional review.
The Commission requests comment on the potential impact of the proposed rules on the
economy on an annual basis, any potential increase in costs or prices for consumers or individual
industries and any potential effect on competition, investment or innovation. Commenters are
requested to provide empirical data and other factual support for their view to the extent possible.
VI.

Initial Regulatory Flexibility Act Analysis
The Commission has prepared the following Initial Regulatory Flexibility Analysis

(“IRFA”), in accordance with the provisions of the Regulatory Flexibility Act, 1111 regarding
proposed Regulation Crowdfunding.
A.

Reasons for the Proposed Actions

The proposed regulation is designed to implement the requirements of Title III. Title III
added Securities Act Section 4(a)(6), which provides a new exemption from the registration
requirements of Securities Act Section 5 for crowdfunding transactions, provided the
transactions are conducted in the manner set forth in new Securities Act Section 4A. Section 4A
includes requirements for issuers that offer or sell securities in reliance on the crowdfunding
exemption, as well as for persons acting as intermediaries in those transactions. The proposed
rules prescribe requirements governing the offer and sale of securities in reliance on Section

1111

5 U.S.C. 603.
464

4(a)(6), and provide a framework for the regulation of registered funding portals and brokers that
act as intermediaries in the offer and sale of securities in reliance on Section 4(a)(6).
B.

Objectives

As discussed above, the crowdfunding provisions of the JOBS Act, which we would
implement through this proposed regulation, were designed to help alleviate the funding gap and
accompanying regulatory concerns faced by small businesses by making relatively low dollar
offerings of securities less costly and by providing crowdfunding platforms a means by which to
facilitate the offer and sale of securities without registering as brokers, with a framework for
regulatory oversight to protect investors.
C.

Small Entities Subject to the Proposed Rules

For purposes of the Regulatory Flexibility Act, under our rules, an issuer (other than an
investment company) is a “small business” or “small organization” if it has total assets of $5
million or less as of the end of its most recent fiscal year and is engaged or proposing to engage
in an offering of securities which does not exceed $5 million.1112 We believe that many issuers
seeking to offer and sell securities in reliance on Section 4(a)(6) would be at a very early stage of
their business development and would likely have total assets of $5 million or less. Also, to
qualify for the exemption under Section 4(a)(6), the amount raised by an issuer must not exceed
$1 million in a 12-month period. Therefore, we estimate that all issuers who offer or sell
securities in reliance on the exemption would be classified as a “small business” or “small
organization.”

1112

17 CFR 230.157.
465

Paragraph (a) of Rule 0-10 under the Exchange Act provides that, for purposes of the
Regulatory Flexibility Act, “[w]hen used with reference to a broker or dealer, the Commission
has defined the term “small entity” to mean a broker or dealer (“small broker-dealer” that: (1)
had total capital (net worth plus subordinated liabilities of less than $500,000 on the date in the
prior fiscal year as of which its audited financial statements were prepared pursuant to Rule 17a5(d) or, if not required to file such statements, a broker or dealer that had total capital (net worth
plus subordinated debt) of less than $500,000 on the last business day of the preceding fiscal
year (or in the time that it has been in business if shorter); and (2) is not affiliated with any
person (other than a natural person) that is not a small business or small organization as defined
in this release.” 1113 Currently, based on FOCUS Report 1114 data, there are 871 broker-dealers
that are classified as “small” entities for purposes of the Regulatory Flexibility Act. 1115 We
apply comparable criteria to funding portals that would register under the proposed regulation.
Based on discussions with industry participants, we estimate that, of the anticipated 50 funding
portals we expect to register under the proposed regulation, 30 would be classified as “small”
entities for purposes of the Regulatory Flexibility Act.
D.

Projected Reporting, Recordkeeping and other Compliance Requirements

As discussed above, the proposed regulation includes reporting, recordkeeping and other
compliance requirements. In particular, the proposed regulation would impose certain disclosure
requirements on issuers offering and selling securities in a transaction relying on the exemption

1113

17 CFR 240.0-10(c).

1114

FOCUS Reports, or “Financial and Operational Combined Uniform Single” Reports, are monthly,
quarterly, and annual reports that broker-dealers generally are required to file with the Commission and/or
self-regulatory organizations pursuant to Exchange Act Rule 17a-5 (17 CFR 240.17a-5).

1115

See 17 CFR 240.0-10(a).
466

provided by Section 4(a)(6). The proposed rules would require that issuers relying on the
exemption provided by Section 4(a)(6) file with the Commission certain specified information
about the issuer and the offering, including information about the issuer’s contact information;
directors, officers and certain beneficial owners; business and business plan; current number of
employees; financial condition; target offering amount and the deadline to reach the target
offering amount; use of proceeds from the offering and price or method for calculating the price
of the securities being offered; ownership and capital structure; material factors that make an
investment in the issuer speculative or risky; indebtedness; description of other offerings of
securities; and transactions with related parties. Issuers also would be required to file updates
with the Commission to describe the progress of the issuer in meeting the target offering amount.
Any issuer that sold securities in reliance on Section 4(a)(6) also would be required to file
annually with the Commission an annual report to update the previously provided disclosure
about the issuer’s contact information; directors, officers and certain beneficial owners; business
and business plan; current number of employees; financial condition; ownership and capital
structure; material factors that make an investment in the issuer speculative or risky;
indebtedness; description of other offerings of securities; and transactions with related parties.
Intermediaries would be required to register with the Commission as either brokers or as
funding portals pursuant to the proposed rules. Intermediaries also would be required to provide
quarterly reports to the Commission. Funding portals would be required to make and keep
certain records in accordance with the proposed rules. In addition, the proposed rules would
impose specific compliance requirements on intermediaries.
In proposing this regulation, the Commission took into account that the regulation, as
mandated in the JOBS Act, aimed to address difficulties encountered by issuers that are small
467

entities. Accordingly, the Commission designed the proposed rules for intermediaries, to the
extent possible, for small entities. We believe that the potential impact of the proposed
regulation on larger brokers and funding portals would be less than on small brokers and small
intermediaries. We believe that the reporting, recordkeeping and other compliance requirements
of the proposed regulation applicable to intermediaries would impact, in particular, small entities
that decide to register as funding portals. We believe that most of these requirements would be
performed by internal compliance personnel of the broker or funding portal, but we estimate that
at least one-third of funding portals may decide to hire outside counsel and third-party service
providers to assist in meeting the compliance requirements. For example, a funding portal may
decide to hire a third party to maintain records required by the proposed rules.
E.

Duplicative, Overlapping or Conflicting Federal Rules

The Commission believes that there are no federal rules that duplicate, overlap or conflict
with the proposed regulation or the proposed amendment to Rule 30-1 of our Rules of
Organization and Program Management.
F.

Significant Alternatives

Pursuant to Section 3(a) of the Regulatory Flexibility Act, 1116 the Commission must
consider certain types of alternatives, including: (1) the establishment of differing compliance or
reporting requirements or timetables that take into account the resources available to small
entities; (2) the clarification, consolidation or simplification of compliance and reporting
requirements under the rule for small entities; (3) the use of performance rather than design

1116

5 U.S.C. 603(c).
468

standards; and (4) an exemption from coverage of the rule, or any part of the rule, for small
entities.
1.

Issuers

The Commission considered whether it is necessary or appropriate to establish different
compliance or reporting requirements or timetables or to clarify, consolidate or simplify
compliance and reporting requirements under the proposed rules for small issuers. With respect
to using performance rather than design standards, the Commission used performance standards
to the extent appropriate under the statute. For example, issuers have the flexibility to customize
the presentation of certain disclosures in their offering statements. 1117 The Commission also
considered whether there should be an exemption from coverage of the rule, or any part of the
rule, for small issuers. However, because the proposed rules have been designed in the context
of crowdfunding, which focuses on the needs of issuers that are small entities, the Commission
believes that small issuers should be covered by the proposed rules. The Commission does not
believe it would be necessary to establish different compliance requirements for small issuers.
Having inconsistent requirements could undermine the objectives of the proposed rules.
2.

Intermediaries

The Commission also considered whether, for small brokers or small funding portals, it is
appropriate to establish different compliance, reporting or timing requirements, or whether to
clarify, consolidate or simplify those requirements in our proposed rules. While the proposed
rules are based in large part on existing compliance requirements applicable to registered
brokers, the Commission believes that it would not be necessary to establish different

1117

See Section II.B.3 above.
469

requirements for small entities (whether brokers or funding portals) that engage in crowdfunding.
The proposed rules have been tailored to the limited role intermediaries would play in offerings
made pursuant to Section 4(a)(6) (as compared to the wide range of services that a traditional
broker-dealer may provide). Therefore, we believe that the proposed rules are appropriate, and
properly cover all brokers and funding portals. The Commission believes that having separate
requirements for small entities (whether brokers or funding portals) could undermine the
objectives of the proposed requirements, and could lead to less regulatory clarity.
G.

Request for Comment

The Commission encourages written comments on matters discussed in this IRFA. In
particular, the Commission seeks comment on the number of small entities that would be
affected by the proposed rules and whether the effect on small entities would be economically
significant. Commenters are asked to describe the nature of any effect and to provide empirical
data to support their views.
VII.

STATUTORY AUTHORITY AND TEXT OF PROPOSED REGULATION
We are proposing the rules and forms contained in this document under the authority set

forth in the Securities Act, particularly, Sections 4(a)(6), 4A and 19 thereof, 15 U.S.C. 77a et
seq., the Exchange Act, particularly, Sections 3(b), 3(h), 10(b), 15, 17, 23(a) and 36 thereof, 15
U.S.C. 78a et seq., and Pub. L. No. 112-106, §301-305, 126 Stat. 306 (2012).
List of Subjects
17 CFR Part 200
Administrative practice and procedure, Authority delegations (Government agencies),
Organization and functions (Government agencies).
Reporting and recordkeeping requirements.
470

17 CFR Part 227
Crowdfunding, Funding Portals, Intermediaries, Reporting and recordkeeping
requirements, Securities.
17 CFR Parts 232 and 239
Reporting and recordkeeping requirements, Securities.
17 CFR Part 240
Brokers, Confidential business information, Fraud, Reporting and recordkeeping
requirements, Securities.
17 CFR Part 249
Brokers, Reporting and recordkeeping requirements, Securities.
In accordance with the foregoing, we propose to amend Title 17, Chapter II of the Code
of Federal Regulations as follows:
PART 200 – ORGANIZATION; CONDUCT AND ETHICS; AND INFORMATION AND
REQUESTS
Subpart A – Organization and Program Management
1.

The authority citation for Part 200, Subpart A, continues to read, in part as

follows: Authority: 15 U.S.C. 77o, 77s, 77sss, 78d, 78d-1, 78d-2, 78w, 78ll(d), 78mm, 80a-37,
80b-11, 7202, and 7211 et seq., unless otherwise noted.
*****

2.

Amend § 200.30-1 by:

a. Redesignating paragraphs (d), (e), (f), (g), (h), (i), (j) and (k) as paragraphs (e), (f), (g),
(h), (i), (j), (k) and (l), respectively; and
b. Adding new paragraph (d).
471

The addition reads as follows:
§ 200.30-1 Delegation of authority to Director of Division of Corporation Finance.
*

*

*

*

*

(d) With respect to the Securities Act of 1933 (15 U.S.C. 77a et seq.) and Regulation
Crowdfunding thereunder (§§ 227.100 through 227.503 of this chapter), to authorize the granting
of applications under § 227.503(b)(2) of this chapter upon the showing of good cause that it is
not necessary under the circumstances that the exemption under Regulation Crowdfunding be
denied.
*
3.

*

*

*

*

Part 227 is added to read as follows:

PART 227—REGULATION CROWDFUNDING, GENERAL RULES AND
REGULATIONS
Sec.
Subpart A General
227.100 Crowdfunding exemption and requirements.
Subpart B Requirements for Issuers
227.201 Disclosure requirements.
227.202 Ongoing reporting requirements.
227.203 Filing requirements and form.
227.204 Advertising.
227.205 Promoter compensation.
Subpart C Requirements for Intermediaries
227.300 Intermediaries.
227.301 Measures to reduce risk of fraud.
472

227.302 Account opening.
227.303 Requirements with respect to transactions.
227.304 Completion of offerings, cancellations and reconfirmations.
227.305 Payments to third parties.
Subpart D Funding Portal Regulation
227.400 Registration of funding portals.
227.401 Exemption.
227.402 Conditional safe harbor.
227.403 Compliance.
227.404 Records to be made and kept by funding portals.
Subpart E Miscellaneous Provisions
227.501 Restrictions on resales.
227.502 Insignificant deviations from a term, condition or requirement of Regulation
Crowdfunding.
227.503 Disqualification.
Authority: 15 U.S.C. 77d, 77d-1, 77s, 78c, 78o, 78q, 78w, 78mm, and Pub. L. No.
112-106, §301-305, 126 Stat. 306 (2012), unless otherwise noted.
SUBPART A – General
§ 227.100 Crowdfunding exemption and requirements.
(a) Exemption. An issuer may offer and sell securities in reliance on Section 4(a)(6) of
the Securities Act of 1933 (the “Securities Act”) (15 U.S.C. 77d(a)(6)), provided that:
(1) The aggregate amount of securities sold to all investors by the issuer in reliance on
Section 4(a)(6) of the Securities Act (15 U.S.C. 77d(a)(6)) during the 12-month period preceding
473

the date of such offer or sale, including the securities offered in such transaction, shall not exceed
$1,000,000;
(2) The aggregate amount of securities sold to any investor by any issuer in reliance on
Section 4(a)(6) of the Securities Act (15 U.S.C. 77d(a)(6)) during the 12-month period preceding
the date of such transaction, including the securities sold to such investor in such transaction,
shall not exceed the greater of:
(i) $2,000 or 5 percent of annual income or net worth of the investor, whichever is
greater, if both the annual income and net worth are less than $100,000; and
(ii) 10 percent of annual income or net worth of the investor, whichever is greater, not to
exceed an amount sold of $100,000, if either the annual income or net worth of the investor is
equal to or more than $100,000;
Instruction 1 to paragraph (a)(2). To determine the investment limit for a natural person,
the person’s annual income and net worth shall be calculated as those values are calculated for
purposes of determining accredited investor status in accordance with 17 CFR 230.501.
Instruction 2 to paragraph (a)(2). The person’s annual income and net worth may be
calculated jointly with the annual income and net worth of the person’s spouse.
Instruction 3 to paragraph (a)(2). An issuer offering and selling securities in reliance on
Section 4(a)(6) of the Securities Act (15 U.S.C. 77d(a)(6)) may rely on the efforts an
intermediary is required to undertake pursuant to § 227.303(b) to ensure that the aggregate
amount of securities purchased by an investor in offerings pursuant to Section 4(a)(6) of the
Securities Act will not cause the investor to exceed the limit set forth in Section 4(a)(6) of the
Securities Act and § 227.100(a)(2), provided that the issuer does not know that the investor had
exceeded the investor limits or would exceed the investor limits as a result of purchasing
474

securities in the issuer’s offering.
(3) The transaction is conducted through an intermediary that complies with the
requirements in Section 4A(a) of the Securities Act (15 U.S.C. 77d-1(a)) and the related
requirements in Regulation Crowdfunding (§§ 227.100 et seq.), and the transaction is conducted
exclusively through the intermediary’s platform; and
Instruction 1 to paragraph (a)(3). An issuer shall not conduct an offering or concurrent
offerings in reliance on Section 4(a)(6) of the Securities Act of 1933 (15 U.S.C. 77d(a)(6)) using
more than one intermediary.
Instruction 2 to paragraph (a)(3). An intermediary through which a crowdfunding
transaction is conducted may engage in back office or other administrative functions other than
on the intermediary’s platform.
(4) The issuer complies with the requirements in Section 4A(b) of the Securities Act (15
U.S.C. 77d-1(b)) and the related requirements in this part.
(b) Applicability. The crowdfunding exemption shall not apply to transactions involving
the offer or sale of securities by any issuer that:
(1) Is not organized under, and subject to, the laws of a State or territory of the United
States or the District of Columbia;
(2) Is subject to the requirement to file reports pursuant to Section 13 or Section 15(d) of
the Securities Exchange Act of 1934 (the “Exchange Act”) (15 U.S.C. 78m or 78o(d));
(3) Is an investment company, as defined in Section 3 of the Investment Company Act of
1940 (15 U.S.C. 80a-3), or is excluded from the definition of investment company by Section
3(b) or Section 3(c) of that Act (15 U.S.C. 80a-3(b) or 80a-3(c));
(4) Is not eligible to offer or sell securities in reliance on Section 4(a)(6) of the Securities
475

Act (15 U.S.C. 77d(a)(6)) as a result of a disqualification as specified in § 227.503(a);
(5) Has sold securities in reliance on Section 4(a)(6) of the Securities Act (15 U.S.C.
77d(a)(6)) and has not filed with the Commission and provided to investors, to the extent
required, the ongoing annual reports required by this part during the two years immediately
preceding the filing of the required offering statement; or
(6) Has no specific business plan or has indicated that its business plan is to engage in a
merger or acquisition with an unidentified company or companies.
(c) Issuer. For purposes of this part, issuer includes all entities controlled by or under
common control with the issuer. It also includes any predecessor of the issuer.
Instruction to paragraph (c). An entity is controlled by or under common control with
the issuer if the issuer possesses, directly or indirectly, the power to direct or cause the direction
of the management and policies of the entity, whether through the ownership of voting securities,
by contract or otherwise.
(d) Platform. For purposes of this part, platform means an Internet website or other
similar electronic medium through which a registered broker or a registered funding portal acts
as an intermediary in a transaction involving the offer or sale of securities in reliance on Section
4(a)(6) of the Securities Act (15 U.S.C. 77d(a)(6)).
SUBPART B – Requirements for Issuers
§ 227.201 Disclosure requirements.
An issuer offering or selling securities in reliance on Section 4(a)(6) of the Securities Act
(15 U.S.C. 77d(a)(6)) and in accordance with Section 4A of the Securities Act (15 U.S.C. 77d-1)
and this part must file with the Commission on the Electronic Data Gathering, Analysis, and

476

Retrieval system (EDGAR), provide to investors and the relevant intermediary, and make
available to potential investors the following information:
(a) The name, legal status (including its form of organization, jurisdiction in which it is
organized and date of organization), physical address and website of the issuer;
(b) The names of the directors and officers (and any persons occupying a similar status or
performing a similar function) of the issuer, all positions and offices with the issuer held by such
persons, the period of time in which such persons served in the position or office and their
business experience during the past three years, including:
(1) Each person’s principal occupation and employment, including whether any officer is
employed by another employer; and
(2) The name and principal business of any corporation or other organization in which
such occupation and employment took place.
Instruction to paragraph (b). For purposes of this paragraph (b), the term officer means a
president, vice president, secretary, treasurer or principal financial officer, comptroller or
principal accounting officer, and any person routinely performing corresponding functions with
respect to any organization, whether incorporated or unincorporated.
(c) The name of each person, as of the most recent practicable date, who is a beneficial
owner of 20 percent or more of the issuer’s outstanding voting equity securities, calculated on
the basis of voting power;
(d) A description of the business of the issuer and the anticipated business plan of the
issuer;
(e) The current number of employees of the issuer;

477

(f) A discussion of the material factors that make an investment in the issuer speculative
or risky;
(g) The target offering amount and the deadline to reach the target offering amount,
including a statement that if the sum of the investment commitments does not equal or exceed
the target offering amount at the offering deadline, no securities will be sold in the offering,
investment commitments will be cancelled and committed funds will be returned;
(h) Whether the issuer will accept investments in excess of the target offering amount
and, if so, the maximum amount that the issuer will accept and whether oversubscriptions will be
allocated on a pro-rata, first come-first served, or other basis;
(i) A description of the purpose and intended use of the offering proceeds;
Instruction to paragraph (i). An issuer must identify any intended use of proceeds and
provide a reasonably detailed description of such intended use, such that investors are provided
with an adequate amount of information to understand how the offering proceeds will be used. If
an issuer has identified a range of possible uses, the issuer should identify and describe each
probable use and the factors impacting the selection of each particular use. If the issuer will
accept proceeds in excess of the target offering amount, the issuer must describe the stated
purpose and intended use of the excess proceeds with similar specificity.
(j) A description of the process to complete the transaction or cancel an investment
commitment, including a statement that:
(1) Investors may cancel an investment commitment until 48 hours prior to the deadline
identified in the issuer’s offering materials;
(2) The intermediary will notify investors when the target offering amount has been met;

478

(3) If an issuer reaches the target offering amount prior to the deadline identified in its
offering materials, it may close the offering early if it provides notice about the new offering
deadline at least five business days prior to such new offering deadline (absent a material change
that would require an extension of the offering and reconfirmation of the investment
commitment); and
(4) If an investor does not cancel an investment commitment before the 48-hour period
prior to the offering deadline, the funds will be released to the issuer upon closing of the offering
and the investor will receive securities in exchange for his or her investment;
(k) A statement that if an investor does not reconfirm his or her investment commitment
after a material change is made to the offering, the investor’s investment commitment will be
cancelled and the committed funds will be returned;
(l) The price to the public of the securities or the method for determining the price,
provided that, prior to any sale of securities, each investor shall be provided in writing the final
price and all required disclosures;
(m) A description of the ownership and capital structure of the issuer, including:
(1) The terms of the securities being offered and each other class of security of the issuer,
including the number of securities being offered and/or outstanding, whether or not such
securities have voting rights, any limitations on such voting rights, how the terms of the
securities being offered may be modified and a summary of the differences between such
securities and each other class of security of the issuer, and how the rights of the securities being
offered may be materially limited, diluted or qualified by the rights of any other class of security
of the issuer;

479

(2) A description of how the exercise of the rights held by the principal shareholders of
the issuer could affect the purchasers of the securities being offered;
(3) The name and ownership level of each person, as of the most recent practicable date,
who is the beneficial owner of 20 percent or more of the issuer’s outstanding voting equity
securities, calculated on the basis of voting power;
(4) How the securities being offered are being valued, and examples of methods for how
such securities may be valued by the issuer in the future, including during subsequent corporate
actions;
(5) The risks to purchasers of the securities relating to minority ownership in the issuer
and the risks associated with corporate actions including additional issuances of securities, issuer
repurchases of securities, a sale of the issuer or of assets of the issuer or transactions with related
parties; and
(6) A description of the restrictions on transfer of the securities, as set forth in § 227.501;
(n) The name, Commission file number and Central Registration Depository (CRD)
number (as applicable) of the intermediary through which the offering is being conducted;
(o) The amount of compensation paid to the intermediary for conducting the offering,
including the amount of referral and any other fees associated with the offering;
(p) A description of the material terms of any indebtedness of the issuer, including the
amount, interest rate, maturity date and any other material terms;
(q) A description of exempt offerings conducted within the past three years;
Instruction to paragraph (q). In providing a description of any prior exempt offerings,
disclose:
(1) The date of the offering;
480

(2) The offering exemption relied upon;
(3) The type of securities offered; and
(4) The amount of securities sold and the use of proceeds.
(r) A description of any transaction since the beginning of the issuer’s last full fiscal year,
or any currently proposed transaction, to which the issuer or any entities controlled by or under
common control with the issuer was or is to be a party and the amount involved exceeds five
percent of the aggregate amount of capital raised by the issuer in reliance on Section 4(a)(6) of
the Securities Act (15 U.S.C. 77d(a)(6)) during the preceding 12-month period, inclusive of the
amount the issuer seeks to raise in the current offering under Section 4(a)(6) of the Securities
Act, in which any of the following persons had or is to have a direct or indirect material interest:
(1) Any director or officer of the issuer;
(2) Any person who is, as of the most recent practicable date, the beneficial owner of 20
percent or more of the issuer’s outstanding voting equity securities, calculated on the basis of
voting power;
(3) If the issuer was incorporated or organized within the past three years, any promoter
of the issuer;
(4) Any immediate family member of any of the foregoing persons, which means any
child, stepchild, parent, stepparent, spouse, sibling, mother-in-law, father-in-law, son-in-law,
daughter-in-law, brother-in-law, or sister-in-law of the person, and any persons (other than a
tenant or employee) sharing the household of the person;
Instruction to paragraph (r). For each transaction identified, disclose the name of the
specified person and state his or her relationship to the issuer, the nature of his or her interest in
the transaction and, where practicable, the approximate amount of the interest of such specified
481

person. The amount of such interest shall be computed without regard to the amount of the profit
or loss involved in the transaction. Where it is not practicable to state the approximate amount of
the interest, the approximate amount involved in the transaction shall be disclosed.
(s) A description of the financial condition of the issuer;
Instruction to paragraph (s). In providing a description of the issuer’s financial
condition, provide a discussion, to the extent material, of the issuer’s historical results of
operations, liquidity and capital resources. For issuers with no prior operating history, the
description should include a discussion of financial milestones and operational, liquidity and
other challenges. For issuers with an operating history, the discussion should address whether
historical earnings and cash flows are representative of what investors should expect in the
future. Issuers should take into account the proceeds of the offering and any other known or
pending sources of capital. Issuers should also discuss how the proceeds from the offering will
impact the issuer’s liquidity and the necessity of receiving these funds and any other additional
funds to the viability of the business. In addition, issuers should describe the other available
sources of capital to the business, such as lines of credit or required contributions by
shareholders.
(t) For offerings that, together with all other offerings of the issuer under Section 4(a)(6)
of the Securities Act (15 U.S.C. 77d(a)(6)) within the preceding 12-month period, have, in the
aggregate, target offering amounts of:
(1) $100,000 or less, the income tax returns filed by the issuer for the most recently
completed year (if any) and financial statements of the issuer, which shall be certified by the
principal executive officer of the issuer to be true and complete in all material respects;

482

(2) More than $100,000, but not more than $500,000, financial statements reviewed by a
public accountant who is independent of the issuer, using the Statements on Standards for
Accounting and Review Services issued by the Accounting and Review Services Committee of
the American Institute of Certified Public Accountants; and
(3) More than $500,000, financial statements audited by a public accountant who is
independent of the issuer, using auditing standards issued by either the American Institute of
Certified Public Accountants or the Public Company Accounting Oversight Board;
Instruction 1 to paragraph (t). To determine the financial statements that would be
required under paragraph (t), an issuer would aggregate amounts offered and sold in reliance on
Section 4(a)(6) of the Securities Act (15 U.S.C. 77d(a)(6)) within the preceding 12-month period
and the offering amount in the offering for which disclosure is being provided. If the issuer will
accept proceeds in excess of the target offering amount, the issuer must include in the calculation
to determine the financial statements that would be required under paragraph (t) the maximum
offering amount that the issuer will accept.
Instruction 2 to paragraph (t). The financial statements required by paragraphs (t)(1),
(t)(2) and (t)(3) of this section would include a balance sheet, income statement, statement of
cash flows and statement of changes in owners’ equity and notes to the financial statements
prepared in accordance with U.S. generally accepted accounting principles (U.S. GAAP). The
required financial statements must cover the shorter of the two most recently completed fiscal
years or the period since inception.
Instruction 3 to paragraph (t). An issuer shall redact personally identifiable information
from any tax returns required to be provided under paragraph (t)(1) of this section. Issuers
offering securities in a transaction in reliance on Section 4(a)(6) of the Securities Act (15 U.S.C.
483

77d(a)(6)) before filing a tax return with the U.S. Internal Revenue Service for the most recently
completed fiscal year may use the tax return filed with the U.S. Internal Revenue Service for the
prior year (if any), provided that the issuer uses the tax return for the most recent fiscal year
when it is filed, if filed during the offering period.
Instruction 4 to paragraph (t). With respect to the financial statements required by
paragraph (t)(1) of this section, an issuer’s principal executive officer must provide the following
certification in the Form C – Offering Statement (§ 239.900 of this chapter):
I, [identify the certifying individual], certify that the financial statements of [identify the
issuer] included in this Form are true and complete in all material respects. [Signature
and title].
Instruction 5 to paragraph (t). A copy of the public accountant’s review report must
accompany the financial statements required by paragraph (t)(2) of this section.
Instruction 6 to paragraph (t). A copy of the audit report must accompany financial
statements required by paragraph (t)(3) of this section. An issuer will be in compliance with the
requirement to provide audited financial statements if the issuer received an unqualified or a
qualified opinion, but it will not be in compliance with the requirement if it received an adverse
opinion or a disclaimer of opinion.
Instruction 7 to paragraph (t). To qualify as an independent public accountant for
purposes of paragraphs (t)(2) and (t)(3) of this section, the accountant must satisfy the
independence requirements in Rule 2-01 of Regulation S-X (17 CFR 210.2-01).
Instruction 8 to paragraph (t). An issuer may conduct an offering in reliance on Section
4(a)(6) of the Securities Act (15 U.S.C. 77d(a)(6)) using financial statements for the fiscal year
prior to the issuer’s most recently completed fiscal year, provided that the issuer was not
484

otherwise already required to update the financial statements pursuant to § 227.202 and updated
financial statements are not otherwise available. If more than 120 days have passed since the
end of the issuer’s most recently completed fiscal year, the issuer must use financial statements
for its most recently completed fiscal year.
Instruction 9 to paragraph (t). An issuer must include a discussion of any material
changes in the financial condition of the issuer during any time period subsequent to the period
for which financial statements are provided, including changes in reported revenue or net
income.
Instruction 10 to paragraph (t). An issuer may voluntarily provide financial statements
that meet the requirements for a higher aggregate target offering amount, even if the aggregate
amounts sold in reliance on Section 4(a)(6) of the Securities Act (15 U.S.C. 77d(a)(6)) within the
preceding 12-month period do not require it.
(u) Any matters that would have triggered disqualification under § 227.503(a) had they
occurred on or after [effective date of final rule]. The failure to furnish such disclosure timely
shall not prevent an issuer from continuing to rely on the exemption provided by Section 4(a)(6)
of the Securities Act (15 U.S.C. 77d(a)(6)) if the issuer establishes that it did not know and, in
the exercise of reasonable care, could not have known of the existence of the undisclosed matter
or matters; and
Instruction to paragraph (u). An issuer will not be able to establish that it has exercised
reasonable care unless it has made factual inquiry into whether any disqualifications exist. The
nature and scope of the factual inquiry will vary based on the facts and circumstances
concerning, among other things, the issuer and the other offering participants.

485

(v) Updates regarding the progress of the issuer in meeting the target offering amount, to
be provided in accordance with § 227.203.
§ 227.202 Ongoing reporting requirements.
(a) An issuer that has offered and sold securities in reliance on Section 4(a)(6) of the
Securities Act (15 U.S.C. 77d(a)(6)) and in accordance with Section 4A of the Securities Act (15
U.S.C. 77d-1) and this part must file with the Commission on EDGAR and post on the issuer’s
website an annual report of its results of operations as described in § 227.201(s) and financial
statements of the issuer for the highest aggregate target offering amount previously provided
under § 227.201(t). The report also must include the disclosure required by paragraphs (a), (b),
(c), (d), (e), (f), (m), (p), (q), and (r) of § 227.201. The report must be filed in accordance with
the requirements of § 227.203 and Form C (§ 239.900 of this chapter) and no later than 120 days
after the end of the fiscal year covered by the report.
(b) An issuer must continue to comply with the ongoing reporting requirements until:
(1) The issuer becomes a reporting company required to file reports under Section 13(a)
or Section 15(d) of the Exchange Act (15 U.S.C. 78m(a) or 78o(d));
(2) The issuer or another party repurchases all of the securities issued in reliance on
Section 4(a)(6) of the Securities Act (15 U.S.C. 77d(a)(6)), including any payment in full of debt
securities or any complete redemption of redeemable securities; or
(3) The issuer liquidates or dissolves its business in accordance with state law.
§ 227.203 Filing requirements and form.
(a) Form C – Offering Statement and Amendments (§ 239.900 of this chapter).
(1) Offering Statement. An issuer offering or selling securities in reliance on Section
4(a)(6) of the Securities Act (15 U.S.C. 77d(a)(6)) and in accordance with Section 4A of the
486

Securities Act (15 U.S.C. 77d-1) and this part must file with the Commission on EDGAR,
provide to investors and the relevant intermediary, and make available to potential investors a
Form C: Offering Statement (Form C) (§ 239.900 of this chapter) prior to the commencement of
the offering of securities. The Form C must include the information required by § 227.201 of
Regulation Crowdfunding
Instruction to paragraph (a)(1). An issuer shall input the following information in the
XML-based portion of Form C (§ 239.900 of this chapter): name, legal status and contact
information of the issuer; name, Commission file number and CRD number (as applicable) of the
intermediary through which the offering will be conducted; amount of compensation paid to the
intermediary, including the amount of referral and other fees associated with the offering; type of
security offered; number of securities offered; offering price; target offering amount and
maximum offering amount (if different from the target offering amount); whether
oversubscriptions will be accepted and, if so, how they will be allocated; deadline to reach the
target offering amount; current number of employees; and selected financial data for the prior
two fiscal years (including total assets, cash and cash equivalents, accounts receivable, shortterm debt, long-term debt, revenues/sales, cost of goods sold, taxes paid and net income).
(2) Amendments to Offering Statement. An issuer must file with the Commission on
EDGAR, provide to investors and the relevant intermediary, and make available to potential
investors an amendment to the offering statement filed on Form C (§ 239.900 of this chapter) to
disclose any material changes, additions or updates to information that it provides to investors
through the intermediary’s platform, only if the offering has not yet been completed or
terminated. The amendment must be filed on Form C: Amendment (Form C-A) (§ 239.900 of
this chapter), and if the amendment reflects material changes, additions or updates, the issuer
487

shall check the box indicating that investors must reconfirm an investment commitment within
five business days or the investor’s commitment will be considered withdrawn.
Instruction to paragraph (a)(2). An issuer may file an amendment on Form C-A (§
239.900 of this chapter) to reflect changes, additions or updates that it considers not material, and
in such circumstance, an issuer should not check the box indicating that investors must reconfirm
the investment commitment within five business days.
(3) Progress Updates. An issuer must file with the Commission on EDGAR, provide to
investors and the relevant intermediary, and make available to potential investors a Form C:
Progress Update (Form C-U) (§ 239.900 of this chapter) to disclose its progress in meeting the
target offering amount no later than five business days after the issuer reaches one-half and 100
percent of the target offering amount. If the issuer will accept proceeds in excess of the target
offering amount, the issuer must file with the Commission on EDGAR, provide to investors and
the relevant intermediary, and make available to potential investors, no later than five business
days after the offering deadline, a final Form C-U to disclose the total amount of securities sold
in the offering.
Instruction 1 to paragraph (a)(3). An issuer shall input the progress update in the XMLbased portion of Form C-U (§ 239.900 of this chapter).
Instruction 2 to paragraph (a)(3). If multiple Forms C-U (§ 239.900 of this chapter) are
triggered within the same five business day period, the issuer may consolidate such progress
updates into one Form C-U, so long as the Form C-U discloses the most recent threshold that
was met and the Form C-U is filed with the Commission on EDGAR, provided to investors and
the relevant intermediary, and made available to potential investors by the day on which the first
progress update is due.
488

Instruction 1 to paragraph (a). An issuer would satisfy the requirement to provide to the
relevant intermediary the information required by § 227.203(a) if the issuer provides to the
relevant intermediary a copy of the disclosures filed with the Commission on EDGAR.
Instruction 2 to paragraph (a). An issuer would satisfy the requirement to provide to
investors and to make available to potential investors the information required by § 227.203(a) if
the issuer refers investors to the information on the intermediary’s platform by means of a
posting on the issuer’s website or by e-mail.
(b) Form C: Annual Report (§ 239.900 of this chapter). (1) An issuer that sold securities
in reliance on Section 4(a)(6) of the Securities Act (15 U.S.C. 77d(a)(6)) and in accordance with
Section 4A of the Securities Act (15 U.S.C. 77d-1) and this part must file an annual report on
Form C: Annual Report (Form C-AR) (§ 239.900 of this chapter) with the Commission no later
than 120 days after the end of the fiscal year covered by the report. The annual report shall
include the information required by § 227.202(a).
Instruction to paragraph (b)(1). An issuer shall input the following information in the
XML-based portion of Form C-AR (§ 239.900 of this chapter): name, legal status and contact
information of the issuer; current number of employees; and selected financial data for the prior
two fiscal years (including total assets, cash and cash equivalents, accounts receivable, shortterm debt, long-term debt, revenues/sales, cost of goods sold, taxes paid and net income).
(2) An issuer eligible to terminate its obligation to file annual reports with the
Commission pursuant to § 227.202(b) must file, within five business days from the date on
which the issuer becomes eligible to terminate is reporting obligation, Form C: Termination of
Reporting (Form C-TR) (§ 239.900 of this chapter) with the Commission to advise investors that
the issuer will cease reporting pursuant to this part.
489

§ 227.204 Advertising.
(a) An issuer may not advertise directly or indirectly the terms of an offering made in
reliance on Section 4(a)(6) of the Securities Act (15 U.S.C. 77d(a)(6)), except for notices that
direct investors to the intermediary’s platform.
(b) A notice regarding the terms of an issuer’s offering in reliance on Section 4(a)(6) of
the Securities Act (15 U.S.C. 77d(a)(6)) that directs investors to the intermediary’s platform may
include no more than the following:
(1) A statement that the issuer is conducting an offering pursuant to Section 4(a)(6) of the
Securities Act (15 U.S.C. 77d(a)(6)), the name of the intermediary through which the offering is
being conducted and a link directing the potential investor to the intermediary’s platform;
(2) The terms of the offering; and
(3) Factual information about the legal identity and business location of the issuer,
limited to the name of the issuer of the security, the address, phone number and website of the
issuer, the e-mail address of a representative of the issuer and a brief description of the business
of the issuer.
(c) Notwithstanding the prohibition on advertising the terms of the offering, an issuer
may communicate with investors and potential investors about the terms of the offering through
communication channels provided by the intermediary on the intermediary’s platform, provided
that an issuer identifies itself as the issuer in all communications.
Instruction to § 227.204. For purposes of this section, terms of the offering means the
amount of securities offered, the nature of the securities, the price of the securities and the
closing date of the offering period.
§ 227.205 Promoter compensation.
490

(a) An issuer shall be permitted to compensate or commit to compensate, directly or
indirectly, any person to promote its offerings in reliance on Section 4(a)(6) of the Securities Act
(15 U.S.C. 77d(a)(6)) through communication channels provided by an intermediary on the
intermediary’s platform, but only if the issuer takes reasonable steps to ensure that such person
clearly discloses the receipt, past or prospective, of such compensation with any such
communication. A founder or an employee of the issuer that engages in promotional activities
on behalf of the issuer through the communication channels provided by the intermediary must
disclose, with each posting, that he or she is engaging in those activities on behalf of the issuer.
(b) Other than as set forth in paragraph (a) of this section, an issuer shall not compensate
or commit to compensate, directly or indirectly, any person to promote its offerings in reliance
on Section 4(a)(6) of the Securities Act (15 U.S.C. 77d(a)(6)), unless such promotion is limited
to notices permitted by, and in compliance with, § 227.204.
SUBPART C – Requirements for Intermediaries
§ 227.300 Intermediaries.
(a) Requirements. A person acting as an intermediary in a transaction involving the offer
or sale of securities in reliance on Section 4(a)(6) of the Securities Act (15 U.S.C. 77d(a)(6))
must:
(1) Be registered with the Commission as a broker under Section 15(b) of the Exchange
Act (15 U.S.C. 78o(b)) or as a funding portal in accordance with the requirements of § 227.400;
and
(2) Be a member of the Financial Industry Regulatory Authority or any other applicable
national securities association registered under Section 15A of the Exchange Act (15 U.S.C. 78o3).
491

(b) Prohibitions. An intermediary and any director, officer or partner, or any person
occupying a similar status or performing a similar function may not have a financial interest in
an issuer that is offering or selling securities in reliance on Section 4(a)(6) of the Securities Act
(15 U.S.C. 77d(a)(6)) through the intermediary’s platform, or receive a financial interest in an
issuer as compensation for the services provided to or for the benefit of the issuer in connection
with the offer or sale of such securities. For purposes of this paragraph, a financial interest in an
issuer means a direct or indirect ownership of, or economic interest in, any class of the issuer’s
securities.
(c) Definitions. For purposes of this part:
(1) Associated person of a funding portal or person associated with a funding portal
means any partner, officer, director or manager of a funding portal (or any person occupying a
similar status or performing similar functions), any person directly or indirectly controlling or
controlled by such funding portal, or any employee of a funding portal, except that any person
associated with a funding portal whose functions are solely clerical or ministerial shall not be
included in the meaning of such term for purposes of Section 15(b) of the Exchange Act (15
U.S.C. 78o(b)) (other than paragraphs (4) and (6) thereof).
(2) Funding portal means a broker acting as an intermediary in a transaction involving
the offer or sale of securities in reliance on Section 4(a)(6) of the Securities Act (15 U.S.C.
77d(a)(6)), that does not:
(i) Offer investment advice or recommendations;
(ii) Solicit purchases, sales or offers to buy the securities displayed on its platform;
(iii) Compensate employees, agents, or other persons for such solicitation or based on the
sale of securities displayed or referenced on its platform; or
492

(iv) Hold, manage, possess, or otherwise handle investor funds or securities.
(3) Intermediary means a broker registered under Section 15(b) of the Exchange Act (15
U.S.C. 78o(b)) or a funding portal registered under § 227.400 and includes, where relevant, an
associated person of the registered broker or registered funding portal.
(4) Investor refers to any investor or any potential investor, as the context requires.
(5) Self-regulatory organization or SRO has the meaning as defined in Section 3(a)(26) of
the Exchange Act (15 U.S.C. 78c(a)(26)), and includes the Financial Industry Regulatory
Authority (FINRA) and any other national securities association registered with the Commission.
§ 227.301 Measures to reduce risk of fraud.
An intermediary in a transaction involving the offer or sale of securities in reliance on
Section 4(a)(6) of the Securities Act (15 U.S.C. 77d(a)(6)) must:
(a) Have a reasonable basis for believing that an issuer seeking to offer and sell securities
in reliance on Section 4(a)(6) of the Securities Act (15 U.S.C. 77d(a)(6)) through the
intermediary’s platform complies with the requirements in Section 4A(b) of the Act (15 U.S.C.
77d-1(b)) and the related requirements in this part. In satisfying this requirement, an
intermediary may rely on the representations of the issuer concerning compliance with these
requirements unless the intermediary has reason to question the reliability of those
representations;
(b) Have a reasonable basis for believing that the issuer has established means to keep
accurate records of the holders of the securities it would offer and sell through the intermediary’s
platform. In satisfying this requirement, an intermediary may rely on the representations of the
issuer concerning compliance with this requirement unless the intermediary has reason to
question the reliability of those representations.
493

(c) Deny access to its platform to an issuer if the intermediary:
(1) Has a reasonable basis for believing that the issuer or any of its officers, directors (or
any person occupying a similar status or performing a similar function) or beneficial owners of
20 percent or more of the issuer’s outstanding voting equity securities, calculated on the basis of
voting power, is subject to a disqualification under § 227.503. In satisfying this requirement, an
intermediary must, at a minimum, conduct a background and securities enforcement regulatory
history check on each issuer whose securities are to be offered by the intermediary and on each
officer, director or beneficial owner of 20 percent or more of the issuer’s outstanding voting
equity securities, calculated on the basis of voting power.
(2) Believes that the issuer or the offering presents the potential for fraud or otherwise
raises concerns regarding investor protection. In satisfying this requirement, an intermediary
must deny access if it believes that it is unable to adequately or effectively assess the risk of
fraud of the issuer or its potential offering. In addition, if an intermediary becomes aware of
information after it has granted access that causes it to believe that the issuer or the offering
presents the potential for fraud or otherwise raises concerns regarding investor protection, the
intermediary must promptly remove the offering from its platform, cancel the offering, and
return (or, for funding portals, direct the return of) any funds that have been committed by
investors in the offering.
§ 227.302 Account opening.
(a) Accounts and Electronic Delivery. (1) No intermediary or associated person of an
intermediary may accept an investment commitment in a transaction involving the offer or sale
of securities in reliance on Section 4(a)(6) of the Securities Act (15 U.S.C. 77d(a)(6)) until the

494

investor has opened an account with the intermediary and the intermediary has obtained from the
investor consent to electronic delivery of materials.
(2) An intermediary must provide all information that is required to be provided by the
intermediary under Subpart C (§§ 227.300-305), including, but not limited to, educational
materials, notices and confirmations, through electronic means. Unless otherwise indicated in
the relevant rule of Subpart C, in satisfying this requirement, an intermediary must provide the
information through an electronic message that contains the information, through an electronic
message that includes a specific link to the information as posted on intermediary’s platform, or
through an electronic message that provides notice of what the information is and that it is
located on the intermediary’s platform or on the issuer’s website. Electronic messages include,
but are not limited to, e-mail messages.
(b) Educational Materials. (1) In connection with establishing an account for an
investor, an intermediary must deliver educational materials to such investor that explain in plain
language and are otherwise designed to communicate effectively and accurately:
(i) The process for the offer, purchase and issuance of securities through the intermediary
and the risks associated with purchasing securities offered and sold in reliance on Section 4(a)(6)
of the Securities Act (15 U.S.C. 77d(a)(6));
(ii) The types of securities offered and sold in reliance on Section 4(a)(6) of the Securities
Act (15 U.S.C. 77d(a)(6)) available for purchase on the intermediary’s platform and the risks
associated with each type of security, including the risk of having limited voting power as a
result of dilution;
(iii) The restrictions on the resale of a security offered and sold in reliance on
Section 4(a)(6) of the Securities Act (15 U.S.C. 77d(a)(6));
495

(iv) The types of information that an issuer is required to provide under § 227.202, the
frequency of the delivery of that information and the possibility that those obligations may
terminate in the future;
(v) The limitations on the amounts an investor may invest pursuant to § 227.100(a)(2);
(vi) The limitations on an investor’s right to cancel an investment commitment and the
circumstances in which an investment commitment may be cancelled by the issuer;
(vii) The need for the investor to consider whether investing in a security offered and sold
in reliance on Section 4(a)(6) of the Securities Act (15 U.S.C. 77d(a)(6)) is appropriate for that
investor; and
(viii) That following completion of an offering conducted through the intermediary, there
may or may not be any ongoing relationship between the issuer and intermediary.
(2) An intermediary must make the most current version of its educational material
available on its platform at all times and, if at any time, the intermediary makes a material
revision to its educational materials, it must make the revised educational materials available to
all investors before accepting any additional investment commitments or effecting any further
transactions in securities offered and sold in reliance on Section 4(a)(6) of the Securities Act (15
U.S.C. 77d(a)(6)).
(c) Promoters. In connection with establishing an account for an investor, an
intermediary must inform the investor that any person who promotes an issuer’s offering for
compensation, whether past or prospective, or who is a founder or an employee of an issuer that
engages in promotional activities on behalf of the issuer on the intermediary’s platform, must
clearly disclose in all communications on the intermediary’s platform, respectively, the receipt of
the compensation and that he or she is engaging in promotional activities on behalf of the issuer.
496

(d) Compensation Disclosure. When establishing an account for an investor, an
intermediary must clearly disclose the manner in which the intermediary is compensated in
connection with offerings and sales of securities in reliance on Section 4(a)(6) of the Securities
Act (15 U.S.C. 77d(a)(6)).
§ 227.303 Requirements with respect to transactions.
(a) Issuer Information. An intermediary in a transaction involving the offer or sale of
securities in reliance on Section 4(a)(6) of the Securities Act (15 U.S.C. 77d(a)(6)) must make
available to the Commission and to investors any information required to be provided by the
issuer of the securities under §§ 227.201 and 203(a).
(1) This information must be made publicly available on the intermediary’s platform, in a
manner that reasonably permits a person accessing the platform to save, download, or otherwise
store the information;
(2) This information must be made publicly available on the intermediary's platform for a
minimum of 21 days before any securities are sold in the offering, during which time the
intermediary may accept investment commitments;
(3) This information, including any additional information provided by the issuer, must
remain publicly available on the intermediary’s platform until the offer and sale of securities in
reliance on Section 4(a)(6) of the Securities Act (15 U.S.C. 77d(a)(6)) is completed or cancelled;
and
(4) An intermediary may not require any person to establish an account with the
intermediary to access this information.
(b) Investor Qualification. Each time before accepting any investment commitment
(including any additional investment commitment from the same person), an intermediary must:
497

(1) Have a reasonable basis for believing that the investor satisfies the investment
limitations established by Section 4(a)(6)(B) of the Act (15 U.S.C. 77d(a)(6)(B)) and Regulation
Crowdfunding (§§ 227.100 et seq.). An intermediary may rely on an investor’s representations
concerning compliance with the investment limitation requirements concerning the investor’s
annual income, net worth, and the amount of the investor’s other investments made pursuant to
Section 4(a)(6) of the Securities Act (15 U.S.C. 77d(a)(6)) unless the intermediary has reason to
question the reliability of the representation.
(2) Obtain from the investor:
(i) A representation that the investor has reviewed the intermediary’s educational
materials delivered pursuant to § 227.302(b), understands that the entire amount of his or her
investment may be lost, and is in a financial condition to bear the loss of the investment; and
(ii) A questionnaire completed by the investor demonstrating the investor’s understanding
that:
(A) There are restrictions on the investor’s ability to cancel an investment commitment
and obtain a return of his or her investment;
(B) It may be difficult for the investor to resell securities acquired in reliance on Section
4(a)(6) of the Securities Act (15 U.S.C. 77d(a)(6)); and
(C) Investing in securities offered and sold in reliance on Section 4(a)(6) of the Securities
Act (15 U.S.C. 77d(a)(6)) involves risk, and the investor should not invest any funds in an
offering made in reliance on Section 4(a)(6) of the Securities Act unless he or she can afford to
lose the entire amount of his or her investment.
(c) Communication Channels. An intermediary must provide on its platform
communication channels by which persons can communicate with one another and with
498

representatives of the issuer about offerings made available on the intermediary’s platform,
provided:
(1) If the intermediary is a funding portal, it does not participate in these communications
other than to establish guidelines for communication and remove abusive or potentially
fraudulent communications;
(2) The intermediary permits public access to view the discussions made in the
communication channels;
(3) The intermediary restricts posting of comments in the communication channels to
those persons who have opened an account with the intermediary on its platform; and
(4) The intermediary requires that any person posting a comment in the communication
channels clearly and prominently disclose with each posting whether he or she is a founder or an
employee of an issuer engaging in promotional activities on behalf of the issuer, or is otherwise
compensated, whether in the past or prospectively, to promote the issuer’s offering.
(d) Notice of Investment Commitment. An intermediary must promptly, upon receipt of
an investment commitment from an investor, give or send to the investor a notification
disclosing:
(1) The dollar amount of the investment commitment;
(2) The price of the securities, if known;
(3) The name of the issuer; and
(4) The date and time by which the investor may cancel the investment commitment.
(e) Maintenance and Transmission of Funds. (1) An intermediary that is a registered
broker must comply with the requirements of 17 CFR 240.15c2-4.

499

(2) An intermediary that is a funding portal must direct investors to transmit the money or
other consideration directly to a qualified third party that has agreed in writing to hold the funds
for the benefit of, and to promptly transmit or return the funds to, the persons entitled thereto in
accordance with paragraph (e)(3)of this section. For purposes of this Subpart C (§§ 227.300305), a qualified third party means a bank that has agreed in writing either to hold the funds in
escrow for the persons who have the beneficial interests therein and to transmit or return such
funds directly to the persons entitled thereto when so directed by the funding portal as described
in paragraph (e)(3)of this section, or to maintain a bank account (or accounts) for the exclusive
benefit of investors and the issuer.
(3) A funding portal that is an intermediary in a transaction involving the offer or sale of
securities in reliance on Section 4(a)(6) of the Securities Act (15 U.S.C. 77d(a)(6)) shall
promptly direct the qualified third party to:
(i) Transmit funds from the qualified third party to the issuer when the aggregate amount
of investment commitments from all investors is equal to or greater than the target amount of the
offering and the cancellation period as set forth in § 227.304 has elapsed, provided that in no
event may the funding portal direct this transmission of funds earlier than 21 days after the date
on which the intermediary makes publicly available on its platform the information required to
be provided by the issuer under §§ 227.201 and 203(a);
(ii) Return funds to an investor when an investment commitment has been cancelled in
accordance with § 227.304 (including for failure to obtain effective reconfirmation as required
under § 227.304(c)); and
(iii) Return funds to investors when an issuer does not complete the offering.

500

(f) Confirmation of Transaction. (1) An intermediary must, at or before the completion
of a transaction in a security in reliance on Section 4(a)(6) of the Securities Act (15 U.S.C.
77d(a)(6)), give or send to each investor a notification disclosing:
(i) The date of the transaction;
(ii) The type of security that the investor is purchasing;
(iii) The identity, price, and number of securities purchased by the investor, as well as the
number of securities sold by the issuer in the transaction and the price(s) at which the securities
were sold;
(iv) If a debt security, the interest rate and the yield to maturity calculated from the price
paid and the maturity date;
(v) If a callable security, the first date that the security can be called by the issuer; and
(vi) The source and amount of any remuneration received or to be received by the
intermediary in connection with the transaction, including the amount and form of any
remuneration that is received, or will be received, by the intermediary from persons other than
the issuer.
(2) An intermediary satisfying the requirements of paragraph (1) of this section is exempt
from the requirements of 17 CFR 240.10b-10 with respect to a transaction in a security offered
and sold in reliance on Section 4(a)(6) of the Securities Act (15 U.S.C. 77d(a)(6)).
§ 227.304 Completion of offerings, cancellations and reconfirmations.
(a) Generally. An investor may cancel an investment commitment for any reason until
48 hours prior to the deadline identified in the issuer’s offering materials. During the 48 hours
prior to such deadline, an investment commitment may not be cancelled except as provided in
paragraph (c) below.
501

(b) Early Completion of Offering. If an issuer reaches the target offering amount prior to
the deadline identified in its offering materials pursuant to § 227.201(g), the issuer may close the
offering on a date earlier than the deadline identified in its offering materials pursuant to §
227.201(g), provided that:
(1) The offering remains open for a minimum of 21 days pursuant to § 227.303(a);
(2) The intermediary provides notice to any potential investors, and gives or sends notice
to investors that have made investment commitments in the offering, of:
(i) The new, anticipated deadline of the offering;
(ii) The right of investors to cancel investment commitments for any reason until 48
hours prior to the new offering deadline; and
(iii) Whether the issuer will continue to accept investment commitments during the 48hour period prior to the new offering deadline.
(3) The new offering deadline is scheduled for and occurs at least five business days after
the notice required in paragraph (b)(2) of this section is provided; and
(4) At the time of the new offering deadline, the issuer continues to meet or exceed the
target offering amount.
(c) Cancellations and Reconfirmations Based on Material Changes. (1) If there is a
material change to the terms of an offering or to the information provided by the issuer, the
intermediary must give or send to any investor who has made an investment commitment notice
of the material change and that the investor’s investment commitment will be cancelled unless
the investor reconfirms his or her investment commitment within five business days of receipt of
the notice. If the investor fails to reconfirm his or her investment within those five business
days, the intermediary within five business days thereafter must:
502

(i) Give or send the investor a notification disclosing that the commitment was cancelled,
the reason for the cancellation and the refund amount that the investor is expected to receive; and
(ii) Direct the refund of investor funds.
(2) If material changes to the offering or to the information provided by the issuer
regarding the offering occur within five business days of the maximum number of days that an
offering is to remain open, the offering must be extended to allow for a period of five business
days for the investor to reconfirm his or her investment.
(d) Return of Funds If Offering Is Not Completed. If an issuer does not complete an
offering, an intermediary must within five business days:
(1) Give or send each investor a notification of the cancellation, disclosing the reason for
the cancellation, and the refund amount that the investor is expected to receive;
(2) Direct the refund of investor funds; and
(3) Prevent investors from making investment commitments with respect to that offering
on its platform.
§ 227.305 Payments to third parties.
(a) Prohibition on Payments for Personally Identifiable Information. An intermediary
may not compensate any person for providing the intermediary with the personally identifiable
information of any investor or potential investor in securities offered and sold in reliance on
Section 4(a)(6) of the Securities Act (15 U.S.C. 77d(a)(6)).
(b) Certain permitted payments. Subject to paragraph (a) of this section, an intermediary
may compensate a person for directing issuers or potential investors to the intermediary’s
platform, provided that unless the compensation is made to a registered broker or dealer, the
compensation is not based, directly or indirectly, on the purchase or sale of a security offered in
503

reliance on Section 4(a)(6) of the Securities Act (15 U.S.C. 77d(a)(6)) on or through the
intermediary’s platform.
(c) For purposes of this rule, personally identifiable information means information that
can be used to distinguish or trace an individual’s identity, either alone or when combined with
other personal or identifying information that is linked or linkable to a specific individual.
SUBPART D – Funding Portal Regulation
§227.400 Registration of funding portals.
(a) Registration. A funding portal must register with the Commission, by filing a
complete Form Funding Portal (§ 249.1500 of this chapter) in accordance with the instructions
on the form, and become a member of the Financial Industry Regulatory Authority or any other
applicable national securities association registered under Section 15A of the Exchange Act (15
U.S.C. 78o-3). The registration will be effective the later of:
(1) 30 calendar days after the date that the registration is received by the Commission; or
(2) The date the funding portal is approved for membership by the Financial Industry
Regulatory Authority or any other applicable national securities association registered under
Section 15A of the Exchange Act (15 U.S.C. 78o-3).
(b) Amendments to Registration. A funding portal must file an amendment to Form
Funding Portal (§ 249.1500 of this chapter) within 30 days of any of the information previously
submitted on Form Funding Portal becoming inaccurate for any reason.
(c) Successor Registration. (1) If a funding portal succeeds to and continues the business
of a registered funding portal, the registration of the predecessor will remain effective as the
registration of the successor if the successor, within 30 days after such succession, files a
registration on Form Funding Portal (§ 249.1500 of this chapter) and the predecessor files a
504

withdrawal on Form Funding Portal; provided, however, that the registration of the predecessor
funding portal will be deemed withdrawn 45 days after registration on Form Funding Portal is
filed by the successor.
(2) Notwithstanding paragraph (c)(1) of this section, if a funding portal succeeds to and
continues the business of a registered funding portal and the succession is based solely on a
change of the predecessor’s date or state of incorporation, form of organization, or composition
of a partnership, the successor may, within 30 days after the succession, amend the registration
of the predecessor on Form Funding Portal (§ 249.1500 of this chapter) to reflect these changes.
(d) Withdrawal. A funding portal must promptly file a withdrawal of registration on
Form Funding Portal (§ 249.1500 of this chapter) in accordance with the instructions on the form
upon ceasing to operate as a funding portal. Withdrawal will be effective on the later of 30 days
after receipt by the Commission, after the funding portal is no longer operational, or within such
longer period of time as to which the funding portal consents or which the Commission by order
may determine as necessary or appropriate in the public interest or for the protection of investors.
(e) Applications and Reports. The applications and reports provided for in this section
shall be considered filed when a complete Form Funding Portal (§ 249.1500 of this chapter) is
submitted with the Commission or its designee. Duplicate originals of the applications and reports

provided for in this section must be filed with surveillance personnel designated by any
registered national securities association of which the funding portal is a member.
(f) Fidelity Bond. As a condition to becoming registered as a funding portal, the funding
portal must have in place and thereafter maintain, for the duration of the period when it
maintains such registration, fidelity bond coverage that:
(1) Has a minimum coverage of $100,000;
505

(2) Covers any associated person of the funding portal unless otherwise excepted in the
rules set forth by the Financial Industry Regulatory Authority or any applicable national
securities association that is registered under Section 15A of the Exchange Act (15 U.S.C. 78o-3)
of which it is a member; and
(3) Meets any other applicable requirements as set forth by the Financial Industry
Regulatory Authority or any applicable national securities association that is registered under
Section 15A of the Exchange Act (15 U.S.C. 78o-3) of which it is a member.
(g) Nonresident Funding Portals. Registration pursuant to this section by a nonresident
funding portal shall be conditioned upon there being an information sharing arrangement in place
between the Commission and the competent regulator in the jurisdiction under the laws of which
the nonresident funding portal is organized or where it has its principal place of business, that is
applicable to the nonresident funding portal.
(1) Definition. For purposes of this section, the term nonresident funding portal shall
mean a funding portal incorporated in or organized under the laws of a jurisdiction outside of the
United States or its territories, or having its principal place of business in any place not in the
United States or its territories.
(2) Power of Attorney. (i) Each nonresident funding portal registered or applying for
registration pursuant to this section shall obtain a written consent and power of attorney
appointing an agent in the United States, other than the Commission or a Commission member,
official or employee, upon whom may be served any process, pleadings or other papers in any
action. This consent and power of attorney must be signed by the nonresident funding portal and
the named agent(s) for service of process.

506

(ii) Each nonresident funding portal registered or applying for registration pursuant to this
section shall, at the time of filing its application on Form Funding Portal (§ 249.1500 of this
chapter), furnish to the Commission the name and address of its United States agent for service
of process on Schedule C to the Form.
(iii) Any change of a nonresident funding portal’s agent for service of process and any
change of name or address of a nonresident funding portal’s existing agent for service of process
shall be communicated promptly to the Commission through amendment of the Schedule C to
Form Funding Portal (§ 249.1500 of this chapter).
(iv) Each nonresident funding portal must promptly appoint a successor agent for service
of process if the nonresident funding portal discharges its identified agent for service of process
or if its agent for service of process is unwilling or unable to accept service on behalf of the
nonresident funding portal.
(v) Each nonresident funding portal must maintain, as part of its books and records, the
written consent and power of attorney identified in paragraph (g)(2)(i) of this section for at least
three years after the agreement is terminated.
(3) Access to Books and Records.
(i) Certification and Opinion of Counsel. Any nonresident funding portal applying for
registration pursuant to this section shall certify on Schedule C to Form Funding Portal (§
249.1500 of this chapter) and provide an opinion of counsel that the nonresident funding portal
can, as a matter of law, provide the Commission and any national securities association of which
it is a member with prompt access to the books and records of such nonresident funding portal
and can, as a matter of law, submit to onsite inspection and examination by the Commission and
any national securities association of which it is a member.
507

(ii) Amendments. The nonresident funding portal shall re-certify, on Schedule C to Form
Funding Portal (§ 249.1500 of this chapter), within 90 days after any changes in the legal or
regulatory framework that would impact the nonresident funding portal’s ability to provide, or
the manner in which it provides, the Commission, or any national securities association of which
it is a member, with prompt access to its books and records or that would impact the
Commission’s or such national securities association’s ability to inspect and examine the
nonresident funding portal. The re-certification shall be accompanied by a revised opinion of
counsel describing how, as a matter of law, the nonresident funding portal can continue to meet
its obligations to provide the Commission and such national securities association with prompt
access to its books and records and to be subject to Commission and national securities
association inspection and examination under the new regulatory regime.
§ 227.401 Exemption.
(a) A funding portal that is registered with the Commission pursuant to § 227.400 is
exempt from the broker registration requirements of Section 15(a)(1) of the Exchange Act (15
U.S.C. 78o(a)(1)) in connection with its activities as a funding portal.
(b) Notwithstanding paragraph (a) of this section, for purposes of 31 CFR chapter X, a
funding portal is “required to be registered” as a broker or dealer with the Commission under the
Exchange Act.
§ 227.402 Conditional safe harbor.
(a) General. Under Section 3(a)(80) of the Exchange Act (15 U.S.C. 78c(a)(80)), a
funding portal acting as an intermediary in a transaction involving the offer or sale of securities
in reliance on Section 4(a)(6) of the Securities Act (15 U.S.C. 77d(a)(6)) may not: offer
investment advice or recommendations; solicit purchases, sales, or offers to buy the securities
508

offered or displayed on its platform or portal; compensate employees, agents, or other persons
for such solicitation or based on the sale of securities displayed or referenced on its platform or
portal; hold, manage, possess, or otherwise handle investor funds or securities; or engage in such
other activities as the Commission, by rule, determines appropriate. This section is intended to
provide clarity with respect to the ability of a funding portal to engage in certain activities,
consistent with the prohibitions under Section 3(a)(80) of the Exchange Act. No presumption
shall arise that a funding portal has violated the prohibitions under Section 3(a)(80) of the
Exchange Act or this part by reason of the funding portal or its associated persons engaging in
activities in connection with the offer or sale of securities in reliance on Section 4(a)(6) of the
Securities Act that do not meet the conditions specified in paragraph (b) of this section. The
antifraud provisions and all other applicable provisions of the federal securities laws continue to
apply to the activities described in paragraph (b) of this section.
(b) Permitted Activities. A funding portal may, consistent with the prohibitions under
Section 3(a)(80) of the Exchange Act (15 U.S.C. 78c(a)(80)) and this part:
(1) Apply objective criteria to limit the securities offered in reliance on Section 4(a)(6) of
the Securities Act (15 U.S.C. 77d(a)(6)) through the funding portal’s platform where:
(i) The criteria are reasonably designed to result in a broad selection of issuers offering
securities through the funding portal’s platform, are applied consistently to all potential issuers
and offerings and are clearly displayed on the funding portal’s platform; and
(ii) The criteria may include, among other things, the type of securities being offered (for
example, common stock, preferred stock or debt securities), the geographic location of the issuer
and the industry or business segment of the issuer, provided that a funding portal may not deny

509

access to an issuer based on the advisability of investing in the issuer or its offering, except to the
extent described in paragraph (b)(10) of this section;
(2) Apply objective criteria to highlight offerings on the funding portal’s platform where:
(i) The criteria are reasonably designed to highlight a broad selection of issuers offering
securities through the funding portal’s platform, are applied consistently to all issuers and
offerings and are clearly displayed on the funding portal’s platform;
(ii) The criteria may include, among other things, the type of securities being offered (for
example, common stock, preferred stock or debt securities); the geographic location of the
issuer; the industry or business segment of the issuer; the number or amount of investment
commitments made, progress in meeting the issuer’s target offering amount or, if applicable, the
maximum offering amount; and the minimum or maximum investment amount; provided that a
funding portal may not highlight an issuer or offering based on the advisability of investing in
the issuer or its offering; and
(iii) The funding portal does not receive special or additional compensations for
highlighting one or more issuers or offerings on its platform;
(3) Provide search functions or other tools that investors can use to search, sort, or
categorize the offerings available through the funding portal’s platform according to objective
criteria where;
(i) The objective criteria may include, among other things, the type of securities being
offered (for example, common stock, preferred stock or debt securities); the geographic location
of the issuer; the industry or business segment of the issuer; the number or amount of investment
commitments made, progress in meeting the issuer’s target offering amount or, if applicable, the
maximum offering amount; and the minimum or maximum investment amount; and
510

(ii) The objective criteria may not include, among other things, the advisability of
investing in the issuer or its offering, or an assessment of any characteristic of the issuer, its
business plan, its key management or risks associated with an investment.
(4) Provide communication channels by which investors can communicate with one
another and with representatives of the issuer through the funding portal’s platform about
offerings through the platform, so long as the funding portal (and its associated persons):
(i) Does not participate in these communications, other than to establish guidelines for
communication and remove abusive or potentially fraudulent communications;
(ii) Permits public access to view the discussions made in the communication channels;
(iii) Restricts posting of comments in the communication channels to those persons who
have opened an account on its platform; and
(iv) Requires that any person posting a comment in the communication channels clearly
disclose with each posting whether he or she is a founder or an employee of an issuer engaging
in promotional activities on behalf of the issuer, or is otherwise compensated, whether in the past
or prospectively, to promote an issuer’s offering;
(5) Advise an issuer about the structure or content of the issuer’s offering, including
assisting the issuer in preparing offering documentation;
(6) Compensate a third party for referring a person to the funding portal, so long as the
third party does not provide the funding portal with personally identifiable information of any
potential investor, and the compensation, other than that paid to a registered broker or dealer, is
not based, directly or indirectly, on the purchase or sale of a security in reliance on Section
4(a)(6) of the Securities Act (15 U.S.C. 77d(a)(6)) offered on or through the funding portal’s
platform;
511

(7) Pay or offer to pay any compensation to a registered broker or dealer for services in
connection with the offer or sale of securities by the funding portal in reliance on Section 4(a)(6)
of the Act(15 U.S.C. 77d(a)(6)), provided that:
(i) Such services are provided pursuant to a written agreement between the funding portal
and the registered broker or dealer;
(ii) Such compensation is permitted under this part and is not otherwise prohibited under
§ 227.305; and
(iii) Such compensation complies with and is not prohibited by the rules of any registered
national securities association of which the funding portal is required to be a member;
(8) Receive any compensation from a registered broker or dealer for services provided by
the funding portal in connection with the offer or sale of securities by the funding portal in
reliance on Section 4(a)(6) of the Act (15 U.S.C. 77d(a)(6)), provided that:
(i) Such services are provided pursuant to a written agreement between the funding portal
and the registered broker or dealer;
(ii) Such compensation is permitted under this part; and
(iii) Such compensation complies with and is not prohibited by the rules of any registered
national securities association of which the funding portal is required to be a member;
(9) Advertise the existence of the funding portal and identify one or more issuers or
offerings available on the portal on the basis of objective criteria, as long as:
(i) The criteria are reasonably designed to identify a broad selection of issuers offering
securities through the funding portal’s platform, and are applied consistently to all potential
issuers and offerings;

512

(ii) The criteria may include, among other things, the type of securities being offered (for
example, common stock, preferred stock or debt securities); the geographic location of the
issuer; the industry or business segment of the issuer; the expressed interest by investors, as
measured by number or amount of investment commitments made, progress in meeting the
issuer’s target offering amount or, if applicable, the maximum offering amount; and the
minimum or maximum investment amount; and
(iii) The funding portal does not receive special or additional compensation for
identifying the issuer or offering in this manner;
(10) Deny access to its platform to, or cancel an offering of, an issuer that the funding
portal believes may present the potential for fraud or otherwise raises investor protection
concerns;
(11) Accept, on behalf of an issuer, an investment commitment for securities offered in
reliance on Section 4(a)(6) of the Securities Act (15 U.S.C. 77d(a)(6)) by that issuer on the
funding portal’s platform;
(12) Direct investors where to transmit funds or remit payment in connection with the
purchase of securities offered and sold in reliance on Section 4(a)(6) of the Securities Act (15
U.S.C. 77d(a)(6)); and
(13) Direct a qualified third party, as required by § 227.303(e), to release proceeds to an
issuer upon completion of a crowdfunding offering or to return proceeds to investors in the event
an investment commitment or an offering is cancelled.

513

§ 227.403 Compliance.
(a) Policies and Procedures. A funding portal must implement written policies and
procedures reasonably designed to achieve compliance with the federal securities laws and the
rules and regulations thereunder relating to its business as a funding portal.
(b) Anti-Money Laundering. A funding portal must comply with the requirements of 31
CFR chapter X applicable to registered brokers.
(c) Privacy. A funding portal must comply with the requirements of 17 CFR 248 as they
apply to brokers.
(d) Inspections and Examinations. A funding portal shall permit the examination and
inspection of all of its business and business operations that relate to its activities as a funding
portal, such as its premises, systems, platforms, and records by representatives of the
Commission and of the national securities association of which it is a member.
§ 227.404 Records to be made and kept by funding portals.
(a) Generally. A funding portal shall make and preserve the following records for five
years, the first two years in an easily accessible place:
(1) All records related to an investor who purchases or attempts to purchase securities
through the funding portal;
(2) All records related to issuers who offer and sell or attempt to offer and sell securities
through the funding portal and the control persons of such issuers;
(3) Records of all communications that occur on or through its platform;
(4) All records related to persons that use communication channels provided by a funding
portal to promote an issuer’s securities or communicate with potential investors;

514

(5) All records required to demonstrate compliance with the requirements of Subparts C
(§§ 227.300-305) and D (§§ 227.400-404);
(6) All notices provided by such funding portal to issuers and investors generally through
the funding portal’s platform or otherwise, including, but not limited to, notices addressing hours
of funding portal operations (if any), funding portal malfunctions, changes to funding portal
procedures, maintenance of hardware and software, instructions pertaining to access to the
funding portal and denials of, or limitations on, access to the funding portal;
(7) All written agreements (or copies thereof) entered into by such funding portal relating
to its business as such;
(8) All daily, monthly and quarterly summaries of transactions effected through the
funding portal, including:
(i) Issuers for which the target offering amount has been reached and funds distributed;
and
(ii) Transaction volume, expressed in:
(A) Number of transactions;
(B) Number of securities involved in a transaction;
(C) Total amounts raised by, and distributed to, issuers; and
(D) Total dollar amounts raised across all issuers, expressed in U.S. dollars; and
(9) A log reflecting the progress of each issuer who offers or sells securities through the
funding portal toward meeting the target offering amount.
(b) Organizational Documents. A funding portal shall make and preserve during the
operation of the funding portal and of any successor funding portal, all organizational documents
relating to the funding portal, including but not limited to, partnership agreements, articles of
515

incorporation or charter, minute books and stock certificate books (or other similar type
documents).
(c) Format. The records required to be maintained and preserved pursuant to paragraph
(a) of this section must be produced, reproduced, and maintained in the original, non-alterable
format in which they were created or as permitted under 17 CFR §240.17a-4(f).
(d) Third Parties. The records required to be made and preserved pursuant to this section
may be prepared or maintained by a third party on behalf of a funding portal. An agreement with
a third party shall not relieve a funding portal from the responsibility to prepare and maintain
records as specified in this rule. A funding portal must file with the registered national securities
association of which it is a member, a written undertaking in a form acceptable to the registered
national securities association, signed by a duly authorized person of the third party, stating in
effect that such records are the property of the funding portal and will be surrendered promptly
on request of the funding portal. The undertaking shall include the following provision:
With respect to any books and records maintained or preserved on behalf of
[name of funding portal], the undersigned hereby acknowledges that the books
and records are the property of [name of funding portal], and hereby undertakes to
permit examination of such books and records at any time, or from time to time,
during business hours by representatives of the Securities and Exchange
Commission and the national securities association of which the funding portal is
a member, and to promptly furnish to the Commission, and the national securities
association of which the funding portal is a member, a true, correct, complete and
current hard copy of any, all, or any part of, such books and records.

516

(e) Review of Records. All records of a funding portal are subject at any time, or from
time to time, to reasonable periodic, special, or other examination by the representatives of the
Commission and the national securities association of which a funding portal is a member.
(f) Financial Recordkeeping and Reporting of Currency and Foreign Transactions.
Every funding portal, as it is subject to the requirements of the Currency and Foreign
Transactions Reporting Act of 1970 (15 U.S.C. 5311 et seq.), shall comply with the reporting,
recordkeeping and record retention requirements of 31 CFR chapter X. Where 31 CFR chapter
X and §§ 227.404(a) and 404(b) require the same records or reports to be preserved for different
periods of time, such records or reports shall be preserved for the longer period of time.
SUBPART E – Miscellaneous Provisions
§ 227.501 Restrictions on resales.
(a) Securities issued in a transaction exempt from registration pursuant to Section 4(a)(6)
of the Securities Act (15 U.S.C. 77d(a)(6)) may not be transferred by the purchaser of such
securities during the one-year period beginning on the date of purchase, unless such securities
are transferred:
(1) To the issuer of the securities;
(2) To an accredited investor;
(3) As part of an offering registered with the Commission; or
(4) To a member of the family of the purchaser or the equivalent, to a trust controlled by
the purchaser, to a trust created for the benefit of a member of the family of the purchaser or the
equivalent, or in connection with the death or divorce of the purchaser or other similar
circumstance.

517

(b) For purposes of this § 227.501, the term accredited investor shall have the same
meaning given to such term in 17 CFR 230.501. To transfer securities to an accredited investor
during the one-year period beginning on the date the securities were issued in a transaction
exempt from registration pursuant to Section 4(a)(6) of the Securities Act (15 U.S.C. 77d(a)(6)),
the seller shall reasonably believe that the person receiving such securities is an accredited
investor.
(c) For purposes of this section, the term member of the family of the purchaser or the
equivalent includes a child, stepchild, grandchild, parent, stepparent, grandparent, spouse or
spousal equivalent, sibling, mother-in-law, father-in-law, son-in-law, daughter-in-law, brotherin-law, or sister-in-law of the purchaser, and shall include adoptive relationships.
Instruction to paragraph (c). For purposes of this paragraph (c), the term spousal
equivalent means a cohabitant occupying a relationship generally equivalent to that of a spouse.
§ 227.502 Insignificant deviations from a term, condition or requirement of Regulation
Crowdfunding.
(a) A failure to comply with a term, condition, or requirement of this part will not result
in the loss of the exemption from the requirements of Section 5 of the Securities Act (15 U.S.C.
77e) for any offer or sale to a particular individual or entity, if the issuer relying on the
exemption shows:
(1) The failure to comply was insignificant with respect to the offering as a whole;
(2) The issuer made a good faith and reasonable attempt to comply with all applicable
terms, conditions and requirements this part; and
(3) The issuer did not know of such failure where the failure to comply with a term,
condition or requirement of this part was the result of the failure of the intermediary to comply
with the requirements of Section 4A(a) of the Securities Act (15 U.S.C. 77d-1(a)) and the related
518

rules, or such failure by the intermediary occurred solely in offerings other than the issuer’s
offering.
(b) Notwithstanding the issuer’s reliance on paragraph (a) of this section, the
Commission may bring an enforcement action seeking any appropriate relief for the issuer’s
failure to comply with all applicable terms, conditions and requirements of this part.
§ 227.503 Disqualification
(a) No exemption under this Section 4(a)(6) of the Securities Act (15 U.S.C. 77d(a)(6))
shall be available for a sale of securities if the issuer; any predecessor of the issuer; any affiliated
issuer; any director, officer, general partner or managing member of the issuer; any beneficial
owner of 20 percent or more of the issuer’s outstanding voting equity securities, calculated on
the basis of voting power; any promoter connected with the issuer in any capacity at the time of
such sale; any person that has been or will be paid (directly or indirectly) remuneration for
solicitation of purchasers in connection with such sale of securities; or any general partner,
director, officer or managing member of any such solicitor:
(1) Has been convicted, within 10 years before the filing of the information required by
Section 4A(b) of the Securities Act (15 U.S.C. 77d-1(b)) (or five years, in the case of issuers,
their predecessors and affiliated issuers), of any felony or misdemeanor:
(i) In connection with the purchase or sale of any security;
(ii) Involving the making of any false filing with the Commission; or
(iii) Arising out of the conduct of the business of an underwriter, broker, dealer,
municipal securities dealer, investment adviser or paid solicitor of purchasers of securities;
(2) Is subject to any order, judgment or decree of any court of competent jurisdiction,
entered within five years before the filing of the information required by Section 4A(b) of the
519

Securities Act (15 U.S.C. 77d-1(b)) that, at the time of such filing, restrains or enjoins such
person from engaging or continuing to engage in any conduct or practice:
(i) In connection with the purchase or sale of any security;
(ii) Involving the making of any false filing with the Commission; or
(iii) Arising out of the conduct of the business of an underwriter, broker, dealer,
municipal securities dealer, investment adviser or paid solicitor of purchasers of securities;
(3) Is subject to a final order of a state securities commission (or an agency or officer of a
state performing like functions); a state authority that supervises or examines banks, savings
associations or credit unions; a state insurance commission (or an agency or officer of a state
performing like functions); an appropriate federal banking agency; the U.S. Commodity Futures
Trading Commission; or the National Credit Union Administration that:
(i) At the time of the filing of the information required by Section 4A(b) of the Securities
Act (15 U.S.C. 77d-1(b)), bars the person from:
(A) Association with an entity regulated by such commission, authority, agency or
officer;
(B) Engaging in the business of securities, insurance or banking; or
(C) Engaging in savings association or credit union activities; or
(ii) Constitutes a final order based on a violation of any law or regulation that prohibits
fraudulent, manipulative or deceptive conduct and for which the order was entered within the 10year period ending on the date of the filing of the information required by Section 4A(b) of the
Securities Act (15 U.S.C. 77d-1(b));
Instruction to paragraph (a)(3). Final order shall mean a written directive or declaratory
statement issued by a federal or state agency, described in § 227.503(a)(3), under applicable
520

statutory authority that provides for notice and an opportunity for hearing, which constitutes a
final disposition or action by that federal or state agency.
(4) Is subject to an order of the Commission entered pursuant to Section 15(b) or 15B(c)
of the Exchange Act (15 U.S.C. 78o(b) or 78o-4(c)) or Section 203(e) or (f) of the Investment
Advisers Act of 1940 (15 U.S.C. 80b-3(e) or (f)) that, at the time of the filing of the information
required by Section 4A(b) of the Securities Act (15 U.S.C. 77d-1(b)):
(i) Suspends or revokes such person’s registration as a broker, dealer, municipal
securities dealer or investment adviser;
(ii) Places limitations on the activities, functions or operations of such person; or
(iii) Bars such person from being associated with any entity or from participating in the
offering of any penny stock;
(5) Is subject to any order of the Commission entered within five years before the filing
of the information required by Section 4A(b) of the Securities Act (15 U.S.C. 77d-1(b)) that, at
the time of such filing, orders the person to cease and desist from committing or causing a
violation or future violation of:
(i) Any scienter-based anti-fraud provision of the federal securities laws, including
without limitation Section 17(a)(1) of the Securities Act (15 U.S.C. 77q(a)(1)), Section 10(b) of
the Exchange Act (15 U.S.C. 78j(b)) and 17 CFR 240.10b-5, Section 15(c)(1) of the Exchange
Act (15 U.S.C. 78o(c)(1)) and Section 206(1) of the Investment Advisers Act of 1940 (15 U.S.C.
80b-6(1)) or any other rule or regulation thereunder; or
(ii) Section 5 of the Securities Act (15 U.S.C. 77e);
(6) Is suspended or expelled from membership in, or suspended or barred from
association with a member of, a registered national securities exchange or a registered national or
521

affiliated securities association for any act or omission to act constituting conduct inconsistent
with just and equitable principles of trade;
(7) Has filed (as a registrant or issuer), or was or was named as an underwriter in, any
registration statement or Regulation A (17 CFR 230.251 et seq.) offering statement filed with the
Commission that, within five years before the filing of the information required by Section 4A(b)
of the Securities Act (15 U.S.C. 77d-1(b)), was the subject of a refusal order, stop order, or order
suspending the Regulation A exemption, or is, at the time of such filing, the subject of an
investigation or proceeding to determine whether a stop order or suspension order should be
issued; or
(8) Is subject to a United States Postal Service false representation order entered within
five years before the filing of the information required by Section 4A(b) of the Securities Act (15
U.S.C. 77d-1(b)), or is, at the time of such filing, subject to a temporary restraining order or
preliminary injunction with respect to conduct alleged by the United States Postal Service to
constitute a scheme or device for obtaining money or property through the mail by means of
false representations.
(b) Paragraph (a) of this section shall not apply:
(1) With respect to any conviction, order, judgment, decree, suspension, expulsion or bar
that occurred or was issued before [effective date of final rule];
(2) Upon a showing of good cause and without prejudice to any other action by the
Commission, if the Commission determines that it is not necessary under the circumstances that
an exemption be denied;
(3) If, before the filing of the information required by Section 4A(b) of the Securities Act
(15 U.S.C. 77d-1(b)), the court or regulatory authority that entered the relevant order, judgment
522

or decree advises in writing (whether contained in the relevant judgment, order or decree or
separately to the Commission or its staff) that disqualification under paragraph (b) of this section
should not arise as a consequence of such order, judgment or decree;
(4) If the issuer establishes that it did not know and, in the exercise of reasonable care,
could not have known that a disqualification existed under paragraph (b) of this section.
Instruction to paragraph (b)(4). An issuer will not be able to establish that it has
exercised reasonable care unless it has made factual inquiry into whether any disqualifications
exist. The nature and scope of the factual inquiry will vary based on the facts and circumstances
concerning, among other things, the issuer and the other offering participants.
(c) For purposes of paragraph (a) of this section, events relating to any affiliated issuer
that occurred before the affiliation arose will be not considered disqualifying if the affiliated
entity is not:
(1) In control of the issuer; or
(2) Under common control with the issuer by a third party that was in control of the
affiliated entity at the time of such events.
(d) A person that is subject to a statutory disqualification as defined in Section 3(a)(39) of
the Exchange Act (15 U.S.C. 78c(a)(39)) may not act as, or be an associated person of, an
intermediary in a transaction involving the offer or sale of securities in reliance on Section
4(a)(6) of the Securities Act (15 U.S.C. 77d(a)(6)) unless so permitted pursuant to Commission
rule or order.
Instruction to paragraph (d). 17 CFR 240.17f-2 generally requires the fingerprinting of
every person who is a partner, director, officer or employee of a broker, subject to certain
exceptions.
523

PART 232 – REGULATION S-T – GENERAL RULES AND REGULATIONS FOR
ELECTRONIC FILINGS
4.

The authority citation for part 232 continues to read, in part, as follows:

Authority: 15 U.S.C. 77f, 77g, 77h, 77j, 77s(a), 77z-3, 77sss(a), 78c(b), 781, 78m, 78n,
78o(d), 78w(a), 78ll, 80a-6(c), 80a-8, 80a-29, 80a-30, 80a-37, and 7201 et seq.; and 18 U.S.C.
1350.
*****
5.

Amend §232.101 by:

a. In paragraph (a)(1)(xii) removing “and” at the end of the paragraph;
b. In paragraph (a)(1)(xiii) removing the period at the end of the paragraph and adding in
its place a semicolon;
c. In paragraph (a)(1)(xvi) removing the period at the end of the paragraph and adding in
its place “; and”; and
d. Adding paragraph (a)(1)(xvii).
The addition reads as follows:
§ 232.101 Mandated electronic submissions and exceptions.
(a) * * *
(1) * * *
(xvii) Form C (§239.900 of this chapter).
*****

524

PART 239 – FORMS PRESCRIBED UNDER THE SECURITIES ACT OF 1933
6. The authority citation for part 239 continues to read, in part, as follows:
Authority: 15 U.S.C. 77f, 77g, 77h, 77j, 77s, 77z-2, 77z-3, 77sss, 78c, 78l, 78m, 78n,
78o(d), 78o-7 note, 78u-5, 78w(a), 78ll, 78mm, 80a-2(a), 80a-3, 80a-8, 80a-9, 80a-10, 80a-13,
80a-24, 80a-26, 80a-29, 80a-30, and 80a-37, unless otherwise noted.
*****
7. Add § 239.900 to read as follows:
§ 239.900

Form C.

This form shall be used for filings under Regulation Crowdfunding (§§ 227.100 et seq.).

Note: The text of Form C will not appear in the Code of Federal Regulations.
UNITED STATES
SECURITIES AND EXCHANGE COMMISSION
Washington, D.C. 20549
FORM C
UNDER THE SECURITIES ACT OF 1933
[ ] Form C: Offering Statement
[ ] Form C-U: Progress Update: _______________________________________________
[ ] Form C-A: Amendment
[ ] Check box if Amendment is material and investors will have five business days to
reconfirm
[ ] Form C-AR: Annual Report
[ ] Form C-TR: Termination of Reporting
Name of issuer: ________________________________________________________________
Legal status of issuer (form, jurisdiction and date of organization): _______________________
Physical address of issuer: _______________________________________________________
Website of issuer: ______________________________________________________________

525

Name, Commission file number and CRD number (as applicable) of intermediary through which
the offering will be conducted:
______________________________________________________________
Amount of compensation paid to the intermediary, including referral and other fees: _________
Type of security offered: ________________________________________________________
Number of securities to be offered: ________________________________________________
Price (or method for determining price): ____________________________________________
Target offering amount: _________________________________________________________
Maximum offering amount (if different from target offering amount): _____________________
Oversubscriptions accepted: [ ] Yes [ ] No If yes, disclose how oversubscriptions will be
allocated: [ ] Pro-rata basis [ ] First-come, first-served basis [ ] Other – provide a description
_____________________________________________________________________________
Deadline to reach the target offering amount: ________________________________________
Current number of employees: ___________________________________________________
Total Assets:
Most recent fiscal year: _________ Prior fiscal year: _________
Cash & Cash Equivalents: Most recent fiscal year: _________ Prior fiscal year: _________
Accounts Receivable:
Most recent fiscal year: _________ Prior fiscal year: _________
Short-term Debt:
Most recent fiscal year: _________ Prior fiscal year: _________
Long-term Debt:
Most recent fiscal year: _________ Prior fiscal year: _________
Revenues/Sales:
Most recent fiscal year: _________ Prior fiscal year: _________
Cost of Goods Sold:
Most recent fiscal year: _________ Prior fiscal year: _________
Taxes Paid:
Most recent fiscal year: _________ Prior fiscal year: _________
Net Income:
Most recent fiscal year: _________ Prior fiscal year: _________
GENERAL INSTRUCTIONS
I.

Eligibility Requirements for Use of Form C
This Form shall be filed by any issuer offering or selling securities in reliance on the

exemption in Securities Act Section 4(a)(6) and in accordance with Section 4A and Regulation
Crowdfunding (§ 227.100-503). This Form also shall be used for an annual report required
pursuant to Rule 202 of Regulation Crowdfunding (§ 227.202) and for the termination of
reporting required pursuant to Rule 203(b)(2) of Regulation Crowdfunding (§ 227.203(b)(2)).
Careful attention should be directed to the terms, conditions and requirements of the exemption.
II.

Preparation and Filing of Form C
Information on the cover page will be generated based on the information provided in

XML format. Other than the cover page, this Form is not to be used as a blank form to be filled
526

in, but only as a guide in the preparation of Form C. General information regarding the
preparation, format and how to file this Form is contained in Regulation S-T, (§ 232 et seq.).
III.

Information to be Included in the Form

Item 1.

Offering Statement Disclosure Requirements
An issuer filing this Form for an offering in reliance on Section 4(a)(6) of the Securities

Act and pursuant to Regulation Crowdfunding (§ 227.100-503) must file the Form prior to the
commencement of the offering and include the information required by Rule 201 of Regulation
Crowdfunding (§ 227.201).
Other than the information required to be provided in XML format, an issuer may
provide the required information in the format included on the intermediary’s platform, including
by submitting copies of screen shots of the relevant information, as appropriate and necessary.
Item 2.

Legends
(a)

An issuer filing this Form for an offering in reliance on Section 4(a)(6) of the

Securities Act and pursuant to Regulation Crowdfunding (§ 227.100-503) must include the
following legends:
A crowdfunding investment involves a risk. You should not invest any funds in
this offering unless you can afford to lose your entire investment.
In making an investment decision, investors must rely on their own examination
of the issuer and the terms of the offering, including the merits and risks involved.
These securities have not been recommended or approved by any federal or state
securities commission or regulatory authority. Furthermore, these authorities
have not passed upon the accuracy or adequacy of this document.

527

The U.S. Securities and Exchange Commission does not pass upon the merits of
any securities offered or the terms of the offering, nor does it pass upon the
accuracy or completeness of any offering document or literature.
These securities are offered under an exemption from registration; however, the
U.S. Securities and Exchange Commission has not made an independent
determination that these securities are exempt from registration.
(b)

An issuer filing this Form for an offering in reliance on Section 4(a)(6) of the

Securities Act and pursuant to Regulation Crowdfunding (§ 227.100-503) must disclose in the
offering statement that it will file a report on EDGAR annually and post the report on its website,
no later than 120 days after the end of each fiscal year covered by the report. The issuer must
also disclose how an issuer may terminate its reporting obligations in the future in accordance
with Rule 202(b) of Regulation Crowdfunding (§ 227.202(b)).
Item 3.

Annual Report Disclosure Requirements
An issuer filing this Form for an annual report, as required by Regulation Crowdfunding

(§ 227.100-503), must file the Form no later than 120 days after the issuer’s fiscal year end
covered by the report and include the information required by Rule 201(a), (b), (c), (d), (e), (f),
(m), (p), (q), (r), (s), and (t) of Regulation Crowdfunding (§§ 227.201(a), (b), (c), (d), (e), (f),
(m), (p), (q), (r), (s), and (t)). For purposes of paragraph (t), the issuer shall provide financial
statements for the highest aggregate target offering amount previously provided in an offering
statement.
SIGNATURE
Pursuant to the requirements of Sections 4(a)(6) and 4A of the Securities Act of 1933 and
Regulation Crowdfunding (§ 227.100-503), the issuer certifies that it has reasonable grounds to
528

believe that it meets all of the requirements for filing on Form C and has duly caused this Form
to be signed on its behalf by the duly authorized undersigned.
____________________________________
(Issuer)
By
___________________________________________

(Signature and Title)

Pursuant to the requirements of Sections 4(a)(6) and 4A of the Securities Act of 1933 and
Regulation Crowdfunding (§ 227.100-503), this Form C has been signed by the following
persons in the capacities and on the dates indicated.
____________________________________
(Signature)
____________________________________
(Title)
___________________________________
(Date)
Instructions.
1.

The form shall be signed by the issuer, its principal executive officer or officers, its

principal financial officer, its controller or principal accounting officer and at least a majority of
the board of directors or persons performing similar functions.
2.

The name of each person signing the form shall be typed or printed beneath the signature.

PART 240 - GENERAL RULES AND REGULATIONS, SECURITIES EXCHANGE ACT
OF 1934
8. The authority citation for part 240 continues to read, in part, as follows:
Authority: 15 U.S.C. 77c, 77d, 77g, 77j, 77s, 77z-2, 77z-3, 77eee, 77ggg, 77nnn, 77sss,
77ttt, 78c, 78c-3, 78c-5, 78d, 78e, 78f, 78g, 78i, 78j, 78j-1, 78k, 78k-1, 78l, 78m, 78n, 78n-1,
529

78o, 78o-4, 78o-10, 78p, 78q, 78q-1, 78s, 78u-5, 78w, 78x, 78ll, 78mm, 80a-20, 80a-23, 80a-29,
80a-37, 80b-3, 80b-4, 80b-11, 7201 et. seq., and 8302; 7 U.S.C. 2(c)(2)(E); 12 U.S.C.
5221(e)(3); 18 U.S.C. 1350; and Pub. L. 111-203, 939A, 124 Stat. 1376, (2010), unless
otherwise noted.
9. Add § 240.12g-6 to read as follows:
§ 240.12g-6 Exemption for securities issued pursuant to Section 4(a)(6) of the Securities
Act of 1933.
For purposes of determining whether an issuer is required to register a security with the
Commission pursuant to Section 12(g)(1) of the Act (15 U.S.C. 78l(g)(1)), the definition of held
of record shall not include securities issued pursuant to the offering exemption under Section
4(a)(6) of the Securities Act (15 U.S.C. 77d(a)(6)).
*

*

*

*

*

PART 249 – FORMS, SECURITIES EXCHANGE ACT OF 1934
10.

The authority citation for part 249 continues to read, in part, as follows:

Authority: 15 U.S.C. 78a et seq. and 7201 et seq.; 12 U.S.C. 5461 et seq.; and 18 U.S.C.
1350, unless otherwise noted.
*****
11.
§ 249.1500

Add § 249.1500 to read as follows:
Form Funding Portal

This form shall be used for filings by funding portals under Regulation Crowdfunding
(§§ 227.100 et seq.).
Note: The text of Form Funding Portal will not appear in the Code of Federal Regulations.
UNITED STATES
530

SECURITIES AND EXCHANGE COMMISSION
Washington, D.C. 20549
FORM FUNDING PORTAL
UNDER THE SECURITIES EXCHANGE ACT OF 1934
WARNING: Failure to complete this form truthfully, to keep this form current and to file
accurate supplementary information on a timely basis, or the failure to keep accurate books and
records or otherwise to comply with the provisions of law applying to the conduct of business as
a funding portal, would violate the Federal securities laws and may result in disciplinary,
administrative, injunctive or criminal action.
Check the appropriate box:
This is:
□
an initial application to register as a funding portal with the SEC.
□
an amendment to any part of the funding portal’s most recent Form Funding Portal,
including a successor registration.
□
a withdrawal of the funding portal’s registration with the SEC.
Schedule A must be completed as part of all initial applications. Amendments to Schedule A
must be provided on Schedule B.
Item 1 – Identifying Information
Exact name, principal business address, mailing address, if different, and telephone number of
the funding portal:
A.

Full name of the funding portal: _____________________________________

B.

Name(s) under which business is conducted, if different from Item 1A:
________________________________________________________________

C.

IRS Empl. Ident. No.: _________________________________

D.

If full legal name has changed since the funding portal’s most recent Form
Funding Portal, enter the previous name and specify whether the name change is
of the □ funding portal name (1A), or □ business name (1B).
Previous name: _________________________________________________

E.

Funding portal’s main street address (Do not use a P.O. Box):
__________________________________________________________________
__________________________________________________________________

F.

Mailing address(es) (if different) and office locations (if more than one) :
531

_____________________________________________________________
_____________________________________________________________
G.

Contact Information
Telephone Number:_____________________
Facsimile number: _____________________
Website(s) URL: _______________________
E-mail:_______________________________

H.

Contact employee
Name:_____________________________________
Title:______________________________________
Direct Telephone Number: ____________________
Facsimile:__________________________________
Direct E-mail:_______________________________

I.

Registrations

Was the applicant previously registered on Form Funding Portal as a funding portal or
with the Commission in any other capacity?
⁪
⁪

□ Yes
□ No
J.

SEC File No. _________

Foreign registrations

1. Is the applicant registered with a foreign financial regulatory authority?
Answer “no” even if affiliated with a business that is registered with a foreign financial
regulatory authority.
□Yes

□No

If “yes,” complete Section J.2. below.
2. List the name, in English, of each foreign financial regulatory authority and country
with which the applicant is registered. A separate entry must be completed for each
foreign financial regulatory authority with which the applicant is registered.
Check only one box:

Add

Delete

Amend

English Name of Foreign Financial Regulatory Authority
______________________________________________________________________________
Registration Number (if any) _____________________________________________________
Name of Country _______________________________________________________________
532

Item 2 – Form of Organization
A.

Indicate legal status of applicant. __Corporation __Sole Proprietorship
__ Partnership __Limited Liability Company
__Other (specify) ______________________

B.

If other than a sole proprietor, indicate date and place applicant obtained its legal
status (i.e., state or country where incorporated, where partnership agreement was
filed, or where applicant entity was formed):
State/Country of formation________________________
Date of Formation_______________________________

Item 3 – Successions
A.

Is the applicant at the time of this filing succeeding to the business of a currently
registered funding portal?
□ Yes

□ No

Do not report previous successions already reported on Form Funding Portal.
If “yes,” complete Section 3.B. below.
B.

Complete the following information if succeeding to the business of a currentlyregistered funding portal. If the applicant acquired more than one funding portal
in the succession being reported on this Form Funding Portal, a separate entry
must be completed for each acquired firm.
Check only one box:

Add

Delete

Amend

Name of Acquired Funding Portal
_________________________________________________________
Acquired Funding Portal’s SEC File No.: ______
A.

Briefly describe details of the succession including any assets or liabilities not assumed
by the successor.
_________________________________________________________

Item 4 – Control Persons
In this Item, identify every person that, directly or indirectly, controls the applicant, controls
management or policies of the applicant, or that the applicant directly or indirectly controls.
___________________________________________________________________________
___________________________________________________________________________
533

If this is an initial application, the applicant also must complete Schedule A. Schedule A asks for
information about direct owners and executive officers. If this is an amendment updating
information reported on the Schedule A filed with the applicant’s initial application, the
applicant must complete Schedule B.
Item 5 – Disclosure Information
In this Item, provide information about the applicant’s disciplinary history and the disciplinary
history of all associated persons of the applicant. This information is used to determine whether
to approve an application for registration, to decide whether to revoke registration, to place
limitations on the applicant’s activities as a funding portal, and to identify potential problem
areas on which to focus during examinations. One event may result in the requirement to answer
“yes” to more than one of the questions below.
If the answer is “yes” to any question in this Item, the applicant must complete the appropriate
Disclosure Reporting Page (“DRP”) – Criminal, Regulatory, Civil Judicial, Bankruptcy, Bond,
Judgment – for which the corresponding DRP will pop-up automatically.
A. Criminal Action Disclosure
If the answer is “yes” to any question in Part A or B below, complete a Criminal Action
DRP.
Check all that apply:
1.

In the past ten years, has the applicant or any associated person:
(a) been convicted of any felony, or pled guilty or nolo contendere (“no
contest”) to any charge of a felony, in a domestic, foreign, or military
court?
□Yes

□ No

The response to the following question may be limited to charges that are
currently pending:
(b) been charged with any felony?
□Yes
2.

□No

In the past ten years, has the applicant or any associated person:
(a) been convicted of any misdemeanor, or pled guilty or nolo contendere
(“no contest”), in a domestic, foreign, or military court to any charge of a
misdemeanor in a case involving: investment-related business, or any
534

fraud, false statements, or omissions, wrongful taking of property, bribery,
perjury, forgery, counterfeiting, extortion, or a conspiracy to commit any
of these offenses?
□Yes

□No

The response to the following question may be limited to charges that are
currently pending:
(b) been charged with a misdemeanor listed in Item 5-A(2)(a)?
□Yes
B.

□No

Regulatory Action Disclosure
If the answer is “yes” to any question in Item 5-B below, complete a Regulatory
Action DRP.
Check all that apply:
1.

Has the SEC or the Commodities Futures Trading Commission (“CFTC”)
ever:
(a) found the applicant or any associated person to have made a false
statement or omission?
□Yes

□No

(b) found the applicant or any associated person to have been involved in
a violation of any SEC or CFTC regulation or statute?
□Yes

□No

(c) found the applicant or any associated person to have been a cause of
the denial, suspension, revocation, or restriction of the authorization of an
investment related business to operate?
□Yes

□No

(d) entered an order against the applicant or any associated person in
connection with investment-related activity?
□Yes

□No

535

(e) imposed a civil money penalty on the applicant or any associated
person, or ordered the applicant or any associated person to cease and
desist from any activity?
□Yes
2.

□No

Has any other federal regulatory agency, any state regulatory agency, or
any foreign financial regulatory authority:
(a) ever found the applicant or any associated person to have made a false
statement or omission, or been dishonest, unfair, or unethical?
□Yes

□No

(b) ever found the applicant or any associated person to have been
involved in a violation of investment-related regulations or statutes?
□Yes

□No

(c) ever found the applicant or any associated person to have been the
cause of a denial, suspension, revocation, or restriction of the
authorization of an investment-related business to operate?
□Yes

□No

(d) in the past ten years entered an order against the applicant or any
associated person in connection with an investment-related activity?
□Yes

□No

(e) ever denied, suspended, or revoked the registration or license of the
applicant or that of any associated person, or otherwise prevented the
applicant or any associated person of the applicant, by order, from
associating with an investment-related business or restricted the activities
of the applicant or any associated person?
□Yes
3.

□No

Has any self-regulatory organization or commodities exchange ever:
(a) found the applicant or any associated person to have made a false
statement or omission?
□Yes

□No

536

(b) found the applicant or any associated person to have been involved in
a violation of its rules (other than a violation designated as a “minor rule
violation” under a plan approved by the SEC)?
□Yes

□No

(c) found the applicant or any associated person to have been the cause of
a denial, suspension, revocation or restriction of the authorization of an
investment-related business to operate?
□Yes

□No

(d) disciplined the applicant or any associated person by expelling or
suspending the applicant or the associated person from membership,
barring or suspending the applicant or the associated person from
association with other members, or by otherwise restricting the activities
of the applicant or the associated person?
□Yes
4.

Has the applicant or any associated person ever had an authorization to
act as an attorney, accountant, or federal contractor revoked or suspended?
□Yes

5.

□No

Is the applicant or any associated person currently the subject of any
regulatory proceeding that could result in a “yes” answer to any part of
Item 5-B(1), 5-B(2), or 5-B(3)?
□Yes

C.

□No

□No

Civil Judicial Disclosure
If the answer is “yes” to a question below, complete a Civil Judicial Action DRP
Check all that apply:
1.

Has any domestic or foreign court:
(a) in the past ten years enjoined the applicant or any associated person in
connection with any investment-related activity?
□Yes

□No

537

(b) ever found that the applicant or any associated person was involved in
a violation of investment-related statutes or regulations?
□Yes

□No

(c) ever dismissed, pursuant to a settlement agreement, an investmentrelated civil action brought against the applicant or any associated person
by a state or foreign financial regulatory authority?
□Yes
2.

Is the applicant or any associated person now the subject of any civil
proceeding that could result in a “yes” answer to any part of Item 5-C(1)?
□Yes

3.

□No

□No

In the past ten years, has the applicant or a control affiliate of the
applicant ever been a securities firm or a control affiliate of a securities
firm that:
(a) has been the subject of a bankruptcy petition?
□Yes

□No

(b) has had a trustee appointed or a direct payment procedure initiated
under the Securities Investor Protection Act?
□Yes
4.

Has a bonding company ever denied, paid out on, or revoked a bond
for the applicant?
□Yes

5.

□No

□No

Does the applicant have any unsatisfied judgments or liens against it?
□Yes

□No

Item 6 – Non-Securities Related Business
Does applicant engage in any non-securities related business?
□Yes

□No

If “yes,” briefly describe the non-securities business.
__________________________________________________________________
538

__________________________________________________________________
Item 7 - Escrow Arrangements; Compensation Arrangements; and Fidelity Bond
A. Escrow. Complete the following information for each person that will hold investor funds
in escrow pursuant to the requirements of Rule 303(e) of Regulation Crowdfunding (17
CFR 24_.309).
Check only one box:

Add

Delete

Amend

Name of person:__________________________________________________________
Address:________________________________________________________________
Phone Number: __________________________________________________________
B. Compensation. Please describe any compensation arrangements funding portal has with
issuers.
__________________________________________________________________
C. Fidelity Bond. Does funding portal maintain fidelity bond coverage that has a minimum
coverage of $100,000, covers any associated person of the funding portal unless
otherwise excepted in the rules set forth by FINRA or any other registered national
securities association of which it is a member, and meets any other applicable
requirements as set forth by FINRA or any applicable national securities association that
is registered under Section 15A?
□Yes

□No

If “yes,” provide the following information.
Bonding Company Name:_____________________________________________
Bonding Company Address:___________________________________________
Phone Number: ____________________________________________________
Policy #________________
Expiration Date:______________________
Item 8 – Withdrawal
If this is a withdrawal of registration:
A.

The date the funding portal ceased business or withdrew its registration request:
Date (MM/DD/YYYY): ___________________

B.

Location of Books and Records after Registration Withdrawal
Complete the following information for each location at which the applicant will
keeps books and records after withdrawing its registration.
Check only one box:

Add

Delete
539

Amend

Name and address of entity where books and records are kept:
__________________________________________________________________
__________________________________________________________________
__________________________________________________________________
(area code)
(telephone number)
(area code)
(fax number)
This is (check one):

one of applicant’s branch offices or affiliates.
a third party unaffiliated recordkeeper.
other.

If this address is a private residence, check this box:
Briefly describe the books and records kept at this location.
__________________________________________________________________
__________________________________________________________________
__________________________________________________________________
__________________________________________________________________
C.

Is the funding portal now the subject of or named in any investment-related
1. Investigation
□Yes

□No

2. Investor initiated complaint
□Yes

□No

3. Private civil litigation
□Yes

□No

540

EXECUTION
The funding portal consents that service of any civil action brought by or notice of any
proceeding before the Securities and Exchange Commission or any self-regulatory organization
in connection with the funding portal’s investment-related business may be given by registered
or certified mail to the funding portal’s contact person at the main address, or mailing address, if
different, given in Items 1.E, 1.F., and 1.H. If the applicant is a nonresident funding portal, it must

complete Schedule C to designate a U.S. agent for service of process.

The undersigned represents and warrants that he/she has executed this form on behalf of,
and is duly authorized to bind, the funding portal. The undersigned and the funding portal
represent that the information and statements contained herein and other information filed
herewith, all of which are made a part hereof, are current, true and complete. The undersigned
and the funding portal further represent that, if this is an amendment, to the extent that any
information previously submitted is not amended, such information is currently accurate and
complete.
Date: _____________________
Full Legal Name of Funding Portal: ______________________________
By ___________________________________________
(signature)
Title: ________________________________

541

FORM FUNDING PORTAL
SCHEDULE A
Direct Owners and Executive Officers
1. Complete Schedule A only if submitting an initial application. Schedule A asks for
information about the applicant’s direct owners and executive officers. Use Schedule B to
amend this information.
2. Direct Owners and Executive Officers. List below the names of:
(a) each Chief Executive Officer, Chief Financial Officer, Chief Operations Officer, Chief
Legal Officer, Chief Compliance Officer, director and any other individuals with similar
status or functions;
(b) if applicant is organized as a corporation, each shareholder that is a direct owner of 5%
or more of a class of the applicant’s voting securities, unless applicant is a public
reporting company (a company subject to Section 13 or 15(d) of the Exchange Act);
Direct owners include any person that owns, beneficially owns, has the right to vote, or
has the power to sell or direct the sale of 5% or more of a class of the applicant’s voting
securities. For purposes of this Schedule, a person beneficially owns any securities: (i)
owned by his/her child, stepchild, grandchild, parent, stepparent, grandparent, spouse,
sibling, mother-in-law, father-in-law, son-in-law, daughter-in-law, brother-in-law, or
sister-in-law, sharing the same residence; or (ii) that he/she has the right to acquire,
within 60 days, through the exercise of any option, warrant, or right to purchase the
security.
(c) if the applicant is organized as a partnership, all general partners and those limited and
special partners that have the right to receive upon dissolution, or have contributed, 5% or
more of the applicant’s capital;
(d) in the case of a trust, (i) a person that directly owns 5% or more of a class of the
applicant’s voting securities, or that has the right to receive upon dissolution, or has
contributed, 5% or more of the applicant’s capital, (ii) the trust and (iii) each trustee; and
(e) if the applicant is organized as a limited liability company (“LLC”), (i) those members
that have the right to receive upon dissolution, or have contributed, 5% or more of the
applicant’s capital, and (ii) if managed by elected managers, all elected managers.
3. In the DE/FE/NP column below, enter “DE” if the owner is a domestic entity, “FE” if the
owner is an entity incorporated or domiciled in a foreign country, or “NP” if the owner or
executive officer is a natural person.
542

4. Complete the Title or Status column by entering board/management titles; status as partner,
trustee, sole proprietor, elected manager, shareholder, or member; and for shareholders or
members, the class of securities owned (if more than one is issued).
5. Ownership codes are:
NA - less than 5%
A - 5% but less than 10%
6.

B - 10% but less than 25%
C - 25% but less than 50%

D - 50% but less than 75%
E - 75% or more

(a) In the Control Affiliate column, enter “Yes” if the person has control as defined in the
Glossary of Terms to Form Funding Portal, and enter “No” if the person does not have
control. Note that under this definition, most executive officers and all 25% owners,
general partners, elected managers, and trustees are control persons.
(b) In the PR column, enter “PR” if the owner is a public reporting company under Section
13 or 15(d) of the Exchange Act.
(c) Complete each column.

FULL
LEGAL
NAME
(Natural
Persons:
Last Name,
First
Name,
Middle
Name)

DE/FE/NP Title or
Status

Date Title or
Status
Acquired
MM YYYY

543

Ownership Control
Code
Affiliate

CRD No.

(If None:
S.S. No. and
Yes/No PR Date of
Birth, IRS
Tax No., or
Employer
ID No.)

FORM FUNDING PORTAL
SCHEDULE B
Amendments to Schedule A
1. Use Schedule B only to amend information requested on Schedule A. Refer to Schedule A
for specific instructions for completing this Schedule B. Complete each column. File with a
completed Execution Page.
2. In the Type of Amendment column, indicate “A” (addition), “D” (deletion), or “C” (change
in information about the same person).
3. Ownership codes are:

NA - less than 5%
A - 5% but less than 10%

B - 10% but less than 25%
C - 25% but less than 50%

D - 50% but less than 75%
E - 75% or more

G - Other (general partner, trustee, or elected member)
4. List below all changes to Schedule A (Direct Owners and Executive Officers):
FULL LEGAL
NAME
(Natural
Persons: Last
Name, First
Name, Middle
Name)

D
Type of
E/ AmendFE ment
/N
P

Title or
Status

Date Title
or Status
Acquired
MM YYY
Y

544

Ownershi Control
p Code
Affiliate
Yes/N PR
o

CRD No.
(If None: S.S. No.
and Date of Birth,
IRS Tax No., or
Employer ID No.)

Schedule C of FORM FUNDING PORTAL
Nonresident Funding Portals
Applicant Name:
Date:

SEC File No:

Official Use
Service of Process and Certification Regarding Access to Records
Each nonresident funding portal applicant shall use Form to identify its United States agent for service of process
and to certify that it can
(1) provide the Commission and the national securities association of which it is a member with prompt access
to its books and records, and (2) submit to onsite inspection and examination by the Commission.
1. Service of Process:
A. Name of United States person applicant designates and appoints as agent for service of process
B. Address of United States person applicant designates and appoints as agent for service of process
The above identified agent for service of process may be served any process, pleadings, subpoenas, or other
papers in
(a) any investigation or administrative proceeding conducted by the Commission that relates to the applicant
or about which the
applicant may have information; and
(b) any civil or criminal suit or action or proceeding brought against the applicant or to which the applicant
has been joined as defendant or respondent, in any appropriate court in any place subject to the jurisdiction
of any state or of the United States or of any of its territories or possessions or of the District of Columbia, to
enforce the Exchange Act. The applicant has stipulated and agreed that any such suit, action or
administrative proceeding may be commenced by the service of process upon, and that service of an
administrative subpoena shall be effected by service upon, the above-named Agent for Service of Process,
and that service as aforesaid shall be taken and held in all courts and administrative tribunals to be valid and
binding as if personal service thereof had been made.
2.
Certification regarding access to records:
Applicant can as a matter of law;
(1) provide the Commission and any national securities association of which it is a member with prompt access
to its books and records, and
(2) submit to onsite inspection and examination by the Commission.
Applicant must attach to this Form Funding Portal a copy of the opinion of counsel it is required to
obtain in accordance with Rule 400(g) of Regulation Crowdfunding.
Signature:
Name and Title:
Date:

545

CRIMINAL ACTION DISCLOSURE REPORTING PAGE (FP)
General Instructions
This Disclosure Reporting Page (DRP FP) is an INITIAL OR AMENDED response used
to report details for affirmative responses to Item 5-A of Form Funding Portal.
Check item(s) being responded to:

5-A(1)(a)

5-A(1)(b)

5-A(2)(a)

5-A(2)(b)

Use a separate DRP for each event or proceeding. The same event or proceeding may be
reported for more than one person or entity using one DRP. File with a completed Execution
Page.
Multiple counts of the same charge arising out of the same event(s) should be reported on the
same DRP. Use this DRP to report all charges arising out of the same event. Unrelated criminal
actions, including separate cases arising out of the same event, must be reported on separate
DRPs. One event may result in more than one affirmative answer to the items listed above.
Part 1
Check all that apply:
A. The person(s) or entity(ies) for whom this DRP is being filed is (are) the:
Applicant
Applicant and one or more associated persons
One or more of applicant’s associated persons
If this DRP is being filed for the applicant, and it is an amendment that seeks to remove a DRP
concerning the applicant from the record, the reason the DRP should be removed is:
The applicant is registered or applying for registration, and the event or proceeding was
resolved in the applicant’s favor.
The DRP was filed in error.
If this DRP is being filed for an associated person:
This associated person is:
The associated person is:

a firm
a natural person
registered with the SEC
not registered with the SEC

Full name of the associated person (including, for natural persons, last, first and middle names):
______________________________________________________________________________
If the associated person has a CRD number, provide that number. __________
546

If this is an amendment that seeks to remove a DRP concerning the associated person, the reason
the DRP should be removed is:
The associated person(s) is (are) no longer associated with the applicant.
The event or proceeding was resolved in the associated person’s favor.
The event or proceeding occurred more than ten years ago.
The DRP was filed in error. Explain the circumstances:
______________________________________________________________________________
______________________________________________________________________________
Part 2
1. If charge(s) were brought against a firm or organization over which the applicant or an
associated person exercised control:
Enter the firm or organization’s name __________________________________________
Was the firm or organization engaged in an investment-related business?

Yes

No

What was the relationship of the applicant with the firm or organization? (In the case of an
associated person, include any position or title with the firm or organization.)
_____________________________________________
2. Formal charge(s) were brought in: (include the name of Federal, Military, State or Foreign
Court, Location of Court - City or County and State or Country, and Docket/Case number).
Name of court: _________________________
Location: _____________________________
Docket/Case number: ____________________
3. Event Disclosure Detail (Use this for both organizational and individual charges.)
A. Date First Charged (MM/DD/YYYY): ____________________
Explanation

Exact

If not exact, provide explanation:
______________________________________________________________
B. Event Disclosure Detail (include charge(s)/charge Description(s), and for each charge
provide: (1) number of counts, (2) felony or misdemeanor, (3) plea for each charge, and
(4) product type if charge is investment-related).
______________________________________________________________________________
C. Did any of the charge(s) within the event involve a felony?
547

Yes

No

D. Current status of the event?

Pending

On Appeal

Final

E. Event status date (Complete unless status is pending) (MM/DD/YYYY):
____________________
Exact
Explanation
If not exact, provide explanation:
______________________________________________________________
4. Disposition Disclosure Detail: Include for each charge (a) Disposition Type (e.g., convicted,
acquitted, dismissed, pretrial, etc.), (b) Date, (c) Sentence/Penalty, (d) Duration (if sentencesuspension, probation, etc.), (e) Start Date of Penalty, (f) Penalty/Fine Amount, and (g) Date
Paid.
______________________________________________________________________________
5. Provide a brief summary of circumstances leading to the charge(s) as well as the disposition.
Include the relevant dates when the conduct that was the subject of the charge(s) occurred.
(The response must fit within the space provided.)
______________________________________________________________________________
______________________________________________________________________________

548

REGULATORY ACTION DISCLOSURE REPORTING PAGE (FP)
GENERAL INSTRUCTIONS
This Disclosure Reporting Page (DRP FP) is an INITIAL OR AMENDED response used
to report details for affirmative responses to Item 5-B of Form Funding Portal.
Check item(s) being responded to:
5-B(1)(a)
5-B(1)(b)
5-B(1)(c)
5-B(1)(d)
5-B(1)(e)
5-B(2)(a)
5-B(2)(b)
5-B(2)(c)
5-B(2)(d)
5-B(2)(e)
5-B(3)(a)
5-B(3)(b)
5-B(3)(c)
5-B(3)(d)
5-B(4)
5-B(5)
Use a separate DRP for each event or proceeding. The same event or proceeding may be
reported for more than one person or entity using one DRP. File with a completed Execution
Page.
One event may result in more than one affirmative answer to Items 5-B(1), 5-B(2), 5-B(3), 5B(4) or 5-B(5). Use only one DRP to report details related to the same event. If an event gives
rise to actions by more than one regulator, provide details for each action on a separate DRP.
Part 1
The person(s) or entity(ies) for whom this DRP is being filed is (are) the:
Applicant (the funding portal)
Applicant and one or more of the applicant’s associated person(s)
One or more of applicant’s associated person(s)
If this DRP is being filed for the applicant and it is an amendment that seeks to remove a DRP
concerning the applicant from the record, the reason the DRP should be removed is:
The applicant is registered or applying for registration, and the event or proceeding was
resolved in the applicant’s favor.
The DRP was filed in error.
If this DRP is being filed for an associated person:
This associated person is:
a firm
a natural person
The associated person is:
registered with the SEC
SEC

not registered with the

Full name of the associated person (including, for natural persons, last, first and middle names):
______________________________________________________________________________
If the associated person has a CRD number, provide that number. __________
549

If this is an amendment that seeks to remove a DRP concerning the associated person, the reason
the DRP should be removed is:
The associated person(s) is (are) no longer associated with the applicant.
The event or proceeding was resolved in the associated person’s favor.
The DRP was filed in error. Explain the circumstances:
______________________________________________________________________________
______________________________________________________________________________
Part 2
1. Regulatory Action was initiated by:
SEC
Other Federal Authority
Foreign Authority

State

SRO

(Full name of regulator, foreign financial regulatory authority, federal authority, state or SRO)
______________________________________________________________________________
______________________________________________________________________________
______________________________________________________________________________
2. Principal Sanction (check appropriate item):
Civil and Administrative Penalty(ies)/Fine(s)
Restitution
Bar
Cease and Desist
Censure
Denial

Disgorgement
Expulsion
Injunction
Prohibition
Reprimand

Revocation
Suspension
Undertaking
Other

Other Sanctions:
______________________________________________________________________________
______________________________________________________________________________
______________________________________________________________________________
3. Date Initiated (MM/DD/YYYY): ____________________
Explanation

Exact

If not exact, provide explanation:
___________________________________________________________________________
___________________________________________________________________________
___________________________________________________________________________
__________________
550

4. Docket/Case Number: ____________________
5. Associated person’s Employing Firm when activity occurred that led to the regulatory action
(if applicable):
______________________________________________________________________________
______________________________________________________________________________
______________________________________________________________________________
6. Principal Product Type (check appropriate item):
Annuity(ies) - Fixed
Annuity(ies) - Variable
Money Market Fund(s)
CD(s)
Commodity Option(s)
Debt - Asset Backed
Debt - Corporate
Debt - Government
Debt - Municipal

Derivative(s)
Investment Contract(s)
Direct Investment(s) - DPP & LP Interest(s)
No Product
Equity - OTC
Mutual Fund(s)
Equity Listed (Common & Preferred Stock)
Futures - Commodity
Options
Futures - Financial
Penny Stock(s)
Index Option(s)
Unit Investment Trust(s)
Insurance
Other

Other Product Types:
______________________________________________________________________________
______________________________________________________________________________
______________________________________________________________________________
7. Describe the allegations related to this regulatory action. (The response must fit within the
space provided.)
______________________________________________________________________________
______________________________________________________________________________
______________________________________________________________________________
8. Current status?

Pending

On Appeal

Final

9. If on appeal, to whom the regulatory action was appealed (SEC, SRO, Federal or State Court)
and date appeal filed:
______________________________________________________________________________
______________________________________________________________________________
If Final or On Appeal, complete all items below. For Pending Actions, complete Item 13 only.
10. How was matter resolved (check appropriate item):
Acceptance, Waiver & Consent (AWC)
Dismissed
Vacated
Consent
Order
Withdrawn
Decision
Settled
Other
Decision & Order of Offer of Settlement
Stipulation and Consent
551

11. Resolution Date (MM/DD/YYYY): ____________________
Explanation

Exact

If not exact, provide explanation:
___________________________________________________________________________
___________________________________________________________________________
12. Resolution Detail:
A. Were any of the following Sanctions Ordered (check all appropriate items)?
Monetary/Fine
Disgorgement/Restitution
Amount: $____________
Desist/Injunction
Bar

Revocation/Expulsion/Denial
Censure

Cease and

Suspension

B. Other Sanctions Ordered:
___________________________________________________________________________
___________________________________________________________________________
C. Sanction detail: If suspended, enjoined or barred, provide duration including start date
and capacities affected (General Securities Principal, Financial Operations Principal,
etc.). If requalification by exam/retraining was a condition of the sanction, provide
length of time given to requalify/retrain, type of exam required and whether condition has
been satisfied. If disposition resulted in a fine, penalty, restitution, disgorgement or
monetary compensation, provide total amount, portion levied against the applicant or an
associated person, date paid and if any portion of penalty was waived:
___________________________________________________________________________
___________________________________________________________________________
13. Provide a brief summary of details related to the action status and (or) disposition, and
include relevant terms, conditions and dates.
______________________________________________________________________________
______________________________________________________________________________

552

CIVIL JUDICIAL ACTION DISCLOSURE REPORTING PAGE (FP)
GENERAL INSTRUCTIONS
This Disclosure Reporting Page (DRP FP) is an INITIAL OR AMENDED response used
to report details for affirmative responses to Item 5-C. of Form Funding Portal.
Check item(s) being responded to:
5-C(1)(a)
5-C(1)(b)
5-C(3)(a)
5-C(3)(b)

5-C(1)(c)

5-C(2)

Use a separate DRP for each event or proceeding. The same event or proceeding may be
reported for more than one person or entity using one DRP. File with a completed Execution
Page.
One event may result in more than one affirmative answer to Item 5-C. Use only one DRP to
report details related to the same event. Unrelated civil judicial actions must be reported on
separate DRPs.
Part 1
The person(s) or entity(ies) for whom this DRP is being filed is (are) the:
Applicant (the funding portal)
Applicant and one or more of the applicant’s associated person(s)
One or more of the applicant’s associated person(s)
If this DRP is being filed for the applicant and it is an amendment that seeks to remove a DRP
concerning the applicant from the record, the reason the DRP should be removed is:
The applicant is registered or applying for registration, and the event or proceeding was
resolved in the applicant’s favor.
The DRP was filed in error.
If this DRP is being filed for an associated person:
This associated person is:
a firm
a natural person
The associated person is:
registered with the SEC
SEC

not registered with the

Full name of the associated person (including, for natural persons, last, first and middle names):
______________________________________________________________________________
If the associated person has a CRD number, provide that number. __________
553

If this is an amendment that seeks to remove a DRP concerning the associated person, the reason
the DRP should be removed is:
The associated person(s) is (are) no longer associated with the applicant.
The event or proceeding was resolved in the associated person’s favor.
The DRP was filed in error. Explain the circumstances:
______________________________________________________________________________
______________________________________________________________________________
Part 2
1. Court Action initiated by: (Name of regulator, foreign financial regulatory authority, SRO,
commodities exchange, agency, firm, private plaintiff, etc.)
2. Principal Relief Sought (check appropriate item):
Cease and Desist
(Private/Civil Complaint)
Restraining Order
Injunction
Other _________

Disgorgement

Money Damages

Civil Penalty(ies)/Fine(s)
Restitution

Other Relief Sought:_____________________________________________________________
3. Filing Date of Court Action (MM/DD/YYYY): ____________________
Explanation

Exact

If not exact, provide explanation:
___________________________________________________________________________
4. Principal Product Type (check appropriate item):
Annuity(ies) - Fixed
Derivative(s)
Investment Contract(s)
Annuity(ies) - Variable
Direct Investment(s) - DPP & LP Interest(s)
Money Market Fund(s)
CD(s)
Equity - OTC
Mutual Fund(s)
Commodity Option(s)
No Product
Equity Listed (Common & Preferred Stock)
Options
Debt - Asset Backed
Futures - Commodity
Penny Stock(s)
Debt - Corporate
Futures - Financial
Unit Investment Trust(s)
Debt - Government
Index Option(s)
Other
Debt - Municipal
Insurance
Other Product Types:
______________________________________________________________________________
554

5. Formal Action was brought in (include the name of the Federal, State or Foreign Court,
Location of Court - City or County and State or Country, and Docket/Case Number):
______________________________________________________________________________
6. Associated person’s Employing Firm when activity occurred that led to the civil judicial
action (if applicable):
______________________________________________________________________________
7. Describe the allegations related to this civil action (the response must fit within the space
provided):
______________________________________________________________________________
______________________________________________________________________________
8. Current status?

Pending

On Appeal

Final

9. If on appeal, court to which the action was appealed (provide name of the court) and Date
Appeal Filed (MM/DD/YYYY):
______________________________________________________________________________
______________________________________________________________________________
10. If pending, date notice/process was served (MM/DD/YYYY): ____________________
Exact

Explanation

If not exact, provide explanation:
___________________________________________________________________________
If Final or On Appeal, complete all items below. For Pending Actions, complete Item 14 only.
11. How was matter resolved (check appropriate item):
Consent
Withdrawn

Judgment Rendered
Other _____________

Settled

12. Resolution Date (MM/DD/YYYY): ____________________
Explanation

Dismissed

Opinion

Exact

If not exact, provide explanation:
___________________________________________________________________________
___________________________________________________________________________
13. Resolution Detail:

555

A. Were any of the following Sanctions Ordered or Relief Granted (check appropriate
items)?
Monetary/Fine
Revocation/Expulsion/Denial
Amount: $_____________
Censure
Desist/Injunction
Bar
Suspension

Disgorgement/Restitution
Cease and

B. Other Sanctions Ordered:
___________________________________________________________________________
___________________________________________________________________________
___________________________________________________________________________
C. Sanction detail: If suspended, enjoined or barred, provide duration including start date
and capacities affected (General Securities Principal, Financial Operations Principal,
etc.). If requalification by exam/retraining was a condition of the sanction, provide
length of time given to requalify/retrain, type of exam required and whether condition has
been satisfied. If disposition resulted in a fine, penalty, restitution, disgorgement or
monetary compensation, provide total amount, portion levied against the applicant or an
associated person, date paid and if any portion of penalty was waived:
___________________________________________________________________________
___________________________________________________________________________
___________________________________________________________________________
___________________________________________________________________________
___________________________________________________________________________
___________________________________________________________________________
14. Provide a brief summary of circumstances related to the action(s), allegation(s),
disposition(s) and/or finding(s) disclosed above.
______________________________________________________________________________
______________________________________________________________________________
______________________________________________________________________________

556

BANKRUPTCY/SIPC DISCLOSURE REPORTING PAGE (FP)
GENERAL INSTRUCTIONS
This Disclosure Reporting Page (DRP FP) is an INITIAL OR AMENDED response used
to report details for affirmative responses to Item 5-C(3) of Form Funding Portal.
Check item(s) being responded to:

5-C(3)

Use a separate DRP for each event or proceeding. The same event or proceeding may be
reported for more than one person or entity using one DRP. File with a completed Execution
Page.
One event may result in more than one affirmative answer to Item 5-C(3). Use only one DRP to
report details related to the same event. Unrelated civil judicial actions must be reported on
separate DRPs.
Part 1
Check all that apply:
A. The person(s) or entity(ies) for whom this DRP is being filed is (are) the:
Applicant
Applicant and one or more control affiliates
One or more of control affiliates
If this DRP is being filed for a control affiliate, give the full name of the control affiliate below
(for individuals, Last name, First name, Middle name).
If the control affiliate is registered with the CRD, provide the CRD number. If not, indicate
“non-registered’’ by checking the appropriate checkbox.
FP DRP - CONTROL AFFILIATE
___________________________
Control Affiliate CRD Number
person
Registered:

Yes

This control affiliate is:

a firm

a natural

No

Full name of the control affiliate (including, for natural persons, last, first and middle names):
______________________________________________________________________________
557

This is an amendment that seeks to remove a DRP record because the control affiliate(s) is
(are) no longer associated with the funding portal.
B. If the control affiliate is registered through the CRD, has the control affiliate submitted a DRP
(with Form U-4) or BD DRP to the CRD System for the event? If the answer is “Yes,’’ no other
information on this DRP must be provided.
Yes

No

NOTE: The completion of this Form does not relieve the control affiliate of its obligation to
update its CRD records.
Part 2
1. Action Type: (check appropriate item)
Bankruptcy

Declaration

Receivership

Compromise

Liquidated

Other___________

2. Action Date (MM/DD/YYYY):___________________
Explanation

Exact

If not exact, provide
explanation:___________________________________________________________
3. If the financial action relates to an organization over which the applicant or control
affiliate exercise(d) control, enter organization name and the applicant’s or control
affiliate’s position, title or relationship:
________________________________________________________________________
Was the Organization investment-related?

Yes

No

4. Court action brought in (Name of Federal, State or Foreign Court), Location of Court
(City or County and State or Country), Docket/Case Number and Bankruptcy Chapter
Number (if Federal Bankruptcy Filing):
________________________________________________________________________
5. Is action currently pending?

Yes

No

6. If not pending, provide Disposition Type: (check appropriate item)
Direct Payment Procedure
Discharged

Dismissed
Dissolved
558

Satisfied/Released
SIPA Trustee Appointed

Other _______
7. Disposition Date (MM/DD/YYYY):

Exact

Explanation

If not exact, provide explanation: __________________________________________
8. Provide a brief summary of events leading to the action, and if not discharged, explain.
(The information must fit within the space
provided.):________________________________________________________
9. If a SIPA trustee was appointed or a direct payment procedure was begun, enter the
amount paid by you; or the name of
trustee:__________________________________________________________________
Currently Open?

Yes

No

Date Direct Payment Initiated/Filed or Trustee Appointed (MM/DD/YYYY):_____________
Exact

Explanation

If not exact, provide
explanation:_______________________________________________________________
10. Provide details to any status disposition. Include details as to creditors, terms, conditions,
amounts due and settlement schedule (if
applicable):__________________________________________________________

559

BOND DISCLOSURE REPORTING PAGE (FP)
GENERAL INSTRUCTIONS
This Disclosure Reporting Page (DRP FP) is an INITIAL OR AMENDED response used
to report details for affirmative responses to Item 5-C(4) of Form Funding Portal.
Check item(s) being responded to:

5-C(4)

Use a separate DRP for each event or proceeding. The same event or proceeding may be
reported for more than one person or entity using one DRP. File with a completed Execution
Page.
One event may result in more than one affirmative answer to Item 5-C(4). Use only one DRP to
report details related to the same event. If an event gives rise to actions by more than one
regulator, provide details for each action on a separate DRP.
1.

Firm Name: (Policy Holder)

______________________________________________________________________________
_______
2.

Bonding Company Name:

______________________________________________________________________________
_______
3.

Disposition Type: (check appropriate item)
Denied

4.

Payout

Revoked

Disposition Date (MM/DD/YYYY):

Exact

Explanation

If not exact, provide explanation:
______________________________________________________________________________
______________________________________________________________________________
______________
5.

If disposition resulted in Payout, list Payout Amount and Date Paid:

______________________________________________________________________________
______________________________________________________________________________
______________
560

6.

Summarize the details of circumstances leading to the necessity of the bonding company
action:

______________________________________________________________________________
______________________________________________________________________________
______________________________________________________________________________
______________________________________________________________________________
___________________________

561

JUDGMENT / LIEN DISCLOSURE REPORTING PAGE (FP)
GENERAL INSTRUCTIONS
This Disclosure Reporting Page (DRP FP) is an INITIAL OR AMENDED response used
to report details for affirmative responses to Item 5-C(5) of Form Funding Portal.
Check item(s) being responded to:

5-C(5)

Use a separate DRP for each event or proceeding. The same event or proceeding may be
reported for more than one person or entity using one DRP. File with a completed Execution
Page. One event may result in more than one affirmative answer to Item 5-C(5). Use only one
DRP to report details related to the same event. If an event gives rise to actions by more than
one regulator, provide details for each action on a separate DRP.
1.
2.

Judgment/Lien Amount:____________________________________________________
Judgment/Lien Holder:____________________________________________________

3.

Judgment/Lien Type: (check appropriate item)
Civil

4.

5.

Default

Tax

Date Filed (MM/DD/YYYY):____________
Explanation

Exact

If not exact, provide
explanation:______________________________________________
Is Judgment/Lien outstanding?
Yes

No

If No, provide
explanation:______________________________________________________________
If No, how was matter resolved? (check appropriate item)
Discharged
6.

Released

Removed

Satisfied

Court (Name of Federal, State or Foreign Court), Location of Court (City or County and
State or Country) and Docket/Case Number:

______________________________________________________________________________
7.

Provide a brief summary of events leading to the action and any payment schedule
details, including current status (if applicable):_________________________________
562

FORM FUNDING PORTAL INSTRUCTIONS
A.

GENERAL INSTRUCTIONS

1.

EXPLANATION OF FORM
•
•

2.

This is the form that a funding portal must use to register with the Securities and
Exchange Commission (“SEC” or “Commission”), to amend its registration and to
withdraw from registration.
The Commission may make publicly accessible all current Forms Funding Portal,
including amendments and registration withdrawal requests, which may be searchable by
the public, with the exception of certain personally identifiable information or other
information with significant potential for misuse (including the contact employee’s direct
phone number and e-mail address and any IRS Employer Identification Number, social
security number, date of birth, or any other similar information).
WHEN TO FILE FORM FUNDING PORTAL

•

A funding portal’s registration must become effective before offering or selling any
securities in reliance on Section 4(a)(6) through a platform. Under Rule 400, a funding
portal’s registration will be effective the later of: (1) 30 calendar days after the date a
complete Form Funding Portal is received by the Commission or (2) the date the funding
portal is approved for membership by a national securities association registered under
Section 15A of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934 (“Exchange Act”).

•

A registered funding portal must promptly file an amendment to Form Funding Portal
when any information previously submitted on Form Funding Portal becomes inaccurate
or incomplete for any reason.

•

A successor funding portal may succeed to the registration of a registered funding portal
by filing a registration on Form Funding Portal within 30 days after the succession.

•

If a funding portal succeeds to and continues the business of a registered funding portal
and the succession is based solely on a change of the predecessor’s date or state of
incorporation, form of organization, or composition of a partnership or similar reason, the
successor may, within 30 days of the succession, amend the registration on Form Funding
Portal to reflect these changes.

•

A funding portal must also file a withdrawal on Form Funding Portal promptly upon
ceasing to operate as a funding portal. Withdrawal will be effective on the later of 30
days after receipt by the Commission, after the funding portal is no longer operational, or
563

within such longer period of time as to which the funding portal consents or which the
Commission by order may determine as necessary or appropriate in the public interest or
for the protection of investors.
•

A Form Funding Portal filing will not be considered complete unless it complies with all
applicable requirements.

3.

ELECTRONIC FILING – The applicant must file Form Funding Portal electronically
using the web-enabled system, and must utilize this system to file and amend Form
Funding Portal electronically to assure the timely acceptance and processing of those
filings.

4.

CONTACT EMPLOYEE – The individual listed as the contact employee must be
authorized to receive all compliance information, communications, and mailings, and be
responsible for disseminating it within the applicant’s organization.

5.

FEDERAL INFORMATION LAW AND REQUIREMENTS
•

The principal purpose of this form is to provide a mechanism by which a funding portal
can register with the Commission, amend its registration and withdraw from registration.
The Commission maintains a file of the information on this form and will make certain
information collected through the form publicly available. The SEC will not accept
forms that do not include the required information.

•

Section 4A(a) of the Securities Act of 1933 [15 U.S.C. §77d-1(a)] and Sections 3(h) and
23(a) the Exchange Act [15 U.S.C. §§78c(h) and 78w(a)] authorize the SEC to collect the
information required by Form Funding Portal. The SEC collects the information for
regulatory purposes. Filing Form Funding Portal is mandatory for persons that are
registering as funding portals with the SEC.

•

Any member of the public may direct to the Commission any comments concerning the
accuracy of the burden estimate on this Form and any suggestions for reducing this
burden. This collection of information has been reviewed by the Office of Management
and Budget in accordance with the clearance requirements of 44 U.S.C. §3507. The
information contained in this form is part of a system of records subject to the Privacy
Act of 1974, as amended. The Securities and Exchange Commission has published in the
Federal Register the Privacy Act Systems of Records Notice for these records.

B.

FILING INSTRUCTIONS

1.

FORMAT
•

Items 1-7 must be answered and all fields requiring a response must be completed before
the filing will be accepted. Item 8 must be answered if the funding portal wishes to
withdraw from registration.
564

•

Applicant must complete the execution screen certifying that Form Funding Portal and
amendments thereto have been executed properly and that the information contained
therein is accurate and complete.

•

To amend information, the applicant must update the appropriate Form Funding Portal
screens.

•

A paper copy, with original manual signatures, of the initial Form Funding Portal filing
and amendments to Disclosure Reporting Pages must be retained by the applicant and be
made available for inspection upon a regulatory request.

2.

DISCLOSURE REPORTING PAGES (DRP) – Information concerning the applicant
or control affiliate that relates to the occurrence of an event reportable under Item 5 must
be provided on the applicant’s appropriate DRP (FP). If a control affiliate is an
individual or organization registered through the CRD, such control affiliate need only
complete the control affiliate name and CRD number of the applicant’s appropriate DRP.
Details for the event must be submitted on the control affiliate’s appropriate DRP or
DRP(U-4). If a control affiliate is an individual or organization not registered through
the CRD, provide complete answers to all of the questions and complete all fields
requiring a response on the applicant’s appropriate DRP (FP) screen.

3.

DIRECT OWNERS - Amend the Direct Owners and Executive Officers screen when
changes in ownership occur.

4.

NONRESIDENT APPLICANTS – Any applicant that is a nonresident funding portal must
complete Schedule C and attach the opinion of counsel referred to therein.

C.

EXPLANATION OF TERMS

1.

GENERAL

APPLICANT - The funding portal applying on or amending this form.
ASSOCIATED PERSON - Any partner, officer, director or manager of the funding portal (or
any person occupying a similar status or performing similar functions), any person directly or
indirectly controlling or controlled by the funding portal, or any employee of the funding portal,
except that any person associated with a funding portal whose functions are solely clerical or
ministerial shall not be included in the meaning of such term for purposes of section 15(b) of the
Exchange Act (other than paragraphs (4) and (6) thereof).
CONTROL - The power, directly or indirectly, to direct the management or policies of the
funding portal, whether through contract, or otherwise. A person is presumed to control a
funding portal if that person: (1) is a director, general partner or officer exercising executive
responsibility (or has a similar status or functions); (2) directly or indirectly has the right to vote
565

25 percent or more of a class of a voting security or has the power to sell or direct the sale of 25
percent or more of a class of voting securities of the funding portal; or (3) in the case of a
partnership, has contributed, or has a right to receive, 25 percent or more of the capital of the
funding portal. (This definition is used solely for the purposes of Form Funding Portal).
CONTROL AFFILIATE – A person named in Item 4 [as a control person] or any other
individual or organization that directly or indirectly controls, is under common control with, or is
controlled by, the applicant, including any current employee of the applicant except one
performing only clerical, administrative, support or similar functions, or who, regardless of title,
performs no executive duties or has no senior policy making authority.
FOREIGN FINANCIAL REGULATORY AUTHORITY – Includes (1) a foreign securities
authority; (2) other governmental body or foreign equivalent of a self-regulatory organization
empowered by a foreign government to administer or enforce its laws relating to the regulation
of investment or investment-related activities; and (3) a foreign membership organization, a
function of which is to regulate the participation of its members in the activities listed above.
FUNDING PORTAL - A broker acting as an intermediary in a transaction involving the offer
or sale of securities offered and sold in reliance on Section 4(a)(6), that does not, directly or
indirectly: (1) offer investment advice or recommendations; (2) solicit purchases, sales or offers
to buy the securities displayed on its platform; (3) compensate employees, agents, or other
persons for such solicitation or based on the sale of securities displayed or referenced on its
platform; or (4) hold, manage, possess, or otherwise handle investor funds or securities.
JURISDICTION – Any state of the United States, the District of Columbia, the Commonwealth
of Puerto Rico, the U.S. Virgin Islands, any other territory of the United States, or any
subdivision or regulatory body thereof.
NONRESIDENT FUNDING PORTAL – A funding portal incorporated in or organized under the laws
of a jurisdiction outside of the United States or its territories, or having its principal place of business in
any place not in the United States or its territories.

PERSON - An individual, partnership, corporation, trust, or other organization.
SELF-REGULATORY ORGANIZATION (SRO) – The Financial Industry Regulatory
Authority (“FINRA”) or any other national securities association registered with the Commission
or any national securities exchange or registered clearing agency, as such terms are defined in
Section 3 of the Exchange Act.
SUCCESSOR –A funding portal that assumes or acquires substantially all of the assets and
liabilities, and that continues the business of, a registered predecessor funding portal that ceases
its funding portal activities. See Rule 400(c) of Regulation Crowdfunding (17 CFR 24_.400(c)).
2.

FOR THE PURPOSE OF ITEM 5
566

CHARGED - Being accused of a crime in a formal complaint, information, or indictment (or
equivalent formal charge).
ENJOINED – Includes being subject to a mandatory injunction, prohibitory injunction,
preliminary injunction, or temporary restraining order.
FELONY – For jurisdictions that do not differentiate between a felony and a misdemeanor, a
felony is an offense punishable by a sentence of at least one year imprisonment and/or a fine of
at least $1,000. The term also includes a general court martial.
FOUND – Includes adverse final actions, including consent decrees in which the respondent has
neither admitted nor denied the findings, but does not include agreements, deficiency letters,
examination reports, memoranda of understanding, letters of caution, admonishments, and
similar informal resolutions of matters.
INVESTMENT OR INVESTMENT-RELATED – Pertaining to securities, commodities,
banking, savings association activities, credit union activities, insurance, or real estate (including,
but not limited to, acting as or being associated with a funding portal broker-dealer, municipal
securities dealer, government securities broker or dealer, issuer, investment company, investment
adviser, futures sponsor, bank, security-based swap dealer, major security-based swap
participant, savings association, credit union, insurance company, or insurance agency).
INVOLVED – Doing an act or aiding, abetting, counseling, commanding, inducing, conspiring
with or failing reasonably to supervise another in doing an act.
MINOR RULE VIOLATION – A violation of a self-regulatory organization rule that has been
designated as “minor” pursuant to a plan approved by the SEC or Commodity Futures Trading
Commission. A rule violation may be designated as “minor” under a plan if the sanction imposed
consists of a fine of $2,500 or less and if the sanctioned person does not contest the fine. (Check
with the appropriate self-regulatory organization to determine if a particular rule violation has
been designated as “minor” for these purposes).
MISDEMEANOR – For jurisdictions that do not differentiate between a felony and a
misdemeanor, a misdemeanor is an offense punishable by a sentence of less than one year
imprisonment and/or a fine of less than $1,000. The term also includes a special court martial.
ORDER – A written directive issued pursuant to statutory authority and procedures, including
orders of denial, suspension, or revocation; does not include special stipulations, undertakings or
agreements relating to payments, limitations on activity or other restrictions unless they are
included in an order.
PROCEEDING – Includes a formal administrative or civil action initiated by a governmental
agency, self-regulatory organization or a foreign financial regulatory authority; a felony criminal
567

indictment or information (or equivalent formal charge); or a misdemeanor criminal information
(or equivalent formal charge). Does not include other civil litigation, investigations, or arrests or
similar charges effected in the absence of a formal criminal indictment or information (or
equivalent formal charge).
By the Commission.

Elizabeth M. Murphy
Secretary
Date: October 23, 2013

568

Note: The following exhibit will not appear in the Code of Federal Regulations.
Exhibit A
Comments Letters Received Regarding Title III of the JOBS Act
Proposal to Implement Regulation Crowdfunding (File No. S7-09-13)
ABA Letter 1:

Letter from Catherine T. Dixon, Chair,
Federal Regulation of Securities Committee,
American Bar Association, Mar. 20, 2013

ABA Letter 2:

Letter from Catherine T. Dixon, Chair,
Federal Regulation of Securities Committee,
American Bar Association, Jun. 26, 2013

ACA Letter:

Letter from Divina K. Westerfield, Esq.,
Manager, American Crowdfunding
Association Inc., Oct. 8, 2013

ACFIA Letter 1:

Letter from John Vassilliw, American
Crowdfunding Investment Association, Dec.
15, 2012

ACFIA Letter 2:

Letter from John Vassilliw, American
Crowdfunding Investment Association, Jan.
3, 2013

ACFIA Letter 3:

Letter from John Vassilliw, American
Crowdfunding Investment Association, Jan.
3, 2013

Acos Letter:

Letter from Jim Acos, Jun. 10, 2012

AKickInCrowd.com Letter:

Letter from Tony Reynolds, Founder,
AKickInCrowd.Com, May 11, 2012

Alabama Development Office Letter:

Letter from S. Douglas Smith, Founding
Director of the Alabama Development
Office and the Alabama Department of
Economic and Community Affairs, Oct. 22,
2012
569

ASBC Letter:

Letter from American Sustainable Business
Council, Jul. 16, 2012

AngelList Letter:

Letter from Naval Ravikant, CEO,
AngelList, May 23, 2012

AppleSeedz Letter:

Letter from EL Mazyck, President,
AppleSeedz.com, Jul. 23, 2012

Applied Dynamite Letter:

Letter from Randall Lucas, CEO, Applied
Dynamite Inc., May 4, 2012

ARS Letter:

Letter from Mark Norych, Esq., Executive
Vice President, General Counsel, Board
Member, Arbitration Resolution Services,
Inc., Jul. 19, 2013

Arctic Island Letter:

Letter from Scott Purcell, Founder, Arctic
Island Crowdfunding Portal, Jun. 26, 2012

Ayeni Letter:

Letter from Debo Ayeni, Dec. 23, 2012

Bach Letter:

Letter from David Bach, Apr. 18, 2012

Barnes Letter:

Letter from Ryan Barnes, Aug. 22, 2012

Basko Letter:

Letter from Sue Basko, Lawyer, Jun. 18,
2012

Becotte Letter:

Letter from Chase Becotte, Aug. 31, 2012

Bedford Letter:

Letter from Shante Jones, Vice President,
Bedford Stuvyesant Unity Youth Resources,
Inc., Feb. 14, 2013

BeFounders Letter:

Letter from William J. Mills, JD,
BeFounders, Apr. 24, 2012

Begich Letter:

Letter from Sen. Mark Begich, U.S. Senator,
Jul. 18, 2013

A-2

Bennet Letter:

Letter from Sen. Michael F. Bennet, U.S.
Senator, Dec. 12, 2012

Black Letter:

Letter from Michael Black, Nov. 4, 2012

Blechman Letter:

Letter from Bruce Blechman, Apr. 13, 2012

BlueTree Letter:

Letter from Catherine V. Mott, Founder,
BlueTree Allied Angels, Aug. 21, 2012

BrainThrob Laboratories Letter:

Letter from Erin C. DeSpain, President,
BrainThrob Laboratories, Inc., Nov. 8, 2012

Brandon W Letter:

Letter from Brandon W., Apr. 16, 2012

Buffalo First Letter:

Letter from Kelly A. Maurer, Treasurer,
Buffalo First Member, Buffalo Common
Wealth LLC Assistant Treasurer, Buffalo
Cooperative FCU, Apr. 16, 2012

Bulldog Investors Letter:

Letter from Philip Goldstein, Bulldog
Investors, Jul. 18, 2012

Cera Technology Letter:

Letter from Michael Mace, CEO, Cera
Technology, Apr. 13, 2012

CFA Institute Letter:

Letter from Kurt N. Schacht and Linda L.
Rittenhouse, CFA Institute, Aug. 16, 2012

CFIRA Letter 1:

Letter from Sherwood E. Neiss, Crowdfund
Investing Regulatory Advocates (CFIRA),
May 15, 2012

CFIRA Letter 2:

Letter from Candace S. Klein, Chair and
Vincent R. Molinari, Co-Chair, CFIRA,
May 30, 2012

CFIRA Letter 3:

Letter from Candace S. Klein, Chair and
Vincent R. Molinari, Co-Chair, CFIRA,
Jun. 5, 2012

A-3

CFIRA Letter 4:

Letter from Kim Wales and Christine
Landon, CFIRA, Aug. 9, 2012

CFIRA Letter 5:

Letter from Kim Wales, Founding member,
and DJ Paul, Founding Member& CSO,
CFIRA, Aug. 22, 2012

CFIRA Letter 6:

Letter from Lon David Varvel, Founding
Member, CFIRA, Sept. 14, 2012

CFIRA Letter 7:

Letter from Chris Tyrrell, Kim Wales and
Charles Sidman, Founding Members,
CFIRA, Oct. 10, 2012

CFIRA Letter 8:

Letter from Chris Tyrrell, Kim Wales and
Charles Sidman, Founding Members,
CFIRA, Oct. 29, 2012

CFIRA Letter 9:

Letter from Kim Wales, Founding Member,
CFIRA, Nov. 26, 2012

CFIRA Letter 10:

Letter from Scott Purcell, Board Member,
CFIRA, Dec. 3, 2012

CFIRA Letter 11:

Letter from Kim Wales, Founding Member,
CFIRA, Dec. 4, 2012

CFIRA Letter 12:

Letter from CFIRA, Jan. 21, 2013

CFIRA Letter 13:

Letter from Ryan Feit, Co-Founder & CEO,
SeedInvest, and Kim Wales, Founding
Member, CFIRA, Mar. 11, 2013

City First Letter:

Letter from John Hamilton, President, City
First Enterprises, Jul. 4, 2013

CitySpark Letter:

Letter from David B. Haynie,
CitySpark.com, Apr. 25, 2012

Coan Letter:

Letter from Marc C. Coan, Apr. 11, 2012

A-4

Coleman Letter:

Letter from Matthew R. Nutting, Esq.,
Coleman & Horowitt, LLP, Jan. 28, 2013

Commonwealth of Massachusetts Letter:

Letter from William F. Galvin, Secretary of
the Commonwealth, Massachusetts, Aug. 8,
2012

CommunityLeader Letter:

Letter from Richard Weintraub, Chief
Compliance Officer, CommunityLeader,
Aug. 17, 2012

CompTIA Letter:

Letter from Lamar Whitman, Director,
Public Advocacy, CompTIA, Jun. 28, 2012

Cones Letter:

Letter from John Cones, Apr. 19, 2012

Corporate Resolutions Letter:

Letter from Joelle Scott, Director of
Business Intelligence, Corporate Resolutions
Inc., Apr. 19, 2012

Crowd Startup Capital Letter:

Letter from Travis E. Chapman, Esq.,
Crowd Startup Capital, May 11, 2012

CrowdCheck Letter 1:

Letter from Sara Hanks, CEO, CrowdCheck,
Inc., Apr. 30, 2012

CrowdCheck Letter 2:

Letter from Brian Knight, Vice President,
CrowdCheck, Inc., Dec. 5, 2012

CrowdFund Capital Markets Letter:

Letter from Robert J. Thibodeau, President,
CrowdFund Capital Markets, May 7, 2012

CrowdFund Connect Letter:

Letter from J. Randy Shipley, Founder,
CrowdFund Connect, Social Gravity Inc.,
Jul. 28, 2012

Crowdfunding Offerings Ltd. Letter 1:

Letter from Anthony D. Edwards, Esq.,
Founder, Crowdfunding Offerings, Ltd.,
May 11, 2012

A-5

Crowdfunding Offerings Ltd. Letter 2:

Letter from Marshall Neel, Esq.,
Crowdfunding Offerings, Ltd., May 11,
2012

Crowdfunding Offerings Ltd. Letter 3:

Letter from Marshall Neel, Esq., CoFounder, Crowdfunding Offerings, Ltd.,
May 11, 2012

Crowdfunding Offerings Ltd. Letter 4:

Letter from Marshall Neel, Esq., CoFounder, Crowdfunding Offerings, Ltd.,
May 11, 2012

Crowdfunding Offerings Ltd. Letter 5:

Letter from Anthony D. Edwards, Esq.,
Founder, Crowdfunding Offerings, Ltd.,
May 11, 2012

Crowdfunding Offerings Ltd. Letter 6:

Letter from Anthony D. Edwards, Esq.,
Founder, Crowdfunding Offerings, Ltd.,
May 11, 2012

Crowdfunding Offerings Ltd. Letter 7:

Letter from Marshall Neel, Esq., CoFounder, Crowdfunding Offerings, Ltd.,
Aug. 15, 2012

Crowdlever Letter 1:

Letter from Matt Morse, Sr., Feb. 1, 2013

Crowdlever Letter 2:

Letter from Matt Morse, Sr., Apr. 15, 2013

Cunningham Letter:

Letter from William Michael Cunningham,
AM, MBA, Jan. 15, 2013

CyberIssues.com Letter:

Letter from T.W. Kennedy, BE, CEO of
CyberIssues.com, Jun. 28, 2013

Dex Offshore Letter 1:

Letter from David E. Simpson, CFA,
Founder, CEO of Dex Offshore
Entertainment LLC, Apr. 14, 2012

Dex Offshore Letter 2:

Letter from David E. Simpson, Dex
Offshore Entertainment LLC, Apr. 16, 2012

A-6

Dex Offshore Letter 3:

Letter from David Simpson, Dex Offshore
Entertainment LLC, Jul. 23, 2012

Dex Offshore Letter 4:

Letter from David Simpson, Dex Offshore
Entertainment LLC, Jul. 24, 2012

Donovan Letter:

Letter from Doug Donovan, Oct. 1, 2012

Donovan P. Letter:

Letter from Patrick Donovan, Sep. 27, 2013

Durward Letter:

Letter from James Durward, May 7, 2012

EarlyShares Letter 1:

Letter from Maurice Lopes, CEO,
EarlyShares.com, Inc., Jul. 10, 2012

EarlyShares Letter 2:

Letter from Maurice Lopes, CEO,
EarlyShares.com, Inc., Aug. 16, 2012

EnVironmental Letter:

Letter from Richard W. Marks, President,
EnVironmental Transportation Solutions,
LLC, Jun. 14, 2012

Equistratus Letter:

Letter from T.H. Ison, Equistratus, Mar. 22,
2013.

Escrow.com Letter:

Letter from Brandon Abbey, President and
Managing Director, Escrow.com, Aug. 31,
2012

ExpertBeacon Letter:

Letter from Mark Law, CEO,
ExpertBeacon.com, Seattle, Washington,
Apr. 14, 2012

Fairhurst Letter:

Letter from Kraig Fairhurst, Apr. 11, 2012

Feldman Letter:

Letter from Aleksandr Feldman, Aug. 17,
2012

Ferguson Letter:

Letter from Zachary Ferguson, Jun. 13, 2013

Franken Letter:

Letter from Sen. Al Franken, U.S. Senator,
Jan. 4, 2013
A-7

Frankfurt Letter:

Letter from Thomas Selz, et al., Frankfurt
Kurnit Klein & Selz PC, Dec. 28, 2012

Friedman Letter:

Letter from Howard M. Friedman, Professor
of Law Emeritus, University of Toledo,
Apr. 27, 2012

Front Page Letter:

Letter from Robert Hoskins, Vice President,
Media Relations, Front Page Public
Relations, Mar. 2, 2013

Frost Letter:

Letter from Henry Frost, Sept. 17, 2012

FundaGeek Letter:

Letter from Cary Harwin, President, CoFounder, FundaGeek.com, May 26, 2012

Genedyne Letter 1:

Letter from Thomas Braun, Genedyne
Corporation, Aug. 16, 2012

Genedyne Letter 2:

Letter from Thomas Braun, Genedyne
Corporation, Sept. 11, 2012

Gomez Letter 1:

Letter from Christian Gomez, Hayward,
California, Nov. 12, 2012

Gomez Letter 2:

Letter from Chris Gomez, Hayward,
California, Nov. 24, 2012

Gornick Letter:

Letter from Stephen Gornick, May 20, 2012

Gregory Letter:

Letter from Paul M. Gregory, Aug. 2, 2012

Grow VC Letter:

Letter from Jouko Ahvenainen and Valto
Loikkanen, Co-founders, Grow VC, Jun. 15,
2012

Hakanson Letter:

Letter from Sten Erik Hakanson, Sep. 18,
2013

Hansen Letter:

Letter from Brian G. Hansen, Oct. 17, 2012

A-8

Hemlof Letter:

Letter from Loris Hemlof, Australia, Sept. 1,
2012

Hensel Letter:

Letter from Karl Hensel, May 15, 2012

High Tide Letter:

Letter from Albert Hartman, CEO, High
Tide, Jun. 4, 2012

Holofy Letter:

Letter from Chris Nunes, Esq., CEO,
Holofy, May 15, 2013

Hutchens Letter:

Letter from Matthew C. Hutchens, Sep. 29,
2013

Immix Letter:

Letter from Jerry Carleton, Robert Scott,
Kane Lemley, and John French, Immix Law
Group PC, Oct. 4, 2012

InitialCrowdOffering Letter:

Letter from Perry D. West, Esq.,
InitialCrowdOffering.com, May 4, 2012

International Franchise Association Letter: Letter from Jay Perron, Vice President,
Government Relations and Public Policy,
International Franchise Association, Jan. 31,
2013
Isenberg Letter:

Letter from Daniel Isenberg, Ph.D., Apr. 15,
2012

Jain Letter:

Letter from Runjan A. Jain, Apr. 12, 2012

Koller Letter:

Letter from Jonathan Koller, May 2, 2012

Le Jeune Letter:

Letter from Yann Le Jeune, CEO, French
Crowdfund Platform, Sept. 1, 2012

Landon Letter 1:

Letter from Christine Landon, Jul. 18, 2012

Landon Letter 2:

Letter from Christine Landon, Jul. 18, 2012

Larkey Letter:

Letter from Caren L. Larkey, Film Producer,
May 23, 2012
A-9

LeGaye Letter:

Letter from Daniel E. LeGaye, The LeGaye
Law Firm, P.C., Sept. 7, 2012

Li Letter:

Letter from H. Bruce Li, Ph.D. P.E.,
Apr. 27, 2012

Leonhardt Letter 1:

Letter from Howard J. Leonhardt, CEO,
Leonhardt Ventures and CalXStars Business
Accelerator, Co-Leader Startup, California,
Sept. 29, 2012

Leonhardt Letter 2:

Letter from Howard J. Leonhardt, Founder,
Leonhardt Ventures, Jul. 11, 2013

Liles Letter 1:

Letter from Mike Liles, Jr., Seattle, Apr. 17,
2012

Liles Letter 2:

Letter from Mike Liles, Jr., Apr. 18, 2012

Lingam Letter 1:

Letter from Kiran Lingam, Esq., Apr. 11,
2012

Lingam Letter 2:

Letter from Kiran Lingam, Apr. 24, 2012

Lingam Letter 3:

Letter from Kiran Lingam, May 1, 2012

Litwak Letter:

Letter from Mark Litwak, Apr. 17, 2012

Lumeo.com Letter:

Letter from Brian McDonough, CEO &
Founder, Lumeo.com, Sept. 6, 2012

Loofbourrow Letter:

Letter from Joe Loofbourrow, Apr. 24, 2012

MacDonald Letter:

Letter from Larry A. MacDonald, May 1,
2012

Markay Letter:

Letter from Mark W. Kanter, Founder,
Markay Company, Jun. 25, 2012

Markel Letter:

Letter from Thomas O. Markel, Jr., Apr. 26,
2012
A-10

Matthew Letter:

Letter from Matthew L., Aug. 19, 2012

Maugain Letter:

Letter from Etienne Maugain, Apr. 12, 2012

Merkley Letter:

Letter from Sen. Jeffrey A. Merkley, et al.,
U.S. Senate, Dec. 10, 2012

Mollick Letter:

Letter from Dr. Ethan Mollick, Assistant
Professor of Management, The Wharton
School, University of Pennsylvania, Dec.
17, 2012

Moore Letter:

Letter from Jason Moore, Manager, Apr. 23,
2012

Moss Letter:

Letter from Frank H. Moss, Jr., Adjunct
Professor of Info Systems & Tech, Sept. 26,
2012

Movie Stream Productions Letter:

Letter from Dorian S. Cole, Movie Stream
Productions, Jun. 1, 2012

NanoIVD Letter:

Letter from Sunnie P. Kim, Founder, CEO,
NanoIVD, Inc., May 18, 2012

NASAA Letter:

Letter from Jack Herstein, President, North
American Securities Administrators
Association, Jul. 3, 2012

NCA Letter:

Letter from National Crowdfunding
Association, May 11, 2012

NSBA Letter:

Letter from David R. Burton, General
Counsel, National Small Business
Association, Jun. 12, 2012

Ohio Division of Securities Letter:

Letter from Andrea L. Seidt, Commissioner,
Ohio Division of Securities, Jan. 9, 2013

Old Takoma Letter:

Letter from Patricia Baker, Executive
Director, Old Takoma Business Association,
May 24, 2013
A-11

P2PVenture.org Letter:

Letter from Frederic Baud, President
P2PVenture.org, France, Sept. 1, 2012

Parker Letter:

Letter from Joe Parker, CEO, Apr. 12, 2012

Pearfunds Letter:

Letter from Hector Vizcarrondo, Co-founder
& CEO, Pearfunds, LLC, Jul. 30, 2012

Pena Letter:

Letter from Fred Pena, May 10, 2012

Petazzoni Letter:

Letter from Enrico Petazzoni, Feb. 15, 2013

Philipose Letter 1:

Letter from Roy Philipose, Jun. 28, 2012

Philipose Letter 2:

Letter from Roy Philipose, Jun. 30, 2012

PMIRARQ Letter:

Letter from Steven A. Cinelli, Founder &
CEO, PMIRARQ, Jul. 26, 2012

PPM Logix Letter:

Letter from Mike Stapleton, PPM Logix,
May 22, 2012

Priore Letter:

Letter from Robert Priore, May 2, 2012

PREA Letter:

Letter from Paul White, Professional Real
Estate Advisors Inc., Jul. 22, 2013

Projectheureka Letter:

Letter from Anthony and Erika Endres,
Projectheureka LLC, Sep. 10, 2013

Ramos Letter:

Letter from Robert Ramos, Aug. 14, 2013

RDA Letter:

Letter from Harry Shamir, Principal, RDA
Co., Apr. 16, 2012

RentalCompare Letter:

Letter from Darryl Aken, RentalCompare,
Apr. 24, 2013

Replay Games Letter:

Letter from Paul Trowe, Replay Games,
Sept. 4, 2012
A-12

Rey Media Letter:

Letter from David Rey, Rey Media, Apr. 24,
2013

RFPIA Letter 1:

Letter from T.W. Kennedy, BE., CEO,
Kennedy Associates, Apr. 20, 2012

RFPIA Letter 2:

Letter from T.W. Kennedy, B.E., Regulated
Funding Portal Industry Association, Jul. 25,
2012

RFPIA Letter 3:

Letter from T.W. Kennedy, B.E., Regulated
Funding Portal Industry Association,
Aug. 18, 2012

RFPIA Letter 4:

Letter from T.W. Kennedy, B.E., Regulated
Funding Portal Industry Association,
Aug. 18, 2012

RFPIA Letter 5:

Letter from T.W. Kennedy, B.E., Regulated
Funding Portal Industry Association, Jul. 9,
2013

Risingtidefunding.com Letter:

Letter from Neal C. McCane, CFA, CoFounder, risingtidefunding.com, Sept. 26,
2012

Richter Letter:

Letter from Paul W. Richter, PW Richter
PLC, Feb. 7. 2013

Roberts Letter:

Letter from Ward Roberts, May 25, 2012

RocketHub Letter 1:

Letter from Alon Hillel-Tuch, Co-Founder
& CFO, RocketHub.com, May 1, 2012

RocketHub Letter 2:

Letter from Alon Hillel-Tuch, Founder &
CFO, RocketHub.com, Nov. 14, 2012

Rocketjet Letter:

Letter from Daniel E. Nelson, PhD, JD,
Chairman, Rocketjet Corporation, Apr. 13,
2012

Romano Letter:

Letter from Robert Romano, Apr. 12, 2012
A-13

Schumer Letter:

Letter from Jacob J. Schumer, Staff Editor,
Vanderbilt Journal of Entertainment and
Technology Law, Sept. 4, 2012

Schwartz Letter:

Letter from Andrew A. Schwartz, Associate
Professor of Law, University of Colorado,
Jun. 13, 2013

Shefman Letter:

Letter from Michael Shefman, Aug. 21,
2013

Sidman Letter 1:

Letter from Charles L. Sidman, MBA, PhD,
Manager, Crowdfunding Investment Angels,
Nov. 30, 2012

Sidman Letter 2:

Letter from Charles L. Sidman, MBA, PhD,
Manager, Crowdfunding Investment Angels,
Mar. 8, 2013

Sjogren Letter:

Letter from Karl M. Sjogren, Apr. 25, 2013

Sklar Law Letter:

Letter from Navid More, Associate
Attorney, Sklar Law, P.C., Jun. 24, 2012

Skweres Letter:

Letter from Mary Ann Skweres,
Independent Film Professional, Jun. 3, 2012

Spinrad Letter 1:

Letter from Paul Spinrad, Jul. 26, 2012

Spinrad Letter 2:

Letter from Paul Spinrad, Jan. 2, 2013

STA Letter:

Letter from Charles V. Rossi, President, The
Securities Transfer Association, Inc.,
Sept. 17, 2012

Stafford Letter:

Letter from Darrell M. Stafford, Apr. 11,
2012

Start.ac Letter:

Letter from Rod Turner, CEO and Founder,
Start.ac CrowdFunding business, Jun. 12,
2012
A-14

Stephenson Letter:

Letter from Andrew D. Stephenson, Esq.,
Washington, May 14, 2012

Sutter Securities Letter:

Letter from Robert A. Muh, Chief Executive
Officer, Sutter Securities Incorporated,
Oct. 25, 2012

Sykes Letter:

Letter from Chad Sykes, Apr. 15, 2012

Tally Letter:

Letter from John Tally, May 28, 2012

TechnologyCrowdFund Letter 1:

Letter from Robert B. Nami, CEO/President,
TechnologyCrowdFund.com, May 1, 2012

TechnologyCrowdFund Letter 2:

Letter from Robert B. Nami, President/CEO,
TechnologyCrowdFund.com, May 30, 2012

TechnologyCrowdFund Letter 3:

Letter from Robert B. Nami, President/CEO,
TechnologyCrowdFund.com, Jun. 5, 2012

TechnologyCrowdFund Letter 4:

Letter from Robert B. Nami, President/CEO,
TechnologyCrowdFund.com, Jun. 7, 2012

TechnologyCrowdFund Letter 5:

Letter from Robert B. Nami, CEO/President
TechnologyCrowdFund, Jun. 28, 2012

TechnologyCrowdFund Letter 6:

Letter from Robert B. Nami, CEO/President
TechnologyCrowdFund, Jan. 16, 2013

The Growth Group Letter:

Letter from Elliott Dahan, Managing
Partner, The Growth Group, May 1, 2012

The Motley Fool Letter:

Letter from Ilan L. Moscovitz and John
Maxfield, The Motley Fool, Jun. 27, 2012

Tomkinson Letter:

Letter from Paul Tomkinson, Sept. 21, 2012

Totsie Productions Letter:

Letter from Kevin J. Tostado, Producer,
Totsie Productions, Jan. 20, 2013

Tri Valley Law Letter:

Letter from Marc A. Greendorfer, Tri Valley
Law, Apr. 27, 2012
A-15

Verdant Ventures Letter:

Letter from Ross Randrup, Managing
Member, Verdant Ventures LLC, Jun. 17,
2012

Vermont Investors Letter:

Letter from Sebastian Sweatman, Vermont
Investors Forum, Apr. 25, 2012

Vim Funding Letter:

Letter from Shane M. Fleenor, Vim
Funding, Inc., Creator of Funding
Launchpan, Co-founder and CLO, Apr. 27,
2012

Vogele Letter:

Letter from John Vogele, Dec. 26, 2012

VS Technology Letter:

Letter from Michael Van Steenburg, CEO of
VS Technology Inc., Aug. 31, 2012

VTNGLOBAL Letter:

Letter from Peter Ojo, CEO, VTNGLOBAL,
May 31, 2012

West Letter:

Letter from Perry D. West, Esq., Apr. 13,
2012

Whitacre Letter:

Letter from William L. Whitacre, Esq.,
Apr. 18, 2012

Whitaker Letter:

Letter from John R. Fahy, Partner, Whitaker
Chalk Swindle Schwartz PLLC, Nov. 8,
2012

Windhom Letter:

Letter from Stevario Windhom, Jun. 13,
2012

Winfiniti Letter:

Letter from Dan Grady, CEO, Winfiniti,
Inc., Apr. 11, 2012

Williams Letter:

Letter from John P. Williams, Feb. 7, 2013

Williams K. Letter:

Letter from Keith Williams, Mar. 2, 2013

Wright Letter 1:

Letter from Martin Wright, Aug. 7, 2012
A-16

Wright Letter 2:

Letter from Martin Wright, Aug. 7, 2012

Wright Place Letter:

Letter from Dr. Letitia S. Wright, May 4,
2012

A-17

