UNITED STATES OF AMERICA
Before the
SECURITIES AND EXCHANGE COMMISSION
SECURITIES ACT OF 1933
Release No. 9051 / July 10, 2009
SECURITIES EXCHANGE ACT OF 1934
Release No. 60279 / July 10, 2009
ADMINISTRATIVE PROCEEDING
File No. 3-13544

ORDER INSTITUTING ADMINISTRATIVE
AND CEASE-AND-DESIST PROCEEDINGS,
PURSUANT TO SECTION 8A OF THE
SECURITIES ACT OF 1933 AND SECTIONS
15(b) AND 21C OF THE SECURITIES
EXCHANGE ACT OF 1934, MAKING
FINDINGS, AND IMPOSING REMEDIAL
SANCTIONS AND A CEASE-AND-DESIST
ORDER

In the Matter of
Ameriprise Financial
Services, Inc.,
Respondent.

I.
The Securities and Exchange Commission (“Commission”) deems it appropriate and in the
public interest that public administrative and cease-and-desist proceedings be, and hereby are,
instituted pursuant to Section 8A of the Securities Act of 1933 (“Securities Act”) and Sections
15(b) and 21C of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934 (“Exchange Act”) against Ameriprise
Financial Services, Inc. (“Ameriprise” or “Respondent”).
II.
In anticipation of the institution of these proceedings, Respondent has submitted an Offer
of Settlement (the “Offer”) which the Commission has determined to accept. Solely for the
purpose of these proceedings and any other proceedings brought by or on behalf of the
Commission, or to which the Commission is a party, and without admitting or denying the findings
herein, except as to the Commission’s jurisdiction over it and the subject matter of these
proceedings, which are admitted, Respondent consents to the entry of this Order Instituting
Administrative and Cease-and-Desist Proceedings, Pursuant to Section 8A of the Securities Act of
1933 and Sections 15(b) and 21C of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, Making Findings, and
Imposing Remedial Sanctions and a Cease-and-Desist Order (“Order”), as set forth below.

III.
On the basis of this Order and Respondent’s Offer, the Commission finds 1 that:
Summary
These proceedings arise out of Ameriprise’s receipt of approximately $30.8 million in
undisclosed compensation in connection with Ameriprise’s offer and sale to its brokerage
customers of certain real estate investment trusts (“REITs”) between 2000 and May 2004 (the
“Relevant Period”). Ameriprise demanded this undisclosed compensation, which it referred to as
“revenue sharing,” in exchange for including the REITs on Ameriprise’s brokerage platform. This
matter also involves Ameriprise’s unlawful offer and sale of at least $100 million worth of shares
of one such REIT to its brokerage customers in the absence of an effective registration statement.
Respondent
1.
Ameriprise, the successor entity to American Express Financial Advisors, Inc., is a
Delaware corporation with headquarters located in Minneapolis, Minnesota. Ameriprise has been
registered with the Commission as a broker-dealer since 1971 and as an investment adviser since
1979. Ameriprise is a wholly-owned subsidiary of Ameriprise Financial, Inc., the successor entity
to American Express Financial Corporation (“AEFC”). Prior to September 30, 2005, AEFC was a
wholly-owned subsidiary of American Express Corp.
Other Relevant Entities
2.
The “Carey REITs,” as referred to herein, consist of: Corporate Property Associates
10 (“CPA:10”), Carey Institutional Properties (“CIP”), Corporate Property Associates 12
(“CPA:12”), Corporate Property Associates 14 (“CPA:14”), Corporate Property Associates 15
(“CPA:15”), and Corporate Property Associates 16 (“CPA:16”); and all predecessor and successor
entities thereof. W.P. Carey & Co. LLC, a Delaware limited liability company, and various
wholly-owned direct and indirect subsidiaries thereof (collectively, “Carey”), were the creators,
managers, and advisers of the Carey REITs at all relevant times. Ameriprise offered and sold
shares of the Carey REITs to its brokerage customers. At all relevant times, the offerings of the
shares of the Carey REITs were registered with the Commission but did not trade on any exchange.
3.
The “CNL REITs,” as referred to herein, consist of: CNL Hospitality Properties,
Inc., CNL Retirement Properties, Inc., and CNL American Properties Fund; and all predecessor
and successor entities thereof. CNL Holdings Group, Inc., a Florida corporation, and various
wholly-owned direct and indirect subsidiaries thereof (collectively, “CNL”), were the creators,
managers, and advisers to the CNL REITs at all relevant times. Ameriprise offered and sold shares
of the CNL REITs to its brokerage customers. At all relevant times, the offerings of the shares of
the CNL REITs were registered with the Commission but did not trade on any exchange.
1

The findings herein are made pursuant to Respondent’s Offer of Settlement and are not
binding on any other person or entity in this or any other proceeding.
2

Undisclosed Revenue Sharing Payments
4.
During the Relevant Period, Ameriprise demanded and received approximately
$30.8 million in undisclosed supplementary payments from the Carey REITs and CNL REITs,
and/or affiliates thereof, in connection with Ameriprise’s offers and sales to its brokerage
customers of shares of the Carey REITs and CNL REITs. These undisclosed payments were in
addition to the compensation Ameriprise was entitled to receive under its distribution agreements
concerning the Carey REITs and CNL REITs. None of this $30.8 million – or the conflicts of
interest created by these payments – was disclosed by either Ameriprise or the Carey REITs and
CNL REITs. As a result, Ameriprise sold more than $3.5 billion worth of shares of the Carey
REITs and CNL REITs to its brokerage customers during the Relevant Period without disclosing
such payments.
5.
During the late 1990’s, Ameriprise began to offer an increased amount of nonproprietary products to its customers, including non-exchange traded REITs. In early 2000,
Ameriprise approached the Carey REITs and CNL REITs, the only non-exchange traded REITs
then offered on Ameriprise’s brokerage platform, and demanded supplementary remuneration (the
“revenue sharing payments”) in order to increase Ameriprise’s revenues. As of early 2000,
Ameriprise had been responsible for the sale of in excess of 75 percent of the shares of the Carey
REITs and CNL REITs sold to investors pursuant to public offerings and was the only major
broker-dealer firm that then offered and sold the Carey REITs and CNL REITs. In exchange for
these revenue sharing payments, Ameriprise continued to offer and sell shares of the Carey REITs
and CNL REITs on its brokerage platform.
6.
During the Relevant Period, Ameriprise only offered and sold non-exchange traded
REITs that agreed to pay revenue sharing – i.e., the Carey REITs and CNL REITs, and explicitly
considered the willingness of non-exchange traded REITs to make revenue sharing payments when
evaluating whether to offer such products on its platform. For example, an internal Ameriprise
presentation provided to, among others, Ameriprise’s CEO and CFO, in approximately September
2003 described the criteria that Ameriprise personnel used in selecting potential new non-exchange
traded REITs and explicitly included, among other factors, “[a]bility to meet revenue sharing
requirements.”
7.
Under the revenue sharing arrangements, Ameriprise received undisclosed cash
payments in the form of checks and wire transfers during the Relevant Period from the Carey
REITs and CNL REITs totaling approximately $9.7 million and $21.1 million, respectively. These
cash payments were in addition to standard sales commissions, dealer fees, expense
reimbursements, and other fees that Ameriprise received that were specified in the distribution
agreements entered into by Ameriprise concerning the Carey REITs and CNL REITs, and that
were disclosed in the prospectuses and other public offering documents of the Carey REITs and
CNL REITs.
8.
To facilitate its receipt of the revenue sharing payments, Ameriprise issued a series
of mislabeled invoices for the revenue sharing payments that gave the appearance that the
3

payments were legitimate reimbursements for services provided by Ameriprise. These invoices
largely used separate labels referring to particular services or expenses that together totaled the
amount Ameriprise demanded under the revenue sharing arrangements. In fact, none of the
invoiced amounts directly corresponded to bona fide services rendered and/or expenses incurred by
Ameriprise as claimed on the invoices.
9.
In exchange for the revenue sharing payments, Ameriprise continued to offer and
sell the Carey REITs and CNL REITs on its brokerage platform. In addition, during the Relevant
Period Ameriprise increased the compensation that it paid to its registered representatives in
connection with the sale of the Carey REITs and CNL REITs, and the revenue sharing payments
Ameriprise obtained were designed in part to cover this increased compensation to its registered
representatives.
10.
Ameriprise’s revenue sharing arrangements with the Carey REITs and CNL REITs
were part of a company-wide practice instituted and/or authorized by Ameriprise’s senior
management, in which Ameriprise offered and/or promoted certain non-proprietary investment
products, primarily mutual funds, but also including non-exchange traded REITs, in exchange for
the receipt of revenue sharing payments from almost all of these investment vehicles, including
through what Ameriprise called its Preferred Provider Program and Select Group Program. 2 As
part of this practice and through these programs, Ameriprise received substantial revenue sharing
payments in exchange for shelf space and/or enhanced marketing in Ameriprise’s retail distribution
network. In particular, Ameriprise made available to the Carey REITs and CNL REITs
substantially the same enhanced marketing as the non-proprietary mutual funds that paid among
the highest revenue sharing rates. Ameriprise employees responsible for Ameriprise’s dealings
with the Carey REITs and CNL REITs gave frequent presentations to Ameriprise’s senior
management during the Relevant Period that detailed Ameriprise’s revenue sharing arrangements
with the Carey REITs and CNL REITs, including comparisons to Ameriprise’s revenue sharing
arrangements with non-proprietary mutual funds.
11.
During the Relevant Period, Ameriprise’s senior management did not take any
actions or instruct anyone else to take any actions to investigate or determine the adequacy of the
disclosures that Ameriprise made or relied upon relating to the remuneration it received in
connection with its offers and sales of the Carey REITs and CNL REITs to its brokerage
customers.
12.
At all relevant times, the National Association of Securities Dealers (“NASD,” now
known as the Financial Industry Regulatory Authority), of which Ameriprise was a member
2

On December 1, 2005, the Commission issued an order finding that Ameriprise violated
provisions of the Securities Act and Exchange Act by failing to disclose its receipt of cash and
directed brokerage revenue sharing payments from the non-proprietary mutual fund families that
participated in Ameriprise’s revenue sharing programs between January 2001 and August 2004.
The Commission’s order censured Ameriprise, and ordered Ameriprise to cease and desist from
committing or causing violations of these provisions and to pay disgorgement plus prejudgment
interest of $15 million and a civil penalty of $15 million.
4

broker-dealer, limited the compensation that may be paid to broker-dealers that sell non-exchange
traded REITs, capping the total underwriting compensation at 10 percent of the total proceeds
raised (the “10 percent cap”), plus an additional 0.5 percent for reimbursement of bona fide due
diligence expenses. Underwriting compensation is defined by NASD regulations to include “[a]ll
items of compensation paid . . . directly or indirectly from whatever source to [broker-dealers]. . .
which are deemed to be in connection with or related to the public offering.” NASD regulations
prohibit member broker-dealers, such as Ameriprise, from participating in any non-exchange
traded REIT offering that exceeds the 10 percent cap. A portion of the revenue sharing payments
made to Ameriprise, when added to other payments made to broker-dealers, caused some of the
Carey REITs to exceed their respective 10 percent caps on broker-dealer compensation imposed by
the NASD.
Ameriprise’s Undisclosed Revenue Sharing Arrangement with the Carey REITs
13.
During the Relevant Period, the Carey REITs paid Ameriprise undisclosed revenue
sharing totaling approximately $9.7 million. 3 For 2000, the Carey REITs paid Ameriprise revenue
sharing in the form of a fixed fee for the year that totaled approximately $1.5 million. For 2001,
Ameriprise increased the revenue sharing to $2.5 million per year, and in late 2002, Ameriprise
again increased the revenue sharing arrangements to an amount equaling 25 basis points (“bps”)
annually on all Ameriprise brokerage customer assets invested in the Carey REITs. None of the
$9.7 million in revenue sharing payments was disclosed by Ameriprise or in the Carey REITs’
offering documents, despite the fact that those offering documents disclosed certain fees payable to
broker-dealers that were quantitatively smaller than the revenue sharing paid to Ameriprise.
14.
To facilitate Ameriprise’s receipt of the revenue sharing payments, Ameriprise
issued a series of invoices to the Carey REITs that divided or allocated the revenue sharing
payments into separate invoices that were mislabeled “account maintenance,” “field access,” “due
diligence,” and “conference” fees. The particular allocation and/or language appearing on the
invoices that Ameriprise issued was requested by the Carey REITs. Each of the invoice labels was
primarily a conduit for Ameriprise to receive the payments Ameriprise demanded under the
revenue sharing arrangements and was not a legitimate fee charged for services provided by
Ameriprise or a reimbursement of actual expenses incurred by Ameriprise. The total of the
invoices with these false labels equaled the amount of revenue sharing payments that Ameriprise
had demanded under the revenue sharing arrangement for a particular year, quarter, or month.
15.
For example, during the Relevant Period, Ameriprise periodically held conferences
for its registered representatives at which certain non-proprietary products that paid among the
highest levels of revenue sharing, such as the Carey REITs and CNL REITs, could pay set fees to
3

In March 2008, Carey settled a Commission action relating to the undisclosed revenue sharing
payments and registration violations at issue here, among other violations, by agreeing to a
permanent injunction against violations of the antifraud, reporting, proxy, and registration
provisions of the federal securities laws and paying disgorgement, prejudgment interest, and civil
penalties totaling approximately $30 million. See SEC v. W.P. Carey & Co. LLC et al., 08 Civ.
2846 (S.D.N.Y.).
5

have a certain number of attendees present at the conferences or provide sponsorship of particular
events at the conference. In addition to attendance and payment of these fees in the normal course
by affiliates of the Carey REITs, Ameriprise and the Carey REITs arranged for one of the Carey
REITs to intentionally overpay for certain conferences as a conduit for making undisclosed
revenue sharing payments to Ameriprise in 2000 and 2001. No additional attendees or conferencerelated benefits were provided in exchange for the amount paid in excess of the amounts due for
the conference. An internal Ameriprise email dated August 12, 2002, explained that while the
revenue sharing arrangement with the Carey REITs was for $2.5 million per year, the amounts that
Ameriprise had issued invoices for (as due diligence, field access, and account maintenance)
totaled only $2.3 million, with “the additional $200,000 [being] added to their conference fee
check” and then Ameriprise personnel “split out the check, sending the appropraite [sic] amount to
[the Ameriprise division responsible for organizing conferences.]”
16.
During the Relevant Period, Ameriprise also issued invoices to the Carey REITs
labeled “due diligence” purportedly seeking reimbursement for bona fide due diligence expenses
incurred but that actually were undisclosed revenue sharing payments that were designed to count
towards the amount of revenue sharing that Ameriprise demanded from the Carey REITs.
Relevant NASD regulations require that broker-dealers seeking reimbursement for bona fide due
diligence expenses strictly limit such reimbursements to actual expenses incurred in conducting
due diligence for a particular program, without a profit margin of any kind. Notwithstanding this
requirement, Ameriprise did not do any bona fide due diligence in exchange for these payments.
Ameriprise issued invoices purportedly seeking reimbursement for bona fide due diligence
expenses that did not include any documentation or itemization of the expenses. In one instance
Ameriprise sought a six-year back-payment of purported expenses, and in some instances the due
diligence invoices issued covered periods in which no bona fide due diligence could have been
performed (e.g., after a particular Carey REIT offering had ended). An internal Ameriprise email
dated March 19, 2001, explained that in 2000 Ameriprise “asked [Carey and CNL] to come up
with over a million dollars each in additional revenue, and, at least for Carey, they came up with
this amount by using funds they had earmarked as due diligence related costs.”
17.
Ameriprise also issued invoices labeled “account maintenance,” the payment of
which would satisfy a portion of the amount Ameriprise had demanded under the revenue sharing
arrangement. None of these invoices reflected actual or estimated expenses incurred by
Ameriprise in providing account maintenance services for which the Carey REITs were obligated
to reimburse Ameriprise. In fact, the undisclosed fee charged by Ameriprise purportedly for
“account maintenance” was duplicative of a separately disclosed fee offered by some of the Carey
REITs that Ameriprise also received. These Carey REITs disclosed in their respective
prospectuses that an “annual servicing fee” or “annual monitoring fee” may be paid to selling
broker-dealers. The stated purpose of the fee, as described in the prospectus of one of the Carey
REITs was “to compensate [selling broker-dealers] for their continuing due diligence of the
Company, for expenses incurred in maintaining and providing information about the Company to
their representatives and their clients and for the costs incurred in maintaining [the Carey REIT’s]
investor accounts.”

6

18.
A portion of the revenue sharing payments made to Ameriprise, when added to
other payments made to broker-dealers, caused some of the Carey REITs to exceed their respective
10 percent caps on broker-dealer compensation imposed by the NASD. The particular allocation
and/or language appearing on the invoices Ameriprise issued for the revenue sharing payments was
the means through which the Carey REITs circumvented the 10 percent cap, enabling Ameriprise
to receive higher fees than permitted. The Carey REITs excluded the payments of invoices that
Ameriprise agreed to label “account maintenance” from counting towards their respective 10
percent caps on the basis that the payments purportedly were not made in connection with the
offering of the Carey REITs. In mid-2002, in order to circumvent the 10 percent cap, the Carey
REITs requested, and Ameriprise agreed, to issue all invoices for revenue sharing to the Carey
REITs as “account maintenance.” The Carey REITs also requested, and Ameriprise agreed, that
Amerpirise cancel and re-issue certain invoices under a different label in furtherance of the Carey
REITs’ circumvention of the 10 percent cap. Specifically, Ameriprise canceled and re-issued
previously separate invoices labeled “due diligence,” “field access,” and “account maintenance” as
one invoice labeled “account maintenance” for the same total amount as the previously issued
separate invoices for each of the second and third quarters of 2002.
19.
With respect to each public offering of the Carey REITs of which Ameriprise
offered and sold shares to its brokerage customers, Ameriprise entered into a written dealer
agreement concerning the applicable Carey REIT consistent with the form of dealer agreement
provided in the registration statement of the applicable Carey REIT that, among other things,
specified the fees to be paid in connection with Ameriprise’s sales of shares. However, none of
these written dealer agreements disclosed or included the revenue sharing payments.
20.
In addition, at various times, Ameriprise attempted to obtain a written side letter
from the Carey REITs documenting their undisclosed revenue sharing arrangements. The Carey
REITs declined to enter into such written agreements because the revenue sharing arrangements
had not been properly disclosed in the prospectuses of the Carey REITs, a fact of which some
Ameriprise employees were aware and discussed. For example, an internal Ameriprise email
dated August 14, 2003, by an Ameriprise employee who managed Ameriprise’s relationships with
the Carey REITs and CNL REITs stated: “I will continue to work with [Carey] on obtaining a [side
letter] but the difficulty with them is the 25 bps on assets we currently are billing them is not in the
prospectus. . . .” Another internal Ameriprise email dated October 28, 2002, by another
Ameriprise employee stated, with respect to non-exchange traded REITs, including the Carey
REITs and CNL REITs, that “[m]any have prospectus-imposed limits, and they are reluctant to
enter into a written agreement because of additional disclosure that they feel would be required.”
Ameriprise’s Undisclosed Revenue Sharing Arrangement with the CNL REITs
21.
During the Relevant Period, the CNL REITs paid Ameriprise undisclosed revenue
sharing totaling approximately $21.1 million. None of the $21.1 million in revenue sharing
payments was disclosed by Ameriprise or in the CNL REITs’ offering documents, despite the fact
that those offering documents disclosed certain fees payable to broker-dealers that were
quantitatively smaller than the revenue sharing fees paid to Ameriprise.

7

22.
For 2000, the CNL REITs paid Ameriprise revenue sharing in the form of a fixed
fee for the year totaling approximately $1.7 million. For 2001, Ameriprise increased the revenue
sharing to $2.5 million per year. In mid-2002, Ameriprise again increased the revenue sharing
arrangements to an amount equaling 25 bps annually on all Ameriprise brokerage customer assets
invested in the CNL REITs.
23.
In February 2003, the CNL REITs proposed, and Ameriprise accepted, an
alternative revenue sharing arrangement of 70 bps on each new sale of CNL REIT shares, designed
to approximate the 25 bps fee on assets in the form of a sales based fee. An Ameriprise
employee’s notes from a February 2003 meeting between representatives of the CNL REITs and
Ameriprise personnel in which this proposed change was discussed recorded that the
representatives of the CNL REITs could not “justify taking 25 bps from past [CNL REITs’]
operating expenses that are no longer bringing in sales to the product” or “justify/disclose to [the
CNL REITs’ shareholders] they [are] paying 25 bps on assets in past [CNL REITs].”
24.
Ameriprise issued two types of invoices to the CNL REITs that divided or allocated
the revenue sharing payments into separate invoices mislabeled “preferred sponsorship” and either
“shareholder support” or “customer service support” to provide the appearance that the payments
were legitimate reimbursements for services provided by Ameriprise. The particular allocation
and/or language appearing on the invoices that Ameriprise issued was requested by the CNL
REITs. As with the invoices that Ameriprise issued to the Carey REITs, the invoices labeled
“preferred sponsorship” and either “shareholder support” or “customer service support” bore no
direct relationship to documented expenses incurred by Ameriprise or a legitimate fee charged for
services claimed. The total of these invoices issued to the CNL REITs equaled the amount that
Ameriprise had demanded under the revenue sharing arrangement for a particular year, quarter, or
month. Ameriprise had no legitimate basis by which it determined the amounts that it charged on
the invoices issued for the services for which it claimed to be seeking payment.
25.
For example, in 2001, Ameriprise received equal revenue sharing payments of $2.5
million from the Carey REITs and CNL REITs and Ameriprise provided the Carey REITs and
CNL REITs with approximately equivalent services and benefits in exchange for those payments.
With respect to the CNL REITs, Ameriprise issued two separate types of invoices for the revenue
sharing payments for that year: (i) invoices labeled “shareholder support” or “customer service
support” totaling $1.7 million; and (ii) invoices labeled “preferred sponsorship” totaling $800,000.
Notwithstanding that Ameriprise’s revenue sharing arrangements with the Carey REITs and CNL
REITs were for the same amount in 2001, with respect to the Carey REITs, Ameriprise issued
invoices for and/or received four separate types of payments for the revenue sharing owed for that
year: (i) an invoice labeled “account maintenance” for $800,000; (ii) an invoice labeled “field
access” for $1.2 million; (iii) an invoice labeled “due diligence” for $300,000; and (iv) a payment
of $200,000 included as part of a check purportedly for conference fees. In addition, the invoices
labeled “shareholder support” or “customer service support” that Ameriprise issued to the CNL
REITs were purportedly for the same services as the invoices labeled “account maintenance” that
Ameriprise issued to the Carey REITs. Notwithstanding that the services or benefits claimed on
these invoices were the same, Ameriprise purportedly charged the CNL REITs $1.7 million for
account servicing while Ameriprise purportedly charged the Carey REITs only $800,000 for that
8

same purported service. Likewise, the invoices labeled “preferred sponsorship” that Ameriprise
issued to the CNL REITs were purported fees for the same benefits as the invoices labeled “field
access” that Ameriprise issued to the Carey REITs. Notwithstanding that the purported benefits
were the same, Ameriprise charged the CNL REITs only $800,000 for this purported “access”
while Ameriprise charged the Carey REITs $1.2 million. Ameriprise had no legitimate basis by
which it determined the charges invoiced for the purported services or benefits claimed on the
invoices. Ameriprise simply issued the invoices with the particular allocation and language that
was requested by the Carey REITs and CNL REITs.
26.
With respect to each public offering of the CNL REITs of which Ameriprise
offered and sold shares to its brokerage customers, Ameriprise entered into a written dealer
agreement concerning the applicable CNL REIT consistent with the form of dealer agreement
provided in the registration statement of the applicable CNL REIT that, among other things,
specified the fees to be paid in connection with Ameriprise’s sales of shares. However, none of
these written dealer agreements disclosed or included the revenue sharing payments.
27.
In addition, at various times, Ameriprise attempted to obtain a written side letter
from the CNL REITs documenting their undisclosed revenue sharing arrangements. The CNL
REITs declined to enter into such written agreements because the revenue sharing arrangements
had not been properly disclosed in the prospectuses of the CNL REITs, a fact of which some
Ameriprise employees were aware and discussed. For example, the internal Ameriprise email
dated August 14, 2003, referenced above, by an Ameriprise employee that managed Ameriprise’s
relationships with the Carey REITs and CNL REITs, stated that a CNL REIT would be filing its
next offering in approximately five months and at that time would be “changing their prospectus to
allow them to pay brokered dealers [sic] 1.5% on sales for marketing, managing dealer, and
soliciting dealer fee[s]. Currently today their prospectus only allows for .5%. Once they file, they
begin paying us the 1.5% instead of the .70% they send us today and at that time they will put it in
writing. . . . Let me know if you are OK will [sic] waiting for 5 months to obtain the [side letter].”
Ameriprise Did Not Disclose the Revenue Sharing Payments
28.
During the Relevant Period, Ameriprise did not make any disclosures to its
brokerage customers relating to its receipt of revenue sharing payments from the Carey REITs and
CNL REITs. Moreover, the registration statements, prospectuses, and other offering documents
filed with the Commission by the Carey REITs and CNL REITs did not disclose material
information concerning the additional remuneration that Ameriprise received above and beyond
the amounts disclosed as selling commissions, dealer fees, expense reimbursements, and other
fees. Quantitatively, the undisclosed revenue sharing payments were higher than several of the
fees disclosed in the prospectuses of the Carey REITs and CNL REITs.
29.
As a result, Ameriprise’s brokerage customers who purchased shares of the Carey
REITs and CNL REITs were not provided with any disclosures by Ameriprise or by the Carey
REITs and CNL REITs concerning Ameriprise’s receipt of the undisclosed revenue sharing
payments or the conflicts of interest these payments created.

9

Participation in Unlawful Sales
30.
The initial public offering of shares of one of the Carey REITs was declared
effective on November 1, 2001, and was closed to new investors in November 2002, having sold
out its initial registration of 40 million shares (“Phase I”). A registration statement for a second
offering of an additional 69 million shares (“Phase II”) was filed with the Commission on October
11, 2002, and was declared effective on March 19, 2003.
31.
Throughout the period from November 2002 until March 19, 2003, Ameriprise
continued to offer and sell shares of this REIT to its brokerage customers even though the Phase I
offering had sold out and the Phase II registration statement was not yet effective. As of March 18,
2003, Ameriprise had offered and sold at least $100 million worth of Phase II shares to its
brokerage customers prior to the effective date of the registration statement. Ameriprise also
received sales commissions and marketing fees in connection with its sales of Phase II shares prior
to the effectiveness of the registration statement.
Violations
32.

4

As a result of the conduct described above, Ameriprise willfully4 violated:
a.

Sections 17(a)(2) and 17(a)(3) of the Securities Act, which provide that it is
“unlawful for any person in the offer or sale of any securities . . . by the use
of any means or instruments of transportation or communication in
interstate commerce or by use of the mails, directly or indirectly . . . (2) to
obtain money or property by means of any untrue statement of material fact
or any omission to state a material fact necessary in order to make the
statements made, in light of the circumstances under which they were made,
not misleading; or (3) to engage in any transactions, practice, or course of
business which operates or would operate as a fraud or deceit upon the
purchaser”;

b.

Exchange Act Rule 10b-10, which provides in pertinent part that it is
“unlawful for any broker or dealer to effect for or with an account of a
customer any transaction in, or to induce the purchase or sale by such
customer of, any security . . . unless such broker or dealer, at or before
completion of such transaction, gives or sends to such customer written
notification disclosing . . . the source and amount of any other remuneration

A willful violation of the securities laws means merely “‘that the person charged with the duty
knows what he is doing.’” Wonsover v. SEC, 205 F.3d 408, 414 (D.C. Cir. 2000) (quoting
Hughes v. SEC, 174 F.2d 969, 977 (D.C. Cir. 1949)). There is no requirement that the actor
“‘also be aware that he is violating one of the Rules or Acts.’” Id. (quoting Gearhart &Otis, Inc.
v. SEC, 348 F.2d 798, 803 (D.C. Cir. 1965)).
10

received or to be received by the broker in connection with the transaction”;
and
c.

Section 5(a) of the Securities Act, which provides that “[u]nless a
registration statement is in effect as to a security, it shall be unlawful for any
person, directly or indirectly – (1) to make use of any means or instruments
of transportation or communication in interstate commerce or of the mails to
sell such security through the use or medium of any prospectus or
otherwise; or (2) to carry or cause to be carried through the mails or in
interstate commerce, by any means or instruments of transportation, any
such security for the purpose of sale or for delivery after sale.”
IV.

In view of the foregoing, the Commission deems it appropriate, and in the public interest,
to impose the sanctions agreed to in Respondent’s Offer.
Accordingly, pursuant to Section 8A of the Securities Act and Sections 15(b) and 21C of
the Exchange Act, it is hereby ORDERED that:
A.
Ameriprise shall cease and desist from committing or causing any violations and any
future violations of Sections 5(a), 17(a)(2), and 17(a)(3) of the Securities Act, and Exchange Act
Rule 10b-10.
B.

Ameriprise is censured.

C.
Ameriprise shall, within 10 days of the entry of this Order, pay disgorgement in the
total amount of $8.65 million (“Disgorgement”) to the Securities and Exchange Commission.
Ameriprise also shall, within 10 days of the entry of this Order, pay a civil monetary penalty in the
amount of $8.65 million (“Penalties”) to the Securities and Exchange Commission. Such
payments shall be (A) made by United States postal money order, certified check, bank cashier’s
check or bank money order; (B) made payable to the Securities and Exchange Commission; (C)
hand-delivered or mailed to the Office of Financial Management, Securities and Exchange
Commission, Operations Center, 6432 General Green Way, Stop 0-3, Alexandria, VA 22312; and
(D) submitted under cover letter that identifies Ameriprise as a Respondent in these proceedings,
the file number of these proceedings, a copy of which cover letter and money order or check shall
be sent to David Rosenfeld, Associate Regional Director, Division of Enforcement, Securities and
Exchange Commission, 3 World Financial Center, New York, New York 10281. If timely
payment is not made, additional interest shall accrue pursuant to SEC Rule of Practice 600 or
pursuant to 31 U.S.C. § 3717.
D.
Such Penalties may be distributed pursuant to Section 308(a) of the Sarbanes-Oxley
Act of 2002 (“Fair Fund distribution”). Regardless of whether any such Fair Fund distribution is
made, amounts ordered to be paid as civil money penalties pursuant to this Order shall be treated as
penalties paid to the government for all purposes, including all tax purposes. To preserve the
11

deterrent effect of the civil penalty, Respondent agrees that it shall not, after offset or reduction in
any Related Investor Action based on Respondent’s payment of disgorgement in this action, argue
that it is entitled to, nor shall it further benefit by offset or reduction of any part of Respondent’s
payment of a civil penalty in this action (“Penalty Offset”). If the court in any Related Investor
Action grants such a Penalty Offset, Respondent agrees that it shall, within 30 days after entry of a
final order granting the Penalty Offset, notify the Commission’s counsel in this action and pay the
amount of the Penalty Offset to the United States Treasury or to a Fair Fund, as the Commission
directs. Such a payment shall not be deemed an additional civil penalty and shall not be deemed to
change the amount of the civil penalty imposed in this proceeding. For purposes of this paragraph,
a “Related Investor Action” means a private damages action brought against Respondent by or on
behalf of one or more investors based on substantially the same facts as alleged in the Order
instituted by the Commission in this proceeding.
By the Commission.

Elizabeth M. Murphy
Secretary

12

